

Purpose and
Performance
A LITTLE more than twenty-five
years ago—-on June 2, 1915-—The
Broken Hill Proprietary’s Newcastle Steel
Works was officially opened. The enter-
prise was established with a definite
purpose—to manufacture quality iron and
steel for the needs of Australian industry
and thereby supply at reasonable prices
the essential materials for the develop-
ment of the Commonwealth.
From the outset, unwavering determi-
nation and confidence in the Australian
workers’ ability to master the difficulties
of steel production were maintained. This
was backed by a courageous policy of
plant modernisation and extension, which
has culminated in Australia possessing
one of the world’s most efficient iron and
steel works.
Purpose has been backed by perform-
ance, the Newcastle Steel Works to-day
supplying great tonnages of the iron and
steel so vital to the nation’s development
and defence.
JL
tL
•r
mmm
i.... »
■
ilg s| :liR
m i i
ftii
BiiS
- ''ClI* I '' i ■-
..'• ''
■L 1
plkf 1 r, >c V, .
|r •:
Ilf
v ; a
fllipii
;
:
at?#:
m.
w
: %W ' : ‘'
iiai
&
w-
■ : ■:
|f|p
mm 1 ,
&r ' .;
188
I
mm I>■ ■-*■ I
■Mfea, S
, a!? ;,
1 i ',y - b : ■
h ~; i
•rO3P i
t ., - ag
m
mm • • -
Above is shown molten steel being teemed
from a huge ladle into ingot moulds
at the B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works.
w
The Broken Hill Proprietary Go. Ltd.
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Iron and Steel Works: NEWCASTLE, N. S. W.
Iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob, S.A. Limestone Deposits: Devonport, Tasmania.
Iron and Stool Masters, Colliery Proprietors ,
Mine and Ship Owners,
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3197.
Wednesday, May 21, 1941.
Rudolf Hess
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Emvdwnmg
This Book FREE to YOU!
sTOTrs Correspondence college ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT here and mail
Please send , urithout obligation, your New free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 141
The Red Page
Markets for Short Stories.
In a survey of activities in Australian
poetry a while ago, the Red Page was
able to point to a surprising number of
forthcoming anthologies and books of
verse, showing that, as far as opportunities
for publication go, the art’s in a pretty
healthy position. The short-story writers
—and there are a good number of them
turning out worth-while stuff —are not so
lucky.
Only one book adding anything to
Australian short-story writing Frank
Dalby Davison’s The Woman 0 the
Mill has been published in Australia
within the last twelve months. Things
are likely to be a little better this
year, for several writers have sub-
mitted collections of stories to the
Commonwealth Literary Fund, and it’s
likely that one or two of these books
will be published, Gavin Casey (the
publication of whose stories in book form
was urged in a previous Red Page article)
wrote to The Bulletin recently that,
two commercial publishers having declined
the honor, he was about to apply to the
fund with the support of the Westralian
branch of the Fellowship of Australian
Writers.
The Fellowship, incidentally, is run-
ning a short-story competition for a ten-
guinea prize, closing on June 30. Stories,
which must be unpublished, though the
writers are to retain the copyright, are
to run from 2000 to 10,000 words, and
there is no restriction on setting or sub-
ject matter. Full details from the sec-
retary, L. G. Ashton, Box 3448 R, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
One other cheering item is that The
Bulletin’s idea of an annual anthology
of short stories (as well as one of verse)
has been adopted by Angus and Robert-
son, and preparation of the first issue
has begun. The idea behind this
anthology is not only to make an annual
contribution to Australian letters, but also
to keep the short story alive in Aus-
tralia by giving practising short-story
writers the encouragement of publication
in book form. It would be a tragedy if
the short story in Australia —a form in
which one man, Lawson, proved, himself
a genius, and a popular genius at that
should be allowed to decay.
And the tendency, despite one or two
bits of good news and despite the sup-
port given the short story by The
Bulletin and one or two other journals,
is for it to decay—partly because short-
story writers seem to lack the furor
poeticus which insists that verse shall be
published, partly because of the lack
of encouragement by publishers and,
worse, the definite discouragement by
most of the newspapers. What can
anyone with a feeling for Australian
literature say, for example, of Sydney
“Sunday Telegraph,” which, with one
well-known short-story writer and at least
two novelists about its premises, publishes
only the slick, silly “sketches” of the
American Mark Hellinger? The Federal
Government has at long last banned the
Yankee comic strips, but the Australian
short-story writer is apparently still to
be crowded out of Australian papers
by Uncle Sam’s smart boys.
Then there’s the A.B.C. The Com-
mission, no doubt, looks benevolently on
the Australian writer, and it is helping
him to some extent by broadcasting short
stories and paying acceptable (though far
from generous) rates. The A.B.C. doesn’t
mind using stories that have been pub-
lished in newspapers and books, and
that eminently sensible policy (for broad-
casting) has meant most welcome extra
money for writers. But the A.8.C., this
help admitted, is doing more harm than
good to the short story in Australia.
For some mysterious reason it has
decided that the public won’t listen to
any story longer than 1700 words, and
it is only stories of that length, or shorter,
that it will accept. As every short-story
writer knows, a 1700-word story can
never be much more than a “sketch” —
precise and vivid, it may be, but always
slight and never giving that solid satis-
faction either to the writer or the reader
that comes from a full, rounded short
story. To be anything more than a
sketch, a short story needs to -run from
about 2500 to 5000 words. There is prob-
ably not a single story in The Woman
at the Mill which doesn’t exceed the
A.B.C.’s limit; it is most unlikely that
the editor of Angus and Robertson’s
short-story anthology will find more than
an odd one or two 1700-word stories
worth reprinting as a contribution to the
year’s writing.
The effect of the A.B.C.’s policy, there-
fore, is to encourage the writing of
sketches ; even, if carried to its logical
extreme, to build up a school of Aus-
tralian sketch-writers. That is doing no-
thing but harm to the short story as an
art form and to short-story writers as
artists. It seems, moreover, a pointlessly
arbitrary policy. By what means did the
A.B.C. discover that people won’t listen
to a sketch longer than 1700 words?
Anatomy of a Best Seller.
Both the English poet-novelist Robert
Graves and the American Kenneth
Roberts (of Northwest Passage ) have
chosen the American War of Independ-
ence for the material of their new novels
and both —curiously— set out to debunk
the rebels. Roberts in particular sets out
to show that but for the dishonesty of a
few American politicians and the
obstinacy of George 111 the war need
never have occurred ; that it was unneces-
sarily prolonged by the stupidity of the
British generals, who were encouraged in
inefficiency by a Tory Government more
concerned with keeping the Whigs out of
office than with bringing the war to an
end ; that it should have ended in a
British and Loyalist victory, and that
that, on the whole, would have been the
better outcome.
Both novels are written to a large ex-
tent from a humanitarian motive —to
show the trials of the common citizen
or the common soldier among the vast
stupidities and brutalities of war —and
both are written in the first person, a
device that gives the novelist full freedom
to soliloquise about war.
The “I” of Roberts’s Oliver Wiswell
(Angus and Robertson) is a historian —
Oliver Wiswell—who, of course, has the
right to describe every possible aspect of
the war. Graves’s “I” is the Sergeant
Lamb of Sergeant Lamb of the Ninth,
here allowed to Proceed, Sergeant Lamb ;
and the sergeant, naturally, is chiefly
concerned with the adventures of the
common soldier.
Why is it that Roberts’s book (of
which a thousand will probably be sold
for every hundred of the other ; it has
been best-selling in America for months)
can be described by its publishers as
“unquestionably the most distinguished
American novel of our time,” whereas
Graves’s comes in from Methuen with
no more trumpeting than “It is a stirring
tale which shows that the British Army
of those days was essentially the same
as now”?
Part of the answer lies in the fact that
there are 674 pages of Oliver Wiswell
to Graves’s 314. Then there is the sweep
of Roberts’s story—mob violence and the
outbreak of the war ; skirmishes, battles,
victories and defeats, details of all the
campaigns; illustrations of the special
violences of civil war; studies of the
generals and the politicians ; espionage
and political manoeuvring in England and
France ; the conclusion of the war and
the flight of the Loyalists to Canada.
Graves, though his hero sees battle and
travel enough, doesn’t attempt to present
such a crowded canvas as that.
There is Oliver Wiswell’s condemnation
of war and of the politicians who make
and prolong it:
I suppose most people think of war as
an unending angry conflict between two
armies, one made up of soldiers nobly
fighting for the right; the other of brutal,
venal wretches deliberately battling to up-
hold something they know to be wrong.
In reality war is mostly waste, idleness,
dirt, discomfort, blundering and uncer-
tainty; and well-nigh everyone on both
sides spends his waking hours wishing with
all his heart that he had never let himself
be drawn into it. He comes to know that
the war that has him by the heels can
accomplish nothing that couldn’t be equally
well accomplished by honest discussion
between reasonable men —accomplished
without loss of freedom, loss of life,
loss of property, loss of all the things men
value
Every war is brought about by medioc-
rities who always insist they’re right, and
seldom are: all wars are prolonged be-
cause rulers and Cabinet Ministers are
stupid, stubborn, vindictive, shortsighted
and timid.
Against this sort of thing Sergeant
Lamb’s last word on the war and George
111 seems pallid:
Then said Smutchy; “Yet I would rather
a thousand times have been in General
Arnold’s shoes than in another’s —a hearty.
well-intentioned bustling man whose stand-
ing upon a point of honor plunged two.
worlds into death and disaster.”
“His gracious Majesty the late King
George, ay, truth,” I said, fetching a deep
sigh, “in whose service we suffered ter-
rible things. 1 believe that even the Ameri-
cans who wrote with such detestation of
him in their Declaration of Independence
must have forgiven the poor Royal creature
before he died.”
Then there are Roberts’s characters,
notably the hiccuping, impertinent, wily,
invariably successful Buell and the
formidable, almost bawdy Mrs. Belcher
Byles, whose adventures are a stream
running through the vast landscape of
the novel. Mrs. Byles (one of the Salem
Barrells) getting rid of some sailors she
thinks are trying to loot her house:
“You will not! ” Mrs. Byles cried. “Out of
my house with you! You’re common sailor-
men and my father was Elias Dexter Barrell
of Salem! When captains spoke to him,
they took off their hats and pulled hair out
of their forelocks! Ordinary seamen never
came in his office without knocking their
foreheads on the step outside first. You
take off your hats and troop out of this
house. March! ”
Graves has characters enough Ser-
geant Lamb, for a start, going quietly
and steadily through the turmoil of battle,
bearing the dangers and hardships of his
escapes from prison camps with cheerful
fortitude and a pawky humor, telling of
war and the oddities of American customs
in (it must be admitted) very much the
same calm voice in which “Claudius the
god” told of the splendors and cruelties of
Rome ; and Smutchy Steel, Terry Reeves
and Mad Johnny Macguire, those hard-
doing soldiers ; and cowardly Billy Broad-
ribb, who had to be bribed with peach
brandy and then the shoes off their feet
and the clothes off their backs before he
would guide the escapees through the
hostile countryside; and that enigmatic
person who appears to Sergeant Lamb at
critical moments and whom he half be-
lieves to be the Devil. Good people, real
people: but not Buell, not Mrs. Belcher
Byles.
Last, but certainly not least, of
Roberts’s best-selling offerings is his love
story. The heroine is called Sally. She
—or, rather, her family ; for she hasn’t
the brains of a fowl —supports the rebels.
Being a Loyalist, Oliver Wiswell doesn’t
get much chance to see the lady, but he
thinks of her at the end of pretty well
every chapter.
End of chapter VIII: “Sally Leighton!
Ah, what was she thinking of me now?”
End of chapter XII: “In the rapture of
that day I could almost be glad that Sally
Leighton and I were enemies. Love that
loves an enemy must be strong.” End
of chapter XVII: “And that was where
Sally was! I was leaving her and my
own country, and how could a man who
loved both leave either?” ; chap. XXVII;
“Dear, dear Oliver, I’m your
Sally.”; chap. XXXV: “Dear, dear
Sally! Sweet, faithful, understanding
Sally!”; chap. XLVIII: “As I folded
Sally’s letter and placed it with the thin
packet resting like a frail shield above
my heart, I wished myself wholly and
forever out of this war.” ; chap. LXXII
(we are now at page 523 and Oliver has
just successfully withstood the advances
of a burning Southern gal named Julia
who asked him to sit on a stone with
her): “And, strangely enough, I could
think of nothing but Sally Leighton.”
On page 658, at last, Sally and Oliver
—in the presence of her parents are
sitting together on a sofa. Sally, one
learns with shocked surprise, is vibrating
at such a rate that she emits a faint, shrill
howling note. Presumably that is what
Roberts means by the extraordinary
simile:
Sally wrenched her hand from mine and
clutched the edge of the sofa. I could
feel her trembling, like a halyard in a gale.
Graves has nothing quite like that.
Sergeant Lamb meets his Kate Harlowe
again, finding that she has become the
mistress of Lord Cornwallis, his General.
He and Kate arrange that they will be
married as soon as Kate can break with
his Lordship without hurting his feelings,
but Kate is killed by a stray shell. Says
Sergeant Lamb:
I heard privately from the chief clerk,
who had it from his Lordship’s own valet,
that his Lordship had been “struck with
great horror and grief by the news of
pretty Miss Kate’s death.” He had since
been drinking more than was his habit,
and soliloquising to himself as he paced
about his parlor alone. I must decline to
enlarge upon my own feelings of grief, not
wishing to present them, as it were, in
rivalry to those of Lord Cornwallis.
Both these novelists have based their
books on historical documents. The way
Roberts has made his best-seller was to
pack in every possible detail of the war,
so that Americans would practically be
forced to read it for its genuine historical
value ; to invent such bizarre characters
as Buell and Mrs. Belcher Byles, who,
though completely unreal, give him a
chance for some popular “Rabelaisian”
writing to balance those nincompoops
Oliver and Sally, and who —particularly
the tough, dominating old lady are
essential Hollywood props ; to ensure a
reasonable allowance of love-interest,
adding bells the end; and to
work in some of the philosophising about
war that is best calculated to appeal to
Americans: that “all wars” (even when
plainly inevitable and ultimately, in spite
c f their cost, demonstrably valuable) are
unnecessary and meaningless ; and that
\ s some special villainy or ineptitude
G f the politicians in power when any war
breaks out (not, as is the truth, the in-
evitable incompetence of ordinary men
trying to grapple with the vastitudes of
national destiny and national effort) that
both causes the war and prevents it end-
j n g “by Christmas.”
Graves’s method, on the contrary, has
been to eliminate unnecessary detail, to
i ,
P? rt , ra y. hvin 8 P QO P re f nt the sol ‘
dier s viewpoint without windy comment,
Graves, deliberately trying to write a
good minor novel, has succeeded admir-
ably. Roberts, possibly setting out to
make a best-seller, possibly trying to write
, • rvv J ° , ,
a master Piece °f fiction, has produced a
romanticised history of the Loyalist cause
in the War of Independence.
Frazer of the "Golden
Bough."
Sir James Frazer, just dead at 87 in
London, probably spent the last years
of his life reflecting how little reason
comes into the affairs of human beings.
He spent his whole life as a professor at
Cambridge in collating a truly terrific
amount of data to show that since the
dawn of history and doubtless before it
men in all parts of the world—Eskimos,
Terra del Fuegans, cultivated Greeks and
Romans, Syrians and Egyptians and Jews
and Tasmanian aboriginals have en-
deavored to understand their relation to
the world they lived in and have ail ex-
plained it in much the same way.
Early Christian monks who found the
rites and ceremonials of Tibetan lamas
too familiar explained a phenomenon so
damaging to their amour propre by
attributing it to an illusion created by
the Devil especially to deceive them.
Sixty years ago Frazer set out to give
the mathematics of the problem. He
started from the central mystery of the
priest-king of Lake Nemi outside Rome,
who at the height of Roman civilisation
guarded the sacred tree at the sanctuary
of Diana. Night and day the priest-king
prowled about the woods with a sword
in his hand, sleeping, if he slept at all,
with one eye open for a good reason. It
was the sanctified custom for the priest
to obtain the succession by murdering his
predecessor in the office, to be murdered
in his turn by another aspirant if his
vigilance slackened for a moment. This
sanguinary custom was maintained by the
hierarchy and endorsed by the Govern-
ment, and on one occasion, when the
priest-king was too successful in main-
taining his appointment and had grown
old and toothless, the Emperor Caligula
sent a stalwart ruffian to finish him off,
for the safety of the Empire and the fer-
tility of the crops depended on the youth
and virility of the priest-king of Nemi.
The custom had persisted from primi-
tive times right into the most cultured era
of the Empire, but the reason for it had
been completely forgotten. Frazer set out
to unravel the problem with probably
little notion as to how far it would lead
him. But by the end of his excursion
he had shown the essential brotherhood
between the beliefs of New Hebridean
mothers who murdered their offspring ;
European peasants who late into the last
century still seized passing strangers and
emptied their blood over the crops;
Mexican priests who sent decapitated
slaves hurtling daily down the steps of
their temples ; and Palestinian communi-
ties which elected a mock king and after
a year of luxurious living hanged him
on a tree. They were all, Frazer believed,
seeking by sympathetic magic to control
Nature in precisely the same way that
the Australian aboriginal held his totem
dances to increase the supply of witchetty
grubs and emus. In other words, they
had the very rational intention of making
themselves secure against the obscure
menace of their environment but were
doing it in a very irrational manner.
In his gigantic opus Frazer showed
how the black thread of magic, the red
thread of religion and the white thread
of science have run through human think-
ing, how astrology was the father of
astronomy, and spellbinding of psy-
chology, and how the primitive belief
that a loin-clothed savage could control
the course of the seasons has given place
to the scientific command ove» Nature.
He was a writer of expressive prose, his
subject matter was fascinating, as varied
as an encyclopasdia, and it influenced a
whole generation of writers, from James
Joyce to T. S.. Eliot.
F.S.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act. “THE SENIOR STORE”
SMART WINTER MERCERY AT ECONOMY PRICES
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
/iw
w*
my
3
m
m.
m
m
A
m
Speedo Wool Sports Jacket 37 7 6
A. — For men of action! Famous "Speedo" Sports Jacket, all
wool with full zip fastener, pleated pockets with buttoned
flap, snug fitting cuffs, action back. Bottle, Nigger. Grey or
Navy. Sizes, 36 to 40 inch chest. At Anthony Horderns'.
Special Price 37/6
Heavy'All Wool Cardigan, 18 7 6
B. —For wintry weather . . . heavyweight all wool Cardigan,
V neck, dropstitch knit in Grey Marl, Blue Marl. Heather or
Navy. Sizes, 36 to 40 inch chest. At Anthony Horderns'.
Special Price 18/6
Fancy Zipper Jerkin Now, 19 7 6
C. —Fancy all wool Jerkin with turn-down collar, buttoning
to neck with zipper, breast pockets with flap and button,
check and jacquard designs in Blue, Grey or Brown. 36 to 40
inch chest. At Anthony Horderns'. Special Price 19/6
17/6 Horrockses
Flannelette
Pyjamas, IB'S
Delightfully warm and cosy, these Pyjama
Suits are made in our own workrooms from
a reliable wearing "Horrockses" Flannelette
Striped designs in a medium winter weight.
Small, medium and outsizes. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price 17/6
Special Price 16/6
'Hordura' Brand
Half Hose, 2'll
Here are the Socks for service. Our own
"Hordura" Regd. brand in check and over-
check designs on Grey, Fawn, Navy and
Brown grounds. Sizes, 10 to 12 inches. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, pair 2/11
'■vSf,
m
m
V
m.
Vf&Vfr-
Bo&
v‘^*^
318
'''Vw
Winter Specials
9/6 U'wear, 7'S
Save 2/- on this Underwear. Soft and cosy, it
is of wool and cotton in light to medium weight.
Undershirts with short sleeves and Underpants to
ankle. Sizes, 34 to 42 inch chest or waist. An-
thony Horderns' Regular Price 9/6
Special Price 7/6
12/6 U'wear, 10 ; 6
Natural all wool Underwear in a heavy winter
weight with a soft finish. Undershirts with short
sleeves and Underpants to ankle. Sizes, 34 to
42 inch chest or waist. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price 12/6
Special Price 10/6
• Mercery—Ground Floor, George St.
Freight paid to all railway stations in
N.S.W. and seaports in the
Commonwealth.


FIRE
By MARGARET TRIST.
GRANDFATHER’S room was at the back of the
house, a narrow room with a small high-up
window and a floor of scrubbed boards. In it
were a dressing-table, a washstand and an iron
bedstead covered with a dark-colored rug. The room
was very plain and bare of comforts, but the old man
liked it like that.
Grandfather stretched his limbs cautiously when
he woke. It was mid-January and very hot. He
struggled to free himself of the rug and turned
towards the window. Though it was not yet six
o’clock the sunshine fell through it in a heavy concen-
trated beam. Slowly he got to a sitting-up position
and with several fierce grunts swung his feet to the
floor. His nostrils quivered sensitively. A vague sense
of fear possessed him. He sat still on the edge of his
bed for a moment, then, rising heavily, proceeded to
divest himself of his nightshirt and get into his
clothes.
All the while he was dressing uneasiness per-
vaded him. Several times he stopped fumbling with
the buttons that made his life a misery, and sniffed
at the air. It was heavy and pressed around him.
Almost he felt that if he moved his shape would be
left imprisoned where he had been standing.
When he was dressed—working pants of a coarse
grey striped material, a grey flannel undershirt, elastic-
sided boots and an old, greasy, grey-green cap —he
went round the back of the house to the kitchen.
There was no one there, but the fire was burning
briskly in the stove and the kettle was just on the
boil. The morning was very silent. The ticking of
every clock in the house could be heard, and clearly
on the still air came the sound of milk squirting into
pails.
Grandfather made a big pot of weak tea and put
down cups on the table. He always shared his early-
morning tea with.the younger of his grandchildren.
Soon they began to appear, a small girl of three,
already hard and thin and brown, and three lean
brown boys, aged four and six and seven. The elder
members of the family had been up and about for
the past hour. The seven-year-old boy went off with a
billycan to the cowyard to get milk for the tea, while
Grandfather toasted bread at the stove and winked his
one eye and nodded his head and even sang a little
in a creaking voice in an effort to be amusing. But
for once the children failed to be amused, and soon
Grandfather subsided and a troubled silence fell on
all of them. They gulped down the sweet hot tea
with strange quiet.
It was seven o’clock when Grandfather went out
to the side verandah. He stood there, silently, gazing,
and all of a sudden he knew. There was no sound
of anything or -»>ight of anything, but he knew. The
silence was deep and unbroken. The sky was fiercely
blue and clear. The sun fell hotly across the yellow
paddocks. There had been dozens of mornings the
same as it that summer. The same, and yet not quite
the same. Not many people would have known the
difference, but Grandfather knew. The children had
come to the verandah, too. “Fire,” said Grandfather,
and he lifted his arm and pointed westward. “Soon,
we’ll see the smoke.”
The little girl whimpered and clung to his leg,
while the boys looked at him with wide, fearful eyes.
There was no more dreadful thing in all the world
than fire.
Breakfast was generally at eight, but Grand-
father hurried back to the kitchen and set the por-
ridge and the kettles on the fire. Then he rang the
bell that summoned the men.
The children’s mother, a tall, gaunt woman, near-
ing middle age, came hurrying round the verandah.
She had been making beds. She frowned when she
glanced at the clock, because she had not quite fin-
ished and it was still early. Grandfather’s all too fre-
quent mistakes were a constant irritation.
“Fire,” said Grandfather.
The brief explanation drove the frown from her
forehead. Just then the telephone rang. It was a
fire warning from the nearest town, fifty miles away.
There were fires in the west, and a strong wind rising.
The lower paddocks were in its path. It would be on
them by noon.
""THE men came up to breakfast while the elder
* children got up the horses. Grandfather was in a
dither of excitement. He started to do half a dozen
jobs, then, growing confused, left them and went off
to the verandah, where he stared and muttered and
waved his arms, and finally set off for the kitchen to
give the men detailed advice about combating the
fire before it reached them.
But everyone was far too busy to listen. They
nodded placatingly to the old man, and went on mak-
ing plans in low, grave voices. At last Grandfather
thought of something, and, taking the little girl with
him, he went off to the barn to gather as many sugar-
bags as he could find.
There was not very much that could be done. The
house was in no actual danger. There was a wide fire-
break round it and the outbuildings. The near pad-
docks were devoid of timber, except for an occa-
sional tree stump and fallen tree trunk. If the fire
reached the paddocks it would sweep through the long
yellow grass in a matter
of seconds, leaving them
bare and black and smok-
ing. It didn’t seem pos-
sible that any harm could
come to the homestead,
but there were always
things that could happen,
which kept uneasiness
uppermost in the mind.
The sheep, of course, were
in greatest danger. All
that could be done for
them was to drive them
towards what remained of
the river, because no one
could tell what place
would be safe. The grass
and timber were so dry
that a capricious wind
could carry the desolation
for miles and miles in all
directions.
The men were not
long over breakfast, but
before they had finished
men from neighboring
farms and holdings had
ridden up. They reined in
their horses at the kitchen
fence but did not dis-
mount. Grandfather, eager
to be in the thick of
things, came trotting from
the barn loaded with
sugar-bags, with the little
girl at his heels. The men talked among them-
selves, hardly seeming to notice Grandfather,
preoccupied in watching the thick yellow haze that
was gathering in the west. But Grandfather had a
grand time, giving advice and instructions and doling
out sugar-bags with infinite care. When all were ready
some rode off to see to the sheep, while others went
to meet the fire.
The smoke cloud on the horizon grew with each
second. The sky was no longer clear. The sun shone
redly through the murkiness and cast a red glow on
the heated earth. The air was too hot to breathe.
Now and again an ominous crackle could be heard.
If you stopped to listen you could hear the far-away
roar that was the fire travelling on the wind, and the
shuddering crash as a tree fell.
At the homestead it all seemed very strange and
frightening. There were the four small children, the
middle-aged woman who was their mother, and the
old man who was their grandfather. Besides, there
were several silent women who had driven up soon
after their menfolk to help carry food and water and
tea up to the men. One of the women had come in an
old Ford truck, and they drove that up as close to the
line of the fire as they dared, then walked the flest of
the way, hauling the heavy kerosene-tins of tea as best
they could. Only Grandfather and the little girl did
not take part in these expeditions, and it hurt Grand-
father that, after all the fires he had'Tought and the
“There’s no holding her since the Defence Department accepted
her five daughters.”
things he had learnt about fighting them, at last
there had come one against which he could not pit
himself. He was as useless and as ineffectual as the
small girl clinging terror-stricken to his trouser-leg.
"T'HE morning passed slowly. It grew sd hot that it
1 seemed as if at any moment the whole world would
burst into flames. The smoke grew thicker, the glare
redder. The flames could be seen dancing above the
smoke in the west. The smoke cloud billowed and
thickened and came closer. All the air seemed to be
eaten up.
It had been thought at first that the fire might be
stopped before it left the timber, but it had got a good
start and the hot wind fanned it so that it swept along
at a furious rate. The men beat at it frantically with
wet bags and green branches, but their efforts did
little to stay its progress. It went from tree to tree
so swiftly that sometimes a tree, apart from scorched
leaves, was left unscathed.
Grandfather and the little girl, watching from the
verandah, saw the fire leap into the grass. With a
wild rush and a roar it swept toward them through the
paddocks, licking up the grass, leaving blazing fences
where it had passed. A slight change of the wind
and it turned away, racing obliquely through the pad-
docks. The air was thick with smoke and filled with
the sounds of hissings and cracklings and a dull roar-
ing. Birds flew distractedly before the fire, chirping
uneasily as they went. The whole world was alive.
There was movement everywhere.
Grandfather, watching it all, felt old and weak and
ill. When you were young you could fight this sort
of thing. Go out and pit your strength against it. In-
effectual though it might be, it gave you courage to
do it. But when you were old and could fight against
it no longer—just had to watch and grow ill and try
to comfort a frightened child clutching at your knee
—you saw how useless fighting was. All your life you
fought, and, at the end, had you got any further for
it? It seemed to Grandfather that you hadn’t. Life
was a fight that must beat you always, just as the
fires always seemed to win in the end. Grandfather
watched the fire rushing swiftly through the paddocks
that had once been his and now were his son’s, mak-
ing north-eastward towards the river and the fright-
ened sheep that stumbled and bleated in the shallow
water.
U/HEN the fire had passed the wind was cooler,
“ and there was a welcome hint of thunder in the
heavy air. At dinner-time the men came in, and be-
cause they were young—anything under sixty was
young to Grandfather —they spoke not of the things
that had been destroyed but of those things which,
miraculously, had been saved. Grandfather wandered
to and fro between the verandah and the kitchen, get-
ting in everyone’s way, muttering to himself, now and
again pausing to throw out his arms in a gesture of
helplessness. All the afternoon fence posts and tree
stumps smouldered and the air was thick with smoke.
And all the afternoon Grandfather fretted and fumed
because there had been a fire and he had been able to
do nothing to stop it.
“It was a big fire,” the little girl said, trotting
beside him, “a very, great big fire.”
Grandfather turned sharply on her. “Why that,”
he sneered—“that wasn’t a fire at all. Not, anyhow,
counting the fires we had when I was young. Now
in them days” Grandfather’s eyes glowed. Vitality
flowed through his limbs. His voice droned on end-
lessly. What good was the present to an old man? He
sighed proudly as he took refuge in the days that were
done, and felt comforted that all the bushfires in the
land could not scorch the rich green of memory held
for ever in. his heart.
A CONQUEROR.
How does the heart taste triumphs fat with blood?
Does it beat gladly, bear and build up a man
to heights of noble pride, and make him splendid
when he sits down at night and counts his conquest
in men by myriads on his outspread fingers?
How will he sleep? Surely his heartbeats echo
like speaking guns, and the swift blood’s attack
follows the howling shells that dashed life open
and buttered earth with greasy, useless flesh.
There is one conquest that the conqueror
essays in vain: whatever be his splendor,
however high his seat on swags of bones
(thigh-bones knifed clean by wind, ribs latched with ribs,
complex and accurate vertebrae neatly holed,
jaws sprouting teeth, and smooth and pitted skulls
built in a shining pyramid), he cannot
claim that last victory over memory
or ever think his hands are fit to cherish
a woman’s body or a child’s face.
His is the Midas touch that slyly turns
all good, all gold, to dross and nightmare,
and if he sleeps he does not dare to dream,
for if he dreamed he would not dare to wake.
Master of men, hold tight the cup of blood,
and breathe its steam in your sharp wintry nostrils,
and sip it slowly, rinse it round your mouth
before it dribbles warmly in your throat
and bloats your guts like a poison. Put the cup down
and there are many eager to recharge it;
but while you wait and whet your thirst with the salt
of shame, hatred, envy and self-pity,
remember the time comes when you will never
lift up the cup again. Master of swords,
avoid the sword —glide past it in your halls,
beware it in the ravished palaces
of human kindness and humane ambition,
and when you reach your secret frightened chamber
and mop your sweat with swathes of murdered hair,
pause, and recall how nearly the swords fell,
and how one day your step will falter, and then
the blade will find a scabbard in your brain
and spill your blood for mice and ants to taste
whilst your dark edifice sinks in dust above them.
Master of lies, and crazed ambition’s bauble,
the truth at last will issue from your mouth
in one long horrid snore, confessing loudly,
“Lo! I am mortal, flesh imbued with life:
and every sinew, muscle, bone and cell
I urged to one tremendous undertaking—
to raise one people to unholy power
Upon a stair of mounting treachery.
Lord, I betrayed the heart and soul of Man.
Lord, take your servant’s spirit to your own.”
Lucifer, listening, well may prick his ears
and laugh, and grant your prayer, and enfold you,
in that eternal moment of your dying,
within the timeless compass of his bosom.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1941.
£lOO
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL.
Only novels will be eligible for this 1941
Competition. The Prize will be awarded to the
novel that is considered the most outstanding
contribution to Australian literature. Each MS.
must' be submitted under a pen-name, with full
name and address in an accompanying sealed
envelope. Stamps to cover return postage
should be enclosed.
First refusal of serial rights to any entries
is reserved to “The Bulletin,” payment for such
rights being in addition to the Prize. All other
rights will belong to the author.
Further details can be had on application
to the Secretary, S. H. Prior Memorial Prize,
Bulletin Office, Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney.
“MR. JARRETT GETS PEEVED”
By J. A. CHRISTOMAR.
IN some way or other it has become a legend, an
article of faith, in the town —“Mr. Jarrett gets
peeved.” There are stories, of course, but they
never seem to reach back to its actual begin-
nings: “It was that time Jeff Parkinson kicked a goal
from halfway to beat Rylhurst; we all reckoned on a
celebration, but you know how Mr. Jarrett gets
peeved” As if even then the belief still wore the
authenticity of things accepted.
It would be heresy unheard of to question the
truth of it. Even the town’s most respectable, if least
respected—those of the solidest virtue, who could
never be expected, even at such times of universal
gaiety as Christmas or New Year or of universal re-
joicing as a victory over Rylhurst, to be numbered
among Mr. Jarrett’s customers —know Mr. Jarrett
(the round bulk of him and the cigar sticking out from
under the ridiculous little bowler hat which bows and
bobs its way to the station once a week) and his repu-
tation for swift, ungovernable anger.
Yet, though everybody in the town believes im-
plicitly in Mr. Jarrett’s rage, only to Molly Thurlow
is it a matter of any real and urgent importance.
Together with Lily Barnes’s job pulling beer for the
Federal’s clients Molly has inherited also her mantle
as high-priestess for the propagation of the cult, and
chants its litany—“ Not so loud, please, boys ; Mr.
Jarrett gets peeved” ; “No, I won’t have one, thanks ;
Mr. Jarrett gets peeved” ; “I can’t serve you after
twenty-past; Mr. Jarrett gets peeved.” With repeti-
tion the phrase has assumed an ominous significance.
The necessity of retaining her dual position in Mr.
Jarrett’s employ makes the appeasement of Mr.
Jarrett’s wrath a constant study. Everything Molly
does is conditioned by the foreboding “Mr. Jarrett
gets peeved.” If, by chance, she ever does forget the
constraints it imposes she lives for days in fear and
trembling that her misdemeanor may be discovered,
and the fact that once, shortly after Lily was married
and recommended her to the job, Mr. Jarrett was
roused against her has done nothing to lessen her
fears.
I T happened the morning after Mr. Jarrett’s yellow
' bitch Smearface won the Lenten Gift. Mr. Jarrett
had gone down as usual on the 4.30 to see the race,
and after she had closed up and had her tea Molly
had taken the opportunity of having Lily and her
husband and Bill Foxton over for a bit of a party.
They got to yarning and singing and the next thing
anybody had noticed it was one o’clock. Molly just
had time to get rid of them and put the lights out
before Mr. Jarrett got in on the one-thirty.
She’d gone up to bed and lay there listening for
him, hoping he wouldn’t go through to the parlor and
see the mess. She decided once again that she
shouldn’t have had the party or done anything that
might make Mr. Jarrett get peeved, and once again
she made up her mind that she’d be more careful in
the future. She didn’t go off to sleep till she heard
Mr. Jarrett come up the stairs and go into his room,
then she put the alarm on for five so she could get
things straightened out in the morning before he was
down.
And there wasn’t much to do when she came to
it. She stacked the lager bottles in the corner of the
bar, put the whisky back on the shelf, then swept the
cigarette butts and ash on to the dustpan at the little
step leading down into the bar, and wiped down the
table with the glass cloth. She didn’t bother about
drying the glasses ; just ran them through the water
in the sink, then put them in a row on the shelf. The
dust hung in the first patterned rays of sunlight coming
through the bar windows when she had finished, and
she thought how it was going to be a nice day, and
how the job really did pay good money, and how well
off she was only for the continual worrying about Mr.
Jarrett getting peeved.
She thought, too, how frightening he
was with the cigar always held in a corner
of his mouth, and the way he always seemed
to be smiling at you through his glasses,
though he hardly ever said anything. Just
“Good morning, Molly,” when he came in to
send her to breakfast and then perhaps not
another thing till he came into the bar again
just before six and said “Nearly time to close
up.” And those times when he stood down
at the corner of the bar, talking and arguing
with his cronies about his dogs, she remem-
bered ; how his eyes seemed to be wandering
all the time, looking at her and everybody
else except the people he was talking to.
But Lily had told her he was a good boss,
“except when he gets peeved,” and that was right, too.
And since Lily had told her all the things that made
him peeved she’d been pretty careful. Anyway, she
thought, even with the worry she was better off than
she had been with old Hallam over at the store,
working eight hours a day and Friday night, too, for
a lousy thirty shillings.
When the clock in the hall struck six she went
through and opened up the bar. She had to stay
there until Mr. Jarrett had his breakfast; then he
would come in about seven and look after things and
smoke one of his cigars while she had her breakfast
in the kitchen with cook . Ther e weren’t many came
in SQ early—perhaps a couple of the men going out
to where they were building a new culvert on the
ma i n rQad . t outside the town _ and s h e leant across
shaft of sun ij g ht on the bar to have a look at the
Syd paper t h e boy brought for Mr, Jarrett. There
wa§ a photograph of Smearface winning the Lenten
Qift and something about his consistency. Mr. Jarrett
WQuld be leasedj ghe thoughts and smiled to herself
becaus£ eyerything should be all right now .
Then about the empty bottles and
nQt leave them in the b eyen
thg b had id for them . she went to the
calle y d QUt r F ound the back for the yardboy
whom Mr. Jarrett kept to do odd jobs and to look
after the kennels to come to take them away before
Mr. Jarrett came in.
K/f R. JARRETT leant back in his chair for a
** 1 moment while he folded his serviette. It was a
good day. The sun would be shining through the
windows into the bar most of the time. He thought
he’d take a chair in there and sit down. Arthur
Rogers would come in probably to congratulate him
about Smearface, and some of the others would be
along, too.
They ought to have done well. He’d told them
all about it a week ago. Only Rogers would be dis-
appointed. But he’d told him that thing his brother
had didn’t have a chance, not against Smearface.
Yes, he’d stay in the bar today, see them all. He could
give Molly the morning off. Not a bad girl. A bit
slow, but she knew her place. Not like Lily. It was
a wonder how he’d put up with Lily for so long,
always laughing and giggling in the bar.
He bit the end off a cigar, lit it, then got up and
went through the side door across the hall into the
bar. He’d see what the paper had to say about
Smearface.
Molly was leaning up against the door of the bar
talking to the yardboy. Mr. Jarrett remembered the
boy hadn’t given Smearface clean water one day last
week, remembered he’d found him lying down behind
the shed reading a comic when he should have been
doing out the kennels, remembered the boy didn’t
seem to have the proper respect for him. He heard
Molly say “... .and hurry up before he comes. You
know what Mr. Jarrett is.”
Mr. Jarrett noticed that the sun seemed to have
slipped for a moment behind a small cloud, that
with Molly standing at the door it didn’t come stream-
ing in across the bar, that the room seemed a dingy
little place; noticed that the paper was lying opened
on the bar and that a couple of the inside pages had
slipped off on to the floor. He went over behind the
bar and picked them up, and he smoothed the paper
out and folded it.
“If there’s one thing I don’t like,” Mr. Jarrett
said as Molly came from the door back behind the
bar, “it’s people messing up the paper. You should
know that. And”—Mr. Jarrett’s dignity was hurt;
the eyes behind the thick-rimmed glasses had lost
their subtle smile —“it peeves me, too, to think that my
employees should fear me! ‘You know what Mr.
Jarrett is !’ ”
Mr. Jarrett was peeved! The thought of it
flooded in upon Molly, sweeping all her fears and
apprehensions to the surface. She felt her face burn-
ing, and tears ready gathering in her eyes; her lips
trembled, but she said not a word, standing with her
head bowed waiting for the storm to break.
Confronted wtih so much feminine weakness and
repentance Mr. Jarrett’s querulousness suddenly
dropped away from him. The eyes behind the glasses
were puzzled now. His voice lost its whining note.
“It’s time you went for your breakfast,” he said.
HP HE ineffectiveness of Mr. Jarrett’s rage, the anti-
' climax to his fabled anger, has in no way con-
quered Molly’s fears. That she came unharmed
through the experience she attributes to a very special
dispensation of extremely kindly Providence. As she
intones the litany of her faith she thinks back to the
incident as to a personal revelation of a great truth,
and in secret confession to Lily it takes on the tradi-
tional form of all such confessions relative to Mr.
Jarrett’s temper, completely devoid of detail —“You
know how Mr. Jarrett gets peeved.”
Mr. Jarrett, overhearing scraps of Molly’s litany
out of the midst of his discourse on dogs, knows that
his reputation has lost nothing of its power to rule.
The cigar is held more firmly between his lips, the
eyes, half-hidden behind those protecting glasses, still
smile dimly, and the bowler hat bobs and bows even
more condescendingly on the walk to the station each
week. Mr. Jarrett has hopes that this year his reputa-
tion in the town will help lead him to the presidency
of the Shire Council.
“The hour's up. Shall we have another two bobs Worth?"
“Might as Well, seem that neither of us has scored yet.”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
dJ ffhlt I'idm cffate mellowncjdandkouquefi
Seppelts
BIG BEN FLOODLIT.
A good many years have elapsed since
floodlighting of important buildings came
into fashion. It assuredly was never
applied with more pleasing results than
to the Clock Tower of the Houses of
Parliament. Here Londoners, perhaps,
learned to appreciate some of the Gothic
loveliness of a famed landmark, in a
sense of which previously they had not
been conscious. This Tower is 316 feet
in height. The courtyard in front of it
was the “new yard” of the Palace begun
by William Rufus about 1096. In this
“new yard” in olden times, comparatively
speaking, stood a clock tower with a
great bell, known as “Edward of West-
minster,” but always in, popular phrase-
ology “Westminster Tom.” Local records
tell that it was given by William 111
(1689-1702) to the churchwardens of St.
Margaret’s Church, hard by, who, find-
ing no place for it, sold it to the Dean
and Chapter of St. Paul’s “for the new
Cathedral.” During its conveyance to
the new owners on a tumbril it fell off
while passing Temple Bar, and received
a somewhat severe crack. A boy was
killed by the accident. It was recast to
make the great bell of the Cathedral,
and this inscription placed upon it:
“Bought from the mines of Westminster.”
This bell, parenthetically, can be heard
twenty miles away, and on the demise
of the sovereign is tolled. It cannot,
however, claim the fame which attaches
to Big Ben. There is something peculiarly
impressive listening to its chimes at such
times as the Clock Tower is illuminated,
as depicted in the illustration.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3197
Wednesday, May 21, 1941.
ROAMIN’ IN THE GLOAMIN’.
“And how many aircraft do you say they have?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAU OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521BB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings iopp. G.P.O. ),
W ellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 16s.;
3 months, 8s. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign j;
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s.;
- months. lls.
IS HITLER HIMSELF SCARED?
“If anything happens to me,” Hitler said in the
Reichstag on September 1, 1939, “my first successor
will be Field-Marshal Goring. If anything happens
to him, he will be succeeded by Herr Hess. If any-
thing happens to Herr Hess”
Something has happened to Herr Hess —something
unpredictable and without parallel in the history of
British wars.
On the night of May 10, while crews of barbarians
were over London, dropping explosive and incendiary
bombs on the citizens and trying to destroy precious
monuments of civilisation, Hess set out on the
most fantastic solo flight in history. Taking a Messer-
schmitt 110 from an airfield in Augsburg, Bavaria,
he flew it over the North Sea to Scotland, landing by
parachute on the Duke of Hamilton’s estate in Lanark-
shire. There, after inquiring the way to the castle
of Dungavel, he surrendered to a farmhand who had
heard the ’plane crash and, rushing out of his house,
saw Hess lying in a field beside his parachute, an
ankle having been fractured in the fall.
The strange visitor was taken first to the plough-
man’s house, where he received the hospitality which
the Scotch never refuse to a disabled enemy, and
then to a Glasgow hospital. There he was identified
and interrogated by Mr. Ivone Kirkpatrick, who was
First Secretary to the British Embassy at Berlin when
Sir Nevile Henderson was Ambassador, He is now
held as a prisoner of war.
The landing on the Duke of Hamilton’s estate
was, it transpired, deliberate. Hess had met the Duke
—known in Australia when he was the Marquis of
Clydesdale—at the 1936 Olympic Games, and he was
fully acquainted with the Duke’s views on the war.
Before that catastrophe the Duke, then M.P. for East
Renfrewshire, suggested in the Commons that “the
Danzig problem” might be “settled by the removal
of the German population of the city to Germany.”
In October, 1939, he wrote a letter to the “Times”
in which he said that he looked forward to “the day
when a trusted Germany comes into its own,” and that
“we do not grudge Germany living room, provided
Lebensraum is not made the grave of other nations.”
He was bold enough to add that “the moment the
menace of aggression and bad faith is removed, the
war against Germany becomes wrong and meaning-
less.”
Doubtless remembering all this, Hess contrived
some time ago to get a letter delivered to the Duke,
who handed it over unanswered to the proper authori-
ties. When No. 3 dropped from the clouds the Duke,
whom he evidently expected to meet, was far away
on service—a flying man of international fame since
he flew over Everest, he is an R.A.F. Air Commodore.
Duke and prisoner have since met, but what passed
between them is to be concealed until the Govern-
ment decides to give the full story to the world.
The fact of Hess’s arrival in Scotland was with-
held for 48 hours. It would have been far better
if the Government had withheld it for a week or
more, if only to keep the Germans guessing, and pos-
sibly betray them into some disclosure of what the
game may be. Able and ruthless as the Nazis have
shown themselves in military matters, there is a
streak of clumsiness in their composition, and had
they been kept in suspense as to what happened to
Hitler’s favorite they might have let something slip
out. As it was, they adapted their official stories to
circumstances. The first, given out before they knew
that Hitler’s No. 2 heir was safe, was that, in viola-
tion of a veto issued by the Fiihrer (“because of a
disease which has been progressive for years”), Hess
had “got hold of a ’plane recently,” had started from
Augsburg “on a flight from which he has not re-
turned,” and had evidently “crashed or met with a
similar accident.” Hess, it was added, had “left
behind a letter which unfortunately shows in its
confusion traces of mental disturbance which justify
the fear that he is the victim of hallucination.”
He also “left behind” adjutants who “alone knew of
the flight and who were likewise aware of the Fiihrer’s
ban” ; the adjutants, it was alleged, had been placed
under arrest.
The landing in Scotland announced, the enemy
explained that Hess had really gone to Britain in the
hope that he could come to terms with that country.
He “knew better than anyone the Fiihrer’s efforts for
peace,” but, not being in a “state to understand the
significance of his action or the consequences, he
thought he could achieve more by personal effort.”
There was another reference to papers “left behind.”
In the second edition these “tended to show that Herr
Hess thought he could achieve an understanding with
England through his English acquaintances.” This was
the best that Goebbels could do, and it was sorry stuff.
Unfortunately his propaganda department got some
much-needed assistance from Britain itself. In that
country there was a wild resurgence of the “hang-the-
Kaiser” spirit, boo-boo press boys, Central European
refugees and two Cabinet Ministers combining to
bombard the fugitive with invective (their mildest ex-
pression was “brutal thug”) and suggest that the
Empire was engaged, not merely in a war for survival,
but in a crusade and a war of vengeance, which would
not be ended until the Nazi leaders and their alleged
English-speaking sympathisers were brought to sum-
mary justice.
Sir Nevile Henderson met Hess at the Nuremberg
Rally in September, 1937, and heard a lot about him
afterwards. In his book Failure of a Mission, written
after the outbreak of war, Sir Nevile wrote these sen-
tences, some of which have become charged with a
new significance:
Rudolf Hess was the Fiihrer’s deputy, appointed to
represent him when or wherever he could not himself
attend any function. In a sense he seemed to me to
be a sort of adopted son to Hitler, and on the outbreak
of war he was named as second after Goring in the
order of succession to the leadership of the German
nation. In less troublous times he might well have been
named first, but his authority with the army would
scarcely have been great enough in war-time to hold the
balance between the soldiers and the Nazi party.
Educated in Germany, Hess served in the last war,
first in the infantry, but later in the flying corps. Up
to 1935 flying remained his hobby, and he actually
won an important civil contest whilst a Cabinet Minister.
After that Hitler forbade his risking his life by any
further excursions in the air.
Hess was one .of Hitler’s first collaborators and
friends, and his number of membership of the party
was in the early twenties. He took part in the Munich
putsch in November, 1923, was condemned after it to
imprisonment, and shared Hitler’s confinement in the
fortress of Landsberg. When Hitler took office in 1933
he was given Cabinet rank as a Minister without port-
folio.
Tall and dark, with beetling eyebrows, a famous
smile and ingratiating manners, Hess was perhaps the
most attractive-looking of the leading Nazis. He was
not inclined to be talkative, and in conversation did
not convey the impression of great ability. But people
who knew him best would have agreed that first impres-
sions—and I never got further with him than that —
were deceptive, and he certainly wielded in Germany
more influence than people generally believed. I would
have summed him up as aloof and inscrutable, with a
strong fanatical streak which would be produced when-
ever the occasion required it.
It may be that “the occasion” has “required it.”
If Hess bolted of his own accord he must have had
many confederates, and there must be a serious fissure
in a party that for years has seemed thoroughly united
and all powerful. But is that really a satisfactory ex-
planation? Is it conceivable that Hitler was in ignor-
ance of his understudy’s plans and proceedings?
Hess was obviously afraid of something that is
about to happen. May not Hitler, too, be afraid of
something that is about to happen, and may not he, in
his fear, have inspired or at least consented to Hess’s
desperate adventure? The something may be, or may
have resulted from, the assumption of control by the
army.
Writing of the events of 1918, Ludendorff referred
to “the struggle with the Government to obtain what
the army required in order to achieve a final and
decisive victory.” That struggle may have been
renewed in 1941. The power of the old army was
broken by its defeats. That of the new army has
been cemented by its victories. In the planning and
determining of military policy, it may indeed have
become so supreme that not Hitler, Goring, Hess and
Goebbels but Keitel, Brauschitsch and List are the real
rulers of Germany.
During the week in which Hess sought out the
Duke of Hamilton events of great importance, some
of them sinister, happened elsewhere. The policy
of Moscow suddenly became menacing. Stalin recog-
nised the Iraqi rebel Rashid Ali, signed an agreement
with Rashid covering “military, diplomatic and con-
sular arrangements,” and withdrew recognition from
the legitimate Governments of Norway, Bel-
gium and Yugoslavia, which last he was so recently
flattering. The Vichy Government “acceded to new
German demands for increased Franco-German col-
laboration,” and German ’planes bound for Iraq began
to use aerodromes in Syria. The Japanese launched a
new offensive in Shansi against the troops of Chiang
Kai-shek, and reported that the Chinese Red Army,
backed by Moscow, had attacked Chiang’s soldiers
“in the rear.” Above all, while the Ameri-
cans were assembling a fleet of merchant ships to
carry arms and supplies to the British in the Red Sea
region, in pursuance of President Roosevelt’s declara-
tion that his Government intended to regard the Red
Sea as open to American shipping, the Germans pro-
claimed the Red Sea “an area of operations for
German forces” and threatened America with more
sinkings like those of February and March, 1917 —
“any ship found there risks destruction by mines or
any other means of war.” From these events the
Hess flight cannot be dissociated.
The new challenge to the U.S.A. is obviously the
work of “high military authority,” as the record says it
was in 1917. So is the coercion of the scared Stalin,
who was doubtless ordered to choose between having
a German war on his hands and co-operating to cut
off Britain from its supplies of Middle East oil —of
course, the cold-footed Georgian will do it without
fighting, if he can. There must be millions of Ger-
mans who hate the idea of having Communists as
associates and as merciless masters if the military
plans go wrong, and who dread the thought of war
with the invincible transatlantic republic. Hitler
himself, who taught them to hate Communists (many
of the older Germans, with first-hand experience of
what their own Communists did immediately after
the last war and tried to do in later years with
Moscow backing, required no teaching), may be a
prey to gloomy forebodings and resentments,
especially if he feels that he, the political creator of
the new army, has become or is about to become its
tool. Vivid in his memory must be the recollection
of Mr. Chamberlain’s flight to Godesberg and of
the profound impression it made ip Europe, in Ger-
many no less than Britain. He must have had many
anxious discussions on the trend of events with the
faithful Hess. What more likely than that he
should send the faithful Hess to Scotland, or that
the faithful Hess should volunteer to go, both hoping
that Britons would see in the adventure an analogy
to the Chamberlain flight and would come to terms
before the army leaders had their way?
In all the wars of the Reich the military party
has been in the ascendant. To control it Hitler
would need a military party of his own ; and it so
happens that the only known Hitler general, Rommel,
is having an extremely torrid time in the region of
Solium and Tobruk.
Rudolf the Roomer.
“El Verdugo’s” study:
More rubbish has been written about Rudolf Hess than
about any historical character since Henry VIII. Here are
the plain facts about him from Wer ist’s?, the German
Who’s Who, in which he commands a longer biography
than any other leader of Nazidom.
He was born on April 26, 1894, at Alexandria, Egypt.
His father and grandfather had been in business there; they
both had been born in Trieste, then Austrian territory. He
and they claimed Bavarian citizenship. Rudolf went to the
German school in Alexandria in 1900 and stayed there till
1906. In 1908 he was sent to the Realschule at Godesberg
on the Rhine, where Hitler had his second meeting with
Chamberlain at his favorite pub. A Realschule is a high
school in which mathematics, modern languages and the general
mechanics of finance and commerce are taught. Hess showed
a “distinct talent for mathematics, physical science and tech-
nical subjects.” After a term in the German end of his
father’s Egyptian export business, he went first to the great
Commercial College in Neuchatel University (Switzerland)
and to the Merchant School at Hamburg, and thence to the
war.
Serving with the 18th Bavarian Reserve Infantry and with
the 35th Pursuit Echelon of the Flying Corps, he fought on
the West Front, in Rumania, with the Shock Troops in the
Carpathians and again on the West Front. He was wounded
three times, once shot through the lungs.
Hess went back to his studies in Munich. There he joined
the Nazi party in June, 1920, “and soon became personally
intimate with Adolf Hitler.” After the Beerhall putsch of
1923, he “was for a month a fugitive in the Bavarian
mountains,” but the authorities gathered him in and kept
him in gaol or under detention for some time, the last seven
months or so in Landsberg with Hitler.
He may have been one of the 3,567,818 persons who have
been accused of helping to write Mein Kampf —anyway, Hitler,
who knew him well enough to give him a nickname, mentions
him in that curious work—“my brave Maurice.”
In spring, 1925, Hess became Hitler’s private secretary.
He accompanied Adolf on his journeys, helped to prepare his
speeches and announcements, and was elected to the Central
Executive of the Nazi party. In 1927, at Munich, he married
Use Proehl, daughter of a Hanoverian doctor. He was 33;
she, 27. In 1933 he was appointed “Stellvertreter des
Fiihrers Reichs-Ministerium.”
A Stellvertreter is a deputy, agent, surrogate—anything you
like that implies substitution. Even the lad who goes on to
the football field when somebody has been kicked in the
slats in the ruck is a Stellvertreter. As, however, Rudolf was
a member of the Reichstag and one of the “seniors” or
Ministers of that strange body, but had no portfolio, he
might have been described as Parliamentary Under-Secretary
to the Prime Minister’s Department. He also ran the Nazi
party office and acted as Hitler’s principal private secretary.
The only other original non-portfolio man in the Ministry
of 1933 was Ernst Rohm.
Hess is over six feet high, swarthy, green-eyed. He has
dark, bushy eyebrows which almost join. There is no basis
for the professorial sneer that he has dark blood in his
veins. His Wer ist’s biography explains everything. “Practi-
cally every one of his ancestors lived in Wundsiedel, in the
Fichtelgebirge,” where they were engaged in commerce and
trading until “his grandfather wandered down to Alexandria
and opened a business there.” He re-established his connec-
tions with Wundsiedel when he became eminent. His mother
had one of the proudest names in Bavaria —Munch. Munich in
German is Munchen. Numerous villages are named Miinch-
berg or something like it in honor of the ancient monks who
teemed there. A grandmother of Hess was a Vischer —there was
a Vischer of those parts who made the famous King Arthur
statue of Innsbruck.
A foreign parachutist dropping down in the Fichtelge-
birge would think that he had fallen into the fifteenth century or
the age of the Twilight of the Gods. Ratisbon, the centre of the
district, is 28 miles away. All round are the towns of the
Middle Ages preserved in their pristine fairy-tale crookedness
—Nuremberg, whose hand “goes through every land”;
Ratisbon (or Regensburg) of the Diets, with Mad Ludwig’s
Valhalla, six miles out, another Parthenon, towering above the
Danube, and his Hall of the Liberators. Just across the
Bohemian border on the east are Marienbad and Karlsbad,
where our Edward the Seventh used to take the waters.
Handy on west and north are the broad leisurely cities "of
Wagner’s music and Goethe’s poetry, Bayreuth and Weimar.
Now, the Fichtelgebirge folk are very peculiar people.
There is the little, squat, dwarf type of the Bohmenwald
and there is the tall, green-eyed Hess type. They get their
swarthiness from the Celtish ancestors whom the Romans
found in the fort at Ratisbon. Their position on the Danube
made them traders. Their Celtic nature made them lovers of
poets and of art. They were the providores and boatmen and
quartermasters of the Crusaders.
Some of the most common names of the district are
Walter, Richard and Rudolf. Hess has them all—Walter for
Walter von der Vogelweide, who had a fief at Wurzburg, and
whom all the countryside still reveres as the Scottish revere
Burns. He it was who wrote:
Set on the brow of Philip Caesar’s crown
And break his peace no more
It is from one of his poems that Berlin gets the name of its
finest street, Unter den Linden. The Richard is from the
English King Coeur de Lion, in deference to a good customer;
the Rudolf from the Kings of Swabia and the Hapsburgs
just across the border. Fichtelgebirge folk are proud of their
lineage—peasants and tradesmen are aristocrats there. They
hate Prussians. They are also tenaciously religious, and they
have always associated themselves with the thought of peace,
despite their hasty tempers. It was at Ratisbon, hard by
Hess’s ancestral village, that the wars of the Mantuan suc-
cession ended with peace between France and the German
Emperor in 1630. Many a Diet met there and killed wars at
birth. It was at one of the later Ratisbon Diets that the
German princes broke away from Germany in 1806 and placed
themselves under Napoleon’s protection. .
Probably as much negotiation has been done m Ratisbon
as anywhere. It still has a “street of the ambassadors.
The last characteristic of many of these northern
Bavarians is their liking for the English, of whom thousands
every year have passed through to festivals and to take the
waters. The name of Edward VII lingers. So to speak, he
was one of the local lads. Only a few miles away are Coburg
and Gotha and various other centres of small Thunngian
States from which much of the royal blood of England
P And there is a church in Ratisbon which is called the
Church of the Scots, after some ancient immigrant Benedictine
order.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Practical Politics" in Boothby.
After a long inward struggle which seems to have
shaken him, Mr. Curtin has arrived at a Great
Decision. The decision is that, Caucus permitting, he
will form a Government if the electors of Boothby
(S.A.) give him another vote.
If we do not win Boothby, I shall not regard the
Labor party as having been authorised by the people
to form a Government.
To Mr. Curtin it is “outside the question of practical
politics for the Labor party to form a Government
unless its strength as a party is at least equal to or
greater than that of those which are not Labor.”
Other Labor leaders had other views, and so had
leaders of other parties. In the early years of Federa-
tion no single party had a majority, and if two parties
had not worked together (and they were not always
the same parties) nothing of importance would have
been done. Not till the fusion of 1909 was there a
Government which commanded a majority in the
House. The next year brought a Labor Government
with a clear majority in each Chamber. That hap-
pened largely because two other Labor Governments
—one supported by less than a third of the Represen-
tatives and the other by little more-had shown that
they were willing to accept the responsibility which
Mr. Curtin has hitherto rejected, and that the people
could trust them.
Mr. Curtin expects too much of Boothby. Far
from having given him any cause for thrusting such
a burden on their shoulders, the Boothby people have
cast out Labor candidates for the House and for the
Senate at election after election. Those who sought
their suffrages eight months ago failed to secure even
half the votes polled. The Boothby people may fairly
ask why Mr. Curtin is putting up to them what he
did not put up to the electors of Swan. Though Swan
is in his own State, he took no active part in the by-
election held there five months ago. Afterwards he
accepted an appointment on a committee which was
commissioned to devote six weeks to an inquiry into
the wrongs of Westralia, and he was extremely indig-
nant when, as he put it, he was “dragged back by
propagandists and controversialists” from “important
work in the West” —back, that is, to the part of Aus-
tralia where his Advisory War Council does its back-
seat driving. In the meantime, grave events vitally
concerning Australia were occurring in the Mediter-
ranean region.
The electors of Boothby are being courted by a
Labor candidate of fair average quality and a U.A.P.
candidate of unusual ability. They should choose
between these gentlemen without being influenced by
the doubts and fears and hopes that pursue one
another through Mr. Curtin’s mind. It is not for any
single constituency to decide whether this or that
Government should be in office. That is Parliament’s
job. Whatever happens in Boothby, no party or
coalition will have a majority, and when —or if —
Parliament becomes conscious of its own powers and
responsibilities that should mean, for the duration of
the war at least, a Government composed of the best
men from both sides of both Chambers.
Whither, Agrarians?
N.S.W. Country party “heads” “coldly received” a
suggestion by their party’s Federal leader, Mr. Fadden,
that there should be complete fusion between the
U.C.P. and the U.A.P. Mr. Fadden hastily announced
that he would take no further “action.”
Possibly the C.P. in N.S.W. is blaming the U.A.P.
for the drubbing that both received. It can’t
have forgotten that Mr. Stevens, now in Delhi,
did the coalition a lot of harm that Mr. Man-
had little hope of repairing, and it is no doubt
remembering that in the Federal election the U.A.P.,
stampeded by the efforts of two Sydney papers to run
“outstanding candidates,” agreed to permit said out-
standers to carry the party label under “multiple en-
dorsement.” The newspaper heroes got a drubbing,
and when the State election came round and the
U.A.P. found itself with several rebels on its hands it
refused them endorsement and then sadly watched
most of them canter in.
Maybe the C.P. is right in deducing that these
capers had a bad effect on the electors. All the same,
were it at all in touch with country opinion, it would
be searching its own soul.
Neither in the State nor the Federal sphere has the
C.P. record been a proud one in recent years. It
provided its wondering supporters with a U.A.P.-C.P.
arrangement in N.S.W., a C.P.-Labor arrangement in
Victoria and a U.A.P.-C.P. arrangement in Canberra.
These performances by a party whose founders and
oldest supporters had always looked upon it as a centre
party designed to protect the interests of the farmer
and the country town have disgusted many.
During its term as part of the Sydney Government
the C.P. remained singularly quiet, though that Gov-
ernment, through its Milk Board, its transport strangu-
lation policy, its steady centralisation of secondary
industry, education and other things, together with its
spending of millions on city facilities, persisted in a
course that could never be described as remotely bene-
ficial to the country. All N.S.W. ever heard from its
C.P. leader were passionate exhortations to compare
its present state with its state under Mr. Lang, and
just before the election Mr. Bruxner made an
exhibition of himself in the House over the same long-
dead bogey.
Country people have been watching the Sydney
U.A.P.-C.P. Government for years with growing dis-
gust. It was too late at the death-knock to promise
them water, rural development and asparagus plans.
They’d had enough, and when they got their chance
they took it.
A little pondering on matters like these should
prove beneficial to those who guide the Country party,
both in N.S.W. and beyond its borders.
Forms, Please!
Hidden behind the facades of the multitude of depart-
ments there abides a race apart —the people who
design the printed forms with which the citizenry is
plagued every time it comes into contact, close or
distant, lawful or otherwise, with Authority.
Years of practice have brought the production of
these forms to a fine art, not only in the extraneous
and often-confusing phraseology used, but also in the
awful questions set down, the shape and color of the
make-up and the provision invariably made for the
procession of the completed form through a labyrinth
of offices in the particular department or departments,
bureaux, branches and/or divisions.
It might have been thought that the acme of
dreadfulness, the supreme word-puzzle, had been
attained with the income-tax form or the conditions of
permit for conducting a merry-go-round, steam, for
hire in a public place. But no ; these creations pale
before the majestic terror of the forms which the Aus-
tralian mother will have to wrestle with ere she
becomes qualified to draw the bonus of ss. a week
for every head of progeny under 16 she is rearing
after the first.
Her entire life’s secrets must be confessed. She
will, if she fills the form completely, be left with
nothing to brood over in the silent hours when the
kids are asleep and their progenitor snoring beside her.
She must, among other things, state
whether she has applied for State family endowment;
if all the children named are maintained by herself or
husband (a full explanation may be made by separate
letter); the names of children not living with her, why
they are not, where they live and if she is contributing
to their support; the names of any children who are not
her own or were not begot by her husband; the name
of the father and the maiden name of the mother of each
such child; whether she receives any payment to help
maintain each such child and from what source; why
any of the children who have not lived in Australia for
the previous 12 months haven’t done so; if any alien is
the father of any such child.
Having stopped for a cup of tea and a breather,
Mother can then give the date and place of her own
birth ; her “full” maiden name, the date and place
of marriage (if any); the full name of husband ;
whether she or he is, or was, a natural British sub-
ject ; whether, if not, he has been naturalised. She
then states whether or not she is an aboriginal and
whether any of the children are aboriginals. She
completes the course game as a bull-ant but blowing
hard.
Mother then puts on her walking-dress, grabs the
form and proceeds in search of a “J.P., M.P., clergy-
map, constable or other responsible person, not a
relative, to whom she has been known for at least
12 months,” and persuades one or other or all of
them to declare that she is the person named in the
application and so forth.
It is rumored that one woman, the mother of 17
children, somehow got into the new Endowment
Department and suggested that the following declara-
tion, to be sworn before a J.P., would fill the bill:
I, Mary Doe, being a person of sound mind and not
yet over-harried by departmental forms and regulations,
hereby declare on my oath that I am the natural or foster
mother or guardian of the children herein named and
that all of them are under the age of 16 years; that I
am a British subject; that I am not in receipt of any
outside maintenance; that neither myself nor my
children nor their father are aboriginals; that the
children have resided in Australia for the past 12
months; that I consider myself a fit and proper person
to make this application and have had the penalties for
making a false declaration explained to me.
Fortunately she was captured and will be kept under
restraint until the regulation forms are issued.
Young Mr. Holt, who brought in the measure,
announced that he had “handed over its administration
to the Minister for Health.” No wonder!
Compensation Wanted.
Hobart “Mercury,” noting with some alarm the
growth of the movement for the abolition of State
Parliaments, warns the States to see that their powers
“are not filched from them in an unguarded moment.”
Tasmania, West Australia and South Australia,
which suffered heavy loss of revenue as the result
of Federation and are dependent on an annual Common-
wealth grant to finance their essential services and works,
will need to be assured of adequate compensation
for the surrender of any further powers.
A fact provincialists fail to grasp is that unification
would mean that States as such would cease to exist.
They seem to think that, though their Parliaments
were abolished and all forms of national government
taken over by Canberra, while regional matters would
become the business of regional councils, the
States would continue as separate entities. Some
people simply haven’t the vision to see a single united
people under one Government. They persist in re-
garding themselves as Tasmanians or South Austra-
lians, as the case may be.
Probably, after unification, people would refer
to Victoria or Queensland in a geographical sense,
just as they now refer to the Monaro, Gippsland or
the West Coast. But State borders would cease to
have any meaning, except that the Murray would be
a monument to an old foolishness and Bass Strait
pointed out to visitors as once separating Tasmania
from Victoria.
It is doubtful if Australia, being at war and in
need of every penny it can find for the purpose, will
continue making grants to improvident and unneces-
sary State Governments. It is certain that Common-
wealth taxpayers, already hard hit and likely to be hit
harder in the next Commonwealth Budget, will not
regard with equanimity the handing over of their
money for State “works.”
As for Tasmania, the present system of multiple
government has done nothing to aid its progress.
Indeed, it could be justly claimed that the reverse has
followed. With its local affairs administered by
regional councils and its national affairs attended to by
the Australian Parliament and Government, it would
at least be saved the expense of maintaining a State
Governor and two State Houses and staffs.
Always the Parish Pump.
Early this year the Sydney Premier was heard
demanding £500,000 from Canberra to build air-raid
shelters. His Minister for N.E.S., after conferring
with the Sydney Mayor, talked about making laws if
the National Security Regulations wouldn’t give him a
free hand. Sydney’s City Council erected pillboxes
and dug trenches in odd spots, and finger-posts direct-
ing the citizenry to underground railway tunnels were
nailed up. Meetings of all kinds talked A.R.P. and
there was a demand for a Federal Home Defence
Minister.
The Sydney Premier has since lost his job, and
nearly lost his Parliamentary seat. His N.E.S. Minis-
ter, Primrose, lost both. His monument may well be
a pillbox blocking a narrow street in Sydney’s ’Ldo.
Nothing has been heard of the five hundred thou.,
though the new Premier has promised to straighten
out the A.R.P. muddle. He hardly got the words
out of his mouth when a free fight occurred in Glebe
between supporters of two bumbles quarrelling over
who should be Chief Warden.
While all this was going on there were movements
down south, where Opposition-leader Hollway de-
manded a State Minister for Home Security and a
conference of all States to discuss A.R.P. A special
committee was appointed to survey air-raid shelters,
and there was to be a supervisor of evacuation. There
was talk of £10,000,000 to provide all Victoria with
shelters and £50,000,000 to do the same for the Com-
monwealth. Acting Prime Minister Fadden was
reported to be showing “flashes of irritability” about
the whole thing.
Meantime the Brisbane Government had passed a
Public Safety Act, which gave it undreamed-of powers.
Mr. Hanlon, its Minister for Health and Home Affairs,
who introduced the P.S.A., has since issued a 20-page
report, fully equipped with graphs and specimen forms
and grandiloquently entitled “Report upon the Estab-
lishment and Operations of the several organisations
for the Civil Defence of Queensland.” Extracts:
Instrumentalities such as the Railways, Main Roads
and private undertakings are under statutory
obligation to maintain their services in peace-time. These
obligations remain in war or other emergency. Each
of these bodies has its plans well in hand.
The responsibility for the civil defence having
been imposed upon the States plans have been pre-
pared to administer the Public Safety Act in the interests
of all law-abiding citizens and their property. Should
it become necessary to proclaim the Act and operate
its powers the interests of Queensland and its people
will be paramount.
Whereupon the Public Service Union in Mr.
Hanlon’s State arose and threw a large and nasty
spanner into the works by deciding that any of its
members required to train for A.R.P. work outside
working hours must be paid overtime at time and a
half. Also:
That in the event of an air raid public servants
compelled to be on duty in Government departments
should be paid overtime, plus a risk bonus of 50 p.c.,
and be provided with petrol and oil when using their
own motor vehicles.
Queensland is now waiting to see whether Mr.
Hanlon will be game to apply the P.S. Act to these
people. Employees of private enterprise, practising in
their spare time, have their own long, long thoughts.
A couple of months or so ago the following state-
‘ment appeared in the press:
Military experts have advised the Commonwealth to
place A.R.P. low in the priority list of defence require-
ments on the ground that Australia’s need for such an
organisation is not urgent. Ships, planes, guns and
equipment must come before A.R.P.
But bumbledom and provincialism can’t be expected
to take any notice of that. The farce must go on,
and Canberra is either unwilling or afraid to end it.
Expensive Folly.
A lot of rubbish is being talked and printed about
wheat. It is coming mostly from authorities appointed
to control, nurse, manage or otherwise manhandle the
wheat industry in its time of stress, but newspapers
are assisting. A Sydney paper asserted that a 50 p.c.
to 60 p.c. crop failure was imminent, though sowing
had only just begun and little of the grain would have
had time to germinate.
Naturally, the Australian Wheat Board has ac-
quired stacks of inspectors. A crowd of these is gal-
loping about Riverina, and there are committees
galore. To whip the committees into shape it has been
found necessary to give F. H. Cullen, a Beulah (Vic.)
wheatgrower-member of the Commonwealth Wheat
Stabilisation Board—yes, another board—a full-time
job to “reorganise the wheatgrowing industry on a
stabilised basis.”
Mr. Cullen has been setting up committees in
Victorian wheat districts. He conferred with some-
body in Sydney and then moved out into the N.S.W.
wheatbelt to organise more committees. After that,
presumably, he will invade South and West Australia,
having conferred with somebody else.
Since the job of these committees is to examine
the bona fides of men applying for permits to grow
wheat, and since sowing is near an end, it looks
as though both Mr. Cullen and the committees
will have their work cut out. Presumably, anybody
found sowing 20 acres too much will be ordered to
go and pull it up again, or turn the rabbits in or
appear before a tribunal and show cause why he
shouldn’t be shot or something, but it’s a dead cer-
tainty that anybody who wants to grow wheat this
year won’t have time to wait for either Mr. Cullen or
the committees.
Which shows that when Governments set up
boards to control things that are under the unalter-
able dictates of old Mother Nature they little know
what they tackle.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mac Hoots”; This is the morning
after the big news about Rudolf Hess
has broken. Intensely curious as to what
sort of man he can be§ and confident that
the oracles of the Sydney dailies will
have rushed into print with “When I met
Rudolf Hess” stories, I open my
“5.M.H.,” and there, sure enough, is Pro-
fessor Roberts:—■
I have never met a more anaemic or
washed-out person.
And the “D.T.’s” Emmery Bares is also
on the job, telling how he met a German
journalist who, after an interview with
Hess, was reduced to drinking neat
whisky. Said the journalist:
I am 67, but Hess treated me as if I
were 15. When I entered the room and
lifted my arm in that awful new salute,
Hess shouted that I was not doing it in the
right way—not soldier-like enough.
Anxious to read more of this completely
washed-out, anaemic, shouting bully, I
turn again to Professor Roberts:
His speech was as characterless and
flabby as his handshake. To conduct an
interview with him was almost impossible,
for, when he spoke at all, it was in uncon-
vincing cliches, without any beginning or
end He wrote poems, but they were life-
less as a long-dead fish.
And Mr. Bares again:
Hess looked like the heavyweight Max
Schmeling. When I told him so he seemed
very pleased. “I think the German people
like me,” he said, “because of that re-
semblance. They like fighters.”
The learned professor:
Virility seemed to be entirely lacking in
Rudolf Hess’s physical and mental make-up.
Mr. Bares;
In Rome Hess spent all his spare time
with Countess Ciano, Mussolini’s daughter.
They were great friends, and red-haired
Edda did not hide her admiration for
Hitler’s substitute.
The professor:
He was curiously inarticulate.
Mr. Bares;
He was cocksure and arrogant.
Presently I read that the Nazi who
landed in Scotland was (1) forbidden to
listen to 8.8. C. broadcasts, and (2) spent
most of his waking hours listening to
them. Anyway, as long as he is a tall-
short, voluble-silent, anaemic-virile, com-
pletely characterless and utterly arrogant
sort of person, we can, I take it, be sure
he is Hess.
“Zeter und Mordio”; One of the most
curious sidelights on the Hess business
is the autograph of the wanderer pro-
duced for a Sydney paper by Sidney
Williams, a Digger who collects these
trifles, and who has cajoled one even out
of Hitler. It js a highly modern signa-
ture which begins in ordinary civilised
Roman and ends in modern converted
German. A Swiss or Austrian would read
it without doubt at first glance: “Ruegg”
—“peace.”
‘Jamwood”: I knew a Nazi. Don’t
be indignant, patripts; it was before the
war. He was a young specimen with
excellent manners and with a charming
half-English mother whose fear and
dread of war were pathetically obvious.
At the time of Munich he himself was
plunged in the deepest dejection, but he
struggled out of it to combat a contention
that the Nazi system was doomed. “What
will happen to it,” I asked, “when Hitler
dies? How long did Cromwell’s dic-
tatorship last when he died? Who’ll
follow your Fiihrer, anyhow?” Pausing
just long enough to get his tongue round
the words, he said “Rudolf Hess!”
* * * *
“Biltong”; Smuts may not have
ranked as a great soldier (B. 14/5/’4l),
but he did his bit in the Boer War with
credit. A few years later, when he was
presented with the freedom of Sheffield,
he remarked that he valued the distinc-
tion all the more because he had spent
many months on the veldt “dodging
Sheffield products.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Mention of Professor
Murdoch (B. 14/5/’4l) recalls to me a
delightful letter I once received from him.
I was running a Perth weekly, and had
hazarded the statement that the Saturday
editorials in the “West Australian,”
which had rather a strong academic
flavor, were his work. The prof, wrote
a disclaimer, adding that he didn’t know
whether it was a compliment or not,
because he never read leading articles —
a man who had once written such things,
he explained, as he had done in the past
for one of the Melbourne dailies, was
hardly likely to read them for profit or
pleasure. This enabled me to retell the
ancient tradition that Shakspeare, when
he had settled down as a respectable
burgess at Stratford and a strolling com-
pany of actors had announced a per-
formance of “Hamlet,” was the first to
sign a petition to the Mayor asking him
not to permit immoral exhibitions in the
borough. The only man who was
aggrieved at our correspondence was the
regular leader-writer of the “West,” who
regarded the inference that his and
similar disquisitions were not taken seri-
ously by thoughtful men as flat heresy.
* * * *
“Jachris”: The esteemed Old Lady of
Hunter-street, Sydney, is doing it again,
meeting her flapper competitors on their
own ground and battling valiantly against
them. With her new serial she promises
to better their most lurid products.
Granny announced it: “This is a
romantic novel embracing almost all
the elements of human interest —love,
adventure, material success, villainy and
triumphal virtue.” Triumphal virtue!
• * ♦ *
“Alter”: Leading newspapers in Syd-
ney, Melbourne, Hobart and Brisbane
have come out with editions printed on
the new Australian-made newsprint from
the Boyer mills, Tasmania. The paper
has a yellowish tinge, but takes ink all
right, and appears to prove that Eucalyp-
tus regnans is a hardwood that will turn
out a pulp almost the equal of that from
softwoods. The achievement follows an
enormous amount of research and experi-
ment, and comes at a time when news-
print supplies from abroad are in a tricky
position. Ultimate capacity of the mills
is said to be 400 tons of newsprint a day
from 1200 tons of timber, which might
prompt the question of how long the
timber will last, but forestry estimates
are that, with regeneration every 45 to
50 years, there is enough timber in the
concession area to produce 100,000 tons
of newsprint a year for ever. The mills
now have 583 men at work, and at full
capacity will employ 850, who will earn
a total of £213,000 a year. The company
is owned by certain Australian news-
papers conjointly with the State of
Tasmania.
♦ * * *
“F.S.”: “Blue” says (B. 7/5/’4l) that
the eye does play a part in preserving
balance. I never said it didn’t. What
I said was that there is no necessity to
postulate a sixth sense to explain the fact
that a housewife feels upset when she
sees a picture out of the horizontal. Blind
people walk hesitatingly because they
have reason from past experience to
know that their environment can change.
Somebody may have put a chair where
they didn’t expect it to be. If a sighted
person shuts his eyes and starts to walk
he knows instantly whether he is going
uphill or downhill by the sensation from
his feet. So it is his mind that tells
him that something is awry just as in the
case of the housewife who looks at a
picture. And all “Blue’s” other examples
can be explained by saying that human
beings feel upset if they cannot relate
things that are normally perpendicular to
things that are normally horizontal. Miss-
ing the obvious, as usual, the American
professors had to postulate a sixth sense
to explain something quite common-
sensical.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Hugh Ward was one of
those producers who insisted on manage-
ments spending without stint to produce
shows properly ; but the greatest pain in
the neck to those who wished to cheese-
pare was Boucicault. For the “What
Every Woman Knows” production he
insisted upon half a dozen more supers
for the election crowd than the manage-
ment thought necessary. “But, Mr.
Boucicault, these men will not be seen,”
he was told; “they can’t crowd on.”
“When you are looking at any crowd,”
retorted Boucicault, “can you see all of
it? But you have to know it is there
or it’s not a crowd.” Boucicault got his
extra extras in the cause of artistic
reality; he was a man who would stop
the show rather than give way on a point
like that.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: More and more the young
lions of the flapper press are trying to
write like those smart Left-wing Ameri-
cans, and some of their expressions are
so baffling that I wish they would oblige
us poor damned Australians with a
glossary. I have a fair idea of what
they mean when they say that he, she or
it is “tops” or “nuts,” and that some of
their aversions are “appeasers,” but what
in thunder is a “tycoon”? No column of
clipped Chicago-English is complete un-
less “tycoon” is dragged in half a dozen
times, but the young lions alone know
what it signifies. Or do they? At times
I suspect that they just copy this new-
American lingo without bothering to
ascertain its precise meaning. An Adel-
aide man defrauded a woman of £lOO.
In a “commentator’s” record (with
portrait of “commentator”) the ruffian
“prised her loose from a hundred
smackers.” Incorrect, as well as cheaply
imitative, for, whatever else they may
be, pounds Australian are certainly not
“smackers.”
* * * *
“K. Ley”: The respectable quiet of
our naice suburb was shocked by what
sounded like a bomb explosion. People
opened doors and peered forth. The
smell suggested that it was merely a
hunger that had exploded and, with
thoughts of Empire Day, the populace
retired. Then came two or three more
explosions, whistles sounded in the de-
serted streets and there were heard voices
crying and the patter of running feet.
Slightly panicky, the suburb once more
emerged into the night. Strange figures
wearing brassards ran up and down, a
hidden voice issued orders, there was
another bang and a large man stepped
out into the roadway and roared “What’s
the ruddy game?” A little, elderly, fat
man ran up to him and wheezed im-
portantly “It’s an air-raid practice. We
are wardens. Kindly go inside at once.”
Then the big man raised his voice and
yelled “If you blank blanks want to
play games whyinell don’t you go over to
the park or somewhere, instead of wakin’
kids and frightenin’ nervous old wimmen.
By cripes, if y’ wake up my kids with
y’r damn’ row there’ll be somethin’ doin’,
I promise you! ” Whereupon the whistles
were silent, the brassarded figures van-
ished silently to where they had come
and the voice of the hunger was heard no
more in the land.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: A stoker from an Aus-
tralian minesweeper walked into the
Liberty cinema theatre, Melbourne, gave
his name and asked to see his brother.
The manager looked blank until the
stoker explained that he understood from
a broadcast that Victor McLaglen was
showing in that theatre. Victor wasn’t
billed to appear in his talkie until the fol-
lowing week, but the manager made
the kindly gesture of running through
a portion of the picture so that Mc-
Laglen, Jun., could see his tough relation
doing deeds of counterfeit heroism on
the screen before returning to his own
more realistic profession. The McLaglen
family, as well as giving one to the
screen, has given four brothers to the
Empire’s navies. The Australian repre-
sentative got his fill of real adventure
with the R.A.N. in the Dunkirk business,
but like most people finds art much more
thrilling than reality.
* * * *
“T. McN.”: That rare species, a
woman with a nice sense of humor,
turned up in an American divorce court.
The husband, petitioning on the ground
of desertion, alleged that his wife had
stayed in England and had refused to
write to him. In a written statement to
the Court the wife claimed that she was
unable to join her husband because of
the “aggressive attitude of a third party
—one Adolf Hitler,” and that her letters
had been delayed by “the lack of co-
operation by the aforementioned third
party.” Result of the case hasn’t been
announced, but no man with sense would
lose such a woman.
* * ♦ *
“R. Cross”: A Sydney boxing writer
has published a medico’s diagnosis of
the punch whereby Patrick, the molly-
dooker now making a name for himself,
lays out his opponents. The medico de-
scribes the punch as a “left cut to the
body which causes temporary paralysis
of the diaphragm, a dome-shaped muscle
which is a partition between the chest and
the abdomen and through which pass
nerves and blood-vessels. The muscle is
used in every respiratory action.” This
looks to me like a rediscovery of the
solar plexus or a new way to get at it,
I’m not sure which, seeing that Patrick is
left-handed. The diaphragm theory might
be good, as the punch comes up under
the short ribs, though there is a sugges-
tion that it is really a liver punch. Any-
how, since Patrick has knocked out about
a score of opponents with it, he is un-
likely to be worrying about fine defini-
tions.
“I'll sue you for libel, you pie-eyed, foul-mouthed, lying old ratbag .”
MODERNIST POETRY.
His brow was furrowed deep with care;
He seemed so sore perplexed and galled
I think he would have torn his hair
But for the fact that he was bald.
Upon some printed verse he glared,
The object that had roused his spleen.
“Seems to be English,” he declared,
“But what the blazes does it mean?”
His tightened lips, his worried eyes,
As to his thankless task he bent
Betrayed not only wild surmise
But absolute bewilderment.
I gathered from his snorts and sniffs
He found himself in tougher jams
Than those who tackle hieroglyphs
Or come to grips with cryptograms.
“The stuff,” he said, “in lines is pent,
To indicate, one may suppose,
That poetry is what is meant,
Not unimaginative prose.
The tuneless rhymes might pass, the dearth
Of lilting music cease to weigh,
If you could fathom what on earth
The bard was trying to convey.”
“Great thoughts expressed in phrasing fine,”
I hazarded, “are not for us.
The fault is clearly yours and mine
That we have missed the highbrow bus.”
He scowled once more upon the verse
Wherewith his wits engaged had been,
And yet again the question terse
I heard him mutter, with a curse:
“But what the devil does it mean ?”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“’ E's got the contract pullin' out stumps at O'Reilly's."
“Pipe’s L.”: He lives on Sydney’s
Bellevue Hill, a tony place much favored
by refugees. “Gripes,” he said, “every-
where you go you run into them. I'll
have to get out. The neighbors are start-
ing to look on me as a foreigner.”
* * * *
“Phildee”: If Mr. Hess hadn’t flown
to Scotland the best story of the month
would have come from Maoriland. A
group of young women known as the
Christchurch Auxiliary Ambulance Ser-
vice persuaded an obliging citizen to act
as a casualty. They trussed him up in
bandages, hoisted him up on a stretcher
and then dropped him. The fall broke
his leg. Having a genuine casualty on
their hands the girls ’phoned for
an ambulance, lifted their victim to
it feet-first and slammed the door. The
poor devil wasn’t in far enough, how-
ever, and the door belted him on the
crust. He got concussion. If Iso much
as suspect that any amateur Florence
Nightingale is looking at me I shall bolt
for a time-bomb and perch on it in com-
parative safety—or else throw myself
under a tram before it is too late.
* * * *
“Q.A.Z.”: Firmly convinced that
journalism is the most hazardous of
callings, I have always cherished the idea
of owning a small plot on which to pro-
duce all my needs. The Commonwealth
Attorney-General, however, has blasted
my illusions. According to him, 247
farmers went bankrupt or made compo-
sitions with their creditors in the year
1939-40. My second ambition —to
browse in the sun with my pipe and fill
with petrol any cars that happened to
pass my door —has also gone west.
Garage proprietors and engineers who
followed the fate of those farmers
numbered 142. I would also warn any-
one against being lured to destruction
by the boom in building—l2s builders
are listed by the A.-G. —and even the
honest calling of laborer has its risks —
117 of them are included. The only
other occupation which passed the
hundred mark was storekeeping, with
103, although makers and dealers in
wireless apparatus came close with 99.
Only one stockbroker, one metal-broker,
one paper-manufacturer, one textile
employee and one “financial agent” are
listed in a total of 1901 cases, but I
don’t think any of those professions can
lure me from the safe and solid respecta-
bility of paragraph writing. My friends,
in any case, refuse to let me owe them
any money.
* * * *
“El V.”: Bombs have laid bare a
horrible skeleton in the cupboard of
London City. Of all the cities of the
earth the Square Mile is the richest, the
most given to pageantry, the most sung.
It boasts a prestige above that of most
kingdoms. The King-Emperor may not
set foot officially in it without first ren-
dering up his sword at Temple Bar. Yet
it doesn’t employ a single publicity man,
much less an Information Department.
It isn’t the old corporation’s lack of these
modern necessities that makes every boo-
boo boy who has heard of it shudder to
his toenails. What gets him fairly in the
solar plexus is that the darn place has
succeeded in surviving.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland newspapers record
strange happenings at Palmerston North
at dawn on Good Friday. Two inde-
pendent witnesses swear that looking to-
wards the west they saw
what appeared to be a huge jet-black cross,
with a lifelike figure like that of Christ
crucified on it. After a short period the
cross disappeared, leaving only the cloud
figure in the sky. This was as distinct as
it would be possible to see it. Christ, in
the form of the generally accepted pictures
of Him, was clad in a long white robe, and
even the toes of His feet could be dis-
tinguished.
Accounts of such apparitions, of course,
may be expected in war-time. There were
the “Angels of Mons,” and, as recently
as last November, a report from Lewes
in Sussex of a vision in the sky—Christ
crucified, accompanied by six angels with
long white wings. One angel was play-
ing a harp.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne University Students’
Council did a senseless thing in drawing
the attention of the dailies to the fact
that students were occupying lofts and
attics in Parkville and Carlton, adjacent
to the Uni. The health authorities will
probably now be obliged to take action
and apply their cast-iron regulations. Yet
this sort of quarters can be made much
nicer than many a
suburban villa. One of
the charms of London
used to be the mews
behind the great man-
sions which had been
turned into studios by
artists who were intelli-
gent enough to see their
possibilities. The move-
ment became such a
fashion that owners of
mansions started rent-
ing out their stately
homes and moving into
their own stables, so
that a Melbourne artist
found himself living in
the apartments of a
baronet while that
gentleman and his
family were living in
their own backyard,
playing at being Bohemian. I have
seen some of the Carlton “slums”
and can’t say I dislike them. One is an
enormous loft for which the student
tenant and his young wife, both study-
ing at the University, pay 7s. 6d. a week
with e.l. thrown in. They are making
it quite stylish.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Philatelists
from all over the world completely
swamped the very elementary postal
organisation of Pitcairn after the first
issue of local stamps. Described as Pit-
cairn Islands stamps —the plural covers
the uninhabited islets of Ducie, Oneo and
Henderson, grouped in the Pitcairn area
for administrative purposes they are
handsome examples of design, showing, in
addition to the King’s head on all issues,
incidents and individuals connected
with the Bounty mutiny. John Adams
(Alexander Smith) appears on the lid.
ones, Bligh on the 2d., the Bounty on
the 6d. and Fletcher Christian on the Is.
The stamps will create a certain amount
of overseas credit that will be used for
development of much-needed community
undertakings. But, as overseas mails run
to about two a year, sales, except for
philatelic purposes, are not likely to be
extensive.
* * * *
“Ex-Vic.”: Hordes of people swarm-
ing into London after big air raids to
view the damage are causing the authori-
ties there a lot of trouble, according to
the cables, and there is talk of legislation
against it. Officialdom always lacks
imagination in these matters. Back in
1923, when striking police left Melbourne
city without protection, rioters wrecked
the heart of the place one Saturday night.
Special editions of the newspapers,
among other things, warned all and
sundry to keep out of the city next day.
But as soon as the first Sunday trains and
trams started to run they were swamped
by the horde racing to town to do exactly
what London’s rubbernecks are doing,
and the work of Melbourne’s few police,
special constables and a squadron of ex-
Light Horsemen was increased tenfold.
Stones flew, fights were frequent and in-
cipient riots sprang up everywhere. It
could have been avoided by stopping all
transport, the obvious Sunday remedy in
London’s much-worse case.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”; By a queer coincidence
Cleopatra’s Needle on the Thames Em-
bankment was damaged by an air-raider’s
bomb on the same night that the last
survivor of the crew of the craft which
brought the 186-ton monolith from Alex-
andria to London was killed by another
in Malta. He was Joe Zametti, a Valetta
boatman well-known to many an Austra-
lian pre-war voyager. An iron hull, 96ft.
long and of 15ft. beam, was built round
the 68ft. of Needle where it lay in the
sand, rolled down to the beach on skids
and into the sea —where it promptly sank
from a leak. Refloated, ballasted and
fitted with deck, deckhouse, mast and
steering gear, this craft, the Cleopatra,
left Alexandria in September, 1877, with
Captain Carter as master and a crew of
eight Maltese, in tow of the steamer
Olga. Three weeks later a westerly
Biscay gale shifted her ballast, a boat’s
crew of six from the Olga was lost, Cap-
tain Carter and his crew were taken off
with great difficulty, and the tow was
cut adrift. A British vessel found the
derelict later and took it into Ferrol,
whence the London tug Anglia brought
the weird vessel to Gravesend on January
28, 1878.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Judicial repartee in the
Supreme Court. Counsel: “My personal
view is that the Navy is the best place
for this youth, and that the chance to
serve his country will make a man of
him.” Judge Angas Parsons: “My per-
sonal view is that he should have a
dashed good thrashing. I am not in
favor of helping those with criminal
records to become the associates of
decent young fellows. Nine months.”
* * * *
“Bulong”: That fondness for “the” in
front of place-names (B. 23/4/’4l) isn’t
an Adelaide monopoly. Early-day
Westralian goldfields folk always, in con-
versation, placed the definite article in
front of certain of their towns. It was
the Boulder, the Hannans (later Kal-
goorlie), the Menzies, the Bulong, etc.,
but never the Kalgoorlie or the Cool-
gardie. Mines came before towns, and
the names of mines are always prefixed
by “the” —the Horseshoe, the Ivanhoe,
for example. In this way, towns that
sprang up may have unconsciously been
prefixed with “the” by the early gold-
fielders. Goldfielders of the second and
third generation do not prefix their place-
names with the definite article.
* * * *
“Scowisher”; It was from the Speaker
of the Finnish Parliament to the Speaker
of the Swedish ditto, and it ran:
The representatives of Sweden and Fin-
land have marched side by side during
many centuries of Parliamentary toil. Per-
mit me now, my dear brother, to suggest
that our Houses should march together
in the ensuing struggle.
The “ensuing struggle” is a gigantic walk-
ing match between the two countries.
Towns, villages, schools, factories, etc.,
challenge their opposite numbers across
the border and the whole population, or
that part which can walk, starts march-
ing. It goes on for three weeks, and prob-
ably 1,000,000 from each country will
join in, including Ms.P. The winner is
the country in which the larger number
or percentage of the population walks 15
kilometres (about 10 miles) in under 2hr.
20min. You have to live in such places,
under a six-month wintry confinement, to
appreciate fully the effect of spring. No
wonder everybody wants to start walk-
ing. All the same, I’d like to see a similar
contest between N.S.W. and Victoria, the
winner to get the greater share of Com-
monwealth war contracts.
“ Really, Alice, you take all the glamor out of marriage."
THE ARMY IN OVERALLS.
Our hearts go out and our hats are doffed
To our fighting forces, alow and aloft,
Who face war’s terrors with fearless eyes
By land and sea and in flame-torn skies;
But ’twere far from fair did we grudge their
due
To legions just as essential, too.
Who pull their weight when their country calls,
To wit, the army in overalls.
Needed, as never were men before,
With the Empire standing four-square to war,
From Woolwich workshops and Clydeside quays
To all the shores of the Seven Seas,
These are the helpers by day and night
Who hold the lifeline for those who fight,
Filling their possies within the walls,
The sturdy army in overalls.
They earn no glory. Never a name
Of theirs will go on the scroll of fame.
But what of the ships, the guns, the ’planes,
All that to warcraft appertains,
For which, to ’plenish the hard-strained store,
The cry is ever for more and more,
Where would we get them —the thought appals —■
Were there no army in overalls?
Arsenals, dockyards, factories,
Must be all kept humming in times like these.
Then here’s to the serried ranks who form
In the zones of battle to meet the storm,
To those whose task is to face the foe
In the clouds above or the seas below.
And to those they bank on, whate’er befalls,
The toiling army in overalls!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


mm
m
10 for I0 D
20 for I'B
50 for 4/2
100 for 8 4
For greater
smoking en
CRAVENA
l UJ
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
*
2817
POLITICAL POINTS
The Mair-Bruxners and their tame
organisations relied too long on Lang
to win elections for them. As a con-
sequence they have gone down much
as Lang’s party did in 1932. Five of
Lang’s Ministers were defeated, and his
voting strength in the Assembly was
reduced from 55 to 24. The Mair-
Bruxners have lost five Ministers, and
their voting strength has flopped from
55 to 25.
On September 21 Boothby gave 37,219
votes to Jack Price, 18,131 to Labor-
man Yates and 9479 to W. J. Adey, most
of whose preferences would probably have
gone to Price. Senate voting was 39,953 for
the Ministerial trio (McLachlan, McLeay
and Uppill), 20,304 for the Labor three
and 1191 for Garling, who was Ind. Lab.
or something. This scarcely supports the
Labor contention that Jack Price polled
a big personal vote which no other man
could get. Anyway, Lawton will need a
tremendous turnover to succeed where
Yates failed.
McKell has begun well by deciding to
be his own Treasurer. Stevens, in his
last and worst phase, and Mair through-
out his luckless period were Premiers
“without portfolio.”
There are two Old Diggers in the new
N.S.W. Labor Government: Kelly
(Health) and Dunn (Agriculture and
Forests). There are two lawyers beside
McKell: Martin (Attorney-General) and
Dr. Evatt’s brother Clive (Education); and
Downing, M.L.C. (Justice and Leader of <
the Leg. Council), is studying for the Bar.
For the rest, Baddeley goes in as Deputy-
Premier, Chief Secretary and Minister for
Mines ; Fully returns to Lands ; O’Sulli-
van will attend to Transport; Cahill to
Works ; McGirr to Local Government
and Housing ; Knight to Labor and In-
dustry ; and Heffron to N.E.S. The
“Assistants” are Lazzarini (Carlo Camillo)
and Dickson, M.L.C.
All McKell’s Ministers were
his own nominees. Mark Antony
Davidson put in for a portfolio,
but was beaten 4 to 1. Lang
didn’t go to the ballot for any-
thing and is out of everything.
Another Gallup poll has been
taken in the U.S.A., the question
this time being “Do you think
America’s production of war
materials is going ahead fast enough?”
The dissatisfied numbered 53 p.c.,
the satisfied 30 p.c. ; the other 17 p.c.
gave no opinion. Of the dissatisfied, 52
p.c. blamed strikes in defence industries,
11 p.c. blamed red-tape and the rest
blamed everything from profit-hunting to
the Fifth Column.
“I must stand with whoever is right,
stand with him while he is right, part
with him when he goes wrong.” No, it
wasn’t Hess that said it —it was Lincoln.
While Australia was still ignorant of
what the Greek adventure cost it in killed,
wounded and missing, Menzies was tell-
ing the New Yorkers that it had free-
dom of choice in all political matters.
“We, an independent British nation”!
Come, come. Bob!
“Nobody meeting Hess would ever
believe that he could be a pure-blooded
German.” Thus Roberts, the Pooh Bah
professor; and he delicately suggested
that the fugitive is half-Gyppo, while
offering the “charitable interpretation”
that he may be “a throwback to some
pre-Teutonic type in the Thuringian
mountains.” For the rest, Hess is de-
scribed as a poor creature. The prof.
was not nearly so uncomplimentary
in his House That Hitler Built, but
presumably he doesn’t nowadays care to
read what he wrote in that collection
of hasty assumptions and cocksure pro-
nouncements which events have made
ridiculous.
In Lang’s time Adelaide became
familiar with Sydney Labor members,
who rushed over at week-ends to instruct
the South Australians how to manage
their local affairs. Another and larger
swarm has descended on it to take part
in the whirlwind campaign for Boothby.
One of the visitors is Mr. Max Falstein,
from Randwick. In Mr, Max Falsteins
first speech as member he demanded the
appointment of a diplomatic representa-
tive to Russia, which country he de-
scribed as “neutral in the present war with
Germany.” Since then “neutral” Russia
has entered into a pact with Japan, with-
“Cardinal Wolsey must have felt like this!”
drawn recognition from Belgium, Norway
and Yugoslavia (with which it recently had
“a pact of friendship”) because its pals
the Nazis had barbarously overrun them,
and recognised the Government of Iraq
because it has torn up the British alliance
and gone to war with Britain. Adel-
aideans should ask Mr. Max Falstein for
some further remarks about “neutral”
Russia.
Ex-Premier Butler, who was the U.A.P.
candidate for Wakefield when Labor won
it for the first time, wanted to come out
for Boothby, but failed of “endorse-
ment,” and wouldn’t stand without it.
F. R. Lee, who gave Curtin such a fright
in Fremantle, would have been con-
sidered had he been willing, but he
wasn’t. The choice—and it was nearly
unanimous—fell on Dr. Grenfell Price.
And if S.A. had been scoured for a can-
didate with an ampler knowledge of
affairs and a greater gift of crisp exposi-
tion, it would have been exceedingly
difficult to find one.
After something of the truth about
Dakar percolated to these parts last
year, McKell, then Opposition-Leader in
N.S.W., was heard to remark:
Australia must have its say in the con-
duct of the war. It cannot do so by tele-
phone or cable. The nation demands repre-
sentation in an Empire War Cabinet.
Now McKell is Premier with a thumping
majority he has a chance to push the
idea for all it’s worth.
One of the new N.S.W. Labor mem-
bers employs a butler.
For over six years the Victorian Labor
leaders have been content to keep a
grossly over-represented Cocky group on
the Treasury benches, and that without
stipulating for a redistribution of seats
that would give Labor representation
proportioned to its electoral vote, which
as often as not exceeds that of all other
parties. Curtin now says there will be
no Commonwealth Labor Government
unless Labor has a clear majority. If
this timorous policy had dominated
Labor councils from the beginning there
might never have been a Labor Govern-
ment. Curtin can command 36 votes in
the House. Watson took
office in 1904 with 23 (there
were 75 voting members
then), and Fisher in 1908
with 26. Eleven months
after the Fisher Govern-'
ment was pushed out it was
recalled with commanding
majorities in both Cham-
bers.
Australia’s devotion to
the wonderful “principle”
of voluntary service is
already beginning to show
up in family tragedies. One
is that of a Victorian doctor,
aged 35, who was killed in
action. He was an only son,
and a baby girl left father-
less was his only child.
Law reform is one of the
things that should engage
McKell’s attention, though
he hasn’t mentioned it.
There must be something
wrong with N.S.W. police-
court and criminal-court
procedure when prosecu-
tions stretch into years, as
has notoriously happened.
In another jurisdiction the
hearing of a case which
turned on the time of deli-
very and condition of a
second-hand farm imple-
ment bought for about a
fifth of an M.L.A.’s screw
occupied a Judge and a
jury, two firms of solicitors,
two K.Cs. and two juniors
for 12 days extending into
three weeks. And costs ran
into thousands.
Death has been busy among original
members of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, and only seven celebrated its 40th
anniversary in Melbourne. The veterans
carried a series of resolutions, in one of
which they expressed “the firm con-
viction that additions to the powers exer-
cisable by the Commonwealth Parliament
are necessary in the national interest and
for the future welfare of the people.”
That’s the spirit, and it is a pity so many
of their successors are lacking in it.
Having “formed” the Queensland
National Country “party,” Fadden coolly
invited the Cockies in other States to
allow themselves to be absorbed by the
U.A.P. With a flash of its old spirit,
all too rare in recent years, the N.S.W.
Cockies told Artie that they would be
dashed if they would, and he will get the
same answer in other States. That should
mean that the Federal party will choose
another leader.
Hollway, the Victorian U.A.P. leader,
sent an SOS to U.A.P. members in
other States “to help to save Boothby.”
How representatives of the party that
had just got a dreadful licking in N.S.W.
could “help to save Boothby” is a Holl-
way mystery.
The bright minds that conceived the
“We Speak as One to You” advertise-
ments issued by the Department of In-
formation struck a snag last week. The
advertisements consisted of two pictures,
one each of a Minister and a Labor man,
asking Australians for an all-in war effort.
All went well until Beasley, realising their
possible effect on the Boothby by-elec-
tion, jibbed. The department had his
picture and message all ready to go in
beside that of Foil, but Beasley prohi-
bited it. But you can’t beat a depart-
ment like that. Next day the advertise-
ments came out as usual —one of Holt
and Evatt and one of Hughes and Forde.
The British Food Ministry has bought
120,000,000 bushels of wheat from
Canada’s Wheat Board. It is the largest
parcel of wheat ever bought, and the thing
is making Australian cockies think hard,
seeing that their Government has limited
its 194L42 guarantee to 140,000,000
bushels. The sale is the second big one
for Canada; last August the B.F.M.
ordered 100,000,000 bushels. It should
help a lot of prairie farmers to invest in
the Canadian war loan of £187,500,000,
opening on June 2.
Victorian speculators on the subject
expect a State Government surplus of
£3235 at 30/6/’4l, though the deficit was
£3,020,222 at the end of April. Late tax
collections, especially income, are ex-
pected to fill the void, and, though esti-
mates provided for a railway deficit of
£434,957, it is already below £39,000.
The Commissioner is thanking heaven
for petrol rationing and a big jump in
suburban rail traffic since Melbourne was
invaded by workers in war industries.
Maoriland Labor continues to be
different. In Wellington last week a
“woman, a 22-year-old clerk” —she would
become “surpassingly beautiful” if she
came within the ken of Sydney’s flapper
press—has been given three months with-
out the option for “having obstructed the
police by attempting to hold a pacifist
meeting.” And eight members of a paci-
fist society had helpings of up to 12
months’ hard doled out to them by the
Supreme Court.
The U.S. Government is sending a
committee of medical men to Britain to
find out why the people have come
through the frightful ordeals of last
winter with better health than in peace-
time. The reverse was expected. Crowd-
ing in air-raid shelters, exposure to
weather on A.R.P. and fire-watching jobs,
etc,, prepared the doctors for epidemics
of scarlet fever, pneumonia, diphtheria
and influenza. Instead, the deathrate is
less and the influenza deathrate half
what it was in peace days.
“Marshal Petain, in a cowardly broad-
cast to the French people.” —Sydney
“D.T.” The Man of Verdun a coward!
He may be the poorest old politician in
captivity, but he couldn’t be a coward
if he tried.
“Ek Dum”: After reading reams of
rubbish about the motives which in-
duced Rudolf Hess to flee his country,
I decided to ask Norman Lindsay, as
the author of Creative Effort, what he
thought about it. This is what he said:
If one may refer a national neurosis to
an individual case of the same order, the
inevitable effect of a violent release of the
primitive self-conscious in a patient afflicted
with schizophrenia is an equal fear of
being dominated by the renegade conscious.
If so dominated, this patient goes into the
nuthouse. If he resists domination by it,
he must impose on himself a rigid discipline
in terms of conventional morality. What-
ever other motives lie behind Hess’s flight,
fear must be a potent one.
That puts the whole thing in a nutshell.
[J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252 George-
street, Sydney]


BIRD SONGS AT EVENTIDE.
“During the Greek campaign a professional bird imitator, a member of an A.I.F. outpost, lured to destruction a German patrol which used bird calls as signals.”


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
LEND-LEASE AND OUR EXPORTS—
HOW MUCH WILL IT PINCH?
A Month’s Financial and Mining Developments
May Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,900,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Like so many other Old Diggers, Major-
General Leslie Morshead, in command
at Tobruk, was a schoolteacher. He was
born at Ballarat and educated at the
Mount Pleasant School, whence he
entered the Victorian Teachers’ Train-
ing College. When the 1914 war
started he was wielding the chalk and
duster at Melbourne Grammar, but
promptly dropped them and enlisted.
By the end of the war he was a colonel,
one of the youngest in the Empire forces,
a C.M.G., and had the D.S.O. and the
Cross of the Legion of Honor, having
been in nearly everything from Gallipoli
Landing to the Hindenburg Line. After
demobilisation he went into shipping, and
became the Orient Line’s branch man-
ager in Melbourne and Sydney. He joined
up again when Hitler erupted, and was
named major-general when sickness got
General Wynter. A little man of 51
years but as fit as a fiddle, strict but
kindly.
Knight Edward Mitchell, K.C., and
Louis Woolf were born on the same
day, and it was a joke in Mel-
bourne’s Chancery-lane that the veterans
were twins, with the slight defect
of having different sets of parents.
It was their wont to exchange feli-
citations with each other every July *2l.
Now only Louis Woolf remains, the
oldest of the Selborne Chambers bar-
risters. He was a tenant of Temple Court
as far back as 1876. Both Mitchell and
Woolf had cricket associations. Mitchell
was president of the Melbourne C.C.,
and Woolf played with a Victorian eleven
against England.
Dr. John Job Crew Bradfield is down
from Queensland —Sandgate claims him
as a son —to have
another look at his
Bridge and to sec
how the battleship
dock is getting on
—he thinks it
should be in Wool-
loomooloo Bay. He
is about to cele-
brate the diamond
jubilee of his wed-
ding, and may do it
in Alice Springs.
The inexhaustible
little man with the
bulging forehead is
keen on getting
things done for the
men of the R.A.N.,
the A.I.F. and the
R.A.A.F. before
they come back,
and has prepared
plans for a great
water - conservation
project.
Long ago West-
ralia got some dis-
tinguished immi-
grants, such as
Chief Justice Burt
—founder of a
notable family—
and Justice Burn-
side from the West
Indies. Now G.
K. Baron-Hay, who
was born in one
of the now rather exploded sugar
islands, has been named Under-Secretary
for Agriculture. He came to the West
early enough to become one of its first
two University students. War interrupt-
ing his studies, he enlisted in the 51st
Battalion, which did such great work at
Villers-Bret., and returned an officer with
a Military Cross. Baron-Hay was super-
intendent of dairying for 11 years before
he was made head of the department.
Albert Arthur Dunstan, Premier of
Victoria, last week celebrated his Gov-
ernment’s new long-time record for State
politics—possibly the last Premier who
will do it. Harry Lawson, previous
holder of the record, was around first
to congratulate him. Lawson succeeded
in sticking to the office for six years and
38 days. Dunstan is 58, has been 20
years a State politician, and, like all but
four of his dozen Ministerial colleagues,
is a farmer. Also, in any capacity, he’s a
hard worker,
David Bell, chairman of the Mel-
bourne Metropolitan Board from 1927
to 1939, has gone beyond at 67. He was
professionally an accountant, became a
city father in 1909 and was finance chair-
man of the C.C. from 1914 to 1937. He
was Metropolitan Board chairman during
the periods of the city’s greatest contrac-
tion and expansion. His outside interests
were mainly sporting ; he was president
of the Carlton Football Club and presi-
dent of the Victorian Bowling Club. A
son is serving overseas with the A.I.F.
An old associate pictures him;
Hattil Spencer Foil is an advertisement for
Australia as a land of opportunity. He was
born in 1890. He came to Queensland in his
youth, bringing a Clapham accent with him.
He still has it. When war broke out he was
secretary to the Minister for Railways and
promptly enlisted. Some Turk made a target
of him —he was an ample target even in those
days—in Shrapnel Gully, where he was serving
with 7th Battery A.F.A. He was sent home
in October, 1915, married in December and
became secretary of one of the first returned
soldiers’ bodies. In 1917 Foil was chosen as a
SENATOR POLL.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Senate candidate. He was a shy candidate at
first, and had to be coaxed into speaking out.
Once he acquired the habit he didn’t lose it.
He at once decided on two things—that he
would never leave the Senate and that he would
become a Commonwealth Minister. By steady
plodding and consistently hard work on com-
mittees he reached the position of Senate Whip
and became Chairman of the Joint Committee
of Public Accounts in 1926. He went to
London as a Parliamentary delegate to King
George V’s Jubilee, and exactly 20 years after
entering the House became a Minister —Repat-
riation was his first job. Now he steers the
gilded Information Department on its mellifluous
course. Frith has not been overkind to him in
his model ; but Frith is jealous of the Senator’s
golf handicap.
Malcolm Mclntosh, South Australia’s
Commissioner of Public Works, is in the
running to beat the record of John Jen-
kins, who had 12 years 56 days of office.
Mclntosh has had 11 years of it. He has
held portfolios under both Butler and
MALCOLM MCINTOSH.
Playford, among his departments being
Education, Railways and Local Govern-
ment. He was born in Victoria in 1888,
and has been a gardener, a farmer, a
businessman and a lawyer at various
times. Albert sent him to Parliament in
1921 and hasn’t changed its mind about
him since.
A notable man in his way was Walter
Malpas, who died the other day in Adel-
aide. For over 30 years he was messen-
ger to Parliament House on North-
terrace. The big funeral which members
and staff united to give him was swelled
by that of his brother George, two years
older, who died on the same day and
within a few minutes of Walter.
“Uramao”: News comes of the ad-
vancement of Samuel Laurence de Car-
teret, born in Auckland 54 years ago,
sprig of a Maoriland pioneering family.
At the age of 14 he went to India, thence
to the U.S.A., graduating at Yale in 1908
with a civil engineering degree. Cross-
ing to Canada De Cartaret became associ-
ated with the timber and newsprint
industry and rose to be vice-president
and general manager of the Canadian
International Paper Co. Now he has
been gazetted as Canada’s Deputy
Minister for Air.
A recent artist recruit to the A.I.F, in
Melbourne is Ray Whiting, a Bulletin
contributor of over 30 years’ standing.
Ray got his first drawing into these pages
when he was a boy at Melbourne
Grammar. Thereafter he divided his
attention between art and the theatre,
appearing for several years in character
roles with Gregan McMahon. He was
second juvenile with Margaret Banner-
man during that lady’s Australian season.
His father, one of Melbourne’s leading
businessmen, died, leaving his son a for-
tune, but, having certain ideas about the
stage, made the proviso that Ray should
never appear in any theatre. So Ray gave
barnstorming the go-by, and devoted him-
self to painting and black-and-white
work, one of his exhibitions in the latter
medium causing a sensation in local
circles. A few years ago The Bulletin
heard from him from the Bay of Bengal,
where he was knocking about in cargo
steamers. He joined the army a few
weeks ago because his brother and his
best friend were mixed up in the Greek
business, took an officers’ course in the
R.A.A.F., but chucked it for a private’s
job in the artillery because it gave him
quicker chances of overseas service.
Exit William I. Coakes, a leader of the
Brisbane business world until he retired
six years ago to Coolangatta (Q.). Essex-
born, he was apprenticed to seafaring in
square-rig days. After three years of
the sea he exchanged sailorising for soft-
goods. Coming to Queensland, he be-
came secretary of the Finney Isles concern
in 1890, a partner eight years later and
chairman of directors in 1905. Coakes s
natural kindliness was occasionally mis-
taken by strangers or new employees for
softness, and many diverting stories of
their sudden disillusionment are remem-
bered.
P. C. Holmes-Hunt, who died sud-
denly in Sydney, aged 67, was a civil
engineer who specialised in coal-gas pro-
duction. He came to Australia 38 years
ago, and was for a while consulting
engineer to various Australian gas cos.,
later becoming chairman and then also
managing director of the Colonial Gas
Association. At the time of his death he
was Director of Substitute Fuels.
G. D. Healy, president of the Mel-
bourne Chamber of Commerce, chairman
of the Associated Banks of Victoria and
superintendent of the Bank of Austral-
asia, has added to his multifarious acti-
vities the presidency of the Associated
Chambers of Commerce. Benign-looking,
gentle, six-foot-one and immaculately
dressed, he is one of the big
forces in Australian banking, and has
made a special study of banking in
general. For half a century he has been
connected with the ’Asia, with which he
G.D.HEALY.
started as a junior clerk in 1892, and he
has been in every big branch in Australia
and M.L., bar Broken Hill. Burning off
in the country, walking of a night with
his Golden Labrador dog Gunda and
golf are his chief relaxations. He has a
lively concern in the welfare of the Aus-
tralian small boy, and as hon. treasurer
of the Boys’ Club movement in Victoria
has labored greatly to raise funds for
that organisation.
Alan Alexander Robertson, who has
become first president of South Aus-
tralia’s Institute of Metals, is a B.Sc. of
Melbourne University, where he special-
ised in metallurgy and chemistry. After
a term at Maribyrnong munition labora-
tories, Robertson was top man in the
metallurgy department of the Melbourne
Technical College up to 1939, when he
took over the works managership of one
of South Australia’s livest metal industry
companies.


94
THE SKY-WAYS
. . .
ARE TODAY’S HIGHWAYS
Pre-war standards of efficiency and comfort are being
maintained by Empire flying boats on the air route
between Sydney and Durban, via Singapore, Palestine
and Egypt. A new regular service between New Zealand
and Sydney is operated by Tasman Empire Airways.
Travel Interstate ... Inter-Dominion . . . throughout
the Empire ... in shipboard comfort at Airways
speed ... by Qantas Empire Airways.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
(Incorporated in Queensland)
SHELL HOUSE, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 'PHONE: 8W4481.
Also at BRISBANE and MELBOURNE.
Bookings at any recognised Travel Agency throughout Australia.
ẃ
SMOKE-OH!
“Brown promised her that if she got a divorce
he would marry her when his wife divorced
him.” — “D.T.”
They were engaged to be unmarried.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“You can get a wife for £6 in Papua.”
— “Woman.”
That would only be buying trouble
cheap.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Appeal to Cricketers for Patriotic Funds.”
—News heading.
How’s that?
F 4* 4* 4'
“Tibetan Army consists of a dozen soldiers,
one Lewis gun and several bagpipes.”
—Odd fact.
The bagpipes for offensive purposes
presumably.
“Ease all of these colds miseries with one
simple treatment.” — Advt.
That’s rum.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Bolger Contends Women Should Drive Like
Men.” — Headline.
It would certainly save a lot of damage
to garage doors.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Love is the path leading into Paradise.”
—Dithering from a woman’s paper.
Marriage, then, is that seat in Paradise
from where you at last take a good look
around. And Divorce is the signboard
“This Way Out.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It is estimated that man is susceptible to
about 1600 different diseases or illnesses.”
— “World’s News.”
Given enough time, an alert doctor can
successfully treat a wealthy patient for
at least half of them.
“Mr. Dave Roberts, of Pittsburgh, has owned
a car for 14 years, but has never driven it.”
— “World’s News.’
He just sits at the wheel and keeps it
moving, but he’s hoping to get out one
day without the wife and then he will
drive it.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“Penniless, he stood at the top of Observa-
tory Hill looking down on the harbor.”
— “D.T.
All he had was a coign of vantage.
“There is an infinity of meaning in a single
word.” — “S.M.H.”
Of words that mankind utters, none
Packs such a vital punch, I think,
As “Cummoninanavadrink”
Or “Wanaboutanozzerone ?”
H.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The sixth birthday of the Why Worry
Picnic Club was held at Silver Lake. There
were 60 women present.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Husbands at home all worrying?
•5*
“American report says of the Anzacs that
their conversation is restricted to profanity.”
Wouldn’t that make anyone swear?
“You may be A.B. in the navy, but you look B.A. to me.”
Dept, of Eternal Affairs,
May 21, 1941.
Chief Willie Hoo-Doo,
Mokolkol Tribe,
Via Upper Ip River, N.G.
Sir,
Further to my communication of the
29th ultimo in reply to your stick mes-
sage of the 7th idem, I have been in-
structed to inform you that it is the desire
of the Minister that hostilities which have
unfortunately been evident for so long
between your tribe and that of other
neighboring headhunters be finally
settled. With this end in view peace
terms have been drawn up by the De-
partment as enclosed herewith on official
form X 428 in triplicate. Should these
terms meet with your approval they
should be signed by you in front of a
J.P. (or a minister of any officially recog-
nised denomination) and your signature
attested by two independent witnesses
in his presence.
Should any of the clauses contained
therein not meet with your approval,
please indicate by crossing them out
and/or appending in the margin any
alterations which you may deem desir-
able. The appointment by you of two
accredited plenipotentiaries will greatly
facilitate the Department’s efforts in
negotiating the proposed treaty.
One copy of enclosed form X42B is
to be retained by you for future refer-
ence ; the other two, duly signed and
witnessed, should be returned to this
Department at your earliest convenience.
I have the honor to be, sir,
Your most obedient servant,
Reg. U. Layshens,
Actg. Temp. Sub-asst. Under Secty.
Enc. 3.
P.S.—Your attention is directed to the
provisions of the Crimes (Amendment)
Act, 1897 (sec. 2, subsection F), which
provides for severe penalties for any
wilfully false attestation.
Dept, of Eternal Affairs,
July 16, 1941.
Chief Willie Hoo-Doo,
Mokolkol Tribe,
Via Upper Ip River, N.G.
Proposed Peace Terms.
Sir,
Further to my communication E.A.
22/17023/41 of May 21 and your reply
of the 7th ultimo, I have to inform you
that your amendment to clause III as
set out in form X42B (the words “shall,
as hereinafter set out, be subject to such
interpretation as all or any of the co-
signatories shall in solemn conclave deem
to be consistent with the provisions of
the agreed-to protocol” were struck out
and substituted by the words “gollygob
him hoopla bangwhang swipem bimeby”)
constitutes, according to the Department’s
interpreters, a conflicting statement. In
effect, it means that you promise “that
in the future you can won’t shall keep
the war peace.”
A clarification of this statement is
deemed necessary, and as the Binji tribe
has shown signs of again becoming rest-
less, it would be greatly appreciated if
you would expedite your reply.
I have the honor to be, sir,
Your obedient servant,
Reg. U. Layshens,
A. T. S.-a. U. S.
Dept, of Eternal Affairs,
Nov. 26, 1941.
Chief Willie Hoo-Doo,
Mokolkol Tribe,
Via Upper Ip River, N.G.
Proposed Peace Terms.
Sir, —
Further to my E.A. 22/17023/41 of
July 16 last and your reply of 4th Sept.,
I have the pleasure of informing you
that arrangements have now been put in
hand for a round-stump conference to
be held under the aegis of this Depart-
ment between the Mokolkol, Binji and
Whiskerwallah tribes in early January, if
the political situation then renders it con-
venient. Should the venue chosen, Long-
pig Pt., meet with your approval, kindly
sign attached pink form XML and
return as soon as possible. Immediately
arrangements can be made and the matter
having obtained the Executive’s approval
the papers covering the necessary for-
malities will then be prepared and sent
to you for final approval.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your most obedient servant,
Reg. U. Layshens,
A. T. S.-a. U. S.
Dept, of Eternal Affairs,
Jan. 28, 1942.
Chief Willie Hoo-Doo,
Mokolkol Tribe,
Via Upper Ip River, N.G.
Proposed Peace Terms.
Sir, —
Your stick message dated 29th Dec.
last, accompanied by brazed thigh-bone
and smoked tonsils of Chief Fulla-Zatic
of the Binji Tribe, has been received. The
Department notes with regret this evi-
dence of the fresh outbreak of inter-
tribal hostilities. In view of all the cir-
cumstances, the Department is of the
opinion that further negotiations for
peace terms could not be considered
appropriate at the moment. The Min-
ister, therefore, has instructed me to in-
form you that the terms already pro-
posed, and which were under considera-
tion, must for the time being remain in
abeyance. They will, however, be filed,
and when the position is deemed more
propitious they will again be submitted
for your approval, subject of course to
the revisions which the present hostilities
and their results will render desirable.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your most obedient servant,
Reg. U. Layshens,
A. T. S.-a. U. S.
per Bo.
Blue Murder.
“Whisky kills vitamins.”
—Radio health lecturer.
The scientific vitamin’s
A most elusive he,
The very place you look for him
He’s certain not to be.
Oh, is he in the sausage ?
Oh, is he in the ham ?
Oh, is he in the saucy sea
Where swims the leg of lamb ?
Oh, the dew is on the lettuce
And the bloom is on the “fry” —
But, if whisky kills the varmint,
Then, says Dad, he’ll have to die /
Q.
The Homely Type.
“I have nothing really against him, but I
do not think he is good enough for my
daughter. He is such a homely type.”
— Heart-throb to woman’s paper.
Said her ma, in tones emphatic, “I
don’t wish to be dogmatic, but your boy,
though not erratic, looks no good. I
have noticed signs already that he’ll never
be too heady. But that doesn’t prove
he’s steady, though it should. So I think
you should reject him.”
Said the girl, “I’ll not elect him yet;
of what do you suspect him?”
Said her ma, “He’s a home-bird and a
plodder, and he’ll hang around for fodder
till he starts to drool and dodder like
your pa!”
ELM.
A Hop Ahead of Science.
“Before the days of sleeping tablets, pillows
filled with hops were used to induce sleep.”
— “Woman.”
You’ve been sleeping badly since the
wife cleared out. What makes slumber
elusive is the worry that she might come
back. Still, even though her flitting off
with your car and jewellery sort of woke
you up, you’re determined to get to sleep,
so you fall back on to the pillow-of-hops
idea. But your head only aches; your
neck cramps and the hops keep crackling
and sticking through into your ears. So
m despair you sling the hops out and fill
up the pillow with empties, after getting
the proper benefit from the hops which
were in the contents.
Morning will find you soundly asleep,
]f our h ea d on the floor, your feet com-
fortably thrown up on to the pillow of
ex-hops on the bed.
E.
The Craze Goes Bush.
[The “Wilgaville Weekly” is proud to
announce it has secured exclusive rights
to republication of the snappy, informed,
never-wrong, straight-shooting news-
reviews of N.Y. “Dime.” In keeping with
this modern trend we are revitalising our
own news columns, and events in and
around Wilgaville will be presented in a
manner terse, peppy and direct. — Ed.]
Cow.
Red-faced, stout, taciturn William
Woople owns a cow. Or did until Thurs-
day last. Came a thunderstorm. Cow,
sheltering under tree, little suspected death
stalked near by. But so it was.
A lightning-shaft struck.
Death was instantaneous.
Conflagration.
On Friday flames roared at rear of
grocery of shrewd, six-foot Angus Mc-
Dubb. A packing-case containing straw
was on fire.
Had fire spread adjoining premises
would have been consumed.
Said cool Angus modestly:
“It was nothing.
“I got a dipper of water and put it
out.”
Town Topic.
Years have not treated front of Royal
Hotel kindly. Paint fades and shales
away, woodwork crumbles and decays.
But Royal moves with times. Veran-
dah-posts were painted red during the
week.
Good to see town go ahead. Nice
work, Royal!
ABIE.
The Canberra Touch.
“Peace negotiations with the murderous
Mokolkol tribe of New Guinea headhunters
may be opened by the Federal Government
soon.” —“Sunday Sun.”


ABORIGNALITIES
“Have you agreed upon your verdict?”
“My oath, I have! Not guilty, yer Honor”
“Nagheer”: For the entertainment of
my friend Sinker O’Dry, renowned in city
bars for his capacity to hold it down
safely, I had laid in a trifle of sound
Queensland rum, his favorite tipple.
Sinker said that he always took it full-
strength O.P. (which it was), seeing no
use for paying for more water than he
needed. To our mutual astonishment
the few we had before, during and after
dinner on the night of his arrival fairly
stonkered Sinker. The ruler of this
household expressed indignation at my
having made that nice Mr. O’Dry drink
that awful rum of mine and said it was
no wonder that he was upset by it.
Sinker went easier on the pouring hand
until we drcWe over to see Billy McHooch
and sampled some home-brewed beer for
part of an afternoon. His last remark
before he passed out in the car was:
“Glorioush beer!” Again I was re-
proved for giving him those awful drinks.
But later on, when he became distinctly
fresh to Mrs. McStinger after three
goes of banana cocktail made from her
very own Rechabite recipe, the con-
sensus of local female opinion was that
he needed a wife to look after him when
he had those funny turns. The sad truth
is that poor old Sinker has gradually be-
come the deluded victim of a Metro-
politan Water Board, aided and abetted
by conscienceless publicans. Can’t some-
thing be done about it?
* * * *
“Ghin Ghin”: In my barometer—made
in pre-World-War-No.-l Germany—lives
a small spider. It has been there for
about 20 years. Once a year—in mid-
summer —it strolls about the face of the
glass for a few days ; the rest of the year
it lies inert at the bottom of the
barometer. Climate does not trouble it,
for it’s been from the hot Solomons to
cold Tassie. But what it lives on has me
beat. And what is the normal life of a
spider, anyway?
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The old-time drover may
have had his trials and tribulations, but
at least he escaped the horrors of tinpot
officialdom. Recently watched a young
fellow taking a mob of scrubbers through
a little hamlet. Halfway down the street
one of the bullocks dropped to his knees
and wouldn’t get up. But the drover
knew his job. Tying up his horse he
yelled to the youth in the lead; “Wheel
’em and start ’em back slow; then block
anyone cornin’ down the street!” The
leader was obeying when officialdom
butted in. “I’m the council overseer,”
he informed the chap standing by the
bullock ; “who gave you permission to
close a public street?” “They did!” he
said, indicating his charges. “Two hun-
dred of the wildest bullicks I ever drove ;
go and tell them it ain’t legal.” Official-
dom had one look at the wild eyes and
tossing horns, then bolted for a fence.
The young fellow coolly stood by the
fallen beast, slowly waving the whip
handle. For a moment it looked like
suicide, then the animals steadied, milled
in towards the centre and the stricken
one scrambled to his feet.
* * * *
“Hanko”: I was lifting the dray with
a couple of rails under a wheel; Mick
was underneath all set to jam a piece of
quartering under the axle-bed when a
rail snapped. Mick came out crabwise
in a cloud of dust, mouthing and snort-
ing, his hat wedged over his ears. He
stood up ; clawed at his throat, the while
his Adam’s-apple worked like a donkey-
engine’s piston. “It’s gone down,” he
gulped. “I’ve swallied it.” “Y’r plate o’
teeth?” I gabbled. “No,” Mick wheezed ;
“worse —the stem of me pipe!” We’ll
have to grease that dray soon.
“Grubby”: Something I haven’t seen
fail yet is the cattle-tick’s sense of locality
and direction. According to the bush
pundits a gorged tick can’t travel. Well,
just drop a handful of them. Without ex-
ception every one will twist round, get
its bearings and head due south. We
know, if the tick doesn’t, that its southern
boundary has been reached in Queens-
land. It can’t live further south than
that. But the training of countless
generations has become an instinct. From
the time the ticks hit things to leg in
N.Q. about ’97 their march has been
south all the time.
* * *
“T.C.”: Tell “Sailor Bill” (B. 23/4/’4l)
that he could have carried that hollow
sapling, snake enclosed, to Tennant
Creek without risk of a bite through the
hole which was near his shoulder. Snakes
don’t bite, they strike —and need head-
room to do it. Can’t understand, though,
how the mass of yellow ants (a) didn’t
tackle “Sailor” en voyage, ( b ) didn’t
tackle Joe Blake, as it has always been
my experience that those pestilential
whatnots hate to be disturbed even
though they are receiving a joyride. Any-
way, “Sailor Bill’s” missus isn’t half as
fussy as mine if he can bring home
hollow wood.
“Bulong K. Kanowna”: We could see
the blackish snake, about a five-footer,
crossing the road 100 yards ahead.
Apparently tickled by the vibration set
up by the roaring car, he paused half-
way across, lifted his head about 18in.
above the road and swung it in angry
arcs, as if looking for an enemy. The
nearer the car came the fiercer Joe
swayed. If he’d had the hood he’d have
looked just like a cobra getting ready to
go into action. As the car zipped by,
Joe reared high and struck like lightning
at the left front wheel. His aim was
right, but his luck wasn’t. He had just
enough kick left in him to crawl into the
scrub before we got to him. The yellow
markings under his belly were unmis-
takable. He was a mungun, a swamp
snake found along the Australian Bight
coast. Deadlier than the death-adder,
which is found in mallee country along
the Bight, mungun has the Bight abo.
completely bluffed.
* * * ♦
“Flight”: One of the most wondrous
bits of camouflage in the bird world is
that of the Torres Strait pigeon. It comes
south to breed during the summer
months, its southern limit being an air-
line about Cape Conway, out from
Proserpine (N.Q.). Bigger than the
cockatoo, just as glaringly white, but
edged like an old-time mourning
envelope, that bird stands out from its
background as prominently as a roadside
ad. when you’re about a quarter of a
mile distant. But when a man gets to
within 100 yards or so of the tree on
which they’re perched, they aren’t visible.
One may get right under the mountain
gum, Moreton Bay ash or other big tree
in which they’re sitting and search in
vain ; yet there’ll be a flurry of wings
and a dozen of them will leave the
boughs.
* * * »
“Old-timer”: Out from Wamboota
(N.S.W.) I came round a patch of gum-
suckers and stopped dead on hearing a
voice, with perfect diction, quote from
Kendall’s “Araluen.” I waited until
the last line, then advanced, to come
upon a man standing on a stump, sans
clothing of any sort. He was looking
into some distance beyond my vision, on
that part of his face not covered by a
brown beard an expression of pensive
serenity. Then he saw me, jaihped from
the stump, grabbed his pants, pulled them
on and said “How y’ doin’, mate?” The
change from pure enunciation to bush
speech was startling, and I said so. We
shared a billy of tea, yarning, and as he
became assured of my sympathy he
expanded. A nomad, he had nearly a
dozen books of verse in his swag, and
explained that, by getting into some lonely
spot, stripping himself and declaiming,
he got something from the poetry that
could not be obtained by ordinary
methods. After a while I said “Look,
haven’t y’ ever tried writin’ poetry
y’rself?” “Yes,” he said, “and a Sydney
paper printed it. But it went to my head.
I found that I couldn’t read these chaps
[indicating the books] with the same out-
look. Sort of felt I was as good as them.
Got big ideas. But luckily I woke up,
and now, whenever I feel like making
verse, I make for the nearest town and
go on a bender. By the time I’ve recov-
ered the mood has passed. Yes,” he
ended rather sadly, “a lot of people look
on me as a hopeless boozer. They little
know it’s the only way I can keep my
love of these fellows here.” And he
picked up Browning and riffled the pages
while I pondered on the strange things
that drift through the outback.
* * * *
“Ho”: Even if Scorfield’s bird had
been an emu, “T.McN.” (B. 30/4/’4l)
could still have misfired, for I can show
him googs deposited by the lanky fowl
that are white. They came from Eyre’s
depot in the Lake Eyre region. The sun
and possibly salt from the soil have
bleached them.
* * * *
“N. Sylvester”: Running down the
southern Indian Ocean on a schooner,
we had a mate who made a
specialty of catching the Australian
albatross. One day he hauled in
his biggest, 10ft. 2in. from wing-tip
to wing-tip, 4ft. from beak-tip to tail-tip,
length of separate wing 4ft. Bin., weight
19ylb. Mariners hold that the albatross
flies thousands of miles without making
a landing; that once down on to the
water it can’t rise again, and that it is
compelled to fly back to such islands as
it knows, where high cliffs enable it to
make a glider take-off. As proof of this
the mate would occasionally loose a cap-
tive on the schooner’s deck. Knowing
that there was not sufficient height for
a take-off and fearing the water, in which
it would speedily drown, the otherwise
proud bird would huddle around like a
fowl in a rainstorm. Boiled albatross
has pulled more than one Australian
windjammer crew around starvation
corner. The breast feathers used to make
nice hand muffs in the days when ladies
wore such things. Know one retired
mariner who sleeps on winter nights
under a bed-rug made from albatross
breasts. Reckons it the warmest cover-
ing in the world.
* He * ♦
“Timberloo”: Dearth of blankets com-
pelled early Australian settlers to become
industrious makers of skin rugs. Hardly
any of our fur-bearers but paid toll to
keep humans warm at night. At various
times I have slumbered under the filched
overcoats of possum, wallaby, kangaroo,
various kinds of rats and bandicoots, and
even a bedspread compounded of what
had once been the dress of several emus.
But the most royal covering I have ever
seen was a rug made from the skin of
the platypus. Bright of sheen and velvet-
soft to the touch, what it was worth in
£ s. and. the owner couldn’t compute. He
thought that possibly it was the only one
of its kind in Australia. But another
turned up the other day in Perth.
• * * *
“Swanland”: Regarding that abo.
legend of creation (B. 23/4/’4l) as held
by the western Bibbulmuns, I once heard
the late John Forrest speak of it. In the
beginning were three beings—Wallyneyup
the father, Doronnop the mother and
Binderwoor the son. These were immor-
tal and knew not death. But one day
an evil spirit, envious of the happiness of
this trinity, stole upon the son as he lay
asleep and speared him deeply in the
side. For a time the parents sought to
conceal this injury, tending their son as
best they could. But gradually the wound
became mortal, so in the end Binderwoor
was buried, his spirit departing into the
west. Death having thus been introduced
into the world, the parents in time fell
victim, and so the curse ever since has
been the lot of mankind. The story was
originally gathered by Charles Armstrong,
Westralia’s first Protector of Aborigines,
a skilled linguist who mastered all the
aboriginal dialects of the south-west.
BULLOCKY JOE.
This is the ballad of Bullocky Joe
Who travelled the tracks in the long ago
When the gold was rich and the blood was
red
And the wild cats called when the dingoes fled,
When the coaches ran o’er the bushland roads
And the bullocks strained at their cumbrous
loads.
Now, Joe was a man with a deafening roar
Who thundered his orders and always swore
In language unique in those bad old days
When curses were used in a bushman’s praise
And downright anger was voiced in a tongue
That would scorch the old and shrivel the
young.
’Twas said on the tracks that Joe could be
heard
For a good two miles when his blood was
stirred.
As he drove his team with his lashing tongue,
And his oaths on the bullocks cracked and
stung,
Folk listened in awe to the flow of words
That started bushfires and stunned the birds.
One day as he went with a heavy load
From Chinaman’s Flat to Ballarat-road,
The bullocks got stuck in a patch like glue
And the wheels sank deep, with the freight
askew.
Joe couldn’t find words to express his woe:
“Well, strike me speechless! ” said Bullocky Joe.
The team gave a heave and the wagon swayed:
Joe opened his mouth for a grand tirade,
But his throat was stiff and his mouth was dry
And never a word would his tongue supply;
Though he gulped and struggled and tried to
speak.
He found that he could not utter a squeak.
With fear in his heart he stood in the track
While the wagon shook like a trembling stack;
Then he waved his arms and he danced around
And he flung his hat on the muddy ground:
He pranced like a beast that tears at its cage,
He raved and he capered in wordless rage.
But the maddened beasts, in their frenzied state,
Had never a thought for the reeling freight,
And over it fell like a stricken beast
While the team went on, of its load released;
And it never stopped till it reached the town,
Where it came to rest as the sun went down.
And along the roads in the bullocks’ wake
Went a stricken driver who never spake
But who waved his hands in a helpless way
As he sought his team to the close of day:
A desolate thing of worry and woe
Was that silent form of Bullocky Joe.
And from that day on, so the old folks tell,
Joe never was heard to shout or yell.
For his speech was calm, and he never swore
Nor cursed at his team as he did before:
A model was he, as bullockies go,
The perfect gentleman, Bullocky Joe.
VICTORIA.
Z.V.W.


ŵ
“How dare you speak to your mother like that!”
time the flowers die, but the spearlike
shaft stands for months. Viewed from a
little distance such a plantation of Xan-
thorrhcea resembles a company of black
warriors, each adorned with a grasslike
headdress and each carrying a spear.
Hence the name blackboy which the
early Westralians bestowed on the plant.
And here’s the camouflage. So strong is
this resemblance that a company of
armed blacks might stand amidst a forest of
Xanthorrhoea and pass unobserved. Many
a time the white police, searching wide
for some black delinquent, passed within
50 yards of their naked quarry without
perceiving him against the background
of blackboy in which he stood.
* * *
“Fitzjay”: The station outlaw had
tossed everyone who got on its back, so
when the new bookkeeper, who was no
Skuthorpe, bet that he could sit the
brute for ten minutes he was nearly
knocked over in the rush to get set. On
the Sunday morning all hands gathered
and a timekeeper was appointed. Then
“Books” mounted an old crock bare-
backed, and led the outlaw to the big
dam below the stockyard. Riding into the
middle where the horses had to swim, he
transferred from the crock to the demon
and manoeuvred there for the stipulated
period. Changing back to the crock he
rode out and collected.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Contemplating the primi-
tive man’s methods of fire-making,
universal the world over from our own
abos. to the Terra del Fuegans, one won-
ders how such a portentous discovery
was made. Fire drill and fire saw —only
a genius could have invented either
method. Our own abo. uses both. To
the Australian fire was not only a means
of warmth and of cooking but it also
provided him with the implement of his
primitive surgery.
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: Anyone who wishes
to study crabs should put in a spell on
the W.A. coast between Broome and
King Sound. With a tidal recession that
may extend back a mile and more they
have a wonderful play- and hunting-
ground. Muddy sand is this bottom, and
it must abound in crab food: worms, tiny
shrimps and animalcules invisible to the
human eye. Hardly has the tide gone
out when crabs appear in millions, rising
out of the sand where they buried when
the tide came in. Three varieties may be
observed. One is the little soldier crab,
about the size of a shilling, blue-backed
and brown-legged. Some regiments will
cover a full acre, advancing and deploying
in formation as though obeying some crus-
tacean Hitler. Further out, along where
the tide hesitates before starting its return
rush shorewards, is another species, the
size of a man’s hand, yellowish of shell
and excellent eating when potted. Very
timid and difficult to catch, though the
ingenious Malay accomplishes it without
much labor, using a long narrow trap,
something like a pig-trough with an
inward-hanging lip. Baited with a dead
mullet, the crabs go in and then fail
to find the way out. Just another varia-
tion of the inverted cone. Being larger,
these sea crabs merely exist in companies
of thousands. Up along the edge of
high water dwells yet another crab. Size
about that of a crown piece, decoration
scarlet with a black spot low down on
the back. Half a land crustacean, half-
sea, these fellows five in little bowers
which they dig under the roots of the
reeds or the mangroves. Red being for
danger they are held to be inedible.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Regarding that matter
of dying on the grave of one’s beloved
mong. (B. 30/4/’4l), I once overtook a
little old chap carrying a curiously shaped
swag. He looked clean and decent, and
accepted a lift gratefully. “That’s a heavy
swag,” I suggested; “taking it far?”
“Yairs,” he replied, “it’s ’eavy, all right.
An’ me ’cart’s ’eavy, too. Dingo Flat
cemertery’s where I’m takin’ ’im, an’ that’s
“The service Wont tolerate mutiny. Private Burness."
near thirty mile yet. I’d come ten when
y give me the lift. Best dorg I ever ’ad.
No flash breedin’, but ’e’d do anything y’
showed ’im. Real ’uman. Snake got ’im
larst night. Give t’ me ’e wus be the
best mate I ever ’ad. Bill ’Opkins;
mebbe y’ve ’card uv ’im. Snake got ’im
too. In the neck ; just like Bluey wus bit.
No ’ope when y’re bit there, man or dog.
’E’s buried out at Dingo Flat. Seemed
t’ me the only dinkum thing t’ do was
t’ put ’im in with Bill, best dorg an’ best
mate t’gether, waitin’ f’r Judgment Day,
both bit t’ death be snakes. Think the
cemertery blokes’ll objeck, mister? Gotter
shovel in me swag an’ I’ll make a neat
job uv it. Jest under the surface —’e’ll
know Bill all right w’en the Day comes.
Always reckerlected ’im when ’e come
out t’ me place.” What less could a man
do than shove the old truck over the
rest of his sad journey and keep nit while
Bluey joined Bill in the lonely little
sanctuary?
“Sailor Bill”: I’m out to de-
bunk the boobook owl, or
mopoke, which has long enjoyed
a reputation as a camouflagist its
ability never warranted. In hue
it is certainly suggestive of
bleached dead timber, but its
habit of spending its days in
living trees invariably puts the
foolish fowl’s pot on. About the only living
tree which comes anywhere close to it in
hue is the paperbark ti-tree, in which it is
rarely seen. Even when it is perched in
a tree which harmonises with its feathers,
such as the ti or a dead bloodwood, it
usually sits across the limb instead of in
line with it. And when it is lying
almost flat along a bleached dead limb
no bushman after a single glance takes
it for part of the tree.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat went to work for
a cocky who weighed 18 stone and had
a voice in proportion. He was also a
humorist in his way. His was a 640-acre
block, and he could stand down in the
far corner of it, cup his hands round
his mouth and roar “Spanner!” and Mat,
working at the other end of the place,
would gather up a handful of spanners
and set out. According to Mat, the boss
had only to whisper at daylight and all
hands promptly got out of bed, the
horses came up to be fed and the chooks
hopped off the perches and began the
day’s business. Mat said he often won-
dered what would happen if the boss
started talking in his sleep. Mat swears
that one Saturday he was two miles on
the way to town when the air said “Hey,
Mat, bring me back two plugs of light
tobacco.” He it was who ruined the only
chance Mat ever had of getting mixed
up with a girl. She was on a place about
a mile away, and the very night Mat
succeeded in getting her to go out and
admire the wheat-blossom or something
that voice came through the darkness,
gently singing “Do not trust him, gentle
maiden.” Whereupon the girl turned on
Mat and said “You shouldn’t have told
him where you were going. He plays
that joke on all my boys.” It was then
Mat decided that the Mallee wasn’t big
enough for him and the boss’s voice, so
he joined me in Adelaide.
* * * *
“Hanko”: For months we’d been suf-
fering the onslaughts of meat-ants each
crib-time ; then an extra man was put on
our fettling gang. “Got any heavy oil
kickin’ round?” queried the new bloke.
Thereafter we munched our corned horse
peacefully inside a circle ramparted by
a trickle of oil, what time the frustrated
meaties gnashed their teeth on the outer
and went berserk at our placid ban-
queting.
* * * *
“Wyllie”: “Dorgs ain’t the on’y
animals that have brains,” said Rafferty.
“I’m doin’ a stretch of solitary confine-
ment once boundary ridin’ on Koola-
barra. I’m camped 40 miles from the
station. The stores had just arrived and
I wouldn’t see anyone for another three
weeks. Well, a few days later I gets a
bad attack of sandy blight. I have to
get word to the station somehow, so I hit
on the plan of puttin’ an old jacket of
mine on Joey, me pet ’roo, and let him
go, hoping that in his excitement he
would make there. On the back I
stitched a message for help wrote on a
piece of cardboard. In the wrestle 1 had
with that boomer 1 lost a pair of
trousers and a singlet, but I got
the coat on him at last. He
seemed to know, too, for when
I let him go he lit out in a bee-
line for the station at a good 40
an hour. But, d’y’ know, when
I shouted out to him as he
streaked off, ‘Go for yer life,
Joey. I’m depending on you!’
that big cow stopped, rolled up
the sleeves of the jacket right
to his armpits and off he goes
again, adding another good 10
m.p.h. to his previous speed!”
WIN ON POINTS.
ẁ
ẃ
OLD-TIMER.


The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ŵ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “No," just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost I
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., I/TD„
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J, Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria: A.O.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off or
Provided Added
Total Ex- Contingen- to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. cies, etc. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’05.. 2,794.231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 } 8 . ._
Aid to Industrial Department, £12,000 1 000,v *‘
’lO.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
’15.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
’20.. 5,634,997 2,688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
’25.. 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,206 112,880 3,015,579
’30.. 9,652,433 4,800,554 1,008,756 471,472 n 1(!
Provision for taxation, £237,635 j 6 ' 6 ’ 1
’31.. 9,470,449 5,616,260 1,222,207 685,149 \ , 877 , fiB
Provision for taxation, £69,365 ) ’ ’
’32.. 9,144,567 5,540,825 1,380,037 30,236 2,193,469
’33.. 9,322,373 5,883,344 1,347,987 61,150 2,529,892
’34.. 9,714,268 5,353,985 1,017,985 51,044 3,291,254
’35.10,179,608 5,565,654 1,135,176 29,172 3,449,606
’36.10,747,661 5,445,849 1,203,947 119,285 1 - n7B . 8n
From conting. res., £lOO,OOO . . j »,u(o,oou
’37.11,197,066 5,681,864 1,291,292 60,166 } .
From conting. reserve, £lOO,OOO . . ’
’38.11,629,215 6,436,313 1,279,263 74,244 3,839,395
’39.12,182,925 6,200,352 1,324,168 671,168 } „ sl2 9 0 7
Additional tax provision, £175,000 S
’40.12,711,226 6,411,681 1,263,920 671,890 ) . 18R 7 ,.
Additional tax provision, £175,000 J ’ ’
Industrial Department.
Written Added
Ex- Off, to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Etc. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’30.. 2,175,179 717,377 490,880 64,047 1 o 7n r lln
Provision for taxation, £32.365 1 ’
'31.. 2,140,548 837,761 492,270 164,477 1 fi o- - n( -
Provision for taxation, £10,635 | ’
’32.. 2,103,758 796,026 536,082 3,461 768,189
’33.. 2,171,268 800,834 552,582 7,359 810,493
’34.. 2,310,472 853,034 533,936 5,651 917,851
’35.. 2,460,767 964,512 582,580 4,280 909,395
’36.. 2,679,507 1,095,085 641,792 1,558 941,072
’37.. 2.943,122 1,162,121 753.995 15,124 1,011,882
’38.. 3,220,576 1,233,996 791,728 13,298 1,181,554
’39.. 3,444,913 1,518,872 823,260 47,699 1 1 Q3O og2
Provision for taxation, £25,000. . \ ’ ’
’40.. 3,682,750 1,586,091 851,757 80,540 } - 18 q qr>9
Provision for taxation, £25,000' 5 ’ ’
Australian life offices, of which the big
A.M.P. is No. 1 in the front rank, have
been fortunate in having had two com-
paratively normal years to provide for (1)
the strain of excess war mortality—
usually concentrated in the younger age
groups, where substantial reserves against
policy liabilities haven’t had time to accu-
mulate —and (2) the reduction in future
net interest yields (one of the most
vital factors affecting bonuses), following
official control of interest rates and
solider taxation. With incidence of the
former particularly indefinite under
modern Blitz methods of warfare, con-
servative managements have earmarked
large slabs of available surpluses against
both contingencies.
Hence the general reduction in
bonus rates. Over the past two
years, for example, after strengthening
actuarial reserves in the O.D. by
£1,500,000, the A.M.P. management has
sent £502,433 of the remaining surplus
to inner property reserves, etc., provided
£400,000 against possible tax increases
and earmarked £968,864 for contingency
and investment funds, a total of
£3,371,297. If not required for the pur-
poses specified, these sums will be later
available for distribution as bonuses or
for further strengthening actuarial
reserves —that is to say, the protection
for policy contracts.
Outstanding effects of war on last
year’s figures were a 20 p.c, reduction in
new business figures and more economical
handling of the business. The reduc-
tion in net interest returns was surpris-
ingly small. Combining the figures of
both departments, new contracts put on
the books totalled £23,011,655, down
£6,396,020, of which £5,496,060 was in
respect of Ordinary assurances. But in-
cluding bonus additions, which amount
to 20 p.c. of sums assured, business in
force at Dec. 31 lifted to £385,995,742
(up £10,908,031), while the investment
portfolio (£128,645,170) was £6,150,095
fatter.
The year’s income (£16,393,976) grew
by £766,138 ; £544,471 was in respect of
premiums (£10,922,776) and £221,667
interest, etc. (£5,471,200). After meeting
the tax bills (£389,184, up £24,255), pay-
ing all legitimate claims and exes, and
sending £27,215 to staff funds, there
remained £6,280,527, or £519,341 more
than in the previous year. Of the
£6,280,527, £513,937 was sent to contin-
gency reserve (now £3,000,000), another
£200,000 was set aside for extra taxation
and £238,493 was written off premises
and other assets. That left assurance
funds (£123,603,246, which exceeds the
actuarial liability) to benefit by
£5,328,097 as against £4,842,319 in 1939.
In support of the life funds are other
reserves aggregating £3,506,057. Mor-
tality, 52 p.c. of expectation under the
tables used, was around normal ex-
perience.
The effect of contingency provisions
of one kind and another the past year
or so shows up in this table:
BONUSES DECLARED.
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1933.. £2,566,322 £i276,776 £2,843,098
1934.. 2,674,409 288,312 2,962,721
1935.. 2,746.567 297,574 3,044,141
1936.. 2,837,798 310,646 3,148,444
1937.. 2,944,883 327,885 3,272,768
1938.. 3,094,348 350,516 3,444,864
1939.. 1,996,493 377,033 2,373,526
1940.. 2,053,491 409,718 2,463,209
Excluding interim bonuses, an extra
£89,683 way distributed in bonuses last
year, the total of £2,463,209 providing
reversionary additions to policies of about
£4,098,000. Rates were the same as for
the previous term, with increases in some
cases. On whole life, age 20 at entry,
they ranged from £1 4s. p.c. in the first
year to £2 4s. p.c. on 30-year contracts.
On endowments, same age and duration,
the rates were £1 2s. p.c. and £1 16s. p.c.
respectively. I.D. rate after five years
was £1 15s. 6d. p.c. all round.
One source of those bonuses is the
interest yield. On assurance, contin-
gency, tax and fidelity funds, last
year’s effective return ran out at £4 9s. 2d.
p.c., down 6d. p.c., giving a handsome
margin over the 3 p.c. assumed in valuing
policies. Another source is the economical
manner the business is conducted. Ex-
cluding taxes, commission and manage-
ment exes, took only 11.31 p.c. of O.D.
and 26.41 p.c. of I.D. premiums, as
against 12.85 p.c. and 27.88 p.c. respec-
tively in 1939.
The office is a staunch supporter of
the national effort on the financial front:
1939. p.c. 1940. p.c.
Public securities. £71,234,671 58.1 £76,447,714 59.4
Mortgages . . 30,292.781 24.7 31,347,000 24.4
Loans 0 n policies 16,618,912 13.6 16,373,343 12.7
Premises. . . . 1,924,641 1.6 1,795,600 1.4
Other assets . . 2,424,071 2.0 2,681,514 2.1
New loan investments last year amounted
to £5,213,043, bringing their proportion
of total assets to 59.4 p.c.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 16.009 9 p.c. = 12,375 t „ BQ .
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO ) bl ’ Bao 74
1932.. 10,044 6i p.c. = 8,938 I „
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO J bI ’ yyt) 1259
1933.. 8,619 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 „
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO ] b1 ’ 865 1710
1934.. 9,725 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 B . n
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO 2511
1935.. 12,055 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 ...
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO j b5 ’ 645 ~
1936.. 12,840 6 p.c. = 8,250 j R 0
Staff Super. Fund. £lOOO S Da ’ ZiSO
1937.. 12,955 7 p.c. = 9,625 7 7 , , r ,
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO (
1938.. 13,478 71 p.c. =10,313 \ „„ 987 „
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO J za/d
1939.. 13,550 8 p.c. =ll,OOO } 7f - 98n 97na
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO \ 75,280 2708
1940.. 13,712 8 p.c. =ll,OOO I 77 -n 9 9Q9 0
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO f 2y2d
1941.. 10,530 8 p.c. =ll,OOO ) 7fi ,- 99 o lfi o
Staff Super. Fund, £5OOl 8188
The volume of trusts on the books keeps
on expanding, and can be expected to
continue to do so. Still, there isn’t the
profit in trusteeship and the agency busi-
ness that usually goes with it that there
used to be. While corpus and other
commission charges have remained un-
altered, the work involved in adminis-
tration, collection, etc., has greatly
increased, and so, of course, have costs.
The following table shows what has hap-
pened :
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes.* Earnings.
1925 .. .. £80,658 £59,905 74.1
1930 . . .. 104,567 83,534 79.8
1935 .. .. 91,538 77,483 84.6
1936 .. .. 97,411 82,571 84.7
1937 .. .. 90,731 75.776 83.5
1938 . . . . 99,595 84,117 84.5
1939 .. .. 103,275 87,725 85.9
1940 . . . . 107,743 92,031 85,4
1941 .. .. 110,191 94,661 85.9
* Excluding reserved for taxes.
Whereas in 1915 exes, took 56.1 p.c. of
gross earnings they ran away with 85.9
p.c. last term. And exes, in the table
don’t include the allowance for taxation
(£5OOO, up £3OOO, last year), which ex-
plains the slip of £3182 in the 1941 net
profit (£10,530). This was equal to 7.6
p.c. on capital as against 10, 9.8, 9.8,
9.4, 9.3, 8.7, 7.6, 6.5 and 8.1 p.c. back to
1932. The div. was kept at 8 p.c., though
to pay it and send £5OO to the staff fund
general reserves were drawn upon for
£970. All that leaves out of the reckon-
ing an unexplained addition of £260 to
the investment fluctuation reserve.
As for the future, shareholders must
be prepared for lower profits, the chair-
man says. This because of the drop in
interest rates and continued climb in
costs, especially taxation. To cover a
7 p.c. div. the co.’s own funds (capital
and reserves combined) need turn in only
4.4 p.c. Appearances are, therefore, that
the trustee section of the business won’t
have to turn in much to enable a 7 p.c.
div. to be maintained.
At the end of February assets con-
sisted of Government securities £61,430,
freehold £139,717, mortgages £4566,
book debts £2828 and cash £19,774.
Apart from £lO9 of unclaimed dividends
the co. owed no man. It has strong con-
nections in pastoral circles, with head-
quarters in Melbourne and branches
at Sydney, Brisbane, Townsville and
(added last year) Toowoomba.
The market prices the £2 10s. shares
paid to 275. 6d.—all but 2s. 6d. of the
balance is a reserve liability callable
only in the event of liquidation— at 41s.
as against 445. a year ago. At 41s. the
return is 5.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis,
or approx. 4.7 p.c. on a 7 p.c. distribution.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
/— 1 Dividends N Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1931 .. 25,911 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 25,028 883 125,043
1932 .. 18,037 7.6„ 7 „ 17,717 320 125,363
1933 . . 25,354 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 327 125,690
Plate-glass reserve taken in, £458 .. 126,148
1934 . . 25,515 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 25,027 488 126,636
1935 .. 30,193 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 5,166 131,802
Sharp premiums. £12,556 . . . . 144,358
1936 .. 34,276 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 26,082 8,194 152,552
1937 .. 34,940 8 „ 10 „ 30,000 4,940 157,492
1938 . . 42,265 8 ~ 10 „ 30,072 12,193 169,685
1939 .. 53,104 8 „ 124 „ 37,390 15,714 185,399
1940 .. 53,788 8 „ 124,, 37,391 16,397 201,790
1941 .. 58,286 8 „ 15 ~ 44,70913,577 215,373
This co.’s shop is in the busy G.P.O.
block, round which Sydney’s public con-
tinues to surge. The factors chiefly
responsible for the spring in last year’s
turnover, which was a record, were
growth of employment and increased
rates of pay generally. Another aid was
what looks like shrewd buying. The
management, which seems to have a flair
for the medium-priced drapery goods,
etc., in which the co. specialises, had built
up substantial stocks at the close of
accounts in 1940. The co. was thus
advantaged both as regards range and
price of goods at a time when import
difficulties created such a sudden rush of
local orders that demand tended to run
ahead of deliveries for a time. And the
disclosed figures take no account of the
earnings of the cash-order subsidiary, in
which a nice inner reserve appears to
be accumulating.
The year’s improvement in gross earn-
ings (£316,698) was £22,367. Including
£30,000 (up £5000) set aside for the tax-
gatherer—the actual amount paid in
taxes during the year was £16,559, up
£6761 exes. (£258,412) were £17,869
heavier. The net result thus benefited by
£4498, making it £58,286. T'is was
enough to pay the small pref. div. (£800)
and show an attractive 19.6 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 18.1, 17.8, 14.1, 11.6,
13.2, 12.1 and 10.2 p.c. back to 1934.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., but the
bonus was doubled, making the total dis-
tribution 15 p.c. for the year, the average
over the last decade being 10.7 p.c.
Here is the business viewed from an-
other angle:
1935. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £252,272 £302,726 £302,726 £302,726
Mortgages . . 75,000 75,000 75,000
Overdraft .. 30,111 21,206 54,670 48,537
Sundry creditors 18,091 28,500 37,109 44,712
Tax reserve. . 10,181 18,224 41,614 55,05 a
Freeholds, fit-
tings, invest-
ments, etc. 400,888 383,572 390,945 375 ; 448
Stocks .. .. 94,488 107,317 165,154 139,<24
Book debts . . 14,082 44,178 81,490 82,346
Cash, etc. . . 20,511 4,408 6,777 7,604
Shares in sub-
sidiary . . 90,903 90,903 90,903
The mortgage (£75,000) on Denison
House fell due and was repaid on balanc-
ing date, and another one for £50,000 has
since been arranged “on favorable terms. ’
Stocks were lowered by £25,430, and
£15,497 more was written off than was
spent on fixed assets. Including stocks
but not shares in the subsidiary, the
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£136,475) was £49,833.
Subject to war developments —and no-
body can say what they will be within
the next few months —prospects of earn-
ings being sufficient to cover a 15 p.c.
distribution for the current term appear
to be encouraging.
At 455. 6d. (435. a year ago) the pound
ords., covered by 345. 9d. in net tangibles,
return 6.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distribution,
or 5.5 p.c. should the rate drop to
p.c. again. The well-protected prefs.
(there are only 10,000 of them, carrying
a cumulative 8 p.c.) seldom appear on
the market.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re— Re—
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.t
& £ £ £
1930.. 18,450 8 p.c. = 22,400 21,601
1931.. 24,830 8 ~ „ 22,400 2,430 24,031
Loss.
1932.. 3,559 Nil 20,472
Profit.
1933.. 19,553 6 p.c. = 16,800 2,753 23,225
1934.. 21,462 64 „ „ 18,200 3,262 26,487
1935.. 28,001 74 „ „ 21,000 7,001 33,488
1936.. 30,877 8 „ ~ 22,400 8,477 41,965
1937.. 31,140 8 „ „ 22,400 8,740 50,705
1938.. 30,512 84,, „ 23,800 6,712 57,417
1939.. 34,349 94 „ „ 26,600 7,749 65,166
1940.. 31,615 84 „ „ 23,800 7,815 72,981
t Not including depreciation reserve—£lBl,976 at
31/12/’40..
With the home-consumption price of
sugar fixed by agreement between the
Queensland and Commonwealth Gov-
ernments, seasonal conditions, which
affect both quantity and quality of cane
put through the rollers, and the price
realised for surplus sugar are the two
main variants affecting incomes of millers
and growers.
Drought brought a 14 p.c. reduction
(to an estimated 762,000 tons) in last
season’s Queensland production of raws ;
but its irrigation system is fine insurance
against things of that kind, and Gibson
and Howes, up Bundaberg way, wasn’t
affected. Actually the co. carried over
“a fairly large quantity” of cane into
the coming season after crushing 223,637
(down 438) tons for 31,755 (up 855) tons
of raws, of which 8755 tons represented
production in excess of mill peak. Better
average prices were realised, too, thanks
to British purchases, the anticipated re-
turn for 1940 No. 1 pool being £l7 11s.
and for excess sugar £lO 45., as against
£l6 19s. 7d. and £9 Bs. Bd. respectively
in the season that went before.
Notwithstanding, after sending £13,552
to depreciation reserve, now 37 p.c. of
the book value of fixed assets, taxation
reduced the net result by £2734. The
£31,615 represented 11.2 p.c. on capital,
compared with 12.2, 10.9, 11.1, 11, 10
and 7.6 p.c. back to 1934. Div. was
maintained at 8y p.c., but the previous
term’s 1 p.c. bonus was dropped, leaving
£7815 to lay by.
In a continued drive upon costs, fixed-
asset outlay of £18,358 was incurred last


THE
IDEAL
TRAVEL
LAND
w
SOUTH
AFRICA
This romantic land of beauty,
contrast and interest offers an
unforgettable holiday.
Information obtainable from all offices of
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England),
Agents for South African Hallways throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY. T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * #
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
ESTABLISHED 1834. .
THE j
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!, PAID UP .. .. . £4,739,013 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly In the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITA!, 4,739,013 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman):
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. DarvalL
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout;
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
end made stockproof wherever
end whenever you want them—
ct trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day!
S.9'9'-
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEAR!
Complete with 50 insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
The Netv and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder *
Victorian Distributors:
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone; M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone; M 6505.
term, partly on installation of a Webre
patent vacuum pan in the boiling station.
1935. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £280,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities* .. 26,463 29,283 44,334 51,453
Freeholds,
plant, etc... 369,657 407,877 465,780 484,138
Stocks.. .. 30,277 38,729 57,170 42,192
Govern merit
securities, etc. 15,000 15,000 15,000 20,000
Sundry debtors 33,861 29,678 33,469 40,707
Cash, etc. . . 22,068 23,123 1,204 11,272
* Including provision for taxation.
Plant, etc., on which £114,481 has been
spent over the past five years, is highly
efficient. Notwithstanding last year’s
additions, the surplus of more or less
liquids (£62,718) showed little change.
The first British contract was worth
£4,500,000. Besides the U.K., shipments
were made under British direction to
Canada, Maoriland and Hong Kong.
The deal was entered into on the
basis of £7 10s. stg. a ton c.i.f.
U.K. ports, plus the existing British
preferential tariff of £3 15s. on
Dominion sugar, excess freight above
355. 6d. a ton and insurance above
normal pre-war rates being borne by
Britain. Second contract is expected to
bring in £6,000,000, and there will be
three months’ emergency stocks in Aus-
tralia to be built up. Exact exports, how-
ever, will depend upon available shipping,
and it is not possible to see very far in
this respect.
A longer-term problem facing the in-
dustry is that of overproduction, due
to continued improvement in production
methods and cane varieties and multi-
plication of world-producing centres of
recent years.
Over the past 12 months the pound
shares have fallen from 31s. 6d. to
28s. 6d. in the market, to return 6 p.c.
on the basis of current divs. Excluding
13s. a share in depreciation reserve, the
cover is 255. 2d, in net tangibles.
After more than three years’ digging
shareholders in Wellington Alluvials, the
B.H.P. float on the Macquarie (N.S.W.),
are still waiting for their investment to
become remunerative. With the debt
down to £21,600 12 months ago, that
stage may not be far distant. Gold yield
for the year to April, however, will be
some £19,5(10 lower than in the previous
year, when net ran out at £57,052, or
per share. Flooding of the Macquarie
early in 1940 necessitated turning of the
dredge from the main lead, and, partly as
a result, average recoveries fell from
2.24 gr. to I.BBgr. on turnover of 3,260,000
(up 80,000) c.y. Though values to
date are disappointing compared with
what was expected, they would still be
highly profitable but for the fact that
costs have been almost double what
might have been anticipated from a plant
of the size. Up to 4s. Bd. earlier in the
year, the 2s. shares are now available at
3s. 9d.
* * * *
Despite unrestricted production, Larut
Tin’s first interim for 1941 is down from
12y p.c. to 5 p.c. Slightly lower-grade
wash was dug for the first quarter,
however, and there are finances to re-
build following their depletion by £60,616
in purchase of a new property last year.
The area added 29,800,000 c.y. to dredg-
ing reserves, making them 77,700,000
c.y. of 0.451 b. wash at Dec. 31, apart
from 9,000,000 c.y. of 0.341 b. tailings. In
addition, the co. has a one-third interest
in a Bang Toe (Siam) property estimated
to contain 55,000,000 c.y. averaging
0.571 b. to. During 1940 the free export
quota was 88.75 p.c. of Larut’s 1395-ton
assessment, compared with 51.12 p.c. in
1939, and net earnings stepped up from
£35,811 to £56,672 stg. after provision of
an unchanged £20,000 for amortisation.
Distribution of Is. l|d. per share, com-
pared with called for £67,500. At
6,137,000 c.y., dredge turnover more than
doubled; output lifted from 639.2 to
1062.2 tons to., although recoveries fell
from 0.481 b. to 0.391 b. Excluding stores
(£34,427), more or less liquids showed a
surplus of £29,568 over the debt at
Dec. 31.
* Jfc $ *
Some of the prospectors who went to
Miclere in Clermont (C.Q.) seem to have
found a more or less permanent home.
Those with the guts to sink deep, 250 ft.
or thereabouts, have struck it as rich as
a State lottery. Navin and party in
the Mars on a steep, rich sidling took
170 oz. of gold in a month from dish
prospects only. The rest has gone to
the battery, so the total will go up a lot
more. Alongside it the Venus, also in
deep ground, got a monthly crushing of
940 z. from 110 tons. The Venus Ex-
tended is also on loz. wash. These are
the best of the bunch —but what a best!
* * * *
Now working the Golden Bar, on the
Etheridge field (N.Q.), Fred Cuthbert is
getting ever nearer his old home ground
of Croydon. It’s a pity he doesn’t take
Croydon on again. There is a feeling
that many of the reefs there have been
only scratched, and the North Australian
Geophysical Survey picked out the old
goldfield as one of possible resurrection.
The Golden Bar was formerly worked to
100 ft. on a reef 2ft. wide, averaging a
shade over loz. per ton. Present inten-
tion is to open it up to a depth of 400 ft.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield for 1941 may be
below that for 1940. The fall for the
first four months has been 39,7950 z.
Shortage of prospectors and miners—
especially machine men —owing to enlist-
ments, and internment of Italians, who
were employed in large numbers on some
of the big mines, partly explain the drop ;
so do drought, higher taxation, the de-
crease in output by Great Boulder and
others in order to avoid e.-p.t., which in
Great Boulder’s case is outstandingly and
unfairly heavy, and the closing of Lance-
field. The 20-odd State batteries continue
to do their bit for the industry. Latest
figures show a production of gold to date
worth £11,353,500. The cables last week
spoke of possible modification of the
English excess-profits impost in the case
of metal-producers, so, unless the labor
position becomes acute through unfore-
seen diversion of man-power, the down-
ward movement shouldn’t extend much
farther, and may be reversed.
* * *
London liquidators of Great Boulder
Prop. (W.A.) circularised shareholders in
November to the effect that, as the change
of domicile from London to Perth had
been banned by the Chancellor of the
Exchequer, they proposed to apply to the
Court for a stay of winding-up proceed-
ings and restore the co. to its pre-liquida-
tion position. A second circular dated
April 7 states that the liquidators don’t
feel justified in proceeding with their
stay-of-winding-up application until a
definite result is obtained from further
steps taken for the removal of the co.’s
domicile to the West. Being hard pressed
by Australian and British taxgatherers
for payment of a total indebtedness of
£A176,463, the liquidators have obtained
a loan of £AIOO,OOO, and, with cash in
hand, wiped off the liability.
* * * *
Details of writs issued in London
against Claude de Bernales and other
directors of the Anglo-Australian, Com-
monwealth Mining and Finance and Beryl
cos. have reached the West. Plaintiff,
an original shareholder, claims (1) re-
scission of any agreement by him to take
certain shares; (2) repayment of £520
sterling paid in respect of such shares,
with interest; (3) rectification of the
registers of the defendant cos. by the re-
moval of the name of the plaintiff there-
from as holder of such shares ; (4) com-
pensation ; (5) damages for alleged fraud
and conspiracy; (6) further or other
relief. A memorandum on the legal re-
sponsibilities of parties to English flota-
tions drawn up by the plaintiff’s solicitors
quotes the judgment of the British Court
of Criminal Appeal in the case of Rex v.
Lord Kylsant, which was a prosecution
under the Larceny Act. The Court then
ruled that a prospectus comprised of
statements which in themselves are per-
fectly true may be false within the mean-
ing of the Act if, by reason of what it
conceals or omits or implies, the prospec-
tus as a whole gives a false impression of
the position of the co.
Freney Oil, the mining Macawber of
the West, has issued another cheering
, , i u o i ~
report to shareholders. Some more plant,
with more to follow, has arrived from
America, machinery and equipment at
the bore site has been overhauled and
early resumption of boring is expected.
It is over 20 years since drilling, which
has so far proved unsuccessful, was com-
„ , T, , ’
menced on the Freney areas.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.C.: “Voluntary liquidation” applies only
to limited cos., not to individuals or partner-
ships. Where a partnership exists, private asests
may be seized to pay debts of a partnership,
It may be possible (and usually is preferable
in cases such as mentioned) to enter into a
private arrangement with creditors (such as sug-
gested) in order to avoid bankruptcy. Suggest
you seek advice from a reputable public
accountant, who will be able to ask all
relevant questions... .G.W.: There is no market
for the original bonds, since converted into
shares, in the Commonwealth, though the
scrip has been listed in Maoriland. Dealings
are infrequent.... Wild Cat: Phoenix Mines,
£ cWifrT^
300,000 of the latter’s ss. shares. The pur-
chasing co. has yet to pass anything on to
Phoenix m the way of dividend Although
in its latest year C.N. earned £201,300, the
money went mainly back into the mine in plant
and other capital expenditure. Whether Phoenix
Mines should continue to function as a hqld-
ing co., paying out secretarial fees, etc., or wind
up and distribute its holding in Central Norse-
man among shareholders in the proportion of
approximately three for two is a matter for
shareholders as a body to decide themselves.. ..
J. 8.: No recent information on the co., but
this type of proposition has never appealed
to the “Wild Cat.” Partly depends on what
your payments to date amount to F.W.8.:
Can’t say whait has happened, since last reference.


Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment—even as little as £2o—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies yielding, at
present prices, around 5 % per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees; Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. 1, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq. ; O.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New, South Wales, a | so re PJ
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the.transaction of all general banking business.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Everyday Affairs
More stark and essential facts arise in
front of us every day. War-time finance
and trade rearrangement remain the
dominating things in Australian eco-
nomic and social conditions. Very little
planning, in business or elsewhere,
is possible at the moment without
taking full account of the new circum-
stances war has brought about. The
cost of providing munitions and keep-
ing the fighting services in action is
the biggest single item of expenditure
by Australia today, and almost everyone
is contributing; if some escape con-
tributing, then others pay extra. Taxation
is thus an item of extraordinary size,
especially among companies and people
earning over £8 a week. Another in-
escapable obstacle in all our plans
is the difficulty Of trading with the rest
of the world in present circumstances.
Much British, Allied and neutral ship-
ping has been sunk, other neutral ship-
ping now frequently avoids Empire
waters, voyages are slower owing to
submarine-dodging and trouble in the
Mediterranean, and the Lease-Lend Act
promises to open up to Britain a closer
and more favorable market in the U.S.A.
We haven’t felt the pinch very severely
so far in Australia. The future, how-
ever, has a great deal of uncertainty in
it. For 20 months after war began only
the minor Australian export industries
were affected by transport and exchange
difficulties. Now some of the bigger ones
look like being hit. Political as well as
financial problems may arise out of a
situation where Britain is forced to take
Canadian and U.S.A. products in prefer-
ence to Australian, and where certain
industries in the Commonwealth are
flourishing because of war, while others
are languishing from the same cause.
In the first 10 months of 1940-41 Aus-
tralian exports fell by £7,404,000 sterling
to £90,232,000. Imports dropped by only
£4,519,000 to £90,012,000. We showed
a favorable commodity balance of
£220,000 sterling by the skin of our teeth,
compared with £3,105,000 in 1939-40.
The authorities appear to look for a
sharp falling-off in imports during May
and June, as a favorable trade balance
of £31,000,000 Australian, including gold
production, has been forecast. Trade
figures dealt with here exclude gold.
Figures of the trading banks continue
to show expansion of credit on Govern-
ment account, with no such expansion
in advances to industry;
Mar., Jan., Feb., Mar.,
1940. 1941. 1941. 1941.
£mil. £mil, £mil. £mil.
Liabilities —
Deposits:
Bearing interest.. 212.2 205.0 207.1 210.4
Not bearing
interest .. 140.2 157.5 160.6 163.6
Total deposits .. 352.4 362.5 367.7 374.0
Assets —
Cash .. .. 42.6 46.0 44.7 45.8
Govt, securities .. 39.0 56.2 57.7 59.0
Treasury bills .. 45.1 40.8 43.3 45.8
Advances .. .. 277.6 279.0 277.8 277.7
In present circumstances, with one huge
buyer (the Government) taking perhaps
a fifth of the national output of goods
and services, it is probably not neces-
sary for banks to make so much credit
available to private industry. The Com-
monwealth is a growing employer of men,
machinery and materials ; hence the in-
crease from £84,100,000 to £104,800,000
in Government indebtedness to banks
over the past 12 months. The note issue
has expanded £13,100,000 over the same
period.
Australia’s outlay on defence is still
below Budget estimates. During the
first 10 months of 1940-41 (to April 30)
it was £127,000,000. This, according to
the Treasury, was from all funds—
taxation, borrowing and trust. Of the
outlay, £6,500,000 has been recovered
from other Government departments,
leaving a net figure of £120,900,000,
financed as follows: From revenue,
£33,778,000; from loans, £81,596,000;
from trust funds, £5,526,000. When the
Budget was introduced towards the close
of last year an expenditure of
£186,000,000 on defence was tipped for
the full term. Of this, £65,000,000 was
to come from taxation, £93,000,000 from
loans and £28,000,000 from funds in
hand. With two months of the financial
year still to go, it appears that loan
funds have been largely availed of—
probably the £43,000,000 to be borrowed
abroad to look after the A.I.F. figures
prominently—and that much taxation has
still to be collected. That is the usual
position about this time of the year. Bor-
rowing from the British Government and
the banks has looked after most A.I.F.
maintenance abroad.
For next year, defence spending in
Australia alone has been estimated at
“ Droppit, y' mong!”
£180,000,000, compared with £143,000,000
in 1940-41.
The new £35,000,000 loan, £27,000,000
of which is for defence (£10,000,000
specifically for the A.I.F. abroad), seemed
assured of oversubscription as the closing
hour drew near. The response to the
loan was slower and from a smaller sec-
tion of the people than had been ex-
pected.
Though bank advances to industry
remain almost static, expenditure on the
war effort is having a strong effect on
employment. Unemployment through-
out the Commonwealth for the March
quarter was 5.3 p.c., compared with 6.2
p.c. in the preceding quarter, 7.9 p.c. in
March, 1940, and 9.6 p.c. in March, 1939.
Since many employed and unemployed
have enlisted, these figures may be ques-
tioned, but the improvement is verified
when actual employment figures are
looked at. In March 2,269,000 people
were in jobs (exclusive of members of the
defence forces not on civil payrolls), com-
pared with 2,193,000 a year before. Most
of the lift was in factory employment,
which rose from 581,000 in March, 1940,
to 655,000 for the same month of this
year. Factory employees in March,
1941, totalled 51.5 p.c. more than in the
pre-depression year 1928-29, and 20.3
p.c. more than in the pre-war year 1938-
39. Employment in retail stores shows
little recent growth.
The cost of living has risen p.c. in
Australia since war broke out. Whole-
sale prices have lifted 13.6 p.c., compared
with 51 p.c. in England, 17.5 p.c. in
Canada and 18.8 p.c. in Maoriland. In-
creased taxation in order to finance the
war (as opposed to borrowing), plus price
control, has had a lot to do with keeping
down the cost of living in Australia.
Bond’s Industries, Sydney’s chief Stock-
Exchange spec, so far in 1941, has shown
a net profit of £54,606 for 1940, against
£27,774 in 1939. All debenture-interest
arrears will be paid out of capital reserve,
current interest will be paid at £6 17s.
per cent., and a 10 p.c. ord. div. will be
handed out. Assets have been revalued,
and accumulated losses written off out
of capital reserve. “Eminent King’s
Counsel” approved on the legal side.
The Commonwealth Government has
approved of an issue of 100,000 new £1
shares at par (three for four) to ease the
strain on finances caused by additions to
plant and stocks.
» * * »
The debut of “Truth’s” new Sydney
afternoon paper, the “Mirror,” seemed
to bring happiness to everyone. Asso-
ciated Newspapers ord. shares rose by
more than Is. (to 12s. lid.) compared
with the closing prices in April, and the
market paid 4s. more (175.) for “Truth”
ords. The “Mirror” was quite hospitably
received, and is reported to be selling
well, in the city, anyway. Still, there
seemed to be a little bravado about the
Sydney newspaper sharemarket last week,
“Truth’s” pref. issues were actually
weaker than usual, contrasting noticeably
with the ords. The co.’s scrip is rarely
very active, however, and market move-
ments are inclined to be jumpy. Asso-
ciated Newspapers, which publishes the
“Sun” daily and Sunday, has come up
cf in rL S roHd7 f pTp7il o \L?ln f P f S
day “ otlhe “™egrap P h“ J onZ
PU and d c Wed
pre= B fr'e ne bei„ g an show C e?fd re on gE
the Daily ” d
* he n, M “fn °T e °" the
fof in S? h I - JV f,f P &
ance in Scottish skies of Rudolf Hess.
It was a good week for newspapers from
ediifons P “i" 0f c Vl 7 - ,
missedT’owing
caution in estimating the size and
genuineness of the catch. It is doubtful
if the “Mirror” will find advertising as
easy to get as readers, but even adver-
tising revenue is a little more plentiful
than it was six or nine months ago.
Paper is both scarce and dear, and
printers’ wages are rising. In this mixed
atmosphere Ezra Norton has made a
particularly bold bid. He celebrated the
occasion by declaring a 3 p.c. interim
div. on “Truth” ords. last week. In
the preceding year a similar interim was
paid, but there was no final div. Norton
also beat the “Sun” to publication of a
topical item of fiction entitled Hitler's
Flying Visit.
* * * *
Quite a number of hostile currency
revolutionists have written in since the
criticism of Victory Without Debt was
published on April 9. Quotation after
quotation from currency books has been
thrown at this paper in support of the
belief that banks do add to their private
assets by expanding credit. In most cases
it is a pity that the writers don’t rely on
quotations less and use their intelligence a
little more. If the making of an advance
creates money or credit that belongs to
a bank, why don’t banks lend fifty or
a hundred million pounds—thus adding
that much to their own assets, accord-
ing to this argument—then go into liqui-
dation and split up the lot? It would
take more than 50 years for the
average bank to earn enough (at its
disclosed rate of earning) to distribute
to shareholders a sum equal to its ad-
vances. Cut the period down to 25 years
and immediate liquidation still looks
more glitteringly attractive. But the whole
proposition of banks adding directly to
their private assets by creating credit or
money is barmy. The best they can do
for themselves is to add to their interest
earnings by expanding credit. The worst
they can do is to go ingloriously broke,
others with them, as many did in 1893.
“Credit power” couldn’t save them then.
Banks do regiment and mobilise the
credit, or part of the credit, of a country.
They generally make profits by doing so,
though they have been known to make
losses. The credit they handle isn’t
always applied to the best national advan-
tage. There are a number of arguments,
considered more theoretical than prac-
tical by some people, in favor of
nationalisation of banking, the same as
there are for the nationalisation of any-
thing. But the proposition that banks
create credit without creating a corre-
spending debt owed by themselves is
idiotic. Even when private banks were
allowed to issue notes these were a
liability as well as an asset. If a bank
was wound up it had to repay these notes
in gold or notes of other banks. If it
couldn’t do that—well, its shareholders
didn’t get anything back at all.
* * * *
The ss. shares in Woolworths have
lo 15*. 6d„ yielding a sh^imter
to' Sj'&fS
££ Tht
point that most of their turnover was
Australian-made, and undoubtedly a
proportion of it was. In view of
h J p nding power now possessed
by ta ® ilie P C n lower incomes, chain
stores should show little falling-oil as
~
* * * *
Bradford Cotton ords. at 40s. give an
immediate yield of 5 p.c., with bright
prospects. They look more attractive
than Bond’s Industries shares at 30s. 9d,
One is an investment; the other, at
present prices, is still speculative.


ABBEY QUALITY AND VALUE
IN THIS STOUT MILITARY COSSACK
A3O
# A genuine officer’s boot that is find-
ing favour with civilians throughout
the Commonwealth. In best grade
Brown Calf, leather lined through-
out and with stout soles. Leg
is high and specially cut to fit
any type of legging. Full range of sizes avail-
able ; when ordering state size.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
53 Castlereagh Street.
50 / -
Postage Paid.
DOES
WEIGH?
You say that your little one is
“worth his weight in gold".
Don't you wish that were
literally true? Why not start
to make the dream come true.
Open a Savings Bank account
in baby's name: deposit a few
shillings each week, and
enjoy the thrill of watching it
grow; the satisfaction of know-
ing that, in the critical days
ahead your child will be able
to face the future without the
gnawing worry of financial
uncertainty. Open an account
THIS WEEKI
ŵ
commonwcfliTH
SflUinGS BflllK
Of OUSTROiIn
More talk has been heard about
“conscripting capital” if response to loans
doesn’t improve. As the picture is put
to us, it’s a pure bogey. Possibly Mr.
Fadden does think that conscription of
wealth would be of value to the war
effort —he hasn’t been Treasurer a great
while. But if he stays in his job long
enough he’ll learn that it’s income we
want in order to fight this war, not
capital. There is more sense in the argu-
ment that if response to loans isn’t
adequate, taxation will have to be in-
creased so that necessary defence equip-
ment can be paid for. Taxation of the
current national income is actually what
takes place in providing an army with
arms, and we in Australia have taken
on a big task. So let us face facts. If
there is to be any further conscription
of wealth it must be by means of
taxation, and the lower income-ranges
will have to be in it. That may not be
politically palatable, but it’s the truth.
Maoriland, which levied a rather dis-
tressing compulsory loan last year, isn’t
going to have one this term. Those pay-
ing less than £5O a year in income taxes
were exempt from last year’s loan;
otherwise the amount of the compulsory
subscription from each person was the
same as the income tax paid, less £5O.
Persons paying over 10s. in the £ in
income tax thus had to find more than
their total income for the year to hand
to the Government.
* * ♦
The National Bank of Australasia is
of the opinion that the continual out-
bursts of monetary cranks over the past
few years on matters relating to our
“financial system” were one of the most
important reasons for the early lack of
enthusiasm shown toward the £35,000,000
war and works loan. The bank states
that it is not so much the actual schemes
advocated by monetary cranks that arrest
public opinion as the doubts they raise
as to possible changes in the financial
system. People have been influenced by
constant repetition—by persistent propa-
ganda—toward the belief that something
is wrong with the present monetary
system. There are many people, how-
ever, including some Labor and U.A.P.
politicians of the “brighter” variety, who
definitely have the notion that by “ex-
panding credit” we can evade war’s
burden. Such people also probably be-
lieve in fairy wands and magic carpets.
There are other people who don’t believe
this nonsense but who propagate it for
their own purposes,
* * * ♦
June 30 will close the second year of
the British wool-purchase arrangement,
and appraisements for the 1940-41 season
should be complete by that date. Last
year 3,621,095 bales were appraised;
this year’s total is expected to run close
to that figure. It stood at 3,130,829 at
mid-May, for which appraised value was
£49,934,140, growers having already re-
ceived £47,575,251. Not a bad result
after two dry years.
Average appraised wool prices per
nound greasy for the States and Common-
wealth to date this season are: N.S.W.
12.06 d., Vic. 13.35 d., Queensland 11.89 d.,
S.A. 11.1 Id., W.A. 12.13 d., Tas. 14.79 d.,
Commonwealth 12.3 Id. The deduction
of fd. per pound on reclassed and re-
packed wools this season and last will
not operate in 1941-42, but growers
shouldn’t take this as a hint that they
can become careless.
Under the Sheepskins Purchase
arrangement 84,953 bales have been
appraised and £1,748,490 paid to pack-
ing houses.
* * * •
After falling to 425. 6d., British
Tobacco ords. recovered to 445. last
week. The difficulty of obtaining dollars
to buy American leaf and the rationing
of output of tobacco and cigarettes in
Australia that has already taken place
had the market worried. The div. is
still quoted at 10 p.c.; the quarterly
interim declared in March was at the
rate of 8 p.c. p.a., but that is the usual
thing, a bonus of 2 p.c. accompanying
the final. Whether the bonus can be
maintained under present conditions re-
mains to be seen. Unless further restric-
tion of tobacco imports occurs, mainten-
ance of 10 p.c. p.a. is a possibility,
Turnover is still substantial, and in
August last, with the approval of the
Prices Commissioner, the size of a num-
ber of brands of Australian cigarettes
was reduced. Also, an increase in prices
has since been permitted, a sixpenny
packet now generally costing 7d., which
more than covers increase in sales tax.
True, other costs besides taxation have
risen, but a fraction of a penny extra
on a packet of cigarettes would cover a
fair amount of increased cost. British
Tobacco is undoubtedly grappling with
a major problem now in running its busi-
ness, but it has some offsets, and man-
agement here has always been competent,
It will be interesting, however, to see
how the weight of the purchase-cost of
the Craven A business is borne by the
undertaking generally in the cramped
"What'll you have with it —Water or soda P”
circumstances prevailing now. In normal
times Carreras, Ltd., was a remarkable
moneymaker, but a big price was paid
for it by British Tobacco,
* * * *
Shipping shares could be got at bar-
gain prices last week. Outstanding was
Adelaide Steam, yielding 4.8 p.c. on a
p.c. div. basis, but Huddart Parker,
Illawarra, North Coast and even Port
Jackson Steam were all offering at lower
prices in a market that was firming
generally. This weakness has followed
the lifting of coastal shipping freight
rates, except to Westralia and Tas., by
p.c. Possibly there was disappoint-
ment about the rise in Westralian and
Tasmanian cargoes being restricted to
2i p.c. Shipping cos., though they may
not be expanding their profits under
present conditions a shrinkage may
actually be occurring, especially in Hud-
dart Parker’s case —have many attractive
investment angles, as a rule. Most of
them have outside investments, and where
their ships are chartered by the Com-
monwealth they are paid 9s. per ton per
month, with compensation at the rate of
market value at the date of sinking in
the event of a vessel being lost. Any
shipping co. with an engineering or dock-
yard connection —such as Adelaide Steam
and Melbourne Steam—should be doing
well from that source just now.
For holding purposes marked-down
scrip in coastal shipping cos. should be
good. Nearly all have able manage-
ment and a long stocking, and when the
war finishes a great demand for ton-
nages is inevitable. The Empire will be
working at highest pressure to restore
living conditions, living standards and
trade relationships, and ships will play
a vital part.
* * * ♦
Howard Smith shares were cheap last
week at 195,, yielding 5.2 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis. There was a margin
of 1.1 p.c. over ord. div. requirements on
last year’s reduced showing, so main-
tenance of the div. is a reasonable pos-
sibility, especially in view of the revival
in coal —and trade generally.
* * * *
Associated Pulp, manufacturing fine
writing and printing papers at Burnie,
has declared a final div. of 3 p.c., making
6 p.c. for the year on ord. shares. The
15,000-ton plant started off in August,
1938 ; No. 2 machine began work in
October, 1939, raising output to 22,500
tons a year. In March last it was
announced that a third papermaking
machine was being installed, and the
capacity of the mill raised 40 p.c. This,
when completed, would enable all Aus-
tralian demands for the types of paper
being made by the co. to be satisfied. To
finance plant additions the sponsor share-
holders (mostly Broken Hill cos.) exer-
cised their options over the balance
(187,000) of the earmarked shares, dis-
posing of the 300,000 thus set aside, and
leaving the way clear for participation by
all shareholders in future issues. Associ-
ated Pulp is at present able to sell all the
paper it can make, and, though prices are
controlled, it must be doing very well.
Still, a cautious dividend policy is indi-
cated at a time when expenditure on
plant additions (isn’t yet reproductive.
A.P. shares are at 30s.
Australian Fixed Trusts, out of the
income received from shares forming
each unit of the trust, for the half-year
ended May 15, 1941, will distribute 7d.
per sub-unit on June 15. Last week’s
market value of the sub-units was 20s.
sellers, 19s. buyers, yield 5.1 p.c.
* * * *
The drillhole being put down by Aus-
tralasian Petroleum, a pup of Vacuum
Oil, Anglo-Iranian and Oil Search, at
Kariava, 75 miles up the Vailala River,
Papua, had reached a depth of 1922 ft.
on May 10. The hole is now 17/rin. in
diameter. It started off in the middle of
March as a 23in. hole, and tapers as it
goes down. This particular search for
oil in New Guinea is a full-dress affair,
and to date has cost over £1,000,000.
♦ * * *
The £BO,OOO 8 p.c. cum. pref. issue
of Tableland Tin, proceeds of which are
required to complete No. 2 dredge at
Return Creek,' Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), has
been fully subscribed. With reasonable
luck at the mine from now on this scrip
should have an inter-
esting future.
* *
Canada’s war
effort during the
1941-42 period is ex-
pected to cost more
than a quarter of
the Dominion’s
national income. In
dollars the figure is
1300 million, equal
to £370 million in
Australian money.
Australia’s defence
expenditure for the
year closing o n
June 30 next was
budgeted for at £lB6
million, but that
figure may not be
reached owing to
production delays.
In 1941-42 we shall
probably spend over
£2OO million.
* *
Despite the im-
pact of war on Island
trade, particularly
with regard to copra,
shipping, etc., the big B.P. organisation
further increased its business last year.
Though profits are disclosed £24,964
lower at £235,657, that was after pro-
viding £218,239 (compared with £178,440)
for depreciation and bad debts and first
making an unexplained appropriation of
£93,982 (up £60,173) to reserves. Present
conditions aren’t likely to present oppor-
tunities for further growth; but the 10
p.c. div. is obviously in no danger in the
ordinary course of events. At March 31
the whole of the £2,000,000 of capital
was invested outside the business and/or
in associated enterprises which don’t send
on their full earnings.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
JAPANESE CAN FLY.
(Condensed from a Saturday Evening Post” article by
Hallett Abend,)
Dozens of old wives’ tales go the rounds about
the congenital unfitness of the Japanese as aviators.
Actually, they are well equipped to fly. Until four
years ago it was true that Japanese aviators were far
behind those of other countries. But during the last
four years the practice Japan’s fliers have had in fight-
ing China has made them very good indeed. Their
deeds during the China war satisfied all of us who
were observers there of that.
The numerous bombings of American missions,
business houses and residences in China have been
cited as evidence that the Nipponese are incompetent,
since sheer anti-Americanism and what the Japanese
excuse as “excitement and enthusiasm” in their young
bombists could not account for all of the ruins. Per-
sonally believing the Japanese airmen incompetent as
well as overenthusiastic, I made a careful investigation.
A Japanese flying officer explained to me that there
is a striking resemblance between the flags of the
United States and of the Chinese Republic, even at
only fairly high altitudes aloft. I thought this pre-
posterous ; the officer offered to show me.
He took me to a Japanese army
airfield outside Shanghai. Spread on
the turf were American and Chinese
flags, each 20ft. long. We got into a
’plane and climbed. By the time we
reached 3500 feet the flags could not
be distinguished one from the other.
I am not trying to maintain that
the Japanese have never deliberately
bombed American and British posses-
sions. The bombing of the Panay in
1937 was deliberate. Then there is
the incident of the British Embassy in
Chungking. Early last summer Japan’s
bombs hit close enough to the em-
bassy compound to damage some
buildings. Chungking had been painted
an overall grey-black, on Chiang Kai-
shek’s theory that this dull uniformity
of color would make it difficult for
Nippon’s air-raiders to pick out mili-
tary objectives. Sir Archibald Clark
Kerr had the idea that if he could
paint all the buildings of his British
Embassy compound a sharply contrast-
ing color and notify the Japanese, then
they no longer would have any excuse
for bombing the property. The entire
compound was painted a vivid canary
yellow. The Japanese were notified
and even given maps to show where
the cluster of yellow buildings was
located.
“The Generalissimo gave me his
private ’plane and I flew to a height
of 12,000 feet over Chungking to see
the effect,” Sir Archibald told me later.
“From that altitude our yellow com-
pound was as conspicuous on the sur-
face of Chungking as a 15-carat canary
diamond on the hand of a dowager. I
certainly thought our buildings safe
from bombing.”
The ambassador thought very
wrong. Only three days later Japanese
raiders came over Chungking at around
10,000 feet. They dropped 10 bombs. Seven of them
landed squarely in that yellow compound.
Naturally, the British did not consider this an
accident. They thought it was as deliberate as the
stripping of British men and women at Tientsin. In
fact, Sir Archibald dryly remarked that the Japanese
raiders had displayed “magnificent marksmanship.”
Not only has Japan’s flying and bombing effi-
ciency improved greatly, but airplane production has
kept pace with human improvement. When Japan
signed the Axis pact last September she had upward
of 4000 efficient warplanes. Since then she has been
turning out about 250 ’planes a month, so that by
the end of February of this year, allowing deductions
for smash-ups or losses in China, Nippon’s war air
fleet topped 5000 ’planes.
The increase in production for 1940 is entirely
due to Japan’s having joined the Axis. Realising the
possibility of becoming actively engaged against Eng-
land or the United States as a result of joining Ger-
many and Italy, Japan immediately ordered her air-
plane production into top speed. How long this pro-
duction can be sustained, with a growing shortage of
materials and precision tools, is problematical. The
vast floor space provided for even greater expansion
of airplane production is at present unused, entirely
because of American embargoes.
A new element has been injected into the pro-
duction situation with the arrival of German airplane-
construction experts in Japan. The Nazi speed-up
men are likely to increase efficiency, but they are
doing nothing to increase goodwill. Some of their
criticisms were tactless. Their impatience with
Oriental methods was not even thinly disguised.
With the technicians there also arrived in Japan a
large number of German airmen. They are there not
to teach the Japanese to fly, but to instruct them in
the special technique of air Blitzkrieg.
The Japanese army catches future pilots very
young. In addition to the Air Military Academy, the
army has a special school for what it calls “boy air-
men.” Boys 15 or 16 years of age, after a gruelling
period of basic training, are classified as future pilots,
as expert maintenance men, as flying radio operators,
or as gunners on armed ’planes.
In the summer of 1937 the army’s aviation schools
were turning out about 300 graduates, commissioned
and non-commissioned, every year. This has since
been more than doubled. It is believed that the Air
Military Academy trained more than 700 new pilots
during 1940, with the probability of a much larger
class this year.
The present pilot strength of the army’s air force
is believed to be slightly in excess of 3000 well-trained
fliers. The navy’s output of pilots, technicians and
maintenance experts is slightly smaller, but the navy’s
total pilotage strength is about the same —3000. This
gives Japan around 6000 pilots, collectively, with
slightly more than 5000 army and navy ’planes fit
for bombing and combat, exclusive of training ’planes.
The combined army and navy air force personnel, at
the close of 1940, was around 58,000 officers and men.
Grimmer Mood in Britain.
(From an article by a New York “Times” London
correspondent.)
There is a story going the rounds here in
London of a choleric M.P. who obtained an audience
with Prime Minister Churchill for the purpose of de-
manding that the R.A.F. concentrate all its bombing
strength on raids on Berlin. As Mr. Churchill blandly
turned aside the suggestion, the M.P.’s temper rose.
—New York "Post.”
THE CLOWN AND THE KILLER.
He pounded on a desk and shouted “My constituents
demand that the people of Berlin be made to realise
the horrors and hardships of these indiscriminate
raids.”
“Ah, my friend,” Mr. Churchill replied, “your
supporters should remember it is a good rule to keep
business before pleasure.”
Whether the conversation actually occurred is
unimportant, because the story accurately and graphi-
cally reflects a growing schism between the grim deter-
mination of the British High Command to follow out
a mapped air, sea and land campaign, aimed at
crippling, disarming and starving the enemy, and the
insistence of the population that the Germans receive
a monstrous dose of their own tactics.
These people did not grumble when in the war’s
early stages the British High Command swapped leaf-
lets for bombs. They remained buoyant when Ger-
man raiders began raining fire and destruction on the
United Kingdom’s cities while the R.A.F. concen-
trated on war stores, bases and like objectives. Then
they thought of war as waged against the symbol of
Hitler rather than against the German people.
Now their mood is in process of change to a
cold, implacable, destructive hatred directed not only
against Hitler and his war machine but against the
German people as well. Just now it is spreading with
accelerated pace and increasing intensity, and, the
nature of the Government being what it is, even under
war conditions it seems inevitable that it will eventu-
ally envelop the High Command.
Who Owns the British Empire?
(Condensed from an article by Sir Norman Angell in
the “Survey Graphic,” U.S.A .)
The picture of John Bull as a plutocratic land-
owner, possessing more property than he can properly
use while others lack “living space,” is of course the
standing theme of much German advocacy, which is
echoed in America. Hitler insists that it is gross
injustice for a small nation of 45 million people to
“own a quarter of the earth.”
What are the facts?
The facts are that Great Britain does not “own"
the Empire at all.
Not merely has John Bull no proprietary rights
whatever in Canada, or Australia, or South Africa, or
New Zealand, or Newfoundland, or Ireland, but the
British Government draws no tribute at all from
them or from any colony whatsoever. On the con-
trary, the British taxpayer is often mulcted for the
defence and development of the overseas territories.
Nor is that all, or the most important part,
The British people do not even govern the greater
part of their overseas “possessions.” For during the
last 70 years Britain has carried on a process of de-
imperialisation, so that what was originally an Empire
has, for the greater part, ceased so to be one ; what
were originally colonies have become independent
States,
When the statement is made that Canada and
Australia and the other Dominions are independent
nations, most readers simply do not believe it. Yet
we are not in the re B ion of opinion, but of statutory fact,
~T o an idea of how vast is . the gap hetween
reality and prevailing opinion, examine this paragrapn
from a syndicated column in the New York “Journal-
American”:
England never abandons anything—never any com-
anybody imagine England’s giving up the great gold
lands of the Rand? Certainly not.
What comment is to be made upon
such a comment, in view of the quite
incontrovertible fact of . history that
Great Britain gave up those gold lands
of the Rand about 30 years ago? At
that time the authority of the British
Government over them was completely
surrendered to the South African Par-
liament, so that today Britain has no
more power over the mines of the Rand
than it has over those of Colorado. If
the South African Parliament voted to
confiscate the shares of every American
and British shareholder in the Rand
mines the British Government would be
rather less able than the American Gov-
ernment to do anything about it.
And what shall be said of this
columnist’s statement that England
never surrenders a strategic harbor?
Just before he wrote that paragraph the
American press had been publishing
news that Mr. de Valera was still re-
fusing to permit the British Government
to use the harbors in southern Ireland,
harbors of life-and-death strategic im-
portance for Great Britain. This re-
fusal has cost Britain many a ship and
many a life. So also has the refusal of
Mr. de Valera until recently to black-
out Dublin. From Irish cities Nazi
raiders were able to get their bearings
and destroy English homes in Liverpool.
The question still remains, are not
the shares in the South African mines
held by the British? Certainly. But
that does not prevent South Africa being
an independent State, with power to tax
or confiscate the property of British
shareholders just as ruthlessly as inde-
pendent Eire has confiscated certain
properties. British financiers do not
own property merely in South Africa ;
they own mines in Mexico, railways in
Argentina, quite a number of factories
in the United States. But does this
mean that these countries are part of the
British “Empire”? For a long time American
investments in Canada have been at least double those
of Great Britain, and with the sale of British securi-
ties in the United States to pay for war material Ameri-
cans will own still more. Should we then be justified in
declaring that Canada is part of the American
“Empire”?
So with trade. The United States, which does not
own” Canada, sells vastly more to Canada than does
Great Britain, the “owner.” Canada’s exports to
British Empire markets have been something like twice
her imports from the Empire ; and Britain’s trade has
always been far more with non-Empire than with
Empire countries.
Let us set down concretely the facts which reveal
most clearly what the British “Empire” has become.
We should think, for example, of Australia as a nation,
quite as independent as were Belgium and Norway
before their subjugation by Germany ; having its own
Parliament, its own army and its own navy controlled
by its own Parliament, devising its own tariffs
(Dominion tariffs often hit British trade very severely),
passing its own immigration laws (some of which
rigidly exclude certain classes of British subjects),
appointing its own foreign representatives (both
Canada and Australia have Ministers in Washington
and other capitals); having, indeed, its own colonies
and dependencies (Australia has several in the
Pacific); having power to maintain full diplomatic
relations with Britain’s enemy, if it so chooses (Eire
is still neutral—the German Minister is even now
living peacefully in Dublin, and some 300 Germans
are moving freely about Ireland).
But what about India? How many are aware
that for 20 years India has made her own tariff, and
has used that tariff-making power again and again
to exclude British goods ; and that, even when Britain
controlled India’s tariff, the Indian market was open
to the whole world on equal terms, Britain claiming
no advantage for herself?
That the evolution of India toward Dominion
status should be slower than in the case of nations
like Canada is easily explained. India is not a nation
but a group of many separate peoples, differing in
cultures, languages, religions, social habits far more
than the nations of Continental Europe differ one from


Question ;
Lobster, Lobster, tell we do,
What is best to drink with
yout
ẁ
Answer:
Gourmets everywhere agree
Guinness goes down best
with me.
There’s
nothing like
Guinness
with Lobster
Sole Supervising Agents for Australasia: —
SWIFT & COMPANY, PTY„ LTD- 26-30 Clarence St„ Sydney . . . 87377
another. The degrees of development in India range
from that of the Stone Age to that of a sophisticated
culture. Before the British came there was indeed no
such unit as “India.” The Indians did not know the
word.
These indubitable facts bear on Britain’s hesita-
tion to grant India Dominion status in existing condi-
tions of the world. There would follow a partition
of India between, say, Russia and Japan, just as Russia
and Germany have recently partitioned Poland. In
other words, Britain would repeat, on a vastly greater
scale, the situation which she now confronts as the
result of having granted Dominion status to Eire. Her
evacuation of the Irish naval bases has immensely
increased her defence difficulties at a time when she
stands in mortal peril.
Is it realist to expect a great State to commit
suicide on behalf of the “independence” of some
other State, knowing full well that the suicide, far
from serving the purpose of such independence, would
quite certainly bring it to an end? Britain’s defeat
would mean the end of the independence of Ireland
and the prospective independence of India quite as
much as it would mean the end of the independence
of Britain herself.
Britain meantime continues to prepare the peoples
of India for self-government. How far they have gone
that way may be gathered from the fact that in the
government of a country of nearly 400 million people
there are barely 1000 British officials. In the making
of laws, the work of the courts, the management of
the cities, of the public utilities, the schools, the hospi-
tals, not one in a thousand employees is British. The
rest are Indian.
Under British rule, India has built 36,000 miles
of railroad which have enormously diminished famine
by quick carriage of grain. If the building of these
railroads had depended upon Indian capital, most of
them would never have been built at all. India’s irri-
gation system is now the greatest in the world. Oyer
20,000 miles of canals are operated in the Punjab
alone, and over 14 million acres are irrigated in the
country as a whole. Under one single project —that
of the Bhakra Dam, which will be 394 feet high—the
area to be irrigated will be four times the whole irri-
gated area of Egypt.
Could capital for these projects have been found
without the guarantee of the British Government, or
the projects themselves carried through by a peasant
country without the co-operation of British industry?
The alternative to imperialism—the government
of one country by another —is not for each to be
independent: that means in practice chaos. It is,
rather, partnership on a basis of equality. Toward
an equality of right among partners the British Com-
monwealth is on the whole assuredly working. In
an anarchic world which above all needs integration,
we shall not, if we are wise, destroy such integrations
as history has bequeathed to us.
Swiss Link Between Nations.
(Condensed from a report by a New York Herald
Tribune” Geneva correspondent.)
Switzerland is the centre of various institutions
whose aim is to form ties between the nations, to im-
prove their mutual understanding, to unite their efforts
for their common good and to defend together the
superior interests of the human community. Amid
the din of battles raging in Europe, Switzerland
remains a link between the nations.
Foremost among these institutions is the Inter-
national Red Cross at Geneva. As a tribute to
Switzerland the Swiss flag in reversed colors— i.e., a
red cross on a white field —was adopted as the insignia
of the Red Cross. Today 64 countries are members
of the Geneva Convention.
What Switzerland did on behalf of war sufferers
during the World War is considered one of the out-
standing deeds in her history. In the present war
Switzerland again excels in her activities for prisoners
of war, their families and all those in distress.
In June, 1940, more than 50,000 allied soldiers,
the majority of them French, fled across the French-
Swiss frontier. The Swiss Army disarmed and fed
them. The sick and wounded were sent to hospital and
the remainder interned. In the climate of Switzerland
these sad soldiers regained health and a brighter out-
look on life. Last January all those of French
nationality were allowed to return to unoccupied
France. They left full of praise for the Swiss people.
Workers for the Central Information Bureau for
Prisoners of War, maintained by the International Red
Cross Committee, have increased from 1200 during the
World War to 4800 in the present war. Of these, all
but about 200 are volunteers. Of this staff, 3000 are
residents of Geneva and 1800 are from more than 20
different towns in Switzerland. The use of units of
helpers in other parts of Switzerland is a new feature,
which became necessary through the tremendous over-
flow of work in the central agency.
In the war period from 1914-18 incoming mail
seldom exceeded 25,000 pieces a day. In the second
half of 1940 letters and postcards received reached the
daily average of 60,000. Most of the communications
contain inquiries about prisoners of war and interned
civilians. Others are messages to be transmitted be-
tween victims of war and their families. Index cards
for prisoners of war in the years 1914-18 numbered
approximately 4,000,000; between September, 1939,
and January, 1941, these cards had reached 5,000,000.
During the World War 300,000 interned civilians were
listed ; in the current war there are 2,000,000.
In Occupied Italy.
[Condensed from an article in “Collier’s” by a
woman lately returned to New York from Italy, where
her husband had been a broadcaster.]
What I shall set down here about Italy is partly
from my own observation, partly from facts told
me by the newspapermen and diplomats with whom
my husband and I associated in Rome. To the best
of my knowledge, what I write is the truth.
Thousands of people, many of whom I knew,
are undernourished, and hundreds are starving. The
blockade of raw materials has badly crippled Italy’s
war industries in many cases. The Germans now
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
THOUGH ITS CALLED AID TO BRITAIN.
literally control Italy through men in key positions,
Italy really is just another occupied country.
Every day I saw the people grow more aware
of this condition. As a result they are much more
bitter toward Fascist bosses, who brought them to
this point, than they are toward the British. Many
Italians, in fact, told me that they would welcome a
successful British invasion, but as an offset to this
they feared Italy would become the next great battle-
field of the war.
Up to the time I departed there had been no riots,
The people throughout the country are too crushed
“ r nti T£ defeats and sea - They
are S b 'bo a m n bs t y ve a d e orK C damage, even to
Italy’s war industry. More bombings, however, would
seriously affect whatever morale the Italians have left.
The British had definite plans to bomb seven points
around Rome but did not for psychological reasons,
They do not wish to stir up resentment among the
Italian people, and this attitude is the right one, I
think, for British purposes in the long run.
“We do not hate the British-it is the Germans
we hate,” whisper Italians. .
When the British dropped parachute troops into
Italy an Italian lookout thought he saw some specks
in the sky. He telephoned headquarters, but the officers
there would not believe him. They told him he must
be drunk and to forget it. Before he could convince
his superiors that the British were on their way down
the parachutists had landed and captured him. That
parachute expedition was successful. The men from
the sky badly damaged an important aqueduct and
railroads. Afterward some of them escaped from
Italy by boat and some were captured. All the para-
chutists were of Italian descent, some of them from
Malta, and they all spoke Italian perfectly. The
Italians believe that many of them are still at large,
A result of the parachute coup was the closing
of U.S. consulates at Naples and Palermo. The
Fascists say that Americans are really enemies and
are constantly conducting campaigns of hate against
them.
The rationing would be all right except that
there is very little food to ration. The only spaghetti
I could buy was a deep grey in color. Our bread was
almost brown, since chestnut, corn and potato flours
were the main ingredients.
There is plenty of wine, but the wheat supply
will be gone by now and no more will be available
until the next crop ripens in June.
Recently the gangster organisation of the Fascist
party, known as the Squadristi, was revived. This
was the outfit —the castor-oil boys—that carried on
the terror programme early in Mussolini’s dictator-
ship. They work together with Himmler’s S.S. troops
to keep the Italian people in subjection. The Gestapo
has filtered into every Italian town recently and has
encouraged the reorganisation of these gangster
groups.
Stories of dissatisfaction in all the Italian armed
forces are common in Rome. Sailors complain that
when a ship is sinking the officers are first to leave.
The air force complains that its ’planes are obsolete
and catch fire as soon as they are hit. Italian
soldiers are brave, but they have not enough
material ; what they have is bad, and there is
little intelligent leadership. There are many
army desertions. Both the Greeks and the
British discovered that they must separate the
Fascists from the anti-Fascists among their
prisoners, or they would find the Blackshirts
“eliminated” by their compatriots.
As in all Axis countries, there are well-
filled concentration camps. There is a Ger-
man official in every ministry in the country.
The infiltration started with the German air
force, but now you can’t go into a bar or a
restaurant without discovering a Nazi in uni-
form on one side of you and a plain-clothes
German agent on the other. German camou-
flaged cars speed around Italian cities.
Nazi troops pass through Italy almost
openly, but when an important troop move-
ment is under way —in Rome, for instance —
the streets are cleared of people by sounding
an air-raid alarm.
The Germans have blacked-out talk to
some extent, but they cannot black-out ges-
tures. A favorite one is putting one’s hands
to one’s throat as if being choked —and every-
one understands who is doing the choking.
In Italy Mussolini is considered to be a
sick man. Not long ago he collapsed while
making a speech in north Italy. Nobody
knows just what is wrong. Some say he had
a heart embolism. He has seldom been seen
in recent weeks or months. A speech he made
to the Fascist council behind closed doors
was broadcast, but from then until I left he
had said nothing else.
Mussolini, according to informed news-
papermen in Italy, actually doesn’t realise
to this moment how completely he has come
under the thumb of Germany. There is
good reason to believe that when the Germans con-
solidate all of Italy under their control Mussolini will
be kept on as a figurehead. He would then become
the Italian Quisling—a puppet dictator.
Norwegians Fight Back.
(From a London “Times” article.)
Conditions in Norway have deteriorated steadily
since Quisling’s party and “Government were m-
stalled and given full P£ by the G™
Nazi methods aped by the Qms^ngs
a ali b „“
Seated a growing opposition against the traitors
themselves and their German “ a jS, nrp to the in .
All reports agree that the resistance to
vaders is becoming more effective , they gi. y
examples of the mventivenesv is
their silent war, in which their strongest w P
cold contempt and scornful m .
devastating effect on the Germans spin .
Open opposition has-been.jessed“
A number of The
come out m open opposi n f? rrn ers § Norses
biggest organisation of Norwegian farm , g
Bondelag, refused with an
join Nasjonal Samlmg, Q BP_ V- hii shed
of the Norwegian Medical Association has Published
a unanimous protest agamst because thev
doctors from their official
refused to declare their sympa s Q § .
agamst an effort by the Quislings o
“Medical Guild.” The organised workers m Oslo
have circulated a strong protest again
of the old trade-union officials, emp as g
inefficiency of. the new Ersatz. '^active
country come reports that the workers a y
against the oppressors. All members o e
wegian Supreme Court resigned as a protest against
Terboven’s attempt to convert the law courts and


legal administration into a part of the Nazi terrorist
machine.
A request to members of the Oslo police that they
should apply for membership of Quisling’s party had
the result that half the force sent in their resignations.
An order that they should use the Nazi salute caused
a strike. In consequence, German police can now be
seen on duty in the streets of Oslo in increasing
numbers. Clashes between the population and the
Hirdmenn are becoming more frequent in towns
throughout Norway. People have been killed and
wounded in demonstrations against German soldiers
and against the Hirdmenn. In Drammen. a swaggering
young member of the Bird was lynched by the popu-
lation. The Hird has been strongly reinforced. Some
notorious lawbreakers and bandits have been included
in the bodyguard. They are being constantly drilled
to more aggressive and brutal methods.
Lawlessness is increasing. The Bishop of Oslo, Dr.
Berggrav, has stated that the extraordinary conditions
prevailing were causing looseness in moral life. Appeals
have been circulated urging the inhabitants to pay no
attention to provocations and not to give the Hird the
chance to cause any sensational incident. “When the
signal is given for united action [the circular states] we
shall fight with clean weapons ; until then we shall
remain calm and continue our passive resistance.”
It is, however, clear that the greatest difficulty is
to hold in check the impatience of the enraged popu-
lation. In spite of heavy fines being imposed upon
the population, many acts of sabotage are taking place.
In West Norway the German cables have been cut on
several occasions. The city of Stavanger was recently
condemned to pay a fine of 50,000 kroner. Trondhjem
had to pay 60,000 kroner, and the county of Vestop-
land 100,000 kroner. Many arrests have followed the
severing of telephone lines, especially in the western
districts, where German defences have been seriously
interfered with. It is sometimes found that the air-
raid signal is out of order when the British bombers
arrive. The famous Bergen-Oslo railway, with its 184
tunnels, is in constant difficulties ; the journey, nor-
mally of about 11 hours, now takes from 24-40 hours,
if it can be done at all.
Curfew was introduced in many places. The new
political people’s court will shortly begin its activities
to cope with the numerous cases now awaiting trial.
Their number is said to be more than 2000. It is also
reported that other political captives have been trans-
ferred to Germany to serve their sentences there.
Oslo has three political prisons, all run by the
Germans with German guards. The chief prison,
which normally has about 150 inmates, is housing
about 600. The prisoners include Colonel Lund from
Bergen, Colonel Halvor Hansson, Major Lindbaek,
Hr. Tonnessen, Chief of Police in Kristiansand;
Major Fin Back, Hr. Bjorn Hansen, a shipowner and
president of the Norwegian Shipowners’ Federation,
Hr. Klaveness, manager of the Norwegian Shipowners’
Federation, and Hr. Emil Stang, one of the resigned
Judges of the Norwegian Supreme Court. There are
concentration camps at Ulven outside Bergen and in
the Oster Valley. The editor of the important Liberal
provincial paper “Stavanger Aftenblad,” Sven Oftedahl,
is in the Bergen concentration camp, and Trend Hegna,
who wrote an article, “The Norwegians Are Not for
Sale,” is in another camp. Hr. Paal Berg, arrested
again, was president of the Supreme Court from 1929
till he resigned with the other Judges. He is a former
Minister of Justice.
The prisoners are ill-treated. The most usual
procedure is for one man to hold the prisoner while
others punch his face. Prisoners have been compelled
to stand barefoot in the snow while revolver shots
w'ere fired round their legs, in the hope of making
them break down and denounce others. After their
interrogation many prisoners have had to be taken to
hospital with broken ribs and eardrums. They are
not allowed to read books, not even the Bible, nor
may they receive visitors or letters.
Sentence of death was recently passed on three
young men of Bergen for having used a secret trans-
mitter with which they were accused of having sent
out information about the German Army. Their
tragic fate may drive underground the activities against
the Germans, but in doing so it will only intensify
the feeling against the invader.
Costly British Altruism.
[Britain’s aid to both Belgium and Greece criticised
by an American onlooker, Frank Hodsoll, in New York
“Times.”]
It is well-nigh impossible for hastily improvised
staff work to produce successful results in the face
of an enemy whose central command has long before
perfected a plan of campaign the carrying out of
which is machinelike in its precision. In both the
Flanders and Grecian battles the British Army was
removed from a strong military position to one of
mobility with doubtful possibilities of success —mainly
because of the desire of the home Government to
help a sorely-pressed ally.
At the urgent request qf the King of the Belgians
the British and French forces evacuated the Little
Maginot Line which eight months’ work had made a
well-fortified zone and from which, in case of neces-
sity, the British Army could have been withdrawn
slowly to three Channel ports along existing lines
of communications, complete with supply bases and
ancillary defence positions previously prepared. By
going to the assistance of the Belgian forces the
British right flank became exposed to the wedgelike
attack through the Sedan hinge, with the total loss
of the supply bases and the supply organisation con-
nected therewith.
After the subsequent complete exposure of its
left flank by the precipitate surrender of the Belgian
Army, the extrication of the British Expeditionary
Force from Flanders and its final evacuation from the
Dunkirk beaches evidenced the resistance to attack
that would have been possible on the Little Maginot
Line. It is, therefore, well within the bounds of
possibility that there would have been no general
break-through of the German troops at Sedan had
the Belgian King’s request for assistance been denied,
In the battle of Greece the British forces were
taken mainly from North Africa, where they had
established themselves in relatively strong positions
and where, if not seriously reduced in numbers and
equipment, they could have been expected to hold an
attack launched by the newly-arrived German forces.
The question inevitably arises whether an army
commander-or a Oovernment-is justified in assist-
.... . , .
mg a neighboring country in distress if by so doing
tire more important general strategical position is
impaired to a dangerous extent.
Public opinion in a democratic country at war
and in other friendly countries is an important, if
not a decisive, factor in the framing of military
policies, and this has been one of Britain’s greatest
handicaps in her present struggle. In deciding to send
troops to Greece the British Government’s desire to
go to the assistance of the two Balkan countries
obviously outweighed the military objections to such
a plan and imposed on the British Army commander
burdens which under more normal conditions, any
general would be excused for refusing to assume.
The principles for which the present war is being
fought have been upheld, but military axioms cannot
u „ ~ . , *.,• ’ , , ~ , ..
be continually subordinated to altruistic ideals with-
out seriously disadvantageous results.
—New York “World-Telegram.”
THE BEAR THAT WALKS LIKE A MOUSE.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Colonel Lindbergh has told us that, because in his
opinion Britain is “defeated,” American support of
Britain should be stopped. Col. Lindbergh cannot
have realised what he was saying. For, leaving aside
the consideration of honor and good faith, though a
great people can never leave it aside, the adoption
of his advice would not merely give the stab in the
back which insured the absolute and catastrophic
defeat of Britain. We should then have earned the
everlasting enmity of all the British people and of all
the other peoples who care for honor and for liberty.
We should by this supreme act of desertion not only
have isolated ourselves strategically among our avowed
enemies but we should have made ourselves the objects
of a universal hatred and contempt throughout the
world. If anyone thinks that after that we would
be regarded as good neighbors by Canada or by any
American republic, he knows nothing of the history
of nations and less about the nature of man. — Walter
Lippmann, in New York “Herald Tribune.”
*****
When peace comes, the refugee problem will loom
as one of the great tasks of post-war reconstruction.
Millions will have been uprooted. Should Hitler be
victorious and the seas be opened to him, refugee
dumpings might increase. Those who cannot be re-
stored to their old countries must either be absorbed
in some other established economy or be settled in a
pioneer economy, some new colonisation project. It
will be like dealing with a gigantic problem in inter-
national unemployment. Six weeks after Hitler in-
vaded Poland, President Roosevelt voiced the predic-
tion that “when this ghastly war ends there may be
not one million but ten million or twenty million who
will enter into the refugee problem.” Today, in
refugee-aid circles, one hears talk of as many as
30,000,000 post-war refugees.— From a “Saturday
Evening Post” article by Samuel Lubell.
*****
Many hundreds of disappointed readers of the
“Times” have written and telegraphed—and many
more have telephoned—complaining of their inability to
obtain their daily copy of the “Times,” The com-
plaints come from Government departments, newspaper
offices, professional men, business firms and others, all
of whom declare the “Times” to be indispensable to
their respective activities. Even lifelong readers of
the paper —some for 50 and even 60 years—have been
unable to obtain copies. In conformity with the re-
quest of the Government, the consumption of paper
used in the production of the “Times” had to be
reduced by approximately one-sixth of its former
amount. The “Times” was thus faced with a choice
of two evils. One was to reduce regularly the number
of pages from ten to eight, which would have meant
drastic curtailing of news. It was therefore decided
to reduce by one-sixth the number of copies printed
and circulated. — London “Times.”
*****
It cannot be repeated often enough that a real
oil shortage is not imminent, unless the Axis under-
takes large-scale military operations of long duration,
sufficiently long to exhaust its reserves. These re-
serves are, no doubt, large enough to enable the
Axis to carry on for a time, perhaps as long as two
years, provided they do not undertake any large-scale
operation. Indeed, they would enable it to risk, in
the near future, a campaign of great intensity, but
of short duration, say two or three months. But
the reserves would not be sufficient, either in the case
of Germany or Italy, for intensive military operations
of long duration, say more than four months. — E. M.
Friedwald, in London “Contemporary Review.”
*****
The Racing Calendar for 1781 has the following
entry under “Newmarket July Meeting, Tuesday, the
10th”;
Ld. Egremont’s Spitfire by Eclipse, Bst., beat Ed.
Clermont’s Dictator, Bst. 81b. R.M. 300 gs. 6-4 on
Spitfire.
—London “Times” letter.
This bombing of civilians is not war;
it is mass murder. It is as stupid as it is
brutal. Nothing can be clearer than that
you cannot break the hearts of a resolute
people by feeding fat its anger. The re-
sentments begotten of these holocausts
will burn for a thousand years to come.
For the 80,000 civilians killed or injured
by German bombs, 80,000,000 candles of
rage have been kindled in as many Eng-
lish-speaking breasts.— New York “Sun.”
* * * *
Tactics is the art or science of winning
battles. Strategy is the art or science of
winning a war. Applied to the present
situation the words mean that Hitler’s
victories, vast though they have been, are
tactical, not strategic. Strategy, like time,
is on the side of his enemies. In the last
analysis this war will be won bymiachine
power brought to bear at the right points,
in sufficient quantity and at the right time.
It will be won by Hitler’s enemies. It will
be won by them because the productive
power of the United States, which is equal
to that of any two European countries, will
turn the balance. — New York “Times.”
* * * *
Hard pressed by Hitler, demanding
action in support of the Axis, Japan is ex-
pected to launch a war scare in the south
Pacific in the near future. Whereupon she
would probably receive one of the sur-
prises of her life from the United States.
Upon Nippon’s first really hostile move
there is reason to believe the United States
would (a) increase its aid to China ; ( b )
cease its almost normal trade with Japan, and (c)
send additional units of its Pacific fleet to the Far
East. Since the war Japan has been receiving almost
no war materials from the belligerents, hence has
. been more than ever dependent upon the United States.
Before the war, we supplied 62 p.c. of her petroleum ;
after the war, 85 p.c. Before the war we provided
85 p.c. of her scrap iron ; since the war, 95 p.c. For
ferro-alloys the percentages were respectively 79 p.c.
and 88 p.c. and for copper 90 p.c. and 99 p.c. More-
over the United States supplied Japan with the bulk of
her cotton and bought in return most of her silk. A ban
on silk and other importations would cut off Nippon’s
chief source of foreign credits,, while a total embargo
on war materials of all categories would cripple, if not
paralyse, her war efforts. Congress has given the
President full authority to prohibit or curtail export
of war supplies whenever he considers it necessary in
the interest of national defence. Patently a warlike
move on the part of Japan toward the United States
would call for such a ban. Japan cannot hope to
receive appreciable supplies from Germany at this
time. Italy can send none. The Soviet Union, Japan’s
newest treaty partner, might provide certain materials,
but not nearly enough to meet Nippon’s needs should
she become involved in war with a major Power.
Few here, therefore, believe Japan will go quite as far
in the south Pacific as Germany wants —at least not
unless and until the war takes a decided turn for the
worse so far as Britain and the United States are
concerned. — Wm. Philip Simms, in New York “World-
Telegram.”
*****
The American people have not learned what they
know and think of Japan, her career and her ambi-
tions from their Government. They have learned all
this slowly but surely, over a period of 10 years, from
factual daily newspaper reports of the operations of
Japan’s armed forces, from the published comments
of her official spokesmen and from their statements
of policy. During these years the United States Gov-
ernment has heard a great deal more from the Ameri-
can people about what it should do to check Japan
and comfort her victims than any citizen has heard
from the Government on these themes. Many of the
State Department’s notes of protest to Japan have,
indeed, been given more publicity by the Japanese
Government than by the American Government; and
in the imposition of embargoes upon war supplies to
Japan Washington certainly has not led public opinion
but has followed it. — New York “Herald Tribune.”


BRISBANE AMATEUR TURF CLUB
ANNUAL NEWMARKET
AND CUP MEETING
Doomben Racecourse, Brisbane (Q.)
SATURDAY, JURY 5, 1941 (Newmarket Day).
SATURDAY, JUDY 12 (Cup Day).
Added money, £7630.
NEWMARKET STRAIGHT SIX, £.3150.
DOOMBEN CUP, 1 MILE 3 FURLONGS, £2OOO
and Gold Cup valued £lOO.
Nominations for the above races close NEXT
MONDAY, May 26, with the Secretary, A.J.C., Sydney.
General entry day for minor events CLOSE
MONDA A', JUNE 23.
For fuller particulars, see programme.
rAn OWEN F. MAIDMENT, Secretary.
503 Queen Street, Brisbane. Telephone: 85522.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Tattersall’s Club had a successful meet-
ing at Randwick on Saturday, something
it could not be begrudged. It is doing
its full share in war effort. As was to
be expected, many members of the new
Government were in attendance, and no
marked interference with racing is to
be expected from that quarter. They
appreciate what the principal clubs are
doing for war funds. The racing was
interesting, with well-backed horses to
the fore, except in the Flying Handicap,
which went to Irish Sea, an outsider.
There was an attendance of 23,000,
against 17,700 last year, and a tote turn-
over £37,360 10s., against £29,000.
In winning the Barnes Plate Binnia
Hero ran up to his best. Settling down
second to Lockray soon after passing
the mile post he was going so well
approaching the half-mile that even at
that stage he looked a winner. Feminist
was nearest Lockray and Binnia Hero,
and the three were so far ahead that it
seemed as if the riders of most of the
others had been told to ride a waiting
race, and were carrying out orders with
extreme thoroughness. Lockray lasted
until turning into the straight, and then
Binnia Hero settled him without any
difficulty.
Buzalong, who ran somewhat unkindly
in the straight, was second, though with-
out being able to seriously challenge
Binnia Hero. Buzalong’s run has sent
him up in weight, but as he has won at
a middle distance at Randwick with 9.6,
and is improving with each run, a little
extra poundage is unlikely to keep him
out of the winning list. Mabson again
showed consistency by finishing well in
third place.
The race was a disappointment in every
way for the backers of some horses. The
favorite, Proud Fox, had a fair run, apart
from one check, but, never closer than
sixth, finished in that position. His show-
ing was poor, but not so bad as that of
Fearless, who was one of the rear divi-
sion running along the back and could
not after raise enough pace to get near
the front. Feminist did better than in her
recent races, but only well enough to
suggest she will need to be lucky to win
another race before her retirement.
Hieron, who made Gilltown look cheap
a fortnight earlier, was plugging along
in last place most of the way. Lockray
is getting low in the weights, and did suffi-
ciently well for a mile and a quarter to
suggest he will win within the next few
weeks,
Irish Sea’s form at his previous two
starts did not point to him as the prob-
able winner of the Flying Handicap.
However, his light weight was to his
liking, and, always fairly placed, he
finished too strongly for Winifred, who
looked a winner when she led a hundred
yards from home. Amiable put in good
work down the straight to run the closest
of thirds, and Haridelle’s fourth in this
field indicated she was even better than
her previous wins suggested.
Winnipeg showed all his old pace, lead-
ing to the straight entrance, and, when
thoroughly wound up, will add to his
wins. Neither Radical nor Creditor did
nearly as well as expected, but they can
be improved, and Sign On was running
at a distance short for him. Micawber
was not in a galloping mood. He jumped
away smartly, but quickly dropped back,
and was one of the tail-enders for the
remainder of the trip.
Berrima showed more pace than any-
thing else in the Hurdle Race, and, quickly
setting up a long lead, won all the way.
He took some of his jumps faultily and
others brilliantly, and a long way from
home a win for him merely depended
upon a stand-up. The Winger outstayed
Cheery Jack for second, but the latter
ran an excellent race with 13.7, and this
winter will probably see him quite as
good as when he won the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdles with 11.7 a year ago.
Tower Hill was second to Berrima most
of the trip, while Forestage and Le
Cacique were always a long way back.
Marchotti did not meet a really strong
field in the colts and geldings’ division
of the Two-year-old Handicap, and, im-
proving upon his form when fourth in
the race won by Good Company at Can-
terbury Park the previous week, he won
easily from Pancerta, a Pantheon colt.
Pancerta made the early running, and
set a pace sound enough to cause the
race to be run a quarter-second faster
than Good Company recorded in winning
the succeeding one. Etching, though
well backed, never got in it.
The principal surprise in the fillies’
division of the Two-year-old Handicap
was that Redbreast, who was supposed
to be a little out of her distance, made
such a good showing against Good Com-
pany, who started favorite. When the
latter disposed of Congratulations a fur-
long from home she looked like having
an easy win, but she had to be kept
moving to stall off Redbreast. Justitia,
as at Canterbury, was running on, and
finished fourth. An extra furlong or two
may help her to a win. Panned, who
was prominent throughout, is a Pantheon
filly. Audax failed badly, and The
Hussy, Silverelda and Harprey did not do
quite as well as in previous races. Owner
W. T. Kerr must be finding Congratula-
tions’s consistency a trifle wearisome, her
last three starts having returned two
seconds and a third.
Rhythmic, a good track galloper but
previously disappointing in his races,
accounted for the Novice Handicap, for
which he was well backed. The pace set
by Favourite along the back and to the
turn entitles him to consideration in
a shorter race of this class at a mid-
week meeting, but Rhythmic had him
beaten as soon as the straight was entered.
Jymjon, in second place, made a good
showing, but, though some of his backers
thought he was unlucky not to have done
better, Rhythmic held him over the final
half-furlong. The time, 2.7, did not
compare unfavorably with Binnia Hero’s
2.20 for a furlong further in the James
Barnes Plate. Indian Emperor, as usual,
was doing his best at the finish, as was
Wallamba, while Fox Track found the
distance beyond him.
Since St. Andrew’s owner allegedly
found fault with the weighting of his
horse, the chestnut has started three times
for a second and two wins. Handicappers
sometimes are better judges than owners
and trainers. St. Andrew’s form in the
Welter is the best he has shown. Slow
in finding his legs, and seventh or eighth
turning into the straight, he finished too
strongly for John Dory, whose chance
appeared a winning one halfway down
the straight. Lord Valentine’s close third
puts him in line for a win when he next
runs at a mile and a quarter or further.
He was hopelessly placed at the half-mile.
Pennywise’s fourth said the same for her,
But Brazen Lad was disappointing, as,
though prominent halfway down the
straight, he then dropped out. Sethia and
Sioneel, who did the pacemaking, and
were still the leaders at the straight en-
trance, finished a long way back, as did
Rathlin, who found 10.1 more than he
could manage.
* * * *
Anything but flattering to the younger
horses at present contesting principal
middle-distance races in Melbourne are
the wins on successive Saturdays of
Prairiedale and Maluno. Prairiedale,
rising nine, won at Ascot, and Maluno,
rising eight, gave bookmakers another
great result in the Bay View Handicap
at Mentone on Saturday. He started at
20 to 1, and paid a tote dividend of
slightly better than 40 to 1.
Maluno was assisted by the rain-
affected track. He had always been good
in the wet, and, taking the lead going
out of the straight the first time, was not
afterwards headed to win from Our Boy
and Billposter. His last three races
having yielded two wins and a second,
Maluno, who is trained by S. Murphy,
continues to be a good proposition at the
260gns. he cost Dr. R. L. Fulton and
O. Gough in the spring of 1939. Satur-
day’s race was featured by a mistimed
plunge on W.A.-owned True Flight, who
failed after having every chance, and a
whirlwind finish by Our Boy, who is
certain to be among the early favorites
for the G.N. Hurdle. Billposter also
made up considerable ground to finish
third, but showed lameness when he re-
turned to the enclosure. Interference
settled whatever chance Gladstone had,
but no excuse was possible for Sir Locket’s
failure to do better than fourth. He had
won his three previous races, but evi-
dently the handicappers have found his
measure.
In India on business, the owner who
races as “G. Capesthorne” will receive
a report of mixed luck at Mentone. He
won the second division of the Juvenile
Handicap with Pierre, who eased from
5 to 2 to 4 to 1, but his other represen-
tatives, Harley and Fur Trader, finished
only third in their respective races.
Pierre’s defeat of Liege was a triumph
for figures. He met Liege 181 b. better
than when narrowly beaten by the latter
at their previous meeting, and, even
allowing that Liege had improved mean-
time, Pierre, who hit the front between
the four and three furlongs, wound up
with a length to spare on Saturday. A
colt by Ronsard from Aerophyte, Pierre
has won two races for “Capesthorne,”
who bought him privately on the advice
of Randwick trainer G. Price. Endeavour
and Reg had a good battle for third
money, and both might repay following,
as may Khaksar, a solidly-built Porto-
fino colt trained by H. R. Telford, of
Phar Lap fame.
Colonus stayed better than at his previ-
ous start to win the first division of the
Juvenile Handicap. Getting a “fly” at
the start, he led throughout, but lasted
only long enough to win by a neck from
Running Sea, with Wit a moderate third.
Colonus (Portofino-Genoa) was bred by
his owner, R. R. Thomas, and his two
recent wins have meant a welcome
change of luck for trainer C. T. Godby.
Running Sea, who was racing for the
first time since the spring, should be a
better proposition at her next appearance.
Harith, backed down to 6 to 4, was well
placed early, but beaten a long way from
home. The form was too bad to be true,
and probably he was troubled by the
soft going.
Link Boy, who had the distinction of
beating Lucrative five lengths in a race
at Caulfield last season, dispelled the
general idea that he was simply a sprinter
by defeating a field of useful three-year-
olds over a mile in the Gellibrand Han-
dicap. It was the first time he had run
at that distance, but, whereas his success
was a bad result for most punters, the
stable did not allow him to run un-
backed. He started at 12’s after 15’s had
been bet. Ridden quietly in the early
stages, Link Boy dashed through on the
inside to take the lead at the top of the
straight, and won rather well from the
faster-finishing Heart’s Desire, with Fur
Trader third. Fur Trader’s 9.10 on a
soft track slowed him down toward the
finish, but he did much better than the
favorite, New Warrior, Latter showed
no real dash at any stage. Link Boy,
who won three races last season, is
trained by Jack Sing for Andy Morrow,
owner of the unbeaten juvenile Invidious.
He has been cheap at his yearling cost
of 500gns.
Profuse, a winner at seven furlongs at
Ascot a week earlier, demonstrated her
versatility by outstaying Anteros and
Paramente over the mile and a half of
the Spotswood Trial. A five-year-old by
Liberal from Splice, she is a sister to
Mormon, who won as a two-year-old at
Caulfield last season, and later was sold
at a high price for India, where he has
already paid his way. J. Hutchins,
owner-trainer of Profuse, formerly grew
wheat on a soldiers’ settlement block in
the Albury area, but about three years
ago he turned his attention to racehorses.
At the moment ke is finding it not a
bad vocation, as Profuse’s two successive
wins have yielded £2BO in prize-money
alone.
Harley was backed as if unbeatable
for the Kororoit Hurdle, but, after losing
ground at the start, bad jumping contri-
buted to his defeat into third place,
behind Ronalla and Jack Farr. He was
having his first race over jumps since
last winter, and bungled the last two
hurdles badly. The run should do a lot
for him, however, and he might develop
into a National possibility. Ronalla im-
proved considerably on his form at
Moonee Valley at his previous start, when
a poor fourth to Campaspe. Getting to
the front before the turn, he ran home
an easy winner, but, although a decidedly
useful performer on his day, he does not
impress yet from a National viewpoint.
Jack Farr, who is nothing if not con-
sistent, having been placed in each of his
last six races over hurdles, is not engaged
in the National.
Latest form said little for Sir Rona
in the Beach Welter, but, starting at
20 to 1, he gave bookmakers their fourth
“result” in seven races. Soon in front,
he led for the rest of the way, and was
able to withstand a strong challenge from
Strategy after shifting away from the
rails about a furlong from home and
allowing the latter through. Denis
finished a close third, but Ellison, backed
from sixes to favoritism at fours, tailed-
off early, and, although he made up con-
siderable ground in the straight, was
never dangerous. Ellison looks well,
however, and, having raced only twice
since a spell, may improve. Moonray
struck trouble about a furlong from
home, but it is improbable he would
have troubled the winner in any circum-
stances, while Grandson, racing for the
first time since a spell and the medium
of fair support, weakened after looking
dangerous at the turn.
Denis and Larissa, who finished third
and fourth respectively in the Beach
Welter, are engaged in the G.N. Hurdle,
and their jumping careers will be followed
with interest. Both have been smait
sprinters on the flat, Denis in particular,
and, although neither has yet raced over
jumps, each has schooled satisfactorily.
Denis is now owned and trained by
W. Burke, who has had outstanding
success in important jumping races, but
Burke doubts whether the ex-Sydney
gelding will be seasoned enough by
National time.
* * * *
Unishak, who has been costly to Mel-
bourne backers on several occasions, had
FOR ROSEHILL.
By “PILOT.”
Maiden Hurdle Race: Xerxes, 1 ;
Shot Gun, 2 ; Mandowie, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Silverelda,
1 ; Epic Poem, 2 ; Blonde Dame, 3.
Encourage Stakes: Franden, 1 ;
Rhythmic, 2 ; Wave Length, 3.
Maiden Handicap—First Divi-
sion : Raiding Party, 1 ; Corolla, 2 ;
Alertful, 3.
Second Division: Timken, 1 ;
Gay Romero, 2 ; Approbation, 3.
Rosehill Handicap: Mortine, 1 ;
John Dory, 2 ; Emerge, 3.
Flying Welter —First Division :
Sologram, 1; Aristocrat, 2 ; Hydra,
3.
Second Division: Asnazu, 1 ;
Rodborough, 2 ; Spear Arrow, 3.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Hurdle Race: Gold Pan, 1;
Blackie Miller, 2 ; Xerxes, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Lucky Son,
1 ; Justitia, 2 ; Pallama, 3.
Flying Handicap: Glorious, 1 ;
Irish Sea, 2 ; Sethia, 3.
Empire Day Handicap: Lord
Valentine, 1 ; Fearless, 2; The
Squire, 3.
Encourage Handicap: Arcadia,
1 ; Fan Dancer, 2; Jubilee or
Lorchatall, 3.
Welter Handicap: Brazen Lad, 1 ;
Veiled Witch, 2 ; Aristocrat, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
Kalkallo Hurdle: Atticus or
Harley, 1 ; First Brigade, 2 ; Ala-
dale, 3.
Barkoola Handicap: Invidious,
1 ; Running Sea, 2 ; Pierre, 3.
Ardconnell Steeplechase: Tifone,
1 ; Bridge of Dee, 2 ; Laveur, 3.
Annandale Handicap: Gay In-
vader, 1 ; Tidylus, 2 ; Pantoon, 3.
Tulloch Trial Handicap: Stone-
castle, 1 ; March Morn, 2 ; Curia, 3.
Merriang Handicap; Pamelus, 1 ;
Procyon, 2 ; Con Naru, 3.


an easy win in the Goodwood Handicap
at the S.A.J.C. (Adelaide) meeting on
Saturday. He had 8.9, and was favorite
at 2 to 1, with Aurie’s Star next at 4 to 1.
The latter, who carried 10.7, was narrowly
beaten for second by Woolcombe. The
ex-Sydneyite Prince Ariel had no
trouble in winning the Fisher Handicap,
for which he was a 7-to-4 favorite ; but
Renown, the popular choice for the St.
Leger, was downed by Rainbar, who is
by Silvius from Brackra, and as a year-
ling was sold for 125gns. It was a good
day for backers, four favorites winning,
and the two longest-priced winners were
at 4 to 1.
* * * *
Crack Maorilander Kindergarten will
probably be an early visitor to Sydney.
It is intended to bring him here in July.
A good idea, as he will arrive in cold
weather and gradually become accus-
tomed to change of climate.
* * * *
Nominations for the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle Race and Steeplechase
differ little numerically from last year,
closing with 74 and 72 respectively.
There are two less in the former and six
less in the latter. An interesting entrant
for the Hurdles is Indignity, who won
the 1940 Australian Cup and has since
been successful over the jumps in Adel-
aide. He is not the only Australian Cup
winner in the National Hurdles, Mutable
(1937) being another.
Sydney is fairly well represented, and
Cheery Jack and Valhalla have won at
Flemington. The former’s win in last
year’s Grand National with 11.7 will
probably give him top weight, especially
as he subsequently won the Doutta Galla
Hurdles with 12.6. In the Australian
Hurdle Race he was third with 12.9.
Buzzi and Fiscom scored two successive
wins, but, though Redleap and Obi each
won twice it was at an interval of three
years. In order to win a second time
Cheery Jack may have to make a weight
record. So far Don Quixote’s 11.13 is
the most weight successfully carried,
though Redleap had only a pound less
when he scored his second win. Malua,
Obi and Cheery Jack are next with 11.7
each. Valhalla, who looks well after a
rest, won both hurdle races at the Mel-
bourne Cup meeting, the first with 10.10
and the second, at 2\ miles, with 11.8.
An extra half-mile should not seriously
trouble him, and, as Blackie Miller and
Gold Pan also stay, Sydney should stand
a fair chance of winning another
National.
* * * *
Among clubs calling for entries on
June 3 for “young” races are the Port
Adelaide R.C. and the Onkaparinga R.C.
The former’s list comprises the Balcrest
Stakes, of £300; Oaklands Plate, of
£400; and the Sires’ Produce Stakes, of
£560, all for two-year-olds of the coming
season ; also the Port Adelaide Guineas
(1942), of £4OO. The Onkaparinga R.C.’s
race for horses now yearlings is the
Oakbank Stakes, of £4OO, to be run
next Easter.
* * * *
Australia’s richest six furlongs handi-
cap, the Doomben Newmarket, of £3150,
will be run at the Brisbane A.T.C. meet-
ing on July 5, and the Doomben Cup, of
£2OOO and a gold cup of £lOO, one mile
three furlongs, on July 12. Entries for
both close on Monday next, 26th inst.,
and for all other races on Monday,
June 23.
* * * *
We have a full share of racing in and
near Sydney and could dispense with
some, but we are still a long way off
the 66 continuous days (Sundays ex-
cluded) Arlington Park and Washington
Park are giving Chicago from June 23
to September 6. The American Derby
at Washington Park carries $40,000
(about £A12,160), the Washington Park
Futurity, for two-year-olds, $20,000, and
the Washington Park Handicap $25,000.
At Arlington Park there is the Classic,
of $40,000 ; Futurity, for two-year-olds,
of $20,000; and other races of $lO,OOO
each. The total distribution in added
money for the 66 days will be $802,800
(nearly £A244,400). Leading trainers
and jockeys will receive $15,000 in prizes
from the two clubs, and there will be
additional awards to trainers of winners
at distances beyond a mile and a quarter.
The foregoing figures give a fair idea of
the amount of money there is in racing
in America for owners of a few good
horses.
* * * ♦
The fuss made about Bar One in the
way of nomenclature suggests that few
Sydney racing men recall the fact that
a horse of that name raced here for
three or four seasons in the ’nineties. He
was owned by G. Gilbert, who brought
that good Queenslander Merloolas to
Sydney. Bar One was not very success-
ful, but his name was the basis of many
laughs. When the same name was
granted for the latest Bar One presum-
ably the Registrar of Racehorses was
aware of the previous one, but, as he
was a gelding, reckoned it did not matter
—apart from a little confusion in the
betting ring—any more than that we have
another Bungebah, notwithstanding an
Epsom and a Newmarket were won by
a good gelding of that name in the early
’nineties. It is now so hard to find names
that repetition is excusable in many
cases. It is also permissible.
* * * *
Gladynev, with the minimum weight
of 6.7, made a great bid for the Caulfield
Cup, and, with the handicappers sub-
sequently giving him all to which Maori-
land form entitled him, did not do as
well in any other race in Australia. He
has been a failure since he returned
home, his only placing being a third.
He was favorite in a field of 14 for the
Feilding Cup, and, after being badly
placed early in the race, finished fourth.
As he was third top weight with 8.8
Maoriland handicappers are keeping in
mind his best deeds, and, in the circum-
stances, it might be worth while giving
him another trial in Australia. He was
sufficiently discredited by his last few
Melbourne and Sydney runs to make it
possible he might be much more leniently
treated here than he is in Maoriland.
* * * *
In Australia we have no handicaps
that, in value, compare with some run
in America, but there are many worth
winning. In Sydney in the spring there
are the Epsom Handicap of £3OOO and
the Metropolitan of £5OOO ; while Mel-
bourne has the Melbourne Cup of £7500
and £2OO trophy, Caulfield Cup of £6500
and £l5O trophy, Moonee Valley Cup
of £3OOO, Williamstown Cup of £2500
and £lOO trophy, Cantala Stakes of
£2OOO, Eclipse Stakes of £2OOO, and
Toorak Handicap of £lOOO. The pity is
that Sydney clubs are seemingly unable
to back up the A.J.C. in the same fashion
as the Melbourne clubs do the V.R.C.
Entries for all the races mentioned close
on Tuesday, June 3.
* * * *
Considering the number of yearlings
sold in Sydney and Melbourne in 1939
and the prices paid for many, we have
had few high-priced three-year-olds of
much account in Australia this season.
Tidal Wave (1450gn5.), bred in Maori-
land, did run third in a Melbourne Cup,
but little that is favorable can be said for
any of the others that reached four
figures. Three-year-old honors for the
season lie between Lucrative (450gns.)
and Tranquil Star (600gns.), both by the
Victorian sire Gay Lothario ; and nearest
them as a stayer is Pandect, who was
bred by his owner. Nor have the buyers
of high-priced yearlings at last year’s
sales special reason to be on good terms
with themselves, the only exception being
Yaralla’s owner. Some of the youngsters
sold at prices ranging from 3500gns.
down to 700gns. have not raced, and
some that have done so have yet to
prove they are worth as many shillings
as they cost guineas. However, it is the
same every year, and, though some
breeders are touchy on the subject of
high-priced failures, there is really little
reason for it. They cannot help it if
highly-bred and good-looking yearlings
do not fulfil expectations. With all this
season’s important two-year-old races
decided, Yaralla (1200gns.), All Love
(250gns.), Prince (bred by owner), It’s
Funny (375gn5.), and Henchman (325
gns.) are about all of the Sydney
division that, on form, appear to have
classic pretensions, though it is possible
to select two or three that are likely to
improve.
Melbourne does not appear to have
many hopes for next season’s classics,
and High Road, who appears the popu-
lar selection, was not sold at auction.
He is by Caledon from Scotch Melody,
and, though the fact of the latter being
by Cinercian may not count in High
Road’s favor in a staying connection,
Scotch Melody’s dam, Annie Laurie, has
staying blood on the maternal side. She
is by Charlemagne II from Scotch Mary,
dam of Great Scot, an Australian Cup
winner. High Road is not engaged in
the A.J.C. Derby, and it may be a long
time before Victoria again equals this
season’s record of supplying all the place-
getters in N.S.W.’s principal three-year-
old race.
* * * *
Imported stallions still greatly out-
number the Australian division at this
country’s principal studs. Seventy-five
sires are nominated for the 1942 A.J.C.
Produce Stakes, and of these 49 were
imported and 26 are Australian or
Maoriland-bred, Winners of Australian
Derbies or St. Legers nominated are Hall
Mark, Allunga, Hua, Limarch, Peter Pan,
Sylvandale, Talking, Theo and Veilmond.
As good English stallions can now be
bought cheaply, it is only shipping diffi-
culties that prevent Australia benefiting.
* * * *
Canterbury Park has given backers a
good percentage of winning favorites this
season. There have been six meetings at
that track, and of the 44 races run 17
were won by absolute favorites, and in
three others the winner shared favoritism
with another runner. Backers’ best day
was March 1, when there were eight
races. Five absolute favorites were suc-
cessful, and in a sixth race the winner
and another runner were equal favorites.
Canterbury, however, has not been withr
out its bright spots for bookmakers, win-
ners including Silver Arbor and Aristo-
crat at 50 to 1, Silverelda 15 to 1, Miss
Heroic 12 to 1 and Shem and My Legion
10 to 1.
* * * •
Foxbridge has done well in Maori-
land this season. Figures given in the
“Dominion” show that up to April 21
he led with 68 winners and 122 minor-
place getters, their earnings totalling
£20,820. Beau Pere was next witli
£15,950, followed by Hunting Song
£15,463, Vaals £12,233 and Kincardine
(sire of Kindergarten) £10,138.
* * * *
Few prominent racehorses can claim
as many breeders as Lucrative. The
latest Stud Book shows that he was
bred by R. Grey and Mrs. Grey and
J. V. Fairbairn and Mrs. Fairbairn,
* * * *
The Champion was a newcomer in the
colts and geldings’ division of the Two-
year-old Handicap at Randwick on
Saturday, but his form suggested he has
a long way to go before he lives up to
his name. However, appearance and
relationship to good horses are in his
favor. Among others, he is a brother
to Spear Chief, Spear Vale and Brown-
felt, and is trained by G. Price for E. R.
Williams, who gave 1300gns. for him as
a yearling. Another high-priced Spear-
felt colt in War Spear (HOOgns.) ran in
the same race as The Champion, and
beat one. Owned by S. E. Chatterton,
he is in M. Poison’s stable, and had
previously started three times. Most of
last year’s four-figure yearlings have yet to
win, the Sydney exceptions being Yaralla
(1200gns.) and Beau Port (2200gn5.).
* * * *
Only half a favorite was successful at
Mentone last Saturday, and when the
day’s racing concluded with the success
of Link Boy at 12 to 1, and Maluno and
Sir Rona at 20 to 1 each, it might be
safe to bet there was “revelry by night”
on the part of many books. Perhaps
winners at those prices did not mean as
much in Melbourne as they would in
Sydney, as I recently heard a bookmak-
ing visitor from the southern capital
express surprise at the amount of money
available for betting at all meetings (trot-
ting and dogs included) over here.
* * # »
If full-brothers or full-sisters could be
relied on to prove equally good, a
breeder’s lot would be pleasant. Unhap-
pily things rarely work out that way.
The fact of being fully related to some
good performer or other has assisted to
sell many yearlings at high prices, but,
though it has often been prophesied that
some colt or other would be “better than
his brother,” very few have fulfilled expec-
tations. Chersonese threw one high-class
racehorse and sire in Heroic, but, though
the same was expected of others of her
progeny, none got near the latter in either
respect. Heroic’s brother Thracian, who
was sold recently for 70gns., won races,
but the nearest he went to great-
ness was when he ran second to
Rampion in a Victoria Derby. Though
he has sired winners, a Victoria
Derby winner, Feldspar, being of the
number, his stud record does not
approach that of his brother any more
than did his racing deeds. I am not
selecting Thracian as a special instance,
but merely as one of the difference be-
tween brothers. At seventeen Thracian
is not too old to sire more winners, but
it is too late for him now ever to approach
Heroic’s class at the stud. Hebrus, an-
other of Chersonese’s progeny, has sired
some useful horses.
* * * *
In buying High Rank for 500gns. T.
Ahern may not have made as good a
bargain as O. Triggs when he purchased
Gilltown, but he made a satisfactory one.
In a short period High Rank has won
three good races, and is now a long way
ahead of his purchase money. His win
at Doomben was at nine furlongs with
9.0, and as he started at 5 to 1 his owner
probably landed something substantial
in addition to the stake. High Rank now
promises to be even better than his half-
brother, Noel Soldat, and he was a good
galloper. As is generally known, High
Rank is by Chatham from Christmas
Lily, who is by Comedy King from
Oracular, by Orme from Wise Flower.
It is an excellent pedigree, and at least
gives High Rank prospects of winning at
middle distances. Presumably he will be
a Doomben Cup entrant, and, with some
of Sydney’s best heading the list, he will
probably get in at a weight that will give
him further chance of adding to his
winning record. As his owner is presi-
dent of the 8.A.T.C., a win for High
Rank in the Doomben Cup would be
popular. Before that race, however, High
Rank is likely to tackle the Doomben
Newmarket.
* * * *
It may be interesting for N.S.W.
opponents of racing to learn that the
English Jockey Club, at the opening of
the flat-racing season in March, had
arranged for 43 days’ racing in the first
14 weeks. Of these 10 were to be held
at Newmarket. Evidently it is going to
take a lot more than German bombing
to blast England’s national sport out of
existence.
* * * *
Blenheim (Blandford-Malva), sire of
the Kentucky Derby and Pimlico Futurity
(Baltimore, Maryland) winner Whirlaway,
had a full book this year at a fee of
$2500 (£A76O). There were no conces-
sions of any kind. Subscribers paid their
£760 without being granted a return the
following year if their mares missed. Sir
Gallahad 111, who has headed the list of
winning sires in America four times, in-
cluding last season, was also fully sub-
scribed this year, his fee being $l5OO.
The syndicate that bought Blenheim gave
$250,000 for him, and a return of more
than that sum is certain unless some-
thing happens him. His seven yearlings
sold at auction last year averaged a little
over £A2050.
* * * 1C
Ireland was given a fair run at a meet-
ing held at Tropical Park (Miami,
Florida) on St. Patrick’s Day. The race-
books were printed in green ink, and
every race was called after an Irish
county. The usual double tote operated,
and, having St. Patrick in mind, backers
made a horse named Patron Saint one
of the favorites for the first leg. He let
his supporters down, as he could get only
third.
* * * *
Relative to doping, the following ap-
peared recently in an American paper:
“Last year 1472 samples of saliva were
tested in New York, and there was not
found an instance of where a drug was
administered.” The writer went on to
say that in New York State, where stables
are generally well supervised, and there is
the best supervision of racing, the
drugging of horses has practically dis-
appeared. He added that a majority of
the racing stables and racing associations
were in a better position financially than
those of most other States to take care
of this expensive item of supervision.
* * # *
At racecourses in the State of New
York each horse is examined thoroughly
in its stall approximately an hour or two
before post time of the race in which it
is scheduled to run. This examination
consists of an eye test, temperature, heart,
respiration and a check-up for soreness
and lameness or other ailment which
might prevent a satisfactory performance.
A record is made of this examination,
and the groom in charge of the horse is
required to sign the duplicate examina-
tion slip, a copy of which he retains.
“The Blood Horse” says from that
moment until the horse enters the track
for its race the groom is responsible for
the welfare of his charge. Any subse-
quent evidence of stimulation or inter-
ference can be attributed to him directly
or to negligence in maintaining proper
vigilance. This naturally makes the person
in charge of the horse very cautious. The
system is such a success that for the
first six months of the New York season
not one case of drugging came to light.
If half we hear is true —which may be
doubtful —Sydney could stand a similar
system. Amusing tales are told as to
efforts made to get the necessary privacy
for administration of a dope on some of
our racecourses. No doubt we have
Sydney vets, who, before a race, are able
to detect stimulation, and an occasional
examination of competitors an hour
before a race might not be out of place.
* * * *
The installation of the totalisator did
a great deal for racing in the State of
New York in 1940. The New York
State Racing Commission recently issued
its annual report, and it contained the
information that last year there were 174
days’ racing in the State, the totalisator
turnover was $103,259,359 (approximately
£A31,837,800) and the year’s attendance
was 2,054,314, as compared with
1,159,695 in 1939. Considering the popu-
lation of the city of New York and that,
with the exception of Saratoga, all racing
takes place within easy distance of it, an
average daily attendance of about 12,000
would seem on the light side. Racing,
however, has not the same attraction for
average New York citizens as it has for
those of much smaller Australian cities
—Sydney and Melbourne.
* * * *
A writer in the “Horse and Hound”
(London) says: “A very rare incident
happened recently when a thoroughbred
mare gave birth to triplets some two


months before she was due to foal. I
have seen the mare, who was none the
worse for this ordeal, and I understand
each of these foals was developed,
although they naturally varied in size.
A well-known veterinary surgeon told
me that he knows of only one similar
occurrence, but quite a number of stud-
masters to whom I have spoken cannot
recall triplets in their long and experi-
enced careers.” Does any Australian
breeder know of a similar case?
* * * #
Silver Standard, one of the unluckiest
horses of recent years in important races,
might prove a really good purchase at the
310gns. at which he was sold recently.
As he is by Heroic from Silver Flower
(imp.), by Silvern from Roseal, there
is nothing amiss with his breeding,
and as several mares sold at the same
time had colts or fillies by him he is evi-
dently sure as a foal-getter. He was
bought for the Lismore district, and, if
he has good mates, he should sire gal-
lopers. Among the mares sold with
foals by him were Eulclare and Luita.
* * * *
American owner C. S. Howard has a
rather remarkable record in connection
with the valuable Santa Anita Handicap.
In the last five years his horses have
scored two firsts and four seconds in
that race. Last year he won with Sea-
biscuit and was second with Kayak. His
return from the race mentioned in five
years is $257,750 (approximately
£A78,395).
* * * *
A year makes a deal of difference in
the form of horses, and as several that
were in the Epsom last season will again
be in it on the coming occasion, it is in-
teresting to recall that those at the top
were weighted as follows: El Golea 9.8,
Beau Vite 9.6, High Caste 9.5, Mildura
9.4, Beaulivre 9.4, Aurie’s Star 9.4,
Sedunum 9'2, Reading 9.2 and Buzalong
9.2. St. Constant had 8.10. Mildura and
Beau Vite are among those sure to go up,
while as Reading seems sure to drop con-
siderably he may be one of the possibili-
ties. Gold Salute is bound to have a lot
more than his 8.8 of last year, and
Dashing Cavalier is likely to get several
pounds more than 8.2. Last year’s place-
getters were High Caste, Mildura and
St. Constant.
* * * *
The war has played havoc with racing
in England, but some breeders are hope-
ful the position will be favorable to them
m three years’ time. Several prominent
sires had full lists at high fees for this
season, these including Blue Peter and
Bois Roussel. The Derby and St. Leger
winner Windsor Lad, who was in danger
of being destroyed last year owing to
brain trouble, made such a good recovery
that he again did service this year, but
at a low fee. His figure was £9B, with
the concession of a return if the mare
proved barren; but a nomination to him
without that agreement was only £4B.
« ♦ * *
There is often doubt as to who really
owns some horses, and before a race I
have occasionally heard some individual
or other say “My horse will win,” even
though there was nothing in the race-
book or “Racing Calendar” to indi-
cate that he had an interest in it in any
way. In the old pony days, when asso-
ciation with unregistered meetings meant
disqualification under AJ.C. rules, it was,
with good reason, believed that various
“little ’uns” were raced by their breeders,
and when their days of racing usefulness
were over it was not unusual to find that
some mares had drifted back to the studs
at which they were bred.
♦ * * *
R. L. Cleland, who won the 1907 Mel-
bourne Cup with Apologue, died early
this month in Auckland. He was well
known in theatrical as well as sporting
circles.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Vic Patrick’s helping of chicken-on-
toast last week was served up in the
form of a slip of a lad named Eddie Polo,
hailing from Fiji, his forebears probably
from Ceylon or India. Eddie proved a
quite game and busy little chap in the
first round, carrying the fight to Vic
and giving an exhibition that would
have been very attractive on the lawn
at a Government House garden party.
In the second round Vic went after him,
soaked him a left in the vicinity of the
liver, and presently hooked a very heavy
left to the jaw, and that was the end of
the chapter. The scrap drew the biggest
crowd seen at Leichhardt for some
years; they turned ’em away in droves.
Which goes to show that there’s nothing
wrong with the Noble Art as an attrac-
tion, with a really good fighter on offer.
Patrick is a rattling good fighter. Just
how good he is nobody knows, since
he is never in the ring longer than a
round or two. A southpaw who fights
very square on, with his right only
slightly advanced, and with a most devas-
tating left backing it up, he’s as strong
as a young ox. He has now won 19
fights, 18 by k.o. A meeting between
him and Tod Morgan would pack any
stadium in the land.
Best scrap of the Leichhardt night was
a very close eight-rounder between the
lightweights Ron Warner and Teddy
Williams, Ron getting it on points, to
the stirringly expressed disgust of a large
part of the crowd,
Footbrawl
There were 20,000 spectators at Essen-
don-Richmond, mad with excitement
when the first quarter ended with the
teams level. The ’Dons then clapped on
the pace and drew away, holding their
lead doggedly to 15.14-14.8 at the finish
—a result that puts them level in the
competition,
Footscray, in winning vein, went to
Collingwood and proceeded to run rings
round the Maggies in the opening spasms.
Then the Magpies stopped carolling or
Footscray started to blow or something
and the barrackers contracted laryngitis
while the umpire flew from end to end.
Half-time saw ’Wood a point in front. It
shaded ’Scray in the third and started the
last with a 13-point lead. Thereupon
Footscray hitched up its pants, spat on
its hands and tore in to make the end-
ing a feast of thrills, with ’Wood holding
the odd point, 14.11-14.10.
St. Kilda’s new side looked like midgets
against the Melbourne giants, and the
Saints were minus Killigrew. But Mel-
bourne’s rover, Rodda, was carried off
with a broken leg and the Saints went
away with a rush to lead in the second
and third quarters and then go down,
13.11-13.15, through poor back play to-
wards the finish.
• ••••*
Fitzroy went to South Melbourne and
took part in an affair that might have
been anything between a wrestlers’ foot-
race and a jitterbug convention. Some
people blamed the umpire, but he was
perhaps contemplating an action against
both sides for misrepresentation in luring
him there. Using the differential calculus
and elementary algebra, it appears that
Sowth got 15.19 to ’Roy’s 12.10.
• •#•••
“You know,” said Geelong’s oldest
barracker, going home on the train, “I
can remember when we had a football
team in Geelong.” He’d just watched his
side get soundly beaten by Hawthorn,
which kicked 13.16 to 11.13 and could
have made it worse.
North Melbourne, at home to Carlton,
put up a great showing. The football
was of the real brand, plenty of dash,
high marking, system and solid ruck
work, with the Blues slightly better and
surer in attack. North began the last
7.9 to the bad and then staged a brilliant
recovery to make it 15,15 against Carl-
ton’s 16.23 at the end.
* * * *
Sydney University v. Eastern Suburbs
was an excellent Union Rugby game.
There was very little between the teams
at any stage, and the tackling was severe
—after one high tackle Rutledge (Uni.)
and Watts (East) had to be carried off,
“out” to the world. East had a 3-nil
lead at half-time, the result of a penalty
goal. Then the students scored a try
and gathered a penalty ; East put on a
try and converted it —East, 8-6. It looked
odds on their finishing that way till a
Uni. breakaway found an opening ; the
ball went to seven men in turn, three
of them doubled up for a second pass
and the winger crossed in the corner as
the bell rang. University 9-8.
Parramatta came like a whirlwind in
the second half to beat North 16-10 and
share second place on the table with
East. North, St. George and Gordon
are together next. Saints just got home
ahead of the Highlanders, 16-14 ; Morris,
who headed the batting averages for St.
George at cricket last season, turned out
as five-eighth and shaped like a coming
champion.
With Towers, the captain, playing his
200th match, Randwick failed to be in-
spired. It took the premiership last year,
but this time has had only one win. Manly,
though it managed only three tries to
four, walloped the Greens 23-14. Drum-
moyne and West were seen in a vimful
draw, 15-15.
Miscellaneous
To the surprise of most of their own
supporters, “Scotch” won the Head-of-the-
River race on the Yarra for the first time
in 14 years. Melbourne Grammar fin-
ished a length behind “Scotch” ; Wesley,
half a length behind Grammar, the
heats on Thursday having eliminated
Geelong Grammar, Geelong College and
Xavier. At the half-mile peg in the final
everything was over bar the shouting of
the 40,000 onlookers. Cleverer than his
rivals, the “Scotch” coxswain steered a
good course throughout, and timed the
final spurt 500 yards from the judge s
box. Grammar here became agitated
and straggly, though it had pulled a great
race in the heat when it beat Geelong
Grammar, although its stroke broke his
slide after the first few seconds. Time,
5.12|.
G. H. Nicholson, who coached
“Scotch” to victory, has rather a unique
record. He was cox for his school in
1933, stroke three years later and coacn
last year, so he is probably the youngest
public-school coach in Australia. He
holds a blue for athletics at the Univer-
sity, is a member of the Uni. Sports
Union Council and, last year and this
year, was cox of the winning inter-colle-
giate eight from Ormond College. He is
in the last year of a law course.
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
A Cairns licensee, charged with having
kept his pub open on State-election day
in contravention of the Liquor Act, got
out of it on the ground that the police
had not produced sufficient evidence that
March 29 was polling day. They pro-
duced as evidence the “Government
Gazette” notifying that an election would
be held on that day, but that wasn’t
accepted as proof.
* * * •
’ In November, 1938, the Queensland
Government appointed a commission to
inquire into State taxation and seek
methods of reform. Last year £lOOO was
voted for the commission’s exes. This
year there is another £lOOO. “So far as
is known,” states a Brisbane paper, “no
report has yet been made, and officials
are disinclined to talk about it.” Hoping,
of course, that whoever got inquisitive
will forget it for another year or two.
* * % *
“Poi-poi”: Queensland’s University
Senate is planning to shorten the medical
course to meet the need for doctors. The
idea is for present sixth-year men to
start their finals in August instead of
November and for present fifth-year
students to reach their finals in May,
1942. Arrangements have been made
with hospital boards to assist in the ex-
pedition of the course so that present
fifth-year students will be available as
hospital assistants by November. This
doesn’t necessarily mean that graduates
will pass from the University straight
into war work. Most of them will prob-
ably fill the gaps caused by the enlist-
ment of older practitioners.
“Lid”: A.I.F. men who were sent to
Darwin are not recognised as being on
active service. Consequently they don’t
ge t deferred pay, are not exempt from
income tax and, possibly, may not be
cons i dere d eligible for benefits to re-
turned men _ Xt is suggested that Darwin
shou j d be prodaim ° d e an ac ,i ve -service
. .. , , . .. .
station. The only objection is that the
Wans might insist on Sydney being
placed in the same category.
* * * *
“Philp”: I have become resigned to
the adjectival flights of flapper tpress
court reporters when they have to men-
tion an y woman in any case. If she
happens to be dark, dumpy and nearing
sbe ’ s a moral to be a “petite bru-
nette» . jf sbe ’ s a battle-scarred divorcee
with a peroxided mane and on the wrong
sk|e of y
you can bet your boots she’ll
|? e a striking blonde ; and if she s un-
fortunate enough t 0 ow / 1 a phiz which
would frighten off even the rent-collectoi,
she can rely op being described as good-
looking. As I said, I ve become resigned
, a P tha.t; but even my hardened sensi-
bihties have been stunned by the court
reporter of a northern newspaper who
covered the trial of a 24-year-old woman
U P f° r liquidating her sister with a 40m.
piece of wood. The report began:
“Nellie, an attractive lubra The
attractive lubra was acquitted,
* * * *
“Balander”: Queensland Education
Minister Bruce told a group of educa-
tionists that the primary-school leaving
age would probably be raised to 15
shortly and perhaps to 16 within a few
years. He declared that parents needed
educating to disillusion them about white-
collar jobs ; but it’s hardly fair to blame
parents for what has been a fault of
education systems for years. “From
bush school to University” has been the
“slogan.” Except in the capitals and
in one or two rural districts, technical
education has been beyond the
average boy’s reach. In the country
town his best chance of obtaining it was
to get a job in a garage. Country
high schools are full of farmers’ sons,
most of them intended—and eager—to
follow Dad on the farm, yet they are
stuffed with a course that has little or
nothing of agricultural education in it,
either in farm economics or practice.
Of a class of 15 boys in such a high
school in a wheat and sheep district,
seven were from the land. Of the 15,
only six remained in the district and only
one of the seven agrarians went on to
an agricultural college. Four of the
others went back to the farm and
promptly forgot most of what they had
been taught; where the other two are
nobody knows. If Mr. Bruce can devise
a syllabus that will educate children away
from the big cities rather than to them
he will earn the nation's thanks.
# # m
~,, . , , , . Ul . •
B.”: A needed reform m public in-
struction was brought before the Queens-
land New Education Fellowship by Drs.
Bostock and Jarvis Nye, who pointed out
in a joint letter that State educational
systems would have to recognise the
basic fact that the sexes were not equal,
Each sex was superior to the other in
certain attributes, and there was such a
difference between them as to require
different types of education to fit them
for vocations predestined by Nature,
Until there were appropriate curricula
and vocational encouragement there
could be little hope of solving such
problems as domestic maladjustment and
depopulation, nor would the sexes ever
reach harmony and full appreciation of
each other’s virtues. It s a point for
educationists to ponder deeply,
* * * *
“Q.A.Z.”; Gone to uncharted seas, Dr.
J. P. Thomson, dead at Kilcoy (Q.) at
87. Scientist, geographer, founder and
director of our Royal Geographical
Society, his works included the introduc-
tion of the zone system of time reckoning
to Australia and a trip to the Gulf to
fix the position of the most northerly
camp of Burke and Wills. He was author
of British New Guinea, Physical Geo-
graphy of Australia, Round the World
and some 250 contributions to scientific
periodicals. His rewards included an
LL.D. from Queen’s University, Canada,
medals from different societies, the Peek
Award from the Royal Geographical
Society, London, and—yes!—a C.B.E.
*** * .
23-4 : H. A. Peterson, the Australia
Trade Commissioner in the N.E.1., has
been telling Queenslanders who have
been casting eyes m that direction tor
trade that it would be well for them to
remember that only 250,000 of the
70,000,000 in the islands are Europeans
and that the natives normally produce
most of their own needs. Native servants
used a traditional type of brush , hence
sending brooms was a waste of time and
money Australian shovels and axes
wouldn t replace local mattocks and
hand-saws, and Australian electrical
fiui differed from those in the
NE j ? w here voltages varied from
j s i ar j d ’to island. Still, they’re eating
Australian cheese there now and finding
our ma ff and hops good for beer-making,
Last year our exports to the N.E.I. were
worth £A2,800,000, the best figure for
10 years, despite that iron and steel had
fallen away. Butter is losing its posi-
tion against local margarine and cooking-
fats, but fresh and preserved fruits, jams,
leather and coal are wanted, and there
will be future openings for sodium
silicate, linseed oil, red lead, zinc white,
three-ply, boots and shoes, packing paper,
mining tools, batteries, motor parts,
copper wire and chests for packing tea
and rubber.


ẅ
CO GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE
'e
•n
BESTH
BRITISH
BLADE
w
g Sole Agents: JOUBERT 6- JOUBERT PTY- ITO]
SAVE MONEY
& IT'S
■THRIFTY
■ TO INSTALL
▼ NEW
CHAMPIONS
//CHAMPIONS
Bring DEPENDABLE
ENGINE PERFORMANCE
Even the best spark plugs
wear out. Replace them with
new Champions at least once
a year. See what improvement
that makes in acceleration
and speed. In easier starting,
too, in good weather and had.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
m
mßiiivA
■ •m
kmt
Mi
\\
•ai
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wanted, lady help, middle-aged. Household:
Two adults, one child aged seven. Eighty miles
to nearest town. £2 per week, with annual
holidays on full pay.—1352.
Dentist, skilled operator, mechanics, accus-
tomed sole charge busy practice, desires posi-
tion in Brisbane. Reliable and trustworthy.
Consider future succession. Refs. —1390.
Middle-aged man, ex-A.I.F., wants position as
station manager; 30 years’ exp. Box 192D,
G.P.O., Sydney.—1410.
Wanted to caretake furnished cottage or week-
ender or pay nominal rental, winter term, by
reliable pensioner.—1443.
Position of trust, city or station, wanted by
man with classical and commercial education.
Writes shorthand and types. Single, exempt
from military service. Refs. —1480.
To buy, new or second-hand, The Chromo-
somes, by White, and Petrology of Igneous
Rocks, by Hatch and Wells. State price, and
condition if second-hand. —1424.
To buy plans for building 12ft. to 15ft. canoe.
—1365.
To buy complete edition of Rudyard Kip-
ling’s works.—1292.
To buy Leo Huberman’s Man’s Worldly
Goods. —1474.
To buy back numbers of “Connoisseur Maga-
zine.” —1468.
Information Sought.
(1) 7 believe that Australian troops in Egypt
in the 1914-18 war rated pure silk underwear
very highly because it repelled lice. Was that
so ? (2) Does rayon possess the same repellent
properties as pure silk in respect of lice? (3)
Are any textiles more repellent to lice than
others ? —9562.
(1) There is no information available to indi-
cate that pure silk is repellent to lice. It is
possible that pure silk is less suitable for the
laying of eggs than woollen or cotton garments.
Also, the insects would be more readily noticed
on this material and there would be less chance
for them to hide. (2) Can’t say. (3) No
information.
* * * *
(1) Any information concerning a body
known as the Building Industry Congress of
N.S.W. ? (2) What is the altitude of this body
to the National Security Regulation limiting
building projects to £3000 without the consent
of the Federal Treasurer? —1479.
(1) The Building Industry Congress of N.S.W.
is a permanent organisation which represents
the building industry in N.S.W. in all matters
affecting its interests as a whole. The con-
gress comprises representatives of the architects,
master builders, structural engineers, suppliers
of materials (such as bricks, timber, paint,
hardware, tiles, steel, cement, asbestos cement,
plaster, glass, sanitaryware, clay products, etc.).
Builders’ Exchange, and the sub-contractors,
etc. (2) Whilst regretting the need for such
restrictions, the congress decided at a recent
meeting to raise no objection, but rather to
support the Federal Government in its en-
deavor to prevent expenditure on unnecessary
projects which adversely affect Australia’s war
effort.
* * afe *
What becomes of unclaimed prize-money in
the N.S.W. State lotteries? —9777.
In the event of a prize being unclaimed every
attempt is made to get in touch with the ticket-
holder. After every drawing there are a certain
number of unclaimed prizes and letters are
addressed to the ticket-holders at the address
given on their application form, but a fair
number of these letters are returned unclaimed.
Unclaimed prize-money is carried to and forms
part of the Consolidated Revenue Account.
The Audit Act provides that such money may
be withdrawn from this account and refunded
in cases where the claim is established to the
satisfaction of the Governor.
* * * *
(1) May an Arts undergraduate accept a
position in Victoria as a teacher of subjects in
the primary school curriculum at a denomi-
national orphanage or private school without
having been tutored at a teachers’ training col-
lege ? (2) How does one qualify for registra-
tion ? —9601.
(1) Under the Vic. Education Act a person
is not permitted to teach in a school unless
registered by the Council of Public Education
or having its permission to teach temporarily.
Persons may be registered in one or more of
three divisions —sub-primary, primary and
secondary—and different qualifications are
prescribed for registration in each division.
For registration in the primary division the
minimum qualification is the second-class certifi-
cate of the Victorian Education Department or
an approved equivalent. A person with leaving
certificate may be permitted to teach while pur-
suing a course of training in a school, ex-
tending over a period of at least two years,
after which such person is eligible to apply
for registration in the primary division, pro-
vided that he has also completed certain sub-
jects such as Theory of Teaching Parts I and
II and passed a test in practical teaching. (2)
Certain private training institutions are
approved by the Council for the training of
teachers and, if a person does not train as
a student teacher as in (1), he may train in
one of such institutions.
* * * *
(1) Are University degrees obtainable by cor-
respondence in Australia ? (2) If so, which uni-
versities grant this? (3) With whom should I
communicate on such a proposal? —9726.
(1) Yes. (2) Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
(3) The Registrar, University of Queensland,
Brisbane.
* * * *
Can you tell me anything about the Sydney
Drama Society’s play-writing competition for
girls and boys? —l4Bl.
Competition is open to girls and boys of
18 years of age and under. Rules and par-
ticulars may be obtained from Margaret Jonson,
hon. organiser, or Monica Cogan, hon. sec.,
c/o Sydney Drama Society, Northcote House,
8 Reiby-place, Sydney, and should be accom-
panied by postage for reply. Competition open
till August 16.
* * * *
(1) What was the date of General Bridges’s
burial at Canberra? (2) How is the inscription
(his name, rank, etc.) set out on the grave-
stone ? —9651.
(1) September 3, 1915. (2) “Major-General
Sir William Throsby Bridges, K.C.8., C.M.G.
Died on 18th May, 1915, from Wounds Re-
ceived at Gallipoli Peninsula Whilst in Com-
mand of the Australian Imperial Forces. A
Gallant and Erudite Soldier, He was First
Commandant of This College, where in Recog-
nition of Faithful Service His Remains were
Publicly Interred on Third September, 1915.”
* * * »
Is timber that has been killed by arsenic and
soda poisoning suitable for firewood, and if
used for this would the ashes be detrimental
to anything they came into contact with ?
9896.
Arsenic does not travel a great distance in
timber and would be confined to the stump
and lower portion of the tree after killing. The
arsenic is not destroyed, but it is doubtful
whether a very small quantity such as this would
be of any detriment when distributed over a
wide area of stump and then throughout ashes.
* * * *
Recipe for destroying weeds and for preven-
tion of their germination in a fairly extensive
area of gravel pathway ? —9759.
Avery heavy dressing of arsenic should be
applied, such as £lb. per square yard. If a
non-poisonous and non-irritant chemical is re-
quired sodium chlorate should be used at the
same rate. Sodium chlorate is generally applied
through a watering can for work of this nature.
* * * *
How can the sex of the galah parrot be ascer-
tained; also the sex of the white corella parrot ?
—9778.
In the male galah the iris of the eye is black
in color, while in the female the iris is more or
less hazel or reddish in color. The general
plumage is the same in both sexes, but the
female is slightly more slender than the male
in build. Both sexes of corellas have similar
plumage, but the female bird is slightly smaller
in build and the beak is a little narrower.
* * * *
How can I get slaters out of my garden ?
1017.
All rubbish, weeds and decayed timber, etc.,
should be removed and burned, and should
there be fences surounding the garden see that
these are properly painted or, if of rough hard-
wood, that oil is thoroughly rubbed into the
palings. Dust in and under any seedboxes or
beds with Cooper’s Worm Killer Powder. This
is harmless to all plant life. Use lime liberally
in any compost. Another method is to slice
raw potatoes and place the cuttings under a
wet bag. After a few days it will be found
that the underside of the bag and the potato
cuttings have attracted the slaters to such an
extent that their disposal can be effected by
brushing the pests off into a container of
boiling water.
* * * *
(1) Can you suggest schedule to train half
an hour each evening for a 220 yds. event to be
held in five months? (2) How many seconds
would regular training take off my time for the
220 at present? —9B2B.
(1) Do a slow trot for a lap, to warm up
muscles, then do four or five 120yds., beginning
slowly, increasing speed, then flat out for a
short burst, then slower, slow, dead-slow, stop.
As the event approaches, do several 330yds.,
nearly flat out for 220, striding the last 110
easily. Always finish training with a 50yds.
at top speed. Never finish on slow work. Run
always on the white line, if the track is so
bounded. Go straight for the shower as soon
as finished. Coat and trousers should always
be taken on to the training ground to avoid
chills. (2) Can’t say. Obviously much depends
on age, present condition and present experi-
ence at starting, etc.
Brief Answers.
M.L.: There is no provision in the Invalid
and Old-age Pensions Act under which the
department can pay an allowance to the
daughter of a pensioner who stays at home to
assist her parents... .H.A.R.; Deductions from
wages of £7 10s. per week in Tasmania are (n)
special tax Bs. 6d. per week, and (h) instalment
on account of Federal income tax that will be
payable, assessed on earnings for year ended
June 30, 1940, 14s. per week. The former
is a tax payable weekly; the latter is an in-
stalment on account of tax that will become
due when assessment for Federal income tax is
made. If the instalments exceed the tax, a re-
fund will be made; if the instalments are less
than the tax, the balance must be paid in a
lump sum. Deduction with respect to mother
is allowed under the Federal Act only where
the mother is wholly maintained by the tax-
payer. Part maintenance does not entitle the
taxpayer to the deduction... .R.W.; Allan’s,
Melbourne, publish music, but prefer instru-
mental music or music of an educational nature
to songs, which are difficult to exploit unless
they are popularised by a singer of repute, and
that is mainly done per medium of gramophone
records. However, they will consider any-
thing. Paling’s and Chappell’s, in Sydney, also
publish music... .H.S.: Try Mineral Earths,
Ltd., 318 Botany-Road, Alexandria....
W.J.S.: If the house does not comply with
the municipal regulations the council can con-
demn it, and if it is not removed can come on
the property and remove it and charge the
owner with the cost of demolition. Municipal
by-laws vary, but, generally speaking, the owner
has no legal redress Mrs. J.Y.; If a warrant
officer was discharged with 1 a war pension he is
entitled to an additional 6d. a day if holding an
M.C. If a warrant, non-commissioned officer or
man discharged with a war pension he is entitled
to an additional 6d. a day if the holder of a
D.C.M Mrs. C.: Your pigs are apparently
suffering from either rickets or arthritis; in
the former instance feeding bonemeal to the
sows and young pigs should prevent further
recurrence. Should the trouble be arthritis,
treatment is difficult and would depend on the
individual case X.Y.H.; The small hole
observed in sheep is always present from birth
onwards, though sometimes difficult to locate.
Function is rather obscure. Does not seem
to have any connection with footrot, which
usually commences in the heel. The “pus”
noted is actually a type of sebum produced
by the pouch... J.G.8.: Lloyd George was
born at Manchester; W. M. Hughes in Wales.
. ...G.T.: Can’t say where you could buy an
American army saddle in Australia. Sydney
saddlers make Mexican and Texas types of
saddles F.J.D.; Communicate direct with
the District Naval Officer, Recruiting Office,
Brisbane (Q.), stating age, present occupation
and qualifications... .0.P.M.: Don’t know of
any lactic acid being manufactured in Australia,
but communicate with Robert Corbett and
Cos., 379 Kent-street, Sydney 0.W.H.:
Refer the matter to Queensland agents for
Kelvinator, E. L. Lewis and Sons, 106 Edward-
street, Brisbane, or to Whyper Bros., Bourbong-
street, Bundaberg... .M.H.F.: Lincoln Ells-
worth did not use radio equipment left by
Byrd at Little America because no radio equip-
ment of any kind was left there.... A.8.A.:
Van Dyck’s equestrian portrait of Charles I
is in the great dining-room of Warwick Castle.
F.H.U.; Sounds like ricolite, an ornamental
stone found almost exclusively in New Mexico.
It generally presents a series of white olive
and green serpentine layers T.8.P.: The
term “regicides” was adopted for the commis-
sioners who tried and condemned Charles I.
They were 150 in number, of whom 70 acted
and 59 signed the death warrant L.L.P.:
White pine would be the cheapest and best
timber for the purpose E.T.Y.: That motor
would be suitable but the frame would need
considerable strengthening... .G.P.M.: See Vic-
torian and Commonwealth Year-Books for
1933 and 1934... .W.T.C.: The V.C. decoration
was instituted on January 29, 1856... .H.W.S.:
No information available in Australia....
G.R.F.: Can’t value them without inspection.
Submit them to an art-dealer for an opinion.
W.H.: Only reason is that water paint is
cheaper than the more satisfactory oil paint.
J.B.: The service pension rate indicated,
365. a fortnight, denotes that the pensioners are
already in receipt of the maximum rates pro-
vided under the existing provisions of the Aus-
tralian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act for a mar-
ried member and wife; consequently, it is not
possible to grant any increased service pension.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character') will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused :
J.R.F.: —
And the moral of this story
Is one we can’t forget:
Give us guns and tanks and ’planes,
And we’ll beat the yet!
T.W.1.G.:
Some came down from up the country
And have left their cattle stations.
Left their horses, sheep and cattle—dogs
To come and help our nation.
They’ve left their happy homesteads
And ranches that they cherished.
Left sweet-smelling gumtrees
And camp-cooked food they relished.
L.P.: “Your insight keen foresees affright.”
Didn’t your insight keen foresee rejection?....
F.H.: Why not tell the cholera story in prose?
. ...K.8.: Try writing Abo. pars M.J.F.;
Just another drought pome... .T.G.: Flimsy.
... .C.S.A. ;
With iron mouths agape, expecting prey,
The steedless chariots in legions wait.
But even Flitler’s tanks are not cannibals....
J.R.; “The Drums of War” fail to resound.
... .P.W.; Keep at it... .D.P.D.: If “the full-
ness of empty things” means anything, which
is doubtful, you haven’t made your-
self clear J.R.: The office zoologist re-
fuses to credit sympathetic vulture... .8.J.L.:
Sincere; that’s a11....J.G.C.: One of the
awkward squad... .Rena: Might make a song.
....H.W.W.: Try a daily... .H.A.C.: Three
words, then: “Wake up Australia! ”... .L. 8.:
Out H.H. (N.Z.): It crawls along
D.C.: You’ve done better... .C.T.: You’ve
taken it a shade too easily... .D.H.: Rarely,
if ever, are we tempted to add to our collec-
tion of birds and bees... .J.F.: A notion there,
but the treatment’s weak... .W.J.: Come in and
get it off your chest:
Nevermore, while hills of granite
Wage their war with time, and win,
Will 1 plan a line, and scan it
For the Sydney Bulletin.
Nevermore, while mortals blunder.
And the fiends of darkness rage,
Will I brave the booming thunder
Of that “Correspondence” page.
Nevermore, since whilst we ponder
Time’s wheels revolve with stern accord,
Will I precious moments squander,
Writing where my stuff’s abhorred.
Nevermore, while streams run into
Boundless seas that roll, and roar,
Will I write the Bulletin to.
Echo rumbles: Nevermore !
P.C.: A featherweight... .K.S.: Just one
line: “Poets, I pray you, cease your groan-
ing”... .M.P.: Always glad to hear that the
sun still rises.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.H.: No charm in those emaciated chorus
girls... .J.M.: You belong to the “thumbnail-
dipped-in-tar” school... .0.R.: And those faint
scratches wouldn’t reproduce... .V.E.C.:
You’re a ponderous jester D.L.D.; Stick
to autograph albums for a while... .S.S.:
Decorative, but du11... .M.T.: The week’s
grimiest... .A.R.H.; Don’t want illustrated
fairy-tales D.F.T.: Crisper gags might help
them... .C.G.: There’s no use sending us cari-
catures of small-town Js.P R. 8.: Your
“map of Australia drawn to resemble Mr.
Menzies” resembled neither... .G.T.C.; De-
piction of Hitler talking to Caesar looks like
two twisted and fire-blackened tree-stumps....
D.V.E.: Offer it to an anti-liquor society as
a poster... .T.R.: “I’d be pleased if you could
do something with this.” Friend, it’s beyond
repair H.D.S.: Call for the corpse.


BRANDALERS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BBXXDA.UXK * CO, LML BISMINOHXH. ENO
w
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
60E Geraldton 500 watts
St. George's Use., St. George's Tee., Perth
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Are you suffering from
deafness? Do you long
for the freedom and
happiness that go with
good hearing f Then
read the announcement
below and see what
t h e world-famous
Western Electric Audi-
phone has to offer. <
m
m
l m.
SBSSB *'j’he Western
Electric Audiphone is
the most scientific aid to good hearing yet
developed. Backed by the greatest name
in the science of sound, it is inconspicuous,
yet enables the user to join in group
conversation, hear at greater distances,
and in any position. Both bone and air
conduction models are available, the
correct type being assembled for your
individual requirements after careful
audiometric tests. Let any of the well-
known firms listed below demonstrate.
THE AUDIPHONE CO.,
M.L.G. Building, M Martin Place, Sydney.
COLES & GARRARD PTY.. LTD.,
370-371/ Bourke Street, Melbourne.
TREVOR HENDERSON,
T. <fc G. Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
LEN G. STONE,
67 G awl e r Place, Adelaide.
SAINKEN & SAINKEN,
6 3 3 Hay Street, Perth.
EINDUAVS PTV., LTD.,
Apollo House. Brisbane St.. Launceston .
Western Electric
'audiphone'
HEARING AID
SUDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES
“Strike Up the Band”
In a hitherto rather peaceful existence
we had imagined that the kettledrums
and whatnots that go with them in an
orchestra were quite pleasant instruments
to be lightly tapped as the music de-
manded. The greatest volume of sound
of which they were capable seemed, to
us at any rate, to be their stirring roll as
given out by a military band. It came
as a distinct shock, therefore, to see
young Mickey Rooney, in this current
item at Sydney St. James, dealing with
the drums in what, judged by the
applause of an audience more experienced
in such matters than ourselves, is the
modem and approved manner.
That manner consists of roosting over
the drums and associate instruments,
assuming an evil, almost diabolical ex-
pression, and then being galvanised into
practically incredible action. The eyes
must open and shut, turn cross-eyed and
roll or stare fixedly into space like those
of a corpse ; the head must be waggled
madly on the shoulders and the hair
scattered like a birch broom in a thunder-
storm ; the mouth must hang open like
that of a stranded fish and the breath
pass in and out in half-strangled gasps ;
and the body must be hurled about within
the limited space as though its owner
were possessed of 17 devils and a com-
plete nest of the most ferocious of all
ants in his pants. Meanwhile, of course,
the drums, etc., must be attacked with a
ferocity that extorts from them the last
possible vestige of noise, and in such
a manner that it’s a marvel they don’t
split into a thousand pieces.
In such moments as those there’s no
doubt about the pace of the film. In fact,
the pace, combined with the fear that
young Mr. Rooney is about to collapse
from apoplexy or something, becomes
almost exhausting. In the parts between,
however, the film moves slowly. It’s all
about a school orchestra out to win a
prize of 500 dahlars in a competition
conducted by band leader Mr. Paul
Whiteman, and there’s a good deal of
heavy sentimental stuff between Rooney
and his mother, between Rooney and
Miss Judy Garland, and between Miss
Garland, Rooney and another youngster
who breaks his arm and, for some un-
apparent reason, refuses to say anything
about it until it becomes necessary to
charter a ’plane with the orchestra’s funds
to fly the patient to the great specialist
who, in these cases, is always just far
enough away for a ’plane to be necessary
and the orchestra’s funds to be sacrificed.
One bright moment is a burlesque —
a rehash of “The Drunkard”—played
out very capably by Rooney, Miss Gar-
land and the rest of their jazz band.
* * * *
“Blonde Inspiration”
Trust Hollywood to make a complete
mess of trying to keep a good thing
under its hat. For years they’ye had
audiences bursting with curiosity, trying
to puzzle out where on earth the film-
smiths get all the plots for the countless
fourth-raters they turn out annually.
Then they go and give the whole thing
away in one of their own brain-children.
“Blonde Inspiration,” at Sydney
Capitol, has John Shelton as young,
aspiring author with noble ideals and
hope£ of writing Great Things. He finds
that noble aspirations don’t yield much
return and seizes an offer from a couple
of shady publishers, Albert Dekker and
Charles Butterworth, to turn to “pulp
writing”—blood-and-thunder stuff for the
cheap magazines which abound in the
U.S. He signs a contract and they rush
him off to a penthouse, sit him in front
of a typewriter and give him 24 hours to
turn out a complete issue of the maga-
zine. He closes his eyes and leans back
in his chair in deep thought. Albert
Dekker explodes:
“What are you doing?”
“Thinking.”
“Thinking of what?”
“Thinking of a plot.”
“Good God, man, in this business you
don’t have time to think. Where’s your
Plotter?”
“My what?”
“Your Plotter.”
“What’s a Plotter?”
“Oh! Ye gods!”
And then a Plotter is produced and
everything’s clear. A Plotter is rather
“Mr. Smart Guy” (Nigel Lovell) explains to Inspector Harvey Adams and
Police Commissioner Richard Parry how he dealt with Uncle (deceased).
Sydney Minerva’s detective mystery.
like a chocolate wheel in general con-
tours, with various dials. You give it a
spin, and then read off from the appro-
priate dial description of hero, descrip-
tion of heroine, description of villain,
situation at opening of story, general
plot and ending. Altogether a very
commendable idea for hard-pressed
authors and filmsmiths, to which we can
offer but one word of criticism. Most
of the machines in Hollywood seem to
have rather worn bearings, with a sub-
sequent tendency to stop rather too fre-
quently at the same couple of spots,
* * * *
“Sailors Three”
It would be difficult to imagine even
a fish looking more like a fish than does
Claude Hulbert; others in this kettle at
Sydney Lyceum range through various
degrees of piscatorial beauty, but don’t
approach Claude as he stands clutching
the bar-rail after a superior bout of
champagne.
Claude and a couple of other prize
goats are sailors on a British warship
told off to find, engage and sink a Fritz
pocket battleship in the South Atlantic.
Claude and company wake up after a
binge, find themselves on the Fritz boat,
and proceed to capture it three-handed.
Before they get through they have most
of the audience aching amidships and
rolling in the Lyceum scuppers.
It is first-class comedy in any lan-
guage ; seen from the point of view of
a people war-torn for 18 months and still
able to get some laughs out of the war,
it’s a lesson for anyone.
He * * *
“The Milky Way”
This engaging cartoon at Sydney St.
James solves the mystery of that devas-
tating feline practice of perching on a
fence or the like and howling up into
the firmament. The nocturnal vocal
fireworks of the fummy are nothing but
the expression of a yearning to be trans-
ported to the feline Utopia. Where?
Well, where else could be the happy hunt-
ing-ground of all felines; where else
would any virtuous fummy elect to spend
the hereafter but in the Milky Way?
Anyway, that ethereal spot, as illustrated
by the cartoon people, certainly comes
closer to a feline paradise than anything
else that could be imagined. It’s a place
where the milk cascades over falls, flows
down brimming rivers, trickles out of
hundreds of bottles floating about on
clouds, gushes from geysers, can be
pumped from filling stations, and, m
general, abounds in such profusion that
even milk of magnesia is available for
those who should partake too liberally,
as, for instance, the three young fummies
who find themselves set loose in the
happy scene.
The cartoon, an M.-G.-M. job and an
award-winner, should make Mr. Disney
feel for his laurels.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Susan and God”
A packed house was delighted with
Rachel Crothers’s play at the Melbourne
Comedy. Everything was in its favor. It
had had a well-advertised bout with the
Sydney censor and had emerged with-
out a scratch upon its reputation or a
single line deleted. Moreover, the piece
was admirably produced by Gerald Kirby
and the acting was swift and sparkling.
It starts as a diverting satire on Buch-
manism, sometimes known as the Oxford
Group movement, which has had some
eminent exponents in Melbourne. A
week or so ago it stepped into the inter-
national arena, having been alleged as
one of the numerous contradictory
reasons for Rudolf Hess’s flight to Scot-
land. But if the Nazi leader really
thought that “moral disarmament” would
disarm England, he was no madder than
‘Susan, who returns to her American set
of divorcees, near-divorcees, deserters
and deserteds, confidently believing that
she has been changed overnight by a few
easily memorised slogans and is going
to produce a great spiritual revolution.
Miss Crothers makes merry with this
notion for three scenes and then, in the
interests of a happy ending, switches over
and accepts it without reservation by
making Susan’s husband, who drinks, be-
lieve in her spiritual revelation, so that
she is trapped into spending a summer
with him and their daughter, who has
hitherto been stowed away in a girls’
school.
The last act is an orgy of self-abnega-
tion, each outdoing the other, the hus-
band finally beating the wife to it by
sacrificing the girl he has fallen in love
with on the golf course.
Marjorie Gordon kept the audience in
a ripple of amusement. Claude Flem-
ming was sustained and solid and some-
times touching as the bewildered hus-
band. Dorothea Dunstan did her unreal
role of the daughter as well as could be
expected, a much-improved Madge
Aubrey was the girl who gets jilted, and
Frank Bradley was, as usual, excellent
in a small part,
# * * *
Sydney Con. Orchestra Concert
Highlight of Sydney Con.’s subscrip-
tion orchestral concert last week was
Mozart’s “Coronation” Concerto, with
Marjorie Hesse as pianoforte soloist. It
is a florid and ambitious work calling for
great dexterity in arpeggio and passage-
playing. Miss Hesse sailed through it
like a swallow. Orchestral backing was
curate’s-eggy. Miss Hesse also officiated
in Weinberger’s “Under the Spreading
Chestnut Tree” variations. She seems to
be as accomplished a fugue-player as
Myra of that ilk.
Dr. Bainton conducted. In the pro-
gramme was Brahms’s Second Symphony,
of which an uncertain performance was
given. Most satisfactory piece was
Vaughan Williams’s “Fantasia on a
Theme of Tallis.”
ARTBURSTS
Sylvia Davis’s Pictures
A big gallery at Anthony Horderns’,
Sydney, is currently filled with oil
paintings by 21-year-old Sydney girl Sylvia
Davis. On one side is a miscellaneous
collection of landscapes, portraits, figure
studies (including an excellent nude),
flower-pieces, etc. Of these it need only
be said that they show a soundness of
technique and a sureness of touch far
beyond the painter’s years.
Main interest of the show, however, is
a collection of paintings made recently
in the Solomon Islands portraits of
individual islanders, old and young,
glimpses of family life, characteristic bits
of landscape. To cope with these sub-
jects the young artist had to improvise
methods as she went along, and it is
obvious that she made striking and rapid
progress. She presents these people and
these scenes as ordinary sane eyes see
them, and it is not too much to say that
the South Seas have never been visited
by saner eyes controlling a steadier
brush. These pictures are not only good
art but good ethnology.
Canvases that particularly pleased were
No. 11, a Solomon Islands village seen
from the sea, and No. 21, a black boy’s
head. But there are good drawing, good
composition, good painting and good
color sense in all these pictures.


THE SERVICE MAN
And 118 in the Shade!
“E.D.”: The battle in Libya is one of
the most curious on record. The bulk of
the Tobruk defences are within a half-
cogwheel perimeter—it is exactly the
shape of half a Rotary Club button —
which the Italians obligingly handed over
intact, and which bears all the marks of
the methods of Keitel, the German Chief
of Staff, who specialises in cogwheel war.
But there is the sea, Cunningham’s sea ;
so it is only half a siege.
Inside tlys radius of 20 miles it has
been a war of man against tank and
Junker, and man has been winning.
For this kind of war there have been
no better troops than Australians, and
no better leader than the fiery and
resourceful little Morshead, who left the
Commonwealth as a brigade commander.
One astonished British correspondent
has reported the Australian methods. He
saw Queenslanders stoushing German
light tanks by sneaking up on them,
climbing on top and dropping Molotov
cocktails into the hatches as calmly as
if they were putting the breakfast egg
into the quartpot. Sometimes they
spragged the tank tracks with iron bars
first to stop them.
Australians are operating also with
British troops round Solium. “S. M.
Herald’s” correspondent, writing on
May 16 from Cairo, said it was largely
due to their enterprise there, as at Tobruk,
that the initiative had passed into British
hands, as it undoubtedly has. One tiny
Australian force at Solium, crawling like
the stalker of Kipling’s Pete upon a
superior German commando, well
laagered, announced its arrival with the
shriek of the Brens and came home with
the whole of the Germans, including
the colonel commanding.
The Germans were largely exhausted
and on a short water ration. The British
have water at call in all their positions.
In Tobruk, too, there is one of the best
bathing beaches along the Libyan coast.
This it took lads from Coogee and
Bondi only about two minutes to dis-
cover when the town was originally
captured.
After the blinding heat and fits and
starts of activity the previous week, it
was easy to note a change in the nature
of the campaign on May 11. Australians
counter-attacked at Tobruk in the moon-
light, undeterred by the resistance of
flame-throwers, and narrowed the Ger-
man salient; after midnight they occupied
a battleground littered with the blasted
remains of tanks and lorries.
Mechanised British forces made some
raids outside the defence perimeter, and
captured some prisoners. And over the
border at Solium, continual harassing
seemed to spur the Germans into activity.
A reconnaisance there in force by their
slender German and Italian feeler
columns was turned back by British
mechanised troops. The R.A.F. remarked
that it found the withdrawing enemy a
“particularly good target.”
The temperature was doing its best,
even at the beginning of the week, to
prove the month “the worst May Libya
has known,” but forces which, Australian
correspondents say, are much larger than
those used in Greece did not let up on
their activity.
Germans and Italians alike were kept
continually on the run and sleepless and
thirsty. They must have begun by this
time to believe that they were pitted
against supermen. Between April 6 and
April 30, Tobruk had suffered 667 enemy
air raids, of which 386 were carried out
by dive bombers. Yet, so far from their
knocking out the garrison troops, they
merely seemed to sting them to attack and
Flammerwerfer merely made them as
wild as disturbed hornets.
At the midweek, the reverse movement
towards Tripoli which began at Solium
when the enemy spearheads felt their
way forward was continued. The in-
vader was driven back to his original
positions, south and south-west of
Solium; then the British frontal guards
pushed him out of Solium, Halfaya—
which has naturally become Hellfire—
Pass and Mu Said, on the Libyan
frontier.
On Saturday, Australians captured
further strong points, with prisoners and
materiel, in the outer Tobruk defences.
A claim by the Germans to have recap-
tured Solium was unconfirmed. On Sun-
day night, the 8.8. C. reported Egypt as
clear of Germans, save for small groups.
From having a foothold in Egypt,
General Rommel’s “crusaders” are now
hanging by one toe, and the last blow,
the success of which “by strong British
forces,” the Germans admit, was accom-
panied by serious Axis casualties and the
loss of large numbers of prisoners.
The simultaneous announcement that
the Fiihrer had bestowed the Iron Cross,
Second Class, on the Italian commander,
Gen. Garibaldi, for his “magnificent
work” in North Africa would have been
small comfort in a temperature which
reached 118 and in which hundreds of
larks and swallows fell out of the sun-
scorched smokecloud and settled on the
shoulders of the troops. In a tempera-
ture of 118, you can set fire to a stick the
thickness of a finger with a match and
a hand placed on the bonnet of a car
exposed to it will be burnt.
What it must be like for a German
tank crew can be better imagined than
described. Especially when there is a
Molotov cocktail in the tank.
The Axis Looks Eastward.
“Ek D”: On May 12 the “Times”
correspondent on the French frontier of
Spain declared that a written permit for
the transit of German troops through
Spain had been obtained, and that Hitler
had used the fact as a lever to force on
France, in exchange for the reduction of
occupation charges and a remodelling of
occupied frontiers, the handing over of
southern French railway facilities, permits
to use Syrian aerodromes and other facili-
ties to allow of Germany entering the
Iraqi war. There seemed at this stage
to be evidence of concerted Axis and
Russian movements in Asia.
The Iraqi war was not going well for
the rebels. Rashid Ali’s forces were
concentrated on the 30-mile Ramadi-
Faluja line, with Islamic opinion against
them.
Rashid Ali on May 15 issued a com-
munique which declared that there was
only patrol activity on the front and that
his troops “held the upper hand.”
That day it was asserted from “a
neutral source” that Germany and Italy
had arranged to help Iraq and that,
through an agreement with Vichy, it
would be possible to send troops, who
were “already undergoing the necessary
training,” through Syria. Meanwhile,
they were shouting that ships entering
the Red Sea would be destroyed. Presi-
dent Roosevelt said that he, for one,
would risk it.
Mr. Eden stated on Thursday that
German aeroplanes were already using
Syrian aerodromes. The British Govern-
ment, he said, had “issued full authority
for action to be taken against these
’planes.” The R.A.F. bombed German
machines—which, the French authorities
in Syria declared, had all made forced
landings—on Syrian aerodromes at
Damascus, Rayak and Palmyra. Five
were destroyed. German ’planes in
numbers were supposed to have arrived
at both Mosul and Bagdad and two
Italian air generals and staffs at Bagdad.
With Rutbah in their hands once more,
the British at that stage were busy in
Iraq reinforcing Habbaniyah and Basra
and preparing for the Blitz. The R.A.F.
was lending a little aid on the coast and
had bombed Asmara.
Next day, further German machines
were bombed at Mosul and the F.A.A.
paid a second visit to Asmara. The
Germans were reported from French
sources to have landed 20 bombers at
Damascus and transport ’planes at
Rayak, 30 miles from Beirut.
At the week-end the world heard from
enemy sources that big Iraqi moves were
in progress against the British. Amman,
headquarters of the fugitive Iraq regent
and capital of Transjordania, was said
to have been bombed by Italian ’planes,
which also had reconnoitred Habbani-
yah and bombed Rutbah. Iraqi troops
had crossed into Transjordania and, “de-
feating” a British force, had reached
Nablus, which is not 40 miles from
Jerusalem. The Germans declared that
British had shot up French lorries in the
desert, “another instance of British ruth-
less brutality.” Rashid Ali’s headquarters
asserted that the British defences at
Basra had been attacked and that a big
battle was developing. But at 10 p.m.
on Sunday 8.8. C. reported that all was
quiet on the Iraq front.
It was known that the German air
approach to Syria had not gone un-
resisted, On May 13 the R.A.F. had
attacked the enemy jumping-off ground in
the Dodecanese and there were fights
over Crete. In all operations, 27 Ger-
man machines were destroyed.
And there was naval activity about the
Mediterranean approaches to Syria. The
Admiralty had declared all waters there
dangerous, except for the Turkish zone.
Cyprus had had its first bombings. And
there were signs at the week-end —■
reported by the Istanbul “Times” cor-
respondent—that the barrage of dis-
ruptive propaganda about Crete was a
prelude to naval and air attack on the
island from three enveloping points—
the Morea, the Cyclades and the Do-
decanese. The Maoriland division is in
Crete, where Major-General Freyberg
commands the Allied troops.
The Germans, if they have determined
to penetrate Asia, will have one of their
toughest jobs ahead. They will have to
depend on the air for transport unless
they can wipe out the British Navy in the
Mediterranean and East Indian stations.
Maorilanders in Greece.
“The Bluff”: Maorilanders did not
have to go through the anxiety of wait-
ing for official news of the Greek cam-
paign until near the end. They knew
that their division was in Greece before
the battle opened.
A cable from Athens dated April 7
the day after Yugoslavia was attacked —
told them how long the N.Z. men had
been specially trained in Egypt before
they left, how they embarked, how they
travelled—“they were transported across
the Mediterranean in swift warships with
no more fuss and in little more time
than it takes on the N.Z. inter-island
ferry services.” They were given the
date of General Freyberg’s order-of-the-
day to them on leaving Egypt—March 11.
The great battle with the Germans on
the Olympus slopes was fully described
the day after it ended, together with
many other details for which Australians
had to depend, until after the evacuation,
on “famous” foreign journalists. And
throughout it was good journalism, well
written, lucid and restrained —better
than 99 per cent, of the syndicated stuff.
One factor which the N.Z. dispatches
establish is that the Germans had no
walkover on the Anzac front. Writing
after the Olympus-slopes battle (April
14-16), in a dispatch dated “from the
front, April 17,” the Maoriland corres-
pondent said:
With the aid of the engineers who mined
the mountainside and the support of the
guns, the infantry could have held Olympus
indefinitely. The close-range fighting there
and on the adjacent heights convinced a
trained neutral observer that the new
Anzacs, man for man without machines,
are three times as good as the Germans.
Enemy prisoners express a similar view
differently. “Too good, too good,” they
say dejectedly. Numerous prisoners have
been taken, many by Maoris, whose special
job is mustering parachutists.
Though every enemy attempt to break
through there was brilliantly hurled back,
the Mt. Olympus sector is now being
evacuated in compliance with the general
plan for strengthening and shortening the
Greek-British line. The withdrawal is being
carried out swiftly in excellent order, the
rearguards constantly engaging the enemy
vigorously and counter-attacking. The
enemy, however, is harrying relentlessly
from the air and inflicting casualties.
Australians get pats on the back. A
yarn is told about a Timaru corporal
and an A.I.F. sapper who were asked on
a moment’s notice: “Can you drive a
locomotive?” The pair had seen a loco-
motive before, so they tried, the Timaru
man driving, the Aussie firing. They
landed 400 wounded 200 miles away in
36 hours without mishap.
This is how the official correspondent
closed his story of the campaign in a
dispatch dated Cairo, May 6:
It was early in the morning and a famous
light cruiser lay out in the bay. The officer had
a hurried look round just to make sure and
a small boat pulled out from the beach with
the last of the New Zealand Division aboard —
men of the Auckland Battalion who had acted
as a rearguard for the withdrawal. Not one
man was left on that beach and everything
had gone like clockwork. The senior officer
of the battalion said it could not have been
better managed.
The men of the New Zealand Division feel
that they have learned a great deal from their
experiences in Greece, and it goes without
saying that their bearing, always easy and confi-
dent, is today that of an army that has the
measure of its foes and has no doubt about
the final victory.
A.I.F. Casualties.
By the irony of events, the first list
of Australian casualties in Greece came
from the enemy. Berlin announced at
the week-end that 86 Australian soldiers
were held as prisoners of war at Nish,
Yugoslavia—three sergeants, three cor-
porals, three lance-corporals, three
gunners, seven “riflemen” and 67 privates.
The message gave the names, some of
which, evidently misspelt, are unidenti-
fiable. Army Minister Spender said he
was “unable to comment on the list” or
to “give any information about casualties
in Greece —having received no list.”
On Friday I cabled again to General
Blarney asking for advice at the earliest
possible moment, even if a complete list was
not yet available. I expect a reply from
him soon.
On the previous Thursday week news-
papers had been informed that A.I.F.
casualties in Greece, “including killed,
missing and prisoners,” were estimated
at “less than 3000.” Mr. Spender re-
ceived this information from General
Blarney, and “assumed that the total
would include the wounded, though the
word ‘wounded’ was not included in the
message.” Surely this assumption could
have been verified in a few days, whereas
after ten days it was still uncertain
whether “missing and prisoners” wasn’t
really a mistake for “wounded and miss-
ing.”
They did these things much better last
time. The first Gallipoli casualty list —
and it was a big one —was published on
May 1, 1915—six days after The Land-
ing, though some of the wounded had
been taken to Lemnos and others to
Egypt and even Malta. After that lists
appeared daily—on May 3,4, 5,6, 7 and
8 ; then there was a gap to May 14. The
present Administration will be hard put
to it to explain why there has been such
a difference.
Over Britain and Germany.
“Aileron”: In the air war over Britain
a comparative lull succeeded the heavy
London raid of May 10-11 and the
arrival of Hess. On May 12 the R.A.F.
made a fairly large night raid on Mann-
heim and dropped bombs on Cologne
and Coblenz. Smaller forces were over
the Channel ports. The Germans, mildly
raiding south-west England and East
Anglia, lost a bomber.
Next day London had no alerts and
enemy activity was small. The enemy
lost two machines—one shot into the
sea —and the loss of four machines sus-
pected of having been wrecked during
the previous week was confirmed. The
Germans claimed to have destroyed three
ships totalling 14,000 tons in a convoy
off Sunderland and to have bombed im-
portant southern English harbors.
The R.A.F. had a busy day of which
the heart was a sudden blast out of the
clouds on Heligoland. The ’planes came
down like hawks almost to roof level
and were away before the A.A. defence
could recover from its astonishment and
get the guns going. Buildings and jetties
were left burning, and all but one of the
raiders got away. Meanwhile, the
Channel patrol had left a 2000-ton ship
sinking off Ushant, strafed St. Nazaire
base and lobbed a pill amidships of a
12,000-ton ship in dock.
On Wednesday, a few bombs were
dropped in the Midlands, causing casual-
ties but little damage. Another German
bomber crashed. The R.A.F. was busy
day and night. A Coastal Command
machine torpedoed a supply ship off the
Dutch coast, and was up at dawn on
Thursday laying into Ostend aerodromes
and plant. Next, the R.A.F. took its
biggest bombers over to Berlin, though
Hanover, which presents a fine mark,
was the main target. Hamburg and Cux-
haven were blasted to a lesser extent, also
Dieppe, Calais and other invasion ports
and aerodromes. U-boat centres —
Ijmuiden, St. Nazaire, Lorient —had
special attention.
A German story that the R.A.F.
forces over Germany were only weak
was altered ; it was admitted that raid?
had been extensive and that man>
civilians were killed and injured. Lyons
(France) Radio declared that the Italian
consulate at Hamburg was among the
buildings wrecked. Two more German
’planes were shot down over Britain.
On Friday the Germans claimed to
have raided a large number of aero-
dromes in mid-Britain. They mentioned
Middlesborough and said “over 100
bombs were dropped on factories and
public utility services at Birmingham.”
The greatest damage, however, seemed to
be done to a large shelter, where numbers
of people were killed, and to shopping
streets. That day the R.A.F. scattered a
convoy off Norway and sank a ship.
The heaviest week-end raids were made
in a sweep by the R.A.F. in which for
the third night in succession all the
French Channel ports were blasted,
Cologne bombed and shipping in French
and Dutch harbors and the Gris-Nez
heavy-gun emplacements attacked. Ger-
man raiding over England was light.
German losses of machines for the first
16 days of May numbered 140. In six
weeks to May 10, they were 291 machines


and about 1095 men in all sectors, against
an R.A.F. loss of 126 ’planes and 560
men.
British casualties for April from air
raids on Britain were 2912 men, 2418
women and 680 children killed and 6926
wounded badly enough to be sent to hos-
pital, including 519 children. They were
lighter than the losses and human damage
for any of the worst three months last
year, but considerably heavier than the
losses in the Greek campaign.
Britain's Most Notable
Capture.
“Ek Dum”: Tales about dissension
between the Nazi party and the German
army and between Hitler and his lieu-
tenants were received with incredulity
until Rudolf Hess, No. 3 in the Nazi
hierarchy and titular head of the party,
arrived in Scotland. Unlike Hitler and
Goring, Hess was not actively associated
with the German High Command.
On April 20 he was with Hitler on the
latter’s birthday, and he and Goring
broadcast birthday-greeting speeches.
Hess said to Hitler:
Your spirit and your will brought a new
people and a new soldier to protect them.
Trust in you is unlimited. God protect our
Fiihrer!
Two days afterwards there came from
Vichy a radio report —repeated again
and again in Spanish—that Franco
had agreed, as the result of a message
carried from Hitler by Hess a few days
earlier, to allow the passage of German
troops through Spain so soon as the High
Command had prepared to attack simul-
taneously at both ends of the Mediter-
ranean.
Hess was in his place when Hitler
spoke in the Reichstag on May 4. On
May 8-9 the R.A.F. made its most devas-
tating raid of the war on Hamburg, and
attacked other centres on a heavier scale
than usual. Berlin itself was visited.
Next day an obscure French indepen-
dent newsagency in Stockholm reported
that on Saturday afternoon telephone
communication between Germany and
Sweden had been closed at 6 p.m., and
had remained closed for 10 hours. There
was no word of the closing of other tele-
phone channels. “Big things are about
to happen,” the French Agency remarked.
This obviously did not refer to Satur-
day’s London raid, which was over then.
Anyway, Berlin, adopting an unusual
course, had announced the raid in
advance, a fact which might be consis-
tent with a wish to distract attention from
something else.
About 6 p.m. that Saturday, Hess
climbed into a two-engined Messer-
schmitt at Augsburg, an old crossroads
town just west of Munich, which looks
like something conjured out of the earth
by the brothers Grimm. It is the home
town of Messerschmitts. No. 3 had
an accurate map with a course marked
for the Duke of Hamilton’s estate in
Scotland near the Clyde. He carried
medicines for ailments from which he is
suffering and every requisite for identi-
fication.
Leaving behind his country, his tradi-
tions, his wife and two children and
the associations of a lifetime, Hess took
the air and flew northward across the
whole breadth of Germany. A little after
10 p.m. a Messerschmitt two-engined
fighter was reported over the Scottish
coast by patrols, but the R.A.F. would
not believe that a short-range fighter
would venture so far afield.
Not long afterwards, a Lanarkshire
ploughman, Maclean, saw a Messer-
schmitt crash headlong into the earth.
Beside a parachute lay a dark, mysteri-
ous stranger in German uniform with a
broken ankle. He asked for the Duke of
Hamilton, who is premier peer of Scot-
land.
It takes more than such an event to
disconcert a Maclean. Providing himself
with a hayfork, “in case,” Mr. Maclean
took the Mysterious Stranger to his
house, where his mother, herself undis-
turbed, offered tea, and handed him over
to the Home Guard. Then Mr. Maclean
went back to his plough. The Stranger
said he was Rudolf Hess. The Home
Guard gave him a glass of milk and
turned him in to the police. Mr. Ivone
Kirkpatrick, who was First Secretary till
1939 at the Berlin Embassy, hastened to
Scotland and identified the visitor in
hospital as beyond doubt Rudolf Hess.
Soon there was more noise in Strath-
aven and Douglas than there had been
since the Covenanters whacked Graham
of Claverhouse in 1679 at Drumclog,
only a mile or so from where Rudolf
landed.
The British Government did not allow
any announcement to be made till
Monday night, 48 hours after the arrival.
The official statement was that Hess’s
flight was an “escape” ; that he knew
that if he had gone to a neutral country
he would be shot.
About the German versions and
events there were strange features. Hess
was the only leading Nazi who was not
a war commander. He was the only one
among them who spoke good English.
There was a strange lack of inclination
in Berlin to attack him as a traitor.
Hitler was curiously silent. His attitude
after the Rohm affair was vastly different.
The Rohm conspirators did nothing to
Germany at all commensurable with
what Hess may have or has done, if the
reports of his intentions and motives are
in any way correct, but the most that
has happened is that the office of Stell-
vertreter in the Fiihrer’s Ministry has
been abolished, another Nazi party head
has been appointed, and a few aides have
been arrested for disobedience.
Hess must have had numerous accom-
plices—or official help. A Messerschmitt
cannot be acquired without the know-
ledge of those in power in the Luftwaffe.
Messerschmitt 110’s are precious cargo,
highly conservable. They are two-
engined fighters, as difficult to fly as the
touchy Lockheed-Hudson and very fast.
Hess must have taken off openly from a
large aerodrome —no other would serve.
He did it in broad daylight and subject
to the usual rigid aerodrome routine.
He obtained his machine at Augsburg,
at the factory. He had it fitted with
extra petrol tanks. It must have been
gone over by mechanics. He must have
had three tons of petrol. He would be
lucky to make the point at which he
crashed in under 900 miles, which must
be a record for a machine of the type
and a remarkable performance for a
man 47 years of age who was, according
“ Ha-a-n-nds to battle stations!”
to some German statements, mad, and
an invalid who had for years been for-
bidden to fly.
The acquaintanceship of the Duke of
Hamilton and Hess had grown from the
fact that they were members of the
world’s small select band of capable
Alpine fliers. The Duke was one of the
first men to fly round the summit of
Everest. He is now a high-ranking
R.A.F. officer on duty. In 1936, during
the Olympic ski contests at Garmisch,
Hess piloted a ’plane round the summit
of the Zug Spitze, which many Austra-
lian tourists have seen over against the
valley of the Inn on the south as they
watched Ober-Ammergau put on its pas-
sion play. It was during the Olympic
Games that the Duke and Hess met.
A curious feature, apart from Hitler’s
silence, was Goebbels’s volubility. He
made a speech, reported on May 15,
described as “full of despondency.” He
admitted that it was difficult to live in
German towns threatened from the air.
He said: —-
I know innumerable German men who
have been separated—in some cases for
years—from their wives and families. The
country sometimes asks in these difficult
weeks whether the great sacrifice the people
are making is at all worth while. Perhaps
some wonder whether there is any sense
in making such personal and material
sacrifices for the German people in this
fateful struggle In 1918 the German
people attempted to shirk in the decisive
hour the demands of a critical time. When
we remember this, our sacrifices, sometimes
heavy, for the people and the Fuhrer will
seem lighter.
This speech was made to sailors’ wives
and German sailors throughout the
world. Goebbels must have a lively sense
of the fact that it was the mutiny of the
Navy which brought about the downfall
of the German war regime in 1918.
The Abyssinian campaign nears its end.
On May 18 the Duke of Aosta was
negotiating terms of surrender for the
15,000 to 20,000 Italians who, with native
troops, are in a hopeless position in
Amba Alagi, 150 miles north of Dessye,
where S’African and British troops closed
in on them from the south, while Indians
came down from the north. Rome Radio
declares that the hopeless position is due
to difficulty in obtaining supplies and
heavy previous losses. In the south and
west the Italian mountain forces, which
have been split in pieces, are being gradu-
ally picked out of their strongholds.
* * * *
President Roosevelt did not wait long
to act against French shipping after it
had become known Syria was wide open
to the Germans and that they might get
further help from the unhappy French-
footholds in Africa and Corsica. On
May 15 the U.S. Senate passed the bill
authorising the President to take over
Axis and foreign shipping and make it
available to Britain if necessary. At
once the President put armed coast-
guards on board 10 French ships, in-
cluding the Normandie. She is slightly
bigger than the Queen Mary.
* * * *
More or less Famous American Cor-
respondents are performing with their
usual abandon. According to one, Wavell
has at least 500,000 under his command,
and another declares that the British still
lack vital weapons for modern warfare
in Africa, and have been compelled to
“improvise with light cannon mounted
on unarmored trucks,” weapons with
which they “have been fighting German
tanks and winning.” They had some
sufficiently heavy tanks a little while ago.
Tanks smashed through the defence areas
of Sidi Barrani, and tanks fought the
battle of Benghazi-Tripoli road.
* H= * *
Figures given in the Commons on
May 15 show what blither is sometimes
written about casualties. Out of 24,000
British and Allied troops sent to Nor-
way, 22,600 returned; 950 are known
to be prisoners. Yet Famous American
Correspondents saw the British “mown
down.” Of the 437,000 British and Im-
perial men sent to France, 40,000 are
known to be prisoners ; 384,000 returned.
So that the killed and missing un-
accounted for there together totalled
only 13,000.
* * * *
“J.W.”: Hitler will need to work hard
to beat a couple of Australian records.
When a jubilant Digger claimed in Mel-
bourne that he had the biggest feet in the
army and wore a 16 boot, a scornful wire
from the R.A.A.F. at Darwin recorded
the presence there of a leading air-
craftman, one C. L. Best. He wears
size 18i clodhoppers. When he toes the
front line he is in the rear rank. If the
owner ever puts that pair down on
Musso.’s neck, the Mediterranean war
will end suddenly.
* * * *
Andrew Cunningham, Wavell and
Longmore, the Three Musketeers of the
Middle Eastern Command, are a great
fighting combination. They keep some
fighting going all the time, somewhere.
There is no sitting down because it is
cold, raining or sizzling like Hades. It
was against all the traditions of Middle
Eastern warfare to pick the coldest day
of the year, with a week or so of freeze
ahead and sandstorms galore reported
from the south, to begin a major offensive
in Libya, but Wavell did it at Sidi Bar-
rani. It was also against the best prac-
tice to continue the war in Abyssinia right
into the wet season with the vigor im-
parted to it throughout the dry ; but it
has been done.
By all the rules of time immemorial, the
Germans should have succeeded in
timing their putsch from Tripoli for the
right moment when the British with
their well-known Kiplingesque habits
would retire under the jacarandas and
conduct their war for the summer months
over barah pegs in the approved manner
of the sahib. Also, by all the rules, mid-
summer should have been the best month
for Iraq war, since the Iraqis are
habituated to the climate and it is known
throughout Germany and Italy that in
Bagdad European offices close at noon
in May, sahibs and effendis retire to
their siestas and nobody works save Kurd
porters and the little basket boys.
Actually, the British stand the heat better
than the effendis of Bagdad. And in
Africa the only people who have been
severely hampered in their operations by
the heat have been the Germans and
Italians. The British trio of commanders,
and their troops, heat seems only to
sting to greater vigor.
* # * *
Squadron-Leader Peter Jeffrey, a Syd-
ney Uni. football blue and a graduate
from the Citizen Air Force, enjoyed an
adventurous April in Libya. His R.A.A.F.
squadron departed from Benina aero-
drome without loss of aircraft or ma-
terials. Then picking on a formation of
Junker 52’s, Jeffrey blew one of them
out of the sky, and pounced on and de-
stroyed three more which had landed. His
exploit earned him a D.F.C.
* * * *
Group-Captain Francis William Fel-
lowes Lukis, who takes on the new N.Q.
Command of the R.A.A.F., first learned
the job over the Egyptian
desert in 1917 in A.F.C.
open-cockpit crates. A
Westralian, he had arrived
there with the Light
Horse, but apparently
found horses boring.
Although modestly de-
scribing himself as “never
much of an airman,” he
continued in the A.F.C.
until its absorption into the
R.A.A.F., and by 1922
was adjutant at Point Cook
station (Vic.). Then fol-
lowed command at Rich-
mond station (N.S.W.),
No. 1 Squadron at Laver-
ton (Vic.), a period in
England at a R.A.F.
Staff College, the Director-
ship of Personal Services
at R.A.A.F. headquarters
and commands at No. 1
Aircraft Depot, Point
Cook, and Laverton.
He brings to the job a triple repu-
tation as administrator, organiser and
real dinkum bloke.
He * * *
Arrived in Melbourne, on special duty,
Major H. M. Ervine-Andrews, of the
East Lancashires. He is one of the first
two English soldiers to get the V.C. in
this war. The other is Lance-Corporal
Nicholls, now a prisoner in Germany.
Both got their awards over the Dunkirk
business. The major took over 1000
yards of the defences outside Dunkirk,
and held the sector for ten hours, part of
which he spent in a solo performance
on a barn roof with a rifle and a Bren
gun, when he kept off single-handed vastly
superior enemy forces. He was born at
Tramore, Ireland. He visited Australia
in 1935, then served on the Indian Nor -
west Frontier, where he won a medal
and mentions in dispatches. He is 30.
• * * •
On March 13, when the flapper press
was certain that Stalin’s nervousness
about the Balkans was gradually driving
him out of his love pact with Hitler,
the U.S. Department of Commerce
announced that transfers of freight be-
tween Germany and Russia had been
greatly facilitated by the construction of
new reloading and switching stations at
nine points on the German-Rnssian
frontier. Formerly there were °n ,y «ve
verv imperfect switching points, now
there aTnine pairs of »P-to-datytati™
facing each other across the border, me
department heard that Russian exports
to Germany in 1940 included \m ooo
metric tons of feed gram B , andthat this
year feed and bread g rai n s to the amount
of between 1,500,000 and 2,000,000 tons
will cross the border under contract.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
Leather Portfolios
For those bulky papers in Black
and Brown Seal Grain Cowhide:
Ideal for Military Requirements.
16in. x lliu. —with 3 divisions.
Price: 52/6
Others: 72/6, 90/-, 97/6.
C. E. KUCHING
"For Everything in Leather."
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(near Wynyard Stn.). ’Phone: 8W.7133
Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD LEONARD GEORGE BAKER, for-
merly of Charters Towers and Maryborough,
in the State of Queensland, or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts, please communicate with
the PUBLIC CURATOR, Brisbane?
FARGHER, Charles, who (if alive) would be
aged about 90 years, left his parents’ home
(probably in Carlton) over 60 years ago and is
reputed to have taken casual labour in country
districts in Victoria, or his children.
Also
FARGHER, William Bryant, aged about 66
years, son of Robert John and Annie Fargher,
last heard of in Sydney about 46 years ago.
Would they or any person supplying informa-
tion kindly communicate with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, 95
Queen Street, Melbourne?
TO LLOYD GEORGE HULL, formerly of
127 Rae Street, North Fitzroy, in the State
of Victoria, but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife, ALMA
DOROTHY LOWE HULL, has instituted
divorce proceedings against you on the ground
of desertion. Unless you enter an appearance
in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court of Victoria in Melbourne on' or betore
the 20th day of June, 1941, and file an answer
in the said office on or before the 30th day
of June, 1941, the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
JOHN T. RYAN, LL.B., of 263 Smith
Street, Fitzroy, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Missing Friends.
WILL JAMES KENNEDY or ANNIE KEN-
NEDY, formerly of Charters Towers, Queens-
land, and children of JAMES KENNEDY, or
any persons knowing their whereabouts, please
communicate with the PUBLIC CURATOR,
Brisbane?
ECZEMA
Sensitive people fed eczema
acutely. The continued irritation,
the unsightly eruptions and the
uncertainty where the trouble will
next spread makes them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact
that certain skins react badly to various
forms of irritation (internal or external)
and poor general health increases the
liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema
to spread and to become chronic, early
local treatment is imperative, and the best
salve for this purpose is DOAN’S Oint-
ment. It penetrates to the true skin where
the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and
healing and quickly allays the irritation,
DOAN’S Ointment is also good for other
itching skin complaints and for the relief
of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but, be sure
you get DOAN’S.
Doans Ointment
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lots of likeable things are coming
into the open about the State’s new
Premier, W, J. McKell. He’s a home-
lover, he likes to dance, he keeps his old
friends, and he’s proud of belonging to
Redfern, as that suburb is proud of
having produced him. Mrs. McKell has
a quiet and friendly charm, and has
helped and encouraged her husband in
his political struggles. One of the daugh-
ters of the family is a hospital nurse, the
other works in a city bank.
Just another example of how tongue-
tied we are ■as a nation was given last
week by the visiting Dutch Foreign
Minister, Dr. E. N- van Kleffens, and his
wife. Both of them speak English in
an easy, very-much-at-home manner.
How many of their Sydney listeners,
apart from Queen Wilhelmina’s subjects,
could understand any of the speech in
his native tongue made by Dr. van Klef-
fens at the party of welcome given by
the Netherlands community? This was
held in the garden ballroom of Retford
Hall, which was lent by the Anthony
Horderns for the international occasion.
Consul-General for the Netherlands and
his wife were host and hostess.
The surroundings at Retford Hall are
ideal for these twilight-hour parties,
and, although the afternoon shivered with
a cold wind of autumn, guests, once the
speeches were over, strolled into the
gardens to talk over their beer and
sherry. Mrs. van Kleffens has a clear-
cut profile and a warm smile. This
flashed on when three small Dutch chil-
dren, a small girl and two sturdy little
boys, handed to her a toy koala bear,
very smart with a spray of orchids. The
doctor had the real thrill of the author
who learns that his book has been read
in far places. Many of the guests brought
copies of his Rape of the Netherlands,
for him to sign. The Governor and Lady
Wakehurst entertained the visitors to
lunch at Government House, and the
Elink Schuurmans gave a very official
dinner for them.
Every mother with young sons will
have to buy a copy of Grey Gladiator,
the story of H.M.A.S. Sydney with the
British Mediterranean Fleet. * Before its
vivid pages even Captain Hornblower’s
exploits grow momentarily a little pallid.
Here is the story of the Sydney’s intrepid
encounter with the Bartolomeo Colleoni,
and from its pages Captain Collins, with
his friendly grin, steps out as great a
seamaster as any. The book is by George
H. Johnston, who had, through the Naval
Intelligence, access to official records, so
that even the beginning Nelsons of Jervis
Bay can find no fault with this spirited
narrative. The heroism of the little
Italian destroyer Zeffiro does not go un-
recorded. The Zeffiro sacrificed herself
laying a smoke-screen to save the other
Italian ships in the battle of Calabria.
It’s a little epic.
Mr. Cousins, of Angus and Robertson,
told last week a funny story of the pub-
lishing of Grey Gladiator in England.
Proofs of the book were sent to London,
and A. and R.’s representative there
cabled “Gladiator arrived.” Then came
inquiry from the censor. Mr. Cousins
is chucklingly wondering if the powers
read in the message some reference to
Rudolf Hess’s unconventional arrival in
Scotland.
In recognition of Louisa Lawson as
a pioneer worker in the cause of woman-
hood suffrage in N. S. Wales, the official
Labor women of the State are placing
a seat dedicated to her memory in the
Sydney Domain. It was at the office of
“Dawn,” a journal owned and edited
by Louisa Lawson, that the initial meet-
ing of those interested in the movement
was held. A site for the memorial
appropriately adjoining the statue of her
poet son has been granted by the De-
partment of Agriculture. A competition
among the students of the Technical
College, Ultimo, under the direction of
A. H. Martin, lecturer in architecture,
will decide the design of the seat.
The 2/15 Field Regiment Comforts
Fund asks for donations of cakes, fruits
and vegetables for the stall in Martin-
place on Lord Mayor’s Appeal Day,
May 23. The 2/15 Field Regiment Com-
forts Fund committee has been formed
not yet six months and has sent a con-
signment of 175 articles to the Lord
Mayor’s Fund. The membership has in-
creased so much that the committee has
moved into larger rooms on the ground
floor of Ocean House, Martin-place.
Besides contributions to the Lord Mayor’s
Fund the 2/15 was able to supply its
whole regiment with puttees a few months
ago. Everyone interested in the regi-
ment and not yet a member of the com-
mittee is very welcome at the rooms on
Mondays and Fridays,
On Monday afternoon Lady Gowrie
opened an exhibition of paintings by
Sylvia Davis. Sylvia is very young, as
can be seen by this Noel Rubie photo-
graph, but her work shows a mature art.
The striking part of the show is on the
side of the wall given over to the study
of the Solomon Islander in his common
round. It’s at Anthony Horderns’.
When the Sydney girl did these paint-
ings she was living at Guadalcanal a spot
tucked away from civilisation in the
midst of razorback mountains. There
she lived for ten and a half months with
a goldmining expedition organised by her
father, one of Australia’s mining identi-
ties. Guadalcanar has two seasons, a wet
and a dry. In the dry season the rain
falls every evening, and in the wet it falls
morning and evening. There is nothing
gentle about this rain, and the rivers, 17
of them, between the camp and the
nearest spot of civilisation were flooded
each night. It was not, as Sylvia re-
marked drily, a place where it was safe
to take ill suddenly at midnight.
In the year the artist was there 18
inches of rain fell, much to the astonish-
ment of the native boys, who had assured
her the rain must clear when the yams
came. The party lived in grass-sapling
huts, and one night as Sylvia lay in her
bunk reading a voice called: “Don’t
move, there’s a snake about to
drop in on you.” The owner of the voice
then yanked the snake away with a
crutched stick. Other visitors were a
type of rat that nibbled and tugged a
sleeper’s hair. But nothing daunted the
artist, and she painted Islanders, male
and female, weaving, digging, cooking
and in holiday mood, twined with
flowers. At first they were shy of having
pictures made of themselves, feeling that
this laid them open to an enemy who
might injure their images and cause them
to die. Later on they enjoyed the experi-
ence. In addition to her canvases, Sylvia
has brought back a store of Island lore.
Camilla Wedgwood, principal of the
Women’s College, gave added zest to
the show by her address on “Pacific
Island Life.” Another interest was the
picture-frames—Bo of them, made by
father in three weeks.
Three bright-faced girls, Winsome
Hume, Allwyn (Bobbie) Sparks and Val
Dean, ran a successful dance for the
R.A.A.F. canteen at Woolloomooloo last
Saturday night. Tickets were 3s. 6d.
each, and 200 were sold. The boys came
along from Bradfield and Central area,
and found lots of pretty girls ready to
partner them. Flight-Lieutenant Vautin
and Mrs. Vautin were guests; so were
the Flight-Lieutenant McKillops. Squad-
ron-Leader Heffernan and Mrs. Heffer-
nan, Flying-Officer Humble and Flight-
Lieutenants Harrison, Davidson and
Kahn were among the many who
admired the decorations with their red,
white and blue motif. Winsome, who
was president, was picturesque in old-
world rose taffetas and black lace and
wore a rose tucked in her fair hair.
Bobbie and Val, sparkling brunettes,
swished black tulle and sequins and
white linens that had a real Honolulu-
night suggestion respectively.
On Friday afternoon Margot Ascher
will be arraying herself in bridal finery
for her wedding with Major Alexander
Ryrie. At half-past four she will meet
him at St. Mark’s at Darling Point for
the church’s blessing on their vows.
’Groom’s father is Colonel Stanley Ryrie,
of the Michelago clan. Margot’s father
was the late Clive Ascher; her mother is
now Mrs. Fred Borchard, of Melbourne.
Major Alexander Ryrie, who is on the
Staff Corps, is stationed at Narellan.
Margaret Sturdee, of Melbourne, and
Mrs. F. Stallman, of Darling Point, were
among the many who staged pre-wedding
parties for the subject of this Falk photo-
graph.
The concert for Marie La Varre’s Red
Cross Queenship brought a super-vaude-
ville touch to the Town Hall on Saturday
night. The crowds surged into the gal-
leries and the body of the hall early in
the evening. Marie, in Nile-green satin,
her shoulders warmed with a coral-red
marabou cape, was kept busy greeting
old friends of the theatre. The vestibule
had the atmosphere of a reception as
the actress and her supporters moved
from group to group. Groups of girls
in uniform and in glamor frocks sold
tickets for the tapestry fire stool to be
raffled for Marie’s candidature. A
luscious squirrel muff is to be disposed
of for the same cause, and V.As. ex-
changed programmes for silver coins, all
to buy votes.
Dear little Marie Bremner, sparkling in
white and rushing to do her bit from
the Royal, where she is one of the stars
of “Funny Side Up,” met with rounds
of applause when she sang “The King Is
Still in London.” That song, with its
refrain “Like Mr. Jones and Mr. Brown
the King is still in London Town,” is
being sung with cheers in the voice in
every corner of the Empire. Marie Burke
and Marie Ormiston, who played the
accompaniments, Gladys Moncrieff,
Jenny Howard, Minnie Love and Kitty
Bluett were other women favorites.
Marie’s brother Harry strolled up from
the body of the hall giving imitations of
bird songs. Marie’s mother, also in the
audience, used to be known in her own
stage days as “Madame Marvelle, Queen
of the Feathered Birds.”
The land of this State has been kind
to the woolgrower. It has enabled him
to amass often wealth, and nearly
always a comfortable competence in
flocks and fleece. When the war
drum sounded not only his flocks
but his pastures were threatened. To
repel that threat young men from every
corner of N. S. Wales offered themselves
as soldiers. Boys whose fathers were
stationowners, boys whose nearest ap-
proach to sheep was the coat on their
back (and that very often a shabby one)
volunteered to fight that their country, its
peace, its comfortable and pleasant way
of life might remain unscarred.
Already they are coming back to Aus-
tralia, many of these soldiers, wounded
and sick. In recognition of their gal-
lantry the Wool Trade War Fund of
N.S.W. has been formed. This makes
special appeal to woolgrowers to help
with extensions to the War Veterans’
Home at Narrabeen. It is proposed to
erect cottages under the supervision of
the War Veterans’ Home Trust of the
same type as the existing structures at
Narrabeen. Secretary of the executive
Madeleine Withall says it will cost about
£lO,OOO for building and another £1250
for furnishing the five cottages the fund
has set its mind on. Each , cottage will
house ten men, and here they will be
able to rest up after they have had the
more urgent care of Yaralla, and pre-
pare to take up everyday life once more.
The sheepmen of Australia have always
been noted for their generosity. The
fund feels it can leave the matter in their
hands. Donations in cash or kind will
be accepted. Sheep or wool donated will
be sold or appraised free of all charge
by the grower’s own broker.
Mildred Bell, a Queensland soprano of
distinction, has come to Sydney with
several of her own compositions in her
satchel. She sang one, “I Know a Quiet
Place,” at a Sydney Town Hall concert
(Marie Burke was on the same pro-
gramme), and the large audience clearly
liked it. Having already received offers
of engagements, Miss Bell intends to
settle in Sydney.
While this week’s Letter was getting
into its pink wrapper, the memorial to
Melba was about to be unveiled. Lady
Gowrie was ready to pull the cord, stand-
ing on the platform, while a group of
committee workers were at the base of
the plaque to see that the workings went
smoothly. John Lemmone, 82, and in
the audience with a sheaf of memories
of his old friend, was presented in the
interval to Lord and Lady Gowrie by
Mrs. Hope Gibson. The Alexander
Gordon lady and Mayor Crick (the con-
cert was to aid the Mayor’s Patriotic
Fund) were importants. Stella Power
sang Melba numbers, including the Mad
Scene from “Lucia.” Una Bourne, who
as a child played at one of Australia's
leading prima donna’s concerts, and did
the same often in later years, was on
the programme ; so was Lindley Evans.
Item of interest was that the Melba
orchestra scores were used. Melba’s son
and his wife were at the concert. The
plaque was presented to Sydney by I.ord
Lurgan.


STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air lasts—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 16 of 1941.
BETWEEN REGINALD HORACE DENNETT
Petitioner
ELSIE MAUDE DENNETT Respondent and
JAMES BRECHNEY Co-respondent.
TO ELSIE MAUDE DENNETT late of 278
Great Western Road Wentworthville and
JAMES BRECHNEY late of 60 Ross
Street Parramatta.
TAKE NOTICE that the said REGINALD
HORACE DENNETT has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying foi
dissolution of marriage on the grounds ot
adultery and take notice that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Twenty-fourth day of July 1941 and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Bth day of May, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. M. GREIG, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
16 George Street, Parramatta.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 516 of 1941.
BETWEEN ELLEN MARY GIBSON Peti-
tioner and
ALLEN LAURENCE GIBSON Respondent.
TO ALLEN LAURENCE GIBSON late of
Murwillumbah in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLEN
MARY GIBSON has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a disso-
lution of marriage on the grounds of desertion
during three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Thirteenth day of August
1941 and in the event of you not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this 13th day of May, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ROSCOE W. G. HOYLE & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, Wingello House, Angel
Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2230 of 1940.
BETWEEN DOROTHY EILEEN COLLINS
Petitioner and
STEWART GRAHAM COLLINS Respondent.
TO STEWART GRAHAM COLLINS late of
Casino in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOROTHY
EILEEN COLLINS has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Eighth day of August One thousand
nine hundred and forty-one and in the event of
you not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 19th day of May, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. H. F. KALESKI & CO., Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 39-49 Martin Place, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
No. 670 of 1941.
BETWEEN DAVIDSON & CURNOW PTY.
LIMITED Plaintiff and
HENRY HILTON Defendant.
TO the abovenamed HENRY HILTON late
of Tent Hill.
TAKE NOTICE that DAVIDSON &
CURNOW PTY. LIMITED the abovenamed
Plaintiff has commenced an action against you
the abovenamed Defendant in this Court to
recover the sum of Five hundred and ninety-
four pounds three shillings and fourpence
f£594 3s 4d.) for goods sold and delivered
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said action at the
proper office of this Court on or before
the Fifth day of June One thousand nine hun-
dred and forty-one and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Plaintiff will be at liberty
to sign final judgment against you in the said
aC DATED this Thirteenth day of May One
thousand nine hundred^
'' Deputy Prothonotary.
J R. WINDEYER, Attorney for the Plain-
tiff; by his Agents, THOMPSON & NOTT,
375 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
In war, as in the piping times of peace,
Boatrace Day remains something in
capital letters for the boys of the public
schools and their feminine contempo-
raries. Among the rest of the community
interest was lukewarm, but the young
fry cheered and yelled along the banks
of the river as loudly as in other years.
Scotch had an exciting win, the first
since 1927, defeating on the finals day
Melbourne Grammar and Wesley. Scotch
boys, old and young, are proud of the
start made by the school in sport this
year with wins in cricket and rowing, in
unofficial tennis and swimming and with
a good chance ahead for football and
combined sports.
The effervescence has gone from Boat-
race Night, but there were plenty of
juvenile dinner parties in town, some well
chaperoned by parents, and “Sally” at His
Majesty’s was a gala night for the boys
and girls of all schools. The biggest
dance was at the Palais, organised by
the Wesley Old Collegians in conjunction
with the Public Schools Club of Victoria.
Other dances for the still younger and
more dewy-eyed were the Xavier Col-
lege ball and the Fifty Hostesses’ dance
at Admiralty House.
At the Palais each school pennant had
its place and allotment of tables, and the
Wesley lion surveyed proceedings from
an honored stance at the official board.
Among the 800-odd guests present were
Old Wesley president Wallace J. Ball,
Public Schools Club president George
Dickenson, and Wesley’s headmaster
N. H. Mac Neil, all accompanied by
better-halves ; also the Harold Stewarts,
the A. J. Sinclairs and the C. W. Miers
couple.
Xavier present boys made merry at
their dance of the year in Manresa Hall,
Hawthorn, showing much appreciation of
the party generally, of the band, of their
young partners, of their own singing of
college songs and of the hot meat pies
that appeared at midnight. Among
guests were Sir Reginald Barnewall and
Lady Barnewall, of Thornton, who
always make a point of being in town
for Boatrace Week. Old Boys’ president
Jim Burne, who used to be coach, was
there with his wife ; also present coach
Eddie Fakhry and his wife. School cap-
tain John Clarebrough, the prefects and
the women’s committee collaborated in
the success of the dance.
The Fifty Hostesses, members of the
Gloucester branch of Prince Henry’s
Hospital, had capacity bookings for their
dance on Boatrace Night, at which they
entertained, among other special guests,
15 lads from Air Force House, dividing
up the bevy in blue among various tables
on request. Among those who assisted
on the committee were Kathleen Wilson,
Mrs. J. R. Coding (who used to be Pat
Haynes), Pat Freeman, Alyson Wellman,
in white feathery cape, and Mollie
Adamson, very slim in delphinium blue
—her partner was John Ashton. Miss K.
Lascelles brought along a party and ran
a wheel for silk stockings when things
got under way.
An old-established event among big
dances of the year, the Legacy Ball hap-
pened on Boat Race eve and was as
usual a well-ordered affair with every-
thing running to programme ; the floor
crowded enough to look festive, but with
room enough to spare for the gyrations
of the feet enjoyed in solemn concentra-
tion by the very young, though it was by
no means a children’s party —the Legacy
stalwarts came through the 1914-18 war.
During reconnaisance work round the
entrance with eyes skinned for the
arrivals of the special guests were W. V.
Scott and E. L. Brendon, respectively hon.
organiser and hon. sec. Lucky dips were
to be found at all four points of the
compass. Among committee members
who had a lot to do with the stocking
of the fishpond attachments were Mrs.
F. W. Thring (at the party, magnificent
in lame) and Mrs. R. H. Heley.
Spark plug of the lucky wheel was
Sid Birrell —he’s grand champion of all
wheels. He can sell dead flowers and
stale rhubarb on the counter of a be-
draggled stall at the end of a long, hot
street-appeal day. He can draw blood
out of a stone and his wit never dries
up, and if his throat gets tired he has
a good recipe for reviving same. Among
his assistants at the Legacy wheel were
Dot Rankin and John Fraser, who came
along after “Sally” ; also from an earlier
hour the John Conners couple, Mrs. J.
in burgundy velvet coat. Among patrons
was brother Charlie Conners, golf cham-
pion, in khaki. A sixsome which started
off with dinner at the Florentine included
General and Mrs. O. F. Phillips, the
Alfred Fowlers and Dr. and Mrs. Simon
McLennan, the first-mentioned couple
having just returned from a holiday to
Sydney.
Enjoying a brief respite from camp was
Lieut. Phil Hudson with fair-haired
wife Hilary. A newly-married pair
present were the Col. Kennons. Mrs.
Kennon (who was Marjorie Carney until
a month or so ago) wore her wedding
gown, a dreamlike confection of misty-
blue net. Another couple basking in
romantic aura were Edith Anderson and
George Kirwan, to be married on June 7.
This is Sue Dennett (Athol Shmith
photograph), who will be married on
Saturday afternoon at St, John’s, Toorak,
to Jimmy Cecil. Mrs. Cedric Bright will
be matron of honor (only a few months
ago as Jayne Harper she was attended
at the altar by Sue as bridesmaid). On
Saturday Marie Stable will be second
attendant, escorted by the ’groomsman,
the bride’s young brother Peter, a Mel-
bourne Grammar boy of six-feet-two-
odd. Corporal Jimmy Cecil has com-
mandeered a naval pal for best man,
Seaman Hal Featherstone.
The Australian Comforts Fund has
moved itself, personnel and possessions
from the Town Hall to the ground floor
site of 85 Collins-street, on the old stance
of Georgette —for the Lower Town Hall
has once more been commandeered for
recruiting. The new premises have pros
and cons (the biggest point about the
latter is the rent that has to be paid,
although a sizy cut was a donation from
the owner of the building). Pro, the new
site has propaganda value. Although
net curtains are going up on the windows
this week, much activity in navy-blue
overalls can be seen from the street.
The sun streams in through glass windows
right on to one table of workers, but
kindred spirits in other parts of the
building don’t grudge the select band
their extra privilege, for they’re the experts
on the tedious job of reknitting badly-
finished toes —some knitters still can’t
get away from a picket fence last lap
in their otherwise worthy pairs of socks.
There’s a lot more space at 85 Collins-
street than is visible from the street, but
the total area hasn’t the elbow-room of
the Town Hall. The clerical staff works
behind partitions and there’s a back door
very useful for arrivals and dispatch per
lorry. On duty a few hours after the
big move were Supervisor Mrs. G. F.
Blandy and three Commissioners —of
Receiving, Mrs. Olive Gardener; of
Dispatch, Nancy Hewlett; of Knitting,
Mrs. Keith Ross; also specialist in pack-
ing Miss Nancy Madden, who packed
comforts for the last war as well as
this one.
The Comforts Fund has a satisfactory
roster of helpers, but room can always
be made for more provided they are
keen enough to be reliable. Among
early callers at the new premises were
deputy chairman (who is also president of
branches) Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Mrs.
Carl Kumm and Mrs. W. S. Cox. These
three do much travelling and speaking at
various branches, of which there are
298 in this State, and have now become
adept at doing appropriate honor to
half a dozen cups of afternoon tea within
a couple of hours.
The Work-to-Win people were cunning
in their choice of date for their “Dim
Sim Do” in the Town Hall, for not only
was it a bargain-hunters’ Friday but
Boatrace Day as well, A point about the
Chinese meal was that about 99 per cent,
of those who ate it were women, which
looks as if Kipling were . right about
women being sisters under the skin, in
spite of many accusations to the contrary.
The Dim Sims were for the war nurses’
comforts, and many nurses in uniform
made a point of being present. It was
just too bad if anyone didn’t like Dim
Sims, for the only other choice was
almond cake, the issue washed down
with China tea. The Vice-Consul of
China and Mrs. Tsao, the Lady Mayoress,
the Rev. Chiang, Matron Janet Sinclair
Wood and Matron F. P. Field were
among invited guests.
Tomorrow the Red Cross Shop at 82
Collins-street will celebrate its first birth-
day in genuine juvenile fashion with a
cake and one candle and miniature cakes
at Is. 6d. each, with a small candle apiece
thrown in, plus two chances in the dis-
posal of war-savings certificates. Also,
with the ingenuousness of the young and
therefore privileged, the Shop is candid
about mentioning presents and its prefer-
ences therefor. At the moment dressing-
jackets, children’s clothes, silver, crystal
and china, cakes and flowers are most
acceptable. Regarding the china, odd-
ments and single cups and saucers are
all welcome. The birthday celebration
is not limited to one day, but is to con-
tinue for a week, though the form of
rejoicing will be confined to giving
presents and shopping on the spot.
Among gifts received in advance were
cheques for the rent collector and a dona-
tion of £l5 collected in pennies. Since its
inception one year ago takings over the
counter amount to £3lOO.
Herewith from Broothorn, Mrs. Ruth
Greenwald, assisting in the production of
“Waste and Waists,” She wrote the
music for this home-brewed revue, and as
musical director is present at rehearsals
under way nightly at the Princess. In-
cluded in the cast are Alan Code, who
plays the romantic lead, Grant Taylor
(of “Forty Thousand Horsemen”), who
is the man around town, and Barbara
Clough, one of the show’s leading
dancers. Arthur Belcher is conductor
and Alice Uren ballet mistress. Bill Con-
stable’s decor is completed, and meets
with general approval. The season at
the Princess on May 28 and 29 will aid
the Judean Red Cross branch and War
Auxiliary.
Sensibly the Free French Committee
in Melbourne dropped an ambitious
scheme for an appeal in this city for
comforts for Free French troops from
the Pacific at present in N.S.W. A meet-
ing was hurriedly arranged in one of
the many assembly hideaways of the
Town Hall, and suggestions, even the
wildest ones, were dealt with with an
open mind—to bring 600 troops to Mel-
bourne, to bring 100, to bring a football
team, a band, a choir, “some of the
handsomest men,” two boxers, one
wrestler, to have a button day and a
street appeal, to circulate lucky en-
velopes, etc. —for some of the enthusi-
asts of the movement possess unrestricted
imagination, but hadn’t the faintest con-
ception of the work and organisation
behind a big charity effort.
Finally the tide turned on a majority
vote and a weight of worry was lifted
from the brows of those present who
could follow figures and who know the
temper of this town. Prof. Chisholm
was in the chair, and Pierre Mann was
another lucid speaker. Fred Armytage
was present with a cold shower in the
guise of facts and figures about appeals
of the past, successful and otherwise.
From a well-known journalist alongside
him came a summing-up in a nutshell
“Scheme too big, time too short, expenses
too large, committee too small.”
At the annual meeting there was a
shuffle round of old-established names on
the committee of the Past and Present
Students’ Association of the Albert-street
Conservatorium. Harold Elvins was
again elected president, and hon. sec.
Jessica Pennell resigned after seven and
a half years of service, to be succeeded
by Leo Collins. During last year the
association helped its musical Alma Mater
by several stout efforts. It provided
bursaries for pianist Ethel Parnham and
singer Joyce Johnson, and with particular
help from Miss Pennell organised a
recital for Joyce Drysdale (Joyce, who
had benefited for three years from Mary
Campbell scholarships, handed over the
proceeds of her concert to become a nest-
egg for the next Mary Campbell winner).
A further effort by the association was
a bridge party, which helped to pay for
the erection of a new platform in the
South Gallery.


PREVENT BONE CHEWING—FEED TRI-CAL-OS
Remember your pasture is deficient in
those essential minerals which stock must
have, and which they seek, when they
chew bones. Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is the
most reliable source of those minerals—
calcium and phosphorus—for all livestock
feeding. Tri-cal-os contains over 70%
tricalcic phosphate, having a guaranteed
minimum of 33% phosphoric acid, and
40% lime. All stock take to it readily.
All particulars about Tri-cal-os from: —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney;
G.r.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 758 K,
Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 713 F, Adelaide; or G.P.O.
Box 588, Perth.
m
m
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
Bl
m
O
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1 -gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY.. LTD.,
27 Bowen St.. BRISBANE. Q'LANP.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH. WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep and Lucerne.
“Ghanam”: Many sheepmen are only
now coming to realise that lucerne is
drought-resistant. The old idea that it
needed high rainfall and rich land is
dying at last. Other facts which have
not dawned as yet on many who attempt
to grow it for sheep-grazing are that it
needs constant care whether the area is
wet or dry.
Lucerne can’t do well in ground which
is pounded into marble by sheep. It
should be cultivated a couple of times a
year. Feeding off should take place
when plants are under a foot high, just
coming to flower, and the grazing should
be heavy and quick—lo days is enough.
Never let the sheep feed down to the
roots. Grazing is best with mixed
grasses. Lucerne gives the grass shelter,
and where grass and lucerne go together
there is far less danger of bloat.
Lucerne has many uses on a sheep
farm. To replenish the bodily resources
of breeding ewes it is excellent. It is
good topping-off material for fat lambs.
It makes good silage and hay, and any
surplus can more easily be put away
for a dry day than with most other
fodders. Its main fault is that it needs
other feeds to balance it. It can itself
be used as a healthy balancer in mineral-
short pastures.
Not much is known of the effect of
green feeds on wool. Some graziers
believe lucerne helps to coarsen wool.
I’ve never seen any real data on the
matter. The N. S. Wales Agricultural
Department points out that on spring-
lambing properties lucerne is useful not
only to keep up milk supply in the ewes,
but provides green feed to be used as a
specific against toxaemia in pregnancy.
Beef Raising.
“C. Punch”: With the cutting-off of
beef-bull imports from the United King-
dom, Australian studmasters and cattle-
breeders will be thrown on their own re-
sources to keep up the standard of Aus-
tralian beef. First essential, of course,
is a good bull. But the matter doesn’t
stop there. Quality of the mothers has
to be high, and there are other things.
An early-maturing carcass of high quality
is the aim, and to achieve this there must
be continuous good feeding.
Americans and Argentines, using high-
grade bulls and selected herd cows to
produce a quality carcass of 6801 b. to
7001 b. at 24 to 30 months, make sure that
the calf has ample milk from dropping
to weaning and’ ample pasturage from
weaning to killing. If they haven’t the
pasturage on the place they buy fodder.
In U.S.A. most of the cattle are partly
grown and wholly fattened on maize ; in
Argentina lucerne and improved pastures
do the trick. In both countries breeders
concentrate on quietening the youngsters
and keeping them quiet, and steps are
taken to see that there is no long walking
to water. A reform badly needed here is
subdivision to keep the young females
away from the bulls until they are fit to
breed.
Dehorning is still looked upon as being
“newfangled,” though it makes a quieter
animal. A normal stock train will carry
10 per cent, more head of dehorned stock
and in greater comfort.
We’ve got the country, the foundation
stock and the opportunity, but too many
expect the Government to do something
about it.
Development of Fedweb.
“8.C.”: Though Fedweb 1 is only just
coming into commercial use as a wheat
for rich country with a fairly high
summer rainfall, its development began
back in 1915 when Harry Stephens, first
Walter and Eliza Hall Agricultural Re-
search Fellow, began looking for some-
thing to beat stem-rust.
A bigger job called Stephens and he
was killed in action in France, but Syd-
ney University resumed the work, and
in 1919 a series of crosses was made.
Among them was Canberra-Thew. By
1921 it was evident that both Canberra
and Thew were resistant to three of the
six known types of stem-rust. Numerous
progeny were tested, and some selections
made had resistance to all six stem-rust
races and to one of the two known leaf-
rust races.
By 1926 Gatton College (Q.) and
Hawkesbury College (N.S.W.) were grow-
“Busy for the moment, Ma?”
ing selections free from infection against
plots of the parents that were heavily
rusted. But another rust race turned up,
and both Canberra and Thew fell to it
heavily. From U.S.A. came Webster
and Hope, both with promise for breed-
ing work and both showing resistance to
the new rust. They were crossed with
Farrer’s Federation and other Australian
wheats.
In 1927, most of the selections that had
previously resisted stem-rust were heavily
infected by the Westralian race —later
labelled Race 34.
The Federation-Webster cross meant
that Federation, the most outstanding
Farrer wheat and a bag-filler in all sorts
of conditions, but susceptible to disease,
was crossed with Webster, a Mongolian
variety with characteristics not wanted
here. Their characters were: Federation,
a beardless, white-grained wheat, with
short strong straw, drought and black-
chaff resistant, with a small grain of fair
quality, early maturing and a good
yielder, susceptible to rust and flag smut,
Webster, a bearded wheat with a large
red grain of good quality but low yield,
tall and weak of straw, a late maturer
susceptible to drought and black chaff,
but rust and flag smut resistant.
Fifteen grains were selected from the
University cross in 1926. Their progeny
resisted the original six rust races, but
fell to Race 34. Many hundreds of seed-
lings were tested in the second generation
and a very small proportion were found
to resist all seven rust races. Grains from
these went to make a third generation,
and in this one family was found to
promise resistance.
This was the foundation of Fedweb,
but a lot more selecting had to be done
and types fixed, and in succeeding years
test rows grown on C. H. Beeson’s Gun-
nedah (N.S.W.) farm showed a steady im-
provement. By 1937 the variety had
been named and seed was released to
farmers. At the 1940 Sydney Show Fed-
web won the Commonwealth champion-
ship
It is a late maturer and should be sown
at a moderate seeding rate because its
early growth is inclined to be prostrate
and it tillers freely. Foliage and straw
closely resemble Federation and enable
it to stand up to summer storms. It has
a large, vitreous grain and finishes well,
It resists leaf rust moderately, but is sus-
ceptible to flag smut.
Oats for Cows.
“I. Freesham”: There is no better
grain than oats for dairy cows. They
should be fed crushed, when they have
practically the same value as bran and
supply slightly more protein and mineral
than wheat, maize or barley.
As green feed, silage, hay or chaff,
oats provide carbohydrates. They are
best as grain or green feed. Crushed
oats make an ideal ration for dry cows
and can be fed right up to calving. They
not only keep the cow well but help
make strong, well-developed calves As
soon as calves start to feed they can have
Tib. of crushed oats a day, increasing to
lib. a day at six months old.
Judiciously sown, oats will provide
cattle feed from May to September,
They can be grazed in any weather; are
most nutritious when about Sin. high.
If oats are to go down as silage they
should be mixed with a legume, like
vetches or green peas, to obtain a good
balance. The following ration has been
found successful on farms where good
leguminous and oat crops can be
grown:
When maize is expensive: Lucerne
chaff, 151 b.; oaten chaff, 10lb.; bran or
crushed oats, 41b. When maize is cheap:
Oaten chaff, 201 b.; lucerne chaff, 101 b.,
bran or crushed oats, 41b.; maizemeal,
61b.
Another good ration is oaten chaff,
201 b.; lucerne chaff, 51b.; maizemeal,
21b.; linseed meal, 21b,
Two p asture Stories,
:
ville, Yass (N.S.W.), who P
pasture improvement in the district 20
years ago, increases the area of improved
pastures on his own Properties e e y
Yfar. In 1940 he sowed about 4000 acres
of sub clover. Mermnan gives the land
a good cultivation, and sows 31b. to 4ib.
°f P®f ** cre r> oa * s . a
crop He finds that sub. establishes itself
fimckl iy and well on a properly prepared
seedbed, but it takes three Y ear s o -
come established on country a
on ty been scarified, and six years i
broadcast on uncultivated ground.
This year he sold crossbred lambs
which averaged 401 b. Pressed weight at
three to four months old off improve
pastures. Woolgrowers on improve
P as . tures ! n Strict cut an average o
Hlb- each compared with 91b. each cu
by those on natural grasses. Body weigh
of sheep on improved pastures was abou
-01 b. greater than those on the natura
• , , , . ■.
Mernman says he has proved that it
is easier to carry three sheep per acre
on improved pastures through a drought
than it is to carry a sheep to the acre on
unimproved country,
Two years ago H. J. Bate, of Tilba
Tilba (N.S.W.), took over a farm
of 206 acres which was infested with
rabbits and carried heavy growth of
bracken fern. The boundary was netted
and the rabbits cleared out. The fern
was cut, and control simplified by sub-
division into small paddocks for inten-
sjve g raz j n g
Improved pastures were sown and top-
with super. The herd of mixed
, F , ~ n
cattle was put under the Government
recording scheme, and culled heavily on
test fi§ ures ; 50 p.c. of the ongina
cows remain the others have been culled
out an£ i replaced with higher producers,
Average production has increased from
1201 b. of butterfat per cow to 174.51 b.
in two years. Bate s aim is to keep on
testing and culling until the herd average
exceeds 2501 b. of butterfat per cow.
“Darino”: Queensland wool appraise-
ments for the year that will end on
30/6/’4l are expected to come pretty


ŵ
TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN *
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO RING-BARKING!
Prevents suckering! Eradicates
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO (15ft.)
BEARS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001bs. Sow NOW. 2/6 packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., SYDNEY.
DURABILITY
a
\u h,
LLm
BIRKMYRE
WATERPROOF TARPAULINS
This famous canvas is made in Scotland by British Labour. It
is truly British and will never let you down. THOROUGHLY
WATERPROOF, ALWAYS FLEXIBLE and DEFINITELY
STRONG, it gives years of satisfactory service. Obtainable
from reputable makers. If difficulty in getting supplies is
experienced, write Wholesale Distributors:
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
Be
The failure of one valve alone in your Radio can
render it useless . . . but
A replacement is always available when an
Australian-made type is used.
Safeguard your Radio entertainment by insisting
that your Radio is fitted with AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADIOTRON VALVES.
Australian-made RADIOTRONS satisfy the vital needs
of radio. Their efficiency is symbolised by their
adoption as standard to the Navy, Army and Air
Force Services.
X
HOLD All YOU HAVE-
X
BUY ALL YOU CAN
Australian General Electric
X'roprietary, Ltd.,
93 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Amalgamated Wireless (A’sia), Ltd.,
47 York Street,
SYDNEY.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
1
><, * gmmuF- Trs
Hi
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11 /-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable, and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
close to last year’s record of 658,338
bales. Quality, however, is hardly likely
to be as good. The clip started growing
with the benefit of good rams, but after
that the dry spell came to a lot of the
sheep country, and fleeces lost length and
density. There has been, too, a good bit
of prematurely shorn wool, probably
coming from men who shore to save the
sheep, and some discoloration, but lice
infestation is far less evident. Fleece
weights have kept up fairly well, the State
average per head from sheep and lambs
keeping round the l\\h. mark. It would
be interesting to know how , much the
inclusion of lambs pulls down the adult
average.
Checked out at 78 at Glenelg (S.A.)
Otto Bartholomaeus, reclaimer of thou-
sands of square miles of S.A. sheep
country. As recently as 1934, when he
was then over 70, Bartholomaeus cleaned
up some of the worst dog-infested country
that everybody else had given the go-by.
He put in decent dog-proof fences and
ran sheep on hitherto unoccupied land.
When he finished his clean-up his station
was recognised as one of the best towards
the “Centre.”
“Ryapto”: Ten years ago nasal fly was
seldom met with in n.-w. Queensland.
Today it is not uncommon to see 50 p.c.
of a flock and 90 p.c. of a mob of rams
affected. Sheep lose weight and the
wool loses some of its bloom. The
greatest curse is the loss of virility in
rams. The trouble has much the same
effect on sheep as a heavy cold on human
beings.
“J. Want”: The N.S.W. Agricultural
Department has decided, after tests at
Carlingford, that foliage poison spray is
more effective against fruit-fly than
vanilla-ammonia traps. The experiments
were made with caged trees into which
seven-day-old flies of both sexes were
released. Sprays and traps were used.
A fortnight was allowed to elapse. Then,
after three days, there were no flies in
the cage in which tartar emetic spray
was used ; there were a few in a cage
in which the tree had been sprayed with
sodium fluosilicate ; but a large number
remained in the trap cages. There was
slight infestation of fruit on the trap
trees ; none on the poison-sprayed trees.
Untreated check trees showed 34.2 p.c.
of fruit infested. The results are not
conclusive but they are in line with the
convictions of a lot of experienced
orchardists.
Clifford Minter, of the Sydney legal
firm of Minter, Simpson and Co., breeds
stud stock as a hobby. He owns the
Kahlua Aberdeen-Angus stud, Coolac
(N.S.W.). At the Royal Empire Show
championship ribbons were placed on his
bull Kahlua Gaelic Chief and cow
Kahlua Titania. His Kahlua Kydra was
reserve champion cow, and several other
animals from the stud won prizes.
“Deakin Have” : A Barcaldine woman,
Mrs. Ogden, has been growing, packing
and marketing four or five tons of dates
a year from palms planted there many
years ago, probably by the old Queens-
land Acclimatisation Society. Good fruit
is being got from old palms at the State
Farm at Roma. Lately some people have
been suggesting that Queensland’s west
could supply all Australia’s date require-
ments, as the palms need little or no
attention and will grow well along bore
drains and other well-watered places. The
local Department of Agriculture has been
experimenting with dates for years, but
with little practical result. Years ago there
was a group of date palms in Mildura
(Vic.) from which we used to pluck the
dates in bunches and ripen them on a
roof or in a tin hung up in the sun.
“Canbelego”; W. Bowbrick, who has
an irrigation area farm at Leeton
(N.S.W.), cleared £3O Bs. from one-sixth
of an acre of irrigated asparagus last
season. Leeton cannery purchased most
of the crop. Cutting period was 90 days
—September to December. Fertiliser, at
per-acre rate, was 4j bags of blood and
bone and 12 tons of stable manure. The
crop was given 14 waterings.
“Bundalinga”: P. R. Wilkinson, who
farms 400 acres at Yellowin, Tumut
(N.S.W.), combines pig-raising with dairy-
ing. He has seven breeding sows, and
finds that pigs thrive on pastures in which
there is strong growth of red and sub.
clovers. Paddocks are subdivided with
electric fencing for grazing by pigs and
cattle. Natural timber has been retained
for shade and shelter in most paddocks,
and young trees for the same purpose
have been planted in others. Several of
the 70 Jerseys have production records
exceeding 4001 b. of butterfat per cow.
“Goulburn”: Tall paspalum is of
little value as a fodder, and it tends to
choke out white clover. Mow surplus
paspalum and conserve it as hay or
silage. New growth which follows mow-
ing develops into excellent early winter
feed, with an accompanying development
of white clover. If paspalum on steep
or stony country cannot be mown, stock
it heavily, or close up from stock and
allow the growth to rot down, providing
useful fertilising material. If allowed to
rot down the grass will not yield any
feed for several months. Ideal grazing
is possible when paspalum is not allowed
to exceed 6in. in height.
“Peapod”: When topdressing hilly
country, don’t manure the whole area.
Stock have a natural tendency to remain
on certain slopes on the sunny side. This
results in an uneven spread of fertility.
Topdressing should be to even up this
balance by drawing stock on to the
neglected slopes.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXIX.
Being Self-sufficient.
As your missus sees it, there is nothing
more extravagantly foolish than for
people with several hundred acres of
good land to be paying high prices for
green vegetables every time they go into
the town on Saturdays. If some farmers,
she says, concentrated on producing more
of their own needs from their own land
they might not have to worry so much
about low prices for wheat and wool.
You could, she says, fence off a small
plot of ground down on the creek, and
if she and you and the two boys liked
to put in a bit of spare time now and
again you could have more vegetables
than you could use.
Jack, your elder son, snorts at the idea.
Jack is a true Australian farmer. He
believes that a man should grow wheat
and wool and stick to them, not be fuss-
ing about with horse radishes and carrots.
That sort of thing, in Jack’s opinion, is
best left to Chinese or Spaniards. Look,
says he, at them Spanish tomato-growers
down the river. Little bits of farms, not
a horse on the place, no wheat or sheep,
and they call themselves farmers.
“But,” says young Tom, who is a
Junior Farmer and has raised vegetables
and calves and chooks in his time, “they
must make a good thing. They’ve always
got nice houses to live in and big cars
to get about in. They”
“Aw,” says Jack, “that’s because
they’re too tight t’ spend anything.”
The missus contributes the announce-
ment that if people are willing to pay
a lot of money for stuff they could grow
themselves she supposes it’s none of her
business. All the same, she wishes to
remind everybody concerned that the
family was unable to have a holiday this
year because money was too scarce. Now,
if all the money spent all the year on
potatoes and things had not been spent,
it would have made enough for a holi-
day, and it needn’t have been spent if
people had had the sense to grow their
own things.
So, within a fortnight there is a small
area netted off down on the creek, and
you and the boys spend several days
turning up the rich, black sandy-loam
mixture and building it into beds. Mean-
time the missus goes to town and buys
seeds of cabbage, carrot, pumpkin,
lettuce, artichokes and other fruits.
Within another fortnight there are tiny
green shoots showing up all over the
plot, and you and the family go down
on Sunday afternoon and admire the
growing things. You have visions of big,
robust carrots and plates full of hot
pumpkin scones, and decide that when the
time comes you must put in some water-
melons and rock melons. The missus
spends quite a lot of time down in the
new garden. So does Tom. Jack keeps
clear of it, and you, of course, have
many other things to do.
And within another fortnight there is
a weeping and wailing and gnashing of
teeth because the wood-duck and the teal
and other strange fowl have come along
the creek and found the delectable greens.
The plot is a barren waste, forlorn within
the netting barriers that kept out the land
forces but failed to stop the air raiders.
So the missus buys more seeds and
there is a further sowing. You and the
boys drive in stakes and tie strings to
them and pieces of paper and rag to the
strings. These, fluttering in the breeze,
are calculated to scare off the wild birds.
So they do, and the earth of the plot
once more puts forth promising green
shoots of lettuce and so forth.
But in time the birds become familiar
with the fluttering papers and rags, and
their familiarity breeds contempt, so that
you and the boys are forced to arm your-
selves with shotguns and pea-rifles and
sally forth. But you can’t maintain an
armed guard on the plot, so you put in
6ft. poles round the fence and through
the plot, run cross-pieces from pole to
pole, net the whole and thus enclose the
area in a cage.
It becomes very amusing to sit on the
verandah of a Sunday and watch the
birds roost on the netting and imagine
how mad they are with the delicacies so
near and yet so far. One or two attempts
are made by nocturnal visitors to sap
the outer defences, but you had put that
netting well into the ground, and these
attempts fail.
The weeks go by, and there is a fine
crop of vegetables coming on in the cage.
Then one day the missus reports find-
ing one elephant beetle on a tomato
plant, three pumpkin bugs on a pumpkin
vine and about six unknown insects on
the lettuce. She also captured an over-
grown slug. Two days later a rough
estimate of the livestock in the plot is
43,000 elephant beetles, 16,500 pumpkin
bugs, 786 slugs and about 345,000 miscel-
laneous. There are also what appear
to be tomato wilt and mosaic fungus,
with some symptoms of footrot and a
suggestion of housemaid’s knee or some-
thing in the potatoes.
So the town is visited, and stocks of
Bordeaux, lime, arsenite of lead, sulphur,
nicotine sulphate and other insecticides
and fungicides are acquired. With their
help, some of the crop is brought to
fruition.
In the end, you strike an average of
your weekly vegetable costs when buying
them. Then you total up the entire cost
of the material, seeds, sprays and labor
used on the plot, put the seven carrots,
half-bag of potatoes, 24 tomatoes, two
lettuce, one dozen pumpkins and other
odd items it yielded as a set-off against
the cost and find that you and the family
could have had three holidays on the
debit. So you get Jack to pull down the
netting and advise the missus that hence-
forth you’ll stick to farming and leave
market gardening to the Chinese and the
Spaniards.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
First place for a Queenslander who has strong opinions on modern trends.
Lessons of History
I’ve been studying history lately (not
school history) arid this above all has im-
pressed itself on my mind. When a
nation loses all sense of balance and acts
contrary to the traditions of its history,
a war or some other form of upheaval
usually follows. A lack of balance and
stupid living, with the emphasis on sex,
presaged the fall of the Roman Empire,
and if we trace history on, dwelling a
while on the decline and fall of the
Spanish Empire, we come to the mad
days immediately preceding the Revolu-
tion of 1793.
From 1910 onward Europe went semi-
crazy. There was a craze for dancing,
mimicry, sex displays, birth control. And
what followed? The greatest war in
history.
Which brings us to modern times, and,
ignoring mad Europe and confining our-
selves to Australia, what do we see?
We see a craze for mad dancing—“jitter-
bugging”—and sex displays are the order
of the day. We see an effeminate press,
one that caters for vanity. A press that
puts sales before honest journalism and
glorifies the flapper ; that puts the em-
phasis on sex and bows to the great god
Sensationalism.
The world is aching for freedom—free-
dom from war and depression and their
resultant misery. But how can we hope
to attain this freedom if we continue to
ignore the lessons of history? Because
even now, with a second world war rag-
ing, we are still doing our darnedest to
emulate the vices that presaged the fall
of Rome. Hollywood glitter and jazz,
semi-nude flappers and racehorses, a
“stunt” press, political bungling, money,
money and more money.— Zend Avesta
(Q.).
War Loans
Why the falling off in subscribers com-
pared with the corresponding loans of
1915-16? There are several at least
feasible explanations. Australia had prior
to 1914 enjoyed a long series of peaceful
years with little to ruffle the placid waters
of the economic sea. People lived,
worked and planned ahead—and mostly
paid their way. Then came four years
of war, upsetting all calculations, fol-
lowed by a hectic (some called it a pros-
perous) decade wfien “values” jumped
a point every 24 hours, giving impetus to
the never-quite-dead instinct to gamble.
Then the “depression,” upsetting cal-
culations, scattering hopes and leaving
behind a legacy of high taxes.
Every nation was manoeuvring for
economic advantages and export became
restricted. But life had to go on, so the
time-payment system was developed,
and those with the least financial re-
sources sought relief here. The result was
that the section of the people which should
have made up the numbers of subscribers
was already financially embarrassed
when this war broke out, whereas its
counterpart of 1916 had a little to spare.
Moreover, though it may be true that
the cities never before enjoyed such
spending power as now, cost of living has
risen considerably, and is felt severely
by people in the country who have had
no benefit from the livelier circulation of
money.
Still all this does not explain the big
drop in subscribers to the third war loan,
from 102,000 to 1900. The reason is
probably partly political and partly
psychological. In 1916 the conscription
issue had been settled and we had a Gov-
ernment with all the signs of stability.
In 1940 we had two nearly equal strong
political parties both contending for the
right to govern and too suspicious of each
other’s intentions to form a national
Government.
Finally, in 1914 it was hammer and
tongs right from the word go, which
naturally had an electrifying effect on
many people. For the Australian-people *
there was nothing dramatic about the way
the war of 1939 started. A great many
people for months refused to take it
seriously, and many more hoped a solu-
tion would be found before it came to a
clash between the big armies. Also it
should not be forgotten that nearly
£25,000,000 has been raised in war-loan
certificates, which probably all came from
the numerically strong but financially
weak investor.
I am making excuses for no one,
merely stating my views. I have no fear
our war effort will suffer for want of
subscribers. The Government already has
the power to take the money wherever
and whenever it wants it, and I trust it
knows its responsibility.—C. N. (Vic.).
The number and amount of individual
applications would be greatly increased
if the minimum loan application were re-
duced to £1 or even to £5, instead of £lO
as at present. If this were done, every
family in Australia would have an in-
terest in the loan, which would be truly
national. Even in peace-time, £lO strains
the pocket of the average worker; in
war it is beyond his reach. — Smilax (Q.).
“Get aft , Karl, und give August a hand mit der guns.”
Petrol
I live on the slope just below Edge-
cliff-road, Sydney. This is the highway
to Socialurbia up Bellevue Hill way. Cars
tear up Edgecliff-road all day and all
night. In front of my abode is New
South Head-road. It is like a speed track
with cars tearing along it all day and
half the night.
I wouldn’t mind if these cars were
loaded with munitions en route for Adolf
and Benito. But they are manned mostly
by flash-looking folk who don’t seem to
have anything to do but just tear about
in a car. Fat dowagers, too, are amongst
the freight, hurrying, no doubt, to* a
bridge party. Among the cargo also are
plenty of flash young coves (in civvies)
who should be in the army.
Are our politicians too gutless to stop
this extravagance? —P. Destrian
(N.S.W.).'
Blaming the motorist for not being
more economical in his consumption of
petrol, the Government has announced a
reduction in the allowance and expressed
the pious hope that this time the 30 p.c.
saving will be achieved. It is admitted on
all sides that the fuel position is unsatis-
factory. That this is the case, after nearly
two years of war, is an indictment of
Australia’s fuel policy.
For years before the outbreak of war
the German Government encouraged re-
search into substitute motor fuels. When
war came, there was no pleading with
private industry to reduce its petrol usage.
Owners of motor transport were ordered
to convert a stipulated proportion of
their vehicles to use fuels other than oil
—producer gas or town’s gas compressed
in bottles or “bags.”
Our Government has never at any time
ordered motorists to use home-produced
fuel—yor go without. Its own depart-
ments are making no appreciable attempts
to economise, on imported fuel. Private
owners of motor transport hesitate to
convert their vehicles on account of the
Government’s uncertain attitude and the
lack of well-designed equipment, which is
in itself due to uncertain demand and
the Government’s hesitant policy. Drastic
measures are needed if fuel imports are
to be conserved. — Wusslean (Vic.).
The Army
I am an ex-officer of the Imperial
Army, aged 43. On March 26 of this
year I posted an application to Mel-
bourne for appointment to a commission
in a certain branch of the service in
which vacancies were advertised. One
had to send with the application a photo-
graph of the applicant. This I did.
The next thing I heard of the matter
was over a month later (no acknowledg-
ment of the application was received),
when I received notice to attend an inter-
view board in Sydney a week later. The
letter contained a warning that I would
have to travel to the board at my own
expense.
I attended, and was interviewed. The
presiding officer asked for my birth cer-
tificate, but as I was born in the Old
Country and do not travel about with a
birth certificate, and could hardly get a
copy from “Home” within less than three
months, I was told that 1 would have to
make a statutory declaration about my
age before a J.P. All this was in spite of
the fact that the year of my birth was
stated on my original army discharge.
The board said the army rule was that a
birth certificate or else a statutory
declaration must be produced.
The officer in charge of the board said
he himself was a J.P. but I could not
make the declaration before him I
forget the reason why—so I had to go
about the city in search of a J.P. Next
I had to be “discharged” by some official
who represented the “Man-power Board.”
That is the first stage on my way back
(I hope) to the army. The O.C. Board
said a month might elapse before the
folk in Melbourne (all the files have to
go back to Melbourne) would communi-
cate with me again. Then Igo before a
medical board for examination as to
physical fitness; and, as those results
must go back to Melbourne, I am begin-
ning to have doubt as to whether I shall
be in time for this war. I have a kind
of sinking feeling that Adolf won’t wait.
—Ex-1.0. (N.S.W.).
— 9
Imported
Visiting a township in the S.A. Mallee
I bought a souvenir china ash-tray bear-
ing a colored photo, of the main street.
There was quite a good selection of bric-
a-brac similarly adorned. On the bottom
of each piece was the legend “Made in
Czechoslovakia.”
There must be an economic reason why
it pays the storekeepers to buy these
pretty trifles of “local interest” from fac-
tories on the other side of the world in
spite of the extra cost of transit and im-
port duties. That reason is simple.
Wages and, therefore, production costs
are so much lower in Europe that the
makers can show a profit on even a small
charge. In other words, wages are so
high here that local factories could not
possibly compete even with the advan-
tage of being thousands of miles nearer
the market. Nobody is so silly as to try,
and another secondary industry remains
unborn.
On returning to the city I walked
through a couple of chain stores and
turned dozens of articles over, to find that
almost all were of foreign make. The
reason for their presence was the same
in every case.
Australia is just a huge department
store. If its prices are too high it will
lose its trade and become bankrupt. At
present, even.dts own employees buy from
its competitors. Rationing petrol to save
foreign exchange while we make a present
of our markets to foreigners is like shut-
ting the gate of a paddock to keep out
the draught.— Dole (S.A.).
From Egypt
I notice that there is some agitation in
Australia about the presence of General
Blarney’s wife in Egypt, with strong sug-
gestions that she should return at once.
I know the lady and her husband,
and I have seen and heard good
accounts of the work she and the girls
with her are doing in helping to enter-
tain your lads on leave in Cairo and
Alexandria ; but I have no brief to speak
on her behalf.
What I want to say is that there is
another side to the picture than that
which seems to show itself in Australia.
The soldiers in Egypt are not in the
front line or fighting all the time, and
when they are not they need to have
boredom relieved. Nothing helps to
relieve it better than the service
clubs of different sorts that have
been organised, and nothing provides
a healthy opposition to the temp-
tations of the big cities better than the
pleasant company of girls at these clubs.
The visits of English girls to the hos-
pitals are also much appreciated by the
patients. The female British population
of Egypt is not large, and by far the
greater part of them are either married,
with household duties to occupy them, or
workers with longish hours of work,
often in summer heat. They are doing
their duty nobly and well. But there are
not nearly enough of them, and I believe
the universal complaint at the service
clubs is “we haven’t enough hostesses.”
We want more, not fewer, British
, women here. An Australian medical
colonel agreed with me, but said the dif-
ficulty was shipping room. And more
recently an Australian nurse said that
they could do with more hospital order-
lies to do the heavy work. Wasn’t that
what V.A.Ds. were invented for in the
1914-18 war, and couldn’t they be used
again and so release men for other mili-
tary duties?
P.S. — Apples. Send us as many as you
can, but not too dear. We are largely
dependent on Americans, which haven’t
the kick of a Tasmanian or Victorian
apple.—J. I. C. (Cairo),
Boom!
To talk of high finance to the average
man is to waste breath. Higher wages
mean more money at the end of the
week. Hop in and get your cut. Low
finance is more easily understood.' During
the last boom coalminers forced their
wages up till they lost their markets and
their jobs. Foreign ’fields, oil and elec-
tricity undersold them. Whole districts
went on the dole.
At the same time “snobs” raised their
prices till laymen learned to mend their
own shoes, and cheap stick-on soles got
such a good grip that it meant the last
of an army of cobblers. Barbers raised
their fees till customers refused to turn
the other cheek and bought safety razors.
Factory hands became “tonsorial artists,”
procured clippers and operated on each
other at tucker-time. Lots of barbers
went up the pole.
Theatre orchestras became organised
and struck for more notes. They lost
their encore, were replaced by the orches-
trion, and most of them are still looking
for work. Washerwomen got “better
conditions,” and thousands of them had
to abdicate in favor of washing-machines
and electric wringers. The list of similar
“rises” would fill a special supplement.
The whole of Australia is now raising
its standard of living while the going is
good. In other words it is lowering its
guard against foreign competition, and
when the boom in munitions bursts the
new order we hear so much about will
be the order of the boot and the relief
order.
High and low finance are the same in
essentials. Two and two make four in
pence or millions ; in the production of
peanuts or aeroplanes. Peace has its
Quislings as well as war, and the most
treacherous of the breed is false pros-
perity, selling inflated balloons which
burst on economic pressure and leave
only rags and tatters behind. — Bust
(S.A.).
Women’s Wages
“W.K.D.” in his par. on the low wages
paid to the double-certificated nurse (B.
6/3/’4l) left out one important factor.
The nurse, in addition to her £l3O, plus
uniform allowance (usually £6), gets her
board and lodging, worth at least another
£52 a year. So her total is a little under
£l9O. A study of the latest Common-
wealth Year-Book shows the average
wages for all factory-hands for the year
1937-38 was £199-odd, but if the female
employees are taken separately their aver-
age is under £lOO and “find themselves.”
The inequality of women workers is
recognised by all union officials, by Arbi-
tration Court Judges, the general public


This mag have been alright once, but...
w
ŵ
ARE YOU PAYING TOO
MUCH for HORSEPOWER?
To-day, more than ever before, the demand is for economical
power. A worn-out and inefficient Engine is a wasteful and
costly affair, and cannot possibly give you the power you pay
for. Keep production costs down to the minimum—get full value
for your money. INVEST IN A
ẁ
DIESEL
ENGINE
and you will be sur-
prised at what you will
save. It STARTS
IMMEDIATELY FROM
COLD. All parts are totally enclosed—dust proof—oil tight. Its
fully-balanced crankshaft reduces vibration and ensures smooth
running at all speeds. The “Cyclonic turbulance” cylinder head
ensures complete combustion and lower fuel consumption. Let
us tell you all about this efficient and economical Engine. Obtain-
able in 3£ h.p., 5 h.p., 6J h.p., 8 h.p., 16 h.p.
Write for full particulars.
In these modern times of Talkies you wouldn’t
bother with the old-fashioned stereoscopic outfit,
would you? And yet, is the lighting of your home
as modern as it should be? The day of the
kerosene lamp and other old-fashioned lighting
methods has gone. Electricity to-day is giving
light and power to thousands of country homes.
Do you know that a M.V. Lighting Plant to light,
say, 15 rooms, and give you the power you need
for modern household helps—Vacuum Cleaners,
Fans, Irons, etc. —can be secured at a very
moderate cost? M.V. Lighting Plants are safe,
dependable and so simple a child can operate
them.
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING PLANTS
WITH EXIDE BATTERIES
An initial outlay of about £5O will cover the cost
of Plant, Installation Charges, Wiring, Globes,
Shades and Switches, and that is payable after the
lights are switched on.
MODERNISE YOUR HOME OR SHOP. ENJOY
THE COMFORTS AND CONVENIENCES THAT
MAKE LIFE WORTH LIVING.
We are Sole Distributors for EXIDE House Lighting
Batteries. Let our Experts advise you and help solve your
Home Lighting Problems. There is no obligation.
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LTQ.^H
■ 11-25 PALMER ST., SYDNEY.
& AT TOOWOOMBA & LONGREACH, OLD.
SHOWROOMS 44 BRIDGE ST. fOPP. WINCHCOMBB CARSON LTD ), SYDNEY.
ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND MACHINERY
MERCHANTS
Telegrams: “Virtue,” Sydney.
’Phones: FL 5214 (6 lines)
SEND THE APPLICATION FORM BELOW NOW-and Your
CATARRH
HEAD NOISES AND CATARRHAL DEAFNESS
CAN BE CLEARING FOR GOOD
BY WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11, 1941
: H F A D NOISESiI HEADACHES
sm
S% HEAVINESS
AND
DEAFNESS
DEPRESSION
m
m
STUFFINESS
The head effects of Catarrh,
as shown on the left, are
really symptoms of a much
more serious and sometimes
dangerous internal condition.
pT VERY reader who suffers from
Catarrh or respiratory troubles
of any kind will be interested in
the important Health Discovery of
a former Catarrh sufferer an-
nounced to-day.
Mr. David Burton, of London, has
brought years of experiment to a
triumphant conclusion by the develop-
ment of a successful treatment which
affords every sufferer from Catarrh,
Head Noises, Catarrhal Deafness, and
Sinus or Antrum troubles the blessing
of immediate relief and complete
banishment of these most distressing
ailments, thus making possible the
assurance that his or her Catarrhal
troubles can be clearing for good by
Wednesday, June 11, 1941.
In the course of his investigations,
Mr. Burton found that the combination
of ailments grouped under the heading
of Catarrh results from an excess of
ACID and an insufficiency of ALKA-
LINITY in the blood. This corroding
acid inflames the Mucoug Membranes,
seriously upsets the metabolic balance
and lowers the resistance of the body,
resulting in the symptoms so well
known to Catarrh sufferers.
In collaboration with experienced
chemists, Mr. Burton formulated an en-
tirely new, different and successful
therapeutic combination to neutralise
the hyperacidity of the blood, build up
the Nervous System, increase bodily
resistance, re-establish metabolism in
complete balance and permanently
banished his Catarrh BY REMOVING
THE BASIC CAUSE.
This simple, safe and lastingly effec-
tive method ensures natural, easy
breathing through BOTH nostrils;
eliminates unpleasant mucus from nose,
throat and stomach; clears post-nasal
congestion; heals inflamed, germ-
irritated, swollen membranes; ends
sneezing and constant nose-blowing;
rights digestive wrongs; corrects con-
stipation; promotes sound, refreshing
sleep; improves appetite and general
health.
RESULTS are noticed ALMOST
INSTANTLY in a clearer head, a
brighter, more optimistic outlook, a
new feeling of radiant cheerfulness, re-
newed vigour and vitality instead of
exhaustion, dullness, depression, and
despondency.
Sinus and Antrum pains, Catarrhal
headaches, dizziness, nausea, offensive
breath, and body odour quickly dis-
appear. Head Noises and Catarrhal
Deafness gradually diminish and ulti-
mately vanish.
N These remarkable results are
obtained without the use of sprays,
douches, injections,
special diet, or powerful
nerve-deadening drugs.
Mr. Burton desires every Catarrh
sufferer to benefit by his new scientific
development. He therefore invites
every reader of the Bulletin who
suffers from Catarrh to send the appli-
cation form and immediately receive
free of charge and obligation:
(1) A trial supply of his NEW ANTI-
SEPTIC VAPORISING OIL CAP-
SULES. This powerful, bland and
pleasant germicidal Oil instantly
clears stopped-up nostrils and
destroys Catarrh germs breeding
in post-nasal cavities and respira-
tory tract. By virtue of its heal-
ing action, it greatly aids in the
restoration of the inflamed mem-
branes to a healthy condition.
(2) Sufficient MUCUS - SOLVENT
TABLETS to purify the blood-
stream, eliminate Catarrh germs
from the stomach and help every
organ of the body to function
normally.
(3) An interesting Health Handbook
entitled “How to Banish Catarrh,
Head Noises and Catarrhal Deaf-
ness.
Catarrh is more than an annoying
trouble more than an unclean disease
more than a brief ailment. Unless
the CAUSE IS REMOVED, Catarrh
too frequently destroys smell, taste
and hearing and may open the door to
the most dreaded of complaints. Do
not allow YOUR Catarrh to develop
and make your life unendurable, but
take the first step toward permanent
freedom from this ailment and its
dangerous consequences, if neglected,
by sending the form below TO-DAY.
APPLICATION FORM
Mr. David Burton,
Anglo-Australian Laboratories,
62 Margaret Street, Sydney.
(.Box 4242 X X.)
Please send me free of charge and obliga-
tion the trial supply of Antiseptic Vaporising
Oil Capsules, Mucus-Solvent Tdblets and
Health Handbook.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
Write name and address PLAINLY and
enclose 2d. stamp for return postage.
B. 21/5/’4l.


and the women workers themselves. In
terms of wages they are considered from
30 p.c. to 50 p.c. less value than men,
which, I think, accounts for their popu-
larity with employers of labor.
For over 50 years I have watched the
displacement of male by female labor,
and seen many bonnie girls grow into
withered old maids, while the young men
who should have been husbands and
fathers tramped the roads in the intervals
of seasonal work. I only hope that when
this war is ended a fresh gospel of
economics will replace the one that has
brought the Empire into the gravest dan-
gers it has ever been in.— Platman (Q.).
House Rents
It seems to me that the house-rent
problem could be easily solved by the
State Government and the municipal
authorities having the Local Government
Act amended, compelling valuers of all
municipal councils to state on the assess-
ment notices the rental value of all resi-
dences.
This rental value should be round
about 2s. 6d, per week for every £lOO
of capital value; that is, if a house
is valued at £4OO the rental value would
be 10s. a week. At this rate the landlord
would be paid the capital value of the
house in a little over 15 years. He would
still have the house, while the tenant
would have no equity in it at all after
paying its full value. The State Savings
Bank and most building societies charge
3s. 3d. per £lOO, but the house at the
end of 15 years or so becomes the prop-
erty of the purchaser. So 2s. 6d. a £lOO
seems enough rent for a house that would
never become the property of the tenant.
It should be a penal offence to charge
more than the rental stated in the assess-
ment of the municipal councils, also to
discriminate between childless tenants
and those with children. —J. G. (Vic.).
Buying a House
Yes, suburban land values are
fictitious, municipal street-construction
charges are a burden, and the archaic
legal fees for transfer need revision. All
this is true, but the biggest bugbear to
the man who wants his own home is the
heavy capital cost of the dwelling itself
and the snowballing effect of the interest
charges thereon when, as is usually the
case, the property is financed on an
agreement that lasts for 12 to 20 years.
At present it is impossible to erect a
modern villa of the brick-veneer type
for less than £BOO, and even if the pros-
pective buyer owns the block of land
it will cost anything from £l4OO to
£lBOO before he can call the place his
own. On top of this, he is liable for
council and water rates, insurance
premiums, land tax and general repairs.
Whenever it is suggested that modern
mass-production methods should be
applied to decent living accommodation,
architects and town-planners raise their
hands in horror and declare that such
an innovation would lead to miles upon
miles of drab, monotonous dwellings un-
relieved by any freshness or originality
of design. They are unduly pessimistic.
The ruthless standardisation of car-
bodies over the last decade has made it
possible to reduce prices considerably,
and yet who would be foolish enough
to argue that the modern car, product
of the mass-production assembly line, is
ugly or inferior in any way to its hand-
made predecessors?— Melton (Vic.).
Finery and Tobacco
In the drapery window of a country
store a few days ago there was a display
of women’s gloves priced at 17s. lid. a
pair, a fact that makes one wonder how
any storekeeper could have the nerve to
exhibit such unnecessary, high-priced
luxuries in war-time.
Men, and particularly the poorer ones,
are feeling keenly the increased price of
the tobacco which to many of them is
their only luxury. They cannot help
wondering just how much taxation is
put on to such expensive feminine
frivolities.
Only very extravagant or wealthy
women can afford to buy these costly
trifles, so a bit more taxation won’t hurt
them. — P. Radwon (Vic.).
A.B.C.
Strange paradox of the moment is the
willingness of a political group that has
always said that public utilities should
be free of political control to assume con-
trol of A.B.C. I hold no brief for
A.B.C. or any other broadcasting net-
work, but it does seem to me that
A.B.C, is the only active instrument for
culture in this country. It may not be
doing the best job that can be done, but
it certainly is doing a better job than
commercial stations. Examination of B-
class radio shows sessions are mainly
quizzes (and often the station answers are
wrong), recorded music, doubtful variety
sessions and bloodcurdling thrillers that
must send kiddies to bed with sidelong,
fearful glances behind doors and under
beds.
A.8.C., if it is to remain objective,
must retain some measure of independ-
ence. Actually, if no differences of
opinion existed between certain politi-
cia n s and Commission
members, or if the Com-
mission allowed itself to
be used as a source of poli-
tical patronage, there
would probably be no talk
of political control.
It is not widely adver-
tised but it is generally
known that A.B.C. is con-
tinually sidestepping de-
mands of politicians to be
put on the air on all kinds
of pretexts. For that the
average member of the
public has much to be
thankful. It would soon
cease if politicians got
control.
The matter can be met
by a vote to the Commis-
sion from revenue each
year instead of an open
slather from licenses. If
the Commission goes into
the estimates its work can then be super-
vised by Parliament where it affects the
people—in the purse. The work of the
Commission would still be independent,
as, I insist, it should be.
As I see it, the dissatisfaction has
arisen from the creation of a semi-public
body with a right to tax. The public
resents extra taxing authorities, and Par-
liament is jealous of them. That is the
crux of the matter. Tom Twiddler
(S.A.).
Which Land ?
“Reefun’s” cynical inquiry “Which
land?” in response to the suggestion that
Australia wants all the men she can get
on the land doesn’t say much for either
him or Australia. There’s always land.
The continued expansion of settlement
naturally brings more and more land
within the margin of utility, and not all
of that land is bad land.
The history of the settlement of what
are today some of the richest agricul-
tural districts in Queensland seems to be
the answer to “Reefun.” The British
settlers went up the rich valleys, like the
Lockyer, first. They grabbed all the big,
silted flats, which seemed richer than
anything they’d seen before.
Alien settlers, mostly Germans, came
some time later when all those wide, fat
lands had been grabbed. But they didn’t
sit down and say “Which land?” They
poked up the valleys a little bit further,
they went a “little bit further out/’ And
what did they find? They found land
richer and sweeter and better than the
land the earlier settlers had. They had
to work a little harder, but the return
was better.
I’ve tramped over a fair slab of this
continent and I’ve owned soil and I’ve
tilled soil, and in tramping I’ve seen land
that will carry crops and people. Expan-
sion of settlement —in other words, closer
settlement —will bring that land within
the margin of utility.
The thing to remember is that, if the
land is good enough to support people,
all the people won’t be farmers. Some
of them will be secondary producers and
even tertiary producers providing various
social services. The problem of settle-
ment is markets. But settlement itself
brings markets. There’s still plenty of
room for an honest land scheme honestly
and competently handled, — Benn (S.A.).
Primary Schools
Efficiency in the classroom cannot be
maintained by a teacher throughout the
school year where there are 50 pupils to
instruct. Yet in many Victorian schools
teachers are expected to discipline and
teach that number, often in mixed classes
of moods varying from docile to bois-
terous.
Classes should contain no more than
30 children. Of this number two-thirds
can be regarded as scholars, the balance
just dumb-bells whose compulsory at-
tendance at school is idled away by
childish pranks. With 20 children willing
to learn, a teacher can give the tuition
necessary.— Jeff (Vic.).
Comic Strips
The long-overdue embargo on im-
ported comic strips gives the Australian
artist a chance to prove how good he is
at comic strips. Frankly, I don’t think he
can do it. He hasn’t got the mentality
that runs to comic strips. If it so happens
that we now get a splurge of Australian
Brick Bradfords and Speed Gordons Min-
ister Harrison will have effected only an
amelioration and not a cure. For it is
not so much the Yankee comic strip that
we don’t want, but the comic strip. It
is this absurd artistic growth that has
"I'll be getting back now , Tilly—there goes the dinner gong!”
done so much towards putting child
minds at the top of adult bodies.
A few comic strips are quite suitable
for boys and girls up to a certain age, but
the monstrous fact about the bulk of the
rubbish is that it is intended primarily
for adult consumption. One of the most
pathetic sights I have ever witnessed was
that of a greybeard chuckling through his
whiskers at the thrilling drama of Popeye
the Sailorman.— Willyon (N.S.W.).
Eggs, Fruit and Things
Being a poultry farmer, I am qualified
to tell “R.H.G.” (B. 23/4/’4l) just how
much the poultry industry in Westralia
is dependent on the Voluntary Stabilisa-
tion Committee for its existence. Where
would we be if the committee did not
remove surplus eggs and so prevent
speculators working the market to their
own advantage, as they have done in the
past? As a storekeeper, “R.H.G.” must
know that before the inception of the
committee there was always a difference
in price of 3d. a dozen in the markets
on the one day. And it was entirely a
matter of chance whether your eggs
brought the top or the bottom price.
Perhaps “R.H.G.” would like his profit
margin on, say, tea to be purely a matter
of chance.
Eggs do not have to be stamped and
sent to Perth, then railed back agairi.
Tests are held at the Department of Agri-
culture for farmers who wish to candle-
stamp and grade their own eggs; the
object of the stamping is to trace the
origin of rotten eggs and blood spots.
Apparently “R.H.G.” has never heard
of fruit-fly, and is unaware of the fact
that the only way to control it is to see
that all fruit-tree owners bait and spray.
One-tree owners are the greatest delin-
quents, and do an enormous amount of
harm in stone-fruit districts. As for
apples, case lots can be bought cheap
from licensed orchardists, who are ap-
pointed the board’s agents.
Our industrial combines could not con-
tinue without Government protection,
and neither can farmers. Boards and
their regulations may be a mixed bless-
ing, but at this stage of our history they
are the only logical way of saving the
land industries from collapse. —P. F.
(W.A.).
Australian Dialects
The absence of local dialects in Aus-
tralia (B. 23/4/’4l) is mainly due to the
fact that compulsory education followed
so close on the settlement of most of the
country. Australia’s first settlers came
from different parts of the British Isles,
and in some cases from foreign countries,
and they married promiscuously. There-
fore, no specific British dialects had a
chance to take root. Before any of Aus-
tralian origin had time to develop, the
State-school system—throughout Aus-
tralia of identical character, and in every
State under centralised direction—had
moulded the people to a standard pattern,
A contributory factor would be the
nomadic character of Australian life,
comparatively few families remaining in
the one district for any length of time.
The dialects that even several generations
of compulsory education have not been
able to eradicate in England and other
European countries have been’ in exist-
ence for thousands of years, and are par-
ticularly prominent in areas where con-
tinuity of habitation is very pronounced.
In many English villages, for instance, a
majority of the inhabitants belong to
families that have been established in the
locality for 300 years or,more, while a
Government survey of agricultural
France a few years ago revealed that
there were numerous peasant families
who had held their farms for hundreds
of years. No fewer than 300 had tilled the
same soil since the time of Charlemagne
—over 1000 years. Such folk are very
tenacious of old habits and customs.
Those portions of the U.S.A. where
dialect has developed have been long
settled, and some of them—the “hill-
billy” country of Kentucky, for example
—are backwaters. Latin America, too,
has had European inhabitants for 400
years. Its original settlers came from
countries, Spain and Portugal, where
local differences of speech are very pro-
nounced, and they intermarried widely
with the native populations. Its area is
enormous, and until recently means of
communication and facilities for educa-
tion were very poor, as they still are in
some parts—ideal conditions for the
growth of dialect. — Lyle (N.S.W.).
Greedy Fishermen
It’s high time a limit was placed on
the catches of holiday fishermen. Too
often these “sports” can be seen loaded
down with far more fish than they can
eat or give away. Similar wanton waste
has resulted in many spots being fished
out in a few years, and unless the habit
is stopped there will be few fishing
grounds left near many towns. In the
past, similar wholesale destruction has
eliminated certain species. It is by no
means certain that species so plentiful
today can continue to resist, much less
replace, today’s rate of destruction. —
F. M. B. (MX.).
Praise and Protest
A large and increasing number of
Australians find that the only reliable
conspectus of world events published in
Australia is that in “Uncabled Addi-
tions.” Since September, 1939, I have
filled three news-cutting books, each 200
pages, with extracts from those pages,
Bulletin leaders and Service Man’s news.
Frequently an extra copy has been bought
so that a par. shall not be mutilated.
I recently sent a brief quotation from
an Imperial Policy Group Memorandum
(which I receive monthly) to a leading
daily. It dealt with the internment of
aliens in England and the number of
spies that had been rounded up since con-
trol had been tightened. I quoted chapter
and verse. The editor returned it with
a most courteous note. He could not
publish it for two reasons—it was against
the policy of his paper to make unkind
remarks about aliens, and the Imperial
Policy Group represented only private
opinion and carried no weight. Appar-
ently he had never heard of Lord Philli-
more, its editorial chairman, reputed to
possess the finest legal brain in England.
Since that effort, I have ceased to pay
much attention to the effusions of diplo-
matic correspondents and other blokes
with high-sounding titles, preferring to
wait until Wednesday in each week and
get what I feel is the dinkum oil.
But it hurts me, as it must thousands
of other Australians, to see so much space
devoted to the gees. I cannot subscribe
to the theory that racing is an industry,
and, though I don’t believe that racing
in itself is wrong in principle, the
gambling inevitably associated with it is,
and every race meeting held means less
tucker for thousands of Australian kids.
—Sandpatch (N.S.W.).


mm
m.
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond com-
putation can he se-
cured by all who will
follow the directions
given in the Pelman
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak too
highly of it
Pelmanism is a scientific training.
It substitutes good and faithful
habits of mind and memory for
slovenly and fearful ones. Thus it
promotes steadfastness, definiteness
and continuity of effort.
-*r :
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is valu-
able to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
Pelmanism is endorsed publicly by
more than 100 Prominent People.
Pelmanists are found in practically
every calling.
Pelmanism is permanent in its effect
on the Mind, Memory and Person-
ality.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of ,
Memory and Personality
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so that we
are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us. We see
more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence, there
is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire exact knowledge,
remember it and recall it as required. We learn to trust our sense
perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then open
and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and woman. The
more important of these qualities are
Observation
Will-Power
Decision
Self-Confidence
Judgment
Organisation
Concentration
Initiative
Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
The Exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose. The Pelman
Course is a real training, its primary object being to create good habits
of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly ones, to train the
conscious and the subconscious so that every faculty will, when called
upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of anything
that has to be done.
From several thousands of letters received from men and women doing all
kinds of work in Australia and New Zealand we give the following of recent date:—
Aug. 14th, ’4O.
Since starting Pelmanism I have improved
immensely in various ways. This Lesson
(Concentration) was very informative. I was
always under the impression that concentration
was fixation of thought. —Printer (Fic.).
April 22nd, ’4O.
As an example of what Pelmanism has done
the following might be of interest. For the
past week I have been working on a subject
which for the past twelve months almost drove
me to despair. Today I succeeded in obtaining
the maximum percentage in an oral examination
which lasted over two hours. I had no fears,
felt perfectly confident and felt a tinge of regret
when it was over. I was thoroughly enjoying
myself. —Officer (merchant ship).
March sth, ’4O.
Enclosed you will find my work sheet for
Lesson 12.
I must enclose a few lines to express my
gratitude for the information and advice con-
tained in this Lesson 12. From it I have
obtained the solution to a problem which I’ve
tried to solve in various ways, but without pre-
vious success. Had this been the only benefit
derived, this Course would have been worth,
while. —Clerk ( Vic.).
March Bth, ’4O.
I forward my last work sheet with a feeling
of regret. This Course has been a great pleasure
for me, and I have eifloyed the reading and study
immensely. I complete it with a feeling of satis-
faction and enlightenment, and know that I have
received far more benefit than I had imagined
possible. —Lady Bookkeeper ( Q’land ).
Feb. 15th, ’4O.
My casual memory is almost infallible. I note
important details to be done at specified times,
but rarely need to rely on these written notes.
I seem now to have an automatic mental “remem-
bering” device.— Bank Officer ( Vic .),
Feb. Ist, ’4O.
With the help and encouragement of Pelmanism
I realised that I possessed artistic-cum-business
talent. Soon after completing the Pelman Course
I found a place in Radio as cadet announcer.
Today, about six years later, I am the manager
(station named). Pelmanism is largely respon-
sible for all this.
You have my permission to show this letter to
anyone really interested in your splendid Course
of—The Way to Live! —Manager {Q’land).
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives..
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.)» Melbourne.
Telephone: MU23SS.
There are over half a million
Peimanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established
in Melbourne for over 33 years.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
li
Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind—training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the key
to his awn career
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
■#"
/■ a '-
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
“Pelmanism gives a
mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportunities
and uses them rightly.”
To the Pelnian Institute. 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. ,
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy oi
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
134
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ẃ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
SEND “THE BULLETIN”
THE LADS OVERSEAS-
Special Concession Rates:
12 months . . 15/-
6 months . 8/-
3 months, 47-
post free.
yW
Cr'
/
&
1>
C°
P
S*
&
\3 V
e o^
|v‘
■
a. <#V vV 0<
••’ * e ’ c


SAFETY
RAZOR
E : ral
-s/
(
sgr
‘HStr
£
BLADES
Owe/ 2 GEM
Full Nickel-Plated Gem Safety Razor British
made —at a price which will enable you to prove
for yourself the wonderful, clean, comfortable
and safe shave a Gem will give you.
Gem Double Life Blades are made of heavy
surgical steel not wafers stropped 4,840 times
to give the keenest shaving edge obtainable.
At All
ml Stores.
If unobtainable locally send 1/- in stamps to S. Hoffnung & Co.. Ltd., Box 502 AA. G.P.0.. Sydney.
