

H+C£re Is 7W suhstiiu te
lor QaaJU±^ /
Mi
t »
V
v*
. , |
V *• Jf * v srv
*36* * *
M
jip»
Pf”
f • '*•-*, „* *<
* m
*
-‘*>2** 7
.-
n
.4
*=
.V
:
m
-/,*
*/*&*£ ? ! S
i
> **
w.:m
% v »
1 * ' . ■■ '•- ,? » \
0* is
m
* . -
*
%S Xmf m.' * ?
Lend to Defend
'
, : T*
iss-’ ; *
a rs> ».
S' • *'3k
K S«»'
I I ' a
-■:- ..
i. 4&fai W
* i
U.M
m
*9' *
x *
ajw*a%a«
i
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL
BISCUITS
72.89% Carbohydrate, 7.44% Protein,
13.3% Fat.
These nice biscuits supply all the
essentials to nutrition, in rich abundance.
They remain crisp and oven-fresh almost
indefinitely as packed in air-tight tins and
packets by Arnott’s.
1 — They are non-fattening.
2 They are a wonderful aid to digestion.
This is greatly aided by the natural
roughage they contain.
3 They are ideal emergency biscuits.
TRY THEM WITH BUTTER,
CHEESE, JAM OR HONEY.
“To the sick and wounded soldier the
Red Cross provides that touch of human
sympathy and understanding that only it
can give.”
Give freely to the Red Cross.
Qmotts
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL
BISCUITS
ALWAYS ASK YOUR GROCER FOR ARNOTT'S —THEY ARE BETTER THAN EVER.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 62.—N0. 3201.
Wednesday, June 18, 1941.
Syria, Crete, Etc.
Price 6d
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


“story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
9.8. 341
The Red Page
PRIOR PRIZE ENTRIES.
The trustees for the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize have received the follow-
ing entries for the 1941 competition:
Ahrolhos “Candid Monk”
All For the Moment “Ford Miles”
An Aftermath of Trafalgar ... “Boora^Boora”
Assassins All at Sea “C.1.C.”
Argonaut, The - “Wongajong”
Boarding House, A “John Grey”
Black Lights “Aquarius”
Blood Will Tell “Katherine E. Tudor”
Brave Endeavor “Goona”
Call to Arms, A “Melva”
Caves of Kuna “Karingle”
Dala Freyar “Acheron”
Dross “Jacaranda Jones”
Easy Come, Easy Go “Crusader”
Earth Tread Lightly “Elizabeth”
Exodus “Aaron”
Field of Tares, The .... “Fiona MacDonald”
Gentleman Bold, A “Boompje”
Glamor of Pearl “Antony”
Halo on the Hills “Enid Castell”
Heart of the West “Amber”
Hermit of Forgotten Island, The
“Evelyn Frances”
His Son “Robin Storm”
Honest Dealing “Nonentity”
Hooves, Barons! “Nemo”
Immoral Ancestor, The “Sphinx”
Kangaroo Has Feathers, The .. “Franciscan”
Let Go of Grief “Young Bill et al”
Life “Caroline Brimpton”
Life in a Little Land “St. Heliers”
Little Brother “Anon”
Loves of lida. The “A. March”
Magnolia, The “Jupiter”
Mary Guerney “E. R. M
Metamorphosis of a Monkey Man, The
“Jack Australia”
Mike’s Missus “E. N. P.”
Mine the Right “Paracelcus”
Mr. Fieleon Comes to Pry “Carramar”
Myalls and Pioneers “Tex Tanner”
Mystery of the Grey Cross, The “X”
Opportunity “Coronach”
Our Own Worlds “Verelle Innes”
Out of the Wilderness “Bill Prospector”
Parramatta Ned “Goolara”
Ring-barked “Dallen”
Seven Aside “Ras”
Simpleton Saga “Entnor”
Solitary River “Jumpinpin”
Story of My Girlhood. The “Armande”
There’s Gold in the Mountains .. “Coowong”
These Are My Friends .. . “Adelaide Millet”
They Lived in London “Aries”
This Dear Earth “Northwind”
Transplanted “Susan Phillips”
Twirling Thumbs “Josephine Ket”
Unguarded Door, The “Abs”
Urgent Years, The “Kalima”
Us “Ausette Strail”
Wicherina “Meekatharra”
Wild Orchids * “Jasper Hope”
WX, Corporal Smith “Tent Peg”
Yarrabourne “Banff”
Yet Not Slain “Frances Karlyon”
Any person who has forwarded an
entry which is not listed above should
communicate immediately with the
Trustees, S. H. Prior Memorial Prize,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney.
Masefield on Dunkirk.
John Masefield’s The Nine Days’
Wonder (Heinemann; Angus and
Robertson) is described by its author
as a pamphlet giving “a summary of the
lifting of the First French Army and
the B.E.F. from the beaches of Dun-
kirk.” A cloth-bound, slender little
tome, it states and explains the authori-
tative facts concisely and clearly. There
are photographs, a map, five laudatory
verses, and in the prose the Masefield
dignity of thought and phrase.
The facts' are set forth in brief chap-
ters —a general depiction of the scene,
then a diary-like summary of each day’s
activities and what on each day was
accomplished; at first dishearteningly
little, gradually improvement, and finally
triumph not much short of a miracle.
When the Operation Dynamo—as it
was officially labelled —began it was
thought that only a few thousand could
be saved. The Germans were boasting
that none would get out of it. Wherever
their bombers flew “they had a perfect
target beneath them,”
columns crowded on roads, shipping
crowded in a channel, masses of men upon
a beach. During the week there were three
hundred and fifty thousand men shut in
within a narrow compass with all their
possessions... .These bombers and their
masters exulted at the sight. For the first
time a great German encircling movement
was to be helped to complete triumph by
mastery in the air. Sedan had been a vic-
tory; this was to be an annihilation.
On the first day only a few more than
1000 men were taken to England. Next
day “the situation was so much worse
that we had to be prepared for a
desperate scramble to pick up survivors
from a great disaster.” This was worsened
later by the decision to move the French
troops in the locality to England as well.
Altogether rather more than 123,000
Frenchmen were taken to England. This
decision made the operation “at least
one-third bigger than anyone had thought
possible, and this enormous increase in
the work came suddenly upon those re-
sponsible after five frightful days, and at
a time when death and destruction had
thinned out the beach parties and
smashed and sunk countless boats and
ships.”
All ships coming near the coast were
bombed. A bomb bursting near a small
ship nearly always disarranged or broke
some of her gear. In some cases the
engines were lifted from their beds; gauges
and fans were smashed, compasses dis-
mantled or deranged, and feed-pipes broken.
The losses in men were very great; in
ships, severe, and in boats enormous.
“Probably no ship returned from the
beach undamaged.” Early on the second
day “the enemy began his effort to
annihilate.” As the bombers came over
in their numbers, “the little groups of
our fighters took them on.” In count-
less cases R.A.F. fighters returned to
England on their last gallon of petrol;
while they were over the beaches or
beyond each little group had to tackle
as many as 50 enemy ’planes. One
R.A.F. fighter took on 40 of the enemy
singlehanded. “Our fighters were so
greatly outnumbered that they were
hardly noticed by the men on the beaches
whom they helped to save.”
This second day was disastrous. As
well as the loss of boats, only 6000 men
were taken to England—and there were
more than 300,000 to lift!
On the third day a troopship was sunk,
as well as other vessels. On the fourth
day two destroyers laden with troops
were torpedoed: “the loss of lives was
very heavy.”
We had 10 ships inside the pier, loading
men, and four ships waiting to come in.
As this made a target which the enemy
observers could not fail to see, a great force
of bombers was sent against it. For two
and a half hours, from about four o’clock,
it rained bombs....
Three of the ships at the pier got clear;
three were set on fire. “At six that even-
ing the ship King Orry coming in found
the harbor occupied only by burning and
sinking ships; there were no soldiers on
the pier and no ships moving.” Yet the
operation was improving; about 38,000
troops were lifted on this day. Improve-
ment continued: on the seventh day “we
took away 61,998 men in spite of the
appalling fire.” “Our loss in troopships,
destroyers and minesweepers sunk and
damaged was very heavy.”
The total lifted and taken to England
from Dunkirk alone in the nine days was
316,663 — 186,587 of them British;
123,095 French; with 6981 unclassified,
except as having been “brought by hos-
pital ships, etc.”
Our Army did not save Belgium; that
is a little matter compared with the great
matter, that it tried to. In the effort, it
lost thirty thousand men, all its transport,
all its guns, all its illusions; it never lost
its heart.
There was humor, though perhaps
little of it. On one ship the doctor, who
was Jewish, on being told that there
was pork in the stew, said, “I don’t care
if there are dead dogs in it, I’m going to
have my share.” There were individual
acts of heroism and seamanship so re-
markable that they enforced notice,
even there. When the King Orry was
sunk the cook of the Bystander, seeing
that many of the troops in her were
much too exhausted to swim, dived over-
board with a rope, remained in the water
for 30 minutes, during which time he
rescued 25 officers and men, then came
aboard again, went to his galley (which
was equipped with cooking utensils for
seven) and in the next half-hour supplied
97 soldiers with hot tea and food.
Those aboard the Royal Daffodil saw
her attacked by six enemy aircraft.
Five salvos missed her; a bomb from
the sixth went through three of her decks
into the engine-room, and then out through
the starboard side before bursting; the
engines stopped; the enemy ’planes
machine-gunned the ship and set her on
fire. She was by this time listing heavily
to starboard. Her Master, Captain G.
Johnson, very promptly shifted all her gear
to port, lowered all her port boats into the
sea and let them fill with water. The
weight thus brought to port tilted the hole
clear of the sea. While some put out the
fire, her two engineers, Mr. J. Coulthard
and Mr. W. Evans, took all the beds they
could find and plugged the hole with them.
When the leak was thus checked, Mr. Evans
stood up to the neck in water, holding open
a bilge-valve, while Mr. Coulthard kept the
pumps going. In this way they reached
Ramsgate.
And landed about 1500 men !
Here and there are passages of descrip-
tive prose that measure up to those
in Masefield’s Gallipoli. At one stage
the bombing became so terrific that the
waiting men had to be told that nothing
could be done to shift them until night,
when the operation was duly resumed:
This meant that between 9 p.m. and 3
a.m. something like two hundred and fifty
small vessels would be at sea in a narrow
channel without beacons or navigating
lights, with all the officers overstrained,
all the ships overloaded, all the crews over-
worked, on a night of last quarter-moon,
as black as a summer night can be, in
waters with considerable current, certain to
be sown with mines, all of them under
shell-fire, and likely to be bombed.
Earlier in the operation:
One sailor passing along the coast that
night picked up three soldiers from a raft.
He saw fires burning all along the Belgian
coast, four great fires burning in Dunkirk,
and a line of ships stretching twenty or
thirty miles along the coast, bringing troops
away. Here and there great black patches
of oil on the water marked the graves of
ships or aeroplanes.
Always the loss of ships: on that day
alone the loss included three destroyers
and four troopships sunk, and eight other
ships sunk or badly damaged, to say no-
thing of the unlisted loss of small craft
and boats.
One of the most telling bits of descrip-
tion is in the narration of a naval officer’s
observations:
The first things seen by him, as his ship
went along the eastern pass, were what
seemed to be vast black shadows on the
pale sands. In front of him, as he went in,
was the blackness of smoke with tongues of
flame shooting into it. On the sands were
these blacknesses; he could not think what
they were.
As it grew lighter he saw that the black-
nesses were enormous formations of men
standing, waiting. He saw them thus when-
ever he entered the pass, coming or going.
They did not seem to change; they did not
seem to sit, nor to lie down; they stood,
with the patience of their race, waiting their
turn. He was present throughout the
evacuation. The thing which impressed
him most in all the week was this thing
which had so impressed him so deeply at
the first, the patient presence of these thou-
sands, silently waiting, among the racket of
bombing, shelling and machine-gunning,
the roar of ’planes, guns, rifles and fires.
As far as it goes, Mr. Masefield’s
pamphlet is excellent; but it is only a
fragment: the epic story, rounded and
complete, remains to be told. The frag-
ment is made to seem all the more in-
adequate by Mr. Masefield’s own assess-
ment of the operation as “the greatest
thing this nation has ever done.” There
are various fair enough reasons why
it is not another Gallipoli. In Gallipoli
Mr. Masefield was able to write of what
was final and complete. A similar story
of Dunkirk would need to begin with
the rushing of the B.E.F. into Belgium
and up to the front line in response to
the Belgian appeal. There would need
to be an explanatory account of the
French collapse and the Belgian sur-
render, which enforced the retreat to
Dunkirk and all that followed. There
would need to be also a closely-observed
description of that retreat to the coast,
which must have included savage rear-
guard fighting. But some of that neces-
sary background is too fogged-up and
too controversial to be written of yet
with any finality, and that leaves a flank
of the story in the air, as the B.E.F. was
left.
If the full story could be told it would
be hard to name anyone better qualified
than Mr. Masefield to do it. As Poet
Laureate he should have a prescriptive
right to the honor. By its own nature the
Great Deliverance belongs naturally to
English literature, rather than to factual
documented and indexed history or mili-
tary record. The substance of it, with-
out any effort of writing at all, ranges up
beside the grandeur of Shakspeare. Mr.
Masefield speaks of the English prefer-
ence for “what will look well in a
ballad” ; that holds for every aspect and
every incident of Dunkirk ; and, in prose
and verse alike, Mr. Masefield is essen-
tially a balladist: when he breaks away
from this kind of writing, as in a recent
lamentable novel, he always fails dis-
mally. Also, all his best writing has had
its inspiration in the sea; it has been
set on or against a background of sea,
usually with its life and strength cargoed
in the rougher sorts of ships and boats,
the kind largely used off the Dunkirk
beaches. Finally, his Gallipoli, set always
within sight of the sea, remains today,
a quarter of a century since it was pub-
lished, a stirring account of just such
another military failure that yet had the
quality of sublime drama.
The doubt occurs whether, even put-
ting aside the 25 years, Mr. Masefield, or
anybody else, could make another Gal-
lipoli out of the Great Deliverance.
Gallipoli was one of the last of the war-
books in the exalted and heroic vein. Mr.
Masefield wrote in it of the Anzacs and
the Royal Naval Division that they were
“the finest body of young men ever
brought together in modern times. For
physical beauty and nobility of bearing
they surpassed any men I have ever seen ;
they walked and looked like the kings in
old poems, and reminded me of a line
in Shakspeare: ‘Baited- like eagles having
lately bathed.’ ” That note is wholly
absent from The Nine 'Days’ Wonder.
The earlier book is sunny, eager and
triumphant; the Dunkirk book is an
epitaph. Perhaps, for all the wonder of
it, the Great Deliverance is essentially
depressing. More likely the difference is
explained by the changed nature of war
and outlook on war. Gallipoli was pub-
lished in 1916, when war was still high
adventure. There are not more than
half a dozen references to ’planes in the
whole of it, none of them direct. The
shadow of the bomber hangs over the
whole of The Nine Days’ Wonder. Mr.
Masefield may expand this fine fragment
into a complete book, and he shows that
he still has it in him to do it splendidly.
But it will not be another Gallipoli. That
was another war.
Self-knowledge Through Handwriting:
11. J. Jacoby (Dent). What all those
twirls and flourishes and wobbles in hand-
writing tell of the writer’s character. An
extraordinarily wide range of fists is
represented in photographs, though none
to rival one or two known to Bulletin
comps. On the basis of examples of
aggressive handwriting given, one of the
most aggressive ever sighted in these
parts is that of R. W. D. Weaver, N. S.
Wales Controller of Salvage.
Solving Labor Problems in A ustralia:
Orwell de R. Foenander (Melbourne
University Press). Another notably care-
ful, accurate, authoritative compilation
of Arbitration Court method and per-
formance by the author of Towards In-
dustrial Peace in Australia. It deals par-
ticularly with the pastoral (sheep and
cattle) and coal industries. It is much
more than a statistical record and refer-
ence book, though that side of it is very
strong. As well it is a clear and easily-
read statement on arbitration in its re-
lationship with functioning democracy.
The Commonwealth Court of Concilia-
tion and Arbitration is an institution that
has sprung from the people, and as admin-
istered by that tribunal compulsory arbi-
tration is quite as consistent with the purest
ideals of democracy as is any other re-
sponsible and necessary limitation upon
freedom that is based upon a social con-
sent.
Ambrose Pratt’s The Lore of the Lyre
Bird, first published in 1933, continues in
the way of being a best-seller. A copy
forwarded by its publishers, Robertson
and Mullens, shows it now in its fifth
edition. Another Robertson and Mullens
publication going strong is Keith Barry’s
Music for the Listener, now in its third
edition.
Position Tables for Air and Sea Navi-
gation : F. G. Brown (Angus and Robert-
son). Another expert job of work by the
author of Air Navigation, which Cap-
tain P. G. Taylor endorsed and strongly
recommended in his Red Page review.
Mr. Brown’s latest book is “arranged to
give the minimum of trouble in practical
work,” with a special eye on navigators
who can’t use logarithms with speed and
accuracy.
It's 'And to Keep Straight in
Yer Rhymes.
The Religious Editor took one look at
the first page of Kay Grant’s It’s ’Ard to
Keep Straight in the City (Angus and
Robertson), noted Jean Cullen’s drawing
of the typist sitting on the boss’s knee,
read the verse:
It’s ’ard ter keep straight in the city,
When the boss ’as an eye for a skirt,
When ’e ses “Let’s work back,” though yer
know things is slack,
And the boy-friend keeps slingin’ the dirt —
and went out and threw himself under
a tram.
The “Answers to Correspondents” man
read lines such as:
You go for a walk —put your foot in a hole,
A bit further on bark your shin on a bole.
You gather some sticks and you make a nice
fire;
noted such rhymes as “illogical-patho-
logical,” “sprightly-likely,” “nativity-
agility,” “dawn-torn,” “precipitous-
felicitous,” and buried his head hope-
lessly in the wastepaper-basket.
But the Office Flapper laughed her
head off at “Asthma —Or Passion?”,
“Give the Gentleman a Cigar,” “Wouldn’t
It Rock You?”, the boxing-match poem
and the one about trite sayings: “It’s
not the heat, I always say, it’s just the
humidity.” Furthermore, she liked the
verses for the troops.
What makes this book just as likely
to run into two editions as did It’s ’Ard
to Go Wrong in the Suburbs is its liveli-
ness, its good humor and Miss Grant’s
gift for a pleasingly satiric turn of
phrase. Since it has those merits, it’s
a pity that the author doesn’t take a bit
more trouble with her technique. A
couplet such as
You can smile with him and sigh with him —
his qualms assassinate —
But you can get no further if he won’t recipro-
cate
should never see the light of day.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
FAMOUS f LOW PRICES
Three Piece Showwood Lounge Suite
t - •: ■mg
d half yearly genuine
Three-piece Showwood Lounge Suite comprising a Settee
and two chairs with reclining backs, sprung seats and
covered in selected tapestry. Suite is available in a wide
range of attractive covers. Shaped arms, turned legs and
rails are polished a dark Brown Walnut colour. Anthony
EASY TERMS: Deposit 21/-; 9 Monthly Payments of 21/9.
Polished Walnut Cocktail Cabinet
Horderns' Regular Price
Sale Price
£l5/15/- .
£lO/10/-
Good furniture is necessary to home comfort and
satisfaction. Many years of service and enjoy-
ment is in the grace and beauty of a handsome
suite .. an occasional chair ... in smaller pieces
cleverly designed to meet all the needs of com-
fortable living. Nothing equals the permanent
charm of fine furniture, the work of master
craftsmen.
Make your choice from our fine selection of
furniture at Genuine Sale prices.
AVAILABLE ON EASY TERMS.
Oak Book End Bed Settee
Ha
mm
m
s JR
■
■x:>
&
tWKfBl9'6
Attractively designed figured and polished walnut Cocktail
Cabinet. Ample bottle space, glass and serving compart-
ment, has double opening with automatic movement, is
fitted with mirrors and lined with baize cloth. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price £l2/157-
Sale Price £B/19/6
EASY TERMS: Deposit, 18/-; 6 Monthly Payments of 27/8.
fsb~ l^ / \O i
Made in our own factory . . . Book End Bed Settee in
light or dark oak. Strongly woven wire mattress
reinforced with a double row of spiral springs. Com-
plete ' with cretonne covered, flock filled mattress.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price £5/5/-
Sale Price £4/10/-
£6'l9'S
Bow-Front Walnut China Cabinet
Bow-front figured Walnut China Cabinet with leadlight ends
and centre door. Interior is fitted with two solid shelves.
Polished a medium Walnut colour. Anthony Horderns
Regular Price, £B/17/6. Scde Price £6/19/6
EASY TERMS: Deposit, 14/-; 6 Monthly Payments of 21/6.
• Furniture—Third Floor. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
'Phone: M 2401 (Day or Night)
Box 2712 C G.P.0., Sydney


Dirt-track Riders
HORSE-POWER
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
THEY were getting things ready for the big pro-
gramme with the individual championship heats
as the main feature. Outside the graders were
panting and rattling around the track in the dusk,
and in the big training-room under the grandstand
the riders and the officials were having a meeting.
The idea was to talk things over between them,
but the officials were doing most of the talking. They
were making speeches about what would happen to
any rider who bored out, or tried to beat the gun,
or did anything else that wasn’t in the book of rules.
The room was full of tobacco-smoke and noise, and
the riders were pretty rowdy, and pretty hostile to
the officials, as they always were. But they weren’t
getting anywhere.
It wasn’t much fun listening to all that yap when
it really didn’t mean a thing. Some of the mob
seemed to get a bit of relief out of abusing the heads,
but the fact was that the rules were the rules, and
officials were necessary evils, and you could disobey
either only so far and no further. It was all a waste
of time.
“I’ve been on a few tracks an’ never struck this
parade-lap stunt before,” said Dutchy Heysen. “We
don’t tune our motors just to fill ’em up with oil
muddling around like a lot of goats at twenty miles
an hour.”
“She’ll be a great programme,” threatened Slim
Carter. “You’ll have ’em cleanin’ plugs all round the
track, you see if you don’t.”
The track manager talked a lot about what the
public wanted, but, though the riders knew they had
to cater for the people who paid, they weren’t in the
mood to worry about it at the moment. What every-
one wanted was a crack at the big
money and the championship title.
Whoever got the gauntlet wouldn’t
have to grieve if people started stay-
ing away from this track. The argu-
ment got hot, with all the officials on
the manager’s side and all the riders
dead against him.
Lenny Dyson sat at the back say-
ing nothing and feeling impatient and
disgusted. The parade-lap stunt was
dopey, and there was every reason for
him to be excited about it, but he had
other worries. He wasn’t one of the
old hands, whom nothing seemed to
rattle. He was always all nerves and
no appetite before something big. He
thought the officials were goats and
the riders were right, but most of the
time he thought about his new motor,
and about the race, and about him-
self.
“It would have been better if we
could have started this some other
time, when the ordinary teams were
on,” said Clifton, the track marshal,
trying to be tactful. “But the management wants it,
an’ there’s no time to argue now. I’ll see that any-
one who oils up in the early heats gets another match.”
The riders listened to Clifton better than they
did to most of the officials, because he was their own
sort. Most of the flag-waggers were just coves who
had taken on the game because they liked wearing
armbands and bossing people, but Clifton had been
a rider in the past, and a pretty good one. He’d
been a champion in the early days when they
rode all sorts of chopped-about models on big
third-of-a-mile tracks, with raw cinders for a surface.
There was a rash of deep-blue spots on one side of
his face, where some of the black stuff had got under
the skin in a crash and not been scraped out thor-
oughly while the wound was open. Lenny Dyson
watched him and wondered what it had been like in
the days when Peashooters and Rudges and Duggies
and home-made specials had all been winning races.
It was all J.A.P. now —nothing else was worth put-
ting in a frame.
Lenny lost track of the argument, thinking with
anxiety and fear about his own motor, the new one
he’d practised on the day before and would ride in
the championship. It was good, all right. Too good
for him, perhaps. The more power you had the
safer you were, but you had to be used to it. His old
crate had been too slow, of course, but with it he’d
been able to put the front wheel on any inch of the
track he chose between the grass and the safety-
fence. The extra five brake-horsepower in the new
Jap made a difference. His times at the practice had
been 0.K., but there’d been a moment or two when
it had been just as well it was only practice and
he’d had the track to himself. He sat worrying for
a while, not listening to what was going on, and then
the meeting was over.
'T' HE crowd surged out of the room on to the
1 grass. It was darker, and half the track lights
were on, blazing over the crawling, grunting graders.
There were men hosing all the way round the cir-
cuit, and early spectators were drifting in. The
officials tramped down to the start, looking as impor-
tant as they could, and the riders wandered along
to the change-room, grumbling and chiacking each
other.
“How’s the new buzz-box, Lenny?” asked Dutchy
Heysen amiably. “C’n you make her talk the lan-
guage?”
“She’s got plenty,” said Lenny. “More than me,
perhaps.”
“You’ll be jake,” said Slim Carter. “Shift her
round like you was doin’ yesterday and you’ll be in
the money.”
It pleased Lenny to have the cracks, the men
with overseas experience, talking to him like that.
But they didn’t know what he did. His reputation for
being fast and safe, a man who never needed more
than his share of the track, would go by the board
tonight. After this show he’d be labelled just another
lunatic, all guts and no judgment.
He got to work worrying again, and he wondered
why he stayed in the game. There were plenty of
safer ways of earning money. He envied the old
hands, who never showed a sign of nerves. He ought
to quit, he told himself. But quit or not he’d have
to go through with tonight.
They were noisy and cheerful in the change-
room, and Lenny got out of it quickly. He felt bulky
and self-conscious and rebellious' in his leathers, and
when he headed for the pits he found his girl
“The old fool —jitterbugging at her age!”
waiting by the fence. She was a new girl, like the
new motor.
“You’d better find a seat,” he said. “Get round
on Aero Corner and I’ll probably land in your lap,
bike and all, in about half an hour.”
She laughed and wished him luck. She looked
excited and thrilled, pleased to be associated with a
rider, and anxious enough for him to win. She was
easy on the eyes, but when she moved off Lenny
forgot her. She was just a pastime, not a part of his
life really, and she had nothing to do with his feel-
ings and fears at the moment.
It was black dark outside the dome of lights now.
The loudspeakers were blaring music. The turnstiles
were busy and the night was warm and clear. Officials
were charging about yelling, and in the pits exhausts
were chattering. There was a good smell of racing
oil and alcohol-base fuel, and the riders were loung-
ing around, slinging off at each other or cursing and
wrestling with hot plugs and cans and funnels. Lenny’s
new model was there, spidery and glittering with
chromium. His mechanic had it on the stand, and
was tugging at the back wheel. When it fired, the
blurt from its exhaust drummed against his knees.
It sounded healthy, with an angry, wicked note that
made the other riders look over at it. Suddenly,
Lenny was really frightened of it, and felt weak in
the legs.
“Got her right, Bill?” he bawled.
“She’s revvin’,” said Bill. “Jees, Lenny, the
twelve to one piston would’ve been plenty. She’ll be
a handful with the sixteen. We should’ve used the
twelve till you got used to her.”
“I got to beat Dutchy,” Lenny said, “and no
one beats Dutchy with twelve to one.”
He put an overcoat over his leathers and went
out among the crowd to watch the early heats.
Even the B-graders made his hair stand on end, and
when the first of the A’s came out he started to
shiver. Lloyd Rogers and Streaky Mactavish did
three laps lying on top of each other, and Lenny
sweated with fright. Streaky was on the inside, and
for the whole distance Rogers kept level, within
inches. When they slithered around the bends, with
fans of dirt from their back wheels peppering the
crowd, they were rubbing shoulders and swearing at
each other. Hell, thought Lenny, God help any
poor cow who gets that close to me.
When he got back to the pits, his colors were
ready and the steward was roaring his name. They
had tossed for positions, with Bill keeping an eye on
his interests.
“You’ve got the inside, kid,” said Dutchy, grin-
ning. “If you can handle that motor properly I’ll be
second.”
Everything seemed remote and far away to Lenny,
but he knew he couldn’t use the new motor properly,
and he envied Dutchy. He knew he’d never be like
Dutchy, able to grin and wisecrack and laugh every-
thing off. He thought: I’ll let him through ; it’s better
to squib than to wreck old Dutch and myself, too.
Then they were on the grass and he heard his name
come from the loudspeakers. Bill pushed and he
bounced on the saddle automatically as he dropped
the clutch-lever. The motor bit savagely, bringing the
front wheel off the ground and throwing lumps of
turf with the back tyre. He hit the loose stuff in a
clumsy wobble and started off beside Dutchy for the
parade lap.
FA UTCHY wasn’t risking an oiled plug. He gave it
the gun and went ahead, and Lenny’s throttle-fist
twisted before he stopped to think. They hit the
first corner pretty fast and Dutchy went wide, not
worrying as long as he kept the revs. up. Lenny
started to drift out towards him, and fear came up
in his throat, chokingly. He forced his motor down
on its side and opened her wide. The drift stopped
and she came around with surprising ease. In the
back straight he was half a dozen lengths ahead of
Dutchy and slowed down. He felt a bit better. When
they were level they both opened up for the big
curve. Dutchy was close this time, not too keen on
being left behind by anyone.
Lenny used his foot and all the throttle there
was, and put all his weight and the whole power of
the new Jap into making her slide. He and Dutchy
came round impressively, just about rubbing shoulders
for a couple of chains. Then Lenny went ahead,
and the thrill it gave him made him relax for a split
second. The motor edged out. His heart jumped
and then hammered, and when he was ready to work
the model down on to the inside edge again he
couldn’t, because Dutchy was there. Hell! he thought
wrathfully, you can’t take liberties with him. When
they pulled up at the starting gate he was shaking ;
but it was through excitement and anger, not fear.
Dutchy grinned under the edge of his mask,
knowing his motor wasn’t good enough but confi-
dent of himself. Lenny only had to make one error
and he’d win. Clifton was standing by the track
with a flag, and the bright lights made his cinder-
rash stand out. Lenny felt annoyed with himself
and pretty excited, but not afraid any more. He
automatically groped under the tank to make sure
that vibration hadn’t turned off the fuel-tap. He
grabbed back at the throttle in a panic as the motor
threatened to die. Then a tongue of flame leapt from
Clifton’s gun, the gate was gone and they were off.
The first hundred yards were the same as usual —
fighting acceleration ; trying to stretch ten feet long
and weigh twenty stone, so that there would be enough
weight on the back wheel for traction and enough on
the front to keep it from climbing in the air. The
extra horses in the new Jap wanted to tear the frame
apart, to churn holes in the track, to fling him over
backwards, but he managed them well. When he lay
over for the first corner, he was ahead of Dutchy, as
he had been on the parade lap, but he made no mis-
take this time. The back wheel was a long way out,
but he kept the front one six inches from the grass.
In the back straight he took a look over his
shoulder, arid, of course, Dutchy was still there, close
in, dodging the cinders and not trying to pass, looking
comfortable and waiting his chance. Lenny knew
he only had to give away a foot, and the idea started
to work in him. Dutchy looked comfortable and con-
fident.
On the second lap it began to fray his nerves.
Only the second lap and it had begun to feel like a
marathon! He didn’t look back any more, but he
knew Dutchy was always there, a wheel’s length behind
in the straights, up even closer on the bends, waiting


for a little error that would let him through on the
inside. Lenny drifted an inch or two on the big bend
and overcorrected. The crowd roared as the new
Jap stepped out sideways across the track. Dirt
cascaded over the fence, and Dutchy’s front tyre
pointed straight at Lenny, but Lenny hung on. Dutchy
banged his machine down, too, but kept his throttle
open. Lenny’s extra horses bit hard at the track
as Dutchy’s shoulder bumped him. Then they were
on their way again and Lenny was still in front.
The last lap was agony, but anger and excitement
carried him round. His arms ached and his eyes
ached and his head ached, and he knew Dutchy was
where he’d been all through a wheel s length back
in the straights, closer up on the bends, ready to push
himself through any gap that appeared. Lenny kept
the front wheel on the grass. The time wouldn’t be
good, but Dutchy couldn’t get through and that was
all that mattered. He was riding like a fool, putting
too much strength and not enough brains into it,
bursting himself while Dutchy rode comfortably,
without effort, just behind, but he wasn’t letting
Dutchy through. $
When the gun went Dutchy’s front wheel was
spinning close beside his trailing boot, and Dutchy s
leather shoulder was just a foot or two back.
LENNY chugged back to the pits, over the grassy
centre of the ground, feeling triumphant but shaky.
Clifton swung a pat at his back as he went past slowly,
and he felt proud. The crowd was howling applause.
In the pits Dutchy shook hands, grinning. “Nice
work, Lenny!” he said.
“I had the horses,” Lenny mumbled. “Had the
luck, too.”
“Y’ had the stummick!” Dutchy said. “Thought
I had you, a couple of times.”
Lenny felt good but tired. He wanted a bath.
Bill, the mechanic, was jumping with excitement. His
new girl was hanging against the fence, looking pale
and admiring. He was alone in the change-room for
a while, getting out of his leathers and under the
shower and then into cool, light clothes. He felt
relaxed and triumphant and calm, but as he cleaned
up he started to think about the championship. He’d
get Streaky Mactavish or Slim Carter for sure in the
next round. Dutchy was the best of the bunch, of
course, but Streaky had enough fireworks in his motor
to be dangerous. Streaky had real speed, and he
wasn’t the sort to use his brains and wait his chance,
like Dutch. He’d come at anything to get through.
Lenny realised that in spite of his win he wasn’t
sure of his new motor yet. It would take more than a
week, too. He felt cold and nervous at the idea of
himself and Streaky fighting it out in the next round.
With luck he might get Slim, of course. But it wasn’t
likely. The crowd would want to see the two fastest
motors on the track together, particularly with a
wild man like Streaky on one of them, and the man-
agement would see that they got what they wanted.
We ought to draw for the matches, he told himself
passionately ; these cows ought to be stopped from
fixing things up as they like.
He started worrying, as he always did before
anything big, only this time it was a bit sooner on
account of the new motor and one thing and another.
He wondered if all the laps he could find time for
next practice afternoon would do him good, or only
make him worse. He ought to quit the game if this
was how he was going to be about it, he thought.
But it wouldn’t be possible to finish now until the
individual championships were over. It wouldn’t be
possible then, anyway. There d be something else
that had to be cleaned up.
Outside the programme thundered to a finish.
The change-room filled up with riders, yapping and
laughing as usual. Clifton came in, too. Dutchy
Heysen looked solid and compact and deliberate and
confident under the shower, just the same as he did
with his leathers on. Streaky Mactavish, chasing
people about with a towel, vaulting over the benches
the footballers used for rubbing down, just like a big
kid, as usual, had the same wild glint in his eye that
you could imagine behind his goggles on the track.
Why couldn’t he be like Dutchy? Lenny won-
dered. Or even like Streaky, all action and excite-
ment, with not a thought in a lifetime? Or like some
of the sensible blokes who took a good hard look at
the dirt-track game and went back to reliability trials,
which were plenty fun and a lot safer?
“You did a good job, Lenny,” said Clifton at his
elbow, “but don’t work so hard. You never used to
wrestle with the old model like that.”
“I didn’t have to,” said Lenny. “I’ll get used to
this one soon.” For a moment he resented the advice,
because no old-timer like Clifton could have much
idea really of how horrifying the latest Japs could be.
Then he realised it was Clifton he envied. It wasn’t
Dutch or Streaky at all, or any of the present champs.,
or the sensible blokes who took an interest in the
game from the safe side of the fence. It was Clifton.
As he went out to collect his new girl, he was full of
the idea of how great it would be to be like Clifton
some day—to have come through the whole business
honorably, without being a squib, and yet to be
finished with it.
“Don'cha know you're liable to a penally for defacing zoo property!"
A COUPLE OF HANDLES
By B. V. SMITH.
IT was hot lying in the sun. A day for dreaming
and dozing, Fred reflected. He stretched his legs
out to catch the shade of the corner-post. The
big patch of bush at the back of the farm, heavy
stuff that he had never had the time or the energy
to clear, was shimmering, dark blue-grey in the heat.
He lay there, thinking back, a habit he was getting
now that he wasn’t as young as he had been, think-
ing of how he had worked on his selection. It had
been hard, but worth it. He would have denied it as
a sentimental idea, but he knew that he would cut
off his right hand to keep his farm “in the family” if
it were possible. And maybe he wouldn t be able
to do that.
He realised that the boy was wanting to get
away. He was a good lad, was Joe, but like most of
the young chaps in the district he hadn’t much time
for a life that meant hard work and maybe poor
returns. Not that the boy wasn’t a toiler, but all
work and little to show for it is nobody’s joke. And
then most of all was the underlying reason, the fact
that Joe didn’t have the tie that bound his father to
the old place. The tie that came from having
developed a good farm from a welter of tough heavy
bush, the tie that came from having brought down
the trees and laboriously torn the heavy stumps from
the ground. Fred could hear again the shouts and
curses he used to hurl at the bullock team, straining
to drag the butts of the trees from the dark-red soil.
And after that the ploughing and harrowing and the
unforgettable and always returning pleasure at seeing
the crops come through the earth.
It had been the joy of conquest against the heat
and the dust and the thousand and one difficulties
that had arisen since the time the selection was first
made. Joe had never had that to make him want to
stay on the old place. Fred tilted his hat back further
on his forehead and settled his shoulders more com-
fortably against the fence.
Behind the house a dog barked excitedly and
Joe came round the corner, wiping the sweat from his
forehead with the back of his hand. Little puffs of
dust came from under his boots as he came towards
his father.
“Gripes, dad, it’s hot. Could do with a good
glass of beer, a big cold glass.” Joe laughed. But
Fred noticed that he wasn’t thinking much about the
heat or the beer at all, but that his mind was on
something else, as it always seemed to be lately.
“We’ll go down to the pub after tea and have a
couple of handles. I heard your mother saying that
your aunt was coming over tonight, so we’ll be able
to get away all right.” A long pause. Why can’t he
seem a bit interested in things? Fred thought. But
Joe had already turned and was going off towards the
tractor by the stable. Maybe he’d have been more
suited as a mechanic ; if only he had a strong tie to
keep him on the farm, but, even as he thought it, with
a depressed feeling Fred realised that Joe would
soon be leaving for the south, for the city.
“Hang on a minute, Joe, There’s something I’d
like you to give me a hand with,” he called. Joe
turned and came slowly back. “I’ve always been want-
ing to clear up that bit of bush down the back and
get it down in grass. We’ll start on Monday. What
do you say?”
“All right, dad. Might as well be doing that now
that the dipping’s done.”
Fred hoped that it was the heat that made Joe
sound not very keen on the idea.
“Hope we get a bit of rain before then,” and
Joe went off again to potter round with the tractor.
IT rained that same night —a good omen, thought
* Fred as he lay in bed listening to the steady drum-
ming on the corrugated-iron roof. The air felt good
and cool, and he felt a lot better about things.
It seemed to buck Joe up, too, and on Monday
they were up early, sharpening the axes and filing the
old crosscut, gathering ropes and chains from the
shed. They began on the trees after early lunch. It
wasn’t long before Fred felt just about done in. It
was tougher than he had thought it would be-—the
wood of the trees was harder and the trunks thicker
than he had reckoned.
When they were going up to the house for tea
Fred looked at Joe. He was not showing much the
worse, and Fred felt a thrill of pride in him his
boy, a man now and a good one, even if he did have
damn-fool ideas about going to the city.
“I reckon it’s a pretty tough patch, eh?” said
Joe. “Don’t you think you ought to take a spell for
a few days, dad? I can do it on my own now that
we’ve got the biggest ones down. I can use the
tractor to drag the butts down to the back paddock
when I’ve trimmed them a bit, and Jock Allen will
lend us that buzz-saw of his to split them up. We
can give him a few fence posts and I know that he’s
not using it now. Y’know, there’s some pretty good
soil under that bush. I reckon that it would be a
waste to lay it in grass just yet. Wait for a while
and when I run the plough through it we’ll see if it’d
do for a crop of some sort. Y’can always get a good
price for mangels or swedes. We’ll see anyway.
Fred was glad that Joe had suggested that he lay
off. He was feeling just about tuckered up now that
he had stopped working, and he thought that Joe
seemed as if he wanted to take the job on his own
shoulders as his own particular bit of work.
I OF went about the whole thing in a good way, and
from his seat against the fence where he used to
go for a smoke Fred could see him leaving small
clumps of trees for shelter. He wished he had done
the same thing right from the first. It would have
saved a lot of money and labor in planting belts of
trees. He could see Joe, the great dark-red gaps in
the earth where the stumps had been dragged out; and
he could hear the chugging of the tractor as Joe
dragged the trunks of the trees from the vanishing
bush and smell the smoke from the heaps of under-
growth as they burned.
After a couple of days he was back to help Joe
again, but quietly working under the boy’s orders.
And then after weeks of toil and sweat and
swearing and disappointment when things went wrong,
they looked at the rise on which the bush had stood,
rich and brown, the plough furrows making a smooth
pattern, the clumps of shelter trees throwing dark
shadows on the earth.
“Yeah, it’s good soil all right. I reckon it’d
grow a good crop. Think I’ll put some mangles in.
The Distributing Co. have got some good seed in that
I was reading about the other day. Yeah, I reckon
I’ll put some in and we’ll put a good fence round.
Gripes, dad, I can make quids outa that bit of land.”
And Fred knew that the farm had won. Joe had
made his own tie, his own heritage. “Come on, Joe,
he said ; “there’s just time to hop down to the pub
and have a couple of handles,”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
,/Izrctt c fifm oftobe mell
Seppelt's
GATEWAY OF MERTON ABBEY
!n Lor ant Z 11 f •“ , t-T \ rCmainS ’ feW indeed ’ ° f Merton Abbey ’ an eccesiastical institution which in its time played
Henrv I lav tf rm Vc Y 8065 t 0 high antiquity ‘ Before the Conquest in 1066, the village was the property of Harold 11.
Chief I f 1 °™ an ’ shenff of Surrey ’ who foupded a conven t, later removed to the site of the present ruins. In 1227 Hubert de Burgh,
“Hral H ” Ce “ "T T* ’ !f g dngraCed ' accused of many crimes ’ took refu § e ™ the Abbey Church, whence the King ordered him to be
Mertr, ’’ r S “ “ ° Ut ’ “ de Burgh Was restored to favor - In the Abb ey da ™g 1236, Parliament met, and enacted the “Provisions of
.o * , In thl " a f embly ’ u P° n a motlon of the bishops for establishing a constitution of the Canon law, by which marriage could legitimate issue
shlllThP b h° m ’ b Th m g r Ve that , Cel " brated ans Y er “Nalumus leges Anglice mutari rendered in English “We are unwilling that the laws of England
ould be changed. This action of the bishops is of peculiar interest just now, when certain tenets of the “New Order” which Hitler has promised the
world are borne in mind. Their lordships were certainly possessed of advanced, if not revolutionary, views for their time, and indicated, as some social
reformers have averred, that the Church was then inspired by progressive ideas, which have not always characterised it since. This little township is
likewise memorable for the Const.tut.ons which the clergy of England drew up in 1258, calculated to promote their own importance at the expense of the Crown,
and mimical to the authority of the Pope. Henry 111 appealed to the Pope, and the sovereign Pontiff abrogated them, though some of the chief articles
they enacted were in favor of points for which that great champion of papal authority, St. Thomas a’Becket, suffered assassination. At Merton in 1216
peace was concluded between Henry 111, then a minor, and Prince Louis of France. In the war between Charles I and Parliament the Abbey was used
as a garrison. Close by is Merton Place, Nelson’s seat, where the great Admiral meant to have ended his days had not the call to save his country decreed
otherwise. Within a circle of, say, fifty miles of St. Paul’s Cathedral, few places may claim greater interest than Merton, especially for those hailing
from outer portions of the far-flung British Empire of today.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3201.
Wednesday, June 18, 1941.
SPEAKING FROM TOBRUK.
“This is no private fight—any Aussie can join in.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
25218 b; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
W estralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.).
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Countr,.
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreigni
12 months, £2 s ; 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.,
■ months lls
SYRIA, CRETE, ETC.
The Bulletin found itself unable to join in the enthu-
siasm of Great Dailies for the campaign in Syria.
Indeed, it marvelled at their rejoicings, remembering
how angry they were when it came out that in Crete,
as in Greece, the Anzacs had been left with only the
shadow of protection against swarms of enemy air-
craft that never left them alone, and how the in-
vasion of Syria had been entered upon before there
was even a Parliamentary post-mortem on the
Cretan campaign. It marvelled also at their apparent
unconcern not only as to Australian soldiers being
employed in Syria before the Sixth Division could
possibly be reorganised, much less used again, after
its 50 per cent. losses in the Aigean, but as to whether
participation in the Syrian business was expressly
sanctioned or merely acquiesced in by the Australian
Government.
For reasons that are only too evident, there
are no Maoriland troops in Syria, nor is there any
contingent of South Africans there, though Vichy
claims to have seen Canadians —which is very unlikely.
Seeing that the Great Dailies are now demanding an
Imperial War Cabinet —most of them are very recent
converts —some curiosity as to the political origins
of and responsibility for this latest venture, as well
as the objects sought, might at the very least have
been looked for.
Nor could The Bulletin share its contemporaries’
confidence in the strength and ardor of the De Gaulle
party, or accept the assurances of the Sydney morning
papers that “the diminished, demoralised and dis-
sident force” led by “the ignoble Dentz” (“S. M.
Herald”) had “no stomach to fight” (“Daily Tele-
graph”). it could not help recollecting that it was
the Petainists, not the De Gaullists, who fought at
Dakar, or recalling what happened to British-backed
French parties, Huguenots, Camisards and Bour-
bonists, in past wars.
Because English-speaking people understand and
admire the spirit which prompted the formation of
the Free French movement, it is perhaps natural
for newspapers to believe that the De Gaullists
are accepted as liberators by the great body
of their fellow-countrymen under actual German
domination or living in dread of it; but no
support for this comfortable belief can be drawn
from French history. Seventy years ago Thiers
Republicans and Communards fought one another
more savagely than the soldiers of either party had
fought the victorious invader. The De Gaullists are
anything but Communards, but they have been repre-
sented by Vichy as a mischievous faction, engineered
by Perfidious Albion to break up the French empire
and disrupt Petain’s effort to achieve national unity—
so necessary if La Patrie is to rise again—in metro-
politan France ; and it is all too probable that mil-
lions of Frenchmen who hate the Germans and see
in the Petain regime a safeguard against a Communist
revolution believe every word of it. All too prob-
able also that the appearance of the De Gaullists in
Syria, with a proclamation promising the Syrians and
Lebanese “liberty and independence,” aroused in the
breasts of the Petainists, already disposed to show that
the terrible defeats of May and June, 1940, were no
fault of the soldiers and had not extinguished the
fighting quality of the race, some of the tough spirit
manifested by their forefathers in 1871 and 1793.
Be that as it may, the invasion is very far from
being the promised military promenade. It has been
stubbornly opposed, wholly by Frenchmen and by
Africans and Asiatics in their service. The A.I.F.
and the R.A.A.F. and their British comrades would
have infinitely preferred to fight Germans, but neither
on Syrian land nor in Syrian skies have any Germans
been seen, except in the Foreign Legion, which has
never been without Germans since it was founded.
Yet as far back as May 21 it was asserted
that “German ground staffs” were “transforming over
20 Syrian airfields into offensive bases,” and that “the
large aerodrome at Aleppo” was then “completely in
German hands.” German “experts” were also “re-
ported” to have “taken over Syrian railways” and to
be “establishing large stores at various junctions.” By
June 1 “all power in Syria” had “passed from the
French to the Germans” ; “thousands of Frenchmen”
were “constructing five new aerodromes for the
Germans,” and a German air force, consisting of
“180 bombers,” had arrived. By June 6 “Dr. von
Roser, Hitler’s ‘under-cover man’ in Syria,” had “vir-
tually taken over the mandate from the French,” and
the Germans were engaged in “a great round-up of
anti-Nazis at Beirut,” meanwhile “warning the port
authorities that they must soon make room for
German E-boats and submarines.”
Our “Daily Telegraph,” which hailed the intelli-
gence of the advance into Syria as “the best news we
have had for a long time,” has since declared that
“Dr. Goebbeis’s busy little agents have been assidu-
ously spreading rumors —one day about a far-reach-
ing understanding with Stalin, the next day about an
attack on Turkey, the day after about a descent upon
the Ukraine.” The spreading of rumors has by no
means been confined to these subjects. There is
dark and deep suspicion that Goebbels and his agents
expended their wealth of fancy on the subject of
“Nazi penetration” in Iraq and Syria, and that their
dope was swallowed wholesale by those for whom it
was intended. Many plain and fancy liars have obvi-
ously been at work, particularly in Turkey. Nowadays
almost any person, whatever his race and antecedents,
can set up as a foreign correspondent and get his stuff
published and accepted as gospel, even when he
sprinkles it with “it is said,” “it is believed,” “it is
reported,” “it is learned on unimpeachable authority”
and other expressions of the kind, expressions which
are used by no journalist who is really competent and
responsible, and which may be a screen for credulous
folly or mercenary and dangerous mendacity.
According to London’s “Daily Herald,” it is
“Germany’s game to push Vichy France into war with
Britain in open alliance with Germany.” Of course
it is Germany’s game, and the Germans have been at
it for a long time. They must have been delighted
beyond measure when they learned from Syria that
part of the Royal Navy was operating off Sidon and
Beirut, and from Vichy that there had been an action
between British and French destroyers. They know —
none better, except the devoted officers and men of
the senior service—how many calls have been made on
our warships in the Mediterranean, and what little
rest those warships have had.
The new commitment coincided with an Admiralty
statement that three more ships, an anti-aircraft
cruiser and two destroyers, had been added to the
three cruisers and four destroyers written off as lost
in Cretan waters. It coincided also with an announce-
ment by Mr. Churchill that naval “fatalities” in Crete
“exceeded 500,” and that of 2000 royal marines landed
on the island “1400 became casualties or were taken
prisoner.”
This information was given in the course of a
defence of the Crete campaign which was eloquent
without being convincing. On one point the speaker
corrected himself. He had said on May 21 that “1500
enemy troops” landed in Crete wearing New Zealand
battle dress. This, he admitted on June 10, was a
“mistake,” the “mistake” having arisen because “the
Germans drove British and New Zealand wounded
ahead of them.” Sheer barbarity, of course ; all the
same, it is unfortunate that the thing was mentioned
before the precise fact had been ascertained.
“What would have been said,” the Prime Minister
proceeded, “if Crete had been given up without a
fight?” Possibly nothing more than was said when
the Channel Islands and British Somaliland were given
up ; but Mr. Churchill does not agree. “If we had not
defended Crete,” he declared, “the Germans might
already be masters of Syria and Iraq and might be
preparing for an advance in Iran” (he did not men-
tion Cyprus), so “the decision to fight was arrived at.”
Arrived at “with the knowledge that air support
would be at a minimum,” and in the hope that “25,000
or 30,000 good troops, with artillery and tanks and
with Greek aid, would destroy the enemy as he landed,”
and that the Navy would “destroy sea-borne attacks,”
though “the action of the Navy in defending the
northern sea without adequate air defences was bound
to be very costly,” All this, and much besides —above
all the statement that “meagre air support was the
very foundation of our decision to defend Crete” —
made very unpleasant reading in Australia, and the
Advisory War Council was startled into asking for
assurances that the Australian soldiers in Syria, Cyprus
and North Africa will not be left as unprotected
against the Luftwaffe as were their comrades in Greece
and Crete.
Australians are not squealers, nor are they hands-
uppers. They perceive the difficulties of the Churchill
Government and recognise the paramount importance
of the defence of the United Kingdom and the Battle
of. the Atlantic. They are proud of the fighting quality
shown by their seamen, airmen and soldiers, and they
ask no more for their valiant sons than that they
should be employed in operations and placed in
situations where fighting quality will get a real chance.
But Australians cannot be easy in their minds about
recent events and admissions, nor can they be satis-
fied with a position in which, save for communica-
tions by cable and radiophone, they have no say in
the political direction of the war. They want at least
the measure of representation which was freely con-
ceded by the British Government in 1916, and that
without any more delay. In this matter there is no
division of opinion in the Commonwealth.
The Dependence on Blockade.
Even America’s Mr. Hoover has become silent about
the effects of Britain’s blockade on the Nazi-held
countries of Europe. Newspapers which, through the
winter, worked the topic for every wishful ounce that
could be squeezed out of it have as completely dropped
it. The truth in their case probably is the obvious
one that there are livelier topics now available; the
explanation, both in their case and that of Mr.
Hoover and his supporters, would probably be that,
with the coming of spring and now summer to Europe,
the privation and starvation held to be imminent last
December have temporarily vanished.
Obviously the spring and summer growth would
have given relief. Could it have changed the picture
so completely? That is, if the familiar earlier picture
of a few months back was wholly true. Then, pretty
well all the countries under Nazi domination were
represented as suffering severe shortages, and some of
them —particularly Belgium and Poland —were de-
picted as suffering actual starvation. From Norway
down to Spain, from France across to Poland, hunger
was everywhere. Pestilence and disease due to mal-
nutrition and exposure were already showing up —-
typhus and cholera in Poland ; pellagra in Italy. In
Germany itself undernourishment of workers was hav-
ing its effect on production. Shortages were not only
in foods that spring and summer crops would supply.
They were also in animal products—meats and fats,
especially fats —which could not be made good so
readily.
That general picture was about as black as could
be painted. It was a picture calculated to disturb
humanitarians —which it did very much in America —
and raise the hopes of all those - who look on the
blockade, not merely as a supplementary weapon in
the winning of this war, but as the only force neces-
sary. Hold out and hang on, and the blockade will
do it! That would seem to be the core of President
Roosevelt’s policy, if not of British policy also. The
expectation appears to be that in time the effects of
the blockade will be such that not all Hitler’s armed
hordes will be able to hold down a Europe driven to
desperation by starvation and disease. It is a picture
of the shape of things to come that appals the imagina-
tion. The guilt—there is no doubt whatever —is Ger-
many’s ; but that does not make realistic contempla-
tion of the picture any the less shuddersome.
That is, if it is true. Even allowing for the natural
enormous improvement in the position due to spring
and summer growth, there would seem to have been
a considerable amount of exaggeration-—on the one
hand, by American humanitarians ; on the other, by
the wishful thinkers everywhere who pip their faith
on anything that looks like a substitute for fighting.
Perhaps in time, by containing Hitler in Europe and
closing all leaks in the blockade —the traffic in Ameri-
can products via Vladivostok has been notorious —
something of what wishful thinkers hope for, and
humanitarians shudder from, may come about. Accord-
ing to plentiful reports, on the strength of which Presi-
dent Roosevelt has partly based his policy, there is
continually increasing hatred of Germany in the Nazi-
dominated countries. Unless Germany can defeat
Britain—which President Roosevelt has declared
America will never allow —and come to reasonable
peace terms with all those countries, permitting the
withdrawing of the occupying armies, that hatred must
continue to grow and spread. Then, in President
Roosevelt’s expectation, the Nazi system could not
avoid collapse.
One trouble with all this line of thinking is that
it gives off the impression that the end by such means
is somewhere already in sight. A great deal i§ ex-
pected of next winter. Last week “the Istanbul corre-
spondent” of London “Daily Herald,” feeding the
once-more revived expectation of an imminent falling-
out between the criminal partners who got this war
going, worked in a bit of the rare publicity the
blockade gets these days in cables:
Hitler may be forced to take desperate action, because
Europe faces a food shortage this winter. Travellers
from Berlin report that the blockade is beginning to
tell even in Germany, despite the pillaging of conquered
countries.
That is mild to what “travellers” were reporting
six months back, and to what they will be reporting
six months hence. It seems optimistic in view of
what happened in the last war, when Germany was
tightly blockaded and did not have the run of Europe
for supplies, nor a subservient Russia only too willing
to stand in as universal provider, as far as its own
resources and what it could draw in from the Ameri-
can continent and elsewhere would permit. It seems
optimistic also in the face of conclusions reached by
expert observers at least as well qualified as .any
“Istanbul correspondent.” The particularly careful
American “Foreign Affairs” had a long article in its
April issue that was not at all encouraging to wishful
thinking centred on next winter. The writer —Karl
Brandt, formerly Professor of Agricultural Economics
at the University of Berlin, now economist at Stan-
ford University, U.S.A. —insisted that, short of such
an occurrence as a general crop failure, “we are prob-
ably safe in assuming that the threat of famine [on
the Continent] will gradually vanish.” More calves
and young cattle, poultry and pigs had been
slaughtered than under ordinary conditions, “but these
inroads have not, contrary to press reports, reached
alarming proportions.” He stated Europe’s total
import deficit in foodstuffs before the war as amount-
ing to “not more than 5 p.c. of its bread-grain re-
quirements, or 6 p.c. of bread and feed-grain require-
ments combined.”
Germany today has an untouched war reserve of
6.5 million tons of grain, and this alone would permit
her to adjust the situation in countries of greatest need
without seriously depleting her stocks. The fat deficit
will persist, but it will decrease as potatoes, sugar beets
and mangels become available for feeding hogs, cows
and sheep, and as more oilseeds, such as rape, are
grown Exceptionally high prices of food and feed
in all areas outside of Germany will certainly stimulate
increased production and will enforce the utmost thrift
in consumption. At present the greatest pressure seems
destined to fall on England because of her shipping
losses.
Even an imperfect blockade is a helpful weapon ;
but —wishful thinking put aside —it would seem that
this is going to be a very long war if that weapon is
to be regarded as the main means of beating Hitler.
Possibly it may beat him in the long run. What should
then be looked forward to is that it will be a very
long run indeed. There are alternatives, the major
one being that Uncle Sam, instead of lining up with
the blockade brand of wishful thinkers, should come
in fighting. His reactions to the cruel and stupid tor-
pedoing of the American freighter Robin Moor,
among them the freezing of all German and Italian
credits, suggest that he will soon come in convoying.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tobruk.
The siege is in its twelfth week. A handful of Aus-
tralian and British troops, isolated in a hot spot on
the North African coastline, about 80 miles from the
nearest British posts outside Solium, and fed and
munitioned from the sea, at constant peril to ship-
ping—as was shown last week by the loss of a monitor
and a gunboat —are not only holding out against a
resolute enemy but frequently sally forth and deprive
him of a tank or two and some men. The enemy’s
artillery never lets up and his air force plasters the
place with bombs.
This war has given history some notable inci-
dents. In time they will provide writers with grand
themes. Undoubtedly Tobruk will be among them,
and the name will give Australians as much cause for
pride as do Gallipoli, Beersheba, Bullecourt and
Villers-Bret. Even Pink writing-boys, who are still
obsessed with the defence of Madrid in the Spanish
dogfight, may, as they age and get a more sensible
outlook, find in Tobruk inspiration for their pens. It
is certain that the filmsmiths will see in it a splendid
theme for a picture on the lines of “The Lost Patrol.”
Australians will find more pride in the fact that
not only is its youth stamping Tobruk on history, but
there is a leaven among them of the old A.I.F. Men
like Gerry Mann, who served from Gallipoli to the
Armistice, returned a captain of the old 51st Bat-
tery, and when this new call came joined up simply
as a gunner, taking a few years off his age, as many
other Old Diggers have done. He is dead in Tobruk.
Gerry Mann, like the others holding the place,
would have been embarrassed if anybody called him
a hero to his face, but heroes they all are, and there
is that in their epic which must inspire other Aus-
tralians still in comfortable billets to go and help
them and their mates. When Tobruk is relieved, the
first Australians to rush in and greet the garrison will
have an experience worth the risk of a bullet. It
doesn’t need much imagination to visualise that
meeting—the grins, the chiacking and, underneath,
the strong current of mateship and the pride in a job
well done.
Casualties arid Casualness.
The Australian troops serving overseas were recruited
by the Australian Government, and the public has
been explicitly assured that they are not employed in
any war zone without the Australian Government’s
consent. The same Government has set up a very
expensive department whose be-all and end-all is sup-
posed to be the collecting and presenting of informa-
tion about the war. But pertinent information which
the Government should be in a position to obtain,
and which it could furnish by Ministerial statement
or through the expensive department, has been
strangely lacking.
The first news that Australian troops were in
Greece and in Crete and in Syria came not from Can-
berra but from London, and it was left to newspaper
correspondents to report that Australian troops were
in Cyprus. Of the Australians in Syria a correspon-
dent wrote that “many are fresh from their home
country ; others have seen service in Greece and the
Western Desert” and “several of their senior officers
served in Palestine in the last war.” That was pub-
lished on June 10 in “a delayed dispatch.” The delay
enabled our Mr. Spender to catch up with the dis-
patch, but all he said was that “Australian troops”
had “been allotted a part in the operations beginning
in Syria,” plus an addition which has become drearily
familiar:
I have not yet received any advice from General
Blarney since the advance began. I am accordingly
unable to make any further statement at this time.
There was a very long delay in announcing the
number of casualties in Greece, and the total pub-
lished on May 24 (3983) was considerably in excess
of previous estimates —“less than 3000 killed, missing
and prisoners of war” (attributed to the General on
May 9) and 1600, a newspaper’s correspondent’s cal-
culation to which publicity was given. It was con-
jectured by Mr. Spender that when the General said
“less than 3000 killed, missing and prisoners of war,”
he meant “killed, wounded and missing,” and he
promised to have the point cleared up. As far as
the public knows, this was not done.
They do these things differently in Maoriland. On
May 25 Mr. Nash, the Acting Prime Minister, an-
nounced that “some 2200 New Zealanders were miss-
ing in Greece,” and that for the most part they must
be “assumed to be prisoners of war” ; he added, war-
rantably, that “there” was “quite a lot of hope that
some of them might yet reach shores under the con-
trol of Britain or Greece.” That appeared in the
Maoriland papers on May 26. Within seven days the
Government had published the names of 2340 missing,
less 108, “previously reported missing and now not
missing.” This prompt publication must have allayed
to some extent the anxieties of the next-of-kin, who
had been notified in every case before the names were
given to the press.
Lists of killed and wounded were published dur-
ing the same week. In proportion to the number of
missing they were gratifyingly small —May 28, four
killed, nine wounded, 585 missing; May 29, three
killed and one wounded, 437 missing; May 30,
no dead or wounded, 450 missing ; May 31, three
wounded, 416 missing. A classification of M.L.
casualties in Greece and Crete (213 killed, 1187
wounded, 41 prisoners and 4342 missing) appeared
last week before anything of the sort had appeared
in Australia.
Maoriland casualty lists are much more informa-
tive than Australian. They give not only soldiers
names and ranks, but names, addresses and sexes of
next-of-kin. For example (all “missing”):
FULLER, Francis L., Pte. Mrs. C. Fuller, c/o “Gem
Crispwich” Kitchen, 58 Cuba St., Wellington
(mother).
GEEVES, Russell C., Gnr. Mr. John William Geeves,
Kuri Bush, R.D. Dunedin (father).
GERBICH, John, Pte. Miss M. Gerbich, c/o Clinton
Private Hotel, 5 Scotia PI., Auckland (sister).
GRANT, Rex, A/L/Cpl. Mrs. H. Grant, 23 Bourke
St., Palmerston Nth. (mother).
GREENFIELD, Ernest, Pte. W. E. Greenfield, 690
Main St., Palmerston Nth. (father).
GREER, William, Cpl. Mr. R. Greer, 146 Romney
St., Westport (father).
GRIFFITHS, Eric E., Pte. Mrs. M. Griffiths, Enville
Common, Stourbridge, Worcestershire, England
(mother).
GUNN, Andrew, W.O. Mrs. D. Gunn, 30 Larks-
worthy St., St. Kilda (wife).
Australian lists, as published in newspapers, give
only the soldier’s name, rank, regimental number
(sometimes) and place of enlistment. This formula,
to put it mildly, is unhelpful to sympathetic people
who may want to get in touch with sorrowing or
anxious relatives.
Since September 3, the Maoriland Government
has shown the Australian Government many a point,
above all in holding the manhood of the Dominion
liable for war service anywhere. In this matter and
others, the Australian Government has signally failed
to profit by Maoriland’s example.
Churchill and the Papers.
No predecessor of Mr. Churchill was larded with half
the praise that the present P.M. has received.
Himself a newspaper contributor for two-thirds
of his life, Mr. Churchill is what every newspaper-
man would like to be. Of all newspapermen, occa-
sional and professional, he writes and speaks best,
and he has a full issue of the courage which all news-
papermen admire, together with a quenchless enthu-
siasm and love of country. Withal he has most of
the modern newspaperman’s failings. He goes in too
much for special pleading and invective, is too apt to
say what comes into his head at the moment without
regard to what he said before, too prone to brush
aside difficulties when he has set his heart on a parti-
cular course of action, and too addicted to believing
that he can do anything and everything himself. And
though his military career was too brief to have been
distinguished, he has too easily persuaded himself and
accepted the assurances of his admirers that he is a
strategist of genius.
Not only in the Empire has Mr. Churchill been
regarded as the answer to a newspaperman’s prayer.
American pressmen have conspired to praise him,
and through his influence over them he has been of
greater service to the Empire’s cause than any other
Englishman could have been. His vogue in the U.S.A.
and the spirit-stirring speeches he delivered in the
dark days of 1940 constitute his chief claims to
gratitude.
But the favor of newspapermen is fleeting, even
where a Churchill is concerned, and some members
of the tribe are going through the preliminary motions
of leaping on their idol. Not because all his cam-
paigns and sideshows (Antwerp, Gallipoli, Norway,
Dakar, Greece and Crete) have been unsuccessful
—though there have been some very nasty remarks
about Crete and the failure to provide air protection
for the army in that island when it was under Mr.
Churchill’s orders to defend it “to the death”—but
because he has, it seems, become dictatorial, impatient
of criticism and resentful of advice —the advice of the
press. He won’t have an Imperial War Cabinet, and
the press has very belatedly discovered that it wants
one. As belatedly it has discovered that the War
Cabinet is unwieldy, that some of the Ministers are
square pegs in round holes (they were all geniuses
when Mr. Churchill appointed them), that there is a
vast mass of unutilised man-power and woman-power
in Britain, that there is a lag in production of essen-
tial weapons, that there is confusion in the Depart-
ment of Labor, especially in respect of the handling of
ships in port, that there are radical defects in British
diplomacy and propaganda, that the Department of
Information is a dud and that 1914 methods are being
applied to a 1941 war.
So far there have been no direct attacks on Mr.
Churchill. The parties alleged to be guilty are vaguely,
though hotly, described as “the Old Gang.” If Mr.
Chamberlain were still in the picture, he would be
the perfect scapegoat, but Mr. Chamberlain has been
dead too long to be of real service on this score. As
for Lord Beaverbrook and Mr. Eden, they are too
close to Mr. Churchill to be suitable targets ; besides
they have newspaper interests themselves. But Mr.
Churchill was “looking for it” when he said that
“meagre air support was the very foundation of our
decision to defend Crete” and that “the man is a
perfect fool who thinks we have large quantities of
anti-aircraft guns and ’planes lying around unused,”
and sooner or later he will get “it.” This he doubtless
realises, for he must know what newspapermen are.
An Empire in Reserve.
Norway has been in the war since April, 1940. Ship-
ping is its main industry. To the end of February -
no later figures have been published—it had lost 159
ships of 562,000 tons through enemy action, apart
from 20,805 tons of shipwrecked freighters, and 1000
Norwegian sailors had lost their lives —another 100
were missing.
Yet early this year 900 Norwegian ships of
3,600,000 tons were still sailing the seas, nearly all
carrying supplies for Britain.
When the Norwegian Government left for Britain
it took with it the national gold reserve. Thanks to
the gold reserve and the mercantile marine, it has been
able to announce that, although all its sources of
home taxation are in German hands, it possesses
“financial resources which enable it to wage war for
the liberation of Norway, to meet all foreign obliga-
tions in allied and neutral countries, to build up
reserves for speedy provisioning and reconstruction
when the Germans have been driven out, and to
establish a sound financial system after the war.
It is a lesson for Australia, with its ample ship-
building resources, fine harbors and abundance of
commodities to carry. Norway has comparatively few
native commodities to carry, but it has built up a
carrying trade to such an extent that so long as its
ships plough the waves its Government can continue
the struggle against an enemy possessed of the country
itself.
With a population about equal to that of N. S.
Wales, Norway has 1700 tons of shipping per 1000
people against 400 tons in Britain and 100 in U.S.A.
When the Germans ordered Norwegian shipping to
return to port after the country had been overrun,
not one of the 900-odd captains obeyed, nor one of
the 25,000 Norwegian sailors.
If the Commonwealth in 1939 had had about
1700 tons of shipping per 1000 inhabitants instead of
three-seventieths of a ton, the war might have had a
different complexion for the whole British Empire
and the world. The lesson should be taken to heart.
Industrial Birth Throes in Melbourne.
Observations of “C.Q.”:
Melbourne’s sudden emergence as the munitions centre
has involved the relevant authorities. in a sea of problems.
Evidence is seen in the progressive deterioration of essential
services. Thousands of skilled men left the transport services
for the fighting services or the factories. The railways have
had to do without upwards of 5000 men, and that with
increased demand for freight, a shipping shortage, periodical
congestion at ports and reduction of commercial road trans-
port, caused by petrol rationing and other things. Old men
in retirement have been requisitioned, new men are being
trained and hours have been lengthened by overtime, but the
congestion increases.
The number of authorities who are tackling the problem
is legion. They all say they want to provide conditions for
the maximum use of man-power, and no doubt they do,
but they also want to cling to the old things. Hence the way
one body tries to solve a problem is apt to create a new one
for some other body and that body deals with it in such a
way as to create a fresh dilemma for another struggling
committee. In one industrial suburb workers are sleeping two
in a bed or on verandahs, eating pies from street stalls and
struggling for seats on trams and buses to get to their
machines.
After months of deliberation young Mr. Holt has started,
on the building of 100 houses, with the assistance of the
Housing Commission. They look admirable in plan and
elegant in elevation, but if Mr. Holt thinks he can solve the
problem in that way he is optimistic. The State gained over
20,000 people by migration last year, and at least 2000 houses
would be needed to catch up with the increase. A good half
of this increase is floating population which has no more
intention of remaining in Melbourne industrial suburbs after
the war than the Diggers have of staying in Syria or Egypt.
They are there for the duration, and in the painful transition
from a war-time to a peace-time footing they will constitute
another problem in which mobility will be the essence of a
solution. .
Mr. Holt ought to consult a military organiser, who would
treat this impermanent population with the same technique as
is used for an army. The military organiser ought to be given
powers to go roughshod through the tangle of municipal,
State Governmental and commercial rules and regulations which
are trying to reconcile vested private interests with the necessi-
ties of the nation. As an illustration of the muddle they have
got into, at a time when the authorities can’t find the time or
the money or the intelligence to provide accqmmodation for
war-workers, tony suburbs are having a building boom of
unprecedented dimensions, the current year being a bumper
one for new suburban villa permits.
Hitler, Physician!
“L.L.”; So the Americans are sending a commis-
sion to Britain “to find out why the people have
come through the frightful ordeals of the winter in
better health than in peace-time” (B. 21/5/’4l). The
commission is going in the wrong direction. It would
find the answer in its own land.
Nobody prefers insecurity to security, and every
human being works for security. When a man gets it,
he is better off from the point of view of being
secure, but worse off from the point of view of lack-
ing a stimulus to effort. It is the necessity to make
an effort which keeps both animals and people fit
and healthy.
Left to their unaided resources, many people,
when they have to make an effort, evade it by run-
ning to sickness, drink, drugs or self-pity. These
make the great army of neurotics who in peace-time
keep the bells of Medical-street ringing. They may
think they are suffering from this thing or that thing
and may actually be the victims of some complaint
or other ; but the germ of the complaint lies in their
lowered resistance consequent upon boredom and dis-
couragement, lack of purpose and occupation.
Apply this to Britain and we find it fits the case
exactly. Before Hitler erupted tens of thousands of
people in London must have been, living sheltered,
secure lives. With no capacity to amuse themselves,
they must have been bored stiff. If they had the
money they could get away to Monte Carlo or
Morocco, thinking that that would remove their
boredom, only to find they had had an illusion shat-
tered and were more bored than ever.
But it would be difficult to be bored in an air-
raid. It would be difficult for any Briton to say
that his life had no purpose when his neighbor’s
house was tumbling into ruins or, with A.R.P., roof-
spotting departments and the fighting services clamor-
ing for helpers, that he lacked opportunity for effort.
Then there is the breaking-up of the normal
social order, the mixing up of the sexes and the classes.
An individual catastrophe tends to separate people ,
a universal cataclysm tends to bring them together.
The accepted routine which makes a husband go
home, not because he wants to, but because he thinks
he ought to, can’t be maintained when the country is
in danger. Whether he knows it or doesn’t, patriotic
duty gives the husband an excuse unavailable in
peace-time.
So unwittingly Hitler has been the physician of
the nation. For every person he has laid low with a
bomb he has stimulated hundreds to face conditions
which they would have thought it impossible they
could face in peace-time.


Society “AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS.”
“Pitt-Street”: All Sydney has been
barking and snuffling for the past month,
and there has been vast consumption of
aspirin and rum. Many took to their
beds, and many, arising therefrom,, caught
another dose and redoubled their vocalis-
ing from throat and nose. The
epidemic was at its height when
a cold westerly swept the city. The
red nose shone in the streets, and the
flapper, albeit she wore a coat, shivered
like a Harlem Mammy in the throes of
religion. On trams and buses and trains,
petrol rationing being what it is, you
could snuffle or bark democratically with
high society, and the refaned voice of
Potts Point joined with the whine of
Surry Hills in condemning the draughty
conveyances provided for the stricken
public. Only the newsboys, barelegged
and often coatless, remained coughless,
a fact that failed to make any impression
on the average overfed and overclothed
citizen going miserably home with a
stuffed head to an equally miserable
spouse.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: War’s exigencies in
Victoria are producing a new type of
gipsy. They are families whose bread-
winners, lured to the city by the boom
in munitions-making and unable to find
accommodation, have taken to motor
caravans. Some are hired from firms,
others are all that remains to Dad of his
motor transport, rendered obsolete by
petrol rationing. Human beings being
gregarious animals, they tend to cluster
together, and a number of them have been
getting themselves passed on from one
municipality to another. A group which
has finally taken a stand on the beach at
Aitona is giving the Werribee Council
concern. Another horde has anchored
itself near the Saltwater River. The only
objection raised is that they don’t pay
rent.
* * * *
“Q.W.E.”: Sydney, greatest city of the
south, with a population of H millions,
has not where to put its rubbish —or that
portion of it which is incombustible. For
a time it was dumped at Moore Park,
but the Ministry of Lands vetoed the
proceeding. Then some alderman got the
bright idea of buying 50-odd acres in the
suburb of Rockdale for a dump, but
Rockdale Council prohibited the sale.
The sea won’t do, as there are laws
against beach pollution. The Minister
for Lands has now suggested that old
brick pits (dangerous places) be filled up
but hasn’t said what will happen when
all the brick pits are filled. Besides, citi-
zens living near the pits are likely to pro-
test against the smell and general danger
from germs. So far, nobody has thought
of digging the King’s Cross tunnel and
then filling it with the garbage, but it
may come —it may come!
* * * »
“Cine Ma”: Was invited to a Mel-
bourne domicile where a party in aid
of war funds was in progress. There
were a hundred or so present. Much
dainty food was eaten and delicate wines
were drunk, and games of chance were
played for boxes of chocolates. Penny
boxes of matches were purveyed by
smiling maidens for sixpence and the
citizens parted up gladly, as they did
for ninepenny packets of cigarettes priced
at two shillings. One gallant gentleman
coughed up half a note for a packet of
fags offered him by a particularly pretty
damsel, so overcome was he by patriotic
feeling. In an adjoining room musicians
discoursed sweet music, and everything
went merry as a marriage bell because
everybody was conscious that it was all
in aid of the war effort. The value of
the furs and dresses on the ladies, plus
their coiffures and jewellery and the
wages of their chauffeurs kicking their
heels outside round the limousines which
had brought them, must have run into
four figures, and war funds must have
benefited by at least £25. On my way
home I read in the evening paper that
the civilian population of London is
keeping a stiff upper lip although horse-
flesh is being displayed in the shops for
human consumption, and I felt grateful
to the Providence which has decreed that
I shall practise my patriotism in Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Peculiar to the Sydney
press (JB. 11/6/’4l) is the glorification
of Big Punters, and not even its glori-
fication of the nearly-naked tart annoys
me so much. There are limits to what
Governments should stand in war-time,
especially when war finance is an increas-
ingly difficult problem, and the repeated
revelation that there is a large number
of hard-faced men who spend their days
hanging round racehorses and betting in
hundreds should be met with punitive
taxation, and the sooner the better. I
“Der Tag!”
learn from the prints which adoringly
record the operations of these worthies
that bands of smaller punters, many, no
doubt, of military age, follow them from
bookmaker to bookmaker and place their
wagers—no, “investments”—accordingly ;
and then I turn to the small pars, in
which the progress of the recruiting cam-
paign is chronicled and read the
figures. And you can’t tell me that
the orgy of racing and punting and
the acres of newspaper space given over
to these useless pursuits are not a factor
in keeping young men in Sydney when
they should be rushing to fill the gaps
in the Sixth Division and join the de-
fenders of Tobruk.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A precedent was set in the
First Civil Court in Melbourne the other
day when Justice Macfarlan found that,
after exemptions were granted to mem-
bers of a jury panel of 40, only 23
names remained, one short of the figure
which would allow the statutory six
challenges apiece to plaintiff and defend-
ant. ’Sonah asked if the parties were
agreeable to proceeding minus a jury,
but one party wasn’t. Then a sheriff's
officer got a bright idea and, leaving the
court, returned with a businessman who
was on the jury list and was willing to
help the Court out of its dilemma. When
the challenges were finished the willing
one found himself in the jury box.
* * * ♦
“Olive Green”: That decision of the
Melbourne Art Gallery trustees to hang
a couple of surrealist pictures (B.
11/6/’4l) reminds me that a water-
colorist whose major fame was gained
in fields other than art said of
“modernist” painters, “I forbid them to
force their so-called experiences upon
the public. If they do see fields blue
they are deranged, and should go to an
asylum; if they only pretend to see
them blue they are criminals, and should
go to prison. I will purge the nation of
them.” The speaker was Hitler on the
occasion of the opening of the House
of German Art in 1937.
* * * *
strict Veg.”: The crisis in the Aus-
tralian wine industry revives the demand
that foolish laws which ban the serving
of wine in hotels and cafes should be
relaxed and that the open-air dining and
drinking which made Europe so attrac-
tive to tourists should be permitted. But
if citizens can’t get cheap and good wine
and as much of it as they want in Mel-
bourne, for instance, they can blame only
themselves. It can be bought from
producers in two- or three-gallon jars,
decanted into bottles, and enjoyed at a
cost, including freight, of less than Is. 6d.
a bottle. And it tastes as good as, if not
better than, the vin ordinaire of France
and the Chianti of Italy.
* * * *
. “Murasaki”: “Morimoto’s” explana-
tion of the word “tycoon” (B. 4/6/ ’4l)
is not entirely accurate. It is not a cor-
ruption of “shogun,” but an anglicised
version of the Japanese word taikun,
which was another of the Shogun’s titles.
It derives from tai, great, and Run,
lord or prince. It is believed to have
entered the English language about 1854,
at the time of the treaty between the
U.S.A. and Japan. It was later incor-
porated into the American slanguage as
meaning “big chief” or “boss.”
“Lao-dah”: It makes me exceedingly
tired when “eminent” press correspon-
dents label various individuals “the
Lawrence of Syria” or “the Lawrence
of Iraq” or “the Lawrence” of somewhere
else. The definite article sounds to me
unwittingly insulting. The model for
their imaginative flights was “Lawrence -
of Arabia,” not “the Lawrence of
Arabia,” and the distinction is funda-
mental. I remember a young writer who
sent a story to an Australian journal
which so entranced the editor that he
loudly announced that he had discovered
“the Conrad of Australia.” The poten-
tial genius was astounded, inasmuch as
he had never read a line of Conrad’s, but
he started reading the works of the Polish
writer. In a very short time he absorbed
the Conradian style, tricks of expression
and habit of indulging in long descrip-
tions. One day the young writer got a
rejected manuscript with a letter from the
same editor saying he had become too
verbose. He gave up writing. I have
a suspicion nagging at me that a lot of
these “Lawrences” are doomed to the
same fate.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A strange tragedy occurred
in a varnish factory in an Adelaide
suburb. A shift foreman got down
through a manhole into a concrete vat
te clean it with a broom. He had been
doing the same thing for years; but this
time the sediment on the bottom gave
off a gas which made him collapse, and
as he fell he dragged down the ladder.
The branch manager and the general
manager, in turn, were let down by a
rope to the rescue, but each at once be-
came unconscious, and was dragged up
only just in time. By the time the first
victim was lassoed and got out, ten
minutes of exposure to carbon monoxide
had made his case hopeless,
* * *. * . .
“X.S.”; In China the idea of marital
fidelity extends beyond the grave, and
a widow who refuses to remarry under
great temptation has a memorial arch
erected to her by admiring fellow-towns-
folk. A Melbourne husband, who seems
to have had a similar ideal, left a pro-
viso in his will that his widow would
lose the property if she remarried. It
ended in the widow facing a charge of
burglary and malicious damage to prop-
erty. After her husband’s death she be-
came engaged to or received a proposal of
marriage from a man in Coburg. When
be heard the contents of the will, how-
ever, he lost his interest in the lady —
so she alleged in evidence. He, on the
contrary, denied that he had lost interest
in her, but claimed that she had lost
interest in him, apparently putting mer-
cenary considerations first. According
to the Crown, she entered her suitor’s
house, stole £l5, cut up three suits of
clothes and left the taps running when
she departed. The defendant admitted
cutting up the suits, which she declared
had belonged to her deceased husband,
but denied stealing the money. The
j ur y sa { d “Not guilty.”
* * * *
“K.P.”: Chewing-gum has killed a
man—a healthy young Maoriland foot-
bailer. He fell during a game and was
dead before medical help arrived. At
the post-mortem the entrance to his
larynx was found to be neatly filled by
a 2in. by \m. piece of chewing-gum
moulded down on to the vocal cords in
a completely airtight fit. The coroner
suggested that referees should veto gum-
chewing on the field. Other recorded
fatalities caused by chewing-gum include
eight persons killed in a passenger plane
in the U.S. when the pilot was suddenly
asphyxiated in similar fashion and three
killed and several injured when it hap-
pened to the driver of a motor-bus in
England. All that is needed is a sqd-
den explosive cough with its follow-
ing involuntary inhalation, and once
the durable plastic plug gets drawn well
down into the windpipe only an imme-
diate tracheotomy can save the victim,
.** * *
Tu. fa.”: A matter ot an intestate
estate has caused me to check up the
genealogy of two families over three Aus-
tralian generations. Both pairs of pro-
gemtors arrived in 1846-47 with young
families, numbering three and four re-
spectively. They were good Enghsh-Irish
stock, paid their own passages and
brought enough money to establish them-
selves comfortably. Six more children
were born to one and seven more to the
other. Twenty years after arriving they
became connected by the marriage of
eldest son to eldest daughter. Of the
combined families, ten of the eleven
daughters married, and seven of the nine
sons. Of their offspring (second genera-
tion) 29 reached adult years and 23 mar-
ried. Their surviving offspring (third
generation) number 26, of whom 18 are
married, with 14 children amongst them,
Which is only twice the number brought
to Australia by their four great-grand-
parents 94 years ago, and about two-
thirds of the total number born to those
great-grandparents. Not a very cheering
example of Australia’s capacity to raise
a homegrown population.
AFTER THE WAR.
I sometimes tire of being told how cheerier
Will be the future that we’re heading for,
And ev’rything be strikingly superior
To all we ever planned in times anterior,
After the war.
Admittedly, true wisdom you’re displaying
In looking well ahead, whate’er your course;
Yet it reminds me, this long-range surveying,
Of those who’d put the cart, as goes the saying,
Before the horse.
After the war, some voice the firm conviction,
So many evils will be put to rout.
So many tangles causing constant friction,
The subjects of continual malediction,
Be straightened out.
So mote it be! But don’t forget when summing
Up blessings that should come when battles
stop.
The days ahead, the piping times and hum-
ming,
Depend indubitably on our coming
Out upon top.
First we’ve to win. Then we can turn our vision
On all that victory may hold in store.
Till that’s assured, ’twould be a sad misprision
To think what comes will rest on our decision,
After the war.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Great Lover”: I turned not a hair
when face powder was designated “excit-
ing,” and a hair-do “ultra-glamorous.”
I even took it on the chin when a
mud-pack was warranted miraculously
to “de-age” the most dilapidated nona-
genarian, though as a philological con-
noisseur I would have preferred “de-hag. ’
But now that it is not enough for a lip-
stick to be sunproof, kissproof and wind-
proof, “germ-proof” has been called upon
to boost sales. Whether this quite-the-
latest lipstick possesses some potent
antiseptic property or some mucilagi-
nous quality which acts as a sort
of flypaper for wogs must await my own
labial investigations. Judging by the way
it is usually plastered on, any lipstick
would hopelessly bog the largest army
of germs. In any case, I doubt the neces-
sity of germ-proofness in lipsticks. Doc-
tors are agreed that kissing is the com-
monest means of transmitting germs, but
a kiss that is a kiss will grind the stoutest
microbe to a pulp.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A contributor
to the “Medical Journal of Australia”
advocates inquiry into the kissing habits
of soldiers as a probable cause of men-
ingitis in camps. He mentions an Eng-
lish case of a girl who developed menin-
gitis after kissing her soldier fiance, and
infected her mother and a soldier lodger.
The only member of the household who
escaped was her grandfather. Grandpa
wore a beard. As beards are not only
deterrents to osculation-minded females
but effective filters as well, I suggest that
the practice of shaving be forthwith pro-
hibited for all ranks. Those who are
incapable of sprouting their own
whiskers can be fitted with false ones of
regulation pattern and material. I pro-
“You can't say I didn't Warn you , Prendergast.”
pose to treat the subject more fully in
the next edition of my book Whiskers in
Warfare.
* * * *
“Genung”: We had some grand nights
in the. White Hart Hotel in Melbourne’s
Bourke-street in the days when the pubs
were open till half-past eleven. Here
would gather young freelance writers and
artists with all their fame in
the future. On the wall of the
bar parlor was the autograph
of Phil May. Whenever a new
wallpaper was put up a small
space around that signature
was left. This went on till
there was a thick layer of suc-
cessive papers with a rather
deep aperture showing Phil’s
handwriting. A great night was
that on which the boys gave a
farewell party to Baron Paz-
thory, a Hungarian artist who
had been president of the Mel-
bourne Art Club. Alf Vincent
left us with an air of mystery,
went into the drawing-room
and took the massive marble
clock from the mantelpiece. He
wrapped it up in brown paper,
brought the parcel back to the
parlor, and in an eloquent
speech presented it to the baron
as a mark of esteem from Art
Club members. The baron in
broken English swore that he
would never part with this
touching tribute as long as he
lived. But, alas! Bung saw him
carrying it away under his arm
and retrieved it. Then the
baron broke the Hungarian
non-stop record for blasphemy.
“Speck”: An original contribution to
the war effort comes from Hobart, where
a citizen, G. F. Edgell, of Bothwell,
wants the custom popularised of having
a “drink” with an absent Digger, the
“drink” to take the form of a war sav-
ings certificate stamp at the price of six-
pence. Information is lacking as to
whether Mr. Edgell wishes the absent
Digger to enjoy a jimmy woodser or take
part in mutual wassail, telepathically
speaking. Local wowsers are girding up
their loins in face of this fresh menace
to the morals of the army.
* * •
“Jillawarra”: The definite article (B.
11/6/’4l) was prefixed to scores of
places on the Westralian goldfields in the
early days, for some which I
never quite understood. In a rew cases,
of course, it referred to a river, such as
the Murchison or the Gascoyne, or a
district, like the Earlstoun, or a mine,
like the Gwalia, and that was natural
enough. But when applied to mining
settlements it was generally reserved for
English words which had preceded or
survived native ones. “The Cue or The
Magnet” or “The Dawn” or “The Peak”
(Peak Hill) or “The Feather” (White
Feather) were common enough terms of
speech, but, unlike “Jarrah Jack, I never
heard a “the” put before Cuddingwarra,
although my acquaintance with that auri-
ferous locality dates back to 1893. It
was always “The Finish,” a contraction
of “The Dead Finish,” a title bestowed
on it by some pessimist, though now it
is in the neighborhood of one of the
richest low-grade mines in Australia.
* * * *
“Annie Laurie”: Mention of the death
of the Earl of Suffolk and Berkshire (B.
28/5/’4l) reminds me of an incident of
my youth. When Suffolk was in Sydney
I was a member of a seaside house party
at which he was also a guest (he was a
naval cadet on the ship Mount Stewart).
The girls, who had been eagerly looking
forward to their first sight of this scion
of the aristocracy, were disappointed by
his appearance, which was undistin-
guished, even slovenly, though he was
pleasant and friendly. When a small party
“ Hey, Monte Christo, you've just been pardoned!"
was arranged so that the girls of the town-
ship might taste the thrill of dancing with
a real earl, Suffolk arranged to change
names for the evening with one of the
other guests, a tall and handsome young
man, “He looks more like an earl than
I do,” said Suffolk, which was indeed
true. The other young man found his
aristocratic role somewhat difficult, but
Suffolk was delighted.
* * * *
“Imiti”: In September, 1939, Minister
Bob Semple organised a Home Guard in
Maoriland. It is now 100,000 strong,
and a section of it has proved its use-
fulness in the Manawatu district, where
floodwaters rose suddenly, floating
away, amongst other things, cattle, furni-
ture, farm buildings and hay. The Home
Guard rose to the occasion, patrolling
the flooded area, ferrying residents to
safety, bringing members of families to-
gether and generally doing a good job
of work without pay or fancy uniforms.
After the waters subsided a band ot
women with pails, brooms, mops, flooi
polish and rags got to work and made
homes presentable, in most cases as good
as before. Bright young things with beef-
steak lips, red nails and gaudy uniforms
weren’t noticed in this engagement.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The world was assured offi-
cially at a recent general knowledge bee
that the name Tomcat was not known
till about 1780, when an English novelist,
writing a story about cats, happened to
give his hero that name, and made it as
popular as Mickey Mouse is becoming at
present. But I am still hoping to find
“Tom” in Shakspeare (who, however,
tended to regard all cats as feminine), or
at any rate some time before 1780.
* *
“K.P.”: A chance
meeting with a
school classmate of
—well, a good
many years ago
brought up the
usual after-career
talk. We discussed
why the dull boys
at school shone so
brightly in after
life and why the
bright lads at the
top of the class
sank into medioc-
rity. There came
into my mind the
words of a famous
London doctor-
psychologist. “The
best thing that can
happen to a boy
is to be stupid at his lessons, for
then he will be allowed to grow up nor-
mally. If he displays any cleverness he
will be exploited in the interests of the
school. The boy who is stupid at school
develops normally, and such intellectual
powers as he possesses develop them-
selves gradually, so that in after life he
maintains a vigorous state of mental
health when his brilliant classmates have
ceased to shine.” Is that an explanation,
or are far-reaching changes of body and
mind brought about by the complex
gland activities of which adolescence is
the outward and visible sign?
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Strange that “Cauboy’s”
experienced eye (B. 4/ 6/ ’4l) missed the
most obvious howler —to the layman,
anyway—in the film version of “The
Letter”! Not two minutes after an-
nouncing that she and her husband were
English, Bette Davis sat down to a meal
during which she cut up all her victuals
first, then, putting down the knife,
switched her fork to the right hand and
finished the meal in the one-handed
Hollywood fashion. Perhaps I don’t
mix in the right sassiety, but all the Eng-
lish people I’ve ever dined with shared
our views that eating is a two-fisted job
and held a tool in each hand.
* * * *
“B. U. Colic”: A “S.M.H.” report of
the N.S.W. Shires’ Association conference
called its president “Alderman” Wilson
and referred to a delegate from Ashford
also as “alderman.” Most country people
know how ignorant of country things big-
city journalists are ; all the same, even
a “S.M.H.” man ought to know that shire
men are councillors, never aldermen, a
species found only within municipalities
which have no part in a shires’ conference.
* * * *
“Lumme”: Thefts of Mills bombs and
other explosives from an ammunition
dump in England had the authorities
worried about the possibility of some-
body stocking up a Fifth Column cell in
readiness for der Tag, until some boys
brought home fish from local streams.
It then came out that they had pinched
the bombs and used them to stun the
fish, one getting away with the stuff
while the others chatted with a sentry.
How they learned to use Mills bombs
without disaster is a bit of a mystery.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: The much-monikered
Boer War baby (B. 14/5/’4l) didn’t have
much over Lyonel Ydwallo Odia Nestor
Egbert Toedmag Hugh Erchen Wyne
Saxon Esa Cromwell Orma Nevill Dysart
Plantagenet Tollemache - Tollemache,
eldest son of the English divine of that
dittoed surname who flourished in the
latter half of last century. Or even over
Mabel Ethel Helmingham Huntmgtower
Beatrice Blazonberrie Evangeline Vise de
Lou Orenella Plantagenet Saxon Toed-
mag, his eldest daughter. There were
seven more in the family almost equally
liberally labelled. Australia’s own
“Alphabetical” Conant, who boasted
Peling Hugh Gough Pigott Stainsby for
given names, was a distant relation. Up
to 1634 it was against the law of Eng-
land to give a child more than one
baptismal name, but there was no limit
in Scotland, where it was noted that extra
names cost nae mair. The first English
commoner to have two was Anthony
Ashley Cooper, baptised in 1621 the
legal difficulty was got over by the fact
that Ashley was the name of his maternal
grandfather, a sort of forerunner of
hyphenation. Up to the time of William
111 no English king had more than one.
George VI has four, and ex-King Edward
VIII has seven.
THE BOGEY MAN.
“Mr. Hair attributed the defeat of his Government
to (1) the allegations of a faked Budget, (2) the
necessity for taxing low incomes, (3) the six o’clock
enforcement of the liquor laws, (4) the whispering
campaign about conscription and (5) the hostility
of the Sydney press.” —Sydney “Sun."
In politics or bridge ’tis much the same;
Post-mortems constitute a dreary game,
Though those who’ve lost can mostly find a
peck
Of reasons why they got it in the neck.
But why omit, O estimable Mair,
The cause, you surely can’t be unaware,
That counted more than all the five you cite
In—so to speak—extinguishing your light,
The melancholy fact you were denied
A Bogey Man upon the other side?
How regularly Tubby Stevens found
The value, when election time came round,
Of one in charge of the opposing crowd
Whose very name foreshadowed, long and loud.
An intimation of what hardships grim
Would follow from another spell of him
Who from no act of breakage shied or shrank,
Whether it was a party or a bank,
And left such record as will never fail
“To point a moral or adorn a tale.”
Tough on you, Mair, though pT’aps you knew
it not,
When from the Labor leadership was shot
The man acclaimed by an obsequious throng
For years as always right and never wrong.
Slowly but sure conviction filtered in
Here was a jackass in a lion’s skin.
The “greater Lenin” had his little day;
The idol tottered on his feet of clay,
And left the U.A.P. cut off, debarred
From what was erst its best election card.
Five reasons, Mair, I gather from you, which
You reckon spoiled your game and queered
your pitch,
All plausibilities which may, it’s true,
Have possibly contributed thereto.
But there’s another cause I might suggest
As far more damaging than all the rest,
Tragic to you as him—the crashing fall
Of Humpty Dumpty off the Labor wall,
The deposition from th’ opposing gang
Of such a leading Bogey Man as Lang!
N,S,W,
T. THE R.


yuyg
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
gggw
10 f.r 10d. 20 for 18
E1866
POLITICAL POINTS
The Sydney Government’s Mr. O’Sul-
livan has banned the National Union of
Railwaymen, formed by workers who
didn’t join the 1917 transport strikers
and have no use for Red and Pink A.R.U.
bosses. Mr. O’Sullivan is looking for
trouble. The N.U.R. is registered in both
State and Commonwealth Arbitration
Courts, and no State Ministerial ukase
can blot out the rights of Australian citi-
zens under Commonwealth law. It is
a matter in which an appeal to the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court would lie.
That Court very nearly deregistered Mr.
O’Sullivan’s precious A.R.U. for run-
ning a war-time strike, and the tails of
the Red and Pink bosses were well down
till Mr. O’Sullivan surged up.
Adelaide Premier Playford asserts that
there are six different authorities in South
Australia dealing with man-power prob-
lems. Mr. Playford is himself the leader
of one of seven different authorities deal-
ing with national problems. He could
establish a precedent but he won’t.
Where are all those Germans that the
papers discovered in Syria? Even when
our invasion was a day old “S, M.
Herald” had a three-column line—“ Ge-
rman Troops Constantly Pour In,” men-
tioning “members of the Tank Corps” in
particular. After a week of stiff fighting
our Australians hadn’t sighted any ; and
had there been any about those stout
fellows would have found them.
To the indignation of shandygaff pro-
fessors, President Roosevelt has squelched
strikes in defence works by ordering the
army to take control. They seem to
be getting a bit sudden in England, too.
A dock strike at Manchester was traced
to 600 fellows from other parts. They
were presented with the sack and with rail
warrants back to their homes. The others
are back at work and a port officer has
threatened to “run Communists off the
docks.” Seems as though bombs and
sentiment won’t mix.
The bosses of the Ironworkers (“Com-
rade” Thornton secretary) have given
notice that after Friday they will refuse
to let their 40,000 members work “in any
munitions annexe where non-unionists
are employed.” “We strongly object to
a few non-unionists being allowed to be
in a position to sabotage the war effort,”
said Tannock, M.L.C., who comes from
the same part of the world as “Comrade”
Thornton. “Sabotage the war effort!”
“Comrade” Thornton himself couldn’t
beat that.
“We have given very much time and
consideration and research to uniform
taxation,” said Fadden last week, “and
I regard it as a fundamental war-time
financial necessity.” So he is going to
hold a conference about it “as soon as
practicable, after consultation with the
States.” Why confer with the States about
a fundamental war-time financial neces-
sity? Subject to the consent of Parlia-
ment, Fadden’s Government has all the
necessary powers to implement funda-
mental war-time financial necessities, and
there is no more occasion for conferences
with the States than there would be for
conferences between Churchill’s Govern-
ment and the crowd of county councils.
“I am writing this in an Australian
battery position whose guns are thun-
dering at French entrenchments more
than three miles away,” wrote a corre-
spondent in Syria. A little over 12 months
ago he could never have dreamed he
would live to write such a thing. Nor
would Australians have dreamed they
would ever read it.
Just before the Mair Government went
out there was a great to-do in Sydney
about A.R.P., and the City Council was
stampeded into erecting brick pillbox
shelters in various streets. They’re still
there. Meantime a Sydney “D.T.” man
has been looking over London’s shelters.
His report is that “those brick structures
which are being copied in Sydney are
never used, except by tomcats and even
less-fastidious lovers.”
Churchill, in a defiant mood:
Meagre air support was the very founda-
tion of our decision to defend Crete.
The alternative was to let the Germans
occupy it without opposition.
Well, weren’t the Channel Islands occu-
pied without opposition? And British
Somaliland?
Introducing an excellent account of
the advance into Syria, Ken Slessor, the
war correspondent, wrote that it closed
“a century and a quarter of comrade-
ship” between the British and the French.
Not quite a century and a quarter.
PREMIER MCKELL: “I don’t believe in conscription to fight the Axis, but
if these fellows won’t join the union”-
Although British fought alongside the
French in the Navarino sea-fight (1827)
and in the Crimea (1854-56), as well as
in 1914-18 and 1940, there were long
periods of unfriendliness in between. In
1823, when the French invaded Spain,
Canning sent an army to Portugal and
warned the French that “the well-known
heights of Lisbon” would be defended.
The formation of volunteers dates from
Britain’s suspicions of the designs of the
third Bonaparte (if he was a Bonaparte),
and Tennyson gave that potentate toko.
Fashoda and the Boer War were other
periods of bitter French hostility to
Britain.
A Manchester “Guardian” man has
written a book, Geneva Racket, in which
he has a go at all the contemporary
British newspaperman’s aversions, Cham-
berlain (of course!) and Simon among
them, and expresses the contemporary
British newspaperman’s weakness for
“the Spanish democracy” and Soviet
Russia. The gentleman is “sharply criti-
cal of Australian policy at Geneva,” con-
trasting Bruce’s opposition to a boycott
of Japan with that of Jordan, the Maori-
land High Commissioner. Jordan, a
retired London bobby, wanted to inter-
vene in Czechoslovakia, Spain and China,
flourishing his baton or something.
Bruce, being better informed, had other
ideas. In the retrospect, it is very fortu-
nate that Bruce’s ideas prevailed.
There is no limit to the gullibility of
the pro-Moscow boys of the Gingerbread
press. Though the ink is scarcely dry
on Moscow’s treaty of friendship with
the unhappy Yugoslav Government that
stood up to Hitler, and on the instru-
ment in which it recognised the Rashid
Ali gang that fought the British in Iraq,
the public was once more invited to be-
lieve last week that Stalin, the world’s
champion rat, was about to bite his
Berlin boss. This should prepare the
public for another Stalin surrender.
Canada and South Africa have no use
for titles, and there was a fearful row in
the Union when Robinson, the Rand
mining speculator, was added to the peer-
age. Things were made so hot for Robin-
son that he had his name struck off
the list. Canadians would have been
equally irate had the viscountcy issued
last week to Bennett, the former Prime
Minister, been granted when he was still
an active politician. Democratic rage
has no doubt been tempered by the reflec-
tion that Bennett quitted Canadian poli-
tics three years ago and has since lived
in Surrey, Forrest, Australia’s one home-
grown peer, died childless, and it is highly
improbable that there will be a second
Viscount Bennett, He is rising 71, and
unmarried.
June 11 was the first anniversary of
Italy’s entry into the war. On the pre-
vious day Mussolini said “I solemnly
declare that Italy does not intend to drag
her neighbors into the conflict. Let Swit-
zerland, Yugoslavia, Turkey and Greece
take note of these words.” False to his
oath, and defeated and humiliated in
the Mediterranean, he now holds parts
of Greece and Yugoslavia (the parts that
Hitler flung to him) in his bloodstained
hands —for how long?
A German raider has dropped thou-
sands of leaflets on Britain giving “the
truth”—Goebbels’s “truth” about ship
sinkings and starvation next winter. It
is the first recorded raid of its kind,
though the British went in for the thing
in a big way in the early war months.
Significantly enough, it came just after
the Glasgow Provost made his statement
that Hess was an unrepentant Nazi and
came seeking a “peace body” in Scotland.
As Sydney “D.T.” sees it; “It is a
tragedy that Stalin today cannot speak
out as boldly as Mr. Churchill in defence
of liberty.” But when did the Georgian
ever speak in defence of liberty, except
the liberty to “liquidate” opponents and
old pals?
A “popular” newspaper has fallen in
for publishing libellous statements from
—yes —an “unimpeachable source.”
Action was brought against London
“Daily Mirror” by Admiral Sir Roger
Keyes on the score of an attack on King
Leopold of the Belgians and the Admiral
himself. No defence was entered, and
plaintiff accepted unspecified damages
and costs. It should set a lot of editors,
radio commentators and “special corre-
spondents” thinking.
The Department of Commerce has
come out with big display advts. urging
the housewife to buy lamb and assist
the war effort. Now a man can eat so
much and no more. If his wife feeds
him on lamb he must stop eating some-
thing else. Therefore another commodity
isn’t bought and he who produces it
curses deeply. Which seems a strange
way to assist the war effort.
One of the things McKell inherited
from Mair was a Birthday Honors list.
Saying he had no use for honors lists, the
new Premier did not even read it, and
scores of expectant knights, C.M.Gs.,
C.B.Es., 0.8.E5. and M.B.Es. are now
cursing or squealing, according to sex. In
Tasmania, on the other hand, the Labor
Government got a K.B. for Claude
James, one of the six unnecessary Agents-
General, and a C.M.G. for Dave
O’Keefe, one of the original Labor
Senators and Speaker of the Assembly
since 1934. So another question has been
added to the thousand and one on which
Australian Labor differs.
In Mackenzie King’s Dominion, the
Royal Bank of Canada notes, war taxa-
tion has fallen, “very largely and very
properly,” on the higher-income group.
In Australia it has fallen with clumsy
severity on middle incomes, and, if pro-
vincial politicians have their way, they
will continue to suffer unduly. And
people in the middle-income group can t
pass it on, nor are they protected against
cost-of-living increases.
The N.S.W. Attorney-General is to
appoint a committee to “simplify State
statutes and legal procedure.” Simplifi-
cation is sorely needed, but if bad prece-
dents are to be followed persons desirous
of having their offspring appointed to
the committee in years ahead should send
their names in now.
Sydney’s Labor Premier McKell be-
lieves that wage- and salary-earners
should be conscripted into unions to sup-
port the fight for better conditions. He
expects volunteers to conduct the war
to maintain the right to fight for better
conditions.
Resolution adopted by the Sydney
Labor conference, butting into something
of which it knows little:
That the contract between landlord and
share-farmer be subject to review by some
competent Court, and the principles of
equity and arbitration be brought into play.
Farmers and share-farmers are independ-
ent cusses. They don’t want interference
from city Labor chaps.
A female petrol “patriot” has been
bowled out. She complained at a Vic-
torian C.W.A. conference that all she
was allowed was nine gallons a month,
though her nearest doctor was 98 miles
away. Some smart bird at the State Fuel
Control Board looked into the matter
and found that her husband was getting
34 gallons, though they had but one car
between them. Now she can’t get any
petrol.


“VICTORY” SONG.
“Mussolini has announced that, in accordance with an agreement with the German High Command, Italy is occupying the whole of Greece, including Athens.
“Hermann, you’d almost dink he COULD conquer somesings!”


Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/l/’3B). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia : Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
O-'H' .
yguyg
THE SKY-WAYS ARE TODAY’S HIGHWAYS
Pre-war standards of efficiency and comfort are being
maintained by Empire flying boats on the air route
between Sydney and Durban, via Singapore, Palestine
and Egypt. A new regular service between New Zealand
and Sydney is operated by Tasman Empire Airways.
Travel Interstate . . , Inter-Dominion . . • throughout
the Empire ... in shipboard comfort at Airways’
speed ... by Qantas Empire Airways.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
(Incorporated in Queensland)
SHELL HOUSE, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 'PHONE: 8W4481.
Also at BRISBANE and MELBOURNE.
Bookings at any recognised Travel Agency throughout Australia.
PERJONAL ITEMS
Not only Lieut. W. R. Mann, younger
son of knight Frederick Mann, Chief
Justice of Victoria, but his brother, Lieut.
J. G. Mann, are reported missing. J. G.
Mann, a Victorian Rhodes scholar, was
in civil life a Melbourne barrister. His
chum, Lieut. S. C. G. Macindoe, Judge
Macindoe’s son —they served in the same
unit —is also missing.
Australia lost one of its most valued
soldiers when Lt.-Col. Blair Anderson
Wark, of the new Armored Division, died
suddenly at Puckapunyal camp, Victoria.
Colonel Wark was a Sydney man, a
quantity surveyor by profession, with an
office in Spring-street and a home at
Pymble. On August 4, 1914, he, being
then a lieutenant in the 18th Infantry
Regiment, enlisted in the A.1.F., but had
to wait till November before he was
old enough for service abroad. In
1918, at Bullecourt, he won the V.C. for
leading an astonishingly daring and suc-
cessful attack on the Hindenburg line —
backed by only two non-coms, he took
50 prisoners. A little later he was severely
wounded at Fleurbaix. In post-war civil
life he was a councillor of the N.R.M.A.
and a director of Australian Motorists’
Petrol Co,
The Birthday Honors list makes “Sirs”
of six Australians —G. J. Bell, formerly
Speaker of the House of Reps.; F. W.
Eggleston, barrister and ex-Minister in
Victoria, who latterly has been chairman
of the Commonwealth Grants Commis-
sion ; Prof. J. V. P. Madsen, who holds
the chair of electrical engineering at Syd-
ney Uni. and has been a pillar of the
C.5.1.R.; R. W. Gillespie, of Sydney,
chairman of the ’Wales and interested in
various philanthropic undertakings; and
A. L. Bussau and C. E. W. James,
Agents-General in London for Victoria
and Tasmania respectively.
The new Air Cadet Corps will have
as deputy-director a man whose service
with the R.A.A.F. dates only from last
year—Flight-Lieutenant C. A. Brewster.
But he has had a lot of varied and
picturesque experience. He was in the
Australian Light Horse in the 1914-18
war and later was an observer in the
R.A.F. He became a pilot after com-
manding a Fiji defence battalion. Since
joining the R.A.A.F. he has been train-
ing bombers and gunners in Queensland.
Sydney Talbot Smith, whose many
public services have been recognised by
an 0.8. E., is a veteran barrister (qualified
at Cambridge) who, in addition to being
chairman of the Advisory Board of the
Commonwealth Literary Fund, president
of Adelaide’s Public Library, Art Gallery
and Museum and a member of the
A.B.C.’s South Australian Advisory Com-
mittee, has kept The Bulletin informed
of Adelaide happenings and criticised the
city’s musical and art doings for so many
years that he has a right to regard him-
self as its oldest contributor.
Killed in an air crash at Western Junc-
tion (Tas.), Flying-Officer Basil Goodwin
Jones, son of knight Henry Jones.
Basil was educated at Friends School,
Hobart, and later qualified as a barrister,
becoming a partner in the legal firm of
Simmons, Wolfhagen, Simmons and
Walch. His flying experience was gained
with the Tas. Aero Club, and he had
been a R.A.A.F. instructor at Western
Junction for 18 months or so. He was a
foundation member and onetime presi-
dent of the Hobart Apex Club, and was
one of the Derwent Rowing Club’s
King’s Cup crew in 1934.
The new R.A.A.F. cadet corps, which
is to be organised on the English
model, will have W. A. Robertson,
deputy-chairman of the Victorian State
Rivers and Water Supply Commission, as
director. He knows the job from the
ground up, having won his wings in the
1914-18 war. He was in the Engineers
when that shindy started, but transferred
to the infant R.F.C., was with No. 32
Squadron in France in 1917 and with
No. 2 Squadron in 1918. Then he be-
came a flying instructor. In 1918 he was
appointed instructor in aerial navigation
and map-reading at Leighterton Flying
Station, England. He has written a
number of books on water-supply.
Robertson was born at Albert Park, Mel-
bourne, and educated at Melbourne Uni-
versity.
One of Australia’s leading brewers
passed beyond when William H. Clarke
died at 70 in Melbourne. He had been
22 years g.m. of Carlton and United, and
had a varied life before that. Sydney-
born, he was one of the first officers of
the N.S.W. Agricultural Department, and
edited the first “Agricultural Gazette.”
Then he went to London as immigration
officer under the High Commissioner. In
the P.M.’s Department later he was one
of the leading spirits in the reception of
the American battle-fleet which visited
Australia in 1908, Then he became
Director of Agriculture for the N.T. and
founded the Batchelor Experimental
Farm. In the 1914-18 war he became
Australia’s first official price-fixer.
J. J. Cahill, the new Public Works
Minister in N. S. Wales, was born in
Redfern and is an engineer by trade. He
entered Parliament in 1925 as member
for St. George, and has since represented
Arncliffe and Cook’s River. A quiet,
earnest chap, he is one of the men on
J. J. CAHILL.
whom McKell relies to get things done,
particularly in the shipbuilding line.
A fine architect who practised in two
States was M. F. Cavanagh, dead in
Perth at 81. Born in S.A., he studied in
London and came back an F.R.1.8.A.,
became president of the association’s S.A.
branch, was a city councillor of Adel-
aide, and helped Sowden, Bray and
Nesbit to found the A.N.A. there. Later
he moved to Westralia, where, in 1903, he
was an unsuccessful candidate —as a Pro-
tectionist —for the Senate.
Maoriland’s Chief of the General Staff,
General John Duigan, retired after four
years in office and service in three wars,
has for successor Lieut.-General Guy
Williams, who, born in India 60 years
ago, won a D.S.O. in the 1914-18
war and in 1934 became Commandant
of the Staff College at Quetta. In 1938
he succeeded Ironside as G.O.C. Northern
Command.
Following in uncle’s footsteps is
Thomas Mcßride Price, awarded the
D.F.C. for brilliant work over Bardia.
Born in Adelaide in 1914, son of the
late Jack Price, former member for
Boothby, Tom got his wings at Point
Cook in December, 1937. After com-
pleting a seaplane course he was ap-
pointed to the Sydney. Wally Price, his
uncle, who is manager of S.A.’s Gov-
ernment Produce Department, won a
D.S.O. at Armentieres.
R. N. Kelly, Sydney manager for the
Thomas Hardy wine concern, is con-
vinced that, just as the Canadian
Mounties always get their man, the Post
Office always gets its addressee. As
Private R. N. Kelly, of the 3rd A.L.H.,
he wrote a letter-card to an aunt, Mrs.
Waugh, of Melbourne-street, North
Adelaide, from the Suez Canal in 1916,
saying that he had returned from Galli-
poli and was glad to get her copies of
The Bulletin, which had arrived regu-
larly. The letter-card was delivered to
Mrs. Waugh 25 years after it was posted.
It bears a 1916 military postmark and a
1941 Sydney postmark. Kelly’s idea is
that it must have been stuck in the
corner of a mailbag all these years.
An Australian trapped in the German
overrun of Belgium was Phil Harris, who
brought out “Aussie” as a “trench” paper
in France and afterwards successfully
put it into civvies in Australia. Harris,
an old-time Bulletin contributor, got a
printing press on board when he left with
the first expeditionaries for the Great War
(1914 edition), and brought out the first
transport paper-pioneer of a large tribe
of them. At the end of the war he
married a Belgian girl, and when he
sold his interest in “Aussie” (which
ceased publication during the depres-
sion) he went to Europe. He was known
to have been in Brussels on the day the
German hordes swarmed in; since then
his relatives have been unable to get
further news of him.
The dynasty of the Queensland Archi-
balds, whose name is synonymous with
flour-milling development in the northern
State, has had hard knocks in the last
few years. R.J., then head of the family
concerns, passed on in August, 1939.
J.E., who succeeded to control of the
Brisbane Milling Co. and of the
Dominion and White Rose mills, died
suddenly a few days ago at Strathfield
(N.S.W.). The Archibalds —the first of
the dynasty was John, a member of the
old Queensland Leg. Council—are a
public-spirited and united family. Both
philanthropy and public movements owe
a great deal to them in Brisbane. R.J.
and J.E. left sons well trained in the
family tradition to carry it on.
Killed on active service at 36, Pilot-
Officer Christopher Albert de Bathe,
nephew and heir-presumptive to Sir H.
G. de Bathe. He was in the diplomatic
service at Constantinople in 1930, and
was the “Times” correspondent in Persia
from 1932 to 1938. He married a daugh-
ter of Arthur Terrell, of Melbourne.
A public accountant who has attained
business power and glory is Stanley Mc-
Gregor Reid, of Adelaide. He is a direc-
tor of leading brewing, woollen, fur-
niture, trustee, insurance, wholesale
grocery and salt companies, as well as
the Bank of Adelaide and the S.A. Gas
Co., and has become chairman of the
metropolitan abattoirs board. Five years
ago he was president of the Chamber of
Commerce—-a post now held by another
accountant, Sid Powell, who is also run-
ning up a big list of directorates.
John Klunder Jensen, here depicted
by Counihan, is one of the star
J. K. JENSEN.
turns in the munitions effort. Self-effac-
ing, he has been as much as anybody
responsible for the general layout and
design of Australia’s war production.
He left school at 11 to become a
telegraph messenger. During the S’Afri-
can War he was running messages for
the Defence Department, in the 1914-
18 war he was in charge of the London
office of the Munitions Supply Depart-
ment and early in the present conflict
he was appointed Assistant Secretary to
the Department of Supply and Develop-
ment, Last year he was selected to be
Essington Lewis’s principal assistant in
the Ministry of Munitions. He has been
on several special missions to Europe
connected with munitions, Bendigo-born
and 57.
Basking in the sunshine of praise from
Curtin, Holt and the Commonwealth
Man-power Committee for his work as
chairman on the South Australian Hous-
ing Trust, is William George Loop
Goodman. He is used to placing guiding
hands on big works or other public affairs
and saying very little about it —he is
general manager and chief engineer of
the Adelaide Municipal Tramways Trust
and chairman of the finance committee
of the Uni. The Housing Trust builds
dwellings of maisonette type for not more
than £5OO each (£lOOO the pair) for low-
wage earners, who pay 12s. 6d. a week
rent. Overhead is kept so low that this
Government scheme makes a profit.
Goodman, who is 69, was knighted nine
years ago.
Dead at 81, C. R. Smith, who came to
Australia from Scotland and joined the
Education Department of N.S.W. He
was headmaster of Newcastle High
School, then at North Sydney and finally
at Sydney High. Retiring in 1925, he
continued to read the Latin texts pre-
scribed each year, and retained bis in-
terest in school affairs to the last. Known
as “Caesar” to thousands of schoolboys,
he will long be kindly remembered.


L
-L2
f&JELJ
PROTECTION :
“BIRKMYRE
WATERPROOF
TARPAULINS ,
TENTS, Etc.
No matter how hard the downpour or how continuous the rain,
"BIRKMYRE" tarpaulins give you undoubted P ro T e fJ ,0 /“
The canvas is made from highest grade r ° w
Scottish workers and the famous BIRKMYRE PROO ~
recognised as the world's best. Obtainable from repu
makers. If any difficulty is experienced in getting supp > ,
write Wholesale Distributors:
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
SOMOKE-OH!
“Powerhouse men restive.” — f ‘Sun.”
Some agitator doubtless generating an
undercurrent of revolt.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“With most people his poor clothes made
him feel embarrassed; but when he went to
Lydia Kemp’s home he forgot his stained, ill-
fitting trousers.” — Woman’s paper.
But not his underpants, we hope.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“Water ‘like rum.’ Complaint to board.”
— “D.T.” heading.
Complaint ?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Burning a newspaper in a chimney that has
not been used for some time will ensure that
no meat will be lost when the fire is lit.’
— Woman’s paper.
They’re forgetting the tripe that will
thus be burnt.
4* 4* v 4*
“Wanted to buy, old jewellery (brooches,
kings, etc.).” — Advt. in suburban paper.
Except European sovereigns—no offers
for them.
“It is amazing that so ancient an example of
the printer’s art should be stilly in such a fine
state of preservation.” — “Sun.”
The dentist who has such considerate
patients should really be grateful.
4* 4* 4* 4“
“Liverpool (Eng.) was once an important fish-
ing centre. Vast numbers of skippers came
down the river to spawn.” — “World’s News.”
Well, blow me down!
4* 4* 4*
“Aged 11, Gerald Carlion, of Shawnee,
Oklahoma can recite the whole of the Shawnee
telephone directory (5000 numbers) from
memory.”— “World’s News.”
Other people are content with simply
tapping their foot while they wait for
the switchboard girl to answer.
4» 4* 4* 4*
“The death occurred in Bega Hospital of
John , of Tanja, who was born at Bom-
bala 94 years ago... .When a lad of 14 he had
one foot badly crushed and never really re-
covered from the injury.”
—“Bega District News.
Otherwise he may have lived to a ripe
old age.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Woman gets divorce from her masseur hus-
band.” — Argus.
Now he can rub along on his own.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Bound.
“Both interested in the occult, Stella and
Horace were drawn together.” — Woman’s paper.
When thoughts two people think agree
It binds them as with rope;
His con-Stellation sweet was she,
And he her Horace-scope.
“I always considered him to be a model hus-
band.” —Wife in divorce evidence .
Working or sports?
“No, no — neuralgia ”
“Frenchmen miss their wine.” — “S.M.H.”
Yin blank?
•i*
“Miners wanted for Papua. Good square set
timber men.”— “S.M.H.”
Well, only a blockhead would want to
be a square peg in a round hole.
4* 4*
“A boa-constrictor may have ( as many as
400 vertebrae.” — “World’s News.”
That’s a lot of backbone for a crawler.
d* *•* d*
“Millions of microbes are drunk in Sydney
every day.” —Magazine article.
But never disorderly.
4* + 4* 4 1
“Britain sold £50,000 to £70,000 worth of
canaries to the U.S. before the war.”—' “Sun.”
In Hollywood they’re much more
popular than storks.
“We must have a stable Government.”
— “Sun.
With horsesense.
4* 4* 4*
“To become champion-walker he trained 10
hours a day.” —Athletic note.
He worked to walk, so to speak.
4* 4* 4* *i*
“Housewives to check up.” — “Sun.”
No innovation, as any husband knows.
.jo 4* 4* 4*
We’re beginning to think that a lot
of these “well-informed circles” aren't
on the square.
4« 4* 4* 4*
Topsy-Turvy.
“Her husband hit her with his hand and
struck with a shovel —“Cumberland Argus.
’Twas strange the way his angry mind
The trend of things reversed.
Most men, when starting on a task.
Would do the spadework first.
P. S. C.
Histories.
“History can at times become confusing and
contradictory.” —Book review.
We’ve read so much about Sir Francis
Drake and the Plymouth Hoe that we’re
inclined to think he was doing a bit of
gardening when he sighted the Armada.
Events proved that he knew his Spanish
onions, anyway.
There is good reason to believe that
Napoleon declared the English to be a
nation of shopkeepers. They delivered
the goods at Waterloo with a counter-
attack.
Did Lady Godiva’s husband really
force her to ride through the streets in
the nude? Some authorities say she was
on her way to the Artists’ Ball, others
that she misunderstood the meaning of
dress optional on a party invitation.
And the legend that Stanley said “Dr.
Livingstone, I presume,” when they met
in the African jungle. Stanley was from
America and probably said, “Hot diggety
if it ain’t the old Doc.! Howdy, pal?”
D. McM.
Feminine Logic.
“How I do run on! Forgive me for being
such a proud mother.” — Woman’s paper.
The trouble with most proud mothers
is that they don’t run on. They keep you
bailed up while they chip the minutes off
the hour with this sort of chatter:
“Yes, he is a lovely baby. He’s the
image of his father. Of course some say
he’s more like me. Funny, isn’t it? So
good-tempered, too, except that he cries
all day. But he’s so highly-strung •. . •. Yes,
he is a lot like his father, and he’s very
placid, you know-. Oh, he eats anything.
Though, mind you, he’s got sense. Won’t
pick up anything and put it in his mouth.
In fact, he’s terribly fussy about his food.
Throws anything away that he doesn’t
like. Well, I’ll be getting along now.
Come over some afternoon and I’ll show
you my scrapbook of the funny things
he has said.”
EVE.
Verse-writing Made Easy.
I remember, 1 remember
The house where I was born;
The boy upon the burning deck
Came peeping in at morn.
His brow was wet with honest sweat,
And oft as evening fell
He heard across the sands of Dee
Poor Gelert’s dying yell.
The above quotation, taken from a
classic example of English verse, will serve
to put the reader in the proper frame of
mind for the absorption of the true spirit
of poesy.
Chief requirements for the beginner
are (1) pen and paper, (2) inspiration,
and (3) poetic license. The first are easy
to obtain if you live near a post-office.
The second, owing to sharp rises in cost
and reduction in the size of the glasses,
is becoming more difficult to obtain. For
the third you must apply on the pre-
scribed form to the Department of
Supply and Demand, enclosing £2 2s. A
license will be duly issued in accordance
with Subsection 3 of Section VII of Part
375 ( j ) of the Licensing Act.
You don’t need to be well educated to
write good verse. Some of the world’s
most beautiful poems were written in the
simplest language. E.g., Marlowe’s “The
Passionate Shepherd to His Love”:
Let them sliprails down, Matilda, till I run the
jumbucks in.
Can’t yer see the flamin’ sun is gettm down?
If you want to be a poet and you want
the world to know it you must learn to
read a metre and to recognise a rhyme.
If you write a little ditty that is bright
and short and witty and take it to an
editor he’ll print it every time (perhaps).
J. P. NOLANN.
Horticultural.
“A mutual love for flowers drew them
together.”— Woman’s paper.
He twigged her one day at the flower
show ; her cheeks were peach blossom,
her lips cherries, her eyes violets; he
felt a strange emotion budding in his
heart, and soon he was holding her lily-
white hand. Love rooted in his bosom.
They talked of plant diseases and their
cure and were blissfully happy, for love
bloomed in her heart too, and rose to
meet his. They became ramblers in the
moonlight and used to branch off along
the most secluded ways. Now they are
planted in the one bed and everything
in the garden’s lovely*
H. M.
The Ex-Headliners’ Club Meets.
(The various members are discovered talk-
ing in little groups. In the centre of the fore-
most group, resplendent in bright red Hungarian
naval uniform and cocked hat and carrying a
bos’n’s whistle, is Admiral Horthy. He is sur-
rounded by “Pertinax,” General Gamelin,
Molotov, King Boris, King Leopold and other
former topliners.)
“Pertinax” : “I was disappointed in
you, Admiral. That long crawl to Berlin
was hardly fitting to such a naval veteran
as yourself ”
Admiral Horthy: “Well, what would
you have done? The market for our
rhapsodies had been sunk by the rhumba
and hot rhythm. Our State was bank-
pt » y
Gen. Gamelin; “All the same,
Admiral, if you had built a rigid defence
line, backed up by dead-shot arquebusiers
and bowmen with strong 3ft.-deep tank-
traps, you could have successfully defied
the enemy.”
As they were arguing, the tall, athletic
figure of a man whose gorgeous riding
breeches and tunic were partly obscured
by the cloak which he had wound round
himself and with which he partly covered
his face came striding towards them. On
his head was a general’s cap. None heard
him approach, for his feet were rubber-
shod. King Boris leaped a couple of feet
off the floor as the newcomer coughed
dramatically in his earhole. It took the
king nearly a minute to recover; when
he did he stamped his foot and shouted
“Damn you, Smigly-Rydz! 1 wish to
heaven you’d get a pair of boots and not
sneak about in those rubber things!”
Smigly-Rydz: “Ah! But I have the
gr-reatest affection for them. Any-
way, as the senior member of this club,
I think I am entitled to a little more
respect, even from an ex-king.”
Boris ( bridling ): “Who’s an ex-king?
Understand that I’m still Bulgaria s
ruler.”
Smigly-Rydz: “Ses you!”
Boris: “Anyway, the London ‘Times
gave me nearly an inch on the back page
between a ad. and a foot-
ball pool result, and still referred to me
as King Boris. And you know what a
stickler for the niceties and exactitudes
the ‘Times’ is.”
Graziani: “Good on you, Boris!
Smigly-Rydz wasn’t a marshal’s bootlace,
anyway.”
King Leopold : “ ‘Pertinax,’ put that
record of ‘Waltzing Matilda’ on the
gramophone, will you? I rather like it.
Graziani: “Corpo di Bacch’! I’d
have easily beaten those cannibal savages
with their pipeclayed and red-ochred
faces had my damned Q.M.G. not failed
me in vital supplies of bath salts, fly swats
and scent sprays at a critical stage of the
campaign.”
As the Fascist marshal finished speak-
ing “Pertinax’s” cracked high-pitched
voice broke into the strains of “O Gene-
vieve, sweet Genevieve,” All heads
turned as a lady approached. Admiral
Horthy bowed. “Could not Madame
lighten the moments of exiles from the
screamer headlines by disclosing what
Hitler said to Musso. at one of their
secret pre-war meetings at Berchtes-
gaden?” he asked.
Madame Tabouis: “I certainly would
if I could remember the words. I just
came over to tell you why Hitler won t
attack Russia. He realises that a march
to Moscow would be, even in these days
of mechanised transport, as disastrous
to his armies as it was to Marlborough’s
when he had to retreat in 1419. (Recog-
rising the latest member to be admitted.)
Oh, good afternoon, M. Molotov. Wel-
come to the club. Is your wife still the
Commissar for the blood-and-bone in-
dustry?”
Molotov: “Thank you, Madame. I
find it rather strange. Yes, she still runs
the collectivised perfumeries.”
Prince Paul: “Well, Molotov, you
might have been pushed off the front
pages, but after all you could have done
worse. You might have been just an
obituary notice or been touring the salt
mines with a barrow chained to your
ankle. Anyway, you had a cocktail
named after you.”
Admiral Horthy: “And another one
took your job. And what about the
breadbaskets. Oh, Lord! here’s Loopey.
At that instant a middle-aged, red-
headed woman, sobbing wildly, came up
to the group. She was just about to cast
herself on the bosom of the only other
woman present, but turned, picked out
the best-looker, and wept copiously on
King Leopold’s shoulder.
As questioning looks were exchanged
King Carol appeared from his suite, clad
in an even more brilliant uniform than
Smigly-Rydz’s. “Carol, the Cad! ’ ex-
claimed King Boris.
Carol; “Ar, I’m sick of Lupescu, sick
of being journalistic small stuff, sick of
everything. I’m determined to climb back
to the headlines. I’m going to seek
another reconciliation with Queen Caro-
line —I think Caroline is her name! ” And,
sunning himself in the baleful glares of
his less fortunate fellow-members, he
stalked off.
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“The 0.D.”: Anybody who has heard
the night-hawks on the Murray give their
“murdered woman” screech will under-
stand the feelings of Ken, fresh from
London, when one of them let go near
the river steamer on which he was travel-
ling up to Swan Hill. “Coo, lumme! ” he
got out, peering into the blackness sur-
rounding the boat’s headlights: “what
the bleedin’ ’ell is that?” “Don’t worry,
mate.” said Long Jim the fireman ; “it’s
only an owl.” “Yus,” came back Ken,
“but blime, chum, what’s ’owlin’?”
* * * *
“Pop”: Working in the office of a tin-
mine in Tassie, I got a ’phone call from
one of the men up at the nozzles. All
I could hear, though, was a frantic
“Come quick! Bert’s gone and fell in
the race an’ he’s heading for the tunnel! ”
Hopping into the car and tearing round
to the end of the tunnel, I was just going
to dash in to look for the mangled corpse
when up rose Bert out of the water and
strolled along to meet me. Although he’d
been swept right through a 1000 ft. tunnel,
full of rocks, in a race about three feet
wide, all he said was “Lookin’ for any-
one?”
* * H= *
“Bill O’C.”; Of course bees drink (B.
11/6/’4l). They also eat, fly, collect
honey and construct containers for it on
a design that has been unblushingly
copied by human engineers for centuries.
I had a swarm working in a two-storeyed
standard hive of which the upper box
contained only pound section slides for
honeycomb-eaters. This was about 25
yards away from the side of the resi-
dence. One morning I opened the top
box and removed nine pound sections,
all filled and sealed up, which I took
inside and placed on a shelf in a store-
room facing the hives. As there were a
few bees which I had failed to brush off
still clinging to the combs (not a dozen
altogether), I opened the long narrow
window of the room (about Bft. high by
18in. wide) at the top only for a few
inches to enable them to go back to the
hive and go on working. They did. An
hour or so later someone of the house-
hold came into the room, found it full
of bees, and beat a quick retreat. When
I returned in the early evening there were
no bees there; neither was there any
honey, but there were nine completely
empty wax shells, and the window glass
from top to bottom was like a frosted
pane owing to the tracking of sticky feet.
What is more, the removal gang put all
the transported honey in the lower box
of their hive where they could watch it
better. I let them keep it. Surely no
handful of escaped prisoners of war, with
the assistance of their superior officers
at headquarters, ever carried out a neater
operation in military strategy.
* * * *
• “0.W.W.”: I was waiting to catch an
early bus to town when I noticed Henare
stealing cautiously down from his hill-
side home, both his hands raised high
above his head. “What’s the idea?” I
called as he neared the road. “Has some-
one got you covered?” Henare lowered
his arms and smiled. “I hafe to come
like t’at,” he said, “so te dogs can see I
hafe no bridle. If t’ey t’ink I going to
catch a horse t’ey just bark te missus
awake, an’ t’en she want a town trip,
too.”
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”; Hollywood-soaked citi-
zens of our big cities seem to have an
idea that tap-dancing is a mild sort of
heel-and-toe business of shoe-floor noises,
but Queensland’s he-man north recog-
nises no such Terpsichorean skim-milk.
The black eye that Ginger Mac brought
aboard the coastal boat was such a beauty
that, knowing Ginger’s grass-fighting
abilities, one was impelled to confidential
inquiry as to how and why. “Thishyere
flamin’ tap-darncin’,” he explained. “Y’
know —tap another sheilah on the
shoulder w’en y’re fed up with the one
y’ve got. There wus a darnce on at the
hall larst night after I’d got in t’ catch
the boat, an’ I’d ’ad four with Mrs.
McGinness from the pub. Me plates o’
meat was fair wore out by then with ’er
trampin’ on them, so I taps a dinkum
floater wot wus just passin’ us an’ tips
’er a wink. Turned out ’er ’usband wot
she wus hoofin’ with’d bin a pug in Syd-
ney. Jealous cow ’e wus, too, judgin’
from the way ’e took t’ me. Still, I
suppose a man couldn’t blame ’im —
they’d only bin a fortnight in the north
an’ ’adn’t woke up t’ the way darnces
is run there.”
* * * *
“Fitzjay”: When Jimmy Snapper was
drowned in the Namoi the police and
others spent a futile day searching down
the river for the body. As they were
knocking off for the night a mate of
Jimmy’s arrived. “No use looking down
stream for him,” he advised, “He was
the most contrary feller I ever knew, so
you can bet your boots he’d go
wpstream.”
“Peterkin”: If I could resurrect one of
Australia’s early pioneers I would put
this question to him: Is the edible mush-
room indigenous to this continent? True,
the mushroom is to be found in many
places, from the east coast to Coolgardie,
but every place in which I have seen it
had been visited by sheep. The sheep is
the chief distributor of mushroom spawn.
It is indeed easy to visualise John Mac-
arthur’s original jumbucks arriving with
the germs of all future Australian mush-
rooms inside them. Horses, too, to some
extent act as spawn distributors. Like-
wise it has been established that seeds and
fungus spawn may be carried inside
animals for lengthy periods. But the
thing that most urges me to ask the ques-
tion is the aboriginal’s indifference to
the mushroom. Never have I seen a
Binghi eat one, nor have I read of his
doing so. Yet he knew all about yams,
zamia-palm nuts and other products of
the soil.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: The bush housewives
of my youth used to prefer a hollow log,
preferably of about sft. in length and
2ft. in diameter, rolled along the kitchen
floor and then skidded up into the fire-
place. A sound log might be safer and
burn longer, but it also burnt slowly and
was reluctant to yield coals —and coals
were necessary for successful bush cook-
ing. Drawn out on to the front of the
hearth, they served for the making of
toast, or made a flat bed for the quick
frying of the bacon and eggs. Likewise
coals in ample supply meant a good
roast in the old camp oven or nicely
browned bread. It was remarkable how
a shovelful placed on the camp-oven lid
produced that delectable brownness. But
a hollow log was always more or less
an adventure to the kids. As things
warmed up all sorts of creatures might
emerge. Snakes were common —Mum
would flatten them with the poker be-
fore they half realised where they were.
The most terrifying and insidious to bare
legs were centipedes. A good mossy log
might send forth half a dozen. Rabbits,
too, were not unknown. And one night
there was a wild flurry when a native cat
emerged and started up the wall. But
life in those days took all such things
in its stride. With the wind howling
outside, with rain teeming down, there
was real comfort in the big log burning
in the 6ft. fireplace—itself as big as many
modern kitchenettes.
* * * *
“Me.”: If “Pitt St.” (B. 4/6/’4l) is
correct, it looks as if the cow cockies
of the district he speaks of are long-
lived and have long memories. “When
your neighbor talks religion, brand your
calves early,” was the first-prize winner
in an Australian proverb competition run
by The Bulletin itself, as nearly as I
can remember, 40 years ago. Other good
efforts were submitted, but I remember
only one: “A pound changed is a pound
spent.” Now, you lifelong Bulletin
readers, what about recalling some more?
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: “A sunbaking black
snake won’t move while your eye is on
him,” is a generally-accepted saw, but
I’ve found it only partially correct. If
Joe is basking in a clearing he will lie
motionless with his eye on yours. Shift
your gaze for a split second, however,
and he is gone as if by magic. Actually,
“Now, for cream puffs you must have a very delicate touch.
he slides under the very roots of the
grass, and, even though there doesn’t
appear to be enough cover to hide a
grasshopper, you won’t find him unless
you are lucky enough to guess the right
place to swipe. On the other hand, if
the wriggler is stretched out on, say, a
log surrounded by bushes, he knows
there is no need to hide his exit, and a
dozen hynotists wouldn’t stop him from
clearing out whenever he considered it
judicious.
« * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow, hump-
ing a 901 b. knot down the Lachlan, got
to the Moonbi pub about midday and
put it on the publican for a handout.
He was knocked back. Moodily sitting
on his swag, thinking of the distance to
Condobolin, he was peremptorily hailed
by a bumptious coot in a big car. “Hey,
my man, how do I get to Moonbi?” Mat
looked him over and said meekly, “If
y’ like I’ll show y’ ; I’m goin’ that way.”
The cove in the car didn’t seem too shook
on the idea, but opened the door and
Mat and his knot got in. About an hour
later, when Mat saw ahead the open
plain fringing Condo., he said “Pull up.”
He got out, adjusted the swag on his
shoulder and said, “Now, mister, you go
back t’ where y’ picked me up an’ y’ll be
at Moonbi. An’ next time y’ talk t’ a
bagman, talk t’ him like a man.” The
motorist thought for a bit, then he said,
“I’m looking for a man to cut scrub.
It’s a good job, with tucker and keep.
Back in Forbes they told me a bloke
called Mat would be somewhere about
Moonbi and that he was a good man.
It’s bad luck for him ; I’ll have to try
and get somebody in Condo, now.” He
was hidden in a cloud of dust before
Mat’s tongue could do its duty.
* * * *
“Blue”: The “killers” were run in one
Sunday afternoon on Weelamurra (s.-w.
Q.), but somehow the slaughtering was
overlooked, and before daybreak the fol-
lowing morning all hands rode out to the
shearing shed for a week’s crutching. It
was not until we returned on the Satur-
day that we remembered. The sheep
were still alive, and even had sufficient
strength to make a frenzied dash for the
boredrain that ran within 30 yards of
the slaughterhouse. Their six-day perish,
with not one succumbing, must go close
to a record.
“Uramao”; When a case that had
arrived by an American vessel in Maori-
land was opened an emaciated cat
crawled out. It had evidently hopped
in at the works when the machinery the
case contained was being packed and had
not been noticed. It had kept alive by
eating the grease on the engines as well
as devouring, literally, the book of in-
structions which had been put in with it.
The state of coma in which it was found
soon disappeared after food and drink —
which it had had to forgo during the
whole voyage. Could any other type of
animal have come out of that ordeal
alive?
“Old-timer”: Night on Tapalin Bend,
the stars hidden behind a thick cloud
curtain, steady rain falling, the high river
singing and surging along without a
gleam. In Tom the Liar’s hut he and
Red Louis and Emil the Dane swapped
yarns. Outside Tom’s dog slept. No bird
called, no dingo disturbed the silence,
only the lap, lap of the water on Red’s
pram boat, moored to Tom’s landing.
Then the hut door opened, farewells were
said, and Red untied his painter and
rowed into the wet darkness. A half-
hour later the hut door opened again,
and Emil and Tom cocked their ears, try-
ing to locate the stream of profanity that
echoed across the black waste. “He’s
stumped or snagged or somethin’,” said
Tom as he and Emil got into the second
boat and shoved off. After a lot of row-
ing, dodging big timber and scraping
over submerged logs, they got within a
chain or so of the shipwreck. “Stuck
between twp flamin’ gum saplin’s,” he in-
formed them ; “can’t move her.” Tom
and Emil sculled towards him, hardly
able to see the prow of their own boat.
There came a jerk, a scraping, and their
own boat stopped dead, jammed between
two saplings. For a while the startled
Nankeen herons heard sounds of struggle
and strong men cursing, then a silence,
broken occasionally as Red called to the
others or they to him. “Reckon we'll
have t’ stick here till mornin’,” said Tom.
After more desultory conversation they
slept. The rain sifted down. The Murray
rose in its slow way, floated Red’s boat
free and drifted it till a bump awakened
him and he found himself back at Tom's
landing. He tied her up, made for the
hut and hopped into a bunk. Dawn
brought the shivering and drenched Tom
and Emil, mourning the sad fate of their
comrade. Then they saw what lay in
the bunk and the fight started.
JUNE FROST.
If I should cup my cold hands round my lips
And cry a silver “coo-ee” down the night
My reed-thin voice would thrust in arrowed
flight
Against the stars, and shatter into ice.
My breath makes lilies blossom on the air—
Flowers of frost that, frail as phantom ships,
Melt into space and like a dream are gone.
The little hill that gleams as white as rice
Seems ready for a party; slimly fair,
The saplings are wax candles set upon
Its shining surface; and the wondering wind
Leans like a child above his birthday treat.
The frogs are silent in their pool behind
The clustered ti-tree, where the water lies
Bright as the mirror that reflected sweet
The Lady of Shalott’s blue dreaming eyes.
At noon the sun sprawled here like a great cat —
I trailed her gold spoor through the smoulder-
ing ruins
Of leaves that curled in rose, or burned in flat
Thin shards of saffron; now the flames are lost
And quenched beneath the bitterness of frost;
Nothing stirs on the hillside; but 1 hear
The cheery “spit-spit” of a bandicoot
Seeking among the arctic covers near
For little grey earth-grubs and crumbs of root.
There is a sharp, peculiar earthy smell
Of frozen things; old banksia boughs that lie
Riddled by rot and hollow as a bell
Under the bracken; fungus breath of sly,
Small crawling lichens, grey as cattle lice,
Thronging the bovine shoulders of dark rocks;
The dank leech-scent of ferns that click like dice
Under the tread; thin tang of ashen shocks
Of sags, that smell like marsh mud when cold
rain
Spurs the wild buttercups to bud again.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DIVIS.


“Bohemian”: Henare was secretary
and treasurer of the Maori football club,
and the president instructed him to send
out circulars announcing the annual
meeting and calling on all members to
pay subscriptions. On the night of the
meeting, when the balance-sheet was
read, the secretary-treasurer proved to be
the only defaulter. Henare explained:
“I send te cirkler to myself, and I get
dis very nice retter in reply; ‘Dear Sir,
—Thanks for te cirkler. The reason why
I cannot pay te ginny for my sub. is
because I have not got te ginny just now,
but I will pay te sub. when I get te ginny.
I remain, yours very gentlemanly,
Henare.’ ” The balance-sheet and report
were adopted unanimously.
* * * *
“Hanko”: In my pilgrimages I’ve met
the mudlark in the most desolate places.
Out on the sun-blistered plains I’ve often
wondered where the birds scrounged mud
enough to plaster their nests. Perhaps
that’s why the sight of a mudlark in the
city struck me as odd, for to me, at least,
the pied fowl was a dinkum wilderness
bird. Now I’ve come to realise that
Grallina piping a lament from overhead
wire or housetop in Melbourne suburbia
is nothing to get hot over, and I’m kept
too busy scraping my boots to worry
about where it finds its mud.
* * * *
“Te Anau”; Aerial superiority does
not always triumph over a mere foot-
slogging foe. Watched with surprise a
fight to a finish between bees and ants
on my small garden gum-tree, aglow with
honeyed blossom. First, a long column
of black ants moved up the bole in quest
of the scented plunder, soon faced aloft
by a foraying hive of bees after the same
pelf. Rival armies clashed, and, for-
getting their common goal, set in to
massacre each other. As both bees and
ants are highly organised as to workers
and warriors, it looked like a willing go,
though my bet was naturally on the
winged squadrons that might have stung
and demoralised the crawlers at their
own airy will. But each battling ant
nipped hold of a bee’s wing and held on
until the fluttering victim sagged slowly
to earth. The end came quickly, with a
cemetery of hacked bees at the foot of
the tree and the black column of tri-
umphant ants racing up and down the
bole to bag the booty before sunset.
“Does he talk?”
“Not with a War on, lady”
“Bamekaw” (T. 1.): Staying with me
for an indefinite period is a young fellow
from Papua. He looks very handsome in
his coat colored to resemble lumps of
preserved ginger in a bowl of cream.
Like most youngsters, he is a skilful
climber, and has a healthy appetite;
melon, bananas, pawpaws —any tropical
fruit —serve as a snack, and if the larder
is bare he will scale a mango-tree and
pensively chew the tender shoots. It is
this same cuscus (Phalanger maculatus)
which, with its long tail, prehensile
digits and Puckish face, first gave rise to
the furphies that monkeys could be found
in N.Q. and the adjacent islands. Unlike
the koala, the cuscus thrives in captivity.
* * V *
“N. Sylvester”: “Mat’s Mate’s” 18-
stone cocky with a voice in proportion
(B. 21/ 5/’4l) was a bit unusual, since
really big men are rarely fitted that way.
Some of the biggest I’ve struck had the
voice of a small boy. The limit along
that line was a onetime Victorian detec-
tive, not unsuccessful in his pursuit of
wrongdoers. But when the 16-stone Joe
took the witness stand the Court never
failed to record a shock, for it was a
thin, reedy voice that issued from that
bulk. Who doesn’t know the little bloke
who, heard from outside the bush pub,
might be a Goliath? Then there are
voices not so very loud at close hand, yet
with great carrying power. I once stood
on the opposite side of a half-million
gallon reservoir listening to a crowd of
politicians conducting the opening. Most
of the voices fell down the concrete
emptiness and remained there. Then
came a speaker whose voice carried right
across, every word clearly. That was
Forrest, a big man with a carrying voice.
Just some slight difference in the vocal
apparatus between individuals. A study
of dental plates reveals that dome of the
mouth-roof varies greatly. In some it
is almost flat, in others quite loftily
vaulted. It is the latter type that seems
to produce the voice of great carrying
power.
3b si: * *
“Serum”: The two old cockies near
Mt. Misery (Vic.) had been discussing an
earth tremor which had occurred there and
which frightened all the rabbits out of
the big hill, and the lad from the city
had listened intently. A few days later
one of the farmers, going to call the lad
to dinner, saw him running in the oppo-
site direction. He called, but the lad,
pointing towards the mountain, frantically
continued running. Looking up at it
the farmer saw a spiral of smoke ascend-
ing from the top. It was coming from
a steam engine which had been set up on
the next farm on the opposite slope. It
took some convincing to impress on the
lad that it wasn’t a volcano in eruption.
« * * *
“Saturn”; “Me an’ Steve Thomas is
anglin’ fer cod in a bend o’ the Murray,”
said old Joe. “He’s in the stern o’ the
boat playin’ a big bloke when I fasten
on to somethin’. There’s a strong current
runnin’, an’ it takes me full strength to
pull it in. Steve’s gettin’ his catch up
close, too, an’ it’s developin’ into a race
to see who lands his first. Mine’s well
on the spinner, an’ with a extra heave I
get a sight of it. So does Steve, an’ as
he does his mouth garps open an’ he
drops his line, which streaks out o’ the
boat like lightenin’. But Steve don’t take
no notice —his lamps is on the boot, with
the top of a sock an’ cuff, that’s just show-
in’ above the surface. Half dazed, I ’as a
blow, while the sweat dribbles from me
’ide. Steve has a puke over the side,
garstly green he was, too, while I’m
wonderin’ if it’s the Chow cook from
Muggasuds what had been missin’ fer
a week. When Steve recovers I want
him to haul our catch in and see who
we’ve got, but Steve ain’t havin’ any. As
soon as we hit the bank he’s over the
side and up to the township for the
John. I’d looped the line in a half-hitch
over the bloke’s boot in case the spinner
hooks come unstuck. You oughter heard
the Johnop go lousy when he comes
down later only to find that the cove I’d
tied up to a tree root was somebody’s
scarecrow. But it wasn’t nothin’ to the
language Steve used for doin’ a cod in
which he reckoned would’ve gone close
on 601 b.”
* * * ♦
“L. McK.”: The new hand was getting
fed-up with the long hours, which, since
he had been on the farm, ranged from
befor© daylight until after dark. Coming
back from the paddocks with the teams
one evening he pointed to a row of
fowls perched on the leafless branches
of a peach-tree near the stables. “Blime,
they’re lifelike, ain’t they?” he observed.
The boss stared. “Wot yer mean —life-
like? Think they’re artificial ones?” he
sneered. “Well, ain’t they?” replied the
hand. “I thought you used ’em as
decoys to trap foxes. Y’ see, I’ve never
seen ’em orf that perch since I been
here.”
* * * «
“Hank”: Heavy rain had swollen the
waters of Mosquito Creek, up beyond
Quambatook. The rabbits in the billa-
bongs were flooded out, and all hands,
including ’Enery the Choom, armed with
shotguns and Winchesters, scoured such
humps and shoulders of the terrain as
were visible. Crossing on a fallen trunk,
’Enery slipped and went in; his chief
concern was the stopping of his wristlet
watch. He kept shaking it, holding it
hopefully to his ear, and moaning that
it was done for. This calamity looked
like spoiling a good day’s sport until
Andy the half-caste suggested (perhaps
in good faith, for he wasn’t overburdened
with intelligence) that a poultice of soap
and sugar would “draw the water out.”
The following day in the men’s hut I
noticed a tobacco tin on the window-
sill. Inside, snug as a yolk in the white,
was a cheap wristlet watch detached from
its strap and embedded in—yes, you’ve
guessed it.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: Was walking through
rocky, hilly country with my fox-terrier
plodding along at my heels when I heard
a rushing sound behind me. Swinging
around I saw a big eaglehawk ’planing
down on my dog. About a dozen feet
behind it was another large hawk. When
I waved my arms and shouted both birds
shot skyward. Obviously they were
mates, and the second had meant to get
the dog if the first missed him.
❖ ❖
“Aragun”: “Z.V.W.’s” bullocky who
was struck speechless (B. 21/5/’4l) re-
calls the bookie who followed the various
N.S.W. country race meetings, and who
had the habit of frequently invoking the
Deity to strike him blind in moments of
excitement. He fancied himself as a bil-
liard player, and during a match with the
marker some of the local sports quietly
drew all the blinds and closed the door.
Joe mulled an easy shot and out came
the customary “Strike me blind!” fol-
lowed by an instantaneous blackout as
one of the jokers clicked off the main
switch. The marker poked the balls in
the dark and said “Come on, Joe, shake
it up.” Joe howled to put on the blanky
light, but everybody swore the room was
as bright as day. It was a very relieved
layer of odds who discovered he could
see the flare of a match and, being a
good sport, he set ’em up for the mob.
“ Cripes, I'm thirsty!”
CHRISTENING PARTY.
“Eight o’clock already, and here they are all
coming!
Heavens above us, George! Did we ask all
this crowd?
More cars round the bend; I hear their engines
humming.
Stop that blessed wireless from bellowing so
loud;
Put those bottles out of sight and be useful,
there’s a dear.
Remember just one glass of wine, then all switch
to beer.”
“Here’s the parson; he’s a sport.” “Good
evening, Mr. Pratt.
So very kind of you to come. Of course
you’ll need some water.
Not to drink yourself, of course; you don’t
think I meant that?
But just to sprinkle with your blessing on
our only daughter.
There’s the lady in the case, crowing on her
bed.
You’ll take a glass—it’s only wine—to wet her
little head?
“What’s to be her name? Now fancy me for-
getting !
She’s Elizabeth for Henry Ford, her granny
and the Queen.”
“Fill your glasses, boys and girls, the sun will
soon be setting,
Or coming up, whichever’s next; you know
what 1 mean.
Shall we have a game of cards now or makum
big sing-song?
Well, everybody’s happy here and nothing can
be wrong.”
“Off she goes to bye-bye now, correctly dipped
and branded.
Come along now, Mr. Pratt, and fill your
glass again.
When you deal with Peter’s twins you’ll have
to work two-handed,
Or overtime —but sports like you can stand
up to a strain.
The women now are sitting close and swap-
ping baby lingo.”
“Sandwiches? My word, boy! I’m hungry as
a dingo.”
“One! Ah, well, it’s homeward now. Come
on, Jean and Polly.”
“Good night, George and Bessie! We’ll come
again next year.”
“That’s enough from you now!” “Well, it
has been jolly.”
“Motor doesn’ wanna start; hope she’ll let
me steer.”
“Splen’id party! Mos’ enjoy’ble!” “Come
now, draw it mild!”
“Who giveth this —hie —woman? Tut! Wazzer
name this child?”
“Lambing looks like seventy-five when we’ve
tailed and tarred ’em.”
“Take the left track through the scrub and
steady at the ford.”
“Come and lend a hand, old man, when it’s
time to yard ’em.”
“Good night, good night, everyone! For Boree,
all aboard!”
And little Lizzie in her cot, baptised and named
and weighed,
Sleeps all unconscious of the big disturbance
she has made.
s.a.
BILL O'C .


-ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .... .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.O,
General Manager: C. DarvalL
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ygug
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WALD CAT COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Cos.
Replacement
Year and De-
Ended preciation
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
12 i p.c.
£,£,£ £
1931 .. 734,823 731,250 1,469,061 2,395,141
1932 .. 744,322 731,250 1,482,133 2,678,937
1933 . . 792,414 731,250 1,543,297 2,896,624
1934 .. 963,501 731,250 1,775,548 2,995,421
Reserves disclosed, £883,000.. 2,058,548
Assets written up, £3,957,564.. 6,616,112
Reserves capitalised, £5,850,000 766,112
Reserves disappear, £57,564.. 708,548
6 J p.c.
1935 .. 931,949 731,250 909,247 3,088,939
1936 .. 937,980 877,500* 969,727 3,311,260
6.9 p.c.
1937 .. 1,036,336 804,375 1,201,688 3,509,057
71 p.c.
1938 .. 1,060,786 877,500 1,384,974 3,700,479
1939 .. 1,005,070 877,500 1,513,144 3,870,539
84 p.c.
1940 .. 1,103,744 994,500 1,622,388 4,092,025
1941 . . 1,054,331 994,500 1,682,219 4,351,538
* Includes special bonus of ss. per share to cover
taxation on last bonus scrip issue.
This big, highly-efficient and stoutly-
ribbed industrial organisation is a pillar
of strength to the sugar industry at the
moment, as well as an important con-
tributor to the national war effort. So
fortunately is the co. placed that, in
addition to carrying on its normal trade
functions, it has been able to make sub-
stantial contributions to all Government
loans floated since the outbreak of war,
as well as erect two factories for pro-
duction of war materials, with a third
now in course of construction. More-
over, all the co.’s work connected with
production of munitions has been done
either as a gift or without profit.
The co. enjoys a unique position. Its
chief sources of income are refining and
milling in Australia, growing and milling
in Fiji, refining in Maoriland, and returns
from a fine wad of outside investments
(£3,301,541, up £336,709) and cash
(£2,273,008, down £1,011,702). In Aus-
tralia it refines, sells and finances all but
a small fraction (handled by the Milla-
quin Cos.) of the entire crop on a com-
mission basis under Government con-
tract ; and the Government couldn’t
handle the business as cheaply itself.
The next table provides a view of Aus-
tralian sugar production and prices:
, Tons (94 n.t.) ,
Average,
1926-28. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Aust, consumption 344,000 364,000 383,000 400,000
Export .. .. 143,000 458,000 545,000 406,000
Total ~ •• 487,000 822,000 928,000 806,000
Home price £26/12/10 £24/-/- £23/12/6 £23/1/-
Export price.. £ll/18/2 £B/4/3 £lO/7/6 £ll/5/6
Average* ..£22/6/1 £l6/19/1 £l6/19/7 £l7/11/9
* Applies Queensland only, and excludes excess sugar.
Production in 1939 was a record. Floods
and cyclones affected last year’s figure,
but the average price was the best re-
ceived for raw sugar since 1932. The
entire Australian crop was valued at
£13,818,000 (down £919,000). The British
Food Ministry bought the export surplus
and paid all freight on it in excess of
355. 6d. per ton, as well as insurance
charges above pre-war rates. The out-
turn of the co.’s own mills was 164,208
tons (down 15,792 tons) Australia and
118,463 tons (up 4463 tons) Fiji.
During the year the co. bought the
motor-vessel Moamoa (built in 1937 for
B.P. and Cos.) and fitted her out as a
molasses carrier, thus enabling more
power alcohol to be produced and sold
to the Petrol Cartel. The pineapple sec-
tion of the business in Fiji has received
a setback; but the Caneite factory at
Pyrmont (N.S.W.), which turns out
sound-absorbing and insulating board
from the hitherto waste products of cane,
has had to work full time to keep abreast
of demand, which now includes exports ;
and the new Melbourne distillery is re-
ported to be working “satisfactorily.”
After setting aside £377,532 (up
£23,586) for depreciation, declared net
earnings were £49,413 short of the pre-
vious year’s at 9 p.c. on capital. That
leaves out of the reckoning a net addition
of £383,347 in suspense accounts
(£2,913,399), which are partly provision
for contingencies. The large growth in
this item last year was primarily on
account of exchange, following transfer
of funds from abroad—it may be found
expedient to reverse the transaction at
some later date, the chairman says.
The div. was kept at 8£ p.c., and the
market doesn’t expect anything less. At
£47 ss, (£47 a year ago) the f.-p. £2O
shares return 3.6 p.c. on an 81 p.c.
distribution. The net tangible backing is
visibly £22 17s. 6d. per share, excluding
the depreciation reserve (£7 Bs. 9d. per
share).
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital . . £11,700,000 £11,700,000 £11,706,000
Sundry creditors 2,152,000 3,131,955 3,410,492
Suspense accounts 2,437,456 2,530,052 2,913,399
Employees’ funds 55,817 52,953 51,270
Refineries, mills,
etc 10,478,655 10,910,770 11,162,197
Steamers, etc. 271,877 271,877 313,608
Distilleries .. 322,678 349,749 449,836
Premises .. 228,202 228,215 229,908
Stocks.. .. 4,170,249 5,214,393 6,124,747
Book debts, etc. 415,295 402,079 751,324
Investments .. 3,252,177 2,964,832 3,301,541
Cash and
deposits .. 3,022,574 3,284,710 2,273,008
Over quarter of a million was added to
the book value of refineries, etc., £100,087
to distilleries, £349,245 to debtors’ bal-
ances and £910,354 to stocks of one kind
and another. Despite the heavy outlay
on fixed assets, the year’s contraction in
the more or less liquid surplus (£6,075,459,
deducting suspense and employee funds)
was only £75,595.
In the current season, for which an
Australian production of 830,000 tons of
raws is forecast, overseas sales will be
entirely governed by the shipping avail-
able. Fortunately, it is expected to open
with no old stocks unshipped.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1931 .. 24,877 40 p.c. = 20,000 4,877 10,671
Unexplained reduction reserves, £2375.. 8,298
1932 .. 28,725 22i p.c. = 16,875 11,850 20,146
1933 .. 13,053 20 „ „ 15,000
1934 .. 30,202 20 „ „ 15,000 15,202 33,401
1935 .. 20,818 20 „ ~ 15,000 5,818 39,219
1936 .. 25.876 20 „ „ 15,000 10,876 50,095
Doubtful debts written off, £SOOO .. 45,095
1937 .. 13,887 121 p.c. = 9,375 4,512 49,607
Estab. exes., etc., capitalised, £24,924.. 24,683
1938 .. 10,895 5 p.c. = 4,000 6,895 31,578
Net addition estab. account, £13,777.. 17,801
Pref. Ord.
7 p.c. 5 p.c.
1939 .. 11,265 8,633 4,000
7 p.c.
1940 . . 16,755 5,600 5,600 5,555 21,988
1941 .. 12,698 5,600 5,600 1,498 23,486
War conditions have brought rapid
development of civil airlines in Australia,
and, in the case of Guinea Airways,
financial returns more in keeping with
the excellence and community value of
the service offered. The co. operates a
network of services. Consider this record
of progress:
Tonnage Passengers Gross
Feb., Transported. Carried. Earnings. Exes.
1939 . . 117 2,332 £54,862 £55,617
1940 .. 135 5,938 80,248 78,392
1941 .. 125 13,392 107,972 96,197
For the first time Australian operations
made a greater contribution to both in-
come and profits than the New Guinea
service, though the volume of goods
carried continues disappointing. The
extent to which Government subsidies
helped is not disclosed.
In New Guinea, where the co. opened
up the coast-goldfields air route in 1928,
loss of goldfields population and war-
time interruption of steamer services
affected both the number of passengers
and quantity of tonnage offering, and
that meant intensified competition: —
Tonnage Average Passengers Gross
Feb., Transported. Freight.* Carried. Earnings.
1929.. 434 lO.Gld. 8G9 £44,006
1932.. 3947 6.91d. 1,607 95,619
1936.. 6476 2.90d. 12,137 137,729
1938.. 8408 1.94d. 12,120 92,641
1939.. 8804 2.07d. 11,626 102,576
1940.. 8374 1.97d. 11,481 96,141
1941.. 7123 1.94d. 10,740 78,366
* Per pound.
Lighter earnings here thus offset the im-
provement in mainland results. For the
two spheres of operations combined,
there was a declared slip of £4057 in
net earnings, mainly the result of
introduction of super-tax, not pro-
vided for in 1940, which meant that last
year’s figures had to bear most of the
taxation for the past two years. Still,
the £12,698 of profit—7.9 p.c. on total
capital—covered the all-round 7 p.c.
handout with £1498 to spare.
At a cost of £82,000, the air fleet was
increased by purchase of three new craft
during the year, one of which was im-
mediately taken over by the Govern-
ment : —
1936. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £75,000 £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Liabilities .. 12,549 24,444 12,917 31,798
Fixed assets . . 70,950 174,844 128,680 183,574
Investments . . 31,788 3,152 29,980 3,634
Debtors .. 26,662 37,857 27,338 36,244
Cash .. .. 8,245 170 17,308 233
The money was found by drawing upon
investments and cash for £43,421 and
going outside for an extra £18,881 ; de-
preciation allowances, a hungry item in
this class of business, provided the
balance. There was thus a contraction
in the surplus of more or less liquids
(£8313) of £53,396.
Whether recent expansion will be a
permanent feature remains to be seen.
Chairman C. V. Wells, who looks for im-
proved earnings in New Guinea, too, in
the current term, thinks it will. Petrol-
restrictions may constitute a short-run
problem; impending construction of the
goldfields road in the Mandated Terri-
tory is certainly another.
Meantime, the market prices the pound
ords. at 14s. 6d. —11s. a year ago—to
return an immediate 9.5 p.c. For the
7 p.c. cumulative participating prefs.,
which comprise half the capital, 19s. 3d.
is paid, yielding 7.2 p.c. The cover is
25s. lid. ords. and 45s. lid. prefs., all
in fixed assets.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Year. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 7,888 4 p.c. = 5,500 2,388 176,746
1933.. 17,921 9 „ „ 12,375 5,546 182,292
1934.. 27,604 11 „ „ 15,125 1 _ , R9 9qo
To inner reserves, £12,479 f 0 ~
19'35.. 26,234 12 p.c. = 16,500) -10990-7
To inner reserves, £9734 \ -
1936.. 27,436 12 p.c. = 16,500 1 109909
To inner reserves, £10,936 j ro-,un-
written off from inner reserves,
£2804 ; res. disclosed, £12,926.. 195,218
1937.. 28,613 12 p.c. = 16,500 ) 009 ii"
To inner reserves, £5218 ) 0,8y °
1938.. 29,142 124 p.c. = 17,187 11,955 214,068
Building improvements, £1755 .. 212,313
1939.. 29,9'59 14 p.c. = 19,250 10,709 223,022
To bad debts reserve, £15,000 .. 208,022
Building extensions, £3244 . . 204,778
1940.. 25,687 17ip.c.*= 24,062 1,625 206,403
1941.. 25,346 14 „ „ 19,250 6,096 212,499
To staff funds, £1500 .. .. 210,999
* Div. date changed.
Fortunes of this old-established concern,
which has exhibited marked ability to
adjust operations to changing rural con-
ditions, and which has at times owned
up to profits being even better than
claimed, are largely linked with those of
the primary producer, merchandising and
carrying activities being most remunera-
tive in times of high prices. But, para-
doxically, its periods of greatest prosperity
have coincided with dry seasons, with
their great call for stock feed.
The business is well spread through
the back-country of N.S.W., with a sub-
sidiary, McCulloch Carrying Co. Pty.
(paid capital £25,000), in Victoria, Over
the past decade, after paying an average
11.8 p.c. in divs., £36,641 has been added
to reserves and internal provisions—
presumably against book debts — visibly
strengthened by another £37,637 net out
of earnings. At £210,997 the visible lay-
by is now heaped £73,499 in excess of
paid capital. Besides giving the market
something to speculate on, it means that
the two combined need turn in only
5.5 p.c. to pay the 14 p.c. div.
With seasons against the man on the
land, in the latter half of the year to
January a strong demand for fodder for
starving stock developed, and gross earn-
ings for the year (£127,675) sprang
£12,243. But because of taxation (£14,000,
up £6000) and higher wages there was
no benefit to the disclosed net, total
exes. (£102,829, including depreciation
£3638) taking all the increase and £341
besides. Allowing for £500 previously
popped into reserves, the £25,346 of profit
—it includes something from the Mc-
Culloch co. — was 18.4 p.c. on capital,
compared with 18.6 and 21.7 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. Div. remained at
14 p.c., and £1500 was earmarked to
inaugurate staff-pension and returned
employees’ benefit funds.
Assets can be taken as well worth book
value: —
, — January —^
1930. 1936. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £137,500 £137,500 £137,500 £137,500
Liabilities . . 131,331 87,988 117,642 129,596
Premises, plant,
etc. .. 51,236 56,205 55,554 54,312
Stocks .. 129,410 115.266 150,006 160,580
Book debts . . 217,913 151,761 170,957 167,129
McCulloch Co. 68,022 45,393 45,836 38,050
Cash & invest-
ments . . 7,943 61,731 56,935 89,251
Prompt payment by the Central Wool
Committee for the clip, with better prices,
is apparent in quicker settlement of
accounts, debtors’ balances dropping
£12,828. With £7786 of advances re-
paid by the subsidiary and an extra
£11,954 from outsiders, the money went
into stocks (up £10,574) and cash, etc.
(£32,316 higher). When the books closed
the more or less liquid surplus, including
McCulloch advances, was £10,323
stronger at £300,414, or £5 9s, 3d. per
share.
The 50s. f.-p. shares are closely held.
A recent seller asked £7, at which the
immediate return would be 5 p.c. A year
ago the chairman warned against possible
effects of taxation and restriction of sup-
plies of certain commodities upon divi-
dends. With costs rising and last year’s
heavy fodder demand cut out, the warn-
ing may now have more significance.
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.)
To Re— Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 62,769 10 p.c. = 58,300 ) 46q 14 o 461
Staff provident fund, £3000 j ’ '
1932.. 49,052 72 p.c, — 43,725 ) 9 o 97 i 4 r 90c
Staff provident fund, £2500 . 2,827 146,288
1933.. 47,125 72 p.c. = 43,725 ) qnn 14718S
Staff provident fund. £2500 ..) 900 147,188
1934.. 48,788 72 p.c-= 43,725 ) 9 Kfi o 14Q
Staff provident fund, £2500 ..f 2 > 563 149,751
Inner reserve disclosed, £26,000 .. 175,751
1935.. 54,494 8 p.c. = 46,640 )
Staff provident fund, £2500 5,354 181,100
1936.. 54,454 8 p.c. = 46,640) e o-, 4 1 ro 41 9
Staff provident fund, £2500 .. J 5,314 186,419
Obsolescence reserve, £18,223 .. 204,642
1937.. 50,130 8 p.c. = 46,640) QQ „ „ n . fi ,n
Staff provident fund, £2500 . . f 990 205,632
1938.. 77,735 8 p.c. = 46,640 31,095 236,727
Special 122 p.c. cash bonus, £72,875 .. 163,852
1939.. 62,148 8 p.c..= 46,640 15,508 179,360
1940.. 78,418 8 „ ,, 46,640 31,778 211,138
1941.. 63,776 8 „ 46,950 16,826 227,964
Shareholders in this conservatively
managed co. have a solid investment,
and the par offer of £135,144 of new
capital late in the last term was quickly
snapped. The co, grew up in the whole-
sale drug trade, in which it manufactures
much of its own requirements, particu-
larly since exchange difficulties and then
war threw the Dominion back more on
to its own resources. But production of
superphosphate, etc., turned out from
four large chemical - fertiliser works
located in the most important agricultural
and pastoral areas of the two islands,
now accounts for the largest slice of
turnover. All told there are nine works
engaged in this sheltered and subsidised


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,900,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
do not experiment with imitations.
c. BBAMDAQBK * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENQ
PENS
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith. Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
v * • *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Mining Notice.
ADVERTISER has secured lease of quantity of
BATTERY SLIMES, which show a good
assay. Would like to meet any competent
person capable of handling same. —No. 303
Advt. Dept., Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
THE Olympic Tyre & Rubber Co. Ltd.,
are to-day servicing the National War
Effort with all the means at their disposal.
Twelve hundred operatives are proud to be "doing
their bit" in helping to keep their comrades of all
Services fully equipped with pneumatic tyres and
tubes for cars, trucks, motor cycles, cycles, aero-
planes and all mechanised units; lifebelts and gas-
masks; electric cables and flexibles, field telephone
wire, etc.
Olympic
TYRES
100% AUSTRALIAN
STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
decks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
o day I
£9/9/.
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE CHARGER
The Netv and Improved
SIX
BIG
See it at
DANKS 1
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder,
Victorian Distributors:
fIi)ANK3z
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone; M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
industry, the feature of which has been
the sharp increase in the production of
chemical fertiliser, apart from super.,
over the past year or so.
The call for maximum primary pro-
duction to meet the requirements of
Great Britain and replenish London funds
brought a capacity demand for fertiliser
last year. But selling prices remained
at pre-war levels, and, though the Gov-
ernment is reimbursing the cos. for the
added cost of raw materials like phos-
phate, sulphur and nitrate of soda, there
have been other cost-increases which
bigger turnover has failed to compensate
for. After knocking off unstated depre-
ciation, Kempthorne Prosser’s gross earn-
ings (£262,447) thus fell £5376. General
outgoings (£198,671) lifted £9266 too,
largely on account of taxation —cos. pay-
ing the maximum rate have to earn £2
for the taxgatherer for each £1 available
for shareholders, while the excess-profits
levy is no incentive to branch into new
production. There was therefore a de-
cline of £14,642 in declared net to
£63,776. On average capital it repre-
sented 10.8 p.c., as against 13.4, 10.6,
13.3, 8.6 and 9.3 p.c. back to 1936, The
unchanged 8 p.c. div. left the visible lay-
by to benefit by £16,826.
When the books closed there was
£96,192 of new capital to come:
1930. 1935. 1940. 1941.
Capital . . £583,000 £583,000 £583,000 £621,952
Liabilities* .. 252,463 84,438 334,724 449,087
Factories, etc. 466,943 366,221 394,999 1 407,557
Stock.. .. 373,891 274,477 382,167 512,264
Book debts . . 172,094 133,802 320,615 318,184
Cash, etc. . .
* Includes provision for taxation,.
Extensions to the various works cost
£12,558 more than the amount written
off, and the work isn’t yet complete. To
stocks, mainly imported raw materials,
which may become difficult to obtain in
view of the shipping situation and shelling
of Nauru by a Pacific raider, £130,097
was added. Portion of the debtors’ item
also represents preliminary payments in
respect of purchases on overseas account.
Liabilities (up £114,363) include two
years’ provision for taxes unpaid. De-
spite the fixed-asset outlay, at the end
of March the more or less liquid surplus
(£468,904) was £43,531 stronger than a
year earlier.
Maoriland has a high opinion of the
scrip, offering 775. for the old £2 shares,
at which the return from 8 p.c. divs. is
4.2 p.c. When the new issue is paid up
that rate will call for £6325 less profit
than shown last year. A black spot on
the horizon is the scarcity of freight space
to carry away the Dominion’s primary
production, which may mean sharp con-
traction in the demand for fertiliser; but
the market doesn’t appear concerned.
Conservative book values provide a net
tangible backing of £2 12s. Bd. per share.
With the aid of freight and power con-
cessions from the State Government,
Lake George Mines, operating subsidiary
of Lake George Mining Corp. (London),
claims to have been breaking even at the
end of 1940, “with the prospect of earn-
ing moderate but regular profits.” For
the year to June, 1940, the co. showed
a loss of £A72,523, compared with
£62,000 for the preceding initial six
months’ operations. Costs showed a
reduction from 38.725, to 33.45. per ton
(265. was the prospectus estimate), and
other encouraging features are improve-
ment of ore-grade with depth and more
efficient recovery—complex ore from dif-
ferent parts of the mine was tound to
require individual metallurgical treat-
ment. A minor part of the undertaking
is sale of pyrites to Australian Fertilizers
—but for prohibitive freights the co.
could supply a large part of the Com-
monwealth’s imported sulphur require-
ments. Development added 244,900 tons
to ore reserves (2,023,900 tons), the lift
in grade being 0.40 z. silver, 0.5 p.c. lead
and 0.9 p.c. zinc to 2.40 z. silver, 7.9 p.c.
lead and 13.4 p.c. zinc, besides some
copper and gold. Labor, which has kept
mine output below capacity, and shipping
worries appear chief troubles now beset-
ting the co., which is dependent on out-
side finance.
* * * *
Westralia’s blue-asbestos deposits in
the gorges of Hamersley Ranges, south
of Roebourne, look to have commercial
value. Worked in only a small way by
hand to date, there are extensive occur-
rences of the stuff, which are character-
ised by the length and quality of the
fibre, the regularity of known occurren-
ces and their association with marker
horizons, making the search for fibre
relatively easy. Favorable aspects of the
report of senior geologist K. J. Finucane,
of the Aerial Geological and Geophysical
Survey, are the possibility of mining por-
tions back from the cliff faces, the sim-
plicity with which fibre can be prepared
for market and the relatively small capi-
tal expenditure indicated.
* * * *
Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.) announces
that gold returns from the re-treatment
of the low-grade No. 3 Boulder dump
of residues have been unprofitable, and
that unless they show improvement re-
treatment of the dump will be abandoned
and a start made on No. 2 pile.
* * * *
Recent annual reports of Westralian
goldmining cos. include those of New
Milano, North Enterprise and Ora
Banda North. New Milano netted
£4799; the others showed losses: North
Enterprise of £24, Ora Banda North £34.
New Milano is increasing capacity of its
treatment plant from 1200 to 1500 tons
a month, is enthusiastic about its visible
auriferous assets, and boosts its prospects.
Both North Enterprise and Ora Banda
North have piles of forfeited shares and
insignificant credit balances. Neither
mentions anything about the properties
it holds.
* » * *
R. N. Bligh, a claim-holding gold pros-
pector at Pilbara, has appealed to others
on Westralian fields to assist the war
effort by the donation of some of their
mined ore. Bligh has a mill as well as
a mine, and he says that several of his
customers are agreeable to “do their bit”
in this way. Minister for Mines Panton
has promised to crush donated ore at the
State batteries free. Under a similar
scheme to assist outback goldfields hos-
pitals in the West between £3OO and £4OO
has been raised.
« * * *
Morton Webber, a Yankee mining
engineer from Mexico and an employer
of mining labor in the West, suggests
that a remedy for the serious shortage
of miners (particularly machine men)
there is to allow all suitable and willing
interned enemy alien miners to return to
their former occupations at standard
rates of pay, and to hand over one-third
in the case of married and one-half in
the case of unmarried of their earnings
to the Commonwealth Government —this
to be refunded (plus interest) six
months after the termination of hostili-
ties. Webber suggests the appointment
of a tribunal to deal with these miners
for misconduct and deduct the amount
of any fine from the amount eventually
due to them, or in extreme cases to take
the whole lot and return them to intern-
ment. Webber argues that to keep a
miner, in many cases a property-holder
who blames Hitler and Mussolini for
everything, in an internment camp sepa-
rated from his wife and family will only
embitter him to the advantage of none
and at a definite cost to the Common-
wealth for his keep. However, it might
prove a dangerous expedient.


Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on reguest.
Directors•
0. E. FRIEND F. N, YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS AUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND F. W. HIXSON
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Rollery , Etc.
Next Financial Year
We are promised taxation increases
in 1941-42 as part-provision for a
£250,000,000 war Budget. We are being
rationed now in most imported things,
and, without rationing, many Australian
products are in scarce supply. India,
through the Delhi Council, is buying
huge quantities of our woollen textiles,
and our steel industry has for months
been overtaxed to supply even the most
essential orders. We are short of copper,
tinplate, newsprint, tobacco, petrol and
similar things. Overseas and Australian
shipping services are curtailed. Building
activity is to be deliberately restricted
further in order to divert labor, materials
and money to more urgent uses. Rations
of newsprint to the press are to be cut
again.
Australians are now beginning to feel
the pinch of war. But there is no short-
age of food, and the scarcity of some
clothing items may be a passing phase.
On the whole, profiteering is being kept
well in check, and the cost of living has
risen only 8| p.c. since the outbreak of
war.
In 1941-42 we can expect an intensi-
fication of the things that happened in
1940-41. Shipping will become scarcer,
rationing of imports more severe, taxa-
tion heavier and borrowing greater. Our
war effort will intensify, and munitions
production should expand greatly now
that the long preliminary stage is giving
way to actual production of many things
calling for long-range planning. Unem-
ployment should fall to vanishing point
owing to actual re-employment and the
demands of the militia and the A.I.F.
People on fixed incomes will feel the
burden of war in heavier taxes, de-
creasing buying power and scarcity of
certain goods and services. The wage-
earner will be better off than usual; he
is almost assured of full employment,
taxation for him is light, and increased
living costs are made up to him. But,
by and large, the outlook for the country
as a whole is—plenty of work, lean liv-
ing and great industrial expansion.
Australian defence expenditure for the
11 months to May 31 was £143,900,000,
but of this outlay £6,900,000 was re-
covered from “other Administrations.”
The net outgo was £137,000,000. Of the
gross expenditure, £45,613,000 came from
revenue, £86,053,000 from loans and
£12,234,000 from trust and special funds.
When Parliament passed the Budget late
in 1940 it agreed to raise and spend
£276.6 millions —£186 millions for de-
fence —as follows:
In Hand, Taxa- Borrow-
-1/7/’4O. tiorf. ing. Total.
(£mil.) (£mil.) (£mil.) (£mil.)
War expenses—
In Australia 28.0 65.0 50.0 143.0
Overseas .. 43.0 43.0
Civil expendi-
ture 85.0 5.6 90.6
28.0 150.0 98.6 276.6
Borrowings have been availed of fairly
fully, but expenditure out of revenue and
from funds on hand at the commence-
ment of the year doesn’t appear to be
up to expectations. It is probable, how-
ever, that the £28,000,000 stated to be
on hand at July 1, 1940, included bor-
rowed money, and that expenditure out
of this is included in the £86,053,000 said
now to have been actually spent out of
borrowings.
With one month to be completed,
£137,000,000 net has been spent out of
£186,000,000 set aside. In May outlay
on war was £16,292,000. If it should
rise to £20,000,000 in June, there will
still be £29,000,000 to be carried into
next year, or to remain unborrowed.
There has been a spending lag right
throughout the financial year, as there
was in the preceding term. So long as
production of war materials couldn’t be
lifted to the aimed-at level, it was wise
not to spend defence funds simply for
the sake of spending them. It has been
difficult in some cases to obtain all the
machinery necessary to get fully into
munitions production, in other cases hard
to get suitable workmen. But average
outlay over the past three months has
been at a rate in excess of £186,000,000
a year, and, with activities of the A.I.F.
abroad on a growing scale, in 1941-42
a considerable increase in our expen-
diture can be looked for. Any carry-
forward of unexpended funds will be
welcome.
* * ♦ »
The Eastern Group Supply Council,
Delhi, has ordered from the Australian
Government 2,250,000 blankets, 2,000,000
underpants, 2,000,000 singlets, 2,270,000
jackets and pullovers, 1,000,000 pairs of
boots, 4,800,000 pairs of socks, and a
large quantity of greatcoats and uni-
forms. These represent only a portion
of the orders received by the Australian
Government (allocated to appropriate
firms) from Empire and overseas coun-
tries. It is big business, and is taxing our
productive capacity.
* ♦ * *
Last Friday and Saturday week were
“Christmas all over again” to Sydney
retailers. Blankets were unobtainable,
and rugs sold out in many cases, but
woollen underwear, dress materials,
ready-made suits, silk stockings and all
manner of essential and near-essential
commodities were bought on a volumi-
nous scale. On Tuesday of last week a
visit to a tailor’s shop disclosed a pile
of about two dozen suit-lengths pushed
into a corner —all sales of the one morn-
ing The same tailor would ordinarily
be lucky to sell two suits a day. A visit
to two York-street warehouses showed,
in the one case, a few expensive imported
cloths still available, in the other —one
of the biggest distributors of Australian-
made worsteds under its own trade-names
—just two lengths of suitings. In some
warehouses the public thronged in and
bought direct. Tailors were resent-
ful. They were unable to show patterns
to customers as they couldn’t guarantee to>
get the material —outsiders had swept up
the stocks of wholesalers. Prices in some
cases were bumped up, it was alleged.
A mad situation altogether. Apparently
the rationing of petrol and tobacco has
given some Australians a “shortage” com-
plex, Most of the stuff bought over the
last fortnight was Australian-made, and,
though much of our production is wanted
for the fighting forces, the situation is
one which is within our own capacity
to regulate.
* * * *
Further cuts in Australian petrol
rations are forecast. For many people
the allowance is already as low as it is
in England or Maoriland. But for others
it isn’t so, and these others are the ones
who are making it difficult for the
authorities to get consumption down to
the required level. Any person now
getting sufficient to do more than 200
miles a month should be called on to
produce proof positive that the excess
is absolutely necessary to his existence.
In addition to some private excesses, con-
sumption by civil servants and officers
of public bodies should be ex-
amined, One Sydney body recently
allowed several officers to visit part of
its undertaking (miles from the city) in
separate cars, whereas one car (or two at
the most) would have comfortably trans-
ported them all.
* * * *
Edwards Dunlop must have done ex-
traordinarily well out of paper-importing
last year. The trade generally found the
business highly profitable, in spite of
import rationing. In its accounts, after
providing for taxation and, presumably,
for any possible calamity that might
befall the co., net earnings were shown
at £43,100 —up £lOBO. The 10 p.c, div.
called for £37,596. Turnover for the year
is said to have shown “considerable ex-
pansion,” but in the co.’s balance sheet
book debts have dropped £95,409 to
£475,814, and stocks at £220,051 are
down slightly. It looks, as usual, a very
conservative balance sheet. The outlook
for the current year isn’t so good. There
is a hungry market for paper in the
Commonwealth, but shipping facilities
from Canada, the U.S.A. and Britain are
more restricted than ever. Nevertheless,
at 445. Edwards Dunlop shares look an
excellent holding proposition. They give
an immediate yield of £4 11s. per cent.
* * ♦ *
North Broken Hill shares rose sud-
denly in the middle of last week. For
some time they had been around 345. 6d.,
but on Friday there were sales at
365. 9d., a rise of 2s. 3d. in two or three
days. All other Barriers were firmer.
Possibly the expansion in Electrolytic
Zinc lately has stimulated market in-
terest in lead as well as spelter. North
appears to be good buying for holding
purposes in any case. A lot of lead will
be needed after the war as well as
during it.
* ♦ * *
Monier Industries’ shareholders have
turned down the offer of one Hume Pipe
share for every three Monier shares.
Another meeting will be held.
* * * *
No hotels, offices or theatres may now
be built in Australia except in special
circumstances. The building of dwellings
or flats valued at more than £3OOO is to
be restricted. Labor and building ma-
terials are now wanted for more essen-
tial work, and the money involved would
be better put into war loans. Treasurer
Fadden says.
* * H= *
Melbourne Board of Works last week
offered a £296,000 cash and conversion
loan, 15 years, at £3 Bs. 9d. per cent.
There are two maturing loans to
meet. One is for £188,250, carrying
5 p.c., issued to the public ; the other
for £107,500, 4 p.c., taken by the Vic-
torian Government in 1936. The latter
will not be converted, so £107,500 is now
required from the public in cash to repay
this, as well as whatever portion of the
other loan isn’t converted. The loan was
not underwritten.
* * * *
British shipping cos. —or those which
still have big fleets —are doing well owing
to the scarcity of tonnage. Profits of 12
shipping concerns have risen from
£3,700,000 last year to £5,300,000 this
year, after providing for depreciation,
taxation, etc. Much British shipping is
under charter to the Government,
* * * *
Mt. Lyell shares are very weak. The
market level is about 265. 3d., returning
7.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div, basis. Overseas
shipping difficulties do not affect this con-
cern, since all Lyell’s output, and more,
can be used in the Commonwealth. With
no production figures now coming to
hand it is hard to see how the mine is
faring—the grade is probably lower,
with costs up —but the price has also
been lifted. Soon after the outbreak of
war the price for electrolytic paid to
Commonwealth producers was £63
17s. 6d. a ton in Australian currency. In
February, 1940, it was raised to £76,
Lyell and Mt. Morgan agreeing to ear-
mark £4 a ton for development of in-
creased production. In February this
year an extra £2 10s. was added to price
in order to help equalise the cost of the
local and the imported article—Austra-
lian producers got no benefit from it.
Small producers are now being paid on
the basis of £9O a ton for the refined pro-
duct, and Lyell and Mt, Morgan will
get this price for any increased produc-
tion they can turn out. On old outputs
they will get £B6 10s. a ton, less, appar-
ently, £1 10s. a ton to provide the pre-
mium of £3 10s. a ton on new production,
and less whatever sum (if any) is still
being taken to equalise local and foreign
copper costs. This last increase took
place in May; though a substantial rise,
the sharemarket isn’t enthusiastic. Some
market operators may know more about
Lyell’s affairs (which for some years
have regularly disappointed, largely
because of ore dilution and increasing
costs) than the general public. The in-
crease in price recently allowed by Pro-
fessor Copland may have been neces-
sary in order to keep production up,
grade of ore and costs possibly being the
trouble. But with the non-availability
of production figures now, Mt. Lyell’s
directors have a special duty to their
shareholders to keep them informed
as to how their investment is faring, even
if it withholds production information
not desirable to broadcast in present
circumstances.
* * * *
Australia’s favorable balance of trade
for 1940-41 isn’t going to be all that was
expected of it. In its last report (March)
the central bank forecast a favorable
trade balance of £3l million Australian.
Canberra now anticipates that we will
finish the year with £1 million sterling
on the right side, which, when added to
our gold production, will fall far short
of £3l million. Possibly the shortage of
shipping has made it difficult to trans-
port our wool, etc., to the markets in
which it has been sold, and it can be
taken for granted that bare import and
export figures don’t show the real bal-
ance of indebtedness from trading.
Figures available for the 10 months to
April 31 are as follows:
Ten Months.
1939-40. 1940-41. Decrease.
£Stg.ooo. £Stg.OOO. £Stg.ooO.
Exports .. 97,636 90,232 7,404
Imports .. 94,53 1 90,024 4,507
Excess of ex-
ports .. 3,105 208
Gold production is left out there. Move-
ments of capital to Australia have been
substantial during the past year, and the
Commonwealth Bank’s London funds
remain at a higher level than the total
bank funds in London immediately pre-
ceding the outbreak of war. Against
debits for A.I.F. costs there have also
been credits in the shape of borrowings
in Britain and capital transfers.
H* * *
The first public Australian war loan
during the present affair carried £3 7s. 6d.
per cent, on its five-year offering, and
£3 12s. 6d. per cent, on its 10-16-year
issue. The public subscribed approxi-
mately equal parcels of each. The dif-
ference in rates was ss. per cent. The
Loan Council apparently didn’t like the
popularity of the short-term issue, and
when the next borrowing-time arrived
the short-term rate was £2 15s. per cent.,
the longer-term £3 ss. per cent. —a differ-
ence of 10s. per cent. The public took
about twice as much of the long-term as
it did of the short-term. On the next
loan the rates were the same, and the
public took nearly three times more of
the longer-term. Apparently sensing,
however, that the market was inclining
more than usual to short-term issues,
when the fourth war loan was offered
in April last the short-term rate was
dropped to £2 10s. per cent, and the
long-term rate left at £3 ss. per cent.
In spite of the lower rate on the short-
term issue the public took a larger pro-
portion of it than in the case of either
of the two preceding issues. Here are
details of the four loans:
Short-term. Long-term. Total.
Mch. ’4O £8,957,640 £9,207,100 £18,164,740
May, ’4O 6,746,790 13,835,700 20,582,490
Nov., ’4O 7,692,180 20,807,240 28,499,420
Apl., ’4l 13,642,000! 22,229,600 35,871,600
Totals £37,038,610 £66,079,640 £103,118,250
The figures may not be a true reflection
of public opinion in regard to the two
classes of loans owing to the unknown
nature of central-bank and private-bank
subscriptions. But they are a general
indication.


Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
CONCESSION RATE MESSAGES
SOLDIERS, AIRMEN AND NURSES ABROAD
“VIA BEAM WIRELESS” “VIA IMPERIAL CABLE”
A further Oversea Communications Development
“SAY IT WITH NUMBERS”
A new and improved E.F.M. (Expeditionary Force Message) Concession Rate Service for the Forces
will be available as from Monday, the 16th inst., via Imperial Cable and Beam Wireless.
Any three of the varied message texts numbered below may be combined and sent to
or from members of the Forces at any points of the Empire and Egypt (except India,
where the existing service continues) for 2/6 with the entire address and signature
free.
This service is not, for the present, available to or from personnel of the Royal Navy or the Royal
Australian Navy.
List of Authorised Texts for Messages to and from Soldiers, Airmen and Nurses
abroad.
—CORRESPONDENCE.
1. Letter received many thanks.
2. Letters received many thanks.
3. Telegram received many
thanks.
4. Parcel received many thanks.
5. Parcels received many thanks.
6. Letters and parcels received
many thanks.
7. Letter and telegram received
many thanks.
8. Telegram and parcels re*
ceived many thanks.
9. Letters sent.
10. Parcels sent.
11. Letters and parcels sent.
12. Many thanks for letter.
13. Many thanks for parcel.
14. Many thanks for telegram.
15. No news of you for some
time.
16. Writing
17. Urgent.
18. Please write or telegraph.
19. Please write.
20. Please telegraph.
21. Please reply worried.
.—GREETINGS.
26. Greetings.
27. Loving greetings.
28. Fondest greetings.
29. Love.
30. Darling.
31. All my love.
32. All my love dearest.
33. All our love.
34. Fondest love.
35. Fondest love darling.
36. Best wishes.
37. Greetings from us all.
38. Loving greetings from all of
us.
39. Best wishes from all of us.
40. Fondest wishes from all of
us.
41. Best wishes and good health.
42. Kisses.
43. Love and kisses.
44. Fondest love and kisses.
45. Well.
46. All well at home.
47. Best wishes for Christmas.
48. Best wishes for Christmas
and New Year.
49. Loving wishes for Christmas.
50. Loving wishes for Christmas
and New Year.
51. Loving Christmas thoughts.
52. Happy Christmas.
53. Happy Christmas and New
Year.
54. Good luck.
55. Keep smiling.
56. My thoughts are with yon.
57. Many happy returns.
58. Birthday greetings.
59. Loving birthday greetings.
60. Happy anniversary.
61. You are more than ever in
my thoughts at this time.
62. Best wishes for a speedy re-
turn.
63. Good show keep it up.
C. HEALTH.
68. Family all well.
69. All well children evacuated.
70. All well children returned
home.
71. All well and safe.
72. Are you all right?
73. Are you all right worried
about you.
74. Please don’t worry.
75. Hope you are improving.
76. Please telegraph that you are
well.
77. Are you ill?
78. Have you been ill?
79. Illness is not serious.
80. Illness is serious.
81. I have left hospital.
82. In bad health.
83. Health improving.
84. Health fully restored.
85. Son born.
86. Daughter born.
D. PROMOTION.
91. Congratulations on your pro-
motion.
92. Very pleased to hear of your
promotion.
93. Delighted hear about your
promotion.
E. MONEY.
*9B. Please send me £ .
*99. Please send me shillings.
*lOO. Have sent you £ .
*lOl. Have sent you shillings.
102. Can you send me any money ?
103. Glad if you could send some
money.
104. Have received money.
105. Have you received money?
106. Have you sent money?
107. Thanks for money received.
108. Have not received money.
109. Unable to send money.
110. Sorry cannot send money.
*The amount in words to be
inserted immediately fol-
lowing the text number.
F. CONGRATULATIONS.
115. Congratulations on anniver-
sary best wishes.
116. Congratulations lasting hap-
piness to you both.
117. Glad and proud to hear of
your decoration every-
body thrilled.
118. Loving greetings and con-
gratulations.
119. Good luck keep it up.
120. I wish we were together on
this special occasion, all
my best wishes for i
speedy reunion.
G. WAR DAMAGE.
f!25. injured and in hospital.
126. Injured and in hospital.
127. Sorry to hear of damage hope
all well.
128. Sorry to hear of injury and
hope not serious.
129. Sorry to hear of injury and
hope progress favourable.
130. Sorry to hear of injury and
hope soon be better.
lI.—MISCELLANEOUS.
135. Very happy to hear from you
dearest am fit and well.
136. Hearing your voice on the
wireless gave me a won-
derful thrill.
L—BEREAVEMENT.
•fl4l. Sorry to tell you died.
f 142. Sorry to hear died.
fThe name to be inserted im-
mediately after the text
number.
KEEP THIS LIST FOR REFERENCE
Hand your message in at any Post Office or at the Companies’ Offices.
“Via Imperial”
EASTERN EXTENSION A. & C. TELEGRAPH CO. LTD.
10 Spring Street, SYDNEY
“ Via Beam Wireless”
A.W.A. OVERSEA SERVICES. AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (ASIA) LIMITED
47 York Street, SYDNEY
In 1941-42, according to Treasurer
Fadden, Australia’s war bill will run
into £250,000,000, up £64,000,000 on
the now-closing year’s Budget estimate.
Taxation increases are forecast, though
while a loan was afloat a few weeks ago
Mr. Fadden said that if response to it
was satisfactory it might not be neces-
sary to increase taxes in 1941-42. The
loan was slightly oversubscribed, but
most intelligent people realised that in-
creased taxation was still more than a
likelihood in the coming financial year.
If our expenditure on war is to be at
the rate of £250,000,000 a year it will
represent £35 15s. per head for every
man, woman and child in the Common-
wealth, compared with £26 10s. a head
in the present term. Iri order to raise
this money uniformity in State taxation
rates may have to be brought about; some
agreement with the various Premiers will
be sought before the Budget is brought
down in July. Mr. Fadden says that
defence expenditure would be financed
“consistent with the Government’s policy
—maximum taxation without burdening
the economic system, voluntary loans for
war purposes, and wise and safe use of
bank credit.” He indicated continued
support for the voluntary loan system.
He added that should loans fail to yield
the necessary money, “other means would
have to be considered.”
3 ♦ ♦ •
Federal Treasurer Fadden and State
Premiers are to confer on June 23 about
the matter of making State taxation rates
uniform. Because of high State taxation
on big incomes in Queensland, the Com-
monwealth has had to restrict its levies
in that and all other States. As a result,
big Victorian incomes, which don’t pay
comparatively heavy State tax, are taxed
no higher than in Queensland by the
Federal authority. Uniform taxation
rates, particularly if Queensland State
tax is reduced substantially, will enable
the Commonwealth to get useful
revenue from a partly sheltered body well
able to pay extra taxes. The conference
on June 23 will precede the presentation
of the Federal Budget in July.
* * * *
The Australian sugar crop in 1940 was
worth £13,818,000 before refining. That
is a drop of nearly £1,000,000 on the
1939 figure, all because of a fall of
122,000 tons in output; the price re-
ceived was considerably better by reason
of better export figures and less “excess”
production. Here is a tabulated compari-
son of statistics for the last three seasons:
1938. 1939. 1940.
(Tons, (Tons, (Tons,
000). 000). 000).
Home consumption .. 364 383 400
Exported .. .. .. 458 545 406
Total .. .. 822 928 806
Exported, p.c. .. .. 56 59 50
Price, ton — £ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d.
Home price.. 24 0 0 23 12 6 23 1 0
Export price 843 10 7611 56
Average* .. 15 2 2 15 15 3 17 2 8
£OOO. £OOO. £OOO.
Total value .. 12,488 14,737 13,818
* Queensland average, including “excess” sugar.
The prices and values quoted are for raw
sugar delivered by the mills at their
nearest ports. All the production except
a little from N. S. Wales (47,031 tons in
1940) comes from Queensland. Prices
are the best since 1932.
In 1941, according to E. R. Knox,
of the C.S.R., 830,000 tons of sugar
is anticipated ; he adds that shipping and
storage difficulties might prevent the
manufacture into sugar of part of the
crop. All the 1940 surplus is expected
to be shipped before the next milling
period starts. Demand for sugar in Aus-
tralia has not fallen away since war
started in spite of the difficulties attend-
ing the export of preserved fruits. Com-
monwealth and Maoriland consumption
is now about 20 p.c. above depression
levels.
* * * •
Australian Knitting Mills, formerly
associated with Yarra Falls —it was one
of the founders of the baby that grew
into a giant—is asking its constituents for
more capital. Shareholders are to be
offered 183,333 shares of 7s. 6d. each
(£68,750) in the ratio of one for three.
There are 540,000 ords. and 10,000 prefs.,
all of 7s. 6d. each, at present issued.
The new issue will raise the share-
register total to 723,333 ords. and 10,000
prefs., aggregating £275,000. A.K.M.,
which makes Golden Fleece underwear,
wants the extra money to help install
new spinning plant for turning out wool
and cotton yarn for immediate defence
purposes and “to meet expected demands
after the war.” Its shares used to be of
20s. each. In 1936 11s. sd. per share
in Yarra Falls scrip (par value) and
Is. Id. in cash was returned to share-
holders. Last term (to June, 1940) A.K.M.
earned 13.9 p.c. on capital, compared
with 8.5, 9.1 and 9.2 p.c. back to the time
the Yarra Falls holding ceased to con-
tribute to earnings. Defence work has
been a big factor lately. Buyers at present
offer 12s. for the 7s. 6d. ords.
Loloma’s discovery of high-grade ore
in the south drive, No. 3 level, of its
Fiji mine drew attention also to Emperor ;
it was stated in Melbourne that “the face
of the Loloma south drive is now only
about 130 ft. from the Emperor boundary
on the strike of the lode, and it is ex-
pected that this rich ore will carry into
the Emperor lease.” The known Regent
ore shoot to May 14 totalled 110 ft.,
average 15dwt., it was officially recorded.
Though this is good-quality ore, it is
well below mine average. Loloma scrip
responded to the development, rising from
21s. 9d. to 235. 9d. in about a week.
Emperor shares remained dull around
par.
* * * *
Commonwealth Government is to buy
surplus lamb and pig meat. Lamb that
cannot be exported will be stored, and
surplus beef, mutton and pork will be
canned. Prices will be somewhat below
the U.K. contract rate, U.S. tinplate
will be admitted duty-free, if obtainable,
such is the shortage of canning materials.
* * * *
The Commonwealth is to pay from £4
to £4 10s. a ton at the plantation for all
copra grown in Papua and New Guinea.
It isn’t much of a price, but it’s better
than nothing. Difficulties of shipping and
selling the stuff have forced this action
on Canberra. The Pacific Islands are
stacked with copra at present.
sH * * *
First delivery of Australian aluminium
—rolled from imported ingots—was
made from the new Sydney factory last
week.
* * * *
British excess profits tax has been re-
duced from 100 p.c. on war-increased
profits to 80 p.c. The pre-war basis of
ascertaining standard profits is still in
force. The reduction returns to industry
the incentive to expand production—and
make a little more net profit—whereas
previously all incentive except patriotism
was eliminated.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
UNCLE SAM’S “VICARIOUS
BELLIGERENCE.”
[This vigorously stated argument in favor of the
U.S.A. coming into the war fighting is condensed from a
three-column New York “Times” article by Max
Eastman, who attacks America’s policy of “vicarious
belligerence” as undemocratic, and marshalls in a sum-
mary of 21 points a striking array of the major charac-
teristics of the “totalitarian” States.]
As I was tried twice and barely escaped a gaol
sentence for too vigorously opposing America’s
entrance into the World War, I trust these opinions
will not be regarded as the expression of a military
temperament.
In principle we [Americans] are at war with
Hitler now. We have openly declared our intention
to defeat him by aiding his enemy. We are united
on this as few nations not actually invaded ever
have been on a foreign policy. The national election
proved this conclusively, no major party daring even
to raise the issue, and the one party that did raise it
getting next to no votes at all. Unofficial polls have
since indicated that a steadily increasing majority
stands behind this policy of vicarious belligerence.
The reason for this solidarity upon so unusual a
policy, a policy of staying out of a war and yet win-
ning it, is simple. We are for staying out of the war
in so far as it is a conflict of European nationalisms.
In so far as it is a conflict of social systems, we know
we have to win it.
Taking the, war as what Lindbergh calls it, a mere
struggle for national power, we want England to win,
but we do not want this badly enough to fight. We
are Yankees and can trade with anybody. We can
also defend ourselves against anybody.
Something like that runs in the minds of most
Americans. But something else runs in their minds,
and it leads with equal force to the conclusion “Don’t
let England lose!”
That something else is a perception that this war
is not merely a struggle for national power, but a
struggle between democracy and tyranny. This war is,
if any war in history ever was, a war between two
ways of life. You will not find a deeper contrast in
all the records of men’s battle cries than that between
Mein Kampf and the speeches of Churchill and Roose-
velt. And however little it may reflect the causes of
the war, this contrast is a valid indication of the
significance to mankind of its result. The conflict
between Babylon and Judea, Egypt and Assyria,
Athens and Sparta, Greece and Persia even, showed
no cultural contrast to compare with that between
modern democracy and totalitarianism.
As this is an extreme statement, and its truth basic
to the whole debate on our war policy, I am going to
try to prove it. Here are 21 major traits of totali-
tarianism —every one of them to be found in Ger-
many, Italy and Russia, not one in England or the
United States. Read this condensed list, try to visualise
the details, and see if my statement is too extreme.
(1) Nationalistic emotion is exalted to the point
of religious frenzy.
(2) A single party, disciplined like an army, sub-
ject to command, and having a monopoly of the poli-
tical field, takes over the power of the State. The
State is reduced to the position of a false front, whose
function is to “ratify” the decisions of the party.
(3) Dissenting opinion is coerced by means of
universal spying and informing, concentration camps,
Star-Chamber trials, torture, wholesale execution and
secret murder. It is coerced to the point where the
party and its leaders can assert themselves to be the
nation as a totality. The regime is called totalitarian
exactly because it is not so, but this is a threat, not
a boast. It means that all disagreement or even in-
difference, where it cannot be bridled, will be ruth-
lessly stamped out.
(4) The religion of nationalism comes into con-
flict with supernatural religion. The Church, like the
State, is permitted to exist, but its priests and even its
God must recognise the superior authority of the
party.
(5) The new religion finds its focus of devotion
in the leader, who becomes to all intents and pur-
poses a god.
(6) Anti-intellectualism, in a degree heretofore
found only among guttersnipes, becomes a public
policy. It takes the form of flattery to the ignorant
and lazy-minded, persecution, gaol, death or exile to
those who stand for strenuous and honest thought.
(7) Anti-intellectualism also takes the form of a
physical destruction of books and records, a rewriting
of history and revamping of science to make it fit
the momentary needs of politics.
(8) Anti-intellectualism takes the third form of an
attack on dispassionate scientific investigation. “Pure
science,” as well as honest scholarship, is abolished.
(9) The manipulation of public opinion is substi-
tuted for its enlightenment. Human minds are re-
garded as receptacles for officially decreed opinions.
It becomes the function of the press and radio to put
over the Leader’s ideas and misrepresent those of his
enemies. Debate is abolished, dogma enthroned.
Whatever intellectual life survives consists of infer-
ences from temporary pronunciamentos of the Leader.
(10) Cultural isolation of the country is essential
to this operation. The population is taught to believe
all sorts of fables about their own merits and pros-
perities and the desperate condition of the outside
world.
(11) Party control of “scientific fact” is accom-
panied by a similar control of creative art.
(12) Immoralism takes two forms. Political lying
and Governmental hypocrisy are adopted as a system.
Libel and slander become civic virtues. Fake plebis-
cites, solemn caricatures of judicial procedure, paro-
dies of representative government, are accepted as the
normal course. “Fooling all the people all the time”
becomes the essential function of the State apparatus.
(13) Immoralism takes also the form of State-
planned assassinations, frame-ups, blood-purges, Reich-
stag fires, piracies in the Mediterranean, etc. The
worst crimes in the code of civilisation become the
daring virtues of the totalitarian State.
(14) Besides its own crimes, the State encourages
the population to bait, torture and destroy some
public enemy.
(15) In baiting this enemy the barbaric principle
is revived of family and tribal guilt for the crime of
an individual.
(16) The national revival is focused around and
sustained by preparations for perpetual war. The war
industries dominate, and the population is completely
militarised from childhood.
(17) Together with militarisation goes a reckless
campaign for increased population. Birth control is
discouraged and large families boosted with State
propaganda.
(18) Woman is relegated to a subordinate posi-
tion, and laws passed against her independence. The
totalitarian regimes are male regimes. Woman’s busi-
ness in them is to breed.
(19) All totalitarian regimes make a liberal use of
the phraseology of working-class revolution against
capitalism.
(20) Strikes and protests from Labor are prohibited
and the Labor movement destroyed. Labor unions
are company unions, and the company is the State.
(21) In all totalitarian regimes industry, com-
merce and agriculture are controlled, not by the Gov-
ernment, which is a simulacrum, but by the party and
its Leader.
That is totalitarianism. That is Fascism.
Opinions may vary as to certain of these items, but
—Salt Lake “Tribune,” U.S.A.
THE SHEIK OF ARABY.
summed together they show an issue at stake in this
war as momentous as mankind has ever faced.
Democracy demands a clear division between
peace and war. Only tyrants can afford to wage war
without declaring it, and we [Americans] are step-
ping in the same path of corruption when we become
the arsenal for one side and yet pretend to be on
peace terms with the other.
Reasons could undoubtedly be advanced both for
and against England’s winning the battle of world
democracy alone. But no one of them is a reason
for our evading the question: What are we going to
do if she cannot win the battle alone?
For me the answer to that question flows from
the considerations upon which the present policy is
based. If we are ready to make an open gift of all
help to England because we believe that free civilisa-
tion will probably perish from the earth if Hitler
conquers, we ought also to be ready, in case of cer-
tain need, to fight by England’s side.
Ireland’s Opportunity.
[Condensed from “An Open Letter to Eamon de
Valera” which appeared in the “New Republic,”
U.S.A. In reprinting a condensed version of the letter,
the “Reader’s Digest” described its author, Francis E.
McMahon, as one of the U.S.A.’s “most brilliant rising
scholars of the Church Professor of Philosophy at
the University of Notre Dame and vice-president of the
American Catholic Association for International Peace.”
The “Digest” offered to supply gratis reprints of the
article (up to 10 copies) to readers who wished to mail
them to friends in Eire.]
Your Excellency: We share in common a great
Christian faith and the blood of ancient Irish fore-
bears. That gives me confidence that my appeal will
be recognised as wholly inspired by a passion for free-
dom and for the survival of the cultural and religious
values we both hold dear. I appeal to you to permit
Britain to use Irish naval bases.
The present war is not merely for markets and
territories ; it is a struggle for the possession of the
human soul. The civilised world is threatened by a
sinister power which strikes directly at its moral
foundations. Two philosophies of life are involved
in deadly combat —the one based upon law, justice
and human dignity, the other upon arbitrary will,
violence and human slavery.
Despite her past failings, England now stands in
the front line of the common struggle of free men
against one of the greatest menaces to civilisation in
recorded history. Her cause today is the cause of all
humanity.
Nothing is dearer to the Irish heart than the re-
ligious faith that sustained it during centuries of tribu-
lations. Your Excellency knows how the Faith has
suffered under the Nazis. The true aim of National
Socialism is the complete destruction of Christianity.
The Christian religion, we know, can never die,
but it can suffer extinction in this or that part of the
world. England now fights for the preservation of
that faith. Wherever the flags of the Empire wave
today, there the Church is at peace. It takes no great
imagination to visualise what will be the fate of re-
ligion if the Nazi swastika is substituted for the
standards of Britain.
Your Excellency is well aware of how my country
[the U.S.A.] has responded to the crisis. We are
fashioning the weapons for the fight for freedom—the
’planes, tanks, ships and munitions. England’s ability
to carry on depends upon the delivery of these goods.
What is asked of the Irish people? Merely the
use of three naval bases—Cobh, Berehaven and Lough
Swilly. The Treaty of 1921 reserved to England these
ports. They were and are vital to her defence. In
1938, however, Prime Minister Chamberlain gave
them back as a gesture of friendship, hoping that in
any future hour of trial England would not be denied
access to them.
In the first World War these bases played a para-
mount role in escorting ships. Their use enabled
British naval units to strike out much farther into the
Atlantic to meet incoming merchant vessels. Today,
with long-range seaplanes and fast submarines operat-
ing from German bases in France, their importance
may well be decisive. It would be tragic if the great
Battle of the Atlantic were lost because their
use had been denied.
Such a gift to humanity has its risks, of
course. I understand the desire of Eire to
remain neutral. Eire experiences a deep long-
ing for peace and has a justifiable horror of
war. Tragically enough, it has been the univer-
sal quest for tranquillity that the Nazi leader
has exploited. He has been enabled to en-
slave States one by one, as their reluctant
neighbors pitifully clung to the hope they
would be spared. Never was such a noble
aspiration exploited more for such fiendish
ends.
You know how long Eire’s freedom would
last if Hitler conquered Britain. Ask the
leaders of the small nations of the Continent
how far a policy of strict neutrality—or even
of conciliation —availed them before the greed
and might of the Nazis.
There can be no peace for Eire until the
cancer of Nazism has been eradicated. What
can justice or charity mean to a group of men
inspired by no ideals ; restrained by no laws;
disdainful of the obligations of solemn pacts;
dedicated to naught save their own advance-
ment, cost what it may in death, suffering and
tears to the entire human race?
It is unthinkable that Eire will fail
humanity at this crisis.
Invasion of England.
(Condensed from an article by W. L. White in the
May issue of the “Atlantic Monthly”)
The German High Command has prepared a
detailed plan for the invasion of Britain, and has
assembled men, ammunition, ships and ’planes which
can be launched whenever the weather permits. This
much is beyond doubt. Reports from occupied
France, Belgium and Holland agree that embarkation
troops were ceaselessly drilling all winter.
All of this—and much more —is confirmed by
what the British intelligence experts see on the tremen-
dously enlarged photographs from negatives brought
back by their observation ’planes. The British know
with deadly accuracy just what is going on in and
behind the circle of “invasion ports” which extends
from State Cape in Norway down to Brest in occu-
pied France.
There hasn’t been an invasion attempt yet,
although some months ago the American press carried
a lurid story about German invasion barges being
blasted by British destroyers and finally burned by
flaming oil poured on the waters. What probably hap-
pened was that a British Channel patrol came on a
German detachment engaged in invasion drill off the
coast of France —a routine in which men are em-
barked and the barges towed out to sea a dozen miles
or so, after which, returning to France, they rehearse
a surprise landing. The British took the detachment
unawares during these innocent manoeuvres and may
have drowned a few thousand Germans, but you can
be sure that if a serious invasion attempt is made
there will be no doubt about it.
Probably the principal purpose of the winter lull
in Nazi bombing was to build up reserves of ’planes
and particularly of trained pilots. Is the reserve
sufficient to crush England?
In the first place, we must remember that if the
Nazis are to “soften up” England for invasion they
must return to daylight bombing, which is terribly
expensive in ’planes and men, but necessary if British
aerodromes, rail centres and military targets are to be
destroyed. The first objective will be the fighter
’planes and fighter aerodromes of the R.A.F., which
is defending them. It is theoretically possible to bomb
hangars and mess halls and so pockmark a field with
craters that ’planes can no longer land on it, but in
England I have seen many bomb craters on fighter
landing fields, and I have seen the ground crew come
out with its shovels and steamrollers and have the


THE PRICELESS
INGREDIENT IN
G'tUwveU’
WINES
IS THE REPUTATION OF THE MAKERS
BUILT UP OVER 100 YEARS
whole place perfectly smooth within half an hour.
England isn’t Poland, whose air force was caught and
smashed in a surprise raid while it was still on the
ground within an hour after the declaration of war.
And it isn’t France, where the pilots carelessly left
their ’planes moored in orderly close ranks, so that
a single stick of bombs could blow the wings off 20
’planes.
The average modern fighting ’plane can stay in
the air only about an hour and a half. The British
fighter ’plane takes off from an aerodrome near the
target. It can spend a full hour fighting in the air
before it must land to refuel, while its German oppo-
nent can fight only half an hour before it must return
to the Continent.
So, because of geography alone, a German fighter
squadron attacking the R.A.F. over England would
need to have twice as many ’planes as the defending
force in order to equal it in fighting hours. But if
invasion is to succeed, the Nazis must do more than
equal the striking power of the British fighter ’planes
—they must overwhelm them and sweep them com-
pletely from British skies, and to do this might require
not a two-to-one superiority, but four or six to one.
For invasion can only be achieved if British
fighter protection can be completely removed, in the
invasion’s first phase, so that German bombers can
then swarm safely over England in broad daylight
and at low altitudes, thus attaining the accuracy which
would enable them to blast rail centres and paralyse
transport, preventing the British from moving their
army quickly about the island to repel the main
landing attempt, which must come by sea.
Neutral observers report that the Nazis have
28.000 troop-carrying gliders, each capable of holding
14 men. Two of these gliders can be towed behind a
single bomber. Taking off from Continental airfields
at night, they can be towed across the Channel and
cut adrift while they are still 40 or 50 miles from the
target. They would then float silently toward it, with
no telltale propeller noise or exhaust flames to betray
them to the defending anti-aircraft fire. Of course
such lightly-armed troops could not long survive in a
country as heavily armed as England is today, but
their function would be to destroy railroad yards,
dynamite bridges, and disrupt communications, supple-
menting the work of the daylight bombers in immo-
bilising England in preparation for the third and final
phase of the attack, which would be the landing by sea.
No British military expert denies that the Ger-
mans can make a landing—or even half a dozen in
a single night. It’s a matter of shove ashore, under
cover of night, bargeloads of ten or fifteen thousand
men at various places along the coast from Scotland
to Kent or Cornwall —not forgetting Ireland. But then,
according to the British, the fun really begins. Because
a successful infantry landing at any point must be
supported by further landings of tanks and artillery
and maintained by a constantly flowing supply of
reinforcements, food and munitions, in order to equal
the British force that will confront it within a few
hours.
And within these same few hours the British sea
patrols will have discovered the landing, and a screen
of destroyers and corvettes will cut off all further
communication with the Continent.
Invasion by sea would seem possible only after
the Nazis had achieved a completely crushing air vic-
tory over the island, annihilating British fighter squad-
rons so that Stukas and Heinkels could roam the
country at will and by day, selectively destroying not
only inland communications but also the great ports
on which the British fleet is based, rendering it as
completely immobilised as the railway system.
All winter and during part of the spring air
activity over England was light—the Germans obvi-
ously saving both ’planes and pilots to build a reserve
which could be flung against England. Yet this semi-
truce in the air also enabled England to build reserves
to meet it, and British war industries came through
the winter almost intact from bomb damage.
Even with these mighty reserves poised for the
blow the Germans seemed to have only a 40 p.c.
chance of successful invasion. Yet was this a stupid
gamble? Suppose they risked 20,000 ’planes and
500.000 men with chances 60 p.c. against success—what
was this compared with the whole British Empire,
which might be won in a few weeks?
Even if the attempt to paralyse Britain from the
air failed to sweep the R.A.F. from the skies and
prepare for a landing, yet it was clear that terrible
damage would be inflicted on England. But it was
also clear that if the attack failed the damage to the
German air power would be even greater. Germany’s
losses could be closely estimated from the terrible
punishment inflicted on the Luftwaffe during the day-
light raids last autumn, when Goring sacrificed two or
three ’planes (on some days the number was five) for
every British ’plane shot down. Still heavier would be
the loss of German pilots, as the British estimated that
the “all-out” daylight bombings of London last Sep-
tember and October cost the Germans a major part of
their most highly-trained pilots before the Luftwaffe
retreated into the darkness.
The British realise that German chances of suc-
cess are not fantastically small, but they welcome the
test because, in spite of the ordeal ahead for Eng-
land, they know that a failure would be as costly for
the German Luftwaffe in ’planes, personnel and morale
as the retreat from Moscow was to the Grand Army.
But most of all the British, since they are sure it is
coming, would like to get it over and done with, and
see it for better or worse as a turning-point in the war.
The Yanks, They Are a Funny Race.
(From a New York “Herald Tribune” leading article.)
Robert Strausz-Hupe, political science lecturer at
the University of Pennsylvania and associate editor
of “Current History” magazine, has put together a
book called Axis America in which are collected
quotations from German and Italian newspapers,
periodicals and books, all holding the people of the
United States up to ridicule. He thinks Americans
should be disturbed by it.
The trouble is, however, that in this business of
laughing at Americans and American customs the
Americans themselves are the most adept and up-
roarious of them all. The Axis propagandists, in
listing our national foibles, crotchets, weaknesses,
idiocies, didoes, pranks, etc., have only scratched the
surface. In an attempt to be helpful, herewith are
—“ Life,” U.S.A.
SUGGESTION FOR MR. SPENDER?
U.S. Soldiers Celebrate Mothers Day on the Parade Grounds at Fort Riley, Kan.
some other items, for the United States of America
is a country in which: —
The strip-tease industry is more profitable than
ever before in history. The principal character in
one of the most popular musical comedies is what is
known in our language as a “heel.” Our greatest in-
dustrialist is the man who once said “history is bunk,”
and a great many persons were inclined to agree with
him. The President and his wife laughed loudly at
a comedian who mimicked their speeches—and sent
him their photographs with admiring inscriptions. The
play with the longest run on Broadway is one which
deals with a degraded, filthy poor white Southerner
and his worthless family—and the critics described this
man as having a certain “dignity.” Our clergymen,
sky pilots, dominies, etc., say the most astounding and
contradictory things in their pulpits (and elsewhere)
whenever they feel like it. The homicide rate is so
high that it has become a national jest. People spend
their lives doing work they detest to make money they
don’t want to buy things they don’t need to impress
people they dislike.
We send killers to prison, not for killing, but for
evading their income taxes. The inhabitants of one
section often speak a jargon almost unintelligible to
those of another section, and everybody is highly
amused by this. Nobody complains when somebody
sees a resemblance between Harold Ickes and Donald
Duck —not even Ickes. Some of our playboys have
been married more times than Henry VIII. People
eat out of cans and listen to a contraption known as
a “juke box.” The Mayor of the largest city wears
odd black hats and is known as “The Little Flower.”
The papers give as much space to an obscure old
Jew, mistakenly arrested for vagrancy, as they do to
a speech by a dictator. The national folk gods are
Abe Lincoln and the Vitamin.
Indeed, a curious country. Louder and funnier!
Spain and the Axis.
[These condensed extracts are from a long and care-
ful survey of Spanish policy and diplomatic activities
over the past 12 months or so, written for London
“Fortnightly” by E. Allison Peers, Professor of Spanish
at Liverpool University and author of various books on
Spain.]
How near is Spain to throwing in her lot with
the Axis? Many people would like to know that—
and possibly none better than the leaders of the
Axis itself.
For eighteen months, despite alternate induce-
ments and threats, Franco has held the Dictators at
arm’s length and refused to join hands, in any prac-
tical sense, with either. For half that time, too, he
has been not precisely a “neutral,” but, in the words
of his own official declaration of June 12, 1940, a
“non-belligerent”—just as Italy was for the first nine
months of the war. Yet, though opponents of his
regime, who had all the time been expecting him to
join the Axis, announced last June that his entry into
the war might now be expected at any moment, the
chances of Spain’s voluntary intervention seem more
remote today than at any time since the war began.
It is much more likely that Germany will invade
Spain and meet with active and not perhaps ineffective
resistance than that she will get her as an ally, while
the probability that she will let her alone and that
Spain will continue to be a non-combatant is still
greater.
There were two moments in 1940 when the danger
of Spain’s entering the war was greatest. One was
in June: France, hitherto the great obstacle to
Spain’s intervention, was prostrate; Hispano-Italian
relations during the past nine months had been grow-
ing more and more intimate; and most Spaniards
seem to have assumed that, with the fall of France,
the war was as good as over. The other was in Sep-
tember and October: the Axis was still believed in
Spain to be sure of victory; Italy had overrun British
Somaliland, had invaded Egypt and was talking glibly
of Alexandria and the Suez Canal; what Hitler had
staked and lost over Britain was not yet realised.
On the material side, it was undoubtedly the
proximity of famine that kept Spain from coming
into the war at the heels of Italy, though I doubt if
in any case the Spaniards, with their high ideals of
honor, would have tolerated the stabbing of their
prostrate neighbor merely in the hope of getting a
larger share of the problematic booty: even had
Franco wished to do so (which there is no reason
to assume) it would not have paid him to risk dividing
his people and jeopardising his own regime.
With the possibility that the struggle might, at best,
be inconclusive, as, before the Nazi successes of
1940, Franco had openly prophesied that it could
not fail to be. Franco simply could not go wrong
if he remained a non-combatant and contented him-
self with Tangier and expectations of Gibraltar. If
he took the plunge on the Axis side he had a chance
of coming out a winner, but it was more than pos-
sible that before this could happen he might have
to face crises—blockade, famine, disunity, revolution
—in which his allies would be unable to help him.
So, having made his choice, Franco settled down to
play the role of a non-combatant and a reasonably
good neutral.
In that role we may hope with some confidence
that he will continue. No doubt he will go on ex-
changing Crosses and Grand Collars of Orders of
Merit with the Axis Powers and assure them of his
“complete solidarity” with them in all they stand for.
No doubt his Ministers will go a little farther, and
newspapers, irresponsible crowds and gangs of rowdy
students will go farther still.
But let one who has long been closely acquainted
with Spanish psychology assure any who read of these
incidents with natural regret and perhaps resentment
that little or no significance need be attached to them.
They are what Spaniards often describe as “fafade.”
It is galling to British readers of the Spanish press
to find Axis propaganda reproduced everywhere and
almost complete silence observed as to the repeated
and effective efforts which Britain is making, in the
very hour of her own greatest need, to aid the re-
habilitation of a people by whose side just over a
century ago she fought against just such an un-
scrupulous invader as she is fighting today. But, quite
apart from the fact that a controlled press speaks to,
rather than for, a nation, such protestations and such
silences are almost devoid of significance. It is only
when Spain acts that she can, by her own standards,
be fairly judged.
Those who prophesied in 1938 that German and
Italian troops would never leave Spain, that in any
European war Hitler would force Spain to join him,
that Spanish naval and aerial bases were already in
German hands, that the Balearic Islands had been
ceded to Italy, must feel disinclined to try their hand
further. What we can assert is that for eighteen months
Spain has remained a non-combatant, and shows no
sign of abandoning that position.
Report on Japan.
o Condensed extracts from a New York “Times
Magazine” article by Otto D. Tolischus.)
Japan, in co-operation with her allies Germany
and Italy, has set out to create a new order of the
world in which the earth is to be divided into special
interest blocs for the big Powers. Japan herself hopes
to be leader and controller of a “greater East Asia
co-prosperity sphere,” the exact dimensions of which
are never officially defined, but which, in boldest out-
lines drawn by authoritative Japanese spokesmen, is
supposed to embrace all territories between the date
line—180th meridian—,and the Arabian Sea, con-
taining somewhat less than half the human race.
Coming on the top of 10 years of armed strife by
reason of Manchurian “incidents” and the “China
affair,” which had already strained the resources of
the country and sent many funeral trains through the
land bearing the ashes of the war-dead back to their
weeping relatives, this vast extension of the original
programme for a new order, involving Japan, Man-
chukuo and China, has staggered the imagination of
the Japanese populace and raised anxious inquiries
as to whether Japanese strength is equal to the task.
To many the “dawn” that is rising over Asia looks
like thunder, and the new nation, conceived by its
planners in ecstasy, is being born in pain. The rulers,
however, declare their determination to go through


with the project at any cost in order to fulfil Japan’s
“manifest destiny” and take advantage of this “his-
toric turning point of the world,” and lead the nation
to “a brilliant future.” For that purpose they are
organising the total mobilisation of all moral, military
and economic resources of the nation in order to meet
the opposition not only of Asiatic people who ad-
mittedly lag in enthusiasm for the “new order,”
but also of other big Powers who are unwilling to
have the new order imposed on them against their
will.
In this mobilisation it is evident that the spirit
behind it is the spirit of Japan, but its methods are
the methods of Nazi Germany. However, the prac-
tical application of the methods is qualified by condi-
tions in Japan and by the Oriental mentality of the
Japanese people. The primary condition facing the
Japanese rulers is that Japan still lacks tremendous
resources—industrial, potential, and perhaps some of
the technical efficiency of the West.
*****
Far the most striking impression that imposes
itself on the observer able to compare conditions in
Germany and Japan is that after 10 years of more or
less continuous hostilities, despite the complaints of
foreigners and of Japanese themselves, Japan still
lives in relative ease and abundance as compared with
Germany—for that matter, Russia—and that the full
rigors of a war-time regime and “planned economy”
must still be realised in Japan.
*****
As to foreign policy, in place of the German
“master race” idea, Japan stresses “racial equality,”
which embraces the right of the Japanese to migrate
anywhere, especially in Greater East Asia, and which
is extended to the whole of the Orient under the
slogans “Asia for the Asiatics” and “Liberation of
the Orient from the shackles of White Capitalism.”
In domestic policy it becomes a campaign for the
purge of the nation from the debilitating influences
of the West, including its “dangerous thought” and a
.return to the old Nipponese culture, its traditions of
frugality, hard work and high birthrate, which neces-
sitates the return of women to the home.
Inevitably this drive assumes primarily an anti-
American and anti-British tinge leading to efforts to
eliminate Anglo-Saxon ideas and influences from busi-
ness, literature, education and religious organisations,
including the English language, which still is the inter-
national language of the East.
But this aspect of the drive is not without covert,
even open, opposition,
* * * * »
Japan so far has been unable to obtain either the
rigidity or the effectiveness of the German system.
Despite all efforts production is admittedly failing to
come up to expectation, and despite all regulations
prices are rising steadily. The cost of living has risen
50 p.c. since the beginning of the “China emergency,”
and wages are keeping pace, more or less, not so
much through actual increases, though these also are
substantial, as through bonuses and war allowances.
The standard of living among the wealthy is de-
creasing and the cost of living is hitting the poor.
Nevertheless, there are more people having more
money to spend these days than previously. The
shortage of goods is as much due to decreased produc-
tion as to increased consumption, to a snag in the
system of distribution and to a shift of goods to the
“black-market,” where, despite all efforts and eco-
nomic policies, everything can be had at a price.
What may be the real economic status of ffie
country is today one among a multitude of national
secrets, but, so far as that status has expressed itself
in the daily lives of the people, it has caused irritation
and annoyances rather than actual hardships. A de-
pressing aspect of the situation is that it promises to
get worse before it gets better, which, added to the
dangerous international situation, serves to discourage
the spirit of the people.
For the present, however, Japan is still probably
a more comfortable spot than any place in Europe.
**. * * *
For households many things are rationed, but
only the shortage in coal and charcoal during last
winter has proved a genuine hardship so far. And to
those knowing where and how to shop, all things
become available. At worst, anyone can go into the
country and buy the best food for a song. This is
due to regulated prices, owing to which it no longer
pays farmers to ship many of their products to town.
Japan has failed to establish a compulsory marketing
system like Germany.
The most serious and effective restrictions have
been placed on clothes and shoes, owing to the lack
of cloth and leather. But, in the main, this affects
men, who can be seen in all kinds of odd combinations
of foreign and native dress, including an increasing
number of bare feet. Women still have their getas
and kimonos eternally fixed in cut, and, though they
no longer can change the pattern every year, last
year’s kimono looks as good as any. And kimonos
last for years.
To cope with the clothing shortage appropriate
organisations are propagandising for a “national
people’s uniform”—for men, a military outfit of olive
drab, made of “sufu” or synthetic fibre, with a purple
Hakko Ichiu cord attached for formal wear; for
women a Western-cut dress capable of being made
from “old worsted cloth or other woollen material.”
And these uniforms are perhaps the most significant
symbols of rising Nippon.
The Anglo-French Unity Lie.
(From a London “Contemporary Review” article by
George Glasgow.)
Between September, 1939, and June, 1940, it was
the method adopted in British and in French
diplomacy to declare, to embellish, to repeat, to em-
phasise the statement (which was not true) that Anglo-
French unity was complete and impregnable.
The result was that Britain, being hoist with her
own petard, spent the winter of 1939-40 in sending
over the Channel into France the whole equipment of
the British army: tanks, motor transport, guns, petrol,
etc. When the British army moved into Belgium in
May, 1940, under the unified command of a French
commander-in-chief, its magnificent equipment con-
stituted an unbroken line, 30 miles long, of the
mechanised products, the best in the world, of British
factories. Every single piece of it was destined to
fall into the hands of the enemy.
That was the direct result of basing British
strategy on the lie of Anglo-French unity.
The sedulously propagated fiction of Anglo-French
unity resulted in British policy and British strategy
being based upon that same fiction, even though its
authors knew it not to be true. The final result was
the disaster at Dunkirk. On the most realist ground
of expediency, would it not have been better for the
British Foreign Office to have based its plans on what
it knew to be the truth: namely, that France, as a
military ally, was a danger rather than an asset?
Pledge to Poland.
(Condensed from an article by the editor of London
‘‘Nineteenth Century.”)
Just as Frederick the Great and Catharine con-
nived in dividing Poland between them, and as
Bismarck and the Czar connived in suppressing Polish
liberties, so Hitler and Stalin connived in the partition
of Poland during the present war.
Russia, no less than Germany, regards the exist-
ence of an independent Poland as incompatible with
her national interests. And as the restoration of
Polish independence is a declared war-aim of the
British Government, a conflict of Anglo-Russian in-
—New work aloha-lelegram."
But, Joe, We Thought You Packed a Sledgehammer?
terests and a concord of German-Russian interests are
established. There can be no doubt at all that Russia
will assist Germany as much as she dare in preventing
the realisation of that war-aim—which will also be
a war-aim of the United States if it becomes a
belligerent Power.
Russia is probably riper for revolution than any
other country in Europe. Not because she is despoti-
cally governed—it may be that she cannot be governed
at all, if not despotically. It is doubtful whether liberal
institutions can flourish anywhere west of the Rhine
—even west of it this reappearance is very uncertain.
The present Russian despotism is not only more
despotic but also more inefficient than that of the
Czar and less adaptable and resilient. But now, as
always, there would seem to be no chance of a Russian
revolution from internal causes only.
A Polish rising would be contagious. It would
be watched with intense sympathy and would be
imitated on the earliest occasion in the Baltic States.
Any weakening of Russia would be used by the Finns
to recover the regions of which they have been robbed.
The contagion would spread to Bessarabia, where
every rising would have the open or secret support
of Rumania. An insurrectionary movement spreading
from the White Sea to the Black might shake the
Russian order to its foundations. It would, if success-
ful, rouse the latent nationalisms that continue to
exist even within the old Russian frontiers, and per-
haps reopen the whole Ukrainian question.
The prospective European revolution is repre-
sented by writers like Professor Laski, Mr, H. G.
Wells, Mr. Francis Williams and others as the emer-
gence of a bright democratic butterfly from the hard
casing of the “Nazi” chrysalis. Stalin is no less hostile
than Hitler to this revolution, indeed to revolution of
any sort. It will be beyond their power to suppress
it in western and north-western Europe if Germany
is defeated, but they may be able to suppress it in
eastern Europe. Asa literary fashion the prospective
revolution has replaced psychoanalysis, relativity and
the League of Nations, and rivals “planning” and
“Federal Union,” but none of the numerous writers
on the subject, who are for the most part openly pro-
Russian and covertly pro-German (even if “anti-
Nazi”), face the problem created by the circumstance
that the revolution, if it comes at all, will, in eastern
Europe, be anti-Russian as well as anti-German. But
the problem will have to be faced some. time.
The pledge to restore Polish independence must
be kept, though it does not follow that the future
frontiers of Poland must coincide with the frontiers
she held until the outbreak of war. The pledge is not
merely a matter of national honor that has been the
more deeply engaged by reason of the frightful suffer-
ing the Polish people have undergone in the struggle
they took up on the strength of that pledge. The
pledge is also a matter of national, indeed of vital,
interest. The fact is that if Poland is not restored to
independence, Germany will have won the war, or will
at least be able to retrieve her defeat. She may
evacuate Scandinavia and France and may withdraw
from the Balkans, but if she has a vast hinterland
where she can rearm without interference, and if there
is nothing between her and Russia, she will have
retained the political, economic, and strategic basis
on which she can prepare the Third World War.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources .)
The Germans, who of all people are the best
informed about Russia, have a very low opinion of
Russian powers of resistance. It is doubtful whether
Stalin s opinion of the people over whom he rules is
very much higher. To him a German invasion would
offer manifold advantages if it were carried out
peacefully,” if it were an invisible but systematic
penetration, rather than a visible progress on the part
of German armed forces. It is not war that Stalin
and his bureaucracy dread, but the revolution which,
now as always in Russian history, would be precipi-
tated by war. London “Nineteenth Century” editorial.
Growth of United States exports to the
Netherlands Indies, particularly since the
Netherlands was cut off by the German in-
vasion last May, is shown by the fact that in
1939 American goods sent to the Indies were
worth $35,420,000, while in 1940 this figure
had risen to $53,781,000. This growth is being
continued in 1941. U.S. exports to the Nether-
lands Indies in the first three months of 1940
were $12,400,000 and for the first three months
of this year they totalled $21,600,000. But the
balance of trade stands heavily in favor of
the Netherlands. American purchases of
rubber, tin, quinine and other drugs and spices
jumped from a combined total of $68,000,000
in 1938 to $93,000,000 in 1939, and then up
to $167,000,000 in 1940. If the sea lanes
remain uninterrupted U.S. purchases of Nether-
lands Indies products are expected to approach
the $200,000,000 mark this year. The United
States is buying approximately 60 p.c. of the
Netherlands Indies’ total output of tin and
rubber. — From an article by Hallett Abend in
New York “Times.”
* # * 3f{
Organised Labor is by way of exerting
its great power to get for itself a larger share
of an actual national income that is not going
to increase and will be tending to fall; and
we anxiously say that the more brilliantly it
succeeds the more disastrous it will be —for the
unemployed, who will come first in the post-
war debacle, for union labor itself next, and
for the economy, the peace and the well-being
of the country as a whole. What organised
Labor needs at this moment, even for its own
good, is economic statesmanship. There is
very little of that anywhere.— “ Saturday Even-
ing Post” editorial.
* * * *
With the hearty concurrence of a very high per-
centage of its population, the U.S.A. is doing more
and more every day to make sure that Europe’s totali-
tanans and Japan do not become the masters of this
world ; and it is now hard to find a rank and file
cifizen who does not believe that we shall shortly be
m it, with all the armed strength we can muster.
Some confess to this belief reluctantly. A few admit
the likelihood of our actual participation resentfully.
But the majority feel that American participation is
not only inevitable, but is right; and this despite a
much clearer understanding of what it will cost, how
it will throw nearly everyone’s scheme of living into
disarray and of the mess we will probably be in when
it is all over than most of us had when we contem-
plated war the last time.—“Heptisax” in New York
“Herald Tribune.”
*****
The fall of the French Third Republic, which
occurred at Vichy in July, was hailed with acclama-
tions by French officer prisoners of war. Never have
I had clearer proof that the officers of our army did
not want to defend the regime. They were disgusted
with the Third Republic. If they had to do it over
again, they would act quite differently and would fight
to the last, now realising that the first thing to do is
to defend the country and then to set up the regime
one believes best for it. — From a letter in New York
“Times” written by a French officer after his escape
from a German prison camp.
*****
There is a night shelter in central London, the
crypt of an old church. Thousands of bones, piled
breast high, were removed from it to make room for
the living, and the late vicar, Pat McCormick—he kept
at his post so long that he died at it, for he was worthy
of it —told me that Nell Gwynn’s might be among
them, as certainly she was buried beneath the church,
nobody knew exactly where. That crypt now gives
shelter at night to a big company, and a mixed one.
— H. M. Tomlinson, in the “Atlantic Monthly”
U.S.A.
*****
All petrol in Sweden is reserved for military uses.
About 50,000 motor vehicles in Sweden are run by gas
generated in the car from charcoal or wood. A Stock-
holm bakery runs its 50 delivery trucks on alcoholic
vapors produced by the fermentation of dough. People
get around on electric tricycles. Horses eat fir-oats
and fish-flour. Cows eat the same, but they give little
milk in return. — Wollmar Filip Bostrom, Swedish
Minister in Washington.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Minor meetings have recently been so
well patronised that a larger attendance
than 20,000 might reasonably have been
expected at Randwick last week. It was,
however, a thousand more than on the
corresponding day last year, and the tote
turnover was £34,136 against £28,849. A
feature of the afternoon was the success
of No. 1 in the racebook in the first five
races. Those system-backers who pin
their faith to all topweights on the score
that they must be good horses to have
earned that position had results on Satur-
day to support their contention. Warm
favorites in Melvale and Rimveil were
successful, but the respective wins of
Constant Chatter, Buzalong and Royal
Land probably gave most of the books
a satisfactory day.
Cheery Jack made light of his 12.13
in the Hurdle Race, proving himself
quite as good as when racing in Mel-
bourne last winter. Bringa and Blackie
Miller each had a turn in the lead, but
Cheery Jack, who was never far away
in the early part, was in charge five fur-
longs from home. The result was not
after in doubt, the minor places going
to Mag Mort and Gold Pan. Those two
came from a long way back at the half-
mile, but Mag Mort was second rounding
the home turn. At that stage Gold Pan
appeared likely to give trouble, but he
failed to run on and pulled up lame in
the off foreleg. Veterinary examination
proved he had also bruised his off-
shoulder.
Xerxes, in fourth position, finished
better than any of the other unplaced
runners. Windjammer and Tower Hill
did well for nearly a mile and three-
quarters, while Blackie Miller dropped
right out after being Cheery Jack’s near-
est follower at the half-mile post. The
time, 3.39, was good, though it did not
approach Rossjoy’s track record over
the brush of 3.36. Eatonwood did 3.35
over battens at Randwick in 1933, but
there were fewer jumps then than now.
Rimveil’s form in the June Plate was
in keeping with that shown by him in
the Doncaster Handicap. He was fourth
or fifth into the straight, the leaders being
Vergure and Panchio ; but, though not
greatly favored by luck in the run home,
Rimveil won by a length from Winnipeg,
who did much better than at Kensington
the previous Wednesday. The unlucky
horse appeared to be Hydra, who, as a
result of going up in the air and veering
away at barrier-rise, was a pronounced
last after going quarter of a mile. As
he was then beaten only a head for
second, it is probable that if he had
jumped off smartly he would have beaten
Rimveil. Nevertheless, the latter put up
a good performance with 61b. over
weight-for-age.
Vergure stopped badly at the end, and
Gallant was another that did not fulfil
expectations. As it was his first run for
some time, his moderate display was
excusable. Panchio, although still a trifle
burly, did so well for the greater part
of the journey that his return to the
winning list should not be far off. He
has 7.3 in the Doomben Newmarket.
Aspire, though nicely weighted, did not
run up to his best Melbourne form.
In winning the Ellesmere Handicap
Red Sails showed further improvement,
and increased owner F. W. Hughes’s con-
tribution to war funds. In company with
Early Bird, Red Sails led along the back,
Feminist being handy, and there was not
much between the three when they
reached the home turn. Early Bird and
Feminist weakened, leaving Red Sails in
front, and, he retained his position to the
winning post despite a strong challenge
by Cable Boy, who commenced slowly
but had a clear run over the last five fur-
longs. Lockray, who was always well
placed, was a close third, succeeded by
St. Constant and Beau Frere, who were
well ahead of the remainder.
Early Bird looked so well that her
complete failure was a shock for her
backers, and Fearless was another who
cut up badly, notwithstanding that his
track work of the previous week was
really good. Mabson was never in it, and
Feminist’s showing went further towards
proving that it is little use persevering
with her. Probably this was her last run
before retirement.
Buzalong, at his previous two starts,
had run well enough to suggest an
early return to form, but the general
belief that the distance of the Royal Mile
was a trifle short for him caused him to
start at 10 to 1. When Haridelle ran past
the pacemakers, Marengo and Orontes,
after entering the straight, she looked
a winner, but, favored by a clear run
through in the last furlong, Buzalong out-
stayed her. As anticipated, he com-
menced slowly, and at the straight en-
trance was still a long way from the
leaders. Rodborough was outpaced from
the start, and Creditor, after jumping
away well, dropped out at an early stage.
Bonny Loch and Bona Fide made a good
showing, while Marengo, so far from
being improved by his run at Rand-
wick the previous week, tired to such an
extent in the run home that he finished
last. The fact of being taken to the
front so early in the piece probably
told against him.
Melvale won the First Nursery, but it
was not an effort that took him up to
the first flight of horses of his age. He
and Cygnea led into the straight, and
though he shook off the latter at the
leger he was all out to beat the little-
favored Mary Lou, who ran him to a
head. Mary Lou won early in the season,
and is evidently back to form. Silverelda
narrowly beat Panurge for third. The
latter ran a patchy race, but came home
well and may stay. The field included
the Beau Pere colt Beau Son, who was
bought as a yearling for 3500gns. for
A. E. Cooper, but is now raced by Mrs.
W. J. Smith and Miss T. Smith. He is
good-looking, but though he had worked
well he ran greenly and finished last.
War Spear and Epic Poem were also dis-
appointing.
Corolla gave those backers who sent
her out favorite for the first division of
the Novice Handicap a poor run. She
commenced well, but dropped back to
the rear in the first two furlongs and
was not after a possible place-getter.
She will not do much more racing, and
will probably be mated with Andrea next
season. King’s Cross, Royal Robin and
Nubian Prince were the leaders at the
half-mile, but though the last-named was
first into the straight Royal Land put
in good work in the run home to win
from Pastime and Royal Robin. There
was not much in the protest on behalf
of Pastime, and, as anticipated, it was
dismissed. Of the unplaced lot Roger-
wood, Nubian Prince and Romeo did
most to suggest a win at an early date.
A furlong from home Rondeyal looked
a sure winner of the second division of
the Novice Handicap. However, he tired
in the last 50 yards, and Constant Chatter
beat him on the post. It was a good effort
on the part of the winner, as she was
not one of the leading half-dozen turn-
ing into the straight. Renew, a Veilmond
gelding, did the pacemaking, and lasted
until the straight was entered, while
Orby Thrice was another that did well
for a little over six furlongs. Comet,
El Kenny and Sylveroni were prominent
at the finish, but luck did not favor Qui
Va La. Balorma fared worse, as he got
away so badly that he was always a long
way back. Constant Chatter, who gave
trainer R. C. Stanton his second win of
the afternoon, is by Constant Son from
Gossiper. Patrician, who was having his
first run after a spell, looked healthy, but
was a bit too much above himself to be
dangerous.
After having dropped back to last half
a mile from home and fumbling a jump,
Cheery Jack finished strongly under his
12.10 in the A.J.C. Hurdle at Randwick
on Monday, but failed by two lengths to
overhaul Mag Mort, who had gone to the
front at the “three” and turned into the
straight with a winning lead of five or
six lengths.
Beau Son was evidently put in the right
racing trim by his run on Saturday. Over
seven furlongs, he nicely accounted for
Melvale, Mary Lou, Chatham’s Choice
and others.
The former Melbourne sprinter Aspire
made the pace for a fair part of the way
in the Botany Handicap, seven furlongs,
but petered out and finished last. Ihe
winner was Winifred, nicely handled by
J. Thompson in behind the front-runners
till a furlong from the post, then taken
through to hold off Irish Sea s good
finish, with Creditor third.
Jymjon’s fourth at his previous start in
midweek company was hardly a recom-
mendation for success in the main Rand-
wick event, the Winter Plate, over one
mile five furlongs. But, handicapped at
the bottom of the weights (6.7), Jymjon
proved just too well in it for the top-
weight Buzalong (9.3), winning by half
a length, with Red Sails third after try-
ing to lead all the way. Shean, on Buza-
long, made his run very early—with more
than six furlongs to be run. Buzalong
was in front as they turned into the
straight, and looked like winning well
until the lightweight came at him over
the concluding bit.
* * * *
Boisterous lost caste as a Grand
National Hurdle proposition as a result
of his failure in the Port Phillip Hurdle
at Moonee Valley. Chopped back last
soon after the start, he did not put much
heart into his work subsequently, and a
mistake at the second-last jump settled
whatever remaining chance he had. He
was drawing on the leaders at the time,
but was still a fair way back. He finished
about 10 lengths behind the winner,
Atticus, in a field far below National
standard.
Boisterous may improve, but consider-
able improvement will be necessary for
him to be a good substitute for Valhalla,
also owned by Pat Osborne. Valhalla
was one of the early G.N. favorites, but
went amiss.
Atticus, displaying better stamina than
usual, outstayed Merridale and Amnesty
after Merridale had led into the straight.
From a National viewpoint, however,
Atticus was not particularly impressive,
and at the time of writing his owner,
Abe Silk, had not decided whether the
gelding would be a runner. He is in the
same stable as the favorite, Harley, and
as a National prospect it is difficult to
place him in the same class. Incidentally,
Harley will have his next race in the
Toolambool Hurdle at Flemington on
Saturday. Merridale ran well and is
likely to improve, but something easier
than the National will be more to his
liking.
Mutable, winner of the Australian Cup
four years ago, may have run himself
into a Grand National start when he just
outstayed Beau Spear and Fearnought in
the Maiden Hurdle. His owner-trainer,
W. J. Smart, is not quite decided on that
point, and a lot will depend upon
Mutable’s next performance. He has
raced over hurdles only twice and seems
certain to win more races in his new
sphere, but it would seem to be expecting
too much of him to win the first leg of
the V.R.C. double. He was well ridden
by the owner’s versatile son, who is
booked to leave for India this week to
ride under engagement to A. Higgins.
Bold Brat battled on well to beat a
moderate field for the Williamstown
Steeplechase, but he seemed rather lucky
to defeat Kosela. Though owner F. R.
Beddison is thinking of running him in
the G.N. Steeple, it is difficult to visualise
success for him in that race. Bold Brat,
now in his tenth year, graduated from
the hunting fields and was ridden by
his owner in his first success —a point-
to-point event. His rider at the Valley,
W. Cutler, one of Melbourne’s most dash-
ing cross-country jockeys a few years ago,
was married the same night.
Backed from 15 to 1 down to tens,
Endeavour compensated for several
minor placings by outstaying Running
Sea and Cloelia in the Juvenile Handi-
cap. Colonus and Piccadilly Jim were
joint favorites, but the former preju-
diced his chance at the start, and Picca-
dilly Jim ran very wide on the turn.
Primavera, who missed the jump, made
up considerable ground to finish fourth,
and this winner of the Debutante Stakes
and runner-up to All Love in the V.R.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes should repay fol-
lowing.
Endeavour gave her South African
owner, J. Stuart, his first win with the
first horse he has raced in Australia. She
was a foal at foot when bought with her
dam, Armil, for 40 guineas at the dis-
persal sale of knight Alan Currie’s Ercil-
doune Stud in 1939, and her brother.
Industry, enhanced her value by win-
ning the Ascot Vale Stakes about a year
later. Stuart made a fine bargain, as
Armil was in foal to Caithness at the
time, and he now has a yearling sister
to Endeavour and Industry.
The owners of Gay Invader intended
to school him for jumping had he failed
in the Point Cook Handicap, but Gay
Invader staved off the evil day by leading
practically all the way to win from Sir
Richard and Frill Prince. He was on his
favorite track, and his success followed
his win at Ballarat the previous week.
Sir Richard looked dangerous when he
ran to Gay Invader at the turn, but the
latter outstayed him. Old Frill Prince,
racing for the first time since December,
ran on well and is not yet a back number.
The favorite, Grandson, gave an in-
glorious display. He was reasonably well
placed early, but dropped back second-last
near the half-mile and finished a long last.
Gay Invader is the first winner trained
in Melbourne by ex-Westralian C. Rule.
On Saturday he completed a double for
Rule’s apprentice Unkovitch, who had
won on Endeavour.
Cellini is anything but popular with
Melbourne backers. He gave book-
makers a 33-to-l result when he defeated
Romanette at the Valley in April, and
after three poor performances again
popped up at 33 to 1 to defeat the
favorite, Saki, in the Esplanade Welter on
Saturday. A wide barrier position is
generally a big disadvantage in mile races
at the Valley, but Cellini, a three-year-
old gelding by Ornamentation-Rondelle,
started from the extreme outside of 14
runners. He was badly placed early, but
began a fast run from the three furlongs
and sustained it, despite the fact that he
was forced to go very wide on the turn.
Anne showed improved form in third
place, but Palencia, a 33-to-l winner on
the same track two weeks earlier, ran
considerably below expectations. Cellini
was ridden by H. McCloud, one of the
most promising of Melbourne’s younger
apprentices.
If the result of the main Randwick
event was a shock, that of the main
Flemington event on Monday was a
stunner. There, too, a bottom-weight.
Brave Lady, was the winner, from New
Warrior and Prairiedale. Brave Lady was
till then a maiden performer. She is a
three-year-old filly by Madagascar.
Scratchings left only eight starters for
the main sprint event at Flemington ; the
winner was Aurie’s Star, proving that his
recent Adelaide form was wrong by
carrying his 10.9 topweight burden to
an easy all-the-way victory up the
“straight six.” Burrabil was only a mod-
erate second, Limerick Lace third.
* * * *
Wins at Randwick made Rimveil and
Melvale liable to be penalised up to 101 b.
for the Doomben Newmarket. By the
time this is in print it is probable their
extra poundage will have been an-
nounced, but it is doubtful whether either
will be asked to carry much more than
the weight originally allotted him. Rim-
veil has 8.12 and Melvale 7st., the mini-
mum. In Melbourne High Title recently
demonstrated what is possible for a two-
year-old of class in open company, and
Melvale’s pace is undeniable. The strain
of the straight six is the principal thing
that may tell against him if it is decided
to run him at Doomben.
* * * *
The Randwick track was in excellent
order on Saturday, and one of the fastest
races of the day was the Ellesmere
Handicap. When Red Sails won the
Homestead Handicap with 7.0 the pre-
vious Saturday he took 2.3 i for the mile
and a quarter, but, with an additional
71b., he won the Ellesmere Handicap in
2.3i —a second worse than Beau Vite’s
course record. Carbine’s 2.7 in a w.f.a.
race something over 50 years ago was
the Randwick mile and a quarter best tor
a long period, lightly-weighted horses
failing to equal it in handicaps. The
natural deduction is that in addition to
improvement in speed in the Randwick
track horses now gallop much faster than
in the days of the old-time champion.
* * * *
Over a number of years Australian
riders have been in demand in India, and
several did much better financially than
if they had remained in their own coun-
try. There are still several over there,
and H. Hughes is to be added to the
number. He joins A. Higgins s stable,
and as he can go to scale at about 7.7
he will get plenty of riding. Higgins s
large team includes some of India’s best


horses. Hughes should do well, as he is
smart at the barrier and a good finisher.
* * * *
Rosehill is giving £1350 for its six races
on Saturday next, the lowest for any
being £2OO. Not at all bad, but it is
remarkable how far Melbourne clubs can
beat Sydney’s minor clubs in prize-
money. The Moonee Valley distribution
on Saturday week is £2700, of which £5OO
each goes to the hurdle race and steeple-
chase. It is fair to add that, with the
Nationals taking place at Flemington,
jumpers are specially catered for in Mel-
bourne just now. The lowest for any
flat race at the Moonee Valley meeting
is £4OO.
* * * *
Breeder A. W. Thompson is unfor-
tunate with that once-brilliant sprinter
Arachne. Last season she slipped a foal
and has had a similar experience this
year, slipping twins to Brueghel. A year-
ling by Brueghel from Arachne would
be valuable in the sale-ring, and it is to
be hoped better luck will attend that
mare’s mating of the coming season.
* * * m
Expressman, winner of last year’s
Doomben Newmarket with 7.2, reads like
again being one of Brisbane’s best
chances in that race. He has 8.3 this
time, and will meet Beaulivre 71b. worse,
but as he won at Ascot (Brisbane) on
Saturday with 8.9 he should be at the
top of his form on the sixth of next
month. His latest win proved him up to
weight, and he is bound to be one of
Brisbane’s toughest representatives. Beau-
livre is going on as well as G. Price
could wish, having shaken off a stiffness
in one of his hind legs that troubled him
when he resumed work. It was so pro-
nounced a little while ago that I heard
doubt expressed as to whether he would
stand a preparation. That idea was
erroneous, and there is now nothing
amiss. Beaulivre is to run at Victoria
Park today if his post position is favor-
able, and his effort will have bearing on
his Doomben quotation. Still, even if
he should fail, and that is always pos-
sible with a good horse at its first run
after a holiday, he will have over a fort-
night in which to improve before he races
in Brisbane. He had 9.2 when second
in last year’s Doomben Newmarket.
* * * *
St. Constant’s fourth in the Ellesmere
Handicap was of sufficient merit to point
to an early return to his old form. If he
goes to Brisbane he should play a promi-
nent part in the decision of the Doomben
Cup. He has been out of the winning
list since he won the Final Handicap at
the last A.J.C. spring meeting. On that
occasion he had 9.6 (minimum 7.0), and,
as he scored easily in 2.4 for the mile
and a quarter, 8.3 will be a luxury for
him at Doomben. Eleven furlongs should
be within his compass, seeing he was
second in a Caulfield Cup with 7.12, He
never looked stronger or presented a
more taking appearance than at present.
At the time of writing St. Constant is in
today’s Victoria Park Handicap, and a
win will not entail a penalty for the
Doomben Cup.
* * * *
Gay Lothario has proved himself an
all-rounder as a sire. Classic winners,
two-year-olds, handicap horses and
hurdlers are included in his record of
winners. Atticus won the Port Phillip
Hurdle Race and Gay Invader the Point
Cook Handicap for him at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. In addition Merri-
dale, another of his progeny, was second
to Atticus, who, as he is improving, may
be a Grand National runner. Boisterous’s
run in the Port Phillip Hurdle did not
suggest that he would make a good sub-
stitute for owner P. H. Osborne’s other
horse, Valhalla, in the National, Ber-
rima, who recently went south, was
backed for the race won by Atticus, but
his showing with 9.9 did not uphold the
idea that, on the whole, our hurdle form
equals Melbourne standard.
* * * *
Sydney owners who intend visiting
Brisbane for the Doomben meeting are
reminded that horses not scratched for
the Doomben Newmarket by 4 p.m. on
Tuesday next, June 25, will be liable for
a second payment of £5, and £4 for the
Doomben Cup on the same day. The
final payment at noon on July 3 for the
Newmarket is £25 2s. 6d., and for the
Doomben Cup £l5 2s. 6d, General
entries close on June 24.
* * JfC *
Beau Vite has concluded his spell at
S. Green’s place in Victoria, and will
shortly be among the workers at Rand-
wick. At the autumn meetings in Syd-
ney Beau Vite paid his way with three
firsts, a second and a third for prize-
money totalling £2755, but it is question-
able whether he was quite as good as in
the spring. His recent rest was the first
real one to which he was treated for a
long time. Benefiting by it, he may be
better than at any period in the past,
and though success for him in handicaps
will be difficult he can be relied on to
win his share of w.f.a. races. Perhaps
Remarc may do the handicap part of
the business for F. McGrath’s stable. A
holiday has done a lot for him.
* * * «
There will be another day’s racing at
Randwick before the conclusion of the
season, that being the Warwick Farm
meeting on June 28. Several of the best
horses now in training in Sydney will
then be in Brisbane for the Doomben
meeting.
* * * *
Ajax’s fee for the coming season has
been fixed at 250gns, At that figure it
would require only 25 mares to return
what he cost his joint owners, W, J.
Smith and A. W. Thompson, However,
as they will require his services for their
own mares, that number is unlikely to
be accepted this year. It was intended
that he should do at least two seasons at
Widden, but before then his owners may
be attracted by a substantial offer from
America. The only other stallion at a 250-
guinea fee in N.S.W. is imported Titan
(Hyperion-Priscilla), while others at
three figures are Double Remove 150gns,
(list already full), Manitoba 120gns. and
Brueghel, Le Grand Due, Midstream,
Hua and Talking at lOOgns. each. Among
those at a lower fee Pentheus has sired
sufficient useful gallopers to make him
sound cheap at 40gns. That smart
sprinter Mohican is making a start at
lOgns. Double Remove, Midstream, Le
Grand Due, Constant Son, Piccadilly and
Young Idea are stallions for which there
will be a free return for mares that miss.
* * * *
Well-related three-year-olds in Gaelic
Temple and Cedric Major won the two
divisions of the Maiden Handicap at
Kensington last week. Gaelic Temple is
a half-sister, by Pantheon, to Maurice
Bede and Quick Reward, good gallopers
of a few seasons ago ; and Cedric Major
is a half-brother, by Constant Son, to
Bimilla, who was a brilliant two-year-
old, her wins including the Maribyrnong
Plate and Ascot Vale Stakes. As a year-
ling Cedric Major was sold for 300gns.,
and Gaelic Temple is held on lease by
R. Skelton until October of next year.
Both won in such good style that it is
easy to prophesy further success for
them.
* * * *
Gold Salute has to give High Caste a
pound in the Doomben Newmarket,
and, though many followers of racing
thought the latter would be on top, the
handicapper could not well avoid giving
the chestnut the place of honor. It is
possible High Caste is still the better of
the two over a straight six furlongs, but
the handicapper had to keep in mind the
fact that Gold Salute, in receipt of 31b.,
beat High Caste nearly half a dozen
lengths in the All-Aged Plate, at a mile,
and then with 9.5 ran a great race in the
C. W. Cropper Plate, in which the un-
placed runners included Mildura (9.0)
and Rimveil (8.2). The last-mentioned
two were first and second respectively in
the Doncaster with 9.3 and 8.6, Gold
Salute is giving Amiable 81b. less than
in the C. W. Cropper Plate. The chances
are, though, that the topweights will be
troubled to beat some of those lower in
the list. Sydney horses in Winnipeg,
Creditor, Gallant, Micawber, Radical and
Panchio are lightly weighted, and there
are some very smart sprinters among the
Queensland lot, Malt Denis being one
fancied by Brisbane critics.
* $ * *
John Halifax cost 500gns. as a year-
ling, and last season did nothing to justify
that price. His recent efforts, however,
have put a different complexion on
affairs. At Kensington on Wednesday,
with luck in running not favoring him to
any extent, he won the Three-year-old
Handicap in l.l\. As he carried 9st. his
performance compared more than favor-
ably with those of Bruce Wood and Cam-
sion in their divisions of the Flying Han-
dicap earlier in the day. They also did
U\, but respectively carried only 7.8
and 7,10. John Halifax is a half-brother,
by Pantheon, to Merry Smile, a Gim-
crack Stakes winner. At the recent year-
ling sales in Sydney a half-sister, by Pic-
cadilly, to John Halifax realised only
45gns.
* * * *
Last week’s attendance at Kensington
scarcely seemed as large as usual, and
the day’s results added to the setbacks
punters have received at recent meetings.
Favorites in Indian Emperor (10 to 9 on),
Winnipeg (even money), Tarn (7 to 4),
Miss Armidale and Limarch (each 5 to 2),
Sobersides (6 to 4) and Sign On (9 to 4)
went down, and wins by short-priced
horses in Gaelic Temple and John Hali-
fax did not compensate for their failures.
Success of the heavily-backed Gaelic
Temple proved that the owner’s tempor-
ary retirement had not adversely affected
his judgment, and Indian Emperor’s
defeat further demonstrated that it is
difficult for any trainer to combat bad
luck. In winning the first division of the
Flying Handicap Bruce Wood improved
upon his form of a fortnight earlier, and
suggested that he would score again pres-
ently ; while temporarily Tarn and Ben-
burb appear to have had enough. Tartanus
should shortly pick up a handicap at a
midweek or provincial meeting, and rac-
ing will also benefit Valve, La Vallee,
Dawn Mary, Martheus and Red Bruce.
In an attempt to win the Welter Mile all
the way Red Bruce’s condition failed him
just at the end. Luck in running did not
favor Crowon in the same race, or he
would have set Alan Verde a harder task.
* * * *
Some mares throw winners when most
are long past producing. When Finality,
winner of a division of a Maiden Handi-
cap at Ascot (Melb.) last week, was foaled
his dam, Wollunqua, was 26 years old.
Finality is owned by Mrs. F. Dexter, who
(then Miss D. Sheil) won the 1932 V.R.C.
Grand National Steeplechase with Pre-
cocious, another of Wollunqua’s progeny.
Wollunqua had previously thrown a
Grand National winner in Rakwool,
owned by the late E. Y. Sheil. Finality
looks the part of a jumper, and may later
make his mark as either a hurdler or
steeplechaser. He is by Vitality, an
A.J.C. Summer Cup winner. Finality was
the last horse sired by Vitality, and the
last thrown by Wollunqua.
* * * *
Practically all our best horses are in
the Melbourne Cup, and, as usual, many
that have yet to rise above Park Stakes
form. Of recent years Wotan and Old
Rowley have brought off what, to most
racing men, was seemingly impossible.
The latter, however, was a w.f.a. winner,
whereas many of the Cup entrants have
had a lot of racing without doing
anything to suggest that, at five or six
years, they were likely to develop into
first-class stayers. It is all very well to
say “anything can happen in racing,” but
there are some things that cannot.
* * * *
Horses weighted at over 9st. for the
last Melbourne Cup were Mosaic 9.6,
Maikai 9.4, Greenwich 9.3, Nuffield 9.2,
Reading 9.1, Mildura 9.1, Beau Vite 9.1
and Dhoti 9.0. Some of those mentioned
are not nominated this year, and though
he was unplaced it is not improbable
Beau Vite, who carried 9.7 (inclusive of
61b, penalty), will again head the list this
year if he starts. Last season’s three-
year-old runners were Lucrative and Pan-
dect, with 7.6, but this time the former
will be conceding the latter several
pounds.
* * * *
Australian yearlings sales catalogues
include the following condition; “The
highest bidder shall be the purchaser,
subject to the vendor having the right to
make one bid.” Commenting on this an
American exchange says; “Possibly some
sales organisation may wish to try out
this rule in the United States. Whether
it would please either the buyers or the
sellers better than the current practices
we should not wish to guess. But so far
American buyers have shown themselves
rather definitely opposed to any sort of
an auction price by the seller, and even
an openly announced reserve usually re-
sults in an unsold horse.”
* * * *
If Harley should win the V.R.C. Grand
National he will, as a hurdler, have
accomplished what was expected of him
on the flat when the late R. Bruce gave
850gns. for him as a yearling. Racing
as Ikara he had seven unplaced runs at
two years, and, with his name changed
to Harley, fared no better in his four
starts at three years. The following
season he was put to hurdling, and won
at Moorefield and Rosehill, Harley has
a first-class pedigree, and one that says
a lot for his prospects of getting the
National distance. He is by Marconi-
gram from imported Steady Glass, a half-
sister, by Stedfast, to Glass Idol, winner
of the Great Metropolitan Handicap, 2\
miles, at Epsom. Harley cost his present
owner 500gns.
* * * »
Petrol rationing is likely to cut deeply
into attendances at provincial meetings,
and that is probably why one prominent
club moved for reduction of prize-money
at the recent conference in Sydney. If
one club is allowed to cut down its prize-
money others will naturally want the same
concession. This may lead to withdrawal
of patronage on the part of owners. Even
with stakes at their present standard there
is not much in it for them, and, if some
should drop out, poor fields of inferior
horses will not attract Sydney racegoers,
and they are the mainstay of provincial
clubs.
M.Q. and Rafferty
A Maoriland lightweight, Ernie Under-
wood, made a topnotch showing at
Leichhardt last Thursday night, his first
Sydney appearance. Stacked up against
Art Mitchell, who is extra tough and
not a bad scrapper, Ernie was down early
in the piece and looked like being outed,
but pulled through that torrid bit and
boxed better and better, to take the
eight-rounder on points. The main scrap
was a reappearance in these parts of the
former good Filipino scrapper Young
Gildo, who is, however, now getting
overlong in the tooth. Ron McLaughlin
had no trouble outpointing him over
12 rounds.
* * * *
American newspaper reports of the
Louis-Baer scrap support the idea that
the Brown Bomber is finding it harder
to win his fights. The punch that
knocked him out of the ring in the first
round was a left hook. Ref. Donovan
eventually disqualified Baer because
Baer’s seconds were still in the ring
working on their man when the bell went
for the start of the seventh round.
Donovan insisted that the punch to the
head which knocked Baer unconscious
was delivered before the final bell in the
sixth. Among those who disagreed with
him—that is, practically everybody—was
the official timekeeper, who declared that
the punch was started not less than three-
seconds after the bell. The claim to the
title put in by Baer’s connections on the
ground that their man had been fouled
was dismissed by the Columbia Boxing
Commission, one of whose regulations
specifies that a referee’s decision may not
be reversed. However, it criticised
Donovan.
Footbrawl
For six miles in any direction from
Footscray Town Hall on Saturday night
a dead silence reigned as the stunned
supporters of the local team tried to con-
vince themselves that they were dream-
ing. St. Kilda—despised St. Kilda!
with only one win to its credit, had taken
Footscray by the scruff of the neck,
wiped the ground, the goalposts and the
roof of the stand with it, then stood it up
and bowled it over in a last-quarter dis-
play that gave the Saints victory by
15.14 to 9.8. And Footscray had downed
mighty Melbourne the week before!
Collingwood and North put on a great
game at Collingwood, exploiting all the
fine system and spectacular features of
Australian football. North started the
last quarter nearly three goals ahead,
but the ’Woodsmen dug up one of their
almost-forgotten rallies and wore the
visitors down, to win 17.19, 16.15.
There was another reversal at Geelong,
where Richmond Tigers licked their
chops and got ready for a feast of goals
from a team that had been mostly beaten
every time it bobbed up this year. It
was beaten again, but the Tigers don’t
like to think of it —10.15 to 10.14, and
evidently saved by the bell.
• ••••*
Essendon, at home to Fitzroy, didn’t
bother to wear shooting boots and can-
tered in by 9.24 to 4.12, what time Sowth
was putting the Haw-haws through the
same sort of mill at Hawthorn, 13.12
to 6.20.
* * * »
Sydney University Rugby Union team
was beaten on Saturday for the first time
this season —by Manly. The Villagers
got the ball from scrums and lineouts
and threw it about among the backs, just
as ’Varsity did in previous matches. The
Students’ defence faltered, then fell to
pieces, and Manly scored seven tries to
one, ending with 35 points to 20.
East trounced St. George 23-3, and
now shares the lead with ’Varsity. Parra-
matta —home 8-3 after a scramble with
Gordon —is next on the list.
Randwick is settling down into some-
thing like its true form. Against Drum-
moyne the Green backs were in top gear
all the time. Keith Windon, the break-
away, got two tries, and there were three
others; Drummoyne could manage only
one —24-8. West, which hasn’t had a
win yet, scored its third draw —six all —
against North.
* * * *
In what was described as “the first of
the inter-State Rugby League matches of
the season,” N.S.W. beat Queensland by
18-14 at Sydney C.G. on Saturday.
Standard of the play didn’t stir the
30,000-odd who watched it, though there
was some excitement when the home side
began to overhaul its eight-point defi-
ciency in the second half. A forced ball
close to full-time stopped what might
have been a winning score for Queens-
land.
On Monday it was all N.S.W. —42-10
(11 tries to two). Form fluctuations
aren’t unusual in these games.


O VINES
Sep*
&
PLEASE
My
BUILT up week by week with a News Sheet
and an Index which is brought fully up to
date with each issue, Vine’s News Diary is the
most important reference work published in
Australia today.
Indeed, it is more than a reference work. It
is a weekly recapitulation of the world’s news,
crisply presented, stripped of wondering specu-
lation and guesswork, as invaluable to the mail-
or two-mail-a-week man on the land as to busy
commercial executives and professional men.
With Vine’s News Diary readily available,
there need be no argument, no doubt of estab-
lished fact. No matter what news reference may
be sought a glance at the Index locates it in a moment.
“The Bulletin” and other metropolitan and pro-
vincial newspapers throughout Australasia, in the
United States and elsewhere, Public and Parliamentary
libraries, Cabinet Ministers, Government Departments,
and a score of others have found Vine’s News Diary in-
dispensable to keeping pace with this fast-changing world.
The sturdy, self-locking covers, illustrated at left, are
supplied free to subscribers for filing of the weekly issues.
Keep in step. Be informed. For a sample issue
and further particulars, write to the Manager.
VINE’S NEWS DIARY.
Scottish House, 19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
S
mm
■3 f\
ABSOLUTELY SAFE!
...and gives lISSTAIST HEAT
A genuine Lane's Thermit Blue
Flame Stove is absolutely SAFE
and silent. No pricking. No prim-
ing. No pumping. Lights like a
gas stove and is hot instantly. No
pump valves or washers to replace.
Just one fuel, Kerosene. A fill lasts
8 hours. Entirely odourless and
HALF THE PRICE of a pressure
stove.
See your
local Store .
GENUINE
SILENT BURNING
———
u
m
.
BLUE
FLAME
STOVE
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
The N.T., 1939-40
“P.D.”: Although “development of the
Territory along the lines suggested by the
Payne Committee and planned by the
Government has been checked” by the
war (war was declared at least two years
after the Payne report was completed,
and then there wasn’t much “develop-
ment” to be “checked”) the Adminis-
trator’s report for 1939-40 records a
fairly good year.
Value of production increased to
£944,284. Biggest increase was in the
pastoral industry, up £161,800 to
£587,821. Favorable factors included a
good season, particularly in Centralia ;
large army requirements, demand for
canned beef and availability of shipping
space. South Australia took 27,068 head
of cattle through Alice Springs, Queens-
land 55,288 through Lake Nash and
Camooweal, and W.A. 16,018 through
Timber Creek; the total, 98,374 head, was
more than 20,000 head above the previ-
ous year’s. Bullocks sent to the Adelaide
market averaged £l2 a head ; some made
£l9.
Cattle population increased by 23,000
to 922,581, the Victoria River and Alice
Springs districts having jumped their
tallies by 10,000 and 18,000 to 347,782
and 105,546 respectively. Darwin and
Gulf district had a very slight increase,
and the Barkly Tableland dropped to
262,824 head. Sheep increased by 9000
to 38,587. Horses and mules were about
the only livestock that showed any
decrease.
Mining—gold, wolfram, mica, tin,
ochre, copper and silver —also showed a
healthy return, with gold, of course, as
the staple. Because of “the temporary
cessation of mining operations at
Wauchope Creek, owing to various
reasons,” value of wolfram production
fell from £66,524 to £47,836. Tin re-
mained fairly constant at £4208 ; copper
production (£1032) was less than a third
of the previous year; value of ochre
mined increased from £lO5 to £1606, and
of mica from £12,124 to £21,114. Gold
production more than doubled itself
—£233,789 in ’39-’4O as against £115,835
in ’3B-’39. Tennant Creek production
was 21,261 fine ounces (95.5 p.c.), worth
£222,798. There were 660 men engaged
in mining during the year —340 after
gold, 220 after wolfram and 100 after
other minerals.
Value of pearling and agricultural pro-
duction declined still further. Figures
for 1937-38 were £67,000 and £9935 re-
spectively ; in 1938-39, £31,500 and
£56,000 ; in 1939-40, £15,998 and £l5OO.
For neither industry is the outlook bright,
though vegetable-growers are still unable
to meet demand in Darwin.
For the rest, the Administrator’s report
is not particularly enlightening. He con-
siders it worth recording that “a mouth-
organ band of 30 aboriginal performers,
assisted by child vocalists, gave several
creditable performances.” Darwinians
have been agitating for the return of their
Town Council, but the Administrator
will have none of it. In view of all the
bickering, some citizens are wondering
why the military don’t take over Darwin
and run it as a garrison town.
Forgan Smith has entered upon his
tenth year of office. An advantage he has
over southern contemporaries is to be
political head of a State whose chief pro-
ducts, sugar, butter, minerals, beef, wool
and fruit, all find a good home market.
He has never known what a wheat head-
ache is like. Sir Leslie Wilson also had
an anniversary celebration last week. He
was appointed Governor on June 13,
1932, two days after Forgan Smith was
named Premier.
♦ * * *
“Poi-poi”: North Queensland’s elite
preened itself and got ready to receive
aristocracy a few days ago when it was
announced that a Townsville taximan
had inherited a viscountcy in Hertford-
shire. The press duly traced his ancestry,
reported personal interviews and repro-
duced the crest and motto of the family.
It also naively reported that he merely
drove taxis for something to do, being
“/’// ’ave this one, mate."
independent through an income from his
English estates. The fluttering was at its
height when the taxi-man announced that
he was satisfied he had not inherited the
title, whereupon a blanket of silence
descended.
* * * *
“Balander”: A little over a year ago
several earnest citizens of Dingo, out
from Duaringa on the way to Emerald,
took a violent dislike to the name of
their township, though 60 years old. A
petition was got up and the shire council
asked the Minister to change the name to
Springton. After due investigation, his
department reported that it couldn’t be,
there being a Springton already in South
Australia. It hadn’t, apparently, noticed
a Springton on the map a few miles north
of Dingo. Lorraine was then suggested,
but Bananaland already had one of them,
so the earnest ones plumped for Remo.
This was gazetted, but somebody pointed
out that it was also the name of an
Italian ship seized in Australian waters
when Mussolini hopped in, and a further
petition was lodged protesting against its
use and asking that Dingo be retained.
Lands Minister Walsh has now indicated
that he would like the place to have an
Australian name, and is awaiting advice
from the shire council. Somebody sug-
gested Warrigal, which means the same
as Dingo in one sense but not in another,
but somebody else recalled Warragul
(Vic.), and that was out. It really begins
to look as though it will stay Dingo.
* * * *
Died at Thursday Island recently, Rev.
Joseph Lui, one of the first natives of
the Torres Strait Islands to be ordained
to the Anglican priesthood. Before his
ordination 20 years ago Joseph was a
noted pearl-diver. He spoke several
languages, and his alert mind and under-
standing outlook made him useful to the
Government administration in dealing
with island problems.
* * * *
“Rabber”: Copra growers are to have
their produce bought by the Common-
wealth. They are now in the same
category as Australian wheatgrowers,
with board and everything. Prices, per long
ton, are: Hot-air-dried copra, £A4 10s.;
plantation sun-dried, £4 7s. 6d.; smoke-
dried, £4, plus freight from plantation
to shipping point. Prices announced will
apply to Papua and the Mandate, as
well as the Solomons, the Free French
islands, Fiji, Tonga, Gilbert and Ellice
groups, Samoa and Cook islands —prob-
ably with the necessary variations in ex-
change—but only in the case of copra
marketed under the Pacific Copra Mar-
keting Board. Early this year Central
Pacific merchants were taking copra at
£3 10s. stg., payment generally being
made in kind. Then the Japanese began to
buy heavily and prices got up to £4 10s.
sterling. Since copra contains glycerine
as well as other things the British Gov-
ernment banned its export to certain
countries and the price dropped back to
the old mark. Though the Ministry of
Food expressed willingness to take 90,000
tons of copra a year, the Ministry of
Shipping was unable to supply the ships.
“Nakhoda” : A phenomenon observed
in the 1914-18 war is being repeated in
this one, but with a difference. In the
earlier war demands for vengeance on
the enemy increased in bloodthirstiness
in direct ratio to the distance from the
front-line trenches, reaching their full
fury in the armchairs of clubs in Lon-
don, New York and Melbourne. A Gallup
Institute straw vote taken in England as
to whether the civilian population wanted
reprisals on civilians in Germany has
shown a majority against in the most
heavily-bombed parts of London. In
districts which have experienced little or
no bombing there was a 55 p.c. majority
in favor of reprisals, and in Birmingham,
of course, a “Reprisals” candidate lost
his deposit. The most emphatic de-
mands for reprisals I have seen appear
in the correspondence columns of the
Melbourne “Argus” from addresses like
Toorak and East Malvern.
DC * * *
“Walobs”: The Melba plaque in Syd-
ney Town Hall may be the first monii’
ment to the Australian diva, but it is
not the first Melba memorial. A few
years ago a body of proud Americans
raised one in memory of Melba, Queen
of Butterfat. The bovine dame was also
an Australian, for she was bred at Dar-
balara, Gundagai. Uncle Sam’s tribute
came from the Shorthorn Breeders
Association.
Dc D= * *
“Sevener,” his yarn:
Me and old Charlie was having a round at a
place on the Nepean where there’s a pub right
on the course. There’s a little sorta clubhouse
near one of the greens with a coupla poker-
machines on the verandah and a fence running
off from it. Well, old Charlie overhits a five-
iron and the ball flies well over the green, lands
on top of a fence-post, flies off at a tangent
and hits the hand of a fellow who’s just about
to pull the handle of the one-armed bandit.
He spins round, wringing his hand and looking
for the bloke that done it, while the ball shoots
or to the wall and bounds back to the edge of
the green Me and old Charlie rushes up to
see if the feller’s hurt very bad, and just as
we gets there the machine gives a rattle and
up comes three kings. Yair, the three of us
had a damn’ good three hours in the pub on
the strength of it, and the bloke gives old
Charlie two bob for the ball, and reckons he’ll
carry it with him next time he goes for a
lottery ticket.
* ♦ * •
“V. Cluse”: Our tame drunk was
pretty full as he wandered home just
after midnight, but not too full to realise
that a small contribution to the peace of
the world would be made could he get in
without arousing his sleeping spouse. He
found the side-door unlocked, eased him-
self gently inside and made a fairly silent
progress to the spare room, where he
fumbled himself out of his clothes in
the gloom. Then he made for the bunk,
but stopped dead when his hand, reach-
ing to pull the blankets back, felt soft,
feminine hair. “ ’Struth,” he muttered,
found a match, struck it carefully,
quickly surveyed the sleeping and rather
pretty face of his flapper sister-in-law,
backed out and bedded down on the
couch in the living-room. Next morning
he told the tale to the amused flapper,
and his wife coldly remarked, “Huh, in
the state you were in it’s a wonder you
could tell the difference.” He looked
from one to the other. “Well,” he said,
“f was pretty drunk, but I wasn’t that
drunk.” Then he wished he hadn’t
spoken so decidedly.


SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO
INSTALL
NEW
\
CHAMPIONS
I
Ml
m
y
ft
CHAMPIONS
Bring FUEL ECONOMY
Worn plugs waste fuel. Install
new Champions. They ensure
fuller combustion of the fuel.
Less carbon. More power and a
smoother-running engine. Fuel
lasts longer and you soon are
repaid the cost of the spark
plugs ... and more! Champions
actually save you money.
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
leaders.
The service is. entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy 1927 or 1928 Morris-Cowley Hand-
book.—llo6.
To buy or borrow Spinifex and Sand. —1115.
Wanted words of humorous verse about a
broken heart. —1156.
To buy back numbers of special issues of
the “Studio.” —1144.
To buy Moondyne, by J. B. O’Reilly.—ll34.
To buy Hesiod’s Works and Days, new or
second-hand.—lo 94.
Information Sought.
To whom should one forward ideas which
might be of military value ? —1346.
To the Inventions Board, Victoria Barracks,
Melbourne.
* * * *
What was the pre-war naval strength of Great
Britain, America, Australia, Japan, Germany,
Russia and Italy? —l2s7.
Great Britain, 15 battleships and battle-
cruisers, 59 cruisers, two anti-aircraft ships,
seven aircraft-carriers, 168 destroyers, 54 sub-
marines; U.S.A., 15 battleships, five aircraft-
carriers, 33 cruisers, 206 destroyers, 89 sub-
marines ; Australia, six cruisers, two escort
vessels, five destroyers; Japan, nine battleships,
six coast-defence ships, five aircraft-carriers; 36
cruisers, 112 destroyers, 12 torpedo boats, 62
submarines; Germany, two battleships, three
pocket-battleships, nine cruisers, 46 destroyers
and torpedo boats and 71 submarines; Italy,
six battleships, 22 cruisers, 61 destroyers, 71
torpedo boats, 105 submarines; Russia, three
ancient battleships, six cruisers, 28 destroyers
and possibly—it is a mere guess—lso sub-
marines and some torpedo boats.
* * * *
(1) Are statistics available to show whether
epilepsy is more prevalent in tropical countries
than in cold countries? (2) Is it possible for
children afflicted with this malady to “grow
out” of it, assisted by orthodox medical treat-
ment ? (3) Would removal of the patient to
a milder climate be of benefit? —1401.
(1) No statistics available. (2) The out-
look depends entirely upon the continuity and
effectiveness of treatment. (3) The maintenance
of a high level of general health and a healthy
regime of life are essential, and good climatic
conditions are therefore recommended.
* * *• *
(1) Is the new treatment used for mental dis-
orders known as rnetrezal or cardiazol exten-
sively used in Australia? (2) Has it been
proved a success ? (3) What percentage of cures
has been recorded for such complaints known
as dementia prcecox (also known as schizo-
phrenia) ? (4) Is schizophrenia hereditary ?
(5) Should people who have suffered from this
complaint get married? —1402.
(1) The treatment of schizophrenia by car-
diazol has come into use in most Australian
mental hospitals accommodating cases of the
disease. (2) and (3) A recovery rate of over
50 p.c. may be anticipated in cases of less than
one year’s duration. No figures are yet avail-
able as to the permanence of the recovery, but
present experience justifies the belief that great
benefit follows the treatment in any recent case.
(4) There is an important hereditary factor in
the production of the disease; if the children
of schizophrenics survive their twentieth year
eight per cent, develop the condition, and 50
per cent, of the children show a schizoid per-
sonality. (5) The marriage of sufferers is inad-
visable.
* H*. % *
(1) What is the key action of a harpsichord?
(2) In what country did the harpsichord origi-
nate ? (3) Number of notes in keyboard? —
1457.
(1) In all its three forms (virginal, spinet and
harpsichord proper) the strings lie horizontally,
and on the finger keys being depressed small
pieces of wood, called jacks, each provided with
a plectrum, rise. The plectra are quills (or some-
times points of leather) that pass the strings,
plucking them in passing, the jack then falls
back and the plectrum, by means of an escape-
ment, repasses the strings without touching
them. (2) The earliest instrument of its kind
now known to exist is in the Victoria and
Albert Museum, London. It is dated 1521,
and was made in Rome. (3) Ranged in most
cases from four to five octaves. Many large
harpsichords had two keyboards.
* * * *
What are the conditions, method and rights
of persons opening a joint account in the
Commonwealth Savings Bank ? —l5BO.
Persons desiring to open a joint account must
furnish any particulars regarding themselves
that are required by the Savings Bank, and
must sign the necessary forms. Such account
may be operated jointly or severally. When
the parties to the account desire that the
account shall be operated in some way other
than by all parties thereby signing, an authority
prescribing who may operate the account,
signed by all the parties thereto, may be re-
quired. In the event of the death of one or
more of the joint depositors the account vests
in the survivor or survivors. The Commis-
sioners may require such proof of death as is
considered necessary.
V * * #
Suitable mixture for concreting bin. galvan-
ised-iron piping which is badly pitted with rust
holes? Any trouble over expansion? —l3B6.
Might be cheaper in the long run to buy
new asbestos-cement pipes from manufacturers
such as James Hardie and Co., cnr. York and
Barrack streets, Sydney. To concrete the pipes,
it would be essential to reinforce with wire-
netting of bird-cage quality and size. The
concrete would need to be a mortar of one
part of cement to two parts of sand, and
would have to be placed on in layers, as a plas-
terer puts on cement plaster. The pipes would
need to be first cleaned and given a wash of
cement and water. There would be no trouble
on the subject of the relative expansion of the
concrete and the galvanised piping.
* * * *
Cause and cure of eczema? —1451.
Exciting causes of eczema are many. The
eczema reaction may be called forth by cer-
tain microbes and fungi; while chemical irri-
tants are numerous. Many drugs (lysol,
formalin, mercury, etc.) are responsible, as also
are substances derived from plants (primula,
ivy, clematis and many others). Constitution-
ally, excessive sweating predisposes to eczema,
and diabetes is often complicated by it. Some
protein foods seem to be a direct cause. Treat-
ment consists in removal of crusts, if present,
by starch poultices. In acute stages, watery
lotions of calamine or lead are employed; after
“weeping” is over, protective creams and pastes.
Indolent patches are frequently treated by frac-
tional doses of X-rays. In acute forms of the
disease, complete mental and physical rest is
essential. Many patients benefit on a diet of
milk and vegetables. Internally, drugs are of
value only in exceptional cases.
a-. * ■% *
(1) What positions are open to one who has
completed a course in Japanese at Melbourne
Uni. ? (2) Is there any demand for Japanese
interpreters? (3) What salary could such an
interpreter command ? (4) Are there likely to
be more openings in the future in Australia
for students of Japanese than at present? —1393.
(1) Depends on the standard and proficiency
of the student. (2) There is normally a good
demand for proficient Japanese-speaking
Britishers in business. (3) Not very large as an
interpreter only, but in business there are ex-
cellent opportunities. (4) Can’t prophesy.
(1) Is there any legal reason why a naturalised
foreigner should not be allowed to become a
peer in Britain? (2) Is Viscount Astor British-
born ? (3) Was the peerage conferred on him
or on his father? (4) Is his wife a British-
born or naturalised citizen ? (5) What is her
Christian name? (6) Short biographical details
of Lord and Lady Astor? —ll96.
(1) No. More than one peer is foreign-born.
(2) Yes. (3) His father. (4) Born a United
States citizen. (5) Her name is Nancy. (6)
Viscount Astor, born 1879, succeeded his father
1919; Eton, won the Prince Consort French
prize; a notable athlete at Eton and Oxford;
has held several minor offices in the British
Ministry, has been president of the Institute of
International Affairs and was Lord Mayor of
Plymouth, where he lives, last year. His wife,
Nancy Langhorne, was born in Virginia, became
a British subject by marriage and was elected
to Parliament in 1919—the first woman to sit
in the House of Commons.
* * *
Any information as to approximate propor-
tion of civil servants to population of Australia
or approximate numbers employed by (a)
Commonwealth and (b) States? —1426.
Figures given here refer to persons employed
by the Commonwealth Government, State Gov-
ernments, semi-Governmental and local govern-
ment authorities as at December 31, 1940. The
figures exclude part-time relief workers and
those employed by contractors to Government
departments.
Prop.
to
Pop.,
Number. P.c.
Com’wealth Government .. 88,235 1.25
State Government .. ) ~ n -
Semi-Governmental .. / 280)419 3 - 97
Local government .. .. 52,565 0.74
Total 421,219 5.96
The proportion of Government employees in
Australia is high compared with most countries,
inasmuch as Australian Governments under-
take many services, such as railways, tramways,
banking, the provision of water, electricity, etc.,
and other industrial undertakings which in
other countries are left to private enterprise.
* * * *
How many Distinguished Flying Crosses were
awarded to Australian pilots in the 1914-18
war ? —1368.
D.F.C. 58, D.F.C. (bar) five, D.F.C. (two
bars) two, A.F.C. 16.
% Jjc ;£ s};
(1) When, where and how do black bream
spawn in N. S. Wales? (2) How long does the
spawning usually take? —1579.
The principal months when black bream are
forming and fully roed are March, April and
May. The fish travel along the coast and de-
posit their spawn along rocky foreshores. The
period taken is usually about three months.
* ;*c He
(1) Method of obtaining copper from the
water which seeps through the bottom of a
mine containing copper ore? The water is
very blue in appearance and appears to be
charged with copper sulphate. (2) Would the
method provide an economical way of produc-
ing copper? —los4.
(1) Copper in solution can be removed from
mine waters by precipitation on iron. The
process must be carried out in vats constructed
entirely of wood or other material which is
not attacked by the copper-bearing solutions.
(2) Depends, among other things, on the quan-
tity of copper in the mine waters, the* availa-
bility of scrap or other iron and the ease of
access to the site. No opinion on the chances
of success of the project could be given with-
out a knowledge of these factors.
• * * *
In what American cities, and when, has Joe
Louis fought for the world’s heavyweight cham-
pionship ? —1297.
Louis won the title from Jim Braddock (eight
rounds knockout) at Chicago on June 22, 1937.
Since then he has defeated Tommy Farr (15
rounds), New York, 30/ 8 / ’37; Nathan Mann
(three), New York, 23 /2/ ’3B ; Harry Thomas
(five), Chicago, l/4/’3B; Max Schmeling (one),
New York, 22/6/’3B; John Henry Lewis (one),
New York, 25 /1 / ’39; Jack Roper (one), Los
Angeles, 17/4/’39; Tony Galento (four), New
York, 28/6/’39; Bob Pastor (11), Detroit,
20/9/ ’39; Arturo Godoy (15), New York,
9/2/’4O; Johnny Paychek (two), New York,
29/3 / ’4O; Arturo Godoy (eight), New York,
20/6/'4O; A 1 McCoy (five), Boston, 16/12/’4O ;
Red Burman (five), New York, 31 /1 / ’4l; Gus
Dorazio (two), Philadelphia, 17/2/’4l; Abe
Simon (13), Detroit, 21/3/’4l; Tony Musto
(nine), St. Louis, 8 /4/ ’4l; Buddy Baer (six),
Washington, 24/5/’4l.
« * * «
Girl, 15, with intermediate certificate, seeks
information regarding prospects of a career in
floral work or commercial art. —1219.
Both fields are overcrowded. The only hope
she has is in applying for positions at florists or
submitting specimens of her art to advertising
departments of the big stores. But she must
push her wares; no one has any time for shy
applicants.
Brief Answers.
S.H.G.; (1) Try Allan and Co., music pub-
lishers, Melbourne. (2) No. (3) Common-
wealth Copyright Office, Commonwealth Bank,
Sydney, will supply information. (4) Penalty
is two tricks M.J.D.: It is now officially
announced that Australian surgeons and
dentists are shortly to be sent to England for
special study in plastic surgery, after which
they will be formed into units for service in
Australian General Hospitals. Plastic surgeons
are already on the staffs of some Australian
hospitals at home and overseas. Your R.M.O.
should be able to give you the necessary infor-
mation... .A.C.P.; (1) and (2) Not known. (3)
McNiven Bros, first manufactured ice-cream
in their present premises at the corner of Salis-
bury-road, Layton and Northwood streets,
Camperdown, Sydney, on October 1, 1936
G.L.: Candidates for entry into the Royal
Australian Naval College must sit for the
examination during the calendar year in which
their thirteenth birthday falls. They must have
attained at least their first year of secondary
schooling. Candidates for the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval Reserve must be between 17 and
25 years of age, and be prepared to serve at
home or abroad. They must pass an educa-
tional examination equal to the primary final
standard, if they are not in possession of the
intermediate certificate. They, must be pre-
pared to wait about two months before being
mobilised. Applications should be addressed
to the Naval Recruiting Office, 18 Loftus-street,
Sydney, with particulars of date of birth and
educational qualifications... .T.J.H.: (1) No
reliable information available. (2) Apparently
that is the practice Ascot: No information.
Lt.-Col. Cunningham married Miss Bertha
Chapman and has one son and one daughter.
Further inquiries are being made... .A.M.S.:
A “suit” is a set of cards of one particular
kind; your long suit is your longest set of a
particular kind, hence your “strongest point,”
best bet, etc R.H.M.: (1) Insufficient space
to give in detail the chemical composition of
the 12 vegetables you mention. (2) and (3)
The statement is untrue. (4) Yes. One of the
effects of boiling certain of these foods is to
destroy some of the vitamins. (5) Yes....
D.D.: Steam the face by holding is over boiling
water and apply a coal-tar soap, rubbed well
in with a piece of soft flannel... .D.D.:
Charles Chaplin was born in London....
C. ; Cannot hazard an opinion as to the
nature of the “lumps” nor suggest appropriate
treatment without further information....
R.A.G.: A patient with raised blood pressure
often benefits by a general limitation of diet
if he is overweight, but it is quite unnecessary
otherwise (and often harmful) to make his life
a misery by too strict a dietetic regimen. The
consumption of meat should be curtailed but
not abandoned; plenty of fresh vegetables and
fruit are advisable, as they combat constipa-
tion ; liquid paraffin is also useful for this
purpose. The use of alcohol and tobacco
should be limited, but here again it is unneces-
sary to make the patient thoroughly wretched
by a complete veto, which in any case is likely
to be ignored 0.P.H.: (1) Presume you
mean appointment by the will itself. It would
not be irregular, but is essential to a proper
will. (2) By applying to the Registrar, Supreme
Court, Brisbane. (3) Accounts must be filed
by the executors and may be inspected at the
Supreme Court. (4) Yes. (5) No F. 8.:
(1) Yes. The advertiser would be bound to
pay the person returning the lost goods such
sum as would reasonably compensate him for
the time, trouble and expense involved in
finding and returning the lost goods. (2)
Amount would not depend on value of goods
lost but on considerations mentioned in (1).
(3) He could sue in the appropriate court to
recover the reward... .8.H.: No record. Many
of them are in parks and other public places
in various Australian cities and towns....
Mrs. R. G.: Cannot give recipes for alcoholic
beverages... .(1) Oliver Ditson Co., Boston,
Mass.; Theodore Presser Co., Philadelphia,
Pa.; Mumil Publishing Co., New York, N.Y.;
D. Appleton and Co., New York, N.Y. (2)
Very little chance at present. Try Allan and
Co., music publishers, Melbourne.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused;
L.G.C.:
But Hitler will not have his way. We’ll fight him to
the last,
And grind him till he’s nothing but a memory of
the past.
For he shall have no quarter. He’s not good
enough to last,
Being just a dirty upstart climbing up the wall of
fame
On the backs of little children, who cannot play
his game.
But we won’t stand by and see it. What we get
we ought to give,
And wipe him out with Germany. They are not fit
to live....
The Count:—
So the world can stop the flood
Of the evil Nazi curse.
And the hideous things, and worse,
That abuse all decent Taw,
Crush the soul and slam the door
Of the State supreme with might
On the individual’s right....
E.A.B.: Good in parts R.D.: Read it
at the next meeting of your literary society—
then run....G.R.: You should be able to
knock it into saleable shape....R.C.S.: “I
know this is rather a sad story.” It’s a
calamity E.S.W.: “Dagger” is very rusty
D.E.S.: What on earth should we want with
an essay on “The Probability of the Impos-
sible”? ... .S.R.G.: “These stories embody two
or three different styles. Which do you con-
sider the least promising?” Our coin landed
on its edge and grinned derisively... .J.K.F.:
We tried it on the office boy, and got it back
minus the fancy paper-fasteners... .D.L.: Un-
suitable... .N.R.D.: “The Bird Has Flown.”
Correct 1.0’N.: Much too 10ng... .H.T.:
“Odd Thoughts” most odd... .K.T.D.: Hor-
rible... .L.S.: “On Thy Way, Friend,” on thy
way... .C.G.A.: “Matilda” won’t come awaltz-
ing with us F.R.; We read no further than
arrival of good-looking stranger at home of
impoverished farmer and his daughter....
C.F.C.: That’s an old ’un... .R.L.: Not for us.
. ...0.A.M.; Not up F.R.: One of them
might make a par.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.McT.: The most amazing dog we’ve ever
seen P.M.: Drawing has all the recognised
faults of the very young; gag, those of the
very 01d....T.H.: Tackle it more b01d1y....
J.M.S.: It might look like a heifer to you;
to us it looks like a metho-addict’s dream....
R.D.: Promising, but too uneven yet
G.H.: Elephantiasis-stricken lady holding in
leash a nondescript animal which is making a
nasal inventory of postman’s trouser leg got the
boot Raymond M.: Did your art bent
equal your energy you’d make Low and Lind-
Wh hacks... .R.D.A.: Better not show
it to original.


SI
'Mkk
SOUTH
AFRICA
INVITES YOU...
ACCLAIMED as “the most interesting
country in the world/’ South Africa stirs
the imagination of every tourist. The vast
game reserve of Kruger National Park, the
primitive villages of Zululand, Victoria Falls,
the Kimberley diamond mines, the great gold
mines at Johannesburg, the modern cities;
these are but few of the colourful contrasts
of absorbing interest.
Information obtainable from all offices of
DALGETY & COMPANY LiM TED
(Incorporated in England)
Agents for South African Railways throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
'Doctors soy your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone .Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY.
T.JONES 6
MEN!
GIAN 0
TOM
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
Enjoy
(aszf
Hear easily, natu-
rally, again with
the Western Elec-
tric Audiphone.
I n c 0 n s p i cuous,
highly efficient,
more economical.
m
■/tStSSsi.
Western Electric
'audiphone'
HEARING AID
• No matter what your personal hearing
problem may be, let one of the firms listed
below demonstrate the Western Electric
Audiphone and show you how it csp
help you overcome your hearing diffi-
culties. The outgrowth of over 57 years
experience in making the Bell telephone
and Western Electric sound recording and
reproducing equipment, it enlarges the
hearing circle, enables the user to take
part in group conversation. Both Bone
and Air Conduction types available.
THE AUDIPHONE CO.,
M.L.C. Building, kk Martin Place, Sydney.
CODES & GARRARD PTV., DTD.,
370-371, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
TREVOR HENDERSON.
T. & G. Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
DEN G. STONE,
67 Gawl e r Place, Adelaide,
SAINKEN & SAINKEN,
6 S S Hay Street, Perth.
FINDUAYS PTY.. DTD.,
Apollo Home, Brisbane St., Launceston.
SUNDRY SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES
“The Long Voyage Home”
One of the strangest phenomena in
the film business is the Hollywood enter-
tainment complex. It seems to be rooted
mainly in Barnum’s expressive theory or
in the fact that there is always present
a vast flapper mind, a mind which rarely
rises above the comic-strip age, and
which, if catered for, will return the
shekels as surely as shares in a chain-
store business. As a money-making
proposition that theory is sound enough,
but within limits, and limits which are
becoming more obvious every day. They
are the limits of melodrama and what are
called comedies but would more appro-
priately be termed “funnies” —Hollywood
evinces a genuine sense of comedy about
once every leap year —and they con-
fine the producer to the eternal re-
hashing and decorating of false human
values and mock heroics, which, be-
cause they are false and constantly
repeated, become more and more obvi-
ous and, therefore, of entertainment
value to a more and more restricted field.
That Hollywood recognises the de-
terioration of its products as saleable
articles, and realises the danger of it was
illustrated some time ago when a pro-
ducer of one of the biggest studios rose
up on his hind legs and bellowed that
if the industry didn’t stop the mass pro-
duction of shoddy films it would spell
its own ruin. But the effect, if any, of
the warning, even on the producer’s own
studios, seemed to be merely the appear-
ance of melodrama more spectacular and
more lavishly produced than ever, but
just as melodramatic.
It goes without saying, of course, that,
while there are such things as skill and
originality in the film business, enter-
taining melodrama and amusing “fun-
nies” are not entirely extinct, nor ever
will be, but they are becoming less and
less frequent. It also goes without say-
ing that such novelties as Disney’s car-
toons, filmed “Mikado,” “The Wizard
of Oz” and others are an assured suc-
cess, but novelties, too, by their very
nature, are probably the most restricted
field of all. What is also almost a novelty
on the screen —inasmuch as it is a rarity
—but which offers an almost limitless
field which could be explored to the im-
mense benefit of the screen’s general out-
put of agreeable fiction, is authentic
drama.
Films of such calibre are so few and
far between that to see one of them, such
as “The Long Voyage Home,” showing
currently at Sydney Civic, is to realise
just how artificial and makeshift is the
general run of screen entertainment, a
contrast made all the sharper by the fact
that the Civic film is particularly fine
drama, inasmuch as it has been con-
ceived, acted, directed and photographed
on a consistently high plane of artistry.
It is also a very powerful drama because
the authentic human qualities on which
its story is based are also strongly mas-
culine ones. Its immediate statement is,
perhaps, one of despair “the long
voyage” represents the composite of all
the trips of the men (“a race apart”)
who make up the crews of small
freighters butting through seas all over
the world ; their ambition that each trip
will be their last before going home,
wherever it may be, is generally unful-
filled, their pay at the end of each voyage
going into dockside dives in orgies of
drink and women ; so they ship aboard
again for another last voyage, and so
on until all ambition is burned out of
them. But the conception of the men
is heroic and the general statement is
that, as long as their kind exists and goes
on fighting and drinking and lustily, if
fruitlessly, enjoying their few hours
ashore, ships will ply their way about
Stan Foley providing a perch for bird-mimic Alec Walker, Dorothy
Foster, “Charlie Cheesecake” and Digger Hal Percy-some of the bright
lights of Sydney Tiv's “Radio Round-up.”
the world bringing their cargoes safely
to the wharves.
It would be difficult to conceive a more
arresting illustration of the latter state-
ment than the story of a small freighter
taking munitions from America to
England during the present war. Its
heterogeneous crew is made up of
striking, authentic types the happy,
emotional, fighting Irishman; the big,
reticent Swede and his little countryman,
a pathetic comic, voluble on a limited
vocabulary; the small, taciturn Scot
given to a pipe and reflections ; the ox-
like “Yank,” and dozens of minor charac-
ters are just about perfectly cast and
played. The only hackneyed role —the
English gentleman riding the bottle to
oblivion —is so finely written and acted
that it doesn’t strike a false note any-
where. The voyage to England takes the
ship through storm, fog, the fear of
U-boats and, finally, an attack by enemy
’planes. The character of each member
of the crew and their general complain-
ing acceptance of their conditions are
excellently drawn ; their reaction to the
air attack —and the film’s conception of
it —are magnificently depicted in one of
the finest bits of drama this commentator
has come across. It is carried out on.
a very powerful note of suggestion or
understatement —no ’plane appears on
the screen during the attack ; all that is
heard of them is the terrible sound of
their engines, and all that is seen of them
is the columns of water heaved up by
their bombs and the tracery of holes cut
by their bullets on the decks. The fearful
impotency of the crew against the attack
and their panic-stricken scurrying about
the limited deck space of the ship con-
taining enough explosive to blow them
all to smithereens bring out the intensity
of the situation a hundred times more
forcefully than any spectacular action
could. The final touch to the scene is
little short of genius. A man sent to
prepare a lifeboat for launching and
shot down by one of the ’planes struggles
back to his feet for a moment and, as
a last puny gesture of defiance, weakly
hurls a rowlock a few feet in the air at
the attackers. As a symbol of helpless
courage it is perfect.
The film differs vigorously from con-
ventional dramatic construction and
film-addicts accustomed by habit to
action stories working up to a crisis and
being neatly rounded off by the climax
might be a little disconcerted by the dif-
ference —in that it has at least three,
possibly four, crises, each with a climax
of action or the suggestion of it, while
the conclusion is quiet and inactive. But
that conclusion is deliberately the filmed
representation of a mood or thought, and
as such it is not only accomplished near
to perfection, but is also a practically
perfect finish to the statement of the
story. Similar masterly touches are com-
mon right through the film. A burial
at sea, for instance, is, instead of the
usual placid sentimental affair, a vigor-
ous dramatic incident. It is carried out
during a storm, with the men braced
against high seas and the captain shout-
ing a brief prayer above the wind, and
finished completely by a short snort from
the freighter’s whistle. Then there is
the finest touch of all when the men are
returning to their boat to ship aboard for
another last voyage. The note is one of
hopelessness, and the scene —bleak wharf,
dirty old freighter and forbidding dock-
side buildings—is admirably in key with
it. Then on the wharf is a litter of old
papers drifting and eddying tiredly in
the wind. It makes that one scene more
articulate than all the dialogue in the
film.
The film was directed by John Ford,
and his work in it compares favorably
with his film version of Liam O’Flaherty’s
The Informer; he seems to be one of the
few directors in Hollywood who con-
sider the artistic as well as the entertain-
ment possibilities of a film. The actors
—Thomas Mitchell, Wilfred Lawson (the
captain), John Wayne (a young player
with an easy, natural manner somewhat
similar to Gary Cooper), Barry Fitz-
gerald, John Qualen, lan Hunter-turn
in splendid work, and the minor roles —
the barman and harpies in a harborside
pub, the pimp (J. M. Kerrigan) and others
—are just as good. The photography is
the finest present writer has struck in
any film ; it has magnificent composition
and as much drama and expression in it
as any other factor in the film.
* * * *
“Down Argentine Way”
The story behind this, at Sydney
Regent, is so slight that it is not even
boring, but it serves well enough as a
clothesprop for some topnotch screen
vaudeville. Film is sumptuously mounted
—technicolor and all the trimmings—and
peopled by as comely a bunch of eye-
catchers as one could wish. Soubrette o
the piece is Betty Grable, and, aided by
Don Ameche, she rolls off a good collec-
tion of catchy song-and-hoof numbers.
Another song vendor, one Carmen
Miranda, is the star vaudeville act, and
suffers from the apparent immobility of
the technicolor camera. In the lengthy
course of her appearances in the show
there are only two portraits of her—-a
close-up head and shoulder, and full-
length from mid-off, and the repetitious
switching from one to the other becomes
monotonous. She is, however, an almost
aggressively voluptuous wench and
manages to carry this burden together
with that of singing either in Spanish
or quite unintelligible English. Charlotte
Greenwood supplies excellent comedy.
One bit which should amuse, delight or,
cut to the quick any of the local fra-
ternity is a race scene. The horse is a
True Champion with the Will to Win,
and the crook jockey is trying to pull
him, much against the Will to Win. The
only possible conclusion is that the stipes
in that part of the globe watch the races
through the bottom of their beer-mugs.
The jock, takes a half-hitch of the rein
round each fist, stands up in the stirrups,
straightens his back and yanks like a
good ’un.
STAGE AND CONCERT
The centenary of Don Bosco was cele-
brated at the Melb. Princess Theatre last
week by the production of a Eucharist
drama, “Bread of Life,” by the Ladies
of the Grail, and by some particularly
sweet singing by the Holy Cross Boys’
Choir, with Hector Crawford as guest
conductor. Mr. Crawford played his
team well. They sang motets and carols
which ran the whole gamut from the
fifteenth century through Grassi, Purcell,
Mozart and Brahms to Strauss and
Elgar. The singing had that peculiar
quality which only boys have, and which
comes of lack of emotional experience
and reminds one of birds rather than
human beings, but is none the less lovely
for all that. It would be difficult to
imagine more delicate pianissimos than
they got in the “Ave Maria” of Arcadelt.
The acting of the girls in the Eucharis-
tic drama was more static than their sing-
ing, which was under the direction of
that fine musician Dr. Percy Jones.
W. P. Carr stage-managed the production.
ARTBURSTS
Ronald H. Steuart, whose work as a
water-colorist has been before the public
for some years, shows progress and de-
velopment in his show at the Macquarie
Galleries. His distrust or dislike of color
has intensified, and most of his latest
efforts are little more than tinted mono-
chromes. He revels in studies of pools
and ponds and is most successful when
these are stagnant. But his style has
become more direct and closer-knit, and
in such studies as “Reef Waters” and
“Shadowed Hills” he gives vivid impres-
sions of scenes worth recording.
“Thunderstorm Approaching” bears out
its title, and there are feeling and atmo-
sphere as well as a good sense of de-
sign in “The Fig Tree.”


THE SERVICE MAN
The Advance into Syria.
“Ek Dum”: On the first day of the
drive A.I.F. troops, many newly arrived
in the Middle East, reached the ancient
coastal town of Tyre, 20 miles from the
border of Palestine. The Vichy Govern-
ment reported that British naval squad-
rons were in position off Beirut and
Tripoli.
On the way to Tyre the A.I.F. men
met with little resistance. A mixed force
of French Moroccans and other Africans,
mainly cavalry, with some Lebanese
levies, exchanged shots with the Austra-
lian front screen and then withdrew after
demolishing a road. Two Australian
officers were wounded, and their men
took a few French prisoners in Tyre.
Next day the advancing columns were
12 miles south of Sidon, while, further
north, French A.A. guns tried in vain to
ward off an R.A.F. attack on the Beirut
harbor works.
The first real resistance was encoun-
tered by the Australians 10 miles south
of their new front during the crossing
of the Litani River. This they pontooned
before breaking the strong fortified line
behind Adlun. Their brigadier, a Vic-
torian, described it as “one of the strong-
est defensive positions I have ever seen
—a series of linked strong points, well
camouflaged and hard to detect. We had
to ‘winkle’ them out point by point.”
At evening the French, whose captured
orders showed that they had been told
to fight “to the last man and the last
shell,” were carrying on a retiring action
against South Australians in the van of
the advancing force. During the after-
noon French tanks had been driven off
in a whirling fight. The Litani engage-
ment was a stiff affair, lasting all night
and all day, with plenty of mortar and
machine-gun fire from the French; but
the prize was the strongest line between
Beirut and the border. Haifa (Palestine)
had been bombed —by Germans —on
Monday night and the R.A.F. had made
a raid on Aleppo.
Meanwhile, other British forces had
begun to penetrate from several points.
The biggest effort seemed to be a double-
column attack of which the spearhead
on one side was another A.I.F. brigade,
which pushed off from the shores of
Galilee on Sunday morning with 25-
pounders, Bren-gun carriers, A.A. equip-
ment and a Curtis Tomahawk escort.
They clashed with French border troops,
but soon pushed their way through to
Merjiyun.
British and Indian regiments, the other
half of the Damascus columns further
east, made direct along the slopes of
Jebel Druse towards the Syrian capital,
and three other forces seemed to be
operating from Iraq—one along the
Nairn route and pipeline, where in peace-
time the biggest bus in the world keeps
its schedule under the guiding hand of
two enterprising Maorilanders, one up
the main Euphrates road from El Khaim,
a square, drab fort which rises out of
the long grass just inside the Iraqi
border.
The road is mainly along the crumbling
Euphrates banks, in blazing, unsheltered
desert country in which the only relieving
features are black caravan tents, hurtling
Arab Fords and two large French posts
—Abu Kemal, which looks like a movie
set out of “Beau Geste,” and Deir-es-Zor,
a dusty town with wide streets, where in
summer in peace-time French officers
sleep through the burning midday. There
is a fine military road through the town
towards Aleppo, and the biggest aero-
drome in eastern Syria.
Still further north another column set
out from the Kirkuk oilfields in Iraq, and
cut the Istanbul-Bagdad railway across
the Syrian borders among the headwater
streams of the Khabur Su, the eastern
branch of the Euphrates.
Four days after the campaign began,
all forces were deep in Syria, and resist-
ance soon justified the term “hard”
which Petain applied to it.
Abu Kemal was taken in the Euphrates
drive —no difficult matter. Approaches
from the south are open, with a few wadis
across the road for shelter, Deir-es-Zor
was in British hands. The main Damas-
cus columns on Thursday night were only
10 miles from the city at Kiswe, where
the defenders were holding on against
fierce tank and armored and air attacks.
The coastal Australians, with support-
ing Scots, had again been in the thick of
it, faced by battalions of the Foreign
Legion, through whom Westralians
eventually broke below Sidon, on a rocky
spur. This, once a Phoenician stronghold,
they found honeycombed with caves —
there are places in Eastern Syria and Iraq
where whole towns live inside hills like
rabbits.
The Legion took to the caves and
hurled mortar shells and machine-gun
fire at the A.1.F., who replied in kind
with Bren gun and mobile 25-pounders,
and resorted to “winkling” among the
caves with their bayonets.
The Galilee column, too, had had a
few tough hours, taking five miles of
strong defensive ridge, mainly in blazing
sun. This operation was remarkable for
a breathless charge of Bren-gun carriers
into a hell of anti-tank fire.
By Friday the coastal Victorians, West-
ralians and South Australians, fighting
amid green corn, had had to buy every
inch of the way to the outskirts of Sidon,
though the Royal Navy was “delivering
the mail” up and down the coast wher-
ever a target presented itself. Troops
were also landed from the sea.
The Galilee force, leaving Merjiyun,
had made progress to Hasbeya, a few
miles on, passing along the country of
Hermon, so well known to readers of the
Song of Solomon.
The method used by the British and
Free French in Syria was much the same
as that used in France and the Balkans
by the Germans —the bandsaw rips
through the country, wherever there was
a groove to insert the saw blade. By the
week-end the campaign was developing
into a typical Keitel second phase of sur-
rounding movements at strategic points.
Sidon was taken on Sunday after a
bitter fight, the culmination of days
of fierce hammer blows by Australians
and Scottish troops, which sometimes
penetrated the suburbs. A Westralian
unit that reached the town was, in part,
cut off by French tanks. The Official
Commonwealth Correspondent testifies
that the Westralians fought “like devils.”
R.N. co-operation with the A.I.F. at
Sidon was intensified at the week-end,
and the strong ring of defences round the
town was pounded by heavy guns from
the sea, as well as by the 25-pounders
on land.
Warships were attacked by German
bombers who evidently came from
Rhodes. They claimed to have made a
direct hit on a heavy cruiser, but if they
did they paid for it, since the R.A.A.F.
went at them like tigers and had the satis-
faction of seeing the ragged remnants of
three Junkers 88’s fall into the sea and
others limping for the cover of the
clouds.
East of Sidon, which is only 24 miles
from Beirut and a crucial point in the
advance, the other advancing southern
columns continued to level up. Twelve
miles east of the town, at Jezzin, on
Sunday evening, the Galilee-Merjiyun
force was making rapid headway, and
seemed about to curl round to the coast
and cut off retreat from Sidon to Beirut.
The Damascus advance was still held
up. For three and a half days after
reaching the outer line of the capital’s
defences. Free French troops marked
time. F.F. reports were to the effect
that the delay was due to an attempt to
secure the surrender of the city without
further bloodshed and the inevitable de-
struction of historic places. On Sunday
the French-Syrian authorities denied that
there was any negotiation.
There was no further news on Monday
morning of the Euphratean advances.
Fighting appears to be fiercer as the
days go on. An Australian brigadier at
Sidon remarked to the official Common-
wealth correspondent that the Foreign
Legion would not give an inch till forced
to do so, that the French colored troops
stayed put till further orders, and that
if the French had fought in France as
they fought in Syria their country would
never have surrendered.
No Germans have taken any obvious
hand except over the sea. German diplo-
mats and Italian armistice commissioners
left hurriedly for Ankara, where other
diplomats of the German Foreign Office
on June 10 stated that “no German
soldiers would be sacrificed in Syria,
which was being left to the French.”
Berlin Radio remarked:
Germany considers herself a non-partici-
pant observer of the struggle between
former allies. Nevertheless, we are watch-
ing closely every phase of this shameless
British violation of law and order as well
as French reaction to it.
The German interest in the campaign
appears to be in the hope that it will
plunge Britain and France into a full-
dress state of war with each other.
Losses in Crete.
“Ek Dum”: On their own —no doubt
conservative —admissions, the Germans
paid a heavy price for Crete,
Hitler gave Luftwaffe losses in the
Balkan campaign at 10 officers and 42
other ranks killed and 36 officers and 104
other ranks wounded, and, in the land
forces, 57 officers and 1042 other ranks
killed and 181 officers and 3271 men
wounded, plus 13 officers and 172 men
missing.
These losses were incurred against
Yugoslav, Greek and British forces in
three weeks of fighting over a front a
couple of hundred miles long on an
average.
But a few tired battalions of Anzacs,
with a couple of depleted divisions of
equally weary and ill-equipped Greeks,
helped by the R.N. and such of the
R.A.F. as could be spared, exacted a toll
of 5983 men —almost two for every
square mile —for possession of Crete. It
is acknowledged that 125 officers and
1228 men were killed, 106 officers and
2515 men wounded and 117 officers and
1802 men missing. And they were all
specially trained men of the Luftwaffe,
irreplaceable without a long interval of
organisation and practice,
A loss of 236 ’planes also was admitted,
and many of them were multi-engined
bombers and troop-carriers.
Such a sacrifice naturally called for
explanation in the shape of unblushing
whoppers. By way of giving an air of
verisimilitude to them, they were pre-
sented along with a statement of British
and Greek army casualties that was near
enough—sooo killed and wounded and
15,000 prisoners. Britain, it was then
alleged, had lost 600 aeroplanes and 30
warships between January 1 and May 30,
including 23 round Crete, plus 104 mer-
chantmen in the Mediterranean. It was
actually asserted that in the sea-fight
which frustrated the attempt to transport
6000 German troops from the Greek
mainland in caiques only 200 were killed.
This when the convoy was sunk almost
to the last plank.
Mr. Churchill’s estimate of German
losses was 5000 drowned, 12,000 killed
and wounded, 180 bombers and fighters
and 250 troop-carriers brought down.
He remarked that, of 90,000 lives lost
at home and abroad, 85,000 had been
from the Mother Country; and he
defended the Government for not having
provided more aerodromes and guns in
Crete. The provision of ’dromes, he said,
would have been a mistake unless there
had been anti-aircraft guns to defend
them. And the Battle of the Atlantic
was going on and all available guns were
being mounted on ships.
It seems a logical extension of his
argument that, if the island could not be
effectively defended, it should not have
been defended at all.
The War on the Seas.
The R.A.F. was very busy last week.
It briskly bombed Brest, where the Bis-
marck’s escort, the 10,000-ton Prince
Eugen, or another ship of the class, has
joined Scharnhorst and Gneisenau. And
a Beaufort bomber hit a pocket battle-
ship which was discovered with an escort
of five destroyers off Norway. The hit
was followed by a burst of smoke from
amidships, but bad visibility made it im-
possible to see the damage. Other Ger-
man-held ports also caught it hot, and
the new long-distance bombers were
active round the North Sea and across
the Atlantic, where the battle seems to
be turning out well.
Mr. Bevin spoke the other day of the
Navy’s having sunk “dozens of U-boats.”
Mr. Churchill said that in May, our
best month, Britain had sunk, captured
or seen scuttled outside the Mediter-
ranean 257,000 tons of enemy shipping,
which was about three-quarters of the
loss which the enemy had inflicted on
us ; this, despite the fact that Britain’s
shipping target was ten times greater
than theirs, and that there were never
fewer than 2000 British ships at sea nor
fewer than 400 in the danger zone.
In the Mediterranean a British sub-
marine sank an Italian armed trawler.
Another sub. torpedoed an Italian auxili-
ary cruiser in Benghazi Harbor. An
Italian tanker limped into Istanbul with
signs of having been battered below the
waterline; another, of 8000 tons, was
torpedoed and almost certainly sunk in
the .Egean. A cheeky underwater boat
calmly bobbed up in the harbor of
Lampedusa and scuppered a 1000-ton
Italian supply ship ; still another drifted
into the port of the island of Mytilene,
held by the Italians and Germans, within
sight of the coast of Asia Minor and
in the very heart of the and sank
a couple of schooners and a large lighter.
Against all this the Italians claimed the
destruction of a Sunderland flying-boat
and the Germans hits on two cruisers
under repair at Gibraltar,
The R.A.F. and F.A.A. have not been
idle against Axis shipping in the Mediter-
ranean. Several ships were hit at
Benghazi on Wednesday night, two being
set on fire —one was seen burning from
stem to stern. And when an enemy con-
voy was picked up in the Central
Mediterranean R.A.F. bombers made
several direct hits on a 7000-ton mer-
chant ship which looked a total loss.
To the list of naval losses in Crete
there had to be added last week the
4200-ton Calcutta, which had long been
an A.A. ship—she carried eight 4in. guns
—and the destroyers Hereward and
Imperial. Later in the week the
Admiralty announced the sinking off the
Libyan coast of the monitor Terror, a
wandering old girl with two 15-inchers,
built to bombard the Belgian coast in
the last war, and the first British ship to
enter Tobruk harbor after the town had
been captured ; and Ladybird, one of the
broad-beamed, flat-bottomed 625-ton
gunboats built mainly for the Yangtze.
Both ships were sunk by fierce bombing.
Terror died fighting. On June 15 the
loss of the 1700-ton destroyer Jersey was
reported.
In Africa.
“Ek Dum”: Last week British and
Indian naval forces put some finishing
touches to the East African campaign
by taking Assab in Eritrea on the Red
Sea. The miserable town was the mother
soil of Italy’s “Ethiopian. Empire”—the
first spot acquired by an Italy which had
never heard of Fascism. It yielded a
mixed bag of Italian soldiers, including
two generals, and naval ratings, airmen
and native levies and some Germans.
Western Egypt and Libya, still bowed
under pulsing heat, remained the venue
of a smouldering duel, mainly in the air.
Wherever a sea breeze has been likely
to stimulate a German or an Italian to
activity, the R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. have
made night hideous.
From June 12 there was a distinct in-
crease in land activity in Libya, particu-
larly at Tobruk, where the British forces
several times penetrated positions in the
enemy’s salient in the outer defences. A
couple of squadrons of enemy aircraft
attacked Tobruk on Thursday without
much effect.
Alexandria had a raid soon after mid-
night on June 14, but the attackers were
soon driven off by A.A. guns and night
fighters. Several bombs were dropped
but little damage was done.
On the other hand, attacks on Ben-
ghazi have become nightly affairs which
have continued for nearly 18 days with-
out a break. Every night there is fresh
damage ; ships are hit and there are more
gaps along the mole.
While Benghazi was being raided on
June 8 six ’planes were wrecked on the
ground at Gazala aerodrome, eight de-
stroyed at Derna and several others
damaged.
R.A.A.F. Has a Jubilee.
“Aileron”: The R.A.A.F. has just
celebrated the achievement of a jubilee.
Up to the beginning of last week the
squadron in the Middle East had bagged
48 enemy ’planes for certain, besides
damaging 27 ; and two more have been
added to make the jubilee.
In one recent engagement the boys
brought down 14 enemy bombers in a
single fight; and not long ago aircraft
of the lone squadron shot up two Messer-
schmitt 110’s, twin-engined ’planes.
On the same day other portions
of the outfit wrecked 10 enemy transports
and a Junkers 52. This was in the early
days of the Greek invasion, when they
flew as far afield as Monastir.
Two days after this fight another single
machine, operating on the Libyan front,
tore into four Junkers 52’s over Capuzzo
and sent one down in flames. Then the
pilot compelled the other three to land
and wrecked the lot with machine-gjan
fire.
The original squadron—incidentally, as
fine in physical appearance as any force
serving—has lost a member or two at
long intervals, and now and then a
machine —two recently over B&nghazi.
It has been in action or ready for action


almost continuously since January, and
seems to get tougher and more enterpris-
ing as time goes on.
It began its existence cradled in Gloster
Gladiators and graduated to Hurricanes.
A pledge has been given that hence-
forward no A.I.F. men will be sent into
action without adequate air support, and
the first move towards the accomplish-
ment of this ideal is what is called “heavy
reinforcement of protective squadrons of
fighters and army co-operation squadrons
for the Australian forces.”
The ’planes are to be Hurricanes and
the latest type of American machines, the
Curtis Tomahawk, is in use in Syria.
Two new squadrons are being formed
at once. They will be all-Australian. One
will be commanded by Flight-Lieutenant
B. R. Felly, formerly private secretary to
the Governor of N.S.W., who was trained
with the City of Sydney Citizens’ Squad-
ron and arrived in Egypt just in time to
join in the push towards Benghazi at the
beginning of the year. The other will be
under Flight-Lieutenant Steege, who in
1937 gave up a job as probate clerk in
the Perpetual Trustees in Sydney to join
the R.A.A.F. and begin training at Point
Cook. He has been one of the most
doughty air pioneers of North Africa,
always daring and eager for a scrap.
Recently he was given a D.F.C.
It is a far cry from a probate office
desk to the charge of a squadron of
Hurricanes.
Life on a Raider.
“Nobby II”; Australians captured by
the German raider Atlantis are coming
home and going to sea again non-
chalantly. The Atlantis appeared early
in 1940 in the South Indian Ocean. At
times she was within a few days of the
Australian coast. Sometimes she sported
a Japanese flag and name.
She sank the Scientist on May 3 and
captured the Norwegian Tiranna on
June 10. The Tiranna had left Sydney
in May. Teddy Gunderson, her captain,
made a bid to escape ; in the melee his
ship was bombed and eight or nine men
killed. The Germans tried to take the
ship to Norway; she was torpedoed off
Spain. The City of Bagdad was sunk
on July 11, the Kemmendine on July 13,
the Talleyrand (Norwegian) on August 3,
the King City on August 24, the Athei-
king on September 9, the Benarty on
September 10, the Commissaire Ramel
on September 20 and the Yugoslav coal-
burner Durmitor was captured. The
world did not hear of the fate of some
of these ships for months afterwards.
The picture of the Atlantis on this
page, drawn from the composite obser-
vations of engineers, gunnery officers and
other prisoners, is the first sketch of a
raider printed in the Commonwealth.
The man who made the original draw-
ing did a wonderful job on squared paper
to scale.
The ship was described as a very fast
Hansa cargo boat; top speed, over 20
knots. About 10,000 tons, she was
evidently built with a view to conversion
into a raider. She could have stood a
good chance with any destroyer and put
up a fight with a light cruiser. As his-
tory was to show months later, she
was able for a time to stand up to
H.M.S. Cornwall, an Bin.-gun cruiser.
The masts of the Atlantis were of the
disappearing fishing-rod type, fitted with
lookout at the crosstrees and two search-
lights apiece. Her disappearing derrick
ventilators were hideouts for A.A. guns.
She had an aeroplane in the fore hold,
two double torpedo-tubes on each side,
a dummy for’ard funnel and a genuine
extendable after one, and a speedboat,
with derrick attached. Her guns were:
On the forecastle, in a locker like a chain
locker, one medium-calibre, and one con-
cealed A. A.; on the welldeck, three, two
apparently 5.9’5; on the boatdeck, three
machine-guns on each side; on the
main deck, two light guns on each side
above torpedo tubes; one A.A. behind
a naval range-finder aft of the crew’s
quarters; one A.A. on the after well-
deck ; one Sin. hidden in a large
machinery packing-case, with attached
winch for handling coverings; two ordi-
nary guns—one 4.lin. or 5.9, the other
smaller —and a pompom on the poop.
The Atlantis lived altogether more than
a year at sea and mainly on her own
resources. It was her practice to attack
vessels about midnight, or in poor visi-
bility. Four King City apprentices were
killed in their bunks; otherwise there
were few deaths on British ships.
The Commissaire Ramel’s story was
typical. She was eight days out from
Fremantle. After the crew was taken
off the ship was sunk. There was a little
muttering of “Schwein” when they came
aboard the German, but otherwise no
hostility, and, though they were placed
under strict guard, they were well treated.
The captain showed the visitors some
little courtesies, such as replacing the pipe
of a British officer who had lost his own.
The Ramel’s men were told that the
ship was on short commons, but that
they would get their share with the rest,
and, so far as could be discovered, this
rule was rigidly observed. Breakfast was
a pint of flour and cocoa mixed with thin
gruel; lunch, a lean sauerkraut and a
plate of beans. Tea in small quantities,
soz. of bread and a spoonful of jam to
last 48 hours were served out. The ship
had a first-class hospital and two naval
surgeons. Great attention was paid to
the health of both Germans and British.
After five weeks and a day the Ramel
men were placed in the Durmitor to be
taken to the prison camps of Merka and
Mogadiscio, in Italian Somaliland. She
was pure hell beside the Atlantis. The
quarters of the prisoners were noisome
and overcrowded. Rain poured through
the hatch. Sanitary arrangements were
foul. The prisoners were literally starved.
Some German sailors took pity on them
and shared rations. Tarpaulins were
spread on wet salt for them to sleep on.
The ship was so short of coal that wood
was prised from various parts of her
and paint scraped from the superstructure
to go into the furnaces with other com-
bustible rubbish.
They presently reached Warsheikh,
were kept there a couple of days, sent
on to Mogadiscio. After a month they
went to Merka.
There they found a notice signed by
the Italian commandant:
You must remember that you are
prisoners of war. This means you are
soldiers. A soldier must be obedient. Some
of you are disobedient. This may cause
serious prejudice against you. It may be
the cause of imprisonment. In gaol you
get only bread and water. You may be
THE GERMAN RAIDER ATLANTIS.
The upper picture shows the ship as she appeared to passers-by on the ocean —apparently an innocent
modern cargo ship. The lower picture shows her concealed armament —guns in locker and dis-
appearing ventilator derrick on fo’c’sle; telescopic masts, with lookouts and searchlights; aeroplane
in fore hold; three guns (two 5.9's) on fore deck, and, on 'each side, two lighter guns and two
double torpedo tubes, with machine-guns above. The dummy funnel and funnel extension are
shown with dotted lines; the rangefinder and a concealed A.A. gun are aft of the real funnel.
The Sin. gun is packed in a case addressed to a Manila machinery firm on the after welldeck,
and the poop, lighted with searchlights, bristles with guns.
brought before a military Court, and, if
found guilty, be liable to the same penalties
as Italian soldiers, which include the
death penalty. I do not, if possible, desire
to punish anyone. This, however, depends
not upon me, but entirely on you and your
good behavior. I will do everything to
make your lives as happy as possible under
the circumstances. You for your part must
help me with strict discipline and good-
will and obey without question the orders
that I, my men, or your own officers give
you. I hope you have fully understood
what I said, and that after this warning
you will not compel me to punish any of
you.
Though both Italians and natives
seemed to have no stomach for the war,
and appeared to be relieved when the
S’Africans arrived on the whirlwind tour
from the south, the interregnum between
the landing of the sailors and their release
was unpleasant and in keeping with the
general standard of Italian war effort.
On paper, there was an adequate food
allowance; actually, the Italian and
Somali “babblers” sold prisoners’ rations
to the natives. Sometimes the prisoners,
having sold some of their meagre belong-
ings or the ill-fitting Italian uniforms
served out to them, bought their own
ration issue from the Africans.
Health conditions were worse even
than those on the Durmitor.
Out of 194 British seamen —there were
four women and two children sent else-
where —97 went to hospital with dysen-
tery and similar ills. Four seamen died.
The men complained generally of neglect
and incapacity on the part of their
captors rather than of any deliberate ill-
treatment. The bitterness engendered by
the general conditions and the selling of
food was accentuated by the rigid insis-
tence of the Italians on ceremonial.
Their trials left a lot of the men bitter
against the Italians, some of whom had
intended to be kind. For example, the
wife of the commandant at Warsheikh
had bought goats and had them roasted
for the British, so that everybody had
signed a letter thanking her.
But one of the bitterest grouches some
seamen seemed to nurture was about the
manner of their reception in British East
Africa after their release. The R.N. had
organisation to deal with its rescued
captives; so had the Army. Merchant
seamen were like unwanted children left
on a doorstep.
There should be, in every port in the
world, British or neutral, some authority
to whom the rescued Australian seaman
can turn at once when the sea or the
enemy gives him up, sure that he will
be well looked after at the expense of
the Australian people, who owe him so
deep a debt of gratitude.
Last week the Acting Premier of
Maoriland announced his Dominion’s
casualties in Greece and Crete —213
killed, 1187 wounded, 41 prisoners
and 4324 missing—total troops in both
campaigns 16,530. Complete Common-
wealth figures are not available, but
lists of A.I.F. losses in unspecified areas
were printed all last week. In all
of them the numbers of killed and
wounded recorded have been very small
in proportion to the total losses. In a
list published on June 14 in which 429
were shown as missing, there were five
deaths, though 13 missing Westralians
were “believed to have been killed.” The
list for June 16 included 819 names,
among which there were only 14 fatal
casualties, while 455 Victorians, 283
N.S.W. and 24 Queenslanders were
posted as missing. The lists have in-
cluded men from all States, but Vic-
torians and N.S.W. men have figured
most heavily.
The A.M.C. seems to have suffered
out of proportion to its numbers. Five
W.A. doctors in one unit are posted
missing, including Lt.-Col. L. E. Le Soeuf,
who, when he enlisted, was president of
the Westralian branch of the B.M.A.
* * * «
“Ek D.”: British and Australian sea-
men received rude shocks last year when
they were taken off raiders and dumped
into the Italian prison camps of Somali-
land. They found themselves treated as
military prisoners. Protesting to the
Italian commandant, they were merely
told that Germany had now taken over
so many countries in Europe, thus con-
trolling their votes, that the only inter-
national law was that approved by Ger-
many and Italy.
9 9 * 9
May losses from bombing in Britain
totalled 5394 killed and 5181 injured ;
the number killed since August was
39,678. Bombing of Britain was limited
last week save for a heavy raid on a
Midland district and a s.-e. English town
on Wednesday night. The R.A.F., with
“hundreds of machines,” carried out on
the night of June 13 the heaviest attack
it has made on the Ruhr. It seems to
have been a devastating affair, but the
enemy admitted only some damage and
several civilians killed. He said four
R. ’planes were shot down. The
Coastal Command also had an evening
out over the French and Dutch coasts —
Brest, Antwerp and Rotterdam were main
centres. German shipping in the Channel
also was attacked, and our bombers shot
down an armored Messerschmitt and left
a 1400-ton ship sinking. The Germans
made only slight raids on Thursday over
England. They reported having bombed
airports and destroyed two bombers off
Norway and two over Britain.
* * * 9
The Escaping Club is still at work.
Latest batch to arrive in Egypt were 77
men —airmen and land troops, nearly all
Australians—who made the voyage in
an abandoned washed-up flat-bottomed
landing boat. They were caught by a
submarine, which took off all the officers
and ordered the rest to return to Crete.
Instead, they went on to Africa. After
a 300-mile voyage they arrived four miles
from the point aimed at.
* * * *
Holland having severed diplomatic
relations with Hungary, the N.E.I. de-
stroyer Kortenaer arrested a 4000-ton
Hungarian steamship, the Nuygat, some-
where in East Indies seas and took her to
Surabaya. The ship will be “disposed
of according to prize law.” The cargo
already has been sold.
* He He #
Diggers throughout the Commonwealth
can thank Tom Playford, Premier of
S. who went to the last war in his
teens with the 27th Battalion, for secur-
ing free rail travel for members of the
fighting forces in all States, South Aus-
tralia pioneered the movement, and Play-
ford’s suggestions to a conference in
Melbourne have been accepted almost
in toto. From July 1 all members of
the defence forces in uni-
form, male or female,
whether enlisted for
overseas service or not,
will once a month be
granted a free return pass
from camp to home,
along with a reserved
seat if needed. This will
apply even where the
holder of the pass has to
travel across two or three
States. And there are to
be special concession
rates for local leave pur-
poses half excursion
fare to and from country
camps and half return
fare in the metropolitan
area. The Common-
wealth Government is
subsidising the scheme.
9 *
Despite heavy losses,
the Navy still has ships
to expand the forces
on all its peace-time
stations. Rear-Admiral
Geoffrey Layton, who
commands on the China
station, remarked the
other day that all
approaches to Malaya
had been heavily mined ;
that if war arrived in the
Far East the Fleet Air
Arm would play a very
important part and that,
apart from a steady
stream of military rein-
forcements from Aus-
tralia, Britain and India, there would be
available a British fleet “capable of enjoy-
ing an engagement with any fleet it was
likely to meet.”
* * * *
Malta had two savage raids on June
12. Five raiders were shot into the sea
during the morning and five later in the
day, one a twin-engined machine. In a
year, 295 civilians have been killed and
310 seriously wounded, and 2341 houses
have been wiped out or heavily damaged.
’Planes of unknown nationality dropped
three heavy bombs on Gibraltar on
June 13,
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Gunner Kelso’s reference
(B. 11/6/’4l) to the “humorous little
cuckoo” in Greece shows how little life
has changed in those parts in a matter of
2000 years. Caesar’s troops learnt from
the Greeks to count the cuckoo’s note
to decide how many years they had to
live, and there is a reference to it in the
account of the events of August b.c. 48,
when Caesar’s footsore legions clashed
with Pompey’s men at Pharsalia and won
the mastery of the world. I wonder how
many A.I.F, men, creeping by night
through that part of Greece remembered
how Pompey did the same before them,
an old broken general so tired that he
could not remove his own boots ; who got
a lift, with three of his staff, to Mytilene,
like so many Aussies, and then, as many
an enterprising Australian has just done,
dodged through the islands across to
Egypt. There the Anzacs have had better
luck than he had. The treacherous
Ptolemy had him murdered and exposed
his naked body on the sands.


LADIES' FITTED
DRESSING CASES
. . . from KITCHINGS’.
■ • ♦
In beautiful chrome tanned cowhide.
FITTED WITH mirror, comb, and hair
brush on lid and glass containers for
powder, toothpaste, scent, etc., on body
of case. Enamel and chrome fittings,
PRICES:
20 inches, £lO 22 inches, £ll.
Free Delivery to all Suburbs.
C E. KITCHING
319 George Street, Sydney.
Near Wynyard Station. 8W7133.
Pty.,
Etd.,
DON'T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, under-
stand that all such fatal diseases as
Fistula, Ulcer of the Rectum, Fis-
sure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will
learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance
of this trouble. DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is unequalled for every form
of Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Pro-
truding, and Blind Piles, and hun-
dreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective
reftiedy right from the start, be-
cause at such times a single tin
has often effected a cure, while in
the old deep-seated, chronic cases,
several tins are sometimes neces-
sary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing,
antiseptic and soothing. That is
why it is equally successful in over-
coming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get
DOAN’S,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The pre-wedding reception given by the
Governor and Lady Wakehurst for Joan
Tyler, who had been, for a year or so,
private secretary to Lady Wakehurst,
brought a number of guests to
Government House. It was a late-after-
noon affair, and the crystal chandeliers
which have looked down in the house’s
hundred years on varying styles of fes-
tivity sparkled blithely. The red of
poinsettia was a warm color note, and
warmth and color were added to the end
of the reception room by a portrait of
Governor Macquarie, done by Fred Leist
after the original by Reid, which hangs
in the Courthouse at Windsor. Gruners
and Syd Longs added their beauty to the
walls.
It isn’t only within the last few weeks
that women, if not men, have been buy-
ing far more than their needs in the
matter of clothes. Just after the begin-
ning of war a shop assistant told of a
customer who had bought in one smack
£lOO worth of shoes. True, they were im-
ported and expensive. Still, averaging
them at £6 per pair, the lady was stock-
ing herself up well. Another woman, it
was said, had bought over £75 worth of
gloves in two shopping trips. This sort
of outlook is ridiculous. As the war
movement becomes more and more part
of our daily life, luxury clothes are going
to be as much out of place as a chiffon
model at a hunt meeting. As for wool,
Australia’s sheep are true patriots. They’ll
grow more than enough to clothe us all.
The afternoon of music for the Free
French Forces filled the ballroom of the
Australia to the last inch. By three
o’clock fashionable Sydney—French and
English—was seated around small tea-
tables with its friends, and the Tahitian
choir was getting ready to sing. They
started with “The Marseillaise.” These
lads from part of the islands empire of
France sang with a sort of liquid fire,
and everybody was stirred, and thought
of different corners of France as he or she
had last seen them. Then, led by Cor-
poral Charles Spitz, they sang songs to
the accompaniment of the stamp of feet,
the clap of hands. Andre Brenac spoke,
telling of how the Free French must
march with Britain, for Britain in the
end would liberate France. Little Michel
Mann (he’s about eight) played Debussy
and Jacques Ibert with crystal-clearness
of tone. His father, Captain Furneaux
Mann, and his mother were listeners ; so
were his aunt, Mrs. Walter Burfitt, and a
very small cousin who wore his red beret
at a very rakish angle.
The wife of Chief Justice Jordan was
one of the organisers, and entertained a
large group of friends. Among them
were Mrs. E. B. Jones, Mrs. C. L. Jones
and Mrs. Sidney Myer, from Melbourne.
Good-looking Mrs. J. Flipo presided at
another table, where Mrs. Daly, Mrs.
Hamilton Kirkland and Mrs. Andre
Brenac forgathered. Mrs. Kirkland’s
cherry hat was a masterpiece by Agnes,
and was as gay as a lyric. Among songs
sung by Walter Kingsley was the “Hymn
to the Cross of Lorraine.” The words
of this are by J. B. Podevigne. Mrs. Ivy
Moore brought a company from her
Friends of France Club.
Bernard Heinze is to be the guest of
the Musical Association of N. S, Wales
at an afternoon reception. This will be
a tea-and-coffee affair, and will be from
three onwards in the Carlton on Monday,
23rd. Bernard, the cards remind you, is
Ormond Professor of Music at the Mel-
bourne University, and is the conductor
of the 1941 A.B.C. concert season.
The British Drama League rallied
round the Red Cross theatrical Queen,
Marie La Varre, and drank sherry to buy
votes. Justice Nicholas did the honors,
and said that over a number of years he
had not missed a play in which Miss La
Varre acted. He seemed to turn a specu-
lative eye on some of the guests close by
as he wondered how many could do the
things the spirited actress enlivened her
performances with. At which one woman
leader in Sydney’s intellectual life ex-
claimed: “Now, don’t call on me to do
a handspring.” Harry Tighe’s hooked
rug raked in many shillings. Mrs. A. G.
Thomas, of Lyceum Club fame, was a
power among the hostesses.
This is Norton Trevaire’s photograph
of Mrs. A. W. Fadden, whose husband,
is head of the Country party and as
Federal Treasurer is responsible for
everybody’s Budget Blues. However, as
Budget Blues are the forerunner to vic-
tory smiles, who cares?
The Spitfire committees, which have kept
the torch of enthusiasm going for three
or four months, and had already raised
thousands of pounds towards buying
Spitfires for Britain, have had the extin-
guisher of disappointment put on their
schemes by the recent prohibition by the
Federal Government. It is not permitted
now to collect moneys in Australia for
transfer to England to buy war equip-
ment for the British Government. This
is one of those matters of the balance of
currency which to the unfinancial mind
move in a mysterious way. The Illawarra
Spitfire Fund has about £lO,OOO in hand.
This was collected in four months from
Nowra to Helensburgh. The Scots Col-
lege Spitfire Committee has already sent
to England three thousand of its four
thousand or over; and the Strathfield-
Burwood Women’s Spitfire Fund has had
its draft for £3750 acknowledged in a
cable signed Churchill. Committees are
earnestly discussing the situation. This
is a case where a Spitfire in the hand is
not worth two in the brush.
The Lyceum Club is a pleasant place
to have lunch. Its members are intelli-
gent and not above looking so. Last
Friday’s lunch in honor of the Dutch
authoress Mrs. Van Dijk (“Jo” Manders,
as she is known to the writing world)
was one of the happiest the club has
arranged. The guest of honor, tall and
slim, and wearing with her dark suit
and furs a small pointed hat, was gentle
of voice and manner. In her speech she
told of a phase of the domestic problem
in Java, where she has made her home
for some years. She said that having
native servants it was necessary for their
employers to be kind, just and as even-
tempered as possible. The servants were
very sensitive, and one had to be careful
in the matter of hurting their feelings.
Most of the native inhabitants of the
Dutch East Indies, Mrs. Van Dijk said,
are Moslems.
Mrs. A. G. Thomas, in the absence of
the president, was in the chair, and in-
troduced the speaker. Near by sat Mrs.
Muscio, wearing a frock of the softest
peacock tones. Hers was a neat little
vote of thanks. Miss Allen, too, was at
the top table, so gay with its vases of
wattle. Mrs. Sterling Levis, Margaret
Gillespie and Mrs. Sydney de Vries were
others. With Mrs. Van Dijk was her
blue-eyed friend Miss Neijenhuis, who
also has lived in the island of velvet
nights since she was very young. The
two visitors go to Melbourne, and then,
because they feel they must see some
snow to remind them of their beloved
Holland, they go to Kosciusko. After
that they return to Sydney.
On the coldest wind of the week Joan
Tyler blew into St. Mark’s Church,
Darling Point, for her wedding with
Wing-Commander Richard Henry Shaw,
R.A.F. Joan wore a frock of delphinium
blue crepe which fell in soft folds. Her
hat was a tiny affair of blue feathers
from which fell a wide-mesh veil. Her
long gloves were of a matching blue
and her flowers were white hyacinths
and Cecile Brunner roses. The Governor
and Lady Wakehurst were present at the
church and later at the reception.
Daughter Henrietta Loder, who was the
only bridesmaid, was attractive in beigey
pinks. Wing-Commander Max Watson,
R.A.A.F., was best man. Bride’s parents
Captain and Mrs. A. T. Tyler received
at the Royal Sydney Golf Club. Very
likeable were Lady Wakehurst’s chrysan-
themum browns and the burgundy outnt
worn by Mrs. Tyler.
The Red Cross Queens have been tear-
ing up the grass in the Sydney pastures
for weeks and weeks. It will be inter-
esting to see how the takings of this
competition compare with that of the
Red Cross racehorse art union. It will
be just too humiliating if one little lone
horse can rope in as many cash sup-
porters as any Queen. Anyway that was
just a stray thought that popped into
mind at the Dog Show on Saturday at
Retford Hall. Here all the dogs from
the best families showed their paces in
support of Sue Other Gee’s candidature.
It was a howling success. Later on
owners could have a hair of the dog that
bit them (only all the pups were too well
trained for that) at the cocktail party in
the ballroom arranged by Mrs. Claude
Healy and Mrs. Alexis Albert, another
great success. In the evening fun and
games at Redleaf put the Army Queen
Diana Massie up another rung or two.
Sydney’s mail carries ah increasing
number of the Lady Gowrie Red Cross
Appeal seals. Indeed, envelopes which
do not carry the small picture of the
pretty white-clad V.A. outlined against
a map of Australia on which a great
Red Cross is blazoned look quite naked,
Ernest Watt buys these seals by the hun-
dred, and is a great advocate for their
use. He says it is an easy way of help-
ing the Red Cross, for the seals were
donated, and there are millions of them
on sale at the post-offices.
Joan Holman is the new private secre-
tary to Lady Wakehurst in succession
to newly-married Mrs. Richard Shaw.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
Crowds at Randwick last Saturday
were not nearly so dense as usual. The
horses had not only the war to contend
with; there were also the Red Cross Queen
rally in the Domain and football in the
grand manner at the Cricket Ground.
People who did go to Randwick were,
mothlike, embedded in wool and fur, for
the day was bitter chill. The only place,
or so it seemed, where the bloodstream
ceased congealing was in the sunny
patches at the back of the stands. Long
fur coats had an outing, and topcoats of
tweed and camel hair appeared on the
many. Not to be passed by without a
glance was the caped tweed three-piece
worn by Mrs. W. J. Locke. Mrs. Bert-
ram, with black suit, sable furs and race
glasses, had the right atmosphere.
Rosemary Brookes, of Adelaide, and
Betty Godsall looked at once cosy and
smart. Bertine Hudson’s beige angora
suit and fitting hat to tone were right
with her red-gold hair. With her was
Mrs. W. Lester, her black suit trimmed
with Persian lamb. Poppy-red flashed
Philippa Stephen’s hat. Brenda Hughes
and Mrs. Laurence Osborne were among
the few wearers of grey. Blue in all its
rich tones appeared again and again.
In sapphire shade was Mrs. Parson’s suit.
The hat that went with this was a saucy
Suzy, in coral. Friend Mrs. Larkin’s
hat was a tailored velour by Molyneux.
Mayoress Crick’s high-crowned top-
piece was all deep-blue feathers. Mrs.
Keith Fisher, of Nyngan, was being con-
gratulated over son Bill, who has just
received his wings in Canada. Nonie
Allen of Melbourne’s grey Persian lamb
coat rated a second look. Lorna James,
tailored in brown, came from Melbourne,
too. Miss Fanny Cohen, Claudia Beaz-
ley, Ruth Walker and Margaret Long-
worth are others remembered.
Sydney’s gaiety these days has always
a spearhead in it. And that spearhead
is pointed straight at Berlin. The new
Government had a bright idea in decid-
ing to hold Victory balls as a celebration
of their success. This gave supporters a
chance to give their particular members
a pat on the back and to raise money for
war purposes. The Soldiers’ Memorial
Hall in Coogee simply bulged with
humans at the Victory social indulged in
last week by friends and admirers of
W. M. Gollan, M.L.A., and his wife.
Last Saturday night the Town Hall
bristled with Premier McKell’s followers
to the benefit of a Spitfire fund. In their
hundreds they arrived carrying their own
supper. The picnic spirit is unquench-
able in Australians. All the family is
happy when it sees a hamper or suitcase
being packed for a meal on the wing.
Hosts and hostesses soon had their tables
in the Town Hall looking gay and attrac-
tive. At half-past nine Premier McKell
and Mrs. McKell appeared ; and then
congratulations were showered on them.
All the heads of the party were there.
Mrs. Mary Quirk, the only woman mem-
ber, was handsome in white chiffon and
satin. Mrs. McKell’s pale-blues were
caped in red fox.
Mrs. Clarence Bridge, of Araluen, New
South Head-road, has received word from
Holland of the engagement of grand-
daughter Gabrielle to lawyer Jan Everyn.
Gabrielle lives with her father and
mother at The Hague, where she is a
law student at the University. Gabrielle
was in Sydney with her mother, Mrs.
T. A. M. Ruys at the time of our Cen
tenary celebrations.
For four days last week that great com-
pany of Romans, Julius Caesar, Mark
Antony, Marcus Brutus and Caius Cas-
sius, took possession of the Royal, and
the old tragedy that started in the
streets of Rome and ended at Philippi
was enacted for school-age students and
Shakspeare lovers of all ages. Kenneth
Fraser was a clever, subtle and on occa-
sions a fiery Mark Antony. John
Nugent Hayward’s Brutus and Fred
Macdonald’s Cassius made the quarrel
scene very human and a little heart-
breaking. Beryl Bryant, as Caesar’s wife,
wore a sort of pillarbox-red robe which
Caesar’s Imperial purples could not
subdue. Jessica Page was Portia, the wife
Brutus left behind when he went off to
the wars. Arthur Greenaway was the
producer.
Just a small thing like matrimony
didn’t make Kitty Bluett disappoint her
public. Kitty belongs to a real theatrical
family. Her father is Fred Bluett, her
brother was the inimitable Gus, so the
minute she became the wife of Sergeant
Walter Portingale, A.1.F., by grace of
St. John’s in Darlinghurst, Kitty popped
along to the Theatre Royal, where she
is one of the stars in “Funny Side
Frolics.” The ’groom, who was a member
of Jim Davidson’s band, is now with
Lieut.-Col. Jim Gerald’s entertainment
unit in the A.I.F. Kitty’s family were
all at the evening performance as the
guests of E. J. Tait.
Among Free French officers now in
Sydney none is more famous than Baron
Jehan Charles Marie Despres. He was
formerly an officer in the Foreign Legion,
in which he fought under General
Catroux at Verdun. He won the Croix de
Guerre with Palms and seven other
decorations.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse. ; St. George’s Tee., Perth
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, ail different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air lasts —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z, (Eat. 56 Years.)
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain o?
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 953 of 1941.
BETWEEN JAMES HARPER JULES HUB-
BARD Petitioner and
IVY ELIZABETH MAY HUBBARD Re-
spondent.
TO IVY ELIZABETH MAY HUBBARD late
of West Maitland in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JAMES
HARPER JULES HUBBARD has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a decree for the Restitution of
Conjugal Rights AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Sixth day of September 1941 and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
(1.5.) C. k.. body,
Registrar.
w. j. ENRIGHT & SKILTON, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 467 High Street, West Mart-
land ; by their Agents, TAYLOR & KEARNEY,
Solicitors, City Mutual Building, Hunter and
Bligh Streets, Sydney.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Melbourne
Chatter
The Gasket Club ran a successful dance
in St. Kilda Town Hall for war nurses’
comforts. The Gasketeers, an offshoot
of the Retail Motor Dealers’ Association,
is extended to include wives of the men
concerned. Prominent among them is
Mrs. Richard Davies, who on behalf of
the committee presented the Lady
Mayoress with a bouquet. Among guests
were Mr. and Mrs. H. E. Robinson and
Matrons Sinclair Wood, G. P. Field and
M. I. Lang. Highlight of the evening
was an elaborate floor show, with a march
and songs from lads of the R.A.A.F.,
with the Royal Park Band and 14 girls
in the uniforms of various women’s units.
An explanation for candles on every
table was forthcoming later when the
lights were turned out for a Carrie Moore
number by candlelight to Strauss music.
Side attraction for the cause of the nurses
was a lucky wheel operated by Mr. and
Mrs. L. Page.
The country came to town last week
for the Country Women’s Exhibition, not,
as in other years, held in the Town Hall,
at present the hangar of the Messer-
schmitt, but in Scots Church Hall, as a
display of war-time activities. The ex-
hibits that caused most continuous in-
terest were the camouflage nets, both
completed and in the process of being
made. Spectators could try their hands
at net-knotting and did so, so that in-
structors had a busy time and a waiting
list. Sheepskin vests, gloves and slippers
were on show, and there was a distinctly
smart line in indoor boots made (but
only on close inspection was the secret
apparent) from crocheted strands of
flannel attached to felt soles —thus old
woollen garments are always in request
for these Red Cross comforts. Convales-
ment troops in hospital find them in-
valuable.
Sheepskin gloves for seamen are made
with waist attachments and thus come
into use during odd minutes for getting
hack circulation. Woollen scraps used
for lining macrame gloves (useful things
for the crews of minesweepers) include
bits of papa’s old dinner coat. A lot of
moths must be starving to death since
women have become scrap-minded.
The weaving and spinning display was
larger and more varied than in other
years, and there was an emphasis on
knitting and woollen mattresses. There
Romneys and crossbreds seem to be first
favorites, but for cushions and eider-
downs any wool is suitable. Those on
the job, knowledgeable of their wool, say
that 2s. a pound is cheap at the price,
for a long life is assured. In a herb
corner were products both dried and
plucked that morning. The show of reed
and rush weaving included articles made
from the leaves of red-hot pokers, com-
mendation for which might have put a
blush of pride into the cheeks of the
already colorful poker flowers.
At the call of Liberte, Egalite, Frater-
nite there was a successful rally in the
Town Hall. July 11 was booked for the
Free French Appeal Day and promises
of help materialised during five minutes
at the end of the meeting, wherein £350
was forthcoming in cash or promises. The
speaker of the afternoon was undoubtedly
Pierre Mann ; in fact, backing would be
pretty sound for Pierre as the best
speaker this city has heard for many a
day. He has command of his subject,
poise, an excellent vocabulary and flow
of English, a good resonant voice, is
never facetious and has no mannerisms
—and his age is 19. Later when egoism
turns to egotism Pierre may become too
much for ordinary mortals to swallow —
but at the moment he’s a personable
prodigy.
Funds acquired by the Free French
appeal will be used for the most urgent
needs of munitions and comforts. Free
French troops from the Pacific (and their
families if eligible) will share in these
comforts. Among those who pledged
themselves to help at the first meeting
were William Angliss, Cr. Coles, the
Lord Mayor, Profs. Chisholm and
Maurice Belz, Fornand Gilbert, Ashley
Campbell, James Hume-Cook, basking in
the halo of his brand-new C.M.G.; and,
among women, Mrs, Norman Cozens, in
broadtail; Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh, with
silver-fox sleeves to her fur coat; Mrs.
A. E. V. Richardson and Mrs. Tom
Patterson, her dark hair untrammelled
by a hat. The diminutive Gullett lady
brought her longest cigarette-holder, and
the Fraser lady, with a swish of her
longest diamond earrings, spruiked suc-
cessfully for donations at the end of the
meeting.
Opened auspiciously, the Chinese Art
Exhibition and Bamboo Festival. The
date being Friday, 13th, didn’t matter,
for gods of the Orient and the Chinese
calendar were present in spirit; there
were neither breakages nor burglaries,
and the number present (at the premiere
price of ss. per head) was a satisfactory
beginning of the fortnight’s season. Bene-
ficiaries are Chinese Relief and Air Force
Auxiliaries.
There are loan pieces from Frankston,
from the respective valuable collections
of H. W. Kent and Mrs. A. G. Morgan.
Collections of Keith Murdoch, Dr.
Leonard Cox and G. G. Ewing were also
made available. Prominent are Mrs.
Garnet Malley’s robes and jewellery, and
in an admirably lighted showcase are the
Colin Fraser’s snuff bottles and other
miniature ornaments. Many other owners
of small collections or of single pieces
contributed, but the noblest job of all
was done by the triumvirate of selectors,
H. W. Kent, Jos. McClelland and George
Ewing. They had to be tactful as well
as accurate in their assessments, giving up
most of their spare time for weeks before-
hand, and for several days before the
show they were bright and early on the
ticklish job of receiving, unpacking and
arranging exhibits.
Several speakers tackled the micro-
phone on the first afternoon. In addition
there was an entertainments programme,
something of an endurance test for the
performers, as everyone had more of an
urge for talking than for listening. The
pageant by the Chinese community was
well received by spectators with eyes
primed up to be busier than ears. Mem-
bers of the organising committee all wore
orchids in ones, twos or sprays of half
a dozen, which prearranged plan wasn't
as extravagant as it sounds. The hot-
house blooms were all bought from the
adjacent Brighton Hostesses’ Auxiliary
flower-stall.
Inset Betty Ince, practising Cockney
dialect in her spare moments on behalf
of “From Nine Till Six,” to be presented
by St. Catherine’s old girls at the Prin-
cess on June 26. Betty, the elder of the
Wesley Inces’ two brunette daughters,
had a taste of amateur dramatics at St.
Catherine’s and at Frensham. Her char-
acter part in the forthcoming comedy is
that of apprentice Gracie. Action of the
piece takes place backstage in fitting-
rooms of a London dress shop. Ticket
secs, for the effort are Margaret Dewez
and Mrs. Keith Bowles (better known as
Betty Tompkins).
If the St. Cath.’s play (for Prince
Henry’s Hospital Girls’ Ward and the
Mignon war-workers’ fund, is as success-
ful as another old-school-tie dress-shop
comedy, “Her Shop,” done last year by
Clyde old girls, everybody concerned will
be delighted.
Nothing very much has been heard to
date of the Mignon war-workers, who
seem to be doing a useful job with the
tenacity of beavers. Apparently they have
more driving force than urge for pub-
licity. On their knitting machines (where
cardigans, socks and other woollen com-
forts are made for the troops) they use
£BO-worth of wool per week. Their fund
is to pay for materials, for, although co-
operation is forthcoming from various
woollen mills, the sum required takes a
lot of finding. Donors of money may, if
their gift equals 10s. or more, stipulate
what type of article they would like
made.
The Mignon workers attach an
acknowledgment tab when the parcels
are packed, so there’s a personal touch
about these comforts that’s appreciated
by those who give and those who re-
ceive, Inventor-in-chief of the scheme
was Arthur Glover, who thought it out
in theory and saw it on its way in prac-
tice. Names of regular subscribers fill a
couple of typed sheets of foolscap.
Married on Saturday afternoon at the
Baptist Church, Phyllis Curnow, well-
known Gilbert and Sullivan player, who
is also remembered as Minehaha in the
1939 season of “Hiawatha.” The ’groom
was Alan Mackney, deputy chief chemist
of Australian Newsprint Mills. The
bride, who has been in costume so many
times for the sake of art and music,
refused to let the important occasion of
her own wedding day take place without
sartorial honors —her gown was of white
matt crepe accompanied by quantities of
tulle veil and hyacinths in her bouquet.
It was an inter-State wedding group,
for ’maid Mona Barklay is from Adel-
aide—she was a pal of the bride’s school-
days—and best man Charles Fenton is
from Tasmania. ’Groom Alan was born
in N. S. Wales. Another inter-State visi-
tor was Peggy Shea, who flew over from
Adelaide to sing at the wedding. She and
Phyllis are friends, tried and true, of
G. and S. seasons and tours. Home of
the newly-married pair is in New Nor-
folk, where Phyllis’s piano is already
waiting for her. The ’groom admits that
he has no ear at all for music and he
can’t sing anything in tune but “Tip-
perary”—still he’s all for encouraging his
wife to pursue her favorite muse. Austin
Murcott photograph.
The annual meeting of the central
council of Royal Melbourne Hospital
Auxiliaries was held, as usual, among the
“No Smoking,” “Silence,” and other
threatening notices of the drab-walled
Outpatients’ Hall. But auxiliary workers
present looked like a plucky lot; it would
take more than the tone of a prohibition
meeting to really depress them. They
come from all suburbs and all walks of
life, and to raise so much money for
charity must call for some genuine self-
denial. Brightest spot about the meeting
was the newest school of young nurses,
unobtrusively perched on forms in the
background until a signal came for them
to run around with tea.
Receiving homage in her armchair at
the foot of the dais was Mrs. R. G.
Casey, senior. Everybody wanted to hold
her hand and inquire about her health —
“It’s much better, thank you,” From
B. T. Zwar, in the chair, was forthcoming
an address of interest, which was also
not too long. The chairman touched on
the developments of science and the
advent of social service, and gave the
auxiliaries credit for making possible
some medical amenities of the hospital.
Motion for the adoption of the annual
report came from Daryl Lindsay,
seconded by Rupert Ryan. Colonel Ryan
hasn’t had much to do with the hospital
for years, but will always remember his
initiation, the day his esteemed parent,
walking him around the wards, finished a
fire-and-water ordeal with a Dante trick
in the operating theatre—“That, my son,
is an appendix.” Another speaker at the
meeting was Mrs. Essington Lewis. There
being no necessity for her subject to be
clinical, she discoursed of general good
works and sounded a clarion call to
women in general: “Let’s get up and
smite these municipalities, for lots of
things, including the appalling blocks of
flats they sanction in residential areas.”
Mrs. Lewis’s pet movement is the
Y.W.C.A., and she let the municipal
fathers live a little longer for a chance
to mention the association’s appeal at
present in process.
With Mrs. Herbert Gillespie as prime
mover a cabaret dance is on the way
for the 21st at the United Services Cafe.
As to be expected, proceeds are for
British child evacuees. The Tivoli is lend-
ing some of its performers, Madge
Aubrey is coming along to assist with
one of the persuasive devices used for
collecting money, and the University
Swing Club is providing tone and tempo.
Curry with frills will be part and parcel
of the supper, but those who don’t like
their seasoning too pungent won’t neces-
sarily starve. A big crowd is expected
to take advantage of the ss. tickets, but
as bridge tables have no part in the
scheme of things there will be breathing
space for everybody. “Siberia,” as the
catacombs are now called, is to be re-
kalsomined before the do, which news
is appreciated by those who got them-
selves slathered in white stuff at the last
U.S. dance. They only had to brush up
against a pillar to become animated Lot’s
wives.
Recently returned from the U.S.A.,
where she spent a year with daughter
Peggy and Peg’s husband, Henry Malval,
is Mrs. Ethel Barnes. Henry, who is a
Frenchman, was all set to leave with a
French expeditionary force when France
collapsed. Now he’s marking time, as
the age limit is gradually being extended
for U.S.A. enlistments. Though the
Malvals live in the country 60 miles from
New York City, in Connecticut, food is
expensive. Grilled steak for three or four,
eaten at home, costs Bs. Mrs. Barnes
belonged to the Anzacs and to the Aid
for Britain Society, which, like Bundles
for Britain, is doing a mighty good job.
Though she tried several times she
could never find even one lone seat at
“Life with Father,” which has been run-
ning so many years that new juveniles
have to be found every now and again
as the old ones in the cast outgrow their
clothes. Of other plays she thought “My
Sister Eileen” was superb comedy. Dur-
ing a few hours’ wait in New York be-
tween trains on the way home Mrs.
Barnes visited Salvador Dali’s exhibition
at the Julien Levy Gallery. Dali’s cata-
logue is difficult to carry away, measur-
ing two feet by one and a half. The
foreword runs “The two luckiest things
that can happen to any contemporary
painter are first to be Spanish, second to
be named Dali. Both have happened to
me.” On the back cover are provocative
drawings advertising The Secret Life of
Salvador Dali. Dali, it is obvious, is
making hay while he can. Mrs. Barnes
says that as soon as his horde of imi-
tators catch up on one of his mannerisms
he’s off on another. Apart from his sub-
ject matter she thinks his technique with
paint and pencil is amazing.


Way - Bio
STRIKE PREVENTIVE
Kills the Maggot—Does Not Scald —
Cannot Wash Out. Heals the Wound
Without Scab Formation.
Non-poisonous. Prevents restrike. Harmless to
fleece. Contains no mineral oils or harsh ingredients.
100% EUCALYPTUS OILS.
(Highly antiseptic oils combined with viscous residuals.)
HEALS WOUNDS AFTER LAMB-MARKING, BARBED WIRE CUTS
AND ALL INJURIES TO STOCK.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
6/
m
o
A
<t£p
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-31 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
BETTER RETURNS FROM WINTER PRODUCTION
Keep on feeding TRI-CAL-OS BONE
FLOUR to supply the essential minerals
calcium and phosphorus. Regular
feeding of Tri-cal-os prevents deficiency
diseases and bone troubles, maintains
good all-round condition and enables
stock to make the best of winter
fodders. Tri-cal-os has a guaranteed
minimum of 33% phosphoric acid and
40% lime and is specially processed to
ensure maximum digestibility.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney;
G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O.
Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; and G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
■SSSSI
THE MAN ON THE LAND “DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Shearing Prospects.
“Murrawong”: This season there will
be a shortage of shearers, experts, cooks
and shed-hands, owing to enlistments and
more lucrative work in munition and
other factories. Boys will be scarcest of
all.
Many shearing problems could be
solved by a better distribution of shear-
ing. More than half the sheds want to
start between mid-August and the end of
September, and there is never sufficient
labor to do the job properly. Various
factors are responsible. Lambing, grass-
seed, climate and the desire to get the
wool off before the spring fly-attack are
the chief ones, but many graziers stick to
that period when they could help the
shortage all round and get a better spin
themselves by shearing earlier or later.
The pastoral award asks for one
learner in six. The Queensland idea that
the barber is still a learner until he has
shorn 10,000 sheep is a good one. Cer-
tain contractors, mindful of the award,
have trained hundreds of shearers. Others
cut their quotes so fine that only a fast
team will show them a profit. Some
graziers refuse to employ learners. Many
six-stand sheds engage only five shearers.
It would be in the sheepowner’s in-
terests to have shearing operations sys-
tematised. Each State could be divided
into districts. Beginning with the early
sheds, the work could be organised to
allow the shearing teams to concentrate
on each district in its turn, thus saving
time and expense on travelling between
sheds. This would get the bulk of the
work done before spring came in with
its wet sheep, muddy paddocks and blow-
flies. It would also leave the teams free
to concentrate on ewes and lambs ahead
of the flies and grass-seeds.
Prepare for Shearing.
“Bungaree”: Look to shearing needs
now. Machinery parts may be difficult
to get, repairs hard to get done.
Get the expert out a few days before
the team arrives to look over the engine
and gear. The cost will be much less
than even an hour’s delay in the start of
shearing.
Give a steam engine a trial run. If
boiler tubes are thin or leaking, have
the necessary gear on hand to plug them.
Faulty gaskets or packing should be
remedied and gauge glasses and lubricat-
ing system tested. Inspect all belts and
give dry ones a liberal coat of castor
oil. Certain types of belt fasteners are
scarce ; order them now, or get laces if
fasteners are unprocurable.
Modern ball-bearing machinery almost
looks after itself, but old-style gear may
need attention. A good man can remetal
shaft bearings and do most of the head-
gear and handpiece repairs in the shed.
Repairs to tube-joints, back-joints of
handpieces, friction spindles, should be
completed before the shed repairs start
so that they can be fitted then and run in.
Inspect gut-cores and order sufficient new
gut for spares. Clean out the lubricating
system of the overhead gear before shear-
ing. Grinding troubles may be due to
worn bearings, loose bolts or badly-
balanced discs, which should be looked to.
Make a list of requirements, from
brooms to woolpacks, and order now.
Overhaul and oil the press. Keep spare
ropes on hand and replace badly-worn
ones. See that sideboards are complete
and that they fit Take the platform off
sca j e £ and clean out rubbish. Check
the weights.
, Ya rds and pens should be sheep- and
Jamb-proof, gates properly swung and
fitted with reliable catches.
It P a Y s to P ut a concrete floor in the
drafting race and as far back into the
pens as you can Sheep will run
better I* l6l-6 WI JJ be no mu d or
Puddles in rainy weather,
e^ore scaring starts, clean
the shed right out, removing dead wool,
crutchings or oddments from the bins
h° ar d and chutes with plenty of
J}?*. water and soda, then mix a reliable
disinfectant and splash it around copi-
ous and lack of light harbor
“Are you sure youve found ’em all?”
germs. Remove the top layer of soil
and old droppings from counting-out
pens and scatter unslaked lime there.
Shortage of petrol affects delivery of
supplies. Order well ahead and don’t
feel satisfied until they’re landed on the
property.
Tractors.
“Plugger”: One of the first signs of
age in a tractor engine is a reluctance
to pull well in top. This is generally
because the engine can’t develop its full
revolution rate, though it keeps it up in
the lower gears when it isn’t necessary
for it to work at full power output.
What is needed is a top overhaul.
Ignition and fuel systems, valves and
other parts need a check and general
correction. Look for a weak spark. Any
spark will fire a cylinder full of com-
pressed gas, but it needs a full-blooded
spark to get all the power out of the
explosion. The greater the speed and
completeness of the explosion, the greater
the power in the piston-thrust. A weak
spark often means that all the gas in
the cylinder isn’t ignited.
A full-blooded spark depends on clean
.plugs, correct setting of the gaps, efficient
leads and clean and fully-contacting
points. Given those factors and provided
the electric supply is all right, the spark
Should he efficient
Pitted valves allow the gas to escape,
v *v®„ 7. InnH ic°nti
especially when the .
Correct timing is another essential, as
are a clean carburettor and clean fuel-
lines. Too many drivers get careless
about the oil level. Test it frequen y
and keep it up. When oil is shor i
can’t cool properly and there is always
the chance that some part of the engine
isn’t getting an adequate supply.
Molasses Grass.
“Huxave”: Molasses grass—it can be
recognised by its thick covering of glan-
dular hairs which exude a viscid oil and
a strong aromatic odor when fresh—was
introduced to Australia from Africa in
1901. There it is claimed that the viscous
grass-sheaths snare the tsetse and other
pests. The grass has been grown spar-
ingly in New South Wales and Westraha.
North of Rockhampton (Q.) it flourishes,
and some farmers find it has kept the
tick under. Cattle have to overcome a
dislike of its strong odor, but once they
do they take to it readily and fatten on
it. In the belief that it does clear away
tick, an extensive test is to be made in
Brazil. Northern Australia will watch
the experiment with interest. Anything
to beat tick is worth a trial.
Hints for the Farm.
“Berktam”: Pigs in pens and paddocks
want warm, dry, draught-free shelters,
Too many new-born pigs die of cold,
Pigs catch pleurisy easily in a draughty
sty. In very cold weather the pigs will
huddle closely in the shelter to keep
warm. Keep them in small lots to beat
bad ventilation and overheating. Good
food and plenty of it is a great warming
agent, but it is wasted if the pigs are
badly sheltered.
“A.Y.R.”: Cows, dry, pregnant or
springing, need plenty of protein in their
rations if milk productivity is to be at
its best when the calf arrives. Growth
and development of secretory tissue in
the udder are the determining factors, and
without adequate food both are deficient.
uc ® rne a Y or silage will
fill the bill, but where the quality is poor
give one of the following mixtures: Five
parts pollard or ground grain to one part
meatmeal, three parts pollard or g.g. to
one part peanut meal or three parts pol-
lard or g.g. to two parts linseed meal.
“Jayem”: Burning-off encourages
blady grass, as it destroys clovers and
soil organic matter. Introduce sub. clover
in paddocks infested with grass,
topdress with super, every autumn, sub-
divide into small areas and graze. That
treatment crowds out blady grass and
bracken and encourages better species in
ture
“R PP f n ”.' “p Punch” fB 28/5/’4l)
need nQt gQ tQ so muc h trouble curing
hides. The night the beast is killed
wasb the blood off the hide and hang it
QUt Q £ reac h c f dogs. Before the sun
comes U p ? p £ g t j ie hide out under cover,
flesh side up and with a good-sized rail
midway under it to help in tight pegging.
Throw a few pounds of coarse salt over
the hide and next morning sweep it off
and trim away fat. Pour iin. of un-
salted tallow over the whole face of the
hide and leave it for a week. Then with
a soa P |°nd— -work all over
pliable will the hide become later,
scrubbing, remove the pegs, fold
the hide flesh side to flesh side, fold
aga j n into a neat bundle and place in the
sha de away from dogs. After ten days
or a fortnight the hide is fit to cut into
str i ps f or whatever use required. And
when cut it’s a simple matter to scrape
G fl t he hair with a knife.
“Jumbuck”: There’s a lot in what
“Cow Time” (B. 14/5/’4l) has to say
about keeping aged sheep off the mutton
market, but the problem won’t be solved
by boiling down. On his own reckoning
—“proper treatment could get at least
10 s * f° r ever Y aged sheep” there d be
need of a big Government subsidy if
graziers were to benefit. During the
1930-31 drought in western Queensland,
thousands of fair- to good-conditioned
sheep, with from three to six months’
wool, were sold at from Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d.
per head (I was offered 5000 for nothing),
but I didn’t hear of any boiling-down
company anxious to begin operations,
With grass and water available, the same
sheep would now be worth 10s., about
three times as much as any boiling-
down company could afford to pay.
p_ Carter, now one of the leading
graziers of the N.S.W. north-west, started
a § a sheepbreeder with 30 ewes and a
r a m given him by his father in 1908.
From that small beginning young Carter
developed his present Rangari merino
stu d at Gunnedah. He started at Clare
Park, Grenfell, and when the move to the
north-west was made Carter was told
that he would fail, as he was going to
what was primarily cattle country. But
the merinos thrived at Rangari, and
Carter now plays an important part in
the affairs of the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’


OFFICER TYPE MILITARY BOOT
OFFICIAL PATTERN
• Abbey quality and Abbey
value are combined in this sturdy
boot. Features include high
military leg, heavy double sole
and stout upper of genuine ooze
calf with calf lining throughout
and waterproof tongue.
The same boot in Zebu Leather, 48/6
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street.
47/6
OOZE
CALF.
.
133
11
■ I
G
m ?
m
I*'
)
Australian Radiotron Valves,
fitted in your set, is your assurance
that replacements are available
when necessary.
RODIOTROn VALVES
will give full tone realism to your radio
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
47 York Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
ygu
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11/-
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/8
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Association. He has collected several
prizes at Sydney Sheep Show and at
exhibitions in the north-west.
Tom Crawford, of Mayfield, Orange
(N.S.W.), pioneered pasture improvement
in his district, and found that it returned
rich dividends. He is one of the few
breeders of Suffolk sheep in Australia.
When he acquired Mayfield 31 years ago
the place was not an attractive proposi-
tion, but introduction of improved types
of grasses and clovers wrought a great
change. Suffolks were chosen because
they had done well at Smithfield (Lon-
don) mutton exhibitions, so rams and
ewes were imported to Mayfield from
England’s leading breeders. Crawford
has proved that both choices were worth
while.
“R.N.”; At Merryville merino stud,
Yass (N.S.W.), artificial insemination has
been tried on a big scale. In 1939 about
200 ewes were inseminated from a top
stud ram and there was a 50 p.c. drop
of good lambs. In 1940 the drop was
better. Merryville reports that some of
the 1939 lambs won prizes at sheep
shows. Last season about 2000 ewes
were inseminated from the same ram,
and it is stated that 86 p.c. of them are
in lamb.
“B-gar”: Shearing is the best time for
culling right enough (B. 14/5/’4l), es-
pecially for the small grower. As each
sheep is shorn, it should be given the
once-over and any breeder not up to
standard should be raddled down the face,
for identification. Ewes should be culled
for age. Gummies or broken-mouthed
ewes and anything undersized or weakly
must go. Bad wool-cutters should be
raddled also. It will pay in the long run
to get rid of all breeders that aren’t pull-
ing their weight in the flock ; they’ll only
beget stock as inferior as they are them-
selves. If the nondescripts can’t be fat-
tened and sold, it would even pay to
give them away.
J. B. Macfarlane, Eurella, Cudal
(N.S.W.), has a Corriedale stud which is
directly descended from The Levels flock
(M.L.), in which the breed originated.
Donald Macfarlane established Eurella
stud at Teviot station, Otago (M.L.), in
1904, when he bought ewes and rams
from The Levels (South Canterbury).
Sheep were sent to Macfarlane’s prop-
erty in N. S. Wales a few years later, and
Eurella stud was founded, the present
owner taking charge in 1924. Eurella is
No. 1 flock in the Australasian Corrie-
dale Society’s flock-book. Macfarlane
won 14 grand championships at seven
Sydney sheep shows, claimed as an Aus-
tralian record.
“Canbelego”: Cowpeas, ploughed
under by J. Jeffrey, Turners Flat, Kemp-
sey (N.S.W.), improved the land so much
that excellent crops of oats were pro-
duced where only miserable crops could
be grown before. On poor upland soil,
maize, grown after cowpeas, gave greatly
increased yields of both green fodder
and grain. Better pastures were estab-
lished on country which had grown cow-
peas previously.
“Bringa Bill”: There’s been a big in-
crease in the dingo population in the
N.S.W. north- and central-west, prob-
ably because the good season has
increased the ground life on which
the dogs feed when hunted off the
flocks. Trapping is fairly extensive,
and there was a take of 60 scalps
on one station. Blowfly, too, is
bad, and there has been heavy mortality
in some flocks. These two and a third
pest, noogoora burr, have got a fillip
from the good season, and all three are
likely to cause serious damage unless
treated with precision, determination and
dispatch wherever they bob up.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What was the average Sydney price of
eggs for each month in 1940 ? (2) What would
200 to 250 White Leghorns of good breed and
well managed return yearly ? (3) What sized
; yard would be required for this number ? (4)
I Price per 100 of six-weeks-old White Leghorns?
—1422.
(1) Following is the wholesale price-range for
first-quality hen eggs during 1940: January 1-4,
Is. 2d.; Jan. 5-18,, Is. 3d.; Jan. 19-Feb. 6,
,Is. 4d.; Feb. 7-15, Is. 6d.; Feb. 16-Mar. 28,
■ls. 9d.; Mar. 29-May 2, Is. lOd.; May 3-June
9, 25.; June 10-23, Is. 9d.; June 24-July 7,
j Is. 6d.; July 8-28, Is. 4d.; July 29-Aug. 11,
Is. 3d.; Aug. 12-Nov. 8, Is. 2d.; Nov. 9 to
end of year. Is. 3d. (2) The average return
over the cost of feed, based on the last Hawkes-
bury Agricultural College test results, as applic-
able to a commercial poultry farm, was 6s. per
hen. (3) Yard size depends on the type of hous-
ing. Fifty to 60 sq. ft. should be allowed per
hen if a semi-intensive house is used, or up to
175 sq. ft. per hen for an ordinary laying-
house. The more room allowed, the better for
health and production. (4) Started White Leg-
horn pullets range from: Three weeks old,
Is. 7d. each (£7 ss. per 100); four weeks old,
Is. 9d. each (£7 15s. per 100); six weeks old,
2s. 3d. each (£lO per 100); eight weeks old,
6s. 6d. per pair; 10 weeks old, Bs. 6d. per
pair.
♦ * * *
(1) Information concerning the cashew nut?
(2) Are Australian climatic conditions suitable
for its cultivation ? (3) Any market in Aus-
tralia for garlip nuts? —l4B3.
(1) The cashew nut is a native of tropical
South America. The fruit appears to carry its
seed externally as an appendage at the lower
end, but actually the upper flesh portion is
the swollen peduncle and disc. The fruit proper
is the seed or nut suspended from this. The
upper portion is called the cashew apple, and
the lower the true fruit or cashew nut. The
nut itself is protected by a tough husk. (2)
The cashew prefers sandy soils, is intolerant of
frost, and does best under fairly dry conditions
—its cultivation should be restricted to the
drier parts of the tropics. Such conditions
would be found in many parts of Queensland.
(3) Can find no record of “garlip” nuts being
sold commercially in Australia.
* * * *
Method of tanning a snakeskin? —1224.
Tack the skin on a board, scaly side down,
scrape clean of flesh, etc., then dust over
thickly with two parts salt, one part saltpetre
and one part powdered alum. After a few
days wash the skin without removing it from
the board, rub it with neatsfoot oil, stand it
in a warm place outside and leave for two
days. Wipe off oil, make some whiting hot and
rub the hot powder into the skin with a piece
of flannel.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXXIII.
ENTERTAINING BASIL.
He arrives on the train from the city
one morning and you put him in the car.
He is 12 years old, his name is Basil, he
is your wife’s sister’s boy and he has
come up to spend a fortnight with you.
“Pooh,” he says on the way, “what’s
that stink?”
You sniff hard, but you can’t smell
anything. He traces it to the back seat
and points to the two bags there.
“Oh that,” you say. “Just a coupla
bags o’ blood an’ bone I picked up at
the store. It won’t hurt y’.”
“It makes me feel sick.”
“Well, cheer up, old chap. We’ll soon
be there.”
“Stop the car, Uncle, stop the car!”
“What for?”
“I’m sick-”
He looks all right, but you stop. He
gets out and stands on the road and
says “You’ll have to put those bags out.
I can’t travel with that in the car.”
A sort of feeling comes over you as
you remember that he is an only child
and your wife’s sister isn’t a very strong-
minded woman. Basil stands there pout-
ing. You say, “Look, son, it’s five miles
to our place. You can walk it if you
like, but these bags are going home.”
He gets in again and you drive the rest
of the way in stony silence. While your
wife fusses over the kid you and young
Tom go up the paddock to where Jack is
seeding with the tractor and drill. Tom
says “Gripes, he’s pale, Dad! ”
“He’s more than pale,” you answer.
An hour or so passes ; there is no sign
of your guest. Then your wife arrives
with morning tea.
“Where’s Bazz?”
She bites her lip. “He said he wanted
to rest. That boy needs a man’s strong
hand.”
“Has he been playin’ up?”
“Well, not yet,” she says, “but —well,
I don’t know.”
An hour later she is back. “Jack, you’d
better come down and see to Basil. He
found a ball of binder-twine and made
a lot of loops in it—something he learnt
in the Wolf Cubs —and laid it round
the yard, and he’s caught eight fowls and
the black cat in the loops and”
You hurry to the homestead. There
is a wild flurry of flying hens and spit-
ting cat, dust, fur and feathers, with yards
of binder-twine twisted everywhere. Basil
sits on the woodheap eyeing the scene
in a bored manner.
Freeing the hens is fairly easy, but the
black cat is panicky and rips a couple
of pieces from your right hand before
it gets loose. The twine is beyond hope.
You go over to Basil and say, “Look,
son, I wouldn’t come at any more o 1
them stunts if I was you.”
“It didn’t work properly,” he com-
plains.
“Work properly?”
“No. It should have got round their
necks and then, as each one fought to
get away, it would have strangled the
others. See?”
A sort of feeling comes over you, but
you don’t let on. “What about coming
up the paddock an’ meetin’ the boys?”
He displays a mild enthusiasm, and
you lead him away. Jack pulls up the
outfit and you introduce them. Jack is
20 and displays little interest. Tom, 16,
holds out a hand. Basil eyes the hand,
“Why,” he shudders, “you’re all over
dust and grease!”
Tom looks at you. You turn and
hurry along the fence. A yell stops you.
Basil hurries after you, spluttering, “That
—that boy shoved a whole heap of stuff
down my shirt.”
Wheat and fertiliser are dribbling from
him. You grin. He looks at you severely,
“Well,” he demands, “aren’t you going
to speak to him?”
You’re beginning to enjoy yourself,
Assuring him that you will speak to Tom
you send him off to the house to clean
up. You keep away from Tom and Jack,
knowing that is the best way to share
a joke of that kind.
At lunchtime there is no sign of Basil,
Your wife, somewhat distrait, says he
has gone down to the creek to study
botany. Tom hopes he falls in, and you
note that your wife doesn’t chide him
for it. You’d give a lot to ask what she
thought, but you’ve had words before
over her sister, so you keep quiet. Jack
contents himself with the remark that
“the kid wants a damn’ good hidin’.”
About three o’clock that afternoon your
wife, agitated, comes up the paddock and
says Basil hasn’t come home and she’s
been down to the creek and there’s no
sign of him, and her sister would never
forgive her if anything happened. So you
go to the creek. The kid’s footprints are
all over the place, but too confusing to
follow. You shout and search. Tom
and Jack come and join the hunt. So
do the dogs. You comb the creek for
two miles in each direction, search
clumps of scrub, climb trees and peer
over the countryside. The sun goes down,
and all your tramping and shouting has
been in vain. The boys are worn out;
so is the missus. Only the dogs are still
eager. At dark you decide to call out
the district and make for the house and
the telephone.
A red flash splits the dusk from the
front verandah, and you see a telephone
cup fly into smithereens. Another flash
and another cup goes. You run in by
the back door, through the passage and
to the front. Basil, armed with Tom s
pea-rifle, looks at you calmly and says
“What a humdinger of a gun, Uncle ;
you can’t miss with it!” He aims again.
but you spring forward and grab the
thing.
“Don’t you know we’ve been lookin’
everywhere for you?”
He scowls. “I thought you’d all gone
away and left me, but I didn’t worry
when I found the gun. I was asleep
in a room when I woke up and
found it. I’ve had plenty of prac-
tice at shooting galleries. Look.” He
twists it free, takes quick aim and puts
a bullet through the rain-gauge,
Holding him securely, you fight back
the sort of feeling that makes you want
to close your hands round his throat,
Thus, fighting Basil and yourself, you
await your family.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2 id. per line. _
Double rates for a racy defence of what other O.F.M. writers have flatly
condemned.
Philistine
There have been plenty of complaints
about imports of comic strips. Do we
have to read “Dad and Dave” and “Dot
and the Kangaroo” all the time?
Ban the imported strips and save a bit
of foreign exchange, but the chap next
door to me wastes more than that by
driving his car to work (about three
blocks) three or four times a day. A lot
of us don’t want to be elevated ; we have
to put up with the A.B.C. as it is.
Surely we can find out what the rest
of the world is doing, thinking, reading.
What a dreary place this would be if
the only books we had to read were
Wings Over Dead Dog Creek, the only
music “Waltzing Matilda” and the only
movies “The Stockman’s Bride” !
Let us have some imported strips, some
trashy horse operas, a few hillbilly songs
and “Gone With the Wind” ; life is short.
Like Mr. Justice Holmes, I often say
“Thank God, my tastes are low.”—F. M.
(N.S.W.).
The “Dogs” and “Horses”
I am anything but a wowser, but I
think the Governments should prohibit
dog races for the duration of the war,
and stop all horse-racing except on Satur-
days. There must be a huge waste of
petrol every time the “dogs” are on, as
thousands of cars and taxis carry the
“sports” to the dog tracks. Dog-racing
is kept alive by the gambling attached
to it. It does not fill any useful purpose,
as the dogs are useless for anything else.
There may be something in the argument
that horse-racing helps to develop horse-
breeding for army purposes, though this
now seems to be obsolete. But, again,
there must be a tremendous use of petrol
every time a race meeting is held. Sur-
plus courses are retarding the progress
of many of the suburban districts and
contributes to the housing shortage.
The Federal Government, if it really
wants to conserve petrol, could help a
lot by stopping the broadcasting of all
races except the Saturday fixtures. —J.
Grills (Vic.).
Webb Had Brains
Recent official statements concerning
munitions production in Australia indi-
cate that a high proportion of the
machine tools which made the effort
possible were designed and built in
the toolrooms at railway workshops in
S.A. Local engineers and visiting ex-
perts alike have praised the work being
done there —without it the equipping of
some munition factories would have been
held up indefinitely.
Credit should be given to the man re-
sponsible, W. A. Webb, the American
expert whom the S.A. Government
brought out to reorganise its railways.
While here he came in for a lot of criti-
cism, much of it unfair and some of it
stupid. Today the whole Common-
wealth is deriving incalculable benefit
from his work. Brains are one of the
cheapest investments and they can return
the biggest dividends. — H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.).
Munition Workers’ Wages
The plump and prosperous-looking man
sitting on the opposite side of the railway
carriage grew very heated on the subject
of munition workers’ wages. “It’s pre-
posterous,” he said, “bricklayers getting
£l5 a week.” His friends agreed with
him, but then I put in a word. I was
employed in the construction of that
same munition factory, and knew that
two bricklayers alone, out of 40-odd
masons employed there, had earned the
pay mentioned, or anything like it, and
in each case the men had been highly-
skilled specialists engaged upon a rush
job of building furnace arches. They had
earned that £l5 per week by working 12
hours a day for a full fortnight, Satur-
days and Sundays included. When I in-
quired if any of my fellow-travellers had
ever done 12 hours’ manual work a day
for a fortnight without a break, only one
was able to reply. “Did it on Gallipoli,”
he said.
Similar absurd ideas are held about the
wages earned by other tradesmen. I have
been told that carpenters are “being paid
far too much” by people who don’t know
one end of a saw from the other. The
facts are that we have not only to pro-
vide our own tools, initial cost of which
ranges from £2O to more than £6O, but
also keep that kit in order, replace all
tools worn out or broken or lost by
theft, and provide our own pencils, files
used in saw sharpening, and the best-
quality fishing lines used in lining-up
work. This works out at an average of
ss. 6d. out of about £6 a week, from
which must also be deducted pay lost
through illness and through wet weather.
This brings the average weekly wage
down to £5 45., which is not a very high
skill margin over and above the basic
wage.
Overtime? On the job where I am
working nearly all are boys of under 20
or men well past 40. All the rest have
“Only take it down to here!”
cnlisted We older chaps find that> after
ndi more than two hours a day in
tr F avellir f g t 0 and from wor k, we can’t
- n muc h mo re than eight hours a day
c h m bing around on roofs or going
and d( f wn ladders on rush jobs . S o
caQ , t add much to the pay envelope
, working overtime. Saturday after-
noons? Don’t ask me why we’re not
working a full day Saturdays in such a
d oie of emergency. Most of us would
do it gladly jf aske d, but nobody asks,
when you hear of a munition worker
w h OS e weekly pay envelope contained
£IQ Qr morej you can rest assure d that he
was sornebod y like a first-class toolmaker
wko t j n a f a j r b it of overtime to get
it _ Bert xhe Carpenter (S.A.).
r
Conscription
It is a sorry reflection upon our young
men that recruits must be begged for,
as a dog would beg for a bone! Even
the most casual of us must realise our
danger, yet tens of thousands of young,
single, apparently able-bodied men aie
enjoying the liberty and freedom they
do not intend to fight for.
As the wife of a soldier I often wonder
what must be the feelings of those young
men when they see their khaki-clad corn-
rades, when they read of the exploits
of the new Anzacs, or when they read
the casualty lists if they ever do.
War is ghastly. No woman wants her
son, husband or other mentolk to go,
naturally. But thousands of women have
realised the plain fact the enemy mus
be fought on his soil or on ours an
have given up their men.
It certainly appears that those who
intend to enlist voluntarily have done so.
Others will wait until they are pushed in.
Let us have conscription of man-powe .
Otherwise it is idle to talk of an a
war effort.”-A.LF. Wife (N.S.W.).
It looks as if we shall have a i
dum on it shortly. 1 suggest t y
men of military age and women who
have borne sons be allowed to vote. In
the 1914-18 war I thought it very unfair
to hear old men and women who had
refused to have children demanding con-
scription. In 1941 the number of child-
less women has grown to an army. Why
should these women, who for purely
selfish reasons have given no sons to
their country, have any voice in the
matter of conscripting other women’s
sons?
The same applies to over-age men, to
men in high positions and men with sons
under military age. Conscription may
be our only hope of victory, but let our
young men do the voting if it comes to
a referendum and decide their own fate.
—Onlooker (N.S.W.).
Compulsory military service of some
sort for all up to the age of 55 years
would give all a chance to justify expect-
ing others in a younger age group to do
likewise under far less congenial circum-
stances.
Maoriland is now calling up men to
the age of 40, but so far our burden is
being carried by our younger men.
Married men with dependants, now
mostly exempt, and others for some
trivial reason likewise placed could find
relaxation in military training at week-
ends and other convenient times. This
training should be made compulsory and
not left to the individual to decide the
issue for himself and sometimes for his
neighbor.
A wholly conscripted enemy cannot be
countered by any half-measures, and the
sooner we wake up to that fact the better.
w F r fNSWI
Is it not time the Government con-
scripted money? The idea patriotic
funds should be dependent upon chanty
and gambling devices is unjust and re-
pellent. A small poll tax would secure
the necessary finance in an equitable
manner. At present about one-third of
the community pay the whole amount
raised; the remainder pay nothing.
In our town we put into operation a
scheme to secure abundant finance, at
the same time doing away with all the
Sailing ..fir
community was approached and asked
to pay 1 p.c. of their income into patriotic
funds, all moneys to be equally divides.
among Red Cross, Australian Com-
forts Fund and Patriotic Fund. Alter
operating for a year a sum of £3OOO was
raised—this from a population of less
than 2000 was rather good. But the
amount came from one-third of the
people; the remaining two-thirds paid
nothing. This could be taken as a fair
Commonwealth average, not only in
patriotic funds but in all else relative to
the war. The few who do give have to
carry the complacent multitude who give
nothing. In life, in time, in money, it
is the same, the great army of scroungers
escape aU the time at the decent man’s
expense. • ‘
Conscript every male and femafle be-
tween 14 and 70, detail ’em for jobs—
army navy, air force, munitions, trams,
b P ob):
liigl
level, and we’d probably be a lot better
off for a fresh start when peace arrives.
Some people (in munition jobs,
f’rinstance) might think they’re worth
more than five bob a day, but if it’s
worth only five bob to lie in mud for
24 hours with bombs and bullets
dropping all over you, I’m sure it’s
worth no more to sit at a machine for
eight hours in comfort and safety.—
Sarge (Vic.).
Scissors-ship ?
The theory of censorship should be to
tell the people everything except what
would help the enemy’s war effort. In
practice “we are fed with war news
which insults our intelligence” (Isabel
Hassall, B. 7/5/’4l).
Practically all of us listen to the 8.8. C.
news—the most popular continuous radio
feature ever broadcast. Many of us have
relatives or friends in Blitzed England.
I suppose we worry about their safety
more or less in proportion to how dear
they are to us. How am I —whose son or
daughter is stationed in Hull on the Lin-
colnshire coast —supposed to react when
the 8.8. C. announces, “Last night there
was a light attack on an east-coast town
—some damage was caused, and there
were some casualties, although relatively
few were fatal”? For 8.8. C. purposes,
the east coast probably extends from
Yarmouth up to Scarborough.
Too often have I worried myself un-
duly about his or her safety—even to the
point of sending a cable. But now I’m
going to buy a dual-wave radio receiver
to listen to Lord Haw-Haw of Zeesen.
They boast of where
the Luftwaffe has been
bombing, and so my
anxiety will be allayed
unless Hull town is
actually mentioned.
This German stuff is
a damned insidious,
convincing, disturbing
set of half-truths. It
is designed to depress
British listeners and to
start distorted rumors.
For this reason I hate
listening to Deutsch-
landsender; but what
are the alternatives?
The whole problem
affects those in the Old
Dart nearly as much as
it affects us. Surely it
is preferable for the
8.8. C. to tell listeners
overseas and at home,
too, which cities or
towns have suffered
casualties —no refer-
ence to bombed aero-
dromes or other mili-
tary objectives need be
made —rather *th'an to
make us tune in to the
German propaganda
machine Groper
(Vic.).
The Press
Applying the method of investigation
of the man who discovered that man was
40 p.c. water, 20 p.c. salt, etc., I have
found the composition of a modern news-
paper to be as follows:
Straight news .. • • • • P- c -
Speculation, commentaries, etc. .. 162 „
Advertising .. . ■ • • • • 45 „
Sport, pictures, entertainments .. 17 „
Society .. ■ • • * ”
Other matter (garden, literature
features) .. • • • • • • ° »>
The estimate was arrived at after a
tally kept for a fortnight on Brisbane s
more sober newspapers. Heaven only
knows what the percentages would be
on Sydney’s flapper rags. —W. K. D. (Q.).
While a supine Federal Government
still allows some of those journalistic
abortions which pass current as “dailies
to fill over 50 p.c. of their space with
advertisements, mostly of luxury articles,
they do things differently in the United
Kingdom.
I received a copy of the Belfast
“Weekly Telegraph,” dated 29/3/’4l. It
is an eight-page paper, each 18 by 26
inches in size, or a total of 3744 square
inches. Of this, 84 square is
taken up with ads., the balance being
news. The proportion of ads. to news
works out at .022 p.c. • Sandpatch
(N.S.W.).
Wealth at the Door
While the Minister for Industrial De-
velopment was giving a patient hearing
to claimants for industries at Albany
(W.A.), latent wealth, in the shape ot
whales, was slowly wending its way west,
under the very noses of those waxing
eloquent. Yet the subject of whale
exploitation was missing from the list ot
proposals placed before the Minister.
Whalers were on the job round Albany
as far back as the early years of last cen-
tury. The annual trek of whales from


I
■
I
I
Ini
.i
HOME LIGHTING BATTERIES covers every need
Follow the lead of the Navy, Army and Air Force—and let EXIDE carry YOUR lighting responsibilities.
Where results are important and performance is paramount EXIDE always proves its superiority. When you buy an EXIDE Battery you are
buying the best designing and manufacturing knowledge of the oldest and largest maker ot Morage
Batteries in the world, and your judgment is backed up by an earned prestige that is world wide.
EXIDE Batteries are first in World Sales—first in car ignition, lighting and starting Batteries. Nine
out of ten British Ships use EXIDE. Leading Hospitals throughout the World use EXIDE
Batteries for stand-by sets. U.S. Navy, Union Pacific Railways, Pan-American Railways, Britain’s
record-breaking train L.M.S. “Coronation Scot,” cur own “Silver City Comet” and the Victorian
Railways, to name just a few, all use EXIDE BATTERIES.
These are just a few reasons why you should choose EXIDE BATTERIES for your Home
Lighting Plaints.
Send for Free Booklet —“Country House Lighting and Power.”
fexlie
BATTERIES
are supplied to all Moffat-Virtue
Home Lighting Plants.
We are sole Distributors for EXIDE Home
Lighting Batteries, and our service is based on
the broad principle of “solving individual
battery problems,” and the expert advice of our
highly-skilled technicians is always at your
disposal.
Telegrams:
“VIRTUE,” Sydney.
’Phone: FL5214 (6 Hnes)
ygu
ENGINEERS. MANUFACTURERS
AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
11-25 PALMER STREET, SYDNEY NS.W. &AT TOOWOOMBA & LQNGREACH. Old.
SHOWROOMS: 44 BRIDGE STREET (Opp. Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.)* SYDNEY.
240 COPIES LEFT FROM Ist EDITION—
to Clear at 2 per Copy
sm
met
f
m
m
JsL.
m
-i
.
b m
k
* '
■
;
“This book of photographs. . . .should be on the shelves of all Australian
golfers, both for its instructional value and as a very faithful record of
the methods of our greatest player.”— From Eric Apperly’s introduction
to the book.
JIM PERRIER’S "GOIF SHOTS"
contains 118 photographs of the champion in action, selected
by Ferrier from a special slow-motion him made of him before
his departure for America.
The essential points of each shot are illustrated and explained
in a way that puts 80 off the stick within the reach of everyone.
The size of the page is 10 x 12 inches.
*
»g
RHff
, v.
,
M
~~
PITCH WITH STOP
«■*
. I m
; i
mm
bunker play
.
From the publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 252188.


the Antarctic is now in progress and the
keepers at Eclipse Island lighthouse, a
few miles from Albany’s mainland, re-
port that they daily pass the island head-
ing west to round the Leeuwin. They
then go north along Westralia’s coastline
to the warmer waters of the nor’-west.
The homeward trek will begin towards
the end of the year.
A Norwegian company, operating
under a license before the 1914-18 war,
established its base at Frenchman’s Bay
on the fringe of King George’s Sound,
just at the door of Albany’s inner harbor.
Small steam vessels of high speed were
used to capture the whales, and daily the
huge carcasses were brought to deep-
water slips at the base and sliced up for
treatment at a shore factory. Calls were
made by a Norwegian sailing vessel which
carried the oil product overseas. About
130 men were employed, and Albany’s
commercial harvest was substantial.
When the Norwegian people ceased to
operate, the plant was dismantled and an
industry of great value died.
The whales still exist in countless
thousands, and lack of enterprise on the
part of our own people has allowed
potential wealth to pass them by each
year. Not so with the Japanese, how-
ever, who have brought modern equip-
ment and methods to bear in their quests
for whales in the Antarctic. Just what
wealth has been won by them in recent
years is unknown to Australians, but
even a fraction of it would have dis-
pensed with the need for conferences with
the Minister at Albany.— -Ah Gee (W.A.).
Democratic Hostility
That silence, broken only by polite
whispers, in public reading-rooms (B.
4/6/’4l) doesn’t spring from a demo-
cratic spirit so much as from fear of
public contempt. In public reading-
rooms I’ve been tickled pink when some
newcomer, not knowing the ropes, ad-
dressed a friend in a normal voice. Up
come indignant heads, and indignant
glares turn the newcomer into a blushing
mummy—not because he is respecting his
companions, but because he has attracted
attention and disapproval.
Should he offend again, hostilities
break out:
“Hush !”
“This is a reading-room, not a
lounge.”
“People like that should be put out.”
“Quiet, please!”
Democracy gets credit for many
customs and repressions which are actu-
ally brought about by the sheep instinct
of sheepish people. I’m not suggesting
noise should be permitted in reading-
rooms, but I’ve never seen any democracy
in the way offenders are silenced. — Elm
(N.S.W.).
Lesson from Ancient Greece
On 4/9/’4l The Bulletin published a
fulbpage review of Will Durant’s The Life
of Greece. As a result of reading that
review, I invested 25 bob, and reckon I
got full value for my money. I learned
much about the dawn of European civili-
sation. One thing in particular attracted
me, and that was the way the Athenians
had of dealing with politicians. Strictly
enforced laws compelled anyone who
sought election on a specified platform to
carry out his promises to the electors. As
an incentive, failure to do so was visited
with (1) a fine of up to £lOO,OOO in our
money; (2) banishment; (3) if the short-
comings were very serious, death. The
last penalty seemed to have been rarely
inflicted, most of the failures scooting be-
fore their time was up. The Australian
system seems to be to provide the biggest
blobs with jobs— e.g., in Delhi at £7OOO
a year.—D. C. T. (N.S.W.).
Education in the Backblocks
Agree with “G.A.8.” (B. 28/5/’4l) that
better educational facilities should be
accorded the children of the backblocks.
In my district there are ten schools within
nine miles of the town school. About
80 children attend the latter, while at-
tendance at the others varies from 15 to
40 pupils. Children have left their own
school to go to town, which has the
only school able to provide proper teach-
ing facilities for those studying for a
scholarship. Surely in districts such as
this the outside schools could be abol-
ished and a centralisation scheme adopted
whereby the children could be collected
and brought into the town school. The
greater advantages which a school of 400
scholars could offer to the children of
this district would more than offset any
extra maintenance costs. — Leinster (Q.).
Who Gets the Big Money?
Furred skins are creating interest, and
people believe that rabbiters are making
big money, but it’s the middlemen who
get that.
I’ve been catching rabbits and other
furred beasties for their skins off and on
for over 40 years, so I ought to know
something about the qualities of skins.
I sent 251 b. of bunny skins to Mel-
bourne when prices * ranged from 78d.
for tops down to 41d. for lowest
grades. The skins were well-furred late-
autumns, 90 p.c. full grown. I averaged
3s. Bd. per pound for them, and the grade
returns showed about 70 p.c. kittens,
suckers and damaged. There wasn’t a
damaged skin in the bunch.
I took the next lot to another concern.
A “classer” weighed them, dumped them
on the floor, gave them a kick over and
barked “Three and ninepence.” I said
“What about grading them?” “Haven’t
time ; take it or leave it,” came the civil
reply. Disinclined to hawk them about, I
took it. Those skins would easily average
6s. per pound at the sales, as the prices
quoted at the time ranged from 88d. to
42d.
A headline on the market page screams
“Water-rat Skins, 1245. per doz.,” but
in the body of the quotes one reads
“Water-rat skins from 20s. to 1245. per
doz., inferior 45.” That’s the catch. If
a person consigned, say, ten dozen, his
returns would most likely average some-
thing like this: “One dozen tops, nine
dozen inferior.” — Wombat (Vic.).
House Rents
“J.G.” (B. 21/5/’41)) writes with the
comfortable assurance of one who has
never been a landlord. According to
him, a rent based on 2s. 6d. per week for
each £lOO the house is valued at will
return the grasping owner the full value
of the house in a comparatively short
time. Such details as rates and insur-
ance are not taken into consideration,
neither is . the auestion of unkeep,
“Absolutely genuine horsehair, madam!”
a heavy item in wooden homes, which
require regular painting to maintain them
in order.
Burst water pipes, plumbing repairs,,
new tanks and damage by storms can
make heavy inroads on rent, and a new
bath or stove become a financial disaster.
Broken windows can also be due to a
“severe windstorm” and therefore the
owner’s responsibility. It is not unheard
of for tenants to leave owing several
weeks’ rent or to leave the house so filthy
that it must be cleaned before it can be
re-let.
Where the owner is dependent on an
agent, there is commission to be paid on
rent collected, and a week’s rent de-
ducted for finding a new tenant, and
there are always odd days or weeks be-
tween tenants that diminish receipts still
further. —M. M. F. (Q.).
As a council clerk, I know enough of
the vagaries of local valuers to realise
that “J.G.’s” scheme (B. 21/5/’4l) is
only really practicable if the valuations
are done by an absolutely impartial
authority like the Valuer-General. And,
for heaven’s sake, don’t add any more
complications to the Local Government
Act in N. S. Wales. It already has over
600 clauses and 500 pages of ordinances
made under it, and is about the most
complicated piece of legislation ever en-
acted in the Ma State. It would be far
preferable to have the Fair Rents Act
made retrospective in its incidence, i.e.,
that a decision made by a magistrate
shall date from the commencement of the
tenancy. To further protect the tenant,
any sura due to him as overpaid rent
might be made a charge on the land, in
the same way that council rates are, and
second only to them in priority. If the
landlord were faced with the prospect of
having to refund a considerable sum, it
would have a very salutary effect. —
Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
Railways
The usual yell has again arisen for the
unification of Australia’s railways, cost
at least £40,000,000 for tracks, tunnels,
rolling stock, engines, etc. For the heavy
Trans-engines to travel on other lines
whole lengths of thousands of miles will
have to be relaid with heavier rails and
reballasted. But these costs are nothing
to politicians who speak so airily in tens
of millions.
Australia will have to learn that rail-
ways as payable systems reached their
zenith in 1901 ; that most railways pro-
duce losses—accumulated deficits to date
about £35,000,000 —and that other modes
of transport are quicker, more reliable
and often more adaptable to variable dis-
tances and needs. — Airplane (W.A.).
Relative Importance
The day Priminister Menzies returned
to this country it was widely advertised
he would speak over the national net-
work. He’d been on an important mis-
sion, he’d talked with men who were
doing things, he’d seen things which were
denied ordinary fellows like myself and
others of my kind. Apart from all that,
as the head of the national Government
it was up to us to give him a respectful
hearing. And here in Queensland we’d
no sooner got going, with the theme get-
ting interesting, when our Prime Minis-
ter, the head of the national Government
and a fellow who had walked and talked
with Kings- and Presidents, was cut off
the air so that a tinpot race in another
State might be described in detail.
I think I’ll survive the shock I got.
Somehow, though, the incongruity of the
position hit me where I keep my dinner,
if not where my brains are supposed to
be. The nation at war ; an all-in effort
called for; the man who was to supply
the impetus on the air—and a race in
which not one in 10,000 Queenslanders
was interested was given priority on the
national stations.—4U2 (Q.).
Canned Meat
Australia is not the only place where
the canning of meat should be increased.
Here in M.L. I can’t get the “Saturday
Evening Post,” but I can get Yankee
tinned corned beef hash (minced beef and
spuds) and canned meat stock soups
(Liby’s) at any grocer’s, despite the fact
that M.L. has a serious meat glut.—
O. W. W. (M.L.).
Cash Order Population
Unless some political nark queers the
pitch Australia’s new Child Endowment
Act is going to afford a magnificent field
for financial enterprise as well as a new
outlet for that inherent sporting spirit
which supports the dog, pony and lottery
interests so liberally. In the immortal
words of A.8.C., “Heah is the News.”
The Act provides for a payment of ss.
weekly for each child other than the first
from birth to the age of 16. It will be
made at intervals of one, three, six or
twelve months as desired. No account is
taken of legitimacy, mental state or
physical condition. Each eligible infant
will thus represent a potential value of
£l3 a year for 15 years, £195 in all. In-
vested at a safe 3 p.c. these payments
would earn an additional £47 in that
period, bringing the total to £242.
Approximately 93 p.c. of all children
born in Australia survive to 16 years.
If deaths under one month are deducted
the survival figure is over 96 p.c. After
the first year it is fiearly 98 p.c. and im-
proves later. A 7 p.c. safety factor amply
covers death risk.
No restrictions are placed on the
manner in which the money may be spent
by parents or guardians —they would be
impossible to enforce anyhow. Provided
that no false or misleading statements
have been made the endowment becomes
in effect .a guaranteed asset of £195 in
15 years, plus another £47 capable of
being earned by it meanwhile. That is
for a second child only. Where there
are a couple of eligible young pre-
decessors the figures run into substantial
money values. A family of four, aged
six, four, two and one month respec-
tively, totals, after excluding the first,
over £5OO, with about £lOO investment
return, over £6OO in all, or, after deduct-
ing death risk at 7 p.c., over £550.
Latest available figures give the number
of Australian children under 16 as
1,851,037, and the annual births as
120,415, 43,920 being first births. Taking
into account the large class of ignorant
and casual parents, slum-dwellers, un-
married mothers (5000 ex-nuptial births
yearly, by no means always first ones),
and similar classes of more-or-less irre-
sponsible potential child-producers who
would simply leap at a seemingly liberal
cash offer, the field for financial endeavor
is indeed a wide one.
A smart saleswoman with a good line
of talk would do well at it. Uncertainty
of child life, so much disease about, lost
her own (imaginary) little
darling only last year, the
bother of having to go to
those stickybeaking offi-
cials every month to get
paid, and you can’t tell
what’s going to happen
with this war on the
Government mightn’t have
the money soon. This
really is a society for help-
ing people who aren’t very
well off and we’ve selected
you as a Special Case. We
take all risk and trouble,
and when you sign these
papers we’ll give you a
Hundred and Fifty Pounds
straight down. Fifty, too,
for each of the next ones.
Cash!
To Mother not to
speak of Father —of Four
it would be a sheer gift of
Providence. To the Cash
Order Population Co.,
Ltd., it would work out at
£23 annual return over 15
years, plus a net profit of
£lOO or thereabouts. So
go to it for the Great Aus-
tralian Kidstakes, gift of a
hurried Canberra rushing
away to catch its train. —
Colbun (Q.).
Use of the Air
Crete was, perversely, an Australian
job. Air-Commodore Goddard on May
22: “Air-borne troops will not capture
Crete, the invasion of which is the
measure of Nazi frustration.” Goring
was better informed than Goddard.
A decade ago German experts accom-
panied the then large Junker freighter
’planes to New Guinea for the Lae-Wau
service. Local men, nearly all of whom
had seen the 1914-18 disturbance, noted
that if it were possible to transport min-
ing dredges and everything else from
motor-cars to eggs by ’plane the tech-
nology of war was about to be over-
hauled. C. J. Levien, who, when D. 0.,
Morobe, had sweated over the perpen-
dicular scenery of New Guinea, dreamed
of air transport when gold was found at
Wau and Edie Creek, and got Mustar,
of the old A.F.C., to establish it.
Just as the town of Wau depends en-
tirely on air transport for its food and
materials, and gets them with the regu-
larity of a railway service, so will the
German army in Crete be able to live
first-class even if the British Navy com-
pletely closes the island to sea traffic. If
dredges could be flown in sections to
Wau, heavy guns, tanks, etc., can be
flown to Crete, especially at night. If
Air-Commodore Goddard stated the
opinion of the R.A.F. heads, the Lae-
Wau service should be studied by those
in charge of our aerial destinies; and
that goes for Australia, too.
In this war the British forces on land
have made a succession of epic retreats,
but a retreat from mossy ideas about air
possibilities will have to be made. —Bis
(N.S.W.).


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Training for Effectiveness
Pelmanism is endorsed publicly by
more than 100 Prominent People.
Pelmanists are found in practically
every calling.
Pelmanism is permanent in its effect -
on the Mind, Memory and Person-
ality,
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established
In Melbourne for over 33 years.
DELMANISM offers help in the solution of personal problems, but its main purpose is
to train the individual’s powers so that he will be effective in all his movements, so
that everything he does will be well done and produce the effect he intends it to produce.
The result is seen in the multifarious acts attendant on earning a living, in his social relations,
in his recreations, in his inner life and in his outward contribution to the tremendous effort
the Empire is now making.
INTO whatever channel the energies of men and women may be directed, by whatever
means they earn a livelihood, and however they may make manifest their intention to help
in the common effort, the development of certain qualities is necessary to full effectiveness.
These are: —
Perceptive Faculty
Concentration
Self-control
Judgment
Decisiveness
Will-Power
Self-confidence
Initiative
Organisation
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
P ELMAN ISM develops these qualities. It develops them quickly and permanently. It
creates desirable and serviceable habits of mind and of will that continue and strengthen
as time goes on. Thus Pelmanism is not so much a study as a training designed to
strengthen the mind and character and enlarge the personality as a whole. It succeeds because
it trains the conscious and the subconscious alike so that every faculty will, when called
upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of anything that has to be done.
W e give extracts from a few letters from many thousands received by the Institute in Melbourne.
DOCTOR: “Pelmanism has shown me how to observe
instead of merely seeing.”
TEACHER: “Increase in my powers of Concentration
and Memory. Increase in Self-Confidence. Greater
interest in people and in my surroundings.”
CLERK: “I have just received my Diploma in
Economics at the Sydney University and I am grateful
to the Institute for showing me how to use my mind.
STAFF CAPTAIN: “I want to thank you for your
attention and express the hope that I may keep in
touch with the Institute in the future as the occasion
offers.”
SHEEPFARMER: “I have kept an account of the
time spent on the Course. It amounted to a, shade under
three months and the average time per day—4o minutes.
ENGINEDRIVER: “It is with a wonderful sense of
ability and security that I face the future.”
AIRCRAFTSMAN: “My memory is improved, my
concentration developed and I am a better observer.’
PRIVATE: “I have developed Will Power, Observa-
tion and Memory. I feel that I can step into the future
with both feet firmly planted on the path to success.”
SOEDIER (ENGINEER) : “Yesterday I learned that
promotion, and to a higher rank than that which I had
expected, is coming my way in the near future. I
attribute my promised advancement to Pelmanism. It
was only the benefit I had already gained from it which
carried me through at .”
SOEDIER: “I was one of three to be promoted out
of a class of thirty selected for special training.”
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelraan Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Hinders Eane, Melbourne,
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
136
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
gyu
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
SEND “THE BULLETIN” TO
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
Special Concession Rates:
12 months . . 15/-
6 months . 8/-
3 months, 4/-
post free.
.ofX-
-a°:
,0*
op'*
y*f
o°
-o C&>
'&* ...
_\'K*
V
'•^t'V’
rfs
#•'
# v
011o 11
V* s
.0- ceT
c>6 1
■ ■ e vv


it
If i
V A s y v. ••■■
Ovl Gii&gy.&l
m
/
/
VJ> sW$
>:>:■■
Ljat/-*
mmm
.r.;;
1
rsa*i3
&
i
&
%
£
m
*fi
v;.-:
V;:s'
to
: ,^>t'/s'T!'< / °<' r> / ' •
$1? /
rrM&
t/IISP
u;:VC
:-x
SI; v^>
«Vsf s ;sS>:
°<
<<2
: s
■ 5
-"■
ilisii
a
M
€
'«>*
iim/<
uornt tax. 4cuj.
GENERATIONS
0
N
These are days when a man needs a noggin more
than ever to sustain his energy and maintain his
cheerfulness, but he has to consider his pocket as
well as his palate.
That is why so many more spirit drinkers now ask
for Gilbey's. The price is right—the spirit is right
and the benefit to mind and body is comforting and
immediate.
Make Gilbey's your daily ration of cheerfulness and
combine health and pleasure with economy.
