

ARE YOU
r— YOUR
WASTING
CAR—a
?
You can waste engines just as you can
waste paper or water!
Swiftly, silently and unseen, the demon
“Friction” wears and tears as metal
meets metal, wasting away the life of
your engine.
Keep the Demon Friction at bay with
Purr-Oil. Purr-Oil is a solvatised lubri-
cant of superb quality, selected and
refined by world authorities and marketed
by Independent Oil Industries, Pty,,
Limited, an entirely Australian Company.
Purr-Oil is the safe way of ensuring
maximum protection against wear and
tear.
Don’t waste your engine or gamble with
doubtful lubricants —insist on Purr-Oil
for your own car’s sake.
Purr-Oil
SUPPLIED BY THE
MARKETERS OF THE FAMOUS SPECIAL
PURR-PULL AND PURR-KOLL
MOTOR SPIRITS.
INDEPENDENT OIL INDUSTRIES. PTY., LIMITED. FEDERAL ROAD. GLEBE.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3203.
Wednesday, July 2, 1941.
Our Soviet Associate
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


I
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
iSpp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 141
The Red Page
A LIFE OF JOYCE.
Before considering the qualifications
of Mr. Herbert Gorman as a biographer,
it would be as well to state that he faith-
fully records the history of Dubliners
and the three Wicked Words, and that
the facts of Joyce’s life are so entertain-
ing as well as interesting that his James
Joyce: A Definite Biography (Bodley
Head) can’t fail to be readable. And
now for Mr. Gorman.
Specimen No. 1 of the prose style of
the authorised biographer of the most
celebrated word-artist of our times (Mr.
Gorman, trying to build up a romantic
picture of the Dublin of Joyce’s Child-
hood, means to say that Dubliners loved
song):
In those days, so unlike the present de-
plorable times, Dublin was decidedly
music-conscious.
No objections to this “music-con-
scious” jargon; this post-Freudian pom-
posity of language which reached per-
haps its most triumphant heights recently
when some politician or other begged
Sydney to become mote “fish-minded”?
Then here is Specimen No. 2 of Mr.
Gorman’s prose (he is trying to say that
Joyce was a clever child, not afraid to
speak up for himself);
Therefore, when we consider Joyce’s
years at Belvedere College, years that
stretched from his eleventh to his sixteenth
year, we must be careful not to read too
much into any positive influences. It is
obvious that his urge towards literature
was congenital and that an early and con-
sistent passion for an independence of
utterance and logical ratiocination (soon to
be Aristotelian in essence) agitated his con-
stantly-swelling intelligence.
Gripes! as we used to say at St.
Swithin’s when any unduly polysyllabic
ratiocination agitated our constantly-
swelling intelligence. And now for Speci-
men No. 3:
An ordinary youth would pass through
this period rather lightly and with no re-
grets ; but the extraordinary youth (and
this was Joyce’s case) would take it more
seriously, feeling himself lost at times,
achieving difficult victories over himself,
and eventually arriving at a profounder
comprehension of the dark mysteries of life.
It was so with Joyce. He experienced in
turn the guilty joy of a blasphemous non
serviam to the Victorian and Roman
Catholic conceptions of deportment and
thought that ruled nineteenth-century
Dublin, the overwhelming despair of the
sinner fallen from God’s grace and the
Ectherial joy of the brand snatched from
the burning through penance, absolution
and the redeeming arms of the Church.
Which, translated into English, means
that Joyce in his adolescence experienced
the usual physical and spiritual upheaval.
Before Mr. Gorman retires, there are
points, one minor and one major, on which
he must be further criticised. The minor
point is that this extremely learned gent.,
who quotes an early translation by Joyce
of Horace’s ode on the Bandusian foun-
tain, misquotes it in a way that shows
he knows nothing whatever about the
piece.
The morrow thee a kid shall bring
(Joyce must have translated, limply but
accurately enough)
Boding of rivalry and sweet
Love in his swelling horns—in vain.
He, wanton offspring, deep shall stain
Thy clear cold streams with crimson rain.
Mr. Gorman (unless it’s his proofreader
at fault) has made a nice piece of non-
sense out of this by rendering it:
The morrow thee a kid shall bring
Boding of rivalry and sweet
Love in his swelling forms. In vain
He, wanton offspring, deep shall stain
Thy clear cold streams with crimson rain.
Not that Horace will mind.
The infinitely more important point is
that, owing to the pomposity of his treat-
ment of Joyce during his boyhood and
adolescence, to a habit of hero-worship
which, as when he tries to portray the
obviously greenery-yallery young Joyce
as the humorous realist he later became,
leads him into confusion and misstate-
ment, and owing to the reticence with
which he treats Joyce the man, Mr. Gor-
man at no stage of the book makes his
hero a living figure. When Joyce as a
young man visited London and was taken
by W. B. Yeats to see Arthur Symons,
it’s more than likely that he dived into
the last lingering glow of the ’nineties as
into his natural element; he had the
manuscript of Chamber Music in his
pocket; yet Mr. Gorman declares:
Therefore, as he sat and listened to
Symons’s playing while the lights winked
' goldenly on the furniture and the ghosts
of Beardsley and Dowson peered across
the threshold and the lank lock of hair
on the forehead of Yeats fell forward, he
must have sighed for a clean whistling
wind, biting with salt, from the Norwegian
fiords.
The reference to the Norwegian fiords
is a reminiscence of the early enthusiasm
for Ibsen which led to Joyce’s first liter-
ary success—London “Fortnightly Re-
view’s” acceptance of an article on the
dramatist which Joyce wrote when he
was seventeen. At that age, Joyce was
a realist. Then, for a year or two, 1
niust have succumbed, if not quite to th
Celtic Twilight, at least to the spirit o
the nineties, for he wrote not only th
precious lyrics of Chamber Music bu
such prose as;
Though even in the best of Mangan the
presence of alien emotions is sometimes
ielt, the presence of an imaginative person-
ality reflecting the light of imaginative
beauty is more vividly felt. East and West
meet in that personality (we know how):
images interweave there like soft luminous
scarves and words ring like brilliant mail,
and whether the song is of Ireland or of
Istambol it has the same refrain, a prayer
that peace may come again to her who has
lost her peace, the moonwhite pearl of his
soul, Ameen. Music and odors and lights
are spread about her....
Symons himself could have written i
in an off moment. It’s interesting, thi
ninetyish phase of Joyce ; and when, be
cause it isn’t appropriate to the earl
Joyce who admired Ibsen (and wrote i
five-act play, now lost, in the Ibsei
manner) or to the later Joyce who wrot
Dubliners and Ulysses, Mr. Gorman trie
to evade it, he mars the book as literary
history and ruins it as a study of a per
sonality.
It may hhve been very difficult to
portray Joyce as a man. The genera
impression is of coldness, remoteness, the
solitary artist shut off from the world
by his near-blindness and by the incom
prehensibility of his later writings ; the
“ratiocinative” small boy; the momen
tarily “aesthetic” young man; the distan
enemy of the Celtic Twilight; the earnes
literary man struggling to make a living
by schoolteaching and bank-clerking in
exile on the Continent; a personality
completely overshadowed by his writings
But there was another Joyce who dancec
through the streets of Trieste with two
postmen in a storm. The boy became
captain of his school—a post that usually
goes to the sportsman rather than the
ratiocinator; the young man coulc
be astoundingly arrogant; the pale
Bohemian in Paris wrote the warmest
friendliest letters to his family ; the bank
clerk had the spirit to say that historic
Rome reminded him of “a man who
lives hy exhibiting his grandmother’s
corpse”; and continually, and always
unexpectedly, the author of Finnegans
Wake goes wildly dancing through the
streets:
No one who has not seen Joyce dance
can haye any idea from a brief description
what his terpischorean talents are like. To
enlivening music he breaks into a high
fantastic dance all by himself, a dance that
is full of quaint antics, high kicks and
astonishing figures. He dances with all his
body, head, hands and feet, and the evolu-
tions through which he goes, eccentric but
never losing the beat of the music, are
calculated to arouse a suspicion in the be-
holder that he has no bones at all.
The two Joyces appear almost as two
separate people in Mr. Gorman’s
biography. Mr. Gorman justifies him-
self by saying that Joyce was two per-
sonalities, and there’s probably some
truth in what he says. But a less reticent
and less grimly highfalutin biographer
might have done much better with him.
When the biographer is off-stage, as
he is for a good deal of the book, and
Joyce himself is speaking by quotation
or correspondence, James Joyce is lively
reading. There’s a great deal (maybe too
much) about his difficulties with pub-
lishers and, above all, with the Moral
British Printer, none of it without a
moral for Australia. Because a number
of English printers objected to what
boiled down to three “bloodies”—enter
Mr. Tonking! the publication of
Dubliners was held up for eight years;
and at the end of those eight years of
heart-breaking arguments, quibbles and
exasperations. Grant Richards, the pub-
lisher to whom the manuscript had first
been offered, published the thing as it
stood, with the three “bloodies” remain-
ing in all their gory glory.
There was trouble again over Portrait
of the Artist as a Young Man and, of
course, a tempest over Ulysses. Mr.
Gorman quotes at length the judgment
of the Hon. John Woolsey, who decided
that Ulysses was not indecent as Ameri-
can law understands the term and whose
words of wisdom should be pinned to
the wall in every censor’s office in Eng-
lish-speaking countries:
The meaning of the word “obscene”
as legally defined by the Courts is: tending
to stir the sex impulses or to lead to sexu-
ally-impure or lustful thoughts.
Reading Ulysses in its entirety, as a book
must be read on such a test as this, did not
tend to excite sexual impulses or lustful
thoughts, but its net effect is only that of
a very powerful commentary on the inner
lives of men and women. I am quite aware
that, owing to some of its scenes, Ulysses
is rather a strong draught to ask some
sensitive, though normal, persons to take.
But my considered opinion, after long re-
flection, is that, whilst in many places the
effect of • Ulysses on the reader is un-
doubtedly somewhat emetic, nowhere does
it tend to be an aphrodisiac. Ulysses
may, therefore, be admitted into the United
States.
Mr. Gorman leaves one with a heightened
respect for Joyce as an artist. Whether
or not one can read Wake
(and this commentator can’t), Joyce did
stick to his guns, and those guns are of
pretty sizable calibre. Mr. Gorman
offers some valuable comment on Ulysses
but nothing very helpful on Finnegans
Wake. Which is a pity. And one last
objection to a book that remains worth
reading; it is illustrated with a series
of “photo-montages” by G. R. Morris ;
the which, arty to the nth degree, are
unutterably silly. Joyce is not well
served by his admirers.
Les Such's Humor .
. Taken by itself, any joke-block is just
a laugh; but a collection of jokes by
one artist —like the collections of the work
of Bulletin black - and - white artists
Frank Johnson has been publishing in
booklet form over the past year—becomes
something more: a statement of the
artist’s outlook on life and a sidelight
on the Australian character.
Frank Dalby Davison had something
to say about that when he introduced the
outback humor of Eric Jolliffe’s Andy.
Judging by their popularity, there would
seem to be something specifically Aus-
tralian about Unk White’s two Laugh
Parades —maybe his ability to get a laugh
out of something battered and dilapi-
dated, like his knobbly cows and equally
knobbly locomotives ; but White’s state-
ment, oh the whole, seems both in line
and in humor to be individual rather
than national.
Lusby’s Thumbs Up, with its irreverent
Diggers and happy-go-lucky airmen, was
unmistakably Australian as well as a
presentation of his personal outlook ; and
typically Australian, likewise, is the latest
of the series, Les Such’s Such Fun!
It’s the Australian Character, as well
as Such personally, that is amused at the
gangs of kids who try out their home-
made submarine in the nearest dam or
launch a glider from the roof; it’s not
just Such personally but the whole of
the A.I.F. who would get a laugh out
of the outraged officer and the in-
describably bedraggled Digger on
parade ; and surely it’s a national as well
as a personal joke when, as barrel after
barrel of beer goes rolling off the brewery
lorry into the cellar, the brewery man
yells “Say when!”, or when the huge
removal van arrives to shift the swaggies’
camp. Why is it, incidentally, that, next
to. the swaggie, the greatest Australian
joke is the gaol?
Such’s personal sense of humor, as dis-
tinct frorp the national, breaks out in
jokes, just as funny as the others, about
shipboard life and—maybe because Such
himself has worked on ships in his day
—mainly about the cook.
Like the other Frank Johnson booklets,
Such Fun! has a sprinkling of verse and
short stories by Bulletin writers with
the joke-blocks.
Wist Ye Not Van Paassen?
Wist ye not master Pierre van Paassen,
the wight who in ye laste warre was a
pacifist and who in Days of Our Years
spake unto us of the varlet Hitler and
eke a poltergeist in the shape of a
ghostly black dogge which bitte him on
the stairs and other marvellous matters?
Ye wot him well? Good.
Well, the said master Van Paassen has
written a short new book, The Time Is
Now! which, published by the ancient
Anglo-Saxon firm of Angus and Robert-
son, contains so much sound common-
sense about this war, and, in particular,
about the U.S.A.’s duty in the war, that
one must forgive him for the absurdities
of Days of Our Years and even for those
moments in the new book when, under
the stress of violent emotion, he drops
into Biblical language and, setting him-
self up a bit too blatantly as the Prophet
Pierre, offers such paragraphs as:
Wist ye not then that these things must
be? You say that it is a pity, an injus-
tice that the innocent should have to suffer
with the unrighteous; that nations, there-
fore, as well as individuals who did not
seek war should not be called upon to share
its horror.
Unaccustomed as most of us are to
unpremeditated wisting, those who can
survive the ordeal will find it well worth
while following St. Pierre into the next
paragraph, for there he talks sense:
Where are the innocents? Who chased
the great apostle of the League of Nations,
Woodrow Wilson, into the blackness of
night? Who ridiculed that first attempt to
establish an international order sanctioned
by international justice and agreement, and
called it unrealistic [etc., etc.]? Who with-
drew from Europe after making the world
“safe for democracy,” instead of keeping it
safe? What was the response to President
Roosevelt’s suggestion, three long years
ago, that aggressor nations should be
quarantined?
An American, Van Paassen finds
America guilty. That is one of his two
reasons for advocating that the U.S.
should come into the war. The other is
that, like Dr. Rauschning, from whom
he seems to have borrowed most of his
ideas, Van Paassen is convinced that the
Nazis are out for nothing short of world
dominion. If the Germans wanted only
to conquer Europe, he asks, what are
their troops doing in Libya ; why did they
instigate a revolt in Iraq; why the
alliance with Japan, and why the dirty
work in South America?
Although it’s always pleasing to see
someone telling Uncle Sam to hurry up,
there’s no particular reason why Aus-
tralians should want to read Van Paassen
on that subject; but a great deal of The
Time Is Now! is of special interest to
Australia. Van Paassen’s text is, “Hitler
is using the German Army to defeat the
British Navy,” and he believes that there
are more important matters to be watched
than the actual sea-war of the Battle of
the Atlantic, important though that is.
He envisages a gigantic pincers move-
ment on India by Germany and Japan ;
a Japanese attack on Singapore ; and
simultaneous consolidation of control
over the entire African continent, a com-
paratively easy undertaking because of
French colonial impotence, insufficient
British military strength in the Anglo-
Egyptian Sudan, Ethiopia and Kenya and
the strong anti-British sentiment among the
Boers in South Africa.
Britain, he points out, is comforting
herself with the thought that the further
the Germans get from Germany the
better it is for us; but, he says, the Ger-
mans want to extend their lines: they’re
out for world conquest. He makes the
further point that it may be a complete
fallacy for Britain to believe “time is on
our side”; if the Germans drive the
British from the Mediterranean and
march to India, the blockade is broken
wide open and Germany could stand a
long war better than Britain. Moreover
(Rauschning again) Nazi philosophy be-
lieves in perpetual warfare as an ideal.
At his gloomiest, Van Paassen sees
Britain and the U.S. both cut off and
encircled by the German Army: Britain
bombed and blockaded, the U.S. threat-
ened from Dakar and South America and
blockaded in the Atlantic.
To stop all this, and he believes it can
be stopped, Van Paassen thinks that it
is vital for Britain to win the battle of
the Middle East: “There is no doubt
that the great battle which will decide
the fate of the British Empire will be
fought out in the triangle of Alexandria-
Haifa-Basra.” What can America do
about it?
Send an expeditionary force to Dakar
A similar course with respect to the
Cape Verde, Canary and Azores islands
Convoying of our shipments of war
materials by the American Fleet is, of
course, essential It is essential that the
American Fleet stage a naval demonstration
at Singapore... .An American force should
be landed at Bombay to take up positions
in the north-west provinces.
Even Van Paassen wists not the mind
of Hitler; and it is likely, too, that he
underrates the very great strength of the
British Empire. But the book is worth
reading as a Warning; and if the saintly
Pierre, having seen the error of his own
ways as a pacifist, can persuade Uncle
Sam to repent likewise, that too will be
all to the good, God wot.
England’s Hour: Vera Brittain (Mac-
millan). Author reads like a disciple of
the great god load. Aims at doing some-
thing like an English counterpart of
Gibbs’s European Journey. Misses target.
Concludes:
Today, after witnessing London’s en-
durance of its crucifixion without panic
or vindictiveness, I am more than ever
confident that the British people—provided
that their innate decency is neither de-
stroyed by the propaganda of hatred nor
warped by excess of avoidable suffering—-
are as capable as any people in the world
of accepting a way of life determined by
love rather than by power.
Mad Dogs and Englishmen: Erick
Berry (Michael Joseph, Ltd.). Author’s
an American gal who “picked up” an
English colonial official in a London
hotel, married him, and went out with
him and sampled life in Nigeria. Evi-
dently a good sort and a good mixer, she
tells of it breezily and brightly.
They Went to Karathia: Susan Gilles-
pie. Love, etc., among English visitors
to India. Simla things have been done
before, notably by Kipling and sensation-
ally by Bromfield. Atmosphere good.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’ ’ —and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
///.
m
4).
a
f*
c\
\n
0
D
n
The Trade Marh
that stands for
Real Foot
Comfort
k
Jl
Half Yearly Genuine
HIGH-GRADE
CALF SHOES
Easy comfort and a smart ap-
pearance are nicely combined
in this style. And there is a
choice of Tan Calf, Black Box
Calf and Glace Kid. There are
medium or extra wide fittings,
also a neat extended shape.
Full and half sizes. At Anth-
ony Horderns' Regular Price,
pair 357-
Sale Price, pair 32/6
o
CIRCULAR VAMP OXFORD SHOES. A firm
favourite with the utmost comfort in their
footwear, this Box Calf Circular Vamp Oxford
is neat and serviceable. Full and half sizes.
At Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, pair,
35/-. Sale Price, pair 32/6
. BOX CALF DERBY BOOT. What a treat for
sensitive feet! Soft Box Calf Derby Boots
that are made to fit comfortably and well.
No toe cap and built on extra wide fitting
last. Welted soles. Full and half sizes. At
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, pair, 35/-
Sale Price, pair 32/6
BLACK BOX CALF BOOT. Comfortable
fitting boots of soft Black Box Calf or
Glace Kid. Made with toe caps and
there is a complete range of full and
half sizes. A boot we recommend for
comfort. At Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, 35/-. Sale Price, pair ... 32/6
of Dr. REED’S
HEALTH SHOES
/
Regular Price
Study this offer and realise the PLAIN FACT that it's definitely to
a man's advantage to buy shoes NOW, because of the certainty
of increased prices in the future.
Seven special features of Dr. Reed's Nu-Matic Cushioned Footwear
include:
• Finest materials made into comfortable shoes to fit the foot.
• Designed to give new foot health.
• Prevents flat feet and builds strong arches.
• Protects the feet from perspiration.
9 Relieves pressure that produces callouses and corns.
9 Gives that cushioned feeling.
• They are exclusive to Anthony Horderns'.
• Men’s Footwear—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W.
and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
'PHONE: M 2401
(DAY AND NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O,


HE WAS LOOKING FOR A GIRL
By J. A. CHRISTOMAR.
HE didn’t'hurry about cutting the wood, but took
his time, looking for the pieces without any
knots and then lazily splitting them with a few
strokes. When the woman came to the door
of the stockman’s hut on the other-side of the wood-
heap where it was hidden from the homestead by the
stables, the barrow was only half-full. She stood
there watching the lazy, careless way he swung the
axe, and resting her body against the edge of the door.
After a time she pushed the straggling ends of her
hair back off her forehead and called to him “Hello,
Bill. How’s things this morning?”
He looked round then and grinned at her. “Not
bad, Jean. How’re they with you?”
“Have a cup of tea?”
Yes; good.” He threw the axe down against
the pile of wood and went over to the |iut.
He had been cutting wood there each of the last
three mornings and every morning she had asked him
to come in for a cup of tea. He liked to sit down in
the kitchen and to talk to her—liked the feeling that
this was somewhere in a real house where he could
come and be welcome. He’d told her a lot about
himself, about where he’d been, and how hard it was
to find a job, and how he’d managed to get hold of
the sulky and the little brown mare cheap after he’d
got on to a bit of bag-sewing up on the Tablelands.
And Jean seemed to like having him there to
talk to. It was pretty lonely all day on her own, she
told him; and when the kids did get home from
school they were always squeaking and squalling
about the place. When he’d seen the kids the first
afternoon he’d realised she probably wasn’t more than
two or three years older than himself, though she
looked a lot more, with the hair always straggling
down over her forehead, and the same dark-blue dress
she had been wearing every day since he had been
there pulled in loosely to her waist.
It wasn’t always as bad as it was now, she told
him. Usually she and Jim and the kids went into
town for the week-ends and stayed with her mother
Saturday night. But they hadn’t been in for over a
month now. The road had been bad the first couple
of week-ends it had been raining all the time and
they couldn’t get through—and since then Jim and
the boss had been out in the paddocks all day and
working Saturday and Sunday. They had to be care-
ful of the sheep, because of the flies after the rain,
and they’d had a hell of a lot of trouble with a mob
that got bogged down near the bottom tank.
Jim was going to look for another place now the
rain had come; somewhere nearer town where they
could get in for a dance or the pictures during the
week. There wasn’t much fun right out here away
from everybody, she said.
When Bill had finished his tea and said he’d
better get on with the wood she always said he should
come over at night for a meal, then they could have
a He had gone over the first night, but after
that he’d thought that she and Jim might think he
was making a nuisance of himself, so he said he
wanted to do a bit of work on the sulky harness dur-
ing the afternoon, then he’d get himself a bite to eat
and turn in early.
Bill had come up to the homestead looking for
a handout, and the boss had said if he liked to stay
on tor a few days and get a bit of wood in hand he
could ; he’d get tucker and ten bob for the job, and
he could camp down in the far hut. He had been
going through to Manila to a place where he could
get some burr-cutting, but they wouldn’t be starting for
a couple of weeks, so he had jumped at the offer.
With the ten bob he’d be able to have a couple of
beers in the town at the week-end, and if there was a
dance he might be able to pick up a decent sort of girl.
He had meant to go to town after he’d been paid
off for the bag-sewing, but there had only been a
little over a week of it left when he got there, and
then one of the chaps had wanted to sell his turnout,
so he d snapped it up. It was a long time since he’d
been able to go into a pub and buy a drink before
that, and you couldn t seem to get to know any girls
when you were on the track.
He hadn t been out with a girl for longer back
almost than he could think, and the only chance he’d
had lately he d had to move on, though he’d arranged
it with her and everything, because the sergeant
wouldn’t give him rations twice on a traveller’s ticket.
He’d move into town on Saturday, he decided, and
stay over at the bagmen’s camp until Monday, and
he might do a bit of good.
[_JE took the dray out on Friday and he got a load
of wood m the morning and another in the after-
noon. He brought the little mare into the yard by the
stables, and when the boss and Jim came in from the
back paddocks about six o’clock he went over to the
house and said he’d be clearing out early. After he’d
got his ten bob he went over to Jim’s hut for tea like
he d said he would, seeing it was his last night on the
pIHCC.
Jean had made a cake because she said it should
be something like a party, and because they liked him
and hoped he’d be around the district again sometime,
After tea she put all the kids into bed in the back
room so that they wouldn’t be in the road, and he and
Jim sat and talked a bit and listened to the wireless
while she did the washing-up.
Jim didn’t have much to say—small talk only
about chaps around the district whom he’d heard were
getting jobs now the rain had come. Bill wasn’t very
interested till Jim told him that there might be a
chance of a job at Ryan’s place on the other side of
the town about fifteen miles out alone the Manila
road R V an wacn’t wV V 8 t Mar “ la
safd but he i c WO f nf’ ,lm
said, but he liked putting on chaps who hadn t had
any experience so that he could pay them under the
award ; teaching them the game he said he was. It
might suit Bill if he wanted to stay in the district for
a while and look around for something else.
After Jean had finished the washing-up she came
in and sat with them. There wasn’t much for them
to talk about really. They listened to a chap singing
a session of hillbilly songs from the station at Tam-
worth, and then Jim said he was turning in since he
had to work half-day Saturday.
Bill didn’t stay long after that because he thought
Jean would probably want to get to bed, too. But
she walked out to the gate in the little wire-netting
fence they had around the hut to keep the fowls off
the few vegetables Jim was trying to grow, and she
stood there talking for a while and didn’t seem in any
hurry. She told him she’d see him in town again over
the week-end probably. They were going in ; and it
was about time they’d had a bit of fun after being
stuck out here so long without a break. She told
Bill he ought to have a look at Ryan’s place for the
job. It would do him good to settle down, and he’d
soon find friends about the district. There was her
for a start, and she’d like to see him about,
D ILL got off pretty early in the morning. As he
was driving past the hut he called out “Good-
bye” to Jean, and she came out and waved and called
to him that she would see him in town.
The rest had done the mare a lot of good, and
the sulky ran a good bit better for the grease’ he’d
found in the stables to put on the axle. The spokes
in one of the wheels wanted tightening up a bit; he’d
soaked it, but it hadn’t done much good, and he
thought he’d ask the blacksmith in town what he’d
charge to do the job. He took it pretty slowly and he
got to town just before lunch. He got some sausages
and a loaf of bread on the way down towards the
bridge just beyond the showground where the bagmen’s
camp was. He thought he’d leave the beer until the
afternoon when there’d be somebody about and he’d
fixed up his camp
There were a couple of rough-looking camps
half under the bridge, and he went off down a little
way to a clump of gums at the side of the river. He
backed the sulky in under one of the trees, and he
fixed up the mare with a long rope tied round her
neck and to a stake where she could get a picking.
After lunch he had a wash in the river, shaved
and put on a clean shirt and went up to the town. It
was crowded now. Most of the people from round the
district were in to do their shopping, and there were
plenty of cars, lined up along the kerb in the main
street with kids playing in them and hopping in and
out or lying asleep on the seats while the women
were in the stores getting groceries and looking at bits
of material and gossip-
ing and the men were in
the hotels, drinking and
talking and laughing,
coming outside every
now and again to see if
they were wanted yet
to drive their families
home. Some of the
younger chaps rode up
and down the street on
flashy-looking ponies,
and kicked them into a
canter and then pulled
up suddenly every few
yards to talk to some-
body or tied the ponies
to the hitching rail
while they went into
the hotel.
Bill found the
police station and
waited till the sergeant
was ready to bother
about him; and then
spun him a yarn about
not being able to get in
for his rations on
Thursday because he’d
been bogged up at the
top end of the valley,
and got his card
stamped. He went
down and got groceries
at the store and- some steak and then he went on to
the pub.
The bar was crowded with men laughing and
talking and calling out to one another along the length
of it, and he felt pretty much a stranger and pretty
much alone, so he went round to the small saloon at
the side. There weren’t so many there and he got
into a corner and had a mug and a cigarette with it,
but he didn’t feel much better really and still out of
things. He thought he’d go down to the camp and
have a sleep, and then come up again at night to see
what was doing and to see if he could get hold of a
girl. He was going then, but just as he got on to the
street Jean waved across to him from the car.
Jim was driving and he pulled up and Bill went
over. They’d just got in after being stuck for a while
at the first crossing. Bill thought how different Jean
looked with powder on and her lips red and her hair
done up and her hips pulled in flat and tight with
corsets. Jim said he was dying for a drink and if
Bill would wait while he took the car and the kids up
to Jean’s mother’s place he’d come back and they
could have a couple.
Jean laughed then. “I know your couple,” she
said. ‘‘After the first he’ll get in with a gang, Bill,
and forget you. They’ll go off playing poker and
that’s the last you or I will see of him till he’s feeling
hungry tomorrow. I know.”
Bill said he’d wait anyway ; he could do with
somebody to have a pot with, even if it was only the
one. Then Jean asked him if he was going to the
roller-skating down at the picture show, and if he’d
like to come up to her mother’s place for tea first.
There was nothing else on, she’d noticed, and if he
liked they could go along together.
Bill thought “If I go with her I won’t get a
chance at any of the girls ; and it may be the last
time I’ve got a few bob in town for a while.” He
made excuses. He wasn’t sure he’d be going. He had
to water the mare and see what sort the others down
at the camp were, in case they’d get off with some of
his stuff. He mightn’t come up town again. He
didn’t know how to skate and it wouldn’t be much
fun. If he came up he’d see her there.
He waited on the corner till Jim came back and
they went in for a drink. It wasn’t much better than
it had been before. He bought the first one for Jim
and himself, then Jim bought a round, and by that
time there were two or three other chaps joined up
with them and all talking about things and people
Bill didn’t know anything about. He drank his beer
slowly, and stuck to it when the others filled them up
again, because he couldn’t afford to buy another
round if he was going to have enough money left
over for the night. He still felt a stranger and out of
things, though he tried to show he was listening to
the talk, but after a while he. said to Jim he’d better
be getting down to the camp before it got dark.
Jim hardly noticed he was leaving. “All right,”
he said. “So long. See you about some more, maybe.”
D ILL came up town again about half-past seven and
went into the Greek’s for some coffee and toast
and to get an idea of things and see what was doing.
There was nobody else there, and he had a yarn with
the chap who served him. The two young fellows
who ran the picture show had got hold of a hundred
or so pairs of roller skates cheap, and now they were
running the skating and pictures on alternate Satur-
day nights, he found out. It was chiefly the towns-
people who had taken up the skating; the people
"Tears are useless, my dear. A mere matter of phosphate of lime, chloride
of sodium and H .O.”


from further out didn’t bother staying in that night
and things were usually pretty dead.
A couple of young girls came in for a milk shake
while he was having his coffee, and Bill heard them
say they were going to the skating. The taller one
looked all right, he thought, and he went out soon
after them and followed them down to the hall. When
he got there they’d already gone in, but there didn’t
seem to be many people about yet, so he walked on
past the hall and down to the end of the street till
the houses suddenly became spaced out and had pad-
docks alongside them, then he walked back along the
other side.
The place was certainly pretty dead. A chap
and a girl walked fast ahead of him going towards the
town, and there was the sound of people talking in
the back bar of the pub, but there wasn’t much other
sign of life about. He stood for a while leaning up
against the wire guard around a pepper-tree and he
smoked a cigarette, then he went up past the hall
again. There were half a dozen or so young chaps,
town chaps got up in white shirts and new sports
coats, gathered about the door, smoking and calling
out to the people inside, and he could hear the
rumbling of the skates. He thought he’d better wait
till they got out of the way before he went in, and
he walked on down to the other end of the street.
There was a pretty big party going on at one of
the houses, and he could see the lights and the colored
paper strung up in the hall, and hear laughter and
singing and the sound of music from the wireless. He
thought if only he could meet a girl who was going
there and talk to her a bit he might persuade her
to take him along and say he was a friend from
Cootha or something. But he realised pretty soon
that that was only letting his imagination run away
with him. He felt disgusted then and fed up with
the town, and he told himself he’d go down to the
hall and see if there was anything there, and if not
he’d get back to the camp and turn in.
He thought it was pretty stupid wandering about
like a silly kid looking for a stray girl. You didn’t
stand a chance. You had to stop in a place for a
while and get to know a few people and then it would
be all right.
The young chaps who had been in front of the
hall were drinking ginger-beer with a couple of girls
in the Greek’s, so he handed the man in the ticket box
a shilling and went in.
It was pretty dismal, he decided as soon as he got
inside ; just a rattle of noise and nothing else. He
stood at the end near the door for a while and had a
look around. The flooring boards were pretty rough
in places, and the skates made a continual clatter.
Every now and again somebody fell and everybody
else in the hall shouted out and laughed. There were
about twenty people skating round and round the
hall, and in the centre of the floor there were half a
dozen others getting along gingerly and holding one
another up. Down at the far end near the stage were
six or seven elderly women sitting knitting and talking
together and laughing the loudest when any of the
skaters had a fall.
Jean was going round, and after a while she saw
him and waved. She looked just about as young as
any of the girls, and much more like a woman. Pity
she was married, he thought; she’d have been all
right. She was doing pretty well, and the tall chap
in jodhpurs and white shirt who was skating near
her seemed to know something about it, too. Most
of the others were pretty rough. Bill thought “This
is enough for me, I’m going down to bed. That’s
another bob gone.” But he walked down the side of
the hall and sat down in the row of seats and looked
on.
The couple of girls he’d seen in the Greek’s were
standing talking and giggling with a group of young
chaps on the other side of the hall; “The silly
chitters!” Bill thought.
After a while Jean came over and sat down
beside him while she had a rest and asked him why
he didn’t give it a go. He said he’d only make a fool
of himself, and he said he’d only come along to look
on because he couldn’t get to sleep. The young fellows
he’d seen outside came in with the two girls and
joined up with the others. There were about ten boys
and only four girls and they all joined hands and
ran up and down the hall on their skates. Then the
chap with the jodhpurs came over and asked Jean if
she was going round again, and took hold of her hand
and pulled her up. “Don’t go,” she called to Bill.
“See you later.”
He stayed sitting there for a while, but no other
girls came in, and he cursed to himself a couple of
times, then got up and went out.
He got halfway down to the bridge, then he
thought he’d go back along the street once more just
in case there’d be somebody, and he thought he’d
have a beer anyway. Along the street he didn’t see
anybody. There were a couple of young squatters in
the back bar at the pub, sitting drinking and laughing
and joking with the girl serving. They didn’t take
any notice of him or seem to know he was there even.
Bill drank his beer and murmured “Good night” to
the girl, but nobody seemed to hear him.
Just before he got to the hall on the way back
he saw Jean come out with the chap in the jodhpurs.
He had his arm about her waist and they were talking
together and they didn’t see him. Bill heard him as
he opened the door of a car. “Wait here a minute
and I’ll go and get some beer,” the chap in the
jodhpurs said.
Bill crossed over and walked down the other side
of the street.
HP HERE was a ground mist rising from the hollow
of the river when he got to camp and it was
pretty cold. He would have liked a cup of tea, but
he thought it was too much trouble getting the fire
together and waiting for it. He got his blankets out
from the tray of the sulky, and he arranged the half-
bag of chaff as a pillow .
“Yes,” he told himself as he crawled underneath
the sulky and lay down between the wheels, “I’ll
get some chocolates for the kids tomorrow and go
up and see where Jean’s mother lives. They might
ask me to stay for dinner. On Monday I’ll go out
and see if I can get on with Ryan for a while.”
FATHER ENDS IT ALL
By JAMES HACKSTON.
MY father had ended it all several times before.
There had been the dynamite affair —a sudden,
dramatic exit; no unromantic jumping down
a shaft (that one had been a washout), but
a high explosive act. Dynamite was reliable; a stick
in your mouth and, hey presto! all your worries wiped
off the slate.
On the dynamite day he had left us all in the
house and gone to the shed where the dynamite was
waiting to blow himself away to his happy hunting-
ground. Mother had not followed to stop him;
nor had I —the novelty of attending father’s suicides
had worn off. Instead, she mixed up some whiting
to do the fireplace—and this on the eve of father’s
departure, with the threat of a sudden, violent ex-
plosion rending her eardrums and the possible sight
of father flying through the air like a comet. There
being no one in attendance on him to stop him doing
the deed, he had to fall back on his own efforts and
“Poor old Adams! Drummed out of the Home Guard for showing cowardice in the face of a
theoretical enemy.”
stop himself. Then he returned to the house and
found mother patiently and unexcitedly flopping a
cloth soaked with whiting over the hearth.
“Oh,” he said. “Taking a new interest in the
place now I’m gone.”
“I was about to do it when you went out to
attend to your suicide,” she said, flopping the cloth
about.
“That rag’s no use,” he said ; “I’ll get a brush.
Must do things properly to get the best results.” And
he took the job over, whitewashing himself, too,
maybe.
The next time he left us he drowned himself in
the dam opposite. But he forgot that it had dried up,
and, as he had specially stipulated drowning, he
couldn’t deliver the goods. Mother said that he would
have to wait until the rains came.
But this, the last of his suicides, was the most
entertaining of them all. It was a new one on us.
No dynamite, no drowning (the dam was full), not
even cyanide ; just a homely, family fireside suicide
with the whole family in attendance. I can’t say
exactly what it was that made him take his life on
this occasion—there were many things happening at
the time that were worthy of a suicide. In fact, he
would have been overworked doing away with him-
self had he wanted to keep up with them all.
It was an afternoon turn ; one of those very hot
days when you’re apt to feel a bit fed up with your
bad luck. The fowls had closed in on the kitchen
for crumbs and, not getting any, had invaded the
front room. When I’d chase some of them out the
back door, others would fill the gap by popping in the
front door as if we were playing a game. We couldn’t
shut the doors because we had to have some air.
While we were all sitting staring vacantly at father,
his obligations and responsibilities must have sud-
denly come home to him, for all of a sudden he said
“I’m done. I’ll finish it, once and for all.”
He withdrew to the fireplace, fixed his eyes on
the opposite wall, and said “I’ll dash myself to death.”
Then he squared his shoulders, took in a deep breath,
lowered his head like a bull and began to charge
down the straight. Unfortunately, one of the Leg-
horns popped out from under the table at that moment
and got tied up between father’s legs. There was
much violent cursing, cackling and flapping of wings
as she nearly skittled him. This sad adventure lost
him his speed, and, not having enough pace on or
momentum up to be able to continue with a job that
required much force and vigor, he had to go back
to the fireplace for a second attempt.
This time he gave a parting look at the family
as if saying good-bye in earnest, and was just about
to begin his run when mother’s voice interrupted him.
“Be careful of the house, Walter. Remember, that
wall is only one brick thick. If you butt it down the
roof might fall in on us, and, although you have made
up your mind to die, remember I haven’t, nor have
the children. They have their future to see to.”
He never said a word, but, instead of taking off,
he walked the length of the room counting the
number of yards, as he used to do when pegging out
a claim. While he was doing this his forehead was
wrinkled as if he were working out in his mind how
many yards it would take, at a given speed, to attain
the necessary force with which to achieve his object.
“Give father a piece of paper to work it out
on,” my mother said to me.
Ignoring her, he returned to his base, squared his
shoulders, took in another mighty breath, lowered
his head to the correct position and set off on his
last run. He was quick off the mark this time, too,
and had worked up into a great speed before he had
gone more than three yards, and with only two more
yards to go seemed to have done it easily.
He hit the wall square in the middle of his fore-
head, and having connected successfully stood still,
his head resting on the wall, waiting to die. But he
did not drop to the floor, nor did I expect him to,
for I had noticed that as he neared the wall he had
hung out a bit, and instead of ramming his head
hard against the bricks had done no more than give
it a light bump. The wall itself had not caved in,
the cement had not come away, nor had the rafters
splintered. He hadn’t even tilted the fly-specked print
on the wall. In fact, so little upset was there that the
same Leghorn was still ca-ca-ing about the floor while
father was withdrawing his lifeless body from the crash.
“It’s no good, Walter,” said my mother; “the
room is not big enough. You want more space ;
you’ll have to wait until we get 4 larger house —one
with an extra-long room in it, built of solid stone,
to give you a fair go.”
Then he grinned sheepishly, and mother laughed,
and I laughed ; and then the children, who had been
enjoying seeing their father playing billygoats, as
they called it, ail laughed in chorus and clapped their
hands gleefully.
“Funny family, mine,” father said ; “strange sense
of humor. See fun in trouble and laugh when they
should be in tears.”
“Walter,” said my mother, “you should have been
a comedian. You missed your vocation.” He nodded.
“Maybe you’re right. But some day, if things don’t
change, I’ll”
“No, you won’t, Walter. You’ve killed yourself
too often as it is, and a man can’t go on doing away
with himself indefinitely. The best thing for you
now is a nice cup of tea.”
When she brought in the tea she smiled and said
“It was extremely kind of the fowl to try and stop
you—l always said that Leghorn was fond of you.”
Father, consenting to go on living again, drank
his tea and went out the back to pick up the threads
of his late life.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
tfhtt liine f ia*ie meilcttmeJSxmdJmiq/uei
Seppelts
PANGBOURNE REACH FROM SHOOTER'S HILL
Innumerable people from all parts of the world making the journey by river from London Bridge to Oxford, at the period of the year “when summer’s
bloom is over all,” have found themselves, while viewing scenes of entrancing beauty, in tune, unconsciously perhaps, with the sentiment actuating Sir Walter
Raleigh on his exclaiming, “There are two things scarce matched in the universe—the sun in heaven and the Thames on earth.” Assuredly from the
standpoint of “heavenly loveliness,” using the expression in its assthetic or poetic sense, no reach on this noble stream can surpass that of Pangbourne
when seen from the vantage-point of Shooter’s Hill. Within forty miles of Westminster Abbey the visitor found himself in another world from that
presented by a crowded city. The village of Pangbourne, about half a mile from the site where the illustration was made, though one usually speaks
of Pangbourne in association with its twin village, Whitchurch, on the opposite bank of the river, is a favorite resort for anglers. Its church, prior
to “restoration,” must have been remarkable. The curious wooden steeple remains and attracts considerable attention. Among the curiosities of the interior
is a sixteenth-century monument to the lord of the manor of Hardwick, a neighboring demesne, and his dame. They are represented kneeling at a
prie-Dieu, and a tablet contains this oft-copied and highly original inscription:
“To Richard Lybbe, of Hardwick, Esq., and Anne
Blagrave, united in sacred wedlock 50 years are here
again made one by death she yielded to yt change
Jan. 17, 1651, which he embraced July 14, 1658.
Epitaph.
He, whose Renowne, for what completeth Man,
Speaks lowder, better things, than Marble can.
She, whose Religious Deeds make Hardwick’s Fame,
Breathe as the Balme of Lybbe’s Immortall Name,
Are once more Joyned within this Peacefull Bed,
Where Honour (not Arabian-Gummes) is spied.
Then grudge not (Friends) who next succeed ’em must
Y’are Happy, that shall mingle with such Dust.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 62. —No. 3203.
Wednesday, July 2, 1941.
PAINFUL PREDICAMENT.
“Which honorable gentleman will I drop?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings iopp. G.P.0. ).
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia..
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign j.
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire.
Id. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
OUR SOVIET ASSOCIATE.
Active support for the U.S.S.R, in its war with Ger-
many can be justified on the principle that any stick
is good enough to beat a dog with. It was promised
by Mr. Churchill without consultation with the
Dominion Governments (he said he was “sure the
great Dominions will, in due course, concur,” and the
Australian Government did, with the meekness that
seems to be expected of it), and the R.A.F. at once
began making the promise good. At the same time it
was arranged to send a British mission to Russia.
These measures are dictated by commonsense and
warranted by military necessity. Nor can English-
speaking people be insensitive to the sufferings of the
new victims of the German military machine, who,
whatever their politics, are kin to those who have
already endured its merciless barbarities, and to those
who, like ourselves, have been horrified and pitying
spectators. But no sentiment should be wasted on
the Red Government, whose cowardly, shifty and
greedy policy contributed to the calamities which have
descended upon its own people, as it contributed to
the calamities which befell the Poles, the Norwegians,
the Dutch, the Belgians and the French, and have be-
fallen, though not broken, the British.
Yet sentiment has already been invoked for this
guilty Government. Humbug has been dragged into
the picture, too. Humbug of the rankest description
was Mr. Eden’s assertion in the House of Commons,
introduced by a reference to the almost forgotten
Anglo-Soviet declaration of 1935 (he brought it back
proudly from Moscow himself) that there was “no
conflict of interest on any main issue of international
politics.”
Though, since 1935, the relations Of the two'
countries have undergone many modifications, that
remains true today.
True be hanged! What about the Molotov-Ribben-
trop agreement of August, 1939, signed at Moscow
while an Anglo-French military mission was there at
the instance of Stalin himself? That infamous instru-
ment, on each side the basest example of double-
dealing and cynical opportunism in modern history,
set Hitler free to turn Poland into a hideous ruin of
wrecked homes, slaughtered people and cowering sur-
vivors, whose plight was so terrible that they almost
envied the dead. What about the Russian invasion
of the shattered land, whose inhabitants were brother
Slavs and fellow-members of the League? What
about the fourteen-weeks’ Russian war on Finland,
which little fellow-member Mr. Eden’s Government
supported with aeroplanes and the offer of an expedi-
tionary force, meanwhile securing Russia’s expulsion
from the League? What about the Russian annexa-
tion of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia and parts of
Rumania?
All these countries were members of the League
and, as such, held guarantees from Britain (and Aus-
tralia) of their political independence and territorial
integrity. Poland, of course, held an additional
guarantee in terms so express that invasion of the
country automatically involved Britain in war. Why
Britain didn’t break off relations with Moscow when
the Red Army crossed the Polish frontier is still a
mystery.
Hitler’s excuse for double-crossing Stalin is that
Stalin double-crossed him. The world in which honest
men move will willingly believe either capable of
anything in that line. It looks now as if their sud-
denly formed friendship began to wane when the Red
Army turned up in the little Baltic States, by way of
“guaranteeing the fulfilment of the mutual-assistance
pacts” —these Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia were
alleged to have “violated” by entering into an alliance,
one with the others. The Red Army arrived on June
15-16, 1940. There followed elections, at which Com-
munist “peasants, soldiers and workers” were the only
candidates, and meetings of “national assemblies,”
which forthwith voted the little countries into the
Soviet.
On June 28 the Red Army arrived in Rumania
with demands for the surrender of Bessarabia and
Bukovina —the latter on the ground that “the pre-
dominant majority” was “connected with Russia by
common historical destiny, as well as by similarities
of language and national composition.” This pretext
for the grabbing of an old part of Austria which had
never been Russian must have infuriated the Austrian
in Berchtesgaden, especially as the Second Robber was
so ponderously slow in his movements —he did not
reach out his hand for the booty until six days after
his partner had accepted the surrender of the French.
But Hitler seems to have concealed his ire until
he was ready to avenge the outrage and subsequent
Stalin demands, one of which, not denied by
Moscow, led to the Turks whirling themselves out of
the Russian orbit. The enemy struck when the
Germans were about to celebrate the first anniversary
of the capitulation of France, and when the Ukrainian
peasants were bringing in the first of the season’s
wheat.
Looking back, it now seems fairly clear that the
anti-Bolshevist leaders in Lithuania, Estonia and
Latvia acted on Hitler’s advice when they let the Reds
gobble up their country without resistance, and that
they received a promise from him that he would “free”
them all, as he “freed” the Slovaks, when events left
him at liberty to attend to Stalin. A similar undertaking
may have been conveyed to the Finns before they
broke off their war with Russia, which was done when
their army was still giving a good account of itself.
Anyway, the Germans have obviously found in the
Baltic provinces friends who were prepared for their
coming, and the Finns are fighting as their allies —
though the Finns didn’t actually come in until the
Russians had shown by repeated bombings that they
meant to regard them as enemies. The Slovaks and
Hungarians are also combatants, though neither can
do much, and the Rumanians have made Hitler a gift
of their entire army and air force, for whatever they
may be worth. As for the Swedes, they have given
ingress to a German division bound for Finland ; and
though they have made one division the limit, they
have not the power nor probably the desire to prevent
the passage of more.
All this is very embarrassing for the British Gov-
ernment, especially as Mr. Churchill has laid it down
that “any man or State that marches with Hitler is our
foe.” Disappointed people may condemn these coun-
tries for helping the Germans in the belief that they are
helping themselves, and may be satisfied that some of
them will have a rude awakening, but we can’t be
unmindful of the injuries that Stalin has inflicted on
some of them or of the engagements we entered into
under the League Covenant, strengthened in the case
of the Finns. Nor can any good come of declaring
war on the lot. Such a measure would have awkward
repercussions among the neutrals, particularly the
United States. In that country and in many others,
and even in parts of our own Empire, there are people
who, while supporting the democratic cause, hate
Russia so much that they don’t care who licks it.
The enemy knows this, and he showed devilish cun-
ning, as well as malice and characteristic bad faith,
when he broke off his partnership with Moscow and
hurled himself at the partner.
American reactions to the new war must be
closely studied in London and the capitals of the
Dominions. Though Mr. Roosevelt promised “all
possible aid to Russia,” it is difficult to see how any
material aid can be furnished before the new war is
decided one way or the other ; and, outside the rabble
of Reds, there is no particular enthusiasm for furnish-
ing it. Communist strikes in war industries left the
nation thoroughly disgusted. Isolationists saw in
the turn of events a chance of victory for their
cause, which had seemed hopelessly lost, and even in
quarters favorable to Britain the contention that the
attack on Russia had removed the need for American
entry into the war made some appeal.
Sydney’s “Daily Telegraph” chose this moment
for the publication of an article in which John Bull
was counselled to “encourage the United States to
join Britain and Russia in a Three-Power Alliance,”
and to “assure the Russian Government,” in “co-
operation with the Dominions,” that “old quarrels
have been forgotten in this fateful, testing hour.” If
the substance of this stuff was cabled to the United
States and reprinted in the isolationist press it must
have done some harm. No American, however favor-
able to Britain, would think of joining Russia in a
Three-Power Alliance. Such a departure from the
oldest and most powerful principle of American foreign
policy would not only involve the country in war with
the Axis Powers, but would end the good relations
with Latin America which the President has so care-
fully built up. Mr. Roosevelt has handled those rela-
tions with great skill, and the Japanese question with
equal adroitness. He has carefully excluded the
Japanese from the measures he has recently taken
against the other Axis Powers, and he can be trusted
to make the most of the extraordinary situation in
which the manoeuvres of Mr. Matsuoka have landed
Japan. He can be trusted also to promote the best
interests of the peoples of the Empire as well as those
of his own people without ignorant and impertinent
advice from Sydney flapper papers.
For Britain itself alliance with Russia would be
madness. It had an alliance with France ; and since
June 8 Imperial forces have been fighting the French
in Syria. After the French experience how can any-
one be sure that the political structure of the U.S.S.R.
will stand up to the strain of war with Germany?
Who that remembers what happened in 1917 and
afterwards can dismiss the possibility of separatist
movements, of counter-revolution, of another peace
like that of Brest-Litovsk? It should be sufficient
for the present that the Russians are fighting our
arch-enemy, and have thus far shown the old stubborn
troops of the Czars. To help them to
, he stru P gle by relieving the pressure on
thejr air force and giving them the beneflt o£ as muc h
sea . power as can b e spared is our obvious policy, and
of these mea sures of assistance they are assured,
Coadjutors they have been forced into being ;
allies they can never be. British aid for Russia is ex-
clusively a military problem which should be tackled
exclusively on military lines.
A Parable.
Far in the north could be seen a heavy cloud of smoke
from the bushfire raging there. Reports came into
the town at frequent intervals, and from many sources,
indicating that the fire had overcome those who tried
to stem it, and was sweeping south. There were also
reports of alarm in the big town away to the north-
east, which promised to supply all the beaters and
water-carts necessary to beat the fire. But so far the
big place had not offered to send any active fire-
fighters.
In the town itself there was a mixture of concern,
anxiety and apathy. A few whose relatives had gone
out to fight the fire were anxious about their fate.
Some long-sighted people eyed the growing smoke
cloud and feared for the safety of the place. Several
of them were strongly of the opinion that the council
was much too complacent about the fire and its rapid
progress, that councillors were mistaken in supposing
that, so long as a few volunteers could be found to
go and tackle it, and so long as the local factory
was making beaters under award conditions, there was
little to worry about.
The local papers tried to stir the citizens up,
giving prominence to menacing reports from the
vicinity of the fire; but it was noticeable that people
were more interested in the form of candidates entered
in a goatrace for the Sunday afternoon, the competi-
tion spirit being very strong.
Meantime the smoke cloud got bigger, and there
were reports that the fire was across the big river in
two places and was proving mighty hard to put out.
By this time it had swept through all the country
above the river, and the wind generated by its own
heat was forcing it steadily south and east. This was
brought to the council’s notice, but as the by-election
for A Riding was about to be held nothing much
could be done. The council assured everybody that
it was a very important by-election, and everybody
assured everybody else that it was.
There was in that town a very forthright sort of
man whose name has been forgotten. One day, when
the citizens were hanging round the post office waiting
for the mail and talking about the goats and the price
of things and the fire in the north, this man arose
and said:
Look, that fire isn’t waiting for anybody. It’s eating
up grass and fencing and stock and houses and towns
at a great rate. Whatever the force behind it, that force
doesn’t give twopence for us, our volunteers, our
council or our views. And every day the damn thing
gets bigger and closer. It isn’t a case for voluntary
effort any longer. Everyone of us who can stand
up ought to be either out there fighting it or making
beaters or water-carts, or carrying food, or burning
breaks, or giving money to buy beaters and food and
things. The council should make us do this, not ask us.
Suppose we call on the council to do so?
A bit startled, they said they would think it over
and, if a majority favored it, would ask him to put
the case before the council.
However, the shire president heard about the
forthright man’s speech, and he announced that he
would speak to the citizens that night. The glare
from the fire could now be seen, as there was no moon,
and many eyed it anxiously as they went to the Shire
hall that night. And the president said;
Rest assured that we are sparing no effort to deal
with this menace. We are making an intensive drive
for volunteer fire-fighters, and for gifts of money to
provide them with tools and food. Fighting a fire of
this nature calls for the best that is in us, and your
council will not be recreant to its trust. Already we
have set up 15 subcommittees to .handle various press-
ing matters, and delegates from those committees will
hold conferences and plan for action. Another 10 sub-
committees are to be appointed, and they will confer
with kindred organisations. We have invited the best
men in the town to confer with us, and we intend to
hold conferences with committees from other towns in
the district. Future action will be based on resolutions
from those conferences. You can see from this that the
council is pushing ahead with its fire effort with all
possible speed. Provided we get the voluntary help we
need in men and money, no fire can threaten us.
He might have said more, but the time for the goat-
race was near, and, since a lot of the audience were
hurrying away, the president closed his speech and
went along to the goatrace, too.
Some time that night, or it might have been the
night after, the fire got a hold in an unexpected
quarter, and before anything could be done it had
swept down on the town. Awakened by alarmed citi-
zens, the president hastily called a conference, but
the fumes engulfed it before a word could be said.
Years afterwards people from other parts, turn-
ing over rusty bits of fire-twisted iron and crumbling
bricks, and having heard something of how the fire
had blazed there, wondered how it was that the for-
gotten people of the forgotten town had not been able
to save the place. Since they lived under a total
authority, which they never questioned, and had never
heard of a conference or “voluntary effort,” their
wonder remained.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
One Income Tax!
It may be useless to expect any measure of financial
reform, however necessary, from a Government which
hastily abandoned its intention of reducing the income-
tax exemption to £l5O, and its more recent intention of
vetoing the publication of the “A.B.C. Weekly (loss,
£90,000 in 19 months), in each case because the Leader
of the Opposition objected, and which improvised a
clumsy and grossly unfair payroll tax to finance a
child-bonus plan which has proved full of anomalies
already. All the same, Australians expect the Menzies
Government to stand up to the provincial Premiers
who, with one exception (Mr. Playford), rejected its
proposal that they should vacate the income-tax field
for “one or two years” conditionally on their receiv-
ing £30,000,000—£3 10s, per head of population,
reckoned at £24,500,000, plus £5,500,000, to be divided
as they should determine.
The only valid objections to the plan are that even
the two-year period is too short and that £30,000,000
is far too much. It is £182,700 in excess of the State
Governments’ income-tax collections in the year to
June 30, 1939. Since then Commonwealth war ex-
penditure has relieved the State Governments of the
need, if any, for much of their own expenditure—on
unemployment, for instance ; while petrol rationing
has increasingly bloated their transport revenues.
Income tax was introduced in Britain as a war
impost, and under the pressure of events it has re-
verted to this character everywhere but in Australia.
By virtue of their unitary systems, Britain and Maori-
land have never had more than one income tax, and
it has always had the same incidence throughout each
country. The same position has virtually existed in
South Africa since it became a Union. Canada has
had central and provincial income taxes, but is mov-
ing towards uniformity. Only Australia lags behind,
because the Commonwealth and State Governments
have made it their practice to compete briskly in the
same field.
The Commonwealth Government has had some
regard for the taxpayer, inasmuch as it exempts from
taxable income what he pays to State Governments—
four of which levy two income taxes —but even this
concession will not be pontinued if State Governments
insist on their “right” to tax income regardless of
national necessities and the Commonwealth Govern-
ment weakly yields to them.
The second half of the financial year which closed
on Monday was one long nightmare for taxpayers.
Those beyond the exemption limits who were paid
weekly, fortnightly or monthly had two deductions
made from their pay envelopes by unpaid collectors,
their employers, for two sets of taxgatherers. Many
received three additional assessments, and as well as
discharging these obligations they had to collect stamps
from the unpaid collectors and present them at taxa-
tion offices to be cancelled. And even where tax-
payers’ circumstances and incomes were identical,
there were wholesale differences in amounts paid to
the Commonwealth for war purposes according to the
State of residence.
Because imposition of charges that Mr. Fadden
would have liked to impose would have meant virtual
confiscation of high Queensland incomes, he had to
reduce his rates on high incomes, and that led to
unduly harsh exactions from middle incomes. One
effect was a necessary curtailment of contributions to
war loans and patriotic funds on the part of the
middle-income group.
Australia can stand only one income tax, and it
should be imposed on every person in receipt of more
than £l5O p.a., the rate of tax rising scientifically with
the income. The necessary legislation should be intro-
duced and passed, after proper debate, during the cur-
rent month, so that everything will be ready before
the weekly collections begin in August. If the selfish
and greedy provincial Governments can be ruled out
by war-emergency regulation that should be done ; in
the alternative, the Commonwealth measure should be
such as will make the State measures constitutionally
invalid. Whether Mr. Fadden weakens or not, there
is nothing so certain as that one income tax, with the
same incidence throughout Australia, is coming, and
for its introduction there is no time like the present.
The Quick-change Communist.
Our Communists, having suddenly decided that the
“war between British and German Imperialism” de-
serves their support because the latter has made an
attack on “the Workers’ Fatherland,” are now “de-
manding” that the Government which ineffectually
banned their organisations and publications should
appoint a diplomatic representative to Russia,
“develop trade relations between the two countries,”
and “aid Russia in every possible way.” Presumably
the comrades, who opposed the sending away of A.I.F.
divisions to fight for Australia, don’t mind if others
are sent away to fight for Russia. Seeing that ‘ all
possible aid to Russia” should stop at nothing, it
would be interesting to hear the new Communist view
of conscription, which is law in “the Workers’ Father-
land.”
Australia has put up with a good deal from
Communists. It has sometimes been amused by their
antics, though in recent months the amusement gave
place to anger and contempt as the suspicion grew
that strikes in war industries and stoppages on the
waterfront were of Communist origin. Since, how-
ever, the vagaries of a world war have suddenly given
the British Empire and Russia a common foe, there
is a tendency in some places to welcome the Com-
munist as a man and a brother.
But an important question remains to be answered.
By their sudden emergence as supporters of a war
which they first approved and then savagely con-
demned, these people have demonstrated clearly that
they have no other allegiance than to Josef Stalin.
At a Sydney Trades Hall meeting at which aid was
“demanded” for Russia there was sung not a good Aus-
tralian song, but the “Internationale,” and there were
cheers not for the A.I.F. or the King or the Empire,
but the Communist party. This being so, any good
Australian is entitled to wonder what Communists
reaction would have been had the Molotov-Ribbentrop
agreement been transformed into a military alliance.
Nobody could possibly mistake the answer. They
would have supported the action with the same facility
with which they changed an “Imperialist war” into a
“war for freedom” the moment a distant ruler, whose
language they cannot speak, whose psychology they
don’t understand and with whom Australia had
nothing in common till Sunday, June 22, was attacked
by his 22 months’ partner.
Meantime, it will be interesting to see how many
of the younger comrades rush into the A.I.F. their
best possible way “to aid Russia in every possible
way.”
Appreciation.
From Major-General Lloyd, Director-General of
Recruiting :
The principal cartoon in B. 18 /6/ ’4l compels me to
do what has been my intention for some time, and that is,
to write you my sincerest appreciation of the helpfulness of
your journal in the matter of recruitment for the A.I.F.
As your letterpress so clearly indicates, this is no time for
negative thinking. By the establishment of State Recruiting
Committees, representative of Parliament, local government,
commercial and other organisations, we have demilitarised
the recruiting effort in an endeavor to reach all sections
of eligible men in the community and make the task a
national instead of a military one.
This letter is an acknowledgment of your material help
in the vital effort to maintain at its full vigor and morale the
force that is fighting Australia’s battle—the A.I.F.
More Power for the Navy.
In a recently returned ship that carried a large com-
pany of wounded soldiers from the Mediterranean
zone there were three bluejackets. They had served
in destroyers which took part in the rolling up of
Graziani’s army, shelling the coast from Sidi Barrani
to Benghazi, and afterwards ferrying troops from
Egypt to Greece and back. Though bombed innu-
merable times, their ships came through, but the strain
on the ships’ companies was tremendous and inces-
sant. From the outbreak of war to the time they
were ordered home, these particular seamen had only
24 hours’ leave —“they were no sooner out of one
show than they were in another.”
This is an unconsidered aspect of the succession
of unfortunate amphibious operations in two of which
Australians and Maorilanders suffered so much. The
First Lord of the Admiralty has made admissions
which suggest that the sooner it is considered the
better.
Though it stands to reason that the enemy dam-
ages more ships than he sinks, and in the process
kills and maims seamen whose lives are precious,
damaged ships have seldom been mentioned in official
statements, and losses incurred in them never. But in
a speech to the Royal Empire Society Mr. Alexander
acknowledged that after the evacuation of Norway,
the Low Countries and France (in these operations
“ten or eleven destroyers were sunk, with heavy casual-
ties”) “more than 70 destroyers had to be docked for
repairs.” And although the job was done with all pos-
sible speed consistent with thoroughness, “the effect
was an immediate increase in the loss of merchant
shipping tonnage.”
Four days after the First Lord made this startling
revelation, losses of merchant ships in May and
“adjusted figures” for previous months were pub-
lished. In January, 59 ships of 309,731 tons were
sunk; in February, 87 ships of 339,833 tons; m
March, 122 ships of 505,750 tons ; in April, 134 ships
of 581,251 tons; in May, 98 ships of 461,328 tons—
of these 73 ships of 355,032 tons were British. The
April and May totals included “losses during the mili-
tary operations in the Eastern Mediterranean,” which
were, of course, high, though in April “the bulk of
the tonnage lost was Greek.” The number of dam-
aged vessels, warships and merchantmen, was not
stated, but that also must have been high. And it has
been admitted that the evacuation from Greece and
Crete cost the Navy four cruisers and eight destroyers,
together with a grievous, though unstated, number of
officers and men, the loss of whom was doubtless
added to by casualties in warships damaged (two
battleships were among them) and undamaged.
Prefacing a very cautiously worded protest
against the tragic dearth of air power in Greece and
Crete, Mr. Curtin said, “with great respect to Mr.
Churchill,” that “if a crucial battle is to be fought in
the Middle East Australia cannot afford that battle
to go against her in circumstances that may preclude
the subsequent movement of the British Fleet into the
Indian Ocean or the Atlantic.” He could have said
more.
Months ago it was given out that Mr. Churchill
had taken personal control of the Battle of the Atlantic.
Is this really a job for a Prime Minister who has had
no naval training? Wouldn’t any of Mr. Churchills
predecessors have been content to leave it to the First
Sea Lord and the Chief of the Naval Staff, who, with
perfect planning and timing, organised the destruc-
tion of the Bismarck? And when amphibious
campaigns are proposed shouldn t the First Sea Lord
and the Naval Staff ha# a%ay , L voice?
On the face of it amphibious campaigns have hitherto
been decided upon by generals and politicians. The
Navy has been left to find the ships and to suffer
serious losses without any compensation other than
the deathless glory of having saved the survivors of
the campaigns.
Mr. Curtin was ahead of many of his contem-
poraries in realising the importance of air power. He
is now in danger of overestimating it. Gaining
superiority in the air would not win the war for us,
any more than possession of superiority in the air
has won it for the enemy. But if we lost command
of the sea —and that might happen if the Navy, mag-
nificent as it is, were taxed beyond its strength and
endurance —we should lose the war.
What's Ninety Thousand?
The Cabinet-that-doesn’t-know-its-own-mind, having
been made aware of the awful losses sustained by the
“A.B.C. Weekly,” “decided” to close it down and called
upon the P.M.G. to announce the “decision.” The
P.M.G. did so. His Treasury colleague added that
every member aware of the facts would agree that the
Government was doing right. The “Weekly” had lost
£90,000 of public money in 19 months.
Then arose Mr. Curtin, leader of a party whose
attitude is that losses of public money don’t matter so
long as someone is kept in a job. He gave the Cabinet
a disapproving look. There is nothing more afraid
of disapproving looks than a Cabinet that doesn’t
know its own mind.
Presently the P.M.G. was heard announcing that
the “decision” had been reversed. The “Weekly” would
continue to be a waste of public money until a Par-
liamentary committee had “reviewed” broadcasting
and made its report. This when more drastic news-
print restrictions were about to be imposed on other
publications to which the Government looks for tax-
money.
And daily, almost hourly, the public is being told
that it must give more and lend more, must cut down
its expenses, must expect more and still more taxa-
tion to pay for the war. How it is going to reconcile
this with a decision to allow an unwanted weekly
journal to go on losing stacks of public money is a
problem unlikely to disturb a Cabinet without a mind
of its own and more disposed than the aspen tree to
quake at the slightest chilly breeze from the direction
of the Opposition.
A Primary Problem.
“0.T.”: One of the toughest problems facing Australia
is how to keep the export section of the land industry
afloat. Its position, both as to finance and future,
grows progressively worse. Periodic statements by the
Minister for Commerce that he has a plan, or that the
Australian Agricultural Council is to hold a conference,
or that one or other of the numerous boards has some
particular matter in hand do nothing to stop the de-
terioration. The German onslaught on Empire ship-
ping is reaching much deeper into Australian national
economy than most people imagine.
Wool is stable, largely because it is non-perish-
able, is a military essential and is sound security.
Wheat and pome fruits have been a national head-
ache since war began, dairy products are feeling the
pinch, it looks as if the taxpayer will have to finance
sugar storage, and now meat producers are getting
their turn.
There is a board for the “control” of meat, as
there is for the control of almost everything else. Its
chairman, A. C. Fisken, has had something to say
about restricted export of frozen beef and mutton, and
one of the board’s members, H. S. Henley, has told
lamb-raisers that the prices announced by the Com-
monwealth Government, which look all right on
paper, do not by any means represent the price they
will get. There is talk of canning the excess beet and
mutton, either for storage or shipment to the Middle
East, but canning on a large scale cannot begin over-
night and prices for canning stock are low.
All this indicates that, unless there is some sort
of a miracle with regard to shipping, Australia will
soon have accumulated vast stores of all these com-
modities, and the problem of financing their produc-
tion and keeping farmers going will mount accord-
ingly. Nobody expects the war to end soon ; propnets
give it at least another three years. By that time our
farm economy could be a nightmare.
Lacking ships, storage appears the only solution.
Financing that storage is a job for the tax P a y e £ ¥
probably won’t buck against it; all the same h
should be relieved of the cost of unnecessary filings
like the Australian Agricultural Council, the ApP'e
and Pear and other boards. One board tocontroHhe
entire agricultural export s u r P ,UB ough . t the con .
cient. And something should be abo food .
tinuing high prices for meat, milk
stuffs on the local market. ■ He-
It can be assumed that oversea* T d h e e
prived of our primary goods. wiU seek subs ; iwtes
longer the war the greater the grip stored suf-
will get, and, with peace, we may find our stored su
pluses forced to compete with them. , . . to
Meantime, the farmer might be well advised to
adopt a self-contained routine on the far f r t h e
the place as a self-sufficient unit, forgedfifu°War-
time such things as big returns an depend,
vests and bank accounts. Ability to do so w P
of course, on financial liability. Mea ” B the nee( i
found by Governments to ease this wherev )
arises. There may be other means
men on the land and keeping up their
means need to be found if Australia is not to co
out of the war with her primary industries
debilitated condition.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“K. Ley”: The awful effects of petrol
rationing have descended on our suburb
—one of Sydney’s poshest. People who
never used public transport before now
“Hey, you cant bath there — that's the stew!"
stand shivering on raw mornings waiting
for the bus. Their emotions on finding
that not all their pelf can save them
from standing all the way to town are
notable. But it isn’t all like that. A
breath-taking blonde with luxury stamped
all over her had most of us males pie-
eyed with admiration when she first
appeared. Then one morning an
arrogant refugee got into trouble over
his luggage, which he seemed to think
ought to be allowed on the seat with
him and burst into a torrent of guttural
fireworks. Up spoke the blonde, “Aw,
watcher beefin about, Porky! Shut yer
trap an’ let a gyurl read, carncher! ”
I’m beginning to enjoy our suburb.
*„* * *
Pawang ; A woman in Melbourne
told me the other day that a relative of
hers had given birth to a baby under
three pounds in weight, and she took it
tor granted that the infant had no chance
°i! T v ! val ; Why?” I asked. Because
she had often read of such cases in the
papei s and nothing more was ever heard
° Z“ e , * didn’t take into
account the tact that news is no longer
news in a daily after 24 hours. A baby
weLheT 2l‘b P Ti7 St <S C -) last October
• a • ’ °Z- The local Nurs-
hand A an°d Cla /hp n tK • fragme ” t in
from’ Hai-ifnn 11 was XT flown
i 01 nu ami tOl1 i Melbourne. Now a
Uozr m f ’ I h! a +i 1 ’ , addec ? i 6lb ’
~ e tbe plffne had to
“Mac Hoots”: Over two exuberant-
looking poached eggs (which somehow
recalled Stevens to my mind), we were
discussing the abolition of State Parlia-
ments, which the Accountant declared
would be inevitable once the Federal
Government took over all income tax.
“But,” said the wise man, “there's only
one way the State people can ever be
persuaded to vote themselves out of exist-
ence. To ask a man, who is probably
a professional politician, making his living
out of the game, deliberately to vote him-
self out of £BOO or so a year is simply
going against human nature.” “That’s
so,” I said ; stabbing at one of the eggs ;
“unless they could all go to Delhi.” “And
there you have it,” said the Accountant.
“We’ve got to make it worth their while.
If it were agreed that the members of
any State Parliament which voted for
abolition would be entitled to three years’
salary as compensation, they’d leap at
the chance. If it’s against human nature
for a man to give up £BOO a year it’s
absolutely in accordance with human
nature for a man to chuck up the precari-
ous job of a politician for £2400 or £2500
solid cash. It wouldn’t be unfair, and
it’d be cheap at the price.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide police court has
dealt with a batch of new, and some-
times apparently hard-luck, war-time
cases. Wearing a uniform “without
authority,” £7. Naturalised brothers
sending to parents in Italy, but via
Chicago, a letter “apparently quite
innocent,” £lO each. Italians using
motor vehicles, £4 and £l5. The oddest
case was that of a woman of 40, with
a broad Lancashire accent, for travelling
a few miles outside her suburban dis-
trict, her husband being an alien not
naturalised, and in custody. “They don’t
breed Germans in Lancashire,” she said
angrily and tearfully. “I have six brothers
in the army, my father is a warden in
charge of air-raid shelters, and my school-
mates have been killed in raids.” A
sympathetic Court said the law must be
observed, but made it 505., with six
months to pay in.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: Sellers of newspapers
have their point of view. One who hawks
dailies in Sydney’s Hunter-street was
heard on his version of the Russo-Ger-
man war the other day. “Paper, paper!
Soviet cat and Nazi mouse! Paper!
Nazis’ fifth day of punishment! Paper!”
On a near-by corner a contemporary
contented himself with the succinct Aus-
tralianism “German division wiped!
German division wiped! Paper!”
• * * *
. “Atfax”: An Australian drug manu-
facturmg firm expects to supply all Aus-
tralian needs for thQ a lkaloid hyoscin, an
important factor in ophthalmic treatment.
The source of the product is the cork-
wood ’ a bush shmb or smallish tree
found in many parts of eastern Aus-
tralia, particularly northern N.S.W. and
S.Q.. known to botanists as Duboisia
myoporoides. Its properties were inves-
tigated by Dr. Joseph Bancroft, of Bris-
bane, many years ago, after noticing that
the pupils of his daughter’s eyes had be-
come dilated after accidental contact with
the juice of a corkwood leaf. He isolated
the alkaloid duboisin, similar in action
to hyoscin but more potent. Pituri, the
only narcotic known to the abo. before
white-man days, was obtained from D.
hopwoodi, a near relative of the cork-
wood which grows in desert country,
♦ * * *
“S.T.S.”; Adelaide has had a murder
trial even more uncomfortable than such
things mostly are. An elderly shop-
keeper was found with his head battered
in, and a boy of under 16 was promptly
arrested. He said that the other man,
after praising Hitler in an argument, had
attacked him, and he acted only in self-
defence. His counsel, however, advanced
a plea of insanity or, at any rate, a mind
below the normal. Jury’s verdict was
“guilty, with a strong recommendation to
mercy,” and the Judge, passing sentence
of death, said he would pass on the
recommendation to the Government.
* * * *
“X.S.”; A recent breach-of-promise
case in Melbourne, in which plaintiff
claimed £5OOO from a member of a sea-
side municipal council, throws some light
on the circumstances of a civilian popu-
lation in war-time. Included in the special
list of losses which the young woman
said she had incurred by the change in
her fiance’s feelings were £2OO for blan-
kets and linen, £3OO for trousseau, £l5O
for frocks, £5O for other clothing, shoes,
hats, etc., £ll2 for “dressmaker’s frocks”
and £lB5 for a mink coat. In November,
1940, according to plaintiff’s counsel, all
was in train for the wedding—brides-
maids’ gowns ordered, reception at
Menzies arranged and invitations printed.
Then arose some trouble over a religious
matter, and eventually it was made clear
that the defendant did not intend to fulfil
his promise. No evidence was called for
the defence, and the jury awarded the
plaintiff £7OO damages.
* * * *
“Clooter”: In spite of myself I had
begun to hope that the Yanks would
eventually get into this war and make
things hot for Heinie—as they call him.
tu i- i i t i • x
Those hopes have been dashed since I
read that a new song is sweeping
U.S.A., though the American Society of
Ojmposers and Publishers rejected it a
year ago. It sold 150,000 copies in two
weeks, and is expected to reach 500,000
in the first epidemic. Here is the chorus:
Hut Sut rawlson on the rillerah
And a brawla, brawla, soo-it,
Hut Sut rawlson and the rillerah
And a brawla soo-it,
So T rearetfullv turn from fho YanW and
ZtFu l™!. d I- Y K d
pin my hopes on the Russkis.
* * * ♦
“T. McN.”: I nearly fell for George,
thf» cinfnl railwav nWL 9</£/Mn
me sinful railway clerk (B. 25/6/41),
until I came to the part where his boss
demanded, “I hear that you are running
an s.p. double book. Is that true?”
George is reported as having replied that
it wasn t, but that he could get the boss
set if he wanted a few bob on anything.
What he should have replied was, “What
the hell S a S.p. double book ?
“K.P.”: Now that preventive inocu-
lation has brought diphtheria under effec-
tive control whooping cough is the most
serious children’s disease of the present
day. Recent trials of the “phase one”
vaccine manufactured by the Common-
wealth Serum Laboratories afford good
grounds for hope that it also can be
prevented on the large scale. The Royal
Alexandria Hospital in. Sydney has
announced the attainment of 100 p.c.
immunity amongst a number of children
inoculated there during a recent whooping-
cough outbreak in which many of them
had been exposed to infection. In mass
treatment from 75 to 80 p.c. of protec-
tion is generally regarded as attainable
after taking into account those already
infected but not yet showing symptoms.
The “phase one” vaccine is made from
the type of organism present in the first
week of an attack. Later in the disease
it appears to undergo changes which de-
prive it of protecting quality.
* * * *
“Eve”: At 21 a woman makes a hobby
of boy-friends; at 31, scandal; at 41,
club-meetings; at 51, knitting; at 61, criti-
cising the way her grandchildren are
brought up; at 71, thinking of the good
old days; at 81 and over, dozing. A
man at 21 makes a hobby of collecting
girl-friends; at 31 his hobby is women ;
from 41 to 91, women. And, if his ghost
walks, its hobby is strolling up and down
in ladies’ lounges.
* * * *
“Sporadic Fan'’: The Bulletin’s
Sundry Showman, mourning the short
showing of the highly-praised “Long
Voyage Home” at a minor city picture
theatre, calls it “a sad commentary on
the film business.” He might have been
on safer ground had he applied his re-
marks to the intelligence of the filmgoer.
Showmen must cater to public taste, and,
since lurv, blud and riches are the com-
bination that packs ’em in, pictures with-
out these elements don’t get much of a
go. Of course, the S.S. might be right
in holding that the showmen blundered
in not putting this particular picture on
at a good theatre for a long run, but it’s
better not to take risks in the show busi-
ness. “The Lost Patrol,” “The Informer”
and “Romeo and Juliet” were three of
the best pictures ever turned out, but
none of them appealed to the population
anything like “One Night of Love.”
♦ ♦ * *
“Nakhoda”: Ty-Coed, the mountain
fastness W. M. Hughes built at Sassafras
(Vic.), has gone under the hammer, and
in parting with it Mr, Hughes told the re-
porters “It was an abode of peace and
loveliness. I have always thought this
part of the Dandenongs to be one of the
world’s most beautiful spots. I spent
some happy days there, and there are
woven about it many sentimental and
historic ties.” W.M.H. entertained the
Prince of Wales, now the Duke of Wind-
sor, at Ty-Coed, and showed me the bed
in which the Prince had his royal dreams.
For all that Ty-Coed was a very ordinary
week-end mountain residence, planted
around with roses, dahlias, waratahs and
native shrubs.
* * ♦ He
“Spokeshave”: Do British diplomats
ever grow up? Reported that when Sir
Ronald Campbell, ex-British Minister to
Belgrade, arrived in London after all
sorts of hairbreadth escapes, amongst
his luggage was a cricket bat which he
cherished as a memento. It recalls the
remark of Clemenceau when, after a
meeting of the Versailles Peace Confer-
ence, Lloyd George invited him to join
the British statesmen in a game of golf.
“I gave up playing children’s games long
ago,” retorted the astonished Tiger.
* * * »
S. P. Spiller, secretary of the Napier
(M.L.) Thirty Thousand Club, writes to
refute a slur on one of his city’s most
cherished institutions: —-
“Max” (B. 7/5/’4l) advises Melbourne
people to inquire into the experience of Napier
regarding our sound shell. He says that “the
sound shell has become the despair and curse
of residents. Sounds on the beach are magni-
fied with a penetrating quality which has to
be endured to be believed. Bands and noises
of every horrible description seem to accom-
pany every invasion of trippers.” As secretary
of the club which gave this sound shell to
Napier, may I politely deny this? During the
first few weeks we experimented with recorded
music, and found that the carrying capacity of
the sound shell was so good that the music
could be heard more loudly on the hill than it
could along the seashore. This state of affairs
was soon rectified, and the people on the hill
are no longer troubled. The sound shell is
now one of the outstanding features of Napier,
and every night during the summer season is
used by bands or for recorded music and other
open-air entertainments. The musical critic
of the “Dominion” wrote in December, 1934:
“I was surprised to learn that there had been
a lot of adverse criticism over the action of the
Thirty Thousand Club and City Council over
the shell. Probably the people of Napier do
not yet realise that they have accomplished
something unique: they have given New
Zealand its first scientifically constructed open-
air bandstand. Coming from Wellington, I
was thrilled to think that there were people in
Napier with such advanced ideas, and with
courage to put them into practice.”
ANOTHER INJUSTICE.
“Complaining that there was still no Tasmanian
in the enlarged Federal Cabinet, Mr. Beck (U.A.P.)
said he would return to his home State at the week-
end and find out exactly what to do about it.”
—Canberra item.
Just on a score of stout fellows to grapple
Problems sufficient to last them awhile,
But never a lad from the Land of the Apple,
Never a chap from the Raspberry Isle.
Say, do you wonder it fills him with dolor,
Such an injustice as this to the Speck?
Who wouldn’t get a bit hot in the collar
If he were Beck?
Cornstalks are given their Cabinet stations,
Coves from the patch where the cabbages
grow,
Amiable souls from banana plantations.
Fellows whose forebears found food in the
crow.
Even a Groper his place and his status
In that illustrious fellowship has.
Pity there wasn’t, to close an hiatus,
Room for a Tas.
Tough to be left, if you look at it straightly,
Minus a mouthpiece to barrack and talk
Where for so long—and it seems but so lately—
Lyons presided as cock of the walk.
Still, there are methods, no doubt, of redressing
Wrongs that are wrought to the suffering
Speck.
How to employ them is profitless guessing.
Leave it to Beck.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Wodgil”: A German account of the
early fighting on part of the Russian
front mentions that the prisoners taken
were “mostly Tartars, treacherous and
dangerous fellows.” Napoleon encoun-
tered the same foes in his invasion of
Russia. Marbot devoted a droll para-
graph to them in his memoirs:
Our soldiers called these half-savage
Asiatics “Cupids” We perceived some
thousands of Bashkirs galloping towards
us at the full speed of their little Tartar
horses. Our squadrons dashed out, killing
a good many and capturing some. I had
them brought to the Emperor, who ex-
hibited much surprise at seeing these
wretched horsemen,, sent with only bows and
arrows to fight European troops. These
Tartars had Chinese faces and wore strange
dresses. My men amused themselves by
giving them wine. They all got drunk,
and expressed their satisfaction by such
wonderful grimaces and capers that
Homeric laughter, in which Napoleon
shared, overcame all beholders.
The Parisians themselves were moved to
mirth by the sight of these queer invaders,
who followed the hosts to Napoleon’s
capital, killing nothing but small deer but
looting all the way. Their descendants
are doubtless better armed.
* * * *
“Den”: The ways of Australian Gov-
ernment departments are past all finding
out. Recently a Sydney paint firm
wanted a permit to import two lacquers
from the U.S.A. One is used on
aeroplanes, the other for painting
women’s finger- and toenails. Permission
to import the toilet accessory was given
without question, but was refused in the
case of the aeroplane lacquer, and it took
a lot of rumpus to get the refusal recon-
sidered.
* * * •
“Jusso”: Bucked up no end at the idea
of Australia being noticed by smart
Yankee journalists, an Australian Sunday
paper revamps stories collected by “four
correspondents of the famous American
magazine ‘Life.’ ” These stories consist
mainly of legends such as that about
Boer War Aussies commandeering every
horse in Capetown and holding a race-
meeting in the city’s main street and the
usual whiskered canard about indis-
cipline, “saluting” yarns that came back
from the 1914-18 war and the ancient
Bulletin wheeze about the Riverina man
who, told that privates couldn’t drink in
the same pub as officers, promptly bought
the pub. It must be easy to be a
correspondent of a famous American
magazine.
* * * *
“Vegetator”: This Australian com-
plex ! I took a pair of trousers to a Mel-
bourne cleaner, and when he handed
them back, cleaned and pressed and beau-
tiful, he paused and stroked them lov-
ingly. “How much did you pay for
these?” he asked. “How much do you
think?” I said. “Fifty-five shillings?”
“As a matter of fact,” I said, “they cost
me 275. 6d.” “Oh,” he said, disappointed,
“I thought they were British cloth. You
couldn’t get British cloth like that under
18s. a yard. They must be just Australian
imitation.” “Is the imitation as good as
the real thing?” I asked him. “Oh, just
as good,” he uiswered, “possibly better.”
“Then why is it imitation?” “I don’t
understand you.” “Well,” I said, “if a
woman gave birth to a baby just as strong
and healthy as another woman’s baby,
would you say it was just an imitation?”
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Our tame drunk, waver-
ing homeward after dark, overshot the
mark and entered a gate two doors up
from his own. Reaching the house door
he fumbled for the knob and somehow
pressed the button. The door opened
and a feminine form was silhouetted
against the hall light. The drunk waited.
So did the lady. They looked at each
other. Then our drunk raised his hat,
murmured “Shorry, musht ’a’ come t’
wrong place. I can tell be the shilence,”
replaced his hat and retired.
* * * *
'“F.S.”: lam interested in the mentality
of the Rev. Robertson McCue, general
secretary of the Local Option Alliance
in Victoria. In a world in which mil-
lions of men and boys are armed for
“Fair go, mister —this is a grudge fight!"
mutual slaughter, cities are pounded to
pieces, hundreds of ships are sent to the
bottom, seven European countries have
been devastated and conquered and more
are being drawn into the vortex, the Rev.
McCue can become excessively indig-
nant over the fact that, for every six
pints of milk and soft drinks being sold
to soldiers at Puckapunyal, five pints of
beer are purveyed.. It reminds me of the
reactions of an old lady I saw looking
at a surrealist picture in a modernist ex-
hibition in Melbourne. In it were de-
picted a cannon, a skull, a book of
poems, a cabbage and a nude woman.
“I think it is positively disgusting,” she
snorted. “What do you regard as the
most disgusting object in it?” asked her
companion, an artist. “Why, of course,
the woman.”
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: While Maurice
Hely-Hutchinson, M.P., was telling the
House of Commons how hard up he was
he was just being elected to his twelfth
simultaneous directorship at a salary of
£1333 p.a. The practical result was to
reduce by 7s. the weekly £9 which was
all he had left of a five-figure income
after deduction of income and super
taxes, educational costs and living ex-
penses for his seven children, insurance,
rates, maintenance of his untenanted
London house and political expenses. In
1939 he had a London house, a country
one, 11 servants, three cars, five horses
and a private shoot. Now he has no
cars, no horses, no servants, the houses
are untenanted, one daughter is a clerk
in his office, another acts as cook-house-
maid at his London flat and the rest of
the family has migrated to Scotland for
economy. But Hely-Hutchinson can take
it. He wound up by criticising an all-
round income-tax rise for not being big
enough.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Horse - drawn cabs
rumbling along the streets of Melbourne
one day last week attracted the attention
of citizens. For the first time for three
decades they were being used by can-
didates in a City Council election (the
by-election for Albert ward) to take
voters to the booths because of petrol
rationing.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: Henry Lawson’s noctur-
nal visit to my humpy at Curl Curl (B.
25/6/’4l) wasn’t quite as “Hamer” de-
scribes it. I was in bed and fast asleep
in the small hours of a night when it
was raining cats and dogs and a south-
easterly gale was roaring on to the rocks
near Freshwater Beach (now Harbord),
just below my shack. I was suddenly
awakened to a sound like rifle fire on
the tin roof and a feeble and deprecatory
knocking at the front door. “In the
name of God, what!” I murmured as I
got out of bed, pulled on my pants and
went to the entrance of my little domi-
cile. I lit a candle and opened the door.
Shading the light with my hand, I was
amazed at beholding Henry, drenched to
the skin, his beautiful doglike eyes danc-
ing with merriment and a soaked news-
paper-wrapped parcel under his arm,
whose tatters displayed an interior bundle
of clean laundry. “Hullo, Jack,” he
laughed in his queer cackling fashion.
You didn’t expect to see me? It’s all
right, Jack —I’m not a ghost.” He stayed
till morning, camping on a spare stretcher
in a suit of my pyjamas, and departed
at daylight without waiting for breakfast,
remarking: “I think the Manly pubs’ll
be open now, Jack.” It was still raining
heavily, and his parcel of shirts and col-
lars was very wet. Whether they be-
longed to him or not he didn’t say. It
was a startling visitation. He looked
when I opened the door just as Dave
Low drew him calling upon James
Edmond. I wish he would call now,
ghost or not.
* * * *
“Boyup”: They’re just as casual as
ever they were. Becoming fed-up with
the Army because he was kept so long
in camp before being sent abroad, a
W.A. Digger went back to the mines.
He told the Court he considered he was
doing a more helpful job for the country
by producing gold than hanging around
camp. Sentence deferred on the word
of his C.O. that the offender was a good
soldier and would be welcomed back.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: I read with some interest
the news that the world-wide demand
for news had bumped up to £7,608,878
the receipts of Cables and Wireless, Ltd.,
a jump of £2,000,000. Profit of £2,375,771
was a record. In the 1914-18 war there
was no international wireless; the cable
cos. had the business and, with a quarter
of a million troops abroad, Australia was
an enormous frequenter of the cable
counters. There was an excess profits
tax in those days, but it was evidently
lenient, for in the immediate post-war
years the cos., to the amazement of their
staffs, suddenly started ladling out
bonuses of remarkable proportions.
Thinking the Millennium had arrived, the
cable men promptly started fitting their
requirements to the size of their emolu-
ments, and if a fifth-year operator didn't
have a motor-car it was a wonder. Then
the largesse stopped as suddenly as it
had started. Beam wireless had come
into operation and competition appeared
for the first time on the horizon. It was
coped with by amalgamation.
* * * *
“Pawang”: An increase in mental dis-
orders among the American people can
be confidently expected, according to Dr.
Harry Stack Sullivan, president of the
William Alanson White Psychiatric Foun-
dation of Washington, as a direct result of
the psychological warfare being waged
against the democracies by the totali-
tarian States. But mental disorders such
as the doc. describes are due to a conflict
in the patient between what he feels and
what he thinks he ought to feel. Hence if
an American democrat thinks he ought to
fight the Germans and doesn’t he is the
victim of a conflict. On the other hand,
if he doesn’t think it is his duty to fight
the Germans and refrains from fighting
there is no conflict. So all he has got
to do is to make up his mind. If he
can’t he can hardly blame Hitler for it.
". ...And finly, gents, for the qualities which ernabled met' succeed in bizness I must thank me
dear old mother !”
A REMINDER.
“The Labor party is irrevocably opposed to con-
scription, a form of coercion which this country has
rejected decisively and which no political party has
ever sought since to obtain.”
— Opposition—leader Curtin.
To drum men into unions for a faction,
You’d have us think, is proper, just and right.
But should their country call, ’tis an infraction
Of your quaint creed to fit them out for action
Unless they want to fight.
Those referenda that you set such store by
Are somewhat musty precedents, I ween.
Who looks to be confronted evermore by
Outworn convictions that he may have swore by
In nineteen-seventeen?
And was it so “decisive,” the rejection
Conscription met with then? To be precise,
It’s worth remembering, in this connection,
The State which you depend on for election
Decided in the opposite direction,
Not once, my lad, but twice.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt fk Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment—even as little as £2o—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies yielding, at
present prices, around 5 % per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. I, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust;
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
YOU CAH STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that there
is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain, 15 miles of tiny tubes
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
in your body passes through these tubes to ha
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
[Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
blogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
byes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
hess. Erequent or scanty passages with
Smarting and burning also show there is
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
frour chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take pOAN’S
backache kidney pills to-day.
POLITICAL POINTS
Australia now has 19 Commonwealth
Ministers and 61 State Ministers —any-
way, that was the number of State Minis-
ters when the Commonwealth Statistician
last counted them. And every Minister
has at least one secretary and every
Minister’s secretary aspires to build a
department round himself. Many have
done it.
Joe Abbott, Eric Spooner and Allan
McDonald have been added to the previ-
ous 16 Canberra Ministers and all have
resounding titles. Abbott is Minister for
Home Security; McDonald, Minister
for External Territories (Stewart is to
look after External Affairs, Health and
Social Services) ; Spooner, Minister for
War Organisation of Industry. Anthony
becomes Minister for Transport and
Collins P.M.G. ; and, following English
precedent, an elderly gentleman who is
known to have seen an aeroplane or two
has been named Minister of Aircraft Pro-
duction—in this case, the P.M.’s father-
in-law, Senator Leckie. And there are to
be two Cabinets —(1) War and (2)
Economic and Industrial. It is an extra-
ordinary arrangement. The excuse is that
these are extraordinary times.
A count in Hitler’s indictment against
Stalin is that the latter, while he thought
his associate would be fully occupied in
France, seized Bukovina. Which recalls
a par. published in B. 10/7/’4O;
Bukovina, part of which Stalin has
grabbed, was, until November, 1918, an Aus-
trian duchy and crownland and had 14
members in the Reichsrath at Vienna. Con-
sidering the Austro-German territory
violently recaptured from Czechoslovakia,
Poland, Denmark, Belgium and France,
Hitler evidently considers himself heir to
both Hapsburg and Hohenzollern Empires;
so look out, Joe!
Joe didn’t.
That sarcastic fellow Cameron speak-
ing :
There are to be 19 Ministers of State,
12 of whom will be fully fledged; the
remaining seven are to be full Ministers,
but apparently on half-pay. Certain
Ministers are not to attend Cabinet meet-
ings until they are requested to do so.
The first thing a Cabinet must have is a
composite mind, and how in the name of
conscience can any Cabinet have a com-
posite mind if all its members do not
meet together and vote on the matters
that come before it? In Victoria, over
50 p.c. of the membership of Mr. Dun-
stan’s party is always in the Cabinet; thus
the decisions of a party meeting can never
be in conflict with those of Cabinet. This
Government has 36 supporters in the
House, and the Prime Minister would
need to put only a few more of them in
the Cabinet in order to bring about a
similar state of affairs.
Cameron’s idea is that there were too
many Ministers already, and that the new
arrangement will lead only to “further
reversals of decisions of the kind which
have distinguished this Cabinet since the
outbreak of war.” On that point, Labor,
which has a high respect for his clear
head and stiff back, though it hates his
politics, agreed with him.
Saying that no good purpose can be
served by maintaining the role of political
lone wolf, Coles, M.H.R., has joined the
U.A.P. He was elected as an Indepen-
dent. The role is to be filled in the Senate
by Tom Crawford, who was elected as a
U.A.P., or whatever these people are
called in Queensland —they have had so
many labels in Crawford’s time that it is
difficult to be precise.
To a Mr. Guyef, M.L.A. for Polwarth
(Vic.), fell the job of moving the Address-
in-Reply when the Victorian Assembly
reopened for business. Mr. Guyer is
full of optimism. He sees men returning
from the war to find Australia a far, far
better place. And what is to make it so?
“Large-scale” public works, says Mr.
Guyer. The trouble is that the large-
scale public works cut out and the loans
and deficits go on.
A trinity without unity:
We have but one aim and one irrevocable
purpose. We are resolved to destroy Hitler
and every vestige of the Nazi regime. From
this nothing will turn us. We will never parley,
never negotiate with Hitler or any of his gang.
— Churchill, June 22.
The Labor party has no objection whatever
to the Germans practising Nazism in Germany.
That is their business. We will not engage in
any philosophical discussions with them about
their system as long as they make no en-
deavor to foist it by force upon peoples outside
their country. — Curtin, June 24.
Hitherto there has been no reasonable mili-
tary ground for the talk of victory in which
political leaders have indulged throughout the
war. Now, for the first time, in a substantial
sense, we are presented with a possibility of
victory, as distinct from frustration or a
German victory.— Capt. Liddell Hart, June 25.
Taken together, they make rather aston-
ishing reading.
Explaining that he doesn’t oppose
uniform income taxation on principle,
“PLEASE hop out and let her get a move on!”
but opposes it without certain conditions,
the Victorian Labor leader said that m
present circumstances it would mean that
his Parliament “would be reduced to a
cipher.” What else is it now?
Mr. O’Sullivan goes forward:
The Minister for Transport, Mr. O’Sulli-
van, will issue instructions that the
National Union of Railwaymen must join
a union recognised by the Labor Council.
Members will be given till Six-Hour Day,
October 6, to join. Mr. O’Sullivan said
last night that he would immediately issue
instructions the N.U.R. would be ex-
cluded from the list of unions which em-
ployees of the railway department must
join.— “S. M. Herald,” June 14.
Mr. O’Sullivan goes back:
Mr. O’Sullivan will not proceed with his
decision to issue instructions that members
of the N.U.R. must join a union recog-
nised by the Labor Council. The Minister
changed his mind when he discovered that
legal difficulties prevented the carrying out
of his instructions.
— “S. M. Herald,” June 25.
But sure an’ Mr. O’Sullivan don’t
admit that he got himself in anny hole.
Features of the English which im-
pressed our Mr. Menzies — so he told
them at a meeting last March were
their strong religious sense, their sense
of humor and their devotion to the prin-
ciple of limited liability in finance. The
principle of limited liability in war they
abandoned long ago, but Bob is still
devoted to it. So is Curtin.
There is to be no Imperial War
Cabinet, in 1941 anyhow, and though
Churchill “hoped” to hold an Imperial
War Conference “in July or August” he
has “found it is not possible” because
Smutz and Mackenzie King can’t come.
So he will continue to rule alone, bearing,
like the Turk, “no brother near the
throne.” And Menzies will continue to
say (with a subdued echo from Curtin)
“Yes, Mr. Churchill.”
Charged by the Opposition with “toy-
ing” with transport congestion in Mel-
bourne —made worse by petrol rationing—
Dunstan snapped that the problem could
not be solved by merely waving a magic
wand. True, but it is doubtful if Dun-
stan’s solution is any better. He pro-
poses to hold a conference.
Menzies missed a chance when Calwell
(Lab., Vic.) asked whether, in view of
the changed international situation, the
Government would permit the Commu-
nist party to recruit a foreign legion here
to fight for democracy in Russia. “Every
facility is offered to enlist in the A.1.F.,”
said the P.M. tartly. He should have
instantly placed at the Corns.’ disposal
a fully-provisioned Manly ferry with
cricket material enough for a complete
side.
Maoriland’s Minister for National
Service, back in Wellington, told the re-
porters that, for defence purposes, his
country was now regarded as part of
Australia.
It is imperative that we should pool our
resources and mobilise our man-power to
give maximum help to Britain and build
up our home defences.
Imperative it is ; but with one party con-
scripting its man-power and the other
depending on volunteers
One of the things about which Can-
berra can never make up its mind is
what to do with A.B.C. It has “re-
newed” the temporary appointments of
the commissioners so many times that
it has itself lost count of the number,
and it has had an A.B.C. bill in cold
storage for so many months that the
thing has become mouldy. Now, after
taking another look at the bill, it has
returned it to the frig., renewed all the
“temporary” appointments for another
six months, and “decided to appoint a
Parliamentary Committee to review
broadcasting.” And in the space of 10
minutes or so it announced that publica-
tion of the “A.B.C. Weekly” (a) was and
( b ) wasn’t to be suspended.
The Russian-alliance gentry are active
again, and the wildest of them are com-
mitting the U.S.A. to their darling pro-
ject. Third-term President though he is,
Roosevelt couldn’t ally his country with
Moscow if he would, and wouldn’t if
he could. A quotation from Bryce:
The President has not a free hand in
foreign policy. He cannot declare war,
for that belongs to Congress... .Treaties
require the approval of two-thirds of the
Senate.
No treaty of alliance with Britain, much
less Russia, could get a two-thirds
majority in the Senate. In the war of
1917-18 the U.S.A. was “an associated
Power,” and an associated Power it will
be if it comes in this time.
“S. M. Herald’s” correspondent with
the Australians in Syria saw Australians
throw the French out of “a ruined
Crusader stronghold on the Litani gorge.”
Could he have read Granny’s leader the
same morning he would have found that
our men themselves are engaged in a
crusade —“it is the proclaimed objective
of British and Free French forces to
deliver the Syrian people from a military
oppression which has existed for many
years.” The Old Girl was utterly un-
moved by this oppression when she was
so enthusiastic about the French alliance.
The provincial Premiers, Playford
(S.A.) excepted, rejected Fadden’s
uniform-tax plan. Playford was willing,
provided the thing was limited to a short
period, “say a year.” For the rest, there
was a continued yawp about the “threat
to State rights,” i.e., the continuance of
six superfluous Parliaments, Govern-
ments, Government Houses, overlapping
departments, boards and commissions
that, taken together and generally, inflict
the country like a blight.
“I sincerely regret the decision.” Thus
the Commonwealth Treasurer when the
provincial Premiers, on provincial grounds,
rejected his proposal for one income tax.
If Fadden has any intestinal fortitude at
all he’ll make them regret the decision.
“By shedding German blood in the
conquest of Poland, Germany gained for
Russia the greatest success in foreign
politics that the Soviet has achieved
throughout its existence.” Thus Hitler,
“justifying” his attack on Stalin. He might
have added that the Soviet, as a fellow-
member of the League, had guaranteed
the territorial integrity and political in-
dependence of Poland, but that was
evidently too trifling to be dragged up,
and so was the frightful slaughter of
Poles of both sexes and all ages. The
material fact is that “Germany gained
for Russia the greatest success in foreign
politics that the Soviet has achieved
throughout its existence.” Such are the
workings of the dictatorial mind.
From a Special Representative of Mel-
bourne “Age” (whose twin idols are
Churchill and Menzies), quoting “one of
the best-informed political authorities in
Britain”:
Mr. Churchill has about him men who
agree with him without argument. It was
thought here that had Mr. Menzies received
a direct invitation to join the War Cabinet
he would have accepted. The explanation
for Mr. Churchill’s failure to make an
offer is that he felt Mr. Menzies might take
a place far too significant in the political
world.
The first Pitt was like that —“I know that
I can save this country and that no one
else can.” Still, eighteenth-century self-
sufficiency seems out of place in a twen-
tieth-century mechanised world-war.
“Tuart”: Though it is true that the
Nazis invaded Sovietland on the 129th
anniversary of Napoleon’s declaration of
war against Russia (B. 25/6/’4l), I sug-
gest that his timing was influenced by
another anniversary. It was on June 22,
1940, that the French plenipotentiaries
accepted the terms he had dictated to
them in the Forest of Compiegne the
previous day.


INTO BATTLE AGAIN.
“Mussolini has declared war on Stalin.”
“Go it, Adolf; I’m with you!”


a scrap
of
paper
. . . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared~Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD. A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
Kromo-Elk Hide Cossack...
A 34.
Another Abbey Special 35
Here’s value if you are looking for a stout boot that
will stand any amount of hard wear. In brown Kromo-
Elk Hide, with heavy soles, and full range of sizes
and half-sizes. (Note; This is a particularly big-
fitting boot.)
ABBEY
SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or call for free
Booklet.
14 Castlereagh St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
PERSONAL ITEMS
R. J. A. Massie, the new Director-
General of Supply, is a Sydney man,
chairman of directors of British Tobacco
and director of the Commercial of Sydney.
A son of H. H. Massie, banker and dash-
ing batsman in the 1882 Australian XI,
he promised to eclipse his father’s cricket-
ing fame until 1914-18 war wounds cut
short his athletic career —he had played
for N.S.W. in 1912-13-14, was also in
its Union Rugby team and was State
amateur heavyweight boxing champion in
1914. A graduate in civil engineering,
Jack Massie became a lieut.-col. in the
old A.I.F. and came back with the D.S.O.
and the Croix de Guerre, with palm.
After his return he joined the great
tobacco concern, and his rise was rapid.
G. F. R. Nicklin, new leader of
Queensland’s Country-National party,
also State Opposition leader vice E. B.
Maher, retired, was born at Murwillum-
bah (N.S.W.) 45 years ago, and suc-
ceeded R. J, Warren in 1932 as member
for Murrumba. Nicklin put in years’
service with the first A.1.F., returning
with the M.M. A fruitgrower at Palm-
woods (Q.), he can still wield a useful
bat and is president, of the North Coast
branch of the Life Saving Association.
Fifty-four-year-old Maurice Michael
O’Loughlin, A.M.1.E., holds one of the
biggest and most rapidly expanding
executive jobs in Australia. Manager of
a Victorian ordnance factory, where the
furnaces flame day and night, he broke
all records in producing Australia’s first
ack-ack gun, and when orders came for
the medium heavy gun he astounded the
trade by carving a couple of years off
its scheduled time for getting into full
production. A South Australian, he re-
ceived his engineering training in W.A.’s
Public Works Department and its rail-
ways. He joined the Commonwealth
Works Department in 1916 as engineer,
going abroad on war work in the same
M. M. O’LOUGHUN .
year. In London he joined the Common-
wealth Arsenal and went to study guns
at Woolwich Arsenal. In 1934 he again
went to England to study anti-aircraft
gun manufacture. He has been actively
associated with the production of large
lethal weapons all through his career.
Recreations, if any, football and music.
Brigadier Frederick Brock Hinton,
appointed to command the Ist Armored
Brigade of the new Armored Division,
was born at Parramatta, N.S.W., 48 years
ago. He was educated at Old Fort-street,
BRIGADIER HINTON.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Marist Brothers’ High, and Hawkesbury
College, and had gathered a lot of ex-
perience with sheep and wool when be
joined the Seventh Light Horse in 1914.
He saw service on Gallipoli and in France
and came out a major. Studied textiles
at Bradford and Leeds and returned to
Australia to be sheep and wool expert
of the N. S. Wales Government. After
six years of that he took up sheep-farming
on his own account, owned properties at
Yass and Canowindra, won fodder con-
servation championships and became
known as a judge at sheep shows all over
N. S. Wales. He kept up his connection
with military affairs and commanded the
4th Cavalry Brigade till he became Camp
Commandant at Wallgrove. Nickname
“Lucy” of his civil-service days has stuck
to him.
“Cauboy”: With “Karta” there passed
in Melbourne Australia’s most persistent
playwright. “Karta,” whose real name
was Charles Carter, was a member of the
Chamber of Manufactures and proprietor
of a roof-composition concern. He had
upwards of 30 long and short plays pro-
duced in Melbourne and Sydney and
wrote dozens of others, one of which
attracted the American actor Mawley.
In between his periods of inspiration
Carter bombarded newspaper offices
with propaganda on behalf of Australian
drama, about which he had dreams which
would have befitted a Shakspeare. He
was 78 when the pen dropped, and it is
safe to say that he never made a penny
out of his playwrighting.
A Fellowship of the Royal College of
Physicians has come the way of Dr.
J. G. Hayden, one of Collins-street’s
specialists. He was born at Ballarat and
educated at St. Patrick’s College and
Newman. Since 1934 he has been Assist-
ant Director of Hygiene. Also he has
been lieutenant-colonel commanding the
15th Field Ambulance and had much to
do with the health of the second A.I.F.
in Victoria before it went on overseas
service. He is on the honorary staff of
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne, but
has business abroad at the moment with
the 7th Aust. General Hospital, A.I.F.
Adelaide City Council created a record
this year by not having a single contest.
All the old lot stay put, except that A. G.
(“Bob”) Barrett steps down from the
Mayoralty after four years, exchanging
seats with Alderman Seymour Hawker.
Both men are young veterans of the last
war. Barrett is a Melbourne Grammar
boy who has lived in Adelaide since he
was 19, running
the family’s malt-
ing branch busi-
ness. Hawker is of
the S.A. pastoral
dan and an all-
round man. He
holds the M.C., is
a notable game-
shot, landed a
6001 b. shark in
Maoriland, and is
proud of a power-
ful wireless set
which he built him-
self.
Percy Marks, re-
garded as the his-
torian of the Jews
in Australia, was
halfway through a
history which was
being issued in in-
stalments when
death came to him
at 71, which was at
least 15 years more
than the dapper
little solicitor
looked. Marks
wrote and lectured
considerably on
aspects of Shak-
speare, and was the
long-distance mem-
ber of the Shak-
spearean Society of
Sydney. Interested
in all the arts, he
was in many ways
a contrast to his taller and bigger brother,
Alderman E. S. Marks, whose affiliations
are mainly with sport, though both were
members of the N. S. Wales Amateur
Sports Club. Few more “matey” brothers
were to be found than this pair.
R.A.F. officer Squadron-leader Eric
Trenchard-Smith, reported missing, comes
of a Sydney family. He joined the R.A.F.
in 1932, has been decorated for notable
service on the Indian N.-W. Frontier,
and had a term as an instructor in Eng-
land before being posted to a fighter
squadron command.
Capt. W. W. Gunther, reported miss-
ing, was in civil life senior resident m.o.
of Sydney’s North Shore Hospital. He
joined a field ambulance unit early in
the war, was in the fighting in Greece,
and when last heard from was in Crete.
Educated at The King’s School, Parra-
matta, and graduated at Sydney Uni.
Francis Anderson, Emeritus Professor
of Philosophy of Sydney University, dead
in Sydney at 82, was born in Glasgow,
graduated at Glasgow University, and
commenced his career as a teacher as
assistant to that university’s Professor of
Moral Philosophy. In 1886 he became
assistant minister to Dr. Strong at the
Australian (Presbyterian) Church in Mel-
bourne. Two years later he commenced
his long association with Sydney Univer-
sity as lecturer in philosophy. Within
two years he was given a chair. He was
twice Dean of the Faculty of Arts. He
played a leading part in educational de-
velopment in N. S. Wales, and after his
retirement from the University in 1922
he continued to interest himself in the
University Extension Movement and
Tutorial Classes. He was first editor of
the “Australasian Journal of Psychology
and Philosophy,” and in recent years
he was president of the League of Nations
Union of N. S. Wales. He was knighted
in 1936. Glasgow University conferred
upon him the degree of LL.D. in 1927.
Winner of the Allenby Prize for the
most successful artillery cadet of the
Officers’ Cadet Training Unit, Middle
East, is Lieut. J. R. Harrowed. He’s a
product of The King’s School, Parra-
matta, and his parents live at Neutral
Bay, Sydney. An elder brother also has
a commission in the A.I.F.
Dr. Ramsay Mailer, elected president
of the M.C.C. in Melbourne in succession
to knight Edward Mitchell, is a Collins-
street medico with a reputation akin to
that of “Little Doctor” Maloney for
work among the poor, especially the
kiddies. Mailer has accepted this cricket
appointment during war-time on the pro-
viso that it must not interfere with his
work of social salvage.
No Victorian citizen has left more solid
monuments to his charitable activities
than knight Charles Connibere, just dead
in Melbourne. They include the patholo-
gical block at the Women’s Hospital, a
maternity home for the Melbourne City
Mission, a ward at the orthopaedic section
of the Children’s Hospital at Frankston,
the large halls for soldiers at Balcombe
and Puckapunyal, military marquees at
numerous other places, and the Y.M.C.A.
rest-room for all services in Elizabeth-
street. Connibere made many mone-
tary gifts to the Melbourne Hospital and
kindred institutions, and as president of the
Eye and Ear Hospital and a member of
Red Cross and other councils he gave
generously of time and energy. Founder
of a softgoods firm, he and the firm re-
tired from business in 1920. Thereafter he
devoted himself to philanthropy and
making himself a pillar of the temper-
ance cause in Victoria. In 1936 a K.B.E.
came his way.
High among Australian medicoes stands
Dr. Henry Simpson Newland, of Adel-
aide, who is an F.R.C.S. of England and
Edinburgh and also a Fellow of the
corresponding American institution. Born
at Kensington, S.A., 66 years ago, he
graduated at Adelaide University, con-
tinuing his studies overseas —in Lon-
don, Paris, Prague, Vienna and the
US. A. In the 1914-18 war he served
with the A.A.M.C., and has rank as a
lieut.-colonel and the D.S.O. as a legacy
of that service. He’s consulting surgeon
to Adelaide Hospital and Adelaide Chil-
DR. H. S. NEWLAND.
dren’s Hospital, and lectures on operative
surgery at Adelaide University. He was
vice-president of the B.M.A. centenary
meeting in London in 1932. He was
knighted in 1928. Plays tennis and golf.


DURABILITY
u
*
J
ua
BIRKMYRE
WATERPROOF TARPAULINS
This famous canvas is made in Scotland by British Labour. It
is truly British and will never let you down. THOROUGHLY
WATERPROOF, ALWAYS FLEXIBLE and DEFINITELY
STRONG, it gives years of satisfactory service. Obtainable
from reputable makers. If difficulty in getting supplies is
experienced, write Wholesale Distributors:
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“The quality of the English fighting pilots,
quite apart from their machines, has upset the
plans of Hitler, Goring and Co.”
—“S. M. Herald."
Aces will always beat knaves.
•F *F *F *F
“Women have only 70 p.c. of the lung capa-
city of men.” — “Medical Journal."
That would be about the right handi-
cap.
“The natives of the island used to offer
human sacrifices to a sacred fish.”
—Travel magazine.
Holy mackerel!
+ 4* 4* 4*
“Two brothers, who last saw each other in
Glasgow 31 years ago, were reunited in Sydney.
One was the driver of a taxi and the other was
the passenger.”— “S.M.H.”
The first joyful greetings over, they
resumed haggling over the fare.
•i* 4* 4* 4-
“A police official said that it was expected
they would be able to trade the missing
woman. ’ ’ —' ‘D.T.”
What offers?
•fr 4* 4* *s*
“The wedding cake was a three-giered one.”
—Social report.
But with no provision for reversing.
4« 4* 4' 4*
“Telephonists as net-makers.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
They ought to be good at keeping the
lines from tangling, anyway.
T * * ‘ .
“He sent his beautiful daughter to give his
greetings to the visitor, which rather upset the
shy fellow.” — Woman’s paper.
Her plain old dad he wished to see;
But this fair vision came in view.
Startled, “God bless my soul,” said he,
“But here’s a pretty how-d’you-do !”
Hamer.
•F »F *F *F
“Bing Crosby gets £15,000 a year.”
—Film mag.
Well, what has he got to whine about?
*F *F *F *F
“Some farmers say there is little money in
pigs. But it isn’t hard to make them gay
if they are given enough of the right food.”
—Agricultural journal.
And drink.
“FIRE!"
“The manager of one firm said he used to
have a staff of 30 clerks and typists. Now he
carries on with two typists.”— Melbourne paper.
He doesn’t seem to mind if his wife
hears about it, either.
“The captured German freighter was unable
to proceed under her own power and was
bowed by the Navy into port.”
— “World’s News.”
That’s the R.N. —polite but firm.
•h
“Obviously the Germans, through White
Guard fifth-columnists in the Ukraine, expected
to pull off a quick soup d’etat.” —“ D.T
That’s clear.
•i* •h
“The diner complained that the waitress had
given him a cracked slate.”— “Sun.”
Perhaps he didn’t intend to chalk it up.
•i* 4* 4* 4*
“Lipstick impregnated with fruit juice is be-
coming popular.”— Woman’s paper.
Lemon, though, is expected to get the
raspberry.
“Petitioner admitted that she had struck her
husband. He had come home drunk and
threatened to flog her.” — Divorce report.
A man may liquor if he likes.
Although his spouse may bicker.
But hard and sharp his missus strikes
The dream that he can lick her.
H.M.
Amusing.
“In times like these the radio should concen-
trate as much as possible on humor.” —
—Wireless magazine.
When sessions aim at this, I fear
That, far from their dispensing cheer,
They rather tend to weary us;
But oft a hearty laugh I raise
When hearing those dramatic plays
Intended to be serious !
T. W. NATHAN.
Not Being Oneself.
“It was obvious from his haggard appear-
ance that Martin was not himself that day.”
—“D.T.”
It is on such occasions that an awk-
ward situation is likely to arise. When
I came face to face with Dunn in the
Splendiferous bar only last week he asked
me to pay up. I pointed out that, having
a heavy cold, I wasn’t myself, so if I
signed my name to a cheque it would
be forgery. I told Dunn that I remem-
bered being at another pub, and if he
lent me another ten bob to get a taxi and
go looking for myself I might be able
to fix him up.
But Dunn seemed unable to grasp the
reasonableness of the argument. He was
quite ns&ty, especially when he found he
had to pay for the drinks which appeared
at our elbows. As I pointed out, not
being myself I could not have ordered
them.
Unfortunately, not being oneself can
also have its dangerous side, as when
Punchard tackled rne about something I
had said about him.
“You’re making a mistake, Punchard,”
I said cheerfully. “This isn’t me. 1 m
not myself today.”
“In that case,” he said brutally, as
he hauled off and let fly, “this won’t hurt
you.”
But it did.
H. M.
Sweet Mystery of Love.
“Love, to last, needs some mystery.”
— ’’World’s News.”
Well, there’s plenty of mystery about
you and your wife.
Your in-laws wonder what she ever
saw in you.
Ditto, reverse side.
Your neighbors wonder how on earth
you pay the rent, seeing your wife keeps
buying new furniture.
Your wife is mystified as to why
she chose you when she could have had
your own managing-director.
You’re mystified as to how she can
hold her breath long enough to get her
corsets hooked.
E.
Drama.
Over the desert he came —a pitiable
ragged scarecrow of a man stumbling
with weakness at every step, his black-
ened tongue protruding between swollen
lips. “Water —water!” he gasped, col-
lapsing in a heap at the telegraph lines-
man’s feet.
Tenderly that worthy person raised the
desert wanderer and poured a few drops
of the precious fluid down his parching
throat. “My claim—my claim!” croaked
the old prospector, struggling to rise, “I
must register my claim.”
The linesman pressed him gently back.
“Don’t worry, sport,” he said kindly.
“Your gold mine’ll keep until later. Don’t
exhaust yourself now.”
A look of surprise suffused the other’s
countenance. “Who’s talkin’ about gold-
mines?” he demanded angrily. “I wus
referrin’ to me claim f’r a rebate before
the fifteenth. The cows’ve assessed me
on five hundred quid I didn’t earn last
year!”
DOUGAL.
Masters of the Unorthodox.
“Soviet tank units held in readiness were
dispersed by the German Air Force in hand-
to-hand fighting on another sector.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror."
Here is but another instance of that
imaginative daring and the cutting adrift
from all preconceived notions of warfare
that have characterised the work of the
German General Staff.
Sigismund Sawnoff, the military critic
of the Milwaukee “Messenger,” has re-
vealed that when he attended the 1937
autumn manoeuvres in the Black Forest
Colonel-General Sauerkraut von Bier-
giirggler, author of Blitzkrieg und der
Panzergesselschaftdoorgangsturmtruppen,
explained to him many phases of the
new surprise tactics. “When I asked him,
for instance,” relates Sawnoff, “why the
motor-cyclists rode with their heads
under the handle-bars he answered, quite
frankly: ‘Vy, idt bervegdly plain iss,
don’t they? Der Cyclekorpstruppen by
barachude drob alongside der enemy
googhous, brobaganda leaflets in der stew
put und go off to link up mitt der dive
bombers und dorbedo boats. Giebing
dare heads unter der barhandles der
addragtion of der iron in dem vor mag-
netic mines vill neutralise, nein?’ ”
This “original” unorthodoxy, however,
is not new. The Germans, thorough and
painstaking in everything they do, have
a special History Research Corps as part
of their Intelligence Branch which does
nothing else but go through the accounts
of old battles to pick up ideas and re-
model them.
It was Kapitan-Leutnant August Iss-
damkold who found out that when the
English were facing the Norman invasion
they kept dropping back until they got
into position with the sun behind them.
Thfin they would send up a shower of
arrows from slackened bows. The
Normans would gaze aloft to follow the
slow flight of the arrows so as to dodge
them as they fell; the next thing, tem-
porarily blinded by the sun’s rays, they
would hear the rattle of the grapnels as
they bit into the bulwarks. A moment
later the cunning English would be
swarming up the crennellated battlements,
hacking at the distant foe with their
broadswords.
The adaptation of this idea to modern
needs was brilliant. Cruiser tanks, de-
ploying with fast submarine chasers
and pioneer battalions, were thus enabled,
with the aid of minnenwerfer units and
the swift sowing of vast areas of land
mines, to claw down the fastest strato-
spheric fighters.
Fortunately for the Russians, however,
the close two-year friendship with
Germany which succeeded the Non-
Aggression Pact gave the various Soviet
military missions which visited the Reich
during that period a chance to keep
abreast of the latest developments.
This became evident as soon as the
Nazis began their invasion. The Soviet
High Command gave the order for the
frontier outposts to wheel sideways, know-
ing that the oncoming Panzer divisions,
fearing that by this move they would be
outflanked in front, would wheel to the
opposite side, which would bring them
face to face with their own supports mov-
ing up from the right flank in echelon.
By the time the Squareheads had sorted
themselves out the main Soviet infantry
forces had moved to a line 12 miles
away and parallel with the leading Ger-
man motorised units.
Then before the enemy had time to
get into first gear for the onslaught the
Soviet commander played his master
stroke. Bringing up his grenade-throwers
he laid down a terrific barrage, a veri-
table wall of steel bursting only 11 miles
1730 yards off the enemy armored divi-
sions. Then, fixing bayonets, the Rus-
sians charged the balloon barrage which
the Germans had hoisted back at their
gun parks. The Nazi communique ad-
mitted that the Balloontruppen were at
first hard pressed by the fierceness of the
onslaught, but said they put the issue
beyond doubt when they got to grips with
their Sin. howitzers. The Russians
claimed that all the balloons were
brought down in flames.
Nor has the Commissar for the Navy,
Admiral Maldemerski, been letting the
barnacles of orthodoxy grow under his
keel. Aboard his battleship he proposes
—the modus operandi having been laid
down for him by the People’s Committee
on Naval Strategy—to proceed in com-
pany with his cruiser and 194 submarines
halfway out to the White Sea. The subs,
will form a solid protective phalanx in
front of him. This will reduce his speed
to four knots, making him appear almost
stationary to an enemy ship. Lying thus
blacked out at night, he would be in a
handy position, should an enemy warship
blunder within a mile or two of him, to
send his boarding party over the side as
it swept past on the dim horizon and
capture it before the Nazi skipper could
open the seacocks.
BO.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: Blue and Dutch drifted
into Galong (N.S.W.) one bitter night. It
was too dark to look for a good camp,
and there was nobody about the place
who seemed to know of one. They
stood on the railway bridge and mustered
4s. 6d. between them, enough to buy
only tucker and a couple of rums. Dutch
was fighting off ’flu and Blue reckoned
a night in a good bed would do him no
harm. Nobody knows what they said
on the bridge, but a little later Blue pre-
sented himself at the pub, booked a single
room, arranged for early breakfast and
retired, having confided that his car had
broken down two miles out and he had
left it beside the road. In his room Blue
switched the light on and off twice. A
figure drifted across the yard and flowed
through the window. Silence descended,
broken only by the duet of snores from
the single room. Next morning Dutch
presented himself in the kitchen. “I’m
the man from room 12 for the early
breakfast,” he said ; had it and vanished.
At the first clang of the gong Blue was
in the dining-room. “Could you serve
me quick?” he asked the girl. “I was
to get an early breakfast, but I over-
slept.” The girl gave him a puzzled look,
but brought on the scran. A half-hour
later Blue paid for his bed and breakfast
and left to get his “car.” Later, while
the hotel staff was still working it out,
the fed-and-rested wayfarers turned on
to the Yass-road and went forward,
armed for another day.
* * * *
“Horizon”: “Pitt-street’s” par. (B.
4/6/’4l) recalls the occasion when
George held the stake while a shearer
challenged his mate’s familiarity with
affairs of the church. “Ten bob you can’t
recite the Lord’s Prayer,” he said. The
doubted one quickly accepted and kicked
off. “O Lord, our friend in ages past.”
“Orright, you win,” growled the chal-
lenger and, turning to George, “Give ’im
’is ten bob —’e’s better’n I thought J e
was.” George drew him quietly aside.
“You’re a mug to pay up,” he said. “It
should be ‘O Lord, our help in ages
past’!”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It’s Mat’s version: I’m
standin’ on the railway station at Ham-
ley Bridge, a junction in South Oss, try-
in’ t’ make up me mind whether t’ head
f’r Kadina or Peterborough, when a
funny-lookin’ old bird ambles up an’
says, “Hey, mate, when does the next
train leave?” “Where y’ makin’ f’r?”
I asks. With that he gets off his bike
properly, tells me it’s none of my busi-
ness an’ slates me for askin’ personal
questions. I hears him out, him bein’
too old t’ job, an’ then I says, “I only
wanted t’ know so’s I could tell y’ the
right train.” He looks at me pretty hard,
then says, “Well, I’m goin’ t’ Wallaroo.’
So I tells him what time the train goes
an’ leaves him t’ it. About a hour later
I makes up me mind t’ go t’ Kadina, an’
jumps inter the train. Who should be
in the compartment but his nibs! “By
gum,” he snorts, “you’re the limit. I
thought I tricked y’ when I said I was
goin’ t’ Wallaroo, but I didn’t reckon
on y’ followin’ a man.” “Where are y’
goin’?” I asks. “Riverton,” he snaps,
an’ dives into another compartment an’
slams the door. Gripes, y’oughter heard
him when the ticket-collector told him
he was on the wrong line.
* * * *
“Bushwhacker”: One young fellow in
a party of bush hikers knocked a goanna
on the head with a stick. Anxious to
exhibit the victim of his marksmanship,
he persuaded one of the girls to lend a
stocking, in which the go. was duly placed,
making it easier to carry. Just as they
were tying it at the top the carcass
recovered, and a brown stocking on legs
disappeared into the scrub. And natur-
ally nobody at the pub believed “Pegleg”
Woods, the local drunk, when he told
an incoherent story of the strange appa-
rition he had just seen crossing a bush
track.
ap sfe 4: »
“Zend Avesta”: It is 14 years ago or
more since I bought the blanket in Syd-
ney when I was a raw stripling just out
from England. It was an extra-good
blanket, but since then it’s had a hard
life in Queensland’s outback. It’s been
sun-scorched, frost-, wind- and rain-
ravaged. Often it was hoisted between
two saplings to act as a windbreak or
as a break against flying sand. It acted
as a swag-cover during the depression
years, and was lumped all over Q.’s west.
It has been over most of the main stock
routes, inside a hundred or more shear-
ing-sheds, and it has been used as a mat
on which to dry dew-damp cotton. It
knows the sugar country well, and is
familiar with most of the “barracks”
around Mackay. It has covered tractor
bonnets during frosty nights, and been
used as a tractor “roof” to protect the
driver from the scorching cotton-country
“I Wonder which Way he Went ?”
sun. It has been torn by strap and pack-
saddle buckles and patched heavily, its
corners scorched from various night fires.
There’s a dark stain in the middle which
has resisted dozens of washings; it’s
some of “Handsome” Fossard’s blood,
spilt when he nearly bled to death in the
Monto scrub ; we laid him on the blanket
while awaiting the ambulance. Old-man
blanket home from his adventuring—
what a grand cobber it was! And it still
does service these winter nights on the
foot of the couch,
* * * *
“Ymar”: Proudly my dentist displayed
his latest treasure, an aboriginal’s lower
jaw with all teeth intact. Though the
molars were worn down into the roots
and one front tooth was loose in its
socket, there was no sign of dental decay.
His estimate was that the owner’s age
was about 80. But grit and charcoal are
liberally present in abo. diet, and at
grinding down molars they are the most
efficient agents I know. I’ve seen abos.
of 60 with teeth worn almost to the gums.
* * * *
“Bo”: Why all this fuss that various
Aboliars have been making over the
allegedly demoralising sound of the
screech owl? Perhaps it is that the soft-
ness of modern life has made our rural
dwellers susceptible to the terrors the
bird’s nocturnal call seems to conjure
up, but the sound had no such effect on
our forebears, if one may judge by my
grandmother’s reaction to it. When
grandpop hacked his selection out of
an edge of the Pilliga scrub, grandma,
at 17 years of age, already had hands
calloused through catching and hurling
back at the marauding blacks the spears
which were to her part and parcel of
normal life. The district, grandma often
has told me, was alive with screech owls,
and she got that way after a while that
unless there was a chorus of them in
the gums outside the bag-and-sapling
shanty she couldn’t get to sleep. All of
her 17 children were soothed to slumber
by the same soporific sounds. I fully
believe that it was the shock engendered
by the presentation to her by one of her
great-grandchildren of a canary on her
114th birthday that led to the old lady’s
untimely demise.
* * * *
“0.P.”; That drawing in B. 25/7/’4l
of the bloke operating a one-man band
and crosscut saw at the same time was
very funny, but, Lord! Lord! when will
these artists study the common things?
Whoever heard of a crosscut with a
dead-straight tooth-line, square at each
end and with all the teeth pointed the one
way—and that the wrong way?
“CT.522”: Now let an amateur field
naturalist have a peck at the black-and-
white brigade. The next time Ted Scor-
field drops into a pub where they have
a cockatoo let him observe the bird on
its perch. He’ll see that the talker shares
with its cousin the parrot (B. 21 /5 / ’4l)
the peculiarity of perching with two and
not three toes of each foot on the front,
and two at the back of the perch, thus
securing a more even grip.
* * * *
“Groper”; Jacky-Jacky, fishing over
the stern with a light line, was catch-
ing suckerfish. The first half-dozen he
threw back in disgust. Then the cook
tossed him an empty milk-tin. “Tie that
on to the next one’s tail and they’ll all clear
out.” The idea tickled Jacky, and he
nearly had convulsions watching the next
remorra, a big one, disappearing into the
depths with the tin twinkling behind it.
Half an hour later the Malays, despair-
ing of fish, decided on shark. There must
be shark around, they argued, since fish
were so scarce. Overside went the oil-
drum float, its hook baited with a siz-
able lump of rancid bacon —than which
there is no better shark bait. Ten minutes
and the float went under. Off went the
dinghy, with harpoon and line. An excit-
ing half-hour ; then the bos’n got the iron
home. After that it was merely a matter
of hoisting the eleven-footer on board.
A brief affair with the axe —and then
they opened the paunch. What does a
shark eat? This one contained two
remorra, one with the milk-tin on its
tail, a big crayfish and a sea-snake over
three feet in length. Jacky-Jacky ate the
snake, while the Malays dined royally
on slivers of raw shark dipped in vinegar
and pepper. The ship’s cat rejected the
suckerfish.
* * * *
“Jumbuck”: Those “killers” that went
six days in the pen without a drink (B.
18/6/’4l) were far from being record-
breakers. Even in the hottest weather
sheep will go for a week without a drink
if they’re shaded from the sun. Best
effort in that line I know was that of a
ram which was inadvertently left in the
chute of a shearing-shed after crutching.
When a boundary-rider’s dog, poking
about beneath the shed, put its boss on to
the track of the imprisoned ram, 11 days
had elapsed since the greasies had hung
up their machines. The ram was a bit
shaky in the legs, but after a drink and
a bit of picking he soon recovered. And
that was during February weather when
the heat killed even frilled lizards.
* * * *
“N, Sylvester”: I am afraid “Ex-
Mister” has me hipped when he suggests
that I have never watched albatrosses
settle on the water to dine on the con-
tents of the dogbox as they drifted astern
(B. 4/6/’4l). I never have, simply be-
cause the ships I travelled on, mostly
schooners up and down the Westralian
coast, never had a dogbox. Our
Scowegian skipper’s frugality excelled
that of a native of Aberdeen —except in
the matter of schnapps and whisky —and
no albatross in its senses would go after
an empty bottle, which was about all that
went overside on our ship. Spuds were
always boiled in their jackets ; any scraps
of other provender that might have
escaped the maws of five hungry mari-
ners went to the ship’s cat. So there
was little temptation to any seabird to
straggle after us, And maybe I was a
bit loose in my definition of Australian
waters, which we usually regarded as
anything up to halfway to Africa or
Antarctica.
* * * *
“Bolloween”: Riding to town on the
station wagon after a full issue of o.p.
at a wayside shanty, Combo had dozed
and fallen off as the team was crossing
the Namoi bridge. Depression sat heavily
on the ancient one in the hospital to
which they had taken him to repair his
broken leg, and all efforts of mine failed
to cheer him. Even a promise to let him
break in half a dozen colts and fillies
later on was sadly turned down. “You
know, boss,” he gloomed, “I bin breakin
rough horses all me life, and now I can’t
even ride in a blasted bullock wagon
without cornin’ a gutser.” It was more
the ignominy of the disaster than the
broken leg, I swear, that caused his death
a week later.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Wonder if petrol ration-
ing will bring that sight of other days, a
couple of smart nags yoked to a motor
vehicle? A precurser of the motor-car
in the Victorian Wimmera was the
motor-buggy, a high-wheeled contraption
that snorted and rattled over the rutty
roads to town on Saturdays and was the
envy of the district. It had wooden
buggy wheels with iron tyres and was
quickly ousted by the car on its pneu-
matics, whereupon it next appeared
drawn by horses. The last one I saw
was acting as a drover’s outfit outside
Warracknabeal.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Yes, Russian Jack was a
good-natured bloke (B. 4/6/’4l), but I
recall the night he cleared every pub in
Magnet. Into a crowded bar he would
clomp with his big hobnailed boots, and
instantly everyone would dash for the
doors, even the barmen making for
shelter. Then, after a bewildered pause,
Jack would shoulder his sackful of
recently-bought stores and make for the
next drinker, there to meet the same
reception. It wasn’t until the johnop ran
him down that anything like order was
resumed. “Let’s have a look inside that
sack,” demanded the Law. Jack starred
to let his load down with the usual
wallop, but the cop got in with a sort
of jiu-jitsu move and grabbed, not Jack
but the bag. “Nothin’ in it except a few
tins er dawg an’ some stuff for the mine,”
Jack protested. Very gingerly the police-
man sorted out the contents. A few
dozen of “dog” was right, but the stuff
for the mine consisted of about half a
case of “fracture” and a couple of tins of
caps. “Put ’em all in,” Jack had ordered
the storekeeper. Someone who had seen
the storekeeper doing this, and knowing
Jack’s penchant for letting his bag of
stores down with a wallop, had passed
the word around. The smack of a couple
of tins of “dog” on a loose cap would
have been sufficient to send any of Mag-
net’s pubs high into the midnight sky.
But Jack,, when half sprung, as he usually
was before going to buy his stores, was
oblivious of such trifles.
NIGHT IN GIPPSLAND.
Silence in the fading timber,
Silence on the track,
Black the shadow, black the mountain,
And the ridge-cap looming black.
Savage is the high horizon,
Savage is the frost,
Lost the color, lost the singing,
And the daylight’s fervor lost.
Cold and dark this pit of waiting,
While the trended hill-ghosts quake.
Silver on the east horizon,
Silver on the frost.
Lost the dolor, lost the waiting—
In the rising moonlight lost.
Magic on the stirring forest,
Magic on the range,
Strange the voices, strange the movement,
Where all was dead and strange.
Sharp and white the light from heaven
Sees the land’s cold beauty wake.
N.S.W.
EX-VIC.


“According to this map We ought to be at the crossroads”
ô
I have heard the term applied to elderly
wayfarers, inferring that they had “ding-
bats in their whiskers.” And yet again
I have heard of somewhat irresponsible
persons that they “had dingbats in their
lump of lead.” It is all very puzzling,
since, as a final instance, I only recently
heard a rather annoyed wife caustically
inquire of her errant spouse if he had as
usual been out chasing dingbats.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Three Brisbane
anglers pulling home from a fishing trip
in Deception Bay grounded on an off-
shore bank. While pushing the craft
over it one of the party picked up a
blacklip oyster, which was found to con-
tain a pearl valued by a Brisbane jeweller
at £3. Twenty years or so ago pearls
to the value of over £IOO were found in
a bed of blacklip shell off the southern
end of Moreton Island. It had been
established there in the 1890’s with
“chicken fish” brought from the Barrier
Reef. They increased, but the shell
proved too thin and worm-eaten for
marketing, and the project was aban-
doned. Yachties and fishermen give it
an occasional hunt-over at low-water still,
and occasional small pearls are found.
Another lot of blacklip chicken had
previously been put down in Deception
Bay by the old Acclimatisation Society
of Queensland. The recent find probably
came from one of its descendants.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Although the bee is held
up as the model of industry, it is really
just as willing to shirk work as any
politician; hence the disappearance of
“The O.D.’s” billy of sugared tea (B.
4/6/’4l). Keep a supply of sweetened
fluid handy to a hive and the bees won’t
pass it, even though flowers may bloom
luxuriantly within sight. They have very
definite notions about getting things on
the cheap. Have watched them working
on a freshly-painted surface, lapping up
the paint almost as fast as the brush
laid it on. The linseed oil, processed
in the hive, became converted into pro-
polus, the gluey substance with which
they fortify the home, stopping up cracks
and holes by which ants and other
enemies might enter. But the limit was
a burnt car, overturned on a bush road
near a big apiary. Thousands of bees
carried away the burnt rubber of the
tyres. Here again they had found some-
thing convertible into propolus. Normally
they gather gums and resins for this
purpose. Wax is another item they are
always willing to obtain at below cost.
Give them a chance and they will rob a
neighbor hive, working a way in as
cunningly as any shoplifter, and then
loading up with wax and honey. They
generally put themselves away, though,
by overloading to such an extent with
the stolen goods that they have difficulty
in taking off from the landing board.
That’s how the observant beekeeper
detects them at it.
“Waratah”: I have two china soup-plates
for bird baths and drinking water. One
is of the old-fashioned, wide-brimmed
pattern, and the other a modern coupe
type. Invariably the bees sip from the
rimmed plate. One day, to test a theory.
I emptiecnhe* favored container and
came later on an angry swarm of frus-
trated bees who had been making abor-
tive attempts to land on the previously
despised coupe. When the rimmed plate
was overfilled or the water in the bowl
was low, drowning fatalities were
common.
“Cheyne Bay”: Touching
Westralia’s annual migration of
whales (B. 18/6/’4l), apparently
these cetaceans, mostly hump-
backs, come up from the An-
tarctic Wilkes Land and strike
this continent in the Bight. From
there, feeding and lazing, they
move slowly west to Leeuwin
and then turn north. Seldom
before have such numbers been
seen as during this season ; and
Westralia’s whaling traditions
date back to the 1830’s and
reach well into the ’eighties. At
Cottesloe many a whale was
stripped of its blubber and bone.
Arthur’s Head, Fremantle’s land-
mark, was once the watch-
tower ; and in response to the
call “There she blows!” boats
put out, racing to take the prize.
Combats, sometimes lasting for
hours, provided thrilling spec-
tacles for sightseers lining the
beach. In every part of Cock-
burn Sound whales have been
taken. Yet present-day W.A. is
quite apathetic ; such revival as
has been attempted has been by
foreigners.
* *
“Wang”: “I strike a township one
blazin’ hot afternoon an’ make a beeline
fer the pub,” said Dan. “Next mornin’
I wake up in the cooler, and a few hours
later I’m hauled before the J.P., charged
with bein’ tight an’ assaultin’ the p’lice.
An’, judgin’ be the color of the John’s
mince-pie, that part of the charge didn’t
require much provin’. The J.P. socks me
a coupla quid or seven days, an’ I tell
him it’s a case of takin’ it out, as I’d
busted me last bob the day before. Then
a timid-lookin’ bloke sittin’ in the court
gets up an’ ses he’ll pay the fine. The
J.P. grins at him an’ ses: ‘All right, Mr.
Jobbers. We’ve come t’ expect that
sorta thing from you!’ Then he turns
t’ me an’ ses, ‘Y’re discharged. An’ y’ve
gotter thank Mr. Jobbers’s kind heart
fer it. I doubt whether you, or the
dozens of others he’s paid the fines of
fer doin’ the same sorta things as y’ve
done, is worth it. But he seems t’ think
so’ —an’ a lot more boostin’-up of me
unexpected benefactor, who sits there
lookin’ reel uncomfortable. Outside the
courthouse I’m just goin’ to hoist me
knot when I hear somebody tellin’ me t’
wait. I look round an’ find it’s this
Jobbers joker. He sidles up t’ me an’
shoves a quid inter me mitt, lookin’
round nervouslike. ‘lt’s all right,’ he
says in a low voice an’ with a weak grin.
‘l’ve got meself a repertation here fer
kind-heartedness, as you heard in the
court. But it ain’t really that at all. It’s
becos I’d like t’ do what youse blokes
do; but I ain’t got the guts t’, so I
take it outa meself this way. Goo’ day.’ ”
* * * *
“Carnie”: To “Pitt-street’s” eleventh
commandment (B. 4/6/’4l) add my old
dad’s extra beatitude, “Blessed are the
horses of the unsaved, for they shall wax
“Who said repaints Were scarce?”
fat ” Normally in our Downs (Q.) neigh-
borhood a horse’s ribs protruded in
exactly the same degree as his owner
paraded his religion. Dad vowed that
even in a flush time, when every beast
was mud-fat, he could go through a
strange farm district and pick out the
“unco righteous.” A man scuffling
maize with nosebagged horses (con-
trary to the divers laws of Moses) is
invariably confident of his harp and
crown. There are other infallible
guides to character which even a casual
scrutiny of their owner’s animals will
reveal. I once heard my old man pro-
claim, after giving one fellow and his
mount the once-over, that the young
bride’s hope of matrimonial bliss with
him would be a mighty poor one. Mother
and I, prejudiced by the handsome
exterior which we believed had biased
dad, had at length to admit that the
Adonis was a poor bargain to woman
or beast.
* * * »
“Dickie Beech”: I take my sou’-
wester off to the Australian gannet for
well-organised communal effort in the
fishery business. Every day a dozen of
the big white birds with yellow heads and
black wing-tips systematically quarter
this S.Q. bay. The first to sight a mob
of small fish shoots steeply aloft and with
wide wings spread does a 50ft. nose-
dive. An instant before impact with the
water the wings are closed so that the
streamlined 3ft. body makes only a light
feather of splash. In a few seconds it
emerges with wings outstretched, seem-
ing to fly out of the water, a fish held
crosswise in its beak, flutters for a second,
tosses the capture in the air, catches it
headfirst, and swallows it in a gulp.
Meanwhile the others circle round the
shoal to keep it in sight and together,
and one by one shoot up, nose-dive and
appear with a fish. No two dive at once,
and there are never more than two or
three in the water at a time. Each suc-
cessful fisher rejoins the main body and
keeps station with them until it is its
turn to dive again. Countless thousands
are doing the same job all round the
coasts of temperate Australia ; even more
thousands of their brown, red-legged and
masked cousins an almost equally effec-
tive one round the coasts of tropical Aus-
tralia. If we ever achieve an effective
national fisheries industry there should
be a diving gannet on its house flag.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Some of these cow cockies
have been wasting a lot of flour in these
pages ; now let a bushman shuffle a real
scone. Make up a good fire, sheltered
from the wind, of solid chunks pf dead-
finish, gidya or prickly acacia. Mulga
and box are not so good ; gum is hope-
less. Get out a clean cast-iron camp
oven ; if you’ve used it for cooking meat
put it upside down over the fire to burn
the fat out —mere washing won’t do this.
Ten or 15 minutes before mixing put
the oven lid in the fire. Sprinkle a few
coals on the ground and stand the oven
on ’em. Now mix the damper dust.
Sling in as much flour as you need, twice
as much baking powder as the makers
advise, salt, a spoonful of milk powder
and a spoonful of sugar. The milk gives
a sweet, rich, golden crust; the sugar
makes a fine, even crumb. Mix all to-
gether, fluffing up the flour till it feels
light and puffy. Now get a quartpot of
water handy. Put down a light layer of
coals. Stand the oven on them and
sprinkle it inside with fine wood ash —no-
thing tastes worse than a damper smoked
by scorching flour, The ash can t scorch
Now mix your it light apd
loose but don t knead it T J| e minute
it is thoroughly mixed, whip i
oven, get the hd on and heap with
glowing coals. >ou can m P
minutes. A two-to-three-pint
shouldn t take more than 30-40 m - -
It will usually need fresh coals when
about two-thirds cooked. It m u
cooked very quickly and from the top.


What ARE THE
Duties of m
Executor V
Fo
m
QOUR Executor should assume control of your Estate imme-
diately and take measures to safeguard your assets. He
must manage the assets and deal with the problems ol
claims, debts and taxes, including Estate Duties and
Income Taxes, and in general, substitute his business
judgment for yours. He must administer the Estate as the Will
directs and the law provides, and account for his acts to your
beneficiaries, and to the Court.
The foregoing is only a brief outline of his duties, but it suggests
the reason why those versed in affairs appoint an experienced
Trustee Company as Executor or Co-Executor with a friend or
relative rather than place the entire burden on a single
individual.
The services of The Trustees Executors & Agency Company
Limited with more than 63 years’ experience as a corporate
Executor and Trustee are available at a fixed and moderate
charge. Consult your Solicitor or call or write for further
information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
£td.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital {paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £957,320.
_ , BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.B.E.
. NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) W. D. Stewart R. T. Milder
N S,W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones Manager: K. M. Hughes
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 409-413 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Huddart Parker. Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Tte- Be-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
1930. .103,969 30,000 8 p.c. = 60,000 13,969 754,770
1931.. 70,644 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 3,144 757,914
1932.. 71,860 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 4,360 762,274
1033.. 73,078 30,000 5 ~,, 37,500 5,578 767,852
1934.. 85,740 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 3,240 771,092
1935.. 78,059 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 766,652
1936.. 91,108 30,000 7£ „ „ 56,250 4,858 771,510
1937.. 116.468.30,000 11 ~,, 82,500 3,968 775,478
1938. .132,164 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 772,642
1939. .139,216 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 4,216 776,858
1940. 30,000 12 ~,,90,000 764,596
t Excluding specific reserves, £689,730 at December
31, 1940.
The fleet consists of three passenger and
half a dozen cargo vessels. Some of
the units have been taken over for
national service. The trans-Tasman run
became unprofitable, and the Wanganella,
the co.’s largest passenger ship, has been
transferred to the Australian coastal
trade, where few passengers but a lot of
cargo are available. War conditions have
thus cut into earnings in the shipping
section of the business, which was further
affected by a miners’ strike on the Mait-
land field which held up coal-production
for nearly three months, and by increased
wage rates for ships’ crews, by rising costs
and by delays in sailings due to various
causes. It is the co.’s investment in
Government securities and its holdings
in Amalgamated Wireless, Melbourne
Steam, Tasmanian Steamers, Bay
Steamers and J. and A. Brown Abermain-
Seaham that provide shareholders with
most of their dividend. The Metropoli-
tan and Hebburn coal cos. haven’t con-
tributed to the pool for over a decade,
though a div. from the last-named is a
possibility in the near future.
There was a sharp contraction of
£34,513 in declared profit (£22,353) from
the co.’s own trading last year. That
was after allowing £71,026 (down £9226)
for depreciation and disregarding
£33,000 sent direct to reserves before the
1939 profit was declared. General in-
vestments turned in £80,543 (down
£17,182) and the subsidiaries £19,769
(down £4311). Including a profit of
£6450 on sale of investments and an
unexplained addition of £2478 to the in-
surance reserve, but deducting directors’
fees (£5000) and allowance for taxation
(£18,855, down £19,125), the profit
claimed was £31,478 lighter at £107,738.
This was enough to pay 6 p.c. on the
half-million of prefs. and show 10.3 p.c.
on £750,000 of ord. capital as against
14.5, 13.6, 11.5, 8.1, 6.4 and 7.4 p.c. back
to 1934. A couple of points were clipped
off the div., reducing it to 12 p.c., re-
serves being tapped for £12,262 for the
purpose.
Actually the position was better than
it looked. After allowing for outside
shareholders’ interest, the combined
accounts of H.P. and its subsidiaries
showed a profit of £133,637, or sufficient
to pay the pref. div. and show 13.8 p.c.
on ord. capital.
Since the beginning of 1941 the
market for the ords. has fluctuated be-
tween 525. and 455. Recent sales were
at the latter figure, at which the return
would be 5.3 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis,
or 4.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution. The
prefs. at 265. 6d. yield 4.5 p.c. Taking
the subsidiaries’ figures into the reckon-
ing, the net tangible cover is £6 11s. 6d.
prefs. and £3 14s. 4d. ords.
Here is the position as parent’s
accounts show it:
1937. 1939. 1940
Freeholds, etc. 1 f £184,077 £183,568
Ships, etc. 1 £1,268,313- 099,481 629,653
Shares subsids. J [ 242,241 242,241
Investments . . 1,405,922 1,497,704 1,490,454
Cash . . . . 43,978 27,890 60,975
Book debts . . 107,290 319,049 295,610
Stores .. . . 37,840 45,804 42,492
Total assets . . £2,863,343 £3,016,306 £2.944.993
Less liabilities. . 356,507 *231,041 *173,165
Net assets .. £2,506,836 £2,785,265 £2,771,828
* Including tax provision, previously lumped with
specific reserves.
Last term a contraction of £69,828 in
the book value of ships, etc., and of
£23,439 in book debts was accompanied
by an expansion of £33,085 in cash and
a reduction of £57,876 in liabilities. The
apparent shrinkage in net assets was
£13,437. The combined accounts otf
H.P. and its subsidiaries shows an in-
crease of £15,084 in net assets. There was
no slip, therefore, so far as the entire
organisation was concerned.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd. (Fiji)
, Dividends ~
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Assets written down, £15,000 .. 177,719
1931.. 54,272 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,224 9,896 187,615
Assets written down, £20,000 .. 167,615
Hurricane losses, £12,400 .. .. 155,215
1932.. 27,254 13,152 4 p.c. = 20,816 148,501
1933.. 38,193 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 4,225 152,726
1934.. 34,272 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 304 153,030
1935.. 48,474 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 9.302 162,332
1936.. 56,686 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 17,514 179,846
1937.. 73,835 13,152 5.8„ „ 29,923 30,759 210,605
1938.. 85,097 13,152 8i „ „ 44,235 27,710 238,315
To staff fund, £5OOO . . . . 233,315
From contingencies, £13,000.. .. 246,315
1939.. 56,366 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,225 11,989 258,304
1940.. 56,684 13,152 6,, ~ 31,225 12,307 270,611
Plantations written down £20,000,
“mainly” from inner reserves.
From dividend suspense, £6939 .. 277,550
1941.. 55,306 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,225 10,929 288,479
To Fiji Bomber Fund, £5OOO . . 283,479
This big Fijian trader and plantation-
owner, with substantial interests in
Samoa and Tonga, has been accumulating
strength, unobtrusively and otherwise,
over a long period. The policy stood
by shareholders last year, when copra,
on which a large slice of Island
activity depends, piled up fast following
marketing difficulties, and the Suva price
fell to between £5 ss. and (for most of
the year) £3 10s, a ton. In the previous
year minimum London price had been
£9.
Copra now ranks a poor third, behind
sugar and gold respectively, both of
which are enjoying enhanced prices, in
the value of the Colony’s external trade.
Morris, Hedstrom, however, is not nearly
so dependent on the product of the
coconut as of yore. Over the last decade
there has been reorientation of trading
activities towards sugar- and gold-
producing centres, with the result that the
book value of interests here “far exceeds
that of assets in districts dependent on
copra.” “Mainly” from inner reserves,
another £20,000 was struck off plantations
last year, reducing the figure at which
they appear to £29,193 ; actual cost was
£120,000.
Control of prices, which has cut
margins on bulk foodstuffs to negligible
proportions, imports and exchange added
to the co.’s difficulties last year. Still,
aided by local defence spending, the
board was able to show £1999 more in
gross earnings (£186,528). Outgoings
were well controlled, but taxation lifted
the debit against gross £2425 higher to
£135,171 (including depreciation £21,296).
The usual prior addition (£3949) to insur-
ance reserve was £952 lighter, too, leav-
ing the net result £1378 down at £55,306
—B.l p.c. on ord, capital, allowing for
the prefs., compared with 8.3, 8.3, 13.8
and 11.6 p.c. back to 1937. That ex-
cludes £6939 of accumulated investment
income written back from suspense
account, to which it had been whisked
without figuring in p. and 1.; also £5OOO
donated to the Fijian Bomber Fund,
Div. was kept at an all-round 6 p.c.
Accounts are kept in Fijian currency,
so the 6 p.c. was worth 6.6 p.c. to Aus-
tralian holders. On this basis the ords.
at 19s. 6d. yield 6.9 p.c.; the prefs. 6.5
p.c. at 20s. 3d. Book value of the back-
ing is 30s. lid. Fijian ords., £4 13s. 4d.
prefs.
Financially the co. is stoutly ribbed
to weather adversity:
1933. 1940. 1941.
Paid'capital .. .. £739,613 £739,613 £739,613
Deposits .. . . 12,420 4,946 6,847
Sundry creditors, etc. .. 18,228 18,999 19,156
Plantations . . . . 65,524 49,247 29.193
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 331.762 303,195 303.900
Stocks, etc 212,276 337.110 231,652
Investments and cash.. 142,025 167,256 315,854
Capital value of
branches, etc. .. 65,706 92,760 81,539
Book debts, etc. .. 132,596 133,950 129,967
The inner reserves written off plantations
last year appear to have been hidden in
other property and investments. Though
copra stocks are heavy, total stocks fell
£105,458, owing to difficulties in re-
plenishing merchandising supplies. No
use was found for the money, which
helped to swell cash and investments by
£148,598. Included in total sharehold-
ings, etc. (£141,046), is “shares in sub-
sidiaries, £78,761” —an inscrutable item.
The bulky nature of most Island pro-
duce is no help in present circumstances,
and, with both exporting and importing
likely to be further affected, profit
margins will be difficult to maintain.
Prospects for copra would appear to
hinge on the efforts of the proposed
Government Pacific Copra Marketing
Board to obtain freight space.
Prestige, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £,£,£,
1931.. 17,769 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 15,210 2,559 90,083
Share premiums, it 2234 .. .. 92,317
1932.. 19,189 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 15,799 3,390 95,707
Share premiums, £5725 .. .. 101,432
1933.. 19,267 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 16,556 2,711 104,143
1934.. 19,796 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 331 104,474
1935.. 21.807 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 2,342 106,816
1936.. 25,540 8 „ 124 „ 22,270 3,270 110,086
1937.. 25,291 8 „ 10 ~ 19,465 5,826 115.912
1938.. 10,968 8 „ 74 „ 16,659 110,221
1939.. 25,271 8 „ 10 ~ 19,465 5,806 116,027
Prestige, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.*
Surplus sale plant, £4056 . . . . 111,346
1940.. 30,511 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 19,465 11,046 122,392
1941.. 38,705 8 „ 10 „ 19.465 19,240 141,632
* Profits shown less outsiders’ interest.
The improved showing was mainly on
account of operations of the subsidiaries.
These include a manufacturing offshoot
at Wellington (M.L.), another catering
for the less high-grade Australian market
from Melbourne, and Dyecraft Pty.,
formed last year to meet “the ever-
increasing demands of the trade” on the
dyeing and finishing side of things. The
parent itself has extended beyond hosiery
and lingerie into specialised woven-fabric
manufacture to meet defence needs, and
the new mill has now commenced pro-
duction.
All along the management has con-
centrated on quality and costs, to the
advantage of both the buying public and
its own sales in a highly competitive
market. Shipping and exchange control
have brought war-time difficulties in the
supply of raw materials—raw silk, for
example, is rationed 55 p.c. but an
enterprising board has found substitute
materials for a number of non-sterling
imports, and, stimulated by forward buy-
ing by traders and growing absorption
of women into industry, increased turn-
over and operating efficiency outstripped
the growth in costs and taxation.
Allowing for the small pref. div. of
a subsidiary, the spring in group earn-
ings was £8194, making them £38,705.
It was enough to meet the parent’s own
pref. obligations and then show 27.1 p.c.
on its £112,209 of ord. capital, compared
with 18.9 p.c. for 1940. Of the £38,705
£25,886 (up £2287) was in respect of
Prestige’s own activities ; the rest came
from the pups. The unchanged 10 p.c.
handout left almost half the year’s earn-
ings to plough in.
Liberal writing-d0wn—£40,633, down
£4935, was last year’s allocation—has
kept working assets at a fine pitch of
efficiency:
f Prestige v —Cons. Figures—
-1938. 1940. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £215,259 £215,259 £215,259 £215,259
Outside capital 29,950 30,000
Overdraft . . 69,299 27,968
Sundry creditors* 45,457 77,092 109,004 104,339
Freeholds .. 80,581 78,628 105,369' 108,531
Plant, etc. . . 111,78,6 61,457 107,588 91,122
Shares other cos. 72,546 74,160
Stocks . . 134,816 140,089 216,572 294,105
Book debts, etc. 50,484 58,194 39,474 35,653
Cash, etc. . . 1,055 19,040 21,037 3,162
* Including tax provision.
Foresight is apparent in the further
accumulation of £77,593 in stocks, to
finance which the debt and taxation pro-
vision were increased £23,303 net and
cash drawn upon for £17,875. Treating
outside capital as a liability, the improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£170,673) was £32,544.
Current term, which will get the bene-
fit of new activities, opens with raw-
material reserves at a comforting level.
But intensification of all present problems
can be looked for, and in any Govern-
ment industrial rationalisation silk stock-
ings won’t be very high in the scale of
essential products. Despite last year’s
margin between earnings and distribu-
tions, at 13s. the market asks for an
immediate 7.7 p.c. return from the 10s.
ords. The 8 p.c. prefs. yield 6.5 p.c. at
245. 9d. The cover is £3 9s. 4d. prefs.
and 225. 7d. ords.


SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and MetjUlmr gusts.
V ♦ • •
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks— Advt.
Position Vacant.
REQUIRED for Singapore, qualified Mechani-
cal Engineer-Draughtsman capable ot under-
taking Bucket Dredge design, erection and
working. Only applications from persons pos-
sessing experience in the above work will be
considered Salary, 5.5.5700.00 per month,
equivalent to Australian £1220 per annum.
Applications, with Testimonials, and stating
age, qualifications and experience, to be sent
by Air Mail to Post Office Box 194, Singapore,
S.S. —■——mrnvammrm
Public Notice.
MOUNT COOLON GOLD MINES,
NO LIABILITY.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend of
Sixpence (6d.) per share has been declared on
all the issued shares in the capital of the
C °The a div’idend is due and payable at the Regis-
tered Office of the Company on Thursday, the
31st day of July, 1941. . ...
Transfer Books and Share Registers wi\i
close at 5 p.m. on Thursday, the 3rd day or
Julv 1941, and reopen at 9 a.m. on Saturday
the sth day of July 1941 and shareholders
registered on Friday, the 4th day of July, 1941-
will be entitled to receive the dividend.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders. „ , _ ,
By Order of the Board,
L. EDWARDS, Manager.
Registered Office: 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne. 26th June, 1941.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
A thorough, comprehensive and efficient service
—founded on traditions of more than a century
of sound banking—combined with a progressive
policy and extensive organisation, enables THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY, LIMITED, to offer every facility for
the transaction of all classes of Banking business.
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman);
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen B. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
A
iaev
a»ce
Where the going is wet,
heavy or hilly, “Cater-
pillar's" track - type
tread demonstrates its
versatility with gripping
non-slip traction. 80%
of its heavy duty, eco-
nomical engine power
is converted into steady
draw-bar pull.
See your Dealer or
write us direct.
R eR . V.S. I‘at. Off
Pictured below is
a "Caterpillar"
Diesel D 2 Tractor
pulling a 3-fur-
row mould board
plough and 5-ft.
harrow, plough-
ing swamp land
nine inches deep,
at a total fuel
cost of 1/3 per
acre.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Victoria and Tasmania;
William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
521 Collins Street, Melbourne.
New South Wales;
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
Unwin’s Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
102 Melbourne St., Brisbane.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
Jelapang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
With its low nominal assessment of
404 tons p.a., output control has been
irksome to this Malayan member of the
Anglo-Oriental group. Ordinarily, there-
fore, present virtually-unrestricted pro-
duction and high prices would be right
down shareholders’ alley. The co. has
a rich property, and its modern electric
plant is capable of turning it over at the
rate of 150,000 c.y. monthly.
Unfortunately the dredge has run into
a patch of unexpected bad luck and
ground. Says chairman A. A. Henggeler;
Although high bore values gave us every
reason to expect good returns, the char-
acter of the material treated has entirely
changed from that previously dredged. It
consists of a tough clay which just refuses
to be disintegrated, and is about as diffi-
cult as any ground I know. Everything
has been done to cope with this problem,
but results cannot be considered satis-
factory.
Should there be no improvement it is
intended to abandon the southern portion
of the property. What this will mean
in loss of dredging reserves is not in-
dicated. The total of these is now around
18,500,000 c.y., averaging 0.851 b. oxide,
which has the high assay of 76 p.c.
metal. Accepting these figures, life of the
property would be 10 years given
capacity production ; restriction is likely
to extend that estimate.
The dredge was idle between 1930-35.
Following its reconstruction, these results
have since shown up:
, —Surplus—v—Dividends— N
Dec., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
loap f £49,330 £28,789 £20,541 3/4 Nil Nil
iy,40.. , rji 0 bucket-line renewal, £4OOO.
( 08,392 32,767 35,625 5/11 4/-£24,000
1937.. ' To bucket-line renewal, £2OOO.
I Struck off plant, £30,000.
1938.. 25,890 21,904 3,986 -/8 1/- 6,000
1939.. 55,092 36,673 18,419 3/1 2/- 12,000
1940.. 62,325 48,670 13,655 2/3 2/3 13,500
* Includes depreciation, etc.; 1936, £1648; 1937,
£7625; 1938, £5OOO ; 1939, £15,000 ; 1940,
£lO,OOO.
Last term the free domestic production
was let out from 51.1 p.c. to 88.7 p.c. of
assessments. Still, because of quota pur-
chases in the previous term (met from
heavy carryover stocks), Jelapang’s ore
sales appear to have been only 25 tons
better at 388 tons. Outgoings ran off with
£4764 more than this extra revenue
brought in, leaving the net result that
much lower at £13,655 stg. That was
after provision of £5OOO less for depre-
ciation and depletion and charging cost
of a new bucket-line and top tumbler
to a reserve created for the purpose. The
extra H p.c. tacked on to the div. (ll*
p.c.) called for a full distribution of
earnings.
Effects of restriction and other things
show up in record of operating perform-
ances: —
1938. 1939. 1940.
Cubic yards dug.. 1,030,000 482,000 1,455,000
Recovery t. 0., tons 419.3 206.8 383^5
Av. per c.y., 1b... 0.91
Assay, p.c. .. 70-0 76.48 76.14
Working costs c.y.,
pence .. .. 3.97 4.28 5.79
Net ore realisation,
ton .. .. £ll6/16/- £l5O/9/2 £159/6/8
Singapore average
metallic tin, ton £lBO/9/11 £233/3/8 £206/8/2
Further reduction in income is indicated
by 0.451 b. recoveries to date in the current
term. There was next to nothing in the
way of mine-head stocks at the end of
December to offset this lag in production.
Up to 50s. 9d. at the end of 1939,
the pound shares are now offered at 305.;
there are 120,000 issued. When the books
closed there were available more or less
liquids of £58,029 stg. (including £13,866
in stores, etc.) to cover indebtedness of
£5894.
Announcing an interim sixpenny divi-
dend for 1940-41 last November, the
directors of North Kalgurli (W.A.) stated
that, in view of the uncertainty of both
English and Australian income-tax
demands and rising costs, they felt they
should conserve the co.’s cash resources
and not distribute a shilling as in the
three previous years. They hoped to
consider the payment of a further in-
terim dividend in March. Now they
state no further interim dividend will
be paid on account of 1940-41, but that
a final distribution will be made as soon
as possible after the year’s accounts have
been received —probably this month.
» * *
Paringa (W.A.) pays a \\ p.c. interim
on its 3,863,428 issued shilling shares on
July 14. Accounts, close on July 31 of
each year, and are submitted to share-
holders, together with a final dividend for
approval, the following January. In
1939-40 a total of 15 p.c. was distributed
and in the previous year 20 p.c.
* H= * *
Prospects of Corona, near Mt. Magnet
(W.A.), are billed by Perth interests as
“particularly bright.” A local co. with
Adelaide connections acquired the show
in 1934, but results didn’t prove to be so
radiant as the prospectus suggested.
Operations were suspended in 1936, when
most of the capital had been expended
and when the amount due to sundry
creditors was nearly three times total
assets. Later the co, sold out to a local
mining man.
* * * *
Mt. Magnet Gold Mines, Ltd., bossed
from London, and Swan Bitter, controlled
from Perth, report favorably of their
activities in the Mt. Magnet district
(W.A.). The former has deepened its
shaft to 500 ft., and is confident of getting
good values there. The latter claims to
be making satisfactory progress on its
recently-acquired Morning Star block,
where the manager is “pleased with the
condition of the old workings under
water-level” ; dewatering is in progress.
In the early days of Magnet, Morning
Star was one of its best producers, but
its source of wealth disappeared in depth.
Swan Bitter hopes to find it lower down.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) pays a
third dividend of 6d, on its 35.-paids on
July 14. Directors have accepted the
recommendation of geologist K. Finucane
to sink an inclined winze from the bottom
of the shaft to prospect certain rock
structure disclosed by diamond-drill
cores. Limited driving and/or cross-
cutting will be done from the bottom of
this winze.
* * * *
Seams of the blue asbestos deposits in
Hamersley Ranges, between Roebourne
and Port Hedland (B. 18/6/’4l), are
stated to be distributed over a total dis-
tance of approximately 180 miles and
a width of from 20 to 30 miles. The
three principal occurrences are in Wit-
tenoom’s, Yampire, and Dale’s Gorges.
The deposits have been compared favor-
ably with those of the Cape Belt of South
Africa.
* * * *
The Westralian Parliamentary Select
Committee appointed to hear evidence
on the new Companies Bill has com-
pleted its sittings and is now drafting its
report. This bill, the most important
piece of legislation to come before the
next session of Parliament, aims at con-
solidating and generally amending and
tightening up the provisions of the present
Act.
* * * *
With quicksilver dodging around £1
per pound, a chance in a lifetime is offer-
ing producers of mercury ore in the Kil-
kivan (Q.) district. There’s a belt there
some six miles long that has proved
“silver”-bearing, but to increase produc-
tion markedly considerable capital is re-
quired for the preliminary deadwork of
proving extensions in depth and length
of shoots. Pre-war prices for 751 b. flasks
were around £2O; present famine prices
aren’t likely to hold once normal Spanish
and American supplies become available
again.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Quiz: War has curtailed trading activities, and
profits have fallen. In the year to June,
1940, the pref. div. was earned four times,
but only 3.1 p.c. was available for the ords.
There has since been some reorganisation, in-
cluding liquidation of subsidiaries, the effects
of which should show up in the accounts due
in a month or two. Shares aren’t listed on
the Stock Exchange, but the co.’s secretary may
be able to place them for you G.R. (Paroh):
The shares are of £1 paid to 10s.; last transfer
’’rough by the company was at the lower
figure.


o
HE Government of Australia
has requested the urgent
conservation of Zinc, which is required for munition
purposes. In answer to this war emergency’ appeal.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. announce that, as from
July Ist, supplies of Corrugated Galvanized Roofing
Iron will be restricted to those who require it for the
catchment and storage of drinking water. In all other
instances, Terne-Coated Corrugated Iron will be sup-
plied. This corrugated sheet, although new to the
Australian Building Trade, is widely known and used
in America and on the Continent, its tin and lead
surface possessing particularly good anti-corrosive
properties. It is also ideal for painting and curving.
and there is absolutely no loss of rigidity or strength.
Its wearing properties are testified to by the fact that
it is from this identical sheet that the Sheet Metal
Trades of Australia have been making petrol tanks, oil
and paint drums, etc., for some considerable lime.
Supplies of plain galvanized iron will also be re-
stricted, but to a lesser extent.
In making this announcement, John Lysaght (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd. ask both the general public and the trade to
co-operate to the fullest extent by specifying and
accepting Terne-Coated Iron wherever possible in new
building contracts. If this is done, a very definite and
valuable contribution will be made to the Common-,
wealth War Effort.
John Lysoght (AUSTRALIA) Ply., Ltd.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
ft
9i
£
Q M
/of*
%
T.JONES E CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Australian Investment Trust
Most of the life of the Australian
Investment Trust has been spent in re-
covering from the errors and misfor-
tunes of its youth. In addition to big
initial difficulties into which it plunged,
its share-trading activities over a period
of 14 years, while on occasions “attended
by a measure of success, on the whole
have proved a serious avenue of loss.”
Recently the co.’s fortunes have taken
a turn for the better, and shareholders
are gradually beginning to see more
clearly where they stand. Last balance-
day (Sept. 30, 1940) there were net tangible
assets valued, apparently conservatively,
at 9s. per £1 share. The position seems
to have improved since.
On April 16, 1940, the co. held, among
other undisclosed investments, 60,785
shares in Bond’s Industries, Ltd. On
these £45,785 was paid up, and the bal-
ance has since been satisfied. Also, at
least a substantial portion of the holding
has been disposed of in recent months.
This should have improved the co.’s
financial position as disclosed by the
Sept., 1940, balance-sheet. At that time
the market value of Bond’s shares was
around 10s. Since then the scrip has
sold as high as 325. owing to a sudden
improvement in Bond’s affairs, partly due
to war conditions.
What the Australian Investment Trust
got for the part of its holding disposed
of isn’t known precisely, but it isn’t likely
to have averaged 325., or anything like
it. Recently buyers were offering Bs.
for A.I.T. shares on the Sydney unofficial
list, sellers asking 9s.
Assets in Sept., 1940, were shares in
other cos., at or below market value,
£95,787, sundry items £166, and shares
(£9) and advances (£5031) in Andrews
Trust Pty., a wholly-owned subsidiary
formed in 1930 to buy shares, mainly in
its parent. Of A.l.T.’s paid capital of
£208,782 in fully-paid £1 shares, 40,350
shares were held by Andrews Trust Pty.
The bank was owed £6198, and credi-
tors (including taxation provision)
£14,766. A profit for the year of
£2068 on investment income and £3970
from share realisation was wiped out by
losses on shares and debts of past years ;
the year’s deficit was £2827, making p.
and 1. accumulated debit £75,762. De-
preciated value of shares £41,595, written
off advances to subsidiary £13,571, pre-
liminary exes. £26,000, and reorganisation
exes. £lOOO were set against forfeited
shares reserve £27,888 and reserve against
investments £1287 ; the balance of
£128,753 to the bad has been labelled
“assets revaluation and deficiency
account.”
The fact that £128,753 of capital was,
as far as one could judge, not represented
by realisable value at Sept. 30 last throws
some light on the co.’s early life. Formed
in June, 1927, by the Phoenix Investment
Co., which took £lO,OOO in shares and
£3OOO in cash, preliminary exes, raised
initial intangibles to £30,075. Issued capi-
tal was £309,800 shares. The co. was
underwriter or promoter in the case of
Strand and Pitt-street Properties, Aus-
tralian Benzol and Coal Distillation and
Bond’s Industries. Interests were also
acquired in other concerns, not all of
which were successful. At one stage the
co. held over 56,000 shares in Waters
Trading Co., a concern now paying
p.c. p.a.; unfortunately A.I.T. no longer
appears as a shareholder. The co.
still admits to “particularly large
holdings in certain cos.” A 5 p.c.
div. was paid by A.I.T. for 1929. Then
came slump, and with slump litigation
and other troubles. Apparently some-
thing like 100,000 A.I.T. shares were
forfeited.
Although book values at last balance
day haven’t so far been accepted by the
board as a final basis for capital recon-
struction, it may not be long before a
reduction in share values is made. “It
is hoped that early payment of some
small dividend on shareholders’ reduced
equity in the co., will be made possible.”
It is also likely that details of the in-
vestment portfolio, hitherto covered up,
will be published. The £95,787 of in-
vestments, etc., returned £5553 gross last
year, and net profits on share sales was
£3970. Ordinary exes, were £3485.
Australian bauxite deposits are to be
exploited for the purpose of making ingot
aluminium in this country. An announce-
ment to this effect by Senator Mcßride
seems to clear up a lot of doubt on the
future of the Australian aluminium in-
dustry. “The Commonwealth Copper
and Bauxite Committee,” said the Min-
ister for Supply, “has proceeded some dis-
tance in its investigations, and it is be-
lieved that there are adequate supplies of
good-quality bauxite, readily accessible.”
Hitherto our supplies of ingot aluminium
have come mainly from Canada. Since
war began both the demand for
aluminium (it is essential in the manu-
facture of airframes) and the difficulties
of obtaining it have increased, and special
efforts have been made to hasten the Aus-
tralian industry along. Rolling mills are
already available, and an extrusion plant
is being installed in Sydney to fabricate
aluminium in the form of various alloys
with magnesium and copper. Magnesium
will be in production before the end of
1941. About £1,500,000 will be spent on
the new industry. It is necessary to have
equipment to extract alumina from
bauxite, and a smelter to get aluminium
out of alumina. A great deal of electric
power is needed. N. S. Wales and
Queensland are the principal known
bauxite States, but Victoria also has the
stuff. Australian bauxite sometimes con-
tains a substantial proportion of silica
and ferric oxide ; the silica in particular
has been a problem, now said to have
been overcome. N. S. Wales’s principal
deposits are at Wingello (on the southern
railway) and in the Inverell-Tingha-
Emmaville districts. In Queensland Dr.
Bradfield has been drawing attention to
the deposits on Tamborine Mountain.
Until Australian bauxite resources are
further developed, the Commonwealth is
importing 25,000 tons of high-grade
bauxite from the Netherlands Indies,
* * * *
In answer to questions at Canberra, it
was stated last week that output from
the Glen Davis (N.S.W.) shale-oil works
of National Oil Pty. was not completely
satisfactory, owing to defects in the re-
torts, but action was being taken to
remedy the faults. The pipeline is a
success, and petrol is now being pumped
through it from Glen Davis to Newnes
Junction. The Commonwealth made
another advance to the co. a few days
ago to enable it to carry on.
National Oil may not reach its objec-
tive of 10,000,000 gallons of shale oil
annually until 1942, Senator Mcßride has
announced. The 10,000,000-gallon level
should have been reached last August,
but no penalty is being imposed by the
Commonwealth. Production is now at
the rate of 3,500,000 gallons a year.
t * * *
Labor, which was obstructionist and
obstreperous last Budget-time —it
wouldn’t agree to a drop to £l5O in the
statutory exemption for Federal tax pur-
poses—is informing Parliament, through
Mr. Forde, that it won’t agree to any
Keynes compulsory loan plan being put
into force in Australia. He warned the
Government against “placing further
burdens on the lower and middle classes
and other workers.” Many men, said
Mr. Forde, who were out of work in
the depression were only now receiving
a decent wage, and had back commit-
ments to meet. This is unfortunately
true in a number of cases, but Australia
can’t base its war-spending programme
on the back history of its less fortunate.
It may be necessary, by an “averag-
ing” system, to exclude specifically
such people from the operation of
a wider tax scale. But there is ample
statistical evidence that, so far as taxation
is concerned, if the wage-earner was
getting a fair go before war started he
is getting more than a fair go now. Mr.
Forde’s argument that the “working class
today is paying the lion’s share of war
costs through direct and indirect
taxation” is utter nonsense. It is no
credit to his intelligence or capacity for
accurate observation that he made
such a statement. The Arbitration
Courts have taken full care of all
rises in the cost of living, whether in
the form of greater indirect taxation,
sales tax or otherwise. Everywhere the
increased spending power of the wage-
earner is evident, and up to a point is
an excellent thing to see. But it mustn’t
be allowed to interfere with our war
effort. Dr. Grenfell Price, in his maiden
speech in the House, championed the
Keynes plan. He also favored higher
payments to soldiers and their depend-
ants, suggesting that they be financed by
the Keynes method.
There is talk that Canberra may shy
off the Keynes plan and adopt the Maori-
land system of compulsory loans, whereby
the person who has already paid more
than £5O in taxes contributes as much
again, less £5O, in the form of a loan,
and the man who has paid no taxation
or under £5O doesn’t contribute. The
M.L. method was barbarous and stupid,
and after one experience even the Fraser
Government is having no more of it.


Solve Your Petrol Problems:
PRODUCER
GAS COURSE
Since petrol rationing, no one who uses or
works with cars, trucks, tractors or buses can
afford to be without a knowledge of Producer
Gas. The simplified Producer Gas home study
course of the Kingsford Smith College makes it
possible to gain a thorough knowledge of
Producer Gas in your spare time at home.
Course Shows You How To
• BURN YOUR OWN CHARCOAL
• MANUFACTURE
Your Own Unit
• CONVERT
Y’our Own Engine
• MAINTAIN
Yonr Own Vehicle
The Kingsford S'mith course is the quickest
and most efficient method of obtaining the
knowledge you need. Everything is made clear
by simple, easily followed diagrams and in-
struction sheets, and the course includes coach-
ing by Producer Gas Experts to suit the
individual requirements of everyone who takes
the course. Post coupon immediately.
KINGSFOKD SMITH COEEEGES,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Please send me particulars of your Producer Gas
Course.
Name
Address
B. 2/7/’4l
L
\
'•I
3
ti.
‘Hill
1
iinniii,
Q
B' vV
vo
THE AGA SUITS ME!
ff
In homes where there’s an AGA Cooker you’ll find a happy man
. . . willing witness to the well-known fact that food cooked by
STORED heat, on an AGA, is better cooked, looks better, tastes
better than food prepared in any other way. Your AGA owner
smiles when you ask about fuel costs . . . his actual bills bear
out the AGA low-cost guarantee. (For instance, the model
illustrated CANNOT burn more than £3
worth of fuel, with coke at 30/- a ton, in
a whole year.)
In an AGA equipped kitchen you will
always find a happy woman. She will tell
you how simple the AGA is to use, how
her AGA is always ready, day or night,
for any kind of cooking, and how it keeps
the kitchen cool in summer, warm in
winter. You’ll be invited to admire her
AGA, too . . . streamlined, modern, clean
as a kitchen plate.
"And Cooking’s
a Pleasure for ME!”
Let us show you an AGA model suitable
for your home, in city or Country (and
independent of all outside supply
sources). 40,000 AGA Cookers are in use
in the British Empire.
Write for an AGA Catalogue R 7.
Levin and Co. Ltd.
(Est’d. 1853)
(Inc. in N.Z.)
43 King: St., Sydney;
433 Bourke St., Melbourne;
and Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston,
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents; A. G. Webster & Sons,
Ltd., Hobart.
*
*6V
w
O
3
o
: ,
mt
s€&&*■*
m
10 for
20 for 1/8|
for 4/2
100 for 8/4
»#«•■«« in ii ek sinop t lie r:
'fa*"*
i
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS wi
;v v;vV:
The “Woolcott Forbes” case, which was
spread over nearly two years, including
156 days in court, cost the N. S. Wales
Government £l5OO in counsel’s fees for
defending the accused, and approximately
a similar sum in other expenses on behalf
of the defence. These costs, of course,
are entirely apart from the costs of the
prosecution, which would be considerably
more when police and other exes, are
taken into account.
* * * *
Shareholders in Monier Industries,
Sydney, have received another (and
better) offer since they turned down Hume
Pipe's proposal. Cement Linings, Ltd.,
at present in the process of merging with
Concreters, Ltd., is offering one of its
own shares for every three Monier
shares. If the deal goes through, paid
capital of the three merged enterprises
will rise to £59,630, of which Monier
shareholders will control 27 p.c. The
offer remains open until July 23. Buyers
offer 21s. for Cement Linings shares,
sellers asking 255, Thus there is more
than 7s. per share in it for Monier share-
holders at present market prices.
* * * *
Goliath Cement, in Tasmania, admits
to increasing costs and reduced output as
a result of war-time conditions, mainly
arising out of shipping difficulties. The
co. depends on the mainland market to
a large extent. Elsewhere the cement in-
dustry is doing well.
* * * *
The Union Insurance Society of
Canton, with the permission of the
Government, a short time back decided
to shift its headquarters from Hong
Kong to seme place less likely to be
isolated in the event of war spreading
to the Pacific, Sydney has been chosen
as the new head office. The move is for
the duration and a period thereafter. The
Union of Canton, with the British Traders
and other affiliates, carries on a big busi-
ness in the United Kingdom, Canada and
U.S.A., Australasia and the “East.” It
has a particularly large and successful
marine connection ; in spite of the war
the co. is able to report that “first-year
settlements, marine and war, on the 1940
account totalled 23.4 p.c. of the premiums,
which is satisfactory.” Reserves have
been made for outstanding claims pay-
able in 1941. The Fire Branch is a big
and important one ; its net premium in-
come was £608,003 sterling in 1940, and
its loss rate 39.8 p.c. The Accident
Branch is growing and its figures improv-
ing generally. The co.’s assets of
£6,112,890 (including subsidiaries) are
spread over the world, mostly in Britain
and the Empire. Capital and reserves
totalled £4,575,709 at Dec. 31 last. Ratio
of funds to underwriting activity is
strong.
* * * *
In addition to the orders from the
Delhi Council (B. 18/6/’4l), the Com-
monwealth Government is undertaking
to supply India with 1,500,000 flannel
shirts (value £60,000) and 5,000,0001 b. of
woollen yarn (value £1,260,000) with
spread delivery. The Empire fighting
services are being given priority over
Australian civilian requirements, which
cannot be attended to by any major part
of the woollen industry for the next three
months.
* * * *
Cash-order cos. in Sydney look like
copping it. Many retailers are display-
ing the sign “No cash orders accepted.”
They have no difficulty in selling their
stock, so why pay cash-order cos. a big
discount?
* * * #
A current view of Wall-street, from
the “Wall Street Journal”;
The world has become a many-ringed
circus, and the stock market hardly knows
where to look next. A bushy-browed man
parachutes to earth in Scotland and creates
a sensation briefly, and then is forgotten.
The Hood and then the Bismarck is sunk.
The United States dips a little more than
its toe into the whirling waters of war,
and seems half-inclined to withdraw it.
The trend seems indicated plainly enough,
but there are still strong counter-currents
that are tugging against the tide and keep-
ing the outcome in doubt.
Sharemarkets, both in the U.S.A. and
Australia, have become almost “shock-
proof.” They are resigned to a long
struggle.
* * He =£
Chairman Harold Luxton, of the
National Mutual Life Association, at the
half-yearly meeting in Melbourne said
that during the previous six months war
claims had begun to arrive at the co.’s
offices, mostly in connection with deaths
on active service overseas. By Sept. 30
he expected the claims to be “very con-
siderable.” This would not cause the
association any misgivings ; it was fully
prepared for war losses. Bonus rates of
all life offices have been recently reduced
in order to build up reserves against war
casualties.
* * * *
In May the cost of food and groceries
fell 1.2 p.c. compared with April. That
was in the six capitals. In 30 cities and
towns the fall was 1 p.c., so this satis-
factory movement was fairly general.
* # * *
Australia’s war expenditure from Sept.
3, 1939, to May 31 was £189,689,000.
Of this, £152,433,000 has been spent in
the Commonwealth and £37,256,000
overseas. London loans, including
accommodation from the British Gov-
ernment, had looked after 11.9 p.c. of
the expenditure ; Australian loans and
war savings certificates, 48.7 p.c. ; gifts,
0.3 p.c.; taxation and other revenues,
including excess receipts of previous
years, 39.1 p.c.
* * * *
Of the recent £35,000,000 Common-
wealth Loan, the public subscribed
£24,852,000, the underwriters (the Com-
monwealth and trading banks) being left
with about £10,000,000.
* * * *
Canada’s “victory” loan of $600,000,000,
the equivalent of about £170,000,000 Aus-
tralian, was oversubscribed by nearly
£10,000,000. The loan was open for
rather longer than is usual in Australia,
but it has been a remarkably fine effort.
Canada’s population is about 11,000,000,
compared with Australia’s 7,000,000. War
is expected to cost Canada $1,300,000,000
in 1941-42, equal to £370,000,000 in Aus-
tralian money.
Jp * * *
A newspaper investigator in Melbourne
has reported that David T. M. Davies,
one of the founders of Davies, Coop and
Co., was the registered holder of 85,673
ords. and 115 prefs. in the co. at the time
of his death in May. Davies, Coop is one
of the largest and most progressive
cotton-spinning and -weaving cos. in
Australia. There is market speculation
as to what will become of Davies’s hold-
ing. It is the largest in the co., which
has a paid capital of £725,825.
H*
Queensland produced 11,500 bales of
cotton in 1939. It is the only cotton-
producing State of any importance. This
production is considerably below our
present consumption of raw cotton, and
its ratio is growing smaller as output of
cotton goods increases.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam shares were bought in
Adelaide and Sydney last week at 275.,
which is 9d. lower than the price paid
when Hitler had France at his feet and
Australian markets collapsed. Highest
price in 1940 was 365. 3d. The co.’s
immediate profit-earning capacity has
been affected by Government charter of
its principal vessels, but the future has
very interesting aspects. The scrip looks
a good purchase for holding. Next div.
is due in September. On a 6\ p.c. basis
the yield is 5 p.c. at 275.
* * * *
Since war broke out living costs in
Britain have risen 29 p.c., according to
official figures, and wages are up 20 p.c.
In addition, food and clothing are strictly
rationed. In Australia living costs have
risen less than 10 p.c., while wage rates
have been put up in proportion. Ration-
ing has so far affected few items in this
country.
* * * *
The gas coming out of the Balmain
(Sydney) colliery was used to drive several
lorries, a car and a bus the other day.
All seemed to pull without difficulty. As
an experiment the demonstration was in-
teresting, but the quantity of gas that can
be made available to the motor industry
has yet to be proved. Natural Gas and
Oil Corp. has been pottering around the
Balmain colliery since it was floated by
R. W. Gibbs in 1932. It struck gas early
enough, but didn’t appear able to do
much with it; then the flow got
cemented-off by mistake. There was talk
of drilling deep after oil, and there have
been periodic demonstrations as to the
quality of the gas. But the greatest
quantity of gas seems to be an unofficial
flow along Pitt-street. Every now and
again market interest in Natural Gas
shares flares momentarily and then
flickers. There used to be a strong flow
of gas from the colliery shaft. But divert-
ing it to commercial use seems to be ex-
tremely difficult.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Pacts: For What They Are Worth.
(From a New York “Times” article by T. A. Bisson.)
German-Japanese Anti-Comintern Pact Nov. 25, 1936
Rome-Berlin Alliance May 22, 1939
Soviet-German Non-Aggression Pact Aug. 23, 1939
Axis-Japan Alliance Sept. 27, 1940
Soviet-Japanese Neutrality Pact April 13, 1941
The five agreements form a complicated network
of engagements and obligations, some of which over-
lap and others conflict, at least in spirit and intent.
They reflect changing diplomatic exigencies over a
period of nearly five years.
The Anti-Comintern Pact of 1936 was concluded
in the heyday of Hitler’s unmeasured denunciations of
the ‘Bolshevist menace.” Its actual terms, aside from
a preamble noting the threat to “existing States” im-
plicit in the Comintern, merely indicate that Germany
and Japan will “keep each other informed” of Comin-
tern activities, will “consult upon the necessary defence
measures,” and will “execute these measures in close
co-operation.” Other Powers might be invited to join.
Italy adhered nearly a year later, on Nov. 6, 1938,
and Hungary, Spain and Manchukuo during 1939.
Nearly three years later a formal German-Italian
military alliance was signed in Berlin. The terms pro-
vided for permanent contact to reach agreed views on
all questions, immediate consultations in the event
of an emergency, joint diplomatic and military support
to counter any threat to their “vital interests,” intensi-
fied co-operation in the military and war economy
sphere, and a pledge to conclude no separate armistice
or peace in case of “a jointly waged war.”
Three months later, on Aug. 23, 1939, Germany
and the Soviet Union undertook to refrain from any
act of aggression against each other, to give no sup-
port to a third Power waging war against either signa-
tory, to consult one another on questions touching
their common interests, and to solve any differences
in a friendly way.
On Sept. 27, 1940, German diplomacy brought
Japan into the tripartite alliance. Under its terms
mutual recognition was accorded to the respective
“new orders” led by Germany and Italy in Europe
and by Japan in Greater East Asia. The three Powers
pledged one another full assistance, by “all political,
economic and military means,” in case of an attack on
any signatory “by a Power at present not involved in
the European war or in the Chinese-Japanese conflict.”
On April 13 Japan signed the pact by which she
and the U.S.S.R. undertook to maintain “peaceful and
friendly relations” and to respect each other’s “terri-
torial integrity and inviolability”— a pledge extended,
in a supplementary frontier declaration, to include
Manchukuo and Outer Mongolia. Both parties, more-
over, undertook to “observe neutrality” in case the
other became involved in war with “one of several
third Powers.”
The Red Army Militarised.
(Condensed from a “Harper’s Magazine” article by
Bertram D. Wolfe.)
Since the purge of the old general staff Soviet
authorities have been busy restoring Czarist military
titles and traditions and eliminating from the Soviet
army and navy their last vestiges of democracy, initia-
tive from below, egalitarianism, comradely relations
between officers and men —all the things which gave
the Red Army its specifically “proletarian” or “social-
ist ’ coloring. Taken together, the decrees in this field
add up to an extreme remilitarisation of military life,
and make the Red Army rigidly organised.
The first thing to go was the celebrated Red Army
oath. The old oath began: “I, a son of the toiling
people, ’ and ended with a pledge to “direct every
act and thought to the grand aim of the emancipation
of the toilers throughout the world.” On January 3,
1939, a new oath was introduced. It substituted
“citizen” for “son of the toiling people,” and for the
emancipation of the toilers of the world the pledge
“to defend the fatherland.... without sparing blood
or life itself in order to win complete victory over
the enemy.”
On May 8, 1940, was announced the restoration
of Czarist military titles in place of the simple “com-
mander.” “The reform,” wrote “Pravda,” “aims to
raise the authority of our commanders and strengthen
military discipline. The entire mighty organisation
of the modern army must unqualifiedly be sub-
ordinated to the will of the plenipotentiary commander
and execute all his orders.” “Pravda,” “Izvestia” and
other Soviet papers were filled with pages of photo-
graphs of newly-created generals and admirals of
various categories, all in all, 953 new generals and 100
new admirals!
On June 23 an order of the day from Marshal
Timoshenko made the saluting of an officer mandatory
off duty. Officers were warned that they must insist
on strict fulfilment or themselves be punished ; “un-
scrupulous playing up to the Red Army masses and
efforts of the commander to show his democratic
feelings” were branded as “an offence against the ser-
vice regulations.”
On June 28 a new order provided greater severity
for arrested soldiers, stipulating that in “strict arrest”
no work was to be permitted, no sleeping during the
daytime, sleeping only on a wooden cot at night with-
out mattress and for no more than six hours, and hot
food no more frequently than every other day. Again
officers were warned that they themselves would be
punished for insufficient severity. The same order
introduced the eight-hour day and Sunday rest for
all industries under the defence commissariat, the first
public acknowledgment of a rapidly accelerating pro-
cess of putting industry after industry directly under
military orders as “essential war industries.”
The climax came on October 12, 1940. The old
army regulations were scrapped and new ones substi-
tuted. The most amazing provision of the new code
gives officers the right in cases of insubordination “to
apply all measures of coercion up to and including
the application of force and firearms,” without con-
sulting others or resorting to court-martial. An officer
is to “bear no responsibility” for injury or death thus
inflicted, but is held responsible if he does not in all
cases of insubordination “evince firmness and apply
all necessary measures.” (“Red Star,” October 15,
1940.) Under Article 7 of the old army regulations,
which were replaced by this order, officers were for-
bidden to apply such armed compulsion, “except in
a military situation and only in the execution of actual
battle orders.” So far as I know, this makes the Red
Army the only modern military force in which the
officers have the right to apply the death penalty with-
out trial for insubordination in peace-time or when
not in actual battle. Thus, from one of the least mili-
tarised armies in the world, the Red Army has become
the most military and the most hierarchical.
This remilitarisation of the army in turn reacted
upon industry. As “war industries” have been in-
creasingly placed directly under the army, the Soviet
Union has been increasingly turned into one vast
military encampment.
Tanks in This War.
[Waxing ecstatic over Russia’s military strength, a
Sydney “secretary of the Friends of the Soviet Union”
last week described, among other wonders, “the Red
Army’s land battleship. It is a 450-ton tank with three
decks, carrying 6in. and 4.Sin. guns and equipped
even with anti-aircraft guns.” If the invading Germans
see anything like that and can’t ascribe it to vodka they
should light out for Berlin instanter, for it would mean
that the Soviet had tanks more than six times heavier
than the very heaviest known. The kinds of tanks
actually being used in this war are here described by
Hanson W. Baldwin, military correspondent of New
York “Times.”]
The British tank shortage is, and has been, a
serious one. It is serious, not alone in Egypt, but
Planet News Photo.
IDEAL OF AUGUST 23, 1939.
Stalin and Ribbentrop shake on the “Non-Aggression”
Pact.
also on the Home Front. If several of Hitler’s Panzer
divisions, with the latest German mechanised equip-
ment, should ever gain a foothold in Britain, there are
very few British tanks of comparable size and quality
to meet them.
During and after the Battle of France it was
frequently reported, even in military magazines, that
the Germans had employed great 70-ton monsters to
break through at Sedan and elsewhere when the going
was tough. The use of such a tank in any of the cam-
paigns to date' has not, however, been verified, and it
is now believed that the Germans have used as the
spearheads of their lightning victories light medium
tanks of 18 to 20 tons, very fast, rather heavily
armored, each armed with a 37mm. gun and machine-
guns, and a medium-heavy type of around 35 or 37
tons, armed probably with a 75mm. or 105 mm. gun,
a 47mm. anti-tank gun and manned by a crew of
eight. This latter tank is heavily armored and it more
than overmatches in weight of metal any British
tanks it has met.
Although there is no proof that the Germans have
used tanks much heavier than the 35-ton monster de-
scribed, it is known that heavier tanks, probably
approximating 70 tons in weight, have been built in
the Reich, and some may be used in future cam-
paigns, although because of their cumbersomeness
and other disadvantages it is not likely that they will
be used in any great numbers.
Nevertheless both Britain and the United States
have undertaken development of heavier tanks, and a
joint Anglo-American-designed medium tank, weigh-
ing about 25 tons, quite fast, rather well armored and
armed with a 75mm. short-barrelled gun, a 37mm.
gun in the turret and six or seven machine-guns, was
designed last summer.
Of heavy tanks the U.S.A. has none, but is de-
signing one experimental model of about 50 tons.
Nazis Make War Pay.
(From a New York “Post” article by Edward L. Deuss.)
Analysis shows that Hitler obtained 50 p.c. return
on his war investments in 1940. The return, in terms
of goods and services, covers almost the entire 1940
Nazi war expenditures, including the cost of prepara-
tions for the Balkan campaign, from which Hitler
again reaps huge profits.
The money revenue from the occupied regions
actually exceeded the Reich war tax burden by 10
billions.
The annual rate of occupation expenses levied,
tabulated in millions of dollars, follows:
Norway: $360,000,000, or $l2O per capita.
Denmark: $440,000,000, or $ll6 per capita.
Holland: $1,540,000,000, or $l7B per capita.
Belgium: $800,000,000, or $95 per capita.
France: $3,308,000,000, or $BO per capita.
The total is $6,448,000,000.
These figures do not include levies of non-repeti-
tive goods and confiscation of livestock, agricultural
produce, mineral, vegetable and fish-oil stores, railway
rolling stock, ships, barges, metal stocks, motor
vehicles, machinery, works of art, private lands, large
forests, etc., which alone are valued at not less than
$6,440,000,000.
No conqueror in history ever approximated such
booty.
Attempts to estimate the haul from Austria,
Czechoslovakia and Poland are futile. Property con-
fiscated from Czech Jews alone is put at $500,000,000.
Polish State property confiscated is estimated at
$2,400,000,000.
The survey reveals the mildness of the Versailles
Treaty by comparison with Germany’s treatment of
the occupied countries. Germany is taking 28 to 56
times more than the Allies took from Germany in the
first year after the World War.
United States-Japanese Relations.
[Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Hallett Abend, commenting on proposals made by
Admiral Nomura, the Japanese Ambassador at Wash-
ington, for the opening of negotiations for a neutrality
and non-aggression pact with the U.S.A. similar to that
concluded between Japan and Russia.]
Such a treaty with Japan would bind the United
States not to attack Japan if that country should
become involved in war against Britain or Holland —
say at Singapore or in the Netherlands East Indies.
On the other hand it would seemingly bind Japan not
to attack the U.S.A. if the U.S.A. becomes involved in
hostilities with Germany and Italy.
The attitude of the American Government is one
of deep distrust.
While these approaches were going on, Foreign
Minister Matsuoka continued to proclaim Japan’s
“immutable” determination to remain loyal to her
European partners, Germany and Italy. But Germany
considers Japan in honor bound to fight the U.S.A. if
the U.S.A. becomes involved in war or undeclared
hostilities against the two European members of the
Axis. The problem to be decided was whether Japan
was ready to break faith with Berlin and Rome, or
was offering a valueless scrap of paper.
There seems to be no doubt but that a large and
influential party in Japan is frightened over the impli-
cations of the pact with Hitler and Mussolini. This
group does not want war with the United States and
intimates that while Matsuoka is making his threats
against the United States he is really bluffing and is
trying to find a technically legal (even if unethical)
way to get out of those obligations to which the Axis
would like to hold him firmly.
The published version of that Axis pact, signed
last September, would bind Japan to attack the U.S.A.
if the U.S.A. “attacked” Germany. But, argue the
Tokyo leaders who regard war with the United States
as suicide, suppose Germany precipitates hostilities
by attacking American patrols or convoys? Could
Japan then remain neutral?
The argument is interesting, of course, but it is
widely held that Japan’s final course of action is
bound to be determined by what may seem, at a criti-
cal moment, to be Hitler’s chances of winning the war.
If German arms were to be indisputably victorious
over Britain, if the U.S.A. were put upon the defen-
sive, no one doubts but that Japan would consider it
a “Heaven-sent opportunity.”
As usual, there are reports from Tokyo that “the
moderates” are firmly against provoking the U.S.A.
into hostilities. Tales are told of the navy “putting
on the brakes,” and not wanting to fight the United
States “to pull Hitler’s chestnuts out of the fire.” It
is also reported that the “big industrialists” are re-
proaching the army for embroiling the empire in the
long and indecisive war with China and are bitterly
pointing out that if Japan were not thus involved, but
were a real neutral, she could today be rolling in
wealth far exceeding her material profits during the
1914-18 war. Except for the madness of the militarists,
these reports credit the industrialists with saying, Japan
could now be selling goods to Britain and to the
United States, and her shipyards could be building
and selling steamships at prodigious profits.
Both Washington and London have for many
years listened to the siren songs about disunity in
Japan. In 1931, at the time of the Mukden “incident,”
and again in 1932, at the time of the Shanghai fighting.


Nazis ’ Russian Aims.
In the New York “Times Magazine” of
May 25, before even Communists (now, under
necessity, turning yet another surprised somer-
sault) had suspected that Soviet Russia was next
on Hitler’s douhle-cross list, Joseph C. Harsch,
American press correspondent in Berlin from
October, 1939, to January, 1941, made the
following brief report on possible Nazi aims in
the invasion that has now been launched:
I have seen privately circulated
maps showing a projected treatment of
Russia which made the Treaty of Brest-
Litovsk look like the work of a soft-
minded piker.
White Russia and the Ukraine are to
be set up into German-controlled puppet
States.
The new border would run just west
of the railroad line from Leningrad to
Moscow, and below Moscow would
strike south-east to the Caspian Sea,
bringing virtually all the economically
profitable part of European Russia
under direct German sway.
What would be left of Russia would
be subjected to the same kind of German
political domination planned for France.
the United States and Britain listened and refrained
from action in order to “give the Japanese moderates
a chance” and to “let the industrialists force a retreat
to sanity.” Time and again Japan has been permitted
to get away with the swag because of indirect intima-
tions from Tokyo that “if you upset this Government
the wild radicals will get in and things will be worse.”
Japan probably does not want to fight the United
States just now. She has balanced the peril of waiting
while our defence programme gathers speed against
what she considers the probability of a smashing Hitler
victory over the democracies.
Japan’s long-range strategy is now believed to
be to lull the United States into a false sense of
security, even to offer friendship and treaties, in order
to get the United States to move most of the U.S. fleet
out of the Pacific. Then, if Hitler wins, Japan can
quickly grab all she wants. But if Hitler loses, then
Japan would live up to her professions of friendship
to the United States and even try to devise a “face-
saving formula” for getting out of China.
The long-range strategy of the United States is
to keep Japan uneasy and guessing, to refuse to be
fooled by unreliable overtures from Tokyo, to sell
her just enough oil so that she will not, in despera-
tion, grab Borneo and Sumatra. Meanwhile, by aid-
ing China, the U.S.A. arms Japan’s unrelenting foes
and keeps the Japanese Army bleeding upon a hundred
indecisive battlefields, and her financial and economic
strain becomes more and more insupportable as each
month passes.
On the surface, Japanese-American tension may
seem less acute than it was at the turn of the year.
But none of the fundamental issues and differences
between the two countries are any nearer settlement
today than then. So long as Japan will not relinquish
her “new order in East Asia” and her “Asia for the
Asiatics” programmes, and so long as she continues
to violate the “open door” and China’s sovereignty
and territorial integrity, just so long will there be no
basic improvement in United States-Japanese relations.
Political Trends in Britain.
[Points of the argument in this condensed extract
from an article by the editor of London “Nineteenth
Century” might be applied as effectively in Australia
as in Britain, particularly in regard to the periodical
newspaper stunting for a “national Government with
no Opposition.]
A spirit of distrust has begun to spread, distrust
not so much of the Government as of Government
departments and politicians. It is frequently asserted
—and with some truth—that Parliament has revived as
an institution since the war began, and that the debates
are livelier and more interesting than they have been
for many years. But public interest in Parliament
has not revived, nor will it do so as long as there is
no serious Opposition.
Those who opposed the last war may have been
misguided, but they were not stupid. The old Inde-
pendent Labor party may have been animated by the
wrong spirit, but it was a keen, fighting spirit never-
theless. It is a pity that the opponents of the present
war are stupid or sentimental, or both. The charac-
teristic of present-day pacifism is its silliness. Search-
ing criticism of the Government’s policy at home, of
the conduct of the war, and of the war itself is very
desirable —it gives those who support the Government
and who believe in the war something to bite on.
The public has become curiously unpolitical, at
least in a party sense. The general drift of public
opinion is towards the Left. Property is less safe in
England than it has ever been in modern times, but
so far from clinging to it the more the public feels
that property does not matter. Indeed, it has a kind
of new consciousness, a mental discovery, very simple
in itself, but with vast implications: that property
does not matter. And yet, although socialism, whether
for good or ill, seems inevitable, it has almost per-
ished as a living faith. It has supporters, but no de-
votees. It has very few critics —and no enemies.
It is not at all sure that the drift towards the Left
will add to the Labor party and take away from the
Conservative party. The country is liberal at heart,
but it seems doubtful whether the Liberal party will
survive the war. The greatest defect of the Labor
party is its gross incomprehension wherever foreign
affairs are concerned, an incomprehension that domi-
nated its international outlook for many years and
did much to bring on the war. Labor is only one
degree less responsible for the war than the Conserva-
tives, and the Conservatives only one degree less re-
sponsible than the Germans, since “appeasement” on
the Right and Utopian pacifism on the Left made it
possible for aggressive militarism to prevail. Without
these there would have been no war.
An understanding knowledge
of foreign affairs and a deep
concern for the liberty of the in-
dividual are the two chief quali-
ties that made up the unique
political genius of the English.
They run through English political
literature from Bacon to Bagehot,
but are almost entirely absent from
the political literature that is being
produced so voluminously by the
Left today, despite the fact that
foreign affairs and individual free-
dom are the principal subjects of
all this writing. These defects are
intimately associated with a lack of
greatness, of depth, of personality,
a lack always perceptible amongst
politicians, but seldom so conspicu-
ous as it is today. An insight into
foreign affairs goes with political
vision, that vision for lack of which
“the people perish.” Concern, in-
deed passion, for individual free-
dom goes with character and moral
courage. It cannot be said that
these qualities which are lacking in
the Labor party are very evident
in the Conservative party, though
one could name a few, alas! too
few. Conservatives, including some
of the young generation, who have
them.
Labor was relatively untried
and came, as it were, fresh to the
task of government, so that more
was expected of it than was per-
haps reasonable. Despite the hard-
working integrity of a Morrison,
the sincerity of a Greenwood, the
eloquence of a Bevin, Labor is, if
not a failure, at least a disappoint-
ment. Nor has it really made
amends for lack of vision and
moral greatness by any exceptional gifts in matters
relating to efficiency and organisation. Never, in
modern times at least, can the leaders of the country
have figured so little in the minds and affections of
plain people —the Prime Minister alone excepted.
Labor Under Hitler.
[Condensed from a long survey in the American
“Mercury” of labor conditions in Germany and the
Nazi enactments which have made German workers
of all kinds virtually a race of State-owned slaves.]
When in 1934 construction work on new high-
ways, flying fields, camps, barracks and factories in
Germany attracted many men from the country, a
shortage of hands began to be felt on the farms.
Instead of letting the laws of the labor market cor-
rect this by an increase in farm wages, it was made
illegal for farm workers to take non-agricultural jobs.
Thus the Nazis tied them to their occupation. They
were fixed, not to particular estates, but to the soil.
As rearmament speeded up and labor became
scarce the Nazis extended that practice beyond agri-
culture. Thus it was made illegal in 1937 to hire
metal and construction workers without the permis-
sion of the employment authorities. Men in those
classifications had to remain in the jobs they happened
to hold, whether they liked it or not. By March,
1939, other large groups were prohibited from chang-
ing employment. Finally, at the beginning of the
war, that right was withdrawn from all workers.
Every German worker, whether in business, industry,
public or private administration, or even the house-
hold, was tied to his job. Only the employment
authorities had the right to set him free.
In June, 1938, a general labor-conscription law
was enacted. It empowered the employment authori-
ties not only to draft all men and women not holding
paid jobs, but also to call regular employees from
their positions and to assign them to whatever work,
locality and employer the Government deemed neces-
sary. Hundreds of thousands have thus been moved
from one employment to another. The worker may
not quit his employer, nor may the employer fire the
worker, without permission from the State. But the
Government can discharge the worker at any time
without the employer’s consent, and can send him
wherever it likes.
Control is not limited to the worker’s employ-
ment. Every aspect of his life is regimented. His
pay is fixed by schedules. Merely asking for a wage
beyond schedule, let alone receiving it, entails drastic
punishment. Long working hours are fixed under
statute. Indeed all working conditions, including such
things as vacations, membership in organisations and
recreation, are controlled —not to mention the control
of food, clothing, speech, etc., which the worker must
undergo with the rest of Germany. A worker quitting
his job without the required authority can be forced
by his employer to return—the modern equivalent to
the right to reclaim a fugitive slave.
There is no province of the German worker’s life
not subject to strict control. You may, however, still
hesitate to call him a slave. In our minds, a slave is
one who is another man’s property, and can be sold.
The history of labor in Nazi Germany shows, how-
ever, that complete control of a man can be achieved
without private ownership. Instead, the Nazi State
controls the worker. All the compulsions referred to
are exercised and centralised by Government agencies.
Thus the German worker is in the position of a
slave. The only thing new about his status is that he
does not belong to a private master. In other words,
it is not the institution of slavery that has been out-
“Hoy,” Mexico.
“ALL HOPE ABANDON, YE WHO ENTER HERE
lived. What has been outlived is our concept of
slave labor. It needs to be adjusted to the Nazi
reality of State ownership of labor. Under this
modernised slavery the position of the German em-
ployer, too, ceases to be confusing. He is certainly
not equivalent to the ancient master. He is merely a
liaison officer between State and worker —an instru-
ment of the administration of labor, the modern
equivalent of the overseer in times of private owner-
ship. It also becomes clear why the Nazis need not
deprive the worker of his nominal freedom. While
State control strips that term of every significance,
the worker still is and remains “free” —from private
ownership.
Under the system of State ownership, the slave
is much worse off than he was when privately owned.
In ancient Greece and Rome the principal sources of
slaves were foreign conquest and purchase abroad.
The Nazis have opened up a vast new source of slaves,
far beyond anything sanctioned in slave-holding
societies of the past, by turning their own independent
producers and traders into forced workers.
This includes children. In March, 1938, German
parents and guardians were ordered to report to the
employment offices the names of all children leaving
primary and secondary schools. The officers received
authority to order the young to turn up in person.
The vast majority of these children were only 14 years
old. Compulsory juvenile labor is another blessing
provided by the public ownership of workers devised
in Hitler’s “wave of the future.” Under conditions of
private ownership only slaves bear slaves ; under the
Nazi system everyone is a potential bearer of slaves.
In fact, everyone is a potential slave.
Under Hitler, moreover, the hopes that even the
slave enjoyed under private ownership no longer exist.
Certainly his employer cannot liberate him. The
German working man faces only the State.
In Babylonia as well as in other ancient civilisa-
tions the slave might, within certain limits, engage in
business and acquire property. For the German work-
ing man to engage in business is for all practical pur-
poses impossible. Everything necessary to start a busi-
ness enterprise—capital, credit, raw materials, equip-
ment, not to mention prices, terms of contract, profits,
etc. —is as rigidly controlled by the Nazi State as is
the worker himself. He can buy rationed foodstuffs
and clothing from retailers, so far as his wages and
savings permit. From the Government he can buy
liberty bonds, but not liberty.
What have been combined are not the advantages
inherent in feudalism and slavery ; those have been
dropped. Only the disadvantages have been revived.
Hitler has at the same time out-feudalised the Middle
Ages and out-servilised antiquity. As a net result,
German labor has been tied and subjected to the State
hand and foot.
There is no precedent for such conditions in the
history of unfree labor. German workers, some
20,000,000 men and women, and potentially every
German and subjected alien, have undergone regimen-


tation the like of which, in scope and intensity,
humanity has never seen.
Forward, Uncle Sam!
[Stronger and stronger opinions are now being
expressed in leading U.S. publications in favor of Uncle
Sam’s now doing more than he has been doing towards
winning a war which is held to be as much his affair as
John Bull’s. Even the formerly strongly isolationist
“Saturday Evening Post” —always sharply critical of
Roosevelt foreign policy as leading direct to war —has
dropped isolation. First of the following items, which
are typical of the war views now very widely expressed,
is from the article (mentioned in cables) in which the
“Saturday Evening Post” may be said to have accepted
the inevitable.]
Many keep saying that the time has not come . . .
but do they see what the world reads on the American
banner?
The American Government has proclaimed that
Hitler must be destroyed. It has solemnly pledged
itself before the world to employ its total resources to
bring that result to pass.
To speak of this as national defence is absurd.
It is the American crusade.
We shall have to make up our minds to go on
and on at any cost, to reconquer Europe and destroy
Hitler there, even with American man-power—or
turn back, and if we turn back we shall be remem-
bered as the Falstaff nation of the world, boasting of
a power it did not really possess, boasting of
how it would put it forth against an aggressor, and
then changing its mind when the night came.
But the peril of which we speak does not lie in
making the wrong choice. It is there whatever we
choose to do. We cannot now escape.
Everyone must be aware of what it will mean to
go on. Do we see what it will mean to go back?
The peril in that case is no less, may be even greater.
In going on we face the possibility of defeat
whether we can imagine it or not. But to go back is
to face the possibility of national death. Why?
Because it is not probable that a Falstaff nation, so
rich and so free, would be able to survive in one
world with Hitler.
%
(This item also is from the “Saturday Evening Post.”)
Triumphant democracy, fearlessly creating its own
world, was hard and grim and poor. Democracy now
defending its world is rich and soft and quarrelsome.
Who will tell the people this truth? Hearing it, will
they believe it in time?
Pleading with the people to hear it, and with Con-
gress to become its unpopular protagonist, thereby
resuming the responsibilities of leadership that have
been supinely surrendered, Hatton W. Sumners, of
Texas, April 29, in the House of Representatives,
made a speech of terrible intensity.
“I am sad today,” he said, “to see my nation
walking in the footsteps of France, walking toward
the common doom of the democracies of the world.
I have been out in the country where these essential
industries are closed down as silent as the grave, while
we are proclaiming ourselves the arsenal of that group
of people who one by one are being conquered. These
strikes are not the things of fundamental trouble.
These strikes are an indication of the unfitness of the
American people to win. We are flirting with defeat.
We have had the crazy notion in America that we are
God Almighty’s special charge and ward on earth. We
can strut and bluster as we please and nobody is
going to shoot at us first. It never has gotten through
the egotistical hide of the average American that there
is at this very time a chance of America being licked,
a chance of its joining the list of democracies whose
course before their destruction was identical with our
own now, except that we have assumed a sort of
world-wide responsibility when we are not even pre-
pared to defend ourselves against those whose power
we challenge.”
* * * * *
(From “Collier’s.”)
Up to this writing, we [Americans] have helped
England ; we’ve stayed out of the war officially. But
can that comparatively happy state of affairs go on
indefinitely? What if we find that it can’t? What
do we do then —quit helping England or get into the
war?
Yugoslavia was faced with a like choice. It
chose to line up with the enemies of Hitler, the
enemies of totalitarianism, though Yugoslavia was
rubbed out as a nation 12 days later. The proceedings
included a German air bombing of Belgrade, which
is said to have killed 10,000 persons, after Belgrade
was declared an open city. Why the Yugoslavs made
this choice was explained afterward by their Minister
to the United States, Constantin Fotitch, in a letter
to the New York “Times”:
Some nations, small and large, have never divided
their liberty with others, even with incomparably stronger
oppressors. They identified liberty with life. They pre-
ferred to fight for it even against impossible odds rather
than accept an agreement under compulsion. Through-
out history these were the same nations. For example,
the Poles and Yugoslavs have always lived either in
complete liberty or in slavery, while the Hungarians
and Rumanians were satisfied with fictional liberty
within the Turkish and Germanic Empires.
The time may be coming when we shall have to
decide whether we want to be satisfied with what Mr.
Fotitch calls fictional liberty, within a world-wide
Axis orbit, or whether complete liberty is valuable
enough to us to fight for it.
What would we choose to do then?
We cannot believe that the spirit of human free-
dom would crawl off to some hole, curl up and die
quietly, simply because Hitler said it must.
Italy’s Dud Investments.
(From a New York “Post” article by John T, Whitaker. )
As a journalist turned politician Mussolini has
a passion for power politics and an abhorrence of
economics. He moved Italy increasingly toward bank-
ruptcy with every new conquest, and although the
annexation of Ethiopia proved gratifying to Italian
self-esteem the country simply could not afford it.
Defeat would have cost less than a brief five-year
victory, which Britain’s imperial troops have now
snatched away.
Various figures —none of them trustworthy have
been cited by the Fascists for the initial outlay. Cer-
tainly the military operation cost not less than
7,000,000,000 lire. But the conquest of Ethiopia was
but a fraction of the total expenditure.
Count Thaon di Revel, Italian Finance Minister,
estimated that in five years Italy spent 45,000,000,000
lire on Ethiopia. He was not specific, but I think
this global figure included the 7,000,000,000 lire for
the war itself.
If that is so, Italy spent the equivalent of four
annual U.S. Budgets on one of the biggest of dud
investments. The British will be grateful for the
$168,000,000 that went into roads, and they will con-
serve something of the $450,000,000 invested in private
firms, bus lines, airports and harbor facilities. As for
the Italians there was no return whatever on the
investment.
Ethiopia imported from Italy roughly 10 times
its total exports. The dream of mineral resources
proved a propaganda myth. Even General Teruzzi,
Acting-Minister of Colonies, admitted that the effort
to find minerals was only “partially successful,” and
he held out the hope of coffee, cotton, lumber, wheat,
livestock and hides instead of gold, nickel, platinum,
copper and petroleum. But the trade figures show
that not even these were sent to Italy.
Mussolini talked of moving down a million
Italians in a vast homestead project. No more than
Providence “Journal,” U.S.A.
THE PROBLEM.
200 families had gone down before Mussolini’s pre-
cipitate entry into Hitler’s war made the loss of the
empire inevitable. In short, for an expenditure equal
to four annual Budgets, Italy got nothing except the
title of Emperor for King Victor Emmanuel.
Through this and similar “investments” the
Italians now know that the combination of Mussolini
and Fascism has bankrupted their country for two
generations.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
In his press conferences Mr. Roosevelt keeps up
the good-humored banter which always has been an
inseparable part of the man. But his face shows the
strain. It is much more heavily lined now and his
color is grey. Mr. Roosevelt may be feeling only the
physical strain of the enormous effort which defence
loads on his shoulders. Or he may be feeling the
effects of internal stress as he turns over in his mind
the grave decision which events press on him. — Ray-
mond Clapper; New York “World-Telegram
*****
Mr. Lindbergh has told a Minneapolis audience
that our [U.S.A.] troubles are due to “idealism,”
because “the idealist has held sway” since the first
World War. Warming up to this ridiculous thesis,
he declares: “We formed the League of Nations. We
demobilised our armies. We sank our battleships. We
made pacts of non-aggression.” This may be the his-
tory of never-never land ; it is decidedly not the his-
tory of the United States. As every school-child knows,
we wrecked the League of Nations. We broke the
heart of Wilson, who founded it. We failed utterly
to curb armaments. We refused to join in pacts of
collective security which might have halted the
aggressor. Our foreign policy was formed, after the
war, by men who think precisely as Mr. Lindbergh
thinks today. Theirs is the failure. —New York “Post.”
*****
Crowds of homeless people, women with young
children, and the aged were walking along the roads
leading out of Plymouth after it had suffered three
heavy raids within a week. They were the unlucky
ones for whom room could not be found on the cars,
buses, lorries, vans, charabancs and horse-drawn
vehicles which passed them by. Many of those vehicles
were crowded with people and belongings, but others
carried nothing but their drivers, who ignored the
signals of the tramping crowds and refused to give
lifts. Some women and children, too exhausted to
walk farther, sat in the roadway or on kerbs ; yet the
empty cars still passed, while those already loaded
stopped to try to take one more. Fairground people
who live in a caravan group on the outskirts of
Plymouth rigged up makeshift tents and found all
the blankets and coverings they could to give some
of the homeless shelter, and cooked for them every
scrap of food they possessed. — Manchester “Guardian”
« * * «
“I know the effort will not fail,” said President
Roosevelt in his buoyant letter to Admiral Land of the
Maritime Commission, “that more and faster ships will
be built, manned by trained American seamen, and
that they will carry through the open waters of the
seven seas implements that will help destroy the
menace to free peoples everywhere.”— New York
“Post”
* $ * » *
Every city in the New York “Times” list (New
York, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, Baltimore,
Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, New Orleans, San Fran-
cisco and Los Angeles) includes one single book among
the non-fiction best-sellers. It’s Winston Churchill’s
Blood, Sweat and Tears. —New York “Post.”
He * * * *
[Published before the German invasion forced
Russia into the war.] We have little use for the Stalin
Government. The Russians, by and large, are not
our kind of people. They are dubs with machinery,
and apparently will not tolerate a Government unless
it governs with terror, secret police, purges and ruth-
less suppression of minorities. Russia was duff way
long before the Communists grabbed its government.
We deplore Lenin’s and Stalin’s persecutions of
Christians, just as we deplore Hitler’s persecutions of
Jews. But all this, militarily speaking, is beside the
point. What matters militarily is that Russia has
190.000. people; could build an army into the
tens of millions. Let’s be realistic about Russia. Let’s
keep the local Reds under control as they try to under-
mine our social system. But let’s get sensible and try
to swing the vast weight of Russia to our side in this
war which we seem fated to enter. It may mean the
difference between eventual victory and eventual
defeat —the first loss of a war ever suffered by the
United States. — New York “Daily News.”
» H= ♦ * *
Lord Halifax has described something of our war
and peace aims, and Mr. Mander has tabled a resume
of them in the House of Commons. I think the fol-
lowing four points embody the essence of the aims
described: (1) Germany.—Though we will not treat
with Hitler and his gang, and though we will take
measures so that Germany does not again attack her
neighbors, we desire neither territorial gains nor a
vindictive peace. (2) Arms. —We will maintain a pre-
ponderant armed strength after the war until a strong
international order is established. (3) Co-operation
We will co-operate with all States which keep their
promises and which grant individual freedom. (4)
International Order. —We will seek to establish an
International Order which will secure mutual defence,
mutual economic welfare, and which will permit
ordered change.— Richard Pilkington, M.P.; London
“Times” letter.
♦ * * * *
The tonnage of metal salvaged in Britain up to
April was sufficient to build 20,000 tanks, and the
waste paper collected equalled 60 shiploads. Suffi-
cient kitchen waste has been collected to feed more
than 100,000 pigs.— Manchester “Guardian.”
* ♦
The airplane factories of America have become so
big and efficient and wonderful it’s enough to make
an aviation old-timer sit down and weep. I can re-
member when an airplane factory actually consisted
of a shed and 10 men. But out here in Los Angeles
I’ve just seen two factories that work 25,000 men
each. There are eight big airplane plants in this Los
Angeles area. They employ, roughly, 85,000 men. By
midsummer they will be up to 125,000, maybe even
140.000. Two of the eight plants are brand-new, un-
believably immense and modern to a fantastic degree.
They are just now getting started. Airplanes probably
will never come rolling every few minutes from an
assembly line as autos do, but just the same they’re
“rolling out the bombers” from here in a manner
that is amazing to me. Surely by this autumn southern
California will be producing at least a fourth of Mr.
Roosevelt’s famous 50,000 a year.— Ernie Pyle, New
York “World-Telegram” aviation writer.
* * * * *
Joseph Newman, New York “Herald Tribune”
correspondent, reported from Tokyo on May 31 that,
according to his sources of information, relations
between Germany and Russia had then been at break-
ing point for several weeks. He further reported:
“These sources understand that any possible attack to
be made against Russia by Germany must begin after
the wheat has been sown in the Ukraine and must be
completed before the crop has been harvested. It is
believed, they added, that if the attack does not occur
by the latter part of June it will be postponed this
year. German circles are said here to have declared
that the Soviet Union can be defeated in two months.
Reasons for a German attack against the Soviet Union
were listed by these informants as follows: (1) To
remove the threat of the only huge land army on the
European Continent before being in a position to
engage in a new war in the west, as a result of ex-
pected American participation, and to make possible
the demobilisation of several million idle German sol-
diers who are needed badly in industry ; (2) to secure
Ukraine’s wheat without paying the prices demanded ;
and (3) to secure the labor power of the Ukraine for
any renewed effort necessary in the west.”
Nearly two months earlier Mr. Churchill, in the
House of Commons on April 9, saw what was coming:
“There are many signs which point to a Nazi attempt
to secure the granary of the Ukraine and the oil-
fields of the Caucasus as a German means of gaining
the resources wherewith to wear down the English-
speaking world.”


SPORTING
NOTHIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Our Boy, who had been gradually
easing in the market because of adverse
reports concerning him, rushed to G.N.
Hurdle favoritism after his ridiculously
easy defeat of Indignity and Bureaucrat
in the Windarra Hurdle at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. Heavy support in
National doubles ending with Bridge of
Dee preceded the win, and the takers of
those doubles, which were stable-inspired,
now have much the better of the odds.
No more impressive G.N. trial than
that by Our Boy has been seen this
season. Recently recovered from a chill
which interfered with his training, and
racing over jumps for the first time for a
year, he made it evident a mile
from home that he would win—
barring accident. Jumping perfectly,
and gaining lengths at some hurdles,
he landed in front over the second-last,
and his winning margin of seven lengths
could have been increased materially had
Johnson ridden him out at the finish.
Our Boy carried 11b. less than his G.N.
weight, and became liable to a penalty,
but considerable improvement is prob-
able and he is a genuine stayer who will
not be troubled by the three miles next
Saturday. Trainer Lou Robertson won
a G.N. Hurdle with Wingarara 29 years
ago, and Our Boy should give him his
second success in that race.
Our Boy was formerly raced on lease
by A. B. Lord, but comparatively recently
Lord exercised an option-of-purchase
clause and bought him for £5OO. He
looks like being a wonderful bargain at
that price, some keen judges considering
that he has first-class prospects of win-
ning the National double. Several sub-
stantial doubles with Our Boy as the
second “leg” have been taken already,
and he could not be rehandicapped over
his 11.0 in the event of G.N. Hurdle suc-
cess. It might be asking a lot of a horse
to win a National Steeple at his first start
over fences, but Dark David made his
debut as a ’chaser with a win in the last
Australian Steeplechase, which was run
at Flemington. Our Boy is a natural
jumper and might be equal to the job,
but Lord states it will be time enough to
think of the Steeple after the Hurdle
is run.
-••••*
Indignity shaped well at his first start
over hurdles in Melbourne, but, although
this Adelaide gelding might derive benefit
from the experience, figures do not favor
his chance of again finishing ahead of
Bureaucrat. Latter will meet him 121 b.
better next Saturday. Bureaucrat
appeared to have every chance, but, as
his trainer, R. Sinclair, remarked after
the race, he carried 91b. more than his
National weight and, with the pace on
from the start, was forced to carry his
11.6 all the way. The drop to 10.11 next
Saturday will make a big difference to
Bureaucrat, who met all his Windarra
Hurdle opponents worse than National
terms. However, it is doubtful whether
he will reverse positions with Our Boy,
who may improve more of the two, while
Harley, who defeated him decisively in
the York Hurdle, is another stumbling-
block.
Leading cross-country rider Ron Watts,
who won the G.N. Steeple on Giant Killer
two years ago and had reasonably bright
prospects of winning this year’s double
on Bureaucrat and Lockslea, was injured
seriously when the latter fell with him in
the Travancore Steeple. Lockslea ap-
peared to be going easily when he moved
into second position coming to the fence
opposite the stand the first time round,
but fell heavily and landed on his rider,
who was also kicked by a horse follow-
ing. Watts was taken to hospital suffer-
ing from a fracture of the base of the
skull and chest injuries, and at the time
of writing was in a serious condition.
Accident to Watts necessitated another
G.N. rider being obtained for Bureaucrat,
and F. Dummett was engaged the same
day. Dummett, who recently returned
from India and intends going back to
that country at the conclusion of the
jumping season, has a better G.N. record
than any other present-day jockey. He
has won each race twice within the last
four years, and, although he has had no
race experience of Bureaucrat, is a tacti-
cian who will get the best out of the
gelding. Another rider will also have
to be found for Lockslea in the G.N.
Steeplechase, Lockslea was inclined to
favor his near foreleg after Saturday’s
spill, but worked on Monday.
Highland March escaped a rehandicap
when he won the Royal Steeple at Flem-
ington, that race being exempt from
National penalty conditions, but the
V.R.C. handicapper could not very well
overlook his decisive defeat of Musical
David and Davanthus in the Travancore
Steeple. With two exceptions —Lockslea
being the other —the field was not up to
National standard, but Highland March
carried 191 b. more than his original G.N.
weight, and, being only a five-year-old,
seems sure to keep on improving. He
has gone particularly well for McKee in
both his recent wins. McKee will again
have the mount on Highland March. He
has been released from his engagement
for Sachem, who ran badly in the Travan-
core,
Appearances can be deceptive, and
Appeal, who took his winning sequence
to five by defeating Pantoon and Kooren-
been in the Deep Creek Handicap, hardly
looks the part of one of Melbourne’s
most improved handicappers. He lacks
height and size, but this four-year-old
Powerscourt gelding, who was sold for
70 guineas some months ago, lacks no-
thing on the score of ability. Backed to
favoritism, and second to Gay Invader
for the greater part of the trip, he hit
the front about two furlongs from home
and won comfortably. Appeal might
not have been a Cup proposition even
had he been entered for those races, but
apparently he has been underrated by the
handicappers, and is so fit that further
success might come his way shortly.
Backed down to equal favoritism at
6 to 1 in the most open betting race of
the day, Colonus, who had lost his chance
at the start of his two previous races, led
practically throughout the Burnewang
Handicap, and, although tiring at the
finish, won clearly from Cloelia and Red
Spark. A colt by Portofino from Genoa,
Colonus was bred by his owner, R. R.
Thomas, and has more than paid his way
with three wins. Cloelia looked danger-
ous when she moved to Colonus round-
ing the turn, but could not maintain her
run. There was little between Red Spark,
Wit and Mizario for third money, and
the last-named, a Gay Lothario gelding
who cost 450 guineas as a yearling and
has raced only three times, should repay
following.
Beaten easily by Knight Templar in
maiden company at Pakenham three days
earlier, Berry improved to the extent of
an easy win from Havers and Gipsy Way
in the Chandos Trial. She was ridden
by little W. Harrison, a son of former
successful jockey G. Harrison, who had
won his first race on Havers at the Paken-
ham meeting. Harrison was to have
ridden Havers, trained by his master, P.
Burke, again on Saturday, but O. Phil-
lips was substituted. Whereas Havers
dropped back a good way early, and
was forced to cover a lot of extra ground
on the outside, Berry dashed to the front
about half a mile from home, and won
easily. Her starting price of 33 to 1
was a fair indication of her chance on
form, and she returned a tote dividend
of 41 to 1. Berry is a three-year-old
daughter of David and Red Rowan, and
her owner-trainer, S. Foster, is well
known in the trotting world.
Judge’s decision in favor of Wind
Robe over Strategy in the Greenvale
Welter did not meet with the approval of
a section of the crowd, and the hoisting
of Wind Robe’s number was the signal
for a hostile demonstration. Close ob-
servers who watched the finish from a
position near the judge’s box, however,
were confident that Wind Robe had
lasted long enough to win by the official
margin of half a head, and there was so
little in it that the judge was the only
man able to give a correct decision. Wind
Robe would have been unlucky to lose,
as she missed the start, but excuses were
also possible for Strategy and for Ren-
dezvous, who finished the closest of
thirds. Bluebeard and Snow White, first
and second favorites respectively, had
turns in the lead but nothing to do with
the finish.
* * * *
Saturday’s Warwick Farm meeting con-
cluded this season’s racing at Randwick
and gave books, more than backers,
cause for rejoicing. Only one favorite
won, and the other six included three
at double figures. Twenty-seven races
have been run at the last four meetings
at Randwick, and of these 11 were won
by horses whose starting prices ranged
from 10 to 33 to 1. There were six
winning favorites.
Martheus, displaying all the dash that
enabled him to win two races last season,
led from Aspire, Southerly and Belvoir
after going two furlongs in the Flying
Welter, and from the top of the straight
the result was not in doubt. John Hali-
fax shifted a bit when making his run,
but was too easily beaten for that to have
made any difference. Our Barney gained
third place, thanks to Southerly seem-
ingly being eased at the winning-post,
and, despite this failure, the latter may
shortly pick up a race. Camsion and
Loyal Lad ran fairly, but will be more
at home on suburban tracks than at
Randwick. Aspire tired after being
second to the turn, and Glorious made
such a poor showing that it may be little
use further persevering with her until
she has had a spell.
*••••*
After losing ground at the start of the
June Handicap, Stylish led at the mile
post. Cook then slowed down the field,
but, shooting Stylish away again after
passing the five furlongs post, gained such
a long lead that it did not seem as if the
filly would be caught. She was still well
clear of Calruin and Jymjon at the turn,
but Highborn, reversing the form shown
by him at Rosehill the previous week,
when he missed a place after making the
running, finished so strongly that he de-
feated Stylish half a length. In future
Highborn’s owner and trainer will know
the best tactics to adopt with him.
Aristocrat was a good third, after strik-
ing trouble. He will go up a little for
this effort, but, as he carries weight well,
a middle-distance handicap should shortly
be credited him. Fearless ran worse than
in his two previous races, and for the
time being it appears safe to wipe him off
as a winning possibility. The heavy back-
ing which made St. Constant favorite was
not a surprise, but his chance was settled
when, after being slow up to that point,
the pace was cracked on suddenly at the
five furlongs. He finished fourth, and
looks so well that he is worth following.
The shorter distance and the rise in
weight settled Jymjon, and the nearest
Hilarious got to the front at any part
was third-last at the finish of the race.
A rise of 131 b. in weight, as compared
with Rosehill, made a marked difference
to Duke Claro in the Trial Hurdle Race.
He neither jumped as well nor strode out
as freely as the previous week, when he
beat King Otho several lengths. Although
he led for 11 furlongs, King Otho was
with him turning for home, and had his
measure at the second-last hurdle. Then
Friardoon put in his claim, and was too
good for King Otho in the run from the
final jump to the winning-post. Tiring
in marked fashion at the end, Duke Claro
ran wide, and Fiery Cross cut him out
of third place. Duke Clare’s form was
so much below that shown by him at
Rosehill that it might be wise to overlook
it, though, of course, there is the possi-
bility of his not being suited by a longer
journey than a mile and a half. Friar-
doon, who is by Friarsdale, has done a
good deal of racing in the country.
At Victoria Park the previous week
Lord Pentheus could not make any im-
pression on Penaire at the finish of a
tour and a half furlongs race, but he
shone at six furlongs in the Trial Nursery
Handicap. Drawing away from Farewell,
King Herod and Penaire turning for home,
he was a sure winner over the last fur-
long. For a stallion whose services are
available at a moderate fee Pentheus gets
his share of winners. Medieval Rose
narrowly beat Harprey for second, the
latter, as usual, running on at the finish.
Audax did better over the last couple of
furlongs than any other part, while the
favorite, Lancambre (Spearfelt-Amber’s
Own), got away so badly that she did well
to finish fifth. Epic Poem shaped fairly,
without being dangerous, but neither
Alertful nor Kimbell ever got in it.
King Herod again tired in the run home.
Soon after barrier-rise it was a straggled
field, and some of those which finished a
long way back will shortly do much
better.
Pastime was not actually headed in the
last half-mile of the first division of the
Novice Handicap, and in a good finish
beat Gigli by half a neck, with Jubilee
almost on terms with the latter. It
would not have surprised if second place
had gone to Jubilee, who was one of the
leaders throughout and was alongside
Pastime halfway down the straight. Off
Chance, after being well placed for a
long way, died away in the straight. The
much-boomed Brumaire did a little better
than in his previous races, but, though
he gallops well in private, his form in
public has not yet been in keeping with
his pedigree. Rondeval’s fourth was
good enough to give him a chance of a
win in the near future, and Nemesis,
Rameo and Caprice also shaped respect-
ably.
An additional fortnight’s work and a
change of riders did a lot for Patrician.
He was nearly last in a field of 14 in the
Novice Handicap won by Constant
Chatter, failing to get near the front at
any part. In the second division of
Saturday’s Novice Handicap he was
prominent throughout, and, taking charge
at the leger, was not after in danger of
defeat. As he drifted from eight to ten
to one, his marked improvement could
not have been anticipated by his trainer.
Walkalong did well to run second after
being unbalanced by a check that cost
him a lot of ground. The unluckiest
horse of the race was Panabil, who was
chopped back soon after barrier-rise, and
then, after being nearly last at the half-
mile, finished strongly in third place.
Timken, El Kenny and Comet were
nearest the place-getters. The last-named
had every chance, but was not good
enough. After leading to the turn Maid
of Ireland and Bungarribee could not see
it out, and Raiding Party was again a
failure.
Denita’s 71b. penalty for his win at
Victoria Park did not trouble him in the
Welter Handicap. Second to Bramol
along the back, he headed the latter im-
mediately after entering the straight, and
went on to score from the late-coming
Merrimba, who, as I wrote last week,
may develop usefulness at middle
distances. Triggerman’s third at 20 to 1
suggested he was a little more forward
in condition than generally supposed, and
his turn for another win should not be
long in coming, nor should that of Trade
Mark. Gallant was backed, but his form
was again much below that shown by him
in track gallops.
* * * *
Thirty-four days’ racing at Randwick
this season gave a totalisator turnover of
£1,226,786. Very satisfactory, taking
everything into consideration, but a small
amount by comparison with that which
passed through the bookmakers’ hands.
At one time it was reckoned that the
books held about six times as much as
the totalisator at a Randwick meeting.
The probabilities are the amount is
greater. Running over the “big bets’’ on
the Welter Handicap, as given in one
Sunday paper, I found that in 35 bets
(those in which the odds were laid to £2O
or more) 11 books held £lB5O about
Denita and Merrimba. Then there were
their other bets of down to £l, at least,
on those two horses, and there were 13
other runners. The bookmakers referred
to included most of our biggest operators,
but, though they were not all betting,
there are 104 licensed for the paddock,
130 for the leger and 132 for the flat. In
the various enclosures some of these do
only double business, and, of course,
some leger and flat betting is on a very
light scale. Still, it would be reasonable
to suppose that the number working
straight-out turned over an amount that
made the £5363 that went through the
totalisator on the race look very small.
* h= * *
In the way of a high-class field the
Doomben Newmarket on Saturday next
has received the support warranted by
its £3150 prize-money. Sydney will be
well represented and should provide the
winner unless Melbourne form is better
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances.)
Maiden Hurdle Race: Docker’s
Plains, 1 ; Fearnought, 2 ; Denis, 3.
Myross Handicap: Primavera, 1 ;
Lugano, 2 ; Reg G., 3.
G. N. Hurdle Race: Our Boy,
1 ; Harley, 2 ; Bureaucrat, 3.
Kensington Steeplechase: Cheery
Jack, 1 ; Solecism, 2; Highland
March, 3.
Winter Handicap: West Wind,
1 ; Brave Lady, 2 ; Koorenbeen, 3.
Iramoo Handicap: Florin, 1 ;
Burrabil, 2 ; Fur Trader, 3.


than our own. Aurie’s Star and El Golea
are recent winners, but not in company
equalling that of Saturday next. In
weighting the two horses for the Rosny
Plate at the abandoned Caulfield meet-
ing the V.A.T.C. handicapper made
Aurie’s Star give El Golea 91b. As there
is only 41b. between them in the Brisbane
race, he is one who will favor Aurie’s
Star’s chance as against that of El Golea.
Beaulivre is sure to show different form
from that at Rosehill, and that will be
necessary to give him any chance. He
will meet Radical 61b. worse, and, while
Beaulivre should be all the better for his
run, that is also expected of Radical.
Panchio will be 61b. worse off as com-
pared with Beaulivre, and 121 b. with
Radical. Hydra’s prospects are bright.
I think he was unlucky to lose the June
Plate, and he will meet Rimveil, winner
of that race, 31b. better. Winnipeg is
well in with 7.11.
Gold Salute, Expressman, High Rank,
Monash Star and Godfrey M. may be
the best of the horses trained in Brisbane,
but I expect Hydra or Radical to win.
SJC 9|C 9|!
If St. Constant had remained in the
Doomben Cup he would have been my
selection, but as he is out of the way
Buzalong strikes me as sure to be hard
to beat. He is showing as much pace
as earlier in his career, and the eleven
furlongs should suit him to a nicety. He
has 8.12, but he won a Caulfield Cup
with 8.6 and a Bond Handicap with 9.3.
Weight may trouble both Beaulivre and
Gold Salute. Among the lighter-weighted
horses Abspear, High Rank and Lord
Valentine must be included as possibili-
ties. The last-named has run well at
all his recent starts, and the distance
should not be beyond him. High Rank
was once expected to stay, and, if he
now has any pretensions in that respect,
7.7 is not a weight that, on his recent
form as a sprinter, should stand in the
way of his success. Still, it is hard to
select anything preferable to Buzalong.
* * * *
The V.R.C. and A.J.C. handicappers
have accepted Maoriland opinion that
Kindergarten is the greatest three-year-
old seen there for a very long period,
and have weighted him accordingly. The
V.A.T.C. handicapper differs. Kinder-
garten has won the last 10 races in which
he started, but it is possible to raise the
question whether the Maoriland standard
of this season equals that of some past
years. Even if it does, 9.10 in a
Metropolitan and 9.7 in a Melbourne
Cup are likely to prove steadiers for
Kindergarten. Beau Vite successfully
carried 9.4 in last year’s Metropolitan
and missed a place with 9.7 in the Mel-
bourne Cup, as did Beaulivre with 9.6,
after winning the Caulfield Cup with 9.0.
In the Metropolitan Kindergarten is
in receipt of 11b. from Beau Vite, and
31b. in the Melbourne Cup. In the Caul-
field Cup Kindergarten, with 9.2, is 101 b.
below Beau Vite. It is therefore prob-
able Kindergarten will miss the Rand-
wick race in favor of the Caulfield Cup.
Last year the V.A.T.C, handicapper
appeared to have thrown Gladynev into
the Caulfield Cup, but that horse was
beaten by his fellow-countryman, Beau-
livre. It is possible for something similar
to happen this time, as, while Kinder-
garten has 81b. less in the Caulfield Cup
than in the Metropolitan, the well-per-
formed Maoriland filly Belle has 121 b. less.
Kindergarten will not have to break
a record for a four-year-old to win the
Melbourne Cup, as Phar Lap (a gelding)
won at that age with 9.12, but he will
have to be a great horse to succeed with
9.7. In the Metropolitan and Caulfield
Cup there is a marked difference of
opinion on the part of the handicappers
concerning the relative merits of Kinder-
garten and Dashing Cavalier. In the
Metropolitan Dashing Cavalier is get-
ting 101 b. from Kindergarten, and is
giving him 41b. in the Caulfield Cup. One
handicapper or the other must be very
wide of the mark. Maikai, second in the
last Melbourne Cup with 9.4, is up 21b.
In weighting the topweights for the
Epsom and Cantala Stakes the handi-
cappers are almost in accord. High Caste,
Beau Vite and Gold Salute are on the
same mark in the Epsom, and the last-
named is lib. below the other two in the
Cantala Stakes.
As was expected, Yaralla and High
Road are at the top of the horses of
their age in the Melbourne Cup. They
are not overdone with 7.6, but early
backers have to take the risk of whether
they prove stayers. Hall Mark, the last
three-year-old winner of a Melbourne
Cup, carried 7.8. Last year Lucrative
was fifth with 7.6, and Pandect, who
carried the same weight, was ninth or
tenth.
According to accounts from Brisbane
Gold Salute’s owner was in good betting
form on Saturday, and smote the books
hard when his horse won the Flying Han-
dicap. The distance was seven furlongs,
and that is probably more to Gold
Salute’s liking than anything shorter. Still,
the fact of the Doomben Newmarket
being run over a straight six will help
him. If form always worked out cor-
rectly there would not now seem much
hope for Flying Knight in the Doomben
race. On Saturday he met Gold Salute
41b. worse than Doomben terms, and
missed a place. As the third horse
finished nearly six lengths behind Gold
Salute, Flying Knight has a lot of lee-
way to make up. Flying Knight started
at 12 to 1, so his chance was evidently
not regarded as a winning one. Gold
Salute is at the top of his form, and if he
should win on Saturday his owner will
probably be pleasantly convinced that the
A.J.C. handicapper was a better judge
than he when he gave him top weight in
the C. W. Cropper Plate. Monash Star,
second to Gold Salute on Saturday, will
meet the latter 31b. better, but his prin-
cipal chance of beating the latter would
appear to depend upon the shorter
distance.
* * * *
D. Munro has applied for a jockey’s
license for the coming season, and it is
undeniable that most racegoers are hope-
ful he will get it. I have no sympathy
with alleged wrongdoers in racing, and
Munro must have been aware that he
was doing something against the rules.
Still, his suspension has meant a greater
loss to him than it would monetarily to
most jockeys, and he has been taught a
lesson. Without wishing in any way
to excuse Munro, I am afraid he is a
long way from being alone in the alleged
offence that brought about his undoing.
There are trainers, as well as jockeys, to
whom “a bit on the side” appeals very
strongly.
sfc % % *
Success of the Royal colors is always
popular in England, and at Salisbury on
April 19 cheering started long before the
judge’s box was reached when it was
apparent King George was going to win
his first race of this year with the un-
named two-year-old Bahram-Myrobella
colt which he had leased from the
National Stud. The youngster had not
previously started, but had so greatly
impressed in his work that he was sent
out at 9 to 4 on in a field of 20. He was
ridden by Gordon Richards, whose
record for the week was eight wins from
22 mounts. He twice did the “hat trick.”
* * * *
Midweek meetings in Sydney are draw-
ing good attendances. Rosebery’s meet-
ing at Victoria Park last Wednesday was
particularly well patronised, but with
only six races the totalisator turnover in
the paddock was on the light side, being
about £2lOO. If Victoria Park brought
its totalisator arrangements up to date,
making the unit ss. in the paddock, and
went in for win and place, the turnover
at meetings at that track would be much
greater. However, that would presum-
ably necessitate expenditure on machinery
and buildings, and, though racing is now
going along as smoothly as could be
wished, the Victoria Park management,
keeping in view the possibility of reduc-
tion, has no desire to launch out in any
direction.
* * * *
A capable apprentice whose services
are in demand, and who rides his share
of winners, is often a greater asset for
a trainer than a stable full of horses that
rarely win. Training fees alone give little
profit. In Maoriland a trainer is per-
mitted to make an arrangement by which
as much as 50 p.c. of an apprentice’s fees
and gratuities go to him. Under A.J.C.
rules the maximum is 25 p.c., and can
be made as low as 1 p.c. An apprentice’s
indentures say that whatever percentage
is agreed upon may be drawn by the
employer at the end of the term of
apprenticeship or on the apprentice
reaching the age of 21, whichever happens
first, but it is also provided that the
A.J.C. committee can allow of an em-
ployer drawing a portion of his percent-
age during the currency of a lad’s appren-
ticeship. It is only fair that a trainer
should receive recompense for teaching
a lad and, when he is capable, pushing
his interests.
* * * *
Some horses show good track work,
but it occasionally takes a lot of racing
to bring them to their best. Beau Frere,
winner of last week’s Rosebery Handi-
cap, is of the number. This season he
had his first run in September, and it
was not until his tenth start that he
even gained a minor place. Since then
he has run 14 times for three wins,
and his twenty-fourth race of the season
on Wednesday last was responsible for
his best form. He is five years old, but,
as he is a gelding, further improvement
in him is not improbable.
The installation of the totalisator last
year has greatly benefited owners racing
in the State of New York. The turnover
has continued to increase to such an ex-
tent that last month the State Racing
Commission ruled that the minimum
prize for minor races at Belmont Park,
Empire City, Jamaica and Aqueduct
(tracks operating within a few miles of
the city of New York) should be $l5OO,
approximately £456. Altogether those
tracks raced 144 days last year. The
State Commission’s decision was arrived
at after Jamaica averaged $760,233 a
day (about £A231,180) at its 25 days’
spring meeting which ended in May. Last
year attendances at Jamaica averaged a
little over 12,000 a day, but the tote has
attracted so many people to racing that
at the recent meeting there was probably
a marked increase. The dual system of
bookmakers and tote gives satisfaction
to most owners and backers in Sydney
and Melbourne, but one cannot help
wondering how far clubs would be able
to go in prize-money if course betting
was confined to the totalisator.
New York is not the only State benefit-
ing from the totalisator. Kentucky is
another. On the occasion of the recent
Derby at Churchill Downs there was an
attendance of 90,000, and the turnover
on that race was $654,353, a little over
£A 199,000. For the eight races run dur-
ing the afternoon the total was $1,937,111
(about £A589,133). Whirlaway’s Derby
return was at the rate of slightly less
than 3 to 1, while Staretor (second) re-
turned 16i to 1.
<* * ♦ •
According to a Wellington exchange
W. J. Smith, of St. Aubin’s Stud, was
among the bidders for the stallion Battle
Song, who was recently purchased by
Ken Austin in Maoriland. Smith may
have been looking forward to the possi-
bility of the sale of Ajax to an American
buyer at a high price. Which reminds
me that recently I saw it stated in an
American paper that, as managing direc-
tor of production of Leow’s Inc. motion
picture company, L. B. Mayer drew
$697,048 (about £A200,700) in salary for
two years. No wonder he could give
£31,000 for Beau Pere, as well as high
prices for other bloodstock. Perhaps
Ajax may eventually find his way to
Mayer’s stud,
* * * *
John Halifax was unequal to giving
Martheus 191 b. in the Flying Welter at
Randwick, but he proved himself a good
colt. With the exception of Brazandt
and Aspire, he was conceding weight to
all the older horses in the race, and beat
them well. His half-sister, Merry Smile,
though brilliant, was a poor stayer, but
it is possible John Halifax will get a
middle-distance. The fact of being by
Pantheon is in his favor in that respect.
M.Q. and Rafferty
One of the noblest specimens of prime
beef on the hoof ever yarded in a box-
ing ring was rounded up in Lithgow
(N.S.W.) last week and turned loose in
the Carlton, Sydney, arena. This was
Les McNabb, 20 years old, 21.12 in bulk.
Beside him the Army heavy champ., Joe
Dodds, looked like a .303 pullthrough,
Joe tipping the beam at a beggarly 14.7.
From the word go the McNabb’s policy
was offensive warfare. He bounded —
or, at any rate, charged—letting go with
both hands. One of his battering-ram
blows caught Joe on the point and sunk
him for seven, and, though managing
somehow to rise, Joe was hanging on
desperately at the bell. It was all over
in quick order in the second round.
Pounded to the boards with right and
left blows to the head that looked as if
they’d have staved in an army tank, Joe
was down three times, on the third
occasion staying there. The well-known
atom-weight, Mr. Joe Wallis, refereed.
» * * *
Hailing from the Macleay River
(N.S.W.) and belonging to some branch
of the tribe of Jerry Jerome and Ron
Richards, Richie Sands (11.4 i) made his
first Sydney appearance at Leichhardt
last Thursday night. He had a string of
k.o, wins in Newcastle to his credit, in-
cluding one over Ron McLaughlin, one
of the toughest about for anyone to k.o.
At Leichhardt Richie added the scalp of
Jimmy Purcell (ll.ffj) to his collection,
per the same route. A heavy right swing
to the jaw nearly outed Jimmy in the
first round; Jimmy’s extra good boxing
ability then made Richie look like not
much more than a solid bush scrapper
for several rounds. But weightier punch-
ing beat better boxing: in the seventh
Jimmy sank from a clinker to the jaw
and was counted out, Richie carries too
much blubber for a middleweight in
condition, but has useful attributes in a
small head and a thick neck, and there’s
no question he’s a peach of a puncher.
Also, he can take it.
7 # • • • •
Sands (understood to be a nom de
guerre, the handle Richie —or Ritchie —
being his surname) is mentioned as forth-
coming opponent for the Victorian Al
Basten (11.3-f), who gathered the Aus-
tralian middleweight title by beating Ern
Clingan (11.3) at West Melbourne
Stadium last Wednesday night. It was
a fierce encounter, Al winning with heavy
right-hand punching that battered Ern
to submission by the end of the tenth
round. If the preposterous no-foul rule,
which every ref. interprets differently,
hadn’t apparently been in operation, Al
would have had the decision earlier. As
it was he won most conclusively.
* * * #
Happening in batches —the way such
things have of happening—deaths of two
lads occurred following scraps in N. S.
Wales rings last week. At Leichhardt a
young Fijian, Setariki Bera, fighting under
the name of Sam Ceruttui, was knocked
out by a punch to the point of the jaw
in the first round of a six-round engage-
ment. He had shaped very neatly and
looked in good condition. Lifted into
his corner, he slumped, was laid out on
the canvas, and was subsequently taken
by ambulance to Lewisham Hospital,
obviously very seriously injured. He died
there without recovering consciousness.
It was a bitterly cold night, and before
the fight came on this scribe was told
that “there was a Fijian out in the
dressing-room who couldn’t stop shiver-
ing.” The fight did not last long enough
for either party to warm up, so the un-
fortunate chap may really have been a
victim of the bitter cold.
The other fatality occurred at New-
castle, where Daniel Timmins collapsed
in the course of a 10-round scrap and
later died in hospital from intracranial
haemorrhage. Neither he nor the Fijian
lad had suffered any severe punishment.
Footbrawl
V. F, League followers picked the
Carlton-Footscray match at West Foots-
cray as the star turn on Saturday, and
20,000 of them saw the best game of the
season. Play was fast and clever. At
half-time the Blues had a nine-point
lead ; then ’Scray opened a third quarter
of furious football that gave it a four-
point lead. But the last quarter was too
much for ’Scray’s forwards, who became
ragged and missed good chances, while
the cooler Blues, availing themselves of
every opportunity, went on to a 15.11-
12.14 win.
In a last-term rally at North the locals
gave Melbourne a touch of heart failure
by steadily creeping up on the lead estab-
lished earlier. The bell was a relief to Mel-
bourne, which won by 20.9 to 17.14 after
having had a lead of seven goals.
At Richmond South Melbourne felt
something like an elderly and fat man
chasing a youth who has run away with
his watch across fallowed country. When
Sowth last sighted the Tigers they had
15.13 up, whereupon Sowth disgustedly
wrapped up its own 9.16 and gave up the
chase.
The Collingwood team that went to St.
Kilda ought to be charged with mental
cruelty or something. Deliberately bait-
ing the Saints, it let the poof fellows get
close time and again and then laughed
mockingly and ran away. ’Wood, 16.10 ;
St. Kilda, 12.11.
The rejuvenated Fitzroy side, playing
host to Hawthorn, put up the offensive
score of 21.19 to 10.20. Geelong, out
at Essendon, encountered something of
the same sort of reception, and was
beaten 18.12 to 11.13. The day left
Richmond alone in front, Carlton and
Essendon next, and Footscray, Mel-
bourne and Collingwood together.
* * * *
On a very muddy Melbourne C.G. the
Chinese Soccer players beat an “Aus-
tralian” team by six goals to four.
* * * *
Eastern Suburbs is now at the head of
the Sydney Rugby Union table ; ’Varsity,
held to a draw by Parramatta, has been
pushed into second place, one point
lower down. The Parramatta forwards
were superior to the Uni. pack, and only
Rutledge’s accurate kicking saved his side
from defeat. When the final bell rang,
Parramatta was 14-11, but Rutledge had
to have another kick, and he raised the
flags—l 4 all.
East v. North was little more than a
practice run for East —11-3 (three tries
to one).
Drummoyne had its first win of the
season, and a really fine one; Gordon
was never in the hunt —17-3 (three tries
to none). West, which hasn’t managed a
win at all, found Randwick too speedy—
-29-15 (six tries to three).
With Clifford back in the side, St.
George began well against Manly, but
it was 21-14 in favor of the Villagers at
the end.


Horse For Sale.
“BLUE PRINCE,” dapple (steel-grey) gelding,
7 years, 15.1 hands. Sound, perfectly man-
nered in stable, foolproof in any city traffic.
Winner of nearly 100 prizes. In 1939-40
season, 22 first prizes in line, including Re-
serve Champion Royal Agricultural Society’s
Light Horse Show, Melbourne. One of the
most beautifully educated horses in Victoria. —
ROBERT YOUNG, 108 Glenferrie Road,
Malvern, 5.E.4, Vic. UY5034. Priv., UY6173.
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS .
I
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
o
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
JOHN DANKS & SON Pt,. Ltd.
{lncorporated in Victoria .)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
War, Sugar and' Cheese
“Norther”: Sugar producers have been
given the straight griffin that if they don’t
restrict cane areas voluntarily compulsion
will be applied. Minister for Agriculture
Bulcock states that “it is almost certain”
that 200,000 tons of this year’s sugar crop
will have to be stored. He sees no reason
for an improvement in the position next
year, being unable to predict the course
of the war and its effect on shipping.
Those who thought that Government
acquisition of the sugar crop this year
meant that Government had a market for
it have to realise that, though there is
a market, it can’t be exploited until
means are found of getting the sugar to
it. Individual farm peaks are to be re-
stricted to an area based on the tonnages
obtained in 1940, probably for the next
few years, except when frosts, cyclones
or other uncontrollable forces cause
heavy losses. Any grower expanding his
area beyond the 1940 normal does so at
his own risk.
Growers’ organisations support the
move, with the reservation that some-
thing more is expected from the Govern-
ment than mere hints to restrict or take
the consequences. They point out, for
instance, that if half the growers re-
stricted to 75 p.c. of their existing No. 1
pool quota and the other half produced
their full quota the total in the sugar
pool might make a mess of the restric-
tion. Also, restricted output means in-
creased costs for the farm, which calls
for an increased sugar price as compen-
sation.
This year’s No. 1 pool has a market
for 737,000 tons. Neither the A.S.P.A.
nor the Q.C.G.C. holds out any hope of
the industry marketing anything like the
same amount next year. Both bodies
agree that the advantage will lie with
those farms operating under a “farm
peak quota” because they will not have
to produce a maximum, only some of
which would be harvested, to obtain a
reasonable quota through their individual
production having to be related to total
production of their mill area.
Both bodies made their statements be-
fore the Federal Supply Minister an-
nounced a Federal plan to raise power-
alcohol production to 22,000,000 tons a
year, 7,000,000 tons of it to come from
molasses supplemented by 44,000 tons of
raw sugar a year. What effect this will
have on the restriction arrangements
remains to be seen.
Meantime, dairymen were being told
that the State Government wanted to see
cheese output quadrupled, and that there
would probably be a higher price for
cheese as an inducement. It is claimed
that Queensland can change over from
butter to cheese with more facility than
other States, and that output can be in-
creased 80 to 90 p.c. by using existing
factory plant. This would still not be
enough, as the bulk of the increased
cheese output is expected from Queens-
land, the other dairy States being ex-
pected to concentrate on condensed and
dried milk.
It is hoped that means can be found
of keeping cheese quality at a better
standard than the existing Queensland
butter quality. Of the total butter out-
put for 10 months to 30/4/’4l, only 49.22
p.c. was choice and 38.22 p.c. first grade,
a very slight improvement on the previ-
ous year. Butter production for this
year is estimated at 2,113,369 boxes,
against 2,496,350 for the previous year,
a loss to the industry of about £1,250,000.
“Dip”: Brisbane City Council has
been discussing provisional estimates for
1941-42. The Lud Mayor predicts a
surplus of £23,377 for the year, but says
nothing about a reduction in the “emer-
gency rate.” He did say something about
“interest and debt redemption” represent-
ing 38.74 p.c. of total revenue. Hang-
overs from borrowing jags are painful
things, and the only cure is to sign the
pledge and keep it.
“Balander”: Brisbane’s Lud Mayor
Chandler, a bit narked by criticism from
the Opposition when the city estimates
were under fire, hinted that “the time
may come when the Government will
be forced to abolish the present system
of party politics in the City Council and
appoint a board free from political ties
“Perhaps this'll make you swing 'em a bit better."
to run the city.” How this would wipe out
partyism in municipal affairs is a bit of
a mystery, seeing that any such board
would be appointed from the friends
of the party in power and would be dis-
placed by a board of another color the
minute the ruling party lost an election.
All the same, it’s a serious reflection on
civic responsibility that partyism has
been allowed to enter local-government
affairs. In a town of 5000 people I once
graced a council was elected on party
lines. Of the nine aldermen, two were
s.p. bookmakers, one was a bookmaker’s
clerk and a fourth was without visible
means of support. That was 12 years
ago, and that town, is still trying to
straighten its affairs out.
* * *
“W.K.D,”: If there is a lag in recruit-
ing, Queensland country districts are not
to blame. During its 60-mile trip from
Toogoolawah to Nanango, the A.I.F.
mobile recruiting unit stopped at the vil-
lage of Harlin, but was advised not to
waste time there as all eligible men were
in uniform. At Moore they were told the
same thing. Yarraman, on the same
line, has an enlistment roll of 50 out of
a total population of 400 ; Nanango 100-
odd out of 1000. And it is not as easy
to walk off a farm and enlist as it is to
walk out of an office. Had Brisbane’s
rate of enlistment been on the same scale
the capital would have given the A.I.F.
a full division and reinforcements.
♦ * * *
“Philp”: That new Lockheed 10A
’plane for the Qantas Brisbane-Darwin
run (B. 25/6/’4l) was built for a private
owner in America who favored a cocktail
bar, cabinets and a lounge settee. The
fittings were intact when the ’plane
reached Australia, but the cocktail bar
and etceteras have been removed,
although the lounge remains. I don’t
know why the original owner parted with
such a treasure. Imagine dodging the
missus and closing time by taking off
into the clouds for a binge!
* * * *
“Colbun”: A forthright Brisbane lass
has revolutionised traditional methods of
feminine warfare. When another bright
young thing steams up with all lacquered
claws set and an accusation of having
pinched the boy-friend she wastes no
time in verbal exchanges, beyond a terse
summary of physical and mental short-
comings. Nor does she descend to
scratchings, hair-pullings or shin-kicks
should the despoiled one evince signs of
proceeding to unladylike extremes. At
the very first indication of such unseemly
conduct she unlooses a punch that would
do credit to any middleweight pug, and,
after remarking primly that people who
don’t know how to behave properly
should not be admitted to decent dance
halls, steers her latest capture to the
dancing floor. Her list of victories in-
cludes several knockouts and some of
the best black eyes seen at the city’s first-
aid station for a long while.
¥ ¥ ¥ »
“Dungeness”; The deadly climate of
Australia’s tropic north has claimed
three more victims. Joe Bowditch had
been in the Cooktown (N.Q.) district for
a mere 57 years of mining, carrying and
hotelkeeping when the end came at 85.
Mrs. Solomon had endured it for 52
years, but at 86 she also fell a victim.
Fred Johnson came to the Coen country
from Lancashire 61 years ago, and pros-
pected on the Batavia River a dozen
years before Kitty Pluto made the big
strike. He passed over at 84. In the end
that climate gets all who have the
temerity to remain long enough.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Bray Rock”; Undeterred by the
Forgan Smith taxation on industries, a
Sydney man has started a new business in
Queensland —the extraction of oil from
shark livers for commercial chemical use.
The working base is established at Moo-
loolaba, some 12 miles outside the More-
ton Bay entrance, and the only all-
weather boat-haven for 200 miles. Moo-
loolaba itself is shark-free, but ocean
reefs within a few miles provide a plenti-
ful supply through most of the year,
mainly tigers. With an average yield of
a gallon for each foot of length, they are
the best species for the purpose. The
largest taken this season was 16ft., but
specimens up to 18ft. and more have
been caught by local fishermen in pre-
vious years. Instead of being sent adrift
as valueless gear-breakers, these eiders
of the Sam Clark tribe will now provide
some recompense for the trouble they
cause,
* » * •
“Dungeness”; Recent growls about
tobacco shortage in the Great Open
Spaces of King’s Cross are endorsed with
lurid verbal trimmings by station
managers in Queensland’s n.-w. outback.
There the trouble arises from sudden and
drastic reduction of supplies of the trade
article for issue to abo. stockmen and
station workers and their sable consorts.
If they don’t get their regular daily plug
they are apt to chuck the job in and go
walkabout, and a serious shortage of sta-
tion labor seems likely. One big holding
got only one 251 b. case of nigger twist
out of eight ordered, and others have
been nearly as badly cut down. Can-
berra’s bleatings about the reduction of
imported ’baccy dodge the issue, as large
quantities of low-grade tobacco entirely
suitable for the purpose are grown at
Mareeba (Q.) and in other Australian
districts.


r
LANE'S
HOT IMMEDIATELY!
No Messy Pricking, Priming or Pumping.
The genuine Lane's Thermil Blue
Flame stove ouldales all pressure
stoves. It gives instant heat. No
noise and it's absolutely SAFE !
One fill of kerosene
lasts 8 hours and the
stove is entirely odour-
les s. NO expensive
burners to replace and
HALF THE PRICE of a
pressure stove ! See
your local Store.
GENUINE •!
'/HU
jh&lMul
SILENT BURNING
BLUE
FLAME
STOVE
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); M. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. .'an, -!• >
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London. Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Recervng
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also P thig
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and £ '“> jness
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geneial banking
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Brickworks manager, exp. in firebricks, face-
bricks, dry press and plastic process, pipe- or
tile-making, erection of new plant and recon-
struction of old, go anywhere, wants employ-
ment. —1809.
To buy History of Albury, by Dr. Andrews,
or will give other books in exchange. —1844.
To buy “Art in Australia” for December,
1932.—1842.
To buy B.H.P. Shapes and Sections Hand-
book.—1830.
To buy Principles of Electrical Engineering,
four vols., Newnes publisher. —1817.
Author and name of poem in which the lines
occur:—
There is a grand old Black Water sweeps by the
meadow
Silently, softly, by sweet Castle Hyde.
I remember the days long ago in the town of Fermoy.
—1107.
Whereabouts of Charles Carre, adagio dancer
(Les Diamondos); appeared at Sydney Tivoli.
—1530.
Information Sought.
Any restrictions on the quantity of tea which
may be sent in a gift parcel to the United
Kingdom ? —1747.
Any parcel dispatched to the United King-
dom from abroad and containing more than
21b. of tea will be confiscated. This applies to
parcels dispatched prior to June 28, 1941.
* * * *
Did any ships from Australia take timber to
San Francisco in the early days of the gold-
fields ? —1746.
Yes. There was a regular trade. Records
show 17 ships sailing to ’Frisco with timber
between July 27 and October 29, 1849.
* * * *
(1) Would a lad of 20 living in Queensland
wishing to join the R.A.A.F. as a fitter be
trained in Queensland ? (2) Pay*? (3) How long
does this course of training in the R.A.A.F.
take ? (4) What are the conditions with regard
to a wireless operator with the R.A.A.F.? —
1256.
(1) No; in Victoria. (2) 10s. per day and
the usual separation allowance for wife and
children. (3) Training course for fully-qualified
fitters is 12 weeks. Candidates not fully trained
undergo a course of approximately six months.
Pay is 5s. per day while training and usual
allowances. Trainee when fully trained moves
to a more highly-paid group. (4) W/T operator
(ground) must be capable of 20 words per
minute. Pay is 8s. 6d. per day. Trainee W/T
operator undergoes training for nine months if
he has passed the intermediate, otherwise he is
classed as trainee W/T (Ed) and requires a
further two months’ educational training. Pay,
5s. per day and usual allowances during train-
ing.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of H.M.S. Newcastle? (2)
Some ranks in the navy have the word “Pay-
master” before them. Does this denote some
special section of the service, and, if so, what
are the duties assigned to this section ? (3)
What duties are performed by a paymaster-
lieutenant, and what are the ranks above this ?
(4) Is there any special opening in the Navy for
one who in civil life is a solicitor? —1021.
(1) Cruiser of 9100 tons, length 584ft., beam
61ft. 8in., draught 17ft.; armament, 12 6in.
guns, eight 4in. A.A., 21 smaller guns, six 21in.
torpedo tubes, three aircraft, speed 32 knots.
Completed 1937. (2) The paymaster branch is
the accountant branch of the Navy, com-
prising paymasters, supply ratings, writers,
cooks and stewards. They deal with all
matters of pay, clothing and food. They also
provide the secretaries to senior officers. (3)
A paymaster-lieutenant would take part in the
duties mentioned in (2). Ranks above pay-
master-lieutenant are paymaster lieutenant-
commander, paymaster commander, paymaster
captain and paymaster rear-admiral. (4) If
under 25 there might be an opening in the
R.A.N. Volunteer Reserve for mobilised ser-
vice.
* £ *
Some biographical details of F. E. Smith,
the first Lord Birkenhead ? —1706.
He was born at Birkenhead in July, 1872,
and educated at Birkenhead School and at
Wadham College, Oxford. He was president of
the Oxford Union Society, 1893 ; first-class final
hon. School of Jurisprudence, 1894; Vinerian
Law Scholar, 1895; Fellow and Lecturer of
Merton College, Oxford, 1896; Lecturer of
Oriel College, 1897; Oxford University Exten-
sion Lecturer in 1898; Examiner in the Final
Schools, Oxford, 1899-1900. He was the Con-
servative candidate for the Scotland division of
Liverpool, 1903-04 ; Walton division, 1905 ; K.C.
and Bencher of Gray’s Inn, 1908; Treasurer,
1917-18; Solicitor-General, 1915; Attorney-
General, 1915-19; M.P. (U.) Walton division,
Liverpool, 1906-19; Lord High Chancellor of
Great Britain, 1919-22; Secretary for India,
1924-28. He was on active service during the
1914-18 war with the Indian Corps in France,
and was created first Earl of Birkenhead in 1922.
From 1928 until his death in 1930 he was a
director of Imperial Chemical Industries and
of Tate and Lyle. He was chairman of the
Greater London Counties Trust, Ltd., from
1929.
* * * *
What is the “Golden Mile” in Westralia ?
—1632.
J. S. Battye’s History of Western Australia
puts it this way: “The outstanding feature of
interest in local (W.A.) mining since 1895 has
been, and still is, the wonderful richness of
that small belt of country lying between Kal-
goorlie and the Boulder, known as the ‘Golden
Mile,’ from which gold has been taken in mil-
lions of ounces, and which still remains as the
principal gold-producing area in the State.”
Published in 1924, that description still holds
good.
* * * *
What percentages of people in the Common-
wealth are on the basic wage and under £3OO
and £4OO per annum? —9931.
Following figures relate to incomes received
in 1940-41 and are estimates only. They pur-
port to include not only all adult persons in
receipt of an income, but also all juvenile
workers and persons employed part-time on
relief works. They include those members of
the fighting services stationed in Australia:
Income Range. No. of Incomes. P.c.
£l-£250 .. .. 1,730,000 57.6
£251-£4OO .. .. 950,000 31.6
£4Ol-£IOOO .. .. 280,000 9.3
£lOOl and over .. 45,000 1.5
Totals .. .. 3,005,000 100.0
% # # »
(1) When and where was “Les Cloches de
Corneville” first performed ? (2) Biographical
details of composer ? 1510.
(1) At the Folies Draraatiques, Paris, on
April 19, 1877. First English performance
(adaptation by Farnie and Reece) was at the
Folly Theatre, London, Feb. 23, 1878. (2)
Robert Planquette was born in Paris 1850, died
1903. Passed through Paris Conservatoire, and
got some vogue as a composer of songs for
cafe concerts before he composed his first
operetta, “Valet de Cour.” “Les Cloches de
Corneville” was his fourth effort. He con-
tinued to compose and produced several other
operettas.
* $ $ *
(1) Is there anything in the Australian Consti-
tution to show that the framers were aiming
at or desired one Parliament for Australia ? (2)
Are there any organisations whose objects are
the dissemination of information in favor of
one Parliament for Australia .'’—l326.
(1) No. The Commonwealth was established
as “one indissoluble Federal Commonwealth”
and the Constitution provides for representa-
tion in the Senate on a State basis. Provision
was made for amendments and for the forma-
tion of new States. (2) Know of none with
that definite mission.
* *
Biographical account of poetess Capel
Boake? —1388.
Capel Boake, who is Doris Boake Kerr, is
the daughter of Gregory A. Kerr. She is a
niece of Barcroft Henry Boake, and was born
at Summer Hill, N.S.W. She went to Mel-
bourne at an early age, and attended State
schools, but says she was self-educated at
Prahran Public Library. She has worked as
shop assistant, typist, librarian and freelance
writer, and has contributed short stories, verse
and articles to various papers. She has pub-
lished Painted Clay, 1917, The Romany Mark,
1928, and The Dark Thread, 1936. The 1940
Commonwealth Literary Fund granted her a
six months’ Fellowship.
* * * *
(1) What is night blindness? (2) What causes
it? (3) Symptoms? (4) Treatment? —1383.
(1) A condition in which animals (and man)
are unable to see in dull light in which normal
animals can quite easily see. (2) It is due to
the slow resynthesis of “visual purple,” a pig-
ment in the retina of the eye, which is broken
down when light strikes the retina and is nor-
mally quickly re-formed. The condition is due
to a lack of deficiency of vitamin A or its
precursor, carotine, in the diet. (3) Inability
to see properly at night, evidenced by running
into objects which normal animals avoid. The
eyes appear quite normal. (4) Treatment is
supply of vitamin A or carotine. Sources are
cod liver oil and other fish oils, greenstuff,
carrots, butterfat.
* 4=
How can I clean a marble mantelpiece which
is very old and has been badly marked with
blacking, etc.? —1606.
If the marble is merely marked and not actu-
ally stained deeply, wash it well with a mixture
of finely-powdered pumice and vinegar (made
into thin paste). Leave this on overnight, then
brush well and wash with hot water. When dry,
rub with whiting on a washleather or chamois.
If this fails, try a mixture of two parts carb.
soda, one part pumice powder and one part
finely-powdered chalk. Use in the same way.
* * * *
Method of renovating a dark-brown leather
overcoat? —1614.
Remove any oil stains with a solvent such as
ether; dab sparingly on with soft cloth and
rub over till normal color is restored. If
there are no stains get a tin of saddle soap
(from any saddler’s supply shop) and use
according to directions; when dry apply a good
brown boot polish, doing coat in sections but
overlapping to ensure an even polish. Rub
well and burnish the surface.
* * *
How do laundries get such a good shine on
collars ; do they use some preparation in the
starch ? —ll3l.
Mix |lb. starch in one quart water and
leave overnight, then pour off water without
disturbing the settled starch, add one pint of
fresh water, mix well and strain through muslin.
Mix two teaspoons powdered borax in half-
pint water, bring to the boil and add it, while
boiling, to the starch; add also half-teaspoon-
ful of pure (not synthetic) turpentine. Put
collars through the warm starch, squeeze out
thoroughly, then spread them out and rub all
over with a damped rag, roll tightly for at
least 10 minutes, then iron. Some laundresses
add a little sugar and a few drops of kerosene
to the starch.
* * % *
(1) Who are the representatives to the Im-
perial Cricket Conference? (2) What are the
qualifications of Test-match players? —lsß7.
(1) Governing bodies of cricket in countries
within the Empire to which cricket teams are
sent or which send teams to England are en-
titled to send two representatives to the con-
ference. (2) Unless debarred by the Imperial
Cricket Conference a player is always eligible
to play for the country of his birth; and if
he has not played for his own country he is
entitled to play for any country in which he has
resided during four immediately preceding
years. Any player who has once played in a
Test match for any country, however, is not
eligible to play against that country without
the consent of its Board o f Control.
* * * *
(1) Are orthodox ( left-hand-forward ) boxers
more successful than southpaws (right-hand-
forward ones) like Vic Patrick, and have any
southpaws ever won an Australian or world’s
championship? (2) For the number of con-
tests he has taken part in, how does Patrick’s
knockout record compare with Joe Louis’s or
Jack Dempsey’s ? —1453.
(1) Asa rule, orthodox boxers are more suc-
cessful than southpaw?, and Fred Kay (who
won the welterweight title in 1915 and middle-
weight in 1916) is about the only unorthodox
boxer to win an Australian championship.
Featherweight Peter Toohey was also a south-
paw, but he never won an Australian title.
Only three southpaws (featherweight Freddie
Miller and middleweights Tiger Flowers and
Johnny Wilson) have won world championships.
(2) Patrick has won 18 of his 20 contests on
knockouts or technical knockouts He beat
Cec Rogers on points and lost to Tod Morgan
on a foul. Dempsey had 27 contests the first
two years (1915 and 1916) he fought, winning
18 on knockouts, five on points, fighting three
draws and being outpointed once. As an
amateur Louis had 54 contests, winning 43 on
knockouts, eight on points, and losing three
decisions. Of his first 20 professional fights,
Louis won 16 on knockouts and four on points.
Brief Answers.
H.L.: (1) and (4) Plants are classified into
various groups according to their botanical
characteristics, under class, order, family, genus
and species. (2) “Syn.” means synonymous.
(3) The botanical name includes the generic
name as well as the specific, and, where neces-
sary, the varietal name. (5) Cross pollination
may occur between species or varieties
G.T. and J.W.: Recipes wanted are trade
secrets J.D.; The possession of a bank
credit of £3OO would not in itself debar a
person from receiving a pension, but the rate
of pension would be affected thereby. The
Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act provides that,
where a pensioner has property other than the
home in which he permanently resides, the rate
of pension otherwise payable shall be subject
to a deduction of £1 for every complete £lO
by which the net capital value of such accumu-
lated property exceeds £SO. A bank credit is
regarded as property within the meaning of the
Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act. In the
case of husband and wife, except where they
are living apart pursuant to any decree, order
or judgment, the income and property of each
is deemed to be possessed by both in equal
shares H.0.F.; There is a fresco painting
in the National Art Gallery of N.S.W. entitled
“Fresco for the Arts of Peace,” by Lord
Leighton, P.R.A., purchased 1884 P.R.: No
one-teacher school obtained four or more
bursaries at the 1940 Bursary Examination
D. 8.: Get in touch with the British Drama
League, 44 Castlereagh-street, Sydney E.G.:
At 10,000 miles the car should have a valve
grind and should be decarbonised and given a
thorough tune-up. It is not usual to rebore
that particular model under approximately
50.000 miles, and before a rebore is necessary
the piston rings should be fitted to overcome
any excess oil consumption if the car is suffer-
ing from this complaint. The car should also
be regularly greased and tuned, and every
10.000 to 12,000 miles the valves should be
ground in. It is necessary to clean and adjust
the spark plugs every 1500 to 2000 miles.
Method of cleaning is by sand blasting; if this
is not available, the plugs could be cleaned
by means of a wire brush or some sharp-
pointed instrument... .M.F.8.: (1) Candidates
for entry into the Royal Australian Naval
Reserve as a rating must be between 17 and
25. (2) Candidates for entry into the Royal
Australian Naval College must be 13 during
the calendar year in which vacancies are called
for. (3) Ratings are required to sign for a
period of three years or duration of the war
and six months thereafter, whichever is the
greater, for service at home or abroad. Apply
to the District Naval Officer, Brisbane, for
particulars regarding recruiting.... J.D.T.:
Institute of Industrial Psychology, 12 O’Connell-
street, Sydney. There is no similar institute in
Brisbane, but a similar service is provided by
the University of Queensland and the same tests
are used as in Sydney... .F.A.D.: The word
“Bulimba” does not occur in any lists of
aboriginal words. “Bulemba” is given, with
the meaning of flying squirrel. If the word is
of aboriginal origin, presumably it was used by
one of the Queensland tribes, as a suburb of
Brisbane bears the name, and there is a station
Bulimba at Mungana, Queensland... .W.W.:
(1) Quite a good chance she got away. (2)
The best body to apply to is the Inter-
national Red Cross, Melbourne, but it will
institute inquiries only on behalf of relatives.
(3) If you know of relatives in Australia, sug-
gest you get in touch with them... .C.E.8.:
He is not on the air for the time being.
... . K.D.8.: Dunlop-Perdriau Cos. can supply a
pneumatic-tyred wheel of lOin. overall and 3in.
bay. The tyre is of four-ply construction and
the wheel is fitted with roller-bearings and
takes a lin. plain shaft... J.T.T.: Information
as to assessment should be sought from the
Deputy Commissioner of Taxation, Darwin.
The rate of tax, 20.28 and., is correctly applicable
to a taxable income of £507. Deductions made
from salary since January 1, 1941, will be
accepted in part payment of the assessment.
The maximum deduction allowable for medical
expenses is £50....T.F.; Apparently a trace of
free oil is present in the shale, but this is no
indication that light petroleum is present in
the liquid. “Volatiles” might indicate anything
that was driven off on ignition; it might be
combined water only. Technological Museum,
Harris-street, Sydney, would be glad to examine
a small sample of the shale and give a definite
opinion regarding the presence or otherwise of
0i1....Egg: Very hard to value the goodwill.
If the entire profits of the business are only
£2 a week, the goodwill would be small.
Depends on the owner’s time involved. If little
time is called for, then an income of £2 a
week might be worth paying £IOO for, depend-
ing on the prospects of continuity of the
income L. 8.: Get a packet of dye of re-
quired shade and follow carefully directions
on the packet. Most chemists stock Fairy
Dyes, which are suitable for your purpose....
Mrs. J.T.: Address your contribution to the
Editor.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused :
H.A.:
We want machines and we want guns,
We want the lads to fight the Huns.
We must have 'planes, we must have tanks
To drive them in the enemy flanks.
L.R.:
Full many a German column
Would like to rest in Solium.
But Wavell’s counter-blitz
Will blow them all to bits.
Too bad, eh, Fritz?
M.W.: Nearly A.E.W.: Mary’s in the
w.p.b E.W.: This is no place for “pussy-
cats” M.H.; Come again... .L.S.: Keep at
it J. 8.: The feeling’s there; but not the
technique... .C.M.8.: Pity it’s a parody....
8.A.J.F.: A glimmer there D.W.; “And
all the seeming awfulness is trifles” is a trifle
awful J.E.W. (Launceston): Never reprint
verse; but congratulations on your sentiments
and spirit... .8.D.Y.: “Nellie” will return
to you Demos; You amaze us C.P.:
“Sunday Morning” is du11... .T.D.; Wordy.
S.C.S.: “The Homeless Child” now firmly
established in the w.p.b S.S.: Off our beat.
... . R.L.8.; “Murder Will Out,” and out it
went D.C.P.: See Masefield’s “Dauber.
....J.T., L.D.S., P.Y., J.R., F.J.C., P.N.S.
and T.F.: Return tickets for all of ’em.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.F.A.: Moving cartoon of deformed strike
agitator being tossed into creek by muscle-bound
toilers giving clenched-fist salute is being sent
on to the Kremlin N.T.: Dead gag dis-
interred and re-murdered A.8.M.: If you
must copy, pick a good model
drawing is weak from all angles....A.S.H..
Penwork still lacks decision M.A.8.: A
venerable Bulletin gag F.P.: Were re-
served a comer in the hottest part of hell tor
artists who draw in ordinary ink onc ™ m pled
notepaper... .H.N.P.: An athlete built like
that wouldn’t beat a snail.


BRANDAUERA
m
m
6<T.V
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDADISE * CO. Ltd. BIHIUNQHAM, ESQ
Smokers are saying—
“l’m not cutting down
my smoking, I’m smoking
‘Hillmans,’”
The greatest tobacco value
in Australia—Specially Cut
for slow smoking— therefore
must be economical.
As perfect a tobacco nature
can provide and art can devise.
No throat rasps, cool to the
tongue however much it is
smoked.
LOOK AT THE PRICES,
TOO! From Manufacturer to
you. That’s why smokers are
sticking to “Hillmans.”
PRICE LIST as from Ist June, 1941.
Four Square 9/6
First Crop, mild 9/6
All British, mild 9/6
Riverhead Gold, medium ... 9/6
Old Peter, dark 9/6
Cavendish Strong 9/6
Beech Nut, medium 9/6
Africa, mellow and mild ... 9/6
Soldier’s Own, mild 9/6
Normandie, medium 9/6
Winning Post, medium 9/6
Three Bells, strong 9/6
Bird’s Eye, medium 9/6
Nigeroid, in pipe only 9/6
Latakia, in pipe only 10/-
White Lodge Medium 10/-
White Lodge Light 11/-
Union Leader, medium 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium 11/-
Imperial 14/-
Premier 16/-
Postage Extra.
When ordering please state whether
for cigarette or pipe smoking.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
Manufacturers and Blenders,
Box 6, P. 0., Valley, N.l, Brisbane.
Telegrams, “Comgrow.”
’Phone No. 84587.
SUDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Thunder Rock”
In this play, put on by Gregan Mc-
Mahon at Melbourne King’s, Robert
Ardrey places his hero in a lighthouse on
a lonely rock in Lake Michigan in 1939.
Hero is an American college product who
has been a star reporter, brought off a
scoop or two, written two books on poli-
tical subjects, one of which has attracted
the usual ephemeral notice, become dis-
illusioned and decided to detach himself
from human beings. There is a tablet in
the lighthouse commemorating the wreck
on the night of May 16, „1849, of the
packet Land o’ Cakes, out of Buffalo
bound for Milwaukee, which went down
in a gale, with all hands being lost. He
starts thinking about them, conjures up
mental images of six, his images attain
an uncanny life of their own and he finds
himself, willy-nilly, caught up in the
problems of the characters he has created.
One has a stillborn baby, and the doctor
who delivers it is a Viennese who has
left Vienna discouraged because his ex-
periments with animals in a basement
have earned him the reputation of cutting
up babies, whereas he was on the verge
of discovering anaesthesia. Another is a
man-hating old maid eaten up with
resentment at her sex’s subjection to
masculine domination. And so forth.
When the author fellow tells his crea-
tions that anaesthesia is now the accepted
and honored practice of the whole
medical profession, that its pioneers are
regarded as heroes, that women now have
votes and even sit in the House of Com-
mons, and that they were cowards and
traitors to give up hope of human pro-
gress, they refuse to believe him. To
clinch his argument he switches on the
radio, but unfortunately it is just announc-
ing the declaration of war between the
embattled nations of Europe. This con-
firms them in their belief in the futility
of existence. He becomes disgusted with
his creations, annihilates them by the
simple process of ceasing to think about
them and decides to return to society to
do the biggest front-page story of his
life—the destruction of civilisation.
At this point a college friend who has
been bombing Japanese soldiers in
defence of Chinese civilians and who has
been killed in a crash turns up and, like
the ghost of Hamlet’s father, castigates
him for his craven renunciation of life.
He makes a complete volte face, declares
that war and unemployment can be
banished and goes off to devote himself
to making the world a better place for
everybody to live in, the only difficulty,
of course, being to know how to do it.
Using the same technique as Piran-
dello did in “Six Characters in Search of
an Author,” but supplying a daily news-
paper reader’s . instead of a philosophic
background, Mr. Ardrey makes the point
that if the average citizen of today could
step back 90 years he would appear a
madman or a liar to the citizens of 1849 ;
but so would the average citizen of 90
years hence appear to the citizens of
1941. To be a contemporary genius is
a very difficult matter. It is to be 90
years ahead of one’s own time in art,
music, military science or anything what-
soever, and therefore to appear either a
madman or a liar. Any average doctor
today can anaesthetise a patient without
fear of society’s disapproval, but to do it
90 years ago was to run the risk of being
shoved into gaol.
Mr. Ardley doesn’t stress this point, and
his play is most interesting where he
makes the characters raise doubts of
himself in the mind of their creator by
asking him embarrassing questions. It
was extremely well acted by the G. Mc-
Mahon Players. Mark Frederickson was
never at a loss as the lightkeeper-author.
William Clarkson was effective as the
doctor and Norman Tucker was good as
the long Scotch shipmaster who believes
in responsibility for the sake of respon-
sibility and insists on being the first to
leave when the author condemns him and
his passengers to oblivion. Over-atten-
tion to dialect made some of the others
largely incomprehensible.
* * He ♦
A packed gallery assembled for the
chamber music concert at the Victorian
Nat. Gallery. Highlights of the evening
were Elise Steele’s fiddle and Mancell
Kirby’s harpsichord. The antique instru-
ment, in which the last-named player has
been specialising for years, was heard in
a concerto with violin and oboe by Bach,
Don Nicol and Charles Norman taking refuge behind ’ero Peter Frazer
from the male half of the specialty dancers, Earl and Fontaine. —“Rio
Rita,” at Sydney Royal.
for whom it was a living instrument.
Two solos by Couperin gave Miss Kirby
her best chance of showing off the graces
of her instrument. A pleasant item was
the sonata for violin with figured bass
by Bach. Vocal items were in the hands
of Muriel Cheek, who now knows more
than she used to about the acoustic
properties of the Stawell.
* * * *
Sydney Con. Orchestra’s fourth concert
of the 1941 season had as its main item
the Final Symphony of Sibelius. Dr.
Bainton conducted with discrimination,
the orchestra seemed to grasp the gist of
the music in most cases, and the result
was a fairly just presentation of a highly
individual work. The Brahms Concerto
for violin and cello, with orchestra, had
as soloists Nora Williamson and Glad-
stone Bell, and was a creditable effort.
By way of further variety a Bach suite
commenced the proceedings.
* * * *
“C. 8.”; “Cavalleria Rusticana” was
given an airing in another of A.B.C.’s
flesh-and-blood plus ether performances
at Melb. Assembly Hall. If visually lack-
ing, it was vocally magnificent, Heddle
Nash, Thea Phillips and Arnold Matters
making fine work of Mascagni’s exciting
music, while William James conducted
with assurance. The high quality of the
production minus scenery ought to sug-
gest to the Commission a better way of
spending its money than on its “Weakly.”
There is certainly a public for properly
upholstered opera in Melbourne in a well-
equipped theatre.
* * * *
“Follow Suit,” comedy by Melbourne
playwright Alan Burke, was presented by
the Un-named Players at the Central Hall,
Melb. A woman who has had three hus-
bands in swift succession and has never
had more intimate contact with them
than over the breakfast table would cer-
tainly be a very interesting phenomenon
and a psychiatrist might be able to tell
us something about her emotional con-
flicts. But as yet Mr. Burke obviously
knows nothing about such conflicts, or
if he does he keeps silent about them.
He is as innocent as an egg as regards
human behavior, though he knows a
great deal about the established technique
of stage-production, and his play goes
smoothly enough. If he is a dramatic
Mozart his play might be considered as
an exercise in scales, and ten years hence
he may be playing wonderful variations
on the theme of “Follow Suit” if he
maintains his present interest in the
drama. He is 17.
ARTBURSTS
Mixed Show of Landscapes
The Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
assemble landscapes by 25 painters with
a price-range of seven to 45 guineas.
Items of interest are the “Burrawang
Village” of Lloyd Rees, in a new-sketchily
impressionistic style, the excellent “City
Sky Line” of Douglas Dundas, an impres-
sive “Coming Storm” by A. E. Harvey,
and an effective use of Sydney’s Harbor
Bridge in J. Noel Kilgour’s “Back
Street.” Roland Wakelin makes an in-
teresting composition of “The Quarry,”
and Isabel Mackenzie conveys something
of the dramatic splendor of what Sydney
calls coral-trees and Ceylon calls dad-
dups. Demure residents of Elizabeth Bay
are warned against the shock of gazing
on Elaine Haxton’s impression of the
locality. George Duncan’s “White
Horse” and “Landscape in the Alps” have
something to say, and say it with em-
phasis and decision.
* * * *
Latest addition to Sydney periodicals is
“The Artist” (“a journal devoted to the
interests of the graphic arts and sculp-
ture”). It’s octavo and boasts only eight
pages, but its editor, John Young, and
such contributors as Roland Wakelin and
Lloyd Rees, say briefly a great many
things about art that are worth saying.
“The Artist” goes gratis to those likely
to be interested. It carries no advertising.
Whether it’s a weekly, a monthly, a
quarterly or an annual isn’t stated, but
however often it is to appear it deserves
support.
AT THE TALKIES
“That Uncertain Feeling”
An f.a.q. entertainer of the lightly-
amusing damphoolery brand at Sydney
Mayfair. Merle Oberon is the spoiled
wife of a wealthy businessman without a
worry in the world except frequent and
chronic attacks of hiccups. Some of
her fellow cocktail-swillers talk her into
visiting a psychoanalyst for treatment,
where she meets a fellow-patient, a lesser
pianist and a surrealist art crank, whose
whims, fancies and jargon are sufficiently
unusual to lure her from marital respecta-
bility and the boredom of idle wealth.
Subsequent doings—bedroom comedy,
divorce, reconciliation, etc. —are amusing
enough to keep the piece well on its legs
right up to the fadeout.
Contemplation of the streamlined
Oberon isn’t likely to bring on eye-
strain ; Melvyn Douglas, as the husband,
is in particularly good fettle ; and Bur-
gess Meredith, as the fellow with the
surrealist bug, turns in one of the funniest
performances seen for some time. Film
was directed by Ernst Lubitsch, an adept
at producing laughs from the slightest of
material.
“The Sea Wolf”
This, at Sydney Plaza, is a good, red-
blooded fiction piece and a topnotch anti-
dote to the general run of froth and bubble
that figures in Sydney film-houses for most
of the time. The filmsmiths have done the
Jack London story justice, and the com-
plex character of Wolf Larsen is made
to measure for Ed. G. Robinson. John
Garfield is similarly suited to the role
of the one man game to defy Larsen. Ida
Lupino has a rather superfluous part
which detracts a little from the story, but
it’s right in her line and she handles it
well.
One scene —of a pimping sailor being
tossed overboard and played on the end
of a rope so that a shark just gets his
legs without killing him, so his services
as a cook are not lost —is a blood-curdler
that leaves alleged horror films looking
like Disney Silly Symphonies.
* * * *
“The Black Cat,” doing the rounds, is
described as being suggested by the
Edgar Allen Poe story, but it would be
more accurate to say that it was sug-
gested by “The Cat and the Canary” and
the subsequent string of comedy-thrillers.
Without approaching its main prede-
cessor, it makes fair entertainment of its
kind, with Broderick Crawford and Hugh
Herbert providing comedy, and Basil
Rathbone, Bela Lugosi and Gale Son-
dergaard as a satisfactorily sinister bunch
of red herrings.
* * * *
“The Navy Steps Out,” doing the
rounds, is an f.a.q. comedy about the
trials of a tar aiming to leave the sea and
settle down ashore with the bewchus
Lucille Ball. Everything that can go
comically wrong does, until the unfor-
tunate sailor loses his prospective bride to
her moneyed boss. George Murphy is the
sailor and makes a good fist of the part.
Film is mildly amusing most of the way,
and very much so in spots.


THE SERVICE MAN
Germany v. Russia.
“Ek Dum”: None of Europe’s many
and various wars of recent times has
been reported so badly. The fighting is
taking place along 1600 miles of frontier,
and a bit more frontier, on which there
has as yet been no fighting, is involved
—the borders of Russia stretch from four
degrees north of the Arctic Circle to
within 22 degrees of the tropic of Cancer.
■ The point of attack nearest to Moscow
was 700 miles away, as the crow flies,
but there were objectives not so distant
—in the north, Leningrad and the Baltic
naval bases; in the south, the Lwow
region and the heart of the Ukraine.
The German forces were stated in an
official quarter to be 1,000,000 men with
1,000,000 reserves, and it was obvious
from German behavior in the west that
the greater part of the Luftwaffe was in
the east. One German estimate placed
the Russian armies assembled before the
attack began at 150 divisions; a later
one said 174 divisions —about 2,600,000
men, on the basis of Russian normal
divisional organisation. Russian esti-
mates range from 3,000,000 upwards.
As was shov/n in France, armies like
these may be moved even dozens of miles
with celerity, and may be kept moving
when they have railways in their own
territory feeding good roads, on which
motor transport can shuttle backward and
forward without trouble.
But when the distances lengthen out
into hundreds of miles, both laterally
along the attack area and behind, the
advance or retreat must slow up in rela-
tion to the distance that supplies have to
be carried. A truck serving a ten-mile
communication line is worth two trucks
at least serving a 20-mile line.
Even an army like Hitler’s, whose
motor-cyclists plunged into France 60
miles ahead of main bodies of spear-
heads, must retain some uniformity of
front or at least be in a position to make
the front uniform and maintain linkage
with other advancing or retreating sec-
tions. In the Polish campaign, the air
arm served the purpose. In the advance
against Russia no fighter under war con-
ditions could fly more than half the
length of the actual fighting lines without
refuelling. A tour from end to end would
tax the capacity of any medium bomber
to stay in the air.
By land, there are obstacles which
break up the main north-south sweep of
the terrain, making communication a
problem completely different, calling for
different strategy and tactics.
Russia is a country of very so-so rail-
ways and bad roads. The roads, while
they serve for ordinary traffic, become
sloughs or dust baths under heavy
traffic. Railways, such as they are, will
become of increasing importance as the
campaign proceeds.
Anybody who has seen the dust kicked
by a single mail Cadillac on a western
Queensland road can readily imagine
what 400 heavy tanks, backed by career-
ing artillery, and by thousands of men in
lorries with machine-gun carriers, would
do to the countryside in dry weather. In
quite a bit of Russia it is dry weather, and
the black soil of the Ukraine is even
more pulverable than the black soil of
western Queensland. Also the vast bogs
and swamps of the centre of the border
have to be gone round. In the south,
there is a network of rivers.
Generally speaking, the Germans seem
to have decided that the war was big
enough for division into four or five
separate operations, each aiming at a dif-
ferent front.
The objective in each case seems to be
a big industrial centre and railwav junc-
tion. The ultimate objectives are Moscow
and the Donau basin. Moscow is not
only the official and industrial capital of
the whole of the Russian republics, but
also the centre of all its transport. In
Moscow every great railway line, whether
from the industrial districts and wheat-
fields of the south, from Siberia or from
the Baltic, starts or finishes.
Though radios on June 23 shouted of
astronomical numbers of ’planes brought
down and tanks scuppered, both sides
claiming victories, it was four days before
the direction of the attacks was even evi-
dent and the titanic opposing armies got
under way.
The most northerly move was in Fin-
land. It was known that there were Ger-
man divisions in that country, one hav-
ing been permitted to cross Sweden from
Norway ; but the Finns denied that they
were at war until the Russians had begun
to bomb the port of Abo (Turku)
and to shell the railway from Hango, the
Russian-occupied naval harbor, in the
middle of the week.
The next attack southwards was made
across Lithuania direct from East Prussia
to Kaunas, the capital. On Thursday it
was admitted by the Russians that the
Germans had broken through in the
Vilna-Oszmiana area. Their movement
must have been swift. They were then
over their own border by nearly 100
miles, direct line, and a third attack was
unravelling itself a few miles south, from
Warsaw, via Bialystoki, through the
Baranovici Gap. Though this gap the
main railway runs to Minsk from War-
saw ; through it Napoleon made his
way 129 years ago. This is the main
route to Moscow.
On Thursday, the Germans on the
Baranovici advance had not merely
reached actual Russian soil, as distinct
from soil annexed from Poland and the
Baltic States, but had covered the last
100 miles in 24 hours. At the same time,
the Vilna drive was pushing the Russians
back in a heavy tank battle.
On the very outskirts of Minsk, the
Germans were in the heart of White
Russia, threatening a big industrial group
of works which stretches to Smolensk.
But they had also accomplished some-
thing else. They had driven well behind
the level of the main first line of Rus-
sian defence.
Their two drives in the region consti-
tuted a carefully-planned strategic move.
When they reached the border all the
Russian-occupied Baltic States had be-
come a deep salient, with the Finns across
the Baltic on the north and the Luftwaffe
touring the coast and bombing Riga and
Talinn. Leningrad’s only main direct con-
nection with the supplies of the Ukraine
was cut; the city itself and Kronstad, the
Russian main naval base, were in the
wolves’ jaws.
The Kaunas army drove straight north-
west towards the Pskov railway and
Leningrad and claimed to have reached
Daugavpils on the Dvina, just inside
Latvia and only 40 miles from the
U.S.S.R. border. Daugavpils, next to
Vilna, is the most important traffic junc-
tion in the Baltic States.
The Baranovici German troops, appar-
ently a heavy mobile spearhead, evidently
closed the gap into Russia. Berlin an-
nounced that two Russian armies had
been left behind east of Bialystoki, which
is near the border of annexed Polish ter-
ritory ; their presence in this region was,
it was asserted, an indication that Russia
had intended to attack Germany. These
two armies, the Fligh Command declares,
are surrounded, and must either capitu-
late or surrender.
The Russians are obviously putting up
a bitter fight. They declared that they
had routed the German force advancing
on Minsk and taken the staff of the
39th Tank Corps prisoner; but Berlin
Radio on Sunday night (Berlin time) said
that the force had been strengthened and
had pushed its way past Minsk and
towards Smolensk. If this is true it is in
ideal tank country, but also in the midst
of the Russian border defences which
are called the Stalin line, but are really
grouped defences like the German West-
wall.
This force, if it neutralises or breaks
through the border defences, might swing
north and corral Russians above Minsk
against the army from Vilna, or if those
Russian troops holding the border lines
succeeded in getting out before they could
be taken in the rear, the Germans could
pass southward and possibly jam other
forces into the slough of the great Rokitno
swamps along the river Pripet. Or they
could just keep the line open for the in-
sertion of a still heavier spearhead to
drive on Moscow via Smolensk, which
seems most likely.
Southward, again, another German fist
was punching its way from the adjacent
Slovak borders towards Lwow. Fierce
fighting took place from the be-
ginning of the week round Przemsyl, a
few miles to the west, familiar in the
Great War. Later the battleground was
round Luck, 15 miles from Lwow. This
drive is aimed at the heart of the
Ukraine. Towns have been taken and
retaken, and, at latest advices, the
attackers were still 250 miles from Kiev,
the capital of the Ukraine.
Still further south, aiming fiercely at
Cernauti in Bukovina and at Moldavia,
are the vast armies of List and the
Rumanian Antonescu. The prize for
which they fight is the greatest aggrega-
tion of coal, electricity (Dnieperstroy),
chemical, iron and steel, machinery,
motor-car, tank and aeroplane plants in
eastern Europe. The region is the Ruhr
of Russia, and it includes all the heads
of water and rail communications with
the Black Sea, Odessa, the southern
naval base and the road to Baku and its
oil.
During the earlier part of last week
each side matched the other’s hundreds
of destroyed tanks or aeroplanes. But as
the battle really joined, a grim silence
closed over every detail that was worth
while knowing. It was broken officially
on June 29.
The German High Command com-
munique claimed the capture of 40,000
prisoners and the capture or destruction
of 2233 tanks. It asserted that 2582
Soviet ’planes had been destroyed on the
first two days of fighting—lBll against
35 German on the first day —and 4107
in a week, with a loss of 150 German
machines. The invaders, it said, had
captured Brest Litovsk on Monday,
Kaunas and Vilna on Tuesday; had
reached the Dvina on Thursday and
broken through strong frontier positions
at various points. Later the Germans
declared that they had encircled and
wiped out several Russian divisions north
of Kaunas, taking 200 tanks and 150
heavy guns. They found themselves
faced with particularly strong positions
round Lwow, but were pushing immense
Russian forces back.
At sea they claimed to have mined a
Soviet destroyer, damaged the cruiser
Maxim Gorki and torpedoed two more
destroyers, two submarines and E-boats,
while guns at Constanza, on the Black
Sea, beat off a destroyer attack.
The Russians, on the other hand,
claimed to be firmly holding the frontier,
though they had retreated on the north
Polish and Baltic fronts to “prepared
positions.” On the Minsk front, they
reported, they took 300 tanks, “holding
the enemy’s basic forces and inflicting
heavy casualties, and killing a German
general.” In the battle of Lwow, 4000
tanks on each side were participating ;
the Soviet Air Force, Moscow said, had
dealt crushing blows to an enemy already
repulsed and severely punished in the land
battle, which passed out of a German
offensive stage into a Russian counter-
attack on Friday.
In the north, what the Germans claim
as decisive victories are claimed as de-
cisive victories by the Russians, enriched
with spoil and thousands of prisoners.
Moscow’s version of losses in the first
seven days; German, 2500 tanks, 1500
’planes, 30,000 prisoners; Russian, 900
tanks, 850 ’planes, 15,000 prisoners.
Germany claims to have bombed all
the Russian Black Sea ports. Russia
says that Rumanian Constanza is a ruin,
that Ploesti oilfields have been bombed
and plants are burning.
The truth is that decisive points are
only being reached. Huge as the forces
engaged have been, the battles so far have
been no more than screen actions. The
real test is whether the Russians can
either bring the Germans up with a bang
along the inner border defences or con-
duct a pressure retreat in such a manner
as to prevent a break-through anywhere,
and gradually kill the momentum of the
attackers.
The Germans will have to be stopped
long before they reach Moscow or the
Donau basin. Otherwise, the two great
armament centres will be threatened and
communication between them cut. If that
happens the heart of the railway and
road systems will be in German hands,
and nothing will be left for the Red
Army but a hasty exit into the back-
blocks.
The R.A.F. Has Its Day.
“Aileron”: Stated on June 25 that
“Britain” had “begun the greatest air
offensive in the history of the world,
designed to assist Russia by crippling
Germany’s war industries, transport ser-
vices and sources of supply.”
The British offensive began on June
11, when a heavy attack was made on the
Ruhr, followed by another the next night
which was described as “the heaviest
yet.” Since then more machines have
been poured in, heavier bombs used and
the duration of raids has lengthened
steadily. By June 25, three days after
the German attack on Russia, the on-
slaughts were almost continuous.
It takes weeks to get an attack on the
present scale into its stride. The largest
bombs weigh nearly two tons; the
smallest worth while would be the 250-
pounders, and for every one H.E. hundreds
of incendiaries are decanted. And for
every flight of every medium-heavy
bomber bound for Kiel or Hamburg,
three or four tons of petrol has to be
provided at a given spot; for every
bomber that crosses the Channel there
is a number of fighters.
Machine-gun and cannon ammunition
is counted in million denominations. One
minute’s blast by 10 Hurricanes or Spit-
fires means 80.000 cartridges, which have
had to be oiled, fitted, vetted, packed and
loaded. For every machine in use there
must be every conceivable kind of spare
part ready to replace breakages. There
must be aerodromes for take-off and
landing, with plenty of space to spare
and plenty of alternatives if landing
grounds are shot up. There must also be
perfect A.A. defence for those grounds
and a special screen of fighters always in
the air keeping the foe away from start-
ing and operation points.
The development of the offensive has
been curious. May 10 marks the date
when Germany seemed suddenly to sur-
render the initiative in the north. On
that day London had one of the worst
goings-over jn its history, specifically
aimed at priceless historic places, at Par-
liament House, at centres of no military
value. It was a vicious thing, like the
blow below the belt with which an almost
exhausted boxer tries to cripple an
adversary whom he has failed to knock
out before the last gong.
The same day telephone and all other
communication from Germany was closed
for several hours. Rudolf Hess left for
Scotland.
From then onwards, German raiding
of Britain has been desultory—only three
raids which could be called even medium
by the standards of the early part of the
year, and one of those made by accident
on the brilliantly lighted city of Dublin
in neutral Eire. London has been almost
exempt.
The attack on Crete was the only
obvious operation to account for the
northern calm. But the Crete affair
lasted only a few days. At a maximum
there might have been 500 German
machines engaged at one time —on the
peak day some said 1000 were in the air,
100 at a time. But Germany then was
known to have six air armies with a
formal strength of 1750 machines each-
two in northern France and the Low-
lands, one in Norway, two on the Eastern
frontier and one in the Balkans. There
was also part of an air army based on
Sicily. , . ■ f u
While the Cretan business was in full
swing, the Bismarck sneaked out and
failed to get away. Her final fight was
put up from 500 to 400 miles from Brest
and from the headquarters of the 2nd
German Air Army based on the coasts
of Brittany and Biscay. Yet, though
British aircraft played a huge part in
that fight and were operating as far away
from their bases at the end as heavy
German craft would have had to operate,
the German effort seemed puny by com-
parison with that of the British. The
latter had aircraft carriers, which gave
them an advantage, but 500 miles of sea
is nothing to the German four-engined
bombers built for the Atlantic battle,
and the stake was a big one.
The Germans appeared on the scene
in some force after the fight was over,
and just in time to prevent rescue of their
own men ; but it was not the kind of
armada which could be expected to get
near well-covered line-o’-battleships oi
the King George V type, well escorted
by the Fleet Air Arm, Sunderlands and
destroyers.
The Bismarck incident was followed
by the withdrawal of the German Air
headquarters in Sicily. The presumption
was that, with Crete in German hands,
the base was merely being shifted and
the eastern Mediterranean German air
forces centralised in Greece. But it was
announced that Greece was being hande
over to Italian control. And air activity
from Crete has fallen far below expecta-
tion. Two of the sparse raids on Alex-
andria caused substantial casualties, bu
these seem to have been due as much to
the Alexandrian conditions as to t e
heaviness of the attacks. The raids on
Malta eased off in both frequency and
intensity.
The position in northern Europe is
most remarkable of all.
know the fighting quality of the KA ■
They know well that many ports on th
French side of the Channel are w
within R.A.F. fighter reach. They had
never up till June submitted .
bombing of their industrial and _na
centres without substantial retaliation
usually a cruel one directed at theßritts
civil population. But since ’
which saw the heaviest raids made Y
the R.A.F. up to that date hey^ve
suffered constant blasting channel
of their ports held along the Channel


coast, of their naval and commercial
ports, with no reprisals and with com-
paratively little resistance in the air,
though there are sometimes heavy A.A,
barrages. Report after report comes in
that the German fighter pilots on the
western front are a poorer breed than
those to whom the R.A.F. has been
accustomed —“inexperienced and reluc-
tant to fight.” British fighters destroyed
121 German fighters in 11 days to June
25, against a loss of 28 British. In the
week ended June 28, Germany lost 183
machines, the R.A.F. 65.
Kiel, Hamburg, Bremen, Cologne,
Diisseldorf, the big-gun emplacements at
Gris Nez, Boulogne, Calais area, St.
Omer, where a big German air centre
clusters, have suffered steady gruelling.
There is talk of movement of German
civilians to Oslo. But the loss of British
bombing ’planes is next to nothing. After
night-long raiding on June 25 which
reached from Boulogne to Kiel, only two
bombers failed to return.
There is no doubt about the effects.
When the campaign began, the German
High Command spoke contemptuously of
“light damage” and of “a few persons
injured” in its customary manner. But
the disaster which has fallen on parts of
the country has now reached a magnitude
which it is obviously impossible to try
to conceal.
The German Government was pre-
pared to admit that the raid of June 24
did “very heavy and serious damage in
many quarters, and the civil population
suffered heavily from British ruthlessness
and brutality.”
It is significant that the handling of
the situation in the last few days has
been taken over by Dr. Goebbels himself.
His palliative is to offer the German
people a series of fairytales about raids
on Britain which would bring a blush
“ Honest, sergeant, I didn't mean to break your heart!"
to the hardened cheek of Baron Munch-
hausen himself. Southampton on June
21 had a small attack by a few machines
which scarcely stayed long enough to
leave calling-cards only about 50
crossed the south coast of England alto-
gether ; yet the doctor spoke of the
“2000 tons of bombs” dropped on the
city. And while it has been rare for
ten days to see two enemy machines to-
gether over any sizable town in Britain,
German Radio is doing its best —when
the R.A.F. will let it—to persuade the
German people that reasonably large-
scale attacks are being carried out on
the sad and sorry englander. Naval
casualties weeks old are being revived to
cheer the R.A.F.’s victims.
After Damascus.
“Ek Dum”: Against the vast curtain
of the war on the Russian frontier the
Syrian campaign has come to look like
a series of skirmishes, but to some of the
war-worn Australian troops it must seem
the last phase of Armageddon.
These veterans seem to be regarded as
proof against wear. No major engage-
ment is without them. Consider, for
example, a N.S.W. battalion which made
a great name for itself in North Africa.
Sent to Greece, it was moved forward
to Verria Pass to bear the first shock of
the German advance. It fought its way
sectionally back and around the slopes
of Olympus, in and out of the Peneios
Gorge with the Maorilanders, in and out
of Larissa, in and out of Thermopylae
or along the slopes of Oeta.
Then it fell back—altogether 320 miles
-into the olive groves of the Morean
shores, out of which it was bombed.
Under a rain of fire it made its way to
Crete. It fought its way out of Crete,
and a month later correspondents re-
corded that it was “playing a highly im-
portant part in the capture of Damascus,”
taking three seemingly impregnable forts
at Mezze and cutting the Damascus-
Beirut road. The forts were captured
after a heavy forced march and some
preparation by Indian troops.
The battalion had been refitting, but
shortage of men (are you listening, you
eligibles?) made it necessary to rush it
to the front, where it assailed heights
800 ft. high, up slopes pitted with machine-
gun nests and thick with wire and pill-
boxes.
The N.S.W. men began the job at
midday, in all the Syrian beat, with
machine-guns playing on them while
25-pounder shells screamed overhead and
the dust rose from crumbling fortress walls
above them. Two forts succumbed the
first day. Next morning the Cornstalks
broke into the third, after intense artil-
lery preparation and a three hours’ fight.
They were welcomed by 50 of their
own men who had been cut off in earlier
operations, and who now turned up lead-
ing a crop of prisoners. They had over-
run their objectives and had been locked
up in Mezze, but found themselves loose
when Indians appeared and killed their
guards.
By June 24 British forces from Iraq or
the Amman road had reached the out-
skirts of Palmyra, to the north-east of
the capital, and were only 100 miles from
Homs, whence a road runs to the coast
at the oil-refinery town of Tripoli.
The A.I.F. and Scots on the coast and,
eastward, the column on the Euphrates
were apparently holding their hands so
as not to outrun the Damascus and
Merjiyun forces, the central line having
been temporarily held up while Merjiyun
was made secure, along with the Sidon-
Merjiyun road, the channel of linkage
between the Damascus and Sidon
columns.
The Vichy defenders stole out of
Merjiyun on June 25. A Victorian bat-
talion of pioneers entered at 10 p.m. and
found the fort empty of troops.
The way is now open for a new phase
in which the four operating columns will
continue their saw-cuts through the
country until the Palmyra thrust has
reached the coast and its course is met
by the three drives from the south. Then
all the principal towns and ports of the
south will be in British and Free French
hands, and it will remain to be seen
whether the Vichy French will continue
to fight. If they do, the Euphrates force
will no doubt push on up the Deir-es-zor-
Aleppo road, while the southern drives
continue to converge on the northern
capital with it, as it curves westward.
After Damascus fell, the campaign
seemed almost as cosmopolitan as the
Syrian coinage, of which there are about
eight current brands. On the British
side, Australians from three States, in-
cluding Queenslanders, on commandeered
Spahi horses, were operating. The
Bananalanders were among those present
when Jarabub was taken in the death-
throes of the first Libyan campaign.
Besides the Scots, there are well-known
English regiments, including mechanised
hussars, and several races of the Indian
army are represented. The R.N. has been
operating off the Beirut coast. On the
other side, apart from French, there are
Moroccans, Algerians, Tunisians, Sene-
galese, Syrians and Kurds, with a few
Euphratean mixtures. Then there is the
Foreign Legion, in which gentlemen of
adventure who enlisted to fight the Ger-
mans are now fighting against Maitland
Wilson’s men. There are a few Germans
in the Legion—an Australian Legionary
was also found —but no other Germans
save for the Luftwaffe, which has been
dropping out of the sky to bomb
Damascus since the occupation. In one
raid it killed 54.
The “hundreds of Germans” who
allegedly came ashore from troopships
to disappear into the interior while
Britain was being enticed into the Syrian
venture seem to have “disappeared” with
a vengeance, and the alleged German-
controlled aerodromes (20 were men-
tioned) appear to be part of the great
Syrian mirage.
On June 25 the Beirut-Damascus road
was in British control; the Vichy forces
retiring from Merjiyun were in the hills
“among the lions’ dens and the moun-
tains of the leopards,” 10 miles to the
north ; and the coastal column of Aus-
sies and Scotties could see the blink of
Beirut 14 miles from their advanced
posts on the Cape of Nebi Tunis.
Beirut is no easy goal. A strong line
remains to be passed along the Wadi
Damour, which forms the southern sec-
tion of the city’s defensive perimeter.
General Maitland Wilson and Lieutenant-
General J. D. Lavarack, of the 7th Divi-
sion, A.1.F., who commands the Austra-
lians, and General Catroux by the turn
of the week were cleaning up outlying
bits of trouble around Palmyra (where
there was resistance, in a fine spot for
resisting) and elsewhere, preparatory to
the assault.
The R.A.A.F. had its veteran squadron
in the air feeling communications ahead
to prevent retreating Damascus troops
from reaching Beirut, and using the
pepperpot on enemy landing grounds—
Rayak was bombed several times. It had
bagged seven machines without loss, the
main honors having gone to a Sydney
newcomer who brought down two of the
enemy in his first encounter.
Communication strafing is no fun in
Syria. Wadis and gorges are not as deep
and dark as Norwegian fiords, but they
are five times as hot, ten times as dusty
and about twice as narrow as a State
politician’s mind. To work efficiently,
fliers must get right inside them ; but to
stay there without pulling a wing off, and
to get out in an atmosphere as fluid and
uncertain as that in a crater, takes nerve
and care, especially when a lot of Spahis
with cliffs to steer by are filling the air
with tracer bullets and light A.A. shells.
On all fronts at the week-end, the
advance was being held up by stubborn
resistance. A force which was moving
down the Damascus road to attack Beirut
from the east came up against strong
lines on a 5000 ft. ridge which rises out
of the plain much like the eastern side
of the Blue Mountains. Preparations to
force the pass were being made by Tas-
manian and British units. Fighting is
vigorous along 12 miles of the road.
On June 28 the coastal column was on
a line eight to nine miles north and n.-w.
of Sidon. The Allied column making for
Homs was at Nebk, halfway between
Damascus and Homs, the same day.
But Palmyra was holding out, though
towns to the s.-w. of it were being
mopped up.
Air activity increased at the end of
the week. The gallant R.A.A.F. squadron
rounded off its previous exploits by
bringing down six Glen Martins which
were spraying the British troops at
Palmyra. None got away.
“Jamwood”; Apropos of those
casualty totals which have been altered
so often (B. 25/6/’4l), Acting P.M.
Nash’s statement, made in the Maoriland
Parliament on June 11, was much more
explicit and informative than Mr.
Spender’s account presented eight days
later. In Greece, Nash said, there were
16,530 Maorilanders, nurses included.
The killed numbered 126, the wounded
516, the prisoners of war officially
accounted for 41, the missing and not
yet accounted for (“although most of
them are probably prisoners of war”)
1892 ; total 2575. To Crete went 8400,
of whom 1300, “including nurses and
units not required,” were sent to Egypt
before the campaign began. In the fight-
ing, so far as was then known, 87 were
killed, 671 wounded and 4650 were
evacuated, leaving 2450 unaccounted for
and for the most part probably prisoners
of war ; total casualties 3208. The enemy
subsequently announced that he held
1593 Maoriland prisoners of war taken
in Crete. In respect of killed and
wounded, Maoriland and Australian, the
proportions of killed and wounded were
small in Greece but naturally higher in
Crete, though even there they fell far
below the averages recorded in France
and Flanders in the last war.
* * * *
General Rommel’s Axis army finds
Tobruk a lively place to hold these days,
and Libya almost as lively a place to
provision and arm. A 6000-ton ship in a
convoy was badly damaged by F.A.A.
bombs last week; on Thursday two
others were hit by heavy bombs and one
by torpedoes. That day, after vigor-
ous shelling, the garrison launched an
attack on the salient which the Germans
some time ago managed to capture after
bloody fighting, and pushed the enemy
back 500 yards along a 2000-yard front,
considerably shortening the defensive line.
The R.A.A.F. carried out several raids
along the coast and wrecked 12 enemy
’planes in Cyrenaica. Germans claim to
have bombed forces both in Tobruk and
Sidi Barrani areas and to have sunk a
[heavy cruiser and a destroyer, but the
Admiralty admits the loss only of a sloop.
* » ♦ m
Raids on Malta continue, but they are
light and sporadic compared with the
efforts in April. Alexandria has been
attacked twice from the air during the
week—the last time on Sunday morning
—but not heavily.
* * *
“Jig” finds a good cause:
Australians have been asked to give money
jor the relief of many sufferers in this war,
most of them deserving cases, but few more
deserving, perhaps, than the Maltese, for whom
a relief fund has been started by a group of
naval officers headed by Commodore Muir-
head-Gould. Pointing out the importance of
Malta to the Navy, the group remarks that it
is practically on Italy’s doorstep and has en-
dured more than 600 bombing raids, in which
hundreds of Maltese have been killed and about
30,000 of them rendered homeless. “Sailors
cannot help much financially,” states the appeal,
which asks for £lO,OOO. It should be oversub-
scribed.
* * * *
On the Abyssinian front, the last
remnants of the Italians are being
marched into internment camps. At
Jimma, taken a few days ago, they in-
cluded a corps commander and two divi-
sional generals. French Somaliland is
completely blockaded by land and sea
and was reported on June 26 to have only
a month’s supply of food.
* # ❖ sfc
From a friend:
In B. 18/6/’4l there was a reference to Flight-
Lieut. B. R. Pelly, commander of one of the
new R.A.A.F. squadrons, reaching North Africa
in time to join in the push towards Bardia.
Actually the flight-lieutenant was with the
squadron when it first left for service overseas,
and fought with it in its first air battle.
* * * *
The Admiralty reported last week that
a Dutch submarine had sunk a 7000-ton
enemy tanker and a 5000-ton supply
ship ; that the F.A.A. had sunk the 7179-
ton Elbe, one of the Bismarck’s supply
ships, and that a raider had got the Aus-
tralian ship Rabaul. But the raider’s
supply ship, the Alstertor, 3063 tons, was
scuttled when cornered. She carried 78
British prisoners from the Rabaul and
the Trafalgar, who were rescued.
* * * *
Back from Libya wounded, Colonel
M. A. Fergusson, of Stawell, Vic. He
served with the A.I.F. in the 1914-18 war
and was mentioned in dispatches. When
the war gong sounded in 1939 he was
farming at Stawell. He was in command
of the 400 Australasians who besieged
2000 Italians at Jarabub, south of
Solium, for three months, and captured
all but nine of them.


STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Ketail and
Air Lists —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
LADIES' FITTED
DRESSING CASES
. . . from KITCHINGS’.
m
In beautiful chrome tanned cowhide.
FITTED AVITH mirror, comb, and hair
brush on lid and glass lor
powder, toothpaste, scent, etc., on; ; >m ?
of case. Enamel and chrome fittings.
PRICES:
20 inches, £lO 22 inches, £ll.
Free Delivery to oil Suburbs.
Pty.,
Ltd.,
C E. KITCHING
319 George Street, Sydney,
Near Wynyard Station.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Anyone entering the Town Hall about
half-past nine last Thursday night must
have felt as though entering a cathedral.
A solemn hush pervaded all, and hun-
dreds of well-dressed men and women
were bent as though in devotion above
rows of tables. In short, the card party
for the Mayoress’s Clothing Fund was
at full tide. This card party is as unalter-
able an institution as the midwinter
solstice. Five hundred tables were
booked for last week’s venture, and
players rubbered along upstairs in the
Mayoress’s and Town Clerk’s rooms and
in the big concert-hall. Here the tables
were arranged in aisles stretching from
the stage to the door.
Events were enlivened by attractive
girls who hawked model hats, chances
in radio sets, silk stockings and such-
like. This assemblage of two or
three thousand people is probably the
most representative that Sydney ever
sees. The guests are political, pro-
fessional, social and commercial. Tickets
are three shillings each, and guests bring
their own supper, only tea and coffee
coming from the Town Hall kitchens.
Hazel Wedlock and Viola Bradley were
a splendid pair of M.Cs. at the latest
party.
The night of the P.E.N. Club dinner
was bitter chill. But the room at the
Carlton was as tropical as though all
those present were concocting poems of
passion. There was a full hand of guests,
and president Robert Garran made a
good host and presented the night’s
speaker, Mrs. Van Dijk, with sufficient
and not over-many words of introduc-
tion. Mrs. Van Dijk told of the growth
of literature in the Netherlands East
Indies, and remarked, incidentally, that
everyone when speaking of the N.E.I.
seemed to mean Java, as though that
were the only island. As she spoke a
quick glance around caught several
learned brows puckered in the effort to
remember the names of the others.
Althaea Hood from Pennsylvania, tall
and slim and somehow reminiscent of a
Christina Rossetti poem, was a good-
looker among the diners. She comes here
from the U.S.A. Education Depart-
ment with a year’s leave, to get together
a textbook of Australian history for use
in the schools. With knight Robert
Garran was his sister, Mrs. E. R. Harper,
who has lived much of her life in Canada.
Former Municipal Librarian Bertie,
Harry Tighe, Vera Dwyer, Mary Irvine
and Ella McFadyen were among the
writers present.
In the May Hollinworth production of
“Julius Caesar” the whole of the Great
Hall of the University became part of
the setting for the tragedy. Up the
middle aisle paced the Senators. Througn
the side doors stole the plotters against
Caesar’s life, their hooded red cloaks rust-
ling with conspiracy. Up the various
aisles rushed the bewildered populace on
to the wide stage arranged in three
planes under the stained-glass window at
the end of the hall. The open-
ing night of the S.U.D.S.’ season
was crowded with the learned. But even
the professorial eye could find no blemish
in the dressing, as those two highbrows
of classics and ancient history Guy Man-
ton and Dr. A. H. Macdonald had vetted
the costumes and the manner of wearing
the togas (though most of these Romans
might have carried their shoulders more
erect) and juggling with scrolls. Dick
Hahn was Julius Caesar, Norman Max-
well Brutus and Kenneth Pawley Cassius.
Judith Halse Rogers, who used to play
with the S.U.D.S., helped with the make-
up. Jeanie Ranken looked after the box-
office.
Important function of noon last Satur-
day was the handing-over of the hospital
ship Oranje by the Netherlands Govern-
ment to those of the Commonwealth and
Maoriland. Major-General Ter Poorten
presented the gift, and Priminister Men-
zies accepted it and later hoisted the Red
Cross flag at its foremast. The Oranje is
one of the newest and most luxurious
liners owned by the Netherlands East
Indies. It is luxuriously built, and its
equipment as a hospital ship is worthy
the rest of her. There is a library of read-
able books also. The wife of Netherlands
Consul-General Schuurman has joined
the Oranje’s staff as a Red Cross worker.
Colonel Gerrards, of the Royal Nether-
lands Indies Army, will be senior medi-
cal officer. Lieut.-Col. Galbraith will
have charge of the soothing syrup. He’s
to be head of the liaison staff. Dr. A.
G. Hartman is another who will serve.
There’s not a hockey girl in Australia
who will not sorrow over the passing of
Mrs. F. J. Davy. For many years her
energy and enthusiasm had poured them-
selves into the sport, and her work as
secretary for both this State and the Aus-
tralian Hockey Association may some
day be equalled but will never be sur-
passed. Under her capable direction
teams of Australian hockey girls toured
the world, winning laurels not only as
fine sportswomen, but as splendid repre-
sentatives of their native land. In fact,
after the last tour of America U.S.A.
Government heads wrote to the then
Premier of N. S. Wales speaking of the
good impression the Australian team had
made.
In addition to hockey, Mrs. Davy was
actively interested in the Rachel Forster
Hospital, the Free Kindergarten move-
ment and the campaign for national fit-
ness. At the outbreak of war she de-
voted her days and nights to the work
of the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund. For
many months her absence from first-
nights and concerts has caused a blank.
She was one of Sydney’s prettiest women.
Her smile was radiant, and, like her heart,
was given freely without thought of creed
or class. And so last Saturday, when the
padre of St. Stephen’s said on her behalf
good-bye to this earth, the congregation
in the Macquarie-street church held mem-
bers of every religious denomination in
Sydney. Women and men in every
branch of sport, too, came to pay their
respects, as did her comrades in patriotic
and charitable labors.
Mosman is getting its quota of diamond
rings. One of the most dazzling seen
last week was worn by Shirley Norma
Hopkins, of that suburb. Her affianced
is Sergeant Keith Richard Theodore
McCracken, of the R.A.A.F. Beth
Shirley and Keith have ties with the
West. His family is one of the oldest
and best known in Wickepin (W.A.), and
he went to school at Scots College,
Perth. Shirley, whose father is Assistant
Superintendent of Mails, spent her child-
hood in Perth. Later on, when the family
came to Sydney, she was a pupil of North
Sydney Girls’ High, and later for a short
time conducted classes at the Metropoli-
tan Business College. Norton Trevaire
photograph.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
revelled in the name of Henry Lawson
last Friday night. The dance filled the
ballroom of Hordern Brothers with well-
known writers, beginning scribes and
their admirers ; and a pageant of Lawson
characters paraded to the strains of
“Advance, Australia Fair.” Dulcie
Deamer’s set, “Faces in the Street,” won
a prize ; so did poetess Nellie Evans’s
“Lady of Night” from one of Hans
Andersen’s fairy tales. Mary Kenny did
a good impersonation of one of the
characters in “While the Billy Boils.”
Mrs. Bertha Lawson, who sat at the
official table with Mrs. R. J. Cassidy,
helped in the judging.
Corporal Bill Fitz Henry, of The Bul-
letin, and his wife were in a party
hostessed by Mrs. E. H. Law. Also there
was the good-looking Mrs. Falkiner, her
long silver earrings of old French design
a happy touch with her black taffetas.
Here, too, sat Mr. Bent, who knows his
Browning; Mrs. Berry and daughter
Barbara, in poke bonnet and grey crino-
lined frock—an early settler. Near the
official table was the one where Mrs.
Attwood kept an eagle eye on the
hamper. This was tied up with red, white
and blue. President Frank Dalby Davi-
son might have been a royalty, his hand
was so often shaken. The Bartlett Adam-
sons were among the dancers; so were
George Clune, Mary Lane and Mrs. A.
Innes. George was relaxing after just
polishing off another novel.
It’s worth 2s. 6d. to tread the carpet
in the entrance of the home of Amal-
gamated Wireless of Australasia. It has
terrestrial globes woven into it, and on
these Australia stands bravely forth, while
near by are set the stars of the Southern
Cross. Around the walls are symbols of
all lands, and the lifts, set in their satin
sheen of Australian woods, run as
smoothly as water. On the night of
July 8 the audience seeking the film of
London’s historic buildings before the
Blitz will step into all this splendor, and
for 2s. 6d. each will also see the film.
Scott Waine took this movie when he was
on a tour of England and Europe. He
will show parks and gardens, too, that
knew not, then, barrage balloons, but
blazed only with flowers. The film will
benefit the Society of Women Writers
card party on July 15, which in turn
benefits the Merchant Service and our
soldiers on active service.
Mrs. Andre Brenac, whose husband is
leader of the Free French movement for
Australia, wore one of the most attrac-
tive “dressed” heads at the dinner-dance
last night in Prince’s. Her headdress was
a reproduction of Marie de Medici s
hat, with its pointed sides and the
charming pointed collar of lace to
which the Medici name is still given.
The dinner-dance was to help the Free
French Fund, for which a special appeal
will be made on July 11. All lovers of
France are asked to remember, Norton
Trevaire photograph.
In Egypt the famous Y.W.C.A. summer
camp at the Pyramids has been enlarged,
and during the last year hundreds of Aus-
tralian nurses have spent their leave there.
The latest centre to be opened a few
months ago was a large recreation hut right
in the desert, close to a military hospital.
The chief attraction of this hut is its
homelike atmosphere. Its decoration is
the result of the combined efforts of the
Y.W.C.A. secretaries, nursing sisters and
Egyptian workmen. With paints and
chintz brought out from Australia, cur-
tains and cushions were run up, amateur
painters went to work on the furniture,
and soon a real “English drawing-room”
came into being. So popular is this
centre with nursing sisters, and so great
was the demand from the officers to be
invited there, that the Area Commander
asked that an officers’ annexe be built to
the Y.W.C.A. hut. A houseboat on the
Nile, lent by an Egyptian wellwisher, has
proved another popular club centre.
A line from Annette Kellerman, who
with her husband is doing a country tour
to aid the Red Cross: —
Our Red Cross tour with my revue “We’re
All In It” is going great guns. At present we
are working out of Lismore, playing some of
the smaller places. We got an SOS that the
smaller towns were terribly hard up for funds
to carry on, so we will play several of the
“smalls.” We want the country towns to know
that it costs the Red Cross not a bean for the
show beyond the hall. Jimmie and I pay our
own way, plus gas (when we can get it). We
supply the costumes. In the larger towns they
supply the girls and I train them and stage the
show. We have had marvellous help from
everybody. Our trunks have been taken every-
where free of charge. It’s grand to be working
for this organisation. The women in the
country districts are marvellous workers. I ve
written the revue, songs, skits, etc. We return
to Lismore in October to put on The Water
Fantasy” [similar, probably, to the one in
Sydney’s Olympic pool]. They have a glorious
pool in Lismore.
Dr. Mary Booth talks of an iron-ration
box as a war-time necessity: —
An “iron-ration box” has been prepared by
the students of the Memorial College of House-
hold Arts and Science, Kirribilli. This case,
measuring 15£in, by 9-fin- stands packed in the
storeroom ready to be picked up for immediate
departure. It contains the minimum quantity
of food, of the maximum nutritive value, cal-
culated on a scientific basis, for 10 people tor
24 hours. Every student carries a collapsible
cup as part of her personal equipment.
The contents of the box are as follows: One
tin opener, one knife, one dessertspoon, one
box matches, one billy, one newspaper, one
tin powdered milk, one tin cocoa, one jar veget-
able extract, two packets raisins, two packets
dates, one small tin sugar, 31b. plain chocolate,
two tins tongue or other meat, one packet
cheese, two packets wheaten biscuits. Help will
readily be given by the dietitian on the
Memorial College staff to anyone seeking advice
in preparing such a box.
Neilma Baillieu Myer, whose mother
is Mrs. Sidney Myer, of Cranlana,
Toorak, and whose father was the head
of the big Melbourne store, has become
engaged. The Charley Lloyd Jones
couple gave a party in celebration of the
event late last Friday afternoon. The
young man, who was also there to receive
congratulations, is Vallejo Gantner, of
San Francisco, U.S.A.
The All-Sydney Blitzkrieg tennis tour-
nament had its finale a bit postponed,
same as some other Blitzkrieg lately
heard of. However, the sport-minded
saw the finals polished off at the White
City on Saturday. One of the the
day was “tennis in the ’Nineties,” with
the players in the boaters, the blazers,
the knickerbockers and the ankle-length,
shapeless skirt in which earlier players
managed to play a fairly good game,
nevertheless. Those who didn’t go to the
White City probably went out to Rand-
wick to the Warwick Farm winter meet-
ing. As became the day, dressing was
heavyweight; tweeds, boxy topcoats and
saunter coats of fur were the fortress
against the chilly wind.
Ashfield Town Hall had a merry night
last Friday when the Toe H dance
brought friends at full sail from all points
of the compass. The dance was organ-
ised by Matron G. M. Davis, of the Nor-
land Nursing Home, and old friend Pro-
fessor Tasman Lovell, Toe H’s Area
Commissioner, was its patron. Dancing
was from eight till twelve, and there was
a very successful table-decoration com-
petition.
When Mars hands out the tin hat to
man, Venus gives him a scathing look
and inspires fashion-designers to make
woman’s top dressing feminine and flut-
tery. War may be raging over half the
earth, but as surely as peace will come
one day, spring fashions arrive. Among
things to be looked for will be the pique
hat, the pleated skirt and the shirtwaist
blouse. Fashion-writers are busy telling
the world how young-making they are.
The mothers of this generation knew that
a long time ago. With the dressmaker
suit (it often has a shoulder yoke and a
softened waistline) the jabot will foam
like a snowy cascade. Buttons, links and
the turn-down shirt collar are the unmis-
takable signs of the high-class blouse.
Many of the designs go back to
“Early American” and have a demure
Quakerish look that is very beguiling.
“Sober” is the word to apply to color and
cut, but there seems to be just as much
charm. Skirts on summer dresses will be
full, almost ballerina, and there’ll be a
crisp lingerie look about what the type-
writer advertisements call “the debutante
of the business world.” The large and
brimmed pastel-toned felt hat will be one
of summer’s favorites. Beige and the
pale pastel tones will be the most-seen
shades.
The executive committee of the Wool
Trade War Fund has decided to form
a Wool Trade War Weapons Fund
(Aust.) and, with the consent of
the donors, will transfer all amounts
standing to the credit of the Spit-
fire Fund to this account. The com-
mittee has cabled £876 to the Lord Mayor
of London for the purchase of two stand-
ard mobile canteens to be placed at his
discretion “as a concrete expression of
admiration of our kinsmen’s fortitude.”


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
Perth . . . .
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
Northam. .
Kalgoorlie
Geraldton
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO ILA MAY BRACKEN and WILLIAM
LEAKE formerly of 17 Spring Street Mel-
bourne in the State of Victoria and 42
King’s Cross Road King’s Cross in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that RONALD JAMES
HILL BRACKEN has instituted proceedings
for a divorce on the ground of adultery
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the office
of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court
Melbourne on or before the Eighteenth day
of July One thousand nine hundred and forty-
one the case may proceed in your absence IF
you intend to defend this suit you must also
file an answer in the said office on or before
the Twenty-eighth day of July One thousand
nine hundred and forty-one AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that the sealed copy petition
and copy citation in this suit may be inspected
at the office of the Petitioner’s Solicitor.
JOAN ROSANOVE, 440 Chancery Lane,
Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO JOHN BOSWARD ROBSON formerly
of Beech Street Surrey Hills in the State
of Victoria but now of parts unknown
clerk.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife GLADYS
NELLIE WELLESLEY ROBSON has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground of desertion. Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s office of the
Supreme Court at Melbourne on or before the
18th day of July 1941 and file your answer
herein on or before the 28th day of July 1941
the case may proceed in your absence and you
may be ordered to pay costs.
W. R. R. BLAIR & SON, 317 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
To Thelma Alice Steel.
TAKE NOTICE that I, JAMES SYLVESTER
STEEL, your husband, request and desire that
you return to live with me at my home at the
undermentioned address on or before the Four-
teenth day of July, 1941. I posted a letter to
you c/o Mrs. Weyman, 15 William Street,
Mascot, on the Twenty-third day of June, 1941.
(Sgd.) JAS. S. STEEL,
5 Hercules Street,
Brighton Le Sands.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
No. 1445 of 1941.
BETWEEN LOUISA ASPINALL Judgment
Creditor and , _ . , ,
LESLIE CYRIL ASPINALL Judgment Debtor.
TO the abovenamed Judgment Debtor some-
times known as LESLIE CYRIL O BRIEN
formerly of Narooma in the State of New
South Wales. , f
TAKE NOTICE that on the 25th day ot
June, 1941, an order was macte by * IS he
able Court that unless sufficient cause
shown to the contrary before the Pro*
tary of this Court sitting in Public Cha
at the Supreme Court House Kmg Stree y
ney on Wednesday the thirtieth day ot Juiy
1941 at 9.30 o’clock in the forenoon or so
soon thereafter as the course of business wi
permit your interest in the estate ot y
son WILLIAM MOORE ASPINALL now de-
ceased shall be and shall in the meantime stan
charged with the payment of a certain sum o
money being the amount of a final judgment
obtained by the abovenamed Judgment
against you herein AND TAKE NOTICE
that copies of the said order and summons to
show cause and of affidavits in support thereor
may be obtained by you free of charge upon
application at the offices of the u r*dersigned.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of June, 1941.
UTHER & UTHER,
Attorneys for the Judgment Creditor,
350 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
There were militant dances to suit all
interests on Friday night, among them the
A.A.S.C. Ball at the Palais, the Tiger
Moth Ball in St. Kilda Town Hall and
a do in the wilds of Elwood at the Maison
de Luxe, organised by the Records Sec-
tion of the R.A.A.F. at Kellow House.
Mrs. Ken Niall is president of the Wel-
fare Committee of Records, which depart-
ment is working at the moment for a
canteen for its staff. The men say parks
and gardens and walks along St. Kilda-
road in the sunshine are all very well,
but food isn’t easily found thereabouts,
and after a while the novelty goes off
buns in paper-bags.
The Royal Park Military Band made
music at the A.A.S.C. Ball. The band
is naturally proud of its instruments (paid
for by voluntary donations), and the men
have been well rehearsed in the changing
of the guard, which came in the pro-
gramme as a prelude to a long procession
of official guests. Up till that time the
Gold Room was much sought after for
dancing, for the main floor wore a border
of protection against hobnail boots.
Among the decorations were a giant flag
which unfurled at a critical moment and
a smaller flag waving in the breeze of an
electric fan tied on to one of the ceiling
lights. The mast caused some anxiety, as
it also felt the force of the artificial gale.
Lavish decorations were on the official
table, bouquets of flowers and bowls of
fruit arranged by someone with an eye
for form and color, and at interesting in-
tervals bottles of bubbly, Rhinegold and
just plain beer. The band’s eyes drifted
in that direction (playing brass instru-
ments must be thirsty work), but the men
may have been musing on the amount of
vitamins in fruit. Later in the evening
Elsa Stenning sang—her songs go over
well with the lads at Air Force House on
Sunday nights. Among girls who en-
joyed the dance were Jean Wallace
Mitchell and Beverley Slaney, receiving
much attention from the Air Force, and
Rosemary Knox, in moonlight-blue satin.
A tremendous success was the Tiger
Moth Ball. Thirteen hundred dancers
had a good time, and all expenses except
a few odd pounds were in hand before
the party, so that comforts and games
facilities are assured for the airmen at
Essendon Training School. The C.O. of
the school, Squadron-Leader Leggatt,
recognising how hard the committee
members worked, is giving them a party
this week in the new officers’ mess as a
gesture of appreciation. Various asides
for making money all did well, and Harry
Hodges’s orchestra’s men’s ballet met
with more applause than it hoped to get.
Such a success was the Chinese Exhi-
bition —during the first fortnight about
£BOO was raised —that an extension has
been arranged. A success, too, was “The
Power and the Glory” Mannequin Parade,
held also at Myer’s, within a stone’s-
throw of the art of China. The exhi-
bition is for Chinese relief and for Air
Force auxiliaries, which latter movement
is the beneficiary of the parade—which
explains why guests at one table were
down in the dumps during the opening
afternoon. They were the Brookes lady,
Mrs. Eric Harrison, Mrs. H. C. Harrison,
Mrs. Dickie Williams, Mrs. Knox Knight
and Mrs. I. Green, and they let their tea
grow cold and handed sandwiches around
without enthusiasm. For on that day the
parade was so popular that attendances
fell off at the exhibition ; thus while all
was well with the R.A.A.F. the Chinese
went into a tailspin ; and women who
work hard for the Air Force had become
good friends of their Chinese associates
during the long and strenuous prepara-
tions for the exhibition. But things
righted themselves on the following day
and the Chinese were once again all
smiles and persuasive sales talk.
“The Power and the Glory” Parade
came knocking at the door of the R.A.A.F.
auxiliaries for a “first refusal,” which
explains the clashing of the parade and
the Chinese Exhibition. At the Oriental
fixture incense could be sniffed at after-
noon sessions, and lectures and music
and the war-whoop of the Chinese Soccer
players were other attractions, run to a
timetable. As “The Power and the
Glory” film is as devoid of fashion in-
terest as an egg is of fur, a Katrin
Rosselle quest was instituted. The final-
ists, in addition to professional manne-
quins, figured in the tea-time entertain-
ments and stress was laid upon clothes of
Australian design and often of local
material.
A movement entirely devoid of gilt
and glitter is the City Mission, which
wants one thousand pounds for its annual
winter appeal as soon as possible. The
mission, which is undenominational,
assists the poor, the unwanted and the
misfits, in the cause of whom its helpers
keep their flag flying, gathering on the
way neither social perks nor amenities.
A maternity home provides accommoda-
tion for mothers three months before the
infants are due to arrive and for three
months afterwards. The mission also
runs a men’s hostel, and serves on an
average 150 breakfasts every morning,
many to problem cases (somebody has
to look after these people— most other
movements have given them up in despair).
There is also a home for aged women,
and a girls’ hostel is situated at head-
quarters in Exhibition-street. There
young city workers on low wages find
a solution to their problem of existence.
A recent successful tryout is the where-
withal for the girls to get most of their
own meals. The idea is working well,
and the gas stove is proving an incentive
to domestic and experimental instincts.
Missioners carry on house-to-house visits
in the slums, attend Children’s Courts,
run mothers’ meetings, etc. Sunday-
schools and kindergartens are also part
of their job. Though money is most
acceptable for the appeal, clothing, too,
is welcomed, and blankets (if the impos-
sible happens and anyone has some to
give away) would be received with open
arms. Donations should be addressed to
Superintendent-secretary F. L. Bruce,
Melbourne City Mission, Exhibition-
street.
Spencer Shier made this portrait of
Jocelyn Priestley, who will be married
during July to lan Fleming, youngest son
of Mr. and Mrs. F. B. Fleming, of
Wahroonga (N.S.W.). Jocelyn, who is
the elder daughter of Dr. and Mrs. R.
E. Priestley, of Birmingham University,
made so many friends here during the
time her father was Vice-Chancellor of
Melbourne University that when he re-
linquished his position she decided to
remain in Australia and continue her art
studies. Her woodcuts are well known
and commended.
For the honor of the old school tie
St. Catherine’s ex-pupils and their pals
turned out on a wintry evening to see
the Old Girls in action with “From
Nine Till Six” in the Princess, our coldest
theatre. Dewy youth and beauty were
predominant. In the play, with the ex-
ception of the three mannequins’ raiment,
there was no call for expensive clothes,
but the audience, with few exceptions,
turned on bibs and tuckers. The play is
of no literary consequence (it runs to a
happy ending with the little apprentice
all set to walk to the altar with the young
baronet offstage); but it’s a useful absor-
bent for a crowd of girls with histrionic
ideas, for it contains 16 all-feminine
roles.
The girls had a lot of fun at rehearsals,
they made some money for Prince Henry’s
Girls’ Ward and the Mignon War
Workers’ Fund, and in the presentation
there were glimpses here and there of
embryo talent. Producer was Nancy
Ford. In the play were Peggy Tellick
(not a St. Cath.’s girl, but asked to help
in an emergency), Margaret Turner,
Jacqueline Robertson, Betty Ince, Anne
Cowper and Beatrice Mollard. Gwenda
Thoneman was a willowy ingenue, and
Patricia Wright, though much too young
for a Frenchwoman with piquant tech-
nique, made an excellent job of her small
part.
In the foyer emphasis was laid upon
flowers, programmes and sweets by
Rosemary Wright, Mrs. E. Duckett and
Mrs. Bill Catanach respectively. In re-
spect to the sweets Mrs. Catanach com-
mandeered the services of her sister Mrs.
Desmond Shaw and of Mrs. Shem New-
man, for, although these two are not St.
Cath.’s girls, they have neat fingers for
tying toothsome morsels into attractive
packages. Room was also made in the
foyer for the Mignon War Workers
display of beautifully machine-knitted
goods for the troops. In his short and
practical speech from a at the final
curtain Mignon Workers’ president
Arthur Glover let off a few home truths,
the gist in a nutshell being that there s
no virtue in paying increased taxes and
talking about it, whereas voluntary giving,
if it means self-sacrifice, is a difteren
sto J?y* . -p, ,i „
On next Friday, the Glorious Fouith,
the American Ball takes place at the
Palais. Its the ball of the year, tor in
organisation and entertainment it has
passed all tests, and, most important ot
all, financial increment is apparent year
by year —the peak was reached in 1940,
when a cheque for £1275 was handed to
the Children’s Hospital. Here’s a Spencer
Shier portrait of Mrs. R. B. Bradley, a
member of the ball committee of the
American Women’s Auxiliary. These
American women are proud of their pro-
ficiency in keeping secrets. Always on
the night of the ball there are surprises
in decorations and other attractions
original and untried previously.
Once again the opening of the Parlia-
ment of Victoria was such an inducement
that it attracted a capacity house an hour
before the show was due to begin. The
ceremony was as dull and pompous as
ever, but for some reason it always
appeals to those invited, who go early
prepared for a long wait, sitting if they
are lucky or have a ticket of the right
color, otherwise standing on tiptoe doing
a giraffe act over one another’s shoulders.
But this year the whole affair seemed
less frigid and more friendly than on
other occasions. Spectators indulged in
a spot of whispering and shuffling around,
though a silence with never a cough to
lighten it abounded during the Gover-
nor’s speech.
Lady Dugan sat with Lady Armytage
and Mrs. Dunstan. Dunstan daughters
Dymphna and Mrs. John Chinner climbed
into the gallery. Colonel de C. Boys
was there, with the glitter in his eye he
reserves for such occasions. Afterwards
the vice-regal people did a disappearing
act in quick time. They must have swal-
lowed their tea piping hot, for they were
no sooner seated in their specially-pre-
pared niche than they were up and away.
In the matter of tea for the gen. public,
gone are hefty cornbeef sandwiches,
arrowroot biscuits and railway refresh-
ment-room cups. Instead, the sandwiches
are small and neat, cakes have been
added and the cups are an improved
version of the china half-pinters. But
our State politicians are not an imagi-
native lot or they would have had the
terrace open to their guests on such a
day of sunshine. Placed out there were a
couple of self-conscious chairs and
tables, but the way out had to be found
by a tour of exploration, and if the way
in was through the library a burglary
act was necessary upon the locks of the
doors.
Nothing to be proud of was the re-
cruiting campaign of last week. As the
drive was tepid in form, so was the intei-
est of the general public. There was
nothing, in the dull propaganda to catch
the imagination of the man in mufti
whom the services want to enlist. Here
and there in the streets were kiosks
decorated with mother-and-child posters
and placards "You love them, fight for
them.” Our lads want something much
more vital to fire the blood in their veins.
Inquiries were invited within the kiosks,
but the men stationed there had plenty
of spare time on their hands. Militia
and Vic. Scottish bands marched through
the streets at stated hours, always fol-
lowed by a “tail” of boys on bikes.
Some people haven’t realised that propa-
ganda’s a fine art.
Another success in the series of, pocket
editions of the operas, in public but osten-
sibly for broadcasting, was “Cavalleria
Rusticana.” Complaints have been made
about acoustics, but even so the Assembly
Hall has other points in its favor, notably
its intimate size—it’s small enough for
every pair of eyes to see what’s going
on. Soloists and members of chorus and
orchestra climb into evening garb, but
there are no rules and regulations about
wraps or lack of them and the subsequent
freezing of vocal eords.
Most of the women singers had coats
of some sort varying from furs to fuzzy
bunny wool. Thea Phillips as Santuzza,
in black lace, with slave necklet and
Congo earrings that barely missed her
shoulders, thrust her wrap on to the back
of her chair, but Ailsa Mackenzie as
Mamma Lucia and Winifred Gardner as
Lola only parted with theirs for the
moments in which they stood in front
of the mike. To Elizabeth Coote fell
the unenviable job of the fishwife’s
scream. As screams go hers was as
euphonious as they make them, and she
looked most unlike any fishwife in lilac
gown and elegant coiffure low upon the
nape of her neck.
How long the long dress will survive
war-time restriction and shortage of
materials seems to be a delayed issue. In
the meantime women and the young girls,
who are going to miss a lot of fun during
the next few years, are wearing out what
they already have and occasionally buy-
ing something new from stock already
here—which seems fair enough for the
time being.


WINTER FEEDING—KEEP UP CONDITION WITH
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
Stock will make the best use of coarse winter fodders if
Tri-cal-os is always before them. Tri-cal-os is a pure bone
product without admixture of any other substance. It contains
a guaranteed minimum of 33 per cent, phosphoric acid and
40 per cent, lime and is the most economical and reliable form
of calcium and phosphorus for stock feeding. It is specially
processed to ensure maximum digestibility.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from —
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne;
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Way-Bio
STRIKE PREVENTIVE
Kills the Maggot—Does Not Scald —
Cannot Wash Out. Heals the Wound
Without Scab Formation.
Non-poisonous. Prevents restrike. Harmless to
fleece. Contains no mineral oils or harsh ingredients.
100% EUCALYPTUS OILS.
(Highly antiseptic oils combined with viscous residuals.)
HEALS WOUNDS AFTER LAMB-MARKING, BARBED WIRE CUTS
AND ALL INJURIES TO STOCK.
PRICES; 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
X-B/
m
o
£
&B6S?
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Sheep Show.
“Dungaree”: This year the show was
held in a Pyrmont woolstore, and war
and adverse seasonal conditions meant a
big falling-off in entries. There were
close to 300 fewer sheep than last year,
merinos being nearly 50 p.c. lower.
Egelabra, conspicuously successful last
year, had a few pens of five rams ; Dal-
keith and Raby were missing.
Extra-strong wool merinos barely filled
a section, and some would have been
more at home among the strong wools.
The Bundemar champion ram of the sec-
tion carried a lot of development and
contrasted strongly with the general con-
ception of the type, particularly the S.A.
strong wools.
Strong wools were good. Bundemar’s
champion, which went on to win the
grand championship, is a particularly
good ram, wide through the heart and
well let down, perfectly symmetrical. He
is plain-bodied, and carries a dense, long-
stapled fleece that is bright, even and
richly crimped throughout. Rangari
showed the winning strong-wool ewes.
Medium wool awards were divided be-
tween Bundemar, Merryville, Buckinbah
and Rangari. Bundemar entered a beauty
—a big, well-proportioned ram, broad
and deep, with a typical dense 64’s fleece,
bright, long-stapled and full of character.
He was reserve grand champion, running
the champion close. Merry ville showed
two great ewes in this section, and the
judge had to work to the finest margins
to separate them. They are plain-bodied
fashion plates, five and six years old, and
went on to win supreme merino ewe rib-
bons in the same order. The better ewe
is exceptionally well covered, with an
even fleece that carries quality right to
the toes.
Buckinbah’s big, plain-bodied sheep
attracted a lot of attention. Eshcol won
the fine-wool ram championships. A
Bereen ewe won the superfine champion-
ship from Eshcol by a fine margin ; the
Eshcol ewe carries a magnificent fleece,
dense and long-stapled, bright, silky,
superfine.
Bundemar won the Stonehaven Cup.
Eschol was runner-up. Most successful
merino exhibitors were Merryville,
Buckinbah and Eshcol in that order.
Novice and small graziers’ classes
lacked competition but some excellent
sheep were shown. Eshcol, Myrangle
and Bullaway contested the latter section,
but several newcomers added interest to
the novice classes and some did particu-
larly well.
Polwarths were disappointing, especially
after the comeback they made last year.
Corriedales, although slightly fewer in
numbers, produced some excellent sheep.
Gundowringa, Redbank, Dulla Dulla,
The Rivers, Vychan, Glen Legh and The
Kurrajongs were in evidence, and Eurella
returned after an absence of some years.
Awards were well distributed. The
Eurella champion ram is one of the best-
covered rams seen in Sydney. He is even
all over and his wool is bright, with a
well-defined crimp of typical 50’s quality.
A Prell ewe of great scale and confor-
mation took the female championship.
There is still a fair diversity in breeders’
standards of Corriedale wool quality.
Naturally, extra-strong and extra fine-
woolled sheep may be sought by buyers ;
but for show purposes sheep should
approximate to the wool standards laid
down and be prepared to lose points for
divergence.
British breeds were as numerous as
ever, and there was no decline in quality,
though some of the longwools showed
evidence of last year’s mixed season.
Lincolns and English Leicesters were
absent; Romneys and Rylands attracted
only a couple of competitors.
Border Leicesters were in greater
strength than last year, and the sheep
were of a high all-round standard. J. T.
Foord, of Wongajong, Goulburn, won
three blue ribbons and both champion-
ships. Victorian breeders strongly sup-
ported this section and took their share
of awards. Exhibits were evener and
more standardised than for some time ;
extreme legginess is disappearing.
Dorset Horns made the best showing
of the breed in Sydney. There was keen
“Hope these water restrictions wont affect us, Ma."
competition from S.A. studs. W. I. Daw-
kins (S.A.) had a splendid champion
ram, and G. R. Shepherd, of Crookwell
(N.S.W.), scored heavily with his ewes,
Southdown quality was as high as ever,
an d the performance of young stock was
particularly gratifying. Brunskill South-
downs dominated almost every class,
The champion ewe has made many ap-
pearances in Sydney, and in spite of age
still maintains the excellent conformation
and handling qualities that first brought
her to the fore,
Wool on ohow.
“Murrawong”: There were close on
JOO fleeces at Sydney Sheep Show, and
it’s a pity the exhibit was broken up so
soon.
There were two main sections—one tor
fleeces from housed sheep and the otner
for grassfed, unhoused and unrugged
fleeces. Each was subdivided to allow
for merino and Corriedale classes, and
further classes catered for skirted and
unskirted, for rams, ewes and wethers
in strong, medium and fine wools. Com-
mercial classes were on a strictly sepa-
rate basis.
In the merino sections Egelabra and
Merryville fleeces were outstanding, and
there were excellent entries from Win-
deyer and Traill, Buckinbah and Ran-
gari. The Egelabra housed ram fleeces
(strong and medium wools) dropped very
few points, and one of them won the
grand championship. It was very even
in quality, of excellent color and high
yielding for a ram ; the staple was long
and stylish, and from the bulk of the
fleece it must have cut over 301 b.
The champion housed Corriedale
fleece, a beauty, came from M. Carroll
and Sons. Dulla Dulla showed an excel-
lent fleece. In the commercial classes a
Corriedale fleece was valued at 225. 6d.
A merino fleece beat it by yd.
It seems a pity that so few people
should have had the opportunity to in-
spect the fleeces properly. In N.S.W. we
shear over 55,000,000 sheep each year,
yet, should an overseas visitor ask to
see a sample of our wool, there are times
in the year when we would have to
search the woolstores to find something
better than crutchings. Surely interested
bodies could co-operate to find some
central spot in Sydney to house a repre-
sentative exhibit of our wool. Outstand-
ing fleeces could be added from the
annual exhibition.
Pig Management.
“T. Berk”: D. W. Cargill, who breeds
pigs near Canberra, believes that feeding
is as important as breeding for quality,
He pens the sow about three weeks
before farrowing and feeds her well, the
result being strong, even litters. At four
weeks old the piglets go on to green feed
and get grain through creeps. He weans
at eight weeks, turning them on to green-
stuff—lucerne, barley or rape—the run
being provided with dry shelters free
from draughts. There they remain until
five or six months old, when they come
into a small paddock or yard to be topped
off.
After her litter is weaned the sow is
allowed to run on green feed until coming
in again for the next farrowing. Farrow-
ing pens are thoroughly cleaned and dis-
infected beforehand.
To stop lice and sunburn, Cargill
sprays all his pigs occasionally with crude
oil or old sump oil. He has never had
any trouble with the Large White’s
alleged susceptibility to sunburn and
frostbite, though he grazes 600 to 700
pigs in a district subject to both. He
puts it down to providing the pigs with
good shelters.
On the question of wheat as pig feed,
Cargill puts it this way: A ton of un-
cured baconer sides takes 70 cubic feet
of ship’s space, a ton of wheat 52 c.f.
At 6d. per pound for sides, a ton would
be worth £56, or 16s. a cubic fool- A ton
of wheat at 4s. a bushel would be worth
about £7 55., or 2s. 9 2 d. a cubic oo .
7 n .
Feed Shortage m Rivenna.
“Granova”; Summer rains followed by
a dry spell until June will mean a hard
winter for Riverina sheep. Only pad-
docks that have been shut off all the year
and contain clover and winter grass that
has grown in summer and revived from
the recent rains will carry sheep. Sum-
mer grasses—umbrella and love—are use-
fui as roughage but have little nutritive
value.
Remove the sheep from the paddocks
with the best stand of winter grass or
showing a good germination of clovers
f or a while. Place them in paddocks
overrun with summer grasses and feed a
ration of oats. Ewes with lambs need
per head per day if the lambs are
to have a chance. Dry sheep can do with
ilb. per day.
On mixed farms use cultivation pad-
docks for hand-feeding—if possible, those
y OU intend to fallow for wheat or lucerne,
a hilly grass paddock, flogged out by
heavy stocking, will take years to recover
and is liable to erosion. _ The loss of
cover on cultivation land is not so sen-
ous. It can be replaced by crops or sown
pasture,
Early-sown grazing oats will often
solve the problem of winter-feed short-
age. Even this year stray storms germi-
nated some crops in March, and now they
are ready to be stocked. If your sheep
are always short of grass in winter re-
duce the numbers. Well-fed sheep pro-
duce so much more that cash returns will
be as high and a lot of work and worry
saved.
“ “ _
Hints for the farm,
“Granova”; Deal with erosion early,
Watch hillsides for sheep tracks that
water is beginning to follow and turn it
out with a small drain at intervals. Lorry
tracks alongside fences will often start
gutters. Holes scoured out of creek beds
can be healed by filling them with sods
of couch grass taken from established
patches. A rabbit burrow in a dam bank
may mean an expensive repair job if
it is not dug out. When ploughing, watch
the headlands for ridges and furrows
caused by years of cultivation in the
same direction and break the flow of
the water by zigzagging. When working
on the contour in blocks it is better not
to work out the corners if doing so means
working up and down a steep slope,
“Graz.”: Phenotheazine is equally
effective when administered in gelatine
capsules, so there is no point in “Sheepo”


o
TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO RING-BARKING!
Prevents suckering! Eradicates
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO (15ft.)
BEARS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Fields 2001bs. Sow NOW. 2/0 packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., SYDNEY.
y/oLftS fkv*(J fctlejM
ONCE A YEAR
Atmospheric changes affect seal.
Coating burns off filament.
Vacuum declines with age.
Vibration upsets balance.
Heat injures insulation.
Gases upset stability.
Tiny grid wires warp.
Joints are strained.
ò
REVALVE WITH
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN MADE .... ALWAYS AVAILABLE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
47 York Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
' FOLLOW THIS
LINE OF
REASON
V °H*o
i
A/
TlV*
l"»n
fl
1L
>*>
'*L
fo
Hr
,/v LONDON.
°o,?LANd
I
» COMM.H’''-""^
m
25CV7-
r»*r
9 'to
*tr f
m
WU^
-S &h
f \
isFc.
~t£
IN
D?
£*/V
€*4
£o*/?
GENUINE
LONDON
GIN CAN
ONLY
COME FROM
LONDON
ENGLAND
where
Gordon’s
Gin IS DISTILLED
If maq cosf a
little more buf
it's WELL worth it!
Stow 1,
SupM o
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
Oht ImqeSl gin dUUikhi in the ivoiid
is
a
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11/-
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
condemning it because it clogs up the
drenching gun (B. 11/6/’4l). War-time
import restricts are to blame for the
costliness of the drug. When it becomes
cheaper ph.-t. looks like ousting nearly
all other drenches. It won’t be necessary
to find the kind of worms infesting a
flock, as ph.-t. means death to all stomach
worms. It can also deal with immature
large stomach worms (H. contortus ),
thus lengthening the effective period of
drenchings and reducing the number
needed to keep the flock healthy.
“R. Ney”: Why does the N.S.W.
Sheepbreeders’ Association hold its sheep
show in Sydney? It’s about as far re-
moved from sheep country as any Aus-
tralian place, south of the tropics, could
be. You have to go south to Yass, north
to Muswellbrook or west to Bathurst
before you reach sheep country. If the
show were made a movable affair, circu-
lating from Orange to Dubbo, Parkes and
Young, it would not only attract more
visitors but would give sheepmen a
chance to see what is being developed
without the expense of a trip to the city.
There’s a fancy that Sydney sheep show
is the greatest ever; it can’t hold a
candle to that at Cootamundra, not be-
cause Coota gets better sheep but because
Coota is in sheep country.
Dilkusha, Manilla (N.S.W.), has been
in the possession of the Byrnes family
for 70 years. Present owner is J. A.
Byrnes, old St. Joseph’s College boy, who
runs almost a sheep to the acre on the
4500-acre property. He won a State
competition for merino ewes last year,
and is usually prominent in the R.A.S.
fodder conservation championships.
Before taking over the property he got
some business experience with a Sydney
wool firm.
With final advances of Hd. a bushel
from the Nos. 2 and 3 pools and 4d.
for the No. 4 pool, wheatgrowers are
to whack up £2,000,000. It works out at
about 3s. 4d. a bushel all round for both
crops, less rail freight. Not a high price,
admittedly, but better than nothing in a
world suffering from wheat indigestion.
“H.D.8.”: Seaweed (B. 11/6/’4l) has
long been used as fertiliser in the Orkney
Islands (Scotland). The fierce North Sea
storms tear up the tangle and seaweed
from the sea-bed and pile it up from
3ft. to 6ft. deep along high-water mark.
Together with cattle manure—the huge
byre-middens are a distinctive feature of
the landscape—seaweed has helped put
the islands among the most fertile
counties in Britain. The whole area of
the Orkneys is only equal to one-thou-
sandth part of N.S.W. Much of it is
wild crags, holms and peat bog. Only
54,644 acres can be cultivated. Yet this
district, besides supporting a population
of 32,000, exported for the year 1936
11,599 cattle, 369 horses (mainly Clydes-
dales), 34,160 sheep, 741 pigs, of a total
value of £282,228. There were 3,699,360
dozen eggs at average Is. 2|d. doz. Total
value, £192,078. Orkney carries 74,813
sheep, the wool being exported as Orkney
homespun tweed and Fair Isle pullovers.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXXV.
THE LOST IMPLEMENT.
A couple of the drains to the back
tank need cleaning, and you decide that
the quickest way is to put the big single-
furrow plough on them. So you send
Tom to run in Lion and Pompey while
you go to the machinery shed to get the
plough ready.
The plough doesn’t appear to be in
the shed. You look over the implements,
frown and have another look. No
plough. You squeeze in between the
binder and the old harvester and have
a look along the back wall. You find
the adze that you couldn’t find a month
ago, a couple of rabbit-traps and three
bottles, but no plough. You squeeze
back again and go to the horse yard,
where Tom has the winkers and collars
on the prads.
“Hey, Tom, when did I use that plough
last?”
Tom thinks hard, and suggests it might
have been when you put the firebreak
round the stacks. You’re positive it
wasn’t. You and Tom discuss the matter
for some minutes, then you send him to
look round the stacks while you go up
to where Jack is working with harrows.
Jack can’t remember anything about the
plough and you make back, mentally
noting the big patch of fat-hen behind
the tankstand and deciding to cut it out
first chance you get.
Tom is back from the stacks. He
hasn’t seen a hair or hide of that plough.
Lion and Pompey drowse in the yard,
wondering why they’ve been yoked up
and left standing to argue the point with
the flies.
You send Tom off in another direc-
tion and yourself go to the house and
put the question to the missus. It is her
laundry day, and since when has she
been required to keep track of ploughs
and things? She never has any difficulty
in finding any of the things she uses in
her house, although some people have
said that women never use method, and
she’s dead sure she isn’t going to add to
the worries of twenty years as a farmer’s
wife by turning into a sort of human
information bureau as to the where-
abouts of missing tools for people who
would lose their heads if the heads
weren’t screwed on tight, and if people
would find time to mix a bit of cement
and mend the hole in the firebox under
the copper it would
But by that time you are halfway over
to the ewe paddock. Tom hails you, cry-
ing “Lost anythin’. Dad?” in his humor-
ous manner. Still bemused from the con-
versation at the house you reply “Yair,
a bit of cement for the” , then realise
the awful effects of listening to women
and sit down on a log to light your pipe
and recover.
Tom confesses that the plough is still
missing, and you push your hat back and
think. Tom also thinks, or appears to
do so. Over in the yard Lion and Pompey
meditate deeply. Even the usual inquisi-
tive willie-wagtail is nearly still on the
post, as though it, too, were thinking.
“I didn’t lend it to anybody,” you
murmur, thoughtfully. “Or did I? What
was it old Jordan borrowed last year?
No, that was a brace an’ bit. An’ it
couldn’t have been—no, that was at
McLaren’s sale.” You fall silent, visual-
ising the entire farm, running a mental
eye closely over every headland, furrow,
ditch, bush, log, gate and fence on the
place. You can’t see that plough any-
where.
“Somebody,” says young Tom,
“must’ve got away with it.”
“Don’t be silly, boy; people don’t
pinch ploughs.”
“Well, it ain’t here, is it?”
You return to the machinery shed and
have another look in the belief that you
might have looked at the darn thing and
not recognised it. But there is no single-
furrow plough. Surely nobody would
steal a plough! But well, where
was it? It couldn’t get out, like a sheep
or a horse, and turn up in the pound.
And it was too big to fall through a
hole in your pocket, or anything like that.
“Plough, plough, plough, here plough,”
cries young Tom, still the family humor-
ist. You swing at him, miss and go
morosely into the yard and turn Lion
and Pompey loose. Then you spend the
next couple of hours wandering about
the farm searching for that plough, try-
ing to think back to when you used it last
and where you left it.
After lunch you take a shovel and go
over to the back tank and do a bit of
drain-clearing, your mind still on that
plough. So passes the day, and the even-
ing thereof comes and in due time you
are abed. And that night you are awak-
ened by the noise of snorting horses and
twanging wires, and you realise that a
horse is caught in the wire fence, and you
go forth into the darkness and release
it. Then you get through the fence and
chase the horses down the paddock.
Returning, you blunder into that patch
of fat-hen, bark your chin on something
cold and hard, fall and pick yourself up
and go cursefully to bed, having located
the missing plough.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2!d. per line.
A pithy statement of the case for compulsory saving, based on first- and second-
hand evidence, goes on top this week.
Compulsory Saving
If the employees of the huge concern
where I earn a crust are a f.a.q. sample
of Aussie wage-earners, the Federal
Treasurer had better save some valu-
able time, paper and ink and cut
out that “appeal to private investors be-
fore embarking on a compulsory savings
measure.”
I am informed by the paymaster, who
handles a payroll approximating £20,000
per week, that the amount taken out in
war-savings certificates is almost negli-
gible. The same holds good of the salaried
staff. In both cases the pay envelopes
have been greatly swollen by increases
and overtime. The response to the verbal
invitation, backed by propaganda and
posters, to put a bit of spare cash behind
the guns shows almost universally the
same attitude of mind: “Why should 1?
Let the other fellow do it. I’ll leave that
to the moneyed classes,” The fripperies
on which a lot of the cash is spent con-
tinue to boom.
Confirmation of the same sort of thing
comes in a letter from a relative in an-
other State. He is living in the men’s
quarters attached to one of our new
major projects. Himself no wowser
when it comes to a flutter, he complains,
“I cannot sleep at night for the fellows
sitting up gambling. We are paid fort-
nightly, and many of them are broke the
day after payday. Some have wives and
families in the city, too.”
Plainly, some sort of regimentation is
called for, from the points of view of
distributing the financial burden fairly,
providing for unpredictable post-war
conditions by a sane and universal effort
of present thrift and restriction of the
spending urge while the man-power and
freight problems are with us. Human
nature will always pass on the buck if
it can. The just method is to make
every wage-earner pull his weight in the
boat.
In any case, compulsory saving would
be worth while from the psychological
point of view. The east wind of dis-
cipline might bring the thoughtless ones
to heel, give them a new sense of kin-
ship with the battling A.I.F. and their
beleaguered British cousins. In fact, such
is human cussedness, they might learn
to “take it on the chin and like it.” We
are not so decadent that we cannot
stomach a bracer, and the universality of
the impost would take the provocative
sting out of it. — Washington (Vic.).
Conscription
It is a source of surprise to me that
the powers that govern and oppose the
Government have not yet sensed that
conscription is popular. Nearly every
male person would welcome the enact-
ment of conscription for the fighting ser-
vices at home and abroad as well as a
form of conscription of wealth, such as
compulsory savings. Most young men
are humiliated by the song-and-dance
method of recruiting, and the voluntary
system has little to recommend it in any
way. It is clumsy, inefficient, expensive,
and its incidence is basically unjust and
inequitable.
There is nothing undemocratic in con-
scription, so on what grounds the Labor
party howls objections is very puzzling.
Conscription pulls in the slacker and the
profiteer and excludes the physically
unfit and needed industrial worker in one
hit. It saves time and works with a
minimum of industrial dislocation. It
enables military authorities to plan and
time training schedules without constant
recourse to revision through the waxing
and waning tempo of enlistments. It
saves men from the nauseous activities
of the white-feather cranks, and evades
really considerable and damaging ill-
feeling between friends and relations of
those who volunteer and of those who
do not.
At the moment we have those who do
enlist and those who do not. The motives
of the “do nots” are manifold. Some
are definitely selfish and dishonorable,
others are unselfish and honest, while
there are thousands who cannot make a
decision, a decision which in some cases
would amount to the sacrifice of many
years’ love and labor. The reported and
contradictory utterances of public men
only further confuse them. Too often it
is grossly unfair to ask an individual to
choose between King and country and
home and family. It is the State’s duty
to lead this young man to the place it
wants him most. He will follow will-
ingly.
The actual cold-footers, the ones who
suffer from sheer physical funk at the
prospect of enlisting, are so few that
they can be discounted altogether. The
motives that hold a healthy young man,
possessing no responsibilities, from the
recruiting centres are either sheer ma-
terial self-interest or crass ignorance of
the measure of his obligation to his
land, an ignorance which sometimes
amounts to disloyalty.
Every man, woman and child breathes
the air of this country, drinks its waters,
“So you're the cow who's been robbin' my traps!"
eats its food and is warmed by the sun
that falls on it. Therefore every man
who lives on its soil, rich or poor, owes
it life, and honest men pay their debts if
called upon. We are not fighting for
our system now ; we are fighting for our
honor, our lives and those of our neigh-
bors and the right to open our own front
door without knocking. Most of us want
a new order or a new deal, but many
cannot see that there will be no new
deal if we lose this present game, for
the rubber will be over. — Peak (N.S.W.).
Enjoying the War
Until the trouble started I was un-
employed. Then I got a steady job with
plenty of overtime, plus a “war loading”
as bonus. Being single I can get along
very nicely on a wage calculated to sup-
port a wife and family. Being just below
par physically, I am free from any com-
pulsion, and can spend my money and
leisure as I please. My only hardship
is that I must roll my own fags instead
of buying them ready made. That’s a
nuisance, but one must be prepared for
sacrifices.
As a disinterested onlooker, I really
enjoy reading the press reports of what
our brave boys are doing in distant lands,
and get quite a kick out of the glory
they are winning for themselves and for
me as a fellow-citizen.
Of course, prices of some things are
rising, but my union will see to it that
wages will also rise in proportion, so
that I will not be “dissatisfied” while
carrying out my necessary and patriotic
work of seeing that a machine does not
loaf. The same union will assure that I
am not unduly fatigued or robbed of
any of the liberties for which our soldiers
are fighting.
There is also a great deal of pleasure
to be derived from the knowledge that
in spending my pocket money freely I
am helping to win the war.
So long as the present conditions con-
tinue there is no reason for pessimism
on my part. — Unfit (S.A.),
A Stable Point of View
“For they [modern writers] have not a
stable point of view from which to en-
visage the war.” This sentence from the
Red Page (B. 7/5/’4l) gives rise to the
thought, has any of us a stable point
of view on this ghastly war? Some base
their outlook on the war solely upon an
all-embracing hatred of Germany and all
things German; others upon pride of
race and the belief that Britain never has
been beaten and, because she is Britain,
never can be ; others, appalled at the
spectacle of the two greatest nations in
the world utilising all their energies and
all their resources in the destruction of
each other’s dties and people, turn away
with loathing ; still others think of the
war as they thought of a Test match —they
hope “our side” wins, but after all, if it
doesn’t, it won’t affect them personally.
The average man, bewildered and con-
fused by the mass of assertion, contradic-
tion and speculation with which he is
flooded from press and wireless, is un-
certain of what to believe and what to
put his faith in. His greatest need is
leaders who will point the way to vic-
tory and set each one to his allotted task.
Until that is done, the nation will con-
tinue to grope in the dark. — Smilax (Q.).
The Conscientious Objector
Maurice Blackburn, M.H.R., is a dis-
tinguished barrister, and it is a wonder
he does not state a better case for the
conscientious objector in Australia than
he does in his introduction to Conscience
and Compulsory Service, compiled by the
Australian Peace Pledge Union (Vic-
torian section). It is stated in the
brochure that the out-and-out objector
who refuses to perform the act of killing
in warfare or in any way to be an acces-
sory to the act of killing is rare in Aus-
tralia.
If he is rare, whether he is in or out of
the army or its non-combatant services
is of no importance, numerically speak-
ing. If he is prepared to go to prison
for his convictions, putting him in the
army won’t make him forgo them. They
are much more likely to become more
of an obsession than ever. You can't
make a man fire a machine-gun willingly
if he objects to the act of killing. Order-
ing him to do it won’t make him feel a
flow of martial ardor any more than
ordering a bilious man to eat an egg
will cause a flow of his gastric juices.
Hence to have him in the army is to
have a potential menace to the security
of the army. To put him in charge of
a machine-gun is to jeopardise the secu-
rity of his companions.
He will be just as great a menace in
the non-combatant units. If he has such
firm convictions he will want to preach
them. From the point of view of further-
ing his pacifist doctrines he could not be
given better conditions than to be put
into the army, especially if he is suffi-
ciently intelligent to use tactics. Lenin
always counselled Communists to get
Government billets.
Australian parents who send their sons
into the army don’t want them to be per-
verted. —C. R. (Vic.).
Showmen First?
A famous yodellin’ cowhand has just
passed through our little town to
the accompaniment of much billing
and much broadcasting from our
near-by commercial station, which gave
daily broadcasts of his progress. I saw
the show come to town.
What an entourage! Three giant horse-
floats, trailer type, which told me in large
white letters on their side boards that I
was looking at the largest horsefloats in
the world—ls ton or over capacity (I
counted 15 horses in one of them) ; one
five-ton single unit float; one complete
two-ton unit built as a model kitchen,
“the chuck wagon” ; one two-tonner to
which was mounted the lighting plant for
the show ; one 18cwt. job with a special
long trailer to carry tent poles, etc. ; a
trailer box-office; three sedans with
caravan trailers, one an ultra-modern
private office and luxury cabin combina-
tion.
I didn’t think it possible. I thought
that the Government had commandeered,
or was commandeering, all unnecessary
heavy transport units. 1 thought to
myself that those three floats would each
carry three to four field guns or A.A.
guns complete with personnel. I thought
of the baggage they could carry ; of the
stores. And the kitchen! What an
ideal unit for H.Q. staff on manoeuvres.
Over a thousand gallons of petrol a
month, I was told,
the outfit used.
About half the total
requirements of our
little district for the
same period. The
same quantity would
be the equivalent
used in training, in
the elementary
stages, about 20
R.A.A.F. pilots.
I thought of Bill
Smith and Harry
Jones, neighboring
farmers. They have
to pool their trips to
town now with their
pigs and to take out
supplies, mail, etc.
They don’t get
enough petrol to
come in separately,
so Bill does the trip
one week and Harry
the next. Of course
they could get more
perhaps if they pre-
sented a case to the
board, but they are
content to let the
country have it for
defence purposes —two of Bill’s sons have
enlisted and Harry’s only boy was re-
ported missing the other day.— Macko
(Q-).
Co-operation
It’s time the Petrol Consumption
Board and the Victorian Transport Board
put their heads together. The Petrol
Board is reducing allowance of petrol to
farmers and graziers and requesting that
strictest economy be practised, but if a
farmer arranges with a neighbor to use
one car between them on sale days and
shopping trips to town, he is liable to
prosecution under the Transport Act. A
similar fate awaits him if he uses his
truck to cart his neighbor’s goods or pigs
to market or home, as regulations permit
him to carry only his own goods, unless
a licensed carrier, and such licenses are
hard to get. — Mac Moses (Vic.).
Charcoal Gas
N.S.W. State Forestry Commission’s
experimental burning depot at Pennant
Hills is over a score of miles from where
the timber is cut and is producing about
10 tons of charcoal per week. Half a
dozen steel-type burners are in use.
Capacity about five tons of 6in. logs (de-
barked) per kiln. Production, after 60-
80 hours’ burning, about one ton of
charcoal. Either the kilns are too small
or the burning operation is too long.
Each ton of charcoal produced and
sold at Pennant Hills at £6 easily costs
at least £lO under the conditions em-
ployed. Take 50 tons of selected wood,
debarking, cartage, erection and main-
tenance of plant, labor costs of a fore-
man and six men in loading and un-
loading kilns, sorting and screening, bags
and bagging operations, and other rami-
fications such as road building to the
scene of operations, and it could be
shown that it would have proved more


■ 1
Ml 11
8
&
|K&
Bfßt'S TO’ff SKj
HHHHIHi
1 1
i i
mk SSfcw»OH«'
\
■
nscrrr*.
****
11
i
I
S\
sT
I Mi
r«
ftv -. ~
L J
h< £ \i
r-; . ~*iM :i ~||
iw..
V'
■
k >v ',. '■
■-
h
li
■■
r^€yyi
rich, sustaining value of sun-ripened
Oats —that is what you get in every health-bringing
glass of Tooheys Oatmeal Stout. It nourishes —it
strengthens without fattening.
TOOHEYS
* 11 II
11
OflTim STOUT
'JJiere’s New life in Every Bottle
//
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VICTORIAt
Goldsbrough, Mori & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, PKilp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND!
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton
SOUTH AUSTRALIA*.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.


profitable to sell the wood in the
raw to bakers. This is based on the
about-correct assumption that Pennant
Hills produces per week about 10 .tons
charcoal from 50 tons wood.
Designers of plant will need to pay
far more attention to fitting and attach-
ment charges. Basing an estimate on
some varying makes 1 have seen fitted
in the last few weeks, time taken by a
good mechanic with engineering fitting
knowledge and a laborer averages 80
working hours, and this measured in
terms of money is nearly one-half the
cost of the producer unit.
Three suggestions: (1) That the
Ministry of Supply and Development
offer a substantial prize, say £lOOO or
even £5OOO (the issue is important), for
a unit capable of standardisation. With
the multifarious makes of vehicles on
the market this can be the only solution
to supplying a low-priced unit.
This unit will therefore necessarily be
a bi-wheeled trailer attachment, and then
the vehicle alterations will only be of
a minor nature and original designs in
steering and' springing will remain un-
altered' This type should have a special
appeal to the Defence Department and
country users because of its mobility and
changeability. The farmer could use it
on his car, utility truck, tractor or
stationary engine with minor modifica-
tions to each unit.
(2) Liberal supplies of charcoal packed
in cartons, weight guaranteed, sealed and
dust-proof at a price not exceeding £4
per ton anywhere and everywhere, just
the same as bowserised petrol in pre-war
days.
(3) Improvements in performance so
that charcoal-gas producers will develop
nearer 75 p.c. of the equivalent power
given by petrol. — Brolga Bill (N.S.W.).
Power Alcohol
An extraordinary statement is ascribed
by the daily press to the chairman of the
Oil Industries Cartel. In an interview
he stated, apropos of the spending of
four and a half million pounds on power-
alcohol production recommended by the
P.A. Committee, that in peace-time that
fuel was uneconomic compared with im-
ported motor-spirit and that “When peace
came there might be a temptation to keep
the plant going/’
The gentleman in question failed to
produce figures to support the first asser-
tion. Perhaps he had forgotten the
Queensland product “Alkol,” which was
successfully marketed in the early
'twenties, despite difficulties of production
on the small scale then possible. Per-
haps, also, he neglected to consider the
point that the committee would certainly
have considered the economic aspect
before making the recommendation.
The second statement hinges on the
first. If such a large sum as four and
a half millions were to be spent on an
industry supplying one of our most press-
ing needs and thus releasing tankers for
duty elsewhere, it is an impertinence to
suggest that operations should cease
abruptly upon cessation of hostilities. Any
hint that an asset representing such a
large amount of the people’s money
should thus be thrown idle savors of a
reckless disregard of public rights.—
Barwon (N.S.W.).
T rade-unionism
Trade-unionism was a vital necessity
to the Australian worker prior to the
introduction of compulsory arbitration.
Since then the situation has greatly
changed. True, trade-union officials
state the case for the employees when-
ever an award is being made, but that
could just as easily be done by advocates
appointed for the purpose by the Gov-
ernment. Most clerks and shop assist-
ants are non-unionists, as are the bulk
of other white-collar workers, yet they
enjoy as good conditions of labor as
those employed in callings in which
unionism is universal.
Trade-unions could still be of great
utility as vehicles of social service. They
could be used to provide their members
with generous superannuation, and with
life, sickness and unemployment insur-
ance. They could also do much towards
the furtherance of better facilities for
technical education. Most trade-unions
pay little, if any, attention to these fields.
They are mainly political associations,
affording an excellent means for enabling
ambitious officials to embark on a politi-
cal career, and a profitable source of in-
come to the Labor party.
It is for these reasons that the Labor
party and the bulk of trade-union leaders
favor compulsory unionism, though com-
pulsory industrial arbitration, which is so
strongly favored by the people of Aus-
tralia that no Government would dare
repeal it, has deprived it of all justifica-
tion. — Sam (N.S.W.).
On February 22, 1941, the Melbourne
“Sun” reported that “permission for em-
ployees building a guncotton factory
to work overtime had been refused by
the Building Trades Federation. Men
working overtime on the job were stopped
on Friday by a Federation officer.”
On June 4, 1941, the Melbourne “Sun”
published the following item:
The Building Trades Federation refused
yesterday the request by the Commonwealth
Government to allow members ot the build-
ffig t rac j es unions to work overtime in a
Victorian guncotton factory,
Imagine the outcry if a State Govern-
ment refused any request by the Corn-
monwealth Government in connection
with the war! Yet civilians calling them-
seiVes the Building Trades Federation
n ave twice refused a request of the Corn-
monwealth Government in connection
w j t j 1 war w itfiout any public protest,
—j OHN q t (yi c .).
Cardboard in Footwear
I’ve been repairing boots and shoes for
more than 40 years, during which time
j’ ve no ticed a steady decline in the
q Ua hty of footwear, particularly during
t be depression. Cardboard is used as in-
sojes OI ; stiffeners; in many cases, both,
p Ol - example, if ' so-called patent
even i n g shoes for men up to 12s. 6d. be
exarn i ne( f j t will be found that the in-
soies are CO mpo —trade name for card-
hoard stiffeners ditto. Even the heel
is Q f t h e same material, with a layer of
leather as a top piece, while the soles
are 0 £ tbe cheapest leather shoulder,
Examination of Mum’s footwear reveals
be same materials except that heels are
o jr woo d.
j n a reC g n t prosecution at Brisbane it
was stated for the defence that cardboard
j n f oo t wear in no way affected the wear-
j n g q ua fity. That made my blood boil,
as usua Uy hoes every time I repair
j be cheaper type of footwear usually
worn for economic reasons by that class
“ G'day , Slim!"
of the community which cannot afford to
have shoddy foisted upon it.
When I first learned my trade all foot-
wear had a decent leather insole as its
foundation, so we used brass rivets. To-
day, footwear having compo insoles
(sometimes with a light split covering to
further fool the purchaser) has to be
repaired with a light tingle, which has
almost ousted the brass ■ Most
women’s footwear in this class has such
foundations that most up-to-date
boot repairers have had to mstall a stuck-
on‘s,e P ress - . , . , n
' W u ar irn! T° 1 . in , u
monwealth has to have stamped on the
sole what the article is cot P ■
Australian manufacturer who enjoys a
prolcdcd market, oes n
thls - A. J. W. (iN.a.w■).
Two School Tanks
The contributor (B. 4/6/’4l) who
complains of the tardiness of the N.S.W.
Education Department in publishing
details of teachers’ transfers must be new
to the game. Here’s my own case,
June: Took charge of a country school,
Two old 400-gal. tanks (well ventilated)
in yard - Local res ' dent offered to buy
July; Application referred to me for
comment; recommended acceptance. Dis-
trict inspector suggested reconsideration ;
1 dutlfull Vap C se of d iB e months)
February. Works officer travelled 60
miles (special car) to inspect tanks,
Tw 9 weeks later: Lorry came from town
£ “
And the result? Well, in the follow-
j December I saw the two tanks piled
, s h £ |h schoo | ground in that
30-mile-distant towm-CHANO (N.S.W.).
r i .• . * .
tclucatlon m Art
If “Slapiton” (B. 4/6/’4l) and Guy W.
Warren (B. 7/5/’4l) could obtain a copy
of the N. S. Wales Education Department
syllabus, they would find that perspective
is a sixth-class lesson, and that picture
study is dealt with iff the super primary
grades in precisely the fashion advocated
by Mr. Warren. Incidentally, the normal
age for completing primary instruction
is 12 to 12i, so that a large number of
pupils receive secondary instruction.
Scribbling with colored medium is not
without value as an aid towards later
penmanship, and appeals strongly to five-
year-olds (kindergarten age), but, as with
the art teaching in first and second class,
it owes its inclusion in the curriculum to
psychological as well as artistic reasons.
Expressing individuality without in-
fringing the rights of others is a valu-
able lesson in the education of future
citizens. For this reason such subjects as
drawing, singing, composition and drama-
tic expression are valuable, even if they
produce no prolific crops of Melbas, Da
Vincis or Miltons. — X-Schoolie (N.S.W.).
Art Galleries
“Melton” (B. 14/5/’4l) comments
upon the lack of popularity of art gal-
leries. Is that any wonder? No one
would plan as an afternoon’s amusement
to absorb the works of, say, 50 promi-
nent authors, yet the average citizen sees
no absurdity in a cursory viewing of the
whole contents of the gallery. Similarly,
although it is obvious that before at-
tempting to absorb literature it is neces-
sary to be able to read, the average citi-
zen feels quite competent to judge art
by the mere fact of being able to see. —
Ay-Ay (N.S.W.).
Train Jumpers
On arrival at the railway siding to col-
lect the month’s goods order I found I
had been forestalled by a train-jumper. I
wouldn’t have cared so much if he hadn’t
been quite so tough, but together with
15 tins of mixed stuff (jam, tinned fruit,
etc.) he lifted the kids’ lollies and the
babies’ biscuits.
These are the fellows who spoil a good
thing in train-jumping, as at this time of
year (start of crushing season) a lot of
chaps are travelling to cane-cuts by train
gratis, the law’s representatives turning
a blind eye when the “mixed goods” is
passing. The majority of “rattler-
jumpers” travelling to crushing jobs are
too hard-up to pay passenger fare, but
are otherwise honest. It’s a pity that
thieves should use what has become vir-
tually a recognised concession—-when
outrages of this nature are reported there
is a general round-up and decent fellows
suffer with the others.
Also, as mentioned in B. 28/5/’4l,
there is a shortage this year of cane-
cutters, so if a crowd of cutters are roped
in to do so many days’ “detention” for
rattler-jumping, that means so many
fewer tons of cane cut. — L. and L. (Q.).
Stamped Receipt Books
Government departments might con-
sider selling receipt books impressed with
the twopenny duty stamp the same as
saving in’paper, pointing of "duty stamps
and fime.-W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
The Universal Australian
“W.L.” (B. 2/4/’4l) thinks that the
universality of type in Australia should
be a big factor in building Australia into
a strong nation. It doesn’t follow. There
is no universality of type in Great Britain,
France, Germany or America. They are
ethnologically as mixed as they well
can be, so that many Germans look more
like Frenchmen than Frenchmen do and
many Englishmen in Cornwall look more
like Spaniards or Italians than English-
men. But all these nations are or have
been strong nations, and at some time or
other have been welded by various cir-
cumstances into a political unity which
has made them think as Englishmen,
Germans, Frenchmen and Americans.
Variety is the spice of life, and the
period which produced most intellectual
and artistic activity in Europe was the
period after the break-up of the Holy
Roman Empire, when there were hun-
dreds of grand dukes and barons, each
ruling his little State and fighting with
the other. Each wanted to make his capi-
tal more splendid than the next one, and
competed with his rivals for the services
of the greatest painters, composers, archi-
tects and sculptors irrespective of nation-
ality. Ambassadors to foreign countries
in those days used to write home to their
Governments, not about the frozen-meat
trade or the possibility of working up a
business in safety-razor blades, but about
the picture Titian was engaged on at the
moment, and how long it would be before
Michelangelo finished the Sisline Chapel.
Another important factor was that if
an artist, sculptor or thinker antagon-
ised his local lord he could go and shelter
under the wing of another. If there had
been a centralised Government in France,
such as there is today in Germany and
Russia, when Rabelais was writing his
celebrated treatise, he would certainly
have been burned at the stake ; but when
that writer began to scent the smell of
the faggots drifting through his study
window in one cardinal’s palace he
would skip away to another, and as he
gave the second cardinal prestige would
be protected.
I’m not suggesting that Australia will
ever have a centralised Government
which will burn its artists and thinkers
at the stake in the interests of a drab
uniformity. But the universality of type
so admired by “W.L.” would operate in
the same way. The Jews were a very
universal type, and we all know what
they did to Jesus. People as a rule don’t
like the exceptions, and they don’t like
habits and customs that are different
from their own. 1 used to meet plenty
of Australians in Paris who were nearly
starving themselves to death rushing
round looking for a piece of steak cooked ,
in the Australian fashion, although the
place was full of delightful food cooked
a la Frangdis. —F. S. (Vic.).
“Littery Gents”
When reading through the O.F.M.
pages nothing amuses me more than the
meanings and pleading for special privi-
lege and recognition of sundry “littery
gents.” These claims are unwarranted.
Writers and the literati are not a unique
group engaged in remarkable creative
work. In very many cases they are less
creative than the man who can dig his
garden and make it blossom or the house-
wife who can cook an excellent meal for
the family.
In science, industrial technique, the
useful arts and in the political and social
fields much fine literary work is being
done. These works deal with factual
things and have as their objective tangible
results. For this reason “creative” writers
who elect to spin fantasies and project
their frustrations and emotional difficul-
ties on to paper—the process was affect-
edly called “inspiration,” until Freud de-
bunked it —regard most other creative
workers who deal with the stuff of life
as mere plodders and inarticulate blokes
incapable of peering through Keatsian
magic casements. The real creative
writers today are looking objectively at
this fascinating world with a vivid real-
ism and a searching psychological tech-
nique, leaving fantasy and pretty-pretty
writing to those high souls who imagine
they are of other clay.
Much of the lofty talk about good
literature and fine books is sheer bun-
kum based on snob appeal. Much of the
alleged great literature of the past is the
by-product of neuroses. Writers specialis-
ing in fiction and poetic creation are often
the victims of fixations- and conflicts
which they dramatise again and again in
their works works which are merely
expressions of graphomania —the writing
itch which afflicts too many “littery
gents” who moan about an apathetic
public.
The public is too busy with its own
personal creative efforts, which it
expresses in many practical ways, to
worry about the soul-struggles or neu-
rotic symptoms of some poor devils who
can find self-expression only through fan-
tasy. When the public can live out its
yearnings in daily toil or in home hobbies
it will not turn to the literary escapists
for vicarious satisfactions. Besides, there
is the modern interest of gawking at
movies; certainly an infinitely easier
pleasure than wading through reams ot
fiction. Again, it is easy to turn on the
radio tap and let fantasy drip.
The literati may claim that these are
moronic and inartistic occupations. That
is merely their opinion—and the public
doesn’t care a damn what intellectual
mullock the highbrows sling at them.—
Charles Halbert (S.A.).


11 ■
HOW ARE
YOU TO-DAY?
Do you feel sufficiently fit to grapple with the
problems of the day? Do you possess that keen yet
cheerful nature which helps you through?
When feeling well you can face the position with much
more equanimity than the one who is handicapped by
indifferent health.
Remember the condition of the liver largely influences one’s
outlook on life. Therefore, th~ first essential is to keep the
liver and other organs of digestion in a regular condition, thus
ensuring the clear, balanced vision and active brain that are
so necessary to cope with the difficulties which are constantly
arising.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills enjoy an unrivalled reputation
as an everyday remedy. They stir the liver, act on the stomach,
and promote regular action of the bowels in a gentle yet
thorough manner.
DrMORSES
I
They Make You
Feel Brighter
A
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
I Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
I bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
1 rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/7-3- per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
an a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from the W. H. Comstock
-O . Ltd.. 23 Lang Street. Sydney. N.S.W.,
jr 6 Parish Street, Wellington N.Z.
3 rice 2/1 ner box (six boxes 12/-), post
tree.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO
WEEK'S ISSUE
AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
■
SEND “TH ULLETIN” TO
THE LADS RSEAS—
Special Concessio :
12 months .. 1
6 months . 8/-
3 months, 47-
post free.
...
'S.&O
*jy o°
e
\o
4
/
S e <s a
ilr
:
y'yss
*£*£J
(V 1 x a®’ a <
..*•* ..•• 4
•- -
..■■•-■ yU%&yt*


RATIONING
MANY HEW
POSITIONS
DIESEL
—1
■
%
V':
59
I
;
;Sp
ta-" - MSs
.
For several years now, the number of Diesel engines being installed has been
growing bigger and bigger each month as thousands of truck, bus and tractor
owners, power plants, mines, ships, etc., change to Diesel, the more economical
and more efficient engines. Now the war is making still more power users
Diesel-minded, for Diesel fuel is not only more economical but safer and
easier to transport when shipping space is restricted- The result is that there
are more positions for Diesel operators than there are trained men to fill them.
Why shouldn’t YOU have one of these jobs that bring you six, seven or
eight pounds a week? Don’t go on envying those who have a trade in which
there’s always plenty of well-paid work! Become a Diesel operator and you
will always be able to command higher pay yourself.
.
<4
GAN QUALIFY AS A
DIESEL OPERATOR IN YOUR
.SPARE TIME AT HOME
o
WHAT THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE HAS DONE FOR OTHERS
IT CAN DO FOR YOU
£9 PER WEEK AND KEEP
File No. 52. This student says in a letter dated
9j 1 j’4l: “I wish to thank the College for having
taught me so thoroughly, enabling me to pass
the Government Examination. This has enabled
me to obtain a very good position, which 1
would not otherwise have been able to apply
for, as a Diesel operator.”
GENEROUS INCREASE IN PAY
File No. 51. This student says in a letter to
the Chief Instructor of the College : “It is o wing
to your method of teaching that I have been
transferred to a better position at work, which
is working on Diesel trawlers and colliers. This
transfer naturally provided a generous increase
in pay.”
£7 PER WEEK
File No. 34a. Received his diploma seven
months after commencing training, and obtained
a position as Diesel operator at £7 per week.
Scores of other cases like these.
SYS'
iRNING DIESEL EA:
This College does not sell you a pile of textbooks and leave you
to wade through them, nor does it fill you up with a lot of compli-
cated mathematics. By a simple home-study course, the Diesel
Engineering College teaches you just what you need to know to
operate and service Diesel engines efficiently. As soon as you enrol,
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE, NO HIGH EDU-
CATIONAL STANDARD NEEDED
AND GET THIS FREE BOOKLET.
i
m
o
practical coaches take you in hand. You are guided step by step
with the aid of easily-followed instruction papers and diagrams.
Everything is made clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly
you become familiar with the workings of the Diesel. Many
students have qualified for positions in as short a period as four
months. The fees are low and payments easy.
RESULTS PROVE OUR TRAINING THE
SURE WAY TO SUCCESS IN DIESEL
A wonderful future lies ahead in Diesel engineering for ambitious
men who get in early with the proper training. But you must be
properly trained. The success of Diesel Engineering College students
at Government examinations tells its own story of the thoroughness
of training at this College.
rfiriuriiimii ■ «»«« m ir» » i > i a m»» » mmmii nmi imuin «s a »ia» »m»» m
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 2/7/Ml.
DIES E mm NGIN BERING C OLLEGE
