

PRESIDENT, A.R.C.S.: HER EXCELLENCY THE LADY COWRIE
PRESIDENT, N.S.W. DIVISION: THE LADY WAKEHURST
CHAIRMAN: MR. WILFRID E. JOHNSON
DEPUTY CHAIRMAN: ALDERMAN E. S. MARKS. C.B.E.
HON. TREASURER: MR. J. D. L. GADEN
SUPERINTENDENT: MR. H. L. PITT
TELEPHONE: BW 4519
fAis t
urir
m
-v .
N.S.W. DIVISI
fINCORPORATED)
APPEAL DEPARTMENT
BULL’S CHAMBERS
28 MARTIN PLACE
SYDNEY
9* Illy, 1941,
AN OPEN LETTER
TO EMPLOYERS AND EMPLOYEES IN INDUSTRY
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Recently I asked the whole of the Trades Union Executives of New
South Wales to join me in an expression of broad patriotism. The idea
was to establish a “Workers’ Penny-a-Week’ ’ contribution scheme for the
Red Cross, much on the lines of the phenomenally successful organisation
sponsored by the British Trades Union Congress Council, and now
embracing 3,000,000 workers in Great Britain.
The response by our Australian Trades Unions was really magnificent.
Not one Union opposed the plan; the great majority pledged their utmost
co-operation, and some of their executive committees, although I had not
asked them for a donation for the Red Cross, enclosed substantial cheques
with their promises of support.
“Test” letters sent out at the same time to a small list of names
selected from the thousands of employing firms in the metropolitan area
disclosed a ready willingness to facilitate the scheme—which is purely a
voluntary one —by allowing honorary collectors from among their employees
to manage the work of collecting.
With this gratifying demonstration of unity of purpose fresh in my
mind, I have no hesitation in urging all firms to set the seal of encourage-
ment on their employees’ efforts by themselves subscribing liberally to the
Red Cross Appeal. Our need is urgent!
We have been greatly heartened by the wonderful result of Red Cross
Day and the Queen Competition, but this is not enough. We need the
support of all Australians and are confident that Australians will respond
generously so that the great work may go on.
May we count on your direct donation and active co-operation?
Yours faithfully,
HON. DIRECTOR, RED CROSS APPEAL.
P.S.-—On behalf of the Red Cross Society I have to thank the Kensington Bowling Club, /
Kensington, N.S.W., for their valuable help in defraying the cost of the above space.-- '
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62. —No. 3204.
Wednesday, July 9, 1941.
From Murmansk to Suez
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Flease send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, o»
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin”
My Name
My Address
9.8. 341
Th e Red Page
A Master of Inconsistency.
About the only person who has been
egregiously mistaken in his prophecies
about the war or his programme for vic-
ory in it whom Mr. Douglas Reed fails
o attack in A Prophet at Home (Cape ;
Angus and Robertson) is, naturally
enough, Mr. Douglas Reed. Which, when
one recalls how utterly wrong Mr. Reed
ras been, is remarkably charitable of him.
Nowhere in his list of the “incorrigible
nabblers” whose wishful thinking brought
England to the verge of disaster is there
adequate criticism of a certain journalist
who, just before Hitler fell in full force
upon the French and British armies in
the spring of 1940, declared in a book
called Nemesis:
Hitler will not attack us in full force.
Do not believe the people who told you
that he would do this in the autumn of
1939; who now tell you that he will do it
in the spring of 1940; and who will tell
you, if he does not do it then, that he will
do it in the autumn of 1940. These voices
are criminally suspect; they are the voices
of armament rings, rabid for their profits.
Nor does Mr. Reed find it necessary to
examine the qualifications of that same
journalist as a political prophet in view
of his rather optimistic comments upon
the sinking of the Graf Spec:
From that moment Hitler is old news.
Long enough he has absorbed our thoughts.
The time is coming to consign him to an
upper shelf Italy, if she ever thought of
taking Germany’s side, probably changed
her mind that day.
Yet the author of those elegant extracts
was this same Mr. Douglas Reed who
dislikes “incorrigible babblers” so much.
In A Prophet at Home Mr. Reed wisely
abstains from prophecy and confines him-
self, for the most part, to attacking other
men who have been wrong; or men who
have done wrong to the extent of being
right where he was wrong. The villain
in chief is, of course, Chamberlain. That
he is gone to his account makes no differ-
ence to Mr. Reed. Such stuff as this,
besides being sickening, serves only to
show that Mr. Reed lacks the first essen-
tial of a political writer, balance:
Now for the first time I heard feeling
and emotion in his [Chamberlain’s] voice.
He was announcing his own resignation.
Mr. Reed dismisses all “excuses” for
Chamberlain with angry scorn. He will
not listen to those who say that, since
England was not ready for war, the
appeasement policy was the only possible
one, nor to those who blame Baldwin
and Ramsay MacDonald, Chamberlain’s
predecessors, for England’s unprepared-
ness, nor to those who would blame
Chamberlain’s aides and advisers for
trusting too much to France or for the
disaster in Norway. That is well enough,
if Mr. Reed is willing to maintain the
doctrine of the absolute responsibility of
any given statesman at all times for the
failure of his policies ; it might be a most
healthy doctrine. But how can Mr. Reed
blame Chamberlain, personally, for Nor-
way and then, giving to Mr, Churchill
the privilege of non-responsibility which
he denies the other man, declare:
Other masterstrokes, which might have
curtailed the 1914 war by years, were
spoiled by the obstruction and procrastina-
tion of short-sighted and jealous seniors.
They were the expedition to Antwerp,
which in its ill-preparedness and tardiness
strikingly resembled our tragic expedition
to Norway in the present war, and the
attempt to force the Dardanelles.
Mr. Reed is even more impressively
inconsistent over Britain’s \ attempt to
make a pact with Soviet Russia. For the
Soviet’s refusal to join the line-up against
Germany in 1939, Mr. Reed has not one
word of criticism, only a vicious attack on
Britain —because the leader of the British
mission had a hyphenated name!
Bringing his inconsistencies to the pitch
of bedlam, Mr. Reed declares on page
264:
Our diplomacy was not going the right
way to achieve what should be its vital
and paramount aim—to keep Russia and
Italy out of the war;
conveniently forgetting that on page 213,
talking about Finland, he had written:
Here was a chance for us unofficially to
intervene. We needed only to give the
Finns enough help to enable them to ward
the Russians off.
In other words, the way to win Stalin’s
support for the democracies was not to
send a diplomatic mission to Moscow to
ask for a pact, because Sir Reginald’s
hyphens were offensive, but to go un-
officially to war against the Soviet, which
wouldn’t have been at all offensive.
Come, come, Mr. Reed!
Too much of this sort of nonsense
becomes tiring, but, since Mr. Reed has
a very large following, it might be as
well to examine just one more of his
monumental inconsistencies. The matter
of Italy. On page 209 Mr. Reed
observes:
Now, to my creeping horror, 1 saw that
we were giving him [Hitler] back the ace
of trumps he had surrendered to us. We
were not doing all we could to make it
impossible for him yet to find the power-
ful ally, Italy or Russia.
This criticism—the failure of the British
Government to make advances to Musso-
lini to keep him out of the war —Mr.
Reed repeats at frequent intervals. But
listen to this blithe irresponsible on page
259:
Mussolini’s entry into the war did
surprise me. True, I had none of the
illusions of Mr. Chamberlain, who, in-
evitably, had declared six months before,
“The Italian genius has developed in the
characteristic Fascist institution a high
authoritarian regime which, however,
threatens neither religious nor economic
freedom nor the security of other nations.”
It was appalling, this incorrigible insin-
cerity and ignobility of thought which the
utterances of our leaders so repeatedly re-
vealed.
lii other words, Mr. Chamberlain’s duty
was to woo Mussolini to keep him out
of the war, but when Mr. Chamberlain
did do his duty and try a bit of soft-
soap on the Duce he was ignoble and
a fool.
By attacking everything under the sun
Reed must hit the target sometimes. But
Gresham’s Law applies in journalism as
well as in economics, and Reed’s bad
money will sooner or later drive his good
out of circulation.
A Modern Marco Polo.
Almost every place visited by Frank
Clune —All Aboard for Singapore (Angus
and Robertson) —has associations for me,
pleasant and unpleasant. But places he
whisked into, whisked out of per Qantas,
I didn’t. I had to stay there, willy-nilly,
not because I wanted to, but because I
blooming well had to. So I acquired
more than a speaking acquaintance with
all the most distinguished tropical dis-
eases and suffered long periods of acutest
boredom.
Mr. Clune moves so fast in his Qantas
that it would have taken a 1000-h.p. ano-
pheles mosquito to catch him. So he
didn’t have time to get malaria or black-
water. Consequently he doesn’t know
what it means to get poleaxed suddenly
in broad noonday, suffer rigors, lie in bed
as cold as ice though air burning, hear
strange symphonies, claps of thunder, see
indescribable visions, burst into perspira-
tion, wake up two days later feeling like
piece of chewed string. He doesn’t know
what tropics look like seen through jaun-
diced eyes of fever, disillusionment, and
what they look like seen through hopeful
eyes of convalescence.
Nor did he give himself time to be
afflicted by Singapore knee, Surabaya
elbow, Batavia eye, dhoby itch, other
horrors. Nor by tropical ennui either.
He will never know what the conversa-
tion of the charming people he met in
Dutch hotels, English clubs and messes
would have sounded like after 12 months
of it. Nor does he know that most of
the yarns he was told by these engaging
people have grown old in the service and
some of them date from the days of
John Company—not that that matters in
the slightest.
All this is a consequence of the age we
live in, which is pre-eminently the age of
flying, and even Mr. Clune’s style catches
the infection. He picks up words in
transit, imports them into his vocabulary,
modifies them to suit his requirements
and then forgets them and picks up
others. One of numerous examples:
After the inspection, Mr. Ong took me
to his bungalow and produced drinks and
ice. He informed me that ping ang, in
Chinese, means “good health” in our
slango. So we clinked glasses and ping
anged to Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek.
The fact that Mr. Clune is more often
than not 15,000 feet above his subject-
matter doesn’t deter him in the slightest.
He looks down from his Qantas, sees
something like an oyster or a starfish, asks
the pilot what it is and is told that it is
Boro Budur or Prambahan. He promptly
dips into the library he carries with him
—there is an extensive bibliography at
the end of the volume —looks up the
index and gives us a description of the
Hindu temple ruins of Java, their origin,
their destruction by the Moslems, their
rediscovery by Raffles—thirteen centuries
in thirteen paragraphs.
He has certain resemblances to Messer
Marco Polo as well as differences, and the
differences are not simply due to charac-
ter and attainments. They are the joint
product of himself and his conditions.
He is a sharp observer, likes everything
he sees and all sorts of people, accepts the
established order, but doesn’t bother to
make judgments and is nothing if not
breezy. But his conditions are against
him taking anything but a bird-of-
passage’s viewpoint.
When Marco started on his celebrated
tour of Asia he was a youth of 21, and
when he returned to Venice he was 50.
When Frank Clune stepped into the
Qantas airliner Cleopatra floating on the
waters of Rose Bay, Sydney, he was
47, and when he stepped ashore from the
GA-DHM Castor once again in Sydney
Harbor he was 21 days older. If Marco
had been able to whizz from Venice to
Peking and back in three weeks he would
certainly have done so, as he was a com-
mercial traveller and speed was the
essence of the contract.
If there had been aerodromes in Peking
Marco would have sent the proceeds
of his transactions by telegraphic transfer
to his bank in Venice and whizzed back
there in a jiffy. But when he got away
after years of waiting it was in a Mon-
gol armada with bands playing and flags
flying. So he had to hang about the
Court for months on end, no doubt bored
to distraction. Out of his boredom came
his remarkable description of a Court so
much more rich, ornate and splendid and
a civilisation so much more organised
and scientific than anything in Europe
that his narrative subsequently got him
the reputation of being the biggest liar
in Christendom, though the only lies in
his story were the furphies about two-
headed men, flying whales and ducks
that grew on trees, which were common
gossip in his homeland and which he put
in to flatter the prejudices about foreign
countries of his own townsfolk.
If the vicissitudes of travel had caused
Frank Clune to be stuck in Timor, Java,
Singapore and Malacca as long as Marco
he might have written as good a book
as the Venetian, for everything stimu-
lates his interest, from the internal
mechanism of a Qantas to geographical
conventions. Says he:
Seeking to know whether Capricorn is
a fixture like the Equator or as movable as
a floating kidney, I wrote after my return
to Sydney to the Queensland Surveyor-
General asking for the case-history of the
Capricornian Line. He replied very cour-
teously: “The Tropic of Capricorn is in
latitude 23deg. 26min. 49sec. at present. This
value is dependent upon the obliquity of
the ecliptic, which is a variable quantity.
However, the change is slow, and one
thousand years from now the tropic will be
in latitude 23deg. 15min.” So time ticks
on and tropics totter.
How like Marco Polo! And this is
even more so:
The Sultan of Johore is noted for his
hospitality and has welcomed many
crowned and nearly-crowned heads to his
kingdom. Not long ago a titled English
lady, who was visiting Johore, expressed a
desire to swim in the sea. The Strait of
Johore is infested with sharks, so the chival-
rous Sultan ordered one thousand men of
his army to link hands and form a human
sharkproof enclosure in which the lady
visitor blithely bathed. That’s what I’d
call hospitality!
He goes to Klang and notes that in
the mosque the modern Moslems of
Malaya have installed a loudspeaker to
amplify the muezzin, and have placed it
only halfway up the tower to save both
his voice and the feet of the Apostle of
the Prophet.
But wings are the dominant note of his
story. They whirr through every chap-
ter. He meets Australian Air Force men
in Darwin, Java, Singapore and Kuala
Lumpur ; dines with squadron-leaders and
pilots, and drops in biographies of the
most distinguished ; interviews Air Chief-
Marshal Sir Robert Brooke-Popham and
asks him disconcerting questions with
such naive directness that he gets surpris-
ingly direct answers ; castigates the Aus-
tralian Government for issuing men with
canteen orders which were like unsigned
lOUs to Singapore shopkeepers; takes
a trip in a tank and dines with an air
commodore: “The moon was full, and
so was I. The monsoon from Mandalay
was not monsooning ; the air was balmy,
and so was I. Thanks, Commodore! 11l
do the same for you when you come to
Sydney, with knobs on.”
Frank Clune, in short, is a portent of
the traveller-writer of that future when
every commercially-important part of the
world is linked by airways and all that
lies between will become only of aca-
demic interest or be lost and forgotten
and buried in the jungle. Then it will
have to be rediscovered by some new
Marco Polo.
FENG-SHUI.
Essays by Llewelyn Powys .
Perhaps because essays are the product
of the reflective mind and life goes too
fast now for anybody to “sit one hour
in the sun,” as Llewelyn Powys puts it,
the essayist is a rare bird these days.
And such an essayist as Llewelyn Powys,
with his beautifully cadenced prose, his
calm and happy philosophy of worship
of earth and sun, and his profoundly
original mind, is rare among the rare
birds.
Just as it’s difficult to conceive of any
other contemporary writer who, discuss-
ing seagulls, would be reminded by their
cries of the Crucifixion, so is it difficult
to think of any other writer who could
have embodied the thought in such ex-
quisite prose: —
It is remarkable if you live near the sea
in Dorset to listen to the herring gulls at
the hour before dawn, shattering with their
wild wilful living cries the august stillness
of the downs. It is a sound that compete
the imagination to escape from its contem-
poraneous limitations. These ancestral,
pterodactyl voices, belonging, it might seem,
to a maniac pack of flying hell-hounds,
shock the mind into a remembrance of the
planet’s long travail, a travail that was
taking place for inconceivable ages before
our moment of time, and that will continue
■ for inconceivable ages after we are dust.
As the veil of the temple was awfully rent
asunder on the evening of the crucifixion,
so do these outlandish cries rend asunder
the grey clouds of the morning’s firma-
ment. They resound against the huge bas-
tions of the chalk cliffs, they twang
abruptly through the twigs of each wind-
combed thorn-edge. If you are out on the
hills at this early hour the first few sea-
fowl to pass over your head will appear
black as ravens against the sky. It is only
as it grows lighter that their white ventral
feathers can be discovered, though later, as
they come to settle upon the green ground
in the broad daylight, the white plumage
of their heads and bodies arrests the atten-
tion as do patches of lingering snow in
February.
Llewelyn, the youngest of the three
Powys family writers, died early this
year. The quotation comes from an
essay in A Baker's Dozen (Bodley Head),
a cluster of slight essays reprinted from
various newspapers. In the group-
writings of the Powyses (which, like the
very different writings of the three Sit-
wells, seem the products of a single
family-genius, divided into three major
talents) Llewelyn’s output has been a
sort of privileged slightness, relying for
authority on the weightier contributions
of his brothers. These last essays, some
of them no more than conventional pieces
on “Christmas,” “New Year” and the
like, rather strain his privilege on the
whole; but there are three or four little
masterpieces among the baker’s dozen.
“Herring Gulls,” from which the quo-
tation is taken, is a gem ; so, too, are
“The Village Shop” and “Montacute
Hill” ; and “Buffalo Intruders,” which, as
much a short story as an essay, takes
Powys away from his favorite Dorset
and Somerset to a brother’s farm in
Africa and which, describing how two
wild buffaloes joined a herd of bullocks
for company, is a fine tragedy “writ
small.”
One further paragraph from “Herring
Gulls” will show how these essays are
made:
Down at Lulworth Cove there is a
notable old fisherman named Levi Miller
who seldom goes out in his boat without
a pair of herring gulls settling on the gun-
wale “to hollo for the guts” of the fish
he catches. On one occasion these birds
fought so desperately over the head of a
pilchard that the old man feared they
would kill each other and, leaving his pots
and his oars, went to separate them, pulling
them apart by their webbed feet as a market
woman might separate a couple of trucu-
lent barnyard cocks.
They’re made, that is to say, out of fine
prose, reference back to the living past,
local associations, and, of course, out of
country incidents, grim, charming or
humorous. Over most of them lies the
light of reminiscence.
Here and there, as in a couple of
harvest-pieces, they are overwritten to
the verge of sentimentality. But against
that there are such superb oddities of
humor and realism as this epitaph quoted
from a stone in the Montacute church-
yard :
Here lies John Scott!
It was his lot
A huntsman bold to be.
He loved his can
Like any man,
And drank like a fish of the sea.
On this “disreputable stone,” says Powys,
there was added by order of one of the
Bishops of Bath and Wells:
And now, God wot,
He has got his lot.
The Aerodrome: Rex Warner (Bodley
Head). Sub-titled, presumably in a
satirical mood, “a love story.’ More
accurately a melodrama for moderns.
Told with an intensity that compensates
for the wildly melodramatic nature of
its plot and happenings.
Canadian Occasions: John Buchan
(Hodder and Stoughton). Speeches by
Buchan when, as Lord Tweedsmuir, he
was Governor-General of Canada. Most,
though enlivened with humor, are the
vaguely uplifting platitudes a G.G. has
to spout. One or two good ones on
democracy and an excellent one remind-
ing the admirers of “new” writing that
there were gentlemen called Euripides,
Dante, Shakspeare and Wordsworth.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act. “THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Famous Low Prices
SPECIAL SELLING OF MEN'S QUALITY MERCERY
m
mm
<* O;
A
ox^
22/6 Cardigans, Now 176
These smart Cardigans are available
in fancy check and jacquard designs
in Blue, Grey and Brown tonings.
Made from knitted all wool in V neck
style. Size, 36 to 40 inch chest. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price 22/6
Special Price 17/6
m
8/6 Workshirts, Now 7*ll
Made in our own workrooms which
ensures a full cut allowing for free-
dom of movement. British Blue
Oxford Shirt with collar and pocket
attached. Will launder and wear
marvellously. Size, to 18 inch
neck. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price
Special Price
, 8/6
7/11
«V
m
H
m
mfm
m
m;.
m
mi
m
m
m
/'s
SS«
m*.
m
m
mu
22/6 Lumber Jackets, 18 7 6
A Lumber Jacket that will provide you
with ample cosy warmth for winter
days. They are of knitted all wool
with turn down step collar, buttoning
to neck. Fancy Jacquard designs on
Blue Grey, Mid Grey, and Fawn Marl.
Size, 36 to 40 inch chest. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price 22/6
Special Price 18/6
• Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
FOR COLD WINTER NIGHTS
m
v
TWW
m
ffl
Hili
BUY »»dHOLD
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
18/6 Men's Pyjamas, Now
Men's Cepea Serge Pyjamas, heavy twill cotton,
colourful striped designs, sguare or sports collars.
Sizes, S.M., M., O.S. Regular Price 18/6
Special Price 17/6
'Phone; M 2401 day or night.
LISTEN TO ANTHONY HORDERNS'
"MAN ON THE LAND" SESSION—2UW
Save On
Socks!
m
2/11 Half Hose, Now 2'B
Men's Fancy Cashmere Half-Hose . . . the
famous "Hordura" make. Made of all wool
except ornament in a large range of latest
check designs on Navy, Grey, Fawn and Brown
grounds. Size, 10 to 12 inches. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price 2/11
Special Price
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


OUT OFTHE
PAST
PINCHGUT.
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
““["HERE’S one thing I’ll tell ye, Mister Jack
Ketch,” announced Red Malone to his com-
* panion on the islet, “an’ tell ye fair an’
straight. There’s but a single spring o’ water
on this rock, and ’tis meself is goin’ to be campin’
by it. I don’t want ye near me, so ye’ll do wid what
drinkin’ ye can get out o’ the leaves o’ the trees an’
the scrub—the joo drops. Ye may ate y’r salt
horse, but ye’ll have naught to drink while ye’re
on this bit o’ rock—unless ye drink out o’ Port
Jackson. The water’s mine, an’ ye’ll not sniff a smell
of it. Sure, ye’d poison anny pool ye was to dip y’r
ugly mug into. So that’s what it is. I’ll kill ye stone
dead if ye come nigh the spring.”
Red Malone and his unpleasant-looking com-
panion in misfortune and exile had stepped out of the
Provost Marshal’s boat on to a little sandy beach at
the base of the pyramidal hill in the harbor which the
convicts had named “Pinchgut,” and were seated on the
sandstone on the island’s south-western coast, gazing
over Benelong’s Point to where the thin blue smoke of
the evening cooking fires rose above the encampment
behind Sydney Cove. The shackles of their leg-irons,
each riveted ring round their lower shinbones padded
with rags and ti-tree bark above sun-tanned ankles,
rested on the sands between their shoeless feet, and
they leaned forward, with gnarled hands on knees,
gazing across the shining waters towards the civilisa-
tion from which they had been evicted.
It wasn’t much of a civilisation, but there was
nothing nearer they knew of than Capetown in
Table Bay. Their meagre rations were in two bundles
lying between their feet—half-scale issues from the
Commissariat Stores of hard and musty salt pork, a
little weevily flour, and a modicum of mouldy rice.
That was to last them during the seven days they
were to spend out in the middle of the harbor as
expiation for a bout of drunkenness. Truebody had
found a keg of rum at the mouth of the little creek
running into the Cove, and Malone had found True-
body finding it. They had carried it up on The
Rocks, instead of to the main guard.
Red Malone was a large and muscular Irishman
with a facial aspect not unpleasing, but his fellow-
exile’s appearance was repellent.
Jeremiah Truebody, the official “finisher” of the
little settlement that was the headquarters of Austra-
lian government, was indeed an ill-looking dog. He
was thin and round-shouldered, with a death’s-head
cast of countenance, a slinking, furtive manner and a
bearing of ashamed apology for his own existence.
The disgust and wrath of Terence Malone when he
learned he was to endure seven days of such com-
pany on Pinchgut was so pathetic as to move the ser-
geant of the guard on duty at the court to an expres-
sion of sympathy.
“ ’Tis a shame, Malone me man, for to put ye
across the water with that thing. I’d sooner see ye
get four dozen at the halberds than undergo a week
o’ his company. Be careful an’ don’t kill him, Terence.
I’d not be wantin’ fer to see y’r good self gibbeted
like Morgan on the top o’ the rock ye’re going to.
Give him one side o’ the hisland, an’ you take t’other
one. ’Tis all ye’ll be able to do to save y’rself from
destroyin’ the brute. He’s not fit company for one
o’ these heathen blackfellies, so he ain’t!”
Now Malone rose to his feet and hitched up the
leathern thong attaching the connecting chain of his
irons to his belt as he turned to contemplate the
island. Behind him the waters of the harbor glowed
with the hues of sunset, and the birds were begin-
ning to roost in the trees above.
High on the topmost point of the little island,
hanging on a black gibbet—they hung there for years —
were the mortal remains of Frank Morgan. In the
October of 1796 a Criminal Court had passed sentence
of death upon no fewer than eight persons, who were
duly executed. The Court felt it incumbent upon
itself to make the last dread effects of the law a little
more remarkable for Mr, Morgan than for the others.
He had brutally murdered a fellow-prisoner for half
a bottle of rum, and his judges felt that so small a
quantity of grog was not sufficient excuse for homi-
cide. So the Court ordered that Francis Morgan
should be hung in chains upon the small island which
is situated in the middle of the harbor. A gibbet was
erected, and he was placed thereon, exhibiting an
object of much greater terror to the natives than to
the white people, many of whom were inclined to
make a jest of it.
“Ye see Frank up there?” shouted Malone.
“Well, ’tis y’rself shall go up there an’ kape him com-
p’ny—for ’twas you that put him there. Up wid ye,
now, Jerry Truebody, an’ pass the pore fellie ‘good
evenin’,’ an’ ask him how he likes his sittyation. Tis
the civil thing to do, an’ ’tis Terence Malone will see
ye does be doin’ it. Up wid ye this blessed minute!”
He drove the snarling but terrified hangman up
through the scrub to the top of the hillock until, in
the brief twilight, they stood beside the gibbet. The
densely forested hills up the harbor —Goat Island,
Ball’s Head and Cockatoo —were black against the
red afterglow, and the shrivelled corpse in the frame of
ironwork in which it had been encased for its better
preservation hung still and ghastly against the back-
ground of glowing waters stretching westward. Malone
hit the whimpering wretch across the face with his
open hand, and the man fell over on to his knees,
cursing weakly.
“You let me be, Malone,” he cried. “You let
me be. I ain’t done you no ’arm.”
“I’ll let ye be, ye scum,” shouted the big Irish-
man. “I’ll let ye be, right enough. Ye’re goin’ to
stop here, to keep Frank Morgan comp’ny, all the
time we’re on the island. Here’s y’r rations, an’ don’t
ye lave this spot. Ye put him up there, an’ ye’ll stay
wid him. Ye’re his nat’ral mate, so ye are, an’ ye’ll
save the pore fellie from loneliness. Stay there, now,
an’ don’t lave him. If ye do, I’ll thump the guts out
o’ ye!”
Malone stumbled down through the scrub to the
little beach on which the Provost’s men had deposited
them and stretched out on the sand. Darkness de-
scended on the harbor, and the last he heard was the
faint and far-off shout of a sentry over in the settle-
ment: “Nine o’clock —an’ art’s well —an’ a fine night!”
OVER the long barrier of sandstone stretching
between Bondi and South Head the yellow dawn
lit the wide stretch of water between the island and
Watson’s Bay as Terence rose from his sandy bed
and stretched powerful arms above his head whilst
he yawned prodigiously and noisily. The twin hills of
Garden Island —the southern one was levelled down
ninety years afterwards when the place became a
naval dockyard—densely wooded and picturesque, re-
flected themselves in the glassy surface of Port Jack-
son, and further off Clark and Shark islands broke the
mirror-like evenness of the long reach of waters.
Only from the settlement at the top of Sydney Cove
came a few faint sounds of civilisation —the chop-
ping of firewood and the distant shouts of overseers
turning out their gangs for the day’s work ahead of
them. The blue smoke of the cooking fires curled
thinly up into the fresh clearness of the early-morning
sky above the scrub on Benelong’s Paint. Over the
waters came an aromatic whiff of burning eucalyptus.
“Good mornin’, Sydney Town,” muttered Red
Malone. “I wonder how me mate has passed the
night, bad luck to him! I’ll go up an’ see. Twill
give me an appetite for me breakfast.”
He climbed the steep slope through the scrub to
the foot of the gibbet, and as he came in sight of that
hideous milestone of civilisation stopped dead and
whistled in astonishment. To the projecting arm of
the gaunt timber upright supporting the shrivelled
remains of Mr. Morgan the late executioner was sus-
pended round the neck by his belt, with his loosened
trousers hanging about his knees.
“Stiffen me sowl!” said Red Malone. “The
bloody pair of ’em! Now, good luck to ye, Jerry
Truebody. Tis the best stretchin’ ever ye done. I’m
greatly obliged to ye. I’d no taste for y’r comp’ny.”
But suddenly he checked himself. An expression
of apprehension came over the big Irishman’s simple
countenance as a grim throught struck into his mind.
“My God!” he muttered fearfully. “They’ll be
a-thinkin’ ’twas me done him in, an’ put him up there
wid Frankie Morgan. Holy wars! Tis worse trouble
than ever. There’s one thing—he’ll not be wantin’ his
rations, so I’d best get ’em. They’ll be cornin’ off in
a boat for to see the meanin’ o’ t’other fellie on the
gibbet, so they will, an’ ’twould be more comfortable
like to meet ’em wid a full belly.”
Then he returned to the little beach with the dead
man’s bundle of provisions, sat down on a rock
and made a hearty meal.
OOR an hour or more Malone sat there, staring
1 across the shining waters at the little camp amid
the trees behind Sydney Cove, and he watched
anxiously the extremity of Benelong’s Point for the
guard-boat he expected at any time. Someone must
have noticed the two corpses swinging
where only one had swung the day before,
and investigation from headquarters was
a certainty. It wouldn’t be long before
the Provost Marshal or some of his men
came off to the island to find out what
the second body meant,
“Sure, there’s no one’ll not belave
I haven’t killed him for his rations,” he
murmured disconsolately to himself.
“An’ they’ll take an’ scrag me, too. Tis
the warst o’ bad luck for ye, Terence
me bhoy—the very warst,” he muttered
to himself.
The day warmed as the sun climbed into a cloud-
less sky, and still Malone sat there, his hands on his
knees, staring over the sparkling blue waters towards
the point round which he expected the six-oared
guard-boat to come into sight. It was nearly ten
o’clock before it made its appearance off the low
bluff, heading for the island, and when he saw it he
stood up with a sigh. “Ah, well,- Terence me lad —
you’re for it, an’ God help ye! ’Tis crool hard, so
it is. But no one will belave a worrud ye say, an’
ye’re as good as hanged. Twan’t be long now.”
Mr. Henry Brewer, midshipman in H.M.S. Sirius
and now Provost Marshal of New South Wales by
special appointment made by his Excellency the
Governor, stood up in the sternsheets of the boat as
it approached the island and beheld the gaunt figure
of Red Malone as he stood on the little beach await-
ing his fate. s
“Way enough,” he cried to the oarsmen, and the
boat came gurgling into the beach. “Stand by, bow
man.”
The boat’s nose grated gently on the beach, and
Mr. Brewer scrambled forward between the oarsmen
and jumped from the bows down on to the yellow
strip of sand in the tiny bay below the rocks. He
stood for a moment or two without speaking, staring
at the tall, unkempt figure of the manacled convict
who confronted him sheepishly.
Presently he greeted him pleasantly enough.
“Good morning, Malone,” he said. “And what the
devil does this mean?”
“What’s that, sorr?” replied Malone.
“Why —up there, on top of the island. There
was only one dead man there yester even, and now
there are two. What’s it mean? Is that Truebody’s
carcass hanging up there?”
Malone nodded sorrowfully. “ ’Tis Truebody,
right enough, sorr. I found him there at daylight
this morning.”
“Found him there! How d’ye mean found him?
Didn’t you put him up there yourself? Egad, I think
I’d have done so if I’d found myself sharing this
rock with Mr. Truebody. I’d not blame ye for a
moment, my man. ’Tis the only place he’s fit for.
Come, now —how did this happen?”
With dramatic exaggeration, the big Irishman, his
looped-up irons rattling incongruously, came down
on his knees in the sand, his hands clasped together
in front of him, in every aspect of abject pleading.
“Oh, Misther Brewer, sorr,” he cried, “I shwear to
God I done nothing to Jerry Truebody, hiven rist his
sowl. I niver laid finger on him, sorr. He’s up an’
hanged himself alongside o’ Frankie Morgan whoile
I was aslape, y’r ’anner. That’s what he’s done, so
it is. Will ye not belave me, sorr? I done nothing
to him. Nothing at arl. He’s done it for to spite me,
so he has.”
Mr. Brewer glanced up at the grisly decoration
of the islet’s top and turned to his coxswain. “Hardy,”
he said, “take a couple of men and bring down the
body. We’ll have to take it ashore. As for you,
Malone, ye’ll be charged with murdering him. Isn’t
that his bundle of provisions lying on the sand behind
you there?”
“Sure, that’s thim, sorr. Twas no good for to
waste ’em, I ses to mesilf when I found what Jerry
had done on me. He wouldn’t be wantin’ ’em, sorr,
an’ ’twould be a pity to let the gulls have ’em. I
niver done him in, Misther Brewer, sorr, as God’s me
witness. Will ye not belave me, sorr?”
“We’ll have to leave others to decide that. It’s
my duty to take you back to the camp and charge you
with Truebody’s murder. That’s all there’s to be
done in the matter. I’m sorry for you, but I can do
nothing else.”
So presently, with the unlovely remains of
Jeremiah Truebody lying in the bottom of the boat,
Mr. Brewer’s expedition of investigation returned into
Sydney Cove.
AS he stepped ashore near the mouth of the Tank
Stream, the Provost Marshal heard his name called
from a little way up the eastern side of the rivulet,
and realised that he was being hailed from a small
group of officers standing by the waterside. It was
the Governor who had called out.
“Well, Mr. Brewer,” said Phillip, “and pray what
is the meaning of the spectacle on the island? Have
you discovered some explanation of so strange a
sight?”
“We found Truebody’s corpse hanging by the
neck from the arrh of the gibbet, your Excellency.
And this man, Malone, was waiting for us on the
beach.”
“Can he explain the circumstance?”
“If your Excellency pleases, he says that he found
Truebody hanging up there when day broke this morn-
ing. That’s as may be, of course, sir. Tis my own
o Continued on next page.)


opinion that Malone himself hung the man up there.
At any rate, I have arrested him, sir, and intend
charging him lt seems to me that he
killed the other man in order to obtain his allowance
of rations. Indeed, we found them close beside him
when we landed on the island. That’s all there is to
be told, sir.”
Governor Phillip looked pityingly at the tall,
gaunt scarecrow with the dangling shackles between
his knees, and spoke to him gently. “Well, Malone
—you heard that? What have you to say then?
’Tis a serious matter, my man, and you’d better make
a clean breast of it. Did you kill this man True-
body?”
Wringing his hands imploringly, the big Irishman
made as though to flop on his knees again, but one
of the Provost Marshal’s men kicked him heartily
behind. “None o’ that, now,” he growled. “None
o’ that ’ere!”
“Speak up, Malone,” interjected Mr. Brewer.
“Answer his Excellency, can’t you?”
“Be me mother’s sowl, sorr, I niver done nothing
to him. I went to slape on the sands, an’ when I
woke there he was. He must ha’ done it himself,
Cap’n Phillip, sorr. I shwear I niver laid hand on
him, sorr.”
But there came an interruption to this queer in-
quest. One of the boat’s crew who had been assisting
to lift Truebody’s body ashore made a loud explana-
tion of surprise. “Lookee, zur —zee what I’ve found.”
The man held up a soiled playing card which had
dropped on the beach as they lifted the corpse from
the boat. Mr. Brewer took it from him, and handed
it to the Governor.
Scrawled across the dingy surface of the ace of
hearts were the words in laboriously printed capitals:
“I DONE IT MYSELF. GOOD-BYE AND BLAST
YE. J. TRUEBODY.”
“Malone,” said the Governor, “you’re a lucky
man. You’d better go back to the island and meditate
on your good fortune for the rest of the week. And
after that you shall have his job as hangman. Should
be sufficient punishment for you, I warrant.”
“Thankee, sorr!” said Red Malone, half grate-
fully, half sorrowfully. “Thankee, sorr!”
A Striking Brief Short Story by VANCE PALMER
JOSIE
IT was drowsy in school that afternoon. We woke
up only when the teacher stopped talking and
went out on to the verandah to speak to a boy
who had ridden up on a bicycle. Those who
could see from the back seats said it was young Paton,
who worked in the brickfields near the station. Young
Paton, Josie’s brother! There was a buzz of whis-
pering, a scuffle among the class standing around the
blackboard, all wanting to get a look out of the
window. No one was tall enough without standing on
the teacher’s chair.
When he came back he had taken off his spec-
tacles, and his eyes had the pale, uneasy look we
always noticed in them when the inspector was about
or someone’s father was coming to speak to him.
“You can go back to your seats,” he said to the
class on the floor. And then, rapping with his cane
on the table and calling for silence, he began in a
queer voice that seemed to come from the back of
his throat: “I have some sad news for you, children.
Death—-it is a solemn thought—has visited our little
community for the first time since this school was
opened. You will be grieved to hear that your little
playmate, Josie Paton, passed away this morning.
There will be no more school this afternoon. Those
of you who haven’t had your homework already set
can leave it till Monday.”
There had never been such quiet in the school
before. No one wanted to move ; no one wanted to
look around. Even the small children in the front
desks sat as still as if they were holding their breath
to listen to the clock tick. We had nearly forgotten
about Josie. She had been taken off to the hospital
in the township three weeks before because the nurse
said there was no room for anyone sick down at
Paton’s. She would be away till the next holidays,
they told us.
It wasn’t till we had out and were get-
ting our bags from the hooks on the verandah that
our voices came back, and then only in whispers.
“It’s dip. The nurse said it was dip.”
“She never. She on’y said it might be.”
“They can’t tell at first. You get a sore throat
and then it swells.”
“I know. It swells till you can’t swaller, and then
you choke.”
“Dip! It ain’t catching, is it?”
“Not catching? 00, listen ; he says it ain’t catch-
ing ! ”
C VERYONE wanted to go past Paton’s on the way
*—'home, yet not to go too near. There it stood by
the edge of the railway, a little, slab-sided place, with
no gutters on the tin roof and a chimney half-brick
and half-wood. There was a dogleg fence around it
and a pepper-tree drooping over the woodheap. There
was no garden. Paton was a ganger on the line, and
grew his vegetables on a patch inside the wires, like
the other navvies. They brought home sacks of them
when they came from work. And they all lived in
bare little houses like this one of Paton’s, with no pad-
docks or yards, though usually there were a few
spindly lemon- or peach-trees at the back.
Most of us had passed the place that morning,
but now a change had come over it. It had grown
quiet and strange ; even the fowls, rooting in the dust,
looked as if they might know something we didn’t.
An axe stood fixed in the chopping block near the
door. The broken shutter over the front window
seemed like a squinting eye.
Though the place was shut up, we had a feeling
that Josie was somewhere inside. Lurking there as
she had a way of doing under the school verandah
when the teacher had given her leave to go out. How
well we remembered her sitting in the sand, letting
handfuls of it filter through her
fingers as she hunted for the lion ants
that squatted at the bottom of their
little pits, and ready to make a face
at anyone who caught her.
“Where’s Josie Paton?” the
teacher was always asking. “Didn’t
she answer the roll this morning?”
And one of us would be sent out to
look for her.
No one had ever liked Josie very
much. There was her moony look,
her way of cleaning her slate with
her tongue, the silly grin she always
gave when she was found picking at
the lunch in other girls’ bags. Often
there was a fight about sitting next to
her in class. They said she had things
in her hair. And more than once she
had had ringworm.
But it seemed wicked to think of
all that now. Josie would be lying
still and cold in her room at the hos-
pital, her eyes closed and her face
turned to wax. Yet not all of her
would be there. That was what made you feel uneasy
in thinking about her. When anyone died, they said,
the spirit was set free. And Josie’s might be some-
where about, able to overhear not only what you said,
but what you thought. It might be in the housq,
this spirit; it might be flickering about through the
air like a yellow butterfly. There was something
creepy about the Batons’ place, with the broken shutter
giving it a watching look, and the fowls staring one-
eyed at the closed door.
A LL that afternoon the thought of having to die
clung to us as we played about the cowsheds and
down by the creek. Never before had it come so
near, though we had all heard about Bob Sheddan,
the butcher’s offsider. He had been frightening to
meet when he was drunk, his eyes all bloodshot and
his horse dancing around as he laid about him with
his whip, cutting the cattle coming out of the rail-
way trucks. But they said that before he hit the
ground he had muttered “God be merciful to me a
sinner,” and that had saved him in the end.
“God be merciful to me a sinner!” For months
afterwards we had been haunted by the words, won-
dering fearfully whether we would have time to get
them out if the worst happened. They were always on
the tip of our tongues; they came back to us every
night before our eyes closed ; sometimes we gabbled
them beneath our breath when we were running to
take off from the high bank at the swimming-hole or
preparing for a jump from the leaning tree behind
the school. And they were in the air around us now
as we trailed round the paddocks, waiting for the long
afternoon to pass, waiting for it to be time to bring
in the cows and get ready for tea. There seemed
so many ways in which death might trip you up.
Every black, snaky-looking stick in the grass made
your heart jump; the sleepy draught-horses by the bails
looked as if they might lash out suddenly and catch
you in the stomach.
Overhead, when you lay in. the grass, the sky
seemed empty and far away. Eternity? What did it
mean? Was there really another life that went on
for ever and ever, without change? And would there
be a meeting-place where you could find your family
and the people you knew, or was there a risk of
being left wandering by yourself as you sometimes
were in dreams? If you tried to think about it you
felt the world flowing away from you: you were left
in some soundless place where you were cold, fright-
ened and hopelessly lost.
And that was not the worst. There were the
woodcuts in the illustrated Bible with the red cover
—a world grey-black instead of dazzling white. Wicked
people sitting on thunderclouds adrift in space ; pits
of darkness you looked down upon from the peaks
of bare mountains ; hordes of grinning figures with
the wings of bats and the feet of goats.
They did not bear thinking about, those pictures.
No, you would lie awake all night listening for sounds
in the dark if you kept thinking of them. It was better
to rush about heedlessly, jumping over every patch
of grass where a snake might lie hidden, giving the
heels of the draught-horses a wide berth, and keeping
the magic words ready on your tongue: “God be
merciful to me a sinner!”
That evening, when tea was finished. Mother
called us out to look at the sky. It was filled with
small clouds the color of tinned salmon, massed to-
gether lightly like plucked feathers, but parted in the
middle to leave a path of pearly blue. Far, far away
into another world that path took you. The sun had
just set, and there was a gentle look about everything
—the cropped paddocks, the cows lying by their
penned calves, the soft trees touched with gold.
No one wanted to speak. We were thinking of
Josie —Josie squatting in the dust under the school
steps ; Josie letting the spit run down her slate in
class ; Josie lying now, white as wax, her hands folded
on her chest, in a room that smelt of lilies.
And above were the soft clouds, parted in a
pearly-blue opening, as if they had been brushed aside
by a feather, letting the faint stars show through.
Beautiful, it looked, shedding an awe upon the heart.
It was the path. Mother said, made by the angels’
wings as they carried Josie up to heaven.
We felt sad and tender about Josie. We were
glad the angels didn’t know as much about her as
we did.
“I'll take these”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
j'Juc’d mne <yf ’utfie mellcuTicJSandMmquef;
Seppelt's
GREENHITHE IN 1825
When the historian of the future comes to describe in detail the war resulting from Nazi bid for world domination, he will, in referring to attacks on
London, frequently employ a phrase which came, at the time, to possess a sinister familiarity, “Enemy ’planes swept over the estuary of the Thames.”
Five miles up the river from Gravesend, popularly regarded as the mouth of the Thames, is situated the township of Greenhithe, where are located immense
chalk pits, the cliffs from whence it is dug rising perpendicularly from the river 100 to 150 feet. The cement works earned for Greenhithe and its neighboring
township, Northfleet, to quote a local chronicler, the reputation of being “Perpetually enveloped in a cloud of white smoke, floating over the river in great
wreaths, so that Tilbury and Gravesend, lying only a brief distance away, are in some states of weather completely hidden from sight.” This condition
would possibly be described as an element of defence from enemy aerial raiders. Greenhithe in the last 100 years has, externally, not greatly changed. What it
will be like a century hence is another question. Its wharves for shipment of chalk will be modernised, so, too, methods of sea transport, but in broad
outlines Greenhithe will be as early pioneers to Australia saw it, and their descendants who have since sailed up the river recall it. This Greenhithe is
a portion of Swanscombe parish, which in times long past belonged to the nuns of Dartford. Among its buildings of more than passing fame is Stone
Church, said to have been designed by the architect of Westminster Abbey. Be this as it may, the work is beautiful and elaborate enough in some parts
to suggest close kinship with that great edifice. This venerable structure has been visited for almost centuries by architects. Greenhithe is one of the
lesser-known “points” on the lower reaches of the Thames, but one whose roots go far down into the soil on which the British race has been nurtured.


HEARTBEATS.
“We cannot join the Red Army, hut the heart of a Red soldier must beat in every Australian breast.”— “State Labor” blitherer at a Sydney Domain meeting.
“Doesn’t the sight of this flag make your heart beat faster, comrade?”
“No; but the sight of my own flag does.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
?. H. Prior David Adams
HEAjI» OFbiCE: 252 Georg: Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone B7*/l.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
Id. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
FROM MURMANSK TO SUEZ.
The German war on Russia has all the features with
which the world has become dreadfully familiar.
There has been concentration of superior forces —
superior in machine strength, if not in numbers —on
vital points of the long line, which stretches from the
Arctic to the Black Sea. There has been a break-
through in at least one region, followed by the rolling-
up of vast masses of defenders. There have been
swift advances of mechanised divisions, huge mopping-
up operations, incessant combats in the air and, of
course, constant and ruthless bombing, not only of the
Red Army and military points innumerable, but of
towns and cities from Murmansk to Odessa. Of the
sufferings of civilians little has been said, but on this
point imagination can all too easily fill in the gaps in
the official narratives. Beyond doubt the horrors
which attended the invasions of Poland, the Nether-
lands, Belgium and France have been repeated in
Russia on a hideous scale, and it has been beyond the
capacity of the Russian Air Force to avenge the
victims and save other towns and cities by making
effective counter-raids.
The early bulletins from Moscow had a confi-
dent note, and naturally optimism was exuded by the
writing men and agitators who have boasted for years
that the Red Army is the mightiest force ever
organised. Mr. Bernard Shaw broke a long silence
to let himself go on his favorite military theme.
“Either Hitler is a greater fool than I took him for,”
burbled the author of An Intelligent Woman’s Guide
to Socialism, “or he has gone completely mad. Yes-
terday Britain and America faced the tremendous job
of smashing Hitler, with Russia looking on smiling.
Today we have nothing to do but sit and smile while
Stalin smashes Germany. Now you will see what will
happen. Germany hasn’t a dog’s chance.”
Comrade Thornton, of the Ironworkers, and
Comrade Terry, of the Friends of the Soviet, were
equally positive. “We can have absolute confidence,”
said Comrade Thornton, “that the Red Army will give
the invaders a drubbing such as has never been
imagined”; and Comrade Terry gave his personal
assurance that the Red Army, with “8,000,000 men
now, 10,000,000 in two months, 25,000,000 in three
months and a reserve army of 36,000,000,” will “achieve
the final smashing of Nazism and Fascism in the
entire world.” Comrade Evans, organiser of the
“State” Labor party, was on hand with collaboration
and regrets, the regrets springing from the thought
that “the Red Army,” though it “will drive Fascism
from Europe,” cannot “get at all the saboteurs in the
Labor movement in Australia, Britain and America.”
“We cannot join the Red Army,” Comrade Evans pro-
ceeded, “but the heart of a Red soldier must beat in
every Australian breast.” All this was said at a
Sydney Domain meeting, to which Comrade Thornton
had made a special trip from Melbourne, and the plat-
form oratory at which was a truly astonishing exhi-
bition of Red impudence and arrogance.
There was no smile on the face of Stalin when
he delivered a broadcast speech. He had set up a
Council of Defence, with himself as president
and Molotov, so recently superseded, as his deputy,
and in the pass to which things had come in ten days
he had to justify this serious measure to his unfor-
tunate people. It had become necessary because “the
enemy has succeeded in taking Lithuania, the greater
part of Latvia and parts of White Russia and the
Ukraine,” and because “our Fatherland is in grave
peril.” The Council of Defence had been estab-
lished to “mobilise the strength of the peoples of the
Soviet Union” for a war that “means life or death
to them —everybody must understand this.”
We have no place for cowards and deserters. To
support our soldiers and defeat the enemy we have
to be organised... .The people must help the Red Army
by looking after supplies, the wounded, munitions and
communications; they must safeguard the rear, for the
enemy uses spies and saboteurs. Retreating, we must
destroy everything—every bit of railroad, every scrap of
bread and all cattle. All that we cannot take with us
must be destroyed.
There was a lot more about “fighting for democratic
freedom” and having “the help of all the nations of
Europe and America and also of Germans,” evidenced,
in part, by “the speech of the Prime Minister of
England”—a very sudden return to the attitude with
which Litvinov was identified. Why then did Soviet
Russia sign a pact with “the monsters Ribbentrop
and Hitler,” and “was it not a mistake?” It was no
mistake ; that pact was “signed to preserve peace, and
we gained by it 18” (not 22) “months of peace and
were able to prepare ourselves for war.” Poles, Finns
and Balts, remembering, no doubt, that the speaker
decorated the monster Ribbentrop with the Order of
Lenin, must have listened to this with bitter irony,
and the world-revolution crowd with chagrin. The
grim pressure of events has forced Stalin to discard
the role of leader of world revolution for that of
leader of Russian patriotism, as anxious for help from
any quarter—above all from “imperialist” Britain and
“capitalist” America —as were the Czars who fought
Napoleon and Wilhelm 11.
But Europe is not convinced. One of the discon-
certing features of this new war is the number of
allies and sympathisers whom Hitler has cunningly
assembled. Finns, Rumanians, Hungarians and Slovaks,
as well as Italians, are fighting on his side. So,
evidently, are bands of Lithuanians, Latvians and
Estonians. And the enrolment of legions of Spanish
and French volunteers has been sanctioned by the
Governments at Madrid and Vichy. Vichy indeed
handed the Russian Ambassador his passports, detained
hundreds of members of the Russian diplomatic and
consular staffs and placed thousands of Russians
under “preventive arrest.” No doubt Communists
have been active in occupied France, and the Petain
Government has all along been fearful of a Com-
munist rising, but the severance of diplomatic rela-
tions was a wholly unlooked-for proceeding, and it
was followed by an American refusal to attend to the
interests of Russians in Petain’s France. Even in Por-
tugal, traditionally friendly to Britain, a newspaper
protested against a statement, attributed to Mr.
Churchill, that the Russians were “fighting for liberty.”
Mention of Vichy brings up the question of
Britain’s extraordinary relations with that Govern-
ment. It was officially announced at Washington last
Wednesday that French vessels were leaving the
U.S.A. for French North Africa, and France for the
U.S.A., as part of a design “to restore normal trade.”
This, of course, meant that British sanction had been
obtained. Questioned in the Commons, Mr. Churchill
said that the British “decision” to lift the blockade
“must be guided to a large extent by the opinion of
the great and friendly country the United States.”
Nobody pointed out that the “decision” was irreconcil-
able with the campaign in French Syria, then in its
fourth week. Neither was the campaign in Syria men-
tioned in a critical spirit during the latest abortive ses-
sion at Canberra, though members had abundant reason
for being inquisitive as to what the R.A.N., the R.A.A.F.
and the A.I.F. are doing there, what precise gains,
military or political or both, are sought, and who in-
spired the baseless reports that Syria and Lebanon
were stiff with Germans, who controlled all the aero-
dromes, and that the French wouldn’t fight. Certainly
Mr. Beasley said things which needed saying about
the campaigns in Greece and Crete (his speech was
feebly answered by Mr. Spender and was idiotically
censored until indignant protests forced the flustered
Mr. Foil to lift the ban), but there was equal need for
pertinent remarks about Syria.
The House was still discussing the censoring of
Mr, Beasley’s speech when the news came from
London that Sir Archibald Wavell was about to be
transferred from the scene of his triumphs, which
became reverses when Mr, Eden appeared on the
scene, to the command in India, to which country
he has been a stranger for 32 years. He had, it seems,
been succeeded already by General Auchinleck, trans-
ferred from the Indian command, and a Captain
Lyttleton had been appointed to Cairo to represent
the British Cabinet there. Denying that General
Wavell had been “Stellenbosched,” Mr. Menzies con-
fided that he had been apprised of the changes, which
have astonished the military and political world, and
could have objected to them had he wished, but was
in favor of them. In other words he wasn’t con-
sulted but he said “Yes, Mr. Churchill,” once
more. In reply to a Commoner’s question, Mr.
Churchill remarked: “These are highly important
changes, very useful and very sweeping in character”
—that may be allowed —and he went on to assert
that “in this country and in Australia general satis-
faction with the changes has been expressed.” This
he said on Thursday, the day on which the informa-
tion was communicated to the Australian public, and
when he spoke it was impossible for even the sub-
stance of an Australian flapper paper’s leader to have
reached London. Presumably the “general satisfac-
tion” was “expressed” by General Menzies.
About the same time, Mr. Matsuoka defined
Japan’s attitude to the Hitler-Stalin conflict. He said
“We intend to watch the development of the situation
closely and with the greatest of care.” “Wait and see,”
in short. On the other side of the Pacific, Colonel
Knox, the Secretary for the Navy, had delivered a
speech which stirred the hearts of democrats through-
out the world. “While Hitler is busy crushing Russia,”
he said, “we are presented with the opportunity to
give vital aid to Britain.”
Now is the time to strike, by giving Britain the means
to bomb Germany, crack the morale of the German
people and make them understand the cruelty and ruth-
lessness which Hitler has unloosed upon the world. This
can be done only if the Atlantic is cleared for the
traffic of the products of the huge American war
industry. Now is the time to redeem the President’s
pledge to deliver our munitions where they can be
used. The time to use our Navy to clear the Atlantic
is at hand.
By way of illustrating the necessity for “a smashing
blow that can and will change the entire world per-
spective,” the Colonel mentioned that a ship had been
sent to the bottom with 1000 machine-guns and
1,500,000 rounds of ammunition. “There can be only
one end if this rate of sinking continues,” he con-
cluded —“victory for Hitler and his ultimate domina-
tion of the world.” There followed the assertion of
“a roving correspondent” that U.S. warships, a “battle-
ship, an aircraft-carrier and the usual escort craft,”
had convoyed a fleet of more than 70 merchant ships
“from Canadian waters to a Scottish port” without
losing a ship. This was denied, but Colonel Knox’s
speech raised the highest expectations, especially as Mr.
Roosevelt was to speak to the world again two days
later. Unfortunately, the Presidential address was
merely an echo of previous “fireside chats.” True, he
told his people that “We must pledge our work, our
will and, if it be necessary, our lives” ; but he had told
them that before several times.
The explanation of this disappointing utterance
must lie in American opposition to Communism,
always strong and of recent weeks inflamed by the
strikes in the defence industries. There was never a
million-to-one chance of the American-British-Russian
alliance demanded by the “Daily Telegraph” in Aus-
tralia and by Pritt, K.C., and his “Peace Congress”
in England, and it is now useless to expect the U.S.A.
to come in until the man in the White House, who
is not only a great democrat but the most skilful poli-
tician of his generation, feels that public opinion will
follow him, even if it means association with Russia.
Meanwhile the Russians continue to fight, and, though
thousands of wishful thinkers are at work with radio
voices and fountain-pens, that central fact should be
sufficient for those familiar with the past perform-
ances of wishful thinkers —that and the self-evident
truth that the longer the new war goes on the more
German man-power, machines and supplies —especially
fuel —will be used up. And the Russian soldier
battling for his homeland commands immeasurably
greater respect than he got when he was merely an
advance agent for a degraded neo-Czarist imperialism
or a shadowy unit in a crazy programme of world-
revolution. He mutely appeals to sentiments which are
independent of time, race and politics. He personifies
the pathos and dignity of human suffering.
Recruiting Review.
Australia’s war effort on the home front has had
striking publicity. Hitherto the weight of insistence
has been on its paramount importance. Short of
striking medals to honor an honest day’s work, with
three meals and a bed and all other normal civil life
amenities, everything possible has been done to put
factory hands on the same footing with, or a bit
above, those prepared voluntarily to go abroad and
risk or sacrifice their lives. That, in these circum-
stances, such volunteers would be forthcoming in
sufficient numbers has been taken for granted.
The supplementary importance of the home-front
effort nobody will question, and, considering how
unprepared the country was when war was declared,
what has been accomplished since has been just about
miraculous. Events have assisted in underlining the
necessity for more and better and different machines,
equipment and arms generally. Australians have cer-
tainly become “factory-conscious.” But they have
been very slow to realise that the war value of the
best machines and equipment made is nothing but the
fighting quality of the men using them.
Yet experience in the last war should have indi-
cated that this hurdle was going to loom up sooner
or later. Then, without cause to make home-front
effort an all-absorbing obsession, the forerunners of
Menzies and co. were driven into making two attempts,
both unsuccessful, to solve the recruiting problem by
conscription.
After that war books debunking not only war
but the fighting men poured out in hundreds. For
years they were the chief reading of scores of thou-
sands of an age to be now enlisting. They represented
men becoming degraded and depraved by war condi-
tions. They debunked the sentiment that held patriot-
ism and readiness to sacrifice life for a country as
normal virtues, and insisted instead that these were
the signs of an outmoded sentimentalism.
Other factors entered into pushing the fighting
soldier from his previously more honored place. The
League of Nations, by some mystic means, would
abolish war for ever. Hence the need for any defence
and for trained fighting men could be listed with the
dodo. In Australia —as in Britain—defence expendi-
ture was whittled to a shadow. The microscopic per-
manent army was further reduced by heartless sack-
ings of men who had given their lives to it in the
evidently mistaken notion that they were serving the
best interests of their country. A Labor Government
abolished national service with scarcely a protest from
any quarter. Such was the public state of mind that
a Government of the other side repeatedly pledged
itself never to reintroduce what Labor had abolished,
and was repeatedly elected. The uniform that the
A.I.F. had made splendid on scores of magnificent
occasions was replaced by fancy-dress rigouts, which
even the great brains that thought of them admitted
would be discarded if it came to war.
Considering these and other aspects of the past
20-odd years it is perhaps no great wonder that there
is now some anxiety over recruiting. This is not re-
stricted to Australia. Canada also depends on volun-
teers for overseas service, and there one month’s
response to recruiting appeals was little more than
10,000 men out of 32,000 sought. In Canada’s case
there would appear to be something of a deterrent
just across the border. That oft-told tale that only
American arms are required, not American men, is
no doubt having its effect in Canada, and perhaps in
Australia, too. .
In the dailies all sorts of reasons are being can-
vassed to explain why recruiting lags. Most of these
reasons read more like palpable excuses, and some of
them touch new levels of inanuy. The fact is that this
aspect of Australia’s war effort has hitherto been
pushed into the background to let all the limelight
fall on the home-front effort. There are other factors
operating against enthusiasm to enlist besides those
generally touched on here. The assurance that hence-
forth Australians will not be sent into battle without
adequate air support may help to minimise the effects
of one of those factors. The demonstration that that


promise has been kept should, when it comes, mini-
mise the effects of that particular factor still further.
But, the whole past and present considered, that
voluntary enlisting will accomplish what the recruiters
require may be doubted. The alternative —which should
have been taken in the first place—will then be con-
scription, as in Maoriland, where the call-up now
includes married men. The alternative to that would
be leaving the A.I.F. without reinforcements. A Gov-
ernment that accepted that position would not have
any right to govern ; a people that accepted it would
have no right to the country they live in.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Govern or Get Out!
“ Prospectus” is a word which conjures up unpleasant
memories for many Australians, and when the Prime
Minister applied it to his plan for “an unlimited
war effort” he made an unfortunate choice. More
especially as he said “We are committed to the volun-
tary system of enlistment for service overseas” —in
other words, limited liability ; all the fighting to be
left to those who are willing to fight.
How this “principle” is apt to work was illus-
trated by the simultaneous publication of two items
of news concerning the fate of a V.C., the first so
honored in this struggle, and a prisoner of war. The
V.C. —an only son —died on the field of battle ; the
prisoner of war, a veteran of Libya and Greece, has
seven children, the eldest 19, the youngest seven.
As is the way with compilers of prospectuses, the
Prime Minister promised many things. When Parlia-
ment went into recess, after another confused session
which saw the Government deprived of control of
the House —not for the first or second time —and
defeated in division after division on points of its
own policy, promise was so far ahead of perform-
ance that it became painfully obvious that perform-
mance could never catch up.
The only features of the prospectus which were
transformed from words into deeds were those with
which nearly all the shareholders would have pre-
ferred to dispense. The author of the document
appointed three more Ministers and set up a crowd
of Parliamentary committees to investigate nearly
everything under the sun. For one reason and another
a few members refused to serve on the committees,
but most of their colleagues were willing ; and “when
away from their residences” the chairman of each
committee will draw £2 2s. a day expenses and the
ordinary member £1 10s. a day. And, of course, they
will have the services of secretaries and shorthand
writers and typists galore.
For the rest, “we” were to “concentrate men on
war industry, machines on war production and money
on war ends.” A fortnight after this part of the
prospectus was issued Mr. Menzies had discovered
that it was “not a matter to be rushed into in an
elephantine fashion,” the presumption being that
Hitler will wait. Reading the prospectus, he said that
“drastic plans to prevent interruption of production
of war material” had been “agreed to by Cabinet.
Strikes and lockouts in war and allied industries were
to be prohibited. Courts would be empowered “to take
the most vigorous action against those who coun-
selled or encouraged strikes or lockouts.” “The funds
and property of any organisation” which was “so
unwise as to participate” in such disturbances would,
if necessary, be seized and businesses would be “taken
over.”
This necessitated legislation. The legislation wasn’t
even introduced. By arrangement between Mr.
Menzies and Mr. Curtin it was postponed indefinitely.
The business of the session over, the Prime Min-
ister issued an ultimatum to Sydney wharf-laborers
who, “in defiance of a specific award,” were holding
up “an important supply ship.” He said that if the
ship were not unloaded immediately the Transport
Workers’ Act, which obliges wharf-laborers to take
out licenses, would “be restored to operation and
proclaimed to apply to the port of Sydney.” Through-
out the war Communists have tried to stir up trouble
on the Sydney waterfront, and have often succeeded.
In spite of the ban on their publications they issue a
pestilent rag called “The Wharfie,” and, though they
have suddenly dropped their “anti-imperialist-war”
stuff, their class-war propaganda goes on. There has
been a clumsy time lag, as there was in the first week
of Hitler’s war on Poland, when they “supported”
the Poles.
The ultimatum was immediately effective. Per-
haps it is to be taken as a sign that the Government
at length really intends to govern. Certainly it should
govern or get out
"Put in the Boot."
Sydney “D.T.” saw in the transfer of General Wavell
from the Middle East to the Indian Command “a
proof of Mr. Churchill’s realism”:
Wavell carried out a brilliant campaign against the
Italians in Cyrenaica. Later he allowed the Germans
to take back all the territory he had gained. And
recently he led a spectacularly abortive counter-attack
in the Solium sector. As a result his prestige has
suffered, A brilliant general without prestige is not a
winning general. Churchill knows that. He is realistic.
So “realistic” that he sent the sartorial Mr. Eden
to tour the Middle East complete with black Hom-
burg and “the smartest town-cwm-travel overcoat ever
designed” (vide a Sydney ragshop’s advertisement)
to bring lohnny Turk in on our side. Mr. Eden failed
spectacularly. Other results of Mr. Eden’s tour were
that our Sixth Division and part of a British armored
division were sent to Greece, and thence to Crete,
leaving forces insufficient to oppose the German drive
on Libya. Then British imperial forces were launched
into Syria on the word of sundry “correspondents”
and editors that the place was full of Germans and
German-controlled aerodromes —nobody has sighted
either — an d that the French wouldn’t fight. Again
was deprived of men and arms that might
have made the Solium sortie something more
important.
Perhaps Mr. Churchill is “realistic.” Perhaps he
hasn’t the “D.T.’s” sublime faith in the Red Army
(“the greatest fighting machine history has ever
known”) and, foreseeing a threat to Iran and India
from the enemy drive into Russia, has sent Wavell
there to prepare for it.
Whatever the truth, and anybody’s guess is as
good as that of a cocksure Castlereagh-street strategist,
nothing can take from Wavell the fact that with a
vastly inferior force he drove the enemy out of
Western Egypt and Cyrenaica, retook British Somali-
land and wiped out the enemy in East Africa. No
other British general has done anything like as much
in this war. Realism or not, he doesn’t deserve to be
sneered at by a sheet which is unhappy unless putting
the boot into somebody, alive or dead. Heaven help
Mr. Churchill if it ever thinks it safe to turn on him !
Their Only Son.
“At one stage,” wrote Lieutenant Mackell, of the
A.1.F., describing a sortie from beleaguered Tobruk, “I
was in very grave difficulties” (a German was holding
both his legs while another prepared to dispatch him).
“One call to Jack brought him running to my side,
and in a matter of moments I was out of trouble.
Jack saved my life.”
“Jack” was Corporal Edmondson, the first Aus-
tralian to win the V.C. in this war. His party had
gone out to dislodge an enemy force that had pene-
trated the wire and established itself in a strong posi-
tion with machine-guns, mortars and light field-
pieces, The Australians attacked with the bayonet,
eight against 40; Edmondson was twice wounded
before he went to his lieutenant’s aid, and four times
altogether. He “saved Mackell’s life by shooting or
bayoneting three of the enemy and putting the others
to flight.” But he died of his wounds.
Corporal Edmondson was the only son of a Liver-
pool (N.S.W.) farmer. Three uncles and a cousin
served in the last war. When he joined the new
A.1.F., young Edmondson—he was 26—proudly wore
the old A.I.F. badge of an uncle who was with the
old 17th Battalion.
The dignity of his mother’s grief is as typical
of the best in the Australian as was the manner of
her boy’s ending: f
Of course 1 am proud of him. I have always been
proud of him. In a way this great honor seems futile.
I would rather have my son. But I know that it is sm
honor, not only to Jack, but to the whole of the A.I.K
When war began he felt he had to go. He said, You
have always told me to do my duty and then I need
be afraid of nothing.” We didn’t try to stop him going.
The country has lost a splendid son, too. “We
didn’t try to stop him going” because, under our
futile voluntary system, only the best men offer, far
too great a proportion of them only sons and married
men with children.
Under the voluntary system too many Australian
families end with the death of a man on active ser-
vice. Corporal Edmondson’s valor is a shining word
in our history, but, as his mother suggests, that word
is somehow “futile” when it deprives the country of
men of his type while lesser men are allowed to please
themselves whether or not they shall help to save it.
Our Best Bet.
“T.0.D.”: Not being the editor of a daily newspaper
I’m no military strategist, nor do I profess much
knowledge of war. Like many other Australians, and
probably a lot of Maorilanders, I felt proud and mad
about the Aegean evacuations. I also began to wonder
whether we could whip the enemy (I have never con-
ceived the possibility of his whipping us) when I
heard Roosevelt’s story of Atlantic sinkings and the
impossibility of British shipyards keeping up with
them in construction and repairs. So I got out a map
of the world and this is what I saw;
In 22 months of victory after victory, the enemy has not
yet occupied an acre of British soil except the Channel Islands,
surrendered without a fight because they were not worth it.
Italians held British Somaliland, but only till we were ready
to take it back. Germans retook the part of Libya which we
took from the Italians, but not the 200,000 or so Italian
troops we captured there and not Tobruk. And the Italian
Empire in East Africa is only a memory.
If the enemy should take Palestine and Egypt—and nobody,
least of all himself, believes that will be easy—he will have hunted
the British Fleet from the eastern Mediterranean, blocked the
Suez Canal and perhaps reached the oilfields of Iraq and Iran.
But British Africa, India and Oceania will still be thou-
sands of miles away, still be linked to each other and to
America and Britain itself by sea. British-Amencan posses-
sions will be in the same position and the United States
probably in the war. If the British Cabinet is running
this war on the lines of grand strategy suggested by the map
of the world, then it is right in regarding the British Isles
and who occupies them as the semi-final arbiter.
The final arbiter is still sea-power. Hitler may hold all
Europe, and what use is it while the seas are closed to his
surface shipping? Napoleon discovered the truth of it in times
when Europe was less dependent on imports of raw materials
than it is now. But our sea-power is not what it was. Ihe
Royal Navy is handling a task from which other navies might
quail and still finding the means of rescuing men from cam-
paigns which bore the stamp of defeat before they were
CSSSed. But it it suffering. Good
have gone, not so much in defence of the Empire as in
rescuing Empire troops from untenable positions in foreign
lands That will have to stop. The Navy cannot continue to
be regarded and used in this manner if the seas are to be
held. B lts job is to hunt down enemy ships and keep the .^P l J e
sea routes open. Left alone, it can do both magnificently.
It is our main chance in the grand strategy of the sea,
which is what this war has come to.
Our 111-reported Parliament.
In all English-speaking countries but Australia, the
proceedings of the national Parliament are adequate y
reported. This has not been done in Australia tor a
very long time, and there is a real danger that news-
print rationing will be made an excuse for a reduc-
tion of the already skimpy chronicles to mere collec-
tions of scraps and “scenes.” The case ought to be
met by the broadcasting of the debates from one ot
the national stations.
This is done on the other side of the Tasman,
and Maorilanders have taken so kindly to the broad-
casts that nobody thinks of doing away with them.
And so far from the papers finding the Parliamentary-
reporting part of their occupation gone, they have
learned that people want to read in the morning what
they listen to overnight; hence their Parliamentary
reports are ampler than before broadcasting came in.
It is a reflection on our daily newspapers that
they devote so many columns to sport and so few
to the one Parliament that matters. Parliament itself
suffers because this necessary function is neglected.
It is not nearly as good as it should be, but it is not
nearly as bad as it is made to appear by journals which
exploit every “scene” that happens, but ignore or
dismiss in a few lines speeches which deserve to be
reproduced, in substance at least, for the information
they present or the criticism —sometimes constructive
—they contain. Partly on this account, the old friendly
relations that used to exist, with mutual benefit, be-
tween Parliament and the Press have almost dis-
appeared. And partly because the Press has fallen
down on its job, measures of great importance —war
legislation and such experiments as child endowment-
are introduced and passed before anomalies can be
pointed out and before public opinion has had time
to form. Parliament wouldn’t be in such a hurry if
the so-called Fourth Estate were really what it pre-
tends to be.
For its own good, and for the gdbd of the people,
a check on Parliament is needed, a check on its
manners, methods and performance, and this the
broadcasting of debates would furnish. Conscious of
the presence of a vast unseen audience, and made
independent of the caprices of newspapers, members
would be on their best behavior and try to bring out
the best that is in them. Some whose manners are
bad might soon learn better. Others undeservedly
obscure would get opportunities of proving their
worth. Reputations would be made and unmade.
Tankers.
Ever since the war began the necessity for some sort
of petrol rationing was recognised. Dollar exchange
was the first difficulty we heard of ; then storage capa-
city. Now it’s tankers. The first petrol ration was
liberal, the second moderate, the third of practically
no value to the private motorist who made an honest
return of his requirements under the first scheme.
Mr. Beasley says tankers have been diverted to
supply Japan with oil. Standard Oil, of New Jersey,
stated last month that Standard-Vacuum, acting with
Dutch and British interests, “has continued to supply
a portion of Japan’s requirements,” principally from
the Dutch Indies. The N.E.1., British and U.S.A.
Governments were “fully informed.”
This question of tankers is exercising the minds
of more people than Australian motorists and Mr.
Beasley. A couple of months ago Mr. Roosevelt
transferred 50 tankers to Britain. On June 3 the
“Wall Street Journal” held forth thus:
In 1939, before the war began, British tankers
numbered 498, with aggregate capacity of 3,264,000 tons.
Tankers acquired from Norway, Belgium, Holland and
France numbered approximately 400, of 2,800,000 tons
capacity. About 100 of these have been sunk, leaving
798 ships, without reckoning a small number of new
tankers launched. Normal oil requirements of the
U.K., about 90,000,000 barrels annually, could ordi-
narily be supplied with 100 tankers. Since civilian
consumption has been cut to the irreducible minimum
it is calculated that its war-time requirements do not
exceed 100,000.000 barrels, representing the usual service
of about 125 tankers, or, allowing for slower movement
in convoys, perhaps 250 vessels under present conditions.
There remains, apparently, an excess of something like
500 tankers under British control, exclusive of the 50
American ships lately diverted to their use.
What are these 500 British tankers doing ? Are they
by any chance employed in serving the British export
trade on a business-as-usual basis, while American oil
companies have been asked to surrender ships serving
American consumers?
The “Wall Street Journal” can accept the Australian
car-owner’s assurance that, whatever is being done
with the 500 tankers believed to be “excess,” it isn’t
a case of “business as usual” in the Commonwealth.
Power Alcohol Plans.
Tabling a report of the Power Alcohol Inquiry Com-
mittee, the Federal Supply Minister announced
the Government is to aim at a “first objective of
22.000. gallons of power alcohol a year, by using
existing distilleries to produce 7,000,000 gallons from
molasses and raw sugar, 5,000,000 from rectified-spirit
distilleries and 10,000,000 from wheat, for which dis-
tilleries are to be built in the four wheat States.
This, added to production of shale oil, benzol
and producer-gas, is an effort to substitute local fuels
for imported petrol, both to conserve petrol for mili-
tary use and to conserve dollar exchange. In the pre-
war year 1937-38, Australia imported a total of
433.000. gallons of crude and spiritualised
petroleum. ......
Capital required for the wheat distilleries is esti-
mated at £1,100,000. The P.A.I. Committee’s report
recommends a wholesale price for p.a. of 2s. a gallon
in capital cities, and claims that this represents 3s. 6d.
to 3s. KHd. a bushel for wheat f.o.r. shipping ports,
which means slightly over 3s. net to the farmer.
It seems remarkably optimistic. So far as can
be gathered from a study of previous tests with wheat
as a p.a. source, about the best yield of pure spirit
that can be expected is 60 gallons to the ton.
Since this would represent £6 at the P.A.I.C. rate, and
since a ton of wheat at 3s. 6d. a bushel means about
£6 10s. a ton, something seems to be wrong. E ma V
be that the P.A.I.C. has discovered some way of get-
ting much more p.a. from a ton of wheat; still it is
hard to imagine better than something over a gallon
and a half to the bushel. .. mr . t to
Nobody would wish to discourage an attempt to
set up a new Australian industry, especially E « ca ?
utilise an overproduced item like wheat; but bom
farmers and taxpayers are entitled to more specific
information before they can be expected to^ciieer.


Society
“Jock thinks his saxpence might have rolled under this one”
“K,”: It must be war worries that are
getting Hollywood’s nabobs down —
brooding on things like the lost European
royalties on such winners as “The Great
Dictator” and “Night Train to Munich.”
In normal times the case of the Crown v.
Sir Delves Broughton, Bart., in Kenya,
would have been right into Hollywood’s
hands. The habits of Anglo-African
fashionables, a triangle and a murder,
with political stuff on the side—what a
set-up for Hank Slitherstein, Sol Bachen-
wach and Ern Schumacher, with inci-
dental jungle music by Abe Korngold,
hundreds of dusky lovelies doing the hula
in next-to-nothing and Issy Schlim-
merwurtzer, the ace director, to see to
everything. Yet, as I write, three days
have gone since Delves was acquitted and
no offer of a quarter of a million bucks
for a personal appearance in a drama-
tised version! The Cahlony’s slipping.
• * * • ■ •
“ ’Erb the Coster”: Blime, Charlie,
there ain’t no daht abaht our bleedin’
haristokrasy. ’Ere’s a hearl and a bart
stuck out among the cobras and tigers
of the Hafncan jungle. Bart ’ad only
bin spliced a few munce to a bit of orl
right; hearl gets ’is lamps on ’er and
goes orl sticky under the collar. At lawst
’e can’t stand it no longer. “Wot abaht
it?” he says to the tart. “Wot abaht
wot?” she comes back, knowin’ wot ’e
means. “Aw, you know, Di,” he says;
“let’s mizzle. Bart’s got a pack o’ cards
—’ell be orl right.” Bart comes in then
an’ sees ’em. Does ’e bash hearl acrorss
lice? Nah—just drors ’isself up digni-
fied-like an’ says “That’s quaite orl rate,
ole fruit; tike her, bay orl means; it’s
nothin’ reelay. ’Ave a brandy-an’-sodah,
wot?” Orl the sime, hearl, ’oo’s a
’erreditry copper and shoves on a black
shirt whenever ’e sees Musso’s phizog, is
found in ’is racin’ car with a slug through
’is scone. Bart’s ’ad up for swipin’ ’im.
There’s a snorter of a trial in Nairobay
or one o’ them pikes, an’ bart gets aht
of it, and the posh mob in court give
three ’earty British cheeahs. Blime, it’s
just like a show at the Old Vic. me and
Liza saw once.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Placard on a pub in Lon-
don’s Oxford-street: “We keep open
during alerts. In the event of a direct
hit we close at once.”
* * * *
“Sing 9”; Anxiously plotting my next
month’s motoring on the two gallons of
petrol I’m allowed, I am intrigued by
the case of a Port Kembla publican whose
wife drew an issue of 140 gallons at
Double Bay, 60 miles from the pub. To
an inquiring reporter the publican said:
For years I’ve been suffering from an
ailment which requires constant and expert
medical attention. For 22 months I
travelled daily from Port Kembla to
Sydney... .now about three trips a week.
I cannot travel by train. Our car does 10
miles to the gallon.
Recovering from my first burst of
emotion, I began to wonder why, if
the pub is at Port Kembla, the coupons
were drawn at Double Bay ; why “con-
stant and expert medical attention” cannot
be had at Kembla or Wollongong; why
an ailment to which train travel is
harmful can stand three hours up and
three hours back in a car ; and why the
invalid can’t use a small car capable of
30 m.p.g. Also, I should like to know
whether he maintains an establishment at
Double Bay. Meantime, I’m applying to
the Fuel Control Board for extra tickets,
because it has suddenly become neces-
sary for me to visit the mountains at
least once a week to inhale the smoke
of burning gum-leaves and I, too, dislike
train travelling.
* *
“Pawang”: On the traditional assump-
tion that a man is only as old as his
arteries, an American professor has been
working on a new chemical—sodium
thiocyanate—which has the effect of dis-
solving the waxy material deposited
on the arteries with increasing years.
He claims to have reversed the symptoms
of old age in tests on 52 rabbits, and has
come to the comfortable conclusion that
if the same thing can be done with human
beings a man can live a healthy and
normal life until the age of 185. The
professor seems to have forgotten that
a man has an intellect and a rabbit hasn’t.
At 60 a Freud is a young man, since
he has got rid of more prejudices than
a public-school boy. A public-school boy
is mentally older than Freud to the degree
that he believes everything his school-
masters taught him. Mentally Freud was
younger when he died than the average
youth of 20. His physical frame had to
wear out at some time, so he pegged out
at 84. But he wasn’t as old as his arteries
—he was as old as his intellect, which
was a fresh, young one.
* * *
“Nakh”: An address by knight Henry
Newlands on the necessity of light armor
for the protection of troops against
shrapnel splinters and flying fragments
with small penetrative capacity has
started a controversy in Melbourne which
reveals an army prejudice based on
an old-fashioned notion that to wear
armor is sissy. A rare exception was a
1914-18 Digger who wrote thus to a
daily;
I was a stretcher-bearer, and had the
good fortune to acquire a shield. Having
worn it in action for days at a time I
can speak for its efficiency, comfort and for
a degree of confidence that it inspired when
in use. 1 hope these shields will become a
regular issue.
After all, nine-tenths of modern warfare
is done in armor —in warships, tanks,
aeroplanes. And if there is any essen-
tial difference between a large steel shell
worn outside the body and a thin one
worn under the singlet, I should like to
know what it is.
* * * *
“T.W.N.”: Seated together at a ham-
burger bar in King’s Cross, Sydney, we
got talking. He said he was down from
the country on holiday, and had chosen
the Cross in the hope of seeing some ex-
citement, but had been sadly disappointed
—the Cross was just a washout. “I’ll be
glad to get back to the bush,” he added,
“to see some action.” He left a few
minutes before I did, and when I
emerged there was a crowd gathering on
the corner. I saw my country friend in
the midst of it, his head bloody but un-
bowed and his opponent in a battered
condition. Policemen were joining in. A
P.D. arrived and bore away both com-
batants. Inquiry revealed that a blonde
had smiled at my country friend, who
had responded. Blonde’s escort had then
smitten country friend over head with
bottle, and country friend had re-
sponded with fists and boots. I don’t
know how it finished —but, anyhow, the
old Cross kept the flag flying!
•I* H*
“K.P.”: As a subject for combined
study in creative art, war-time economy,
child psychology and human pathology,
consider that well-known Australian
figure Ginger Meggs. Markedly acro-
megalic, and afflicted with the spinal
deformity which doctors term kyphosis.
Ginger possesses a bad squint in each eye
and pronounced congenital deformity of
both orbital openings. Obviously an
introvert, he never takes the least notice
of the faithful cat and monkey which
accompany him in his adventures. He
is strongly attracted by a female child
of about his own age, known as Min,
similarly afflicted in body. In the weekly
from which my opportunities for study
have come, Ginger occupies about 1 1-6
square feet per copy. Worked out against
stated circulation, this means just under
2\ acres per issue, or 130 acres p.a. The
other side of the acreage is usually occu-
pied by illustrated advts. and a syndicated
Yankee story. There would seem to be
a moral somewhere about the Ginger
Meggs artistry and its lesson to a nation
at war, but it has eluded me. I submit
the problem in the hope that the Religious
Editor may find time to elucidate it.
* * *
“F. 1.”: Hollywood film-doctors are
original and peculiar. In “The Nurse’s
Secret” one prescribes an injection—“a
hypo ; amyl nitrite ; one tablet! ” (Medi-
cal orders are in terms of exact dosage, not
in tablets of dosage unspecified.) “Mix
it with two cubic centimetres of water!”
(Amyl nitrite is a volatile liquid already
in a sealed ampoule ; is soluble in ether,
chloroform and spirits, but not in water ;
is generally inhaled, seldom swallowed
and never injected!) Patient promptly
dies. Doctor questions nurse as to nature
of drug injected ; opens bottle, bites a
tablet in two and immediately analyses
it as “arsenic” by the taste, (Arsenic
hasn’t much taste, and doesn’t kill imme-
diately. Death follows agonising diar-
rhoea and, as in tropical sprue, the
patient “can’t keep anything on his
stomach but his hands! ”)
“S.”: What I want to know is—how
did they manage to photograph the
struggles of the poor drowning fisherman
in the undersea cave after the giant ray
had trapped him by lying over the
entrance? This miracle of modern
science occurs not, as you’d expect, in
an admitted melodrama, but in one of
those Hollywood shorts about aquatic
sports off the Californian coast, offered in
all seriousness as documentary. They’re
showing you hardy, sun-tanned young
gents at their newest sport of diving after
fish and spearing ’em underwater; our
hero swims down into the cave, and then
the giant ray settles down like a cloud,
completely blocking the entrance, trap-
ping him ; and then, of course, his brave
companions dive in and harpoon the ray
and rescue their cobber. And very nice,
too. But how did they manage to photo-
graph our hero’s drowning agonies when
the fish had blocked the entrance to
the cave?
* » * >:=
“Phoongyee” from the Transvaal:
In the prisoners-of-war camp here there is
a number of Italians who have a smattering
of English. One of them gave me an account
of his capture: “Australia soldier no dam
gooda. He catcha me, teara off da button,
and tella me get to hella outa ’ere.” Should
any of the prisoners prove obdurate in
obeying an order from a guard on the ground
he is told that the sentry in the high box is an
Australian. That is always sufficient.
* * « m
“F.S.”: “Olive Green” (B. 18/6/’4l)
quotes with approval Hitler’s dictum
that if artists see fields blue they are
deranged and if they only pretend to
see them blue they are criminals.
Hitler may be an authority on Blitz-
kriegs but he is certainly not an
authority on painting. He is merely a
stale academician, artistically as old as
his grandmother. There is no such thing
as field-tint, just as there is no such thing
as flesh-tint. The color of an object is
the joint product of itself and its environ-
ment. Human skin may look any-
thing from green to purple according to
its illumination, and it has no color at
all in a blackout. If Hitler had been dic-
tator of Australia when the first impres-
sionistic landscapes were painted in Vic-
toria, Max Meldrum would have been
sent to either an asylum or a prison. All
the critics and most of the public said
that he had used mud instead of pig-
ment. Now he is a trustee of the National
Gallery, and the same landscapes are
some of its most important possessions.
* * * *
“8.P.”: The thrills of travel! A Syd-
ney social writer records them in hushed
reverence with an extract from a letter
she got from some Australian woman
touring America. “1 have had a remark-
able tour. I spent a whole afternoon at
the Hollywood home of Mr. and Mrs.
Cecil de Mille.” Think of it, girls; a
whole afternoon!
* * * *
“K. Ley”: Probably feeling like a colt
just brought in off the grass, the Sydney
Minister for Education is dabbling with
all sorts of new theories, including aboli-
tion of the cane and the cutting out of
history and geography as subjects for
the entrance-to-high-school examination.
Any experienced teacher will assure
him that, though the cane itself
may not inculcate discipline, the know-
ledge that it is there and that it will be
used has a powerful effect on the unruly.
To cut out history and geography means
that teachers, compelled by the system
to obtain class honors in exams.,
will joyfully neglect both subjects and
concentrate on whatever is left. If
the Minister really wants a reform —
heaven knows, the system needs several!
—he could start by abolishing the entire-
examination method as it stands, first
to get rid of the “bush-school-to-univer-
sity” complex, and then to give vocational
training its chance.
WATCHFUL WAITING.
“The Japanese Foreign Minister, Mr. Matsuoka,
indicated that the country’s policy for the present
would be one of watchful waiting.”
The pessimist is mostly in
A mood that’s known as sinking;
The optimist’s besetting sin
Is shown in wishful thinking.
Each from his point of view you’d find
The future contemplating.
A more elastic frame of mind
Consists of watchful waiting.
It means to sit upon the fence,
Your own good counsel keeping,
Until you definitely sense
Which way the cat is leaping.
To back the winner is your biz,
But risk attends the choosing
Until it’s clear which side it is
That’s winning—or that’s losing.
It’s not unknown, the attitude,
Where lucrative ambitions
And sweets of office are pursued
By struggling politicians.
Some indicate determinedly
The path on which they’re going;
Far craftier he who waits to see
The way the wind is blowing.
Some nations reckon war their game,
All other arts outvying;
And some —too oft the very same—
Are just as spry at lying.
Some take their gruel like Amazons
And some, capitulating.
The Japs are not the only ones
Whose forte is watchful waiting.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Bo”: I once learned a sad and costly
lesson. Measuring up my dressing-table
for a plate-glass top, I used the wife’s
tape measure. When it was delivered the
glass was found to overlap up to half
an inch—l hadn’t allowed for the tape
stretching. I now suspect that the same
mistake was made by the Egyptologist
who measured the passage in the Great
Pyramid of Cheops that Thothmes built
to foretell by mensuration events some
thousands of years in advance. Calcula-
tions made by this authority led a Sydney
parson and another gent, loudly to pro-
claim through the “Sun” that June 25
was to be the Great Day. An event
would occur which would completely
alter the world’s history and render cer-
tain our winning of the war. The most
momentous items of news released that
day, apart from the usual issue of Soviet
and German bulletins, were the announce-
ments that Gracie Fields intended flying
home from Hollywood on a cheer tour,
that P. G. Wodehouse had been released
from a concentration camp to take up his
abode at Berlin’s posh Adlon pub, and
that an infatuated Melbourne woman had
lent £2OO to a married man who had
then skipped. It’s a hard world for
prophets.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Melbourne “Argus” is try-
ing to adjust itself to the new newsprint
rationing regulations by leaving out the
definite article in cable dispatches. The
cables are, if anything, improved by the
innovation, and they would, I think, be
further improved if they were printed
as received from the cable office. Before
and during the last war millions of words
in cable-ese passed through my hands,
and I was struck by the pithy, expres-
sive language which the necessity of pay-
ing 2s. 6d. a word or thereabouts had
forced on the correspondents. I remem-
ber one message describing a royal arri-
val at an Indian durbar: “Georges de-
motored, crowd ovationed, band God-
saved.” It could hardly have been
bettered.
“Wodgil”: “S. M. Herald’s” reactions
to the latest instalment of newsprint
rationing were to reduce its size, use
“were all right, sir it's one of OURS!"
smaller type, increase advertising charges,
curtail reports and cut out features in
the try-it-on-the-dog spirit. It neverthless
found space for three consecutive and
very long and very angry statements of its
grievance against Harrison, the Minister.
Two features dropped were “Law
Report” and “Law Notices,” which had
grown up with Granny. Their disappear-
ance was noted in an acrid comment from
the Supreme Court Bench. After a jury
had been selected, Justice Halse Rogers
said it didn’t seem to be any use asking
the rest of the gentlemen summoned to
look in the next day’s paper to see if they
would be required to attend; “dog races
have apparently become more important
than court work.” “Law Notices” soon
came back.
“Ike Hollar”: I suppose we shall have
no more “S. M. Herald” serials, and
after the last I have no regrets. The
crudity of the thing must have made the
most docile readers wonder who had
wished it on the old paper. One of the
characters was a “mad poet,” who was
allowed to fill chapters with the sort of
stuff that figures as dreadful examples in
The Bulletin’s “Answers to Corre-
spondents.” In a few sketchy chap-
ters the hero achieved fame and some
fortune in the U.S.A. pitchers, rushed
back to England because there was a war
on, grabbed the girl from whom he had
become estranged, and learned that he
was the rightful squire, a kids’-fairytale
changing of infants explaining his early
career as a farmer’s boy. I suspect that
Granny herself gave a sigh of relief when
she saw the last of her changeling.
* v * *
“Friday Island”:. “Dr. Wrigley’s” (B.
25/6/’4l) epiglottis that covers the vocal
cords in swallowing must be a pre-1910
model. Long ago Sydney’s physiology
professor Anderson Stuart, inventor of
the “artificial larynx,” proved that the
epiglottis actually serves as a chute for
food to slide down to and over the
opposed vocal cords. I allow that the
Manual of First Aid, published in Eng-
land, and supplied to voluntary first-
aiders, perpetuates “Dr. Wrigley’s” anti-
quated fallacy.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: If any town in Australia
feels inclined to put up a statue to
Paderewski, dead in the U.S.A., it should
be Wangaratta. During the long-haired
pianist’s tour of these parts a gang of
pressmen asked him which town he liked
best; and Wangaratta was his choice.
It was the only town in Australia, he ex-
plained with a smile, where no small lad
had told him to get his hair cut.
“Hamer”: Ability to discipline audi-
ences is part of the equipment of every
successful concert artist, and Paderewski
had it in a powerful degree. One night
in the Sydney Town Hall he gave his
stiff bow, silenced handclaps with an
eagle look and, having taken his seat on
the stool, cast a glance like a sword to
the right to suppress a whisper. The
awful stillness he demanded had come,
and his hands were poised above his
instrument, when someone let out
a shattering sneeze. It was Me!
The pianist turned sharply and glared
at the offender like a high priest
whose altar had been desecrated. I
mumbled a stupid involuntary apology.
The awed audience seemed to hold
its breath. Silence fell again, and
Pad. turned to the piano, but not before
“ Didn't you know I useter play a narp in a darnce band?”
he had flashed on me a final glance to
warn me to behave. It says a lot for his
playing that, in spite of my discomfiture,
repeated when I met the disapproving
gaze of scores of the customers, I en-
joyed it unforgettably. No wonder he
was able to rule Poland ; why, he man-
aged to keep Sydney Town Hall chairs
silent!
* * * *
“Colbun”: Press investigators, mer-
chants of cosmetics and proprietors of
beauty parlors agree that the war has
given a distinct impetus to beauty culture
in Brisbane. A weekly outlay of £2 16s.
is not unusual for any really smart
woman —255. for hair-styling and -tinting,
17s. 6d. for facial treatment, 10s. for mas-
sage and sundries, 2s. for a manicure,
Is. 6d. apiece for friction treatment
and eyebrow-weeding. Business girls and
matrons regard ss. to 10s. a week as
only reasonable for hair-dos and sundries.
One establishment waxes legs for £1 Is.
the brace, the Nazis having frightened
the silkworms away. A five-guinea course
of six weekly beauty treatments has an
overflowing clientele. Even if there is
a nasty war on, a girl finds it necessary
to fill in her time somehow, and what
better way than by beautifying?
* * * *
“K.P.”: From being a bar to air ser-
vice color-blindness may yet become a
qualification. During recent U.S. air
manoeuvres an observer and a field artil-
lery officer were taken up to locate
camouflaged guns. The observer spotted
a few, the gunner the lot, and
the gunner was found to be
color-blind. Tests on other
color-blind warriors showed
that the problem of distin-
guishing from aloft painted
canvas from grass of the same
tint was just as easy to them,
too, because the respective re-
flections of light appeared to
them totally different. It is not
as surprising as it might seem.
Microscopic technique in bac-
teriological and pathological
work depends largely on color
reactions produced by staining
cell-tissues in various ways.
Yet color-blindness does not
prevent or even hamper com-
plete efficiency as a micro-
scopist. The distinguishing
colors do not appear to such
observers as vivid hues but as
quite distinctive variations of
illumination against a mono-
tone background. Once the
meaning of each variation is
grasped differentiation becomes
as easy as to color-perceptive
observers.
“Nakh”: Victorian education authori-
ties have caused a storm in a teacup by
exempting a boy of alien origin from the
ceremony of saluting the flag, the Undera
branch of the U.C.P. having made it an
issue. Parliament passed a bill making
flag-saluting compulsory, but left it in
the air by not giving the teachers power
to enforce compulsion in individual cases.
The bill is illogical enough, but the
officials are consistent in pointing out
that you can’t expect a boy to make an
affirmation to honor the flag and at the
same time honor and obey his parents
if his parents have told him that it is
his duty not to salute the flag. All you
do is to make him the victim of a con-
flict, and to make him salute the flag
when he doesn’t want to is to teach him
disrespect to that symbol, anyhow.
* * * Ns
“V. Cluse”: Our drunk, homeward-
bound with a good cargo, floundered his
way along the bus and fell into a seat
alongside a lady who took a quick look
at him and then turned her gaze out the
window and kept it there. “Shay,” he
declared, “you’re terribly like my
mishush. Fair dinkum, y’are.” The
lady gave him an offended look and again
gazed out the window. He paid his fare,
thought hard about something and then
turned again to his fellow-passenger.
“Cripesh,” he said, “I never saw anyone
thash a berrer likeness f’r my mishush!”
She ignored him. Head sunk on chest,
he thought of his misspent life, and said,
“But you’d nerrer be like her, nerrer.
Wunnerful woman, wunnerfu’. Putsh
up wi’ me. Lot of orrer women wouldn’t.
You wouldn’t shtand what she’sh shtood.”
The lady arose and found another seat.
At his stop she got out ahead of him
and hurried away. He got home to see
his missus laying the table. “Shay,” he
said, “shaw girl on bus dead ring of you,
mishush. Dead ring, she wash.” His
wife, trying not to be pleased, said, “You
old fool, that was me, only I couldn’t
admit it.” He took this in, teetered,
straightened, then grinned expansively.
“Cripesh,” he said, “I knew I could’ve
done a line with her if I’d given it a go.
Wunner who she wash?” Then the storm
broke.
* * * *
“S. Piel”: The old warning about keep-
ing the peepers peeled when a Greek
appears with largesse went into reverse
in Melbourne. A Greek passing through
from Adelaide to Sydney, finding himself
alone and with a few hours on hand, was
charmed by a friendly stranger who was
waiting for the same train. They walked
about the city together, the stranger oblig-
ing the Greek by sending a telegram for
him. Then they went to Collins House,
where the stranger had important busi-
ness in connection with his hotel in Adel-
aide. There he asked the Greek to wait,
but reappeared a bit later in a worried
condition and confessed that it was neces-
sary for him to have £5O at once. The
Greek didn’t have it, but he had £6, and
handed it over as a loan. An hour later
he was telling the police about it.
SUN IN THE EYES.
“One of a number of persons charged with ‘jay-
walking’ in Sydney pleaded that ‘the sun was in
his eyes.’ The plea failed when the police pointed
out that the sun was not visible at the time.”
“The sun was in his eyes.” How oft at cricket
It furnishes a plea whereat to snatch,
The old excuse, the ever-handy ticket,
When somebody has lost his side a wicket
By letting down a catch.
In shooting one may hear the same assertion,
When fleet-winged birds from grass or stubble
rise,
The faulty shot’s explanatory version
Of how he came to miss disarms aspersion:
“The sun was in his eyes.”
How few there are whose gaze has never been
Lured from the goal ahead of them presented
When some fell influence would intervene
Which couldn’t possibly have been foreseen
Or, if foreseen, prevented.
The sudden shaft from Sol that darts or dances
Into your dial—a thing we all abhor,
It’s safe to say, in any circumstances —-
What numerous misfortunes and mischances
It has to answer for!
But when, diverging from the track assigned
you,
Jay-like across the street you walk or run.
The good old wheeze may well miscarry, mind
you,
Should it appear, to dazzle or to blind you,
There wasn’t any sun.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. •. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
m
wjjm
mm
i
LANES
ABSOLUTELY SAFE!
...and gives INSTANT HEAT
A genuine Lane's Thermil Blue
Flame Stove is absolutely SAFE
and silent. No pricking. No prim-
ing. No pumping. Lights like a
gas stove and is hot instantly. No
pump valves or washers to replace.
Just one fuel, Kerosene. A fill lasts
8 hours. Entirely odourless and
HALF THE PRICE of a pressure
stove.
xx\\
GENUINE • /
erniUj
\SILENT BURNING
See your
local Store.
BLUE
FLAME
STOVE
THE
lIMITCniNSURANCE
(Jill I CU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
AC. DAWSON. T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst- Manager,
POLITICAL POINTS
Melbourne “Argus,” doing some ex-
ploring in Canberra at the beginning of
last week:
Of the 57 non-Labor members in both
Houses, 51 hold offices. Nineteen are in
the Cabinet, two are Whips, two are Chair-
men of Committees, one is Speaker, one
President and 26 are committee members.
And there were “three others on military
duty, which occupies all their time when
Parliament is not in session.” But there
are not “26 committee members” now.
Stacey and Hutchinson won’t play. And
President Hayes and Chairman-of-Com-
mittees James McLachlan have been
defeated.
Old Tom Crawford, hitting out at
the Menzies Government:
I feel that the conception of democracy
receiving wide publicity in these days, gov-
ernment of the gullible by the garrulous, is
the antithesis of that which so many brave,
if not fluent, sons of the Empire are
fighting and dying to maintain.
Not at all bad, and it is a pity Tom
concealed this talent for so many years.
He would have been a much more in-
teresting politician had he let himself
go at appropriate intervals from 1917 on-
wards. Last week he came to light with
a fierce attack on Foil, his fellow-Senator
for 24 years, on the score of Foil’s
directorships. Foil is giving them up.
Menzies, broadcasting to Australia on
June 17: —
The time has passed for merely protest-
ing against strikes and lockouts in war and
allied industries. We propose to prohibit
them, and to accompany that prohibition
by giving to the Courts full powers to take
the most vigorous action against those who
counsel or encourage them.
But Curtin whispered in Bob’s receptive
ear, with the customary result; the
measure prohibiting strikes and lockouts
and “giving the Courts full powers to take
the most vigorous action” has been post-
poned indefinitely. The fatal trouble with
Bob’s Government '' is that it doesn’t
govern.
When there are officers of Parliament
to be elected Labor is never vexed with
sentimental notions of chivalry. With
Senator Wilson in the A.I.F. abroad
and Senator MacDonald incapacitated
by a sudden illness, it nominated Cun-
ningham for President and Brown for
Chairman of Committees, and saw them
tie with Hayes and James McLachlan.
That meant drawing names out of a hat,
and the luck of the draw fell to the
Labor pair. In similar circumstances,
two Senators from the other side might
have absented themselves from the bal-
lots. On the other hand, they mightn’t
have.
From Hobart “Mercury”:
The one clear fact that emerges from the
cloud of Ministers now administering the
affairs of the Commonwealth is that there
is not one representative of Tasmania in
the lot Tasmania, which gave the Prime
Minister his majority, is now denied by
him representation in his Cabinet.
Tasmania didn’t quite give the P.M. “his
majority,” for he has none ; but the gain
of two seats in the Speck saved his Gov-
ernment from defeat. The Speaker and
the Senate President were then Tas-
manians. Now they are Westralians.
Joseph Silver Collings, who leads for
Labor in the Senate, failed in a stupid
attempt to get two Tasmanian papers
and Beck, M.H.R. for Denison, carpeted
for saying that the three Tas. Labor
Senators had put party before State in
voting for President. “What, commit
them for telling the truth?” barked ex-
Minister McLachlan, and that is what it
would have amounted to.
Dunstan, trembling for his two in-
come-taxes, declared that a “breach of
the pact represented by the Common-
wealth Constitution would be a deplor-
able precedent at a time when the integ-
rity of pacts is important.” Nothing
seems less integral these days than the
integrity of pacts, which is why the coun-
try badly needs money for a war. Dun-
stan and other Premiers have had a lot
to say about “keeping the letter and spirit
of the Constitution.” A fat lot they
cared for the spirit of the Constitution
when they went in for transport-stran-
gulation !
The latest newsprint cuts have a conti-
nent-wide application, and were taken
calmly everywhere but in Sydney, where
the two morning papers and the “Sun”
squealed horribly. Squealing seems as
natural to these journals as it is to the
Sydney Rugby League, whose paroxysms
last throughout the winter. The “Tele-
graph” and the “Herald” stooped to the
paltry insinuation that Harrison, the
Minister, had struck at them because they
opposed him at the general election —
“political bias,” the “Telegraph” called
it. The man really ought to be grateful
“British submarines have sunk the Italian cruiser Gorizia, three supply ships and hit
a merchant cruiser.”
“Just a little reminder from the King’s Navee.”
to them, for if they hadn’t stirred up
sympathy for him by combining to settle
his hash he wouldn’t have licked their
“outstanding candidate” so easily.
One of the Empire’s handicaps in this
war is the sort of picture paper whose
staples are suggestive photographs, drivel-
ling Hollywoodana, maudlin Moscow-
mania, cocksure amateur strategy and
guttersnipe abuse. London has an
example called the “Daily Mirror.” Pun-
ished for libelling Sir Roger Keyes, but
arrogant as before, it turned savagely on
Australia’s old acquaintance Hoover,
whom it branded as “a Nazi supporter.”
And all because old “Hail Columbia,”
in the course of a speech in which “he
praised the Empire’s tough resistance on
land and sea and advocated continued
all-out aid,” referred to the Stalin regime
as “one of the bloodiest tyrannies of
terror ever erected.” Whatever his
politics, a man who has sat in the place
where Washington and Lincoln sat has
a unique place in the hearts of his
countrymen, and no noxious specimen
of sex-appeal and slatherumwhack
journalism should be permitted to defame
him,
Archie Cameron has had the rare ex-
perience of receiving a posy from the
other side of the House. The donor was
Dan Mulcahy, Stevens’s conqueror, who
said that Cameron in his time as Minister
“showed by his answers to questions that
he was thoroughly acquainted with the
conditions existing in the department
under his control. He was one of the
best men ever to sit on a Ministerial
bench —one of the best administrators we
have had.” Dan added, quite unneces-
sarily, that he didn’t agree with Archie’s
politics. Cameron is an uncompromising
conscriptionist.
Clive Evatt, McKell’s Minister for
Education, believes that history should
be taught in schools from the standpoint
of “the great developments in social jus-
tice and the work of social leaders.” In
his own State he could start with a his-
tory of child endowment, the dole, tin-
hares, fruit-machines, the lottery, trans-
port legislation, compulsory unionism
(with a special chapter on Mr. O’Sullivan
and the N.U.R.) and the social leader
who was once “greater than Lenin.”
To the Melbourne Premier the uniform
taxation plan is a “Commonwealth pro-
posal to persuade or coerce the States
into selling their birthright for a mess of
pottage.” Since when has it been the
“birthright” of a provincial Government
to deny to the national Government the
right to get the wherewithal for saving
the country?
Even “Hansard” moves. In the
number issued on June 28 it is proudly
recorded that the type, ink, cover paper,
newsprint and machine (“which does the
printing and folding in one operation”)
were made in Australia.
“The Government, after full considera-
tion, decided that publication of the
‘A.B.C. Weekly’ should be discontinued.”
Fadden said it in the House on June 20.
“Publication of the ‘A.B.C. Weekly’ will
continue until the report of a Parliamen-
tary committee has been presented.”
Collins said it in the House on June 24.
And it came out last week that the
“Weakly” is being printed by “Terewth”
on a cost -plus basis, the plus being 12£
p.c. “Terewth” itself was the subject of
several yes-no-yes “decisions” concerning
its application for a newsprint license to
enable it to bring out an afternoon paper,
and after the hesitating negative the Gov-
ernment distributed £4OOO among the
staff that had been engaged.
There was a great pro-Russian rally in
the Sydney Town Hall on Thursday
night. Bishop Burgmann, breaking a long
silence, held forth again on “Russia’s
mighty experiment for the world,” and
one of the supporting speakers was a lady
who made a public presentation of a
cheque to the “arms-for-Spain” gentry,
and pronounced Chamberlain’s refusal to
shed British blood in the cause utterly
revolting. And the moving-picture Mayor
was the chairman and “God Save the
King” was sung, as well as the “Inter-
nationale.” A great rally.
From an “Australian” Communist
party manifesto, issued 22 months ago:
Hitler... .compelled to recognise the grow-
ing might of the Soviet Union... .sends Ribben-
trop to Moscow to try to make terms....
a great victory for the Soviet and for peace.
The Soviets agree to sign a non-aggression pact;
but that does not mean and could never mean
that they are prepared to give Hitler a free
hand for new and greater aggressions... .Rib-
bentrop, when he commences negotiations with
Molotov, will soon find....that in the event
of unprovoked aggression the pact becomes null
and void.
Now it’s:
Hitler, fearing the growing might of Com-
munism in Germany, and unable to control
growing discontent inspired by the mighty
solidarity of the Russian people, launches an
incendiary attack, assisted by the Whiteguard
Finnish Government and the Rumanian Fascist
gang of Antonescu. The Red Army, whole-
heartedly supported by the united will of the
Soviet people, will smash and destroy the Nazi
gangsters and liberate the enslaved people of
Germany and Europe.
Obviously the work of the same accom-
modating hand.
To the gratification of the Chinese
Soccer team now in this country, Frede-
ric William Eggleston, sometime Vic-
torian Attorney-General and chairman
of the Commonwealth Grants Commis-
sion, has been named Australian Minister
to Chungking. Mr. Stewart, Minister
of External Affairs, testifies that “few
men in Australia have a wider knowledge
of Pacific affairs,” It is to be hoped
that he will make no rash promises, par-
ticularly in the matter of immigration.
Over a month ago “S. M. Herald”
certified that Syria was “ripe and over-
ripe for invasion.” Dentz, “the ignoble
Dentz,” had been “left with a diminished,
demoralised and dissident force to act as
caretaker and receptionist for the in-
coming Germans” ; and it was merely a
question of who was to “get there first.”
On Friday the Old Girl was heard de-
manding that “we should make an end
of the Syrian embarrassment.” What
about sending Professor Roberts there
to finish it off?
A Conservative member in the Com-
mons sought information about a union
between U.S.A. and Britain. Said Mr.
Churchill, who offered France the same
thing last year:
So great a change is impossible without
the fullest Parliamentary and public dis-
cussion.
Australia’s Mr. Menzies, who wasn’t
heard from in the French matter, might
assure Mr. Churchill that Australia, would
want a hand in any such discussion.
All owners of an acre or more of fruit-
trees in N.S.W. must pay an orchard tax
of Is. an acre. Before his election Mc-
Kell promised a referendum of orchard-
ists on the question of abolition of the
tax. N.S.W. Fruitgrowers’ Federation,
claiming that it depends on the impost
for its finances, is protesting on the
ground that the referendum will “prob-
ably” favor abolition. “Tinkering” Ton-
king, the defeated Chief Secretary, sug-
gests that the Government should hold
a referendum on the abolition of every
tax. Carried unanimously.
From a Vaucluse lantana hedge:
Granny “Herald’s” assumption that everybody
must be interested in her annoyance with
Customs Minister Harrison over newsprint
rationing probably arises from the fact that he is
also M.H.R. for the exclusive Wentworth elec-
torate, where anybody reading a lesser rag than
“S.M.H.” does so in deep secrecy. Still, the
district hasn’t forgotten that Granny tried to
foist “that outsidah from Waroongah” on it
last September, and old ladies find their loyalty
seriously challenged by Granny’s continued
grouch. One of them was seen picking
“S.M.H.” off the lawn on a recent morning
with a pair of tongs. No editor with his ear
to the ground can afford to ignore that.


A POLICEMAN’S LIFE BECOMES A HAPPY ONE.
“Luxury barracks at Melbourne s new police headquarters include steam-heated bedrooms tinted in Nile-green and daffodil.”


IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note 2
blowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to be expected to a de-
gree, if passage is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting. Nature
may be warning that there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste out of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a, day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, pufli-
ness under the eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a]
special remedy for the kidneys and will give
ouick and lasting benefit. Old and young
alike can take DOAN’S BACKACHE SIDNEY
DILLS with perfect safety.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WAR BUDGET AND TAXES.
CITY MUTUAL LIFE.
July Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
d
Doctors say that if your and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street. Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The House at Canberra has an Allan
McDonald, and the Senate an Allan
MacDonald. Both are returned soldiers
and both have been in the news. On
June 26 Allan, M.H.R., was named Min-
ister for External Territories. On July 2
Senator Allan, who was himself a Min-
ister in Lyons’s time, arrived at Canberra
to vote in the ballots for Senate President
and Chairman of Committees. But he
had been taken ill on the train, and by
10.30 a.m. was in such a bad way that
he had to be hurried away to hospital.
In his absence each ballot resulted in a
tie, and slips inscribed with the names of
the candidates were inserted in and drawn
from a hat, the solemn ceremony being
performed by the Clerk of the Senate.
It was Labor’s lucky day, so Jim Cun-
ningham succeeded J. B. Hayes as Presi-
dent and Gordon Brown took James
McLachlan’s place as chairman.
Including his salary as member, the
President of the Senate gets £2300 p.a
and the chairman £1750 p.a. Cunning-
ham is the ninth President and the third
from Westralia, Like Kingsmill (1929-
32) and Lynch (1932-38), he was a State
politician first, having been an M.L.C.
for six years and M.L.A. for
Kalgoorlie for 13 years (1923-36); he was
also one of Collier’s Ministers for six
years (1924-30). When he lost his Kal-
goorlie seat he gave up politics, as he
thought, for farming, in the Mullewa
district (his place is near those of his
friends Agent-General Troy and Tom
Moore, M.L.C.), but he was back
again in 1937 as candidate for the Senate,
and he headed the poll at the election
which ended the political careers of
Lynch and Pearce. Stocky in build, he
has a keen, good-humored face and a
thick thatch, which, he says, will spare
him the necessity of wearing a wig.
Hugh Traill Armitage, who has been
acting governor of the Commonwealth
Bank since Harry Sheehan’s death, has
received the permanent appointment. One
of Denison Miller’s original staff —he
was with “Denny” in the “Wales” —
Armitage has been accountant, secretary,
head-office manager, chief inspector and
deputy governor, so he earned his last
step, but it would have been better re-
ceived in the business world had it not
been demanded by Labor politicians and
costless-credit cranks. The new governor
lives in Cremorne, Sydney, but is not so
familiar a figure to ferry passengers as
a brother who was a major in India and
has decided views on many subjects.
J. G. Drake has surprised Adelaideans
by stepping out of the Melbourne ex-
press and paying a round of visits to old
South Australian friends. None of the
strong S.A. delegation to the first Com-
monwealth Parliament was among them
(one was Senator Tom Playford, grand-
father of the present Premier); Drake,
who was P.M.G. in the first Common-
wealth Ministry, has survived them all,
and all his Ministerial colleagues and a
great majority of original members. It
is 35 years since he retired from the
Senate and nearly 60 years since he was
called to the Victorian Bar, Now in his
92nd year, he has lived in retirement fox-
many years in Clayfield, Brisbane.
Death in the Caulfield Military
Hospital, after a short illness, deprived
Australia of a fine soldier in Major Eric
Wren, Assistant Deputy Director of
Ordnance Services. A captain in the
1914-18 war, the big, good-hearted N.S.W.
railway officer lost an arm at Pozieres
after having collected a Croix de Guerre.
Compelled to give up tennis —in pre-’l4
days he was a leading player—he became
a grower of champion-class sweet-peas
and dahlias, while on the academic side
he lifted a bachelorship of economics.
A lieutenant son saw the Libyan, Grecian
and Cretan campaigns through before
he was 21. Another son is a cadet at
a Sydney college. Major Wren was 52.
“El V.” farewells an overlander:
Death has removed, at 59, the familiar
flaxen-haired figure of Francis Birtles, one of
the strangest of Australian characters. Son of
the manager of a Melbourne boot factory, he
ran away to sea, arrived in S’Africa in time for
the Boer War, and served for some time after-
wards in the Cape Police. He came back and
conceived the idea of riding a bicycle round
Australia to advertise a well-known brand.
Thousands saw him as he passed through towns.
Next, he travelled with young Ferguson, who
made the first crossing of the continent from
west to east by car. After that, Birtles learnt
to drive, and with his brother Clive, a fine
and inventive mechanic, made several trips
to the north and elsewhere. From then onward
all his life was spent on the wallaby. He intro-
duced a lot of Australian districts to the motor-
car, flew with Briggs to Central Australia, wrote
largely about his travels, and five years ago
settled down in Sydney on the profits of a
speculation in N.T. gold. Fever had had him
in its grip for years, and he had never fully
recovered from a bad burning which he re-
ceived when his car hit a stump in the Terri-
tory at the end of the last war and blew up.
His greatest merits were his passionate love of
animals and his unflagging championship of
the cause of the blacks.
Died suddenly in Sydney in his early
thirties, C. E. Ahrens, a B.Ag.Sc. of that
city’s University, who was Superintendent
of Lord Howe Island. After some years
as an agrostologist for the N.S,W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, he went to Fiji as
principal of Naviso Agricultural College
in 1937, returned to the N.S.W. depart-
ment and was appointed to Lord Howe
Island about a year ago.
M. C. Alder, who succeeds Arthur
Eedy as g.m. of Mutual Life and
Citizens, has been associated with it
M. C. ALDER.
for 38 years. Steps in his upward climb
were; Assistant secretary, 1923 ; secre-
tary, 1927 ; assistant to managing direc-
tor, 1938 ; general secretary, 1939. He’s
a past president of the Actuarial Society
of Australasia, the Insurance Institute of
N. S. Wales and the Economic Society of
Australia and M.L.
William Mortimer Marshall —“Laven-
der Bill” to the Murchison (W.A.) in
delicate allusion to his sartorial tastes —
is in Sydney seeking a solution to the
Westralian shortage of skilled miners
caused by heavy enlistments (he warns
prospective recruits that the medical lest
is very stiff). Born at Creswick (Vic.),
where the Lindsays come from, Marshall
tried Malaya and Rhodesia before he
decided that Westralia was the country
he liked best. A miner on the North
Coolgardie and Murchison fields, he be-
W. M. MARSHALL, M.L.A.
came Labor M.L.A. for Murchison in
1921, and is now Chairman of Com-
mittees. Though an omnivorous reader
he doesn’t like journalists, but prefers
’em to caricaturists.
E. J. Rogers, of Hobart, has received
“special recognition” from Rotary for
“distinguished services to the community.”
He helped to found the Tasmanian
Underwriters’ Association, the Hobart
Stock Exchange, the Blind, Deaf and
Dumb Institute and the Masonic Grand
Lodge ; he works for the Public Library,
the Royal Hobart and Queen Alexandria
Hospitals and the Benevolent Society,
and is a cemetery trustee. He has been
alderman and mayor. His hobbies—yes,
he has them —are music and sport, and
he has been a gunner in the Garrison
Artillery.
Back at Melbourne, in the bosom of
his family, after world-wide wanderings,
the youthful James Aldridge, who did
the campaign in Finland for the “Daily
Sketch” and turned in some good stuff.
After that he went to Norway, and was
making for Oslo when he heard the Ger-
mans had got there before him. Dodging
Nazis on a motor-bike which an unsus-
pecting German had lent him, he escaped
to Sweden and get to the front again. He
covered the British evacuation of Nam-
sos, explored Russia, the Ukraine and
the Balkans, turned up in Syria and so
to Greece. In his leisure moments the
young fellow wrote two books, one a war
novel which is selling well in U.S.A.
He started on the Inky Way as editor of
the Swan Hill (Vic.) High School maga-
zine, and then got a job on the “Sun”
in Melbourne, In 1938 he crashed Fleet-
street.
Speaker Nicholls, a member since 1915,
has the longest record of continuous
service in the new S.A. Assembly. Hudd,
who has just come back, dates from
1912, but has been out for a bit. Gordon,
President of the Leg. Council, has sat there
since 1913. The real veteran is George
Ritchie, M.H.A. from 1902 to 1922, and
M.L.C. since 1924. All four men have
acquired titles. The new Assembly has
10 new members; but three were there
before. Another carries on the family
tradition of his father, John Bice.
A notable link with the remote past
was Stuart Dulf, dead in Adelaide. It
was his father, Captain Duff, who in
1836 brought to the infant province of
S.A. —not yet officially existing—the
Kyffin Thomas family and their printing
press, which printed on the beach at
Glenelg the second number of the
“Register”—the first had been produced
in London. The machine is now in the
Adelaide Museum.
Squadron-Leader Hugh Milton Birch,
decorated with the D.F.C. “for untiring
and devoted services, with flashes of bril-
liance whenever a critical situation oc-
curred,” was .born in Melbourne and edu-
cated at Scotch College. The flying bug
bit him while he was working behind a
bank counter in Collins-street; he joined
the R.A.A.F. as a cadet in 1937, got his
wings the same year, went to England
and was placed in command of a Sun-
derland flying-boat. While searching for
survivors of a torpedoed merchant vessel
he was attacked by two Junkers. The
gunners waited until one Junker was at
close range and then sent it to the
bottom ; the other made off in a rain-
storm, severely punished. Birch’s father,
now retired, was manager of the E., S.
and A. Bank in Melbourne.
R. H. Doyle, A.M.A.E., Controller of
Ordnance Production, is the son of
Australian-born parents and was educated
at Fort-street, Sydney. He served his
apprenticeship with the Clyde engineer-
ing works, and studied electrical and
mechanical engineering at Sydney Tech.,
collecting diplomas in both. His first job
was at the Lithgow Small Arms Factory
as a tool-maker, and there he rose to
assistant-manager. He was transferred to
Melbourne as assistant-manager of the
R. H. DOYLE.
Ordnance Factory under O’Loughlin,
and from there he went to the Ammuni-
tion Factory, becoming manager. In 1939
Doyie voyaged to England on special
mission. Six weeks after the hardware
began to descend in Europe he was re-
called to Australia to the central adminis-
tration of the Department of Munitions.
He amuses himself with tennis when he
can find time.
Father-and-son enlistments have been
reported, and in at least one case father
and son have met abroad. Captain P. J.
Bothwell went to the Middle East on
special A.I.F. duty. His son, who is in
the R.A.A.F., had left several weeks
earlier, also for the Middle East. Captain
Bothwell had no idea of his son’s where-
abouts, but while on a visit to Jerusalem
inquired at the R.A.F. headquarters. A
few minutes afterwards he was talking to
his lad on the telephone. Next day they
met in Jerusalem.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
111
film
Him
Pi
I
m *g I
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per ni^ht.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 f 4 lines)
SOMOKE-OH!
“Boydup—Bywater.”
—Engagement announcement.
Matrimonial storms will never sink
them.
,j, «j*
“Instead of frying lamb’s fry in fat, try
frying it in gutter. It is more easily digestible.”
— Woman’s paper.
After all, if it’s in the interests of
health, why be fussy about privacy?
d*
“Is breakfast a pleasant meal at your house?”
— “Sun.”
Don’t be silly! The whole family’s
there.
v •!* 's’ •s*
“Swing music on the radio made cows at
Trinidad (Colorado) produce milk giving an
extra pint of cream a day.” — “World's News.”
It was those who had to do the extra
milking who went sour.
“Living Costs Too Much.” —Sydney “D.T
True ; once cremated all expenses end.
“Wanted, cottage in eastern suburbs suit two
ladies with mod. fittings.”
—Sydney suburban paper.
No back lace-ups and red flannelette
for them.
■i* 4*
“If the indigestion is acute, two tablets should
be dissolved slowly in the month after meals.”
— Advt.
The idea is to give you a chance to
forget the indigestion first.
4* 4* 4*
“The best time for a hot oath is just before
you are going to bed.” — Woman’s paper.
Not, as most of us think, when you’ve
got to get up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Silver fox stole.” — “S.M.H.” advt.
Tut, tut! What’s happening to
Granny’s grammar?
“Tell ’im if 'e lets y ’ go youll join the R.A.A.F.”
Rival claims made by Germany and
Russia suggest a terrific battle for hot-
aerial supremacy.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lost, rough-hailed fox-terrier.”
— Advt. in suburban paper.
Perhaps he’ll come back voluntarily if
his owner promises to speak to him in a
gentler tone in future.
+ 4* 4* 4*
“Women yell themselves hoarse at football
match.” —Daily paper.
On reading this Jinks bought his wife
a season ticket to any ground.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Because respondent pawned the blankets to
buy liquor they often slept under newspapers.”
—Divorce report.
It’s a bet that the booze artist was
called every name under the “Sun.”
“On Monday she was engaged to Frank; on
Tuesday she had promised to marry Ray.”
— Woman’s paper.
One of those change-daily girls.
•h •F
“Wanted milliner in her third or fourth
year.”— Advt. in suburban paper.
What is the Child Welfare Department
going to do about this?
•P , ,
“Correct lighting brightens up the home.
— Advertisement.
The bill for it brings back the gloom.
4* ❖
“I have been reading the ‘A.B.C. Weekly’
for as long as I can remember.” — Letter in
“A.B.C. Weekly” (established 19 months ).
“Can” or “care to”?
The Only Way.
“Cheese That Foiled Witencs.'’ — Advt.
When I was a wizard and you, were a
witch,
And we couldn’t be certain whichever
was which,
We thought we could foil any cheese in
its lair
With the tinfoil you’d swept up and put
in your hair.
But one cheese we tried it on leaped from
the sky
(If it wasn’t so tall, it was startlingly high).
Then we wept, for the right way to foil
any cheese —
As we found —is to drown it in beer by
degrees.
Q.
The Roundabout.
“I should have thought him too matter-
of-fact for Myra,” said Mrs. Catty.
“But, my dear! I assure you he’s not
that. Why, he’s quite sentimental!” re-
torted Mrs. Balm.
“I don’t think,” said Mrs. Catty later
to Mrs. Squeal, “that I would care for
my daughter to marry a man who’s too
senti mental.”
“My dear! Haven’t you heard?” said
Mrs. Squeal to Mrs. Broaden. “The
man is mental ; mad as a hatter, they
tell me.”
“Of course you know,” said Mrs. B.
to Mrs. Shoutitt, “that Myra’s young
man is a hatter. Arid he runs his busi-
ness on such mad lines that it’s a wonder
he’s not bankrupt.”
Naturally Mrs. Shoutitt passed it on to
Mrs. Bore that poor Myra was in-
fatuated with a man who was bank-
rupt ; and said that she read only
the other day of a Judge send-
ing a bankrupt to gaol. By the time it
got to Mrs. Scavenger, Myra was engaged
to a dangerous criminal; and when Mrs.
Tapper heard that he was on the point
of being arrested for the famous Domain
Cave murder and that Myra intended to
stick to him, somebody she told, with
an eye on a possible ten bob, rang the
“Daily Trimmings.” The news editor
dispatched a cub reporter and a photo-
grapher to publicise the girl heroine. But
when Myra refused to have her photo,
taken, the news ed. killed the “wall of
silence” story the cub had laboriously
built up. As Mrs. Catty said, when she
heard about it, you can’t get your photo,
in the papers unless you know somebody
who works there.
H. M.
Propaganda.
“Goebbels has appointed another Haw-Haw.
This one, to be known as Paul Revere, will
broadcast nightly to North America.”
—News item.
Broadcasting from Zeesen to Australia
one night last week, the famous Nazi
commentator Captain Cook said;
“It was admitted in Canberra tonight
that several schooners were recently sunk
near a bar at a place called Metropole,
somewhere close to Sydney, The vessels,
which were laden with beer for the fight-
ing forces, are believed to have fallen
victims to submarine action.
“Further evidence of the Luftwaffe’s
widespread ramifications is contained in
a report that numerous mines have been
discovered in the vicinity of Kalgoorlie
(Western Australia). Many of these are
said to have been magnetic, and several
have already been exploded. The enemy
is known to have suffered heavy casual-
ties.
“Conclusive evidence of Australian
statesmen’s habit of employing deputies
to attend important functions for them
was given in the Australian Parliament
to-day. Questioned by Mr. Ward
(Lab.) the Commonwealth Treasurer,
Mr. Fadden, said, T admit I had a double
at Flemington on Saturday.’ Flemington,
of course, is the famous naval base on
the south coast of Victoria.
“The effect of our U-boat campaign is
clearly seen in the Federal Government’s
new petrol - rationing scheme. Drive-
yourself cars, which were previously
allowed no ration at all, have now been
cut down to half.
“A bomb, believed to be of British
origin, has just fallen in the studio. That
concludes the news bulletin in English,
listeners.”
DOUGAL.
Intentions.
“The technique of many modern lovers is
shockingly unoriginal and hackneyed.”
— Woman’s paper.
Oh, don’t be harsh if thus they fail
A maiden’s fancy to enmesh,
For, though their methods may be stale,
At least they’re trying to be fresh!
T.W.N.
Song of Songs.
“The capture of Brigadier Tosti at Ghimbi
(Abyssinia) brings the total Italian generals
captured in six months to 31.”
From listening-in to Fascist big shots’
rant he
Will now be spared; for Muss, he
needn’t die.
To scent-spray, splendor, mandolin,
Chianti,
Tosti now says “Good-bye !”
K.
The Stars Tell All.
(BY SYBIL SOOTHSAYER.)
Sunday: Taurians especially should
avoid treading on upturned rakes or using
dynamite to light fires today, while those
born under the sign of Leo would do
well not to de-soot the chimney or
change the oil in the car while clad in
their best suits. Avoid all undue exer-
tion unless you feel you would like some
strenuous exercise. A good day to plan
new ventures and seek promotion, though
care should be taken by those suffering
from bunions. Sagittarians are warned
not to sleep with the right knee hooked
around the neck or snore through the
ears. Men born under Capricorn may
sidestep domestic discord by going out
for the day early and not returning until
tomorrow. Business setbacks may not
be so much in evidence today.
Monday: Risks may possibly attenc
those Geminians who drive on the wrong
side of the road past a cross street at
over 75 m.p.h. There is likely to be
much military activity in Europe, whilst
Asia and America may also be promi-
nent in the news. A propitious day for
young mothers to wheel babies about in
prams provided an earthquake doesn’t
occur. A good day to set kohlrabi seed or
cement, but unfortunate (before 11 a.m.)
for giving infants under eight months
old an open tin of phosphorus and a tea-
spoon to play with. Aquarians who get
run over by steamrollers today may have
to be prepared to spend a few days con-
fined to bed. Eating pineapple-tops or
swallowing walnuts whole may not be
in the best interests of Arians should they
fail to cut their toenails beforehand.
Tuesday: Generally speaking, today
may be dangerous for walking blindfold
along the parapet-edges of fifteen-storey
buildings or for divers descending with-
out first having had their headpieces
screwed down. Pipes should be lit up-
side down and umbrellas carried by their
handles by those Scorpions who have
fallen arches or who habitually wear their
vests buttoned up the back. Firemen and
dance-band leaders shouldn’t look straight
up at the sun unless Libra and Leo’s
third house were in conjunction on the
day of their baptism, and then only if
they are free of warts and have never been
made bankrupt.
Wednesday: Those born under the
sign of Pisces who win a lot of money
today may find that worrying over finan-
cial matters may not be necessary. There
will be quite a lot of business transacted
in many of the great cities, and a day of
happiness is clearly indicated for those
who have no worries and are deeply in
love. Ironmongers and gas-meter readers
who are Capricornians shouldn’t stand
for more than four hours while up to
their necks in water, and all Arians would
be unwise to loop the loop in ’planes if
they have neither parachute on nor safety
belt around them and have just had
17 rums. Navvies should
have no trouble with the
domestic-servant problem
today, provided they don’t
walk sideways under an
extension ladder or buy
lottery tickets with num-
bers ending in a 5.
Thursday: Today is
unpropitious for Can-
cerians to buy shares in
molybdenum mines in An-
tarctica unless they have a
surname containing 11 let-
ters, including three “z’s,”
and bowl left-handed.
Cyclists, particularly those
born on a February 29,
should avoid riding with
head down behind a
double-decker bus. If this
is a cold dav petrol-lorry
drivers should avoid carrying a charcoal
brazier on the seat to keep them
warm unless their lodge dues are paid.
Taurians who don’t become involved
in accidents today, Friday or Saturday
will stand a good chance of reaching the
end of the week without coming to any
bodily harm.
Friday: Many roads leading into and
out of most towns and cities will have a
certain amount of traffic on them today.
This is a sign that the stars favor well-
planned moves and general caution while
operating circular saws or looking down
lift-wells. Manufacturers will do well to
avoid selling their products at less than
it costs them to make, while glassblowers
and herbalists who whistle out of tune or
have ingrowing hairs shouldn’t walk on
bindi-eyes in their bare feet.
Saturday: For those who attend the
races, lucky colors are blue, green, red,
black, cerise, pink, yellow, orange, white,
gold and brown. There will be a state-
ment made by someone prominent in
America, Europe or Asia. Football
wingers who were born under the sign
of Aries should avoid belting into the
goalpost while going at top speed.
Plumbers and corset-fitters should par-
ticularly refrain from cutting their corns
with hedge shears or looking for a gas
leak with a blowlamp.
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Bolton, editor-owner of
the “Bobbra Wobbra Times and Record,”
got into a poker game at the pub one
night and lost steadily to Dalton, the
undertaker. As his losses mounted, Bol-
ton’s temper receded, and he began sling-
ing off about the tinniness of blokes who
never bet till they got ’em and always got
’em, and hinted that this probably was a
result of a trade that was never likely to
run out of customers and developed a
kind of parasite who hung round sick-
rooms, like a condor over the pampas.
In the end Dalton arose and smote Bol-
ton, and a pretty mix-up followed, in
which Bolton almost became a subject
for the snatcher’s normal ministrations.
He was helped home, recovered and cogi-
tated. Next day, reading the proof of
Dalton’s advt., he came across the line
“Special rates to families.” When the
paper came out a line had been added,
“Children, Is. to all parts.” Bolton had
to republish the corrected advt. free of
charge, but surveying the hysterical dis-
trict he reckoned it was worth it.
* * * *
“Fitzjay”: Mrs. Rocker was notorious
as a very bad pay. When she approached
Dan the mailman for a seat in the mail
cart for the 20-mile journey to her home,
he accepted her with as much unconcern
as if she had been a “commercial.” Half-
way along the road, and at the foot of
the one steep hill on the journey, Dan
mentioned that he would have to let the
harness out a bit on account of the
strain. This necessitated both of them
alighting. Dan fiddled about the harness
a while, then announced that this was
where he collected the fares. Mrs. R.
took one look at the long, straight hill,
thought of the further nine miles to
Hollagum, and, biting her lip, coughed up.
* * * *
“The 0.D.” : That goanna-in-the-stock-
ing sight (B. 2/7/’4l) was a pleasant dream
compared with what our Victorian
Malice township witnessed one bright
moonlit night. Blaring an ungodly
medley of sounds, it came racing down
the main road, the biggest ghost ever
seen. It was mostly white, with long tails
flapping behind it and two horns at
its front end. Hastily slamming the bar
door the publican and his cronies
watched it stop, turn and charge into the
store, out of which fell three customers,
a cat and the storekeeper. These took
refuge in the pub and listened to the
awful sounds in the store. The publican,
visibly shaken, served out lavish tonics,
and Dick the Dasher, already well
primed, grabbed a d.-b. gun and gal-
lantly made for the store. They heard
two blasts, then silence. Then a big blue
cattle-dog shot down the road, skidded
to a stop and vanished into that store
just as a blasphemous youth arrived on
horseback. Explanations revealed that
the “ghost” was a Hereford steer caught
chewing the bunk in the drover’s camp.
Attacked from behind, it had gone
straight ahead, taking the tent with it
and, blinded and frightened, had bolted
into the town. The party that entered
the store found the steer fallen down the
cellar, half a shelf of stores blown away
and Dick the Dasher bailed up by a red-
eyed cattle-dog that seemed to think he
had pocketed the steer or something.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: The bank manager wrote
to Henare pointing out that his account
was overdrawn. At the interview the man-
ager informed him he must not issue any
more cheques. Said Henare: “Two years
ago wat te bank owe me?” The man-
ager referred to the account. “You were
in credit £l5O then,” he said. “Py korry,
boss,” said Henare, “when te bank owe
me te big count I send you no retter or
not make te trouble. Now I owe te five
pound to te bank and you make all te
bother. I link you te lousy manager,”
said Henare as he walked out.
♦ * * *
“Me 2”: That old blanket (B. (2/7/’4l)
is new compared with the rug I bought
from George Harley’s store in Cowangie
(Vic.) in 1921 and is still doing duty as
an ironing blanket. It, too, saw its share
of outback doings, and its most vividly-
remembered adventure is of being
wrapped round the beautiful nude form
of a Gippsland girl found wandering
alone on the Warragul-road one Decem-
“Now don't forget that touch of applesauce, Mrs. Potter.”
ber night. She had got out of her bath,
probably inspired by the magic of the
night, and gone forth to revel, never
suspecting that she’d be found by a wan-
dering bagman. Gosh, she was lovely
lying on the rug in the moonlight! She
was 14 months old.
* * * *
“Flight”; Riding over the downs I
flushed a doe Too and her joey. They
hadn’t hit the ground twice before two
eagles dropped to the attack, concentrat-
ing on the young ’un. One eagle buffeted
the baby’s face with its wings. That
brought the little bloke up standing. As
soon as he. rested erect the other bird
dropped on the victim’s shoulders, rest-
ing there for a flick of a second before
it rose again. After that the two birds
hovered lazily in the air—they knew the
work was done. The joey gave a hop
or two, after which his jumps became
erratic. Then he started hopping in ever-
lessening circles, and it was obvious the
little fellow was becoming paralysed.
Within ten seconds he fell to the ground,
still alive. In a flash one of the eagles
dropped on him. The old Too came to
help her young, twitching her nose tenta-
tively in puzzled fashion. The eagle
athwart the body never hesitated; it
slapped the doe heavily with rigid wing-
tips every time she advanced. Then the
other in the air started to embarrass the
mother. And that was when I took a
hand, I’d seen a new and scientific way
of killing: I didn’t want a repetition of
the revolting sight of an eagle gorging.
* * * *
“Drover”: There were about 50 horses
in the camp, and instructions had been
given to the Myall who had attached
himself to the outfit that he had to leave
the hobbles “longa one fella leg.” Shrieks
of laughter from the black boys drew
our attention to the sight of half a
hundred unhobbled horses coming to-
wards the camp, with an old grey mare,
sidling along crabwise, bringing up the
rear. The nig. had left the hobbles on
one leg right enough, but they were all
on that of the old grey, who, when she
reached the camp, looked round in an
inquiring manner as though asking why
she’d been so heavily decorated.
* * * •
“Moonshiner”: To the many sub-
stances that can be obtained from the
blackboy-tree, add whisky. Annually
the slow-growing Xanthorrhoea performs
a miracle—within a few weeks it throws
up a six- and even eight-foot flowering
stem. In its pre-flowering stage this stem
is succulent and loaded with an invert
sugar—such sugar demonstrates itself
later in the thousand honey-laden flowers
which attract bees by the score. Cut just
before flowering this stem, mashed and
allowed to ferment, produces a spirit
that responds readily to distillation. And
it is not without a characteristic flavor.
There are no distilleries in W.A., chief
home of the blackboy, but if ever one
starts and gives the plant a trial it may
produce a liquor as distinctive as that
Highland dew which once claimed to be
flavored with the essence of the Scottish
heather.
* * * *
“Groan-pipe”: That cove who criti-
cised the shape of the saw in the draw-
ing of the one-man-band in B. 25/6/’4l
might know a lot about saws, but he
doesn’t know much of music. Attempts
to utilise the band in the manner illus-
trated had hitherto failed owing to the
fact that the song of an ordinary cross-
cut in the log was a blatant false chord
with the trombone and drum. It was
only by developing the saw shown that
the right harmony could be obtained.
It would have been patented only the
authorities knocked it back. They said
the world had enough horrors as it was.
♦ * ♦ *
“K. Me.”; Big men with little voices
(B. 18/6/’4l) recall Sandy Macpherson,
a 19st. squatter from western N.S.W.
who had two voices, one harsh and
thundering and the other thin and
squeaky. When Jimmy O’Brien, dropping
in from the track, asked for a job in a
faint, quinsied voice, Sandy used his
thundering one to engage him. But at
the week-end, when doling out the next
week’s ration, Sandy’s voice suddenly
switched over from thunder to a thin
squeak; it was then that little Jimmy
rose indignantly and screeched out in
a reedy and shrill soprano: “Sling orf
at a man, will y’? Well, you can keep
y’r flamin’ tucker an’ give me me time.”
* * * ■ ♦
“Capricorn”; “Peterkin’s” Binghis who
would not eat mushrooms (B. 18/ 6/ ’4l)
must have been getting pretty good
tucker longa Guvmint. In the far north,
where there are no sheep and plenty of
places where there are no horses, the
blacks eat mushrooms the same as they
do anything else that’s edible. There
mushrooms favor hillsides and are most
plentiful at the end of the wet monsoon.
You can get mushrooms on the hills
around Darwin by the bucketful. The
blacks eats them raw, usually mopping
them up as they pick them. They also
relish certain kinds of toadstool; but
these they first shrivel on the coals, so as
to volatilise the poison. There is no-
thing Binghi doesn’t know about the
treatment of things he can eat. The
common mushroom is indigenous to Aus-
tralia, and perhaps has a world-wide
range. I have seen it in remote parts
of the Solomon Islands, where even goals
are unknown and where horses live only
in the memories of exiled punters.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Because of the almost
simultaneous discovery of a rabbit
burrow in the cow paddock and a rusty
trap in the shed I once decided to enter
the fur trade, but owing to lack of tech-
nical experience the first catch was my
left thumb. Under the agonising circum-
stances my very young foot was unable
to lower the spring enough to release the
digit, so —they tell me —I ran home
roaring for Dad. The thumb healed, but
the bitterest opinions of rabbit-traps have
been retained and were revived by a
study of the device which grabbed Stalin
(B. 25 /6 / ’4l). My trap —and all rabbit-
and similar traps I’ve seen —had one
strip of steel running the full length
below, curving over sharply at the heel
to make the spring and coming back
above to hold the jaws, so I wish Td
gained my experience on Frith’s fixed
engine, for lacking that vital steel curve
it could be released by finger and thumb.
Admitted that special traps were devised
to snare the wily Joe, but they should
still incorporate those simple fundamen-
tal movements already proved successful.
* * * *
“M.G.M.”: “Me.” himself slips (B.
18/6/’4l) in correcting “Pitt St.” The
correct quotation is, “If your neigh-
bor quotes scripture brand your calves
early,” and it was in a Bulletin com-
petition, not 40 but 25 years ago. Other
prize-winners were “It’s
better to laugh with the
kookaburra than to wail
with the wowser” ; “Any-
one in trouble is your pal” ;
“In the morning the track
shows clearer”; “Never
drink the last drop in the
waterbag” ; “What’s the use
of talkin’ if you’re stony-
broke —and walkin’?” There
were 12, but the rest elude
me.
* * *
“Overdraft”: A neighbor
riding his boundary fences
found one of his hoggets
entangled in the fence by a
foreleg. It had apparently
been there for about a
week, and the only thing
that prevented him from
cutting its throat there and
then was that he didn’t have
a knife on him. He pulled
it out and left it there, in-
tending to come back and
skin it. At mustering time
he was amazed to see a
three-legged sheep hopping
behind the mob. By some
miracle the hogget had
escaped the attentions of
crows and hawks, and had discarded the
injured leg from the shoulder downwards
as cleanly as if it had been amputated
by a surgeon. It survived at least two
droughts after its “operation,” was
always in good condition, and shore a
fleece of excellent quality and length.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Definition of “dingbat”
as requested in B. 2/7/T1: Obtain a
good cheque and take same to a bush
pub. Hand cheque over counter and
give countersign, “Tell us when she’s cut
out, boss.” Leave action to the publican
for five days ; don’t eat any food on fifth
day but go to rear of pub and peer into
any dark corners. That’s a dingbat, and
there’s a couple more. An hour later
there’ll be an epidemic of ’em. Publican
will then murmur the incantation “ ’Ere,
y’re finished. ’Ere’s a bottle f’r the track ;
now git!” Walk away, when dingbats
will follow and can be examined at
leisure. Reason for name will be obvi-
ous, as the creatures, except for the single
horn in their heads, are a distinct cross
between a dingo and a wombat. Persons
who speak of others having dingbats
never experienced the sensation or they
wouldn’t be so darned casual about it.
* * * *
“Avoncliff”: The attraction of fish by
a light (B. 25/6/’4l) was dealt with by
more than one old English authority on
the gentle art. I remember reading as
a boy —I think in Walton —that a few
glowworms encased in a bottle were an
admirable lure to place handy to your
bait when fishing for roach, dace and
suchlike coarse fish in English brooks and
rivers. With other juvenile anglers I
tried it, but without much success. The
insects didn’t seem to take at all kindly
to the under-water role they were ex-
pected to fill.
DEVIL-MAY-CARE.
Devil-may-care is on the march,
With ever their heads held high;
Theirs is a mighty sacrifice,
Cheer loud as they’re passing by!
Give them a cheer to remember.
Give them a rousing hand;
Strong and fit, and they’ll do their bit,
The bravest men in the land.
Shearer’s cook and a rouseabout,
Hard-bitten tough of the ’Loo,
Have cobbered up with a parson’s son
And a freckled-faced jackeroo.
White men under their khaki duds,
All steady against the foe,
They haven’t an easy job to do,
So give them a cheerio!
Son of a city banker,
Son of a city slum,
Son of the boundless bushland,
Keen and alert they come.
Cream of a notion’s manhood,
Pride of a people’s heart,
A devil-may-care battalion
Eager to play their part.
The laughing son of a wool king,
The butt of a navvies’ camp,
Heir to a miner’s fortune.
With never a halt they tramp.
Shoulder to shoulder they’re marching,
Hard as steel and as true,
Devil-may-care and reckless
And ready to die or do.
A rollicking hardcase legion—
See how the blighters grin!
Those are the kind that are needed,
Those are the men who will win.
Swinging to war like their fathers,
Wiry and ready and game,
The devil-raay-cares are marching—
On to their deathless fame.
n.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


“Aratta”: Dad came across the choom
behind the stables looking a bit glum.
“What’s up with y’?” asked Dad.
“I’ve jist had a letter from Home tell in
me that me gran’mother died.” “Oh,
well,” remarked Dad, “it ain’t no use up-
settin’ y’rself about it. It’s thousands of
miles away, an’, allowin’ fer the time
it takes fer a letter t’ reach here, she’s
been dead an’ buried a coupla months.
I’m sorry fer y’ in a way, cos I’ve had
a bit of a knockback that way meself.
I’ve just found ole Strawberry dead down
be the creek.” Dad appeared to muse
for a few moments, then he said brightly,
“Tell y’ what, y’ can come along an’
help me bury Strawb. Y’ can let yer
imagination sorta go a bit, see, an’ if y’
like y’ can say a prayer while we’re puttin’
her under. Strawberry can act as a
sorta deputy fer y’r gran’mother. It’ll fit
in all right, too; she’s been a gran’-
mother herself fer years!”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Those scribes who have
been commenting of late on the retiring
habits and skill in camouflage as invari-
able attributes of the boobook owl
cannot have come near the nursery when
Ninox boobook was engaged in family
cares. Although the white-fluffed young-
sters are hidden safely in a deep tree
hollow, dad and mum will tackle any in-
truder in the neighborhood, human or
other, as savagely as any magpie, except
that they use claws instead of beaks for
the job. And some very dirty work they
can put in with those hooked, knife-
edged weapons, used in swift downward
slashes coming back in an uppercut with
the biggest and sharpest of the lot —that
at the rear of the foot.
H*
“Sailor Bill”: Better than messmate
bark for starting a fire in wet weather is
the brown, rushlike material that col-
lects quickly beneath the green “needles”
of the common grass-tree. It also forms
a splendid roofing thatch. In wet dis-
tricts wallabies and kangaroo rats enjoy
comparative dryness in holes dug by
them under tall grass-trees carrying plenty
of dead stuff.
* * * *
“Billy See”: I’d like to accept “Blue’s
Boss’s” dictum that my chook-killing
canine who doubled back on his tracks
to make sure he hadn’t been watched
did it only to counter any
attempt at “hi-jacking” by
other dogs. But it happened
he was a powerful bull
terrier and the canine boss
of the neighborhood. No
dog lifted any of his
loot. And it also happened
that I detected him at his
fowl stealing when he raced
with a victim past my sleep-
out one summer night—and
he knew I saw him. When I
went across to inform his boss
he was well aware of my
errand; instead of giving me
hi s invariable boisterous
greeting he hid in his kennel,
refusing to come out. Know
of another case in a W.A.
bush town when the prize
sheep-dog of the district was
detected at jumbuck-slaying.
Always he travelled five miles
or more for his spot of sport,
though at home he was the
most virtuous of lamb pro-
tectors. Came the night when
he was detected ; and he knew
it. Next day when the irate
sheepowner arrived with the
district trooper Darby
grovelled on his belly to his master before
one word of complaint had been spoken.
And when his boss brought out the gun he
“Come back, you goal—you re makin' us look ridiculous !”
knew his number was up, although scores
of times he had followed the boss and
the gun through the bush in search of a
kangaroo. Dogs have a conscience, all
right. And so, to a lesser degree, have
cats.
❖ * * *
“Wang”; “I’m fishin’ one Sunday
afternoon,” related Dan, “in what is
locally known as the Big Hole—a deep
wide patch of water in the river with 10ft.
sheer banks on each side of it along
which fences have been put up t’ keep the
stock from failin’ in. Presently a long-
whiskered ole bloke strolls along an’
stands watchin’ me fer a minit or two.
‘Stranger here?’ he asks. I tell him I
am —on’y been workin’ fer a near-by
cocky a few days. He grins an’ nods
towards the water. ‘Doin’ any good?’
he asks. I tell him I’ve caught a coupla
good-sized blackfish, an’ show ’em t’ him.
He laughs, scoffin’-like. ‘They useter use
things like them fer bait hereabouts in
the ole days,’ he ses. ‘That was when
the hole rose right up here where these
fences are now. Y’ see, when we hooked
out the half-dozen of cod that useter be
in it —well, y’ can see fer y’rself how
necess’ry them fences become,’ an’ he
goes orf chucklin’ inter his whiskers.”
*i» 'i l *4*
“Nor’-west”: Speaking of grass grow-
ing quickly, is there any place on earth
to beat the region around Prince Regent
River, northern Westralia? In the dry
season, which usually lasts well on into
December, the whole countryside re-
sembles a million-acre paddock with the
wheat just taken off by the header,
stubble dry and bending over. Usually
the niggers fire this to drive out the
’roos, snakes and other abo. fodder.
Terrific conflagrations that roar on for
miles, vast curtains of flame and rolling
billows of light-colored smoke that often
drift out to sea, veiling the sun and
settling down in a fog. After the fire the
landscape is the epitome of dreariness —
grey ash and scorched, blackened trees.
Then comes the rain, not inches, but feet
of it. Within a couple of days the aspect
is one of faint green. Then a sharp
“Better sack that new 'and, Capn. Every time I pull 'e shove, and every
time I shove 'e pull."
green. After that the grass rises inches
in a night; within a week or two it is
knee-high. Then waist-high, shoulder-
high. After that a man gets lost in it.
He follows his packhorses by the waves
they make in the vast ocean of grass. It
is hard, wiry grass, no good at all for
sheep ; they die on it from sheer lack
of nourishment. But cattle do all right;
horses wonderfully. There was a Conti-
nental scientist who reckoned that the
Kimberleys, properly developed, could
support a population of at least four
million. When one sees the annual
resurgence of those seas of grass one is
inclined to believe him.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Market supplies from
the more accessible Australian fishing
grounds are progressively dwindling in
amount and quality by reason of stupidly
wasteful fishing methods and neglect of
proper control by State Governments.
But there is plenty of first-rate fish food
left on them, regarded as unmarketable,
just as the big mackerel of our tropical
and sub-tropical waters were regarded up
to a few years ago, and as the same
species of tunny which have brought
fortunes into California are regarded
today. The despised stingaree, for
example, is a better-flavored foodfish
than its near relative the English skate.
The big flaps of tender white, good-
tasting meat have the advantage of being
boneless if properly cut. The flaps and
back muscles of the miscalled shovel-
nosed shark —it really is a ray—are
equally good. The gummy shark of
colder waters is another despised fish of
excellent flavor and high nutritive value.
The heads and bones of all of them make
tip-top soup stock —real rib-sticking stuff
that you can stand a spoon in.
“Golden Mile”: Meeting a snake
down a well is unpleasant, but to appre-
ciate Joe thoroughly one needs to meet
him in the narrow confines of an old
mine drive. And it’s remarkable how
the reptiles find their way down, to such
places. So linked up are the workings of
most old alluvial leads that one may follow
drive and tunnel some-
times for a mile or more.
With a candle and a
short-handled shovel old
Dan Courtenay led the
way. It was eerie going
in the barely - broken
darkness, always with
bowed head and not sel-
dom on hands and knees,
for there were places
where the roof had
fallen; other places
where mullock had been
shovelled back, leaving
barely room beneath the
roof for a man to wriggle
through. But the real
thrill came at the bottom
of a shaft which Dan
reckoned afforded a way
to the surface. Lying in
the patch of twilight was
a black snake that looked
at least 5ft. long. It was
ready for action, roused
by our not-too-silent
approach. An occasion
for retreat, perhaps, but
it was a good half-mile
back to where we had
entered. “Go back, be
hanged! ” said Dan. “Give me the
sample bag.” Samples were emptied out.
Then with a deft throw he had the cut-
down chaff bag over the rearing snake.
Like a chicken nestling under its mother
Joe settled down. After that a few
smacks with the edge of the shovel did
all that was necessary. “Settled ’em like
that lots of times,” was Dan’s explana-
tion.
* * •-!: *
“Hanko”: Naturalists have it that the
reason of the bustard’s small feet and
legs is to enable it to pick its way easily
through gibber- and rock-strewn terrain.
Maybe so, but that same light under-
pinning doesn’t help the bulky chook to
a quick getaway. Heading into a stiff
breeze a wild turkey soon gets aloft, but
on a calm day it’s a struggle for the top-
heavy bird, ft. brolga-class flier when
once awing, 1 feel convinced that a
turkey would be goosed attempting to
rise tail to the wind.
* « « *
“Si Entific”: Is the bee really intelli-
gent? Pondering “Naturala’s” query (B.
21/5/’4l), I sat watching a hive. The
inhabitants were busy at their usual call-
ings, but several had evidently been dele-
gated to the job of cleaning up an in-
vasion of wax-moth larvae. These larvae
were quick-wriggling fellows, well over
an inch long, and nimble at evading cap-
ture. The floor of the hive just inside
the entrance contained numerous deep
cracks. Watched a grub, dragged to the
entrance by a constable bee, suddenly
evade its captor and disappear down a
crack. It was then the bee took the in-
telligence test. Reaching down into that
crack it somehow secured a grip on the
grub. Then, with all the definite purpose
of a man hauling on a rope, it dragged
the grub out. Slowly, for the grub was
reluctant to leave and held tight all the
way; but fraction by fraction it yielded.
With its prisoner once more in its grip, I
expected to see the bee use its sting. But,
no ; evidently that weapon was reserved
for higher game. Instead, it straddled
the victim, took a firm grip with its front
legs and sailed away in flight.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: Dreaded though it be
by scrub-fcllers, the stinging-tree of N.Q.
has at least one use. Belted with a
waddy, the leaves throw off a fine dust
which, inhaled through the nostrils by
a sufferer from a head cold, induces a
fit of sneezing. It is a quick reliever.
» * ♦ *
“Atrax”: Taking into account the
quite formidable list of Australia’s poten-
tial killer-creatures, we really get off very
lightly. In the six latest available statis-
tical years the 20 or so varieties of Aus-
tralian snakes whose bite can cause
human death accounted for 49 persons,
13 fewer than were killed by lightning.
Other venomous animals, ranging from
spiders— at least four species are known
to have killed people —to bluebottles,
slew 31. Fatal injury by all other
animals, ranging from Jersey bulls, prob-
ably our most fatal of quadrupeds, to
crocodiles, from sharks to the big, dan-
gerous “Cooker” wild boars of N.Q., ac-
counted for 182. The total from all such
causes of death was 262, a little over half
the number of Australians who died from
being accidentally shot, and a mere frac-
tion of those killed in motor accidents.
The risks of being homicided by Homo
sapiens itself is more than twice as great
as that of being killed by any other live
thing that walks, crawls, swims or flies
in our 2,974,581 square miles of terri-
tory and its surrounding waters. And
we are a particularly law-abiding peonle
in respect of crimes of violence.
UNKNOWN STEAMERS.
“In May, 98 steamers were sunk in the Atlantic.”
Among these ships which pass away
There must be some we used to know —
Old fliers of another day
Which came so proudly up the bay
Or down dark channels used to go.
How deep and hoarse ghost-whistles blow!
Their brave days passed, as brave days do
For man or ship or woman fair;
Sold East or bought, by Greek or Jew,
Brazilian and Indian, too,
To take new names —ah! who knows where
The old ships went, and who would care?
Some day, we hope, we’ll hear the tales
Of how our old ships went to rest,
Stricken in wild Atlantic gales,
In waters where the foghorn wails —
The seas are deep from Ushant west,
And U-boats haunt Zeebrugge and Brest.
Sometimes a famous name comes through
Of some fine, stately liner gone;
And someone says, “Hard luck! I knew
That ship in 1932” . ..
And yet, for every such a one,
A hundred “unknowns” carry on.
Unknown, unsung, they pass away—
There must be some we used to know,
Old fliers of another day,
Fast freighters steaming up the bay
Or down dark ways at evenglow . . .
How far and faint ghost-whistles blow!
n.s.w.
WILL LAWSON.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS; PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!, PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. 4,739,013 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.O.
General Manager; C. DarvalL
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
- ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become you’ 1
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
The Symbol of
Security I
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
{lncorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
Robert 0. Wilson. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
The WLDCAT
COUMNL
Australian Consolidated Industries, Ltd.
, Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.
£ £ £ £
’3l 76,768 15,750 6 p.c. = 55,828 476,540
’32 92,137 15,750 7\ „ „ 69,786 483,141
’B3 122,439 15,750 9 „ „ 83,743 506,087
’34 129,602 15,750 9 „ „ 83,743 536,196
To superannuation fund, £5OOO .. 531,196
’35 175,522 15,750 13 p.c. = 120,962 570,006
’36 205,493 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 620,177
’37 231,199 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 696,054
’3B 287,628 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 828,360
Surplus sale assets, £4,331,718 .. 5,160,078
Bonus scrip issued. £2,558,814 .. 2,601,264
’39 324,512 15,750 6.861 p.c. = 239,598 2,670,428
A.C.I. and Subsidiaries.*
Share premiums, £99,694 .. .. 2,770,122
’4O 433,271 15,750 7 p.c. = 251,229 3,004,532
Share premiums, £99,694 .. .. 3,104,226
’4l 509,306 15,750 8 p.c. = 320,003 3,277,779
* Deducting outsiders’ proportion.
+ On enlarged capital.
This is one of Australia’s major indus-
trial organisations. The business grew
up on the manufacture of glass bottles,
and with the aid of shrewd management,
technical efficiency and the tariff it ex-
panded rapidly and prospered. For years
extensions to plant were paid for largely
out of earnings, and then from the same
source severely written down. This and
a virtual monopoly of the market in
some sections of the trade made it diffi-
cult to avoid earning juicy returns.
A couple of years ago the name was
changed to the present title, and the
business split into a number of sub-
sidiaries, which were multiplied by the
co. branching out into engineering and
other activities. The net book value of
assets in the old and new cos. disclosed
a surplus of £4,331,718, of which
£2,558,814 was capitalised (11 new for
every four old ords.). Also, 996,941 new
£1 ords. were offered and snapped at a
premium of ss. each in Sept., 1939. On
that lot a further £403,495 of capital and
£99,694 of share premiums were gathered
last term, leaving £195,137 of capital and
£49,847 of share premiums still to come.
How the new capital and share pre-
mium moneys, together with an extra
£416,297 from sundry creditors, etc.,
were used last year shows up in these
combined figures of A.C.I. and its subsi-
diaries ;
1940. 1941.
Paid 1 capital .. £4,062,601 £4,466,096 +403,495
Outside interests* 38,117 41,304 +3,187
Sundry creditors! 509,706 926,003 +416,297
Inter-co. balance* 45,355 +45,355
Freehold .. .. 1,185,654 1,373,228 +187,574
Plant, etc. .. 1,268,013 1,378,569 +110,556
Shares, etc. . . 753,847 766.017 +12,170
Stocks .. 1,454,793 1,638,890 +184,097
Debtors .. .. 500,427 650,470 +150,043
Consols and cash 167,870 748,843 +580,973
Intangibles . . 2,377,385 2,392,321 +14,936
Inter-co. balance* 43,946 • —43,946
* Including proportion reserves. f Including tax
provision, etc, t Due to differences in balance dates.
Reflected there are the expansion of
both the munitions and ordinary
trading sides of the business. The
expansion includes a factory for manu-
facture of optical glass, now urgently re-
quired by the fighting services, and equip-
ment for turning out glass silk for in-
sulation purposes. Outlay on the
new building in William-street, Sydney,
helped to bump up the freehold item.
The cash holding (£577,246) increased by
no less than £538,176; Government
securities (£171,597) were up £42,797.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£2,836,913) was
£507,799. The organisation is thus in a
very strong position to extend further.
On the munitions side, output is being
sold to the Government at cost or a low
margin of profit. It was increased trading
activity that put the spring in profits.
Import restrictions, due to war activi-
ties, were the chief stimulating factor.
After providing for contingencies, in-
cluding an unspecified allowance for taxa-
tion, the board figured net earnings of
the group at £492,978, of which £3326
belonged to outside shareholders. In-
cluding £19,654 ne( which fell from
somewhere into reserves, £509,306 (up
£76,035) belonged to A.C.I. This was
enough to pay the prefs. their 9 p.c. and
show 12.3 p.c. on average ord. capital.
So the board was able to add a point to
the div., making it 8 p.c., without strain-
ing things. All this despite a substantial
rise in costs in every direction.
Following allegations that the co. was
putting on too much fat under shelter of
the tariff, the Customs Department
recently investigated the business. The
officers who undertook the work had no
power to demand certain of the co.’s
books. Still, the department was in-
formed that “every facility would be
given the officers to make the investiga-
tion,” says chairman Grimwade. He
claims that the co.’s success has been due
to efficiency, and that there is no tariff
wall worth getting behind. He says
nothing about the high protection which
the exigencies of war have given the
industry. The result of the investigation
has not yet been published. At the
moment, the Federal Prices Commis-
sioner is investigating the business.
The market sees no cloud in the co.’s
sky and prices the f.-p. pound ords. at
445. 6d., against 31s. 6d. a year ago. At
445. 6d. the return is 3.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is visibly 245. 2d.
in net tangibles. The prefs. are well held.
Electric Light and Power (Sydney)
, Dividends N Nominal
Pref. Ord. Writ- Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. ten Off. serves.t
£ £ £ £
1931 .. 120,112 6955 63,333 46,000 \
Provident fund, £lOOO .. ) 41,0b ‘
All res. written off assets, £41,667..
10 p.c.
1932 .. 116,129 8593 . 79,167 28,369
8 p.c.
1933 .. 122,252 9991 63,333 47,150 1 7 „ a
Provident fund, £lOOO .. ) ‘‘ a
1934 .. 129,351 10,208 63,333 54,865 7
Provident fund, £lOOO .. ) ‘
1935 .. 134,258 10,208 63,333 60,619 821
1936 .. 133,994 10,208 63,333 60,420 854
1937 .. 134,950 10,208 63,333 60,826 1,437
1938 .. 144,038 10,208 63,333 66,642 5,292
1939 .. 147,631 10,208 63,333 67,603 11,779
7 p.c.
1940 .. 137,579 10,208 55,416 68,166 15,568
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1941 .. 128,999 8,750 47,500 68,121 20,196
t Subject to supply rights, £7500.
The contraction of £8535 in net earn-
ings last term was due to rising costs
and heavier taxation. An extra 833 con-
sumers, making 38,089 in all, were
connected, and 13 p.c, more cur-
rent was consumed. After providing for
generation, distribution and maintenance
costs, gross earnings (£226,076) were
figured £2835 better than the previous
year’s. General exes. (£101,251, includ-
ing an unspecified allowance for taxa-
tion) ran off with an extra £12,072. The
allowance for depreciation, shown as
written off in the table, was approxi-
mately the same as for the previous year.
Including an unexplained addition of
£4174 (up £657) to the insurance fund
(£18,261), the net result was sufficient to
pay the prefs. their full contract rate
(7 p.c.) and show 6.4 p.c. on £791,666
of ord. capital. But a year ago the board
said it was giving consideration to the
application of the N. S. Wales Interest
Reduction Act to the payment of divi-
dends, so a point was chipped off both
prefs. and ords., reducing the distribu-
tion to an all-round 6 p.c.
The market noted this, and the trend
of legislation in respect of electricity
undertakings elsewhere in the Common-
wealth, and also the fact that the N. S.
Wales Government refused the A.G.L.
Co. permission to increase the price of
gas fractionally in order to maintain a
6 p.c. div. One result has been a rather
drastic revision of the market value of
the ords., despite the fact that the co.
now enjoys a monopoly within the area
of the five franchises under which it
operates, and the fact that it is not subject
to the State Gas and Electricity Act, which
aims at limiting the div. at not more
than 51 p.c. on pref. and 6 p.c. on ord.
capital. Of the franchises two (Balmain
and Newtown) are perpetual, two (Peter-
sham and Leichhardt) run out in 1953,
and one (Ashfield) in 1943, subject in all
cases to purchase by the municipal
authorities at stated intervals.
The f.-p. pound ords., for which 21s.
is now offered, fetched 245. 6d. a year
ago and 345. two years before that. The
return at 21s. is 5.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div,
basis. The prefs.—£l paid to 17s, 6d.—
are now priced at 21s. as against 245. two
years ago. The net tangible cover is
£5 14s. lid. prefs. and 20s. 6d. ords.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Capital .. £937,500 £937,500 £937,500 £937,500
Sundry
creditors*.. 138,996 123,837 150,102 179,743
Fixed assets. . 985,468 930,968 875,714 867,680
Stocks, etc... 42,523 52,486 47,206 37,268
Book debts.. 12,949 116,296 25,585 18,938
Cash, etc. .. 68,621 101,918 176,516 240,965
* Including provision for taxation.
Outstanding feature there is the accumu-
lation of cash, etc,, up £64,449 last term.
The idea is to pay for new plant and
machinery now on order out of earn-
ings. In other circumstances this might
auger well for future dividends. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£117,428) was £18,223.
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
f Dividends
5 p.c. To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931 39,172 4325 5| p.c.= 34,743 103 269,509
1932 39,393 4325 5J „ „ 34,743 325 269,834
1933 29,204 6 „ „ 29,003 201 270,035
1934 29,214 6J „ „ 22,155 7,059 277,094
1935 30,880 8 „ „ 25,780 6,100 282,194
1936 31,295 8f „ „ 27,795 3,500 285,694
Share premiums, £9751 .. .. 295,445
1937 33,005 9J p.c. = 29,406 3,599 299,044
Share premiums, £17,103 .. .. 316,147
1938 37,091 —• 9g p.c. = 34,911 2,180 318,327
1939 39,681 10 „ „ 37,596 2,085 320,412
Contingency reserve disclosed, £23,000. . 343,412
1940 42,020 10 p.c. = 37,596 4,424 347,836
1941 43,100 10 „ „ 37,596 5,504 353,340
Attractions about this stock include the
payment of divs. quarterly, a manage-
ment, brought up in the business, which
has shown marked ability in adapting it-
self to changing economic conditions,
and conservative valuation of assets.
“Stocks have been taken in at cost or less
and less reserves, the whole of the asset
‘sundry debtors, etc.,’ is adequately pro-
tected by securities and/or reserves, and
investments have been taken in at cost,
less reserves, which brought them below
market value,” chairman James Dunlop
assures. So there should be no doubt in
shareholders’ minds there isn’t in the
“Wild Cat’s”—that stated profits haven’t
been well and truly earned.
The co.’s trade from the three eastern
State capitals and Perth in paper, printers’
requisites and fancy goods is soundly
situated and financed. Despite news-
print rationing and Government control
of exchange, imports and prices, turnover
put on “considerable” weight last year.
But taxation —the reserve for the purpose
bumped up £34,538 net —and other costs
reduced the admitted improvement in the
net result to £lOBO, making it 11.4 p.c. on
capital, compared with 11.1, 10.5, 10.2,
10.2 and 9.7 p.c. back to 1936. In usual
conservative fashion, outlay on new
equipment, etc., was charged direct
against earnings ; the amount involved,
however (£1592), compared with £10,715
in 1940.
For the third year in succession div.
was maintained at pre-1931 10 p.c., on
which basis the pound shares at 425. 6d.
(395. a year ago) yield 4.7 p.c. Mainten-
ance of earnings will be a harder job in
the current term. In total, newspaper
consumption is to be reduced further to
55 p.c. of 1938-39 tonnages ; but what
may pinch more is application of ration-
ing, both to conserve exchange and dis-
courage spending, to advertising circulars,
etc., available paper for which is to be
cut 35 p.c.
Because of higher prices, the physical
fall in stocks is probably greater than the
small monetary decline indicates; still,
they are a handy size:
1930. 1936. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £690,740 £322,256 £375,965 £375,965
Liabilities .. 106,094* 77,923* 186,384 150,423
Tax provision 40,547 75,084
Freeholds ~ 110,319 120,565 120,565 122,065
Stocks.. .. 216,163 149,427 222,042 220,051
Sundry debtors 456,252 335,909 571,223 475,814
Cash and in-
vestments .. 308,471 87,223 40.300 146,281
* Including tax provision, etc.
Assistance extended the hungry printing
trade is the other feature there. Last
term, however, transactions were com-
pleted more within the time of ordinary
trade credit, debtors’ balances dropping
£95,409, which was put into fixed deposit
and other investments (up £99,981). It
was from this source that the co. was
able to return over half its capital when
trade dried up in the early ’thirties. To
provide more elbow-room, the board is
building over an area previously separat-
ing two of its Sydney warehouses.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends N To Re— Re-
April, Loss. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 5,983 Nil Nil 114,003
Special depreciation, etc., £25,025 .. 88,978
Profit.
1932.. 2,625 Nil Nil 2,625 91,603
1933.. 3,230 3 p.c. Nil 3,000 230 91,833
1934.. 14,492 12 „ Nil 12,000 2,492 94,325
1935.. 16,910 15 „ Nil 15,000 1,910 96,235
1936.. 18,025 6 „ 4 p.c. 14,000 4,625 100,860
1937.. 20,282 6 „ 4 „ 14,000 6,282 107,142
1938.. 20,398 6 „ 5 ~ 10,000 4,398 111,540
Swallow and Auiell, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
1939.. 14,292 6 p.c. 24 p.c. 11,000 3,292 93,704
1940.. 22,147 0 ~ 5 „ 16,000 6,147 99,851
1941.. 22,137 6 ~ 5 „ 16,000 6,137 105,988
Consumers of the co.’s puddings appear
to have been the only ones to extract
any plums from this business. Over a
long period keenness of competition has
kept returns to shareholders very
moderate. The parent’s plum-pudding,
cake- and biscuit-making activities are
the backbone of earnings, though assist-
ance these days comes from the ice-cream
and dehydrated fruits and vegetables off-
shoots—with Heparidine Distributors,
they piled up substantial losses during
depression, but netted £3155 last term.
War-time “trading conditions have
been hard” ; still, gross earnings of the
group (£171,735) lifted £11,300. Increased
local employment and spending helped ;
a substantial export trade, now governed
by the shipping available, is also ordi-
narily done with the Indies and else-
where, where the co. established connec-
tions just after the last war. Of the lift
in exes, (£11,310 higher at £149,598),
taxation (£16,537) accounted for £6167 ;
depreciation (£21,850) was £2158 lighter.
On total capital, the £22,137 of profit
ran out at 7.3 p.c., compared with 7.3
and 4.7 p.c, for the two preceding terms.
Maintenance of the div. at 6 p.c. to the
prefs.—they are entitled to participate
with the ords. in distributions above that
rate —and 5 p.c. to the ords. left £6137
to lay by.
Depreciation allowances aggregating
£71,849 over the past three years have
been mainly directed to improving the
standard of operating efficiency, on which
competitive power partly depends:
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Bank overdraft . . 35,575 27,495 29,840
Sundry creditors .. 36,731 51,216 54,629
Tax provision . . . . 7,953 11,450 16,307
Freeholds .. . . 206,373 203,088 201.941
Plant, etc 155,456 146,341 146,728
Stocks 51,532 72,558 85,819
Debtors 60.482 73,362 65,252
Cash, etc 3,625 3,662 15,023
Last year’s expenditure on the working
assets was £387 more than the amount


PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place. Sidney.—Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
v t * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Ad v t.
Position Vacant.
REQUIRED for Singapore, qualified Mechani-
cal _ Engineer-Draughtsman capable of under-
taking Bucket Dredge design, erection and
working. Only applications from persons pos-
sessing experience in the above work will be
considered. Salary, 5.5.5700.00 per month,
equivalent to Australian £1220 per annum.
Applications, with Testimonials, and stating
age, qualifications and experience, to be sent
by Air Mail to Post Office Box 194, Singapore,
S.S.
HDraditiov
000
progress of a Bank is largely
dependent upon its ability to serve
the public.
The Bank of Australasia
has a proud record extending over
106 years which has formed a solid
foundation for the modern Banking
service it is able to offer to-day.
Paid-up Capital £4,500,000
Reserve Fund ... 2,500,000
(TTsed in the business of the Bank)
Currency Reserve 2,000,000
(TTsed In the business of the Bank)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under
the Charter 4,500,000
£13,500,000
C@2S2S?
IB&
Assets exceed
£59,000,000
Incorporated in England by Royal Charter in 1835.
(The liability of the members is limited)
isi
111#
m
m
m
m
i
1
H
m
&
1
iPil
n
ii
I'JmA
\ \l
mn
AUa
SUPPLIES of zinc are urgently required for war purposes. To meet this
emergency, therefore. John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. has introduced
Terne-Coated Plain and Corrugated Iron. Unsuitable for the catchment or
storage of drinking water, but long recognised in America and on the
Continent as being ideal for roofing, walling, etc., its hardwearing surface
of lead and tin is easily painted without weathering and possesses par-
ticularly fine anti-corrosive properties. There is absolutely no loss of
rigidity and it has proved eminently suitable for all curving and working
up purposes. Supplies of ORB Corrugated Galvanized Iron and QUEEN S
HEAD Plain Sheets will, as a result, be limited in future to those requiring
same for water conservation purposes and the Sheet Metal Trade.
Help the War Effort by
specifying and accepting
Terne-Coated Iron in all
future building contracts •
:
/
r
ORB
JOHN LYSAGHT (aust.) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
T 74-2522
written off. To carry an extra £13,261 of
stocks and contribute £lO,OOO to war
loans, the board reduced debtors by
£BllO and went outside for another
£5758. There was improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£81,625) of
£10,754.
Mindful of the semi-luxury nature of
the co.’s products, the stringent position
with regard to shipping and the growing
difficulty of restraining costs, the market
pays 13s. for the ords., which fetched
10s. a year ago. At the higher figure the
yield from 5 p.c. divs. is 7.7 p.c. The
prefs., comprising a third of the capital,
yield 6.1 p.c. at 19s. 6d.—225. 12 months
ago. The cover is 30s, 7d. ords., £4 Is.
2d. prefs.
With the debt down to £3326, Welling-
ton Alluvials, the B.H.P. float on the
Macquarie (N.S.W.), is now in a posi-
tion to distribute profits as they are
earned, at the discretion of those in con-
trol. With costs and recoveries as they
are, however, nothing out of the box is
indicated. After a roughly similar pro-
vision for depreciation (£14,331), profits
for the year to April were £13,453 lighter
at £43,599 —spread over the £250,000
share-register, equal to 4}d. per share.
The reduced showing reflects a smaller
gold yield—l.BBgr. as against 2.24 gr.,
due in part to floods towards the end of
the term forcing a divergence of the
dredge from the lead. Yardage dug was
3,260,000 (up 80,000) c.y. at a working
cost of sd. per yard. Thus far in the
current term recoveries of only I.4gr.
have shown up. At April 30 cash of
£45,306 had accumulated; including
stores, etc., the total of more or less
liquids was £62,260.
* * * *
Near permanent fresh water three
miles from the mine, a 10-head battery
and grinding outfit, together with
cyanidation plant, are being put up to
handle ore from Mt. Todd, 30 miles
s.-e, of Pine Creek, Northern Territory,
where E. G. Banks, of Golden Plateau
and Loloma, spends a lot of his time
these days-—his son is in charge there.
The lode is a quartz reef, averaging 18in.
wide. It has been tested by crosscuts
and costeans every 100 ft. of its 1000 ft.
length, and by four or five shafts, the
deepest down 140 ft.; also by several
diamond-drill holes —early Mines Branch
assays gave values up to 18.6dwt. per
ton —which have indicated the downward
persistence of reef to 200 ft., and one to
a vertical depth of 500 ft. The ore is
refractory to the surface, but it is claimed
that fine-grinding and cyanidation will
achieve a satisfactory recovery. Timber
abounds.
* * * *
The Duffer mine of Kelsey Creek
G.M. Co., near Proserpine (C.Q.), is
actively advancing development. The
long adit through to No. 4 level, now
completed, will centralise delivery of all
tonnage, and, with still-considerable backs
above No. 4, should stiffen production
and reduce costs. Good reports at depth
continue to come to hand. The reef has
expanded southward, and No. 4 has fol-
lowed it further than the higher levels in
that direction. It is now over 300 ft. from
the shaft, and has passed through high-
grade ore. Assays aren’t published, but
the “Wild Cat” understands that values
above soz. have been met with in widths
of 6in. to 12in. in No. 4. Present output
is around 100 tons per month, averaging
possibly not far off soz. per ton,
♦ * * c
Although strongly backed, “in the
interests of common justice and national
interests,” by both State and Federal
Governments, Gt. Boulder’s request to
change its domicile ffom London to
Perth has again been turned down by the
British Treasury. The members of
the watchdog committee —knight Hal
Colebatch, R. Hamilton. M. J. Calanchini,
T. S. Wilson and De Bernales’s son-in-
law E. Faye, directors of the proposed
Australian co.—contend through their
spokesman (Colebatch) that the mine, one
of the oldest and most consistent in the
State and a majority of whose shares are
held in Australia, is being called upon to
make contributions to British revenue
that not only deprive its shareholders of
any return but prevent the proper main-
tenance and development of the property,
and compel the company to reduce its
output drastically, to the prejudice of the
State, Commonwealth and Imperial
revenues. They point out also that the
profits which the British Act exacts to
the extent of 100 p.c. (some slight con-
cession has since been announced) are in
no sense due to the war, but are the
result of the expenditure of shareholders’
money over a number of years in de-
velopment and equipment. The refusal
0 £ die British Treasury of a request by
a co which has a i ways had its head-
quarters in London and which sought the
change only when English taxation be-
came onerous is understandable, but to
£ a j^ e jqo p.c. of excess profits earned in
an arbitrarily selected year—in the case
c £ m i n i n g it amounts to confiscation of
capital assets—is not. Moreover, such a
principle must operate inequitably as be-
tween co and co xhe ial misfor .
tune of Gt Bou i der is that the base yea r
was a y ear 0 £ very j ow profit, and one
j n w hich money which might have been
distributed in dividends was devoted to
improvement of t he plant and mine.
* * * *
London board of Tindals (W.A.) esti-
mates operating profit for March quarter
a t £A7920, up £521 on the previous three
months. Enlargement of treatment plant
to 10,000-12,000 tons a month is making
steady progress. As there are 4,480,000
issued 2s. shares and £25,000 10 p.c. notes
ahead of them, assuming the board’s
opt imism is realised, some return to
share holders still appears a long way off.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
F.A.L. and Anon.: Information not avail-
able -


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
OUTLOOK IMPELLING JAPAN.
[From a New York “Times” article by Otto D.
Tohschus, who, when formerly stationed in Berlin,
showed a far deeper insight into problems of world
affairs than most correspondents, and who has now for
some time been in Tokyo.]
It is the imponderables behind the Japanese drive
that count, for on them depends Japanese morale. The
initial indifference of the democracies toward the
spiritual and ideological issues of the present con-
flict and their attempts to counter these with merely
economic arguments have been their greatest weak-
ness. Raw materials, markets or 10 cents an hour
more or less are all important, even decisive, in
strategy, but men don’t die for them without some
deeper urge.
It is in this light also that the Japanese people
view Americans, British and Chiang Kai-shek or, for
that matter, the whole dominant position of the white
race in the Orient. Whatever some hard-headed
realists in control of actual operations or some intel-
lectuals under Western influence may think, to the
bulk of the Japanese people, including some younger
army groups, the Japanese Empire has embarked on
a “holy war” to “liberate the Orient from the yoke of
white capitalism” and bring it under the beneficent,
paternal protection of Japan’s imperial rule, under
which each nation will take “its own proper place” in
the common household united in international brother-
hood and mutual prosperity.
That most Oriental nations are so reluctant to
accept this new order, that the Japanese newspapers
themselves quip about the “co-prosperity sphere” and
that the Chinese are sacrificing hundreds of thousands
of lives and are scorching their earth to escape it is
due only, to use the word of Motosaburo Takata,
chief editor of “Nichi Nichi,” to their “ignorance”
which made the conflict inevitable. By the same token
the resistance of the white Powers to the new order
and their help to Chiang Kai-shek coming from oppo-
site ends of the world is due merely to their mis-
understanding of Japan’s real intentions or their selfish
desire to retain what they hold—which includes the
“open door.”
For that reason the Japanese call to the Orient
and especially to the Chinese to unite with Japan
in common defence to rescue the Orient from its semi-
colonial state, oust the whites from their positions of
special privilege in what they call the “Far East” and
join in mutual and reciprocal prosperity.
Viewed purely from the standpoint of propaganda
it will be seen that the Japanese thesis contains all
the elements of race, the divine mission of liberation
and rewards which the Nazis have been trying to
propagate in Europe. But the Japanese have been
able to back them with inherited religious convictions
which the Nazis have been trying to build up by a
return to the religious concepts of the ancient Ger-
manic tribes, though Ludendorff in his book Total
War opined that while Germany needs something like
Shinto for her morale it will be impossible to incul-
cate it into the Germans.
One drawback of both theses is that each nation
entertains its own notions of how it wants to live and
dislikes bowing to an order imposed by another
nation. But this is met in the case of Japan with the
argument that in view of the white power in the Orient
somebody had to take the initiative and Japan was the
only country able to do so and meet the whites on
their own terms. Japan’s programme, all Japanese
statesmen insist, is purely economic and defensive,
and Japan prefers to carry it out by peaceful means.
U.S. Oil for Japan.
(Condensed from a New York “Herald Tribune” article
by Joseph Driscoll .)
According to many authorities, Japan could not
continue her undeclared war on China were it not for
generous shipments from the United States of
petroleum and other goods. Japan’s need for American
and Dutch oil to run its navy, its army and its air force
grows more acute each month. Meanwhile, Ameri-
can oil is being shipped to Japan at the rate of 800,000
to 900,000 barrels a month, perhaps much more.
During 1940 oil exports to Japan averaged close
to 2,000,000 barrels a month, the year’s total being
more than 22,000,000 barrels. In March, the latest
month for which figures can be had, the United States
exported 1,553,000 barrels of petroleum products to
Japan, compared with 1,279,000 barrels in February
and 1,491,000 barrels in January. This year’s reduc-
tion is attributed to a world-wide shortage of tankers,
due to sinkings, and to American restrictions on the
export of large metal drums and containers used for
transporting crude oil and gasoline.
Upon inquiry an official of the Maritime Com-
mission said no American tankers have gone to Japan
for the last three years, although six tankers are plying
to the Philippines and also to China “when they can
get into China.” The inquirer was assured that Japan
is getting her American oil in bottoms flying foreign
flags, not American.
There is a joker in this, in that some of the tankers
serving Japan formerly flew the American flag, were
American owned and presumably are still largely
American owned, having been transferred to the flags
of small neutral countries to avoid supervision by the
Maritime Commission and responsibility under the
American neutrality law. For instance, it has been
reported without contradiction that three American
tankers recently were transferred to the flag of the
Republic of Panama and were promptly chartered to
Japan.
Japan, of course, has tankers, but they have been
engaged mainly in ferrying oil from the Dutch East
Indies. To haul oil from the Western Hemisphere,
she has been obliged to charter tankers which until
recently flew the flags of the United States, Norway
and other maritime Powers, but which now owe
nominal allegiance to Panama, not heretofore famous
for its merchant marine.
In Congress recently, during debate on the Cole
pipeline bill, Representative W. R. Poage, Democrat,
of Texas, said: “I believe this Congress owes it to
the people to determine what has become of the trans-
port fleet owned by the oil companies of this nation.
What are the tankers doing that have been trans-
ferred into foreign registry? What oil are they carry-
ing? Who is carrying oil to Japan today? I cannot
find out who in authority in this nation will admit
knowledge of how that oil is getting there, although
there is no denial that the oil is moving across the
Pacific Ocean.”
Representative John M. Coffee, Democrat, of
Washington, estimated the United States is now ship-
ping 800,000 barrels, each containing 42 gallons of
gasoline, to Japan every month. Representative Cole
replied that the figure was actually higher, being around
30,000 barrels daily.
Portrait of Goering.
(Condensed from a London “Contemporary Review ”
article by Edgar Stern-Rubarth.)
Do not be deceived by that man’s fat, by his
often Falstaffian geniality, his disregard of party
orthodoxy, his occasional spontaneous generosity. Do
not believe the jokes about his silly vanity, his scores
of self-invented uniforms, his craze for titles without
meaning. If you want to know him, look into his
eyes, as I did in the old Reichstag that had to make
him Speaker when on July 31, 1932, the Nazis entered
it with 230 deputies as the strongest party.
Nearly alone among Hitler’s intimate circle,
Hermann Goring hails of a good family. His father
was a high official of the old German Colonial Service,
—New York “Sun.”
AS HITLER HONORS THEM.
the first Commissary for South-west Africa, and later
on Minister Resident in Haiti; he had had a decent
education and entered the army as a career, with good
prospects. He was only 21 when the Great War broke
out, and he was stranded and ruined when the drastic
cutting down of that army to the 100,000 men force
permitted by the Versailles Treaty threw him, not-
withstanding his highest distinction, into the grey and
anonymous masses of the jobless, the aimless, the
men without a profession.
His rise to power started with his being sent into
the Reichstag, together with the other 11 the Nazi
party could push into Parliament in 1928. Two years
later he was made the party’s political agent in Berlin,
where his then friend and collaborator Goebbels had,
during the same period, made headway as organiser
and Gauleiter —regional leader —and when after
Stresemann’s death late in 1929 the lifeblood of Ger-
many’s ramshackle Republic dried up in its democratic
vessel, people began to listen to those political free-
booters in brown shirts. Goring had asked for an Air
Ministry: why not, after all? The old war-decora-
tions began to reappear, sporadically at first: Goring
could muster the most impressive one. Besides, he
was jolly, noisy, a Gargantuan eater and drinker
(always a strong point with Germans, and one badly
missed by Hitler).
Next, an Army, with a capital “A,” strong enough
to rule at least the Continent, possibly the world.
That army needed an air force, for one thing, and he
created it. As an “Air Sports Association” at first;
soon with uniforms, and after two years with all the
training and equipment of the most ambitious air force
in the world. That army needed a complete change
of gear of German industry and finance, in order to
secure the maximum of armaments and supplies, and
an intensification of agriculture sufficient to counteract
blockade. He got all that, and more.
Irrespective of costs and economic principles
gigantic plants for Buna (artificial rubber), for hydro-
genated coal, for artificial petrol, for Vistra (artificial
wool) and for other synthetic products were created ;
Krupp, Thyssen and other steel magnates were made to
erect new, most perfect armament works in the Mark,
in Pomerania and elsewhere, far from the endan-
gered industrial area in western Germany, induced by
tempting contracts for a long period to come. And
finally Hermann Goring became their competitor,
merging, buying, creating the biggest European chain
of machine- and tool-plants—State factories under his
own name. He became their master, as industrial dic-
tator with unlimited powers under the Four-Year
Plan, imitated from Moscow like so many things in
Hitler-Germany. Thyssen, the man who had financed,
who thought he had made and shackled them, became
a tool in the hands of that untrained would-be
Napoleon, a Napoleon with a Ford thrown in.
He is a fast and efficient worker, for all his
sybaritism and showmanship. He gets the best men
and knows how to drive and to reward them. His
whims are grotesque to the point of grandiosity. In
his earlier Ministerial days he frightened his visitors
by a tame, nearly grown-up lion which he kept as a
pet; he built himself, in the garden of his official
residence in the heart of Berlin, an incredibly expen-
sive blue-tiled swimming pool with artificial waves
where, to the great but secret delight of hundreds of
civil servants whose office windows give into that
garden, he wallowed in all his fat nakedness. He
called a country seat after his deceased Swedish wife,
and, while living with an actress of some artistic
merit he was soon to marry, he had her coffin brought
over and reinterred in a vault worthy of a Pharaoh’s
queen ; he went on to celebrate her memory with a
mixture of pride, sentimentality, magnificence and,
most likely, sincere regret which any Asiatic tyrant
might have envied. Yet, at the same time, he cele-
brated his second wedding with no less a pomp and
publicity.
He likes to be considered as a “moderate” among
the Nazis. Yet he has, as a token and a symbol, a
medieval hangman’s sword on the wall of his personal
room, and is carrying a modern version of that gigan-
tic weapon with several of his fancy uniforms. Ihe
instructions for his Air Force go far to prove that he
cannot resist killing anything that is alive, including
women and children. He is, indeed, by nature, by
inclination, by education and, perhaps, in conse-
quence of his vice that again and again has been
treated with but temporary success, a killer. And
although Hitler and the whole gang know it he was,
after first having been made master of Prussia, of the
air, of industry and a member of the inner “War
Cabinet” of six, selected as the Fiihrer’s substitute and
successor, in September, ’39. Were he not in fear of
Himmler I would not give a farthing for Hitler’s
chance to outlive him. He and many others wanted
the “Bohemian lance-corporal” merely to beat the
drum for their advent to power, and then to dis-
appear in the background. When that failed. Goring
wanted him to be the figurehead, another Hinden-
burg, while he, the strong man, the soldier, should
wield all the real power as another “Iron Chan-
cellor,” another Bismarck. Since the gang decided
for World War No. 2, it is a safe bet that Goring—
whose Christian name Hermann is taken from an-
other Teutonic national hero, famous for treachery,
perjury apd slaughter —sees himself as another
Napoleon, as the future ruler of the world. Drugs
like morphine and cocaine bring about queer dreams.
The German Birth-rate
(Condensed from a London “Nineteenth Century” article
by Dr. William A. Brend.)
Under the National Socialist regime the German
birth-rate has risen with a rapidity never before seen
in any country. The following table shows the rates
since 1919, those for England and Wales being given
also for purposes of comparison:
England | England
Year. Germany. & Wales. Year. Germany. & Wales.
1919 .. 19.7 18.5 1929 .. 18.0 16.3
1920 .. 25.9 25.5 1930 .. 17.6 16.3
1921 .. 25.1 22.4 1931 ... 16.0 15.8
1922 .. 23.0 20.4 1932 .. 15.1 15.3
1923 .. 21.2 19.7 1933 .. 14.7 14.4
1924 .. 20.6 18.8 1934 .. 18.0 14.8
1925 .. 20.8 18.3 1935 .. 18.9 14.7
1926 .. 19.6 17.8 1936 .. 19.0 14.8
1927 .. 18.4 16.6 1937 .. 18.8 14.9
1928 .. 18.6 16.7 1938 .. 19.7 15.1
1939 .. 14.9
It will be seen that the rate fell continuously
from the high level of 25.9 in 1920 to its lowest
point, 14.7, in 1933 ; rose abruptly in 1934, the first
year in which the Nazi influence could tell, and by
1938 had risen by more than 30 p.c., and had re-
covered all the ground lost since 1926. During the
same period the rates fell heavily in all other Euro-
pean countries. There has been a small upward rise
in England and Wales since 1933, but the rate in
1937 was the lowest in Europe, with the exception of
those in France (14.7), Sweden (14.3) and Austria
(12.8). Estimates made by a number of statisticians
all concur in the view that, if present trends continue,
Britain will have a stationary population in a very few
years, followed, at no great interval, by a decline at
an increasingly rapid rate.
When Hitler took control the police closed
birth-control clinics, and the advertising of contra-
ceptives or the means of terminating pregnancy was
made a penal offence. Financial aids —marriage loans,
lump-sum grants, family allowances, concessions to
large families in regard to taxes, reductions in rail-
way fares and school fees, etc. —were given to parents.
Since a number of different factors have been
put into operation more or less simultaneously, it is
not possible to determine with certainty which has
been the effective or the most effective cause of the
big rise in the German birth-rate. In view of the ex-
perience of all other countries, it seems reasonable
to believe that the economic advantages granted to
families would not, by themselves, have produced any
material result.
The appeal to patriotism is the new and striking
feature in the German efforts. In no other country
except Italy has such emphasis been placed upon the
positive duty of the people to bear large families. In
some countries there has been actual discouragement


THE BRITISH NAVY
The British Navy—from battleships to submarines —
places implicit faith in Exide Batteries for essential
equipment. Bear this in mind when buying a new
battery for your car, radio or home lighting plant.
Obtainable from dealers throughout Australia.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOINS WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
USES EXIDE
> m
•fT
■B
. :
■
WL.
.
m
m
m
i
mm
:
I
■
mbbk
Hi
of propagation by indigent persons ; London magis-
trates, for instance, have often rebuked those brought
before them for having more children than they could
support. The German authorities themselves regard
the emotional appeal as the most important factor.
Dr. F. Burgdorfer, the Director of the German Statis-
tical Office, an authority of repute, writing in 1937,
said that the increase in fertility could not in the
main be attributed to direct pro-natalist measures, but
was due to psychic factors, a “spiritual uprising” of
the people, which had given the German a higher
conception of his individual value to the nation and a
new faith in its future. Dr. Ruttke, director of the
Reich National Health Service, expressed the same
view at the International Population Congress in Paris
in 1937. Such a stimulus would act in two ways:
it would directly encourage parenthood and it would
lessen the inclination to abortion.
Erica Mann, in her School for Barbarians, says
that the girls in the German Youth Organisations are
taught that:
They are, above all, future mothers; and they know
that it is impossible to begin this function too early in
life, and it is unnecessary to be married to perform
this important service to the Fiihrer and the State.
In the periodical Rasse (Race) of March, 1937,
appeared the statement: “Every healthy child of every
German Mother means one more battle won in the
fight for existence of the German people. And so, in
an ethical sense, it is impossible to deny to the
unmarried German woman the right to become a
mother.”
In spite of such exhortations, however, there is
no statistical evidence of an increase in illegitimate
births, and it would appear that the rise in the mar-
riage rate and increased fertility within marriage
have been adequate to bring about the rise in the
birth-rate.
Is the rise in the German birth-rate a temporary
movement, a passing product of National Socialism,
or will it continue after the war? No one can fore-
tell. It is an almost invariable occurrence that birth-
rates fall during a war and rise rapidly for a few years
after the war. This was the experience of all the
belligerent countries in the last war. But succeeding
years may show that in this matter of population we,
and the rest of Europe, except Russia, may have to
meet another German challenge, this time not on the
field of battle, but in the homes of the people.
The fall in the birth-rate in progressive countries
is an indication of a deep-seated sickness in their
civilisation. It expresses a conflict between the ideals
and aspirations of society and the primitive instincts
of man which he, like other animals, must obey as a
condition of his being ; and it is not the only evil
which results from that conflict. The higher the
civilisation the more it has suffered. The birth-rates
in the most progressive countries are now at dan-
gerously low levels ; they are high where the mass of
the people are poverty-stricken and ignorant. The
rise of the birth-rate in Germany has been accom-
panied by degeneration in every intellectual sphere,
the sacrifice of learning, the open scorning of truth
and morality ; yet, at the same time, Germany has
shown a biological virility which, if maintained, will
ensure her survival where peoples less fundamentally
vigorous will disappear.
Our present civilisation is self-destroying, and
the great problem looming up before Britain and other
countries which share Britain’s ideals and ethics will
be to maintain what is best in that civilisation and
yet ensure the continuance of the people. This may
involve a re-examination of our views on sex morality,
marriage and family life. Above all, the Germans
have taught us a powerful lesson on the question of
procreation. The bearing of children is a matter
which touches the profoundest of human instincts and
emotions, yet too often it is viewed from a purely
mechanical basis. Women will not be persuaded by
material inducements, but they will play their part in
building up the future when they know that the vital
service they can render to the community is adequately
acknowledged and valued.
The overwhelming tragedy of our days has been
the undoing of the efforts and sacrifices made 20 and
more years ago. Another chance may now be given
to the nation. Will it be taken, or shall we, like the
people in Dear Brutus, remain unchanged, and this
time let ourselves be defeated by an enemy more in-
sidious and more deadly than any we have ever met
in war?
French Running the Blockade.
[Condensed extract from a New York “World-
Telegram” article by Henry Noble Hall, First Secretary
of the British Embassy in Paris during the early months
of the present war.]
Whether the British like it or not the French
have been running the blockade.
When France was on the verge of collapse all
the gold in the Bank of France was put on board the
cruiser Vincennes and taken to Halifax. Part was
sent to the United States. But the major portion,
including the gold belonging to Czechoslovakia and
Poland and entrusted to the French for safekeeping,
was taken to Martinique.
Since then there has been a brisk increase in trade
between the Gulf ports and Martinique. Goods were
transhipped at Martinique, sent across the Southern
Atlantic and up the west coast of Africa to Dakar or
Casablanca, at times running the blockade through
the straits of Gibraltar, at times transhipping at
Casablanca and going from North African ports to
Marseilles.
In three weeks, according to official Vichy statis-
tics, no fewer than 205 ships entered the port of Mar-
seilles. Did they carry wheat? They did not. This
is what they did carry: 14,432 tons of mazout (heavy
oil); 46,707 bales of rubber ; 4504 tons of lead ; 1465
bales of wool; 106,531 bags of linseed ; 97,840 bags
of cocoa ; 44,537 bags of shelled ground nuts ; 13,433
bags of almonds ; 9890 bags of palm nuts; 1217 bags
of copra ; 1492 bags of gum and resin ; 60,602 bags
of sugar ; 17,234 bags of coffee ; 18,343 casks of wine ;
75 pipes of alcohol; 200 barrels of rum ; 231 barrels
of salted meat; 20,718 barrels of salted fish ; 6485
bags of rice flour ; 12,737 bags of dried vegetables ;
83,666 punches of bananas; 515,000 cases of fresh
vegetables ; 9254 cases of eggs.
Between 75 p.c. and 80 p.c. of all these goods
were requisitioned on arrival by the German and
Italian armistice commissions.
The question may be asked “Why doesn’t the
British navy stop this kind of thing?” The answer
is that the British navy is not made of elastic. One
half of it —the other half is busy in the Mediter-
ranean —is trying to do what in the last war was done
by the combined navies of England, France, Italy and
—New York “Post.”
U.S. ISOLATIONISTS’ PET BOGEY.
“The only thing we have to fear is fear itself — nameless, unreasoning, unjustified
terror which paralyses needed efforts to convert retreat into advance.”
—President Roosevelt.
Japan, together with the United States navy from
1917 on. The number of U-boats is greater than in
the last war, they are faster and more powerful than
ever, and some of them have a cruising range of from
15,000 to 16,000 miles. The British navy must at all
costs keep open the life line across the Atlantic. That
is why Vichy is able to run the British blockade.
U.S. War Veteran Speaks.
[Condensed from a speech delivered at the tomb
of the U.S. Unknown Soldier by Sergeant Alvin C.
York, an American who performed an exceptionally
heroic feat in the last war.]
There are those today who ask me and the other
veterans who fought in World War No. 1 “What did
it get you?”
Let me answer them now. It got me 23 years of
living in America where a humble citizen from the
mountains of Tennessee can stand on the same plat-
form with the President of the United States. It got
me 23 years of living in a country where the Goddess
of Liberty is printed on men’s hearts, and not only on
the coins in their pockets.
People who ask us that question, “What did it
get you?” forget one thing. True, we fought that
last war to make the world safe for democracy—and
we did, for a while. The thing they forget is that
liberty and freedom and democracy are so very pre-
cious that you do not fight to win them once, and
then stop. Liberty and freedom and democracy are
prizes awarded only to those peoples who fight to
win them, and then keep fighting eternally to hold
them.
By our victory in the last war we won a lease on
liberty, not a deed to it. Now, after 23 years, Adolf
Hitler tells me that lease is expiring, and I have the
privilege of fighting to renew it or letting it go by
default. I choose to renew it, and I have no doubt
that the American people choose likewise.
I may be wrong, but I doubt that the American
I am now looking at, or the American 3000 miles
from here, or at any point in between, is a man from
whose shoulder you can indefinitely knock chips with-
out having him decide to fight.
If I am wrong, and he is that kind of man, then
let us stop making guns, let us surrender to Hitler
right now, while we can still do so on our own terms.
But if he is that kind of man, then Americans
have changed. The boy whose remains are in this
Unknown Soldier’s grave wouldn’t recognise that kind
of an American.
England is fighting for her very life, for the right
of her people to be free. We have always fought for
that right. If we have stopped, then we owe the
memory of George Washington an apology.
Peace Alliance Plan.
[ln the article here condensed from the June Ameri-
can “Mercury,” Bertrand Russell, who opposed the last
war, but this time is in
favor, argues for the for-
mation of an alliance to
secure enduring peace
when this war has been
won. Suchlike permanent
peace plans are cropping
up freely in the Ameri-
can press at present;
they figured as freely in
the British press some-
what earlier. All of
them, however impracti-
cal most of them have
been, are of interest as
indications of the wide-
spread desire to prevent
future war if at all pos-
sible. Bertrand Russell
contends that the .alliance
he proposes, with armed
America and Britain as
chief original members,
would represent an im-
provement on the League
of Nations.]
The primary interest
of America and England,
assuming victory, will be
precisely the same as the
interest of mankind,
namely, to prevent the re-
currence of large-scale
wars; altruism and ego-
ism, therefore, can go hand
in hand.
The interest of
America and the British
Commonwealth is to secure
world peace without sac-
rificing democracy, and
this will require, to begin
with, a vigorous use of the
superiority of armed force
that victory will have
given. America and the
British Commonwealth
must form a close alliance
for the preservation of
peace, and admit to it,
either from the first, or at
any subsequent time, such
nations as they consider to be at one with them in
regard to world policy.
Something should be done, especially in economic
matters, to make membership of the alliance a desir-
able privilege, and non-membership a serious disadvan-
tage. The alliance must keep military preponderance,
and not tolerate any serious threat to its power of
enforcing peace. It must not (as England, France and
the United States did in the years before 1939) secure
present peace by concessions leading to a future war
in which victory is doubtful.
Among the mistakes at the end of the last war
was the withdrawal of the United States from parti-
cipation in world affairs. It may be hoped that this
will not happen again at the end of the present war.
No important international system is possible without
United States participation. A second withdrawal
would almost certainly lead to a third world war,
again involving America, and it cannot be the wish
of the American nation to have to do the same job
over and over again.
The most essential matter is the approach to an
international Government by way of an international
air force, and there is good reason to believe that
influential opinion in England is in favor of the utmost
that is feasible in this direction.
It seems to me that the approach to an inter-
national organisation for the avoidance of war will
have to be made in three stages: first, the actual treaty.


which will decide the terms on which fighting will
cease ; second, the formation of a League or Alliance
of Powers which share the general aims of the United
States and the British Commonwealth of Nations;
third, a long-term policy designed to make this alli-
ance gradually world-wide. Throughout the first two
stages, the third should be borne in mind, and nothing
should be done to make it more difficult. Public
opinion is not yet ready for any radical union of
nations, and it seems to me more practical to aim at
first only at an alliance, which may in the course of
time develop into a federation.
The first necessity will be to secure peace during
the years of reconstruction. This will necessitate dis-
armament of enemy Powers, except for small forces
for the preservation of internal order. There should
be nothing in the way of indemnities or reparations.
What is done against former enemies should be pre-
ventive in intention, not punitive. Military strength
in recent enemies is to be prevented, but economic
prosperity, if attainable without military struggle,
makes for contentment and stability.
For a short period the victorious Powers shall have
the right to send troops, if necessary, for the protec-
tion of small nations whose independence they guaran-
tee ; the guarantee should be limited to this short
period. Further steps should belong to the second
stage. The guarantee should also protect democracies
against forcible seizure of the government by minori-
ties.
Germany should be allowed to retain whatever
regions decide, by a free plebiscite, that they wish to
remain German, including Austria and the Sudeten-
land. It is important that there should be no valid
territorial grievances.
The victorious Powers should combine their air
forces under a single command, and should, to begin
with, forbid all construction in the defeated countries
of aircraft capable of use in war.
What is needed is an alliance against aggression,
less academic than the League of Nations, and more
conscious of common interests. Such an alliance, at
first, cannot be world-wide ; and if it is to be effective
it must be freed from diplomatic red-tape. Its first
principle should be military solidarity: aggression
against one member should be aggression against all,
and automatically involve all in war against the
aggressor. There should be a permanent body, com-
posed of eminent jurists, selected by the alliance,
whose business it should be to pronounce promptly,
by a majority, whether there has been aggression in
any given case. This would give the United States
and the British Commonwealth of Nations and their
allies the legal right, as soon as aggression had oc-
curred anywhere, to send armed forces to any part
of the territory of the alliance ; it would also be their
duty, as well as their right, if strategically desirable.
The crossing of a frontier by armed forces is
aggression; refusal of arbitration by the alliance
should also be deemed to be aggression. The defini-
tion of aggression, at first, should perhaps be confined
to these two ; but it could be enlarged, by a majority
of the States composing the alliance, as circumstances
might make desirable. Economic discrimination
against a member of the alliance might be included :
so might governmental propaganda designed to rouse
the desire for war against some member of the alli-
ance. But, initially, the definitions should be sharp and
definite rather than inclusive. The application to par-
ticular cases is a judicial matter, to be dealt with by
an international Court.
The alliance should differ in various ways from
the League of Nations. (1) It should be composed, at
first, only of nations invited by the United States and
the British Commonwealth of Nations on the ground
of their sincere desire to preserve the peace of the
world. (2) It should have a much stronger military
solidarity: all its members should be pledged to go
to war as soon as one member was attacked, and
should be expelled if they broke this pledge, with con-
sequent loss of economic and other privileges. (3) It
should override national sovereignty to the extent that
all aviation, civil as well as military, should be in its
control. (4) It should offer important economic ad-
vantages to its members, and corresponding disadvan-
tages to non-members. (5) It should not be, as the
League of Nations was in part, designed to preserve
territorial injustices inflicted by the victors, but should
endeavor to reach an agreed decision as to territorial
questions before admitting any nation to the alliance.
The energy and efficiency of the Germans are so
great that the world cannot be stable while they are
discontented ; on the other hand, their ambition, since
Bismarck, has been such as to make them difficult to
fit into any system of international justice. For a
time they can be kept disarmed ; but if there is to be
lasting peace a way must be found, sooner or later,
of securing their willing co-operation.
Perhaps a second defeat, together with the creation
of a solid international structure, may suffice. Democ-
racy, if victorious, will have a new prestige, and those
Germans who have not shared the creed of the Nazis
will again be able to make their weight felt. Ger-
many should, after a time, be admitted to the alli-
ance on giving certain evidences of sincerity such as
willingness to accept the constitution of the alliance,
including a share in the international air force instead
of a national air force, and reform of education, in-
volving elimination of militant nationalism. Given
a new regime in Germany, it will be unwise to pro-
long discrimination after its necessity is past.
What should be the relations of the alliance to
Powers which choose to remain outside it, or refuse
to conform to conditions which the alliance considers
essential? If the alliance is to be the nucleus of world
government, this question must not be answered with
too much mildness.
I assume that, at the end of the war, and for
some years afterwards, the alliance will have a very
great preponderance of armed force. The problem is
to find a policy which, while preserving this prepon-
derance, will gradually transform the basis of the
alliance from one of military power to one of demo-
cratic consent. Membership in the alliance should
bring with it great advantages in the way of lower
tariffs and credit facilities ; but, in addition, no raw
material useful in the manufacture of weapons of war
should be exported out of the territory of the alliance.
Such restrictions would suffice to cripple any hostile
war effort directed against the alliance.
Sooner or later the greater prosperity and security
enjoyed by its members would exert an irresistible
propaganda effect upon recalcitrant nations. But if
any possible enemy showed signs of acquiring sudden
strength, as Germany did, it would have to be ruth-
lessly dealt with in the interests of the safety of the
world. If world government is ever to become a
reality, it will have to be created by first proclaiming
and enforcing new principles of international law, as
the United States did in the case of the Monroe
Doctrine.
The advantages of membership, and the disadvan-
tages of non-membership, should be made great and
obvious, and the desire for membership should be
used as a means of promoting democracy. But there
should be no undue haste about admitting new
members ; loyalty to the alliance, and certain com-
mon sentiments, will be essential to the growth of
sound traditions and vigorous habits of action. Given
these, prestige will soon achieve the rest.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Estimates credit Germany with having 10,000,000
men under arms. If the Reich is able to draft this
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
HOW DID I GET HERE?
enormous force from its working population, it is by
literal enslavement of other millions of people in the
conquered lands. A report smuggled out of Poland
tells of the working out of this process for the opera-
tion of German fields and factories. Having failed
to obtain enough voluntary workers for transfer to
Germany, the Gestapo has now organised man-hunts
in Polish cities and villages on a constantly widening
scale. Army trucks are assembled at convenient
points. The German police tj 1611
rounding up all able-bodied males. No one is exempt
from seizure. Even men lawfully employed in mdus-
try are gathered in. Their identification cards are torn
up and they are shipped away. Of the deported,
those brought back are broken in health by hard
labor and scant rations.— New York “Times.”
* * * * *
As a token of the kind of future the U.S.A. seeks
for the world we have given our firm promise to
China to surrender extraterritorial privileges as soon
as peace is restored. While a Fascist Triple Alliance
proceeds with its plans for carving up the world, and
especially for absorbing economically backward
nations, the United States declares itself for Chinese
freedom, Chinese sovereignty, Chinese integrity. We
believe that the good word concerning what we have
done will re-echo throughout the Far East; and that
from the smallest peasant to the greatest merchant there
will be a new understanding of what the American-
English-Chinese democratic orbit stands for. We have,
like other nations, held special rights against China
for a century, special rights on Chinese soil, special
rights for maintenance of American armed forces, for
favored legal treatment of our nationals. The manner
in which we acquired these rights is not one of the
glorious chapters in our history. But our promise
to rid ourselves of these rights when peace comes is
one that we shall remember with pride for all time. We
are no longer merely talking about that “free demo-
cratic” world which is to come. We are implement-
ing with action the dream we offer to the worlds
people. We are no longer dealing in words about
“world order, under law” ; we are reducing the words
to actualities. We are setting a style for peaceful
change in international relations, by consent. —New
York “Post”
*****
Prime Minister Churchill has said that the British
expect to restore sovereignty to Poland, Denmark,
Holland, Belgium, Norway, Czechoslovakia and pre-
sumably Yugoslavia and Greece. Mr. Roosevelt says;
“We cannot accept a world like the post-war world
of the 1920’5, in which the seeds of Hitlerism can be
planted and again allowed to grow.” Churchill and
Roosevelt have one war aim in common —to beat the
big bad bear Hitler. But they appear to have oppo-
site ideas on how to cut up the bearskin after he’s
dead. Churchill, speaking through Eden, says he
favors disarming Germany, with the British Empire
of course retaining all necessary arms to enforce this
disarmament of Germany. Roosevelt appears to be
in favor of disarming everybody in order to relieve
people from fear. — New York “Daily News.”
*****
American-born Lady Astor, Mayoress of bomb-
shattered Plymouth, has appealed to United States
and Canadian women to collect “simple, homely fur-
niture” to send to Britain after the war. “You can
hardly believe how difficult it is to get furniture,” she
said. “I have been trying to get just a bed, a kitchen
table, two armchairs and a cupboard for an old couple
who lost everything in the world when they were
bombed out of their home. They can get a little room,
but they have no furniture to put in it. Local authori-
ties are doing everything they can, but the task is
colossal. If the women of America will help they will
be doing something that will ever live in the memory
of the women of Britain. It is no use sending furni-
ture until the war is over because, even if it were
possible, a great deal of it would probably be
destroyed.”— New York “Times” London
correspondent.
*****
World production of rayon (yarn plus
staple fibre) reached a new high record produc-
tion level of 2,380,810,0001 b. in 1940, an in-
crease of 7 p.c. compared with an output of
2,227,490,0001 b. reported for 1939. For the
first time in history the world output of rayon
exceeded the world production of raw wool
(scoured basis). Thus rayon moved into second
place in the four fibre group, the total output
being exceeded only by that of cotton. Wool
output ranked third and silk fourth. Germany
in 1940, as in 1939, again was first in total
rayon production, which in Germany and oc-
cupied countries amounted to 825,000,0001 b.,
or 35 p.c. of the world’s total. Japan was
second with an output of 525,000,0001 b., or 22
p.c., closely followed by the United States with
an output of 471,170,0001 b., or 20 p.c. — New
York “Journal of Commerce.”
*****
The British gave their Government every
power it needed in emergency ; they now have
the strongest genuine democracy in Europe and
the greatest certainty that their system will, if
it conquers, rise freer and more democratic
than it has ever been before. The French
could never give in time the powers necessary
for action and defence ; they now have the
Petain dictatorship, stamping out the last rem-
nants of French democracy as diligently as it
can. This is a time of desperate emergency,
and emergency powers must be used. That is
now the one road to peace* safety and the ulti-
mate demobilisation of the effort. To para-
lyse it in fears that we are losing our democ-
racy is to lose it certainly and for ever. — New
York “Herald Tribune.”
.
The failure of promises to be made good is the
largest single cause of the present distress of the world,
i n some instances it has been a case of the people
creating in their own minds expectations that could
come true, Consider a brief list of examples be-
ginning 27 years ago: In 1914, Germany’s promise
not t 0 j nvac i e Belgium. The expectation created by
wilson > s phrase « xhe war t 0 make the world safe for
democracy.” The expectation created by the other
, invented I think hv H G Wells “The war
Tn 1918 the to Germlnv
to ® nd all ™f rs - 1918 ’ . the TuifS!
made by Wilson and America, called The fourteen
points,” at least two of which were not lived up to.
The promise implied by Wilson, but prevented from
fulfilment by the United States Senate, that America
would join the League of Nations The promise to
the world of permanent peace implied by creation of
the League of Nations The promise or implication
of permanent peace inherent in the Washington Con-
ference for the Limitation of Armament, the K gg
Bnand Pacts, the Nme-Power Pact. Maik Sullivan,
m New York Herald Tribune.
*. * *
The stones of German spies in hire and the
supplying of German submarines may be dismissed,
The necessary fuel is not obtainable and those who
know the country well declare that there are no pro-
Germans to supply food except a small number of
i rr econcilables who are not in a position to do so. This
dan g er was mo re real in the last war, when a portion
of Ireland was hostile to England, while in this the
ma j or j ty sympathy has remained consistently anti-
jjjtler—An Irish correspondent in London “Fort-
n.AY „
* * * * * *
Dominion troops have never been overaddicted
sa i ut i n g and judging from what one sees in Lon-
streets ’ British troops—sailors and airmen, toe-
" P . nece off the
are taKm § ds ™ * „ . , „ lictr . m w j t u
parade ground. To comp re y to
that of the first few months of the w r .
the conclusion that the British Army, meandering
precedent to precedent, is gently approaching the posi-
tion formally established in the United States Army,
that there shall be no saluting.save duty - an ’
Chester Guardian P


• the no wJT/mnSra
ash
jiIACBAJfISAH
UI&MQm
m ,
I
I
(Above) 1. Australian made machine gun
carriers (with Ford power units).
2. Working for victory a study in con-
centration in a Ford-Australia machine shop.
3. Specially designed trucks for the Army.
Many similar vehicles are now on active
service “somewhere in the Middle East.”
—and day and night skilled
Australian automotive
workers are labouring to
achieve war production
0
TWO years ago the plants of Ford Company of
Australia were concentrating on the production of a
wide range of vehicles that met a very large percentage
of Australia's transport requirements. Today, from these
plants, tools and machines for the munitions industry,
"convoys" of special army vehicles are endlessly pouring
out to support our fighting men with the mechanised
equipment they need in ever-increasing volume.
Behind this effort . . . adding force, sincerity and deter-
mination . . ■ working day and night . . . are the highly
trained and skilled men of the Ford-Australia organisation
. . . Australians who help to give the phrase “this is a
working man's war" its deepest significance.
Shoulder to shoulder with 18.000 co-workers in the asso-
ciated Ford plants in Canada, England, New Zealand,
South Africa, India, and Malaya, these soldiers in overalls
are supporting with every ounce of effort the men who
serve on sea, land and in the air. They are making an
important contribution to Australia's war material output,
and are storing up a rich fund of technical knowledge
which will be of inestimable value to the nation in the
years to come.
(At left) Headquarters of
Ford Manufacturing Com-
pany of Australia. Here
Ford Motor Company
has helped to pioneer
the development of the
Australian automotive
engineering industry dur-
ing the past sixteen years.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Factories at GEELONG SYDNEY :: BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
A MIXED GRILL.
Recently awarded the D. 5.0., Cap-
tain W. Forbes, who when in mufti is
on the teaching staff of the Adelaide
High School. He is a graduate of Adelaide
University and was an inter-State hockey
player.
* * * *
Major J. Silverstone, missing in recent
A.I.F. operations, was a Digger in the
1914-18 war who got a place on Allen-
by’s staff because of his knowledge of
Hebrew, Yiddish and Arabic. He re-
mained on in Palestine after the Armis-
tice and was in business there before he
returned to Australia. He got back into
khaki in September, 1939.
* * # *
Blackburn, M.H.R., was a delegate to
the 1918 Labor conference which adopted
that “conditional” recruiting resolution
when the Germans had defeated the Allies
in a series of great battles, and he was
present at the Victorian Labor confer-
ence recently. He doesn’t seem to have
changed much in 23 years. “We should
not send troops overseas,” he said, “and
our men should be brought back from
the Middle East. I think the party should
say definitely that it is against sending
troops away.” The “party” wasn’t that
definite ; but after making all sorts of
demands on the Government it “de-
clared” that “there must be no weakening
of Australia’s defence by the disposition
of Australia’s armed forces outside the
Commonwealth”
—other than as necessary in the land and
water adjacent to Australia and New
Zealand for the strategical defence require-
ments of the Commonwealth and New
Zealand.
Presumably New Zealand is expected
to be grateful, especially as Australian
Labor’s hostility to conscription has been
“reaffirmed.”
* * * *
“Colbun”: A little over 300 years ago
the headmaster of the Merchant Taylors’
School—he had had Edmund Spenser
as a pupil—deplored the fact that the
English tongue “is of small reach, stretch-
ing no further than this island of ours,
nay, not there over all.” Today it is the
most widely-used of all languages and
has penetrated deeply into many others
all over the globe. Three-fifths of the
~ ° . , „ ,
world s radio stations have English as
their regular language and the Axis pro-
paganda machine uses English tor three-
quarters of its efforts to demoralise non-
Axis countries. More than half of the
world’s newspapers are printed and nearly
tbrpp nnnrtpr* of the world’* mail* written
three quartets of tne world s mails written
or typed in it. Linguistically it is re-
garded by experts as the most succinct,
simple and economic of all spoken
tongues and by etymologists as offering
tbf rirdipct and widpct of all mpdia for
the richest and widest of all media tor
written expression. All of which has
come about simply because the inhabit-
ants of an island in the North Sea became
tbp most entcrnrisinH travellers
me worm s most enterprising travellers
and merchants, obstinately refused to
learn the language of the other chaps,
and, instead, made them learn enough
English to do business in.
**. * *
. Nineteen Counties recalls the tribu-
Nhous of an early Australian adminis-
hator:-
Captain George Gipps, of the Royal
5^" eers ’ was as able a Governor as any Aus-
trahan province has ever had, but un-
popularity dogged him throughout his term,
He had to back up Downing-street when its
right to control N.S.W. was being bitterly
attacked locally. The disposal of Crown lands,
an unsatisfactory convict system, free settlement,
Rf 1 ! 06 a f airs ( public instruction and other things
that mattered were solel y m hls charge when he
arnved) but local politicians clamored for
the control of all of them. Gipps had to
keep faith with his masters in Whitehall whilst
his private sympathies were often with the
colonists’ demands. He fell foul of Wentworth
over the latter’s desire to establish a Maori-
land monopo i y) and Wentworth never
f or g aV e him. His term of office (1838-46) was
a long wrangle between himself and such men as
Wentworth and Robert Lowe, in which Gipps
wasn t always wrong but was always supposed
tQ be He carried on> but the strain had been
enormous, and he didn’t long survive his resig-
nation.


V
i
ft
%
Vi
ART FOR PROFIT AND PLEASU
\I7HEN these abnormal times are behind us, where will you stand
» » financially? Commercial Art offers you a fascinating career and
future security, for industry and advertising are dependent on the
work of the trained Artist You can begin learning now—in your own
home and in your own time —to draw posters, cartoons, fashions and
illustrations! Develop that flair for sketching under the highly-
specialised tuition of experienced Commercial Artists. When you
learn from Australia’s Foremost School of Commercial Art you learn
from leaders of the profession, and every step of your progress is
guided by an expert.
df
IT/KITE to-day, enclosing 4d for postage, for the
W profusely illustrated 32-page book, “Art
Ability Tests." This book may prove the gateway
to your success. It contains valuable information
about Commercial Art, a scientific Questionnaire
and special Test Drawings. Copy these drawings
and we will give you an expert criticism of your
art ability—free! No cost or obligation if you
mention “The Bulletin."
Art Training Institute
80 Swanston St. Melbourne
THAT'
The Task
that few men want
Experience has shown what a grave mistake it can be to let sentiment govern
the choice of an executor and trustee. Family dissensions, differences between
relations, can lead to loss and distress. Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
will be glad to send you —free of charge—a book (entitled, " The Task That Few
Men Want "> —which provides a practical and efficient solution to this problem.
Write to or call at the Company's offices, 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, or any Branch
of Burns, Philp & Company Limited, or Burns Philp (South Sea) Company, Limited,
for further information.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET* SYDNEY
TELEPHONE ; B 7901. Box 543 B > Sydney.
TAXATION
It was announced in Canberra last
week that the Government was going to
risk “some upward pressure of prices by
taking larger advances from the Com-
monwealth Bank.” This will be hailed
by wishful thinkers as a step to “lighten
our war burdens.” That, of course, is
nonsense. The best we can hope for is
that it won’t increase them.
It is strange how often we are given
demonstrations of the willingness of
people to commit their country to war
and more war alongside their reluctance
to pay for war, even where payment is
unlikely to undermine their health or
even interfere with their mode of living
to any extent. When cost is talked
about the conversation is liable to
be framed in terms of the second
or third person—preferably the third. He
is an unknown, shadowy fellow, and the
very one who ought to pay for the war.
Some go even further and say that pay-
ing for the war is not a personal matter
at all; the money, etc., necessary should
be extracted from the air, in the form
of “national credit.” They refer to some
apocryphal remark of Abraham Lincoln
to support their theory—as though
American Civil War finance in any case
had anything to commend it. There are
people who actually believe that by
“credit rearrangement” we can finance
the cost of this war without toil, sweat
or taxation. Well, if “credit” alone can
do all that, it is a pity we don’t harness
it to do our actual fighting as well. War
would then become a very comfortable,
costless, safe form of entertainment.
We in Australia are faced with the
prospect of a very big war bill in 1941-
42. In other words, Australians will be
asked to contribute an enormous amount
of material, labor and other service to
the war campaign. It has been stated
that in the new financial year that began
on July 1 we will spend £250 million
on war, a figure which may be increased
as the months go by. What the nation
finally wants isn’t £250 million, obtained
any-old-how, in notes, “credit” or other
terms representing money ; it wants £250-
million-worth of service and materials
suitable for fighting the war. But in
order to obtain those services and
materials it is first of all necessary to
raise the money with which to pay for
those things, and the money has to be
of a kind which people respect.
The most-respected money is that
which is raised by taxation. It takes
courage to tax openly and without
trickery, and courage is a thing to be
respected. Again, money raised by taxa-
tion usually retains its buying power, un-
like money made available by “easy”
methods of finance. Buying power is
also to be respected. And, since money
raised by taxation is plainly discernible
for what it is—that is, a contribution to
th® national effort—we know where we
stand - We stand on a lower living stand-
ard; that lower standard further in-
creases our respect for honestly-handled
money, since what we have of it will be
carefully spent. There will be little en-
couragement of luxury industries, but
there should be a diversion of materials
and labor to the kind of work il is really
necessary to have done,
There are plenty of squealers, though
not so many as one would assume from
the anti-tax pamphlets circulated and the
space devoted to inflationary policies in
some afternoon papers. Taxation for
war is admittedly taxation for waste,
War-finance measures are extreme meas-
ures ; they must be almost ruthless in
the national interest. The enemy sets
the pace for war waste ; Germany, it is
estimated, is devoting from 60 p.c. to
70 p.c. of its national income to war.
In Germany, then, only 30 p.c. to 40 p.c.
of what the nation produces by its labors
is available for civil use. In other words,
true taxation is about 60 p.c. to 70 p.c.
of all earnings. In Australia in 1940-41
taxation for war purposes, whether in
the shape of specific taxation, borrowing
or “bank credit,” was less than 20 p.c.
of our national earnings. For 1941-42,
figure of £250 million now mentioned
will be more than 25 p.c. of our national
income, but some of the war materials
will be obtained from overseas, and as
the cost of these overseas materials will
not have to be paid for at once our im-
mediate burden will be lessened to some
extent.
Nevertheless, it is perfectly clear that,
although the war is still half a world
away from Australia, and no bombs have
fallen in this country, in our determina-
tion to do our share in winning the war
we have committed ourselves to heavy
expenditure. Let us then acknowledge
the position as it really is. We are going
to be on short commons because much
of the results of our labors is to be
diverted to war. Some people, such as
importers and those dependent on luxury
trades, must feel the pinch. Landmen
will be hit hard on account of the phy-
sical difficulty of shifting their surplus
production overseas. In all probability
taxation, in addition to direct war taxa-
tion, will have to be levied on those
whose industries are prosperous in order
to look after those who have been
knocked badly. If there was no money
in the world we would have to assist the
war effort and stricken industries by
levies on man-power and possessions for
the common good. As we have a money
system, the levy is made in terms of
money, and transfer of man-power and
materials to the Government follows for
redistribution as thought fit.
War expenditure is different from
nearly all other forms of finance. It is
not reproductive expenditure. After all
the fighting is over our munitions largely
become useless scrap-iron that nobody
wants. Any “credit” raised against this
type of expenditure would soon become
as valueless as scrip in a worked-out
mine. The reason why war’s cost should
be paid out of current income, not out
of interest-bearing loans or expanded
bank credit, should be clear to anyone
prepared to do a little non-wishful
thinking.
Sydney’s new “Daily Mirror” is con-
ducting a campaign for use of the
“nation’s free credit.” But the “Mirror”
doesn’t mean taxation—the truest form
of “costless credit”—when it talks of
“free credit.” It refers to “authorities”
ranging from Randolph Bedford to Abra-
ham Lincoln. Says the “Mirror”: “In
a slump, the issue of national credit is
meant to save people from hunger; in
war, it is to save them from devastation
and slaughter.” It doesn’t differentiate
between the opposite type of economic
conditions. But it mentions Section 504
of the Banking Commission’s report,
without mentioning the subsequent sec-
tions that put 504 in its proper per-
spective.
What Abraham Lincoln really said
about the “greenback” currency of the
Union Government has probably never
been thought fit to have recorded. Even
though $433 million-worth of incon-
vertible paper money was issued, “as a
question of hard necessity,” to provide
for expenses of the Civil War, the
national debt grew from $64 million in
1860 to $2750 million at the end of 1865.
And the value of the greenbacks at one
stage fell to 35 cents in the dollar. Thus
people who held this paper were taxed
as much as 65 per cent, when they spent
the fiat money.
With a huge Budget in prospect now
the Canberra Government might as well
prepare us for increased taxation. If we
pay for war in taxes, our pound should
still be worth 205., or very near it, at
June 30, 1942. A £lOO life policy should
still be worth £lOO, and £lOO in the bank
the same. If we inflate—as suggested in
Canberra last week —money and policies
will lose in value.
Though the middle incomes are already
heavily burdened with taxation, if the
conduct of the war demands it they
should be asked to pay more. But the
high incomes in States where State tax
isn’t high should be called on to con-
tribute additionally, and incomes under
£8 a week, aggregating between £5OO mil-
lion and £6OO million, should be asked
to pay considerably more than the
£5,000,000 (at the most) which they now
contribute. This section includes those
people whose incomes are governed by
arbitration-court awards, and who escape
nearly all increases in indirect taxation.
If some system of compulsory saving is
introduced for these people on lines
similar to the J. M. Keynes plan in
Britain, it will be a disgraceful thing if
Labor doesn’t give it willing and con-
scientious consideration. It was Labor
which wouldn’t consent to a cut to £l5O
in the statutory exemption this time last
year.
Final wool appraisements were com-
plete for 1940-41 on June 28. Bales
totalled 3,506,210, or 1,044,039,4991 b.,
with an appraised value of £55,251,133.
Average per pound greasy ran out at
12.085 d., or 89.9 p.c. of the British pur-
chase price of 13.4375 d. Retention
money—the 5 p.c. held throughout the
season—will be distributed on July
29 to participating growers. It makes
£2,594,861, and is to be added to a flat-
rate adjustment of 11 p.c., or £5,708,695,
making the total disbursement £8,303,556.
Appraisement of the 1941-42 wool clip
in Australia will begin in N.S.W. on
August 11, S.A. on August 18, W.A. and
Queensland August 25, Victoria Septem-
ber 1 and Tasmania early in January,
1942. Fellmongered wools will get a
turn this month and in early August.
« * * *
Australian Consolidated Industries is
building a factory to make optical glass.
The job is nearing completion. Produc-
tion of glass silk for insulating purposes
is expected to begin this year. A.C.I.
and its subsidiaries claim to have a pay-
roll of £1,500,000 a year, and there are
5700 shareholders.
* » * *
Senator H. S. Foil, Minister for the
Interior and Information, has announced
his resignation from the boards of Mt.
Isa, Ltd., and New Guinea Goldfields,
Ltd., following attacks by members in
the House and Senate. Apparently Foil
has now relinquished all his directorships.
In years gone by he appeared as a
director of the National Tobacco Cor-
poration, a concern that proposed to
grow tobacco at Pomonal, in Victoria.
* * * *
Cash and carry, as it sometimes works.
Britain has been selling its American secu-
rities to pay for war materials. When the
1,568,000 common (ordinary) shares of
the American Viscose Corporation (a
subsidiary of the English Courtaulds
concern) and 228,480 5 p.c. cum. prefs.,
representing 91 p.c. of the stock, were
sold to the U.S. public at $24 a share for
the common and $107.50 for the pref.
shares, the public paid $62,193,600, but
the British Government was handed only
$54,348,923. The underwriting syndicate
got $4,099,200 in selling commission, and
a group of bankers who bought the stock
from the British Government (who were
also principal members of the offering
syndicate) apparently took nearly
$3,750,000 in buying commission. Accord-
ing to a cable, Henry Morgenthau,
secretary to the U.S. Treasury, has
asked the underwriters to refund
$1,000,000 of the commission to the
British Government, so successful was
the deal from the point of view of the
New York middlemen. These astute
gentlemen and the U.S. public seem to
have done very well out of the trans-
action. In 1940 earnings of the cor-
poration, the largest manufacturer of
rayon in the U.S.A., were nearly
$8,000,000, equal to $3.85 a share after
allowing for pref. charges. That repre-
sents 16 p.c. on the purchase price.
London shareholders in Courtaulds are
waking up to the bad bargain made.
Critics say the Viscose Corp.’s written-
down asset values were worth twice the
amount paid, and goodwill represented
an additional large sum.


CHANGE OF ADDRESS
As from Monday, 30tli June, 1041,
the Offices of the Victorian Branch of
The Prudential Assurance
Company Limited
(Incorporated in England),
the largest Insurance Company in the British Empire,
will be located in the
Royal Bank Chambers
287 COLLINS ST. (Cr. Elizabeth St.). Melbourne, C.l
L. W. WILSON, T. R. GALE,
Manager for Victoria. Assistant Manager for Victoria.
G. .1. M. BEST. F.C.1.1., General Manager tor Australia and New Zealand.
New Telephone Number from above date; Central 4301. Box No. 1004, G.P.O.
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
p to
M
n
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black Handle 12/6
Blade size 2in.
POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEIM
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE VITAL STREAM!... As Australia forges her weapons of war amid the
clamour and heat of tireless foundries, molten metal flows in a never*
ending stream ... Playing an equally important part in their production
is another vital stream the stream of bank credit... In providing finance
for our ever-expanding war industries, the Bank of New South Wales
occupies a front-line position in the economic defences of Australia.
5
i®
.0
-
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
,"v
172 C
CRAVEN ~A
are kinder
• o
to the throat
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
mm
10 /or I0 D 50 /or 4 2
20 /or I » 100 tor 8 4
Petrol from Coal
In New York last month the Standard
Oil Co. (New Jersey) gave out the story
of its business interests in Germany, a
country which owns less than 1 p.c. of
Standard Oil Stock, but which has co-
operated with Standard in the evolution
of a number of patents relating to the
production of synthetic petrol, rubber,
toluol and other essential war materials.
The co-operation has been through I. G.
Farbenindustrie, otherwise the German
chemical trust.
Development of the processes, Standard
stated, originated with the Germans,
though Standard had been working along
these lines also. The Bergius system of
getting petrol out of brown coal in 1927
produced petrol at 15 cents a gallon in
an experimental plant. Since the out-
break of the present war Germany has
depended considerably on its synthetic
oil plants for petrol, and almost all of
its rubber has been synthetic—made from
oil. Standard Oil claims that by its par-
ticipation in these inventions they are
also now available for American defence,
and toluol (a component of explosives)
is already in the process of manufacture
in the U.S.A. The Bergius hydrogena-
tion patents, exploited by Imperial
Chemical Industries at Billingham, have
also provided Britain “with a minimum
assured supply of internally-produced
gasoline,” Standard claims. But its
interest in obtaining control of the patents
outside of Germany is admitted to be
partly because their exploitation now
might shut out flow-oil from oil-importing
countries.
Originally, as a result of developing
these patents, the German chemical trust
owned a 50 p.c. interest in one Standard
subsidiary and 20 p.c. in another. The
following extract is taken from the New
York “Times” of June 9:
The account of the American concern’s busi-
ness with Germany is published in “The Lamp,”
Standard Oil’s house organ. It disclosed that,
in order to liquidate the German chemical
trust’s 50 and 20 per cent, interests in its
subsidiaries soon after the outbreak of war,
it was obliged, in addition to a small cash
consideration, to give the German concern ex-
clusive rights to the production and distribution
of certain synthetic products, not including syn-
thetic rubber, in the world outside the United
States and the French and British Empires, as
well as a share of royalties arising from certain
oil refining processes.
The account also gave an intimate picture
of some of the arrangements by which the
great oil producers of the world formed a
world cartel in the nineteen-twenties and -thirties
to prevent the hydrogenation process from dis-
rupting the industry. The process made low-
cost production of synthetic oil possible —in
1927 synthetic gasoline was produced for ex-
perimental but not commercial purposes for 15
cents a gallon—but it was low in cost only in
relation to the costs of synthetic production
by other processes.
The Germans were planning to introduce the
process in Germany and were considering ex-
tending it to other countries. Fearing that
this might shut out petroleum products from
many countries by artificially stimulating un-
sound and uneconomic high tariff policies on
petroleum and its products, high tariffs being
the only means by which the difference between
the prices of low-cost natural imports and high-
cost home synthetic production could be made
up, the American concern gave the German
chemical trust in 1929 a share of its German
market in exchange for world rights, exclusive
of Germany, in the new process.
Out of this agreement developed the
present arrangement, in which United States
rights to the process are controlled by an
American corporation whose stock is held by
18 American oil refiners, and are exercised
by two Jersey plants and four others. The in-
ternational rights passed to a concern owned
jointly by Standard Oil and Royal-Dutch-Shell,
a Dutch concern with a large British interest.
These rights were modified by the disposal of
all except British, American and French rights
soon after the outbreak of war, and today the
former headquarters at The Hague is occupied
by a German commissar administering the
affairs of the Standard-Dutch-Shell subsidiary,
refusing to recognise the transfer of its ad-
ministration to Curasao, Dutch West Indies.
After a number of company recon-
structions, the patents are now held by
International Hydrogenation Patents (the
concern in Curasao), which looks after
rights outside the U.S.A., and Hydro
Patents Co. in the U.S.A. The latter co.
is the one owned by 18 American oil
refineries; the International concern is
owned jointly by Standard and Royal-
Dutch-Shell.
Apart from the “uneconomic tariff
barrier” bogey of uncontrolled patents.
Standard has admitted that, as a reason
for its interest in the Bergius process, it
“became convinced that this process was
indispensable as a safeguard to the co.
and to the oil industry in general against
possible future shortages of crude oil
reserves.” Australia, so far as is known,
does not possess any crude oil reserves.
But it has plenty of coal, including brown
coal.
Associated Pulp shares rose to a new ,
high level of 355. 6d. last week in Mel-'
bourne. The co., which makes fine writ- |
ing and printing paper at Burnie (Tas.),
is in the happy position of having a
local market for its products in excess of
output, imports of paper having been
rationed heavily. However, price-control
operates so far as Associated Pulp is
concerned, and growth in profits will
depend to a large extent on increased
plant capacity, a factor that is now being
attended to.
* V « *
Although the average Australian’s sym-
pathies will be with the Canberra
Government in its war-time problems,
the same average citizen often feels that
he is being dazzled with science rather
than told the plain, blunt truth about im-
portant things. Petrol, for instance. If
the Government has told all it knows
about this volatile substance, then its
knowledge is pitiably deficient. Its state-
ments are always inconclusive, even
though the necessity for rationing petrol
is generally acknowledged. It may be
that motorists and the motor trade are
being “disciplined” in order to lift their
minds to higher things. If so, it might
even be acknowledged that the motive
was worth while. But very few people
feel that they have been given a satisfac-
tory explanation up to date.
Wool is another peculiar commodity.
Australia is the world’s greatest wool-
grower, and one day it may become a
great manufacturer of woollens. Some
of its mills are very busy right now ;
but it is difficult to buy Aus-
tralian blankets even if your house
gets burnt down. India has ordered
enormous quantities of woollens, in-
cluding 5,000,0001 b. of yarn which our
mills won’t be given an opportunity to
weave. The Wool Board is advertising
“Use More Wool” at a time when
materials suitable for making the things
it depicts are difficult or impossible to
obtain. British suitings and other wool-
lens are meantime coming into Australia,
and apparently may still be bought by
the U.S.A. and Latin America, Our own
Central Wool Committee in Australia
now announces that manufacturers in the
Commonwealth will be charged an addi-
tional 1\ p.c. for wool bought, making
a total surcharge of 15 p.c.— l\ p.c. was
charged from the first appraisement.
Reason for this is said to be that Aus-
tralian mills during 1939-40 and 1940-41
bought their wool “at prices consider-
ably below the U.K. flat-rate parity,”
though how that could happen isn’t appa-
rent to the lay mind. In February last
the Wool Committee was empowered to
charge an additional 25 p.c. for wool
used in exported manufactures, goods
for Empire military needs being exempt
from the tax. Whatever its purpose, this
25 p.c. levy seemed certain to have the
effect of making it difficult for Austra-
lian mills to compete with Britain in
Asiatic markets. If it has done so, it
was an absurd move. It is far easier to
ship from Australia to N.E.1., Malaya
or India than from Britain, and the pro-
ceeds in any case are an Empire matter,
especially as Australia is borrowing in
London at present in order to pay for
maintaining the A.I.F.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
ALOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Methuen’s success at 50 to 1, Indignity’s
spectacular attempt to steal the race, and
an inquiry by the stewards into W. John-
son’s handling of the equal favorite, Our
Boy, the first time round, provided the
sensations of the G.N. Hurdle Race, run
at Flemington last Saturday.
Two years ago Methuen was one of
the early favorites for the G.N. Hurdle,
and a fair amount of “dead” money was
left with bookmakers when his connec-
tions decided he was not experienced
enough to warrant a start, and reserved
him for the Trial Hurdle a week later.
He won that race, but broke down at
his next start and was spelled for 18
months. His latest country form had
been comparatively good, but he finished
a. long way behind Our Boy in the Win-
darra Hurdle at Moonee Valley, and the
big majority of backers overlooked him
completely as a National proposition.
Owner E. O. Kirby, a grazier of Mt.
Gambier (S.A.), showed his confidence
by taking £3OOO to £6O, but Methuen’s
defeat of Indignity and Harley was a
wonderful result, for practically every
course and doubles bookmaker. At least
one doubles layer, however, will have to
finance the second “leg.” Several weeks
ago he laid Methuen with Solecism,
Lock si ea and Brightello for £lO,OOO each.
Methuen is a six-year-old gelding by
Spearfelt from Lady Levant, and his
National win fulfilled his owner’s ambi-
tion. On the lookout for a likely
National horse, and determined to buy
one or two sons of Spearfelt, Kirby
visited Queensland about 2\ years ago
and purchased Shanghai for 800gns. and
Methuen for 600gns. He was assisted
in his selections by former star cross-
country jockey and now trainer Alec
Fullarton, who prepared the horses for
their early racing in Melbourne. Subse-
quently they were taken over by Kirby’s
Mt. Gambier trainer, S. Lawrence, and
the latter has had the satisfaction of
winning two Nationals with the only
two horses he has saddled in such races
for Kirby. Shanghai, also by Spearfelt,
won the Adelaide G.N. Hurdle last year.
Spearfelt was a great stayer himself,
and it was sheer stamina which took
Methuen to success. Six furlongs from
home he must have been 25 lengths be-
hind the leader, Indignity, but he was
ridden confidently by W. Cutler, and,
landing in front over the last jump, won
by five lengths. It was the sixth time
he had been first past the post in his
10 starts over hurdles, but one race was
taken from him because of short weight
at Mt. Gambier last month. Methuen
carries the same colors as The Parisian,
who won the 1911 Melbourne Cup for
Kirby’s father, and he himself is engaged
in the corresponding race next spring.
He has the limit, but hurdling is more in
his line.
Our Boy’s shocking display could be
compared with that of Cheery Jack in
the Australian Hurdle two years ago. He
dropped hopelessly out of his ground
early, was never a possibility, and beat
only three horses home. Rider W. John-
son informed the stewards that he had
been instructed to ride the gelding behind,
and he let him drop out early as he had
done in his previous races. Johnson,
however, admitted that he had probably
overdone it, and added that Our Boy
would not respond when he attempted to
move on him. Johnson’s explanation was
accepted, but the stewards considered he
had ridden a very ill-judged race.
Indignity held a lead of 25 lengths at
one stage of the race, but some of the
steam was knocked out of him when he
hit the third-last hurdle, and another
knock at the last also contributed to his
defeat. It is improbable he would have
beaten Methuen in any circumstances,
but he battled on gamely and easily
defeated Harley for second money.
Latter, who started equal favorite at 3 to 1
with Our Boy and Bureaucrat, looked
like winning when he ran within three
lengths of Indignity half a mile from
home, but the fast pace had sapped his
reserves, and he only plodded on at
the finish. Bureaucrat, whose price
firmed from 9 to 2, also had every chance,
but weakened over the last half-mile
and finished seventh. None of the others
was ever dangerous, Merridale doing best
of the unplaced division.
Racing over fences for the first time,
Cheery Jack emphasised his G.N. chance
by winning the Kensington Steeplechase
in effortless style from National Debt
and Sachem. His winning margin was
only a length, but could have been much
greater had rider L. Meenan desired. The
G.N. Hurdle winner of last year fenced
magnificently, not making one mistake,
and, as he cannot be rehandicapped—he
has the maximum, 12.7 —it is difficult to
visualise defeat for him next Saturday.
He is likely to start at almost a pro-
hibitive price, but, even so, at a better
price than had one of the favorites won
the first “leg” of the double.
National Debt ran well, but he met
Cheery Jack on exact G.N. terms, and
Sachem will be 21b. worse off next Satur-
day. Solecism, who tired into fourth
position after leading to the last fence,
will be troubled by the longer distance,
but Bridge of Dee, who carried 41b. more
than his National weight, made up con-
siderable ground to finish sixth, and must
still be included among the possibilities.
If Cheery Jack is beaten, however, it
might be by one of the horses which did
not run on Saturday. Highland March,
winner of his last two races, is one of the
most improved ’chasers in training ;
Brightello, who ran third in the G.N.
Steeple last year, is a better horse now,
despite his last-start failure ; and Locks-
lea took no harm from his fall at Moonee
Valley.
Winter form is generally below spring
standard, but keen judges consider that
Lugano might develop into one of the
best stayers among the three-year-olds
next season. He is engaged in the Derbies
and two Cups, and his effortless win
from Portable and Centenary in the
Myross Handicap on Saturday was his
second successive success over seven fur-
longs at Flemington. Trained by M.
Crossey, he is by John James from
Bucentaure, and more will be heard of
him. Murmuring, a 2000gns. colt having
his second race, was boomed as a gal-
loper right out of the ordinary, but,
although he finished second-last after
leading to the turn, he prejudiced his
chance by running greenly. He will im-
prove with experience.
J. E. Smedley won several good races
with Hostile, and he possesses a useful
galloper in that horse’s three-year-old
gelding son, New Warrior. Latter won
the best race of his career when he hit
the front about a furlong and a half from
home, and easily held off Son of Aurous
in the Winter Handicap. Purtell de-
clared 61b. over to ride New Warrior,
and his patience in saving as much
ground as possible during the race was
a big factor in the gelding’s success. New
Warrior is engaged in the two Cups,
and, even if not up to that standard, will
win his share of distance races. West
Wind was a disappointing favorite, but
Rivette ran fairly, and there is still hope
for the dual Cup winner of 1939.
Adelaide sprinter Operatic, racing for
the first time since March, outclassed his
opponents in the first Iramoo Handicap
division. Always well placed, he made
light of his 9.9 on a holding track, and,
dashing through to take the lead at the
top of the straight, won decisively from
Grandson and Berry, Parilla, after hav-
ing been headed by Florin about 100
yards from home, came again to defeat
Orcadian a head, with Prince Ronald
third, in the second division of the
Iramoo Handicap. Florin stopped sud-
denly, and finished only fifth, behind
Marcius. Latter was the medium of a
plunge which forced his price from 33
to 1 down to tens, and, in making up
considerable ground to finish less than a
length behind the winner, drew atten-
tion to his prospects the first time he
races over a distance beyond seven fur-
longs.
Isambard, a candidate for the Mel-
bourne Cup, has been a costly failure on
the flat, but he recorded a good perform-
ance to win the Maiden Hurdle running
away from Captain Kettle and Phil
Wirth. He was nearly down early, and
was last passing the judge the first time.
F. Dummett was to have ridden him, but
he decided not to take a mount before
Bureaucrat in the G.N. Hurdle, and K.
Brinsley substituted. The favorite, Fear-
nought, jumped badly, and was beaten a
long way from home.
* * * *
There was an ordinary programme at
Victoria Park on Saturday, but a large
attendance. Speculation was brisk, the
big bets recorded being as numerous as
usual. On a couple of races the tote
turnover in the paddock exceeded £BOO,
but that would not equal the amount
jointly held by, say, three leading book-
makers on the same races. Victoria Park
will never get full benefit from machine
betting until it gets in line with other
metropolitan clubs —a ss. unit and win
and place betting.
In the way of attracting, a fair field
the Jumpers’ Flat Race was up to the
standard of the average hurdle race. Half
a dozen ran, and after Belvoir had made
the running and started the last furlong
with a lead that made him appear un-
beatable he was worn down by Friar-
doon. Masterpiece was third, without
ever looking a winner, and the others
scarcely counted.
After many failures since he won a
Novice Handicap at Warwick Farm in
September, 1939, Kestrel returned to the
winning list in the Trial Handicap. Half
a mile from home Southerly led from
Dicktom, Trade Mark and Watto, and
turning into the straight the order was
much the same, with Kestrel seventh or
eighth. There was little between South-
erly and Watto a furlong from the win-
ning-post, but Kestrel finished better
than either, and he may yet prove worth
the 850gns. he cost as a yearling. Rhyth-
mic ran on better than any of the un-
placed division, though Crowon also did
well in the straight, while the favorite,
Triggerman, was a pronounced failure.
He was not in a winning position at any
part of the last half-mile, and finished
last. Jolly Times was another that did
not run up to his previous form.
Creditor, favorite for the Flying Handi-
cap, is not improving with racing. Third
to Bonny Loch and Novice at the turn,
he weakened badly in the run home.
Novice, who commenced smartly, had
Bonny Loch beaten commencing the final
furlong, and then held off Brazen Boy.
It was Novice’s first run since February,
and Gundagai, who finished third, had
not raced since he was seventh in the
last Epsom, If he keeps sound he should
improve considerably during the next few
weeks, and he has shown he can get a
middle distance.
Neither Valve nor Irish Sea made any
showing, and, though he looked well,
Micawber’s form was a long way from
his best. Rodrigo and Gallop were pro-
minent to the turn, and the former is
coming on again.
In the Two-year-old Handicap Lord
Pentheus and Guild Hall were the leaders
at the turn, with Chatham’s Choice and
Sweet Duchess nearest them. Over the
final furlong Lord Pentheus and
Chatham’s Choice made a match of it,
and the latter, who got through on the
rails, won by half a head. Three lengths
away Sweet Duchess similarly defeated
Grand Land for third. Grand Land
jumped away well, but went a long way
back in the first two furlongs. Of the
remainder only Colonel Post finished
reasonably close to the place-getters. The
stewards drew McMenamin’s attention
to the fact that he could have allowed
Chatham’s Choice a little more room
when he was attempting to get through
inside of Lord Pentheus.
Brucas led all the way in the Fourteen-
two Handicap, and though halfway
down the straight he looked like beating
Shop Girl easily, a head separated
them at the winning-post. On weighing-
in Brucas, who was ridden by McMena-
min, failed by 71b. to pull his weight,
and, of course, the race went to Shop
Girl, Miss Armidale finished third, but
was never a winning possibility, even
though her trainer might have protested
against Shop Girl for interference if he
had known Brucas was likely to be dis-
qualified for short weight.
• «••••
There was a rattling finish for the
Victoria Park Handicap. Disposing of
Australasia at the turn, Kurrawid was
actually first into the straight, but start-
ing the last furlong was tackled by High-
born, Beau Frere and St. Constant. Kur-
rawid weakened, and Highborn scored
by a neck from St. Constant, though
some of the last-named horse’s backers
were of opinion the result would have
been different if he had not gone
from the outside to near the rails in
the straight.
Beau Frere, in third place, acquitted
himself well, though he only narrowly
beat Kurrawid, who might have fared
better if not taken to the front so early.
Jymjon shaped fairly, but does not look
like improving upon the form that en-
abled him to win the Winter Plate at
Randwick.
* * ♦ »
Rimveil was unequal to conceding
High Rank 201 b. in the Doomben New-
market, but his second with 9st. may cause
him to be one of the popular Epsom
picks for the next couple of months. He
has 9.2, but over a number of years the
race has been such a good one for heavy-
weights that success may not be beyond
him. He has 2lb. over w.f.a., against
21b. below it when he ran second to Mil-
dura in the Doncaster, and his effort of
last week suggests he will make all the
improvement allowed by the w.f.a. scale.
As he will meet Gold Salute only a
pound worse in the Epsom than on
Saturday last he should again beat him,
though the mile may be more to the
liking of Cooper’s horse than six furlongs.
High Rank does not incur a penalty for
the Epsom, and, with 7.10, will meet
Rimveil on the same terms as last week.
He has a nice weight for a five-year-old,
and is at home on Randwick, having
won at that track at a mile. At £6OO he
has been a great purchase for T. Ahearn.
His ex-owner, J. Harris, did not appreci-
ate his good form in the Doomben race.
He backed Rimveil. Figures did not
appear to favor either Aurie’s Star or El
Golea, but the failure of both Radical
and Hydra to play a prominent part at
the finish upset my calculations. Radical
did, at least, show up for a portion of the
trip, but Hydra, after being nasty at
the post and getting away indifferently,
was never dangerous.
There must have been more in the stiff-
ness shown by Beaulivre at different times
since he resumed work at Randwick
a little while back than was supposed.
He did not shine in his track gallops in
Brisbane, and did even worse in the race.
Anyhow, after the way he shaped at
Rosehill recently one had to be an opti-
mist to give him much chance of success.
He displayed neither dash nor finishing
ability on the occasion referred to, and
it was evidently the same on Saturday.
If he runs in the Doomben Cup and
does not show marked improvement, it
will not greatly surprise if another spell
for him is decided upon in preference to
persevering with him for spring engage-
ments.
Buzalong’s 8.12 gives him an un-
deniable chance in the Doomben Cup,
provided his foot trouble is not as
serious as his owner believes. Just before
Buzalong left Sydney he was doing as
well as could be wished. High Rank’s
101 b. penalty takes him up to 8.3, and
though St. Andrew has 111 b. less than
when second in the Carnival Handicap,
the extra quarter-mile may trouble him.
Winnipeg, too, may be troubled by the
distance, but it will be the reverse with
Lord Valentine, who is sure to do better
than in last Saturday’s race. Abspear
and Speeder are the Queenslanders that
appeal most to me, and, if Buzalong is
beaten, it may be by one of those two.
*** ■ *
A great deal was expected of Katanga
in the spring and autumn of this season,
FOR FLEMINGTON.
G.N. STEEPLECHASE.
Cheery Jack .. .. .. 1
Highland March .. .. .. 2
Brightello or Bridge of Dee . . 3
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceplances .)
By “PILOT.”
Brush Hurdle Race; King Otho,
1 ; Tea Denis, 2 ; Rival Chief, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Mar-
theus, 1 ; Rodrigo, 2 ; Cape Amber,
3.
Juvenile Handicap: Mary Lou,
1; Lancambre, 2; Audax, 3.
Carlton Mile: Red Sails, 1 ;
Merrimba, 2; Calruin, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Kurrawid,
1 ; Autocrat, 2 ; Highborn, 3.
Flying Welter: Pastime, 1 ; My
Friend, 2 ; Our Barney or Jubilee, 3.


and though he did not fulfil expectations
it will not surprise if he is seen to much
greater advantage next spring. The
Metropolitan is a race that should suit
him. He has 8.2 against the 8.5 allotted
him last year, and he ran in the Mel-
bourne Cup with 8.7. He finished no-
where, but a week earlier was third with
8.7 to Gilltown (7.12) and Apostrophe
(7.11) in the Moonee Valley Cup. Fifth
with 8.2 in the Sydney Cup, his last run
was in City Tatt.’s Gold Cup, 11 fur-
longs, in which, with 8.9, he was three-
quarters of a length from the dead-
heaters Chatoona (7.11) and Proud Fox
(7.8). He will meet Chatoona 81b. and
Proud Fox 151 b. better, and is among
those with which an Epsom and Metro-
politan double may be worth ending.
* * * 9
It is early yet to write of Epsom possi-
bilities, but what a great chance Geebung
would have with 7.11 if he returned to his
form of 1939, when he won with
7.10. Nor is it impossible. He will be
only six next month, and Amounis, also
trained by F. McGrath, was of that age
when he won. King’s Head won at seven,
and Wolaroi, in the same ownership
as Geebung, scored at six. Last Septem-
ber Geebung won a seven furlongs
handicap with 7.10 at Randwick, but,
though he ran in the Epsom Handicap
with 8.2, he finished a long way back.
He has not since been a place-getter, and
is weighted accordingly. However,
though he has an impost he can handle,
it might be as well to wait and see how
he progresses in his preparation before
putting anything on him. Up to the
present he is doing well.
* * * «
For the past 13 years heavily-weighted
horses have an excellent record in the
Epsom Handicap. Amounis won with
9.7 in 1928, and those subsequently suc-
cessful with over 9st. were Nightmarch
9.4, Chatham 9.10, Silver Ring 9.6, Gold
Rod 9.3, King’s Head 9.4 and High
Caste 9.5. Chatham also won with 8.13
and Synagogue with 8.11. High Caste
has a pound more than he carried un-
successfully in the Doncaster against the
31b. improvement allowed by the w.f.a.
scale, but, good weight-carrier as he has
proved himself, he is likely to find 9.13
a load over the final furlong.
* * * *
Kindergarten is good, but, going upon
past results, he may need to be even
better than his Maoriland admirers believe
in order to win the Metropolitan with
9.10. The Barb and imported Rebus
each won with that weight, nearest them
being Abercorn with 9.7, while other
winners with 9.0 or over were Beau
Vite 9.4, Goldsbrough 9.2, Paris 9.2,
Mooltan 9.2, Malt King 9.1 and Speciality
9.0. During the past 20 years heavily-
weighted horses that ran second were
David 9.13 and 9.8, Nightmarch 9.12,
Pantheon 9.6 and Limerick 9.5.
“••••*
Beau Vite’s 9.4 last year is the most
with which a four-year-old has won,
though Nightmarch and Limerick (a
gelding) were that age when they ran
second. That they should have' gone so
close with their big weights indicates that
a win for Kindergarten is not actually an
impossibility, but the probabilities are
his owner will be content to restrict his
efforts in Sydney to w.f.a. events and
make the Caulfield Cup his first handicap
mission. Kindergarten reads much better
in that with 9.2 than in any of the other
spring handicaps. Last year Beaulivre
and Beau Vite were weighted at 9.0 for
the Caulfield Cup.
* * * *
It has been suggested that the question
of a Board of Control may again be
revived. It is to be hoped nothing of the
sort comes about. A.J.C. control does
not please everyone, but it is hard to
believe that a board which might be
subject to outside influences would be an
improvement. The A.J.C, does what it
regards as best for racing, and there-
fore differs from those clubs whose prin-
cipal interest in the game is its money-
making possibilities.
* * * *
The death took place in Sydney on
Sunday of A. B. Nagel, well known as a
Queensland pastoralist and for his
association with racing. “Bunny,” as he
was known to his intimates, was not
born with a silver spoon in his mouth,
and his progress in manhood was due to
his own enterprise and initiative. He
was a heavy bettor when the mood took
him, and at different times raced several
horses, these including Bright Laddie
and Dear Laddie in Sydney. Although
he bought some high-priced yearlings,
they did not give him the return his
pluck deserved. It was often said by
him that his best luck in connection with
yearlings was when he failed to buy
Dominant. He went to 6500gn5., and
was outbid by the syndicate that went
to 6750gns. for him. Charitable and
jovial, he will be greatly missed by a
large circle of friends.
* * * *
A Sydney bookmaker says a punter
has discovered a scheme of backing
jockeys mounts by which he can win
money. He says the punter has beaten
him, and, in his good-heartedness, he
(the bookmaker) has given details of the
system so that other punters can do like-
wise. Perhaps, but though nearly every
system possible has been tried in Eng-
land, many bookmakers in their adver-
tisements prior to the war used to
specially stress the fact that they catered
for system backers. Evidently experience
had taught them that it was a class of
business worth having. A little while ago
I saw advertised in an American racing
paper “Forty systems for $l,” and it is
probable that, at some time, the inventor
of each of those 40 thought it infallible.
Bookmakers are better stayers than
system backers.
* ♦ * *
The total attendance for the 34 days
raced at Randwick this season was
707,849, against 674,770 for 1939-40. The
tote turnover for the year was £1,226,786,
an average of about £1 13s. a person.
Sydney has a small population by com-
parison with New York, and attendance
figures for the two cities are interesting.
Belmont is New York’s principal track,
and its 39 days’ racing last year attracted
a total attendance of 459,719, However,
bookmakers are not licensed in New
York, and consequently Belmont’s tote
turnover greatly exceeded that of Rand-
wick. It was $24,821,285 (approximately
£A7,549,786), an average of about £l6
15s. a day each person. For the 178 days
raced at all New York tracks last year
the average was slightly over £l5.
* * * *
Not many two-year-olds have sired
anything that has developed into a useful
racehorse. Rusden, sire of Denita, is one
of the exceptions. He was by Heroic
from Gaelic Maid, and the Stud Book
shows that he was foaled in 1932 and
Denita in 1935. Rusden did a good deal
of racing as a three-year-old, and won
a few races, one being at Wyong,
* * ♦ ♦
Yaralla has won more races and more
prize-money at Randwick'this season than
any other two-year-old. Costing 1200gns.
as a yearling, he has scored four firsts and
a third at that track, and the “Racing
Calendar” gives his earnings as £5520.
In number of wins at headquarters
Skerries, a 575gns. yearling, is next with
three, and with the addition of a second
his earnings total £1135. All Love, who
cost 250gns., is next to Yaralla in Rand-
wick earnings, two wins and a second
having returned £3500, an amount greatly
increased by her Melbourne deeds. It’s
Funny, Astrid, Kingsdale and Prince are
other winners of two races at Randwick.
* * ♦ *
After Norse won the Duke of Glou-
cester Cup at the South Canterbury J.C.
(Maoriland) meeting he was disqualified
on the ground that his rider, Paul, did
not hold a gentleman rider’s license.
Norse’s owner appealed, and was suc-
cessful, the Canterbury district com-
mittee being of opinion that Paul was
granted an amateur’s license by the Rac-
ing Conference last April. The race is
for the cup presented by the Duke of
Gloucester when in Maoriland a few
years ago. There are certain conditions
attached to its being won outright, and
each year a miniature goes to the owner
of the winning horse. This year’s prize-
money for first was £lO5.
* * * *
The abandonment of the Wellington
R.C.’s (Maoriland) meeting is a nasty
knock for owners. The prize-money
for the 24 races to be run on the three
days was £lO,BOO. Loss of revenue to
the Government will also be heavy, being
estimated at £30,000. Abandonment of
the fixture, which was to have com-
menced yesterday, was due to the mili-
tary taking over the club’s buildings,
* * * *
There are several Maoriland horses en-
gaged in the spring handicaps in Sydney
and Melbourne, and backers who want
to get thoroughly in touch with their
form could not do better than subscribe
to “N.Z. Raceform,” published weekly
by Organ Bros., Ltd., of Manners-street,
Wellington.
* * * *
It is anticipated that after this month
there will not be more than 1600 horses
in training for flat-racing in England. In
1938 the prize-money under Jockey Club
Rules totalled £760,032, competed for
by 5143 horses. Last year there was a
drop to £135,121 on the flat, with 2246
runners. Yearlings of good appearance
and bred on first-class lines still sell
well in England. At Newmarket last
week a filly by Hyperion from that good
mare Quashed realised 2100gns.
* * * *
The “Thoroughbred Record” (Lexing-
ton) gives a fair idea of the money to be
won in America in important races re-
stricted to three-year-olds. It mentions
34 for this year —several have been
decided—with a total of $573,000 (about
£A172,325) to winners, and of all these
only one, the Belmont Stakes, is run at
a mile and a half. The longest distance
of any of the others is a mile and a
quarter, and there are only four in which
there are not penalties or allowances.
In the Santa Anita Derby, Kentucky
Derby, Preakness and Belmont Stakes all
colts run with 9st. It is possible that
some of Ajax’s progeny bred at St.
Aubin’s to Australian time will be
running in some of America’s big three-
year-old races in 1945. In view of prize-
winning possibilities it is not surprising
that the yearlings by leading sires make
very high prices at the Saratoga sales.
* * * *
While England is unlikely to
drop racing entirely during the war, the
desirability of considerable reduction was
debated in the House of Commons last
week. There is a possibility of meetings
being limited to one a week. The cable
does not say whether “the dogs” are still
carrying on. As the meat ration in Eng-
land is Is. 2d. a week for each adult,
meat cannot well enter greatly into grey-
hounds’ diet. At best, greyhound racing
is a useless sport. The most that can be
said in its favor is that it gives “something
to bet on.” If the sport should suddenly
die, the dogs cannot be turned to use,
whereas horses can. If the worst should
happen, horses can be used as food,
whereas dogflesh is something that would
not appeal to even the most meat-hungry
people.
* * * *
King George is unlucky though lucky
in having two two-year-olds of excep-
tional merit in Big Game and Sun
Chariot, both leased from the National
Stud. His bad luck lies in the fact that
prize-money is lower than in the past.
Sun Chariot, who has not been beaten,
won the Queen Mary Stakes last week,
and in the Coventry Stakes Big Game
scored his fourth successive win. The
Ascot Gold Cup, run at the same meet-
ing (held at Newmarket this year), was
won by Finis, a half-brother, by Camero-
nian, to Felstead,
M.Q. and Rafferty
If the decision on the lightweight title
contest between Tod Morgan and Vic
Patrick at Sydney Stadium last Thursday
night had been left to a vote of those
present Tod would have got it with a
majority of about 99 to 1. Stoush addicts
who had supported Vic in coin started
to fork their money out in the last round,
ready to kiss it good-bye. Despite the
fact that Vic at that stage was having
somewhat the better of things, backers
of the young chap thought that old Tod
then had a quite unassailable lead, and
would have to be outed to lose.
When Joe Wallis declared for Vic, the
crowd wanted to tear the place apart.
It’s a long stretch of years since there
has been anything like such a shindy.
Mr. Wallis subsequently explained that
in his view there had not been much be-
tween ’em, but that Vic had definitely
won, Tod having been penalised for hold-
ing imd hitting in the breakaway. No-
body—unless it was the new champ, and
his corner —could be found to agree with
Wallis. The bulk of the close observers
reckoned that Tod won by margins vary-
ing from the length of Pitt-street to
from here to Bourke.
It was a fierce encounter practically
throughout the 15 rounds. When they
met a few weeks back Tod fought like a
foredoomed loser, wading in and mixing
it, and he almost certainly would have
lost if Vic hadn’t done his block and
soaked Tod one while Tod was down.
This time Tod used his fine boxing skill
from the start. His recipe for beating
the southpaw apparently was to fight
him with his right, and he sent it out in
straight leads and in hooks that should
have built him up a Wide margin of points.
Moreover he used his right forearm
and elbow cleverly in body defence,
completely nullifying Vic’s best punch,
a lethal left jolted in under the right ribs.
In the fourth round Vic’s right eye was
slightly cut, but he squared that account
in the sixth, when he caught Tod high
in the dial with a smashing left hook.
It badly damaged both Tod’s optics, and
from here on the fight was grim and
gory. Vic’s eye damage was much
worsened in the eighth, but he had youth
on his side, and did not cut up so much
as Tod, in whose damaged optics the
wear and tear of some 20 years of stoush
showed out. Vic was in much better
trim at the finish. Perhaps he had studied
the ring history of Fred Henneberry, who
won more fights than enough by the heady
plan of seeming the better man over the
last few rounds.
* * * *
Fighting for the body and steadily
wearing Terry Reilly down by that
means, Ron McLaughlin looked like
winning at West Melbourne Stadium
last Wednesday night when he came
off second best in a heavy clash
of skulls in the ninth round. Terry’s
left glove closed Ron’s right peeper early
in the piece, but, if anything, that only
improved Ron’s fighting. Terry showed
just as game and tough, but when,
weakened by the body assault, he came
out of a head collision in the ninth with
his nose knocked somewhat astray and
his sense of whereabouts ditto, he looked
a sure goner. Almost immediately there
was another head clash, from which Ron
emerged with his left optic in even worse
shape than his right had been. He then
had to turn it in, and Terry had it on
a technical k.o. As usual when either of
these chaps is on the job, it was a ding-
dong fight.
Footbrawl
The Richmond-Footscray match at
Footscray got away to a flying start, the
locals putting in a burst that staggered
the Tigers. Ted Harris, Dyer and Baw-
den combined like champions and sent
Richmond to a 27-point lead. ’Scray,
five goals behind, made a desperate last-
quarter rally, but finished behind—l4.ll
to 12.13.
On its ground Collingwood suffered
a shock when “Sowth” fairly bolted out
of the barrier and slammed goals on ; the
’Woodsmen, for their part, were baffled
time after time on the Sowth back-line.
’Wood made a fight of it at the finish,
but went down 11.13-10.12.
At M.C.G. there was a bumping con-
test between Melbourne and Essendon,
and in the last quarter umpires were as
busy “warning” offenders as a trio of
kelpies trying to stop a Territory stam-
pede. Melbourne got 16.17, the ’Dons
9.11.
Carlton, at home to Geelong, almost
fainted as the weakest team in the League
flew, rucked and kicked its way ahead.
Only Schmidt’s three goals in as many
minutes and a last-quarter harvest of
behinds gave the Blues a win, 12.25 to
13.11.
Fitzroy-St. Kilda, played in a howling
gale, was the match of the day. There
was nothing between them from the
bounce, the Maroons’ pace and clever-
ness equalised by the Saints’ weight and
bustling. They kept it up right to the
bell, Fitzroy managing to get the winning
goal, 12.6-12.4.
At North Melbourne the locals leis-
urely drubbed Hawthorn, 13.20 to 6.14.
* * * *
In the Sydney Union Rugby competi-
tion University now shares the lead with
East. The Students had a runaway win
over Gordon—3 B-16, eight tries to three.
Drummoyne held East to a draw. In
the early part of the game East was too
speedy, but the Reds got up in time to
even things at 13 all, and notched three
tries to two.
West and Parramatta drew also, 9 all.
It was West’s fourth drawn game ; and
the side has still to win. Manly headed
North by one point, 13-12, after the
Northerners had a 12-w7 lead at half-
time. Towers, the Union’s Peter Pan,
can still turn a trick or two. From his
centre position he opened up the three
tries that gave Randwick a 14-6 win over
St. George.
* * * *
The Chinese Soccer players couldn’t
stand the pace in the second match
against “Australia” on Sydney C.G.
They led 2-1 at half-time, but failed to
add to their score, whereas the
Australians notched three more goals—
4-2. The form was only so-so.
Miscellaneous
S,A. has two good sportsmen in the
casualty lists. Graham Williams (missing)
was an all-round cricketer who was a
bit unlucky not to get into the Australian
XI of 1938. Jack Wade (killed) was a
fine footballer for Port Adelaide about
1927, and for South Melbourne later.
* * * *
“G.R.”: Hutton, the young Tasmanian
who won the Stawell Gift last Easter
and was later rubbed out for a year by
the Bendigo stewards, is to join the
R.A.A.F. His appeal to the V.A.L. was
dismissed, but the Bendigo committee
will ask that the disqualification be lifted
in view of the young man’s joining up.
* * * *
Golf clubs trying to save paper by
collecting used cards and erasing scores
therefrom to make the cards good again
might take a hint from the Chatswood
(Sydney) club. It has halved the size of
the card and prints the score on both
sides, omitting the usual list of local
rules, which few people ever consult.
Where a bridge, ornamental tree or other
factor makes a local rule necessary it
should be easy to stick up a painted sign.


WOMEN’S LETTERS
From Sydney
Lady Gowrie, who was stricken last
week with appendicitis and had to under-
go an operation, is now on the road to
recovery, to the joy of the many friends
her smile and pleasant ways have made
for her in Australia. One of the func-
tions which had to be postponed owing
to her illness was the Sydney Junior
Chamber of Commerce concert of
chamber music. This was to have been
set in Admiralty House on July 28.
However, by Lady Gowrie’s wish, this
will take place on a later date. The
concert will help the Y.W.C.A, Services
Appeal.
Two hundred and thirty guineas in one
sweep were gleaned for the Free French
Funds by the dance at Prince’s. In less
than 10 days Mrs. Bertie Kelly and her
committee whipped up the nonsense and
served it with an unusual topdressing of
French millinery. A French menu in-
cited appetite by naming dishes after
famed F.F. Generals—the soup honored
Catroux ; the piece de resistance was, of
course, De Gaulle. There was an under-
tone of sadness in the music of “The
Last Time I Saw Paris,” no matter how
lithe the steps of the dancers.
If Mrs. Bertie Kelly hadn’t been the
organiser she’d have won the prize for
the most pictorial headdress. Hers was
the white lace, wide and sweeping back
over the two-peaked cap, affected by
Johanna of Navarre. Her daughter, Mrs.
John MacPhillamy, might have stepped
direct from Froissart with her face-fitting
headgear and its shoulder drapes. She
was Matilda of Bayeux tapestry fame.
She and Mrs. Dick Allen literally did it
on their heads when they carried off
the prizes. Mrs, Dick Allen’s topknot
was the funny little straw hat complete
with green fly veil as worn by Paris
cab horses.
Mrs. Yenour Nathan’s “poulet en cas-
serole,” a hen cosily ensconced in an up-
turned straw concoction, raised a laugh.
Bertie Kelly’s Napoleon was complete with
muffler, as though feeling the chill of
the retreat from Moscow ; Mrs. Andre
Brenac was Marie de Medici; husband
hid behind a great grey beard as
Henry IV. Dr. Sussman as Louis
Pasteur, F. Jansen’s Man in the Iron
Mask, Deirdre Dalton in plumes, Mrs.
C. L. Jones looking like a Morris decora-
tion to Aucassin and Nicolette, Mrs. R.
Fagan and Mrs. Woods (accompanied by
a satin-soft fur coat), Ruby and Anne
Adams were among those who attracted
the gaze.
The shades of Diamond Jim Brady
and the pretty creature with tassels on
her boots would have been quite at home
in the Trocadero last Thursday. Here
to celebrate the dawn of the “Glorious
Fourth,” 900 Americans in our midst went
all carnival. Turkeys were in two senses
“on the spot.” One enormous gobbler
surmounted a hamper that had the dis-
tinction of being the only raffle of the
night. Why meander around gathering
in the sixpennybit when a chocolate
wheel in the middle of the floor brings
in the coin at the rate of millions a
minute? So far as is known, none of
the gay ’nineties beaux did fasten his
waistcoat with real diamonds, but they
had spent a fortune on their luxuriant
moustaches. Chick Bouvet’s side levers
were worth a stroll down the street of
the “Naughty ’Nineties.” This was set
with little stalls with striped awnings.
The midnight blackout was followed by
a spotlight playing on the Stars and
Stripes, then on the Union Jack and
lastly on our own starry emblem. These
were served with stirring national airs.
Red Cross and Lord Mayor’s Fund
benefit.
Art is what you make it:
The girl with a spanner welcomes the visitor
to the Sixteenth Contemporary Group Exhi-
bition. For some she will have allure, but
to others she looks what Lemmy Caution might
call a tough baby. There was altogether some-
thing rousing about this show, which was opened
by Dorothy Helmrich. Thea Proctor, whose
flower pieces wear well, was a notable. Elaine
Haxton, as vital as her “Pablo and Chico”
just bought by the Gallery, was an attractive
figure under her wide currant-red sailor with
its dangling ribbon. Lesbia Thorpe and Mary
Webb were young artists doing the rounds.
Lesbia had a dash of primrose showing with
her grey suit. She told of her murals for the
Independents’ theatre in North Sydney. Enid
Cambridge, whose “House Paddock” and “The
Willow” were much admired, was among the
greeted. Lute Drummond and Mrs. A. T.
Anderson, who showed a “Canberra Land-
scape,” were among the seen. Elma Roach’s
“Autumn” will end its days in the National
Gallery.
Mrs. Brenda Pottie, of Hunter’s Hill
and Kurraba, is doing her share to help
win this war. She has four sons —all
pupils of Scots College—now in the
fighting forces - her son-in-law, Stirling
Murray Prior, is somewhere in the front
line. Her sister, Nell Swann, was away
with a nursing unit in the last war. Mrs.
Pottie is a foundation and a very active
member of the Women’s Auxiliary of the
Legacy Club.
Harry Tighe, completely surrounded
by the beauties of the Court of Louis
XIV, took the applause due to the author
after the final curtain of “Intrigue.” This
had its first night at the Conservatorium
last Friday. It was set with a back-
ground of black velvet curtains against
which the few pieces of period furniture,
the panniered brocades of the ladies, the
skirted coats and satin breeches of the
courtiers stood out in relief. “Intrigue”
centred around Louise de la Valltere. It
was presented by the Phoenix Players;
and in the audience were many of Harry’s
friends, including Oswald Cheeke, who
made one of his now rare entries to
Sydney’s night life to applaud. Director
of the National Gallery Will Ashton and
his wife, leading spirits of the British
Drama League, Miss Jobson, of Hope-
wood House, and most of the smart in
wit and smart in dress were to be seen.
The longing for news from home, the
comforting reassurance that they still
retain their old place isi the affections of
their own folk, is shared by all Austra-
lian soldiers overseas, according to Lt.-
Colonel R. S. Goward. The Chief Com-
missioner of the Australian Comforts
Fund, back after 18 months with the
A.1.F., was entertained by Sydney’s
Mayor and Mayoress last Wednesday
afternoon. Cigarettes and tobacco and
stockings rather than socks are, Colonel
Goward declares, the most sought of
comforts. You can let the boy you love
know you remember him always and
have some extra comforts sent to him by
coming to the card party on July 15
organised by the Society of Women
Writers.
Another art show:
Late one afternoon last week Mrs. Esmond
Lillies, a Melbournite whose father was Vic-
toria’s Premier Stanley Argyle, uncorked sherry
and samples of the works of Feliks Topolski,
official Polish war artist in London. Proceeds
went to aid the Polish Women’s Relief Fund. The
demure little Grosvenor Galleries took on quite a
martial note from the great Polish eagle outspread
on the flag that draped the mantelshelf above
which Churchill in regular bulldog mood stares
down all-comers. This is a striking print and
is sold at two guineas, and even on the open-
ing day was thickly crusted with red seals.
The Consul-General for Poland made a stirring
speech. Young Polish girls in their brightly
embroidered national dress, on their heads
wreaths of flowers tied with gay ribbons,
handed around the sherry and the catalogues.
This is Daphne Lowe, sparkling-voiced
and homergrown leading lady of “Rio
Rita,” the current Theatre Royal show.
Mrs. J. G. Grace and Mrs. Muirhead-
Gouid, as becomes the wives of our sea-
lords, are keen workers for the King
George Fund for Sailors. This fund
benefits the Merchant Navy, the Royal
Navy and the Royal Australian Navy.
Mrs. Grace and Mrs. Muirhead-Gould
will be running a Children’s Clothes and
Toy Shop from August 20 to 22 in Deric
Deane’s showrooms in Castlereagh-street
to enrich the treasury. Donations of
clothes and toys for children up to six
will be welcomed.
“Gilrooney” R. J, Cassidy tells with
pride that his poem “The Road to
Jugiong” (set to music by J. A. Steele)
was adopted by Billy Sheahan, now
M.L.A. for Yass, as his campaign song.
Jugiong is a small, picturesque old town-
ship by the Murrumbidgee on the main
Sydney-Melbourne road, and was made
historical by the bushrangers and the
teamsters of the early pioneering days.
The song was sung lustily by Mr.
Sheahan’s supporters at all his meetings.
Incidentally, the new member estimates
that he has about 500 relations in the
electorate.
From Melbourne
With several speeches, pre-emptive
donations worth £468 and a good-luck
wire from Harold Holt, the big boy of
the Child Endowment Scheme, the Baby
Health Centres’ Appeal for £5OOO was de-
clared launched. Dr. Kate Campbell’s
address was instructive. One of her state-
ments was that here good nursing must
take the place of expensive equipment,
such as is used in American clinics. Re-
sults compare satisfactorily. Dr. Doris
Officer also spoke, and “Lady B.” said
that she and Sir Walter Leitch are donat-
ing silver cups to the Baby Centres which
raise the most money pro rata; also that
if centres, groups and individuals will
aim at £25 apiece the appeal will be
no burden for the community. If, as is
hoped, the two generations of mothers
who have received gratis advice about
their offspring during the last 24 years
rise to the occasion, and if Mr. Holt’s
beneficiaries lend a hand, the future
will be assured for Baby Health, with
its subsidiaries of Mothercraft Home
and Training School and travelling
country caravan.
A second-hand clothes shop for Navy
House and Air Force House ran in
Buckley’s annexe for the day and a half
it took to exhaust stocks. The idea blew
over from Sydney, and, though the Mel-
bourne stunt didn’t cause the excitement
of its progenitor, it achieved two police-
men and £5OO. The cops stood like Rocks
of Gibraltar while women swirled around
them buying indiscriminately, whether
things fitted or not. Very mixed were
the goods, some generous gifts, others
dumped with alacrity, for the “bag-
women” give nothing for evening apparel,
useless also to the charitable organisa-
tions. Some things were bargains, but
the words “imported model” went to
weak heads like wine, though with reversal
over vintages—for the early ’thirties and
the year of the coronation were present.
Hats disappeared like lightning—among
them were genuine gifts—and shoes were
fought for furiously. There were “adjust-
ments” over prices and “meetings” half-
way, and a few shrewd saleswomen
divulged confidences about the things
they had bought for themselves to pro-
spective buyers squeamish about cast-
offs or about being seen in someone else’s
garments. Among Navy House helpers
in navy uniform and sailor-boy collar
was Lady Colvin, a sense of humor
uppermost as always. In Air Force House
blue were Mrs. Jim Fairbaim, Fay Stod-
dart, Pen Stead, Julie Griggs and a score
more of girls who do canteen or house-
maids’ jobs at A.F.H.
A good job has been done in a year
by the Camp Foster Mothers, who cele-
brated their first annual meeting with
the addition of a birthday cake and one
candle. The F.Ms., who have warm
hearts and bright ideas, are all married
women who live in or around Caulfield.
Their activities are centred in weekly
meetings, where they knit and sew for
the troops and run threepenny raffles,
through which and other modest collec-
tions £462 19s. was raised during the last
12 months for wool and comforts. An
SOS was sent out during the summer
from one of the camps for water-bottles.
Grateful letters testify to the quick re-
sponse it brought. The F.Ms. look to
the general well-being of the troops
before they leave for abroad.
The meeting was held at the home of
the president, Mrs. Wilkie Young ; other
members as a gesture of appreciation sent
along the flowers so hard to come by at
this time of year. As the Foster Mothers
do most of their distributing through
camp padres, they invited from Dariey
two confreres of several months’ stand-
ing, Padres Macpherson and Martin. Both
came along, and Padre Mac, who is defi-
nitely “one of the boys,” spoke with a
happy medium of sympathy and wit.
Hon. sec. Mrs. J. B. Cordner, asked to
move a vote of thanks, stood up in some
trepidation, but once she got going the
audience found it had yet another orator
on its hands.
Five nights and packed houses in the
Union Theatre was the allotment of “Red
Hot and Blue,” the University Students’
annual revue. The show moved brightly,
the ballet was snappy ; the orchestra of
18 was conducted by James Wastell,
flushed with excitement and earnest en-
deavor, Leading comedienne was Joy
Youlden, well established as such, and
useful help was forthcoming from Tom
Ready and Beryl Wilson (who is special-
ising in music and education, and who
this year is president of the C.M.U.W.),
Joy, Beryl and Niall Brennan produced
a lot of fun with a crazy mix-up of “Mac-
beth” and “Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
Joy, dressed as Lady Macbeth, plus
candle, evolved a Puck’s dance that was
a riot. “The Price” (melodrama), with
Josephine Fillipini of the fuzzy mop of
hair as the woman-who-risked-all, brought
forth boos and hisses for the villain from
the audience of students. Gwenda Wil-
son, like to the infant in the fairytale
who had been endowed at her christen-
ing by gifts from imaginative good fairies,
was appreciated alike in songs and
sketches. Dorothy Waight played her
violin faster and faster for the ballet in
a gipsy dance. Keith Mackartney did
some Noel Coward. Bill Serpell was a
handy man beforehand (inventing
sketches), on the stage and behind the
scenes. Another steady (he was on the
box-office each night) was Bill Magennis,
who, a law student himself, issued with
the help of Merna Norris and Betty Barry
writs in correct legal parlance from
“Messrs. Take and Keepal” for the Law
Students’ Diversion in the High Court
of Revelry (in this case, Tudor Court)
for last Friday “between the hours of
nine o’clock in the afternoon and two
o’clock in the forenoon.”
Inset from Spencer Shier is Iris Tie,
who took up a musical career by acci-
dent soon after she left school. She does
solo and two-piano work, but she has
found it wise to specialise, and her real
job today is the orchestrating of instru-
mental scores for the A.B.C. Here, in
addition to her knowledge of theory, her
experience in bands is useful. A few
years ago she conducted and was pianist
for several dance bands in N.S.W. and
Tasmania. In the halcyon days she
spent a year cruising among tropical isles
aboard the Strath ships as pianist. She
can demonstrate her versatility by turn-
ing with facility from lighter music to
the old masters ; hopes to do more study
among the moderns with unpronounce-
able names.
Once again the American Ball packed
the Palais and ran till the small hours
of the morn with everybody in fine fettle.
The old-established Trip-to-Honolulu
raffle is now a Trip-to-Buffalo; the
famous dip didn’t happen (the committee
felt it couldn’t face up to asking for
more donations), and the decorations
were simplified but nevertheless effec-
tive, with bowls of red, white and blue
flowers upon the pillars and symbolical
primary products on the tables. In
colored cartons were apples (with tactful
notes inserted that they were not part of
the supper but as decorations which
would be sent to the Children’s Hospital
in the morning), ears of wheat and oats
and miniature bales of wool labelled
“Merino. Australia to U.S.A., 1941."’
The auxiliary tackled the work of making
these 800 bags and packing them with
donated wool at Mrs. Charles Hartman’s
—a Gargantuan job they hoped could
be finished in one session.
Organisers of the ball were Mrs. Jim
Clymer and Mrs. Jud Holt. Mrs. Juddie
and Mrs. J. L. Normoyle, coming face
to face on the way to the liquid refresh-
ments, remembered that they had met
just once before at last year’s American
Ball, so they duly celebrated and made
a date for next year, same time and place.
Right on the job with the responsibility
of cashboxes en route to Mrs. S. J.
Prytz’s sanctum was Mrs. Earl Moser,
only one of the many American women
who never thought of going near the
dance floor or of supper beyond a cup
of coffee. Among novelties were a lucky
wheel for turkeys and hams, sales of
small lapel pins of gilded flags and the
wheeling from table to table of a Chil-
dren's Hospital cot complete with doll
patient. Donations dropped upon the
quilt were plentiful.


Solve Your Own Producer Gas Problems
PRODUCER
GAS COURSE
• HOW TO BURN OWN CHARCOAL
• MANUFACTURE OP UNITS
• CONVERSION OP PLANT
O MAINTENANCE
Progressive farmers, graziers and garage men are
not waiting for someone else to solve their
producer gas problems. They are learning to
solve them themselves through the Kingsford
Smith College course in Producer Gas. This
course shows you how to manufacture your
own unit, how to convert your engine from
petrol, how to maintain your plant and how-
to burn your own charcoal. It is a practical
course for practical men. Everything is made
clear by simple, easily followed diagrams and
instruction sheets. In addition, the course in-
cludes coaching by Producer Gas experts to
suit your individual requirements. Necessary
parts for conversion can be supplied. The
efficiency of Producer Gas has been proved
beyond all question. But if you are to take
advantage of it this season, you must start your
course now. This is an intensive short-term
course. No big outlay of cash entailed
SEND THE COUPON FOR DETAILS NOW
KINGSFOUD SMITH COLLEGES,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Please send me particulars of your Producer Gas
Course.
Name
Address
B. 9/7/’4l
SADDLER
MADE
HORSE
RUGS
WITH
“STAYS-ON”
FITTINGS.
(Ulus. Eight.)
With Hind-leg
Strap Fittings, 3/C
less per rug.
7*
Heavy Khaki Waterproof British
Duck, fleecy check lined.
sft. 6in 46/6
sft. 9in 47/9
6ft 49/-
* *
Very Heavy Imperial White Duck,
fleecy check lined.
sft. 6in 43/6
sft. 9in 45/-
6ft 46/6
Postage 2/9 per rug in N.S.W.
VALTHER i STEVEMSOH ETJ:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDHEY J
Would to® O"
* to Expel'®'” l ,«"k
Youl Business? . • ■
♦ oil likely that any sane
fT is not a a course.
1 person won a P , c f your
WWy ,h T,hto VfficuUies, aggravat'd
Estate, with its . or relatlV e
by your doath, o th e duties?
quit e unfitted to carry
In rX" inevitable,
irreparable) Unio „ Trustee
On the other hand Th an d
Company » 7 undertake such
specially organ.sed»J sandovcrhalf
w °rk. Us amp experience m
a “” tUry u manner of Estates guarantee
handling all Consu ltation invited.
efficiency.
lith Established Offices in Three States
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
14-16 DENHAM STREET, TOWNSVILLE
MARGARET STREET, TOOWOOMBA
NORTH OF TWENTY . EIGHT
The Consumer Pays
“Tarny”: Queensland rail freight-rates
and fares are to go up 5 p.c. “because
of the Commonwealth payroll tax and
the State basic-wage increase.”
Yet the railways have had a great year.
Petrol rationing, restricted coastal ship-
ping, a goo 4 agricultural season and in-
creased carriage of war materials com-
bined to establish a revenue record.
Transport Minister Larcombe pleads that
the additional revenue will be absorbed
by the wage increase and the payroll
tax alone, leaving higher costs of coal
and other material still to be met.
The 5 p.c. rise, of course, will be
passed on to consumers. Wholesalers
and retailers are preparing a case for the
Prices Commissioner. It would be in-
teresting to know whether the P.C. has
any authority over Government utilities
or whether a transport czar can raise
the price of a commodity like transport
at his own sweet will. Meantime the
local A.R.U. secretary points out that
in 1938 there was a rise of p.c. in
freights and fares, put on to cover the
cost of national insurance. National in-
surance didn’t arrive. The 51 p.c. rise
stayed.
“Fi. fa.”: An award by the Brisbane
Industrial Magistrate certainly removes
“fleabite” from the list of synonyms for
trifling injuries or negligible outlay. A
City Council ratcatcher, aged 61, was
bitten by a rat which he had caught in
the course of his lawful official duties.
He developed murine typhus and died of
it. Scientific evidence showed that the
disease had been transmitted from an
infected rat by the bite of a particular
species of flea which feeds usually on the
blood of rats and mice, but occasionally
bites human beings. Thirty-three cases
have occurred in Brisbane in four years,
but this was the first fatal one. In a
reserved judgment the magistrate granted
the widow £750 in workers’ compensa-
tion.
* * *
Like Mr. Evatt, his opposite number
in Sydney, Queensland Education Minis-
ter Bruce believes that history teaching
in State schools should be reformed —
“memorisation of dates of reigns of kings
and battles of the past should give way
to study of social movements.” A study
of the history of State Parliaments in
Australia would also be of undoubted
benefit to the rising generation.
* * * *
“23-4”: Arriving in Brisbane all puffed
up with the notice accorded them in the
flapper press down south, two strange
birds from the N.S.W. town of Lithgow
announced that one intended to push a
pram containing the other from Brisbane
to Lithgow in aid of war funds. Lud
Mayor Chandler coldly remarked that
he would have nothing to do with such
a “stunt,” and the secretary of the Lord
Mayor’s Patriotic Fund announced
that his committee was “not interested.”
The pair retorted that they were going
on with the “stunt” anyway, and were
finally adopted by somebody at South-
port. Queenslanders generally are not
.. ...Then I just pointed it at me ‘ usband an' said ‘ Bang! Bang!' ”
enamored of these Yankee tricks, and
the pram-pusher and his passenger would
have done better to try their idea in
Sydney, a city much given to such things
as cheer-leading mayors, people who
publicly chew curry and play billiards on
public roads. It is being suggested that,
since the two gentlemen appear to have
plenty of time and money to waste on
weird ideas, they could be doing some-
thing more than pushing each other
about in prams.
* * * t-
“Norther”: Annual report of the Bris
bane Timber Merchants notes that for
the 10 months to 30/4/’4l output of
softwoods from Queensland Crown lands
rose by 8,550,000 ft. to 120,618,000 ft.
Because of restriction on imports a big
demand has set in from the south.
Whether Commonwealth building regu-
lations will stop the consumption remains
to be seen, but somebody ought to be
concerning himself with the question
of whether serious attempts are being
made at reafforestation. The State won’t
stand that rate of output long.
:J: # *
The death, at 93, of William Cash, of
Eumundi, has removed one of the few
remaining links with Queensland’s really
early days. Born at Cash’s Crossing on
the Pine River, William was a son of
that famous Mrs. Cash whose predilection
for a clay pipe and Barrett’s twist gained
for the crossing its abo. name of White
Mary Smoke. At 17 he was helping to
haul cedar from the Blackall Range for
shipment from Caloundra to Brisbane
by the paddle-steamers Calgoa and
Gneering, and in the ’seventies he
cleared the site of the present pros-
perous town of Nambour. A spear
scar on a leg dated from a scrap with a
party of warrigal abos. who tried to
rush the timber camp at Doonan ; all the
same he had a sincere regard for Brother
Binghi.
* * * ♦
“Jack Point”: “The Mobile Recruiting
Unit secured nine recruits at Gayndah.
One man was the only son and sole sup-
port of a widowed mother, and there were
cheers when it was announced that she
had given her consent.” Thus ran the
wireless report. I thought my crook ear
might have been nearest the set, and
that the word “cheers” should have been
“tears” —but no, there was A
the paper. And now you can take
your pick of cheers, tears, jeers, bcwis,
leers, fears, or hear-hears for the state-
ment that “we are committed to the
voluntary system.”
* * * *
The Mandate got one of its rare notices
in distant Canberra when Ward
(Lab., N.S.W.) —“Eddie” to the boys—
attacked McDonald, the new Minis-
ter for External Territories, and Adminis-
trator McNicol over the Government’s
alleged failure to end a strike on the N.G.
goldfields. When the Minister tried to
explain, Ward shouted, not “Go and
get work,” as he did when McDonald
was a private member, but “You don’t
know what you are talking about! ”
From Eddie’s wide knowledge of the
Mandate it must be assumed that Eddie
does.
% * % %
“Balander”: In the heat-wave of
January and February, 1940, Queensland
poultrymen lost £ 10,000-worth of stock.
Seeking some means of avoiding a repe-
tition, scientists held
a test of the re-
reactions of birds
and animals under
similar conditions.
They were put in a
room heated to 106
degrees F. and a
relative humidity of
33 p.c. and left there
under observation
for some hours, their
temperatures, pulses
and respirations re-
corded. The sheep
came out with flying
colors. Australorps
wilted, Leghorns
held out better,
though with gaping
beaks and extended
wings, a pig was
prostrate and a
rabbit distressed.
Only the sheep
chewed its cud and
reflected on the mys-
terious doings of the
human. Nobody seems to be quite sure
what the experiment indicated, but it
seems clear that the jumbuck, the' least
pampered of any domestic animal, doesn’t
give a darn about the heat as long as
there is water and a bit of tucker about
—a fact that the scientists could have
learned from any western boundary-
rider.


THE SERVICE MAN
A Really "Total" War.
“Ek Dum”: Two pictures are avail-
able of the Russo-German war. One is
provided by perennial optimists, who
seem to believe that a Russian victory is
round the corner and that Germans are
being hammered to bits all along the
line. The other picture is provided by
the German and Russian High Com-
mands and their propagandists. It deals
in astronomical figures, acceptance or
denial of which depends on the taste or
fancy of the reader.
The only indisputable facts are those
of geography. At the end of one week
of fighting, the furthest which any Ger-
man force had penetrated was in the
drive from Warsaw to beyond Minsk-
-370 miles or so, as the crow flies, from
where it started. A beginning was being
made to use the deepest point of pene-
tration as a pivot to force the Russian
armies to the south to retreat or to be
caught against the Pripet marshes.
To the north, various columns were
ripping across the Baltic States. They
were forming line by the pivot point on
the Beresina, the first step having been the
securing of Dvinsk (Daugavpils), After
Vilna had been taken, each section north-
ward had gradually been coming into
place, like the joints in a fishing-rod, pre-
paratory to a cast towards Leningrad.
The campaign south of the Pripet
marshes, in Galicia and Rumania, was
being treated almost as a separate war,
which could be merged into the northern
war by a linking up of forces and the
formation of a pincer movement at the
right time, after the Pripet marshes had
fallen to the rear of each advance.
It was obvious from the beginning
that the vast differences of terrain and
weather and variations in the nature and
quality of the troops would make for an
uneven progress as between the north
and south front.
The Ukraine front has the more com-
prehensive approaches from the Russian
point of view. Material resources and
railway communications are more exten-
sive on the Russian side of the border.
The Germans have numerous difficulties
to contend with there, including many
rivers, the Carpathians, and, like the Rus-
sians, a variation in the quality of their
troops. On that front their men are
brigaded with Rumanians, Hungarians
and others, instead of being all Germans,
as in the north. And it seems from an
Italian newspaper report that some of
the Rumanians are disaffected.
After the first week it was certain
everywhere that the Russian soldiers
were fighting stoutly, but it was far from
being as certain or nearly as certain that
their High Command was as good as the
men.
“Authorities” and “experts” sought to
establish the impression that the Ger-
mans had not immediately advanced
beyond the Beresina at mid-week because
they could not do so —because their
momentum was spent. Unfortunately,
the boot might have been on the other
foot. The German High Command
might have timed the advance to die
out behind the screen of river systems
thereabouts —Beresina and Dnieper—so
that, while holding bridgeheads to check
a recrossing by the Russians, it could
wind up its armies for another 400-mile
jump which would land it beyond
Moscow.
But that jump could not be made
while the Baltic coast was in the hands
of or open to the Russians. All Russian-
held Baltic ports had to be lapped up or
to be within sight of lapping up before
the spearhead moved again. Also, if the
German report was true, there were
500.000 Russians in the Bialystok area
between Warsaw and the Baranovici
Gap, surrounded but not conquered.
These naturally had to be cleaned up.
Had they been left and the Russians of the
south been able to beat off the vast Ger-
man tank attacks in Galicia, the southern
part of the German enveloping force
might have found itself in a vice, and the
whole German communication line with
the Minsk pivot-spearhead threatened.
The second main communiques were
issued on July 2, 10 days after the out-
break of the war.
The Germans claimed that they had,
during Tuesday (July 1), finally destroyed
a large part of the Soviet army sur-
rounded east of Bialystok, capturing
100.000 prisoners, 400 tanks and 300
guns. They declared that in the south,
having pushed 40 miles east of Lwow —
which meant an advance of 70 miles in
less than two days—they had destroyed
100 tanks, and that south of Lwow they
had exterminated the reserve rear divi-
sions of Russian tanks. But fighting was
still going on in the central area in and
around Brest-Litovsk.
In the north, Finns and Germans were
declared to have crossed the Russian
border, while Finnish reports spoke of
the cutting off of the Kola Peninsula and
all the Russians in it and Murmansk.
In Latvia, Ventspils, flanking the main
sea route down the Baltic and a main
and busy railhead linked with Riga, was
said to be in German hands.
The Russian communique admitted
the abandonment of Lwow (Lemberg). It
declared that fighting was being carried
on round Murmansk, Dvinsk, Minsk and
Luck in Poland and that a German-Fin-
nish offensive had been launched towards
the Kola Peninsula at the Arctic end of
the battleline. The Red Army, however,
had destroyed advanced German tank
units and was developing a battle on the
Minsk-Dvinsk line, where the Red Air
Force —despite bad weather —was inflict-
ing heavy slaughter, besides destroying
motorised columns, fuel transports and
grounded ’planes. On June 30 and July
1 156 German ’planes had been shot
down against 78 Russians. And a group
of “enemy diversionists,” wearing Red
Army uniforms and attempting to cap-
ture Hango —which was part of the spoils
of the Russo-Finnish war—had been
liquidated.
The news about the abandonment of
Lwow was afterwards cancelled and sub-
stituted with a statement that the battle
for the city was continuing.
Next day Stalin himself broadcast over
all Russian stations:
The German aggressor attacked us, and
the attack of the enemy on our fatherland
is proceeding, notwithstanding our strong
resistance and the fact that the best German
soldiers have been annihilated... .The
enemy has succeeded in taking Lithuania,
the greater part of Latvia and parts of
White Russia and the Ukraine.' His
airmen have bombed Murmansk, Orsa,
Mohilov, Smolensk, Kiev, Odessa and
Sevastopol. Our fatherland is in grave
peril.
But, he said, the German Fascists had
not met strong resistance in Europe until
now. They would be destroyed as
Napoleon’s army was. He promised to
beat his late ally by a thorough policy of
mobilising every resource, and by a syste-
matic retreat behind country treated to
what the phrasemongers have christened
a “scorched-earth policy.”
Writing boys seem to be apparently
under the impression that this was what
the Russians did to Napoleon. It was
not. And the plan, though heroic, is
difficult of accomplishment except in a
very slow and well-controlled retreat.
The country within 150 miles of the
Russian border proper alone contains
Leningrad (population, 3,100,000), Kiev
(842.000) Odessa (604,000), Minsk
(180.000) Vitebsk (127,000) and several
other big cities, and in all a population of
about 20,000,000, In front of a line 450
miles from Archangel to the Arctic
through Moscow to Taganrog on the
Black Sea, there are at least 70,000,000
people, of whom 32,000,000 are packed
into the busy Ukraine, twice the size of
Victoria.
The very mechanical acts necessary to
a “scorched-earth” policy would take a
long time, but even if it were successfully
carried out several results must follow.
The civil population must be left among
the ruins to perish of starvation or be
rolled under by the Panzers, the Red
Army passing through its fleeing hordes,
which would have little chance of negoti-
ating rivers or moving fast enough to
escape. Even if the inhabitants were got
safely behind the Red Army, every mile
of ruin would involve more of the arma-
ment centres and more of the granary
of Russia.
Take away the Ukraine and Moscow,
and the main sources of supply for the
Red Army are gone, the main grain
centres which keep European Russia alive
are wiped out. The only result could be
famine and carnage such as the world has
never seen and which even the Germans
could not prevent if they wanted to.
Take away Leningrad and Kronstad, and
the northern half of the Russian Navy
is homeless. Take Murmansk, and
Russia is isolated by sea, save by grace
of the Japanese Navy.
The only salvation possible for Russia
is to stop the German advance within
the next 100 miles or so and hold it till
winter. That the Russian soldier
obviously realises.
At the week-end, according to Swedish
reports, Murmansk, taken by. the Ger-
mans and Finns, had been recaptured by
the Russians, who themselves declared
that in that area they were fighting only
against isolated enemy units.
In the Baltic sector at the end of the
previous week the Germans had just
taken Daugavpils and were on the point
of taking Riga. On Saturday, the
Russians were counter-attacking fiercely
at Ostrov, 170 miles further east and 45
miles or so south of Pskov, which is the
key rail junction to Leningrad’s southern
military approach. Further south they
were taking the offensive on the Dvinsk.
The capture of Pskov would mean the
end of Russia in the Baltic States for
the time being. Any forces left in them
would be in a state of siege.
In the Minsk area the German tank
spearhead had widened from a mere tank
division front to a line 200 miles long,
from Lepel to Bobruisk, along the Bere-
sina. Though the Germans claimed to
have reached the Dnieper further on in
spots, the Russians declared that the
enemy had not been able to cross the
Beresina, and had lost heavily in the
south between Bobruisk and Borisov,
both in mechanised transport and in men,
many of whom had perished in the rivers
which they were seeking to cross. A
heavy battle was in progress on the
Beresina on Sunday.
In the Luck sector, north of Lwow, the
Germans had progressed more than 100
miles in the week. They were at Nov-
gorod-Volynsk, just across the Ukraine
border and 134 miles west of Kiev, The
Russians claim to have checked the enemy
movement eastward from here in a
bloody battle on Friday night. On Sun-
day the opposing forces were still swaying
backward and forward there. Still a
bit further north the Germans claimed
to have beaten back and scattered the
Russians south of the Pripet. In
Rumania a vigorous battle was going on
for the Prut bridgeheads.
Both sides saddle their opponents with
vast casualties. The Germans claim
300.000 prisoners. They declare that,
about Minsk, 20,000 Russians “shot their
commissars” and came over to them, and
were followed a couple of days later by
52.000 others. The Russians speak of
700.000 Germans killed.
This week may be crucial. In it the
Russian forces must bring the German
drive down to a walking pace or run
a risk of disaster. They seem to
realise it and to be putting up a desperate
defence, which at times snatches the
initiative from the Germans and brings
them up choked with blood.
Methodical Work in Syria.
“Ente Marid”; At the end of the
fourth week, Damascus having been
taken, the outer perimeter of Beirut
reached, main columns dribbled on into
the interior of the north, but presently
paused waiting for the taking of Pal-
myra. Its fall was reported on July 3,
two days after the Vichy command had
admitted that British frontal troops were
within eight miles of Beirut.
The victors pushed on halfway to Homs
next day. Deir-es-Zor, on the Euphrates,
further east, was also taken.
Throughout the week aerodromes from
Aleppo southward were vigorously
bombed ; so was Beirut harbor, while the
sounds of heavy bombardment rolled up
and down the Wadi Damour, the main-
stay of the French defence of Beirut. It
has always been a tough nut to crack.
Along its southern line a narrow river
sneaks through broken, craggy country
between sheer banks and boulder-strewn
approaches. The river line was entrusted
to Chasseurs d’Afrique and battalions of
the Foreign Legion, who have manoeuvred
over the country a thousand times and
know every bit of cover and the range
of every object to an inch. It is an ideal
spot for snipers such as Senegalese. Be-
hind the river is the wadi presenting, on the
Beirut side, a wall of posts and fortifica-
tions backed by strong artillery positions.
On June 28 the three Australian forces
—the R.A.N., represented by H.M.A.S.
Perth; the R.A.A.F., “old reliables” of
the original Egyptian campaign ; and the
A.I.F. —joined in the bombardment of
the wadi. It was the first time they had
all been in concerted action. British
destroyers helped.
At the week-end British forces crossed
the river.
Eastward of Wadi Damour, in the
tumbling foothills north of Jezzin, there
has been a kind of guerrilla war between
the Australians and adventuring French
patrols, each side stalking the other.
There seem to be other French units with
roving commissions hiding among the
mountains along the communication
lines. One tried to break through to the
coast to embarrass the Australian-Scot
advance from Sidon, but was beaten back
bloodily. The Allies hold a line seven
miles north of Jezzin.
On the advanced front, north of
Damascus, the French counter-attacked
positions near Nebk, taken a week pre-
viously by British forces. They were
beaten off, losing two-thirds of their
armored vehicles.
Last week’s issue of information from
“reliable” and “unimpeachable” authori-
ties include stories of an attempt on the
life of General Dentz and of the general
appealing to Vichy for food and supplies
~-“to enable him to continue the fight
against relentless Allied pressure.” There
were suggestions of a revolt in Beirut
unless the city was evacuated to save it
from destruction. There was a yarn that
the Vichy Government had been refused
permission to send reinforcements to
Syria by way of Turkey. Three heavy
R.A.F. raids brought Beirut’s evacuation
nearer.
Two salient facts are (1) that the fight-
ing has been far stiffer than newspapers
bargained for, and that the Australians
on the coastal line have suffered severe
casualties. This has been stated by
Hetherington, the correspondent.
The other is that, though Damascus
and other towns, which in view of their
crowded populations and narrow streets
and soukhs are embarrassments rather
than helps to the holders, have been
handed over, “S. M. Herald’s” “ignoble”
Dentz has been able to keep his main
army intact and his front fairly regular.
He seems to have been able to dictate
the tempo of the campaign. He has left
behind, in retiring, patrols familiar with
the country which are more than a nui-
sance. And though the Allies have com-
mand of an air force which should be
overwhelming, and the “German-con-
trolled” Syrian aerodromes are not as
well defended as they might be, bombing
has not put the French Air Force out of
action.
As the advance progresses, if
the French decide to fight it out to the
death, all the geographical advantages
are on their side—a familiar, compara-
tively smooth terrain to retire over after
Homs, between mountain ranges and wadi
country and then through the main
bottleneck, the plain of Aleppo, with the
northern border defence lines beyond
and the River Orontes and the Jebel
Ansariye forming a double barrier along
the eastern flank of an advancing enemy,
which will be pitted with strongholds.
At the same time, an American report
from Ankara says that the British and
Vichy Governments are discussing an
armistice.
Vale Waterhen.
“Nobby II”: H.M.A.S. Waterhen,
1090 tons, 27,000 h.p., 34 knots, armed
with four 4in. guns, six smaller pieces
and six torpedo tubes, was the first ship
lost by the R.A.N. during the war, despite
the fact that most of our vessels have
persistently been in the thick of things.
Her commander, Lieut.-Commander J.
H. Swain, R.N., and complement of 128
were saved.
Waterhen was one of the old V
class completed in 1918. She was lent
to the R.A.N. in 1933, and was among
the first Australian ships to go on active
service abroad, just before Mussolini
declared war. She had been maid of all
work in the Mediterranean ever since,
was in the battles of Calabria and Mata-
pan and through the thick of the Grecian
and Crete evacuations.
The destroyer was damaged in a heavy
bombing attack and sank while being
towed to harbor.
R.A.F. Still Top Dog.
“Aileron”: After raiding Germany
and occupied France for 16 successive
days and nights, the R.A.F. men declared
a few hours’ holiday on the night of June
28. They were back on the job next
evening, tearing fresh bits out of Ham-
burg and Bremen and making fresh gaps
in Emden. Next morning, Bremen,
Oldenburg railway yards and Wilhelms-
haven had bomb for breakfast,
July 1 was devoted mainly to atten-
tion to occupied France. Cherbourg had
a raking, and Scharnhorst and Gneisenau,
those much-scarred 26,000-tonners, and
the fugitive heavy cruiser Prinz Eugen, m
dry dock at Brest, having patches sewn
on to cover the wounds of previous visits
were straddled at the cost of two British
bombers. At Lille, 17 German aircraft
went west, three falling to the guns of
the American Eagle Squadron ; and there
was a general sweep against coastal aero-
dromes in occupied France. The Kentish
coast shook, and English eyes were


blinded by the bomb-dropping across the
Channel.
North-western Germany, too, was dealt
with, though the German Radio remarked
hopefully that R.A.F. losses had been so
heavy that on July 1 and 2 there were
scarcely any attacks on Germany, and
those ’planes which did venture across
the Reich border were “easily driven
back.”
The R.A.F. answer to this piece of
humor was a large-scale attack on the
Ruhr, Rhineland and western Germany,
with a sweep of the Channel in which, in
fighter battles, the German losses were
18 machines against two British bombers
and eight fighters.
Bremen took the brunt of the dusting,
but large sections of industrial Cologne
and Duisberg went up in flames.
There was also the devil to pay up
and down the North Sea and the Chan-
nel from Rotterdam oil-tanks to Cher-
bourg, leaving a couple of ships and
many other things burning and broken.
That 'was on Thursday morning. Resist-
ance was heavier than it had been, but
the Germans did not prevent the in-
vaders reaching their objectives.
After three weeks of incessant attacks
the R.A.F. effort is still expanding, while
German raids over Britain have almost
ceased. On Wednesday, the day of the
greatest British effort, isolated German
raiders flew at night over the s.-w. British
coast and dropped bombs at two points,
but there were no casualties and little
damage. On Thursday night not a single
bomb was dropped on Britain. On Satur-
day the R.A.F. cut a swathe 300 miles
long through the industrial centres of
n.-w. Germany, finishing up 70 miles
from Berlin. Munster was left as one
large fire ; in Bielefeld, huge buildings
were seen crashing. Den Helder docks
in Holland were badly pasted, and all
along the French Channel coast down to
Brest, where the bottled German war-
ships were given their daily dozen, there
was vigorous activity.
On Sunday morning a large force of
medium R.A.F. bombers paid their second
visit to the steelworks which the Ger-
mans have developed at Lille, France,
beat them up badly and destroyed 11
enemy fighters after a busy action in
which two Blenheims and seven R.A.F.
fighters were lost. Later, wave after
wave of R.A.F. went over the Channel
to spread the destruction.
German activity over England livened
up somewhat on Saturday and Sunday.
Isolated flights of the Luftwaffe pene-
trated as far inland as the Midlands but
did relatively little damage.
Wavell Shifted.
“Ek Dum”: Before Anthony Eden,
that bird of ill omen, went to the Middle
East, everybody had confidence in the
British command in Egypt. The forces
seemed to be working in perfect accord.
A brilliantly conceived surprise operation,
carried out in a highly original manner,
had sealed General Wavell’s reputation as
a strategist, and Maitland Wilson’s as
a tactician; Mackay’s, too. Turkey was
with us, and its defence was being per-
fected with the help of British missions.
The change since then has been start-
ling. Cyrenaica, denuded of most of the
troops that had conquered it, was —save
for Tobruk —overrun by the enemy. We
had to quit Greece, to which Mr. Eden
and his unimaginative chief of staff had
decided that we must give help, and we
had to leave Crete. And in each case
there were serious losses of naval and
merchant ships and men, suffered in pull-
ing the armies out of untenable positions.
The Middle East Air Force units,
united in Africa, had done a wonderful
job earlier in the year. But divided ror
the purposes of Mr. Eden’s Thessalonian
boar hunt, they became two ineffective
halves, neither strong enough to do a
full-time job in Africa or the Aigean.
Presently it came out that Sir Arthur
Longmore, who had held the air
command at Heliopolis, had been
superseded. His period up to the time of
the Greek affair had shown magnificent
results —even though his squadrons had
won all their greatest successes equipped
with comparatively slow Gloster Gladi-
ator biplanes, the cast-offs of British
metropolitan fighter squadrons. It was
discovered that throughout the Crete
affair Air Marshal Longmore had been
in London. His transfer to the British
training command was announced.
About the time of the sending of the
forces of Anzacs and British to Greece,
the news-reel pictures of General Wavell
began to show a great change in him.
His face had become drawn, and he had
a tired and worried look, which seemed
to deepen when General De Gaulle came
on the scene and the Free French be-
came a much advertised co-ordinate in
the military scheme of the Imperial Army
of the Nile.
Apparently as one way of softening
the Greek blow, Lieutenant-General
Blarney had been appointed “Deputy
Commander-in-Chief” of the Middle
Eastern forces. Nothing was said about
seniority, and nobody seems to know even
yet whether he is above several British
generals who are in the field. He is
essentially by training a chief of staff, not
a field commander, yet apparently he was
being invested with the power to take
decisions in the field —decisions which
essentially should be taken by the fight-
ing commander responsible or by the
supreme commander.
Following this appointment, the Vice
Chief of the Imperial General Staff,
Lieut.-General Robert Haining, who had
commanded in Palestine, was switched
to an unspecified command. So was
Lieut.-General Marshall-Corn wall, an
expert in Turkish military affairs. And
Maitland Wilson went to Palestine.
Then Lieut.-General Marshall-Corn-
wall popped up in command on the
Libyan border, in the place which Mait-
land Wilson had occupied. His first big
operation at Solium was not the success
that Maitland Wilson’s previous ones had
been, and the outcome gave no reason
for cheers.
On July 2 it transpired what had hap-
pened to General Haining since he dis-
appeared into the wilderness. He had
become “Intendant General” of the
Imperial Armies of the Middle East, while
Wavell had changed places with Lieut.-
General C. J. E. Auchinleck, the whole
of whose experience till last year had been
in the Indian Army with Indian troops,
particularly with the Punjabi regiments,
Auchinlech took over the Southern Com-
mand in Britain last year. At the time
of the recent change he was C.-in-C, in
India.
Brigaded with this curious arrangement
was the appointment of Captain Oliver
Lyttleton, late of the Grenadiers, as
Minister of Staff on the spot in the
Middle East. He is not only a new-
comer to the Ministry—he held since last
October the comparatively unimportant
office of President of the Board of Trade
—but to the House of Commons.
Captain Lyttleton is to “concert
measures for the prosecution of the war
in the Middle East.” He will “relieve
the commanders of such delicate tasks as
relations with Syria.” He is not em-
powered to interfere with operations.
It is idle to guess at the reasons which
prompted the change of supreme com-
mand in Egypt. Nobody knows anything
about it. Mr. Churchill refuses to make
a statement; but the thing seems to sug-
gest some dissension between the poli-
ticians and the commanders.
Anyway, he has established in the field,
in Captain Lyttleton, a sort of tribune of
the people or political commissar who
will be able to veto or approve opera-
tions for diplomatic or political reasons,
but who will have no responsibility for
them or their detail. He is not, of course,
a tribune of the Australian or Maoriland
or Indian people, whose blood has been
flowing freely in the Middle East; nor
were the Dominions asked to consent to
the appointment. Mr. Churchill, how-
ever, clearly knows the minds of the
kind of Ministry Australia is blessed
with, and the kind of daily press, because
he was able to take their approval for
granted before either press or politicians
had recovered from their astonishment
sufficiently to utter a word about the
news. He has heard both say “Yes,
Mr. Churchill,” so often that he knows
that the formula comes out automatically.
Under Captain Lyttleton, who has the
right background in Eton, Trinity (Cam-
bridge), the Guards and marriage to the
daughter of a Godolphin Osborne, whose
family rose to a dukedom when the
Churchills were busy becoming Marl-
boroughs at the end of the seventeenth
century, is the Intendant-General. He
might be called a military tribune or
commissar, though exactly what an
“Intendant-General” is nobody knows.
An “intendant” as known to Richelieu
was an administrator of a department; in
Spanish countries he is a Governor or a
mayor, but under the old Canadian
French Government he was only a
deputy. In the modern French army he
is a Q.M.G. and ordnance and supply
man.
It is no wonder that Canberra approved
the new ideas cordially. The new organi-
sation is one after the Ministry’s own
bureaucratic heart. There is a political
commissar over a military commissar and,
apparently under the censorship of both,
a commander-in-chief and a deputy com-
mander-in-chief (though nobody seems
to know where he is or what he is doing
or what his exact status and duties may
be). There also are regional generals in
command in the field wherever there
happens to be a war —Libyan border.
Abyssinia and Syria. In effect, there are
five superior kinds of army command,
any one of which may do an act which
somebody else may block or bungle, thus
shelving responsibility and making it
difficult to sheet home blame.
When the R.N. and the R.A.F. and the
Free French come into the picture there
are three more commanders to be con-
sidered —four where the Red Sea is con-
cerned, since it is in another naval ambit
—not to mention the independent Smuts,
who keeps a much closer hand on the
destiny of his S’Africans than Mr.
Spender.
Possibly General Wavell, a strong and
self-respecting man with a mind of his
own, has asked to be retired from the
A.O.T.N. rather than submit to the
bonds which have been placed upon the
command.
It is not clear how far the authority
of the new officials will extend over the
Air Force. Certainly it will be very
limited as it affects the R.N. Admiral
Cunningham remains the only C.-in-C.
who has not been shifted, or “reorgan-
ised,” in the Eastern Mediterranean ; but
naval command is less susceptible to
political influence than the military.
Military commissions are issued in the
name of the King and enjoin relevant
citizens to obey the holder. Naval com-
missions and commands exude from the
Board of Admiralty and tartly advise the
holder that he will disobey the board
itself at his peril.
The Empire might have felt easier if
strategy, tactics and general policy in the
Middle East had been handed over to the
three commanders of the main forces,
with a Dominion representative or two.
Smuts would have been the obvious
name to occur to any logical mind at
mention of the idea of appointing a local
Minister.
“Ek Dum”: Victoria Crosses have
been given sparingly in this war. Four
have gone to the R.N. —one to the gallant
Fogarty Fegen of the Jervis Bay, who
was for some time with the R.A.N. The
British Army has won five, the R.A.F.
five and the Indian Army two. Now
the Young A.I.F. has one, issued post-
humously to Corporal J. H. Edmon-
son, from Liverpool (N.S.W.). On
April 13 German infantry broke
through the wire in the outer Tobruk
perimeter and it became necessary to
prod them out with bayonets. Lieutenant
Mackell, Corporal Edmonson and five
picked men did the job under devastating
fire. Edmonson was wounded in the
neck and stomach, but went on and killed
a German with his bayonet. Lieutenant
Mackell bayoneted a German who
tackled him under the knees, and another
rushed him from behind. Edmonson
went in like a tiger and killed both
Germans. Twice wounded again, he died
of his wounds on the field of glory.
* * * *
The Admiralty reports that on June
29 a submarine sank the Gorizia, last
of the four 10,000-ton Sin. gun Zara class
cruisers which Italy possessed—the other
three went down at Matapan. She was
struck by two torpedoes. Other subs,
sank three Italian supply ships in the
Mediterranean and heavily damaged one
of Musso’s merchant cruisers. Two
British trawlers were sunk recently.
* * * *
Almost the last of the Italian garrisons
in Abyssinia gave up when Debra Tabor,
on the Lake Tsana-Addis Ababa road,
was taken. The haul of prisoners in-
cluded 3000 Italians and 12,000 natives.
St » * *
The June recruiting quota —10,000—
was not realised. Enlistments were: Vic-
toria 1469 (quota 2630), N. S. Wales 2465
(3910), Queensland 1465 (1550), S.A. 484
(850), Westralia —always ahead! —992
(730), Tasmania 219 (330). The total was
7094, Even R.A.A.F. quotas are not
being filled. There is an obviously
marked discrepancy between the results
in highly industrialised and centralised
States and those which are not so closely
centralised nor so fully industrialised. It
is not clear whether it is the demand for
munition-workers which affects the in-
dustrialised State figures or whether it is
the result of the general atmosphere.
However, there was marked improvement
as the month progressed—the week ended
June 1 yielded only 1540 men; that
ended June 27, 2067. And at the be-
ginning of that week heavy casualty lists
were published.
* * * *
Birthday honors for the R.A.N. in-
cluded a C.B. for Rear-Admiral Grace,
commanding the Australian Squadron,
and a mention in dispatches for Lieut.-
Commander G. G, O. Gatacre, a Queens-
lander who was trained at Jervis Bay
and who served as navigating officer on
one of the King George battleships dur-
ing the fight with the Bismarck. For
some time he was flag-lieutenant on
H.M.A.S. Canberra, but when he went
to England four years ago on exchange
the R.N. held on to him. He has served
in several noted British ships, including
Devonshire, Edinburgh and Renown.
The military honor lists were more
copious. Brigadier Allen, whose N. S.
Wales brigade broke into Bardia and
Tobruk and was in the van in Greece
and in the Peneios engagement, gets a
C. He is at present an acting-major-
general commanding a division. Briga-
dier Herring, who was artilleryman to
the Libyan show and afterwards in
Greece; Brigadier Robertson, whose
mixed Westralians, Victorians and N. S.
Welshmen actually occupied Tobruk;
Brigadier S. G. Savige, who fought bril-
liant flanking engagements with his Vic-
torians at Bardia and Tobruk and in
Greece; and Brigadier F. H. Berry-
man, Iven Mackay’s C. 0.5., were
awarded C.B.Es. Ten field officers
earned D.S.Os. The rest were a
couple of M.Cs., six M.B.Es., one
D. and six M.Ms. But the whole
lot were only token rewards to compli-
ment thousands of gallant Diggers, any
one of whom earned a decoration twice
over in Greece and Crete.
♦ * * *
The war in Libya has been mainly con-
fined the last few days to the air forces.
The Axis asserted on July 2 that ships
had been hit in Tobruk harbor, two
others sunk off Bardia and a cruiser and
a destroyer damaged. Alexandria, the
Nile Delta and Malta had raids, but not
on any great scale. The R.A.F. attacked
Benghazi and Tripoli repeatedly ; several
vessels at Tripoli were hit, one exploded
and one was seen partly sunk. Landing
troops were gunned along with seaplanes
and much damage done. In Benghazi,
fires were started on the Cathedral Mole
and a great part of Gazala went up in a
series of violet-colored explosions which
merged into fires which could be seen
from 70 miles away. Save for artillery
activity, the land front was quiet.
* * * *
The rush of “preferred” passengers has
hampered delivery of A.I.F. airmail to
and from Palestine and Egypt. The
obvious has now been ordered —hence-
forward a special ’plane will carry no-
thing but A.I.F. mail. It will run weekly
each way. Usually an A.I.F. mail runs
to about 110,000 letters.
* * * *
First and last paragraphs of a dis-
patch from our official war correspon-
dent, every sentence of which was
interesting:
On Saturday afternoon, June 30, for the
first time in history, the three branches ot
the Australian services were in co-operative
action together.
In many months of Mediterranean ser-
vice it was the first trip H.M.A.S. Perth
had made without firing her anti-aircraft
guns. We bad had fighter protection every
moment of the trip.
At noon that day H.M.A.S. Perth had
left “port” for the Syrian coast, and,
“supported by Tomahawk machines of
an R.A.A.F. squadron,” she shelled
French posts in support of the A.I.F.
advancing in the Damorin area. Such
co-operation, the locality of it and the
identity of the enemy were beyond the
wildest imaginings 13 months ago. But
surely the last paragraph gave Canberra
furiously to think —if Canberra ever
thinks.
* * * *
Air Minister McEwen now admits
what has been known for months, that
the R.A.A.F. Coastal Command is using
PBY Catalinas, such as were used in the
Atlantic in the hunt for the Bismarck, to
patrol seaward from Australian coasts.
The Catalinas were ferried from U.S.A.
by Australian pilots. They are slightly
smaller than the Sunderlands, but their
feature is their long range. They run
across the Atlantic on patrols with rail-
way timetable regularity. And they are
capable at a pinch of flying non-stop
from Singapore to the Australian coast
and back or from the Commonwealth to
Shanghai.
* * * *
“Tovarish”: From Sydney “Sun’s”
young Mr. Aldridge, an ardent admirer
of the Red Army:
To isolate the enemy, encircle him com-
pletely, finally destroy him. This sounds
like a German idea, but actually it was
originally the Russian idea of new war-
fare The Germans stole the parachute
idea from the Russians.
The name of the modern Russian who
supplied the Germans with their idea of
“isolation, encirclement and destruction”
was Oliver Cromwell, who practised it
with great effect at Worcester. Moltke
copied his method with brilliant success
at First Sedan, and from Moltke’s adapta-
tion modern German battle practice has
largely been developed. The R.A.F. was
well ahead of the Red Army with para-
chute experiments. The Russians ‘ in-
vented” the technique after they had seen
the London illustrated papers featuring
pictures of military parachute displays
in England early in 1929.


Does tow car use more
fuel than it should?
It is false economy to use spark plugs too
long. Worn out spark plugs become carbon
encrusted give a weak spark and the re-
sult is sluggish performance, wasted fuel
and a car that is unpleasant to drive. In-
stall new Champions every 10,000 miles.
They pay for themselves in fuel savings
alone, besides greatly improv-
ing your car’s performance.
Factories, Feltham, Eng.
Windsor, Can. Toledo, USA.
&
m
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
msilii
mutt
jjiii
33
11
\ }
is
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
Sillment seals Cham-
pions against trouble-
some leakage, at the
shoulder and past the
center electrode,
common to ordi-
nary spark plugs.
This patented feature
corrects rough, uneven
and wasteful engine op-
eration caused by leaky,
overheated spark plugs.
fully guaranteed as to longevity, efficiency and mechanism.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF, AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY KATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine, and automatically runs off into
IIWIUII:
an underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
THEBE IS NO EMPTYING OB OTHEB UNPLEASANT JOB.
Approved by the Board of Health—over 1600 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO PLIES. NO GEEMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
NO WATEE SUPPLY EEQUIEED.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co.Pty. Ltd.
26 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 81052.
PRICE £lB/8/-, f.o.b. SYDNEY, including Sales Tax and Crating.
Obtainable direct, or from alt leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Young married man, rejected A.1.F., wants
good Queensland farm on shares with or with-
out option of purchase.—lB77.
Wanted, Q., capable farmhand, age over 30
preferred. Wages 30s. a week, £2 if satisfac-
tory 1609
Married man, 53 no encumbrances, wants
position manager cattle property.-1845.
Position vacant for pupil modern tobacco
farm, N.Q., 1941-42 season, starting August,
Home comforts; wireless, car, tractor, touch-
planter, etc. Refs.—-1745. .
Jo buy, second-hand, course of Pelmanism.
—1905.
To buy Holey Dollar.—lB27.
To buy, second-hand, fourth edition of The
Modern Diesel (Lliffe and Sons, Ltd.).—1876.
To buy, new or second-hand, copies of
Bernarr McFadden’s health works.—l6ol.
To buy copy of opera (full score) “Grand
Duchess” (Offenbach), new or second-hand.—
1399
To buy or borrow for one month “Geo-
graphical Journal” (English), August, 1932.
1608.
To buy cheaply second-hand copy of Mrs.
Beeton’s Book of Household Management and
Cookery Book. State price.—lB24.
Tn hiiv rnmVc nf “Illustrated I ondon News”
f i sso
hotu 1000-i . • o .. tt H
. T ° “ ® H P - Shapes and Sectl ° ns Hand '
dook. , , , _
To buy Price Waning s Tales of the Con-
vict System, Tales of the Isle of Death and
Half-Crown Bob and Tales of the Riverine.
1171.
To buy Lieca or Contax camera. Also
microscope attachment lor same. 1789.
Plans for 12ft. canvas canoe to seat two
people.—ll7s.
To get in touch with young people interested
in stamp-collecting. 1843.
Wanted, old stereoscopic views (pre-1880 pre-
ferred) ; usual stereoscopes; bound volumes ot
old photographic journals.—l69s.
October, November and December (1940)
numbers of “The Artist.”—lB26.
Copies of “Arab Horse” journal and
“Riding” magazine.—l9o7.
Words of verse “Mack the Splitter.”—ll6o.
Words of “The Dying Stockman.”-1810.
... , f f n mt L„„
Words of, poem entitled The Seven Brothers
°f lp ermam or Defence ol the B de.
DO/-• , r „ . . c ~. ..
Source and full text of quotation In the
lives of all men can be seen the influence ot
a woman. 1677. .
Wanted, words and music of old-time comic
songs, particularly those sung by George
Formby (senior) and Jack Pleasants: “I’m
Norman the Mormon and Wait Till You
Get One of These (Pleasants) and Did Y
See the Crowd in Piccadilly. (Formby). Also
Is the Old Home in the Same Place, 176..
Any information regarding walking or running
records of Richard Manks (“the Warwickshire
Antelope”) about 1859?—1800.
Infnrmrififtn
mTormcmon aouegnr.
(1) In B. 28/5/’4l “2,000,000 French soldiers
who died in the 1914-18 war” were mentioned,
“Pears’ Cyclopcedia” gives the figures as
1,393,388. Which is correct? (2) Any figures
on Russian casualties in the same war? —lBB4.
(1) At the end of the war French losses were
given as 1,364,000 dead and 3,740,000
wounded; of these a large number did not
long survive. According to Lloyd George, “of
the millions of Frenchmen under 30 who went
into the line, only 50 p.c. ever returned from
the battlefield.” (2) The World Almanac and
The Official Year-Book of the R.S.S.I.L.A. both
set the number of Russians killed at 1,700,000.
(1) Is it much trouble to trace back ancestors
ln England and Scotland? (2) Where would I
inquire? (3) What is the fee? —ll24.
(1) It shouldn’t be, provided you have some
idea of the places where the ancestors lived.
with, if possible, the dates. The names ol
families connected by marriage to the ancestors
18 also °f B re -at assistance. The more clues
street, Sydney, has been able to trace very
many pedigrees back for many years for its
members, and will always assist them to trace
their ancestry as far into the past as possible,
(3) The only fee is an annual subscription of
j 2s- 6d. The year is reckoned from January
to December, but those joining towards the end
of the year can pay Is. for each remaining
month, plus 12s. 6d. for the following year.
* * * *
(1) What view is taken by modern educational
authorities of the tendency to make country
schools fewer and larger? (2) Who meets cost
of transport where this policy is adopted?
(3) Is anything proposed or being done on
these lines in N. S. Wales? (4) What salaries
ore paid to teachers in one-teacher schools in
(V. S. Wales? (5) Cost of budding a one-
teacher school in N. S. Wales 3—1872.
(I) The consolidation of rural schools is an
accepted policy in regard to rural education
in the USA - The number of one Teacher
schools has decreased by 33 p.c. during the
past 20 years. This actual achievement of con-
solidation lags behind the strong body of pro-
fessional opinion in its favor, the chief source
Q f opposition being the reluctance of small
village communities to lose their schoolhouse
and send their children the few miles re-
quired to a central school. The general trend
D f professional opinion in all parts of the
world, including Australia, is that the advan-
tages of consolidation outweigh the disadvan-
tages, provided that such consolidation does
no t simply mean the bringing of country
children into the larger towns for purposes of
education. (2) In the U.S.A. the cost of trans-
port j n consolidation schemes is borne by the
local school board, since the control of edu-
cation is vested in local authorities. Such
boards may receive subsidies from State Gov-
ernments in respect of this transport, but this
is not always the case. (3) More than one
attempt has been made in N. S. Wales by the
Department of Education to institute con-
solidation of rural schools. Only in one case
could it be described
as being even partly suc-
cessful. In all other cases the chief obstacle
was antagonism of public opinion. The prob-
jem Q £ consolidation was referred to in the
re p ort D f tbe ] ate t)i rec tor of Education, G. R.
Thomas, not yet available for publication. (4)
Ranges from £ 350 t 0 £42 1 a year. (5) About
£ 5 qq_
* * * *
(]) Where was Surgeon George Bass buried?
( 2 ) When and how did he leave Australia ? (3)
Birthplace ? (4) Did he accompany Flinders
wrec j < f^ e Sydney Cove in 1798?
( 5 ) Was the Sydney Cove a Bengal ship on a
voyage from Calcutta to Port Jackson? —lo7B.
(1) a nd (2) Bass sailed from Sydney on Febru-
ary 5, 1803, for Peru and was never heard of
again. ( 3 > Aswarby, Lincolnshire, in 1763. (4)
No (5) she was on a voyage f rom Bengal to
Port Jackson when she was wrecked on Preser-
vation Island.
* * * *
If there are four, five or more candidates
standing for a seat in the House of Representa-
fives the one with the lowest number of first-
preference votes goes out on the first count. Is
it possible for the second- and third-preference
votes of the other candidates to bring him back
into the running and even win the election ?
1626.
No. If no candidate has received an abso-
lute majority of first-preference votes the can-
didate who has received the fewest first-pref-
erence votes is excluded and each ballot-paper
counted to him is counted to the candidate
next in the order of the voter’s preference; if
no candidate then has an absolute majority ot
votes, the process of excluding the candidate
who has the fewest votes, and counting each
of his ballot-papers to the unexcluded can-
didate next in the order of the voter’s prefer-
ence, is repeated until one candidate has re-
ceived an absolute majority and is thus elected.
Also applies to the election of a N. S. Wales
M.L.A.
* * * *
What is the time allowed by regulation for
telephone calls on automatic exchanges for Id. ?
1867.
The Australian Postal Guide states that the
period of conversation from a public telephone
(for a unit fee of 2d.) shall be three minutes,
commencing from the time the required number
is connected, provided that, if no other person
is waiting to use the telephone, the period may
be extended upon the payment of an additional
unit fee for each three minutes or portion
thereof. The total period of any conversation
shall not exceed six minutes if the line is re-
quired for another call. The regulation, how-
ever, is abused widely, chiefly because, on the
automatic system, there is no way of effec-
tively checking the conversation of those who
use the telephone.
* * * *
What is the chemically-treated Canadian pulp
25 p.c. of which has to be added in the
manufacture of Australian newsprint? Why
can’t it be made here? —1622.
Paper pulp made from Australian timbers is
definitely short-fibred —the length of the fibre
is an inherent characteristic of Australian hard-
wood timbers. Canadian pulp is made from
softwoods, which are long-fibred. To develop
satisfactory strength and suitable conditions
for running on the paper machine, it is neces-
sary to add a percentage of long-fibred pulp to
the Australian short-fibred pulp. If supplies
of suitable softwoods, such as spruce, were
available in Australia it would be unnecessary
to import the Canadian pulp.
* * ♦ »
Who are the champion (1) boxers and (2)
wrestlers of Queensland ? —1487.
(1) Heavyweight, Jim Findlay; middleweight,
George Wilson; welterweight, Jimmy Locke;
lightweight, Lisle Law; featherweight, Max
Richards; bantamweight. Max Richards; fly-
weight, Hughie Farrell. (2) Fred Atkins, the best
Australian heavyweight, is a Queenslander, but
no Queensland wrestling championships have
been decided for years.
* ¥ * ♦
Particulars of the “lawyer cane” ? —lBBO.
The lawyer cane (Cocos muelleri ) is a strong-
growing climbing plant found in the dense
scrub in northern N. S. Wales and about the
Q’land border. The stems carry big leaves
which are dotted with sharp spikes. Contact
with them often causes extensive rash and
blood poisoning.
Brief Answers.
A.G.: A haka is a rhythmic dance, originally
a war dance. There are many chants that can
be, and are, used in connection with the haka
—not one set form.... WJ.S.: Spencer’s Book-
shop, 86 Bourke-street, Melbourne, has the book
on order, and supplies may arrive at any
moment... .D.J.8.: Churchill has one son,
Randolph, who is in the army... .F.J.R.; He
is looking at a portrait of his son G.G.:
Cannot undertake search; the files are avail-
able to anyone who cares to go through them.
. ...G.L.R.: Apply to any of the big shipping
companies K.MacL.: (1) Manuscripts
should be double-spaced; quarto is a good
size; folding is a matter for your own judg-
ment. (2) “Were” is correct in the instance
quoted... .D.A.; Apply at the nearest office of
the ML. Department of Agriculture....
R.J.W.: Divide the diameter of the larger pulley
by the diameter of the smaller and multiply by
60. The answer is 342.85... .R.D.L.: Lucullus
was a Roman consul and general—died about 57
b.c A.McD.: Cannot give opinions on pro-
prietary products... .R.T.T.; (1) The 7th Bat-
talion gained the greatest number of V.Cs.
during the 1914-18 war. (2) The greatest
number of battle honors was shared by the
sth, 6th, 7th and Bth battalions of the 2nd
Brigade 5.0. H.: (1) No. (2) Payment is
made on acceptance. (3) A story may be held
for consideration if it comes close... .V.D.W.:
Cannot trace the abo. word mentioned....
G.E.J.: An Outline of Economics, by Walker
and Madgwick, and Economics, by Benham
V.R.8.: It would probably cost £5O at least
to go through the formalities of registering a
co. It should not be difficult to finance de-
velopment, Consult a public accountant in your
district or in the city C.H.: It is a pro-
prietary form of arsenite of soda, and would
be dangerous to use as a weed-killer where
fowls are running... .T.0.C.: The s.s. Vic-
toria made her first voyage from Melbourne
on December 9, 1902, for Hobart, Bluff,
Dunedin and Wellington... .T.T.: The insides
of beer casks are covered with brewer’s pitch.
It’s not a trade secret... .G. 8.: Nock and
Kirby, Sydney, will recut worn files, cost rang-
ing from 9d. to 25., depending on size. Files
must have tang... .J.P.: (1) The Camperdown
cemetery was opened and consecrated on Janu-
ary 16, 1849. Burials ceased in 1867, except
under certain conditions. (2) Thirteen acres.
(3) Persons buried there number 19,958
E.S.N.: Know of no regular demand for
Euphorbia pilifera; perhaps one of the larger
drughouses could help y0u....R.C.: Process
too lengthy to describe here. Books on the
subject are obtainable from any large book-
seller or public library... .F. J.F.: (1) Two
medals were issued —the Mercantile Marine
Medal and the General Service. (2) If the Bel-
tana was under naval control at the time you
are entitled to the Mercantile Marine Medal.
Don’t think she was. (3) To the Admiralty
in London, which will need to see a copy of
your papers with your discharge D.C.:
It is always advisable when exhibiting birds
to catch.one or two of them occasionally and
examine ’ under the wings to see if any para-
sites are present. Always do this with fresh
birds before liberating them among old stock
—a slight dusting over the plumage with
pyrethrum powder is generally sufficient. The
cage of the aviary should occasionally be
washed out with any suitable disinfectant, and
the perches, if wood, replaced from time to
time C.E.8.; On the figures quoted you are
liable to assessment for Federal income tax
and unemployed-relief and social-services taxes.
If you have not received assessments, write
to Taxation Department, Sydney A.W.: It
will not be necessary to lodge a return for
Federal purposes if your income does not ex-
ceed £2OO a year X.Y.Z.: You will be liable
to State and Federal taxes in respect of the
separation allowance for your wife, and such
allowance should be included in your return.
You will not be subject to unemployed-relief
and social-services taxes in respect of the allow-
ance H.M.S.: If the income derived from
the English estate has been subjected to tax in
the country of origin it will not be subject to
Federal income tax. If the money represents
a distribution of corpus of the estate, as dis-
tinct from income, no taxes are payable thereon.
Write to the Queensland Taxation Department
regarding your liability to Queensland State
taxes M.P.: As an edible nut bitter almonds
are valueless; manufacturers of nut-food pro-
ducts are interested only in sweet almonds.
Bitter almonds could be used for oil, but know
of no firm expressing almond oil in Australia.
K.S.: Write to the Deputy Prices Commis-
sioner, T. and G. Building, Collins-street, Mel-
bourne... .F.P.: You should apply for a pen-
sion when you reach the statutory age of 65.
S.S.: Values of dairy products exported in
1939-40 were; Butter, £15,894,718; cheese,
£1,440,131; condensed milk, etc., £1,126,066;
bacon and ham, £274,915; pork, £1,561,432;
eggs, £597,854. (2) Value of mineral production
for 1939 was £36,838,814. Figures for tin not
available. (3) Expenditure from consolidated
revenue on education, 1939-40, was: N.S.W.
£5,443,227, Vic. £3,198,968, Q’land £1,815,110,
S.A. £1,095,355, W.A. £876,491, Tas. £401,463.
(4) Net value of factory production for Aus-
tralia for 1939-40 is estimated at £221,225,000.
J.G.: A pass at the leaving certificate exami-
nation is the minimum requirement for admis-
sion to training for any branch of the N.S.W.
Education Department’s teaching service. The
Kindergarten Union may be able to tell you
what courses it provides for those who have
not obtained the leaving certificate.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused :
E.A.S.:
Thumbs up ! Thumbs up ! brave Winston said;
These men are here once more.
Thumbs up ! Thumbs up ! ye Britishers,
Rise up and bar the door.
J.F.: “Steel” needs stiffening... .C.McP.:
For a religious paper... .H.J.; It has a lilt;
but why not something specifically about Boyd
Town? .... A.S.; Try elsewhere... .P.J.1.: Sing-
song T.W.P.: “Lee, sea, sea, me ; above,
love; foam, home” —not very enterprising....
J.P.: “Hobo” came c105e.... Refugee: Some-
thing to it; but labored... .P.G.: Aggie needs
a polish M.R.: Elementary M.1.D.:
After half an hour wondering why on earth
the falling leaf was in such a hurry to get
where the ants were eating the butterfly we
gave it up J.C.: Wordy... .R.T.8,: Sorry,
can’t tell whether you’re just a bad writer or
whether you’re trying to emulate James Joyce.
C.D.C.: “Can I send you a story a
month?” Unfortunately, you probably can.
... .D.S.P.: Last time the moon turned blue we
heard an Australian stockman shout “Hyar!
Go saddle that thar broncho” T.R.: If
only you had finished up with “they lived hap-
pily ever after”... .F.A.; We almost jumped
in the w.p.b. after it... .C.R.S. : Away with
your ’ounds and your ’untin’.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.T.L.: Members of the human family assume
queer proportions down your way.. . .G.E.K.:
Drawing weak; don’t treat it so lightly....
A.G.: Three artistic nightmares T.J.M.:
Couldn’t tell where the Russki’s whiskers
finished and the tank he was in started ....
D.R.: The clerk of works on that skeleton
building would get 20 years’ hard... .F.F.:
Hard to say whether the bullet-headed slugger
has two black eyes, is wearing dark glasses
or has hair growing out of his nostrils....
F.S.W.: You take the buttered gibber for the
first round bowler hat submitted... .Joe. It
that fellow you “drew from life” has muscles
like that he only has to contact the Tiv. man-
agement and he’s set for a fort 11 . 1 ) 6 ; • • ■ ■
Those “Pictorial Vignettes of Life are like
offering us cold spinach on thin toast; give us
something red-blooded.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 912 of J 934.
BETWEEN DOROTHY MAY TOWNSEND
Petitioner and
ROBERT SIMEON TOWNSEND Respondent.
TO ROBERT SIMEON TOWNSEND.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOROTHY
MAY TOWNSEND has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-seventh day of August One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned Solicitors free of
charge.
DATED this Second day of July One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
C. M. MARSH & HARVEY, Petitioner’s
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO IRIS LILLIAN CARSON formerly of
Nelson Hotel Geelong in the State of Vic-
toria Married Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that THOMAS CARSON
of 81 Stewart Street Brunswick in the State of
Victoria Plasterer has commenced proceedings
for divorce against you on the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards. UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court Law Courts Wil-
liam Street Melbourne on or before the 23rd
day of July 1941 the Court may proceed to
hear this suit in your absence If you intend
to defend this suit you must also file an
answer in the said office within ten days of
entering your appearance.
O’DONOHUE & BREW, Capitol House,
Swanston Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W, H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ,
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New Soutli Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
A HOME
FBOM HOME
The comfort and carefree luxury of your own
home are yours when you stay at the Victoria.
Added to this comfort and luxury is the
special guest service which cares for your
every wish, as well as the convenience of
staying in Melbourne’s city centre. Bring the
children with you when you come - they’re
always welcome, and they’ll make the Victoria
even more your Melbourne home from home.
“ROOM ONLY”
DAILY TARIFFS
Singles -5/- to 101-
Doubles -8/- to 18/6
Suites, Family Rooms, etc.
Full Catering Services.
HI
T
VICTORIA
A
C
E
L
ft
P
S. D. HORNE
Manager
%
B 12
MILBOURUiS MOST POPULAR HO7H
215 LITTLE COLLINS STREET - NEXT TOWN HALL
SUNDRY
SHOWS
ARTBURSTS
Contemporary Group
There is one staggering omission from
the Contemporary Group’s show at
Farmer’s in Sydney; not a single honest-
to-Freud Significant Cactus adorns the
walls. Apart from this touch of novelty,
the exhibition as a whole faithfully
observes the conventions.
(a) There is an elegant sufficiency of
Unattractive Nudes. Whether or not the
prize for the most unattractive should
go to the wooden doll one man
has managed to create from a model who
is possibly the most beautiful woman in
Sydney or to the brick-colored lump
submitted by another is purely a matter
of taste.
(b) Monstrous Children. Two
exquisitely revolting cretins trailing clouds
of glory from the brush of a super-super-
realist scoop the bun in this section,
though attention should also be paid to
an offering, purchased by the Gallery,
which ingeniously combines the two con-
ventions of Monstrous Children and
(c) Niggers.
(d) There are plenty of Geometrical
Landscapes, with nothing very notable
about them.
(e ) Stanley Spencer’s Hamlike Arms
and soft-boiled wobbly heads are faith-
fully copied by several exhibitors.
(/) There is only a small offering in the
Deliberate Lunacy class, but “Melodious
Trio” (one of those musical compositions)
and “Theme for a Decorative Mural”
should be inspected.
All of which makes the show an aver-
age display of contemporary academic
painting which, like all work done to
popular formulae, is dull as ditchwater.
John D. Moore’s rather cold but
genuinely attractive landscapes, a nude
by Thea Proctor which has grace, and
Elma Roach’s attempt at the golds and
browns of autumn (a more understand-
able Gallery buy) are about the only
pieces amounting to original statements.
* * * *
Pen drawings and prints by Feliks
Topolski, official Polish war artist (pro-
ceeds go to the Australian Women’s
Polish Relief Fund), are showing at Syd-
ney Grosvenor Galleries. A typical Euro-
pean wit both in his needle-sharp satire
and the gay frivolity (almost effeminacy)
of his line, Topolski is no war artist.
He’s acceptable, perhaps, when he makes
Mussolini look like a fat, elderly chorus-
girl ; but his inadequacy for war-
cartooning is clearly revealed when his
Churchill, powerful as far as the knees,
wobbles away on the corkscrew legs of
a ballet-dancer —Topolski’s pet idiosyn-
crasy. Caricatures of Shaw and Sacha
Guitry, studies of cafe life and of the
period of Charles 11, and a witty gibe at
“The Younger Son” (who is the image
of Anthony Eden) are gems.
* * * *
Ernest Buckmaster, up for inspection
once more at Melb. Athenaeum, is one
of the few products of the Victorian
National Gallery school over the last
15 years who has remained completely
faithful to his master. His large glitter-
ing still-life, vast pastoral panoramas and
portraits are so Bernard Hallish that the
unwary spectator looks round expecting
to see that late austere defender of the
academic stronghold standing at his
shoulder. In fact, Buckmaster’s tech-
nical facility sometimes outruns his obser-
vation and one thinks more of how the
thing was painted than of what was
painted. This comes out particularly
in No. 39, “Wood,” depicting a fallen
giant of the forest sawn into lengths. A
large self-portrait is an excellent likeness.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“And So to Bed”
J. B. Fagan’s play isn’t much of a play.
If its leading character had not been the
virtual founder of the modern British
Navy, not been the associate of a cele-
brated naughty monarch and not kept
a diary in shorthand, and if the diary
hadn’t been discovered and been success-
fully deciphered by the Rev. John Smith,
M.A., most intelligent producers would
probably class it as an f.a.q. Tiv. farce on
the theme of marital infidelity with
elaborate and somewhat tiresome trim-
mings.
Gregan McMahon selected it for the
second item of his season at Melb.
King’s, and cast himself in the role of the
engaging Samuel Pepys. It was right into
the hands of the veteran actor-producer.
In the last act he even succeeded in mak-
ing Samuel into a pathetic figure. After
spending an evening in a chest on which
his wife, Charles the Second and the merry
monarch’s mistress are sitting, he returns
home to a drunken party and a wife
burning for vengeance. She makes him
swear a firm resolution on the Bible
never to sin again, and he makes her
swear a vow never again to be suspicious
and they go off to bed, each making a
private reservation. To present writer’s
way of thinking it would have been a
more effective curtain if Samuel had gone
to his usual solace after an emotional
upset by sitting down to write up his
diary.
Reginald Newson was a conventional
merry monarch. Maud Coughey was
ill-cast as his mistress, inasmuch as the
audience was asked, on very slight evi-
dence, to believe that she was a famous
singer. Fitting much better into the pic-
ture was Marie Balfour as wife of the
redoubtable Samuel. Production was
staged with every attention to appropriate
detail.
* * * *
“Would You Believe It?”
The small fry who spend Easter wan-
dering up and down sideshow-alley at
the R.A.S. Annual with a solitary six-
pence in their pocket and a couple of
dozen tempting mysteries on hand must
dream of something like this new bill at
Sydney Tiv. It has every sideshow freak,
oddity or act short of Jimmie Sharman’s
booth. The show opens with a revolving
tent, displaying in rapid succession and
to the accompaniment of Tiv. chorus
the Tallest Man Alive, the Pin-headed
Chinaman, the Skeleton Man and the
Fire-eating African Pigmy. Later they
turn on the Globe of Death, with motor-
bikes charging round in a steel lattice
sphere.
The Tiv. girls are as good as ever, and
vaudeville acts are all good, though
mainly revivals. But the show is let
down badly in the comedy line —Joe
Lawman turns in some bright moments,
but the jokes are mostly stale.
* * * *
The 1941 “celebrity” concert season
started off at Melb. Town Hall with a
home-grown conductor and a solo
pianist, both of whom have distinguished
overseas records. Montague Brearley,
the Geelong man who has returned after
many years’ continuous broadcasting for
the 8.8. C. in England, led the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra through the vast
Rachmaninoff Concerto No. 2 in C
minor, Op. 18, with Louise Gargure-
vitch at the piano. Miss Gargurevitch
seemed to be at home in a role which is
about as exacting a one as is to be found
in musical literature. It rushes along
with a steadily increasing tempo, gets
involved in complexities, resolves itself
again and again and finally rushes to a
brilliant conclusion. Mr. Brearley con-
ducted with no airs and graces, and in
the Concerto Grosso No. 12 in B minor
of Handel he displayed the same economy
of gesture as Handel used in manipu-
lating his simple material. The effect
was lovely,
* * * *
Doris Fitton’s Independents are trying
out Sean O’Casey’s grim drama “Juno and
the Paycock” at their North Sydney
theatre. It’s a powerful and imposing
thing in reading, but it’s doubtful if it
really is a stage piece—if only because of
the necessity of getting together a full
and satisfactory cast for any truly sound
production. Certainly it is beyond the
powers of the Independents. A reading
of the play by a good reader without
any attempt at acting it would likely cap-
ture more of the changing spirit of the
tragedy. As it is, the players are carried
along well enough by the force of the
drama in the third act, but can make
little of the commonplace realism of the
earlier scenes.
* * * *
Adelaide Repertory Theatre ran its
latest show, the familiar and jolly “George
and Margaret,” for seven nights. Its
1600-odd members always fill the house
for three, and the others were allotted
to Red Cross, F.F.C.F., Legacy Club,
and Toe H, to their great profit. The
Rep. has also —itself still paying the rent
—handed over its former clubrooms to
the Women’s A.T.C.
AT THE TALKIES
“I Wanted Wings”
If films like this could be made here
they would probably do more to encour-
age recruiting than all the politicians and
elderly gentlemen who blab into micro-
phones. The idea is not to load the film
with the usual propaganda, but subtly
to present an appealing picture of army,
navy or air force life. “I Wanted Wings”
is built round the U.S. Air Force, and
contains plenty of interesting documen-
tary stuff on training methods and also
on the “flying fortress” bombers. The
film, however, wisely makes its documen-
tary side seem only incidental to the plot,
although it manages to follow the three
male characters step by step through the
whole training course. Ray Milland,
Brian Donlevy, William Holden and
Wayne Morris figure in it, and it’s good
entertainment,
n „* * *
Call a Cop
Coo! They’re lined oop in a hundred-
yard queue from Sydney Lyceum to
Market-street waiting to see Constable
George Formby lay ’em in the aisles,
His beat is in the vicinity of a large ship-
yard where is building the proudest of
the King’s Navee, H.M.S. Hercules, the
destruction of which is being planned by
dastardly saboteurs who have tunnelled
under the slipway and planted some
hundredweights of dynamite ready to
fii ow the good ship to smithereens before
s h e reaches the water. It naturally falls
to George, with, of course, his ukulele and
a personable little minx to assist him, to
ge t wind of the whole busine~s, to be
hounded down by his fellow-cops as a
suspected saboteur, to be copped by the
saboteurs themselves and prepared for a
sticky finish, to escape and reach the
slipway and save H.M.S. Here, by about
.000237 of a second,
* * * *
“Come, Live With Me”
xhe s j ow? vague mumblings of Mr.
j ames Stewart being recognised or
accepte d as comedy and the streamlined
Hedy Lamarr being accepted as the
criterion of glamor, this current stretch
Q f fl ap perfodder at Sydney St. James
m ust be recorded as comedy-romance,
xhe Lamarr figures as a refugee threat-
ened with deportation unless she can
rnarry an American citizen at short
notice, but the only one she feels in-
clined to marry is Mr. lan Hunter, who
a l r eady has a strife. Therefore, in one
G f those situations dear to the heart of
film magnates. Miss Lamarr accidentally
encounters penurious author Mr. Stewart
and persuades him to marry her, for
which he receives a living allowance to
enable him to write his masterpiece or
something. Meanwhile Mr. Hunter per-
suades his missus to agree to a divorce,
and it only remains for Miss Lamarr to
persuade Mr. Stewart to agree to the
same thing. Anyone who can’t guess the
rest of it can’t possibly have been in a
filmhouse for the last five years,
* * *
Sydney State has Sis Hopkins, Sis
being portrayed by Judy Canova. She s
as good as she was in “Scatterbrain, and
aided by Charles Butterworth as her
guardian uncle she carries the film
brightly enough to cover the fact that it
follows pretty well-worn tracks.


HTS
LYS
ft
11
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
• •
- **T.'-
: M
* ; ‘V
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Bungaree”: On averages Kanoona
(S.A.) led with £l2B a head. Bundemar
(N.S.W.) averaged £ll3. Its grand cham-
pion realised 670gns. and the reserve ram
was passed in at 310gns. Wahwoon and
Burrabogie did well. Boonoke sold one
ram for 500gns. and others at three
figures. Egelabra sheep sold consistently.
Over 100 rams from Haddon Rig aver-
aged more than £BO a head, and one ram
topped the sales at 1050gns. The tops
handled particularly well. The wool was
of great length, dense and full of rich
character.
Demand for fine and superfine types
was weaker. Strong wools were favorites,
mediums running them close. Some
buyers were after density without regard
for overdevelopment, but on the whole
there was less evidence of body wrinkles,
saucer tails and verandahs than usual.
Some of the rams may have looked all
right in their home paddocks, but they
showed up badly alongside better sheep.
One striking feature was the strong
desire of Queensland buyers for stylish
sheep from well-known studs. Another
was the, number of S.A. buyers who came
to Sydney.
Anyone wanting flock rams could have
had bargains. Many studs went at
flock prices, and the number of selecteds
and flocks passed in was considerable.
Though only 66 p.c. of the British
breeds were sold, prices were satisfac-
tory. Top price was 142igns. for a
Border Leicester ram from Kelso (Vic.).
Borders averaged about £lB, the highest
for many years.
Dorsets weren’t sought, and, though
Newbold (S.A.) sold rams at between
£35 and £45, several studs failed to sell
any.
Only one Romney ram was sold. Rye-
lands sold well; Southdowns were few
and averages were lower.
Corriedale quality was patchy; so was
the demand. A Wellwood ram made
130gns., a Bulgandra 120gns. and others
between 50gns. and lOOgns. Plainly
buyers are not so ready to pay the prices
of a year ago for anything but the very
best.
Phenothiazine.
“H.T.C.”; The phenothiazine drench
(B. 11/6/’4l) represents possibly the
greatest advance in parasite control in
the past 20 years. Results of experi-
ments in America, France, England and
Australia have been remarkably uniform,
showing a 90 p.c. to 100 p.c. efficiency
against the stomach worm {Hcemonchus
contortus ), approximately 80 p.c. against
the hairworm (Trichostrongylus spp .)
and 90 p.c. to 100 p.c. efficiency against
the nodule worm {CEsophagostomum
spp.). It has little, if any, efficiency
against tapeworm and fluke.
Previous to its discovery there was no
practical method known of eradicating
nodule worm, which caused high sheep
mortality in areas of summer rainfall,
and graziers had to resort to the cum-
bersome and dangerous enema treatment.
Phenothiazine is practically non-toxic,
and may be given to ewes in lamb or
sheep very emaciated and weak. Its toxic
power on internal parasites is so great
that it is being tried in licks, and encour-
aging results have come from a small
percentage of phenothiazine in mineral
supplements.
Only small quantities are at present
manufactured in Australia. Its present
cost per sheep works out at approxi-
mately 4d., which makes it economical
only for the “tail” of a badly-infested
flock, or where there is definite infes-
tation of nodule worm.
Phosphatic Licks.
“R. Ney”: The C.S.I.R. announces the
result of a series of Commonwealth-wide
tests: “In the case of sheep grazed on
natural pastures there has been no clear
demonstration that they derive any
benefit from phosphatic licks.”
Sheep are most selective in grazing.
They will pick out young shoots from
green pastures and seeds from dry ones,
and, as both contain more phosphorus
than the grass itself, an ordinary chemical
examination of the pasture doesn’t show
how much phosphorus sheep really get.
Phosphorus, too, is only beneficial when
“First it's door-knockers; now it's floor and furniture polish. Can'tcher say no to them drummers ?”
the pasture is satisfactory in all other
respects. Further, abnormal bone de-
velopments in sheep are due primarily to
causes other than a phosphorus lack, and
perverted appetites cannot be corrected
by phosphatic licks.
Cattle in South Africa seem to have
benefited from phosphatic licks, but the
council states that their bone-building
needs are far greater than with sheep.
And under natural grazing conditions
cattle don’t get anything like the same
amount of phosphorus from the grass
as do sheep.
Phalaris Is Useful.
“Toowoomba”: Phalaris can be grown
in country with a rainfall as low as 14in.,
though there are risks anywhere under
19in. It has drought-resistance and also
flood-resistance —it can stand complete
submergence for weeks. It makes active
growth all the year, except for the hot-
test and driest summer months. It does
well on most soils, though the heavy
black stuff and the deep red, volcanic,
self-mulching loams please it mightily,
Given a clay subsoil about a foot down,
it will do well on light, sandy country,
Autumn sowing on a good seedbed is
the best start. About 11b. an acre is a
rate. . , . , . ,
Phalaris is a slow starter, but when i
gets going its underground stems trave
quickly. It it can be done, a new stan
ought to be allowed to seed to thic en
up. A good legume should go with i ,
subterranean clover is one of the es ,
though red clover does well with it on
black country of good rainfall. Don’t
mix lucerne with phalaris where there’s
a shortage of moisture-the lucerne will
Vu i t
grab me lot.
.
Calf Rearing.
“Peapod”: Cows in calf should have
ample feed and exercise, but they should
not be allowed to come in too forward in
condition.
After calving see that the calf is left
with its mother for three days to give it
a good start. Then put it in a small pen
by itself. It will drink readily if given a
finger to suck and led to the bucket,
Provide whole milk for first fortnight. By
then the calf can be put in the calf pad-
dock.
Select a fresh paddock each year. Have
it handy to the bails with water and
shelter. Make a calf bail for feeding,
Follow up whole milk with mixture of
whole milk and skim, gradually increas-
ing the latter until only skim is being
given. Then start adding warm water
so that at the end of the second month
the calf is receiving gallons twice daily
in equal proportions of water and skim.
Follow liquid with a little bran. This takes
away taste of milk and prevents ear
sucking and such habits.
After second month introduce a table-
spoonful of molasses. On fine days let
the calves out on to topdressed teed dur-
ing the day. Feed calves four months
and then turn them out on a hill pad-
, , ... „ „ ■ . . r r . „_ occ ,
dock with a good bite of fresh grass and
plenty of shelter. See that they have suf-
ficient feed and supply a good salt lick.
J &
“Canbelego”: A growing calf needs
plenty of protein, nutrients for vigorous
growth, minerals—especially calcium,
phosphorus and common salt—and a
liberal supply of vitamins. Practically
all are in lucerne chaff. Failing lucerne,
give equal parts of linseed meal and
ground sorghum grain. Let the calves
have continuous access to a mineral mix-
ture ol two parts by weight of steamed
bonemeal, two parts of ground limestone
and one part of common salt.
A. Prize Maize.
“Y. Dent”: Bowden’s Surprise, a
pj unter River maize not unlike Early
Clarence, won first prize for A. J.
Clements, Towamba, in a N.S.W. South
£ oast maize contest. It is smaller in cob
an[ j g ra i n than Early Clarence and
ma t ures earlier. Its type isn’t very
, frrm „i v fi XPf i
*cu-
. 1 8 re " on an old
‘ hat had had ,hree 7 ears under . clov , e ‘
and rye and one maize crop previously.
He ploughed 6in. deep in early Sep-
tember, harrowed it four times and rolled
ft j us j before sowing in early October.
Rows were 3ft. 4in. apart, with a couple
of grains every 2ft.
The crop got a great start and de-
veloped with little stalk and cob rot.
A feature was the way the variety
stuck to its type ; the fixation surprised
the expert who looked it over. Every
stalk carried a cob of good size ; grain
quality was high, color bright and weight
good. It should go 115 bushels an acre,
Crops of Learning, the second likely
to yield 195 bushels, filled the places in
the contest, and two of Yellow Dent were
close, losing largely through lack of type
and disease. Y.D. seems to be losing its
popularity in those parts, probably be-
cause it takes root-rot easily and will
lodge in a wild season. Learning is corn-
ing on ; so is Golden Nugget. Farmers
will want to know more about the wm-
ning variety,
Hints f Farm-
. _
Valerm • Toxsm.a of pregnancy
occu ' s a fcw week ;. b u ri ,° re lambl “8.
mos «y a ™°"B ewes which have been on
Sood feed lha t has 8°“, off. Symptoms
ara dopiness, apparent blindness and par-
tial paralysis. Supplementary feeding--
chaff or hay with a lick (30 bonemeal
, coarse salt diluted with molasses!
and /U coarse salt diluted with molasses)
-wU help considerably. Drenching wi h
a mixture of a tablespoonful of sugar to
a 260 z. bottle of milk may effect a save,
If the wheat crop is sufficiently advanced
put the ewes on it for a spell,
“F. 8.”; Paspalum swards require fre-
quent harrowing and topdressing with


BRITSTAND
GRAD&R-DITChER S
ol Ditching and Grading.
Does everything for which you previously
needed a Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4' deep, and
banks over 4’ high. Good for maintaining,
also station roads, shifting drift, etc. Over
10,000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to-day for free
illustrated leaflet.
Procurable from . • .
E.S.C.A. Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Melbourne,
Victoria
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Adelaide, S.A.
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Perth, W.A.
govbb^
'-' Mn e iS^ oo f ‘ ,o °
»ooe« oNS „o»
• i akitt cd
■ ca pita\, v
0« S V “*to * ve . t i»Vs to *' *e '
*•**"3 basic *»
<fLU i 4
J£>r*
ytAfi
..and it’s wonderful how much
can do for so little—when you
USE MASONITE
• The Federal Treasurer, concerned with war
economy, has put the brake on new building.
But his edict will not unduly handicap those
who perceive what practical miracles of modern-
isation (in both homes and business premises)
can be achieved with the most versatile of all
building materials —Masonite. These steel-strong,
easily worked, conveniently-sized boards —avail-
able in densities and thicknesses for every
interior requirement are undoubtedly the
paramount building investment of the war years.
Not only durable. Masonite is infinitely adapt-
able to every architectural design, finish and
Masonite boards are made in Australia from
Australian timbers hitherto thought commer-
cially useless. They possess the advantages
ol wood without its disadvantages. Masonite
is used for both modernisation and new con-
struction; lor floors, counter tops, for “tiling".
for partitioning —in fact, for ”1,000 uses".
treatment. They make possible a type of
modernisation which will still be up-to-date
when the war is forgotten. You should have
samples and details. Get in touch with the
Building Materials Division of The Colonial
Sugar Refining Company.
311M31
PRESDWOOD .'. TEMPERED PRESDWOOO . . QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE . .
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD (Building Materials Division) Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide
Perth
phosphates and lime. If neglected the
sward becomes root-bound. Best method
of rejuvenating root-bound paspalum is
to plough it in narrow furrows. A
fresh, young growth of paspalum will
result and the furrows provide a seed-
bed for introducing other grasses. Top-
dressing later will bring up a richer
growth.
“Sailor Bill”: Cowpea vines can be
chaffed with fodder grasses or may be fed
whole to horses and cattle. If the vines are
excessively green sprinkle with molasses
before feeding them whole ; it will im-
prove the food value and neutralise any
poisonous acids.
“Tammy Mcßerk”; To get rid of lice
in pigs, Hawkesbury College (N.S.W.)
recommends an emulsified neatsfoot oil
—two of water to one of oil —spread
with a fine-nozzle spray pump. Spray
a second time about a fortnight after
the first to get rid of young lice hatched
out after the first spraying. Oil brood
sows about a fortnight before farrowing
and again a couple of days before. This
gives the young piglets a clear start. To
emulsify the oil, dissolve two teaspoonfuls
of washing soda in two quarts of water,
then stir into a quart of neatsfoot oil.
“Peapod”: To preserve timber of out-
buildings, gates, etc., apply a mixture of
kerosene, creosote oil and tar in the pro-
portions of one, one and four respectively.
Clean off all paint from timber before
applying. Kerosene and creosote are
poured into the tar and stirred
thoroughly. Apply only when timber is
dry, otherwise it will rot under the coat.
Use a strong, wide brush for an even
surface.
“Sailor Bill”: Having broken the hard
crust of the underlying soil with a hoe
we broadcast swede seed over heaps of
ash that remained where we had burned
off felled scrub. Good rain produced a
fine crop of swedes, and there were no
weeds —the seeds had been destroyed by
the fire.
“Yeno Ham”: On Kooba station, Lee-
ton (N.S.W.), cost of feeding sheep with
fodder grown and conserved on the prop-
erty is reckoned at a penny a week for
the 21b. ration each sheep gets daily.
Kooba is 120,000 acres in area, 90,000
acres irrigated. To farm 35,000 acres,
150 men are employed, either on shares
or as farm workers. This season 400
acres of saccaline, yielding 10 tons per
acre, was chaffed and pitted for silage.
Other crops are oats, wheat and lucerne.
“Bundalinga”: Around Oberon
(N.S.W.) one or two crops of green peas
grown before sowing permanent pastures
have materially increased the pastures, as
well as reducing cost of establishment.
After the peas are picked the vines are
grazed heavily and the land given a shal-
low working. Pasture seed is sown early
in autumn so that swards are well estab-
lished before the heavy frosts. Grazing
usually begins three months after sow-
ing. Up to six sheep per acre are carried
the year round. Average wool cut on
one property has increased by 21b. per
head in two years. Good results came
from a pasture mixture of 101 b. peren-
nial rye, 31b. of sub. clover and 1121 b. of
super, an acre.
“Valerin”: The claim that skeleton
weed does not affect wheat yields is false
and mischievous. In the Marrad and
Coolamon districts (N.S.W.) the small
grower has been practically wiped out.
As a pasture plant s.w. is overrated ; for
a few months it may provide feed, but
at the expense of something far better.
On my property early summer rains
brought up a prolific growth on infested
areas, a dry spell followed, and all I’ve
got now are dry stalks which wouldn’t
carry a bandicoot to the acre.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Departments
(1) Names of leading pastoral journals pub-
lished in N.S.W. and Q’land ? (2) Titles of
Cunnamulla, Charleville and Tibooburra papers ?
—1660.
(1) Pastoral journals in N. S. Wales;
“Farmer and Settler,” “Country Life,” “The
Land,” “Pastoral Review,” “Primary Producer,”
“Agricultural Gazette,” “Live Stock Bulletin,”
“Power Farming.” In Queensland; “Dalgety’s
Review,” “Graziers’ Journal,” “Queensland
Country Life,” “Queensland Producer,” “Aus-
tralian P.G.F. and S. Gazette,” “Live Stock
Bulletin,” “Producers’ Review,” “Agricultural
Journal.” (2) None at Tibooburra, “Times” at
each of the others.
* * ♦ %
Means of curing itch or mange in a horse?
—1176.
First stop the horse rubbing by tying him up
short with two head ropes in a wide stall,
taking care he can’t get his head down to rub
the mane on the feedbox. Diet should be
cooling—bran mash at night two or three times
a week, greenstuff cut up in the chaff; corn,
one, two or three feeds a day according to
work. Wash mane and tail with warm water
and carbolic soft soap. When they are dry
apply the following lotion: Bicarb, of soda,
20z. ; bicarb, of potash, loz.; methylated
spirits, 40z.; water one quart. Wash mane
and tail about three times a week, apply lotion
every night. Give one of these powders every
night in damped feed; Bicarb soda, \oz. ;
common salt, Joz.; flower of sulphur, Joz.;
powdered liquorice root, loz. After two or
three weeks of this the horse should be cured.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXXVI.
HELPING THE WAR EFFORT.
The first thing you notice is that the
heap of bottles behind the stables is
gone. Then you are struck by the tidi-
ness of the yard. There are no odd bits
of sheet-iron, no broken implement parts,
no old bags or rags, the place has a
swept and garnished look. The ebooks,
wandering in this unusual cleanliness,
have a haunted sort of look as though
they had lost something and expected it
to reappear at any moment.
You have been away in the back pad-
dock since early morn. Somebody must
have worked pretty solidly to get the
place cleaned up like that. With a warm
feeling in your heart towards your two
boys you go inside and say to the missus
“By cripes, the kids did a good job in
the yard. What started them?”
“Nothing,” she says. “It wasn’t them.
The salvage collectors came out from
town.”
“Eh?”
“Mrs. Jordan was telling me last Satur-
day how they did her place. It’s for the
war and the money they get goes to the
hospital. They collect all the old rubbish
and things that aren’t wanted and use
them to make things for the war.”
“Gosh,” you say, “I wonder what they
put in them ol’ bottles. Hope it’s half
as good as the stuff that came out o’
them. Time they clean up all the farms
about here they oughter have a decent
heap of stuff.”
“They have a big motor-truck,” she
says. “There’s a man and four boys and
they collect all the old paper, bottles, tin,
rags, leather and stuff you don’t want.
My word, I was glad to see the last of
some of that rubbish.”
Jack, the elder boy, arrives. “Holy
smoke,” he says, “what sort of a cyclone’s
hit the place. Y’ can actually walk about
out there without failin’ over somethin’.”
Tom, the younger, arrives. “Mum,”
he says, “did you take my coat off the
post near the tank?”
His mother looks at him, smiling
gently, and replies, “What, that old coat
that’s been hanging there since Sunday?
Oh, that’s gone.”
“Gone where?”
She explains about the salvage and the
war effort.
A wild look comes over Tom’s face.
“Hey,” he howls, “there was two bob
and me best skinnin’ knife in that coat.
Y’ can’t do that. Givin’ things away.
My cripeys, that’s pretty hot. How about
me two bob an’ me skinnin’ knife?”
Your wife looks to you and you come
nobly to her rescue. “Now look, Tom,”
you say, “your mother wasn’t t’ know
there was anythin’ in the coat. I’ll make
up the money and the knife an’ ”
Jack cuts in, looking piercingly at his
mother, “Mum, what else did you give
them?”
A cold shock runs down your spine.
Years ago she had given things to a
jumble sale for some local charity. Your
favorite old hat was among them. You’d
had that hat for years. You and Jack
look hard at one another, then you grab
the hurricane lamp and make for the
shed. Unbelievingly you stare at the
space where your old oilskin had hung
for months, the box of leather scraps is
is gone. Gone, too, are the old binder-
canvas and the three old motor-tyres
you’d been saving to make brake-shoes for
the wagon. You go back to the house.
“Me oilskin, me leather, me tyres,”
you stutter at her. She takes on a de-
fiant look, but before she can speak
there is a roar from Jack’s room and he
charges down the passage. “All me oF
Bulletins,” he howls. “Me tin o’ razor-
blades, me Wagga rug!” He slumps into
a chair and glares at his mother.
“Such a fuss about a lot o’ useless
rubbish,” she declares. “That oilskin has
been hanging in the shed since the winter
before last, when you bought the new
one. How was I to know you wanted
the tyres? A person couldn’t go into
Jack’s room without falling over heaps
of papers, and I’ve always been afraid
that somebody’s children would find
those razor-blades. What good are they?
And as for that dirty old bag thing you
call a Wagga rug, my boy, it should have
been burnt long ago. This place has
been a rubbish tip far too long, adding
to a woman’s work, collecting dust and
insects. You and your oilskins!” She
pauses, her lip trembles, but she beats
back the tears and goes on. Something
about the years she has spent trying to
keep the place in order and the chance
to get rid of stuff that nobody wants, and
it was helping the war effort and what was
the good of a person trying and so on.
Somewhere in the middle of it you and
Jack sneak outside and sit on the veran-
dah. Jack is learning for the first time
something that you learned years ago —
that women can never understand a
man’s love for an ancient hat or a use-
less personal article that has been pen-
sioned off. To her it is just a greasy
and somewhat offensive old hat; to you it
is part of your daily life. You’re going
to miss that old oilskin, and for the first
time since the war began you experience a
living hatred of the enemy. After a bit you
light your pipe and say to Jack, “This’ll
teach you t’ keep an eye on your things.’
He gets up and walks morosely off into
the darkness. You wait till you hear the
missus go to bed, then you creep inside
and prepare for rest.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
A Westralian’s thought-provoking study in contrasts is placed first this week.
Seen from Scotchman’s Hill
I stood upon Scotchman’s Hill, which
gives the impecunious a free view of the
Fremantle (W.A.) football oval. Beneath
surged a crowd of thousands. On the
grassy arena were mustered the gladia-
tors, splendid specimens of manhood,
trained to a hair—each without question
physically fit. The match began and the
partisan crowd cheered deliriously as one
or the other of the teams succeeded in
getting the bag of wind through the goal-
posts.
Presently, almost like ghosts stealing
away through the sea mists, two ships
came out of the harbor. A transport and
her cruiser escort. A few men bound for
some distant bulwark of the British Com-
monwealth of Nations. So few! Seeing
that Australia is committed to the volun-
tary system I don’t mind young fellows
being too indifferent to go ; too fond of
pleasure to go ; too attached to their lady
friends to go ; or even too scared to go.
But this flaunting of splendid physiques
before admiring crowds while a few of
their generation go off to defend the free-
dom that all enjoy—well, thank God
we’ve got a Navy!—W. C. C. (W.A.).
Things That Matter
Some weeks ago while the struggle for
Crete was at its height, while a hard-
pressed handful of the Empire’s best and
bravest was figffting a day-and-night
hand-to-hand fight to hold that key point
in the front line, I sat listening to the
tail-end of the broadcast of the League
football match between Melbourne and
Richmond. 1 suppose it was all right
for the broadcaster to tell us what a thrill-
ing and exciting game it was, but I was
bowled over by his concluding remarks:
“How good it would be if the boys
overseas had been here to see it!”
As a naval man returned from over-
seas, this is one example of many things
that take the wind out of my sails. —
F. N. D. (Vic.).
Tobruk
It is a grave fault of the sensational
press that big headlines and the lion’s
share of space should b 6 squandered on
our reverses, while references to the
heroic defenders of Tobruk are either
tucked away in obscure corners or simply
omitted. As an incentive to enlistment in
the A.1.F., reports of the gallant and
effective defence of Tobruk and stressing
the need of the garrison there for a rest
should be of more value than wordy re-
criminations of reverses. — Plain Jane
(N.S.W.).
The Soldier’s Pay
The constant claims of all classes,
trade-unions in particular, for more
money and improved conditions are
made without any consideration for the
men on active service. The soldier re-
ceives no rise or overtime for his part
in the war effort —his sacrifice generally
entails a monetary loss. Of course that’s
all part of the game. We would like to
give very much more —if the country
could afford it, so we say.
Our inability to pay him a decent wage
is not a reasonable excuse when we look
at some of the money-squandering pro-
jects we have undertaken since the out-
break. Child endowment is a fair
example. It would have been more
decent to use the money which this
scheme will cost to fatten the soldier’s
pay envelope. We have managed a long
time without child endowment, and in
these days of full employment there was
certainly no urgent need to introduce it.
It’s time someone thought of the un-
spoken claims of the soldier. If the
country can afford any increase or benefit
to any class or section, his claim should
come first. —C. H. (Q.).
Contrast
National Security Regulations prohibit
property-owners from spending more
than £250 on improvements to buildings.
Buildings costing more than £3OOO may
not be built except by permission of the
Federal Treasurer. Importers may not
import goods even from Britain and the
Dominions without special license, and
money may not be sent to patriotic funds
in England to help buy Spitfires. All
necessary restrictions, no doubt, in the
interest of national economy ; but house-
owners, builders, importers and patriots
must find it galling to read news items
such as this which appeared recently in
Brisbane’s “Courier-Mail”:
Cooper Loses £3OOO at Ascot.
You don’t need a license or a permit to
spend your money with the bookies!
Smilax (Q.).
“Reserved”
A friend of mine enlisted, giving his
occupation as “station overseer.” He
was passed fit and told to wait until
called. When called he resigned his
position, travelled 100 miles by car and
300 by train to report. By that time the
military had discovered what a station
overseer (in the pastoral industry) was,
“ That'll teach you to peep !”
and at the depot my friend was told he
was in a reserved occupation.
Our goldmining industry is considered
essential and contains its list of reserved
jobs, yet any holder of these jobs can,
on describing himself as a “laborer,”
enlist. His management can actually
have him reserved, but few managements
feel that way inclined and consequently
the industry suffers.
We curse all this muddling, but most
of us are leaning back on the breeching
straps instead of getting up into the
collar. Look at the stock and station
agencies at stock-selling centres —a morn-
ing’s sale of sheep is handled by three
or four firms. Amalgamated for war-
time conditions, one firm’s staff could do
all the necessary work, credit the vari-
ous commissions to the clients’ respective
firms and release the superfluous staffs
for active or home service. That is only
one instance of what such amalgamations
could achieve.
In our small country town there are
two banks but not enough work for one.
The young clerks therein hold reserved
occupations. Amalgamation in country
areas could release hundreds if not thou-
sands of bank clerks. No doubt such
amalgamations would not be easy to
arrange, but if we don’t win the war a
bank clerk’s job will be connected with
the payments for armies of occupation,
as in France.
But what can we expect of what we
call democracy whose mentality allows
it to pay ever-increasing and' largely un-
taxed wages for five and a half short
grumbling days in each not-strike-free
week, while the pick of the nation, the
straightest thinkers, the manliest, the best
potential sires, fire bullets for us under
appalling conditions for ss. a day.
X. R. I. (W.A.).
A.B.C. and A.I.F.
Letters from men of our fighting forces
overseas were being read over the
national network by a trained elocution-
ist who spoke in a very “cultured” voice.
The first letter was from an air-crew
member of the R.A.A.F. training in
Canada. The elocutionist threw all his
voice training and “culture” into reading
the letter, making the listeners’ ears
curl up.
A second letter was from a Digger
in Palestine. The man behind the mike,
in an attempt to create atmosphere or
something, read the Digger’s epistle in
a strained, deep, gruff voice, slurring his
words and dropping his aitches a couple
of times in what he thought was a pretty
fair imitation of the typical Digger’s
speech. He succeeded only in giving the
impression he had a marble under his
tongue. The contrast was painful. —
Bulong K. Kanowna (W.A.).
I hope that the A.B.C. preserves the
records used to broadcast messages to
home folks from the A.I.F. Those
records will be valuable for reference
when the A.B.C. is putting on broadcasts
involving “typical” Australian voices.
Generally, if the voice to be broadcast is
supposed to belong to a Digger, a coun-
try man or a worker the A.B.C. gives
the impression that such people are un-
cultured dolts. The “voices from over-
seas” broadcast by men of the A.I.F.
should set a new standard for crispness,
good pronunciation, enunciation and
literacy,— Paul Pilgrim (N.S.W.).
Army Training
Allow me to ask “Phoenix” (B.
25/6/’4l) whether that part of the army
training which includes spud peeling has
anything to do with the military educa-
tion of the colonel or the abolition of
compulsory training?
I thought that most enlightened folk
were now abreast of the fact that pota-
toes in their skins are a valuable food
from the dietic standpoint. This fact,
has, of course, always been known in
Ireland. And if there are any soldiers
who really dislike a potato with its jacket
on, then surely it would be a very simple
matter to remove it—-on the plate.
Is this beyond the comprehension of
the military authorities, or is it that it’s
an offence against King’s Regulations for
an army potato to appear at the table
in its civilian jacket? — Pte. (N.S.W.).
Munitions Drive
If- the intention of my car-owming
friends is any guide scores of thousands
of motor vehicles will be jacked up on
blocks for the duration. Motorists have
adopted a “we-can-take-it” attitude and
are not complaining. But some better
plan for the absorption of dismissed
garage hands is needed than allowing
them to drift to the already overcrowded
big cities and munition-making towns.
Why build more munition factories
and homes for their employees while
huge areas of garage space and many
vacant homes are available in country
towns? Why complain of the shortage
of machine tools when hundreds of
lathes, etc., are idle or only in use for a
few hours a day? There are at least a
thousand and one items that go into
machines of war which country garages
could make.
Instead of dismissing employees these
garages should be engaging more men
so as to work their machine tools round
the clock for seven days a week turning
out nails for Hitler’s coffin. A supervisor
from the Department of Munitions could
be stationed in each town to keep check
on the work done. The scheme would
mean some rail haulage, but no more
than it will take to drag men, their
families and furniture away from their
homes to work elsewhere. The depres-
sion in country towns is becoming vocal.
Surely the implementing of some such
scheme as outlined is not beyond our
organising ability?—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Housing Munition Workers
The problem of housing a big propor-
tion of our munition workers shouldn’t
give anyone a headache ; we have over-
come the same problem in the past.
When the Murray irrigation scheme was
under way after the last war, accom-
modation was provided for thousands of
workmen and their families by construct-
ing wooden cubicles, made in sections,
easily erected or dismantled, and so built
that they could be joined, if necessary,
to make a house of several rooms. The
most popular combination on the Murray
was a central room with a gable roof, to
serve as a combination of living-room
and kitchen, with a skillion room on
each side as bedrooms. In those days
the cubicles were built of imported soft-
woods, but today all-Australian materials
are available, and the advent of pressed
boards for linings permits a far greater
degree of comfort for
those who must live in
temporary homes. Vic-
torian mountain ash or
plantation-grown radiata
pine from S.A. can pro-
vide the material for
weather- and floor-
boards, as well as for
floors, studs, joists and
roof timbers.
In S.A. two of the
three main munition
plants are on the out-
skirts of the suburbs and
the third lies right out
on open farmland, so
there is no shortage of
country on which tem-
porary settlements could
be erected. Brief exten-
sions of existing road,
lighting, water and deep-
drainage facilities could
be made to them. They
would be close enough to
the factories to call for
very little travelling—an
important point when the staff is working
overtime ; at present those engaged in the
construction of a factory near Adelaide
have to spend three to four hours daily
in travelling if they live in or beyond the
third tram section outside the city.
If let at 7s. weekly to munition
workers, not only would the interest on
the capital cost be met, but the repay-
ment of some of the principal as well,
while experience shows that a cubicle has
a fairly high resale value. — Narcoote
(S.A.).
Anzacs in England
Australians who lived in England
before the war appreciated the rest-
fulness of a land of slow tempo, of
people the majority of whom speak in
calm voices and after time for plenty of
thought. Ambitious Australians arriving
there were warned with genuine kindness
to “slow down,” and it was only those of
them who had made certain wise adapta-
tions who rose high in careers, liked and
were liked.
I watched round-chinned English Ms.P.
arrive in their country homes to change
happily into tweeds and enjoy rural
week-ends with their wives, children and
dogs. All of them had visited other
countries and some had written books
about them as authorities, but they some-
times expressed comfortable incredulity
as to another war being started by as
intelligent a people as the Germans. I
compared these Englishmen’s faces with a
picture of Drake that adorned a certain
advertisement in the tube stations, and
missed the look of alertness.
A few months after war came behold!
there were the fighting, lean jaws
of Old England under the weird hats of


QUESTIONS
WE ARE GLAD TO
ANSWER.
The Rural Bank is your Bank. Its opera-
tions are an important part of the life
of the State. Here are some questions
which may have occurred to you , . . and
the interesting answers.
Q. —How long has the Rural Bank heen serving
the State ?
A.—Since 1.899, when it commenced as the
Advances to Settlers Board.
Q. —Of what assistance has it been?
A.—Since its inception it has made 90,000
advances, totalling over £59,000,000.
Q. —To whom has this money been lent?
A. —To farmers and home-builders, thereby
stimulating primary production and
directly helping to increase employment.
Q. —How much has all this cost the taxpayer?
A.—Not a penny! From its inception the Bank
has made regular hut moderate profits
consistent with its policy of “Maximum
service at minimum cost.”
Q. —Where does the Bank get the money it
lends?
A. —A considerable proportion is derived from
the transaction of usual banking business
—Fixed Deposits and Current Accounts.
Funds are also derived from the issue of
Inscribed Stock and debentures and capital
repayments on existing loans.
Fixed Deposits are accepted and cheque
accounts opened at all branches.
'A iUSk A
R U R AMI A N K
OF NEW
H WALES
Head Office: Martin Place, Sydney.
Com mission ers:
C. K. McKEKIHAN (President), H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS.
Your Bank—Serving You, Serving the State.
NOCK & KIRBY’S
THE NEW FIVE-INCH
“GREAT SCOT” LATHE
This is a special heavy duty precision lathe which has been
designed for use in Production Shops, Machine Shops, Garages,
etc. Inspect this new model at our 417 or 188 George Street
Store, Tool Department, Ground Floor, or write for complete
specifications now. Available for immediate delivery.
• AUTOMATIC CROSS FEED • 2ft. 4in. BETWEEN CENTRES
• DYNAMICALLY BALANCED « VIBRATIONLESS
CASH PRICE .... £125 -0-0
EASE OF OPERATION
IS
OUTSTANDING FEATURE
HEAD STOCK CONE
• HIGH-SPEED PRODUCTION
BENCH LATHES
G Sin. CENTRES
• FULL SET CHANGE
WHEELS FOR ALL
STANDARD THREADS
G BUILT TO STRICT TOLER-
ANCE LIMITS
NOCK & KIRBY LTD
Postal Address. ..BOX 4150 Y G.P.O. SYDNEY
/
/
i
'l\ v i '
««•
\
■' ‘ .y" Jy
... yt#i*‘W/
*««r
; M/r
r.j
ikstmmn re satanam-
Dm sncuusi ihhabwtsuks
* ACCURATE WEIGHTS ★ HIGHEST PRICES
* EXPERT CLASSING ★ LIBERAL ADVANCES
Write for Market Reports and Labels
WOOL AND PRODUCE BROKERS
FAT 8C STUD STOCK AUCTIONEERS
STORE, STOCK AND PROPERTY
SALESMEN
BENT STREET. SYDNEY
Telegrams: Schute Bell. Sydney. Telephone: 8W4341,
m
%
fl
'
■
m
f
“This hook of photographs.. .should he on the shelves of ah
Australian golfers, hath for its instructional value and as a
very faithful record of the methods of our greatest player
—From Eric Apperly’s introduction to the book.
JIM FERRIER’S “GOLF SHOTS”
contains 118 photographs of the champion in action, selected by Terrier from a special
glow-motion film made of him before his departure for America.
The essential points of each shot are illustrated and explained in a way that puts
80 off the stick within the reach of everyone.
The size of the page is 10 x 12 inches.
The few copies remaining O /
to clear at m*
(postage 3d. extra).
From the publishers,
Ihe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 252188.
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW


the Antipodes. With the arrival of the
Anzacs came a kind of electric cur-
rent. Their faces never lost, even when
smiling, the quizzing, penetrating expres-
sion of the deep eyes, and I looked with-
out success for one rounded chin. They
looked like a small brood of lean hawks
amongst a great gathering of calm,
domesticated pigeons.
But Australians who were distressed
to find that there were unaccountable
muddles and delays in getting, simple
affairs fixed, such as their passports,
grew thoughtful. An Australian who had
lived in England for many years and
liked it best of all lands went for an inter-
view with authorities connected with
military service, who asked him if Queens-
land still imported Kanaka labor! Those
authorities were working nearly 20 hours
out of 24 daily, six days a week, without a
grumble where Australians would have
been unbearable with irritability. But in
a life-and-death struggle against an eagle,
the hawks should at least share the places
on the authoritative councils with the
patient pigeons. I saw first-hand the
results of the cruelty of the gangster
leaders of Europe, and more than one
Australian still in England must long, as
I did, for the Anzac spirit of initiative
and the swift attack to show more abun-
dantly in the policy and tactics of the
high command. —M. Maclean (N.S.W.).
Squealing
Mr. Menzies stated in Parliament that
the Federal Government would “con-
sider” curtailing organised sport to aid the
war effort. He could “say no more than
that.” What he did say raised a squeal,
by courtesy of the Stunt Press, that was
just about deafening. The idea that far-
riers, saddlers and transport men (among
the useful ones) and racecourse hangers-
on, bookies and punters “big” and small
(among the not-so-useful ones) could
probably help Australia’s war effort in
more practical ways seemed to have
dawned on no one.
The expression “all-in war” has been
used often enough to lose most of its
force, but it’s still the only term for what
our war effort should amount to. In
Britain total war has meant worse things
than losing a job or being pitchforked
from a redundant occupation into a posi-
tion of fighting efficiency. The men of
the A.I.F. have given up good jobs with-
out waiting to be stranded out of them
by war-emergency conditions.
Perhaps the Government wouldn’t have
to get down on its benders and- plead
for A.I.F. recruits if the squeals of some
whose threatened occupations are side-
issues to winning the war were to fall on
deaf ears.— Plum (N.S.W.).
Imported Comic Strips
“F.M.” (B. 18/6/’4l) says: “Let us
have some imported strips, some trashy
horse operas, a few hillbilly songs and
‘Gone with the Wind.’ ” By which I
gather that the said importations do not
affect “F.M.’s” own bread and butter.
Australians of his sort have a peculiar
reasoning. They are willing to admit that
Australia has the best soldiers, the best
cricketers, the best workmen. Think
what an outcry there would be if artisans
were imported to do some job in Aus-
tralia, or if sportsmen were brought from
overseas for Australian clubs! We should
soon hear the bleats of all the “F.M.”
fraternity that Australians were good
enough for an Australian job.
The craze for the imported takes a
peculiar turn. The local boot-trade hand
“Two ships of the desert to starboard — torpedoes. FIRE!”
thinks he makes as good a boot as any
overseas worker, but he collects his Aus-
tralian wages and goes out and buys an
imported hat. The Australian worker in
the hat trade reckons his craftsmanship
the equal of any, but he goes out with his
wages and buys imported boots.
“F.M.” is obviously not an artist or a
writer, so he prefers imported strips and
books. He would probably fail to see
the humor of the situation if local comic-
«trip artists and local writers bought
from overseas whatever article “F.M.”
produces to earn his crust in Australia.—
Arev (Vic,).
House Rents
Several contributors have written on
this subject with the assumption that a
dwelling-house is, in a measure, public
property to be disposed of on terms to
be fixed by some arbitrary authority.
Why should the owner of a dwelling
be compelled to let it for occupation by
someone he does not care for and at a
rental he is not prepared to accept?
Is there any good reason why, if I must
let a house to someone I do not care for
at a rental I deem inadequate, I should
not also be compelled to hire out a motor-
car or pleasure boat, a horse or any
other article under similar conditions?
Have any of these advocates of third-
party control of rents and restriction of
an owner’s right to reject would-be
tenants or eject bad ones ever seen the
scandalous damage caused to rented
houses by careless, dirty tenants and mis-
chievous, uncontrolled children? In many
cases tenants do far more damage than
can be covered by the rent they pay.
I have known many cases where tenants
have torn out lining boards and other
portions of the structure for firewood.
I would certainly not recommend any
investor to build dwellings with the pos-
sibility of being compelled to let them
to unapproved tenants on unremunera-
tive terms without the right to determine
the tenancy in self-protection. If it be-
comes unremunerative to build or to
buy dwellings to let, investors will cease
to do so, and any existing shortage will
be accentuated.
Were freedom of contract regarding
house tenancies restored and ownership
made reasonably attractive, the law of
supply and demand would again operate
and oversupply soon correct any ten-
dency to the collection of excessive
profits. On the other hand, the present
trend to control of rentals on low levels
and restriction of the owner’s right of
selection will inevitably result in reduc-
ing the number of privately-owned dwell-
ings available for letting and accentuate
any present alleged shortage.—F. W. G.
Annand (Q.).
If “J.G.” (B. 21/5/’4l) owned the
three shops in a certain N. S. Wales
country town that belong to a relative of
mine he would not think the landlord is
invariably on a good wicket. Two of the
shops are lockups. The other has
a residence attached; it is let at 30s.
a week, and one of the lockups at 15s.
The second lockup has been vacant since
July, 1939. Municipal and water and
sewerage rates last year amounted to £56,
so that these charges absorbed nearly
half the income received from the prop-
erties. In addition, some repairs were
undertaken, and it was also necessary
for the brick footpath to be replaced by
one of concrete, the council having de-
cided to have none but concrete foot-
paths.
All three shops are in reasonable con-
dition. They cannot be let at more re-
munerative rentals because the section of
the town in which they are situated,
though once the main business centre,
has of late years become a backwater.
People conveniently forget that there
is quite as much exploitation of the land-
lord by the tenant as vice versa. Damage
is often done to buildings by those rent-
ing them; many tenants flit with the
rent in arrears ; others who pay regularly
and are not destructive will leave a place
merely to suit their convenience, no
matter how reasonable the landlord has
been, and as often as not the property is
on the latter’s hands for some time. —
Tom (N.S.W.).
Jurymen
Now that the McKell Government of
N.S.W. is considering the appointment of
women jurors, why not draw upon an-
other untapped source which would
cause much less domestic dislocation?
There are hundreds of retired civil ser-
vants who have had lifelong exemption
from this work and who now have the
leisure and ability to do it.
Civil servants are retired compulsorily
10 or 15 years earlier than the average
businessman. They would welcome occa-
sional calls for jury duty, and the fees
would supplement their usually small
pensions. Numbers of them are accus-
tomed to sifting evidence, and some have
special technical and legal knowledge
which would be useful to fellow-jury-
men and even the Bench in many cases.
Apart from all that, they would not
be chafing throughout a long case be-
cause their business was being neglected,
as is often the case with jurymen now. —
Me (N.S.W.).
Hoarding
Why does the Government, when there
is to be an inevitable shortage of a cer-
tain commodity, advertise the fact?
Recently we were told that there would
be later on a shortage of woollen fabrics
and fingering wool for civilian use. We
were also informed that there were ade-
quite supplies for a year provided there
was only normal buying. The result was
a rush of women to the city shops deter-
mined to buy every bit of wool and
woollen cloth they could get their hands
on, whether they bought it outright or
put it lay-by. Now, of course, there is a
shortage of woollen cloth and certain
types of wool.
I know personally two women who
have a dozen pairs of spare shoes and
another who has bought for her two
children shoes in advancing sizes to last
them three years.—A. F. F. (S.A.).
Contentment
Last Saturday night I boarded a tram
filled with suburbanites on their way to
the pictures, dances and other delights of
the city. Every passenger was dressed
up in the best. Furs, silks, jewels, coif-
fures and make-up pandered to the lust
of the eye and the pride of life. Maids
and matrons with their escorts all
looked eager, but slightly anxious, as they
sized up the price and taste of each
other’s apparel. There was not a really
carefree smile in the compartment,
though every individual was on pleasure
bent.
At a tramstop a blind lady was guided
to a seat by a kindly conductor. Plainly
dressed, middle-aged, inconspicuous ex-
cept for her “affliction,” the newcomer,
seeming quite unconscious of her neigh-
bors, immediately began to knit a simple
woollen garment of some sort. All eyes
were focused on the flying fingers that
seemed to see the needles and the wool.
The face of the knitter wore an expres-
sion of peace and contentment that made
it beautiful with a beauty unattainable
by adventitious aids.
What was the secret of the blind
woman’s happiness? It could not have
been wealth or worldly possessions. It
could only have been the absence of
envy and ostentation, those two vices that
wreck the peace of individuals and
nations.
I proceeded on my way, occupied my
booked seat, gazed at a brilliant spec-
tacle, listened to splendid music, joined
in the laughter of an amused audience,
fought for a seat in the last car, and
so spent my Saturday night in the usual
pleasure hunt. But I was haunted by the
problem of a mind that could be inde-
pendent of all the mental stimulants I
sought, and still be happier than the
most pampered pleasure-seeker.— Great
Gain (S.A.).
Subsidised Writers
While the Prime Minister is demanding
sacrifices from the nation it comes as a
shock to find still more literary fellow-
ships have had to be awarded to Aus-
tralian writers to enable them to do what
often amounts to literary hack-work. At
the same time, new papers and old
papers appear week by week and, in-
deed, day by day with fresh supplies of
imported short stories, serials, articles and,
latest of all iniquities, imported verse.
Added to this glut of unnecessary im-
portations indifferent publications are
still proudly coming in from overseas and
critics here never lack a few new im-
ported novels to review. Fleet-street is
bombed, but no London publisher has
appeared in George-street, even though
many publishing houses have offices in
Sydney.
The fault is not that of the Australian
writer, whose works are represented in
dozens of established overseas publish-
ing houses ; it is the fault of a Govern-
ment which permits the importing of the
syndicated stuff. The Government should
be honest enough to admit that subsidy
is getting our literature nowhere, and
that the writer with only the State for
public has a pretty limited audience. —
Sword (N.S.W.).
Railways
Has “Airplane” (B. 18/6/M1) ever
thought how much it would cost in
drivers’ wages alone to run the Collie
(W.A.) coal traffic to Perth and Bunbury
by motor-truck? The Westralian wheat
harvest and the superphosphate in re-
turn? And the East-West line has no
big engines, not even by Australian stand-
ards. The much larger S.A. 600 class
4-6-2’s are and always have been run
over similar (801 b.) rails.
And what about road maintenance
and the oil bill? All of it imported,
whereas the by no means obsolete steam
locomotive is burning local fuel, coal or
wood. Nor have any of the Australian
systems reached their present limit. What
unification and a more liberal loading
gauge would do is easily understood by
anyone who knows anything about rail-
ways. —E. H. J. (Q.).
No Frontier
If any new evidence were needed that
the natural northern boundary of Vic-
toria lies somewhere near the ’Bidgee—
if State boundaries of any kind are neces-
sary at all —it is being furnished now in
the long casualty lists. Every “Victorian”
column is thick with place-names from
over the Murray, and it’s clear that the
Riverina lads extended to Victorian
camps the patronage they have long given
to southern railways, roads and beer.
For a start Sydney papers always used
the initials N.S.W. to distinguish the
addresses from that State, but lately Bal-
ranald and Ballarat, Albury and Allam-
bee, Narrandera and Nar Nar Goon have
been lumped together with nothing to
indicate they’re not all part of the same
country. Perhaps space is precious, but
I’m hoping that editors are realising that
Diggers hail from Australia, not from
temporary political subdivisions of it.
Over where the bombers are droning the
cove from Cairns and the bloke from
Bunbury don’t bother much about State
boundaries.
The Murray is a first-rate national
asset, steady and reliable, and richly
trimmed with red-gums and gleaming
water fowl. It should never again be re-
garded as a frontier. Wippegong
(N.S.W.).


-Order
f
CYPRUS
DE LUXE
The watch tor hard
wear. Waterproof,
Shockproof, Dust-
proof., Ant i -
magnetic. Stainless
steel.
£3/10/-
Fully Guaranteed.
Regimental Colour
Patch Brooches,
2/6 each.
oiam'ono
g, WATCH
SPECIALISTS
iS*ai/z4<ftdJi
112 MARKET SI
i SYDNEY.
OPP. DAViDJONES
df
ACCUMULATOR
HANDLAMPS
Ideal for farm use, the Block
plateless lead-acid accumulator
is a revelation in efficiency *
« No plates to buckle
• No sulphating
• Won’t run down.
Extra powerful bull’s-eye gives
70 hours’ continuous light.
Strong bakelite moulded case,
chrome plated fittings. Light-
weight, lasts for a lifetime,
almost unbreakable. Capacity 2v. 80 a.h.
Suitable for use by Fishermen, Campers, the
Ma,n-on-the-Land, etc.
Complete outfit, including Block 1 lateless
Accumulator, 19/6. Freight extra.
Weight when packed, 91b. _
AMPLION Ptn.LK).
382 Kent
St.. Sydney.
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it develops
personality.
The Pelman Institute
8a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market St.).
WORRIES
0
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL AITLI VTVCE CO..
DEFT. 27. SI FJTT ST.. SYDNEY.
HALF PRICE FOR NEW
BATTERIES.
Buy your battery direct from the
manufacturer at half the usual retail
price. All Marshall Batteries are
fully guaranteed. All types of
batteries for cars, trucks, cycles,
radio, home and theatre lighting
direct to the public at factory
prices. Write at once for 16-page
catalogue on how to choose and look
after batteries.
The Marshall Battery Mfg. Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
TILLEY LAMPS
d
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without " flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a. Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Burns for 10
hours on 1] pint.
Price, 70/- complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopson & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
370-382 Kent Street, Sydney.
MA6336.
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON!
Learn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR.
Hawaiian Guitar, _
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in 30 MIN > 1 US .
Let Norm. Scott, the singing stockman,
teach you!
His simple hut complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 3/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 296 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 2<lB every Sunday 9.45 a.m.
fd
'"'IllIII' '
s Get rid of
Horns BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL,
HEHOKNEK
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient' for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
f
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States —See ’Phone Book.
FINE TOBACCO!
Whitelaw’s Famous Import
Blend Number One.
A fine quality leaf which could not be purchased
anywhere at less than 24/- per pound. Despite
new duties, WHITELAW’S S’PECIAL POLICY TO
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS enables us to offer this
tobacco at the lowest price consistent with its tine
quality. Save yourself the middleman’s profit—
buv direct and enjoy an extra fine quality smoke,
expertly blended, fragrant, cool, and satisfying.
Your money back if not satisfied. Send crossed
cheque or money order. (If cheque add exchange.)
Available in Ready Rubbed Fine Cut or Ready
Rubbed for Pipe, 41b. 9/3 delivered; 11b. 17/6
delivered. James Whitclaw and Co., Factors,
Importers and Blenders of Fine Tobaccos. 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. (Note new address.)
Bankers: Bank of N.S.W., Head Office.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
d
built on
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4Jin. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4jin. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
fd
CIGARETTE PISTOL
f
A Repeater!
Shoots Real
Cigarettes.
Well made of
metal.
Price
Two Shillings,
Post Free.
This amusing novelty Cigarette Case
looks like a genuine Automatic Re-
peating Pistol, but it is quite innocent
and harmless. Supply limited, so
order at once to avoid disappointment.
Obtainable only from
Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melb., C.l.
df
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE
CHARGER.
Standard Model, £6/12/6. Battery Extra.
De Luxe Model, £B/14/6. Battery Extra.
The new De Euxe Model gives greater
efficiency in low rainfall areas.
Send for EBEE illustrated leaflet.
SINGLE WIRE EENCE CO.,
207 George Street, SYDNEY.
f
i
d
f
EEAKN VENTKIEOQUISM
quickly my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw yonr voice.
FUFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
r I\LTricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanaton St., Melb.
ytINCHHUR
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THE “ABERDEEN” (Regd.)
"Adjusta” Patent Com-
bined Leg and Surcingle
HORSE RUG
Can be put on and
fastened up in i a
minute. Impossible
for rug to come off.
The animal has per-
fect freedom, as the
fitting is self-adjust-
ing. Heavy check
lined, IJ-inch plated
breast-strap and lea-
ther on wither. All
sizes and qualities
from 35/- to 51/-.
df
Write
for
Price
List.
From all leading stores and saddlers.
SMITH COPELAND & CO. PTY„ LTD.,
deaf:
New Invention —The HATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electnc chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, E.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 438 George St., Sydney.
LAMBS SAVED
d
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
$
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.e. efficient —•
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the fastest
knife. Lambs suffer no setback —fatten
weeks earlier. No risk of Infection —No
losses. Don’t julge this instrument by other
machines, TKi T A DAROUX!
n two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DE-TAILER. £3/5/-. From all
agents or the distributors: HAIN &
SEARIOHT, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retail Price.
You can buy direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to £2O on retail
prices. Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
home. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAD TO INTENDING PUR-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue of
Battery and All-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL, OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST ! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
ss
BING
TO'M'ATO
SaBSE
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEAKS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 20011). per plant. Large,
red smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-30 feet 2/6 packet posted.
PUKE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
□
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted.
fd
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DAYS! New method.
NO RINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin. Post Frea
* Oi. C? ~1
N.S.W. SEED CO., 73 George St., Sydney.
lift
OILSKINS
for long-, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 REGENT STREET. SYDNEY.
STOP SMOKING
Nicotine undermines your health, often
causing
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE.
The TOBACCO HABIT can now definitely
be overcome with a new medicinal treat
ment.
DR. PARKS’ ANTI-SMOKING
MIXTURE.
Mr. H.. of Sydney, writes: “After 20
years of constant smoking 1 am now
cured of the habit.”
Complete Treatment, 3/- post free.
Obtainable only from —
NOEL P. FORD, M.P.S. (Syd. Univ.),
Chemist, 243 King Street, Newtown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Rail*
With the new scientific
“FOOTHELP”
No More Suffering!
“FOOTHELP” gives you
greater ease and comfort than
you ever imagined possible.
It won’t cost you a penny
if we fail to fulfil these
promises.
Write To-day for
FREE BOOKLET;
'“Your Feet and How to
Treat Them Properly,” and
FREE Trial Offer to;
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. 13V),
(i 5 York Street, Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN” T
*252 George Street, Sydney, N.SAV.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
address
(i Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
*For local office
address, see Page 8.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
9/7/’4l (See Page 32)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
cm Ms out and send with your "Warns" to The BULLETm Service Department.
For local office address, see Page S.


f
SAFETY
RAZOR
3 V in, i J ,
iliiiii^Pliifaii^iiii
S' 'J#'' ' ' i
11l
ISsSsy
M3U)
!£sS
fISH>
i
X
Oi%
m
04id 2 GEM
Double
Life
BLADES
Full Nickel-Plated Gem Safety Razor British
made —at a price which will enable you to prove
for yourself the wonderful, clean, comfortable
and safe shave a Gem will give you.
Gem Double Life Blades are made of heavy
surgical steel —not wafers—stropped 4,840 times
to give the keenest shaving edge obtainable.
At All
Stores,
If unobtainable locally send 1/. in stamps to S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Box 502 AA, G.P.0.. Sydney.
