

tamoiM OM Em§liA
' vVW 4^^
Xa'
<eec &
& *to>i.
~>s
>~r
rsr£-
H/,
-$ EuK* 3 .t
SST
1... •
i V * : •-■•3 o. ; . , :. '•- a a
Sj *
JLmu.
'3t**LZ
-
' > -5.
wl
mm
1J ii
??&*=
u#
S'?:
Ii
3 s
*2
ss?£.2®SK
V# 1
vK
<2?
ri
■
aw
i ’£LrZ.vo.
(*
-v ;: '
»
.
w
fiii
<tu
m
WM
•;
t
:
t 0
Si
■
m
«-5H
SS?
/ v
K
s^gt'
/.'
:>i
- / v
v/y
:A/v
■'-•'rTSC*
r
3i?<* J*
K /
,lr
¥h
V\
m
W^Mmr
'■'TV.*- ' “.
' • ;*e
f T .K
ly
-’ •’■■■-■■
ii
*3s
*s.'/C&.WSSSf- "5g
wm
■ -
3SE
■■
i€-W^
fOr
vje^
-js^;
U
gs:
WORCESTERS®*
HOST HOLBROOK says:
"The Dorset Arms, ‘Hartfield, Sussex, is a simple
village inn on the main road which skirts glorious
Ashdown Forest. Its 16th century carved beams, open
hearths, and air of cheerful hospitality attract lovers of
the enduring art of bygone days.
My Worcestershire Sauce has also stood the test of
time.. It is brewed and blended from an old recipe and
matured in vats of English oak. It is truly a delightful
brew piquant and appetising.”
2L (Do, U A*ek
//
xser
HOLBROOKS
a 37.
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3189.
Wednesday, March 26, 1941.
Still the Bulldog Breed
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ŵ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, us
advertised-in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
By Name
My Address
SMi. 341
The Red Page
Men Who Know the Mountains.
The men who know the mountains, men who
have hurled
The stone of their being down vast abysses of
air
And clung to the rock and laughed while the
white hell swirled,
Men who have known what terror it is to stare
On crag upon rearing crag to the end of the
world,
What pride it is to march with them, to dare
Their giant pilgrimage among the clouds
To shrines and destinies beyond our dreams.
Bring strange reports to trouble our huddling
crowds.
Sometimes, they say, the windy heaven seems
As still as the Himalayas under their shrouds
Of eternal cold; no storm like a grey bird
• screams,
No cloud moves; no sound comes up from the
plain,
No memory of wife or children floats like a dry
Red autumn leaf dowm the breathless glades of
the brain;
The whole vast silver silence waits on high.
Then like q fountain, O like a lyric of rain.
From the bright slopes inhuman voices cry.
Is it the mountains breaking their centuries
Of stony silence, warning men to fear them,
That send the cry like a cold bell down the
breeze?
The loneliest dead men hailing their brothers
near them,
A God who shouts in the tumult of mountains
and seas,
Creatures of air rejoicing that men can hear
them?
Shackleton stands on a moonlit ridge of snow
With two companions, and turns, and stares at
the night,
For a fourth man seems to walk where the
three men go.
No footprint scars the snow to left or right,
The tracks of three men blacken the snow
below,
No stranger comes from the heights’ immacu-
late white,
And all around are spur and crag and peak.
To the end of the world are peak and crag and
spur
That never have heard men’s tiny voices speak
, But hear the elemental silence stir
To thunder of avalanche or blizzard’s shriek,
f hen sink again to silence. Each wanderer
Stares at the frozen turmoil of shine and shade.
Then plunges on through the moonlight,
scarcely knowing
Whether his heart’s exalted or afraid
Thai a fourth man never seen, like cold air
blowing,
Walks with the three up ridge, down icy glade,
Faithful all night while the frozen light is snow-
ing.
There were men on Elephant Island, doomed
men caught
On a crouching rock in the talons of blizzard
and sea,
And over the desert of snow that Shackleton
fought
Wefii men in the pride of their strength, men
laughing and free,
But all that lived in the wilderness was the
thought
Of a fourth man striding unseen beside the
three.
The moonlight fades and withers; the world is
dead;
Three haggard men and a man who is fiery mist
March on through the snow in the morning’s
sullen red.
And the midday towers in the clouds like a
clenching fist,
And the slippery footholds crumple beneath
their tread,
And they sweat and stagger and stop and still
persist.
Knowing if one man falls on the useless rope
Three men will drop and only a dead man
stand,
Haunted by terrible memories, tormented by
hope,
At the end of the day in that high, white
savage land
They see above them the fog’s dark fingers
grope;
And the dead man takes the live men by the
hand.
Who was the stranger who walked with never
a word
For a night and a day and another night and
a day
As Shackleton strode with the wind’s great
screaming bird
Over South Georgia's mountains? Who led
him away
From the snare of the fog and the trap of thp
chasm till he heard
The whalemen’s whistle sound cheerily down
in the bay?
Dead man or spirit or God or trick of the
wind —
Those. who have dared the elemental spaces
Soaring from peaksuof the world and peaks of
the mind,
I hose who have known the snow upon their
faces
Know that the naked valor of mankind
Marches with gods in those white lonely places.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
"The Battlers."
ẁ
policemen, smug townspeople, suspicious
graziers and capitalist orchardists?
Is one’s final impression to be a pic-
ture of all those extraordinary but con-
vincing people—the Apostle with his mad
vision of the Blood ; the Communist
and the Anarcho-Syndicalist, continually
parting for ever and making friends
again ; Phippsy, who is always a lady ;
Ma Tyrell with her family troubles ; the
Busking Bum and his girl; the incendiary
they call the Bower Bird ; Thirty-Bob,
who was reputed to have swapped away
his mother—wandering for ever along the
outback roads, becoming a nomad people
like the blacks; free, romantic, the
authentic stuff of the escape illusion;
or is this the picture Kylie Tennant really
wants to leave with the reader?:
What was the use of wandering and
wandering, never reaching any place of
rest, coming to a town as strangers, and
leaving it unwanted? Always going down
the fenced road where the mountains,
shivering in the heat or misted in rain, kept
pace stealthily beside the van. Camped
uncertainly on the edge of a settlement, on
the edge of the road, hustled on, loiter-
ing hungry, shrinking back from suspicion
and words that hurt like a flung stone, or
from the cold-ignoral of safe, comfortable
people who had houses about them, fences
and walls and gates, who never knew what
it was to lie or plead for a mouthful of
meat, a stale bit of bread, and have it
grudged or refused.
Does the truth lie in the last glimpse
of Dancy singing “How beautiful, how
beautiful upon the mountains!”; in the
theory that the town has dumped the
bagmen on the river bank as it dumps
its ■ garbage ; or in the allegation that it
is a diabolical capitalist conspiracy that
keeps the bagmen on the track? :
It is the duty of the police, or so they
interpret it, to keep the travellers “on the
move,” never to let them settle in a town
or stay too long in one place, to drive
them on, to keep them circulating as a
labor force, thousand's strong, drifting hun-
grily about the country.
Through these confusions, of course,
one gets a pretty complete picture of all
aspects of the bagman’s life. It is good
documentary writing. It is life. But good
fiction is life moulded into form by
clarity of purpose, vision and philosophy.
Just as the first few chapters, in which
Dancy especially is quite unreal, give
the impression of characters committed
to paper while the author was still groping
after their reality, the novel as a whole
seems to have been put together before
the author had quite made up her mind
what she wanted to say.
Criticism of this sort would be com-
pletely misleading if it conveyed the
notions either that this book isn’t a
notable contribution to Australian fiction,
or that it isn’t wholly a pleasure to read.
Who wouldn’t want to follow a writer
of Kylie Tennant’s calibre among the
bagmen ; and who could resist the call
of scenes such as “The Woodstock road
leads out from Logan through gentle
land, with willows leaning to drink the
creeks. Rolling miles of wheat ripen
towards harvest, showing every shade
through cream and buff to the color of
dry cedar-berries. .. .The iron roofs of
homesteads shine like polished silver in
the dark knot of homestead trees. The
road loiters from neighbor fence to
neighbor fence like a contented farmer
coming home from town.”
O mmanney on Ice .
In the whole of F. D. Ommanney’s
South Latitude (Readers’ Union ; Robert-
son and Mullens) there are only four
occasions • when one would want to
question his merits as an observer of
animal life: on page 173, when various
Australians shout at him “Good on
yer!”; on page 181, when various Aus-
tralians shout “Good on yer! ” ; on page
188, when various Australians shout
“Good on yer!” ; and on page 221, when
various wildly enthusiastic Australians
shout once more “Good on yer!”
And yet, much as one would like to
think that it is only on rare and magnifi-
cent occasions one utters this noble
ejaculation, it may indeed be a national
habit, for Mr. Ommanney is a very,
very competent observer of life in the
raw. South Latitude, which is only in-
cidentally concerned with Australia —on
the occasions when the Discovery II
called at Melbourne before and after
rescuing Lincoln Ellsworth —is a per-
sonal account of the author’s adventures
as a scientist attached to the whaling
station at South Georgia. Its descrip-
tions of the birds, beasts and fishes of
that remote territory (only a fortnight
away from Australia, Mr. Ommanney
points out) are fascinating, not only be-
cause the author writes with the know-
ledge and affection of a naturalist, but
because he is a born essayist with a wry,
deprecating, typically English sense of
humor.
Although they tell a more or less con-
secutive story, each of his chapters could
be taken out as an entity and published
in an anthology of essays as a minor
masterpiece on some aspect of life in
the far south. Each chapter has a set
theme and is rounded off with some twist
of irony or image of grandeur that shows
a feeling for literary form as unexpected
as it is welcome in a book of adventure.
The chapter headed “Leviathan,” de-
scribing the bloody work of the whaling
station and the scientist’s particularly
messy part in it, concludes:
Suddenly there was the shriek of. a
hooter. It was breakfast time. Flensing
knives were put down and the men streamed
back shouting and laughing to their bar-
racks. Then the gulls which had been
waiting in ranks upon the roofs of all the
sheds descended screaming in clouds upon
the suddenly-hushed and deserted charnel
yard. They bickered and yelled and fought
among themselves and, on their revolting
diet, they became fat, sleek and immacu-
late in their black-and-white coats as no
other gulls on earth.
The first sentence of “Metropolis” is
“I returned to London in the summer of
1931.” The final paragraph, after Om-
manney has observed that the sole in-
dustry of the penguin communities of
the south “is that of reproduction, and
to this fundamental end all the energy
of the community is directed, just as is
. the energy of every community for that
matter,” ends: — .
With the onset of the Antarctic winter,
the shortening grey days and the howling
snowstorms, when the pack-ice once more
damps the South Orkneys and Deception
Island like a vice, the great penguin cities arc
deserted. The vast black-and-white multi-
tude puts to sea. Hundreds of miles out
in the Southern Ocean they dart and leap
through the water or lift their heads and
squawk. In the spring the sea yields them
up again in thousands to ledges of rock
or beaches of black sand. They return to
their cities when the snow melts off them
again, revealing once more the hard and
cold but infinitely desirable stones which,
bowing, the gentlemen present as tributes
to the ladies.
With these graces of form and style
goes a remarkable gift of description, not
only in Ommanney’s direct paintings of
the flashing mountains of South Georgia
or of the pack-ice that “gives a topo-
graphical quality to the sea,” but in such
imaginative visualisations as the picture
of Ellsworth waiting for rescue at Little
America:
The Wyatt Earp would come in time, of
course. Of course she would—they sup-
posed. Anyhow they had plenty of food
to last, with care, over the winter, the six
months of night. And fuel to last, if they
remained in their bunks nearly all day, for
perhaps another six weeks. For another
six weeks of going to bed, folding clothes
over the end of the bunk, of lying on the
bunk gazing at the calendars on the wooden
walls, of plodding out to the observation
post and of shovelling away from the
entrance the snow which constantly piled
up anew. For another six weeks the sails
of the wind pump on the mast outside the
burrow revolving drearily and in useless
futility, squeaking and clacking as they
turned, the moan of the wind and the little
eddies of snow that blew down the burrow
with a soft hiss and whisper. And when
you put your head out of the burrow a
distanceless world without horizons, un-
relieved, white, pitiless, cold.
Possibly in atonement for a mood so
purple that the redundance of “useless
futility” crept in unobserved, Ommanney
notes characteristically that the greeting
of Kenyon, Ellsworth’s pilot, to the
rescuers, was “Well, well! The Dis-
covery, eh? This is an affair. But, 1
say, it’s awfully decent of you fellows to
drop in on us like this.”
Ommanney’s personal adventures, for
the most part, consist of such compara-
tively minor matters as wallowing among
the entrails of whales, waylaying the
innumerable “wogs” that breed in the
grass at the bottom of. the icy southern
seas, freezing and being seasick in the
gales, being trapped in the pack-ice and
lost in the mountains in a snowstorm,
being pecked by penguins, buffeted by
skuas and asphyxiated by the stench of
somnolent elephant seals and occasion-
ally junketing at the whaling station, but
in a chapter he reserves for the end of
the book he had a taste of the real Ant-
arctic starkness. Marooned with five
companions on King George Island
when a motor-boat broke, down, he
found out what it was like to live in
a melting igloo, to have to kill seals
and penguins for food, to lie day after
day in among a huddle of cold, hungry,
rancorous, despairing men with nothing
to do but to waft and hope for rescue.
Three ships, searching for them, passed
close by their beach, failed to see their
distress signals, and steamed away. Says
Ommanney: “On the beach there lies
a pair of sea-boots, my sea-boots, which
Walker, the last to jump into the pram
when we left, kicked off his feet on to
the stones. If you ever go to the second
point west of the observation camp and
find them there you may keep them.
Pray that you never do.”
These Readers’ Union books are worth
watching. Whoever picked Ten Years
Under the Earth and Wind, Sand
and Stars picked two of the finest
books that have come this Page’s way in
a long time, and South Latitude is an-
other winner. Good on yer, Mr. Om-
manney !


Everything that Anthony Horderns say is based on “TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
w
• FOR QUALITY
• FOR COMFORT
• FOR LONG WEAR
Phone M 2401
Day or Night
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
JODHPUR BOOT
Nigger Brown Jodhpur Boot in
genuine imported Water Buffalo.
Stout leather soles and heels. At
239
Horderns'. PRICE, pair 23/9
PULL-ON STYLE
High polishing pull-on Riding
Boots in Black or Brown.
Strong flexible leather soles
and heels. Constructed on
DERBY BOOT
299
English last which has proved the ideal last
for Riding Boots. At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE, pair 29/9
Supple Brown Calf Derby
Riding Boot with welted soles
and leather heel. Stoutly
made to ensure long wear. At
Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, pair 35/-
• Ladies’ Footwear — No. 2 Floor, Pitt Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations in N.S-W. and seaports in
the Commonwealth.
35-
FOR MEN!
'TREE' BRAND BOOTS
At RIGHT
Quality Tan Riding Boots
made on the new Eng- m
lish last with stout stand- *
ard screwed and sewn
soles. Full and half sizes. Also available
in Black. At Anthony Horderns'. 30/-
Also Riding Boots with light single
soles with, cuban heels. At Anthony
Horderns'. PRICE, pair 27/6
• Men’s Footwear —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations in N.S. W. and seaports in
the Commonwealth.
SUPER TAN CALF
Our special "Tree" brand
Riding Boots especially de- ■■ j
signed for comfort and long
I wear. Genuine welted soles
in full and half sizes. Tan and Black. At
Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, pair 35/-
6
At LEFT
ENGLISH MODEL
'Tree'' brand super English model
Riding Boots in Tan Calf. Stoutly
sewn and standard screwed soles
with square heels. Full and half
sizes. At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, pair
39/6
396
.K.
Z' A
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES


SHEEP IN THE ORCHARDS
By MYRA MORRIS.
MILE after mile
the orchards
lay blackly to-
gether under
the moon. Hidden
away in small paddocks at the back of sheds, beyond
the skeleton clusters of orchard machinery, ploughs
and spray pumps and tractors, the sheep huddled,
crying plaintively. The sound of their bleating, waver-
ing and uncertain, filled the night, seeming to come
from no point of earth in particular but out of the
wandering air that flowed over the fruit-blocks and
the channels and the straight dusty roads towards the
sleeping township.
From his hut past the strip of tall seeding docks
that fringed the main channel, Jim Baker heard the
sheep. Their thin, confused crying frightened him,
made him restless. He looked across the dim, lamp-lit
room to where the dog lay stretched across the dirty
flooring-boards.
The dog, half asleep, was aware of the sheep
too. He growled softly, blinked and twitched his ears.
He was a big yellow creature, a mongrel with some-
thing of the clumsy woodenness of an Airedale in
his shoulders, something of the sharpness of an
Alsatian about his head.
The man’s glances were apprehensive. If he loved
anyone in the world it was Yaller. Nobody’s dog, it
had become attached to him three years before during
his wandering up north along the Murray. Yaller, he
suspected, was like himself. Cunning, undependable,
out to break laws that had been made by comfortable
men for their further protection and self-aggrandise-
ment. Their companionship had had its moments of
awkwardness, but had been complete and unbroken.
He frowned now, shuffling to the door, a little
scraggy man with greying hair and the face of an old,
simple child, eager to please, and he cursed the quaver-
ing, pitiful lamentation of the sheep away beyond the
orchard. There was no escaping it. That time up the
Riverina way ; it was Yaller done the cocky’s sheep
in. He could remember it this moment as if it was
yesterday. Yaller slinking in with wool in the corners
of his mouth, and the angry farmer with his gun.
Half a dozen sheep down, dying. “You done
it, Yaller,” he had cried in his heart while giving the
lie with his mouth. “You done it, old boy, and we
got to get.”
He had fled with Yaller that same morning. Him
and Yaller together. Must keep away from sheep
he had told himself urgently; mustn’t go near sheep-
country no more.
He had kept to that. It had been easy. But who
would have thought of running into sheep here in
the green Goulburn Valley with the orchards thick
as a forest whichever way you looked, and the roads
alive with fruit-wagons rumbling into the busy cannery
town?
He had got a job as a casual hand at Loder’s
picking peaches. It had been a good job. Pick, pick,
pick, through the long sweltering days of summer
while the lug-boxes filled with firm yellow fruit were
piled into mountains, scooped away, and built up
again. Good pay and regular, and a hut of his own
to live in. The hut had been left empty by an Italian
tomato-grower who had gone further along td join the
rest of his kind in their galvanised-iron sheds back
from the channel. The wooden hut with its chimney
and its rough lean-to at the back was comfortable.
Good enough for him and Yaller, who guarded it
night and day.
The peaches were finished now, the last load
carted to the cannery, but there were still odd jobs
to be done at Loder’s since the old man’s regular
orchard-hand was down with a bad leg. Things like
cleaning out the drains, scuffling the late melons,
grubbing the peach-trees that had died through
seepage from the channel. Jim smiled as he looked
at the battered alarm-clock on the table, and yawned
tiredly. Old Loder had half promised him the job for
good. Suit him down to the ground it would. Him
and Yaller...
But the sheep! The Gor’blasted sheep! It was
the drought up north that had sent them down.
No feed up there and the poor beasts making carcasses
for the crows. They had come, urged by drovers
along the bare, dusty roads, to the orchards, where the
growers didn’t mind earning a few extra pounds by
letting the animals eat the grass now the
fruit was gathered. Nibble, nibble, nibble all
day long. Up along the pear and peach branches
as far as their blasted necks would stretch, so that
the trees were all eaten up to a certain height, as
straight and neat as if a knife had cut cleanly along
the boughs, until they looked like wooden Noah’s Ark
toys. There were no sheep in Loder’s, thank heaven,
but two days ago they had come into Flannagan’s
adjoining. Too close they were by fap, curse their
rotten woolly hides.
He put Yaller out, got ready for bed, squeezed
the black smoking wick of the lamp between finger
and thumb.
Baaa ... baaaaa ... baaa! The complaining voices
of the sheep came to him as he turned uncomfortably
on the hard mattress. Should’ve tied Yaller up, he
should, only Yaller, whose place was at the back
door of the lean-to, broke his heart, tied up. Maybe
Yaller didn’t care about sheep any longer.
j_J E was awake early, bothered by the flies and the
* * mosquitoes that swarmed in through the cracks.
He opened the back door and Yaller bounded in,
licking his bare feet, thudding his absurd stumpy tail
on the floor. In the warm, airless morning, washed
with a honey-colored sun, Jim felt his fears of the
night vanish. Good dog! Good Yaller! He had
never moved away all night, he hadn’t. He bent
down and patted the broad bristly back, lifted the
wide front paws. There was mud caked on the hard
pads, mud on the coarse yellow fur. The reddish,
clayey mud from the sides of the channels. Jim
drew in his breath sharply, then expelled it with a rush
of relief. There was wet ground everywhere, wasn’t
there, with the channels overflowing? Couldn’t the
poor beast go to have a drink without him thinking
He went across to Loder’s whistling, his small
feet in their flapping sandshoes picking a way among
the seeding docks and burrs. Down in the orchard
old Loder was already at work hoisting the sawn-off
boughs of a dead peach tree on to a cart. Jim re-
garded the old man nervously, his foolish blue eyes
blinking behind their sandy lashes. Should he say
anything about the job—ask if he was to be kept on?
Or should he wait and let the boss bring it up first?
Old Loder, red-faced, irascible, with powerful
shoulders and lean thighs, looked at him with a
grudging approval.
“You’re early off the mark, Jim. Well, get to it,
get to it! Cart this stuff up. Whoa!” He steadied
the ginger horse’s head and spoke over his shoulder.
“Flannagan tells me three of his sheep worried in the
night. Dog got to ’em.”
Joe felt a sudden burning sickness in the pit of
his stomach. He stood tongue-tied, mumbling his
words when they came. “You don’t say! Blimey,
that’s bad! ” He made a clicking noise with his tongue
against the roof of his mouth. “Who —what dog
done it?”
“So that's what you think of me after all these years!"
“Can’t say. A
big brut e.” Old
Loder’s voice was
casual as he stood
wiping his hands on
his pants. “You got a dog, Jim?”
“Yairs, I got a dog. He’s a good dog.”
Jim’s terrified glance flickered over the dead grey
boughs of the peach tree, over the cart, the horse’s
hollow back.
“H’m! Keep him tied up at night?”
“Yes.” Jim urged the horse gently forward. He
nodded vigorously. “Yes. Rope.”
“A chain’s better,” said old Loder absently. He
hitched up his pants, made to walk away, then came
to an abrupt stop. “Hi, you can have the job if you
want it,” he growled with a smiling face. “You’ll have
to work, mind you. There’s no idling on a fruit turn-
out. Start ploughing next month. Comfortable enough
in that shack of yours, are you?”
“Oh, yes, Mr. Loder. Yes, it’s fine. I’m not
frightened of work.”
No, he wasn’t frightened of work. Not for a
while, that was. He’d done most things. Cut trees,
hewn sleepers, harvested, lumped coal, slaved on the
roads. Not for big stretches, of course. There had
been gaps —long ones —in between. But the prospect
now of a steady job with decent pay was something
to smile over. He was rising fifty. Work and a roof
over his head. Him and Yaller. No one driving
them off. No one at country pubs, coffee-palaces,
saying “You’re all right, mister, but we don’t like
your dorg.”
The thought of Yaller was with him as he worked
with his back to the sun, the warmth flowing down
through his thin shoulder-blades. Fear lay on him like
a cloud, lifted, then came back. Yaller, you never
went away, did you? You mustn’t go near them
sheep, Yaller.
A fine long rope, that was what he wanted. A
fine, long rope. He knew where one was —in a dark
corner of the shed by the tumbled packing cases. He’d
sneak it when he knocked off work and carry it home
with him.
He took the rope twisted in his pocket, taking it
out when he got to the hut and laying it on the table.
Better let Yaller get used to the look of it. It wasn’t
nice to hurt a dog’s feelings doing things sudden-like.
Yaller edged away from the rope, making whim-
pering noises. Better leave him be, thought Jim late
that night, and then the dreary sound of the sheep’s
crying decided him. He couldn’t risk it. Not again.
Yaller was listening to the sheep just as he was
listening. Baaa . . . baaaa . . . baaaa! It fair made
your skin prickle.
He lied the dog up to the post at the back door
before he turned into bed. The post was a stout one.
The knot was tight without being too tight.
He lay awake listening to the crying of the
sheep—funny you never heard ’em in the daytime—
and to the babyish whimpering of the big yellow
creature. Poor dog! Poor Yaller! He went to sleep
thinking of old Loder, of the orchard with its cool
tunnels of green, of the good job that was his for
the keeping.
IN the morning when he went out the rope lay
* slackly on the ground but Yaller was gone.
He picked the rope up and walked stiffly inside, and
began frying his tomatoes and bacon in the big black
pan over the open fire. Fear clawed at him, but he
thrust it away. Mustn’t think the worst. It was only
that Yaller had gone off in a rage. Proud dogs like
Yaller didn’t like the feel of rope round their throats.
But one look at Yaller when he came slinking
in at the back was enough. There was blood on his
mouth, blood on his paws. His topaz-colored eyes
slid away from Jim’s. He sat straight and uprelaxed
like a stone dog.
“Oh, Yaller!” Jim knelt on the floor and put his
arms round the strong bristly body, his chin on the
dog’s head. The misery of his life, his love for Yaller
flowed over him. Oh, Yaller, Yaller, you done it
this time.
He wiped the blood off the wet mouth, off the
paws, then went on eating, but the bacon, hard as
chips of glass, stuck in his throat.
He was scouring out the pan at the fire-
place when he looked up to see Flannagan at the
front door. Flannagan, his round Irish face red and
ugly, and a gun in his hand.
“You here,” he blustered. “There’s two more
sheep at my place worried to death last night. You
got a dog. That brute there.”
Jim stepped in front of Yaller, who showed his
teeth in a snarl. “Yes, that’s him,” he said mildly.
“He was tied up all night. I just let him off. He’s
a good dog.”
“Funny thing!” Flannagan’s face grew redder.
His bulk seemed to fill the whole doorway. The
Eyetalians saw him,” he persisted in a menacing
voice. “A big yellow mong, they said, lolloping
past.”
“The Eyetalians!” Jim spat on the floor de-
risively.
Flannagan looked sharply at the floor and came
a step further in.
“What’s that on the floor?” he demanded.
“Blood! Where’d it come from?”
Jim smiled above the sick pain in his stomach.
“I can tell you about that.”
o Continued on next page.)


“You can, eh?”
“Yairs. Wait a minute.”
He went out into the lean-to with the dog padding
at his heels. Removed from Flannagan’s line of
vision he took out his knife, drew it across his wrist
which he covered swiftly with a piece of dirty rag,
and drew down his hanging shirt-sleeve.
He was back in a moment smiling, looking round
as if he had forgotten something.
“Well?” The red burly man rattled his gun
on the floor.
“Oh, that!” Jim lifted his shirt-sleeve. “I done
that cutting bacon for breakfast,” he said. “It made
a lot of blood. It’s still bleeding.”
“Funny thing to do.”
“Yairs.”
Flannagan stared at him with puzzled, angry eyes,
shaking his head as if only half-convinced. “Well,
it’s funny what the Eyetalians said,” he shouted,
shouldering himself out of the door. “I’m going to
find out more about it. And mark my words, I’ll
come back and shoot that dog. Do you hear? Shoot
him!”
Jim’s hand was holding the loose skin at the
back of Yaller’s neck.
“You better go,” he said softly.
Flannagan went, and there was silence in the
hut for a long time. Then Jim started to move,
gathering things together, tossing them into a shabby
black bag.
GRANDMOTHER
By MARGARET TRIST.
/~\ NNETTE stared at grandmother’s hat hanging
/ \ on the brass hook behind the closed cedar
/ I door. It was a black satin hat with a soft pink
lining and two long black ribbon strings. In
the four-poster bed grandmother lay dying. Grand-
mother, who had seemed timeless as the plains them-
selves. Grandmother, suddenly motionless and
shrivelled, lying inertly in the big old bed that had
been new when she and her Henry were young.
Grandmother, the yellow skin drawn tightly over her
high cheekbones, the bristles standing out rough and
dark on her chin, her eyes sunken, her mouth indrawn,
her white hair lying in straggly plaits on the whiter
pillows, dying, not as she would have wished to die,
but with a slow ebbing of vitality which irked her
beyond endurance. Sometimes she moved her head
on the pillows, sometimes she smiled. More often
she lapsed into semi-consciousness.
Annette, who was eighteen and the youngest of
all her grandchildren, sat huddled on the end of the
bed. She sat there in defiance of the nurse and her
aunts. Grandmother was still head of the Sheridan
family, and she wanted Annette there.
The cedar door separated grandmother’s bedroom
from the parlor. There came the sound of subdued
talking, and at times a low, nervous laugh from some-
one who wanted to laugh but did not feel they ought.
At such times grandmother’s eyes opened and a spark
of her old malicious twinkle shot from them. The
relations were gathered in the parlor. Relations,
almost forgotten, who had materialised with surpris-
ing suddenness. By car and sulky and train and even
’plane they had come. The ’plane, bearing Uncle
Samuel and Aunt Elvira, had landed in the horse
paddock.
Now and again the nurse came into the room.
From time to time one of the relations came in for a
second. Grandmother lay still with her eyes closed.
Annette did not look up. When the visitor had gone
grandmother’s eyes would flicker momentarily open.
Outside the sun shone down on the paddocks.
So it had shone over sixty-five years ago when for
the first time Anne Sheridan had hung her bonnet on
the new brass hook behind the cedar door. So it had
shone on the day her first daughter, Anne, had been
born. So it had shone on the day her granddaughter
Annette, whose parents were dead, had been sent to
her. So it had shone when Annette Sheridan had
played, a serious-eyed small girl, under the grape-
vines. So it had shone a hundred million times. So
it would shine a hundred million times again, only
grandmother, so impressionable to sunshine, would
not know.
t HERE’S no doubt about it,” said Uncle
1 Matthew, “she’s been a wonderful woman.”
Uncle Matthew’s neck hung in red folds above
his stiff white collar. He sat on the sofa with his
plump legs apart so that his stomach seemed to rest
on the plush between them. His hands were folded
on his ornamental walking-stick. He let it be known
that all gentlemen of fashion carried walking-sticks.
The observant among his relatives noted that he did
not carry it but used it. The unobservant remarked
frequently that Matthew was always a one for deck-
ing himself up.
Matthew’s eyes were rather wistful. He had a
superstitious belief in the order of things. His father
was dead ; now his mother was dying. Old Henry,
who was cracking up fast, and then himself were next
in line for this death business. This dying was very
unpleasant. It put people to such a lot of inconveni-
ence. There had been himself and Jane in the midst
of their week’s activities.
They had had to leave at
scarcely a moment’s notice.
And for all the good they
were doing here they might
as well have been at home.
The old lady seemed incap-
able of recognising anyone.
The nurse had banished them
from the bedroom. The only
use coming out would be to
save the townspeople talking.
Which after all was some-
thing. A member of the
parochial council could not
afford to damage his reputa-
tion.
Jane sat beside him on
the sofa —angular and neat
and trim, ungloved hands
resting in her lap. Beside her
two grandchildren, her daugh-
ter Florrie’s youngest, sat
stiffly, frightened by the still-
ness and the whispering
people and most of all by the
brisk, unsmiling nurse, who
passed frequently in and out
of the cedar door. Florrie
herself, a garrulous woman in
her late thirties, with an un-
healthy, too-ready smile,
whispered unceasingly in the
far corner of the room. The
whisper was like the ticking
of the clock, a monotonous,
ever-flowing sound, breaking
over the stillness of the room.
Round the oval table
covered with a heavy, green
plush tablecloth in the
middle of the room sat Aunt
Maudie and Uncle Henry, Harry, their eldest son, and
his wife Daphne, Aunt Jenny and Uncle Michael.
Aunt Elvira and Aunt Anne sat together on a small
cane settee. They were both large women, and the
settee bent beneath their weight. Uncle Samuel sat
on the organ stool. Aunt Catherine listened, but did
not heed Florrie’s whispering. A cluster of younger
women crowded together near the doorway. Outside
the sun shone. It came in through the open doorway,
spilling in a bright beam across the polished floor.
Through the window it shone across the organ.
“Oughtn’t we to draw the blinds?” shivered Aunt
Elvira. “That sun is positively indecent.”
“Yes, draw the blinds,” mumbled Aunt Maudie
through her tears. Her eyes were crimson and swollen.
“We can’t draw them yet,” said Uncle Matthew
authoritatively. “She’s not dead yet. Can’t draw the
blinds till she’s dead.”
“No, of course not,” mumbled Aunt Maudie and
returned to her weeping. Clever people like Matthew
always upset her.
A deep silence fell. Even Florrie’s whispering
ceased. Only the clock ticked, slowly, sonorously on.
There was something horrible and nerve-racking
about the silence. One of the children on the sofa
whimpered. Uncle Matthew cleared his throat and
spoke hurriedly.
“She’s been a wonderful woman,” he repeated,
“a very wonderful woman.” It was all he could think
of to say.
“Yes,” said Uncle Henry, taking off his spectacles
and letting them dangle from between his thumb and
forefinger. “She’s been a wonderful woman.”
“Oh, she has,” piped in Aunt Jane.
“Poor thing, poor thing,” Aunt Elvira shook her
head sadly.
“I wonder will any of us reach her age,” specu-
lated Uncle Matthew.
“I wonder,” echoed Aunt Jane.
“Eighty-seven is good going,” said Uncle Samuel.
“Eighty-seven and with all her —all her faculties.”
Uncle Henry stopped and frowned.
“She’s grown a bit childish of late,” put in Aunt
Maudie.
“That’s only natural,” murmured Florrie.
“Of course,” said Aunt Elvira.
“To think,” sobbed Aunt Maudie, “that only a
week ago she was walking round this house fit as a
fiddle. It took her sudden.”
“It always does,” said Aunt Jane.
“Nothing”—Uncle Matthew was portentous—“is
certain but uncertainty.”
Harry had been making calculations on a piece
of paper. “I think I’ll move most of the sheep to the
river paddocks and farm in the home paddocks,”
he said.
After grandmother’s death the property would go
to her eldest son Henry, and after Henry to his son
Harry. Harry had many plans for the future.
“You can’t farm hereabouts,” said Uncle Henry.
“It’s pasture land.”
“It’s as good farm land as ever was anywhere,”
replied Harrry. “The soil is rich and it’s not been
worked before.”
Uncle Henry shifted uncomfortably in his chair
and looked uneasily towards the closed cedar door
as if fearing that grandmother would rise up in wrath.
“My father,” he said, “was against the farming of
these lands. He told often of how they were only
good for sheep.”
“Three hundred bags o' concrete and another gross of rivets.
Yours faithfully ”
“The settlers have disproved his theories,” Harry
answered. “They’re wealthy while we, with three
times the land, are comparatively poor.”
“It won’t last,” Uncle Henry was obstinate.
“It’s lasted thirty years or more,” returned Harry.
“Wealth is not everything, my boy,” said Uncle
Matthew.
“No, it’s not everything,” echoed Aunt Jane.
A murmur of assent went round the room.
“Ought we to talk about it now?” interposed
Uncle Samuel. He jerked his thumb towards the
cedar door. “She’s against farming, isn’t she?”
“Yes,” said Uncle Henry. “She’ll turn in her
grave if there’s farming done here, just as my father
will.”
“Better not talk of it till she’s dead,” said Uncle
Matthew.
Harry rubbed his chin with his lean hand and
subsided.
The girl came in with the afternoon-tea tray.
Everyone brightened perceptibly. She set out the
cups and poured out the tea silently. There were
rich fruit cake and light sponges filled with cream
and rainbow cake and gingerbread and plates piled
high with freshly-cut sandwiches.
“This was always the place for cake,” said Aunt
Anne. She was big and hard as a board with corsets.
She had a wart on the side of her nose and wore
glasses for a squint. “I remember,” she said, “the
cakes that were made here when I was a girl. Baking
after baking we used to have. Of course there was
a crowd of young people in the house those days.
It’s been quiet these last few years.”
“The family scattered,” said Aunt Catherine.
“It scattered more than most families do,” said
Uncle Samuel.
“The old lady’s tongue” began Matthew and
stopped confusedly.
There was movement in grandmother’s room.
The cedar door opened. The nurse stood in the
doorway. “Mrs. Sheridan is sinking” she said.
“You don’t say,” gasped Florrie. Aunt Maudie
sobbed loudly. Uncle Henry took her hand and, help-
ing her to rise, they headed a dutiful procession
through the cedar door. On the green plush cloth
the empty teacups stood forlornly. The clock ticked
loudly in the silence.
IT seemed to Annette that she had been sitting on
* the bed for a hundred years. She could not think.
There was nothing of which to think. Voices from
the past went through her head. “Upped and died,
he did. Upped and died.” On and on went the stupid
phrase that she had sung to herself when, as a little
girl, she played underneath the grapevines. On and
on. And then it stopped and there was nothing—
nothing
Grandmother’s hand fluttered weakly on the
coverlet. Annette crept nearer to her and took the
frail fingers in her own hands. Her eyes were hard
and bright with tears that would not fall.
The sunshine went out. The voices ceased. The
world was gone and there was nothing.
After a while Annette got stiffly down from the
bed. On the brass hook behind the cedar door hung
grandmother’s, hat. Annette took it gently from the
hook and passed her hand slowly over the black
satin top and soft pink lining, then she put it carefully
away in an empty drawer.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
t ffi l t 14dne cf Wie mellotLmcJdandlfouqjuefi
Seppelts
Lord Mayors Procession at Westminister Bridge, 1844.
When the Thames, or that portion of it passing through “London proper,” was used as a “thoroughfare” by the ordinary
citizens, it witnessed picturesque spectacles the present age has never seen. So far back as 1453, Sir John Norman being
Lord Mayor, the first “Lord Mayor’s Procession by Water” was introduced, the Lord Mayor Elect proceeding to West-
minster Hall to be presented to the Lord Chancellor so that the approval of the King might be obtained to the citizens’
choice, a custom possibly derived from certain forms prevailing, and still observed within the Roman Catholic communion,
in connection with filling vacancies in the hierarchy when they occur. The last water Lord Mayor’s Procession was in 1856,
the year the City ceased by the creation of the Thames Conservancy to “rule the Thames,” as it has been said. David
Roberts, the eminent painter, who died in 1863, has in his spirited work, illustrated from a photographic reproduction, left
some idea of the scene depicted on the occasion, the gorgeous City state barge conveying “his lordship elect” being
prominently depicted. It may not be beyond the bounds of possibility that among the changes London will witness after
the Nazi menace has been abolished for all time, is a Lord Mayor’s Show on the river. Such a function suggests
interesting possibilities, not beyond the genius, however, of present masters in the art of pageantry.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3189.
Wednesday, March 26, 1941.
THE GANG’S ALL HERE.
“This, Mr. Matsuoka, is your other partner, fresh from his triumphs in the Mediterranean.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0. ).
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad ;
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
WAR AIMS AND PEACE TERMS.
After the invasion of Poland, while Britain was wait-
ing for the German army to strike in some other
direction, there was an amazing outbreak of corres-
pondence and leading articles in London dailies.
The theme was “What we should do with the
Germans when we have beaten them,” and all sorts
of celebrities, major and minor, contributed to the
discussion. It lasted so long and raged over so many
pages that it became the despair of the man who does
The Bulletin’s “Uncabled Additions,” for nothing
else seemed to matter at that time.
The subject was expanded by a gentleman who
writes pretty verses and pretty-pretty plays. He came
to light with the Great Thought that the war
should be converted into a crusade against all the
Dictators. The gentleman was somewhat abashed
when some cynic pointed out that this would mean
fighting not only Hitler and Mussolini (then a “non-
belligerent”) but Stalin, Franco, Metaxas of Greece
and Salazar of Portugal; but he soon recovered, and
still bobs up occasionally as a bitter-ender on the
grand scale.
Now there are signs of another impending
eruption of ink mixed with nitric acid. The idea
this time is that Britain should aim at “revolutionising
Europe.” This, it is alleged, would divide the enemy
and enable stricken nations struggling to be free to
achieve their freedom permanently.
The proposal has received no support in any
responsible quarter. It is recommended to the sorely-
tried British people by fluent persons with queer
foreign names and dubious antecedents, but is never-
theless assured of backing from large numbers of
knaves and noodles, even in the Empire as well as on
the Continent. Though the projectors are purposely
vague, they expect the British Government to start
their revolution somehow and somewhere, using the
Foreign Office as an instrument of sedition, and grace-
fully efface itself when or if the thing gets beyond
control. Then, of course, Stalin will step into the
picture. In effect, the Empire is to shoot half its
wealth away and the British people are to endure
deadly perils and frightful sacrifices in order that the
cowardly and treacherous ruffians who betrayed
democracy in August, 1939, and whose agents in the
English-speaking world are even now doing their
damnedest in the traitorous cause of defeatism, may
Communise the Continent.
If this agitation becomes dangerous, Mr. Roose-
velt will assuredly intervene to scotch it. Whatever
his future proceedings may be, he has earned the right
to be consulted about war aims and peace terms,
and he is the last man in the world to sanction a
course of action which would admit of the dreadful
latter-day history of Spain being repeated over the
whole face of Europe west of the old Russian
boundaries. He has already induced Britain to permit
the passage of foodships to France. A Washington
correspondent of the sober “Christian Science
Monitor” has been permitted or put up to say that,
“according to State Department and White House
circles,” the British attitude to Vichy has “not been
astute, and a change is needed to prevent the growth
of anti-British feeling” in that country.
This opinion is by no means confined to Washing-
ton. While all French soldiers, seamen and airmen
anxious to continue the fight against the enemy should
be enrolled as volunteers, it is flying in the face of
all French history to expect a small party backed by
the British Government to overthrow or supersede
the Petain Government, which, though improvised in
dreadful hours, is probably accepted by 95 p.c. of
the French people—Communists, of course, excepted.
That reversion to one of the sorriest efforts of the
wars against the First Republic and Napoleon led to
the Dakar fiasco. We have not yet been told fully
what happened at Dakar. All that Australians have
been permitted to learn is that H.M.A.S. Australia
took part in the action and lost her seaplane, with two
gallant members of the ship’s company: how long
she was engaged, and on whose authority, remain
official mysteries. A Minister promised to furnish
information and find time for a debate on the un-
fortunate affair, which British writers describe from
time to time as one of the worst muddles of the war.
The Minister has not kept his promise.
In one of his flashing phrases Mr. Churchill said,
“We are fighting to survive.” On other occasions he
has been more expansive, particularly in his references
to Poland, and some of his Ministers have imitated
him—one, Mr. Dalton, said last week that Britain
would always be Czechoslovakia’s faithful ally—but
his five words expressed the essential truth. That is
what we are fighting for —survival. That is why the
Dominions are backing Britain with everything they
have and can make, and, while Britain is in danger,,.
are letting Dominion status go by the board —tacitly
accepting a position which gives them less influence on
decisions and the course of events than they had in
1917-18, when Britain had half the world for allies.
And that is why Congress passed the Aid to Britain
Bill, and why the passage of that measure has been
followed by proceedings such as the sending of two
very serviceable squadrons to Sydney and Auckland
—the significance of which can escape none of the
Axis Powers —and by the planning of others which may
carry the U.S.A. right into the war. Not the remak-
ing of the map of Europe or the setting up of this
or that fallen foreign Government but the preserva-
tion of the British Empire has become America’s
declared object, and the preservation of the British
Empire, plus the abolition of the bombing ’plane,
should be ours. Everything else must depend on the
issue of the struggle.
The preservation of the British Empire with
abolition of the bombing ’plane would give
engulfed nations fit for freedom a far better chance
of achieving it on an enduring basis than anything
that might be temporarily secured for them by political
or revolutionary action. It is appalling to read that
2000 churches, Protestant and Catholic, have been
damaged or destroyed in Britain by this instrument
of fiendish barbarism. When the war has been fought
out those who use it or its companion horror, gas,
must be treated as international criminals, and those
who order it to be used as international outlaws, to
be brought to summary justice wherever they may
try to hide their heads. Unless these measures —or
others, perhaps more effective —are taken, there is no
future for civilisation as we have known it. Man will
have to go back to the cave and the Christian wor-
shipper to the catacomb.
Still the Bulldog Breed.
By a neat turn of poetic justice the total British
character during these past nine months in which it
has been sorely tried and found surpassingly good
has fully endorsed one of the most enthusiastic tributes
ever paid to it —that penned by an Austrian who
fought on the German side in the last war and wrote
a book soon afterwards. “What an astounding error
it was to believe that England would not have the
courage to give its own blood,” he wrote. That fatal
error he had noted at the time in Germany, where
through the medium of schools, the press and the
comic papers, an idea of the Englishman was gradually
formed which was bound eventually to lead to the worst
sort of self-deception The result was an underestima-
tion for which we have had to pay a heavy penalty.
The delusion was so profound that the Englishman was
looked on as a shrewd businessman, but personally as a
coward, even to an incredible degree. Unfortunately
our lofty teachers of history did not bring home to
the minds of their pupils the truth that it is not possible
to build up such a mighty organisation as the British
Empire by mere swindle and fraud.
Despite his braggart boasts of what he proposes
to do to this same Empire this year, what he wrote
then must still be in the mind of Adolf Hitler. His
henchmen may have been under the old false illusion
when the powerful air attacks were launched on
England last year, culminating in the attempt to burn
London off the face of the earth. They may have
learned different since, or they may still harbor the
delusion that the ever-increasing severity of the air
attacks from now on will break the British spirit. In
his fanatical megalomania, even Hitler may have
succumbed to the delusion ; it is more likely that he
has not forgotten the further part of Mein Kampf in
which he declared that the right question to ask,
concerning the recovery of Germany’s power, was
not “How are we to manufacture arms?” but “How
are we to breed the spirit that makes a people capable
of bearing arms?”
Hitler’s military campaigning has been so con-
clusively successful that, despite the wildness of his
words and other appearances of inflated egotism
bordering on madness, he is probably still the realistic
materialist who wrote Mein Kampf. If so, he will
have recognised that the spirit of the bulldog breed
which evoked his admiration in 1914-18 is today as
sound as ever it was. It has not this time been demon-
strated yet to any notable extent as being the spirit
“that makes a people capable of bearing arms,” but
it is the identical elixir nevertheless. If it comes to
the test—if Hitler is so mad that he will try to invade
Britain —the proof will be given in “bearing arms”
as it has already been given in countless other ways,
from the manning of England’s small boats for the
epic of Dunkirk to the unreported, and these days
scarcely even noticed, individual deeds of heroism in
these bombings of Bristol, Glasgow and elsewhere that
are now taking place, increasing in ruthlessness,
frightfulness and every evil character, but not in
power to shake, let alone break, the spirit of the
people resisting them.
It is not by any means a mere spirit of resistance
that is meeting the onslaught. The current catch-
phrase “London can take it”—just as applicable to
the rest of the country—tends to be somewhat mis-
leading. It suggests a people passively “taking it.”
Nothing could be further from the fact. In their
war state of mind altogether they are grim and dour,
rather than angry or excited ; but they are anything
but inactive. There has never been such heroic
activity on anything like such a scale of countless
individual deeds. Some —an infinitesimal few of the
total —are recognised in awards of the George Cross,
about as often as not posthumously. Typical of these
may be mentioned a hospital porter who “labored to
save a nurse while knowing a wall was cracking at
his side and, when it fell at last, protected her body
by the sacrifice of his own.” The endless deeds of
heroism, of which that can stand as no more than
representative, are the very essence of the spirit that
compelled Hitler’s former admiration. They are not
impulsive acts of bravery, such as have won medals in
past wars. They take time, sometimes hours, in cir-
cumstances that have been described:
Apart from bombs still falling a time-bomb might be
near, the buildings above might fall at any moment,
escaping gas might choke them or explode in flame, and
some faced drowning from opened water mains. Always
a cold suspense was there. We must remember that in
the darkness and chaos of a raid it is easy to evade
duties so dangerous that no man or woman could be
asked to do them except of their own free choice.
Men and women alike have done those duties,
and go on doing them, as a matter of course. Children
come into this roll of honor, too ; one merely typical
example: “A little boy of 13, with a leg broken, helped
to hold up a beam from crushing his mother and
father when their house collapsed.” Doctors and
nurses, firemen and police, wardens and workmen, and
as well the general run of citizens of all ages and
belonging to no particular general classification, have
in their hundreds of thousands shown the spirit
running true all through the extending period of this
extremely active —anything but passive—defence of
England. “Men, women, and in many cases boys,”
London “Times” has recorded, “have time after time
braved the dangers of fierce fire, high explosive bombs,
machine-gun attacks, and every device used by a
relentless and unscrupulous enemy, with a courage
which has evoked world-wide admiration.” The news
films bring some idea of the inferno conditions in
which the inherent spirit of the bulldog breed has
shown out, , and which could not otherwise be
imagined. A further idea may be had from the ironi-
cally consoling opinion advanced that London cannot
now be burnt down because of the vast gaps already
made in it by the Nazi agents of destruction!
In that destruction the English people have looked
on the total ruins of historical buildings dating back
to the twelfth century, if not earlier. They have taken
it with grim humor. A published list of qualifications
for “The Perfect Warden” sets out that he must be “as
industrious as an ant, strong as a bullock,” must
possess “the eye of an eagle, the tenacity of a bulldog,
the patience of Job,” must be prepared to act as “friend,
comforter, dry nurse, wet nurse, midwife, doctor,
undertaker,” and must be ready to be “blown up, blown
down, roasted alive, burnt alive, shattered, flattered
and cursed.” It is possible that many extracted humor
from the report of the vicar standing up in the ruins
of his bombed church and declaring: “The church is
down, but my blood is up!” As well as humor,
charity can still also go along with this spirit of active
resistance. The Bishop of Fulham, speaking over the
ruins of a church that was previously burnt down in
the Great Fire of 1666 and restored by Wren, could
say of the present regime in Germany: “They know
not what they do. May God forgive them and may
their state of mind be assuaged and changed!” He
added that he “had many friends in Germany” and
he “could not imagine that they would condone such
a crime.”
If the German people, who, in the charitable
Bishop’s view, “are not free agents,” have any illu-
sions about this 1941 Britain wilting under the now
renewed onslaughts, it may very much be doubted if
these are, shared by their leader. Knowing the British,
as he does —or, at any rate, as he did —he should
be feeling more and more that he is in a trap, out
of which he must fight his way or go down. The
British, with the spirit of the old breed manifest
throughout the country, have no reason to doubt
which way that is going to turn out.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Visit from Uncle Sam.
The United States authorities showed a nice courtesy
in sending naval squadrons to Australia and Maori-
land immediately after their President signed and
sealed the Lend-or-Lease Bill. And they showed
a nice sense of the fitness of things and a proper
modesty of technique in choosing the units of their
squadron for the Australian call.
They sent, as their leading representatives, the
cruisers Portland, 9800 tons, and Chicago, 9200 tons ;
long-ranging Bin.-gun ships which were virtually
descendants of H.M.A.S. Australia and Canberra and
others of the British London class, since they were
born as soon as the comparable British and Australian
vessels were in the water. The ancillary squadron
—leader and four destroyers—were also on a par
with comparative units of the R.A.N.
The visit was useful as well as courteous. It
enabled R.A.N. men to study American methods. It
gave the Americans a chance to swap notes with men
who have had first-hand experience of warfare and
of all the new technique which has been developed
under stress of greater speeds, better range-finding and
the revolutionising of gunnery through air develop-
ment.
The visitors are the type of ships and men who
in actual warfare would be co-operating with the
R.A.N. doing the same kind of work. It was fitting
that officers and men should be accorded the rare
compliment of marching through Australia’s greatest
city unarmed in a procession in which they were
followed by some of the finest armed detachments of
the Commonwealth fighting forces ever assembled.
The behavior of the U.S.N. men in Sydney was
a credit to them and their commanders. They showed
themselves sober, interested, friendly, serious and
obliging. They were very patient with the mobs of
flappers and children who besieged them for auto-
graphs. But they must have been rather bewildered
to see an Australian city following the confetti-and-
wastepaper-throwing habit which the unlamented
Jimmy Walker introduced in New York and to hear
themselves addressed in accents and with gestures
evidently borrowed from Mr. Roosevelt as seen on
the screen.
The sailors, too, may have found it strange to
read in Sydney’s one evening paper that the courtesy
visit of a couple of friendly cruisers and some
destroyers constituted March 20 a day which would
never be forgotten in Australian history; to see in the
same issue a full-page advertisement headed with
a portrait of Britain’s Prime Minister and the words
“Churchill said ‘Go to It’ and we did,” in order to
introduce to the public the news that “bloomers and
briefs” (illustrated) had been marked down from 3s.
lid. to 2s. lid., and to be pursued by photographers
from another paper intent on getting pictures of
silly young women languishing in seamen’s arms.
However, most of the visitors probably met
enough Australians to understand that their dignified
reception by the Governor-General and the R.A.N.
represented what the people felt, and that the hysterical
froth in evidence covered a real and sincere pleasure
at their coming.
The squadron remained three days in Sydney;
then it left for Brisbane. Its movements from there
are under sealed orders.
It is a pity that war conditions will not
permit a return visit in accordance with naval
traditions of politeness. Such a visit should be set
down definitely for the earliest possible moment.
Two State Elections.
Queensland and South Australia are to have State
elections on Saturday, and Premiers Forgan Smith
and Playford are going .round their principalities
telling the people what wonderful things their Govern-
ments have done. The people fail to see where the
wonders come in, except in the matter of taxation,
which is fearful and wonderful, especially on company
profits in Queensland. That is the main reason why
Queensland, though splendidly supplied with raw
materials and fuel, and with a big local market to
work on, has made so little progress in manufactures.
South Australia, with practically no fuel, and with a
population little more than half that of Queensland,
has done and is doing much better, partly because
the Government has tempered the taxation wind to
companies which the Queensland Government shears.
Certainly, Mr. Playford, unlike Mr. Forgan Smith,
has had the benefit of lavish Commonwealth grants.
Mr. Playford’s Government has carried on for
three years without a majority, the 1938 election having
left his predecessor, Mr. Butler, with only 15 seats in
a House of 39. Fifteen of the other members
were Independents, many of whom were elected as a
protest against the licensed betting shops, for which
the L.C.P. and the Labor Party were jointly respon-
sible. But the betting shops remain, and on other
issues the Independents have never bothered the Gov-
ernment ; for, as Mr. Playford has blithely said, “I
do not remember one occasion on which they all
agreed.” He expects to get a party majority this
time, and perhaps he will, though it will be astonish-
ing if Labor doesn’t add materially to its nine seats.
Mr. Forgan Smith is even more confident; and,
considering the past successes of his party, and the
numerical weakness of the Opposition, now once more
divided, he has warrant for feeling comfortable. The
last election left him with 44 seats in a House of 62 ;
and, though Gregory was lost to Dr. Watson Brown
after Speaker Pollock’s death, Labor has an undoubted
chance of regaining it. Except for the 1929-31
interregnum, it has been in office at Brisbane since 1915.
Nevertheless, it has at times been in a minority of
electoral votes, and at referendums and Senate elections
it has generally been on the losing side —it was beaten
for all the Senate seats in 1917, 1919, 1922, 1925,
1928, 1934 and 1940. Single electorates in which the
town vote is predominantly Labor nearly everywhere
give it an advantage which disappears when the State
votes as one electorate.
A preference for continuous Governments is no-
thing new in Queensland’s political history; but such
Governments have a way of growing dictatorial.
Under the Forgan Smith regime, the one House of
Parliament has —except for occasional Opposition out-
breaks —become a docile instrument of Government
policy. It gets through the business placed before it
in a shorter time than any other provincial Legislature.
Last session it meekly endowed the Government with
the enormous powers embodied in the so-called Public
Safety Act, and the rank and file of Labor members
never question its taxation measures, though the
alleged State development tax is due for radical over-
haul, if not repeal. And the almighty Q.C.E. has had
the face to order non-Labor divisions to elect Labor
members lest they be left out in the cold.
A change would do Queensland no harm. It
doesn’t seem likely to come about, but Mr. Maher, the
Opposition leader, professes to have hopes. A man
in his position needs to be an optimist.
The Importance of Bulgaria.
In 1922 lan Hamilton had an interview with Luden-
dorff, and his notes (published in The Friends of
England, in which the author foretold the fate of
Czechoslovakia, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia)
help to explain the German occupation of Bulgaria.
The old soldier recalled to Ludendorff a dispatch,
dated October 2, 1918, in which the German com-
mander informed his Government that the military
situation had become hopeless, in the first place be-
cause of the collapse of Bulgaria. “Our British war
students,” Hamilton said, “doubt whether the signing
of the armistice by the Bulgarian Government on
September 30 could have had indeed so momentous
an effect, since the advancing army in the West was
treading upon your heels, and Bulgaria was far away.”
Said Ludendorff:
The collapse of Bulgaria was put first by me among
the causes calling imperatively for an armistice, because
it stood first in my mind. The Bulgarian collapse broke
our front. In the West we were holding on; there was
no serious rupture of our line; the Germans had come
to the end of their tether, but the Entente armies had
also marched themselves into a stickfast. Until the
armistice gave them railways and rolling stock they
were done. Our Western Front, I repeat, was intact.
This Hamilton did not question. Indeed, he quoted
“a certain high officer in our army, whose opinion on
this point no Britisher would question,” as saying that
Ludendorff was “quite right; we could not have inter-
fered seriously with the German retirement to the
Rhine at Armistice time; we could not have moved
one step forward in pursuit until the railways were
repaired; i.e., not till Christmas at earliest.”
Back on the Rhine, Ludendorff proceeded, “one
at least of the Entente nations” (the U.S.A.) “might
have hesitated before invasion. But what was the
use of even thinking these things? For there, behind
us, a huge hole had suddenly opened in our system
of defence.” .
A hole big enough to allow armies to march into
our vitals with safe lines of communications behind them
was clearly the end of all things. Behind the Bulgarian
hole Austria-Hungary stood perfectly naked. We knew it.
By the end of October we should have had to reckon
with an enemy force fitted out with water transport on
the Danube. Checkmate, in short, and there was no
possibility of escape except by a miracle. Germany,
minus Austria-Hungary, could not go on any longer.
Hitler was, of course, closely associated with Luden-
dorff in his early career as a Nazi and must have
got military ideas from his preceptor. He has found
the Italian army a very poor substitute for the old
imperial Austro-Hungarian army. He has good reason
to know what the Royal Navy can do when there is
a waterway available, and when it can be supported
in force by the R.A.F. and by armies led by generals
like Wavell and Alan Cunningham and composed of
men like the soldiers who, in three months, have torn
Italy’s empire “to tatters.” Hence, perhaps, the
occupation of Bulgaria.
One War Is Enough.
For 12 months at least a Sydney paper has been
harping on the alleged machinations of Melbourne
in obtaining war contracts, and Sydney politicians,
their eyes on the State elections, are now blithering
to the same effect. Melbourne is responsible for
the N.S.W. unemployed figures ; Melbourne is denud-
ing other States of money and men; N.S.W. tax-
payers are paying increased taxes to subsidise Victorian
industries —so it goes on.
The thing could be dismissed as circulation-stunt-
ing and vote-catching but for the fact that it reveals
starkly to a country badly in need of a single national
rallying point just how deep goes the canker of
provincialism. It should be marked up to the credit
of the Sydney Premier that he refuses to be stampeded
by the twaddle:
At the risk of being considered recreant to my duty
as Premier, I would say that this is an Australian war
effort and we should not be parochial. Munitions,
should be made in the place most suitable from mili-
tary and economic points of view.
Exactly, but Mr. Mair himself shows up the
dreadful State outlook when he expresses the fear
that, for making such a statement, he may be con-
sidered “recreant” to his duty as a State Premier.
In North Africa and other places there are Aus-
tralians —not Sydney or Melbourne or Perth men, but
Australians— banded together to do a desperate job.
What does any one of them care whether the gun
or the bullet he uses comes from Footscray or Lid-
combe? Conceive a battalion of N.S.W. men com-
plaining that they are given far too many Victorian
bombs to use!
Parliament and A.B.C.
For the year to June 30, revenue of the A.8.C.,
practically all of it from listeners’ license fees at £1
a head, was £773,865—up £53,731. Expenses
ate up £726,611. There was £519,420 for artists’ fees,
programme costs, dance bands, radio professors, etc.,
and £56,269 for staff salaries, leaving £47,254 to be
carried forward. Profits were down £59,239.
“Staff salaries” doesn’t include amounts paid to
announcers, programme officers and producers, who
are as thick as rabbits round A.B.C. In July some
idea of their numbers was given by Ellis Price during
a press controversy with A.B.C. heads. Mr. Price
set them out as follows;
A general manager and State dittoes; Federal
superintendent, Fed. programme director, Fed. controller
of programmes, assistant do.; State controllers of
programmes and State concert controllers; Fed. con-
troller of plays, three State play producers; Fed.
controller of talks and State dos.; Federal news editor;
Fed. education officer and State dos.; Fed. controller
of children’s talks and State dos., State controllers of
women’s sessions; Fed. publicity officer, Fed. super-
visor of records and State dos.; Fed. sports controller
and State dos.; Fed. librarian, State supervisors and
assistant dos.
This left out the “A.B.C. Weekly” staff. None of the
screws of that little lot was included in “staff salaries,”
which have grown, to say the least of it —in 1936-37,
£33,031 ; 1937-38, £37,744 ; 1938-39, £42,076 ; 1939-40,
£56,269 —including “A.B.C. Weekly” salaries.
The loss on the “A.B.C. Weekly” was not dis-
closed in the report. It must be a thumping figure by
this, though the first issue declared:
There need be no fear that the “A.B.C. Weekly”
will be a sink for listeners’ money, despite some wishful
forecasts.
Listeners, who find the cash, never thought their
money was to be used to provide, among other things,
free advertisement for commercial stations in a journal
for which they never asked. Listeners will also have
their opinions of a Parliament that allows A.B.C. to
get away with such cool insolence.
By November last year the “Weekly” had lost
£37,000. There has been nothing to indicate a reduc-
tion in the rate of loss ; anyway, the reduction in the
annual profit tells its own tale. Nobody wanted the
“Weekly” except A.B.C, and people paying a license
fee double the 8.8. C. charge expect their Parlia-
ment to do something about it before the thing expands
from a “sink for listeners’ money” to a bottomless pit.
A.B.C. gets its appointment from the people
through their Parliament, to administer a necessary
public utility. It is nominally a part of the Post
Office. Although it does its best to throw them away,
it can’t help making profits. Those profits should go,
not into grandiose building funds, dead-loss journals
and other extravagances, but into the national revenue,
as they do in Britain, where they can play their part
in helping the nation bear the financial strain of war,
if only by permitting the people to listen-in at a
reduced fee.
In Canberra last week the Senate was about to
debate an amending Broadcasting Bill when the
American naval visit caused all hands to down
tools and rush to join in the junketing. For all the
good the bill will do it would not matter if the
debate was never resumed. It looks like a very weak
attempt by the national Parliament to assert some
authority over a commission that has always regarded
itself as a law unto itself.
Until A.B.C, is made responsible to Parliament
for all its proceedings and for every penny it spends,
and until the Treasury becomes the depository of
A.B.C. profits, 50 amending bills won’t alter the exist-
ing unsatisfactory state of affairs.
The Near Thing.
“Mr Fadden said he was in favor of post-war complete
brotherhood of the British and American peoples on lines
suggested by Mr. Wendell Willkie.”
American isolationists (the historian wrote) fought
hard against the proposal that the King should be
crowned in Washington. In the end, agreement
was reached by extending the Statute of Westminster
to the U.S.A. .
This matter disposed of, it became somewhat dif-
ficult to evolve the new American flag. Hollywood
offered $20,000,000 for a suitable design and a five-
year contract to the designer, but nobody could agree
until some bright person produced a flag that was
Union Jack on one side and Stars and Stripes on the
other.
Maoriland nearly seceded from the brother-
hood when she caught a bunch of Yanks trying to
tow the North Island to a spot between Honolulu
and San Francisco with the intention of turning it
into a playground for the weak and worn of Wall-
street. There was some rioting in the mid-west
American States when a crowd of ex-State politicians
from Australia tried to muscle in on the local Legis-
latures. Sydney (N.S.W.) naturally welcomed the
new brothers, no matter what their color or how
their nasal organs were built, but Melbourne (Vic.)
withdrew into an icy reserve tinged with hauteur and
absolutely refused either to introduce the brothers to
its daughters or to learn their language.
However, these and a multitude of other problems
were gradually solved, and the union was almost
complete when the wife of the American President
was told that the Queen had accepted a contract worth
$100,000,000 to write a daily column for the New
York “Times.” .
The outraged lady at once insisted upon being
allowed to write for the London “Times,” and named
her figure. She was photographed from all angles and
put on the air from all American broadcasting sys-
tems. The “Times” announced that it had no inten-
tion of employing lady columnists, no matter what
their standing or prestige. Most of America at once
rose, and a second War of Independence would un-
doubtedly have broken out had not the proposed
union been hurriedly abandoned and both peoples
allowed to revert to their pre-war status.
A year later it was discovered that her Majesty
had never even been approached by the N.Y. “Times,”
and that, in any case, she had no leanings towards
journalism. But by that time a Russian expeditionary
force was assaulting the cliffs of Tierra del Fuego
and the world returned to its old pastime.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Wodgil”: I have seen all the Ameri-
can squadrons that have come this way
since 16 battleships loomed up out-
side Sydney Heads in August, 1908. There
was a Pacific “situation” even then, and
it was an enduring surprise to me that
the first Roosevelt, that exemplar of the
strenuous life, should have placed his
battle-fleet, and sent it out half-expecting
trouble, under the command of so old
a man as Admiral Sperry. A dear old
man —I stood beside him for 10 minutes
on a dais at Albany (W.A.) and admired
his patient fortitude under a barrage of
oratory which must have bored him to
the back teeth —but so old and weary that
it was patent to everybody that he was
on his last legs. The officers and men
of Rear-Admiral Newton’s squadron
struck me as being as nice a lot of Ameri-
cans as ever represented their Republic
in Sydney. And Sydney, urged on by
its flapper press and its retired-showman
Mayor, went quite mad about them —
very much to the astonishment of the
majority, especially when quarter of a
ton or so of confetti and bits of waste
paper came fluttering down on them from
that feminised institution the Common-
wealth Bank and other Martin-place
buildings. Some of them confided that
the ill-conditioned paper-shower business
had been abandoned in their own country
as silly and insani/tfiry. It was introduced
in New York in the rackety time of the
exploded Jimmy Walker, who made an
ephemeral return to the news last week
as party to a divorce case.
“Tuart”; If Sydney isn’t converted into
a cheap imitation of Hollywood, none
of the credit will go to its ponderous and
humorless Lud Mayor. Every few days
his Ludship is moved to suggest the
adoption of some fatuous Hollywood
feature. “Cheer-leaders” was one ; then
the burgesses and their womenfolk were
invited to pelt officers and men of the
American squadron with cahnfetti and
paper (“let us throw enough to keep the
council workmen busy all aff- ternoon
clearing up the streets”). That seems to
have inspired the gentleman to a still
more towering flight of cinema-showman
fancy; anyway, even before the cahn-
fetti and paper made cleaners curse it
was given out that he had sent to Holly-
wood for a film player to come out and
help the “Lord Mayor’s Patriotic and
War Fund”—whether alone or accom-
panied by wife No. 6 or No. 7 wasn’t stated.
Country reactions to this idiotic proposal
will be worth watching. Country dis-
satisfaction with city control of the fund
is virtually admitted in the grossly ex-
travagant annual report printed in Syd-
ney, it being stated on one of the pages
not wasted that “£256,372” had been
“collected in N.S.W. by groups,” and that
“only £45,577” had been “paid into the
central fund.” Dissatisfaction and
demands for decentralised control of con-
tributions were inevitable when such a
title was chosen, whoever was respon-
sible for choosing it. In 1914-18 Mel-
bourne, Brisbane and Perth had no
Mayor’s fund, and the Sydney one came
sixth on a long N.S.W. financial list —
£91,283 more than it realised throughout
the war was subscribed to the Red Cross
in one day.
“V. Cluse” joins in the welcome;
Advised by press and radio that the U.S.
squadron would be off Sydney Heads at 6.30
a.m., would exchange salutes and then sail
through in time to berth at Woolloomooloo
at 8.30, I roused the missus and kids at six
sharp, swallowed some tea and headed for
South Head. We arrived in a howling wind
and driving rain, took up stations and waited.
Time passed. The baby cried. His brother
got restless. I smoked my second-last cigar-
ette. People came and stood in front of us.
We didn’t care, they kept some of the rain off.
More time passed. The big boy disappeared.
The sea was hidden by the rain. The missus
became anxious about the big boy. The little
boy cried. Some bloke asked me if I could see
anything. More people arrived. The little boy
cried. I said, “Bringing a kid that age!”
The missus said, “Anybody would think you
had to hold him.” Time passed. The big
boy reappeared. I said, “You wait till I get you
home.” He said, “Can you see anything?”
I smoked my last cigarette. More rain came.
Time passed. We were cold, wet and hungry.
A policeman said, “Hey, move back there,
you’re blocking the traffic.” “Blast the traffic,”
I said. The missus said, “We’d better go
home.” The big boy began to whimper. I
clouted him, and then felt rotten about it.
Time dragged on. I wanted a smoke. “I’ll
“Help, somebody! I'm DINKUM!”
be late for work,” I said. Three more years
dragged by. 1 asked a man for a cigarette.
-t™ l! _ j l6 , id nas hh% rain dripping from his
nose, and lett us. In the end we went home.
“it is 19 minutes to nine,” announced the
radio; “I can just see that leading ship. What
a magnificent sight!” The missus planked a
sa Vs a S e in front of me. “Blast the sight!” she
1 A°. L t 0 the bus sto P m t,me to see the
bas vanishing down the road. “What a mag-
nificent sight! ” I said. I wanted a smoke and
all I had was my bus fare.
......
.. 0 ,T.": Senator Foil, like Lud Mayor
Crjck o£ Sydney wants Australian
J ~ ~ ,
c up bigger fusses when
r °ops, our own or those of visitors,
through our cities. The Senator
would also appreciate a little more cheer-
Jn g for speeches by political leaders.
Both gentlemen fail to understand that
Australians are neither Europeans nor
Americans. Pomp does not impress
them. Political eloquence or the medi-
cine-man hysteria of a Hitler leaves them
cold. The Australian keeps his enthusi-
asm f° r suitable occasions. He doesn’t
I°°k on parades by visiting celebrities as
anything but free shows. He seldom
cheers his own soldiers because in his
h ear t the knowledge that they are in
training for deadly work, and it would
take a revolution in national character
to make him cheer for a Prime Minister
as the Americans cheer a President. At
restraining his emotions the Australian
can outdo the Englishman. But watch
him at Flemington or Randwick as the
favorite wins in a hard finish, or at a
Melbourne football match with one side
two P°i nts ahead and ten minutes to go.
He doesn’t need cheer-leaders then.
* * * *
“Sassenach”: Usually my friend
Donald McSporran (of McSporran and
Parritch) rises like a salmon scaling
a waterfall to an offer of a free lunch,
but the other Friday I found him strangely
reluctant. “Mon,” he said uneasily, “I
dinna care ta leave the warehoose while
Angus is awa.” (Angus is his partner.)
“Good Lord,” says I, “you’ve got ten
men to watch the stock and the till. Why
must Angus be here too?” “It’s no the
stock or the till I’m thinking of,” re-
sponded Donald, “but, if ye must know,
Angus has the badge!” And then I re-
membered the Red Cross lassies in
ambush at every corner.
* * * *
“Bon”: The feat of the Dutch boy
who stopped a leak in a dyke with his
hand and saved a town was improved
upon by a Sydney chap named Daniel
McDonald. Daniel was working with a
mate on top of a million-gallon oil tank,
when it began to spout flame from a vent
in the top. It had been raining recently
and there were puddles on the flat iron
roof, Daniel’s mate soaked his coat in
water and laid it across the six-inch vent.
No go; the rush of flame was too
strong. So Daniel laid his body
across the vent and stayed there till the
flame was extinguished and the chemical
foam-spray had been turned on in the
tank, obviating all further danger. Both
men were severely burnt. Incident gives
new meaning to that old Band of Hope
song “Dare to Be a Daniel.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”; Touching the controversy
in Sydney over classical or popular
organ music at Town Hall lunchtime
recitals (B. 19/3/’4l), the Harbor City
might profit by Melbourne’s experience,
When William McKie, now choirmaster
at Magdalen, Oxford, was city organist
in the southern city, the same conflict
arose between the music-lovers and the
Philistines, and finally some Bumbles in
the City Council took up the cudgels for
the latter. McKie leavened his organ
music with vocal and instrumental num-
bers by local musicians. One day one
of the City Fathers said he ought to
be asked—nay, compelled— to get off his
high horse ; leave Bach and Beethoven
to the highbrows and play “popular”
music. “Is it or isn’t it a fact,” McKie
asked, “that the lunchtime concerts are
packed to overflowing, and that the over-
flow has to be accommodated at a second
session?” The city dad had to admit
it was a fact. “Then aren’t my concerts
popular with the public?” argued McKie.
The city dad admitted they were. “Then,”
concluded the tenacious McKie, “I play
popular music.”
* * * *
“Trew”: Recently the British war in-
ventions committee gave a list of some
of the weird ideas put forward. It didn’t
include that of a Bondi (N.S.W.) man
who has invented a pair of water boots
in which he declares British soldiers could
walk across the North Sea and invade
Germany. The inventor gave a demon-
stration in the local baths, but every time
he tried to walk the water his boots let
him down, figuratively and literally,
though small children had better luck.
* * * *
“Zake”: Time was when the father of
an average sort of boy approaching
school-leaving age had a right to worry.
If the lad emerged from the leaving
exam, with a string of As he would be
snapped up by one of the big concerns
which are always on the lookout for the
clever boy. But if he were one of the
90-odd p.c. who attain no scholastic dis-
tinction he was lucky if he landed even
a dead-end job. But all that is changed
now. Boys are at a premium, as the
“Positions Vacant” ads. eloquently testify.
They can pick and choose jobs as the
fancy takes them, and for their formerly-
despised services are being offered up to
355. a week at 15 and 16. It is the war,
as the French used to say, and it looks
as if only a post-war depression can
alter the position. The worst of pessi-
mists can’t worry about what’s to happen
after the war. The woeful birthrate, com-
bined with unexampled industrial expan-
sion, is blowing good to every male
youngster in the country,
~** * *
“K.”: The secretary of the Canberra
Y.M.C.A. knows his Chicago, and when
he announced his belief that the boys
of our Newest City’s slum area (Cause-
way) were tougher than those of Al
Capone’s burg he started something,
The Civic Administrator, nettled by that
word “slum,” defended the Causeway
houses. They were “not elaborate,” but
“infinitely superior to many in Melbourne
and Sydney.” Backing him up came
Senator Foil with a theory that there is
“insufficient work of social character”
among the Canberra tough guys, and
“lack of proper outlet for their exuber-
ance.” Visitors to the capital city have
long noted the bad congestion of gums
an d paddocks hemming them in for a
f ew thousand square miles,
* * * *
“P.S.”: People who delude themselves
into believing that Australians are the
most literate of the world’s peoples should
listen-in to some of the general-know-
ledge “quizzes” put on by B-class
radio stations. Adults of both sexes are
frequently stumped by questions that any
child in a land of free and compulsory
education should be able to answer. One of
the most glaring instances was a soldier,
promised 10s. if he could say what coun-
try Dunkirk was in. After a brief hesi-
tation he blurted out “Norway.” The
announcer was highly amused. A few
seconds later the same announcer in-
formed the world, when a contestant
failed to do so, that “incipient” meant
“unwise, ignorant.” Nobody, apparently,
questioned the definition.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”; A Melbourne
auctioneer who cast up at a remote little
town while holidaying in the Western
District was asked if he would put a
farm, the property of a just-dead man,
up to auction. He said he would ; went
out to the property and valued it at £lO
an acre. The sale was held at the pub.
Though it had been billed, nobody
turned up except the publican and
the local drunk. The auctioneer
was just asking pessimistically for a first
bid when a well-dressed man walked
in and quietly said “£lO an acre.” The
auctioneer was astounded, but recovered
his professional aplomb and proceeded
with his patter. “Any advance on £10?”
he asked, looking invitingly at the Bung
and the local bad example. “£12,” said
the well-dressed stranger. “Any advance
on £12?” gulped the auctioneer. “No
advance on £l2? Come, now, gentlemen,”
etc. “£14,” retorted the stranger.
Finally the insistent stranger bought the
farm at £l5 an acre. Auctioneer had
purchaser as fellow-traveller in the train
back to the city, and asked for an ex-
planation. “I’m a lawyer,” said the
stranger. “I wasn’t buying the property
for myself. I was buying for the dead
man’s neighbor. He wanted to do his old
friend’s widow a friendly service.”
AUTUMN.
“Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness,”
Whom Johnny Keats, that matchless son-
neteer,
Featured adjacent to a cider-press
(A gadget we could surely do with here),
’Tis seldom that you get a rhymed address
In this our section of the hemisphere,
Though, sampling all the benefits you’ve brought
’em,
There’s many should be glad to greet you,
Autumn.
“Thou metaphor of everything that dies,”
As William Watson somewhat sadly said,
You have an added value in my eyes
Because so many summer pests are dead
Or doomed when you arrive, including flies,
Mosquitoes, whose nocturnal buzz I dread,
And quite a lot of other irritants,
From red-backed spiders to malodorous ants.
Into our ken officially you’re beckoned
On March the first, but that I deem absurd.
You’re never due before the twenty-second
And never later than the twenty-third,
Such being the dates wherefrom the spring is
reckoned
In Europe, and the winter gets the bird,
An axiom fixed in times as long ago
As those of Tacitus and Cicero.
Step in, and take this jingle for an Ave!
Too long fierce summer’s stresses we’ve with-
stood.
From worried statesman to perspiring navvy,
I’ll venture that there’s few won’t find you
good.
My iceman, with his seasonable savvy,
Will pretty soon be vending coal and wood.
Hail “Season when we gather what we sow”!
(From Alfred Austin, that.) Autumn, what ho!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Mac Hoots”: Not since Wordsworth
saw his Highland girl singing to herself
on the mountainside has anyone seen
so fine a sight for Scottish eyes as I’ve
just observed on a Sunday in Australia,
It was a piper thrilling his soul out to
the solitary gumtrees by the side of a
lake, and as he played a lassie danced
on the greensward to the sound. At first
I thought it all the better that the bonny,
bonny banks were only those of a pond in
Sydney’s Centennial Park: here was this
lonely patriot who fled away from the
barbarian city on Sundays to recapture
the music, the spirit, the freedom of
Scotland in the open air. But then it
occurred to me that the poor fellow had
probably been driven to the park because
• 1,- ri ,L„ r L
nob dy in his suburb would stand for
him practising the bagpipes at home. It s
a terrible thought that Sydney is prob-
ably teeming with repressed bagpipe
tLir
players, grimly biding their time.
* * * *
“Morimoto”: I see that the Japanese
newspapers are discussing the possibility
nf Mr MaKnnkn visitinn the Pnne and
ot Mr Matsuoka visiting me Hope ana
suggesting bases for peace and goodwill
amongst the nations, Mr. Matsuoka be-
ing a Christian. Chiang Kai-shek is also
a Christian, having joined the Methodist
. - ’ , 0 J
Church when he espoused one ot the Sung
family’s daughters. It seems to me that
if he could slip from Chungking to Rome
without being brought down by a
Japanese fighter and join in, he would
add weight to the discussion. The
Christian war-lord of a Confucian
country and the Christian Foreign
Minister of a Buddhist or Shinto
monarchy arguing on the principles
of the Teacher who said “Love
them that hate you” would be one of
the most surprising spectacles of a year
full of surprises.
* * * *
strict Veg.”: Add to the list of
uncanny coincidences, cases of telepathy,
black magic or what you please the re-
mark of Mrs. Simon Fraser when the Lud
Mayor’s lady was drawing the
winning ticket in a raffle at
the Town Hall, Melbourne.
Mrs. Fraser said she had
dreamt on the previous Wed-
nesday that the winner of the
prize was the chef at Air
Force House. Mrs. Beaure-
paire had her hand in the bin
at the moment. When she
drew the ticket out all near
her could see that written
across it was: “Under -chef,
Air Force House”!
* * *
“Colbun”: In the English
language today are many
words which have seen better
days. Their decline in status
began long before the cliches
of advertising lingo were
born. To Shakspeare “admi-
ration” . meant awestricken
wonderment, not the mere
warm approval to which it
has been watered down these
two centuries. Horatio
used it to indicate Hamlet’s
profoundly disturbed state of
mind when told of the ghost’s
appearance. When the First
Fleet sailed for Botany Bay
“elegant” denoted high and
exclusive encomium, not
merely graceful or tasteful.
To term anyone “complacent”
was complimentary ; now it is
a synonym for smug. Perhaps
the queerest of all is “bassinet.” By what
strange train of associations has the grim
helmet of a haughty medieval knight
become a plebeian wicker cradle?
# * * *
“Spokeshave”: A bright notion that
struck a patriotic ball committee in Mel-
bourne turned out to have defects. The
idea was to have a Hoboes’ Ball, with a
prize for the most derelict costume. The
four worst examples didn’t turn up. Too
self-conscious to travel in their ruined
clobber in trams, they decided to call a
taxi to take them to their destination.
The spectacle of a couple of down-and-
outers with a pair of bedraggled tarts
in tow signalling them from the pave-
ment made a poor impression on the taxi
drivers. Each one grinned derisively and
with a wave of the hand passed on.
* * * *
“Hungry Harry” recollects that food-
rationing isn’t always due to war:
The order of the Tight Belt was freely be-
stowed in early Sydney from the Governor
down. Original ration scale at the beginning of
settlement was 81b. of flour, 51b. of salt pork
and three pints of peas a head per week. This
was reduced in October, 1789, to 51b. soz. of
flour, 31b. soz. of pork and two pints of peas.
In April next year the allowance was further
cut down to 211 b. of flour, 21b. of pork and
2!b. of rice or ilb. of peas. It was ex-
tremely difficult to get the convicts to realise
that the ration had to last seven days, and
some of them used to scoff the lot in three.
Collins instances one man who, before the
scale was reduced, made his weekly dole of
81b. of flour into 18 cakes, which he consumed
at one meal. “He was soon after taken speech-
less and senseless and died the following day
at the hospital.”
H= * =N *
“Ex-Vic.”: A Victorian country
motorist has been fined for breaking a
State traffic regulation that doesn’t exist.
When the re-registration of his car was
due he sent the money along to the
department and continued to drive while
awaiting receipt of the new registration
disc. He was stopped by police, charged
with the non-removal of the old disc and
fined. An R.A.C.V. official at Kyneton
happened to read of the case in a news-
paper, felt a twinge of memory and com-
municated with headquarters, which dis-
covered that the regulation regarding
removal of old discs was repealed in
April, 1938.
“Why, Jenkins, I didn't know you Were so keen on gardening !”
“Your laces are undone !”
“Bike-chain”: After hearing how three
rowdies were belting the daylights out of
a couple of cops until a trammie fought
his way through the crowd and turned
the tables, a Sydney beak gave the row-
dies six months’ each, ordered them to
pay heavy compensation and then com-
mented on the attitude of the crowd and
the spirit of the trammie. He probably mis-
judged the crowd. Sydney’s citizens by
nature are neutral rubberneckers. They
are the kindliest folk in the world, but
where officialdom of any sort is con-
cerned their motto is “Mind your own
business.” To expect them to stop an
attack on cops was too much. Probably
all they’d had in the way of free enter-
tainment for several weeks previously
were a dogman on the new G.P.0., some
bloke digging a hole in the street or a
drunk mangled by a tram.
* * *
“S.T.S”: The mention of “Barag-
wanath, J.P.” (B. 26/2/’4l), recalls the
first time I heard the name. It was 30
years back, when the manager of a Shield
XI from Victoria, coming to Adelaide,
was so announced. The name was
utterly strange to us, and it was
just at that time that the Hindu
poet Rabindranath Tagore was be-
coming famous. So we pronounced
the Melbourne man’s name similarly,
with the accent on the Rag. Why make
a Hindu manager of a cricket team, any-
way? we asked ourselves. When the
jolly Australian owner of the name
arrived, the joke was too good to be kept
secret, and nobody enjoyed it more than
himself. “It’s Barra-gwonnath,” he ex-
plained ; “a good old Cornish name.”
But a stranger is as unlikely to guess right
as with Woolloomooloo or Bondi.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: According to a Dr,
Joliffe, who told the American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science all
about it, an able-bodied man in 1840
could drink a quart of whisky a day
and suffer very little from it, whereas
the man of today who consumed this
quantity of liquor would probably be
heading for pink snakes and an early
death. According to the prof., the 1840
man was more alcohol-resistant because
he ate more natural food; the food
exports of today have denatured our diet,
and vitamin-starvation on artificial foods
combined with whisky is the same as
drinking on an empty stomach, which
every booze-artist knows is not to be
recommended. Shakspeare' had his
reasons for coupling cakes with ale and
apples with flagons,
* * * *
“Nakh”: A woman musician who
spends part of her time in Melbourne
but has a house in the country with a
grand piano in it breathed a sigh of
relief when summer entered March with-
out any major bushfire. On the great
day of the 1939 conflagration she heard
the SOS over the air in the city, speeded
out to her property and found it swathed
in smoke and ringed with fire, with dim
shapes of firefighters from the village
rushing hither and thither. Entering her
front door she was nearly knocked flat
by a man carrying a saw. “What on
earth are you going to do with that?”
she inquired. “It’s all right, lady,”
shouted the man of action. “We’re trying
to save your piano and we can’t get it
through the doorway, so we’re going
to saw the legs off.” “What’ll you do
with it when you get it outside?” she
retorted. “It’ll burn quicker there than
it will in a brick house.” She saved her
piano from the firefighters and the fire-
fighters saved her house from the fire, so
matters were even. Then the smoke-
begrimed heroes were invited inside, and
so many bottles were emptied that putting
the firefighters out began to look harder
than putting the fire out.
* * * *
“Spadger”; Amelia had been escorted
home from the dance hall by a well-
dressed, well-preserved sheik. They were
saying good night at the gate when Ma’s
window shot up. “Come in, girl,” she
called, “it’s after midnight; who’ve you
got there, anyhow?” “It’s all right.
Mum, I’ll be in in a few minutes. Barty
Malone is just saying good night to me.”
Mum’s voice rose nearly an octave and
the window rattled with her emotion.
“Barty Malone! He used to see me
home from dances before I met your
father. Come in at once!”
* # * *
“F.S.” laments:
The alteration to the Griffin plan involved
in the placing of a royal statue before Parlia-
ment House at Canberra has properly enraged
John Butters, who was privy to Burley Griffin’s
aims and aspirations and jealously guarded them
for five years as chairman of the Federal Capital
Commission. But public planning seldom sur-
vives the life of the planner. Another Griffin
plan which has gone west is that connected with
the Eaglemont estate outside Melbourne. A
hill covered with stately Roman cypresses and
rare 70-year-old trees of the most magnificent
habit was laid out in curving roads. Each
block of houses was provided with a large
private park at its rear so that children could
have a secure playground. The cypresses sug-
gested to Griffin an Italian type of house, and
the hill was to be a continuous garden which
would have been the visual property of every
Eaglemont resident. But builders have be-
smirched Griffin’s dream with villas culled from
American architectural journals; owners have
surrounded themselves with tall brick and con-
crete fences; gas, water, sewage, electric light
and ’phone authorities have laid the trees low,
and shire engineers are cursing the impracticable
Griffin for the engineering problems he has
left them. In due course Eaglemont will re-
semble any other standardised Melbourne suburb
except for one of the finest views you will see
anywhere in Australia. And butchers’ and
bakers’ vans will be racing over the sanctuaries
Griffin provided for the children.
THE MODERNISTS.
“From Adelaide to Brisbane, poets and would-
be poets are showing an intense interest in modern
.'Xperiniental verse and in the possibility of evolving
a distinctively Australian version of the modern
movements.”—R.P., 19/3/’4l.
They are polishing their alpenstocks and imple-
ments for steering
Votaries of bright Apollo up Parnassus
rugged slopes
By the latest-known devices for this type of
mountaineering.
All our mute inglorious Miltons and our
undeveloped Popes.
They are shaking off the trammels of the obso-
lete tradition
Poesy should be cut to measure, hammered
out by rote and rule;
Their intention is to show that they’ve a message
and a mission
Gained by studying the methods of the T. S.
Elliot school.
Gordon, Kendall, Stephens, Lawson —those who
once were ranked as “ringers,”
With established reputations that we fondly
deemed would last,
Needs must go the way of other sadly over-
rated singers,
Bards whose bays are torn and withered,
busted idols of the past.
Fashions change, there’s no denying. Stationary
stones grow mossy.
’Tis but fair to give reformers ev’ry chance
to show their powers.
So I wish them luck, these poets, both in esse
and in posse,
Who will presently be piping on this Helicon
of ours.
Clearer melodies than any we’re familiar with,
and sweeter,
May (who knows?) be yet forthcoming from
this nest of singing-birds.
But let’s hope, whatever license they may take
with rhyme and metre,
That at least they’ll frame their fancies in
intelligible words.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ẁ
10 for lOd. 20 for 1/8
E 1869
mm
vmff igmontkh mtofj
VNHAYH3
ẃ
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT "SO R E THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
The cheers for Roosevelt’s greatest
speech had scarcely subsided when Artie
Fadden had another fit of the dismals;
It fell to my lot a month ago to utter a
warning more grave than has ever before
been heard in this country. I had to say
that within a brief time our country and
our people might be attacked. A few
scoffed at that warning as exaggerated.
Every word I said was justified. We were,
and we remain, in the greatest danger....
1 believe that before very long we may
have to face a severe and sudden crisis.
As in the previous case, there were no
fits of the dismals in London, Ottawa,
Delhi, Capetown or Wellington. Neither
docs the situation or the outlook ever
get Menzies down. Menzies has done
the job for which he went abroad and
done it pretty well. The sooner he takes
charge again the better.
Even while Fadden was making his
moan again, four American cruisers and
nine American destroyers, all very modern,
and manned by crews who look ready
for anything, were about to enter Aus-
tralasian waters. What he saw of the
squadron that struck out fox Sydney had
such a cheering effect on Artie that he
hasn’t been heard to moan or groan since.
The financing of young Mr. Holt’s
child-endowment plan is worrying the
Ministerial parties at Canberra. Members
whose constituents employ little or no
labor want a payroll tax ; others, object-
ing to the exemption of professional men
and earners or receivers of large salaries,
suggest that existing taxes will suffice
until it is proved that they won’t. Some
members are vexed with doubts as to
whether the thing is constitutional, though
they are willing to chance it. Ail hands
and the cook have a hazy belief that
child endowment will bump up the birth-
rate, though it has singularly failed to
do so in N.S.W.
It has occurred to some anti-Labor
gentlemen in Sydney that it is a long time
since their party changed its name. It
called itself “Liberal” from 1909 or
thereabouts till 1917 ; “Nationalist” from
1917 till 1931 and “United Australia”
from that year. Now the proposal is
that it should become the United Aus-
tralia Democratic Party, and Premier
Mair is in favor of the change. His
Government is going to be concerned in
a funeral, and it really doesn’t matter
what name or initials are inscribed on
the coffin.
Mair and co. blundered badly when
they put up Attorney-General Manning
to give his blessing to a Legislative
Council motion (fathered by Joe Coates)
permitting the serving of unfortified wines
in “approved” restaurants, and to promise
“sympathetic consideration” after the
general election. They have been won-
dering ever since if they haven’t thereby
offended both Cold Tea and the Trade.
In their perturbed state of mind they
have taken a bit more off their unem-
ployed-relief and social-service taxes.
Leftovers from the depression, these im-
posts should have been abolished long
ago; but State Governments cling to
taxes as vultures to their prey.
Praising the British Parliament’s atten-
tion to business and the frankness of
British Ministers, Calwell, Dr. Maloney’s
successor at Canberra, mentioned that
the Commons had 141 sittings last year.
The Senate had 34—many were brief —
and the House 44. Round 40 is the
yearly average of Queensland’s Assem-
bly and Westralia’s Leg. Council. The
Commoner’s salary is £6OO p.a., and he
gets no all-lines pass—only a railway
warrant entitling him to travel to and
from London when the House is in ses-
sion. The Westralian Leg. Councillor
gets £6OO p.a. and the Queensland Assem-
blyman £650 p.a., plus all-lines passes.
And so the game goes on —though it
won’t always go on.
Melbourne “Herald” is stunting for
daylight saving. It proposes that all
clocks should be put on an hour or an
hour and a half, and quotes a golf-club
secretary to the effect that this would
enable the tired businessman to put in
more time on the links. The great Mur-
doch wasn’t here when daylight saving
was tried. Ernest Scott was, and this is
what he wrote in the volume he contri-
buted to the history of the last war.
Daylight saving was introduced by Act
of Parliament on Jan. I, 1917, the clocks
being advanced an hour to March 25; but
the experiment failed. The duration of twi-
light was too short; protest at once came
from the country industries, and the Act
was repealed.
“Protest” also “came” from Westralia,
the N.T. and Queensland, and from prac-
tically every Australian mother with
“There, what about it?”
young children. And so it would be
again if the stunters had their way.
The Agrarians in Westralia have been
trying to “broaden” their “constitution.”
The main idea was to set up organisa-
tions in Perth and on the goldfields to
knock out the Nats., but this failed of
the necessary majority. However, the
objectives and platforms were “broad-
ened” chiefly by the inclusion of a
clause pledging members of the party
“to resist by every constitutional means
further Federal encroachment on the
sovereign rights of the State.” This was
made the sixth objective and the first
plank of the Federal platform. The
Nats, had previously decided that “strong
action is necessary to combat the evil
of unification.” Westralian Labor also
suffers from provincialism, although not
so badly as the other parties.
While the inquiry into the Abbco
bread case was proceeding at Sydney the
Chief Industrial Magistrate fined the
Fresh Food and Ice Co. £l5O for having
failed to pay proper overtime, and said
something about “flagrant flouting of
awards.” In April the co. was fined £2
on each of 20 industrial charges, but the
Department of Justice reduced each
penalty to £l. The concern was again
before the C.I.M. in August, and “I then
considered that it had taken advantage of
the leniency granted to it.” On March
14 it was fined £lO for selling adulterated
milk. It closed an exciting week by
passing its dividend.
The funeral of £lOO,OOO of good loan
money has been quietly celebrated in
the Sydney “Parliament.” The £lOO,OOO
was spent on the Casino-Bonalbo rail-
way, recommended by the Parliamentary
Public Works Committee which re-
ceived fees for the recommendation—and
abandoned when it occurred to somebody
that a road would suffice. There have
been several of these funerals of recent
years. The corpses remain a permanent
charge on taxpayers as “Development of
Agriculture” or something.
Victoria’s Labor-“leader” Cain is one
of those who are certain that it is going
to be a grand new world after the war.
He told a Swan Hill audience that there
must be no more unemployed, no more
slums and no inequality of opportunity,
educational or otherwise. The people will
tell him that there must be lots of un-
employed State politicians.
Because of dry weather, scarcity of
farm labor and cost of hand-feeding
cattle, Melbourne’s Milk Board recom-
mended, and Cabinet has sanctioned, an
increase of 2d. a gallon in the wholesale
price, which means that the householder
pays another a quart. The increase is
subject to revision at May 31. Those who
hope that good rains between now and
then will bring the price down again
are optimists.
While, for obvious reasons, sea-carriage
of goods is becoming an increasing worry
to inter-State traders, two more road
competitors with the Victorian railways
have been “eliminated” ; hauliers on the
Melbourne-Yarram and Melbourne-Sea
Lake routes have surrendered their
licenses to the Government for unrevealed
amounts as compensation. No wonder
the military authorities find it hard to
get men capable of handling big military
transports. Canberra is storing up a ton
of trouble for Australia by allowing these
State transport boards to interfere with
a national matter like transport.
The “Argus” has delighted gentlemen
of the extreme Left and the extreme Right
by demanding the sending of a Minister
to Chungking. One difficulty is that
Chungking has become a prey to factions
which have recently been fighting one an-
other. At present the Nationalists are in
the ascendant, but it is by no means cer-
tain that the Communists won’t turn them
out and make Chungking the centre of a
Soviet republic. Japanese assert that
Moscow and the Corns, have signed “a
secret pact of-mutual assistance designed
to set up a Chinese Soviet area,” and
there may be more in this than there is
in most of the “information” that comes
from the north Pacific on “reliable”
authority.
The surprise of the last Queensland
Assembly election was the defeat in
Dalby of Godfrey Morgan, Minister of
Transport in Moore’s time. In a poll of
9265 Morgan finished 57 votes behind
Aubrey Robert Slessar, the Labor man.
This is a seat that the Country party ex-
pects to regain ; if it fails in Dalby there
is small hope for it.
The Queensland basic wage is up—
-ss. (to £4 95.) for men and 3s. (to £2 Bs.)
for women. It will increase the Govern-
ment’s wages bill by £475,000 p.a.
Giving evidence in the recent contempt-
of-Court case, Queensland Opposition-
leader Maher said his “calculation,”
based on what happened before the 1938
Assembly election, had been that the
basic-wage judgment would be delivered
eight days before polling-day. On that
point he was right, and presumably a
protest against such proceedings being
brought just before general elections
would have been in order. Where Maher
went wrong was in publishing the words
“basic wage increase operative from
March 28 ; polling day March 29.” The
Court had to maintain its dignity and
authority, being in no way responsible
for the timing of basic-wage proceedings.
Britain expects to put 200,000 young
women to war work by means of a com-
pulsory registration scheme. It would
be interesting to observe the reaction of
some uniformed women in Australia if
the Australian Government suddenly
ordered them into dungarees.
Soviet defence estimates have been
increased by 24 p.c. to 70,900,000,000
roubles—about a third of the national
income. Afghanistan and Tibet had
better look out.
From “Australian Medico”:
The Maoriland doctors’ stand against the
Labor Government’s scheme is no “strike”
(B. 18/3/’4l). They are not refusing to work
or picketing to ensure that others do not
work, nor are they hurling the “scab” epithet
at anyone who accepts the scheme. They are
merely refusing to be made Government ser-
vants working unlimited hours and bearing the
expenses of the business in a way that no
Labor man would tolerate for half an hour.
But they are not on strike—the sick still re-
ceive attention.
Audited and found correct.
There is something wrong with the
liaison work in the Sydney “D.T.”
office. The daily sheet averred, in the
blackest type on the premises, that the
present Administration is hopeless “be-
cause half the best brains in Parliament
—the men those 1,879,000 Labor voters
sent to Canberra” —are just looking on.
Why can’t Messrs. Curtin, Fordc,
Beasley and Evatt—all men of first-class
ability—replace the lightweights in the
present Cabinet and directly control Aus-
tralia’s war effort?
Then the “Sunday Telegraph’s” star
writer had his say about “half the best
brains in Parliament”:
Their average age, I suppose, would be
about 55 fiooking down from the press
gallery there are at least a dozen bent and
balding heads). Less than half are of Non-
conformist background, including three lay
preachers and an agnostic or two. The
others are Catholics, ranging from the de-
vout to the desultory renegade. With two
or three exceptions they are men without
intellectual attainments or even education
(in a country where education is free and
easy to get).
The opening sentence was “Don’t hustle
Mr. Curtin about this business of
National Government”!


A BUSTED FLUSH.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £30,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,500,000.
M. C. Alder,
General Manager.
Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by "spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Foil has appointed J. F. Williams to
take Percy Jenkin’s place as Director of
Information until Jenkin —knocked out
by his work as Chief Censor—can return
to the job ; and Jenkin’s illness has taken
a turn for the worse. Williams was
grounded in journalism in The Bulle-
tin’s “Wild Cat” department under
S. H. Prior. He transferred to the Mel-
bourne “Herald” office about the time
somebody conceived the notion of settling
The Bulletin’s hash by engaging half
the staff for “Punch” (the “new”
Punch” lasted exactly twelve months);
and made good as Harold Bur-
stem's understudy. On a sort of travel-
ling commission for the “Herald,” he
became managing editor of the Barrier
“Miner.” The post he has gitfen up tem-
porarily is that of g.m. of the Brisbane
“Courier-Mail.”
Passed over at 80 at Caulfield, Mel-
bourne, Harry Boan, who, with the late
Sidney Myer, was a pioneer of depart-
ment stores in Australia. Victorian-born,
he got his business experience in his
native State, N.S.W. and Queensland.
Then he started out as a universal pro-
vider in a small way at Broken Hill.
Next, as Perth was enjoying a gold
boom, he opened a shop opposite its
railway station. Visitors to Perth in those
days used to wonder how the shambling
city full of vacant allotments and suburbs
that were mainly sandhills could support
what looked like an outsize in white
elephants. He prospered so well, how-
ever, that he sold out his Broken Hill
place and concentrated on the Perth
store. In later years he flirted with poli-
tics, and was twice elected to the Leg.
Council.
Horse-racing and travel were Harry
Boan’s principal recreations ; one of his
neddies, Tanami, won the A.J.C. Derby
(1910), and another, Gothic Gem, the
Williamstown Cup (1934). His son suc-
ceeded him in the direction of the busi-
ness. One of Boan’s two daughters mar-
ried Lord Athlumney, son of an Irish
baronet (Sir William Somerville), who
was M.P. for Drogheda and Chief Sec-
retary for Ireland, and was rewarded with
two peerages in the ’sixties. The second
Lord Athlumney died in 1929, ten years
after his marriage to Miss Boan, and the
peerages died with him.
As secretary of Secretariat, Ltd., the
appropriately-named Hugh G. Brain is
one of the intellects behind the war
effort. Born in Melbourne in 1891, he
went from the Uni. High School to the
State public service—he was in the
HUGH G. BRAIN.
Premier’s office in the times of W. A.
Watt and John Murray. In 1913 he was
sec. of the Inter-State Commission. There
he attracted the attention of W. L. Bail-
lieu, and left the Federal service to take
up secretarial work for the Baillieu in-
terests, In the 1914-18 war he enlisted
as a private and ended up on Australian
H.Q. staff in London with a captaincy
and an 0.8. E. Amongst his secretarial
responsibilities are Metal Manufactures,
Ltd., which produces all the copper cables
and copper and brass tubes in Australia ;
Associated Pulp and Paper, Burnie
(Tas.); Cable .Makers’ Association ; Gis-
borne (M.L.) Oilfields; Metallurgical
Developments and Zinc Investments. A
foundation member of the Legacy Club,
he has held every office in it, is president
of the Baillieu Education Trust, which
assists children of deceased and incapaci-
tated soldiers, rides a bike round his
parish daily at dawn for exercise, and
plays Bach fugues on an electrically-
driven organ ip his Melbourne home
by way of relaxation.
Zelman Cowen, the young Melbourne
scholar, has added another leaf to his
bays by winning the £6O E. J. B. Nunn
scholarship at the final honors examina-
tion at Melbourne University. He was
dux of Scotch College, graduated B.A.
wkh first-class honors at Melbourne Uni.
in 1935, and in 1939, when he was 19,
became tutor in political philosophy at
the University. He was chosen Rhodes
scholar this year. Unable to go to
Oxford because of the war, he has
entered the R.A.N. as a sub-lieutenant,
Walter D. Whyte, who has died at 83,
was probably Australia’s longest-distance
verse-writer, for his contributions were
spread over more than 60 years. He was
first a journalist, then a civil servant—an
inspector for many years of the N. S.
Wales Child Welfare Department. He
called on his Muse to get a better deal
for the State child. Henry Parkes, who
regarded himself as “a bit of a poet,”
gave Whyte his first public service job.
One of the survivors of the Middle
Harbor (Sydney) submarine disaster
of 1891 went out with the death
of 76-year-old William Borland, who
won the Albert Medal then rarer
as a distinction than today for
his heroism in helping to rescue his
mates, though badly injured himself. Five
men were killed ; a fine monument stands
over their graves in the Waverley Ceme-
tery. Borland, although he was 49 when
the 1914-18 war came, got into it, and
was a staff-sergeant in the A.l.F.’s A.S.C.
in Egypt and France for three years. He
had been an identity of Thirroul since
his return.
A claimant to be Australia’s record
bellringer is John Clarkson, 80, who for
55 years has got up each morning,
tramped a mile and climbed the stairs
to the belfry of St. John’s Church, Clif-
ton Hill, Melbourne, to ring the faith-
ful to Mass at 6.30, He was late on only
one occasion, when all the clocks and
watches in his house stopped. A builder
by trade, he came from Manchester in
1871.
Died at Lewisham Hospital (Sydney)
recently, Father W. J. Geer, of St.
Columba’s, North Leichhardt. Thirty
years ago he was Anglican rector of All
Saints’, Woollahra, where he had been
in charge eight years. He joined the
Roman Catholic communion in 1912 and
was appointed not long afterwards to a
professorship at Springwood College.
After ordination to the priesthood
he served successively at Waterloo,
Katoomba and Neutral Bay until his
promotion to the charge of St. Columba s.
Walter Davies Price, new general
manager of the S.A. Government Pro-
duce Department, is a son of former
S.A. Premier Tom Price, and was born
in the State 55 years ago. He joined the
civil service in 1903 as a junior clerk
in the Lands Office. He has been in the
Produce Department since 1907. In the
1914-18 war he served with the 43rd
Battalion as a lieutenant, coming out
with the M.C. and a crocked knee —it
W. D. PRICE.
cut short a promising cricket career,
but is not much of a handicap at bowls.
Price, known as Wally to the last Digger
generation, was first president of the
S.A.R.S.L.
Thomas Spells, a veteran railwayman
just dead in S.A., had a favorite story
about Governor Kintore, who, at the
opening of a country line close on half
a century ago, insisted on being the
engine-driver. Tom acted as fireman.
He knew his Ex. was a qualified engineer,
but was surprised to find that the Earl’s
technical knowledge extended even to the
usual “Blow her, mate!” when the
throttle was wanted,
J. G. Crawford, M.Ec., has been
seconded by N.S.W. Rural Bank to that
State’s Department of Agriculture to look
into certain economic aspects of specific
problems. He got his B.Ec. with first-
class honors from Sydney University in
1932 and his M.Ec. last year, again with
honors and the University medal. A
Walter and Eliza Hall Fellow, he has
been lecturer in rural economics at the
University since 1934, and was appointed
economic adviser to the bank in 1935.
He recently returned from a two-year
visit to U.S.A., where he studied the
New Deal farm policy as a Common-
wealth Fund Service Fellow in Agric.
Economics.
George Valder will be at next Sydney
R.A. Show as a private onlooker for the
first time in 50 years. A former Under-
secretary of the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, George has been actively
associated with the R.A.S. since 1891,
when he had charge of the exhibit of
the then newly-formed department. In
’95 he staged a big display from Wagga
Government farm, which he managed,
and when he became principal of
Hawkesbury Agricultural College he con-
tinued to manage exhibits. He was
elected to the R.A.S. council at the turn
of the century, but appointment as N. S.
Wales Trade Commissioner iri S. Africa
in 1902 caused his retirement. Seventeen
years later he retired from the depart-
ment and was re-elected to the R.A.S.
council, becoming a vice-president three
years ago. The years have beaten him at
last, and he is to take it easy from
now on.
A canny Scottish-Australian who has
come nearer than any other modern S.A.
Railways Commissioner to making the
railways pay, Charles Buxton Anderson is
watching with pride the fine work of his
Islington workshops on a £200,000 pro-
gramme of rail locos, and trucks. The
School of Mines was Anderson’s Alma
Mater. He joined the public service in
1898 and was successively draftsman,
surveyor, railway engineer, railway super-
intendent, acting chief railway engineer
and then Commissioner in 1930 in suc-
cession to the American W. A. Webb.
A Royal Society Fellowship—a rare
distinction —has been conferred on
a Victorian Rhodes scholar, Dr. J.
C. Eccles. Getting the scholarship
in *1925, by 1927 he was Junior
Research Fellow at Exeter College,
Oxford. He held this job till 1934,
as well as being Fellow and tutor at
Magdalen and demonstrator in physi-
ology until 1937. Then he went to the
directorship of the Kanematsu Memorial
Institute of Pathology in Sydney. He is
part-author of Reflex Activity of the
Spinal Column and a considerable con-
tributor to the literature of the Royal
Society.
Walford Davies, dead in Bristol at 71,
was the younger brother of Edward
Harold Davies, Elder Professor of Music
at Adelaide Uni., and uncle of H. W.
Davies, Sydney Uni.’s physiology pro-
fessor. Shropshire-born, Walford had a
distinguished career as a composer, and
was better known than most English
musicians on account of his 15 years’
association with 8.8. C. In 1919 he
was appointed Professor of Music at the
University of Wales, and in 1934 became
Master of the King’s Music. A knight-
hood cam© his way in 1922.
Major Hector J. R. Clayton, Em-
barkation Staff Officer of the Eastern
Command, is a sunny-natured six-footer.
In civil life he’s a Sydney solicitor
(Clayton, Utz and Co.), a member
of the council of the Law Institute,
and an M.L.C. He joined up with
the 4th Battalion, A.1.F., in 1914,
MAJOR H. J. R. CLAYTON.
and served throughout the war on vari-
ous fronts, mainly as a staff officer, and
frequently concerned with transport. His
services were called for again as soon as
the war gong was struck in 1939, and
he has now settled down to a task for
which his experience well fits him.


use
♦
t BATTERIES
Remember this when you are buying
a new battery for any purpose* You
can depend on the same standard of
reliable service which “EXIDE” gives
the Fighting Services under the most
strenuous conditions.
There’s an EXIDE BATTERY for
every make of car, motor-cycle, radio
and house-lighting plant and don’t
forget that EXIDE “still keeps going
when the rest have stopped.”
OBTAINABLE FROM DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: Bluey and Dutch, broke
and thirsty, dropped their swags on the
outskirts of a one-pub hamlet on the
plains. “No good puttin’ it on him,” said
Blue. “I know that publican.” But an
hour later Blue inserted himself unob-
trusively into the bar and sat on the
bench against the wall. Time passed, A
few customers came in, and the publican
eyed Blue speculatively. Presently Blue
went out. Then Dutch came in quietly
and sat against the wall. Time passed.
Dutch went out and Blue came in. This
went on until the publican became im-
patient and warned both not to appear
again. They sat outside, one at each
end of the verandah, speaking not to each
other nor to others. The publican
ordered them off the verandah. They sat
on the road, silent and still. “Listen,”
said Bung. “Youse blokes is gettin’ on
my nerves. If I give y’ a bottle of
draught each will y’ get?” They nodded,
got their bottles and departed. “It just
shows y’,” said Blue, as they camped by
the Government tank, “that it ain’t
always the talkative bloke that gets
there.” “No,” said Dutch sadly; “but
you knew that publican, all right.” And
he disgustedly poured the cold tea from
his bottle on to the ground. Blue didn’t
even bother to open his. And the night
closed down on another tragedy of the
bush.
* * * #
“Spadger”: Old Lanty Corrigan, whose
brawn was more in evidence than his
brain, heard his mates on a navvying job
discussing different Europeans as workers.
All decided that the Scandinavians had
the best physique and were the hardest
toilers, with chief preference for the
native of Sweden. Lanty’s youngest son,
six feet of black-haired Irish-Australian,
arrived on the job one day with a mes-
sage from the missus, and Lanty brought
him in to the mess tent for a spot of
dinner. “Meet my son Bill,” Lanty said
proudly. “He’s a Swede.”
* * * »
“Limestone”; It was the dry end of
a dry year on the tableland country in
the Charters Towers (N.Q.) district. There
was a fair body of grass, dry as the
hearthstone of hell, and cattle were weak.
One night we had a thunderstorm, about
30 points perhaps, with a bit of hail in
it. Early next day I rode out to have
a look at a paddock I’d been keeping for
stud cows. The storm, only a couple of
miles wide, had swept right across it,
with apparently the same fall we'd had
at the homestead. But the grass in that
paddock had disappeared overnight. My
theory is that before the dry grass had
a chance to get wet and pliable those
bullets had literally chopped it to worth-
less chaff.
* ♦ ♦ $
“Pitt St.”; I suspect that “Atrax’s”
“well-authenticated” yarn of three-weeks-
old turkeys being slaughtered by Mallee
trapdoor spiders (B. 19/3/’4l) came
from the same source as the material for
my “sarcasm” —the city press. The yarn
is a libel on every self-respecting turkey
poult in the scrub. I’d be glad to have
“Atrax’s” explanation of how a three-
weeks-old turkey’s legs could be got
down a burrow perhaps |in. in diameter.
The big Mallee “triantelopes” are three
times the size of trapdoor spiders, but
there never was and never will be one
with a 9in. leg-spread. “A.’s” N.Q. yarn
is out, too, and his alleged bird-eaters
are simply spiders into whose heavy nets
a small bird accidentally blunders occa-
sionally, giving the spider the fright of
its life and remaining there untouched
because a spider’s mandibles are hardly
up to coping with feathers. As for the
specimen which spins submarine webs, all
“Do these need ’arf-solin?”
I can say is that “Atrax” had better keep
a wary eye out for the trapdoors of
the genus Homo sapiens outbackus.
Apparently one of his legs, like that of
the city reporter in my par., is already
well down one of their burrows.
“0.D.”: Tell “Pitt St.” (B. 26/2/’4l)
I once saw a big grey spider carrying
away a half-grown greyhound pup. Said
pup had been snuffling in some dead
sticks when the spider got a grip on its
bottom lip and hung on. After a couple
of vain efforts to brush the thing off the
pup began to run forward, its head low
and the spider’s legs just touching the
ground, evidently in the belief that by
so doing it could ease and loosen the
grip. Any city journalist observing the
phenomenon would have had a feature
story.
* * * *
“Langshan”: What must have been the
work of a prince of avian salvage col-
lectors was brought to light when Tiaro
(Q.) Shire Council employees felled a blue-
gum which menaced a residence in the
township. The magpies’ nest weighed
61b. and measured 18in. by 15in., and
contained, among other things, copper,
telegraph, insulation, barbed and plain
wire, wire-netting, possum snares, safety-
pins, mounts of handbags and a solitary
piece of wood. The vast majority of the
feathered world are jerry-builders, but
Maggie usually puts up a structure to last.
* * * *
“Dungeness”; Bigfoot Billy’s first
acquaintance with a town arose out of
the occasion when Tommy O’Ryan
returned home unexpectedly to find
Ginger Mac behaving a trifle too free-
and-easy-like for his taste in the domestic
circle. Tommy lost the ensuing fist-fight,
but, despite his protesting spouse’s efforts
to impede his aim, put his second bullet
through Ginger’s shoulder just as Ginge
was disappearing round the cowshed. A
nark of a young John, new to the district
and unacquainted with local chivalry,
made a case out of it instead of accepting
Ginger’s explanation of an accident, and
Billy, officiating at the woodheap during
the opening stage of hostilities, was
brought in as a witness. Once it was
made clear that he wouldn’t be either
hurt or starved, the experience interested
him greatly, and he entered the box in
full appreciation of the fact that he only
had to tell the truth to get plenty more
good-pfeller tucker, with a chance of a
blacktracker job to follow. “Where you
when one pfeller shot he bin fired, Billy?”
asked the P.M. after preliminaries had
been adjusted. “Plenty close up ’long
house,” answered the witness. “Where
you bin when other pfeller shot go off?”
continued the magistrate. Billy grinned
and shifted from one foot to another.
“My word, boss,” he confided, “I bin
10-o-ong way off then—just slowin’ down
to a gallop then, boss.”
* * * *
“Flight”: Tell “Colbun” (B. 5/3/’4l)
that the scrub turkey already has all-the-
year protection in Q. But so long as
the scrubs remain—and there are thou-
sands of sq. miles left yet—the turk. can
look after himself. The fox doesn’t work
in those scrubs: even the dingo gives
them a miss ; the main pilferer of the
eggs is the goanna. On our northern
sugar lands, where the scrub comes right
in to the edge of the clearing, there’s no-
thing more destructive to young cane than
the same scrub turkey, which, however,
can look to the Protection Act in vain
for safety when infuriated cockies go
gunning for him,
* * * *
“Notaden”: Curious it is how the
popular belief that snakes are home-
minded creatures who dig burrows to live
in persists even amongst good bush
observers. “He was just makin’ for his
hole when I got him,” is a frequent item
in the verbal death-notice of Mr. Blake,
As a matter of cold fact, snakes can’t dig
burrows, because, like the seraphs in the
Ingoldsby Legends who couldn’t sit
down, they “haven’t de quoi.” Neither
do they want to, for they are essentially
wanderers in warm weather and in winter
mostly lie- up in any convenient sheltered
place amongst rocks or tree-roots. Where
there are burrow-making animals, rabbits
in particular, they will often settle in
as uninvited lodgers. The nesting holes
of mutton-birds are also favored as desir-
able residences, even in the birds’ breed-
ing season. But it is a curious thing that
although Joe fancies young rabbit on
the menu when boarding with the family
I’ve never known him to contain either
eggs or squabs when hooked out of a
mutton-bird nursery on an egging-pole.
• * • •
“Paddler”: As one who has swum
most of W.Q.’s rivers in flood —with and
without horses —let me add to the
maxims of “Julia C.” (B. 5/3/’4l). The
greatest danger to be avoided is the
standing tree. Snags may sometimes be
nasty, but I’ve never known man or horse
to be seriously hurt by one. But a tree
will hold a man if it’s a strong stream
he is battling in and he is swept against
it, as surely as a moth pinned on a bit
of cardboard. Should a freak current
whirl him around behind it the back
suction will hold him even more securely.
And nothing saps a man’s courage and
self-reliance —two things he needs in
abundance when facing swollen waters —
more than to feel himself trapped by the
tree trunk with a branch just out of his
reach.
• * * *
“Wippegong”: Yes, “Narooma” (B.
12/3/’4l), my blackfish was the southern
freshwater kind (Gadopsis marmoratus).
Once plentiful in any Gippsland creek,
the “Slipperies” are vanishing before the
sustained attack of trout and other
savages, and their revival is unlikely. But
even these sweet eaters and your “niggers”
aren’t the only blackfish so named in
Australia. Which isn’t surprising in a
land where “flying foxes” are not foxes,
but bats; where one bird is called
“mopoke” but a different fowl croaks it;
where the same tree can be blue-, grey-
or white-gum according to where you
are, and the “Sydney red-gum” isn’t a
gum at all; where “white-ants” aren’t
even ants ; where —carry on, somebody.
* * * *
“Billy See”; Because the wedge-tailed
eagle is big and spectacular, and because
members of a sister species, the golden
eagle of the Swiss Alps, were once re-
puted to carry off babies, Aboliars and
others speculate, more or less in imagina-
tion, as to what the big clumsy bird
might lift. Actually, size for size, the
bulky carrion-eater isn’t in it with the
common seagull. Stripped of plumage
the gull is a mere waif —a big one may
scale two pounds—yet such a gull can
easily rise with a fish a quarter of a
pound, I’ve even seen them struggle
upwards with a mullet that went near
to half a pound. That’s real lifting.
Anyway, the wedgetail had no need to
develop great lifting power, for what
creature prior to the advent of the white
man was likely to deprive it of its prey?
Unlike the gull, which is pounced upon
immediately it finds a mouthful, the
eagle, except in the rare event of an
abo. happening along, could stay on the
ground and eat at leisure.
♦ * * *
“Bobtail Bill”: If “Murlonga” (B.
26/2/’4l) can find a place where, in
times of drought, a mere wire fence can
induce green grass to grow on one side
while the herbage is dry on the other,
he will deserve to rank with those rain-
making experts who, some 40 years
agone, with Broken Hill as their head-
quarters, promised great things for the
Commonwealth. I seem to recall that
they dabbled in wire fences, electrified
and otherwise. I also recall one so con-
fident of producing a downpour that he
advertised for assistants “who must be
good swimmers.” But Ido know this:
any kind of heap of scrap-iron, in the
driest desert, will produce a growth of
more or less green grass. The explana-
tion is simply that the cold iron con-
denses even the faintest suspicion of dew
and sheds the moisture to the earth
around. Possibly if we had a sufficiency
of scrap-iron we might change the climate
of this continent.
CHRISTINE.
“Old-fashioned” now; for in the frame
Of Time no picture stays the same.
To modes and manners that she knew
A modern age long bid adieu;
As dead as Brummel seem to be
Old custom and old courtesy;
A masquerade, a costume play
The stage she trod presents today.
She wore, at times, a cap of lace
Above a kind, attractive face;
Her skin was smooth; and crisp and fair
In girlhood must have been her hair;
She was not prim, for well I know,
O’er pleasant glasses of Margaux,
The ancient scandals of Raheen
I oft-times heard from Aunt Christine.
“If twists of Fate or tricks of years
Have brought us down, we’ll shed no tears;
’Tis over, done and far away,
And better so”—she used to say—
“ For what you’ve never had in this
Queer world of ours you will not miss;
Your work uplifts you and you can
Be still, my lad, a gentleman,
“Who scorns to lie, who will not cheat
To earn his meed of bread and meat.
What more than that for me to say?
Go forward on your chosen way!
Nor shall 1 warn you not to vex
Your mind with thoughts of my poor sex,
Or like a preacher sit and munch
The cud, concerning whisky punch!”
The wig, the hoop, the minuet
Have been, God wot, wide worlds away.
But when the burdens of my care
Were more, methought, than I could bear,
Her shade would shake a saucy fist
And laugh like bells: “Aye, Socialist,
You found it hard! But still you can
Remain, my lad, a gentleman.”
I owe her much whose sympathy
In outcast days held fast to me.
I owe her more whose faith and mood
Were as my own. She understood,
And dared my actions to defend
When kinsmen joined with weakling friend
To ban the door. Yea, when I knew
How hatred hurts and hunger, too.
I care not now for much, save song,
And whether we were right or wrong
In those dim days this world today,
A wounded world, is free to say.
But this I know —when parks were cold
And garments thin and boots unsoled
I read these lines, with blots between:
“My purse, my roof are yours ... Christine.”
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Mat’s Mate”: Me and the big fellow
were dropping timber out from Murray-
ville (Vic.). Walking up to a dead bull-
mallee, Mat seized a long strip of dry
bark hanging from it and gave a jerk.
A collection that would have delighted
an entomologist promptly fell on Mat
like a shower, most of it going down
inside his shirt. He made a brief en-
deavor to turn himself inside out, then
kicked off his bluchers, ripped off his
shirt, gave a wriggle and shed his pants.
We had just started to beat the insects out
of the clobber when the cocky’s daughter
rounded the scrub with morning tea. Mat
grabbed his shirt, wrapped it round his
loins and fled. The girl put down the
tea things, muttered something and re-
treated. When we got down to dinner
that day there was an embarrassed silence
at the table for a while ; then the cocky
said, “Look, I don’t know what you
blokes is up t’, but so long as y’ keep on
knockin’ the timber down at the rate y’
goin’ I don’t want any trouble. But if
y’ want crib up in the paddock after this
y’ll have t’ take it up with y’, see?” Then
we explained. “Aw,” he says, and burst
out laughing. “From what me daughter
said I thought I must ’a’ ’ad a coupla
them noodists on me place,” Then he
looked round for the girl, but she had
fled, and me and Mat finished the con-
tract without seeing her again. They
said she’d gone to a relative’s for a
holiday.
* * * »
“Son-in-Law”: In his elucidation of
the causes of dirt getting up the spout of
a tree “Mick the Miler” (B. 12 /3 / ’4l)
overlooks one important factor. Has he
never seen centipedes, witchetty grubs,
loopers and other luscious edibles, which,
being built so close to the ground, collect
a lot of dust in their travels, wiping with
meticulous fastidiousness their numerous
feet before entering their respective bed-
chambers?
* * * *
“Turon River”: So hungry and savage
are the wedge-tailed eagles becoming in
the Bathurst (N.S.W.) district that they
are chasing and tackling whole packs
of rabbits. On several occasions lately
I have lost the services of my trapdog
through the wedgies chasing him home
when most needed. Saw two of them
even tackle a well-conditioned fox. It
was optimism at its peak, though once
or twice Reynard looked unhappy and
hard pressed. Sometimes as many as
20 birds can be seen in the air at the one
time, which is about four times our usual
quota. “As hungry as
hawks” certainly fits them,
yet rabbits are plentiful;
but all the bunnies those
birds could catch in ten
years wouldn’t make a fur
coat; the only rabbits they
are successful with are the
skinned variety left by trap-
pers and poisoners. What
is making the big fellow
tighten his belt is the fact
that in a season of abund-
ance sheep and lambs are
fat and sure-footed.
* * *
“Clinton Cape”: Anent
that resurrection of the bun-
yip in recent Bulletins,
Binghi in his primitive state
was a wild and weird
romancer. In early Swan
River days he would sit for
hours telling of marvels for
the delectation of the simple
white man. Passing the
bunyip, or kine pratie, which
he could describe in minute
detail, he would tell also of
huge dragons which haunted
the hills out beyond the
sunrise. The least that can
be said of these rep-
tiles is that they overshadowed the
modern dragons of Komodo. Man-
eaters, carriers-off of beautiful damsels.
But though the lads of the Perth village
went on many an exploring and shooting
expedition they never came across any
scaly monster worthy of a shot. For it
happens that W.A. is singularly lacking
in , even an outsize in goannas —the big-
gest being the bungarra, or racehorse
goanna, which seldom grows to a length
of four feet. Similarly the western abo.
could tell of vast lakes and inland seas.
More than one compulsory immigrant,
yearning for the fleshpots of London or
some similar old-country wen, was lured
by these tales into believing that a well-
watered route extended right across to
New South Wales. Years later better-
equipped explorers, themselves seeking
these fabled inland waters, might come
across a few bleached bones, the result
of a too-implicit belief in the truthfulness
of the simple black man.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: When “The 0.D.” (B.
12/3/’4l) wrote “Out on the plains you
never hear a birdcall from anywhere
but where the maker is,” he overlooked
one of the most accomplished avian ven-
triloquists—the crested bellbird, which
is restricted to the regions mentioned.
Otherwise he could have written “Out
on the plains you never hear a bellbird
call from anywhere but where the maker
isn’t.”
* * * *
“Wang”: “I wus workin’ f’r a cocky
one time up at Wattacorka,” related Dan,
“and he’s got me puttin’ up a line of
fencin’ alongside the road. One day I’m
havin’ a smoke-oh under a tree when a
little whiskery ole coot comes along in
a warby-lookin’ car. He pulls up opposite
me an’ sits there eyein’ me f’r a'minnit or
so ; then he ses, ‘Hot, ain’t it?’ I agree
“ She's in the comforts depot!"
an’ go on brushin’ the_ flies orf. The
ole coot stays there watchin’ me an’ then
remarks, ‘Care t’ hop in an’ come f’r a
drink? The pub’s on’y a mile or so
on.’ ‘That’ll do me,’ I ses. T wus thinkin’
of makin’ a break there, anyway.’ ‘But
what about y’r boss?’ ses the ole bloke.
‘Oh, that’s all right; him an’ his missus
is away at the races,’ I ses. ‘He wouldn’t
mind, anyway; he’s an easygoin’ sorta
“I repeat, Arrowsmith, you're a cad!"
bloke. Not too fond of work himself,
be what I can see of him.’ Well, at the
rubby-dub we have a coupla drinks, an’
then the ole cove goes out, sayin’ he’ll
be back later. But he don’t turn up, an’
after about four hours I start to hop
it back to me job. I’m nearly there when
the ole coot catches me up. ‘Jest gettin’
back?’ he remarks, an’ drives on. Next
mornin’ me boss sacks me, ‘What for?’
I ask him. ‘FT gettin’ me the sack as
well,’ he yelps. T was on’y the manager
here; that snoopin’ ole coot you spilt
y’r guts to yesterday owns the joint! ’ ”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Bung had been cleaned
up for s.p. betting, and in order to allay
suspicion he’d removed the wireless from
the bar. However, the betting business
still flourished with old-established
clients. Thirsty Bert and his cobber
“Suds,” who came under this heading,
were in a quandary. With only a deener
between ’em and two dead certs for the
second race, it was a case for a financial
wizard. Bert rose to the occasion.
“Listen,” he said, “you stay in the bar
and talk to Bung. I’ll stand outside the
store and hear the race run. Then I’ll
dash up to the pub. If I play ‘Come
Back to Erin’ on me mouth-organ back
Colleen; if it’s Tartan Chief I’ll play
‘The Campbells Are Coming.’ Everything
went according to plan. The strains of a
broken-reeded mouth-organ, shockingly
played, came drifting into the bar, and
pretending not to be listening the con-
spirator planked his bob on Colleen.
Bung, glancing at the clock, reckoned
“the race ought to be nearly over,” but
took the bet. Outside the cronies con-
gratulated each other. “Took it like a
lamb,” declared Suds. “‘A bob Colleen,’
I says” “What! ” roared Thirsty. “I
played ‘The Campbells Are Coming’!”
“Blast yer!” said his cobber. “I thought
it was ‘Come Back to Erin’!”
* * * *
“Blue”: Noting an unusual heaviness
about his coat as he lifted it from the
bedpost one morning, the junior hand
investigated and discovered a lively
“something” in the lining. Joe had gone
down through a hole in the bottom of a
side pocket during the night and trapped
himself. A pair of scissors and a handy
stick wrote finis to the career of that
enterprising snake.
* * * ♦
“Gryllus”: Recent research has
evolved an explanation of the strange
power whereby bats can fly about blind-
fold in a room criss-crossed with wires
and avoid every one of them. Recording
instruments show that the creatures emit
during flight a constant series of calls in
sound vibrations far above the human
ear range. These supertonic notes are
reflected from any obstacle, and the echo
enables the bat to avoid collision. When
their ears are bandaged the power is lost.
It is satisfactory enough for house-bats,
which were the species experimented
upon ; but a quite unintentional series
of experiments in this locality by an
electric-supply company suggests that it
does not apply to flying-foxes and cables
carrying currents of 240 volts and up-
wards. Each year a big fig-tree attracts
great numbers in the fruiting season. A
telephone line carrying a number of
wires passes within 20ft. from it, and in
several years of observation I have never
seen or heard a fox strike them. This
summer, a distribution line for electric
power was put in parallel with the tele-
phone line. Within three weeks two foxes
were hung up dead on it, with several
more on adjacent lines, and three others
were picked up under the vertically-set
house lead-in wires, killed by collision
with them and the resultant shock. It
would be interesting to repeat the house-
bat experiment with charged wires of
various voltages.
& * * *
“Woggins”: Glancing at “Fore!” (B.
12 /2 / ’4l) I couldn’t help wondering if
that cattle - drover was going fishing.
Otherwise what was he doing with a
bullocky’s whip over his shoulder? Most
times if a man tried to swing a whip
like that from horseback he would
only manage to unseat himself. The
drover carries a short-handled whip with
a 10ft. or 15ft. lash. The short handle
makes it a one-handed whip, which he
can throw even at a gallop, flicking up
any beast within that reach. But the
bullocky whip was two-handed, and with
sometimes a 20ft. lash. Quite often most
of this lash trailed behind over his
shoulder as he walked, the long handle,
seldom less than 4ft., giving a leverage
which brought the lash flicking over, to
bite into the hide of the recalcitrant
Reddy or Roany. Much prose and not
a little verse has been expended in
praise of the stockrider’s ability to swing
his peculiar whip, but an expert with the
bullock-tickler could also put on a credit-
able performance, not the least item of
which would be the elimination of a fly
resting on the leader’s horn from a posi-
tion halfway back along the team.
* * * *
“N. Sylvester”: Reynard may have an
epicurean taste for quinces and sultanas
(B. 26/2/’4l), but the fruit he likes best
is apples. A few split pippins will lure
him up to the trap better than any
sheep’s paunch or similar trifle. Next to
apples the fox likes newly-hatched nest-
lings. The scrub turkey, the mallee hen
and other mound-builders are Provi-
dence’s real gift to him, and without
question he will in time entirely wipe
out such species. Other ground-nesting
birds will also go, for he has a diabolical
method of nursing brood nests, making
a daily inspection and devouring the con-
tents just as soon as the eggs hatch out.
The fox, too, is one of the few that hunt
with the wind instead of against it.
Preferring feathers to any other form
of flesh food, he likes the potential
victims to know that he is coming. This
creates panic, and if the silly hens, try-
ing to flutter away in the dark, fall at
once to the ground —well, the winning of_
the meal is made that much easier. Should
the intended victims stay put the sly
one then adopts the encirclement plan,
trotting round and round in a circle,
occasionally going into reverse, all oi
which has the invariable end of bringing
some fright-paralysed bird to earth. If
in a particular mood of devilment he
will keep on with the game, bringing
down bird after bird, contenting himself
with merely biting the head off. After
he has fed the fox will never on that
same night return to the lair he just
quitted. His scent there would be fresh,
and vengeance might be waiting, so he
goes off to his alternative lodgings.
HARBOR NIGHTS.
Since upon the Harbor’s breast
Supple oars at night we plied,
Or lay drifting, oars at rest.
Lines of silk trailed overside,
Many stars have seen themselves
Whitely mirrored in its tide.
Heedless then how time stole by
With a swift and noiseless tread.
Rowers twain were you and 1
Faring whither fancy led:
Cruising now on Athol Bight
Coasting now by Bradley’s Head.
Roofless were the timbered heights,
Silent fronded glade and glen,
And all lights were distant lights
Save at moments where and when
Lanterns gleamed on silver shoals
Netted by bronzed fishermen.
Hushed and still was all around
Till some black-hulled coaster sped
Outward bound or inward bound,
Pluming flame, by beach and head,
With a masthead light on high
And a sidelight, green or red.
Harbor nights of long ago,
Brave they were, but all too brief,
When a sea-wind, humming low,
Soothed our brows with cool relief,
While afar the combers surged,
Breaking softly on South Reef.
Since on starlit nights we rowed
Thus—youth ours and spirits gay—
Many tides have ebbed and flowed,
Ranging Harbor beach and bay
With an ageless sweep and swing
That no power can change or stay.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Is YOUR baby's
future assured?
knows what kind of a world it will be when your baby
starts to earn a living, but you can be sure of this; the trained
r ‘ ian an d woman will have the best chance of happiness.
LacK .1 money often stands between a lad and his higher education. When
your baby grows up, will he (or she) have the necessary money to take a University
course? Through the A.M.P. you can guarantee that he will, even if you should
die before he needs it. For a few shillings a week you can arrange that he will have,
say, £2OO when he is 17; £2OO plus bonuses which, if the past 21 years are a guide,
may bring the £2OO up to £268; and this whether you live till then or not.
Would you miss four or five shillings a week? You would not! If you did,
you would get satisfaction to compensate you.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office or representative to explain the several ways in
which you can arrange this matter. If you prefer, write for a copy of " Your
Children’s Future,” a folder that will help you to a decision.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., A. E. WEBB,
General Manager and Actuary. Manager for New South Wales
Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank
Net
Business Dividends, Written
June, Profit. 12* p.c. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926 522,308 750 281,250 82,000 2,374,472
Royal Bank absorbed.
Net additions to reserves, £400,000 .. 2,774 472
1927 540,988 1250 295,313 95,000 2,926,397
Premiums on shares, £379,249 .. 3,305,646
1928.. 588,832 375,000 148,500 3,370,978
1929.. 591,263 375,000 159,500 3,427,741
1930.. 532,736 375,000 120,000 3,465,477
8 p.c.
1931.. 261,657 240,000 3,487,134
5 p.c.
1932.. 142,720 150.000 3 479 854
1933.. 214,327 150,000 50,000 3,494,’15l
1934.. 216,566 150,000 50,000 3,510,747
1935.. 238,580 150,000 50,000 3,549,327
1936.. 247,460 150,000 75,000 3,571,787
7 p.c.
1937.. 266,126 171,935 80,000 3,585,978
1938.. 270,594 168,875 85,000 3,602 697
1939.. 240,294 163,625 65,000 3,614,366
1940.. 205,088 149,515 50,000 3,619,939
The latest accounts cover the first 10
months of the war, which has brought
big changes in banking technique. Nearly
every phase of economic life is now sub-
ject to Government control of one kind
and another, the aim being to develop
our maximum war effort by directing
men, materials and money into appropri-
ate channels. So far as the trading banks
are concerned, Government finance has
become the dominating factor in the
monetary structure, whereas seasonal
conditions, primary production and over-
seas trade used to play the leading part.
War-time arrangements for the market-
ing of our surplus primary products,
chief of which have been sold under
contract to the British Government, now
involve immediate cash payment in Aus-
tralia, thus concentrating London funds
m the hands of the Commonwealth
Bank. Before the war payment for ex-
ports was made by the trading banks
granting credits in Australia against
nnal payment in London.
This strengthening of the cash position
of the banks in Australia was not
sufficient in itself to enable the Govern-
ment to finance its war commitments and
at the same time permit quick industrial
expansion for the production of essential
war goods. To achieve both these ends
and make possible heavy taxation and
loan raising at low rates of interest,
credit expansion by the central bank and
other methods of pump-priming were re-
sorted to. The central bank bought large
quantities of long-dated Government
securities in the open market, thus
strengthening trading bank deposits,
which were further assisted by a large-
scale advance from the Commonwealth
Bank to the Wheat Board to finance the
1939-40 crop, and by the accelerated
rate of Government spending. Also, the
Government kept a tight hold upon
overseas funds, of which it sold only
enough to pay for essential imports, and
took control of capital expenditure of
traders and others in order to influence
the direction of investment locally.
The chief effects of all this upon the
banking structure were to increase de-
posits substantially, retard the growth of
advances and expand liquids. Thus the
Government, through the Treasury and
central bank, has been able to keep inter-
est rates low, bring about easy money
conditions and direct the main flow of
investment into essential war production
and Government loans. Chief danger
lies in excessive use of central bank
credit, with consequent depreciation of
the currency and other things. To this
the Government and the central bank’s
advisers appear to be alive. Hence the de-
cision to mop up current savings, or
most of them, by public loans and by
stinging increases in taxation.
Now look at the Scottish’s balance-
sheet figures:—-
Liabilities.
. T 1938. 1939. 1940.
Note s .. .. £l,Oll £I.OOB £I,OOB
Bills, etc. .. 2,790,612 1,674,852 1,702,056
1 ixed deposits . 20,552,478 20,362,759 19,891,051
Free deposits.. 14,630,133 14,579,717 17,068,513
Total .. £37,986,234 £30,618,336 £38,662,628
Liquids ~ £16,209,099 £14,001,901 £15,085,441
Advances .. 29,689,100 30,532,941 31,421,630
Premises .. 744,886 718,264 776,956
Total .. £ 46,643,085 £ 45,253,106 £ 47,284,033
Outstanding movement last term was the
sharp growth of £2,488,796 in free de-
posits, or current accounts. Fixed de-
posits, the rates for which were reduced
by the banks early in the year, fell away
by £471,708. The increase in advances
was £888,695, and in liquids £1,083,540.
When the books closed, liquids
amounted to 39 p.c. of the liabilities to
the public and advances to 85 p.c. of
deposits compared with 38.2 p.c. and
87.3 p.c. respectively at the previous bal-
ance. Also the bank was holding £4 11s.
of the public’s money for every pound
of its own, including perpetual debenture
stocks, as against £4 6s. 3d. a year earlier.
Movements in liquids were as follows:
Cash, notes, bullion, etc. £5.134,074 -£513 641
Bills receivable, etc. ~ 3,608,358 - 953!5i2
Government securities .. 6,328,709 + 2,550 993
Shares in subsidiaries .. 14,300
Total £15,085,441 + £1,083,540
The growth of £2,550,993 in Government
securities reflects the call to assist the
Government and the need to invest
expanding deposits in revenue-producing
assets, since the demand for advances
failed to provide employment for the
mounting cash resources. The amount
of Treasury bills in the portfolio isn’t
disclosed, but monthly average figures
for the nine trading banks show that
their combined holding of this class of
security more than doubled during the
nine months to June 30 last.
The contraction of £35,206 in the
year’s net earnings was due entirely to a
bigger tax bill (£252,462, up £62,268).
The £205,088 of profit was equal to 6.8
p.c. on the £3,000,000 of share capital as
against 8,9, 8.8, 8.2 and 7.9 p.c. back to
1935. On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) the year’s profit
was only a wink over 3 p.c. So the
£1,872,966 of debenture stock (a re-
minder of the 1890’s), which is costing
on the average a little over 3| p.c., isn’t
much of a help to shareholders these
days. The div. was kept at 7 p.c., which
is worth 6.1 p.c. in Australian currency
after allowing for exchange and English
income tax—Bs. 6d, in the pound, re-
duced to 6s. after allowing for relief in
respect of Dominion taxation.
The market prices the £5 shares paid
to £3 at 795. 6d. (85s. a year ago). The
return at 795. 6d. is 4.6 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
div. basis, after allowing for exchange
and English taxation at the rate men-
tioned.
South Australian Brewing Cos.
Writ- Added
„ , ten to Re- Re-
Fob., Profit. Dividends, Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 61,784 10 p.c. = 50,000 10,000 1784 32,130
ẁ
is much more muscle in the figures than
the net tangible backing of 265. 3d. per
share would suggest.
The higher beer duty (passed on) did
nothing to reduce the length of thirsts
in the winegrowing State, and, aided by
greater employment and defence spend-
ing, this Adelaide co. brewed more beer
than ever last term —State consumption
increased from 10.12 gallons to 10.46
gallons per head in the 1940 fiscal year,
an improvement of 1.16 gallons in two
years. The recession of £3394 in net
earnings (£94,741, after unstated allo-
cations for depreciation, bad debts and
other contingencies) is attributed to the
higher level of outgoings and taxation.
On the £722,080 of capital the profit rate
works out at 13.1 p.c., compared with
13.5, 15.2, 14.9, 13.4, 11.3 and 10.4 p.c.
back to 1934. Div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
and after again openly striking £20,000
oft plant £2533 was left for the visible
lay-by, now £225,422.
Here, in assimilable form, is the finan-
cial structure so far as it is evident:
1933. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £500,000 £722,080 £722,080
Sundry creditors 154,763 120,345 202,681 220,240
Freeholds,
machinery
and plant.. 390,589 584,146 942,751 926,167
Stocks. . . . 17,683 25,525 41,557 58,641
Book debts*.. 38,597 36,805 83,123 104,141
Advances . . 259,528 152,536 123,787 101,943
Cash .. . . 15,892 72,017 34,237 32,961
* Includes shareholdings.
Fixed-asset outlay has slowed down,
£16,584 more being written off than was
spent last year. An indiscernible item
is outside investments, wrapped up
in book debts. A spring of £21,018 in
the combined figure was accompanied by
a contraction of £21,844 in other ad-
vances and a lift of £17,084 in stocks.
Owing to a growth of £17,565 in the
debt, which includes something for taxa-
tion, the surplus of more or less liquids
declined £2583 to £77,440.
City Electric Light Cos. (Brisbane)
, Dividends
Jan., Profit. Ord. Pref. Total. Reserves.!
£ £ £
1931.. 226,265 9 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 122,170 749,509
1932.. 171,833 8 ~ 6&7 „ 110,208 810,134
1933.. 181,967 8 „ 6&7 „ 110,208 881,893
1934.. 126,487 8 „ 6&7 „ 110,208 898,172
1935.. 86,740 6i „ 6&7 „ 91,410 893,502
1936.. 119,541 7| „ 6&7 „ 103,942 909,101
Insurance reserve, £IOOO .. .. 910,101
1937.. 182,803 7i p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 103,942 989,022
1938.. 153,870 7i ~ 6& 7 „ 103,942 1,038,950
1939.. 102,995 7| „ 6&7 „ 103,942 1,098,003
Ipswich Electric Supply Cos. absorbed.
Added purchase a/c, £24,225 ~ 1,073,778
Net additions reserves, £229,957 .. 1.303,735
Divs., etc., Ipswich Elec., £7446. . 1,296,289
1940.. 94,860 5.8 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 90,867 1,300,282
Added purchase a/c, £9709 .. .. 1,290,573
Net additions reserves, £109,678 ~ 1,400,251
1941.. 114,580 5.8 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 112,389 1,402,442
t After deducting intangibles (now £96,657).
Legislation enacted a couple of years
back, which placed the State’s electrical
undertakings under the control of a com-
mission of four, the price-fixing authority
for current, greatly expanded the activi-
ties of this Queenslander, now the centre
of a scheme for electric-current supply
from Gympie, in the north, to the N.S.W.
border —a long franchise for the Tweed
is also held. At the same time the Crown
was given the right of purchase, from
1954, on a basis that will return around
£250,000 more than the net value of the
undertaking as shown in the books from
time to time.
The idea was to ensure that “the price
for electricity payable by consumers
shall be fair and reasonable to consumers
and.... to the electrical authority supply-
ing the same,” For City Electric, this
“fair and reasonable” return was en-
visaged by the commission as one suffi-
cient, after attending to pref. require-
ments and reserves, to yield the ords.
2 p.c. above the rate carried by Com-
monwealth loans offered for voluntary
subscription in the previous year.
Hence the reduction of ord.-holders’
income from p.c. to 5.8 p.c. for the
past two terms, and consequent market
revaluation of the scrip. This year’s ord.
div. will be 5y p.c., and present yield from
Government paper suggests possible
further shaving down of the rate for
1942.
These figures tell something of the
co-ordination and expansion effected
since the change came over ord. pros-
pects :
1939. 1940. 1941.
Capital .. .. £1,398,226 £1,872,241 £1,905,045
Sundry creditors.. 179,925 111,060 269,131
Property, plant,
mains, etc. .. 2,180,699 2,836,043 3,317,400
Stock .. .. 120,912 173,637 241,026
Book debts, etc... 190,639 50,980 72,854
Cash, public securities,
etc 235,874 272,000 1,777
In two years the book value of the under-
taking has grown by £1,136,701 —
£481,357 was in respect of the term just
closed. In the process capital has ex-
panded by £506,819 —£334,819 was in
respect of cash subscriptions—an extra
£89,206 has been put up by outsiders,
and cash, etc., has been depleted by
£234,097.
In the last term the Redcliffe Council
undertaking was absorbed, the Boonah
one has been taken over since the close


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
v * » *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Mining Notice.
WE would like to get in touch with a com-
pany that’s interested in goldmining.
We have a mine of five (5) workers which
has taken out approximately £7OOO worth of
gold by hand in the last three years. The
depth of this mine is only 75ft. vertical from
the surface. Any company interested, would
like them to send capable mining man to in-
spect mine, with the object of purchasing or
otherwise taking a working option for develop-
ment purposes. All returns and plans are
open for inspection to bona fide companies
only.
For further particulars apply to H. BOWREY
AND PARTY, Ravens wood, or WARDEN
Charters Towers, North Queensland.
of accounts, and negotiations for acquisi-
tion of the Beaudesert Shire plant are
now in progress. Also, the co.’s generat-
ing plant is being extended and addi-
tional boiler plant installed. “Your direc-
tors are mindful of the additional capital
needed to meet growth in the co.’s assets,”
the board reports ; there was £40,834 at
call at the end of January.
The year’s output —over 100,000,000
units —set anew high mark, and net earn-
ings were disclosed £19,720 greater at
£114,580, or £2191 more than the divs.
called for. That was after charging earn-
ings with £91,773 (down £8379) for de-
preciation, etc., and £67,043 (up £20,053)
for taxation. All told, reserves benefited
by £111,869 net. Composition of the
£1,402,442 shown in the first table is
renewals, contingencies, etc., £1,080,586
(up £99,504), capital reserve £293,568,
taxation £58,947 and reserve - fund
account £65,998 —the lot less the £96,657
at which purchase and establishment
charges figure.
At 225. 3d. the fully-paid ords. yield
4.7 p.c. on the basis of 5J p.c. divs. The
prefs., representing £145,000 of capital,
aren’t very active.
The loss at Mt. Morgan in the last
four-weekly period was as unusual as
unwelcome, and due solely to failure to
get ore recoveries through a succession
of wet days. Ore is coming through
better now, but there have been a couple
of heavy rainfalls, causing a temporary
lag. As soon as the wet season departs
output will pep up. As far as copper
is concerned, extra recoveries are antici-
pated, based on the new copper ore-body,
which is hanging, leechlike, to a dyke
wall in one of the big upper benches of
the opencut. It is going underfoot
strongly, and will make its weight felt
with every successive month.
H: * * , *
Graphite is in local demand in Aus-
tralia owing to the war. Supplies of
high grade non-crystalline have been
coming south from the Collinsville mine,
on the Bowen River coalfield (N.Q.).
Started in a small way, the output is now
up to 30 tons weekly, and an option has
been taken recently with a view to ex-
pansion. The graphite occurs in a ver-
tical lode some 10ft. across, and is
thought to have been a seam originally.
There appear to be certain prospects of
expanding supplies if demand keeps up.
* # * 4t
“Mex”: With heavy mineral stone in
its reef, the Black Jack, at Charters
Towers (N.Q.), does well to get 7dwt.
bullion out of its ore by amalgamation
only. Add this to about 12dwt. going
into the concentrates shipped to Chil-
lagoe, and you get an ore value for run
of mine between 18dwt. and 20dwt. per
ton. This is good enough to keep up
the steady flow of dividends.
sH % sfc
Retention of the international tin
quota at 130 p.c., the rate from July,
1940, assures stability and a high rate of
earning, for the industry, which will then
have operated at capacity for 18 months,
till the end of 1941. At present
industrial demand has lost its control over
production, prospects for the industry
being dominated by war-reserve plans,
particularly by America, whose present
buying agreement with Britain expires
in June. The output-control agreement,
which is based on 1929 productive capa-
city, may see some modification when it
comes up for renewal this year. Skirmish-
ing for revised quotas is already in evi-
dence by some signatories, who point to
the altered conditions of the past dozen
years. Some adjustment may also be
necessary in view of the erection of a big
American smelter to treat Bolivian ore,
although Bolivia for some time past has
shown her inability to ship permitted ex-
ports. At the moment, indeed, only
Nigeria and the Dutch East Indies are
producing their quotas, though Malaya
may be able to lift output further. From
the producers’ viewpoint, the benefits of
control to date appear to have far out-
weighed any disadvantages.
♦ sfc jH
A Bulletin man on the spot:
A. H. Malloch (B. 12/3/’4l) reckons that
many promising old Westralian goldmines do
exist. Well, let him name some so that their
past achievements can be unearthed, their
present prospects, if any, broadcast, and gold-
seekers given a chance to step in. Malloch
says that when interviewed the Under-Secretary
for Mines pointed to a list of “Abandoned
goldmining leases which have produced gold.”
Did the Under-Secretary not also stress the
fact that since the list was compiled many of
the leases on it have been taken up, worked
separately or included in other holdings? Of
those remaining a number has been tried and
again abandoned. As for the rest, would
Malloch Bros, be willing to supply plant on
terms to anyone venturesome enough to have a
go?
* * * *
Norseman field, which kicked off as
a Westralian gold-producer soon after
Coolgardie, had a falling output last year.
A decline in grade of ore treated by
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L., and the
backsliding of one or two other smaller
contributors is the reason given. Over
£30,000 was spent on alterations and
additions to the plant on Norseman
Gold Mines. Development on this
property, which was not very extensive,
failed to add any quantity of payable
ore to the much-depleted high-grade re-
serves, which, including pillars support-
ing the hanging-wall of the lode, were
computed last October at 233,000 short
tons of 4.6dwt. average value. Of the
other company shows on the field, the
Central developed into what the local
inspector of mines calls a good-grade
proposition at depth. Ore reserves at
the beginning of the year were estimated
at 345,000 tons of B.3dwt. average value,
but substantial additions have been made
since. Small golden-plumaged Blue Bird
had another good year, and laid some
rich eggs. Ore reserves were increased
to 11,573 tons of 55dwt. average value.
Grade of the 20in. reef in the bottom
(320 ft. on the incline) is 65dwt. per ton.
* * * *
Investment attractions of Lake View
and Star (W.A.), Australia’s foremost
gold-producer with the appearance of a
long and profitable life ahead, are being
pointed to in London. Operation of
English e.-p.t. in its present form, which
takes away all net surpluses above those
earned in the 1937 term, will prevent
any benefit of expanding operations
accruing to shareholders for the duration,
of course, but the co. is not being mulcted
to anything like the extent Great Boulder
and Golden Horse Shoe, for example,
claim. Earnings last year, however,
were subject to only 60 p.c. e.-p.t. for
three-fourths of the term, so the 100 p.c.
impost now operating may mean some
slight cut in the 2s. (stg.) div. rate, which
is subject to British income taxation,
allowing for Dominions relief, at 4s. 9d.
in the £.
* * * *
Paringa (W.A.), which was also in the
expansion stage during the “standard”
year, has joined Gt. Boulder in the fight
against the British 100 p.c. excess-profits
tax. Nevertheless, chairman C. S. Beale
took the view at the recent annual meet-
ing that the co.’s outlook depended not
upon current profits but upon discoveries
during development. He said (1) that ore
reserves—46l,6B7 (up 64,631) tons, grade
4.9dwt. —were 4\ years ahead of the mill;
(2) that borings indicated further large
tonnages would be opened up ; (3) that
important finds, especially by borings
below the 640 ft. level on the main lode,
had recently been made in the Paringa;
(4) that Croesus South was increasing in
value month by month ; (5) that Block
45 and Brownhill Extended definitely
constituted a valuable acreage for future
development; and (6) that Mount Char-
lotte Mines, another important interest,
had the makings of a big new producer.
K. J. Finucane, Paringa’s consulting
geologist, expresses the opinion that,
although the co.’s lode structure may be
complicated by faulting, there is no geo-
logical reason why the ore-shoots should
not maintain their gold content with
deeper development. In the year to
August Paringa records 30 p.c. expansion
in gold output and £6389 increase in
profits (£39,789), but div. comes back
from 20 p.c. to 15 p.c.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
8.N.: The political factor is the only im-
mediate doubt, and it’s impossible to pre-
dict what may happen here. The post-war
position will also bring difficulties.
The Australian Sugar Producers
Association Ltd.
ANNUAL CONFERENCE, 1941
OPENING ADDRESS BY THE PRESIDENT
(SENATOR T. W. CRAWFORD)
Gentlemen, •
It affords me great pleasure to extend a
cordial welcome to all attending this thiity-
third annual session of the Council of the
Australian Sugar Producers Association. In
the thirty-four years which have passed since
the inauguration of the A.S.P.A. at Townsvi e
at the beginning of 1907 it has maintained
vigilant watch and ward over the interests
it was established to conserve, and at a cost
to supporters practically negligible compared
with the services it has given. I know of no
other organisation on a voluntary financial
basis such as ours which has commanded simi-
lar support.
For some years before the A.S.P.A. came
into existence there had been a steadily grow-
ing recognition by Queensland sugar producers
of the need for a strong and comprehensive
organisation. This was accelerated by the
change from coloured to European labour that
followed Federation and produced an indus-
trial transformation from which arose prob-
lems demanding prompt and unified action.
At this time, however, we gave little, if
any, thought to the possibility of producing
in excess of home requirements. During the
five years ending in 1920 Australia had to
import 475,947 tons of raw sugar at a total
cost of over £18,000,000. These figures furnish
an Interesting contrast yvith those of recent
years, and productive capacity is still far
from its peak.
The phenomenal increase in production dur-
ing recent years has been achieved in spite of
a drop in the average price received for sugar
to levels that would have ruined producers
if the industry’s standards of efficiency had
not been steadily improved until it may rea-
sonably be claimed that almost maximum
x-esults have been attained in both fields and
mills. Expansion of output has been mainly
due to new varieties of cane, improved methods
and equipment, and more expert supervision.
But it must be recognised that even efficiency
has its limits, and that the small improve-
ments for which there may still be room can-
not have a substantial effect upon profits.
As could only be expected, the world war
has had a most disorganising effect upon ocean
transport, and as a consequence there has
been considerable delay in the shipment of
Australian sugar to oversea markets. Cir-
cumstances alone have been responsible for
this, and we should be grateful to those of
the merchant marine who have braved the
perils of the sea and to officers and men of
the navy who have so valiantly guarded the
ocean highways of commerce. It is impossible
to forecast the future, but Empire command
of sea and air should comfort those inclined
to take a pessimistic view. Nevertheless there
is sufficient uncertainty in the shipping posi-
tion to demand sincere effort throughout the
industry to keep production within mill
quotas.
As in the last war, our industry is proving
of inestimable value to users of sugar for
manufacturing purposes, as this so-called raw
material is always available without delay in
such quantities as may be required, while in
many other countries sugar is subjected to
rigid restriction. Our sugar districts, it may-
be mentioned, are contributing their full
quota of enlistments to all Australian forces,
and the industry as a whole provides effective
occupation in fertile coastal areas which other-
wise would be uninhabited jungle. There is
no need to enlarge upon this latter national
service in an epoch in the world’s history
when sovereign rights receive so little respect. !
To change a country like Australia from a
peace- to a war-time footing is by no means
a simple undertaking. Experience has proved
that. The reconstruction involved in the re-
turn of industry to peace-time conditions may
be even more difficult. National welfare de-
pends upon the volume and value of every
class of production, prosperity rising or fall-
ing in close approximation to the wealth
accruing from industrial effort.
People are beginning to see that when a
section of industry suffers from adversity the
effect is felt throughout the community. This
is a hopeful sign that the interdependence
of the many units comprised in the nation is
becoming recognised, and that as a result
something good may be evolved from the
stress and strain of the evils of today. It is
practically impossible at this stage to devise
detailed plans for post-war reconstruction,
but the maintenance of existing industries in
undiminished proportions, so far as markets
will permit, as a foundation for future activi-
ties should be a safe course to pursue.
It is not, however, surprising that many
persons are seriously concerned regarding
post-war problems w-hich are bound to arise.
A costly and maybe protracted war is certain
to leave its mark on our economic structure.
It should not, however, interfere with our
productive assets, or weaken our capacity or
will to work. We should therefore he en-
couraged by the knowledge that Australia s
fertile lands, her flocks and herds and numer-
ous primary and manufacturing industries
will day by day produce new wealth in suf-
ficient abundance to maintain our customary
standards of living.
The question of bridging the gap between
war- and peace-time conditions will inevitably
arise. Some thought therefore should be
given without delay to the general principles
of reconstruction.
War, as we all know, has become highly
mechanised. Although, in spite of strenuous
opposition from some quarters, strides had
been made in Australia in recent years in
the expension of secondary industries none
of these were equipped for the production of
munitions with the exception of the small
arms works at Lithgow, N.S.W., and other
Government establishments in Melbourne. Bc-
fore production could be commenced not only
had designs to be obtained, but also special
machines, machine tools, dies, gauges, etc.
These were not readily available because the
Mother Country was speeding up production
of war requirements of every kind. However,
what at first appeared insuperable difficul-
ties have been overcome and, substantially
helped by the co-operation of unofficial busi-
ness and technical experts, the manufacture
of war equipment is progressing to such aSi
extent that Australia is rapidly becoming a
highly industrialised country.
The transfer of so many workers from other
occupations to manufacturing industries has
been of great service to the Empire in the
present circumstances of the world, but it
must be our earnest hope that comparatively
few of our citizens will be required as per-
manent employees in munition factories.
Nevertheless we cannot overlook the fact that
the more or less concurrent demobilisation of
our fighting forces and munition-workers wifi
constitute, one of the most difficult problems
with which the people of this country have
ever been called upon to deal, involving, as
it must, industrial, social, and, in the highest
sense, political considerations.
For a proper comprehension of the sugar
industry it is imperative to realise that it is
a combination of primary production and
manufacture. There is no open market for
our particular crop. To extract and prepare
for consumption the sugar content of our
cane requires numerous factories which have
cost in the aggregate 'many millions of
pounds. Except in the case of three mills
in the Bundaberg district practically no cane
is grown by public companies. Thus the
two operations of cane-growing and sugar-
manufacture are almost entirely separate -
notwithstanding that half of our sugar is the
output of farmers’ co-operative mills in which
suppliers own practically the whole of the
shares. This is in marked contradistinction
to most manufacturing and large distributing
businesses, which are chiefly owned and con-
trolled by public companies. Whatever else
may be provided by the so-called “new order"
that some think will inevitably follow the
close of the war those of us with practical
experience must feel that the tilling of the
soil will certainly be left to individual enter-
prise, with the provision, however, that those
who devote their lives to the production of
foodstuffs and raw materials shall be reason-
ably rewarded for their services. To be cap-
tain of his soul is the ambition that makes
life on the land, in spite of its irremediable
disabilities, attractive to many men who
would loathe to be a mere cog in an industrial
machine.
Opinions regarding the conduct and for-
tunes of war I leave to the many expert com-
mentators whose views we learn daily from
our newspapers aud broadcasting stations. I
desire, however, to place on record our
admiration of the Empire’s fighting forces
in every theatre of war, and also of the un-
wavering and undismayed determination of
the many millions in the home land who live
in constant peril of their lives. They have
our profound sympathy in their tribulation
and our solemn pledge to share with them
the obligations of Empire. The decision of
the United States of America to assist the
efforts of the British Empire to overcome
totalitarian efforts to dominate the world
lays the foundation for the co-operation of
all English-speaking people in curbing aggres-
sion, and thus making possible a wide sphere
of international goodwill and social progress.
In conclusion, I feel justified in saying that
the presence at this impressive gathering of
over 90 delegates representing in practically
equal proportion both the farming and manu-
facturing branches of our industry is a tribute
to the goodwill which prevails amongst sugar-
producers, and an expression of the confident
expectation that this Association will give
. in the future the same unremitting service as it
has given in the past.


Business,Rollery,Etc.
All Ready for Trouble
With the passing of the Lease-or-Lend
Bill, and evidence having been given of
its probable quick operation, the war has
passed to a new phase. Australians are
interested industrially and financially, as
well as in the capacity of a fighting unit.
Sudden developments may be looked for
now. Germany can be expected to strike
with all its resources at any time. It
was in April, May and June of last year
that Hitler blacked-out north-western
Europe. If he is going to try a spring
offensive this year—well, spring is at
hand in the Northern Hemisphere.
Out of all the uncertainty of the situa-
tion, one aspect has become less con-
fused; the world has more definitely
aligned itself,and we think we have an idea
of the forces to be contended with. The
sympathy and help of the U.S.A. are now
decidedly the Empire’s way. Our weaker
Allies have gone and the weaker neutrals
have gone. But the second partner in the
Axis is standing up only with the help
of something more than moral support.
The victories in Africa and the Mediter-
ranean, and success in the air over Europe,
combined with the strengthening of the
Anglo-American partnership, have pre-
vented at least some of the “diplomatic
victories” that Hitler otherwise might
have expected.
In the Pacific, except for the recent
operations of German raiders —a nui-
sance to our
appear to be no worse from the point of
view of Australia’s defence. We are
haying our internal difficulties, resulting
mainly from shortage of shipping and
necessity for defence revenue. But,
though irresponsible critics periodically
rail against the direct methods Australia
has used for financing the war, we con-
tinue to show progress in employment
and output, without much loss in living
standards.
In many respects developments in the
present war against Germany have been
the opposite of what happened “last
time.” In no part of our life has this
fact been more noticeable than in finan-
cial affairs. Price-control and interest-
control stand out in sharp contrast to the
inflation of the Great War period. Com-
parative stability exists in industry gener-
ally, though the fruit and wine people
are having a hard time.
Dividend rates now being declared,
mostly interims, are generally up to the
standard of 1940. The suggestion is that,
heavier taxation notwithstanding, com-
pany boards are satisfied with earnings
at the present time. Many cos. have
already been assessed at the higher war-
time rates on 1939-40 profits, so present
divs. are being declared with full know-
ledge and experience of the weight of war
taxes. The majority of Australian invest-
ment stocks which were quoted on
’Change before the last depression are
showing a remarkable steadiness in their
div. records now. Very few cases of bad
management resulting in sudden and
serious losses can be pointed to of recent
years among the older-established indus-
trial and investment stocks. An unusual
degree of foresight is being exhibited, on
the whole. Among the younger genera-
tion of cos. there have been rises and
falls aplenty ; such cases are inevitable.
Some types of business have been
affected, since war began, by importing
difficulties, or by conditions arising from
such difficulties, usually in circumstances
beyond control of the management.
Some such concerns have been able to
turn their attention to new types of
activity. But the motor trade has been
unable to do so. Motor-tyre concerns
have built up an export trade that is
proving a useful shock-absorber.
Australian interest rates remain low.
The average yield on Consols is around
3 p.c. Money hasn’t been so tight that
public-body borrowing has had to be
ruled out. The Victorian Grain Elevators
Board a few weeks ago asked for
£150,000 at 3j p.c.; it got all but 18 p.c.
of the money, in spite of Mr. Fadden’s
talk at the time about “the clamant
need for the greatest effort of prepared-
ness this country has ever known,” which
put things on the Stock Exchange off the
boil temporarily.
The Victorian Electricity Commission’s
£300,000 loan (16 years, £3 Bs. 9d. per
cent.) was undersubscribed by about
£50,000, Developments overseas affected
the loan ; also the announcement that
the Melbourne Board of Works was
about to ask for £1,250,000 at £3 10s.
per cent,, currency 10 years. The Board
of Works offering, however, was for the
purpose of converting a similar amount
of 5| p.c, indebtedness. The A.M.P.,
which held a large proportion of the
existing securities, agreed to take up any
part of the loan not subscribed by the
public. The whole issue was quickly
disposed of.
Prices of shares on the Stock Exchange
are strong, in the main. Australian Con-
solidated Industries (glass) hasn’t been
available at a “cheap” price for nearly
12 months, and Felt and Textiles and
Yarra Falls are very firm. British
Tobacco has had flutters on the score
of tobacco imports and exchange ration-
ing ; Henry Jones fell away by reason
of the difficulty of exporting canned
fruit; and Huddart Parker has dropped
because of war-time disorganisation of
shipping. But sheltered manufacturing
industries not too dependent on the
building trade are in fine form at present,
and many distributing concerns are doing
well, if not so well as a couple of years
ago. Newspaper stocks are in a peculiar
position. More papers are being sold,
but newsprint is costly (and rationed),
radio competition is no less intense in
the advertising field, and there is less
advertising to be got because most im-
ported goods can be sold with little
publicity and Australian-made products
in many cases are also short in supply.
The Commonwealth Bank’s London
funds on March 17 totalled £81,523,046
in Australian currency. They were made
up of gold and English sterling (note-
issue department) £17,705,046, and money
at short call in London £63,818,000. The
total represents ah increase of £21,000,000
over the figure of Sept. 2, 1940, and
is £28,000,000 more than a year ago. The
accretion over the past six months or
so doesn’t represent additions out of
trading surpluses, since our trade balance
is distinctly worse than last year, when
it was insufficient to meet interest re-
quirements, Capital items, such as
realisation of Australian securities
abroad, transfer of capital to Australia,
etc., are probably responsible for much
of the growth in our London money as
shown by the Commonwealth Bank re-
turn. So far there is no evidence of
drain on our funds in financing the
operations of the A.I.F. Apparently
London is finding the money required
for the time being.
Total Australian war spending for the
first eight months of 1940-41 was
£84,575,000, according to a Treasury
statement. Of the sum, only £14,246,000
was provided from revenue ; loans looked
after £70,329,000 of the outgo. It is
only since January that revenue has been
rolling in. The Budget provided for a
defence outlay of £186,500,000 this year,
including war exes, overseas.
The passing of the Lease-or-Lend
Bill and Roosevelt’s subsequent speech
had a tonic effect on Australian share-
markets, Widespread dealings took place
at generally firmer prices. Some stocks
showed marked improvement; on the
18th there was a particularly strong for-
ward movement in Malayan tin issues
Broken Hill Prop, and A.C.I. were both
well to the fore in the stimulated activity.
Barriers were quiet on the whole. Textile
issues were mostly firm. The cotton
section was strong Bradford, Bond’s,
Stirling Henry and Davies Coop were
up, and so was Amalgamated Textiles,
in the woollen section ; Yarra Falls, the
biggest worsted mill in the Southern
Hemisphere, dropped to 435. ex div, (Is.).
Felt and Textiles ords. were favored.
* * * *
The good news of Roosevelt’s promised
aid to Britain and his emphatic attitude
over the whole matter seemed to be
principally responsible for a decided
strengthening in the sharemarkets on
Monday of last week. “A bridge of
ships” between the U.S.A. and Britain
sounded very encouraging. And, in the
long run, no doubt the best news the
Empire has had for a long time. But
Australian exporters may feel a pinch as
a result. If a greater flow of American
products to Britain is about to begin
and the tightness of dollar exchange dis-
appears, Australia may find that Britain,
out of necessity, will buy in the nearest
market on a greater scale than ever. It
probably takes a freighter 10 days to
cross the Atlantic, against two months
to travel to or from Australia. Canadian
wheat will be easier to transport than
Australian, though this year the Com-
monwealth’s export surplus is small.
Wool is paid for by Britain whether
shipped or not. But beef and mutton
may be particularly affected; so may
certain metals. Dairy produce is in a
peculiar position; since the fall of Hol-
land and Denmark there has been a
shortage of pork, butter and cheese in
the markets available to Britain, so that
the U.S.A. and Canada might not be
able to make up the deficiency even if
shipping is available. It will be interest-
ing to see how things work out over the
next few months. The munitions in-
dustries aren’t likely to suffer a setback
in any case, but loss of revenue from
primary production would show up in
many other classes of secondary industry.
* * * *
Bond’s Industries is making money out
of the spinning of yarn at the present
time, as well as out of knitting cotton
goods. In what proportions its earnings
are derived it is of course hard to say.
But it may be prudent to assume that a
fair part of its profits is coming from
yarn, and to debate whether present
demand for yarn is likely to continue.
As it expands, Sydney Cotton Mills may
spin its own yarn ; and the same may
apply to Stirling Henry. It may be diffi-
cult for either of these cos. to add to
their plant during war-time, but any-
thing may happen afterwards. Bond’s
don’t make canvas, duck or drill, for
which there is a large Australian demand.
They may enter into those activities later.
But the excitement attending the scrip in
the market now should be tempered by
a little caution. The profit for the past
year may loom large in relation to the
small capital. But a substantial propor-
tion may have to be retained in order
to meet taxes and provide for business
expansion. And then there is the question
of arrears of interest on debentures. Must
they be cleared off before divs. are paid?
* * * »
The activity in Roma oil shares began
following a report that oil had been en-
countered in sands between 3497 ft. and
3508 ft., and the oil had forced itself
1000 ft, toward the surface through mud
in a pipe put down the centre of the bore-
hole. Shares affected were those in Roma
Blocks, Kalimna and Australian Oil
Development. These three cos, are all in
the same stable —L. B. Tomlins, of Collins
House, is secretary—and they have been
jointly drilling at Roma. Roma Blocks
originally began operations at Roma,
looked for gold in Westralia during the
boom, and finally returned to its old
haunts. Kalimna was a Lakes Entrance
show to begin with ; it, too, later on
went looking for gold at Broad Arrow
and Norseman (W.A.) without finding
anything to cause it to settle down perma-
nently. Australian Oil Development is
of later date. It has 30,000 fully-paid
ss. shares issued and 70,000 contribs.
called to 9d, The contribs. rose from
Is. 9d. to 3s. 9d. on the day following
the announcement of oil in the bore,
and later subsided to Is. 9d. Kalimna
has 35,000 fully-paid 10s. shares out, and
152,345 contribs. The contribs. jumped
from Is. sd. to 4s. 7d., with later sales
ranging between 2s. 6d. and 3s. 7d. Roma
Blocks scrip soared from 3s. 6d. to 10s.,
with later transactions between ss. 9d.
and Bs.
* * * *
The pref. shares in United Provisions
have attractions —to those who like pref.
shares—at 225. 6d, The yield available
is 7.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Not
for some time has the scrip beep so low.
An interim div. is due in April. The
more speculative ords. are at 65., to
return 4.1 p.c,
* * * *
The brown-paper cos., A.P. and P. and
Cumberland, are maintaining their in-
terim divs. at 8 p.c. p.a. The market
appears satisfied, in the main.
* * * *
Associated Pulp and Paper shares
firmed a trifle last week—there were sales
at 295, The co. should be doing well,
with a div. better than the present rate
of 6 p.c. coming along later.
* * * *
An interim div. has come along from
J. and A. Brown-Abermain Seaham
Collieries—rate, 5 p.c. p.a. In the pre-
ceding year a final distribution only of
5 p.c. was made. N. S. Wales collieries
are doing comparatively well just now.
J. and A. Brown shares are firm round
16s. 9d.
* * * *
Excitement has gone out of the market
for shares in Selfridges—temporarily,
at any rate. The 5 p.c. div. was no more,
apparently, than was expected. Still, it
seems to be a commencement of better
things. The shares subsided to 19s. 9d.
last week. They have sold as high as
225. this year.
* * * *
* Tom Owen has returned to the board
of Mt. Morgan in place of A. W, Fadden,
the acting Prime Minister, who has re-
signed. Fadden joined the board in
company with W. J. O’Sullivan, of Bris-
bane, and Malcolm Newman at a con-
tested election in October, 1938,
The necessary majority was not shown
in a vote on the question of returning
4s. per share of the pref. capital (125,000
£1 shares) in P. and G. Finance, Syd-
ney. It is now proposed to invest the
surplus funds.
* * * *
The interim ord. div. of David Jones,
a ,Sydney retailer, has been maintained
at 10 p.c. p.a. London Stores, of Mel-
bourne, has declared an annual distri-
bution of 12| p.c.—up 2\ p.c. Tooheys,
a Sydney brewing co., has maintained
its interim at 9 p.c. p.a. Ord. interim of
Amalgamated Wireless stays at 10 p.c.
p.a. Permewan Wright, outback store-
keepers, etc., in Victoria and N. S. Wales,
is paying 8 p.c. for last year, compared
with 2 p.c. in the preceding term, when
the co. got caught with heavy stocks of
fodder on its hands just as the breaking
of the drought was followed by a pro-
lific growth of pasture grasses. Lustre
Hosiery’s ord. div. has been raised from
8 p.c. to 9 p.c.
* * * *
There was great activity in B.H.P.
rights at the beginning of last week. The
price rose Is. 6d. in three days.
From 19s. 3d. the rights then slipped
back to 18s. 6d. The fully-paids
lifted to 40s. 9d. There seems to
be little doubt about the ability of
present holders of the rights to take up
their quota of the new issue on 31st,
even though 2,500,000 shares (and some
big holdings, such as Howard Smith’s)
are involved,
♦ * * *
R. H. Gordon, a pioneer Sydney
cash-order co., has maintained both profit
and div. for the year ended Dec. 31.
Earnings show an increase of only £ll
at £31,578, and the div. stays at 15
p.c. p.a.—the final is 10 p.c., and the
interim was 5 p.c.
* * * *
Castlemaine Perkins 12s. 6d. shares
were selling at 19s. 2d. last week. They
returned 5.1 p.c. The scrip has special
merit for Queenslanders; it represents
a first-class brewery stock, and by buying
into such an institution in their own
State they escape any double taxation
that might be levied on income from divi-
dends in southern breweries. The Castle-
maine Perkins concern is one of the
most progressive in the Commonwealth.
* ♦ * *
Holeproof having declared a 6 p.c.
final div., making 10 p.c. for the year,
sellers of the ords. have retired from sight.
Last sale of the ords., cum div., was at
235. At 235. ex div. the return would be
8.5 p.c. Because of heavier taxes, profits
have fallen from £27,887 to £23,138.
Apparently the men’s hosiery section
is a good standby in present cir-
cumstances, though as yet there is no
noticeable shortage of silk stockings and
lingerie. Still, it is the possible shortage
of raw silk and rayon that has depressed
hosiery shares almost since the time war
broke out.
* * * *
Aggregate profits of General Industries’
subsidiaries (Metters, and Metters K.F.8.)
during the year ended Dec. 31 were
£140,808, against £152,847 in 1939 and
£165,324 in 1938. Pref. requirements and
the parent’s 12£ p.c. ord. div, were still
well covered by the showing, which
worked out at nearly 19 p.c. on G.l.’s
ord. capital, compared with 20.7 p.c. in
the preceding term. Sales were up dur-
ing the period, but provision for tax
was heavier. It now stands at £162,108
—a generous figure. Finances are com-
fortable, and the ords. are attractive at
16s. 9d.
* * * *
Import restrictions having made it diffi-
cult for landmen to obtain case supplies,
S.A. Government timber mills are aim-
ing to increase production from the mil-
lion cases reached for the first time last
year to two million cases this year. Raw
material for pulp and paper also will be
a major product of 1941. The manufac-
ture of explosives from radiata pine
grown in S.A. forests is claimed to have
proved an unqualified success. Con-
sideration has been given to the estab-
lishment of a sulphate pulp plant to obvi-
ate the need for Australia to import
40,000 tons per annum of long fibre pulp
for manufacture of Kraft papers. Premier
Playford hopes private enterprise will
undertake this work (which is distinct
from the board-mill enterprise of Cellu-
lose Australia, Ltd.), but, failing a private
move, the Government would consider
erecting a pulp mill. Playford disclosed
that before the war he offered to assist
to the extent of £300,000 a wood-pulp
proposition, but the war temporarily
upset plans.
* * * *
The daily-paper newsprint mill at
Boyer (Tas.) is to be extended, at a cost
of £1,500.000, over the next two years.
A second and larger paper-making
machine and a sulphate pulp mill (capa-
city 35,000-45,000 tons p.a.) are to be
installed. The first mill (capacity 27,000
tons p.a.) recently began operations.


SERVICE
SINCE 1899 the Rural Bank has
assisted 48,761 persons to establish
farms and 39,586 families to acquire
homes on easy terms. It will be
seen, therefore, that the Bank has
played an important part in provid-
ing employment and increasing rural
production. Those who bank with
the Rural Bank know that by so
doing they are enabling it to increase
its useful services. Interest-bearing
Fixed Deposits are received and
cheque accounts opened for all
sections of the community.
RURAiapAN
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Commissioners :i
fc. R. McKERIHAN (PRESIDENT) H. ROGERS 1
K
. KEARNS
i)Lfwdu)e %m)
Stifle FROm-
ENGLAND
By Appointment.
The few shillings extra you pay for an
English Wood row are returned to you over
and over again as dividends in the extra
months of satisfactory wear that are assured
to every wearer.
These high-quality Woodrows keep their
smart shape and colour under trying climatic
conditions. See the latest shipment at your
Hatters.
'Woodfo'ti?
yy Hats
Unlined 40/6
Lined 43/-
AT ALL FIRST-CLASS HATTERS AND STORES
This mag have been alright once,
hut... Times have changed!
1
£
&
%
s&
a
f
In these modem times of Talkies you wouldn’t bother with
the old-fashioned stereoscopic outfit, would you? And yet, is
the lighting of your home as modern as it should be? The
day of the kerosene lamp and other old-fashioned lighting
methods has gone. Electricity to-day is giving light and power
to thousands of country homes. Do you know that an M.V.
Lighting Plant to light, say, 15 rooms, and give you the power
you need for modern household helps—Vacuum Cleaners,
Fans, Irons, etc.—will cost only £150? M.V. Lighting Plants
are safe and so simple that a child can operate
them.
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING PLANTS
An initial outlay of £5O will cover the cost of Plant, Installa-
tion Charges, Wiring, Globes, Shades and Switches, and that
is payable after the lights are switched on.
MODERNISE YOUR HOME OR SHOP. ENJOY
THE COMFORTS AND CONVENIENCES THAT
MAKE LIFE WORTH LIVING
* * * * •
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THE ARMY, AIR FORCE
AND NAVY—let EXIDE BATTERIES carry your lighting
responsibilities.
BATTERIES
are at very moment protecting British lives and property
and are the Choice of Engineers who are responsible for the
Empire’s War Effort.
Where results are important and performance is paramount
EXIDE has always proved its superiority. Supplied to all
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIGHTING PLANTS and applicable
to all other makes.
We are Sole Distributors for EXIDE House Lighting Batteries,
and wish to announce that our highly-skilled technicians will
advise you on any Home Lighting problem. Write for details
of this outstanding service.
If you have any Home Lighting problem
to solve—you are cordially invited to
consult our experts. There is no obligation.
OTHER MOFFAT-VIRTUE PRODUCTS INCLUDE
Shearing Machinery, Jetting Plants, Diesel Engines, Petrol
Engines, Kerosene Engines, Electrolux Refrigerators, Windmills,
Irrigation Plants, Pumping Plants, Milking Machines, Sterilisers,
Orchard Spray Plants, Sawbenches, Hay Presses, Fumigators,
Chaffcutters, Wool Presses. See all these celebrated Moffat-
Virtue lines at 47 Machinery Avenue, R.A.S., and don’t forget
a hearty welcome awaits you at our Showrooms, 44 Bridge
Street, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Virtue,” Sydney .... ’Phone: FL5214 (6 lines)
MOFFAT VIRTUE UD.
11-25 PALMER ST., SYDNEY. BOX
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS
15848, G P.O.
Brisbane and Longreach, Queensland.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE CONVOY PROBLEM.
[ln his great speech last week President Roosevelt
said that upon the American will to sacrifice and to
work “depends the survival of the vital bridge across
the ocean, the bridge of ships which carry arms and
food for those who are fighting the good fight.” Next
day it was being forecast that the United States would
“soon be convoying supplies to Britain.” Leading sup-
porters of the Lease-Lend Bill submitted that it was
useless to produce war materials for the favored nations
if they were then to be sunk in the Atlantic. Up to
now the difficulty in sustaining the “bridge” has been the
shortage of vessels to do the convoying, leading to the
position described by the Manchester “Guardian” naval
correspondent in the article here condensed.]
There is one notable difference between the
present stage in the unrestricted submarine campaign
and that of 1917-18. Then we found that the German
attackers were little inclined to run the risk of attack-
ing ships in convoy; in recent months they have
found themselves compelled to take that risk if they
were to achieve any results at all, for there are few
merchant ships that are not covered so long as they
are within the real danger areas of the Atlantic. And
it has been suggested in Parliament and elsewhere that
the number of ships in convoy is too large, that the
size of the assemblage gives opportunities to the attack.
We know from the case of the Jervis Bay that a
convoy may consist of as many as 38 ships. When
plans for convoy against U-boat attack were first
drawn up the experts put the maximum number of
ships allowable in any group at 20.
It was soon found that this ideal was not attain-
able. There were not enough escort vessels to go
round. Larger convoys had to be arranged in order
to keep up the total amount of supplies reaching
Britain each week. The Admiralty gave orders that
in no case were the officers at the assembly ports to
send out a convoy of more than 26 ships without
special Admiralty permission. Even that concession
did not meet the case. Finally the Admiralty found
it was necessary to raise the maximum to 36 ships.
There was one occasion indeed when in an
emergency sanction was given for a convoy of 47
ships to be sent homeward across the North Atlantic.
And actually that armada came through unscathed.
But it was a big risk.
If you need to have 800 vessels a week in convoys
of 20 ships each you must have 40 convoys. If each
convoy must have for perfect coverage six destroyers
(at times in the last war we had 10) you must have
240 destroyers, plus a reserve to take the place of
craft that are refitting or are damaged or are lost in
the operations. Even when the Navy had 400 de-
stroyers in 1918 there were never 240 that could be
detached from other work—-the actual fighting service
with the fleet—to act as escorts. The most that could
be gathered together even using the oldest craft we
had was 123. If you have only half the necessary
number of escorts you must double the size of the
convoys or halve your intake of supplies.
That is the position today. Indeed, it is rather
worse, for I doubt if we have as many as 120 destroyers
available for escorting convoys. Until such time as
the shipyards have built many more craft big convoys
will have to be sent out.
* * * * *
American Shipbuilding Records
[What America will be able to do towards solving
the convoy problem by replacing lost ships is indicated
by the remarkable American shipbuilding performance
in the last war, some of the achievements of which are
recorded in this (condensed) article by London “Times”
shipping correspondent.]
In the autumn of 1917 the great building crusade
in North America began to gather momentum. Hog
Island, which was destined to be the largest shipyard
the world had ever known, with its 50 building ways,
was waste, marshy land. The work of creating
immense shipyards proceeded with such speed that
by the following June the keels of 27 large vessels
were laid, and on August 1 the first ship was launched.
During the same period the numbers of workers
in existing and new shipyards throughout the country
grew enormously, and builders on the Atlantic and
Pacific coasts competed keenly with one another
for the distinction of completing ships as quickly as
possible. Competitions were deliberately and ingeni-
ously encouraged by the leaders of the shipbuilding
movement.
What was practicable more than 20 years ago
should be quite as feasible now. Examples may be
quoted of the many feats of rapid production which
were performed. When the keel of the steamer Tucka-
hoe was laid at Camden, N.J., close to Hog Island and
Philadelphia, on April 8, 1918, the management esti-
mated that the ship could be launched in 27 days
four hours 50 minutes, and the officials of the
Emergency Fleet Corporation, who were then pro-
moting the great drive to the utmost of their power,
were so informed. The workmen, putting their best
into the work, enabled the ship to be launched on
May 5, 1918, just 27 days three hours 10 minutes
after the laying of the keel, or one hour and 40
minutes ahead of schedule. The Tuckahoe was finally
fitted out within 37 days from the laying of the keel.
Later, on July 4, 1918, the steamer Defiance
was launched at the Alameda plant of the Bethlehem
Shipbuilding Corporation at San Francisco within 38
days from the laying of the keel. Mr. Charles M.
Schwab, as director-general of the Emergency Fleet
Corporation, then told the thousands of onlookers
that on the basis of the amount of steel fabricated
into the ship each day the building of the Defiance
was a better performance by 30 per cent, than the
construction of the Tuckahoe.
That, however, was not the last word in rapid
building. By the evening of the day on which the
Defiance was launched the keel of the Invincible, a
cargo vessel of similar tonnage, was laid on the vacated
slipway. Next day the first rivet was driven, and by
July 8 all the floors were in position, and so on, until
August 4, when the vessel was floated and was suc-
ceeded by another. In the result the Invincible, with
a length of 457 ft. 6in. overall, a beam of 56ft., and
a depth of 38ft., was launched within 24 actual work-
ing days from the date of the keel laying. During
the plating of the vessel more than 137 tons of steel
were fabricated into the ship daily and about 40,000
rivets a day were driven.
Vessels of a smaller type known as long-legged
ships, with a carrying capacity of about 4000 tons,
were built on the Great Lakes. On August 15 the
steamship Crawl Keys was launched sideways at
Ecorse, Michigan, within 14 days from the laying of
the keel; she was completed within a total period
of 29 working days, which was easily a record for
this type of ship. When she sailed on her maiden
voyage she bore below the bridge a large placard
with the words: “I am 29 days old—look me over.”
* * * * w
Convoy System Is Effective
( From an article by Manchester “Guardian” 'naval
correspondent .)
Some critics of the convoy system have been
vocal lately, but they offer no suggestions for improve-
ment, and much of their comment is based on in-
accurate data. They allege that convoy in this war is
not providing the same measure of protection as in
1917. The figures refute them. Here are the average
weekly losses for the last year and for 1917:
1940. 1917.
Tons. Tons.
British tonnage sunk .. .. 60,000 54,000
World total sunk .. .. .. 80,000 88,000
We cannot as yet express the effect of convoy
in this war in a percentage of ships lost to ships at
Richmond “Times-Dispatch,” U.S.A.
IN THE SAME BOAT.
sea, because the exact figures are still an official secret,
but anyone acquainted with the world of shipping
knows that the weekly inflow of supplies to Britain
cannot be maintained with fewer than 800 to 1000
ships on the move. The average number recorded
as lost in recent nine-weeks’ Admiralty returns is 16
ships. Out of 1000 ships that is 1.6 per cent. The
corresponding figure for the last war, covering not
a few weeks but the whole period of convoy, was
1.67 per cent. There is, therefore, nothing to justify
the suggestion that the convoy system is out of date,
or that it has failed to provide results equal to those
of the last war.
Great play is made by the critics with the
addition of aircraft to the perils threatening convoys.
They are able to do this because there are no published
facts to show what proportion of our weekly losses
is actually due to air attack, and the unknown can
always be used to make our flesh creep. An occasional
disclosure, as in the case of the Empress of Britain,
is not sufficient evidence that aircraft can bomb mer-
chant ships at will, and it is important to remember
that the Empress of Britain was not sunk by bomb
damage ; a U-boat had to be called in to do the
actual work of destruction. If aircraft were really
as dangerous as we are asked to believe, how does
it come about that convoys regularly move through
the Straits of Dover within a few minutes’ striking
distance of hostile aerodromes?
Possession of Atlantic bases and airfields near
the western approaches has obviously increased the
amount of attack to which convoys are exposed, but
it has not altered the fundamental difficulty of air
attack against ships—that in a convoy of 30 ships
there are 86,000 square feet of water for every square
foot of deck space as ultimate billet for the bomb.
Moreover, the volume of A.A. fire from a convoy and
its escorting ships, apart from the balloon barrage
of many of them, has a disconcerting effect on the
marksman. Unless the German Air Force can pro-
duce something very new in tactics the ultimate
balance sheet of the war will show a very small per-
centage of mercantile tonnage loss due to air attack.
Another point which the critics of convoy ignore
is the proportion of weekly loss due to enemy mines.
These losses do not, save in rare instances, occur
to ships in convoy. They arise while ships are moving
to the assembly port, or- in coastal waters after dis-
persion. Convoy can in no way be held responsible
for them. Here, again, official secrecy prevents us
from countering the criticisms with actual figures, and
the records of the last war would be misleading, since
we know that the enemy’s mining effort this time has
been of a different nature and on a different scale,
and no parallel can fairly be drawn.
Those who have mingled with merchant seamen
know well enough that they make no adverse com-
ment on the protective value of convoy.
jfc * * # *
Return of the Corvette
(From a New York “Times” article by Hanson
W. Baldwin .)
Time seemed to turn backward when it was
recently revealed that corvettes —first of a new class
of fighting ships—were now assisting the hard-worked
British Fleet on convoy duty.
The term corvette dates back to the old sailing
ship days—days of wooden ships and iron men —but
it has been resurrected today to designate a new and
sturdy little class of all-purpose fighting ships, simple
in design and construction. These are now being
turned out in scores in Canadian and British yards.
The modern corvette is a deep-water vessel,
despite her small size, and she is equally useful to
guard a convoy, to patrol an area, or to engage in
minesweeping duties. Because these ships are of
simple standardised design, without the “gadgets and
gimmicks” that go on more pretentious men-of-war,
they are very cheap to build and can be turned out
quickly in great numbers.
Corvettes such, as the Windflower, 190 ft. in length,
broad in the beam and displacing about 1100 tons,
are unlovely to look at, but are handy little fighting
units. They are built in accordance with standard
merchant ship construction practices; they have
reciprocating engines, oil-burning boilers and a single
slack.
Their crews are small —only four officers and
54 men —but they mount a 4in. gun, ample to deal
with a submarine, and an anti-aircraft pom-pom, and
they carry depth charges and mount two gun depth-
charge throwers.
They are relatively slow —only about 17 knots—
but that is ample speed to run circles around the
average convoy. It is almost double the submerged
speed of any submarine in the world, and almost
equal the surface speed of any submarine.
Corvettes are virtually unarmored. The crew’s
washroom, forward, is protected by armorplate,
which will protect men off-duty against bomb splinters
and machine-gun bullets in case of a strafing or dive-
bombing attack by German ’planes. The quarter-
master on the bridge has a little armored “cubby
hole” directly behind him, beneath which he can
crouch during such an attack, and for the officer-of-
the-deck there is an armored “cross” of steel about
six feet high on a bridge wing, behind which he can
shelter himself.
A destroyer costs perhaps seven to twelve times
as much to build and takes from six to eighteen months
longer. If a corvette is lost it does not represent a con-
siderable military loss; if a destroyer goes down
120 to 200 men may perish with it, and its loss does
represent a military investment of some consequence.
The corvette, produced in quantity, may therefore
be one of the important answers to the German sub-
marine campaign.
Merchant ship construction to replace the
4,500,000 tons of British, Allied and neutral shipping
so far sunk in this war represents an important part
of the answer. The British have recognised this;
Canada is building 18 large merchant vessels for
Britain ; Britain herself is probably turning out be-
tween 900,000 and 1,500,000 tons of merchant shipping
annually, and contracts have recently been placed in
the United States for 200 merchantmen.
These ships, too, like the modern corvettes, which
take their name from the, past, represent in some
ways a reversion to that which is gone in sea history.
For the merchant vessels building here for Britain
will be coal-burners and they will have reciprocating
engines instead of turbines. The days of the fireman
and the coal-passer and the “black gang” thus are
returning to the Western Ocean, and the reciprocating
engine, steady, reliable and more easily repaired—
particularly under way—than the turbine, is experi-
encing a new renaissance of marine glory.
The corvettes are probably not yet available in
sufficient number to claim the credit for the recent
sharp falling off in losses. This probably represents
in considerable part a seasonal decline because of
bad weather. It seems certain that the U-boat cam-
paign will be greatly intensified. It is then that the
corvettes, modern counterpart of an ancient and
honorable type, must prove their worth.
A Great Story of the Sea.
[The story of the salvaging of the San Demetrio,
as told in London “Times” report of the action in
which Arthur Godfrey Hawkins, aged 26, second officer,
14 members of her crew, and the personal representatives
of John Boyle, a greaser, claimed salvage remunera-
tion for services rendered to the San Demetrio, her cargo
and freight after the vessel had been attacked on the
afternoon of November 5, 1940, by the armed raider
which sank the escorting auxiliary cruiser Jervis Bay.
As this report indicates, it was not a legal action in the
ordinary sense, but rather a matter of arbitration on
how much the heroes of the exploit should be awarded.]
The San Demetrio, a tanker of 8073 gross tons,
laden with a full cargo of petrol, was damaged
severely, and, as it was highly dangerous for the crew
to remain on board, the captain gave the order to
abandon ship. The convoy of which the San
Demetrio was one had previously been ordered to
scatter.
Her complement left her in three boats, one of
which was commanded by Mr. Hawkins, and was


manned by the other plaintiffs. The boats rapidly
dropped astern of the ship, which a few minutes later
was seen to be struck by another heavy salvo and
to burst into flames.
The weather steadily deteriorated, and by dawn
on November 6 there was a strong gale and high seas.
During the whole of that day the plaintiffs’ boat was
kept head on to the great seas. In the early hours
of the afternoon the tanker was sighted again. She
was still on fire and surrounded by petrol floating
on the water.
At dawn on November 7 the weather had
moderated. At noon the plaintiffs boarded the ship
with considerable difficulty. There was a fierce fire
still burning aft and the ship was glowing hot amid-
ships. The bridge and all its surrounding structure
were destroyed ; compasses, steering-gear, charts and
wireless had all gone ; and the only alternative method
of steering, the steering-gear aft, was partially de-
stroyed and only four spokes of the wheel were left.
Throughout the night of November 7-8 the
plaintiffs fought the fires and succeeded in extinguish-
ing them in the early forenoon of November 8. A
temporary steering platform was constructed, and in
the afternoon the main engines were put in operation,
A speed of about nine knots was maintained.
On November 14 a British warship arrived, put
a party of officers and ratings on board, and rendered
great assistance. Escorted by the warship, the San
Demetrio then set a course for the Clyde, where she
arrived on the night of November 16 with 10,000 tons
of cargo still remaining in her.
The value of the San Demetrio in her damaged
condition, together with the cargo and freight, was
£300,000.
Mr. Miller, for the plaintiffs, said that it was a
great story of the sea. Nothing perhaps was more
unpleasant than the North Atlantic in a small boat
in winter time, but that was safer than boarding a
petrol-laden vessel seriously on fire with no knowledge
of her condition. If the fire had reached the tanks
that would have been the end of her. The plaintiffs,
without charts or compasses, proceeded with her
hundreds of miles, made a correct landfall, and
brought the ship and her valuable cargo into safety.
Never in the Admiralty Court had a more meritorious
service been brought to its notice.
Mr. Hayward, for the defendants, said that in
most salvage cases there were contentions and
opposition. In this case his task was far happier.
He was there to support to the full those tributes to
the conduct of the claimants which had been made
by the managing director of the firm which he
(counsel) represented, and not to quarrel in any way
with the evidence which had been given by the claim-
ants. Mr. Hawkins was a worthy successor of his
great Elizabethan namesake,
Mr. Justice Langton, in giving judgment, said
that he was glad that it was not his duty to attempt
to do justice in words to the value of the service ;
he would feel his powers unequal to it. He had only
the lesser, but not by any means simple, duty of
measuring the just reward as between the salvors and
the owners of the salved property. That task had
been simplified by the attitude of the owners, who
were grateful to the claimants and full of admiration
of their exploit. They had assisted in every way in
putting forward the case, and had taken the unpre-
cedented step of guaranteeing the claimants’ costs in
the action —a gesture which reflected great credit on
them, and was in accordance with the best traditions
of the shipowning community. It was a great English
story of the sea.
With magnificent courage the Jervis Bay turned
towards the German raider, giving the ships of the
convoy a chance to escape. The San Demetrio with
a full cargo of petrol, however, was an easy prey.
She was repeatedly hit, and her master properly gave
the order to abandon ship. When the plaintiffs re-
boarded her, in mid-Atlantic, with only one dinghy
left on board, and in bad weather, with two of the
boat’s crew seriously injured, the condition of the
ship was pitiable in the extreme. The fires were put
out, and innumerable holes plugged with the help of
men many of whom ought to have been in the sick
bay.
“I do not think,” said his Lordship, “that I am
using language of exaggeration if I say that when the
splendid story of the Jervis Bay comes to be written
in full the tale of courage, resource and skill with
which the salving of the San Demetrio was accom-
plished will afford a fitting and not unworthy sequel
to what Mr. Miller has happily called one of the
great English stories of the sea.”
His Lordship referred to a report drawn up by
the managing director of the company owning the
ship which, he remarked, was not intended to receive
any publicity. One passage dealt with the stoical
courage of John Boyle, another with the part played
by Ross Preston, an American who joined the crew
as a Nova Scotian because he wanted to reach Britain
to join, one of the fighting forces. He was simply
magnificent, the report said, and it added: “No finer
tribute can be paid to this man than the unanimous
request made by all on board that the Red Ensign
which the vessel was flying all through the action
until she arrived in port should be presented to their
American shipmate.”
His Lordship said that, speaking of John Boyle,
the greaser, who, during two days of agony in the
boat, never complained, and then carried on work in
the engine-room until too weak even to sit on a box
in the stokehole, when he was moved to one of the
few rooms not gutted and found dead in the morn-
ing, the report stated: “In this unspectacular manner
passed a hero.”
The total award, said his Lordship, would be
£14,700, of which he awarded £2OOO to Mr. Hawkins,
£2OOO to Mr. Pollard, the chief engineer, and sums
ranging from £I4OO to £IOO to the other plaintiffs.
To the personal representatives of John Boyle he
awarded £IOOO.
He could not quit the case without thanking
everybody concerned for one of the happiest working
days of his life spent in listening to a very modest
recital by two gallant gentlemen concerning a memor-
able achievement.
,
War-time in Bremen.
(Condensed from a report by London "Times” Stockholm
correspondent.)
At the Seamen’s Home in Stockholm I met a
Dane who had spent the last few months either at
Bremen or in German ships. While lying at anchor
in Bremerhaven he saw the liner Bremen bombed
(the Germans admitted last week that she was burning),
She was taken to Hamburg, where he saw her again
later. There was bombing almost every night, but not
on Saturdays. Every Saturday the people of Bremen
rejoiced, for they felt sure they would have a good
night’s rest. There was no hate for the British among
the people he knew. They never use the word
“Englander” now, but call all British men “Tommies”
and all British aeroplanes “Canadian Cowboys.”
“They don’t like them Canadian Cowboys,” said the
Danish sailor.
He often went to a Bremen cinema, where only
German films are shown, but never saw a whole
picture as the performance was always interrupted by
an air raid whenever he went, and everybody had
to go down into the shelters. This was compulsory,
Everything, even the beer-houses, closed as soon as
the sirens sounded. It was cold down in the shelters,
Some better ones were being built, and one in Ham-
burg, above ground, looked like a big water-tower
going up to a peak.
—New York “PM.”
LEBENSRAUM.
Bremen was “pretty badly” bombed, including
the waterworks, the docks, and some aeroplane works.
Everybody said that the damage done on one night
was over 1,000,000 m., and all the people there were
nervous.
Nearly all the laborers in the Bremen docks were
prisoners of war, mostly French, although there were
many Poles, too, as well as some Belgian and Dutch,
who might have been volunteers. He saw no British
prisoners. They were very strict with the Poles, who
had a much harder time than the French. The
prisoners’ rations were very bad and insufficient.
“They would come and beg food,” he added, “and
though this was not allowed we gave them bits, as
well as the remains of our potato-mash, which we
could not eat but which they thought was good. The
guards did not pay much attention ; they were not very
strict with the French.
“When they were not at work the prisoners of
war lived on German ships anchored in Bremerhaven.
They were not allowed out of the harbor. They com-
plained about food, but most of all because they had
no soap ; there was none at all on the ships, they said.
“There were a lot of Poles in civilian clothes
working in Bremen, but they were not allowed out of
the docks. You knew they were Poles immediately,
as they all wore a large ‘P’ on their left breasts.”
Gandhi’s Changed War Stand.
(From a London “Times” letter by J. A. Spender; the
letter was also published by New York “Times.”)
At the beginning of last summer Gandhi seemed
to be entertaining the idea of obtaining political
advantages for India by her participation in the war,
and this was then supposed to be the policy of Con-
gress. India, so far as Congress could decide the
matter, was to participate on condition that she
received concessions variously defined as “complete
independence” or “Dominion status” either immedi-
ately or in the near future. But while the debate on
this matter was going forward Gandhi was taking up
new ground, and he now made it known that he
had come to the conclusion that any participation
whatever by India in the war was contrary to his
principle of “non-violence” and must be barred in
the forum of conscience.
The development of this idea and the mysti-
fication that it caused to his supporters may be
traced week by week in the files of “Harijan”
[Gandhi’s periodical, which he has suspended rather
than submit it to the censor]. The charge of incon-
sistency leaves him quite unconcerned. He frankly
confesses that he took the wrong road about this, or
was mistaken about that, but is passionately convinced
that he is right now. Week by week he has enlarged
his idea until he sees India doing a service not only
to herself but to all the world by furnishing an
example of the virtue and value of non-violence.
He protests that he dislikes Nazism and Fascism
quite as much as we do and that he desires to cause
us the minimum of embarrassment, but that in seeking
to raise conscientious objection from the idosyncrasy
of a few thousand individuals to the creed of a whole
nation he is doing a service to all humanity, and to us,
too, eventually. He sincerely believes that the dictators
would quail before this manifestation, but if they did
not and the way were open to them to invade India,
he thinks that they would be helpless before this
moral miracle.
I have found it profoundly interesting to trace
his development of this doctrine week by week, and
have felt a very real'respect for the unflinching courage
with which he follows where his argument leads him.
But at the end of it all he leaves us in a position in
which there is no possible reconciliation with him
short of adopting his views, that is, by going out of
the war and promising to eschew violence in our
future dealings with our enemy. Anything less would,
from Gandhi’s point of view, be participation in sin.
Where Gandhi leads, Congress follows. Many
of them are greatly perplexed both by his doctrine
and by his explanations of it. To suppose that any
large number of them are in any real sense con-
scientious objectors would, I am sure, be a mistake.
But the relations of Gandhi to Congress much more
resemble those of a dictator to his “party” than those
of an ordinary political leader to his supporters. He,
like Hitler and Mussolini, is “always right,” and when
he speaks he must be obeyed. We must take it for
the present that non-violence is the policy of Congress.
But, if so, the critics of our Indian policy may fairly
be asked not to persist in the idea
that the aspirations of India are
being blocked by a Government of
Colonel Blimps and Imperialist die-
hards. This is the substance of
German propaganda, especially in
America, where Gandhism appeals
to a generous and widely spread but
uninformed opinion. It was never
less true.
In fact, Gandhi has presented
us with a very difficult administra-
tive problem. For he not only
holds these opinions, as he is en-
titled to do, but has instructed an
important group of his followers to
go out and preach them — i.e., to
denounce war and discourage re-
cruiting, with the consequence,
which he anticipates and invites,
that they will be arrested and sen-
tenced to imprisonment. No Gov-
ernment at war can be expected to
tolerate this, but the Judge or
magistrate who has to deal with
these cases immediately finds him-
self in a dilemma. If he gives long
sentences he will be denounced for
harshness ; if he gives short ones,
the offenders will repeat their
offences as soon as they are out
of prison, and have to be im-
prisoned again, which may seem
even harsher. I suggest that the
Government of India must be left to use its own
discretion in deciding what it is wise to do.
There is no need for alarm. India —British India
as well as the India of the Princes —is making a
handsome contribution to the war, both in men and
materials, and she will yet give us more of both.
“Complete independence” sounds formidable, but
again and again I have had it explained to me by
Indian politicians that if they can be free agents only
for a week their self-respect will be restored, and
they will immediately make a treaty with us giving us
all that we desire. The Egyptian model is in their
minds. So far as political Indians are concerned, the
root of the trouble is that they feel their self-respect
to have been wounded when they were taken into the
war without their consent being asked.
This is the root of the matter. The war will, I
believe, show them, as it will show others in the same
position, the necessity of a partnership with a strong
Power, but we must then more than ever persist in
the endeavor to make it a real partnership in which
they will have the sense of working on a basis of
equality with us in controlling their own fate.
“What Are Our War Aims?”
(New York “Sunday News” leader.)
The process of issuing Great Britain a blank
cheque to help it carry on the war is going through at
Washingon as fast as decently possible. For all the
howls of isolationists like Senators Wheeler and John-
son and the milder protests of such as Senator Tydings,
it looks as if the blank cheque will be delivered about
as soon as the British want it.
That means, of course, that we are in the war
already, unofficially, and are getting deeper into it
day by day.
Isn’t it fair, then, for us to ask our leaders what
our war aims are to be ; what measure of war effort
this blank cheque to Britain is expected to cover?
It’s more than possible that our unofficial aid to
Great Britain may draw us officially into the war
sooner or later. We may feel called on to declare
war against Germany; or Germany or Japan or both
may feel called on to declare war against us. Oughtn’t
we to know what we are fighting for?
There are several possible British-American war
aims ; to wit:
(1) To fight to save Britain from invasion.
(2) To fight to save Britain from invasion, and to
preserve the British Empire intact.
(3) To fight until independence is restored to
the countries Hitler has conquered ; namely, Poland,
Denmark, Norway, Holland, Belgium and France.
Also Rumania.
(4) To fight till the status quo ante September 1,
1939, is restored. This would include not only Item 3
but also restoration of Czechoslovakia and
Austria, and a war against Russia to restore part of


ESTABLISHED 1834. 1
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!. PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
-ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE ARMY CALLS!
Eligible Recruits for the A.I.F. are Needed
IMMEDIATELY
JOIN THE A.I.F —SEE THE WORLD
AND KEEP WAR OUT OF AUSTRALIA
Soldiers of the A.I.F. are serving in England
Egypt- — Palestine — Libya—Malaya and—??? ???
JOIN THEM—THEY NEED YOU!
SINGLE MEN AND MARRIED MEN WITHOUT CHILDREN
ARE REQUIRED AGED BETWEEN 20 AND 40
Apply to your nearest Area Officer and Town Hall, Melbourne,
Recruiting Officer for information.
Finland, part of Rumania, part of Poland, and all of
Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania to their positions on the
map of Europe before September 1, 1939.
(5) To fight until Item 3 or 4 is accomplished, and
also until Japan is forced to blow back all the territory
it has grabbed in Asia since 1931, when it began its
expansion north and west from Korea.
(6) To fight until Hitler and Hitlerism are extermi-
nated from Germany.
(7) To fight until the German people are extermi-
nated —a war aim which already has been seriously
urged in some quarters.
Those are the seven choices facing us as we
march mumbling and law-evading to this war. Which
of them is it to be? Just what are we to fight for?
Aren’t the American people entitled to be told even
that much about what is being cooked up for them?
We’re sorry to say that there are plainly many
Americans who at this time are in favor of the first
five of the listed war aims at least.
The war party in this country is exceeded in
vigor and thirst for blood only by the war party in
Great Britain, heading up in Winston Churchill, and
the German and Italian war parties, heading up in
Hitler and Mussolini respectively.
These ladies and gentlemen are motivated by the
same lust for excitement that makes people go to bull-
fights in countries which have bullfights. The spec-
tators don’t expect to suffer or be killed themselves,
but they do yearn to see the poor old bull suffer and
be killed. Very few of our war party people expect
to do any fighting, but they do yearn to see our brave
boys go out and fight other people’s boys.
We yield to no one in our admiration for the
fighting qualities of American soldiers, sailors, marines
and fliers, once they get really trained up and steamed
up for a war.
But if we are to take on Germany, Italy, Japan
and Russia in an attempt to right every recent land
grab which we consider wrong, we deeply fear that the
prospects for victory are hopeless. We do not believe
the United States and Great Britain can lick that
combination.
Maybe that combination cannot lick us, either.
It looks like a long-drawn-out, bloody and costly fight
at best. But of this we are confident: That the pros-
pects of our ruining ourselves in such a war are more
than bright. We can without difficulty lose hundreds
of thousands of our finest young men on foreign battle-
fields, bleed ourselves white at homeland lopsidedly
gear up our factories to war production so that re-
adjustments after the war will rack if not ruin our
entire economic system.
It is time to know what are our war aims.
Italy’s Poor Empire.
Condensed from New York “Journal of Commerce.'’)
In 1938 Libya imported 519,000,000 lire of goods
from Italy, but shipped to that country products of a
value of only 54,000,000 lire. Eritrea in that year
imported 1,308,000,000 lire of goods from the parent
country, and shipped to her only 23,000,000 lire.
The Italian colonies in Africa, despite the huge
investments that have been made in them, have not
been able to supply any material part of the food-
stuffs and raw materials that Italy must import from
abroad. The development of Libya was begun almost
three decades ago, yet only olive oil production has
attained any considerable level, for the country lacks
raw materials and water power. At the time of the
conquest of Ethiopia, grandiose schemes for the settle-
ment of hundreds of thousands of Italian farmers
there were seriously discussed in Rome, but nothing
of the sort materialised.
As it was constituted at the outbreak of the war,
Italy’s African empire was an economic liability, with
prospects remote of any material return to the parent
country from its development. Events have proved
that it is a distinct military liability also. This experi-
ence may well lead to a modification of Italy’s colonial
policy after the war, particularly if the outcome of
the conflict leads to a change of its Government.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
In London fire raids millions of pounds’ worth of
textile stocks has been destroyed. Commenting on
the measures taken to help firms that have lost their
stocks. Captain Oliver Lyttelton, the President of the
Board of Trade, said that his procedure was “the
extreme opposite of red-tape.” The department has
sent out teams of skilled accountants, many of whom
it has recently hauled back from the fighting services,
to settle new quotas of supply “across the table.
Where records have been destroyed the accountants
consider verbal claims on what evidence is available
and make immediate decisions. For a Government
department to settle claims without a scrap of proof,
Captain Lyttelton added, was something new in state-
craft. — Manchester “Guardian” London correspon-
dent.
*****
The much-maligned “archies” and “sky” guns of
Britain’s extensive anti-aircraft defences have proved
their worth, according to official British compilation.
During 1940 444 German ’planes were brought down
over Britain by fire from ground guns. This repre-
sents more than one-seventh of the total number of
’planes shot out of British skies during the year. No
statistics are given as to the number of rounds re-
quired to bring down these ’planes, but, if past experi-
ence is a guide, hundreds of thousands, if not mil-
lions, of rounds must have been fired from all calibres
of guns. American anti-aircraft batteries in France
shot down 17 enemy ’planes during the period July 17
to November 11, 1918. According to then Colonel
P. P. Bishop, an average of 605 shots were fired for
each ’plane. Of course, anti-aircraft fire has consider-
ably improved in accuracy since then.— New York
‘‘Times.”
sj: % jJj sjs
When the war started Britain had 16 medium
and long-wave stations operating on two wavelengths,
whereas Germany had 40 stations operating on 31
wavelengths. By successive conquests Germany has
increased her ether strength to 112 stations, of which
24 are high-powered, operating on 82 wavelengths.
Some 50 Italian-controlled stations bring the enemy
total to approximately 160. The Axis Powers more-
over have the advantage of their central position. The
British talks have to be transmitted in short spells to
foreign listeners, who, if they wish to hear them—
and the desire is widespread— must repair to their
wireless sets at certain strictly limited times, well-
known to the authorities. For some of the Balkan
countries the time allowed is ten and in one case five
minutes. Anybody listening-in therefore becomes a
marked man. — London “Times.”
*****
A search for any stray cats that may be lurking
among wrecked buildings in London is carried out
by the People’s Dispensary for Sick Animals, The
P.D.S.A. hunts for them unless it knows both owner
and cat and is sure that the cat is deliberately lurking
among the ruins of its old home until it feels certain
that its owners have settled into their new one.
If they only knew it, there is no need for any
cat to be homeless, so great is the demand just now
for cats to keep down the increasing hordes of rats
and mice.— Manchester “Guardian” London corre-
spondent.
* * * * *
Some people in Poland are executed “legally.”
The authority of “legality” is vested in the so-called
“special tribunals,” secret Courts from whose judg-
ments there is no appeal and which are authorised to
try all cases of a political character. Every case of
illegal possession of arms is tried by the special tribu-
nals and the sentence is death. Special tribunals
existed in the first instance in a few cities only, in
Warsaw, Cracow, Lublin, Lodz, Poznan and Bydgoszcz
(Bromberg). In August the Gestapo enlarged the
system by adding travelling special tribunals, which
move from place to place “as the necessity arises.”
A travelling tribunal was summoned to Czenstochowa
in September to try an “unearthed Polish conspiracy.”
It pronounced 65 death sentences. A similar special
tribunal on a starring tour in Nowy Sacz in August
resulted in 82 death sentences. From Nowy Sacz
the company went to the adjacent town of Jaslo
and another 70 death sentences were added During
November three German newspapers in Poland —
“Ostdeutscher Beobachter” at Poznan, “Deutsche
Rundschau” at Bydgoszcz and “Litzmannstaedter
Zeitung” at Lodz—referred in their various reports
to no fewer than 206 death sentences pronounced
by the permanent tribunals in the cities named.—
London “Times” correspondent.
♦ * * * *
Two justices of a three-man Court in Manhattan
agreed to let Morris Newman off with ten days in
the workhouse and a $lOO fine after he pleaded guilty
of publishing 12 obscene magazines [a number of
which came to Australia before the embargo]. Not
so Justice Frederick L. Hackenburg. In a voice that
echoed through the corridors he roared a dissenting
opinion. Said he: “You are a counterfeiter, you
were an auto thief, you were charged with arson,
you were hounded out of Pennsylvania and New
Jersey, and you came over to this city to pollute the
citizens. You are just as infectious as though you
put poison in our water system. I don’t agree with
my colleagues in extending you leniency. You have
no more right being in the publishing business than
I have in an airplane, and I have never been in one.”
Then, shaking his finger at the whitefaced defendant,
Justice Hackenburg shouted: “You stink!”— “Time.”
* * * * *
On May 26, 1938, Congress by a voice vote pro-
vided for the appointment of the seven-man committee
investigating un-American [Communist and Nazi]
propaganda in the United States. The House on
February 3, 1939, extended the life of the committee
by a vote of 344 to 35. That life was extended again
on January 23, 1940, by a vote of 344 to 21. It was
recently once more extended by a vote of 353 to 6.
Thus, opposition to the committee has gradually so
diminished in the House that support for it there is
now all but unanimous.— New York “Times.”
* * * * *
As to Dakar, it is almost impossible to imagine
a more amateurish and ill-conceived affair, and the
so-called “intelligence” upon which it was presumably
based seems to have been about as bad as it could
have been. If the Chiefs-of-Staffs Committee approved
of this affair they ought to be sacked ; if they dis-
approved of it one would like to know on what
grounds it was authorised. — Commander Stephen King
Hall’s “News-Letter.”
* * * * *
The Japanese surprised Russia at a time of tension
in 1904 by torpedoing Russian warships at anchor off
Port Arthur one night before letting the world know
next day that Japan had gone to war with Russia
Ottawa “Evening Citizen.”
* * * • •
How many men Germany called out of industry
for service with the forces is not known with any
exactness. The way in which the loss to industry has
been made up is, so far, approximately as follows:
Drawn from reserves of man-power (men retired
or formerly in other occupations), 1,000,000; women
(in addition to the large number taken into the auxiliary
military organisations), 300,000; additional foreign
labor, 600,000 ; prisoners of war who can be used
for civil work, 1,000,000. There are still some reserves
of women who, by a tightening of the screw of com-
pulsion, might be drawn into industry, and married
women are being brought in on a half-time system to
work 30 hours a week. — London “Times” labor cor-
respondent.
*****
Following are the numbers of cases of the prin-
cipal infectious diseases notified throughout England
in 1938, 1939 and 1940 down to last December 14,
as reported by Sir Wilson Jameson, Chief Medical
Officer of the Ministry of Health:
Scarlet fever: 1938, just over 99,000; 1939, just over
76,000; 1940, nearly 63,000.
Diphtheria: 1938, 65,000; 1939, 46,700; 1940, just
over 44,000.
Pneumonia: 1938, 45,000; 1939, 42,000; 1940, nearly
46,000.
Dysentery; 1938, 4170; 1939, 963; 1940, 2900.
Enteric fever: 1938, 1300; 1939, 1500; 1940, 2800.
Cerebro-spinal fever: 1938, 1288; 1939, 1500; 1940,
approximately 12,500.
There has been no report of any outbreak of typhoid,
even from the places most severely battered in air
raids, nor has any case of typhus been notified.
“Cerebro-spinal fever is a thing we are always afraid
of during war,” Sir Wilson Jameson said. “In the
past the deaths among cases used to be something in
the neighborhood of 60 per cent. But although we
are still very much afraid of it, our great dread has
gone ; and that is very largely a British achievement.
If the case is diagnosed sufficiently early, and treated
in a proper manner by means of special drugs, the
mortality in hospitals has fallen as low as 5 p.c. —and
that is including those malignant cases which normally
would die within 24 hours. That is an achievement
of which England has good reason to be proud.”
—London “Times.”


Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. Ihe
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/1/ 38). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD,,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria; A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland ; A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia : Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, I erth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.Q.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SMOKE-OH!
“I should be glad if you would tell me of
an inexpensive and sure method of removing
blockheads.” —Correspondent in woman’s paper.
Why not simply domino them with,
say, a borrowed axe?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What should I get for a badly-ricked back?”
—Correspondent in woman’s paper.
Come, now —any offers?
“The Scouts were having
the time of their lives, play-
ing and singing war songs
until 8 p.m. Then the
member for the district,
Mr. , gave a short
lecture.”
—Sydney suburban paper.
After the Lord
Mayor’s show
4* 4* 4* 4*
A modern girl makes
up a quarrel quickly,
her face slowly and her
mind rarely,
4* •I' 4> 4 1
“Accused, who was in a
fish hop at the time,
escaped out the back way
when he saw the police
arrive. They immediately
gave chase.”
—Daily paper.
Naturally he led
them a merry dance.
“One Sydney spiritualist who started with
nothing died worth £14,000.”
The happy medium.
The difference between an ordinary
bug and a jitterbug is that the latter can’t
be squashed.
4 1 4* 4 1 4 1
The artist may be clever, but it’s the
model who tells him where to draw the
line.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“Any of our carpets can be bought by the
yard.”— Advt.
But they’ll be worn by the foot.
4 1 4* 4- 4 1
“It is safe to say that 99 men out of 100
have a fancy for some woman who is not their
wife.”— Woman’s paper.
It is not safe, however, for them to
say it.
4> 4* 4* 4*
“Mother and daughter were so alike that
even the latter’s husband could hardly tell the
two apart.”— “Sun.”
But it was when he tried to tell them
something together that the trouble really
started.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“Caruso’s voice was so powerful that the
vibration set up by his high C could shake
a tumbler yards away.” —Article on singing.
That’s nothing. We know a seven-
stone woman whose shrill soprano makes
her 16-stone husband tremble violently.
“Bring it over here. Herb, and We'll cop this lot!"
The Cad!
In pleading words she wrote, “Dear Jack,
*. j don > t
see your face.”
shg hat£s h[m For he came hack
nd spo n e d ] ler breach-of-promjse
£as£
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Melbourne football fans may see a one-
armed player in action this season.”
—Sporting item.
That won’t stir ’em—they ve been roar-
ing at one-eyed umpires for years.
' * * f" ,
“The best way to breathe deeply on rising
of a morning is to stan d by the open window
and t i irow t h e chest out as far as possible.”
—Radio jerks session.
But in case you have to go with it
ma ke certain it isn’t an upstairs window
you’re in front of.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Second-hand 20-h.p. tourer, 1924 model,
->> *»od, £l5. A trial.”--!*/.
Very probably.
4*
“Remember that 65 p.c. of the body’s nourish-
ment comes from oxygen.”
—Physical culture mag.
The news has been joyously welcomed
in boardinghouse-keeping circles.
4> 4 1 4* 4*
“Hollywood’s latest is the selling of the stars’
cast-off clothes for war relief.” —Film chatter.
It is understood that Dorothy Lamour
is a generous contributor.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The script of ‘The Monster and the Girl’
was printed on purple paper to put actors into
a proper spine-chilling mood.” —Film guff.
On the same principle, they must have
to type some of these radio plays on
sandpaper.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“Economist to Advise on Rural Problems.”
Such as why shire roads are good only
when councillors live on ’em.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
Though vicious habits he may have.
Of this a pig’s assured:
It won’t be very long before
He’ll be completely cured.
Elm.
A punter tries all the “systems” before
realising he’s only upsetting his own.
Work-shy.
“The heroines in our great historical romances
do not appear to have exhibited many house-
hold talents.”— Woman’s paper.
That Elaine for her Launcelot sighed
Sounds nice; but did she take a pride
In bending over stewing pans
Or polishing the pots and cans ?
Few heroines thought a bowl of broth
Would help a hero pledge his troth.
When Juliet pined for Romeo’s kiss
She gave the washing-up a miss.
Romances of the past have shown
That gallant lovers e’er were prone
To wed domestic duds who’d stop
And stare dismayed at broom or mop.
D. McM.
Vacation.
ŵ
E.
Highlight.
One evening at a cafe swell
I dined with her in glory.
But ah ! I have no words to tell
That soul-enchanting story.
I will recall it till I die —
My latest hour ’twill sweeten.
It was, I swear, the best ham pie
That ever I have eaten!
T. W. NATHAN.
Sportsmen All.
“Germany and Italy are to meet at tennis.”
—Rome Radio announcement.
The great Colosseo di Fiammiferi
stadium at Milan was packed
Drawn up on one side were the Fascist
supporters, their ringleted locks and
oiled moustaches gleaming in the bril-
liant sunshine. They had dutifully stood
up and given the Fascist salute when the
20,000 Nazi Strength-Through-Joy tourist
workmen, the tips of their small arms
visible beneath their pressed-paper
smocks, had goose-stepped in to take up
their places under the forest of swastikas
and cheer at the orders of their section
ober-leutenants.
Suddenly a fanfare of trumpets blared,
and on a staccato order the assemblage
rose. A minute passed; then through
the gates came a black horse at the
gallop. Five yards from the beflagged
dais its swarthy, rotund rider leaned back
and jagged at the reins. As his mount
slithered to a standstill II Duce leaped
dramatically off, thrust his chin aggres-
sively forward and gave the Fascist
salute and then the Nazi salute. He was
just about to give the ♦clenched fist salute
as a gesture to his ally’s great friend
when he remembered he was still a Bul-
wark Against Bolshevism. Instead he
gave another Fascist salute and then
hastily added another Nazi salute to even
it up.
Amid the chanting of “Duce! Duce!’
Musso. mounted the dais. As he raised
his hand again the shouts were repeated
all round the stadium, with the ober-
leutenants working hard. The shouts
continuing, II Duce roared out “Basta
cost!” His own subjects ceased but the
Germans kept going. Not knowing the
German for “Enough! ” Musso. resorted
to the only language they all partly under-
stood.
“Shutta up, idiots!” he bellowed. “I
wanta da silence. We meeta here in da
friend’ combatta to play da pallacorda,
whatta da effete democarassies calla da
tennis. Letta da play commence, and
may da Italianos win. Anda dey better!”
—and he bent a terrifying look on the
Fascist captain.
The two teams who were to play for
the new Axis Cup marched stiffly on to
the court, gave the requisite number of
salutes and clicked their heels as they
sloped racquets. Then at a word of com-
mand from the 0.-in-C., Hans Undfeet,
the Nazi captain, gave a coin to spin to
Spezio Vermacelli, the opposing skipper,
and ordered him to toss. Hans called
correctly and then restored the double-
headed pfennig to his pocket.
Doubles were to be the contest for the
first day. As the four players were
loosening their muscles in a practice
knock prior to commencement of the
match Maria Simplibatti bent down to
recover a ball. He was standing about
three feet from the net at the time. A
few feet on his side of the net stood
Captain Hans Undfeet, with whom Maria
had been swapping short volleys. As
Maria straightened up Hans threw the
ball high to practise his famous bullet
service. The ball caught Maria, who was
recognised as the strongest doubles player
in any Axis country, abaft the left ear,
and he went down like a felled ox. The
ambulance men carried him off to the
fierce cries of “Basta! Basta !” But the
Gestapo and the Ovra were well on the
job. As the rubber truncheons rose and
fell the “Bastas” gradually gave way to
the “Viva Hitlers.’’
The Italian skipper called for his sub-
stitute player, but the German captain
pointed out that this wasn’t allowed under
the Nazi rules. He’d have to play the
doubles on his own. More “Bastas,”
and the rubber truncheons rose and fell
again.
The German captain’s opening service
went five yards over the base line.
“Feefteen—loff!” called out the umpire.
Dr. August von Schweinhund. More
“Bastas” from the Italian gallery, and
the r.ts. rose and fell again. As Spezio
moved over to the left-hand court to take
the next service, he was ordered back by
the umpire, as taking two services in suc-
cession was against the rules. The wop
skipper helplessly watched the unpro-
tected court as Hans’s two services
crashed into the net. “Dirty—loff!” came
the umpire’s call, followed immediately
by a stiletto blade burying itself to the
hilt in the umpire’s box, three inches
from the herr doktor’s head. The game
was held up for ten minutes while a
purge among the four-lire seats was con-
ducted. Two more barrels of ersatz
castor oil had to be requisitioned before
order was restored.
The third point opened with a long
rally, Spezio, an ex-Libyan campaigner,
covering the court with remarkable speed.
As he flew back towards his base line to
smash a deep lob a shower of banana-
skins fell under his feet, which shot from
under him. His disappearance into the
ambulance was the signal for scores of
stilettos to fly across the court from the
oiled-moustache seats. Immediately came
the rat-tat of sub-machine guns as the
Nazis pulled them from the concealment
of their smocks. As Musso. vanished
out the back way surrounded by a strong
bodyguard, two divisions of Bersaglieri
and a tank corps came rushing out of
the near-by barracks.
Next morning Signor Ansaldo wrote
in the “Corriere Milano”: “Nothing
could better exemplify the spirit of cor-
diality animating the Rome-Berlin Axis
than the friendly struggle for the Palla-
corda Cup which commenced in Milan
yesterday. Our gallant brothers-in-arms
across the Brenner are doughty but fair
fighters. In this game between the best
players in the Axis—and therefore in the
world—can be seen the fruits of a friend-
ship that is deep and sincere. Unfortu-
nately heavy rain caused a postponement
of the doubles match shortly after it
started.”
Bo.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVE YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The Rosehill meeting was of particular
interest, the runners including several
candidates for important races at Rand-
wick. As hot favorites in Escutcheon,
Cradle Song, Overbold, Angus and
Amiable failed in their respective races,
and winners included three outsiders in
Glorious, Congratulations and John
Dory, it is almost needless to write that
the day was profitable for the books as a
whole.
Glorious ran moderately in two races
in Sydney subsequent to her Armidale
Cup win, and few backers gave her any
consideration for the Westmead Handi-
cap, notwithstanding a 71b. apprentice
allowance took her weight down to 7.2.
Commencing smartly, she was third to
Petruchio and Bona Fide at the half-mile,
and, taking the lead from Bona Fide at
the leger, won nicely from Overbold,
who, however, ran a rattling race after
getting away indifferently and being one
of the last bunch at the half-mile. Many
Ways, in fourth position, was never far
away from the leaders, and Rylstone
came home well. When Bona Fide
headed Petruchio at the top of the
straight she seemed like winning, but the
last furlong pulled her up. Rimveil,
looking as if he needed a race, was never
dangerous, and the prices at which they
started suggested some of the runners
were merely in the field for educational
purposes.
In winning the Club Handicap the
honors of the race were with Veiled
Threat in every way. Half a mile from
home he was nearly last, but from that
point he did such good work that he
scored by half a head from Scientist,
who, getting a very smooth run through-
out, was never further back than third
and deprived Gilltown of the lead turn-
ing into the straight. As usual, Gilltown
tried to win all the way, but 9st. proved
too much for him over a mile and a
quarter in 2.5, which was within three-
quarters of a second of Silver Standard’s
record for the course. Binnia Hero, who
ran up third at the turn but weakened,
was fourth, slightly ahead of Katanga,
who met with interference from Veiled
Threat in the straight,
• •••••
The last five months have evidently
done more for Veiled Threat than
Scientist. When the latter beat Veiled
Threat half a neck —he struck me as
being lucky—in the Members’ Handicap,
1£ mile, at Randwick last spring he gave
him 201 b., while on Saturday only 61b.
separated them. As Veiled Threat has
won three races, run second in one and
third in three this season, for a total of
£9Ol in prize-money, he has already
given F. Williams a satisfactory return
for the 600gns. he cost as a yearling.
Air Link outclassed a poor field in
the Granville Novice Handicap. Well
placed soon after barrier-rise, he was
third to The Cuan and Free Man run-
ning along the back, and, though squeezed
coming to the turn, he was able to come
away from the inner rail just after enter-
ing the straight, go round the horses
ahead of him, and win easily from Fox
Track, who had run up to The Cuan
in the lead approaching the bend. Indian
Emperor, who commenced slowly,
showed up in the straight, and, though
he weakened before reaching the win-
ning-post, beat Turumbol for third. The
latter was near the front throughout, and
should win a race of this class. Free
Man showed pace for a few furlongs,
but, as he is by Buoyant Bachelor from
Malvina, is not doing credit to his
beeeding.
In the first division of the Juvenile
Stakes Escutcheon disposed of any idea
that he was up to Sires’ Produce Stakes
standard. Backed down to odds-on, he
jumped off well, was prominent to the
leger, and then finished like a 100-to-l
chance, beating two of the 13 runners.
Lord Pentheus was in charge just after
turning into the straight, but failed to
run on, and a furlong from home it was
certain Congratulations would win. She
beat the second horse. Shining Night—a
Foxbridge colt in J. T. Jamieson’s stable
—two lengths, with Pandemic heading the
others. Sir Galahad was fourth, and is
worth keeping in mind. It’s Funny will
not be long in returning to form. W. T.
Kerr races Congratulations on lease, and
though I recently heard him say he would
not be among this year’s bidders for
yearlings the chestnut’s success may cause
him to change his mind.
Two’s Company was the early leader
in the second division of the Juvenile
Stakes, and then, though she ran wide
at the bend and veered further out in
the straight, experienced no difficulty in
beating Cradle Song, who had 71b. allow-
ance for an apprentice rider. Although
she was always well up, Cradle Song had
not raced since early in December, and
that probably told against her. Jesterine
was first into the straight but could not
see it out, while, on the other hand, Har-
prey came home strongly to get third.
Soho (by Brueghel) made a good show-
ing, as did Silverelda, a Silverburn filly.
Rapture finished strongly to win the
first division of the Maiden Welter. Shef-
field Shield, John Halifax and Angus, in
close company, led Rapture into the
straight, but had no chance against her
over the last furlong. Three-year-old
John Halifax was second and Angus
third, but he had to be ridden right out
to beat Sheffield Shield. Rapture, who
is by Constant Son from Amounis’s sister,
Parfait Amour, is raced by her trainer,
W. Henderson, who has her on lease
until July of next year. Casket King (by
The Buzzard) was backed, but is not yet
as good as he looks, and All Praise ran
badly.
Beauregard, a three-year-old Beau Pere
gelding, stalled off Timken after the latter
—who struck trouble early in the race —
appeared sure to beat him when he
tackled him inside the last furlong in the
second division of the Maiden Welter
and scored narrowly, the time being a
half-second slower than Rapture re-
corded. O’Raklo again displayed lots of
pace, leading into the straight, but, as
in his other races, stopped badly at the
end. Rhythmic, who was strongly sup-
ported, was a fair third, but, as he is five
years old and still a maiden, his prospects
are not bright, nor are those of Caprice,
who did not improve upon her previous
efforts. Spinalot again failed to act up
to her track form, though she did fairly
to the turn. Zue, a gelding by Air Bal-
loon from Zuleika, was prominent
throughout, finishing fourth, and will
probably win for R. Wootton.
There was a strong field for the Rydal-
mere Handicap, but Amiable, who was
backed in doubles for the Doncaster and
Sydney Cup early in the week, was
credited with being such a “good thing”
that the best laid against her was 9 to 4,
and she closed at 5 to 4. One of the first
to show out, she was fourth at the turn,
where the pacemaker, Rathlin, looked a
winner. Then John Dory (eighth into the
straight) loomed up, and, finishing bril-
liantly, won by half a neck from Rathlin,
and Overjoyed was not more than that'
further away from the latter. Calruin’s
fourth was of sufficient merit to give him
a chance in a longer race. Miss Heroic
was always in a fair position but never
quite looked a place-getter; while Teddie
Rion, after being slow off the mark, rpade
up considerable ground in the last half-
mile. Tel Asur shaped promisingly, but,
making full allowance for the fact that
John was unlucky at barrier-rise, his run-
ning did not suggest there is much to be
feared from him for a few weeks.
He looks well enough, but appears
to have lost his galloping ability.
The prices of several runners did not tend
to the idea that their connections expected
much of them.
* * * *
Procyon, purchased several weeks ago
by Victor Plumb, repaid £350 of his cost
when he beat Kanuri and Con Naru in
the Eclipse Handicap at Ascot (Vic.) on
Saturday. He was having his fourth race
in his new ownership, and, always favor-
ite. was never headed. Kanuri went with
him from the three furlongs to the turn,
but Procyon, with an advantage of 51b.
in weight, drew away when asked for an
extra effort, and won decisively. F. de
Valle, who usually rides Plumb’s horses,
has been laid up as the result of a track
accident, and Procyon was ridden on
Saturday by H. Badger. Latter had ridden
him in his wins when Procyon was owned
by W. Bamford, and understands the
gelding perfectly.
Age is treating Kanuri lightly. Now in
his eleventh year, he must be one of
the oldest sprinters in training, but,
although he did not finish with his former
dash on Saturday, he should be good for
another win or two. Con Naru should
be all the better for the race, which was
his first for about two months, and,
although Yuletide disappointed backers
who supported him from sevens down to
fours, he was not disgraced. Ridden by
little-known apprentice G. Axton, he
came from second-last to finish fourth,
and it should not be long before he re-
produces the form that enabled him to
run a good third to Caesar and Flying
Knight in the Challenge Stakes at Rand-
wick,
Haughty Stare, once a decidedly use-
ful performer, made a 10-to-l comeback
when he led throughout the Belhaven
Handicap to win easily from Air Speed
and Saki. Less than two years ago
trouble in Haughty Stare’s knees became
so pronounced that it was decided his
only chance of standing another prepara-
tion was to have him fired and turned out
for a long spell. He remained in the pad-
docks over a year, and, although the
knee trouble disappeared, his near hind
leg has filled on several occasions since
he returned to Melbourne to be trained
by J. Tie. Evidently the rain-affected
track suited him on Saturday, as he
moved freely throughout and showed no
signs of stopping in the straight. Haughty
Stare was trained originally by his owner,
R. Brown, but the latter is now in camp
at Geelong, and, although he had been
in Melbourne on week-end leave, an un-
expected call to return to his military
duties meant his missing the race.
Jockey D. Bourke apparently did not
receive the opportunities his ability war-
ranted before he departed for Ceylon,
but he has made the most of his chances
since his recent return to Melbourne. He
landed a double at Pakenham last week,
and his handling of Haughty Stare on
Saturday has brought him right under the
notice of owners and trainers. A trip
abroad often improves a jockey’s style,
and seemingly Bourke is no exception.
The art of placing a horse to the best
advantage is one of the chief attributes
of a successful trainer, and Tom Brad-
field is taking after his famous father,
Dick, in this respect. Prince Ronald, who
justified his favoritism for the first Kil-
morey Trial division, has won 12 races,
but is still eligible for events with a £lOO
“bar.” Bradfield had the choice of two
races with him on Saturday, but chose
the Trial in preference to the Grafton
Welter, which, although worth £7O more
to the winner, would have made him
ineligible for further restricted races at
Ascot. Penalised 51b. for his easy win
at Mentone three days earlier, and drawn
wide at the barrier —a disadvantage in
seven furlongs races at Ascot —Prince
Ronald made light of his 9.11. He did
not receive a good run for the first half-
mile, but forged to the front in the
straight, and won clearly from Kalbar
and Turncoat.
If only by reason of his care and
patience, Bradfield deserves the success
that has come his way with Prince
Ronald. The latter once suffered from
seedy toe, and, in an operation to pre-
vent the trouble spreading, the affected
foot had to be cut almost away. Prince
Ronald was forced to remain in his box
for almost four months, and the new foot
took approximately six months to grow.
Now he has developed into one of the
most improved second-rate sprinters in
Melbourne, and it should not be long
before he is successful in much better
company than he defeated on Saturday.
The “horses for courses” theory has
more adherents at Ascot than at any
other Melbourne track, and its soundness
was proved again by Deniker in the
second Kilmorey Trial division. Deniker
has won only three races, and each has
been at this course. Backed from sto 1
down to favoritism at 7 to 2 on Saturday,
he led all the way to win decisively from
Conflagration and Hectare, but it may
have been fortunate for his backers that
the second favorite, Curia, struck serious
interference coming to the home turn.
Curia was going particularly well at the
time, but she appeared to get on to
Deniker’s heels, and as she dropped back
another runner cannoned into her. Curia
lost several lengths, and in the circum-
stances did well to finish fourth. Boo-
kaar and Daretis, other well-backed
runners, performed considerably below
expectations.
Wheat Sheaf gave trainer Fred Hoy-
sted his tenth juvenile win of the season
when she defeated Leo James and Kuaka
in the Tankerville Handicap. Inciden-
tally, she increased her own total to three
wins from as many starts, and, judged
by the manner of her success, she might
maintain her unbeaten record at her next
appearance. Raced on lease by A. W.
Watkins, Wheat Sheaf is a nice stamp
of filly by Manitoba from Steel and Gold,
and on Saturday she not only beat but
conceded weight to several smart gal-
lopers. Always favorite, despite strong
support for Leo James and Kuaka, she
led most of the way. Kuaka went with
her for three furlongs, but it was only
on sufferance. She drew away when
Breasley let her have her head in the
straight, and won by two lengths, Leo
James just depriving Kuaka of second
money. Pierre was expected to run well,
but interference settled his chance; he
was almost down on Hi’s nose after going
about a furlong and a half. Windward,
a gelding by Spelthorne-Windbag Queen,
shaped fairly in fourth position. He was
having only his second race.
Plunges on Sydney-owned Koorenbeen
and former Sydney mare Anne went
astray in the Grafton Welter Handicap.
Koorenbeen, backed from sixes down to
equal favoritism with Pine Peak at 7 to 2,
finished third after losing his position
near the three furlongs and being forced
to go wide at the turn, but Anne, backed
from 15 to 1 down to fours, was never
dangerous. The race was won by Man-
power, a maiden performer until Satur-
day. He had been unlucky in previous
races, however, and the win was long
overdue. Starting at 10 to 1, he was well
placed from the start, ran to the front on
the turn, and was not in danger of defeat
subsequently. Somerset ran well enough
in second place to indicate that another
winning turn for him is not far distant,
but Pine Peak, rushed from last at the
end of a furlong to be in front three from
home, dropped out in the straight,
N. Bracken, who recently broke a run
of bad luck with three successive wins
on Jack Farr, received a lucky last-minute
ride on Parcem in the Carlisle Trial
Hurdle. He had been engaged again for
Jack Farr, but the latter was withdrawn,
and Bracken had no mount in view
when he entered the course. A. Driscoll,
who was to have ridden Parcem, was
unable to take the mount owing to a
schooling fall during the week, and
Bracken was substituted. Parcem lost a
lot of ground through running down
many of his jumps, and swerved almost
to the wing of the last hurdle. He had
a big lead at the time, however, and
wound up with five lengths to spare from
Gaelic, with Titian Man third. Old Red,
always favorite, jumped better than in
any of his previous races, but stopped
badly after sharing the lead with Parcem
at the half-mile.
* * * *
There have been some changes during
the past week in Doncaster and Sydney
Cup betting, but on Monday High Caste
was still a pronounced favorite for the
former. The order was:
Doncaster Handicap.
High Caste,
Ensign, Rimveil.
Overbold, Reading, Remarc.
Amiable, Mildura, Scarlet Toi, Tuhi-
tarata.
Feminist, Evergreen, Historian, Night-
beam.
Sydney Cup.
Pandect, Feminist.
Katanga, Veiled Threat.
Mosaic, Scientist, Velocity, Remarc,
Dashing Cavalier, Lucrative.
* * * *
Of the Doncaster Handicap candidates
that ran at Rosehill nothing did belter
than Overbold. Glorious beat him m
the Westmead Handicap, but, in addi-
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap ; Evergreen, 1 ; Emerge, 2;
Serenade, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Dick Whit-
tington, 1 ; Prince, 2 ; Two’s Com-
pany, 3.
Rawson Stakes: High Caste, 1 ;
Beau Vite, 2 ; Gold Salute, 3.
Railway Handicap: Delmestor,
1 ; Breeze, 2 ; Ensign, 3.
Autumn Handicap: Tidal Wave,
1 ; Scientist, 2 ; Cooranga, 3.
Parramatta Mile: Bramol, 1 ;
Knight Folly, 2; Burhan Ali or
Nightbeam, 3.


Sell Your Revolver or Automatic Pistol
for Cash! The MELBOURNE SPORTS
DEPOT will pay good prices. Colt, Browning
and Webley Models specially required. Cart-
ridges and Ammunition also purchased.
We will pay freight if you will arrange to send
yours to the M.S.D., 55 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, for inspection.
tion to giving her 231 b., luck was against
him at barrier-rise. Another thing is that
the drop from 8.11 to 7.13 is likely to be
greatly in his favor, notwithstanding he
will meet stronger company. He is com-
pactly built, but still gives the idea that
a lighter scale than that of Saturday will
be to his liking. Among those he beat
he will meet Rimveil 41b. better, and
though improvement in the latter is prob-
able he will have difficulty in turning the
tables on Overbold.
The Liverpool Handicap, however, may
give a better idea as to Overbold’s pros-
pects than last week’s run. He will strike
a field of practically Doncaster class,
and, to mention a few, if he succeeds in
beating Delmestor, Ensign, Tuhitarata,
Mildura and Amiable he is bound to
touch a comparatively short price for the
Doncaster. He has won at seven fur-
longs at Randwick, and a mile should
not be beyond him. Among those I have
mentioned as likely to oppose him in the
Liverpool Handicap Delmestor showed a
return to form at Ascot last week, and,
in addition to winning a Carrington
Stakes with 8.13, she ran third in an
Epsom with 8.7.
* * * *
Amiable surprised everybody by her
poor showing in the Rydafmere Mile.
When she jumped away well it is prob-
able her owner-trainer thought the race
as good as won, but though for a few
furlongs she displayed some of her pace
of a year ago she was beaten so far
from home that it is now difficult to
write at all favorably concerning her
Doncaster chance. During the next fort-
night she may prove that her Rosehill
running was incorrect, but she is rising
seven, and that is an age at which few
first-class mares reproduce their best
form. Amiable may be an exception,
but at present those backers who last
week made her the first leg of some sub-
stantial Doncaster and Cup doubles have
no cause to flatter themselves. Amiable’s
9.3 in the Rydalmere Mile represented
8.10 at a 6.7 minimum, and nothing that
opposed her in that race would be
selected as a likely winner of the Don-
caster, in which she has 8.7. John Dory
and Rathlin are in the Randwick Mile,
but very few would be at all keen on
backing them for that despite their first
and second respectively in the Rydalmere
Mile.
* * * «
Veilmond ran third in a Sydney Cup,
and present indications are that he will
be well represented in that race by his
son Veiled Threat, whose win in the
Club Handicap at Rosehill was impres-
sive. He hung in after entering the
straight, having to be checked, and it
was not until the last couple of strides
that he got his head in front of Scientist.
In a fast-run race he did his good work
in the last half-mile. He will be meet-
ing Scientist a pound worse, but that
does not amount to anything, and, as
compared with Katanga, will be 31b.
better off. On Saturday Katanga may
have been scarcely as forward in con-
dition as Veiled Threat, but as the latter
also appears to be improving with racing
he may again be too good for Katanga
when they meet over the longer distance.
The chances are that both will run in
the Warwick Farm Autumn Cup next
week, and on Sydney Cup terms. Katanga
can get a mile and a half, and if he does
not beat Veiled Threat in the Warwick
Farm Cup the odds are against his doing
so at two miles. Katanga is assured of
a first-class rider in the Sydney Cup,
McMenamin having accepted the mount,
but at 7.2 it may not be easy to get a
good one for Veiled Threat. Parsons,
who rode him on Saturday, cannot get
down to that weight by a few pounds.
Perhaps Veiled Threat’s owner may look
to Melbourne for a jockey.
Scientist is in the St. Leger, as well
as the Warwick Farm Cup, Autumn
Cup and Sydney Cup. Whether he runs
in the St. Leger may depend upon how
he acquits himself in the Warwick Farm
race. If he does not make a good bid
for that it might not be good policy for
him to take on Tranquil Star, Pandect,
Lucrative and Tidal Wave in the St.
Leger. Such a tough race to commence
with might not do him any good over
the remainder of the meeting. Veiled
Threat’s owner does not aspire to w.f.a.
honors, but Scientist is in the Cumber-
land Plate and A.J.C. Plate.
* * * *
J. T. Jamieson disclaims all knowledge
of the possibility of High Caste being
sent to the United States. “All hooey,”
was his summing-up in replying to my
inquiry as to whether there was anything
in the rumor. The fact of quarantine
regulations preventing him coming
straight back to Australia would be one
bar to such a trip, and there are so few
w.f.a. events in America that practically
all High Caste’s racing would have to be
done in handicaps. He would get plenty
of weight. At one time American handi-
cappers rarely went beyond 9.0, but in
the Widener of $50,000, run at Hialeah
Park (Miami) at the commencement of
this month, Challedon had 9.6. While
valuable w.f.a. races can be won in Aus-
tralia there is no likelihood of High Caste
going to America unless a buyer is pre-
pared to give something approaching
Beau Pere’s alleged price of £31,000,
* * *
Beaulivre, who will not be racing in
Sydney this autumn owing to soreness in
the joint of his off foreleg making a rest
advisable, has not been sent away for a
spell. He is still at G. Price’s stable, and
will remain there, the present intention
being to prepare him for winter racing in
Brisbane.
* * * *
A little while ago the Victorian Trainers’
Association asked the V.R.C. committee
to alter the rule which debarred geldings
from running in classic races. The reply
was in the negative. It would, however,
be difficult to show that anything has
been gained in the improvement of Aus-
tralian blood stock by geldings being shut
out of classic races. In the main it has
merely tended to an increase in the
number of indifferent stallions.
* * * *
Before Christmas the Australian Jockey
Club sent 1000 hampers to our troops
abroad. They were appreciated, as shown
by the many letters reaching the office
from men who say they did not expect
to have such a good Christmas.
* * * *
So far this season 22 two-year-old races
have been run at Randwick, and no stal-
lion is outstanding in the number of
winners. Double Remove is the only
sire represented by more than one —All
Love, Cradle Song and Awake. In prize-
money Yaralla, with three wins, has
placed The Buzzard first on the list, and
he is followed by Double Remove.
Omitting minor-place money, the order
of winners is as follows, their sires being
in parenthesis:
Yaralla (The Buzzard), three wins .. £2695
All Love (Double Remove), one win .. 1000
Skerries (Caithness), three wins .. .. 990
Kingsdale (Andrea), two wins .. .. 575
Astrid (Brueghel), two wins .. .. 485
Awake (Double Remove), one win .. 380
Papilion (El Cacique), one win .. .. 380
Mannerheim (Corban), one win .. .. 380
Beau Port (Beau Pere), one win .. .. 295
Henchman (Harinero), one win .. .. 295
It’s Funny (Constant Son), one win .. 260
Linemond (Veilmond), one win .. .. 260
Prince (Cheveley Lad), one win .. .. 260
Cradle Song (Double Remove), one win 225
Gold Strand (Portofino), one win .. 190
Red Wendy (Peter Pan), one win .. 155
Skerries’s second in the December Stakes
carried £250, so that his full earnings at
Randwick are £1240. He cost 575gns.
as a yearling, Yaralla 1200gns., All Love
250gns. and Beau Port 2200gns.
< « * «
If track work could always be taken
as a fair criterion, Beau Vite should prove
even better than when here in the spring.
Shortly after his arrival he was a trifle
cramped in his action, but now he is
striding out in a fashion that must be
pleasing to F. McGrath. One thing cer-
tain is that he will not be far from his
best at Rosehill on Saturday next, which
means that though High Caste will be
favored by the nine furlongs he will have
to run one of his soundest races to win
the Rawson Stakes.
* * * *
Some trainers are not at all pleased
with the twisting and twirling tactics
adopted by a few prominent jockeys at
the starting barrier in order to gain an
advantage. “They seem to have an idea
that it is a moving start for them and a
standing start for the other riders,” was
the comment of one trainer. “It is time
the principal offenders were taught that
their mounts are expected to line up with
the others. A moving start for every-
body might be the fairer method.” An-
other trainer countered with the com-
ment: “Many jockeys are little better
than blocks of wood on a horse at the
barrier, and you can’t expect the live
ones to suffer for them.” Still, it might
be better if the “pointers” who make
themselves conspicuous were kept under
control. .
* * * *
Melbourne entries for the minor open
handicaps at the A.J.C. autumn meeting
are fair, but there are few southern
acceptors for the important two-year-old
races. Lucrative, Pandect, Zonda,
Remarc and Velocity are w.f.a. entrants,
but Sydney opposition will be strong.
Last autumn Melbourne scored five wins,
the successful horses being Maikai
(Autumn Plate and Cumberland Plate),
Lucrative (fires’ Produce Stakes) and
Ajax (All- Aged Plate and C. W. Cropper
Plate). The odds are against any of the
first-mentioned four races going south,
and, apart from the St. Leger, perhaps the
Doncaster or Sydney Cup is more likely
to give an important win to one of the
Melbourne-trained division. Queensland
two-year-olds Triad and Mannerheim are
in various races, and as they are smart
gallopers they may pay expenses, though
in the Easter Plate, Sires’ Produce Stakes
and Champagne Stakes Triad will find
All Love and Astrid tough opponents,
and Yaralla is among those Mannerheim
(who is not in the Sires’ Produce Stakes)
will have to beat in the Champagne
Stakes.
* * * *
Something new in the way of strikes
took place at Santa Anita last month.
To commemorate Seabiscuit’s win in last
year’s Santa Anita Handicap the Santa
Anita management had a life-sized bronze
statue made of him, and, as part of the
show, Seabiscuit was brought along on
the day it was unveiled on the course.
After the usual long speeches associated
with this sort of thing in America, and
a poem being read in Seabiscuit’s honor,
racegoers turned to business.
The bugle called for the horses to go
on the track for the first race, but after
a wait of 50 minutes none appeared.
Then it was announced that the day's
racing was off, a quarrel among the
stable lads a few nights earlier having
precipitated a strike of stable em-
ployees on the ground. In America
horses are stabled on the courses through-
out a meeting, and most of the stable-
hands live on the tracks. Protesting
against the discharge of one of their
colleagues after a knife fight at the track
a few nights earlier nearly 400 stable-
hands —some papers got the number up
to over 1000 —had called a strike during
the Seabiscuit unveiling, and refused to
lead the horses to the saddling-paddock.
The following day the discharged man
was reinstated, and racing went on again
at Santa Anita. “Time” says that the
striking stable-hands also demanded: (1)
That they be allowed to keep their admis-
sion badges although discharged by a
stable-owner; (2) that they receive
$lO for each winning horse they
handled ; (3) and that they be permitted
to watch the races from the grandstand.
* * * *
Melbourne papers are doubtful as to
who will ride Velocity if he runs in the
Sydney Cup. Purtell was on him when
he dead-heated Tidal Wave for third in
the Australian Cup, and also when he
subsequently won the St. Kilda Handi-
cap. It is said that whether Purtell rides
Velocity may, in some measure, depend
upon whether Remarc is a Cup runner,
and the way the latter shapes before then
may have bearing on that. Remarc’s
first Sydney engagements are at the
Warwick Farm meeting on April 5.
Purtell won the V.R.C. Final Handicap
and Williamstown Cup on Remarc.
* * * *
As usual, many horses were left in
the A.I.C. St. Leger last week through
oversight, but there is a possibility of
six or seven runners, against last year’s
three. Double figures have been reached
twice in the race —14 when The Pitsford
won in 1866, and 10 when Lady Valais
was successful in 1924, The latter was
not only the last filly to win the race,
but still* holds the record with 2.59 J-.
Reading won in 3min, last year. Frances
Tressady ran second to Lady Valais, and
since then other fillies in Jocelyn and
Carry On have been similarly, placed.
* * * *
Trainer H. Edwards was the lucky man
at the Calcutta meeting on January 25.
His horse Metat won the opening flat
race of the day, and in the customary
treble Edwards took him with a horse
that dead-heated for the second race and
the winner of the third. He received just
over £l9OO, one of the dead-heaters not
having a single supporter in the treble.
M.Q. and Rafferty
At the moment the Noble Art seems
to be taking on a fresh lease of life in
Australia, owing to several causes. One
is the closing of the so-called “wrestling”
season; probably no other single cause
has been so damaging to boxing in
Australia as this crude stuff has been.
Another reason has been the retirement
of Richards, throwing three Australian
titles into the arena for the up-and-
coming lads to strive after. Hitherto
the welter title has been for a year or
so in dispute, which makes four titles at
the moment open for discussion. Then,
the Victorian Billy Rainsbury made such
a close thing of trying to wrest the fedder
title from Mickey Miller that those who
thought he had succeeded wanted to burn
the place down, so that seems a bit open.
Further, the flyweight title was the other
night lifted from Jack Deakin by AI
Woods, and there are other contenders
besides Jack himself who think they can
collect it. The lightweight title continues
to proclaim the extraordinary fighting
quality and stamina of Tod Morgan, but
even Tod can’t be expected to last for
ever,
A likely contender for that last-named
title looms up in the southpaw person of
Vic Patrick. They brought Harry Sum-
mers to Sydney from Victoria last week
to try Vic out. A clever boxer like Harry
might have done that service, too, if he’d
been able to survive Vic’s weighty
battery. As it was, Harry was out in
the first round to a left-hand body punch.
Vic is uncommonly attractive to watch
for a southpaw. He doesn’t rake the
for’ard air with his right as the kind
usually do. He stands unusually square,
and can hit, and hit mighty hard, with
either hand without shifting his stance.
As a hitter he can carry a pretty stout
forearm-and-tist defence in along with
his blow.
One Sydney result of the improved
state of the Noble Art is a tourney being
run at the Arena on Surry Hills, where
normally they push grids around the
saucer-track. There were two nights of
stoush there last week, with two more
billed for last night and Friday. The
aim is to find State or other champs,
and it’s open to all-comers; even Adolf
can enter if he likes —in fact, he’d be
welcome,
* * * *
Another Victorian, Kid Young, hailing
from Geelong, had a win over Mickey
Miller at West Melbourne at the week-
end. Young was momentarily down
in the first round, but fought the rest
of the 12 rounds out strongly, finishing
extra well to take it on points. Young,
a hard-hitting, rousing fighter, is to meet
Rainsbury to decide which of them will
have a go at taking the fedder title
from Mickey,
* sH * *
Joe Louis has once more fought “the
hardest match of his career,” this time in
slugging out the monumental contender
for the world heavyweight title Abe
Simon. Abe tipped the beam at 18.2
against Louis’s 14.6, at which weights,
provided the opposition was in nick and
could fight at all, the sheer physical
effort of wearing down the bulk of
brawn would be considerable. Louis
took 13 rounds to do that job, and ended
up with his phiz fairly damaged by
Simon’s left. At the end Simon was
wandering aimlessly round the ring in a
daze.
Jack Johnson wants to celebrate his
64th birthday next Monday by going
three rounds with Joe Louis. He reckons
he could do it comfortably and collect
a points verdict. Both Bob Fitzsimmons
and Sam Langford, he says, could have
beaten Joe. Jack’s recipe for that job:
“You have to keep moving on Louis.
You have to be outside his left hand.
Every time Louis throws a left hook he’s
off balance. He never picks punches out
of the air. He blocks with his chin.”
The old boy holds Jeffries to have been
“the best champ,” largely by virtue of
a beautiful left hook, and Jim Corbett
to have been “the cleverest boxer that
ever lived.”
Miscellaneous.
Ferrier has turned professional in the
U.S.A., and will remain in that country
for an indefinite period. He has been
appointed pro. to the Elmshurst Country
Club, Chicago, owned by Fred Snite, a
rich manufacturer, and father of the
young man known as “the iron lung
patient”; and is meanwhile competing
in professional tournaments. It should
be said that before the Manly youth left
Australia he furnished convincing
evidence that he would not be accepted
for any form of active service.
4s * * *
A cold westerly failed to stop the rush
to Sydney’s Bondi beach for the State
surf life-saving championships, which
turned out to be a sort of victory parade
for Newcastle man R. Newbiggin and a
big detachment of American sailors.
Newbiggin, twice junior and twice senior
champion, collected the senior surf race
and senior surf belt. A crowd of 12,000
paid £628 to watch the show, and if the
enclosure had been half as big again it
would still have been full.
Twenty-six teams made the march past
a spectacular thing, and young Dean
(Manly) won a couple of junior races in
a style that presaged future good per-
formances. North Bondi took the city
palm and Port Macquarie the country
in the march past.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
All Types of Luggage Stocked.
£ ' :
mm
m
m
m
OVERNIGHT BAGS
Calf Leathers, Outside Pockets.
Price;
Military Toilet Sets from 42/-
C. E. KITCHING
PTY.,
LTD.
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
Personal and Missing Friend.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of
Franz Zakschewski, last heard of in Boulder
City, Western Australia, in 1914, or of any
wife or child of his or details of his death
or the existence of any will of his, communi-
cate with GENDERS, WILSON & PELLEW,
Selborne Chambers, Pirie Street, Adelaide?
TUNSTALL-BARNES. —Selina Tunstall mar-
ried Arthur Charles John Barnes in Victoria,
1886. Their descendants or relatives (advan-
tage) write MR. TELFER, 16 Pirie Street, Adel-
aide, immediately.
DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, under-
stand that all such fatal diseases as
Fistula, Ulcer of the Rectum, Fis-
sure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will
learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance
of this trouble. DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is unequalled for every form
of Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Pro-
truding, and Blind Piles, and hun-
dreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective
remedy right from the start, be-
cause at such times a single tin
has often effected a cure, while in
the old deep-seated, chronic cases,
several tins are sometimes neces-
sary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing,
antiseptic and soothing. That is
why it is equally successful in over-
coming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get
DOAN’S.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Alarm clocks in Sydney were all on
the job last Thursday dawning. Out of
the blue the day before had come word
that two cruisers and five destroyers of
the American Navy were on their way
to visit us. They were to be outside the
Heads around daybreak. The Premier’s
Department, the Department of Informa-
tion, the Town Hall all nearly boiled over
with the excitement of preparation.
Everyone concerned was determined
that the occasion was to be the excelsior
in welcomes. And it was. Everything
but the weather smiled on the visitors.
And even the weather relented for a
great part of the American sailors’ march
through the city.
Thousands of people, of course, had
not waited till procession time to pay
tribute to the Stars and Stripes. They
were down at South Head, they lined the
foreshores, they went down the water-
ways in launches and every kind of small
craft to cheer the squadron through the
Heads. The cruisers Chicago and Port-
land made magnificent entry. Their
progress had all the dignity of power.
Through the grey morning, through the
curtains of rain they brought us greetings
from our American neighbors—typifying
as they came serenely on through the
murk that these were indeed our “foul-
weather friends.” The five destroyers, the
tail to the comet, followed the bigger
ships ; and to the thunder of guns, the
sirens of ferries, the whistles of small
craft they tucked themselves into Wool-
loomooloo.
By ten o’clock the city streets were
crowded; by eleven the route of the
march was a tight jam ; by noon a borer
couldn’t have wormed itself through the
human mass opposite the Town Hall.
People fainted and had to be carried out
above the heads of the crowd. The dais
at the foot of the Town Hall steps flew
the Union Jack, the stars of Australia,
the stars and stripes of America. Into
George-street from Martin-place paced the
Mounted Police. That was the signal. The
intermittent sprinkle of confetti became
a regular snowstorm. Streamers fluttered
in a sort of mad Maypole dance. The
street shook and rang with cheers. Here
came Young America who served the
sea. These lads are on leaner lines than
our men, and their teeth flash white and
strong.
It should be made clear that all the
cheering wasn’t for the men. The Admiral
came in for part of it. Lord Gowrie
took the salute at the Town Hall. About
him were our own Army, Navy and Air
Force chiefs. Mayor Stanley Crick was
there, too. Lady Gowrie had come hold-
ing a small silk American flag. Lady
Wakehurst carried a small one of Aus-
tralia. Mrs. Menzies, Mayoress Crick
and Mrs. Muirhead-Gould were noted.
Mrs. George Parkes arrived with a large
American flag which she draped on the
balcony. A small girl paid the visitors
the compliment of dressing as Miss
America. Her skirt was in red and white
stripes. Her blue bodice was bestarred.
She gravely walked past the saluting base
beside a unit.
It was a grand day. At eleven o’clock
at night good-natured gobs or Macs, or
call them what they will, were still giving
their autographs to clusters of girls. And
at a tram stop a girl was saying blithely
to another girl and two American sailors,
And I’m not going to work tomorrow,
either! ”
Very plush was the party at the Australia
given by Charge d’Affaires John Minter
and his wife, Commander Lewis D. Causey
and Acting U.S.A. Consul-General Doyle
and Mrs. Doyle. Hundreds came to it.
All the gold-dust names that you had
heard of yore you heard again all
around you. Also came a large section
of Uncle Sam in the persons of hand-
some officers, mostly young, and a few
around the distinguished 40 mark. They
have a way with them, are friendly
disposed and the younger ones address
the ladies as Ma’am, U.S.A. Naval
Attache Commander Causey and the well-
known Albert Doyle couple helped to
receive guests. Mrs. Minter had jour-
neyed from Canberra to do her bit.
Several of the American officers had
been in Sydney before. One of them was
Commander Bowman, who was here in
the Milwaukee to help make centenary
whoopee.
The wife of Priminister Menzies was
one of the smartest. Mrs. Muirhead-
Gould, who came with her Commander,
was one of the much-greeted. Billy
Hughes and his Dame Mary were there.
Mrs. Wilson Flake, wife of the Ameri-
can Consul, Mrs. Alexis Albert, the Con-
sul for Greece and Mrs. Vrisakis, the
Bertie Kellys, the Consular importants of
many countries, Chief Justice Jordan’s
lady, knight Tom Gordon, his wife and
daughters were among the many ; so were
the Minister for Air McEwens and the
Minister for the Army Spenders.
Dorothy D’Om, just returned to Aus-
tralia from travel and study in Europe and
America, is to give a recital on March
26 at the Conservatorium. She will sing
lovely old English songs, such as “My
Mother Bids Me Bind My Hair,” a group
of Mozart and, lastly, some modern
songs. Dorothy, who studied at the
Melbourne Con., had very good notices
from the American press when she made
her New York appearance in the Car-
negie Hall. At the Sydney concert
Dagmar Roberts will be the assisting
artist. Douglas Todd will be the accom-
panist. The Lady Gowrie Red Cross
Fund will benefit. Norton Trevaire
photograph.
Here’s a letter from Rosa Ward, who
toured Australia with the English hockey
team, before the word Blitz had become
part of our everyday vocabulary. She is
thanking Tory Wicks, a Sydney hockey
girl, for a Christmas parcel:
Our ration has been quite adequate,
but it leaves little margin for hospitality.
I am keeping your gifts for more difficult
times should they come, or to celebrate
with when we can safely relax.
But in between that and the next part
of the letter came news of Manchester
being bombed,
I had to get to work to send off a team
of Guiders to Manchester, complete with
cooking utensils, a stove, a supply of food.
Two of the tins of food you had sent were
included in the emergency supplies. Eggs
have been scarce lately. Onions, too, are
none too plentiful, and very expensive.
Recently “Punch” had a picture of a nurse
telling her small charges a fairy story:
“Once upon a time there was a princess
who lived in a garden full of rows and
rows and rows of Lovely 0ni0n5!....”
Scots College is gathering the High-
landers and the Lowlanders for its
Tartan Fair. Aim is £6OOO for a Spit-
fire “A Tartan Fair to check the
Fiihrer.” The fair will be held in the
college grounds,
Here’s another instance of how this
old Empire hangs together. Last week
among metal handed in to help the war
effort was a cup dated 1887. It was won
in a skating contest held in the Sydney
Exhibition Building in aid of the Indian
Famine Relief Fund. Even 54 years ago
Sydney citizens dented the bank roll for
the benefit of England’s far-flung family.
The cup was won by G. M. Alexander
for the half-mile race. Lasseter and Co.
presented the gaud.
The British Empire Union in London
writes to the French-Australian League
in Sydney: “We have just received the
first two bales of clothing for the French
refugees and British people in need
which have been sent by the French-
Australian League of Help. We shall
be pleased to arrange for these goods to
be distributed to French refugees and,
as you so kindly said, to British children.
As you are doubtless aware by now, many
children in the East End of London are
very much in need of any comforts they
can get owing to the brutal enemy bomb-
ing of recent weeks.”
Janet Lind, who was known to the
Australian stage as Reita Nugent, has
returned and will be heard over national
stations, starring in radio revues. The
actress has passed 11 years in England,
Europe and America. In that time she
has met and acted with many great stars
of radio and theatre. Janet acted in
“Gay Divorcee” with Fred Astaire and
with the almost legendary Mistinguet,
who was so bright a constellation at the
Moulin Rouge. The Australian girl
played in Berlin with the great French
actress in a revue called “The Train to
the West.” Janet has her friends in the
studios and theatres of Hollywood, Lon-
don, New York and Paris, and can talk
interestingly about them all.
Friday was just another day with the
Fleet. The big afternoon celebration was
the five o’clock onwards staged by the
Australian Navy. Commodore Muir-
head-Gould and Mrs. Gould, with the
wife of Admiral Grace, received the
guests, who were numerous, natty and
blithely noisy. Anyone walking into the
party at half-past five felt as if a blizzard
of sound had shattered the eardrums. A
little later the newcomer’s voice was
raised as high as anybody else’s. The
Navy was everywhere. Visitors around
about the forties show a preference for
fruit and tomato juice. On reckoning up,
the fact emerged that they must have
grown up during the great American
drought, and the habits of their youth
stick.
Rear-Admiral Newton was on deck
again, and others who had been at the
Empire Society’s lunch still spoke of his
stirring address. Mrs. John Minter was
with her husband. Mrs. Alexis Albert’s
hat was among those admired. It
was of black lace, and was worn with
a soft white frock. Everybody liked the
bright blues of Mrs. Albert Doyle’s
choice. Sydney women have such an
addiction to black that big gatherings are
apt to get a sombre look. However, the
wife of the Consul-in-charge had even
an added sparkle in the tiny jewelled
American flag she wore on her coat.
Dame Mary Hughes, Mrs. C. J. Pope and
the Jordan lady were others glimpsed
among the hundreds.
The Rex Bennetts were still being con-
gratulated on the success of the Victoria
Barracks affair the day before. Knight
Mark Sheldon and his lady were there
talking to the Malcolm MacCormicks.
The Frank Alberts were in the throng.
Lord Mayor Crick and his Mayoress
were talking to Commander Allsopp and
his wife. Mrs. Bertie Lloyd and her
Major-General turned up again as smile-
ful as ever.
On Friday night both Government
House and Admiralty House sounded the
dinner gong in celebration of the fleet
festivities. Admiralty House glittered
above Kirribilli Point like some Aladdin’s
palace. Rear-Admiral John H. Newton
and a group of his officers, U.S.A. Lega-
tion importants, Acting Prime Minister
Fadden, the Ministers for the Army,
the Navy, the Air and External Affairs
attended this dinner and the reception
which followed. Dorothy D’Orn, who
sang for the guests, hadn’t to travel far,
for she lives close by Admiralty House.
John Hannell played her accompani-
ments. The dinner was a man’s affair,
but the reception was a Noah’s Ark.
Lady Cowrie’s frock was in rich mul-
berry tones.
State Government House’s Fleet Week
dinner was small and mannish. The re-
ception which followed was also of a
restricted nature. The guest list here
included State Cabinet Ministers and
their wives, United States Consulate offi-
cials and members of the Judiciary, plus
wives. There were, of course, officers of
the visiting navy, too. After dinner
“Forty Thousand Horsemen” flashed into
the ballroom —on the screen. Lady
Wakehurst was in gold lame.
Good-looking Viva Potts and Leslie
Tabrett, formerly of Fiji and Samoa,
chose a novel party to surround the an-
nouncement of their engagement last
Sunday. It started as an afternoon
affair, and went on through supper-time
into the evening. The party was in cele-
bration of Mrs. C. V. Potts’s birthday,
and daughter’s engagement and mother's
birthday were a signal for family friends
to rally in numbers to the Vaucluse
home. Viva’s father, C. V. Potts, is the
manager of B.H.P.’s Sydney office. Leslie
is the youngest son of the Tabretts,
of Coogee.
More than 700 of Sydney’s well-
knowns went to the afternoon farewell
set by Admiral Newton in his gleaming
flagship. Pearly-grey it towered above
the wharf at Woolloomooloo. Near by
to the wharf entrance crowds of gazers
had gathered to glimpse the Admiral’s
guests. On the wharf young, upstanding
marines very politely asked to see cards
of invitation ; and up at the top of the
gangway the Admiral turned on the full
voltage of his smile with his handshake.
There were no savories or cocktails at
this do. All U.S.A. Navy ships are “dry,”
but there were delicious cookies, deli-
cately brown and almost as flat as the
palm of your hand, served with the coffee,
fruit punch and orange juice. There
were also ices made in the ship’s galley.
They were super and flavored with
passionfruit. A practical touch was the
serving of drinks (when the glasses proved
numerically weak) in paper containers.
The Admiral, 59, and looking younger,
proved himself a mighty fisher of men.
Everybody who received an invitation,
unless prevented by official duties, turned
up, eager-eyed. The Governor-General’s
lady came. Her smile really is a winner.
Her navy suit was just right for a war-
ship on a windy day. The State Gover-
nor came. The vice-regals, Acting-P.M.
Fadden, Priminister Menzies’s wife, the
Rear-Admiral Grace couple. Commodore
Muirhead-Gould and his wife, the Ameri-
can Consular Albert Doyles and the
Mayoral Cricks drank tea with Admiral
Newton in his quarters. Others were
W. M. Hughes and his Dame Mary, the
Charley Lloyd Jones couple, her short
silver-fox coat very glossy, the Norman
McLeods, the Clement Chapmans and
Air Force and military grandees. There
was dancing in a coin spot of the deck,
there was a band, there were “God Save
the King” and “The Star Spangled Ban-
ner” ; there was a kind of subconscious
feeling that Franklin Roosevelt and Win-
ston Churchill, each in his own sphere,
would approve. Charge d’Affaires John
Minter has a grand smile. All Ameri-
cans have it—maybe it’s to show their
fine teeth.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce.)
TO ETHEL VERA DALY last heard of at
Queanbeyan Australian Capital Territory
and formerly of Hobart in Tasmania Mar-
ried Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to you
to appear and answer the charge in the petition
of THOMAS PATRICK DALY of Butler’s
Gorge in Tasmania praying for a dissolution of
his marriage with you on the ground of deser-
tion In default of your so appearing you
will not be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said petition
proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereto AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid an appearance
must be entered at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street* Hobart
on or before the 25th day of April 1941.
By the Court,
(1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Principal Registrar.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 207 of 1941.
BETWEEN NELLIE ALLAN Petitioner and
ALFRED ERIC ALLAN Respondent.
TO ALFRED ERIC ALLAN late of Gymea
Bay.
TAKE NOTICE that the said NELLIE
ALLAN has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Eighteenth day of June
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
OSBORNE M. ALLEN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NESV
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 144 of 1941.
BETWEEN CHARLES SKLAVOS Petitioner
and
MARION RUTH ELLEN SKLAVOS Re-
pondent.
TO the said MARION RUTH ELLEN
SKLAVOS.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CHARLES
SKLAVOS has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-
seventh day of May One thousand nine hun-
dred and forty-one and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit will be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of March,- 1941.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALLEN, CLEMENS & LAURENCE, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner, 39 Martin Place, Syd-
ney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2243 of 1940.
BETWEEN ENID WINIFRED SAYER Peti-
tioner and
GEORGE SAYER Respondent.
TO GEORGE SAYER late of Potts Point
near Sydney in the State of New South
Wales Carpenter.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ENID WINI-
FRED SAYER has commenced a suit against
ou in this Court and has applied for a dissolu-
on of marriage upon the grounds of your
esertion of her for three years without just
ause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
ou are required to enter an appearance to
re said citation at the proper office of this
iourt on or before the Nineteenth day of
une One thousand nine hundred and Forty-
ne and in the event of your not doing so
dthin the time limited or obtaining further
ime the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
e heard and determined your absence notwith-
tanding. A copy of the petition filed herein
nay be had on application to the under-
igned free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of March, 1941.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
R. C. LEAHY, Solicitor for Petitioner, 39
dartin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 307 of 1941.
BETWEEN GERTRUDE LOUISE HUM-
PHREYS Petitioner and
RONALD THOMAS HUMPHREYS Respon-
dent.
TO RONALD THOMAS HUMPHREYS late
of Newtown in the State of New South
Wales and of Brisbane in the State of
Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GERTRUDE
LOUISE HUMPHREYS has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Seventeenth day of July
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of March, 1941.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chalter
For the dance at the Palms in aid of
the Airmen’s Recreation Rooms at 5
Albany-road some 500 people squeezed
into space moderately comfortable for
half the number, and stayed the distance
till the smalt a.ms. Canoe rides had
been planned upon the Yarra but every-
one was quite satisfied with dry land —
earlier in the day it looked as if the river
banks, the Palms and all, would be
washed into Port Philljp. Financially the
dance was such a success that the air-
men’s mess is on velvet; there’ll probably
be quite a slice of money over for other
R.A.A.F. activities. Running a wheel
successfully throughout the evening were
Mrs. S. Kaye and Maisie Curtis, in-
defatigable as ever in dove-grey chiffon
and fur cape to keep out the wintry
breezes. Assistance thereabouts was also
forthcoming from Mrs. John Barclay in
black. Mrs. Alan Robinson’s figured
moire gown had a yoke attachment of
parchment net. A new idea in operation
was an auction sale of legs. The half-
dozen candidates were in hiding but for
their twinkly shoes and length of finest
stockings. Pairs of shapely calves to
match 11 stone or so were the most
popular entries.
Wet, cold and dismal was the weather’s
issue for Friday’s street carnival in aid
of the Queen competition. Stallholders
picked up their traps and moved under
adjoining awnings, coming out again like
rabbits from burrows when the rain
stopped. Spruikers with “oomph” plus
moderately dry positions for their wheels
got the crowds and held them. Each
queen had her issue of stalls at various
key points of the town. “I see you’re
picking pockets,” said one cop to a pal off
duty and doing a job for the Queen of
the Essential Services. Near by was an
effigy of Hitler, conceived in the mind
of the town’s inventor of Heath Robin-
son monstrosities, Albert Williams. This
particular version of the Fiihrer spouted
tears when money was thrown into a war
fund collecting box.
Last year the Legacy Club made a
magnanimous gesture and handed over
half the proceeds of its annual ball to
the A.C.F., but this year commitments
are greater than ever and the club has
need of £4OOO for its 1941 programme.
It has over 100 new members on its
rolls, children of the Second A.I.F. —a
little group of youngsters that is only a
beginning. The big-hearted Legacy men
can’t imagine in their wildest dreams
where their new adopted family will end.
The first meeting about the ball hap-
pened in the Town Hall Council Cham-
ber. Lady Colvin was elected president
in absentia, Colin Fraser’s lady deputising
for her. By general consent W. V. Scott
was elected hon. ball organiser and was
instructed to go to it, as he’s done in
other years, and make a success of the
party. A short address on ways and
means was given by club president
Stanley Parkes. Rex Hall, handsome
as always, was at the meeting giving
moral support to Legacy brethren. As
soon as things got under way the Lady
Mayoress quietly made excuses and
slipped off to another meeting. Lord
Mayor Beaurepaire sent along a billet-
doux to the effect that he’d be treasurer
if the committee felt like having him.
The motion was carried unanimously.
Eric Brendon was elected hon. sec. and
Mrs. Robert Latreille and Mrs. Stewart
Brett hon. ticket secs. Tickets will be
12s. 6d. each. The dance is to be at the
Palais on May 15.
Never before within memory has there
ever been such a packed gallery at a
charity matinee as there was last week
when Gladys Moncrieff did the trick
for the gala afternoon in aid of the
Queen of the Retailers. The Moncrieff’s
public swarmed up into the gods, and
the rest of His Majesty’s passed muster
as a very good house. Queen of the
effort Mabel Titus was present in un-
sullied white from top to toes, a fair-
weather contrast to the rain-soaked world
outside.
It was Gladys who got the crowd
but Charles Norman who kept things
on the move. Apart from his filling
in scenes from “Rio Rita” he was
M.C. in between times, cracking a joke
when just a joke was needed, playing
around with a silver fox fur (Dutch-
auctioned) and always half a leap ahead
when things might have gone flat. On
the programme were excerpts from “Rio
Rita” with its present cast. Other per-
formers included Raymond Lambert, the
Tivoli’s Ace of Hoops, Howard Nicholls,
and small-size hillbilly Graham Wicker.
Gladys Moncrieff did some old favorites
from “Maid of the Mountains” and as
a soulful wind-up “Danny Boy” with
chorus and dim lights.
The Retailers’ Women’s Committee
was there in full force. Jo Briggs, R. L.
Steyne and more of the male element also
took an afternoon off. Miss Titus’s bevy
of mannequins, who will be her attend-
ants on the 29th, sold programmes,
flowers, etc. The flower stall, stocked
from Mrs. E. A. Machin’s garden at
Mt. Eliza and Mrs. George Coles’s piece
of mountainside at Macedon, took up a
large area of foyer. Others in garden
aprons included Mrs, Fred Sanders, with
rainbow ribbons upon a diminutive
toque, and two young naval wives, Mrs.
A. Ward and Mrs. Walter Bourke. Mrs.
C. L. Kimpton brought a party on to
the matinee from lunch at the Australia.
A trio in the circle consisted of Mrs.
Bert Anderson, in silver foxes, Mrs. Roy
Anderson, in hat of violets, and Mrs. D.
Mollison, in tall black hat studded with
a couple of silver thistles.
A variation on the rural theme of
auction sales on country properties was
introduced last week at Spring Meadows,
Cranbourne. There were all the usual
noises and diversions of mooing cows
and bleating sheep, the war cry of the
auctioneer and the bang of his hammer
as stock were sold, but there were also
back-stage twitterings of feminine origin
—the Blue Wings Air Force Auxiliary,
of which Mrs, W. Tunbridge is secretary
and Mrs. O. J. Gratton treasurer, was
on tap with tea and light lunches. Some
eight members travelled out to Spring
Meadows with the idea of making a bit
more money for one of their pet move-
ments. It rained all day, but that made
no difference to midday appetites. Peter
Tyson has bought the Cranbourne
property ; he thinks it should be just the
spot for breeding racehorses. Past-owner
Bill Swanson is transferring himself up
to Islay Vale, Nagambie, and has told
those pals who used to visit him at
Spring Meadows that when he gets settled
they will be just as welcome further
afield.
Engaged and to be married within a
few days was the surprise which Jean
(“Tim”) Fellows (Dickinson-Monteath
photograph) and Lieut. Rod Strong
sprang upon their friends early last week.
The wedding was at St. John’s, Toorak,
during a patch of sunshine on Friday
afternoon, and bride’s sister Mrs.
Stewart Catomore rose to the occasion
by offering her home in Chastelton-
avenue for the subsequent rejoicings. The
bride, who is tall and fair, wore pastel-
pink Angora, gardenias and an incon-
sequent white hat wispy with veil, and
she carried a prayer book and a family
heirloom in lace handkerchiefs. The
’groom, who is tall, dark and handsome,
and who had Lieut. Hugh Purse as best
man, is the second son of the William
Strongs, of Corowa. When he leaves for
abroad Tim will live back home with her
mother, Mrs. H. H. Fellows, at Brighton
Beach.
On the same evening there were two
functions in town, for two queens. At
the Princess, where the National Theatre’s
production, “Fresh Fields,” lightened the
hearts of the audience, there was a theatre
night in aid of Munitions Queen Jessie
White, while at the Australia supporters
of the Queen of Commerce were enter-
tained with a three-layer show alternat-
ing between cabaret items, dancing and
mannequin parades. The amateur manne-
quins, numbering 18 and representing all
the banks, were chosen by Mrs. M. Kelly
from a candidates-on-parade rally. The
weeding-out she found difficult, for she
liked the untried material provided.
The clothes worn were mostly
suits and sportswear, the type of
garment that helps the girl who
earns her own living to keep her
heart high she knows she can look
as smart as paint without getting head
over heels in debt. Organising for the
do was carried out within the National
Bank of Australasia. The bank’s presi-
dent, K. S. Chapman, was present with
his wife to wish good luck to the Queen
of Commerce.
Anyone motoring down Carrum
Downs way in the neighborhood of the
Brotherhood of St. Lawrence Settlement
may come upon a diminutive store, be-
hind the counter of which is Mrs. Gordon
Henry. Her job of war work is by no
means decorative, nor is it connected
directly with any of the Services; it’s
just a utility backstage effort. Since the
war broke out Gordon Henry resigned
his job and a more comfortable mode of
living in town to take over the manage-
ment of the Settlement of 14 cottages
whose families, all “on sustenance,” are
being assisted by the Brotherhood. Mrs.
Henry has made the wives and 47
children her own special interest. She
has a child of her own, a three-roomed
cottage and plenty of pluck, and says
she doesn’t mind forgoing leisure hours.
She welcomes gifts of books and maga-
zines, for she’s started a library for the
settlers and their children.
In soulful mood is Frances Dillon, who
will express various emotions during the
Little Theatre’s week’s season of “The
Scarlet Lady” which commences on
April 19. She is the central figure, the
would-be scarlet woman, twittery and
romantic, a faithful wife with a husband
whose forgiving nature irritates her so
much that she tries her hand at getting
compromised. Miss Dillon is as well
known for her singing as for her acting.
John Lee photograph, taken on a recent
holiday in Sydney.
Big white chief of Heron Island,
Captain Chris Poulson, displayed his
tropical home in color films in the gold
room of the Windsor to a crowded and
appreciative audience gathered together
per telephone at 24 hours’ notice.
Organiser was Mrs. T. J. Ryan, who did
the honors as hostess for a confrere of
the Queensland Government Tourist
Bureau. She wore a frock of lily-green
crepe and a cunning hat made by herself
of green crepe paper plus real hydrangea
petals and a wisp of veil as a postscript.
At the conclusion of the films there were
supper and a couple of brief speeches
from politicians Lind and Hogan and a
still briefer line or two from Captain
Poulson.
Now that the Housewives are really on
the warpath something practical might
be done about the Apple and Pear Board.
Board, growers and general public are
in the scrum. The growers are practically
going after the board with their old
service rifles, the men on the board are
dodging among files of papers, and other
Victorians are trying to understand the
fundamentals of the argument while
buying fruit sparingly owing to high
prices. At the last meeting of the Vic.
Housewives a poster was" prominently
displayed alongside a heap of luscious-
looking apples—“ Abolish the Apple and
Pear Board. It has rejected these apples
straight from the orchard For mspec-
tion only. You are not allowed to take
any. On the reverse side was a Gov-
ernment dodger—“ War on Waste.
Mrs. Mary Thomas wife and devoted
differ of Dr. Nutter Thomas who has
just resigned the Bishopric of Adelaide
after 35 years, has died suddenly. 16
ma de social work among girls ei
specialty A daughter is the wife ot
Bishop Baddeley, ot Melanesia.


THE SERVICE MAN
Horror War.
“Ek Dum”: German policy is now
clear. Blitzkrieg has abdicated in favor
of a Schauerkrieg —horror war.
One night a rural suburb of London
is lopped off. It is full of mothers and
fathers who never held a day’s hate for
anybody in their hearts, and whose one
ambition has always been to own their
hearths. The men drink their beer of an
evening round the pub darts-board and
walk home, a little gnat-pestered, in the
long twilights as the soft outlines of the
limes and poplars and elms melt into the
smooth sea of darkness round the restless
rooks.
The horror passes by and leaves these
people frantically scrabbling among
smoking rubbish for the bodies of the
children through whom they hoped to
pass on their humble ambitions and
peaceful aspirations to future generations.
Next day a great tornado swathe is
torn through a busy city, wiping out hun-
dreds of homes and leaving behind the
shattered bodies of shopgirls and trades-
men and tradeswomen who have never
asked much more from life than the right
to live and have food and warmth and
company. Next day, again, it may be
more villages or rural suburbs.
The situation is not rendered less hor-
rible by the fact that the R.A.F.’s retalia-
tory and protective measures have, of
necessity, to be taken partly against the
occupied territory of friends and Allies,
where the conscienceless invader has very
often laid down his military facilities
alongside closely-populated towns and
historic buildings and even war ceme-
teries.
Last week’s raiding, both over Britain
and the Continent, was hampered and
interrupted by the weather ; but the Ger-
man effort was of such a nature as to
suggest that, with the lengthening of the
evenings and the coming of regularly
good visibility, British nights will become
long orgies of slaughter and destruction.
Since there are no imminent sovereign
antidotes except courage and retaliation,
they must be borne until British naval
and air power has strangled the monster
which is threatening civilisation or the
combined efforts of British and U.S.
’plane-builders have created a force which
will deprive the bloody fanatics of Ger-
many of their butchers’ knives —it would
be an insult to the common implements
of manly warfare to call the Luftwaffe’s
equipment “weapons.”
Courage and steadfastness are better
than any secret weapon in a long war,
since staying power is bound to win ; but
there is this encouragement—the night-
raiding battle may not have to be won
altogether by the broad backs of English
men and the strength and fortitude of
English women.
The Canadian Minister for Air, Mr.
Power, announced in the Canadian
House of Commons last week that a
British secret device for dealing with night
bombers was being developed and ex-
panded by American and British scien-
tists. He said it was “one of the greatest
war secrets.” Whatever it is—it seems to
be a radio device —it has been invented
only during the past few months, and
mass-production can be expected to
eventuate only after a matter of months
unless it is of almost pristine simplicity.
On Monday, March 17, raids over
Britain were on a small scale ; the same
applied to next day’s day-raiding. The
R.A.F. made heavy night raids, particu-
larly on Wilhelmshaven and Bremer-
haven. A large supply ship was tor-
pedoed by a C.C. machine off the
Frisian Islands. It was noticeable that
the German communiques stressed the
point that the British had raided centres
with no military objectives, and that, con-
trary to their usual practice of minimis-
ing casualties, they reported “numbers of
civilians killed.” This propaganda was
the preliminary to senseless slaughter of
British suburban-dwellers.
On Tuesday night, Hull had an in-
tensive attack which lasted several hours.
Hull is a closely-packed town with vast
docks and warehouses, crammed with
fruit and other foodstuffs. Fires were
started and put out; but despite the scale
of the raid casualties were relatively few.
London had the longest alert of the year,
lasting from midnight to dawn, and
bombs were dropped in three suburbs.
The Air Ministry issued the previous
week’s death-roll, which showed what a
heavy price was paid by the workers of
Clydeside and Merseyside. Each centre
lost about 500 killed. Merseyside’s seri-
ously injured were 500, Glasgow’s 800.
That Tuesday brought another smash-
ing attack on Wilhelmshaven, a busy visit
to Kiel and a series of destructive descents
on Dutch and Belgian aerodromes and
oil centres. Fires seen belied the German
declaration that the “damage was negli-
gible” and that only a few persons were
killed and injured.
Wednesday night’s attack on London
was described as the heaviest and most
ruthless this year. The “Daily Mail”
said it was as heavy as the raids of last
autumn. It was in two parts—one not
so heavy in central London, the other in
the outer ring of suburbs. Since there
was little raiding outside Middlesex it
was obvious that the Luftwaffe had mar-
shalled all available forces for the
slaughter, taking special advantage of
the clear night. The German Official
News Agency’s account was;
The main forces of the German Air
Force, numbering several hundred bombers,
attacked London, Clear ground visibility
enabled bombs of all sizes to be dropped
on military objectives. Tens of thousands
“I'm twenty-one today, sir—l wish to apply for a rise.”
of incendiary bombs caused fires visible at
a great distance. A number broke out
after the first hour on wharves and docks,
also in an industrial area, showing the way
to succeeding bombers.
The Berlin official communique de-
clared that the objectives attacked were
the Royal Victoria, Royal Albert and
King George V docks in London, also
harbor works on the loop of the Thames.
The thought of “tens of thousands of
incendiary bombs” dropped in this
locality, on the congested edges of
Poplar, Canning Town, Rotherhithe,
Deptford and Woolwich, would make
even a blood - drunk orang-outang
shudder.
The Germans claimed to have set fire
to factories north of the Thames and
started a fire on a merchant ship, and
to have brought down three Spitfires on
the south coast the day before they
reported having destroyed five British
machines.
One feature of the raid was the use of
an unprecedented number of extra-heavy
high-explosive bombs. Seven hospitals
were hit, three in the poor Thames
estuary districts; five nurses were buried
under one of them. Eight persons were
killed by one bomb which destroyed
several houses on Thames-side. A number
of people were trapped in a wrecked
block of workers’ flats.
Morning showed tired and pathetic
processions of London’s humbler poor—
Poplar owns about the nadir of British
congestion—pushing wheelbarrows and
handcarts among the litter of smashed
glass and tumbled slates in their fire-
blasted streets. All cheerful, all humor-
ous as usual, they went their ways seek-
ing fresh shelter.
The Air Ministry issued a sober
account:
The attack began violently, dying away
soon after midnight. Preliminary reports
do not suggest very heavy casualties,
but considerable damage was done by fire
and bombs to private houses and other
buildings. Public services at some points
were temporarily affected, but the damage
was not extensive, and the situation was
always well in hand. Fires were extin-
guished or under control before daybreak.
The London raid was followed by two
savage ones on Plymouth, the second of
which, on Friday night, caught Mr.
Menzies and his party as they sat down
to dinner, and drove them to a basement
with Lady Astor. Afterwards the P.M.
explored the wrecked and burning streets.
“I am convinced that Hitler can’t win
the war this way,” he said indignantly.
“The overwhelming reaction of the
people is simply anger.” Some of the
party, including an Australian journalist,
helped in the work of extinguishing
incendiaries, of which thousands fell.
Much of Plymouth is as stark a ruin as
Coventry.
It will steel the R.N. to greater efforts.
To many British seamen Plymouth and
Devonport are home beyond any other
places.
The R.A.F.’s retaliation took the form
of its sixty-second attack on Cologne,
It is bent on destroying the great Hohen-
zollern Bridge, apart from industrial
works. Factories and the railway yards
on the east bank of the Rhine were hit;
oil tanks also were damaged. Rotterdam
oil centres were included in the catalogue
of objectives. The Germans admitted
attacks in western Germany, but said the
damage was insignificant.
The Coastal Command continued to
blast U-boat and bomber bases on the
French coast, particularly Lorient, which
had three attacks during the week.
All the devastating destruction is not
shaking the unpredictable English, as the
Germans have discovered, or upset their
loyalty to the monarchical system, as
Moscow and its jackal friends fondly
hoped.
The King and Queen were given the
wildest demonstrations of loyalty Wales
could contrive among the ruins of
Swansea when they visited it—they were
mobbed by cheering throngs.
U-boats and Battle-cruisers.
“Nobby II”: A barbarous sea offensive
was launched synchronously with the re-
newal of the barbarous air attacks on
British ports. The U-boat commander no
longer hunts alone. He has begun to
chase down his prey in packs. And his
pirate fleet has been reinforced in the
Atlantic by the new Scharnhorst and the
new Gneisenau.
They are 26,000-ton battle-cruisers,
each carrying 1400 men and four air-
craft. Their nine 11 in. guns can deliver a
broadside of 60001 b. of metal from
primary turrets, and they carry as heavy
a secondary armament as the new
British 12-gun cruisers of the Southamp-
ton class. The pair are defended by 14
4.lin. A.A. guns which can also be used
for sea-warfare purposes. They carry
crews nearly as big as those of Renown
and Repulse. And, chivalry being dead
east of the Rhine, they have been rele-
gated to the task of sinking ships which
cannot even reach them with their fire
and consigning merchant seamen to a
ghastly doom. The Germans assert that
these warships and their attendants have
sunk 22 merchant vessels of 116,000 tons,
saving 800 survivors.
In effect, the enemy has placed in the
mid-Atlantic, threatening the main ship-
ping lanes, two warships of such fire-
power and speed that together they would
stand a chance with any single capital
ship in the world. Their oiling capacity
is such that they could almost go round
the world at slow cruising speed without
touching at a port, and they could act as
depot ships for submarines. Of these
there are many, and the oil fuel carried
by a 750-ton submarine designed for dis-
tance cruising is only about 150 tons.
The position is not cheerful, but there
are encouraging factors. The U.S. Lend-
or-Lease Act will make it possible to use
on a ten-day voyage many ships which
previously were tied up in long voyages,
thus rendering many single freighters
worth four or five times, in terms of
cargo carried, what they were a month
ago. And 50 American freighters have
been promised for a start. If U.S. con-
voys come into use they will be a great
help. So will every cruiser and destroyer
and mosquito craft which comes off the
stocks or out of U.S. yards. Australia
could build hundreds of mosquito craft
if nothing else.
And there are Short Sunderlands,
PBYs, new 240 ft.-span Douglas bombers
—twice as wide across the wings as the
Sunderlands and other long-distance
types of patrol ’planes co-operating or
about to co-operate with the R.N. To
deal with sea attacks in the dark —and
U-boats have been attacking in the dark
—is just as difficult as to deal with land
attacks. Difficult enough when they come
from the air ; more so when they come
from under the sea. But no one can set
limits to the resourcefulness and daring
of the embattled Briton.
Loss and Profit at Sea.
“Nobby II”: Mercantile shipping
losses for the week ended March 9 were
announced by the Admiralty at 25 ships
of 98,832 tons. It was bad enough, but
not so bad as the German esti-
mate of 143,000 tons or the actuality
of the week before, 148,000 tons (103,000
British) —since reduced by 7000 tons, an
overdue vessel evidently having arrived
in port.
The decline was salted by the German
admission that the Bremen, 51,000 tons
odd, one of the two largest and fastest
liners on the Atlantic in days of peace,
was almost hopelessly on fire. A Swiss
advice declared that she was “considered
lost.” She lay at Bremerhaven.
Mr, Churchill, remarking on the sub-
marine war, said that an intense and
relentless struggle was being waged to
keep up the necessary stream of supplies
to Britain and the Middle East. He ad-
mitted the rise in losses, but declared
that the British strength was growing
every week. Moreover:
Only yesterday I received news of the
certain destruction of three U-boats. Not
since October 13, 1939, have I been cheered
by such delectable tidings of a triple event.
Jane’s figures show that 12 new cruisers
were added to the Fleet last year. Five
of these were of the Fiji class, 8000 tons,
12 6in. and eight 4in. guns. This means
that all the four which were off the stocks
at the beginning of last year have done
their trials, plus another of the five which
were building but not launched.
The balance are made up of seven of
ten 5450-ton Didos, six launched in 1939
and one since. These are highly efficient
ships, with 33 knots in them, and they
are armed with 10 of the new high-
power, long-calibre 5.25’s of which
George V and the other new battleships
carry 16 as secondary armament.
Added to the cruisers, 50 destroyers
are reported by the daily press to have
been turned out, but escort vessels of
the type of the Holderness, which brought
down a raider the other day, are appar-
ently included in the number.
Since war broke out Britain has built
a navy about as strong in capital ships
and cruisers as the whole of the German
Navy in September, 1939, and a destroyer
fleet about 30 per cent, stronger than
Germany’s at that time.
And better things can be expected for
1941, and particularly for 1942, when
40,000-tonners begin to be commissioned,
The Closing Trap in Ethiopia.
“Ek Dum”: With the taking of Jiga
Jiga, following the recapture of Berbera,
in British Somaliland, only the kernel
of the Ethiopian empire remains to
Mussolini. Its hard shell is. cracking in
over a dozen places round its whole cir-
cumference, particularly at Keren, where
the final assaults are imminent after an
investment which began six weeks ago.
The capture of Jiga Jiga gives the
invaders control of the road from Addis
Ababa to British Somaliland and a foot-
hold on the Gugu Mountains, which run
parallel with the railway almost all the
way to Addis Ababa.
The town is only 75 miles from the
great central air depot of Diredawa,
which is on the railway and 200 miles
from Dessye.
On the other side of the railway from
Jiga Jiga, the forces advancing from


SOUTH
AFRICA
INVITES
ACCLAIMED as “the most interesting
country In the world/’ South Africa stirs
the imagination of every tourist. The vast
game reserve of Kruger National Park, the
primitive villages of Zululand, Victoria Falls,
the Kimberley diamond mines, the great gold
mines at Johannesburg, the modern cities;
these are but few of the colourful contrasts
of absorbing interest.
Information obtainable from all offices of
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMTED
(Incorporated in England)
Agents for South African Railways throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
tfjood
q Better hearing is within your reach
... as a no-obligation demonstration of
the Western Electric Audiphone will quickly
prove. Inconspicuous, efficient and eco-
nomical, it enables the user to hear at
greater distances, to enjoy new hearing ease
and comfort. A product of the world’s
greatest sound laboratories, it is the ideal
instrument for YOUR needs. Bone and
Air conduction types available.
THE AUDIPHONE CO.,
M.L.C. Building, hh Martin Place, Sydney.
CODES & GARRARD PTY., DTD.,
370-37-} Bourke Street, Melbourne.
TREVOR HENDERSON,
T. & O. Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
DEN G. STONE,
67 Gaw I e r Place, Adelaide.
SAINKEN & SAINKEN,
6 3 3 II ay Street, Perth.
FINDDAYS PTY., DTD.,
A nolle TJanse. Brisbane St.. Launceston,
Western Electric
'audiphone'
HEARING AID
Dambatcha are only 100 miles from the
Addis Ababa-Dessye road. Once that
road is cut, the capital will be virtually
isolated from Asmara and from the coast
altogether.
On February 16, the Duke of Aosta,
Viceroy of Ethiopia, wired to Rome;
“We will last somehow. We are ready
for any sacrifice for victory.”
The Italians at Keren have put up a
much better fight than any shown by
their compatriots in Libya. However, the
British force has been smaller and,
through the nature of the country, has
been unable to bring up heavy guns.
Berbera had been in Italian hands
since August, when it was captured by an
overwhelming force from a small one
which was reinforced only at the last
moment by detachments from H.M.A.S.
Hobart and other ships. Possession has
cost the enemy heavily, both in men
and in ships, which have tried to succor
the arid port and become caught in
the fist of the tight British blockade.
The R.N. has used the place as a sort
of marine trap and the R.A.F. as a
practice ground. And so soon as it suited
them and there were no more ships to be
trapped, and the R.A.F. had had all the
practice it needed, the two forces com-
bined with a British landing force to
take it back from the wretched victor.
It would make a splendid place of exile
for dictators.
At the week-end the British had taken
Hargeisa, which lies near the British
Somaliland-Abyssinian border, halfway
between Berbera and Jiga Jiga, to which
it opens a way, thus connecting Kenya
Colony—via Mogadiscio—with the Gulf
of Aden. South African, West African
and British and Indian troops have per-
formed a feat without parallel in history.
Operating from two ends, they have made
a penetration of 1200 miles into an
enemy country in less than two months.
Troops are advancing from Jiga Jiga
on Diredawa. Even on the difficult south
British forces are only 250 miles from
Addis Ababa, from which women and
children were being evacuated to Djibuti
at the week-end.
The Greeks 1 Campaign.
“Ek Dum”: Tepelena is the needle’s
eye through which the Greeks must pass
to reach Valona. It was reported to
have been captured last week, but con-
firmation was lacking.
After Papagos’s men had taken Argy-
rocastro and Santi Quaranta, the southern
base port of Mussolini’s armies, they
pushed along the coast to Khimara,
within 30 miles of Valona and 12 miles
from the Valona coastal plain.
Here, however, the approach to the
Valona plain is extremely difficult. The
Italians probably have destroyed the only
two roads which run along the cliffs
below Kanina by Batteria Point on
Dukate Bay, much as the Blue Mountain
highway runs along the cliffs of Victoria
Pass. Khimara itself is perched on a
vast overhanging crag, and its outer walls
look down hundreds of feet to the sea, as
do those of Medlow Bath into the Mega-
long Valley.
The only ingress and egress of
Khimara are along the two flytracks on
the face of the cliff —Valona, one way ;
Port Palermo, hundreds of feet lower to
the south, the other. If the Italians
destroyed the road, a point of impasse
was reached by Khimara’s capture ; but
it was stalemate for the Italians as well
as the Greeks. There was, so soon as the
town was taken, no danger of another
drive southwards to retake Santi Quar-
anta ; the stopper was in the neck of the
Italian bottle.
The obvious route for the advance on
Valona now became a long, weary, con-
verging one down river valleys from the
Pindus Range. The approach to Valona
was through another bottleneck, where
the two main inland roads join at Tepe-
lena.
The picture of Tepelena, as seen from
the Greek approaches, is somewhat as
follows. Two rivers join just east of the
town near the village of Kodra. Looking
from this village to the right, across
the Voiosa, the road from Klisura and
Premeti is seen coming in. Snaking round
high mountainsides across the Drina
River bank on the left and south, the road
from Argyrocastro arrives. Where the
rivers join between these roads, the stream
widens into a broad river round a group
of islands, and then hurls on, scouring
out the banks of narrow alluvial flats
between the mountains, towards the sea.
Following the Argyrocastro road, look-
ing straight westward from Kodra, the
eye comes to a great, square, ruined bulk
of medieval fortress walls dwarfed by
the background of the high cone of
Trsitsa (4708 ft.). Minarets peep above
the walls to advertise that, at the end of
the eighteenth century, old Tepelena was
the headquarters of the savage Albanian
tyrant Ali Pasha, whose palace formed
the inner side of the fortress town.
Behind the old walled city with its
ruined harems, the new town of Tepe-
lena sits in the jaws of a steep-walled
valley of which ML Trsitsa forms one
side.
The roads from Klisura and from
Argyrocastro meet after the former has
crossed the doubled Voiosa, on the sea
side, to the south bank just beyond the
old fortress town. Here the river is very
swift-flowing and about as wide as the
Thames as it passes Westminster, or of
the Brisbane at Victoria Bridge. The old
10-arch bridge which used to stand there
has gone. Perhaps the Italians have built
a new one ; but anyway the stream is
shallow.
With the capture of Tepelena, the last
outer shield of Valona would burst. And
it is not merely a crucial point in the
advance on Valona. Greek morale and
British assistance could make it an im-
pregnable bulkhead against any counter-
attack.
Moving pictures from Greece show all
too plainly how short the Greeks were
of equipment, transport and other neces-
saries, at least during the earlier part of
the campaign; how they have had to
improvise, and how archaic was some of
their armament in the beginning.
Anybody who believed, on the experi-
ence of previous wars, that they were not
first-class fighting men when they had a
stake worth fighting for must reverse his
opinion.
The incessant pressure which they have
kept up in all weathers, their progress
without check against a numerically
stronger enemy modernly armed and
backed by a powerful adjacent ally, is a
great feat of arms which will live in the
history of war. Even the R.A.F., which
has been associated with the Hellenes,
can be proud to fight in such company.
The R.A.F. in Albania.
“Aileron”: The R.A.F. has played a
big part in the Greek advance in
Albania. The mail news (late December)
about its operations shows that the help
which Britain offered Greece from the
air was not half-hearted.
The Greeks had a force of only 300
machines when hostilities broke out.
They included Fairey Battles (now in use
on a large scale in the Commonwealth),
Blenheim bombers and Gloster Gladi-
ators —the machines with which the first
R.A.A.F. fighter squadron began opera-
tions in Libya.
The R.A.F. saw the Greek campaign
as, to quote a correspondent of London
papers, “an invaluable experimental
laboratory and practice range,” rich in
the most difficult and involved army co-
operation problems —combined sea and
air action over strange mountains and
valleys, and that in winter with wretched
atmospherics and visibility, and in con-
junction with a foreign command.
In the process every kind of British
machine and squadron which would
benefit by that kind of war was flung in,
especially since distances were so short
that the experience could be made in-
tensive and varied.
Astonished mountain Greeks saw great
21-ton Sunderland flying-boats over the
slopes of the coastal ranges. Terrified
Italian ammunition packtrains flattened
themselves against the walls of narrow
mountain defiles as, in earlier months,
the Gladiators and, later, the scorching
Hurricanes came hurtling down, preceded
by a band-saw of machine-gun bullets
which ripped open the belly of any ex-
posed formation in their way for hun-
dreds of yards on end.
The Italians and Germans are now
sorely hampered in operation from the
air in Albania. Even at Christmastime
Italian machines had been driven off the
landing grounds of southern Albania,
By February, while the R.A.F. and Greek
machines were operating from bases at
Argyrocastro and Klisura, only 20 min-
utes’ flight from Valona, and points
equally close to Tirana and Durazzo,
the wretched Italians, driven off the sea
by the R.N. and out of the sky by the
R.A.F. and Allies, were using Pescare
(470 miles from Durazzo), Foggia (350
miles), Bari (225 miles) and Brindisi (75
miles from Valona). All these are in
j ta j
The big British and Greek rear air
supply bases and ’dromes at Salonika and
Athens are respectively about 150 and
250 miles from the fighting front, and
Salonika is under 400 miles from Naples
and within an hour’s bomber flight of
Brindisi.
The Air Effort.
One of the new British fighters is the
Hawker Tornado. This development of the
Hurricane can fight at 40,000 feet against
the normal 25,000 feet of the original.
Its speed is reported to be 425 m.p.h.—
height is not specified—and to its original
eight guns have been added three cannon
and considerably more protection.
There are also more than 30 other
British and American salient types of
machine, many of which have been
brought to their present pitch by doubling
the horse-power in the originals, adding
cannon to .303 machine-guns, shielding
them with effective armor and giving
them new speed, ceiling and manoeu-
vrability.
Output has naturally increased im-
mensely. Balloon barrages are higher.
There are some surprises in defence
which have been mentioned without going
into details. And the expansion in Britain
is being duplicated overseas.
This may be measured by the follow-
ing: In 1937-38, the establishment of
the R.A.F., exclusive of India, was 70,000
men. The Canadian air training strength
alone will be as great as that this year.
And Uncle Sam is getting down to work
properly. His newer machines, having
been remoulded by British war experi-
ence, are beginning to approximate to
R.A.F.’s frpnt-line standards, which they
were hitherto far behind.
There were twice as many military
machines turned out in U.S.A. in Jan.,
1941, as in Jan., 1940. The 1000-odd
built in January showed a 20 per cent,
increase over December figures. The
Defence Committee expects that 1500
machines a month will be rolling out
of U.S.A. factories by May, and that
before the year is out the number will
be 2000 a month. Numbers do not give
the measure of the real expansion. A
great lot of the ’planes being turned over
are huge, long-range heavy bombers,
proof against the ordinary fighter, and
trans-ocean patrol boats.
Dum „. Jarabubj round which
there was fighting from December 9 qn-
wards, has fallen to A.I.F. and British
troops, along with 800 prisoners and
Colonel Costiani. The weakness of the
g arr i SO n shows that the Army of Egypt
cou j d have gobbled it up any time, but
the British official report says that, while
tbe i arger events of the Cyrenaican
coast were j n progress, it was decided to
leave it under observation by light recon-
na j ssanC e troops. When the real clean-up
came on March 20, the investing force —
w 0 ar niored squadrons of 200 men —
was augme nted, and quicksilver media n-
j sed cava i ry attacks gave place to a stern
attac k by adequate units. It brought sur-
render next day.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: The Yugoslav position
continued uncertain all last week,
Whether Yugoslavia should join the Axis
or not resolved itself largely into a battle
between the northern Croats, on the
Hungarian side of the Danube, and the
southern Serbs, who are reluctant. They
have known for generations what inde-
pendence means ; the Croats were Aus-
trian subjects for centuries. To Sunday no
pact had been signed. Three Serbian
Ministers have resigned, and five are
reported to have abstained from voting
on German proposals. Talks have taken
place between British and Turkish diplo-
mats and Yugoslav Ministers both at
Belgrade and Ankara. Britain is lucky
in having as Minister at Belgrade, in
Ronald Campbell, a man who knows his
Balkans like a book,
* * * *
The Royal Navy continues to take toll
of Italian ships in the Mediterranean.
Three Italian supply ships have been sunk
by submarines, two others almost cer-
tainly so. H.M. sub. Unique bagged two
ships heavily loaded with Italian troops
in a convoy, as well as seriously damaging
another, and H.M. sub. Triumph—late
Thetis —sank two deeply-laden vessels of
about 2500 tons each. The Admiralty
has confirmed the report that H.M.
sub. Utmost attacked a convoy of two
troop-crowded ships and apparently
“completely destroyed one.” The R.N.
at Alexandria says that in its March
15 and 17 attacks on Valona and Dur-
azzo, the F.A.A. sank an Italian cruiser
or large destroyer. Another R.N. sweep
of the Eastern Mediterranean and /Egean
failed to find any Italian naval units.
* * * *
Nothing has been heard lately of
Luftwaffe machines in North Africa, but
German and Italian bombers keep blast-
ing Malta. On Saturday it had three
raids—two at night. The official state-
ment says that “some damage was done,
but there were no casualties.” A Messer-
schmitt was shot down by a fighter, and
another was bagged in a Sunday raid.
We lost a fighter.
* * * *
To the beginning of February, in
England and Wales alone, 287 Anglican,
89 Baptist, 123 Congregational, 118
Methodist, 58 Roman Catholic, 17 Pres-
byterian and 22 other churches had been
destroyed or seriously damaged and 1945
churches of all denominations less seri-
ously damaged. For a parallel to that
record of sheer savagery you have to go
back to Attila.* And even Attila was
“persuaded by the venerable bishop
Lupus to spare the city of Troyes.”
* * * *
“Nobby II”; Wonder what has hap-
pened to Jacky Fisher’s idea of the
underwater monitor which was being
developed at the end of the last war?
One of the craft made a successful trip
to the Mediterranean and back. She
carried a 12-inch gun, which could be
fired with the ship submerged and only
the barrel protruding from the waves.
For coastal raiding and bombardment
that type of vessel sounds good, though
a French essay, the Surcouf, 2880 tons,
with two Sin. guns, a crew of 150 and
14 tubes, was not a success. She was
one of the ships interned in Britain after
the French defeat. Perhaps the big craft
have proved too slow and obvious. Any
idea which Fisher fathered was usually
worth while. In fact, for a man whose
roots were so deep in naval history that
he was nominated to the R.N. by Parker,
last of Nelson’s captains, and whose first
ship was H.M.S. Victory, the range of
naval schemes to which he stood god-
father was startling—speed and scientific
gunnery, standardisation of ship types
for specific purposes, water-tube boilers,
electric light, wireless, turbines, oil fuel,
battle-cruisers, the modern scout cruiser
and modern theories of protection were
all among his babies. And his essays
on the importance of the submarine and
aircraft, written years before the last
war, might be dumped down on a First
Lord’s table today without sounding
archaic as to main theories.
* * * *
Dr. Frederick Arthur Maguire, D. 5.0.,
who succeeds Maj.-General Downes as
Director-General of Army Medical Ser-
vices, is a 53-year-old Macquarie-street
(Sydney) surgeon who was in the 1914-
18 war from the day it started. He
wound up as Monash’s Assistant-Director
of Medical Services.


YOUR BANK GAN HELP YOU
A Bank offers to individuals and business
firms many services that will be found
distinctly helpful. The National Bank offers
to its Clients facilities which cover every
form of Banking Service, among which are
included: Collections, Banking by Mail'
Transfers of Money. Ask at the nearest
branch for full particulars and for free
booklet—‘Services and facilities.”
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
Incorporated In Victoria
BRANDALER’A
%
W.v
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
rdo not experiment with imitations.
a BBAMDAOBE * CO, Ltd, BIEMINQHAM. ENQ
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
66 E Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Use., St. George’s Tee., Perth
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Wingella”: Pressmen and politicians
are playing with the idea of daylight
saving. Let’s hope they won’t do
any more than just play with it. It may
suit southern States a trifle ; it can never
be anything save an intolerable nuisance
in the North, where our average day-
light runs from about 6.30 a.m. to 7.30
p.m. The 1917 daylight-saving experi-
ment was cursed by Territorians, who,
after a very brief experience of beginning
work by candle-light, and having to retire
with the sun still high in the heavens,
put their clocks back to the old time
again, and refused to alter them. Their
retort to officials who endeavored to
reform them is still remembered: “Go
to blue, blank, blithering, blinding blazes
—and stop there !”
* * # «
“Balander”: Queensland’s electioneers
are fighting each other with anything
they can lay hands on, no holds barred
and Rafferty the authority on rules. A
voter reading reports of the meetings
must wonder what’s become of all the
good men. Fogarty, U.A.P. candidate
for Brisbane, got off a neat one. He was
striving manfully to make himself heard
against, cat-calls and interjections when
three dogs started a fight, probably on
party lines. He’d just got over that
when a ripe tomato whizzed by his left
ear and exploded in the lap of a sup-
porter. “Ladies and gentlemen,” he con-
cluded, “I thank you for the intelligent
interest shown in my speech.”
* * * *
“Darwarb”: J. P. Bradhurst, a Darwin
contractor, is trying to interest Australian
historical societies in the ruin of an old
stone building uncovered by workers
getting sand at Compound beach, about
a mile from Darwin. Bradhurst describes
the ruin as being about 45ft. by 30ft.,
set out in a true rectangle, its walls about
3ft. high and 2kft. thick. It is constructed
of rough stones, held together by a
cement that appears to have been made
from burnt shell and coral. A theory is
that it was a blockhouse built by Dutch
mariners in these waters to house the
“ Button , lady?”
crews of vessels careened for cleaning and
repairs on the beach, which has an ideal
shelf for the purpose and a 26ft. rise and
fall of tide. Some hold that it is a relic
of the oldest white-man’s building in
Australia, though whether the Dutch
made it is a matter needing proof. There
is some faint evidence that Malays and
even Phoenicians may have got down to
these shores in the dim old time. For
that matter nobody can be quite sure just
where Odysseus got to in his wanderings
ar ?4 son ? e , ya^P s is credlte
with make it feasible that even he knew
what it was to be in Darwin without the
price of a drink. Height of the walls
suggests that either the structure was left
unfinished or was built for defence rather
than shelter.
*'* * *
“Snoop”: Katherine (N.T.) is con-
fronted with a problem somewhat
similar to the Ancient Mariner’s. The
town draws its water supply from the
river, but that has been so swollen by
heavy rains that the pumping station is
under water and, of course, out of action.
Residents have had to go without baths
and showers, though two hardy souls hit
on a solution to their troubles. With the
first convenient downpour and in the
shadow of darkness they collared the light
from the verandah of one of the town’s
two pubs ; then, while one kept watch,
the other stripped off and disported under
the overflow of water from the pub roof.
* * * *
“Lumbah”: Asked to decide whether
hands working on N.S.W. coastal boats
that entered northern rivers were entitled
to the 20 per cent, war risk bonus while
the boats were in the rivers, Chief Arbi-
tration Judge Beeby remarked that he
did not think enemy surface raiders or
submarines would attempt to go up the
Clarence or similar rivers and reserved
judgment. His Honor shouldn’t be too
sure. The Clarence has at different times
witnessed hunts for things like polar bears
and crocodiles, and it only needs some-
one to see a stick protruding from the
South Arm to start a submarine hunt,
with the usual accompaniments of city
press reporters and mysterious tracks on
the mudbanks.
* * * *
Frederick Johnson, dead at Charters
Towers (N.Q.) at 83, was for more than
half a century of his career a figure in
the public life of the goldfields city. Five
times Mayor, he was a municipal coun-
cillor from 1887 to 1919.
* * * #
“Norther”: “Happy Harry,” dead at
76, had, during 40 years’ knocking about
with travelling shows, showed in every
Queensland town from the Gulf to the
southern border, himself always the
comedian. It was from one of “Happy’s”
shows that George Wallace got his start.
“Happy” tried to march with the times
by giving up the road for the moving-
picture business —he ran a theatre at
Mackay for a time —but trouping was
in his blood, and he went back to it
until his retirement a few years ago,.
when he indulged a passion for photo-
graphy. His real name was Arthur
Salmon.
* * * *
“Colonel B’st’r”: The Area Office at
Townsville has been scoffing loudly over
the claim from Brisbane that a 6ft. 3in.
recruit from Injune (C.Q.) was the tallest
man to be enrolled there for the A.I.F.
“Only a midget!” it told an inquiring
pressman. “Take a look at this.” This
was the sheet of Private E. H. Raisin, of
Ayr, 6ft. 6in. when he was measured
last year. “Anyway, they ought to have
known better. Sergeant Edwards, from
Gympie, was 6ft. 7in., and he must be
on their records. And there’s Lieutenant
‘Tiny’ Reid, 6ft. siin.; Lieutenant
‘Lofty’ Wall, of Winton, 6ft. sin., and
a stack of fellows round about 6ft. 3in.,
an inch or so on either side. Chaps
want to come up North if they’re going
to grow properly,” said the Area Office
at Townsville.
* * * *
“Tophole”: The first abo. I spoke to
in the N.T. was a half-wild station black.
I pulled up beside him and said “Where’s
Mr. So-and-so?” He looked at me blankly,
and that’s as far as we would have got
if a white station-hand hadn’t ridden up
and translated my request: “Where ’im
one pfeller boss?” Binghi brightened im-
mediately and answered, “Aw, boss ’im
longa harness shed thataway.” On the
next station I aired my new vocabulary
to the first abo. I met: “Where ’im one
pfeller boss?” I asked. The answer came
back instantly, “Aw, boss ’im longa tank
thataway.” By the time I reached the
next station I considered myself an
authority on the abo. language. I drove
right up to the homestead and addressed
an abo. watering the garden: “Where ’im
one pfeller boss, Jackie?” “I think Mr.
Smith is either on the back verandah or
in the house somewhere,” was the reply.
After that I addressed all abos. in Eng-
lish first.
* * * *
“X.S.”: An Adelaide landscape painter
who has taken up his abode on one of
the islands of the Great Barrier took
a holiday during the wet season and paid
a visit to his home town. On the eve of
his return he thought it would be a good
insurance against the drought of the en-
suing year to send ahead 15 dozen bottles
of one of Adelaide’s brews of beer, re-
garded by him as the finest in the Com-
monwealth. To secure safe delivery he
addressed the parcel care of the manager
of the hostel on a neighboring island.
A fortnight later he got a wire: “Beer
arrived. Thanks for glorious gift. Most
acceptable.” Now he is wondering if
something got rubbed off the label.
* * * *
“N.D.”: In 1837-38, to assist in Grey’s
exploration of the country north of Col-
lier Bay, North Westralia, 26 ponies
were imported from Timor. Grey had
poor luck with his exploring, penetrating
the rough country to his due east only
about 55 miles in two and a half months.
On sailing away he left about a score of
the little mokes behind, optimistically
hoping that they might come in useful to
any future settlers. But the ponies failed
to survive. Probably the long spears of
the aboriginals cleaned them all up.
Which is some small misfortune, since a
plenitude of acclimatised ponies would
have been a valuable asset in the opening
up of the North.
* * * . *
“Poi-p.”; J. L. Wilson has retired from
Wilson and McDouall, owners of the
Calliope stock interests out of Gladstone,
which controlled one of the biggest stud
stock outfits in the North, breeding
Shorthorns and Herefords, polled and
otherwise, thoroughbred horses and
sheep. Some of the cattle imported
from America improved the local herds.
J.L. is to be succeeded by his son K.S.,
a good judge of cattle, who has been
seen handing out ribbons at Brisbane
National Show. The retiring partner was
a student at Hawkesbury College
(N.S.W.) in the ’nineties and is remem-
bered by old-timers in the Dungog
country as a jackeroo.


%
m
m
*/
'N
*4
Agents: JOUBERT &• JOUBERT
PTY
LTD
Sole
BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
'Doctors your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Gland*. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract/ Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. ' Write TO-DAY.
GIAHO
TONIC
T.JONES E CO
CHUMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
Jf
AUSTRALIAN
DISPLAY
Sydney's Greatest
Easter Spectacle..
8 DAYS AND 5 NIGHTS of bigger, better,
brighter displays at the ROYAL EMPIRE
SHOW will include;
EMPIRE PAGEANT, 5000 personnel, including
Army, Navy, Air Eorce and Women’s War
Organisations.
EMPIRE EXHIBITS from Canada, New Zealand,
Fiji, Papua, New Guinea.
TRANSPORT CAVALCADE . , , IDEAL HOME
. . . TEMPLE OF BEAUTY . , . OUTSTANDING
RING EVENTS, etc.
Every day, every night—indoors and out —
there will be thrilling, interesting, entertaining
events.
APR! 17™ to 15™ 1941
SHOW
B DAVIS'* 5 NIGHTS*
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Ladies in Retirement”
There’s no doubt that the theatre in
Sydney has to some extent come into its
own again.
Until quite recently, both the Minerva
and the Royal were so—justifiably—
nervous about public support that the
management felt compelled to woo the
public with light comedies, as daVing and
as feather-brained as they could get ’em.
Now both theatres are able to offer very
much more solid fare and audiences are
approving heartily.
During intervals at the opening of
“Ladies in Retirement,” two comments
were heard everywhere: how well the
show was going, and what a relief it was
to meet with real drama instead of
bubble-and-squeak.
“Ladies in Retirement,” an unmistak-
ably Bronte-ish piece about two mad
spinster sisters and a third half-mad one
who commits a murder so that the others
may not be turned out of a house where
they are happy, is a first-class melodrama,
surprisingly lively and funny as well as
grim, so excellently constructed that if it
were a novel one couldn’t resist turning
at once to the last page to see what
happens.
Marie Ney’s interpretation of the sane,
clever sister liable to slip into homicidal
mania was unquestionably the perform-
ance of a fine actress. Ethel Gabriel
was delightful as the dottiest of the
spinsters, Catherine Duncan convincing
and impressive as the surly one. John
MacDougall, playing a wicked nephew,
gave easily his best performance in
Sydney to date, polished, easy and
assured. Ruby May, as the unfortunate
murderee, Jane Conolly as a maidservant
and Leal Douglas as a nun were all in
good form.
* * *
“Amphitryon 38”
Jean Giraudoux, author of this play,
which started off the 1941 Gregan
McMahon season at Melbourne Comedy,
evidently decided that Thebes and Olym-
pus were places very like Paris. Jupiter,
looking down from Olympus, catches
sight of the shadow of Alkmena, the de-
voted wife of Amphitryon, a celebrated
Theban general, thrown on the blind of
her bedroom window. He invents a war,
and Amphitryon dons his armor, kisses
his wife good-bye and goes off at the
head of his army. Mercury takes the
form of Amphitryon’s servant, appears
to Alkmena and informs her that her
husband has decided to postpone his
date with Mars, give his army the slip
and return to his home for one night
only. Jupiter then walks in in the shape
of the general, and Alkmena is very
easily convinced that he is indeed her
husband.
Jupiter, however, is much more con-
cerned with the fact that Alkmena thinks
she has been completely faithful to her
husband. He is intensely irritated by
her complacency and instructs Mercury
to inform the lady that he will come the
following evening in all the pomp and
majesty of divinity and make her the
mother of the greatest hero in Greek
history—Hercules. Alkmena, however,
prefers the role of the faithful wife and
flatly refuses to be a party to the pro-
ceedings.
At this moment Leda, with whom
Jupiter has already had a successful
affair, turns up, and Alkmena persuades
her to take her place. Jupiter once more
arrives in the guise of a Theban general,
but it transpires that the alleged
father of the gods was actually Amphit-
rion returned from the wars triumphant.
The horrified Alkmena begs Jupiter to
grant her the boon of forgetfulness of
the past, and he consents, but leaves the
final kiss he gives her this side of
oblivion. The Thebans are fobbed off
with an explanation satisfactory to their
civic pride, Amphitryon remains oblivi-
ous of the fact that he is both a cuc-
kolded and an unfaithful husband, and
marital virtue emerges untarnished.
Overtones of classical allusions and
hints of the larger philosophical prob-
lems involved in the fact that an all-
knowing god knows everything and
therefore knows nothing while human
beings only know relationships between
things failed to conceal that M. Girau-
doux’s play was one of those typical
French bedroom farces salted with
Gallic wit of a slightly naughty com-
plexion. But it was admirably done by
the McMahon Players. Lynette Dick-
enson was the personification of Greek
chastity as Alkmena; Mark Frederick-
son was the traditional French lover
shaking the earth with thunderbolts, but
comically impotent to shake the resolu-
tion of Alkmena ; Bernard Lamble was
the usual easily-deceived French hus-
band ; and Frederick Ellis, as Mercury,
and Gwenyth Izzard, as Ledo, earned
their places in the picture. Loudon Saint-
cloud’s notion of Theban architecture
was fashionably geometrical.
<i*
Chamber Music in Melbourne
A free show of any quality is always
sure of earnest consideration in Mel-
bourne, and when it is as good as the
chamber music concerts given by the
A.B.C. and the trustees of the Nat. Gal-
lery at the Stawell Gallery a full house is
certain. Final programme of the season
comprised Dvorak’s F major quartet,
the clarionet quintet of Mozart and a
panel of songs sung by William Laird,
with Carl Bartling at the piano. High-
light of the evening was the admirable
playing of clarinettist William McFee
in the Mozart opus.
ARTBURSTS.
Some Eminent Painters
A mixed show at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, includes the work of some
eminent Australian painters of an earlier
generation. Conrad Martens, this* con-
tinent’s first notable landscapist, is repre-
sented by a characteristic small piece, an
English scene, “The Wash Pool, near
Stroud.” Charles Conder’s “Wet Day,
Collins-street,” a feminine head by E.
Phillips Fox and a self-portrait by Arthur
Streeton give a poor idea of these artists.
They look faded, dirty and spotty, like
so much work in oils done in Aus-
tralia 30 years ago or more. A couple
of neat little water-colors by A. H.
Fullwood, a broad, vigorous flower piece
by Rupert Bunny and six really nice
Gruners, including that classic cloud
study “Morning Sky,” help to make the
show interesting. A landscape by Sid
Long in his quietest vein, a Lambert
pencil drawing, a J. W. Tristram water-
color, “Moonrise,” that could pass as a
Hilder, and a beautiful little French land-
scape by Charles Bryant are also hung.
An oil study, “Horses Resting,” by
Maorilander S. L. Thompson exhibits a
crispness and power never realised in
this painter’s better-known work in water-
color.
Examples of the work of such fashion-
able overseas eccentrics as John Nash and
Maurice de Vlaminck give variety to the
exhibition.
Lionel Lindsay’s Prints
At least Lionel Lindsay can’t complain
that Australian art authorities neglect the
indigenous artist. A one-man show of
his aquatints, drypoints, wood engravings
and etchings opened last week at Mel-
bourne National Gallery numbers 85
items. They all come out of the gallery’s
collection and they represent only about
one-third of the total.
The pictures cover all phases of the
artist’s development, which is mainly
towards technical facility. The observation
hardly seems to vary; the variety in the
show is largely due to subject matter,
which ranges from the Argyle Cut in
Sydney to a Rajah’s palace at Benares,
and from the Alcazar in Spain (beloved
of the artist) to the Perisher Range,
Kosciusko. Mr. Lindsay’s observation
is the average man’s observation, re-
inforced by technical skill of a high order
plus a romantic fancy. In his woodcuts,
however, there is a richness of texture
that the eye likes to dwell on, irrespec-
tive of the subject.
* * * *
Red Cross Photographic Show
The show organised by the Vic. Salon
of Photography and set out in David
Jones’s George-street gallery (Sydney) to
aid the Red Cross is the best and most
representative of its kind ever staged in
Australia. N. S. Wales, Vic., Q’land,
S.A, and W.A. are represented, and in
addition to the leading art-amateurs
several leading professionals and a num-
ber of press photographers have contri-
buted their best work.
There are close on 300 entries Caz-
neaux, Keast Burke, Monte Luke and
J. W. Metcalfe are prominent in the N. S.
Wales section ; Dr. Julian Smith, W. T.
Owen, Athol L. Shmith and Spencer
Shier lead the Vic. contingent, and Rose
Simmonds (Q.) and Hilda M. Wright
(W.A.) uphold the honor of less popu-
lous States. A fair crop of red seals was
in evidence at mid-week.
* * * *
British Poster-Prints
At the Notanda Gallery, Sydney, is a
show of 40-odd large prints of works by
British painters, depicting “Landmarks of
Britain” —old castles and ruins and the
like, with a few pictures of ’planes in
flight thrown in for variety.
With a few exceptions (Lord Berners is
one of these) it seems to have been the
desire of each of the artists represented
to make it clear that he or she is not
tainted by such vulgarities as a know-
ledge of drawing or an experience of
painting, a very thorough training in the
best of art schools notwithstanding. The
peculiar mixture of crudity and sophisti-
cation resulting seems to be highly
prized, but what it has to do with art
is a profound mystery.
AT THE TALKIES
“High Sierra”
Tiptop acting, good directing and many
settings that carry a fair measure of
reality give to this current offering at
Sydney Plaza mote genuine drama than
is generally found in gangster films.
Like most of its kind, it has its flights
into sentimental fiction, of course, but it
also has its arrestingly dramatic moments,
highly colorful ones, admittedly, but
none the less convincing. The story deals
with a bank robber pardoned after serv-
ing several years of his sentence in prison
and returning immediately to his old pro-
fession. A hotel robbery, the murder of
a police officer, and the lawbreaker’s
eventual and final fight with the police
are very well depicted and with all the
action and suspense that might be asked
of such material.
It is mainly the acting of the principals,
however, that lifts the film above the
general run of gangster melodramas.
Humphrey Bogart, as the gangster, brings
the character almost to breathing life.
His flat, almost toneless, manner of
speaking and his always natural acting—
generally on a note of understatement —
are perfectly suited to these gangster
roles in which he specialises.
Ida Lupino, as the dance-hall wench
who links up with the gangsters, falls for
Bogart and sticks to him to the finish,
turns in another sterling portrayal. It
is interesting to compare this player with
some of Hollywood’s “great dramatic
actresses” —Bette Davis, for instance,
figuring in “The Letter,” at Sydney
Century. Miss Davis wears her talents
like an overcoat and registers various
emotions as obviously as she changes her
clothes ; the Lupino girl, on the other
hand, carries her ability as lightly as
she carries her own hair, and gets just
as much effect and intensity into her
acting with half the effort Miss Davis
seems to require. She submerges her
personality completely in her role, while
her acting is generally as quiet as it is
natural ; in highly dramatic moments the
intensity of her acting is almost shatter-
ing. Her part in “High Sierra” doesn’t
demand much of her, but her perform-
ance is none the less capable for that.
For the rest, the film runs along
smoothly enough, steadily building up
suspense for the climax with Bogart rac-
ing over the landscape in his car with
the cops behind him (very realistically
depicted), establishing himself in a
mountain crevice and there fighting it out
to a finish with the law. A good enter-
tainer in the superior melodrama class.
* * * *
“South of Suez”
This current offering at Sydney Civic
gets away to a rather unpromising start
—the cast, with George Brent, Brenda
Marshall and George Tobias, seems a
bit better than usual, but cold-blooded
criminals, a good-hearted but drunken
mineowner with a sweet young darter
in England, a handsome and upright
young man who befriends the drunk, all
rolled into a South African diamond field
and garnished with tom-toms in the dis-
tance, promises very prosaic entertain-
ment.
After the first reel or so, however, the
film gets away from the Hollywood
jungle (Type 3) and, in more natural
and quieter settings in England, good
acting and directing win the day. Mean-
while the handsome young man has been
falsely accused of murdering his friend
the drunk and stealing his diamonds. He
clears out and on the way to England
amasses a tidy fortune with which he
intends to endow his murdered friend’s
darter. Lurv, of course, takes a hand,
and matters come to a head in an un-
usually dramatic trial scene.
* * * »
“No, No, Nanette”
Considering the vast queue and the
struggle it required to fight your way
through the surging crowds to see this
current item at Sydney Regent, it would
probably be unwise to say that it is the
least amusing and least musical of musi-
comedies seen for some time. There
would probably be less risk of assault
from musicomedy addicts if it were stated
that it is the least amusing and least
musical of musicomedies which have been
heralded by vast queues and the struggle
it required, etc., etc.
Despite its lavish presentation and the
appointment of Roland Young as chief
of the humor department, the show rarely
manages to climb musically or humor-
ously to the level of its extravagant set-
tings. The story is strung out beyond
breaking point until every comedy or
musical interlude seems only a delay to
spin out the already tenuous material to
the appointed running time.
Anna Neagle, Richard Carlson and
Victor Mature are the main players,
and they all make pretty hard work of
trying to be light-hearted.


m
c
*
ip
f
m
*pHE petty borrower quickly loses
prestige and friends. He is trading
on the thrift of others whilst practising
none himself. He is selling his pride
on the instalment plan—a pound at a
time. The man of self-respect, the
man who values the goodwill of
others, takes care that he is never in
the position of being “short of a
pound." Week by week he deposits
at least a few shillings in his savings
account.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank pro-
vides ideal facilities for the man of
low or moderate income to build up
a valuable cash reserve. Open an
account next pay-day.
commomueoiTH
smimcs book
A
m
rm
OF AUSTRALIA
Foot Comfort for Sixpence .
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
DEA
“Chico” Invisible Earphones 21/- pr.
• Worn inside your ears. No cords or
batteries. Amazingly effective. Guaran-
teed lifetime. Write for free booklet.
WEARS EARPHONE CO.—No. S State
Shopping Block, Market Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletu
readers.
The service is entirely free. AD you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin 19 hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
To hear from amateur dramatic societies
seeking to produce Australian plays. —9891.
Words of monologue beginning “Our Harbor,
which art in Sydney.”—9895.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
seeks typing work; neat and accurate, moderate
terms.—9889.
Any information about Katherine Mansfield,
material, such as unpublished letters, articles,
also anecdotes, and periodicals or books —
English or foreign—containing literary apprecia-
tions. (Reply direct to Miss Nell Nathan, 1185
Park-avenue, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.)
Experienced dental nurse, Continental and
Australian exp., seeks position, Brisbane. Refs.
—9881.
Plans for building small light canoe. —9882.
To buy song (words and music) “I Cannot
Sing the Old Songs.”—9899.
Information Sought.
(1) What is the nature of opals, and how are
they formed ? (2) Are the colors in opals due
to mineral coloring matter or refraction of
light? (3) Average value? (4) Are they found
elsewhere in the world but Australia ? —9998.
(1) and (2) Opal is a silicate formation forced
millions of years ago in a molten state from
the depths of the earth. During the cooling
process it fractured microscopically, forming
minute prisms which refract the light and give
the colors. (3) Value ranges from almost nil
to gemstones the price of diamonds. (4)
Small quantities of light opal were found deep
in shale pits in Hungary in Roman times, but
they do not produce opal today. Small quan-
tities of poor-quality light opal are found in
Mexico, but these have not the vivid color of
the Australian stones. Black opal is found
nowhere but at Lightning Ridge, N.S.W.
* * * *
Where was Oscar Straus, composer of
operettas, born, and how old is he ? What were
his principal works, and what has become of
him ? —9979.
Born in Vienna, 1870. He has written over
20 successful musical plays. Best known are
“The Chocolate Soldier,” “The Waltz Dream”
and “Mother of Pearl.” Straus got out of
Vienna at the time of the Nazi occupation,
settled in France and became a naturalised
Frenchman in September, 1939. Early this year
he arrived in the U.S.A.
* * % si*
Details of the Washington national monument
in the U.S.A. ? —9981.
The monument, at Washington, D.C., is an
obelisk of white marble, 555ft. 5iin. in height
and 55ft. square at the base. Eight
small windows, two on each side, were cut into
the pyramidion near the base. It is faced with
dressed white marble, in 2ft. courses. For the
first 150ft. the marble is backed by rubble
masonry, from this point cut granite was used
to the 452ft. level, and above this the walls are
entirely of marble. It is surmounted by a cap-
stone weighing 33001b., and this is crowned by a
small pyramid of pure aluminium, 5.6in. at
its base and 8.9in. high, weighing lOOoz. The
computed weight of the monument is 81,000
tons, divided as follows: Foundation, 36,912
tons; lower portion of shaft, 22,373 tons;
upper portion of shaft, 21,260 tons; pyramidion,
300 tons; iron framework, 275 tons. The erec-
tion of the monument by the Washington
National Monument Society, using funds
obtained by popular subscription, was author-
ised by Congress in 1848, and the cornerstone
laid in the same year. Work progressed slowly
unt '[ 150 ft. of the shaft having been
£i ecte d> a b ? oc jE ma rble from the
Temple of Concord in Rome contributed by the
P°P e was stojen. Because of public indignation
f u^ and b Y thl * incident, no further funds were
forthcoming from the public. Construction
work ceased until 1876, when it was resumed
at Government expense by the Corps of
EngineerS; U-S . Army. The monument was
completed December 6, 1884, dedicated Febru-
ary 21, 1885, and opened to the public October
9, 1888.
* * * *
On what type of country is mole drainage
employed? What are the chief principles of
the system?— 99o4.
For many years the mole-dram plough has
been used in the Rangitikei, Manawatu and
Woodville districts in M.L. in an endeavor to
improve cheaply and effectively the drainage
on extensive areas of the heavy loam soils
which overlie stiff, impervious clay subsoils.
The bulk of the country on which mole
drainage has been practised consists of rolling
anc i flat-topped low hill country bordering the
r i ver fl ats an d river terrace land. Much of this
country is dissected by narrow valleys and
deep depressions, while in other areas the land
gently slopes away from the general level to
wide-open valleys. The major part of the land
i s ploughable. The soils are fertile, but there
j s a definite tendency to rapid reversion of pas-
tures to dominate brown-top, due to the
excessive wet condition of the surface soil in
winter. Rushes are a serious problem, foot-
rot is bad in sheep, pastures are frequently
badly poached by cattle in wet winters and the
spring growth is backward. Mole drainage has
often given disappointing results from the point
of view of lasting improvement, and many
farmers have resorted to the slower, infinitely
more expensive but more lasting method of
tile drainage. Some, however,' after long ex-
periment, have evolved satisfactory methods
based on three guiding principles. First, the
provision of permanent outlets; second, the
provision of a definite and uninterrupted fall
from the highest point of each mole drain to
the outlet; and third, provision of a suffi-
cient force of water, especially near the outlets,
to clear the system of silt at the commence-
ment of the rainy season. Though the actual
mole drain will last for many years when drawn
in a suitable clay subsoil, it is the gradual
accumulation of fine silt which eventually
blocks the drains and renders them useless,
During dry summers the soil dries out down
to the mole drains and the sides tend to flake,
At the beginning of the rainy season there is
a deposit of silt in the mole drains. This silt
cannot be cleared from the system if the outlets
are blocked, nor can it be cleared if there is
little or no fall. The special tendency to silt
up in depressions is the reason for maintaining
a steady but definite fall throughout the course
of each drain.
Outline of general methods for mushroom-
growing ? —9904.
Allow a manure and straw mixture to heat
spontaneously; turn the heaps several times at
intervals; add water if necessary during turn-
ing but avoid making heaps too wet. Place
the fermented material (compost) in shallow
beds and tramp down. Temperature of beds
should rise slightly. When temperature falls
insert the spawn. A week or so later add a
layer of casing soil. Maintain the beds in a
cool, moist atmosphere. Guard against attack
by pests and disease.
* * * m
(1) Where in Australia and elsewhere is the
process of live sawing timber employed? (2)
Advantages of this system ? (3) Disadvantages ?
—9898.
(1) Live sawing is practised at the S.A.
Woods and Forests Dept, mill at Mt. Burr,
where a log gang saw is used for cutting plan-
tation-grown pines. The system is also used
for cutting cypress-pine logs in N.S.W. and
Q’land, where the logs are passed over the
usual breast bench after a preliminary “spot-
ting” or facing of one side on a breaking-
down bench. Apart from these two instances
the process is not regularly used in Australia,
though it is the usual method of sawing in
Europe, particularly the Baltic countries, and
is also used to some extent in America. (2)
It is well suited to mass production and gives
the highest recovery from the log at the lowest
milling cost. The logs are simply fed into
the saws, and the boards emerge from them in
a constant stream, without any turning of the
logs or returning of any material for recutting.
Production is rapid and the procedure is stand-
ardised, requiring no high degree of skill.
Operating costs are therefore held at the mini-
mum. (3) The method lacks elasticity and is
not suited to the production of timber of varied
sizes and qualities. With live sawing it is not
possible to segregate clear from knotty timber,
nor can defective logs be handled without heavy
loss. Furthermore, owing to the mixed grain
occurring in most of the boards, live sawing is
successful only with light and easily-seasoned
timbers. Otherwise heavy seasoning degrade
is encountered in the form of cupping, warp-
ing and unequal shrinkage. Therefore live saw-
ing is limited to the handling of the lighter
species where logs of uniform size, of good
form and free from internal defects are to be
milled to produce standardised lines of no
great range in quality. Where refractory
timbers are to be treated, where virgin forests
have produced trees of a large range of size
and quality, perhaps overmature and con-
taining internal defects, and where there is a
sharp difference in price between various grades
making it necessary to separate material of dif-
ferent quality in the cutting, live sawing gives
way to methods based on sawing around.
* * * *
Can you give me some advice on the grow-
ing of “medicinal plants’’ for a living? Would
Tooradin (Vic.) be suitable? Any literature
on the subject? —9s3B.
Arrangements should be made With commer-
cial interests regarding the disposal of any types
of medicinal plants before attempting their
culture on any scale. The district mentioned
would undoubtedly suit many plants of this
nature, but the total Australian requirements
of any of them are comparatively small and
easily satisfied by a few growers. Suitable
literature is not readily available, but a leaflet
on “Herb Culture,” giving directions generally
applicable to medicinal plants, has been posted.
The Vic. Department of Agriculture will be
able to furnish advice regarding the culture of
any particular plants for which a market can
be found.
* * ♦ •
How is cottage cheese made ? —9885.
Allow milk to sour and thicken at a tempera-
ture of 70 to 75 deg. Fahr. When thickened,
carefully break into small particles—not too
fine or the cheese will be sandy, gritty or tough
—and stir gently, heating meanwhile gradually
up to 110, 120 or even 130 deg. Fahr., but not
higher. Stop heating when the curd is dry
and firm enough to drain. A half-hour of
heating is usually enough. Allow the curd to
settle for a minute, and then drain off as much
whey as possible by tipping the pan. Fill
immediately with cold water, and after stirring
pour off. Repeat this several times until the
temperature of the mixture of curd and water
is about 70 deg. Fahr. Then tip into strainer
on a cloth and drain for five to ten minutes.
Add salt and stir in thoroughly. One hundred
pounds of skim milk gives not less than 121 b.
curd and needs salting with to 30z., a
level tablespoonful being about an ounce. Pack
cheese and hold as cold as possible.
* * * *
Who were the riders of the three placed
horses in the A.J.C. Craven Plate in which
Cetigne defeated Desert Gold and Estland? —
9980.
Cetigne (A. Wood); Wolaroi (W. H. McLach-
lan); Estland (D. O’Connor). Desert Gold
(J. O’Shea) was fourth.
Brief Answers.
D.G.A.; Area of Switzerland is 15,944 square
miles and population, January 1, 1940, was
4,218,000... .K.J.F.: The chowchow is known
as the “edible dog of the East” N.H.R.:
Henry Longfellow wrote occasionally under
the name “Hans Hammergafferstein”
F.T.P.; The length of the Panama Canal is
50 miles, the Elbe, in Germany, 41 miles, and
the Manchester 35 miles G.S.C.: Niagara
Falls are a long way short of the highest. The
Canadian section is 165 ft. Compared with this
the Great Falls in the Orange River are 400 ft.,
Victoria Falls 415 ft., and the Kaieteur Falls,
in British Guiana, drop 822 ft W.A.1.:
Diameter of Mercury is 3008 miles W.P.L.:
King Edward VII, won the Derby in 1909 with
Minoru G.N.P.: On September 17, 1914,
the Acting-Governor of German New Guinea
signed terms of capitulation with the officer
commanding a naval and military expedition
sent from Australia, and thereafter the territory
was under military administration until the
establishment of civil government in May, 1921.
R.B.S.: For 1938-39 values of Australian
imports and exports per head were £l4 14s. lid.
and £l6 3s. lid. (British currency) respectively.
J.B.: There is no consensus of opinion
among astronomers on the point; for instance,
Jeans in The Mysterious Universe is critical of
the hypothesis of an expanding universe, while
Eddington in The Expanding Universe vigor-
ously identifies himself with the theory
J.R.S.: From 1918 to 1934 Austria was a
democratic republic of sorts. In 1934 it be-
came a dictator-ruled State under Dolfuss, who
was assassinated and succeeded by Schuschnigg.
Belated democratic leanings on the part of
Schuschnigg were cut short by the Nazi occu-
pation of March, 1938 V.F.: Mosul, where
Mussolini said he might march after the occu-
pation of British Somaliland, is an important
town in Iraq, centre of oilfields... .M.P.; The
terms Whigs and Tories were dropped in 1828,
to be succeeded by Liberals and Conservatives.
H.W.S.: Sydney G.P.O. clock tower is
270 ft. high. The Town Hall clock tower is
189 ft. high. The original plan of St. Mary’s
Cathedral calls for twin spires 260 ft. in height.
F.S.T.: According to an American defini-
tion “table stakes” in poker is a term used
where there is an agreement to raise the betting
limit to the amount any player has in front
of him at the time. No player can increase
the amount of his table stake after he has looked
at any of the cards dealt him. If any player
has not chough on the table to call, he may
call a sight for what he has and separate that
part of the pool from the rest, so that other
players may go on . and call a sight for their
pile, or call the bet, or raise it. If the one
who calls for a sight has the best hand shown
at the finish he takes his part of the pot. Any
others decide the rest of the pot on the merits
of their hands... .T.R.8.: The total value of
fertilisers exported from Australia in 1937-38
was £61,339. They included ammonium sul-
phate, bonedust, rock-phosphate, sodium
nitrate, superphosphate and other varieties
C.F.D.: Latest figures available (1938) give
Germany’s wool production as 43.3 millions of
pounds (greasy). Australia’s production for the
same year was 1023.4 millions of pounds
R.D.: The descendants of the Bounty mutineers
were removed from Pitcairn to Norfolk Island
in 1856.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused: —■
A. :
Brothers of all the boys engaged
Mopping np in the Libyan sands.
Your loyal actions have enraged
Traducers on Axis wave bands;
Rut they may rave and, rant galore—
Your fame will live for evermore.
Bellerive: —•
Lads from round the suburbs
And tough veterans of yore,
Who’d faced the brunt of dangers
In the last great thrilling war,
Marching steadily onward
To the music of a band,
Prepared to render service
For dear old Motherland.
Lads firm, loyal and willing.
And warriors up in years,
Marching steadily onward
To loud and wafting cheers.
Game sons of Australia
Marching in a band,
Prepared to render service
For dear old Motherland.
... .ja.A. : Toad, pig-farmer, cockatoo and bomb
removed by disposal squad D.S.H.: You
might make “Smoke-oh” if you took more
pains... .K.C.: Even if Mr. Menzies is a sub-
ject for poetry, “emporiums” aren’t M.H.:
Next time you start remembering, remember
that “straw” does not rhyme with “more”
T.1.P.: Not far 0ff.... W.H.M.: “They cramp
ambition that makes others zealous.” But
they do give you a rhyme for “jealous”
J.M.C.: Something to them all A.W.:
Might make a par E.J.T.: Keep at it
R.M.S.: Surely it’s an anachronism to “ween”
about aeroplanes... .M.R.: Featherweights
H.M.: “Sing the web of good and ill! Sing
the needle note of the grill!” We might
manage the bubbling plop of the stew, if that’s
any use... .S.K.C.: Needs far stronger treat-
ment E.N.8.: Hopeless.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
B. : He’s the first jockey we’ve seen able
to walk on to his mount M.A.S.; At scratch-
ing you could give any hen ten on and a
hiding.... Bert C.: A vast expanse of good
Bristol board devoted to an Adam’s apple
surmounted by what we guess to be a face.
, ...P.N.: A closer observation of your fellow-
men will reveal that mouths which commence
below the ear-lobes are at least rare... .M.F.:
Jokes on mental affliction are in the vilest
of taste... .C.P.C.: The neat linework was
worthier of a better situation... .8.L.P.: As
an “exponent of surrealism in black-and-white”
you’re due for a long succession of umbilical
crashes... .T.0.V.: “My friends urged me to
give The Bulletin first choice of acceptance”;
you’d better cultivate a few good enemies
8.N.: Just a bunch of barley-water gags
Ted M.: Take the arms off those figures and
they’d pass for petrol bowsers C.L-K-:
An undertakers’ trade journal should snap it
up A.E.W.: What! A black-and-white
artist and you fall down on sketching a mug
of beer! H.8.T.: Easy on the highlights,
brother... .J.V.: You missed your vocation —
you are a born stove-pipe designer H.P.P.:
Missed; but keep on V.H.C.: Leave it in
a drawer for a few years; the silverfish might
improve it.


The best calcium phosphate supplement is
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os contains over 70% tri-calcic
phosphate, having a guaranteed minimum
of 33% phosphoric acid, and 40%
lime, and being the mineral matter of bone
is pure, wholesome and palatable stock
take to it readily. Feed Tri-cal-os regularly
and see the results.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from
ŵ
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box
758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; and G.P.O. Box 588, Perth,
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
tf-M
m
o
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
37 Bowen St- BRISBANE, Q’IAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-81 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE. N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH. WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Season Returns.
“Ghanam”; To the week ended
March 15, the Commonwealth Wool
Committee reports, 2,810,000 bales had
been appraised for a return of £45,036,157,
which is £2,500,000 more than for the
whole of 1938-39. The committee ex-
pects that the full return will be over
£60,000,000 for the season, as it was last
year.
Average prices realised to date are:
N.S.W., 12.18 d. ; Queensland, 12.02 d. ;
Vic., 13.3 Id. ; S.A., 11.13 d. ; W.A.,
12.12 d. ; Tasmania, 15.17 d. The Com-
monwealth average for the whole of last
season was 12.405 d. ; this season 12.36 d.
There are still over 300,000 bales to
be offered in Queensland, apart from
quantities in other States.
There was less change in the wool
from drought causes than might have
been expected. Bales are lighter through
shorter length and similar causes. There
was a good deal of reclassing in Victoria,
where there is much wool grown by
small holders. About 45 p.c. of the Vic-
torian clip is crossbred.
The coming season promises to be a
curious one, of which it is as yet difficult
to foretell the course. From all over the
Commonwealth come reports of luscious
grasses and of a bumper season in train.
N. S. Wales and parts of Queensland
also report a bumper crop of blowfly,
and wool which has come in since Janu-
ary from some N.S.W. districts shows the
marks of it.
The world’s wool demand is at a peak.
The European continental countries
would give their ears for access to the
Australian wool market. In U.S.A., with
conscription in force in that country and
in Canada, and with heavy war demands
absorbing specialised types beyond the
seas and shipping facilities constricted,
prices have shown a tendency to rise
healthily.
The position should be a lesson for
pessimists. War on a world scale pro-
vides a fine test of market permanence
in any commodity which has to be carried
thousands of miles to point of con-
sumption.
Gloomy prophets of the Australian
trade were sure a little while ago that
wool substitutes would spell ruin to the
Australian sheep industry. If substitutes
could play the part of wool and release
the shipping which carries it, warring
nations would jump at the chance.
That they cannot replace wool is
proved by the fact that every pound of
wool which can be grown can still be
sold and used at higher prices than those
of peace, despite difficulties of carriage
and the blotting out of the whole of the
European continent as a market.
Mange in Pigs.
“Tammy”: A test in Victoria with the
new neatsfoot oil-sulphur treatment for
mange in pigs gave most promising
results.
Three pens containing mixed pigs, all
infected with mange, were set aside.
Those in the first were treated with the
hypo-spirits-of-salts solution, the next lot
with neatsfoot oil emulsion and derris
root, the third lot with neatsfoot oil
emulsion containing 1.5 p.c. of sulphur.
The last was the only pen in which a
complete cure was obtained.
To get over the tediousness of grind-
ing up sulphur with oil, it was found that
sulphurated potash served as well, and
the new mixture is made up as follows:
A quart of neatsfoot oil at 2s. 3d., two
quarts of clear, soft water, two teaspoon-
fuls of washing soda and an ounce of
potassium sulphurata at 4d. an ounce.
This makes three quarts of the mixture
for 2s. 7d.
Put the washing soda and sulphurated
potash in a kero, tin with the water and
bring to the boil. When the solids have
dissolved, take the tin off the fire and
pour in the neatsfoot, stirring slowly
all the time. The oil will emulsify at
once and the solution turn milky white.
It can be used as soon as it is cool or
stored for the future. Keep the pot.
sulph. in an airtight container between
mixings.
Best way of applying the solution to
affected pigs is with a spray pump ; the
hand type will do for all except large
herds. Run the pigs into a small yard
“’ Ullo, Ma — killin’ the fatted calf?”
and block off a corner with a hurdle,
force them into the corner and spray the
whole pig thoroughly, particularly the
affected parts, which are generally the
rump, back of head, ears and snout and
feet. Get some spray inside the ears. It
will not hurt the eyes, but don’t force the
spray directly at the eyes.
Small pigs can best be treated by get-
ting someone to hold them up by the
hind legs while they are sprayed, shifting
the grip to the shoulders for the hind
spraying. Treatment must be repeated
after four days. One man can treat about
15 pigs in an hour. After three or four
sprayings the mange should be beaten.
Pens and runs should be thoroughly
cleaned and disinfected and a watch kept
on the herd for mange symptoms.
Thoughts for Seeding Time.
“Ben Cubbin”: World wheat surplus
stocks are higher now than for the past
six years, being reckoned at 1400 million
bushels last August. In 1939 the figure
was 1150 million, in 1938 it was 593
million and in 1934 1188 million.
Australia contributed heavily to the
big carryover last year, but the subse-
quent drought and heavily-reduced 1940-
41 harvest pulled her stocks down, so that
by August her export surplus is expected
to be very low. Not more than 22 million
bushe s is available for export now. It
doesn t make the future any more rosy.
The Acting-Commonwealth Statistician is
lorced to admit that httle information
is available regarding the requirements of
importmg countries with access to world
supplies and is reduced to seeing hope
m the fact that Poitugal is reported
to have bought some Canadian wheat.
Australian growers are within a few
weeks of seeding. They have to legistei
their farms and obtain licenses to sow,
but there is to be no enforced restriction
other than a prevention of extension on
last year’s acreage. Many growers will
voluntarily reduce areas, not being fools,
and endeavor to replace wheat with
lambs or pigs. All the same, given a
good year, there is every chance of the
country having a 60-million-bushel ex-
port surplus by next Christmas.
Forecasts are idle about the position
then, but the new U.S. shipping release
may help, though it is hard to see any
very great reduction in the 1400-million
world surplus before the next Australian
harvest.
But the U.S. Lease-Lend Bill also in-
eludes “foodstuffs” by an amendment
shoved in during the final stages of the
Senate debate. America has an export
surplus pretty close to 60 million bushels,
and American growers will miss no
chance of getting some of it off their
hands if the Lease-Lend Bill gives them
a chance. There are signs that this factor
is already worrying Canadian wheatmen,
who have a surplus close to 450 million
bushels. Canada has decided to limit
deliveries for the coming year to 230
million bushels, which means reduced
acreage—surplus wheatland may grow
other grains.
In Toronto recently there was a meet-
ing of the Canadian Federation of Agri-
culture at which delegates representing
300,000 Canadian farmers pledged them-
selves to put the Dominion’s farming
problems fair in front of the Govern-
ment and keep them there.
Greasing his drill bearings and setting
his combine clocks, the Australian wheat-
grower should be doing a little hard
thinking about the future. His Govern-
ment is prepared to stick to him with a
stabilised price, but these things have their
limits. Export wheat has little or no
future at present except ip harried Britain
and to a much lesser extent in the Orient.
And the news that Australian imple-
ment firms like the Sunshine-Massey
jj arr j s people are consigning large orders
of harvesting machinery to Britain-and
sendi Australian experts to start and
maintain them _ is worth not i ng in con-
j uncbon wbb t be statement at the begin-
nj of the that agricultural produc-
tion jn Br ( tain was t 0 be intensified,
L , oyd George has long hdd that> if
Britain liked, she could so step up her
agricultural production that she could
lose the battle against submarin es and
a j r . ra iders at sea and still not be starved
jnto submission . Anybody who has seen
English “ waste ” and “ park ” lands can
bebeve
' ... , . ,
, factors are being used on British land
not a plough for centuries,
H h as been estimated that the country
could bring yet another 1,900,000 acres
under the plough. Many of Britain s
1,000,000 horses are being replaced by
machines and turned into meat and by-
products, and the produce of 5,000,000
acres which they eat each year saved for
human consumption. This, it is argued,
would release 2000 food ships for othci
purposes.
Every man who can replace wheat with
something else, be it stock or Stock-
fodder, might be wise to consider it
before making his seeding plans.
Why Premiums Are Paid.
“Ben C.”: A good gluten wheat can
mean anything from Id. to 9d. a bushel
more in premiums. The value of gluten
in flour-milling provides the reason.
Gluten is viscid and sticky. It not
only helps the flour dough to hang to-
gether, but is highly nutritious. It is tfie
product of an interaction, when water is
present, of gliadin and glutenin, elements
that are separate in the wheat grain.
Obviously a wheat of good gluten quality
improves the bread-making properties
of the flour.
Wheats like the Pusas and Cailloux
carry more gluten than is necessary for
normal flour, so that the addition of
grain of these varieties to other wheat of
less gluten-content steps the whole up
to a useful point. Those wheats draw
high premiums because a miller having


OFFICER TYPE MILITARY BOOT
OFFICIAL PATTERN
• Abbey quality and Abbey
value are combined in this sturdy
boot. Features include high
military leg, heavy double sole
and stout water-resisting upper
of genuine ooze calf with calf
lining throughout and waterproof
tongue.
47/6
OOZE
CALF.
The same boot in Zebu Leather, 48/6
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street.
• i--innv , u
A 33
iiUDOiincrs
%
o
m:
3P®
is
o
urn
•S=r
V
for
GEARS—
PULLEYS
BELTING
HANGERS
BEARINGS
SHAFTING
CLUTCHES
COUPLINGS
PIVOT DRIVES-
V BELT DRIVES
I. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
Makers of Quality Leather Products since 1858
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK ST. SYDNEY - 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST. STH. MELBOURNE
=“1
TIMBER KILLER !<
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN ]
DAYS from roots to top. New!
method. NO RING-BARKING! I
Prevents suckering! Eradicates i
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO (15ft.)
BEARS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR!'
Fields 2001bs. Sow NOW. 2/6 packet. (
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., SYDNEY. <
ẁ
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
them can afford to buy more grain of
weaker gluten content.
Gular, Fedweb I and Eureka haven’t
the same high gluten stability, but their
general standard is higher than ordinary
f.a.q. wheat and improves flour in which
they are gristed. They bring premiums
also.
Sometimes a prime Ford sample will
draw a premium because of its high per-
centage of very elastic gluten.
These varieties all yield well in dis-
tricts where the soil is fairly heavy and
rainfall is high.
Hints for the Farm.
“R.N.”: A ram without his overcoat
can hardly be expected to maintain the
same interest in his duty as one warmly
clad. Give the shorn ram at least six
weeks to gather some wool before going
to work and you won’t be able to blame
him for low lambing percentages.
“Clyde”: Watch the working horses’
shoulders in autumn, when the skin of
humans and animals and the bark of
trees break easily. A badly-fitting collar
will give a sore shoulder in no time,
Soak a new collar in water overnight,
then put it on the horse wet and allow
him to work it into shape. If a sore
develops, make a pad with a clean bran
bag and cut a hole where it fits over the
sore. This will keep pressure off the
sore, tighten collar and reduce friction,
“Bundalinga”: Laxity in cleaning the
dairy plant means poor-quality milk and
cream. Be very careful about washing
the hands of milkers and udders of cows
—dirt and mud contaminate milk. Keep
the milk as free as possible from sedi-
ment Follow maker’s instructions closely
in cleansing milking-machines, and, if
trouble persists, seek the advice of the
district dairy instructor. Avoid dust or
m ud in the yards,
“Yeno Ham”: Pigs that are not prop-
erly housed require about 10 p.c. more
feed than those enjoying good quarters,
As sunlight is the best disinfectant, have
the roofs high enough to allow plenty
of sun to enter the houses. Build the
piggery, especially the houses, on rising
ground to ensure good drainage. Make
sure the walls are smooth and free of
draughts. Split timber lets in too much
air > and is a harbor for parasites. Keep
floors as dry as possible,
“Wester”: If you’ve just dug a tank,
keep stock away from it till the first
shower, then drive them into it and
move them about so they trample bottom
and batters. This will pack the soil,
mak .e the tank hold better and reduce
erosion risks.
“54 or Drop”: If you’re planting trees
in extra heavy soil, chuck a few hefty
stones in the bottom of the hole. It gives
a chance for drainage and reduces the
risk of the roots becoming waterlogged,
“G.U.P.”; If you’ve ever had to wear
a singlet encrusted with dust and sweat
for any time you know what a horse
feels like when the same old saddle-
cloth is used year in and year out until
it becomes harsh and grimy. Give the
thing a good wash occasionally and
search it for prickles and pointed seeds.
“Mullengah”: On the southern N.S.W.
tablelands Peter Milson, Laverstock,
Bowning, was one of the first to go in
for pasture improvement. He breeds
merinos, and is a consistent winner in
the commercial shearing class for wether
clips at Yass Show.
“Pinkie Bend”; The C.S.I.R. has made
a soil survey at Red Cliffs, near Mildura
(Vic.), of an area of about 12,000 acres
of mallee. The survey was the last of
three, covering Mildura, Merbein and
Red Cliffs. Red Cliffs began as a soldier
settlement in 1920 and produces mainly
sultanas. It is typical mallee soil, parallel
sand ridges running through the district.
More than 100 soil samples were tested
and mapped in 16 types. The settlement
had the earlier experiences of Mildura
to draw on and drainage was one of
the first installations. This, with the low
salinity of the soils, has prevented seri-
ous salt or waterlogging trouble. Crops
there maintain high productivity, and the
C.S.I.R. looks for more improvement
following an extension of drainage.
“Bad Australian”: I have seen
lucerne flourishing a few feet above sea-
level under Capricorn, and the same
plant providing the staple fodder at an
altitude of 8000 ft. to 10,000 ft., where
summer temperatures vary from 80deg.
at noon to zero before midnight, and
where the plant lies dormant under snow
for several months in the year. Other
conditions being favorable, variations of
[temperature should have no effect on
lucerne at any point, high or low, be-
tween Cape York and the most southerly
areas of Tasmania. Where the subsoil
is free .from stiff clay the roots will
persist until water is reached, when the
plant becomes practically independent of
surface moisture ; I have seen them in
the face of a washout, terminating in a
layer of fibre several inches thick where
water was reached at a depth of 80ft.
The alfalfa (lucerne) growers of the oasis
of Calama (South America) have evolved
a plant that flourishes on land so highly
impregnated with mineral salts that the
only natural herbage is a thin, wiry
growth resembling couch grass, called
pasto salado (salt grass). A plot
of ground containing a low per-
centage of salt was selected and
sown with seed from ordinary soil.
The seed from the crop was sown on
land more highly impregnated with the
mineral, and this process was repeated
until a plant was evolved that, irrigated
with the virulently brackish water of
the locality, produced crops differing little
from those on the salt-free areas.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXII.
PUTTING UP WITH A PET.
When you gather the family one Satur-
day night to go home you discover young
Tom, who is nearly 15, with a large box
and in the box a reddish bird with long
legs. Tom tells you that he won it in
a sixpenny raffle for the patriotic funds.
With visions of a nice Sunday dinner, you
pack Tom and his prize in with the rest
of the family and the shopping and home
you go.
Next day you learn that the bird is not
to be a dinner, Tom stands pat on that
and his mother stands with him. The
bird is a prize English gamecock and,
properly looked after, will not only win
show prizes but fetch good money when
offered for sale. So Tom says. His
mother says that it is good for the boy to
have a hobby, that some people expect
their boys to think of nothing but work-
ing night and day on the farm, and it’s
a pity some people forget they were
young themselves once and liked pets,
and that —but by then you’ve agreed.
The rooster is turned loose in the fowl-
pen. Something like a duststorm breaks
loose, and when it’s over you have your
Sunday dinner, only it isn’t Tom’s game-
cock but the poor old heavyweight
Orpington. You order Tom to make a
special pen for his fowl and keep it shut
up there.
Tom makes a pen. But that gamecock
has his own ideas. That Sunday after-
noon, just as you’re settling down for a
nap, a railway engine whistles in the
yard. You rush out, but can see nothing.
You turn inside, whereupon somebody
rips through a log with a circular saw.
“That flamin’ chook,” you howl, and
make for its pen. It stands on one leg,
eyes you superciliously and pecks idly at
nothing on the wall of its pen. Tom,
with that instinct the young have when
their pets are in danger, arrives. His
gamecock promptly imitates a calf call-
ing for help in a high-pitched tenor.
“Gosh,” you say to Tom, “how long
is he goin’ t’ keep that up?”
“It’s because he’s shut up,” says Tom.
“Then let him out,” you snap, and
make back to your bunk.
Days pass. But the even tenor of the
farm is broken. Tom’s confounded pet
inserts itself into your life with a mad-
dening persistence. It blasts the morn-
ing with its shattering yells, it raids the
vegetable garden, it puts the dogs to
flight. Every time you pass it the thing
watches you with a baleful eye, turning
its head from side to side until you are
out of range.
The fowls, hitherto respectable birds
that faithfully produced a fair propor-
tion of eggs each day, have become
demoralised. They hang round that
blasted freak like flappers round the local
schoolteacher at a picnic. Even old
Dusty, the most ancient hen in the yard,
ruffles her feathers —or what’s left of
’em —and tries to be coy. Instead of
dutifully making for their nests, the whole
covey of them follow the long-legged
nuisance around, nearly falling over
themselves when he discovers a grub
or something and says “Tuk-tuk-tuk.
Tuk-uta-cor-or.”
Feeding the horses has become a trial.
The thing can jump like a kangaroo and
raids the mangers, scratching the chaff
in all directions. In the end you or Jack
have to mount guard at feed-up times.
You threaten to shoot the bird, but Tom
gets fierce about it, and his mother,
although she is weakening • since the egg
supply fell away, sticks up for him.
In dark moments, you and Jack debate
the possibility of an accident befalling
the gamecock. Jack makes a catapult
and tries his hand at silent sniping, but
has to give it up after killing one hen,
injuring a dog and putting a stone
through the windscreen of the car. Every
time a fox yelps at night or there is any
sort of a flurry outside, you are expected
to get up and protect that bird. You
try to buy it from Tom, but he has his
eyes fixed on a prize at the show, and
wouldn’t sell for £lOO.
x\ll attempts to shut the thing up in a
pen are defeated by its shrill protests.
You feel certain by this time that it
knows you mean it no good, and the look
in its red eyes is full of menace. Tom
feeds it well. It fills out, becomes arro-
gant, is boss of the farmyard flora and
fauna. The bigger it gets the louder and
more horrid becomes its shriek, and the
louder and more frequently it shrieks.
You can’t shut out that noise from early
dawn until the evening shades bring some
peace.
The horses are off their feed. The dogs
only show up after dark. Jack is in open
rebellion. The rooster discovers the two
beehives behind the tankstand, picks off
the bees as they come and go, then up-
sets one hive and cleans up the honey.
You feel you can stand no more. It is
the day you have old Lion in to treat his
greasy heels, and are about to go for
the gun when Jack says, softly, “Dad.”
You turn. Jack points. The gamecock
is in the yard with Lion. Lion is stand-
ing, stamping idly with his greasy heels.
The bird eyes the procedure, draws near
and pecks at something on Lion’s off
hind heel. Lion is the mildest animal
on the place, but that’s too much. There
is a flash of flying heels, a screech cut
off in the middle and a few feathers drift-
ing idly on the breeze.
You and Jack grin at each other hap-
pily, then compose your faces and go
into the house to break the news.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2i£d. per line.
An Australian airman’s very sensible letter from Canada goes on top this week.
Home Thoughts from Canada
Since I have been in Canada it has
struck me that we’re missing the oppor-
tunity of a century. Australia now has
thousands of country-boosters, publicity
men and direct-contact men scattered
over the face of the globe in the form
of her overseas forces. The sight of an
Australian uniform in any assembly
generally provokes a barrage of questions
about the country as a whole, of which
they are as abysmally ignorant as we
were of theirs before coming to it. Many
a time I have wished for a set of photo-
graphs to give them some idea of'what
the country looks like or comprehensive
statistics to answer their questions.
No man should leave Australia without
a book of such photographs, information
and statistics ; no battalion, ship or
squadron should leave Australia without
a projector and relevant films on Aus-
tralian scenery, resources and conditions
of life. No large formation should be
without the means of producing a decent
sort of Australian exhibit at any place
where this opportunity offers.
As all the Old Diggers know, the uni-
form is a passport to meeting socially—
and therefore on a more receptive ground
than a normal salesman —all grades of
society. After all, as we will have to help
pay for the war after it has finished,
we may as well hop in and try to lessen
the load now. — Aussie Airman (Canada).
War and Peace
A great deal has been written about
the general ghastliness of war, and in.
the main it is all pretty accurate. But
allowing for all the misery, the strife,
the destruction, loss of life and all the
rest of the horrible picture, it seems that
there is another side to it all.
In democratic countries such as our
own, what happens in a long period of
peace? Isn’t there a tendency for a
general moral slackness in almost all
walks of life? People don’t take much
interest in the Government as long as
taxes aren’t too stiff and the majority
have jobs. Few indeed give a damn
about anything except making plenty
and having a good time. Religion
is at a low ebb, and flourishes most
amongst those who have least need qf it.
Standards are lowered —a man need
only show that he is a “shrewd head”
and a good fellow to get away with any-
thing short of murder. We show con-
tempt for our own system, and all sorts
of crackpot theories are encouraged
in our universities and elsewhere.
No one cares what you say or
think ; everything is met with a tolerant
smile, and the urge to appear more radi-
cal than the radicals in some people,
mostly young folk, leads to all sorts of
unhealthiness.
You could go on for hours enumerat-
ing the many ways in which the nation
starts to go to pieces as a result of too
much security and lack of hardships.
There is too much tolerance everywhere,
and too much of this is just as bad as not
enough, because we have not yet learned
to stand up to it. We become complacent
about everything, about social relations,
about our responsibilities to the commu-
nity, about God ; and to become com-
placent about this last question indicates
a truly fatuous complacency which alters
its tune in war-time —we are all calling
on God to defend the right then.
Until we can learn to adhere to higher
standards in time of peace, I think we
shall have wars, and I think they will do
us a lot of good as well as harm.—
R.H.G. (W.A.).
Australian-Italians
As one who has been brought into
intimate contact with Italians in N.Q. and
the Western Riverina, I have to endorse
all “Red Ned’s” remarks (B. 12/2/’4l).
The impression I formed of them was
that 99 p.c. were bitterly anti-Fascist in
their politics. Being floodbound for a
fortnight in a small N.Q. village, I spent
most of my waking hours yarning to
Italian canecutters and farmers. After a
few days and a few beers they lost
their reserve, and discussed quite frankly
their reasons , foy leaving Italy: One
man put it: “Too much control by magis-
trate and priest.”
My experience as a council clerk is that
the majority of Italian immigrants make
good citizens for three reasons in par-
ticular: (1) They pay their debts; (2)
they are extremely hardworking ; (3) they
are thrifty. The only grouch I heard
against them came from a publican-cum-
s.p. bookie.
A magistrate assured me in 1932
that, while Italians numbered 43 p.c. of
the population of his district, they pro-
vided less than 5 p.c. of the police court
cases. I asked one of the largest store-
keepers in Innisfail how he got on for
bad debts. His reply was: “Not much
trouble here; they are mostly Italians
“Umm, crook tonsils !”
or Maltese, and those fellows always pay
their bills, though they might be a bit
slow.”
Finally, isn’t one of our most brilliant
medicoes of pure Italian ancestry? And
one of Roosevelt’s best supporters in
his aid for Britain is Mayor la Guardia.
We shouldn’t damn a people with
whom we have been friends for un-
numbered centuries because their boss
went rqad.— Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
A “Thrilling” Week-end
V In a recent week-end a flock of Syd-
ney women in uniform “marched” on
the Friday and 5000 more had a sort of
review in the city’s biggest park on
Sunday.
Needless to say, Sydney’s flapper press
recorded these extraordinary doings with
hysterical enthusiasm. “Precision of the
Coldstreams,” giggled one paper. “Must
have been trained by an A.I.F. sergeant-
major,” tittered another. Pictures of the
parade in the same papers showed clearly
that no A.I.F. man could have survived
the spectacle of a row of feet in 40
different positions at once.
Society dames and baby-faced flappers
in uniforms shouldn’t be shoved forward
as part of the nation’s war effort. In the
event of the real thing arriving suddenly
they’d be about as useful as a bull in a
china shop, and probably a lot more
trouble.
That policemen and other officials
should be taken away from more im-
portant duties to control traffic and mar-
shal crowds at these female frivolities
would be nonsensical in peace-time. In
war-time it comes close to tragic farce.
Their performances resemble nothing
so much as rehearsals by extras in some
“super-colossal” Hollywood extrava-
ganza. Total cost of their uniforms
would buy useful fighter ’planes. Many
a sincere woman who volunteered for
N.E.S. training found that she had to
buy a uniform or get the cold shoulder.
Many a sincere woman has since sick-
ened of the squabbling and the tuft-hunt-
ing and retired.
An observant reporter noted “special”
cheers for the nurses. This was natural.
A nurse always looks like a woman,
gentle, capable, charming and with the
feminine power of healing. A woman
got up as a naval or military officer looks,
if she has a figure, like a member of
the chorus abroad in daylight; if she
hasn’t a figure, like a comic artist s
model.
There is work for women in war-time.
But it can be done in sensible, washable
frocks and overalls and away from the
public streets and parks. In Britain just
now the Minister for Labor is calling
for women workers in munitions plants
and engineering shops. Judging from the
response there has been no mad rush by
the uniformed society dame and typist-
with-big-ideas to oblige him.
In Australia we are repeatedly told
that it is not men that Britain wants but
machines. If not men, still less women.
And still less women in uniform. —T.
McNark (N.S.W.).
Fostering Literature
The greatest eras in literature, the arts
and science (B. 12/3/’4l) have been ages
when patronage
created an atmo-
sphere favorable to
their development —
whether the foster-
ing was done by
churchmen, kings,
aristocrats, business
magnates or a cul-
tured community. If
in a period or coun-
try a particular
form of art, litera-
ture or science re-
ceives no encourage-
ment, achievement in
that field will be
small.
Thus it has often
been remarked that
while Australians
have done well in
fiction English
critics have declared
that in no other
country of equiva-
lent population have
so many good novels
been written during
the last 20 years —
they have produced
little biographical or
historical work of
high quality.
Lack of opportu-
nity is the cause.
Not only local firms
but English and
American publishers
are interested in
Australian fiction of merit, but a biog-
raphy or history on an Australian subject
has scant chance of seeing print unless
the author publishes it or has special in-
fluence. Hence many Australian writers
whose talents are best suited to one of
these spheres have devoted themselves to
novel writing or some other more paying
form of literary activity.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize proves
that encouragement would yield good
results. When that competition was
thrown open to non-fiction several biog-
raphies were submitted —one, a life of
Macquarie, was bracketed with two very
able novels as first-prize winner in last
year’s contest. —D. A. (N.S.W.).
The difference between great and
mediocre writers (B. 12/3/’4l) is that one
writes to satisfy his creative instinct and
the other for money. No good author
ever found inspiration from the lure of
£ s. d. alone ; great writers earn good
money, but it wasn’t the money that
made them great.
If publishers suddenly went berserk and
increased royalties to all writers to a
pound a book, they would disappear
under an avalanche of MSS., but 1 doubt
if it would increase the publication of
real good books one iota.
Writers’ itch is a truly noble itch when
it afflicts noble minds, but when it
attacks the mercenary-minded fellow who
writes with his tongue in his cheek and
one eye on his, bank balance it merely
resolves itself into a common skin irri-
tation and remains as such on the sur-
face.— Danbo (Vic.).
Syndicated Stuff
That editress who told “Willyn” (B.
5/2/’4l) that she had to buy syndicated
stuff because the standard of Australian
writers was too low was pulling his leg.
There are at least three Australian pub-
lications which print essentially Austra-
lian stuff, and they receive fully 20 times
more printable material than they can
possibly use. But there is a fetish among
a certain set of publishers that nothing
good can come out of Australia, and an
Australian has only to submit material to
have it rejected, unread, while any rub-
bish from an English or an American
writer is published.
That is why we read of sheep being
exported from Darwin ; of rabbits being
shot at Brocks Creek (NT.) ; of camels’
camps two miles west* of Fort Hill
(which would place them in the fair-
way for the mail steamers leaving Dar-
win for Singapore) ; of camels loading up
bales of opium at Darwin for sale in the
interior; of bush police in the North
wearing blue serge uniforms and formal
police helmets; of cannibal trees in the
North that capture and eat men; of
miners using frying-pans for tea-making ;
of Japanese forming settlements along
the coast, settlements with streets and
houses, electric light and power, and
trained battalions of abos. ; of detectives
discovering a murderer from a fragment
of envelope which bore the postmark
“Palmerston, Northern Territory of Aus-
tralia” (a postmark which never at any
time existed), by which they deduced that
the murderer was an American negro.
And so on.
All this rubbish has been printed as
syndicated stuff, but when folk write of
the true North, and of the North as
they know it, their writings are rejected
on the plea of inferiority. Actually, it’s
because syndicated stuff is cheap to buy.
— WINGELLA (N.T.).
Inspirations Then and Now
Agree that you can’t condemn the art
of the film just because much of it is
mush (B. 12/3/’4l), but a nation whose
youth models itself on film stars whose
chief roles are those of gangsters, smart
alecks and cocktail swillers isn’t going
to make much of a showing later on.
1 belong to the over-40 lot, and am
therefore an old fogey, but 25 years
ago our generation was modelling itself
on Beatty, who, we were convinced, would
have licked the German fleet single-
handed if given the chance ; on Captain
Oates, who walked out into the Arctic
night alone and died to save his com-
rades ; on Florence Nightingale, Nurse
Cavell and a host of unnamed fine spirits.
The results of this standard can be
seen today in the achievements of the
British race during the war in face of
tremendous odds, but will the next gene-
ration measure up to them if they take
as their heroines “the most popular-
divorcees or duchesses of the day”?—
Adam (N.S.W.).
Radio Programmes and Dollars
I have before me the most recent list
of broadcasting feature transcriptions
available in Australia. Sixteen firms dis-
tribute features for broadcasting, in asso-
ciation with advertising matter ; but only
one lists the country of origin of the
transcriptions. An analysis of its prin-
cipal offerings is as follows:
U.S.A. Aust. Eng.
Drama —complete episodes.. 19 22 1
Drama —serials .. .. 22 4
Half-hour shows .. .. 3 2
Five-minute shows .. .. 18 2
Comedy—serial .. .. 8 1
Musical ~ .. .. 24 7 1
Variety shows .. 7 2
Audience participation shows 7
Juvenile programmes .. 13 10
121 50 2
From the titles this firm’s broadcasting
features seem representative of the gen-
eral run of companies supplying tran-
scriptions for Australian radio stations.
In other words, two-thirds or more of
the radio entertainment from commercial
stations is still —in the second year of
war —of U.S.A. vintage. Even though
some of the transcriptions may have been
brought in before the war, the percentage
of imports seems far too high from every
reasonable viewpoint.
There is plenty of radio copywriting
talent in this country, and several firms
are well equipped technically for record-
ing transcriptions of all kinds. Increased
output of local work during the war
would benefit radio in Australia im-
mensely ; some of it would probably be
poor stuff, but it could hardly be worse
from lingual, cultural or moral stand-
points than American dramas and
musicals for which we are bartering
sorely needed dollar exchange.—Wuss-
leam (Vic.).
Land Men
So, “E. 0.5.,” one of the most trouble-
some problems of land settlement is the
man who started with too little money


(B. 26/2/’4l). Most of this gallant army
came back from the last war broken and
maimed men ; they were placed on third-,
fourth- and fifth-class country which no
civilian would touch with a pitchfork.
And the fortunate (there were many of
them) who were able to unload their
“mistakes” on the bloody but unbowed
heads of soldiers did so with unbeliev-
able callousness and greed.
In some cases the wives of these men
had capital which they sank into the
hopeless muddle for the sake of their
children who were growing up around
them.
These “frozen assets” are all that
remain in numberless cases, and “E. 0.5.”
says that something should be done to
“put them out of their misery.” What
an admission! f Kind as that intention is
it is now too late. The majority have
laid down their burden because it was
too heavy to carry. But that page of
Australian history can never be blotted
out.—K. A. R. (W.A.).
Erosion
“Trevdee” (B. 26/2/’4l) has the right
idea when he accuses graziers who
run cattle in Victoria’s highlands as be-
ing responsible for the erosion in the
rivers, I have met many of these fellows,
and without exception they use the fire-
stick. When you mention the burning
of the high plains and the mountain tops,
most of them merely smile knowingly and
say nothing, but a few openly admit
that they burn off after mustering in
April before the winter snow.
One fellow was quite frank about it,
saying: “The Government leases a high
plain to me to feed my cattle during
the summer months. I want grass, and
a fire will bring grass for the next season.”
Of course, he does not realise that
his property down in the valley is being
ruined by his own firestick. The root
of the trouble is the leasing of cattle
runs in the mountains. Until this policy
is reversed mountain sides will slip into
the rivers, forests —never plentiful in Aus-
tralia —will disappear, and expensive
works like the Hume Dam will be silted
up and rendered useless. If Australia
had a single forest authority and policy
directed from Canberra this commer-
cialised vandalism might be stamped out.
—Ayd Bee (Vic.).
If “Trevdee” and other sentimentalists
who shed a tear at the sight of a ring-
barked gum-tree were honest they would
realise that the motives of the much-
abused tree-killers are identical with their
own. We both seek space, the writers at
space rates. I kill trees for the space
they occupy. Space that I require for the
growing of feed. Feed that will not grow
under those trees. I do it to provide the
wherewithal to feed and clothe myself
and family.
It may be all wrong, and posterity may
regret my actions; but frankly I don’t
give a damn about posterity. I daren’t.
My children’s bellies want filling now.
And I suggest that “Trevdee” and other
contributors would be less concerned with
posterity if they were told that the space
they secure would be paid for in a hun-
dred years’ time.
During nearly 20 years in this corner
of the continent I have seen trees give
place to hundreds of farms, which, in
spite of the Dismal Jimmies, are produce
ing food to the value of nearly a million
pounds p.a. Farms, homes, schools in
place of bush. Hardy young Australians,
many of them now in khaki, growing in
country which formerly harbored only
dingoes, quaggas and possums.
A tree is a lovely thing. I see that
when I have time to stand and stare.
But Australian children are lovelier still.
In a hundred years these farms will still
be here. Better farms producing better
children. Posterity will see to that,
though some future “Trevdee” may rave
at my generation.—G. A. M. (W.A.).
Fruit and Vegetables for Darwin
In the southern States apples are rot-
ting on the trees, and orchardists are to
be paid to dig them into the ground be-
cause it will not pay to market the fruit.
In Darwin apples are rare birds. For
four weeks we have not seen an apple ;
when they do arrive they will be sold at
3d. each, and the stocks sent up will be
exhausted within a week. Then we’ll do
a perish for apples for another three
weeks or so till the next ship brings a
fresh supply.
Not that apples are the only scarcity
in Darwin. Potatoes and onions were
unprocurable one week; for three weeks
there wasn’t a cabbage to be found in
Darwin ; there were no eggs for 14 days.
Yet in the southern States producers of
these commodities were wailing about
the poor returns they received for their
goods.
There’s a good market for fruit and
vegetables in Darwin, if only some way
can be found to bring producer and con-
sumcr in touch with each other. And,
with the new all-weather road in good
running order, the infrequent and un-
satisfactory shipping service could be
ignored.—J. S. L. (N.T.).
Sentiment
On Sunday afternoon I walked through
the wards of a huge public hospital, a
vast working demonstration of the two
great human virtues “kindness in an-
other’s trouble, courage in your own.”
One of the doctors remarked to me that
it was unthinkable but true that similar
institutions in other countries had been
bombed quite recently and that the safety
of this one was dependent on the pro-
duction of munitions to be employed in
keeping potential enemies at a distance.
Much perturbed in mind I left the
house of mercy and sauntered in an ad-
jacent park, where thousands of citizens
were gathered in groups listening to
speeches by political orators. The audi-
ences were composed mainly of men
whose daily tasks were directly or in-
directly connected with munition-making.
After listening to several speeches I
tried to think how they would have
sounded to me if voiced by one repre-
sentative orator, with myself as the only
listener. Here is the general sense of
the arguments:
“You are a downtrodden wage slave
The only war that need concern you is
the class war. Your only real enemy is
your employer. The present industrial
boom has raised the value of your ser-
vices. You are justified in demanding
the uttermost farthing or in striking till
you get it. If your idleness endangers
hospitals or even your own home then
it’s just too bad. Such sacrifices are
necessary to achievfe the Socialist State.
To be contented with your lot is to be a
traitor to your class. Charity of all kinds
should be left to the Government.”
The hospital and the park are both in
Australia. The patients, doctors, nurses,
crowds and orators are all Australians.
I am still wondering if the speeches were
allowable free speech, deliberate sabotage,
or just froth and bubble ; also how many
of the listeners sympathised with the
sentiments expressed.— Bushed (S.A.).
Universal Social Service?
Agreed, “Auntie Blah” (B. 5/3/’4l), if
we are to have a clean-up, then it must
not end on racecourses and in the bars.
Personally, I’m all for the accustoming
to the discipline of responsible toil those
who have adopted the technique of the
lily, but such discipline would have to
cover those bar-flies and well-clobbered
gents who drink at clubs and in the
saloon bar —not merely the bottle-green
and warbie work-shirker who hums his
way through life.
The petty punter who thinks he can
get off the labor market by beating the
books and the mild dipso, who downs
tools to bend an elbow over a pot have
too long been the whipping boys of those
people who get hot under the collar
when they make up their tax returns.
Unfortunately, there are many loafers in
the outer suburbs who escape opprobrium
and the charge of social backsliding.
From a social viewpoint these must be
indexed as unemployed, although the
fact that they “have the means to do
it” would make a charge of vagrancy in-
valid. Producing nothing, they are in the
same group as the poor devil who day-
dreams of elevating himself to their
envied laziness by short-
cutting toil through news-
paper tips, magic systems
or the fantasies of booze.
Poverty makes their
motives transparent,
while those who loiter
with the aid of “means”
escape criticism.
Any society can find
useful, compulsory toil
for its units. There is
no rational objection to
universal service. Why
not universal social ser-
vice in the form of
work? War has given us
a dynamic. Is there any
reason then that the com-
munity spirit cannot be
sublimated into an all-in
work effort in the post-
war years?
A dole and relief
camps for those who
cannot pay the rent is
not social service. Work
camps and production
sheets for all are a neces-
sary social gesture, a
measure that would abol-
ish the charge of social
cleavage within the body
politic. During the de-
pression years when the
bush roads were thick
with young bagmen and the city
corners cluttered with workless youths,
I have heard fat, well-fed gents
who consumed much but produced
nothing criticising “these young loafers.”
The Mrs. Big-Houses of Toorak and
Bellevue Hill, although they prob-
ably never justified themselves in their
lives, are moaning over their bridge
tables that modern girls are too lazy and
inefficient to answer their ads. for slaveys
—piqued, no doubt, over the fact that
the slavey group is now doing national
work in the munition factories.
Ideals of social service and real citi-
zenship are salutary, of course ; but, like
“Auntie Blah,” I wonder just what sort of
work could be expected from people
who all their lives have done nothing
more strenuous than the organic work
of masticating and digesting food.—
Auntie Blah’s Nephew (S.A.).
Values
Why shouldn’t the Government run
true to form? What does animal health
matter so long as foreign films can come
in (B. 12/3/’41)? Action of this sort,
though, should begin at home. If the
flapper and sensation press feels the paper
shortage there is no outward evidence
of it—Hollywood news, astrology notes,
other meaningless nonsense is given at
full length. Yet several papers devoted
to the interests of the man on the land
have had to curtail their issues or shut
up completely.
Apart from the solvency of file coun-
try being dependent upon the man on
the land, there does seem to be a moronic
streak in our legislators when they allow
reams of paper to be wasted on frivolous
flapdoodle while a journal, solid and useful
from start to finish, doing ten times the
good on one-tenth the publication, has
to close down because paper is not avail-
able. Weigh them in the balance of
commonsense and allot the paper accord-
ingly.—Joe (Q.).
Modern History
In the last 20 years the impartial and
unprejudiced historian has become a
mere myth. What he chronicles is 10 per
cent, fact and 90 per cent, inspired propa-
ganda. And it will remain so while the
historian is dealing with contemporaneous
events. It has always been recognised
that historians are far better fitted to de-
liberate on the history of preceding de-
cades than on current events. The reason
is obvious. With the passage of time
they can correlate data and documents
accumulated over the years, which will
probably have mellowed prejudices and
suspicions that existed at the actual time.
History can only be followed, not out-
paced nor anticipated.
Further, history can never be divorced
from politics and religion—they are his-
tory. Likewise they are the two most
potent causes of discord and bickering.
To allow teachers to deal dogmatically on
history of the past 20 years would not
only be inviting trouble, but would give
them an unequalled opportunity to air
and spread their own particular personal
beliefs. Given a sound education, any
intelligent student can follow the trend
of world affairs, and - form an opinion
as valuable as his teacher’s.
Meanwhile the N. S. Wales Education
Department should play safe and ignore
the recent complaints of those teachers
who are growling because the teaching of
post-war history is discouraged by the
department.— Rett (N.S.W.).
Vocational Guidance
Why should the Government be
expected to find the occupation to which
a student is most suited when his or her
schooldays are ended (B. 12/3/’41)?
Most parents can afford to pay for such
advice, and for them there is in Sydney
an organisation—the Institute of Indus-
trial Psychology—competent to give it.
Probably there are similar organisations
in the other capital cities of Australia.
The cost of maintenance of Govern-
mental institutions of this sort would be
out of all proportion to their usefulness.
A majority would not bother to send their
children for examination unless forced
to, and even then very many would not
do as directed if the recommendations
were against their own desires. If mother
has set her heart on Jimmy becoming a
solicitor because Cousin Matilda’s son
Tommy has been put into that profes-
sion, it will take more than a Govern-
ment official to persuade her that he will
be better suited helping father on the
farm or learning a trade. Dechison
(N.S.W.).
A Labor Government’s Policy
The Labor Government of W.A. pro-
vides in all its public works contracts
for its timber to be supplied from the
State sawmills, and this must be adhered
to even where the locality of the job is
cheek-by-jowl with a private sawmill.
Schools, bridges, culverts and the like
have had their timber brought hundreds
of miles, at much cost of loading, trans-
port by road and rail and unloading on
sites that were not more than a few chains
from a sawmill. That such a policy is
a very costly one to the country does not
appear to disturb the protagonists of
State enterprises, but it is an indication
of what the all-in conditions would be
under complete socialism. —W.C. T.
(W.A.)/
Archibald and the Young Artist
Obviously “F.S.” (B. 5/3/’4l) is not
an artist. He says that the worst thing
that can happen to a young painter is
an early success. Perhaps. What he
needs, says “F. 5.,” is not money, but to
maintain his interest in the problems of
painting. But doesn’t “F.S.” think that
winning the Archibald would prove a
fine stimulant, boosting the interest that
he admits is so necessary? The money
would enable the young painter to devote
himself to serious painting without worry-
ing, for a time at least, about financial
matters and frittering away his talents on
slick commercial work to advertise some-
body’s shaving cream or somebody else’s
underwear. Too many promising young
painters have been swallowed up in the
sink of commercialism.
“They can have a lot of money,” says
“F. 5.,” “and make the opportunities it
gives them for diverting themselves the
excuse for not painting.” Quite apart
from the fact that £5OO isn’t enough to
enable anyone to lead a life of luxury,
how many artists does “F.S.” know who
would use the money for such a purpose?
I certainly don’t know one student —
and I know hundreds who would use
the money for any other purpose than
that for which it was intended.
As for “F.S.’s” story of the artist and
his expensive wife —he can’t take one
isolated example as indicative of the
behavior of all artists’ girl-friends.—
Guy W. Warren (N.S.W.).
‘I am a Witness for Jehovah .”
“Sorry, We are not acting for that party .”


mm
Sir Herbert Barker
“Benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who will
follow the directions
given in the Pelman
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak too
highly of it.”
Pelmanism is a scientific training.
It substitutes good and faithful
habits of mind and memory for
slovenly and fearful ones. Thus it
promotes steadfastness, definiteness
and continuity of effort.
V'.^:
M
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is valu-
able to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
Pelmanism is endorsed publicly by
more than 100 Prominent People.
Pelmanists are found in practically
every calling.
Pelmanism is permanent in its effect
on the Mind, Memory and Person-
ality.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so that we
are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us. We see
more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence, there
is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire exact knowledge,
remember it and recall it as required. 'We learn to trust our sense
perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then open
and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and woman. The
more important of these qualities are
Observation
Will-Power
Decision
Self-Confidence
Judgment
Organisation
Concentration
Initiative
Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
The Exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose. The Pelman
Course is a real training, its primary object being to create good habits
of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly ones, to train the
conscious and the subconscious so that every faculty will, when called
upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of anything
that has to be done.
From several thousands of letters received from men and women doing all
kinds of work in Australia and New Zealand we give the following of recent date:
1 Aug 1 , 14th. ’4O.
Since starting Pelmanism I have improved
immensely in. various ways. This Lesson
(Concentration) was very informative. T was
always under the impression that concentration
was fixation of thought. —Printer ( Vic.).
April 22nd, '4O.
As an example of what Pelmanism has done
the following might be of interest. For the
past week I have been working ~ on a subject
which for the past twelve months almost drove
me to "despair. Today f succeeded in obtaining
the maximum percentage in an oral examination
which lasted over two hours. 1 had no fears,
felt perfectly confident and felt a tinge of regret
when it was over. 1 was thoroughly enjoying
myself.- —Officer (merchant ship).
March sth, "40.
Enclosed you will find my work sheet for
Lesson 12.
I must enclose a, few lines to express my
gratitude for the information and advice con-
tained in this Lesson 12. From it I have
obtained the solution ,to a problem which I’ve
tried to solve in various ways, but without pre-
vious success. Had this been the only benefit
derived, this' Course would have been worth
while. —Clerk (Vie.).
March Bth, ’4O.
T forward, my last work sheet with a feeling
of regret. This Course has been a great pleasure
for ine, and I have enjoyed the reading and study
immensely. J complete it with a feeling of satis-
faction and enlightenment, and know that 1 have
received far, more benefit than I had imagined
possible.— Lady bookkeeper ( Q’lund ).
Feb. 15th, ’4O.
My casual memory is almost infallible. I note
important details to he done at specified times,
hut rarely need to rely on these written notes.
I seem now to have an automatic mental “remem-
bering” device. —Bank Officer (Vic.).
Feb. Ist, ’4O.
W ith the help*and encouragement of Pelmanism
I realised that 1 possessed artistic-c«m-business
talent. Soon after completing the Pelman Course
I found a place in Radio as cadet announcer.
Today, about six years later, I am the manager
(station named). Pelmanism is largely respon-
sible for all this.
You have my permission to show this letter to
anyone really interested in your splendid Course
of—The Way to Live!— Manager (inland).
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as g confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU23SS.
There are over half a million
Telman ists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Telman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established
in Melbourne for over 33 years.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of Sew
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute,, Mel-
bourne.
Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind-training. A
proper grasp of it
■would. save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the key
to his own career.”
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
m
Maine Sybil
Thorndike.
“Pelmanism gives a
mental clarity and
quality of , alertness
that sees opportunities
and uses them rightly.-’
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne,
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Same
Address
134
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY,
w
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street* Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue. *
I enclose 24/- ' {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
SEND “THE BULLETIN”
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
TO
Special Concession Rates:
o*
v>
12 months . . 15/-
6 months . 8/-
4/
o°.
post free.
A'V
c S'l
v v^ tl \V e *
tO> c V v 0
s c<
>A'’”
*M V
o*' \o
cfvC e ' *A e
.; /^sw


i
is«i
=/
\s
o
jS
'//
Ua
\
V
A
I
«
tlve / fflxkj6axtoA
The , experience gained by A.W.A. in designing
and manufacturing wireless equipment during
the past 27 years is now proving invaluable in
advancing Australia’s war effort.
The Company’s extensive organisation is to-
day producing high-grade wireless apparatus
for the Australian Navy, Army and Air Force
in ever-increasing quantities, as well as manu-
facturing stations for vital Wireless Communi-
cation Services.
Over 2,500 Australians are to-day engaged at
the A.W.A. Radio- Electric Works.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'ASIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
