

There Is No Substitute
for QUALITY
DOWN through the centuries the Imperial Spirit
has advanced with ever-increasing strength,
inspiring the pioneer and transforming the wilderness.
As an all-Austrglian link in the Imperial chain of
industrial achievement stands the wonderful success of
WILLIAM ARNOTT PTY., LIMITED. An out-
standing success, too, based on the highest standards of
integrity and efficiency . . . National standards, unaltered
by time or distance.
It is therefore an inspiring thought to Australians that
the rich yield of their own fertile countryside can be
converted into a perfect product with a world-wide
demand, and that the process of manufacture is
unsurpassed in efficiency and hygiene.
* r
kend to £)«f«na
t •>,C>'-1
,*» C
i -
*iQ‘ t ■
•:,»■■■■■• i
->...
*:-s
* X ’ >.
X
*£•*£. A
*1 ■,- . - -
*
Ai
■ ■
JrV ' «,.wr*-r ’ 4i . <
tm*
, , hut* *-*r *"
w *; „ « <-„ • -
j»r
u iVi F
x,: ** fgj' p *,.* p.
■ j^sssaP**
ti
•> * 4
ft
*• .»
*rx .<•
Jl
»-*Z
s£:r.* '*
■ * - V.'>/.
%x->
Amolt s Facror/
at Homebush, (New South Wales
9i
■"»-. ---. •*
e«fea
ARNOTTS
FAMOUS BISCUITS
ALWAYS ASK YOUR GROCER FOR ARNOTT'S "THEY ARE BETTER
0 , K -A.
THAN
m
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 62.— N0. 3211.
Wednesday, August 27, 1941.
Stalin’s War and Ours
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
freebee
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red Page
AIRMEN SPEAKING.
Whatever else comes of it, some extra-
ordinary books of experience will come
out of this war —on the lines of Mase-
field’s epic fragment of Dunkirk, The
Nine Days’ Wonder; and now, from the
same publisher (Heinemann), another
clinker, Winged Words, a selection of
broadcast talks by R.A.F. airmen and
others, in which practically every aspect
of R.A.F. activity is described by men who
have taken part in the fighting, bombing
and so forth, from late 1939, through
1940, up to the early part of this year.
The book improves out of sight on
previous collections of broadcasts in book
form, its contributors talking of what they
have done, not merely what they think.
In all, 70-odd anonymous adventurers,
each relating in the tight space of two
or three pages a crowded hour or so of
his life. Individual fighter pilots describe
their fights, in the great battles over
London, over the Channel, over France
and elsewhere. Members of bomber
crews separately- relate their liveliest ex-
periences bombing Berlin and other parts
of Germany, of Czechoslovakia, Channel
ports, places in Italy.
One describes the aerial torpedoing
of a German tanker; another the sowing
of mines from the air. Several describe
baling out and their parachute descents;
others describe coming down in the sea
and taking to the collapsible dinghy.
There are vivid descriptions of sinkings
of German submarines. Tail-gunners
relate their parts in hard-fought scraps-;
bomb-sighters describe their work in
action. A Pole and two Czechs attached
to the R.A.F. come in with their indivi-
dual experiences ; so do New Zealanders,
Australians, Canadians and Americans.
How several V.Cs. were won is described,
in one instance by the pilot in person.
Spitfires, Hurricanes, Sutherlands, Hud-
sons and other ’planes take off and fight,
bomb, patrol and come home with holes
shot in them through which the moon-
light streams. What happens at aero-
dromes before and after flights is related
by men actively concerned in it.
The bagging of a Junkers bomber per
barrage balloon is a wild bit of comedy,
told with Rabelaisian gusto by a cor-
poral of the balloon crew. They’d had
goose for dinner. “Paddy, our Irishman,”
shot a wild goose, and they cooked it
on a stove lent by one of the local resi-
dents. “It was a great day. As one of
the crew had it: ‘Goose for dinner and
Junkers for supper.’ ” They had their
balloon up—it sounds like a sort of pet—
and because of the changing of the cloud
height they kept it “moving up and down
all day and during the night until we
caught our Junkers.” They’d had several
alerts, and then there was the Junkers
coming low through the night practically
on top of them. The schoolmaster who
was working the winch jammed on the
brakes and ducked down the cage, taking
no chances. Paddy, the Irish bootmaker,
dropped on one knee —exactly like
the way he’d taken the pot shot that
brought down the goose—and took aim
with his rifle. A wing of the Junkers
hit the cable. “That’s where he came
unstuck.” Showers of sparks from the
cable and the machine. “You’d have
thought it was daylight. And then the
jolly old balloon broke away.” The
Junkers crashed a mile or two off ; the
cable, flattened where it was cut as if it
had been belted with a sledgehammer,
came down and draped over near-by
houses, gardens and telegraph wires.
Finally, the corporal started off by motor-
bike for headquarters, feeling “like the
man in the poem—the one that brought the
good news from Ghent to somewhere.”
Turn from that to the description by
a fighter flight-lieutenant of the fight
in which he won his V.C. In the course
of the fighting over Southampton he was
attacked by a Messerschmitt which sud-
denly appeared firing cannon shells at
him. The first shell tore through the
hood over the cockpit, sending splinters
into his left eye, ope splinter nearly sever-
ing the eyelid. He couldn’t see through
that eye for blood. The second shell
struck his spare petrol tank and set it
on fire. The third shell crashed into the
cockpit and tore off his right trouser leg.
The fourth made a mess of his left foot.
With those injuries, he carried on the
fight. Looking at his left hand he could
see the skin peeling off it from the fire.
He got under and behind the Messer-
schmitt, and then, both of them diving
at 400 m.p.h., followed his frantic twists
and turns, blazing away at him. “I
remember shouting out loud at him when
1 first saw him: ‘l’ll teach you some
manners, you Hun! ’ and I shouted other
things as well.”
He sent the German crashing, then
baled out. Falling, he could see the
bones of his left hand showing through
the knuckles. Blood was oozing out of
the lace-holes of his left boot. His right
hand was pretty badly burned, too ; his
clothes in tatters. He came down in a
field and fell over. A calm day, so the
parachute just floated down and stayed
down without dragging him along. Even
it may have felt that he had had enough.
Another fighter who bales out tells of
having a smoke on the way down, quite
as a matter of course.
There’s a description—reminiscent of
the ships fighting broadside on at close
range in Westward Ho !, or Trafalgar, or
Grenville in the Revenge—of two ’planes
flying side by side above the sea blazing
away at each other at 60-yards range.
Though it’s all personal experience, of
the most personal possible kind, a
curiously impersonal and detached note
comes into the accounts. Of anti-aircraft
fire: “One’s surprised to find the first
time how detached one is about it. Even
to the point of being critical of the
gunnery.” Another, fighting over London,
notices Kennington Oval, and thinks
“That is where they play cricket.” He
says it’s queer how, in the middle of a
battle, “one can see something on the
ground and think of something entirely
different from the immediate job in
hand.” He had “a flashing thought—a
sort of mental picture—of a big man
with a beard,” though at that moment
he “did not think of the name of W. G.
Grace.” Then back into the fight.
One striking general impression is the
incredible amount of punishment these
present British and American ’planes can
take. Anyone who ever saw a piece
break off a wing of a ’plane in the last
war, from no apparent cause, and the
’plane of course at once crash and kill
both men in it, or saw how quickly
’planes were then destroyed in dogfights,
simply could not believe some of the
shooting-up these modern craft stand if
the information was not so completely
authentic. Holes a foot wide are blown
in them ; they catch fire ; someone fights
the fire and puts it out; then, practi-
cally in pieces, fhey come in and land
without the landing wheels —safely!
Among the many intensely lively
accounts of hectic bombing exploits, one
pilot talks of arriving home with half
his crew and three-quarters of his ’plane.
The ’plane was set on fire by shelling.
Sergeant Hannah (subsequently V.C.)
fought the fire with his hands and put
it out, “He then went into the rear-
gunner’s cockpit and said, ‘Nobody here,
sir.’ ” He then looked for the navi-
gator, and reported: “Navigator not
present. We are alone, sir.” They had
baled out; the rear-gunner’s cockpit and
half the interior of the fuselage were
charred ruins. Thousands of feet up over
the sea at night, the ’plane a limping
wreck, yet the pilot brought her home.
With another bomber crew adrift at
night in a collapsible dinghy, the front-
gunner has to keep his toe in a hole to
stop a leak, the rear-gunner meanwhile
helping the time along by singing Scot-
tish songs for an hour and a half with-
out stopping.
Flying over the North Sea in an ice-
coated ’plane after a bombing visit to
Italy, “the front-gunner called up and
said: “Are you quite sure you’re flying
the right side up, because I think I can
see white horses in the sky?”
A Polish member of a bomber crew
mentions that “coming home we have
once more for a period this heavy fire
and searchlights. But the pilot just laughs
and puts his fingers to his nose at them.”
One of the Czechs, coming down per
parachute at night, is “prepared to land
with my hands or my feet first, but un-
fortunately I first hit the ground with
my face.” He’s had a gruelling time
and is in pretty bad shape, but makes his
way to a house, knocks and shouts. First
a lady appears at a window, then “a
gentleman appears in the same window
with a gun which he points at me. When
I see this gun I am so weak already
through all these events that I faint, and
next I find myself already in the house
in an easy chair,” being offered tea with
whisky in it.
Probably the most effective of all these
descriptions of wildly-exciting adventure
with the spice of variety in it are those
dealing with the bombing of strongly-
defended objectives. The crew in the
bomber, each playing his separate part,
become the personnel of a living drama,
enacted in a macabre setting of light-
pierced darkness and stormy space. A
marvellous theme for a dramatic poet.
Lance The Leftist.
What does the great Left Wing (Left-
overs at bargain prices) think about A. P.
Herbert? As a social reformer, cham-
pion of democracy, enemy of hypocrisy
and England’s greatest defender of the
workingman’s beer, he should be one of
the Left’s stars. But it’s doubt-
ful if he is, for Mr. Herbert’s one of those
who believe that the great reality at this
moment is war, and that the great task is
not the establishment of Paradise Now,
but the defeat of Hitler.
At any rate, whatever the Left thinks
of A. P. Herbert, there’s no doubt about
what he thinks of the Left. One of the
best items in his latest collection of light
verses, Siren Song (Methuen ; Moore’s
Bookshop), says delightfully what could
be just as appropriately said in Australia
about “young Lance the Leftist”:
Where is young Lance the Leftist, who shouted
“Arms for Spain!”
Who doubted so the fortitude of Mr. Chamber-
lain;
And if such arms had been dispatched would
soon hava spent his breath
On hissing that his countrymen were Profiteers
in Death?
Where are Iseult and Steve, who, hanging
posters from their necks,
Marched fearlessly to Downing-street and
cackled “Save the Czechs!”
Who cursed because we did not save the
Abyssinian souls,
But thought it very rash indeed to guarantee
the Poles.
“Oh!” says Mr. Herbert:
where is Battling Barbara, who thought it would
be good
To Stand against Aggression, till wc actually
stood?
And where is Spitfire Florence, who confidently
swore
That if we threatened war enough there would
not be a war?
Where, 100, he asks, are Know-all
Nesta, and Percy Pink and Comrade
Chris and all “the New School Knickers
who despise the Old School Tie”?
Their sisters are in hospitals, their brothers
won’t be long:
But they are still explaining where the Govern-
ment was wrong,
Or in “The Bilious Weekly” very lengthily ex-
pound ,
The reasons why they think their “ideology”
is sound:
While Reginald, who actively cannot assist the
war,
Proclaims the right to know at once what he
is fighting for.
Where Mervyn is, or Barbara, we simply do
not know:
But Lance, I hear, is lecturing in Prudence, Ohio.
Tbs best of it is that, while satirising
the Left so devastatingly, Herbert can
get a laugh out of it. Has the Left a
single humorist who could reply?
Likewise, Herbert can get a laugh
while he’s castigating Hitler. He and
A. A. Milne are two men to be thankful
for in this war. The best of Herbert’s
satires on the Nazis in this book was
(with several of the other pieces) first
printed in his General Cargo and an
extract from it was quoted on this page
about a year ago. It will bear reprinting:
I’m a little bit tired of the Japs,
I am weary of wooing the Wops;
They engage in superfluous scraps,
And I shall be glad when it stops.
Then, speaking of Foreign Affairs,
I’m a teeny bit tired of the Huns;
They behave like a nation of bears,
And I have to keep throwing them buns.
Their blood is delightfully pure,
But I find them a bit of a bore;
They are Aryan stock I am sure,
But I don’t want to hear any more.
Don’t think that I’m leaving the League,
Don’t think I’m an insular sap;
It’s just that I suffer fatigue
If you speak of a Jop or a Wap.
And I don’t really care if the Hop
Is a Nord or a Nube or a Dane:
Whatever he is, it’s a flop,
And it mustn’t be mentioned again.
News from the Nursery,
“Conan Doyle, Stanley Weyman, Seton
Merriman, Anthony Hopecroons
Denis Mackail on page 170 of The Story
of J.M.B. (Peter Davies; Angus and
Robertson), “of course one could go on
licking one’s lips like this almost in-
definitely.” And, being Denis Mackail
and having the life of the whimsical
J. M. Barrie to write about, one does go-
on licking one’s lips almost indefinitely:
for 736 pages.
Or, not being Denis Mackail and not
being really helplessly under the spell of
Peter Pannishness, one does not go on
licking one’s lips for 736 pages but, under
the awful compulsion to assert that men
are men and even literary gents some-
times grow up, one suddenly kicks one’s
cat, or throws one’s left boot at one’s
wife, or stamps out into the street and
brutally belts a Wan over the ear.
Among such a wealth of opportunities
as Mr. Mackail offers, it’s not easy to
choose the supreme moment for jumping
with both feet upon the stomach of one’s
nearest and dearest, but page 196 is a
pretty good spot:
On the ninth of May he will be 32; or
so they say, though he doesn’t feel like it.
This is still, as it always will be when he is
on the crest of the wave, one of those last
terms at Dumfries. Editors, publishers
and managers, though they don’t know it,
are the other boys; but he is the one who
has thought of their games and is making
them play them. Naturally he pretends to
be grown-up sometimes, as he did 15 years
ago. But he isn’t. And he doesn’t want to
be. He still wants, and means, to reach
the real heights as an author and play-
but where would the fun be if he
couldn’t look up to himself from below?
He wants to be both Carlyle and the little
boy who once gazed at him.
If, stifling one’s desire to be both Jack
the Ripper and Hitler ordering a purge
of Marshal Goring, one continues to
play bo-peep on Barrie with Mr. Mackail,
there is another really outstanding place
for chopping up the goldfish with a
circular saw on page 575 where the
biographer quotes a letter from Ellen
Terry to Bernard Shaw:
If only you had seen J.M.B. yesterday!
He was almost as beautiful and adorable
as my five-months-old kitten. If only you
had been there to watch him! He seems to
me to be so ill, the poor mite. How he
kept it up all the while! Haig is a pet,
and the two together are—well, I’m glad 1
was there to see two such boys! Their
fun! I loved ’em, not so much of course
as you —but there!
Our kitten on this occasion—the de-
livering of an address to St. Andrews
University students —is 62 years of age.
The other pet is the Haig of the Great
War. But there!
But where? Grovelling in the w.p.b. ;
burning in the incinerator; howling in
the wilderness.
Reeking with blood and metho. after
a particularly virile orgy of protest at
Darlinghurst, one returns to Mr. Mackail
and finds on page 581 Barrie himself,
still aged 62, making an acute and rather
tragic observation on Peter Pan :
It is as if long after writing P.Pan its
true meaning came to me. Desperate
attempts to grow up, but can’t.
Since that was Barrie’s verdict on him-
self, and was borne out by the mother
motif of nearly all his writings, by the
failure of his marriage and by the in-
consistencies of his character for in-
stance, he affected to hate publicity, fell
into rage when his wife’s portrait
appeared in “Woman at Home” and yet
gladly allowed his name to be blazoned
on tobacco advertisements all over the
world —Mr. Mackail is undoubtedly cor-
rect in depicting him as a Peter Pan.
But that’s no justification for Mr. Mac-
kail’s turning himself into another Peter
Pan and using the prattle of the nursery
throughout the 736 pages.
The effect is unfairly to belittle Barrie.
The man was a prodigiously successful
playwright and had for his friends, be-
sides most of the literary giants of his
day, explorers, cricketers and Maoriland’s
Freyberg, V.C. He couldn’t have been
all “kitten.” Mackail, it’s true, hides
nothing of Barrie’s foibles and faults as
well as presenting the generous, laughter-
loving side of his nature; but always
with the intolerable tone of “Nursie
smack!” when it’s bad news, or “Clever
little boy!” when it’s good.
Whether or not Barrie as a literary
figure is worth such an elaborate
biography, it's a good story Mackail has
to tell ; and to chatter brightly for 736
pages in the manner of a dear old lady
telling how her teeny wee puppy won the
blue ribbon at the show and ate her
slippers and made a little mess under
the sideboard is something of an achieve-
ment. If it were not for the urgent
necessity of putting one’s landlady
through the mincer, indeed, one could
go on licking one’s lips over The Story
of J.M.B. almost indefinitely.
Readers’ Union (Robertson and
Mullens, Melbourne) continues to give
its members tiptop value for their money,
latest inclusions being Ethel Vance’s
novel of recent Germany, Escape, and
Graham Greene’s The Power and the
Glory.
Hygiene, Military and Civil: Major
C. N. Atkins (Ramsay, Ware, Ltd., Mel-
bourne). Intended primarily for military
officers, and having the great advantage
of taking up the minimum of space.
The vol.’s slimness is most deceptive ; a
quite extraordinary amount of informa-
tion has been packed into it. The author,
who belongs to the Southern Command,
states that the average weight increase
of men going into camp is one stone in
six weeks. He holds that victory is won
by the side with the best morale, and, as
that depends on the health and happiness
of the men, he has compiled this very
useful book to help officers who take
their job seriously to ensure that the men
under them will be as fit and well as it’s
possible to have them.
Sackcloth for Susan :
(Chapman and Hall),
novel set in Maoriland.
Rosemary Rees
Light romantic


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —always protects you
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Celtic tfcifi pbclflctnA
TUNE INTO 2CB
EVERY SATURDAY
MORNING at 8.30
fd
fd
f
d
CARDEN TALKS
By Mr. Albert Evans
The glories of gardening are often marred by failures . . . however,
even the most amateurish gardener, can, by following Mr. Evans
weekly radio talks, be assured of reasonable success. Mr. Evans
helpful advice is being followed by hundreds of conscientious
gardeners ... he tells you what's "news" in the gardening world . . .
what to sow . . . when to sow .. . and how to sow. If you re worried
about the success of your Spring gardening, drop a line to Mr. Evans,
he'll be glad to help you . . . and remember to tune in every Saturday
morning at 8.30 for his interesting talks.
f
%
I
SXIOKS
Brickfield
Lawn
Mowers, 56/6
A high-grade Ball Bearing Lawn Mower,
fitted with five revolving blades and BL~in.
driving wheel. Strongly constructed.
At Anthony Horderns'.
‘Hordura’ (Reg.) Spades
No. 2 ''Hordura'' (Regd.) Garden Spades,
made from all solid steel, no weld at
shoulders. All bright finish. Built for
years of excellent service. At / a
Anthony Horderns'. Price ... | j j
‘Hordura’ (Reg.) Forks
Four-prong "Hordura” (Regd.) Digging
Forks, strongly constructed. Finished with
bright and red finish. At Anthony Q
Horderns'. Price
Sizes, inches ..
Prices
10 12 14
56/6 59/8 62/6
Jit
TT-
40'6
Useful Gardening
m
a
m
MM
mmm
m
mm*
m*
‘m-
‘Dulwich’ CARDEN
SEATS, 28/-
Ideal for your lawn or verandah . . . com-
fortable "Dulwich Garden Seat, fitted with
steel legs and understay, and varnished
hardwood battens. At Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes, feet 4 6
Prices 23/- 29/6
• Garden Requisites—Fourth Floor. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
BARROW
Sturdy Galvanised Garden Barrow, fitted
with tubular steel frame and wrought iron
wheel. Capacity, three cubic feet. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price • • 40/6
Carden
Cultivator
at
6'-
Saves
Labour
A boon to gardeners . . . five-prong adjust-
able Cultivator. An excellent tool for cul-
tivating between rows of vegetables, etc.
Can be used as a three-prong tool by re-
moving two tyres. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 6/-
FOR VICTORY
f
V
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE: M 2401,
DAY AND NIGHT
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY


OUR NEW PROPERTIES
By JAMES HACKSTON.
A FEW hundred acres! We’d have sheep and a
windmill—especially a windmill ; it stamps a
place. Father got a sheet of drawing paper
and measured off our acres with a footrule, then
with strokes of the pen fenced it. Next he inspected
the paper for a spot to build on. Choosing a site on
which to build a house requires much forethought.
Must have the right outlook.” When we’d strolled
over the paper and finally chosen the exact location,
he got a set-square, pencil and rule and erected the
house. It had a wide verandah round three sides of
it like a squatter’s, so that he could sit and watch his
burgeoning property; sheep turning out wool and
mutton, the grass putting on condition, and the sun
oj the rain hard at it, according to which shift they
were on.
Afterwards I got the pen and, with a family of fat,
prosperous-looking dots, stocked the place with sheep.
It was a great feeling to jump suddenly from our very
small roadside cottage to a squatter-like home with
acres. I was proud of the new home with the long
row of big pine-trees that my father had planted with
a row of crosses. People would say “See those big
pines , that s where they live.” He next made a road
from the front fence to the house, and then with a
few deft strokes of the pen put up a most impressive
front gate so that people could say “Go in by the big
front gate, and drive on until you come to the home-
stead.”
My father addressed most of his remarks con-,
cerning our new place to me and not to my mother.
We would sit of a night going into details, my mother
saying nothing, while she patched the children’s
clothes or fought valiantly with a darning needle to
conquer the holes in father’s worn-out socks. From
sixteen to hundreds of acres was a big rise in life,
and we soon forgot our old home. I could almost
hear the windmill clanking.
Now that father was a station-owner, he, of
course, looked down on goldmining. He’d be a miner
no more, he said ; he d finance the venture some other
way. With this backsliding on his old self the two
big red books on metallurgy (six instalments behind)
that had dominated our mantelpiece were evacuated
to a little shelf in a corner. In their place was a new
volume on sheep-raising ; the book, standing up, title
showing, proclaiming to the world that father was a
sheep man.
Then one night father shoved the lambing season
on and our flock increased. The fat, round dots on
the paper lambed in the comfort of our room, without
loss. No crows perched on the rafters overhead •
there were no prowl-
ing foxes under the
table, or wild dogs
skulking behind the
sofa. Next night we
sheared, too, without
having the expense of
feeding our champion
shearers like fighting
cocks.
We were getting
on well when father
came across an article
in a paper in which
it said that sheep up
north were dying for
want of feed, and that
squatters were facing
ruin. “Most discour-
aging,” he said. “A
most depressing
article.” Then he
leaned back and
looked into space.
“You know, this sheep
business has its draw-
backs ; it’s not all beer
and skittles. In fact,
I think it might be a
good idea if I went in.
for something not
quite so risky.”
That was the end of the station. I rolled it up
and shoved it away on the back shelf—deserted,
Mother said it was too bad father having to walk off
the property like that; and just as we were all getting
settled, too. But he took no notice. He d go in for
something smaller; an orchard just enough land to
keep us comfortably, without ostentation. This time
we d have cows, poultry and pigs as well, and, as if
to buck us up after our recent Joss, he promised us
poultry on the table, tons of fresh eggs and cream
and gallons of milk for the children. “Just think how
they 11 thrive! And well have a regular income—
the 01 chard itself will see to that.” When my mother
asked him how he was going to find such a haven of
milk and honey he said (making a note of bees, too,
and their output) that there were lots of small proper-
ties, places with a good house, orchard planted, land
fenced and cleared—no untamed selection in fiercely-
timbered bush—waiting to be worked scientifically,
And it would be easier to finance the smaller concern,
The Joss of the big pines was a blow to me, but
father’s picture of an orchard exploding with blossom
and then fruit softened the loss,
As an orchardist he was an even greater success
* ban be had been as a sheep man, for that same night
when he gave up the station—he pruned, sprayed,
ad tnired the blossom and picked the fruit. You could
a l m °st eat the luscious fruit off our table and see the
rosy g J ow °f health coming to our cheeks. And, with
Other’s promised glut of good things for the table,
tbe . children must have been putting on weight in
anticipation. Before going to bed that night he had
disposed of his crop and got his cheque, and all with-
°Ut ° ne ha ’P ,orth of worry-
__
[ HEN one day, having to go into the town about a
small, welcome job (putting up some shelves for
a s ho P ket ;Per), father said as we drew flush
h a land ' a | ent s office “Shakspeare’s right. There
LV f T of ,™ en A ™ blch ’ taken at the
°u n for une ‘. And lettin § himselt §°
Wl th his tide he flowed m the agent’s door, saying as
he went ’ “ No harm in makin § a few inquiries, is there
impressive -even if we haven't the money yet-so long as I
don’t sign anything?”
r u a
* hung round the entrance door listening, and
Whe " ' ’fT* f"" te " ‘ hem that h , e was looking £or
* Pr ° Perty “ B °° d impreS-
as “ s “ al ~ that '[ wa , s ,0 , be a ‘ u c , ash transaction,”
1 thou S ht he was certainly taking things at the flood.
1 SaW him instan,l >' swirled awa * the counter
hke a twig in a swollen stream and carried ruthlessly
on and into the inner sanctum, where the door
slammed behind him
A r, T .i .. ,
t Afer 1 d waited a ! on § time outslde he ebbed
out l° okin g swamped, with a big man pumping him
up and down in a parting, very friendly handshake,
“Forceful fellow,” he said, joining me. “A gentle-
man, though ; and he treated me as one, too. Wanted
me to inspect a place today, but I told him I had
some important business to do at the bank.”
“Bank 1 ” I said
, io ° k - “ MiBht -
fuVup” f hen Te looked 5“ "“He
made me promise to call back and see him on Monday
though, at twelve sharp, to—er—view a place. But
I can’t very well go as far as that, can I? Unless”
and he looked up longingly at the heavens. Nearing
home he said, “I had to give him my address of
No petrol—had to fit a charcoal burner!"
course, and when I—er—don’t turn up on Monday
and he writes to me give me the letter on the quiet;
I don’t want mother to know—not yet.”
|—|E got the letter—something unforeseen must have
cropped up to prevent his keeping the appoint-
ment and would he kindly make another appointment
to view the property? “Perhaps I should have waited
a while before making inquiries— not been so hasty.”
He burnt the letter. A few days later another one
came. “Oh,” he said as he read it, “what a pity,
He says here that this place is just the kind of prop-
erty I’m looking for, but”—he sighed—“what’s the
use of my looking at it when I haven’t a feather to
fly with—not for the moment, anyway.” He paused,
“But, all the same, I would like to see it; you know
it would sive me some idea on which to base my future
plans. But there you are, for the moment it’s not
opportune, is it? No use getting too entangled with
things until I feel my feet on firmer ground—still, it’s
most tempting.” This letter found the fire, too,
unanswered.
My mother now came back to the business of
the shopkeeper’s shelves and asked father when he
was going to clinch the job, so we tidied ourselves and
set off for town again, father saying he’d better
give the agent’s place a wide berth—for the time
being; must not view any property yet, not in
any circumstances —might become involved in some
way. But the fates would have it otherwise ; we ran
into the agent driving along the road. “Quick, duck!”
father hissed. But in the same breath he counter-
manded the order. “No, he’s seen us.” He then
strode forward openly and gallantly to meet the agent
as he bore down on us.
The agent didn’t look put out as I thought he
would, but on the contrary was all smiles, and again
took father’s hand and nearly shook his teeth out.
“Been called away on business?” he asked
pleasantly.
“Er—yes,” said my father ; “and just got back
today.” Then, as an excuse for not keeping the
appointment, “I was —er —on my way in now to see
you.”
Father was evidently not the only man in the
district who gathered strength from Mr. Shakspeare.
The agent must have also believed that there is a tide
in the affairs of men which should be taken at the
flood, for before you could say Jack Robinson he
had whisked us up into his turnout and was bowling
us along the road at such a breakneck speed that
father could not have escaped had he wished to.
“Lucky we met, wasn’t it?” said the agent as
the trees and fences danced past us in a dizzy row.
“Instead of you wasting all this time getting to my
office, here you are on your way to view the property.”
“Yes,” said my father lamely, looking down on
the road and to the sides of it as if at any moment
he might make a sudden, desperate dash for freedom.
Things had now' suddenly changed to reality.
First father viewed the orchard, passing along the
lines of trees like a general taking the salute, stop-
ping and staring at odd ones. Had you seen him
you’d have almost expected him to salute. Next the
rest of the place stood to attention, father picking up
clods of earth and inspecting them as he went along,
as he used to pick up bits of quartz and spit on them
and look for signs of gold. I was hoping he wouldn’t
forget himself and spit on the clods of earth by mis-
take. The house was then put through its paces, and
as we stalked it I saw their kids peeping wonder-eyed
from one of the windows —they’d been shut up in a
rear room while the man with the money looked at
their home.
We had not long been inspecting the place before
father had completely forgotten that he hadn’t a
feather to fly with, and was imagining himself as its
new owner. He beamed on everything, talked and
showed such interest and evident satisfaction that I
saw the agent looking at the owner and the owner
looking at the agent. Then the man went away and
brought his wife out. I reckoned he’d rushed in to
her and said “I think it’s sold!” the way she came
and smiled on father.
Then father, finding himself in their front room,
with the wife looking hopefully into his face, the
man fiddling with his fingers as if handling the money
my father hadn’t got, and the agent with one eye
cocked at the ceiling counting up how much of it
would be his commission—well, father looked at this
moment as if he’d have liked the floor to give way
or an earthquake destroy everything. He could not
say now that the place was not what he wanted, so
what could he do but say that he would have to think
it over. Pressed, he wanted a fortnight to decide. I
thought of the poor owner and his poor wife spend-
ing that fortnight—waiting. I hoped they wouldn’t
get into debt in advance.
When we got home father told mother that he
expected to hear from the shopkeeper (whom we had
not seen) in about a week’s time.
When I asked him later what he was going to
do when the fortnight was up, he again looked long-
ingly at the heavens and told me never to cross my
bridges until I came to them ; that one never knew
what might happen in the meantime ; a man could be
poor today and well off tomorrow. He ended up with
his comforting “While there’s life there’s hope.”
Next day, by way of giving hope a hand (not
having found the “other way” of financing it), he
again went up to One Stump Hill with the sole and
steadfast objecting of getting out of that gaunt, bitter,
selfish hill the tempting orchard property.
THE agent, a tide-and-flood man, too, did not let
* the long fortnight crawl by. One afternoon when
father had come home tired and dusty, and had taken
his boots off and gone into the bedroom to have a
rest, the agent called. As it turned out, mother thought


he was the shopkeeper come to see father about the
shelves job, and wishing to be nice to him asked him
in, and then called out to father.
Father, suddenly awakened, flustered and not
knowing that there was anybody in the front room,
did not put his boots on again, and stepping through
the cane curtains came face to face with the agent.
He looked flabbergasted; then, suddenly becoming
conscious of the fact that he was in his socks, he red-
dened up with anger and mortification. I reckoned
that he saw at that moment, in his mind’s eye (he
didn’t dare look at them), his white toes poking out
brazenly and shamelessly from —as it would happen
that day—his most destitute-looking pair of socks.
The agent also looked a bit bewildered. Watching
him, I saw him try not to see father’s socks, looking
away quickly as if he did not wish to have his faith
and confidence shattered. His eyes sought something
more heartening and he looked hurriedly to the left.
Unfortunately, they came right into line with the
old couch where the spring poked through. Refusing
to see the couch he turned his eyes to the end of the
room, where was our old moth-eaten armchair. Hur-
riedly he stampeded his eyes away from this fresh
evidence of our poverty, and escaped to the floor,
where the bare boards with the small square of worn
lino, hit him in the eye. But he wasn’t yet beaten,
and his escaping eyes turned to the ceiling, where
there’d be nothing else to shake his sorely-tried con-
fidence. But there was no ceiling; only rafters, cob-
webs and a tarantula stalking flies. He pulled some
papers out of his pocket and kept looking at them to
keep his morale up, as if not daring to let his eyes
escape again. Staring at the papers, he told father
that he had felt (you’ll notice the “had”) that, as
father had been so satisfied with the place, he had
probably made up his mind by this time to buy it.
Then he looked gingerly up from the papers,
keeping his eyes in check, and forced a smile, as if
having just made up his mind that people who look
hard up are not always so.
Father was still standing in the same spot during
these few seconds, as if not daring to move ; held
spellbound by his feet. All hope, tide taken at the
flood and you never know what might turn up
were now gone, and he looked now as if he hadn’t
a feather to fly with. The holes in his socks had
submerged him. I knew what was in his mind. He
had been found out —disgraced. What was the use
of his pretending? He knew that. It would be just as
well for him to finish the matter and get it over. “Oh,
about the property,” he said. “Well, I’m sorry to
have given you so much trouble, but —er —well, the
deal’s off.”
The agent never said a word.
“Anyway, for the time being,” father went on.
“Yes; for the moment it’s definitely off.”
The agent’s eyes found my father’s.
Father stumbled on. “However, when the time
is ripe I shall” But he didn’t get any further,
for suddenly, maliciously and cruelly the agent looked
deliberately and despicably at father’s seven naked
toes. Then he looked nastily at the sofa, snobbishly
at the armchair, disdainfully at the floor and unbe-
lievably at the rafters, cobwebs and the tarantula,
and at last, focusing his hard eyes on those seven
toes, he put his papers back in his pocket and left.
There was no parting friendly handshake this
time. When the agent got outside he turned and
looked our little weather-beaten kipsie over, as if
to prove to himself that his first impression had been
right and that he had been a mug. And just before
he got up into his turnout he stopped and gave the
place a long, contemptuous stare.
“Well,” :;aid my mother, “how did all this come
about?”
“Oh, quite simply,” said father. “I was passing
his place and saw no harm in making a simple inquiry.
You know, there is a tide in the affairs of”
“I know,” said mother, “which, taken at the flood,
and so on. Well, all I can say is that it was a great
pity the author didn’t put a P.S. to it and say some-
thing about drowning as well. It would save some
people a lot of trouble and waste of time.”
Father said that perhaps, after all, it would be
better for him to keep on as he was going. When all
was said and done there’d be more money in his in-
ventions. For instance, there was his deep-sea diving-
dress. No diver at present could go down more than
a certain depth, whereas his diving-dress would enable
a diver to go down to the very depths of the ocean-
deep. Mother was looking hard at him. “And as
you know. Mother, there’s billions of pounds of bul-
lion and valuables lying in old wrecks at the bottom
of the sea. Why, there’s a veritable fortune waiting
for the man who”
“What about the shelves job, Walter?” she said.
I think father must have seen some look in
mother’s eye, for he said suddenly, “Oh, yes, I must
see to that job at once. The diving-dress invention
carl — er — W ait for the moment.” That same afternoon
he toddled off to town to see about the shelves job.
AFTER he had gone, I was out in the backyard,
and while gawking about there mother came out
and began to look about the place. It was looking
pretty untidy now. I used to rake up all the rubbish
and keep the yard and surroundings nice and tidy,
but of late I’d neglected it all, and it was beginning
to look as if nobody lived in it. Then I reckoned I
saw the look in mother’s eyes that father must have
seen, so I toddled off, too, and got the rake and
began to spruce up the old home again.
NECK AND NECK
"And how many years have you been a fisherman?
"Years? Why I only took it up a fortnight ago !”
By WILL LAWSON.
THERE were bitter jealousies between tugs of rival
lines in Sydney thirty years ago, and none more
bitter than between the Heroic and the Cham-
pion, the finest tugs of their day. Big Bill was
master of the Heroic, Carl Larsen of the Champion,
and many were the times the Heroic’s extra speed
had allowed Big Bill to snatch a ship from right under
the nose of the Champion.
Sydney was a homelier, happier place then than
it is today. The crews of the tugs reported
for duty every day outside the G.P.0., where the “ship-
ping intelligence” was posted on a window facing
Martin-place, There they waited whatever might turn
up and occasionally wandered off into the Angel or
the Saint for refreshment to help them in their waiting.
And then one August afternoon in 1909 when
Johnny Voss, the chief engineer of the Heroic, was
resting for a while in the Angel, Jacko Baines, the
handiest man with a line on any tug in Sydney, came
and whispered to him, making him gulp down his
whisky and turn to his men, “Come on, boys,” he
said, and hustled them to the hansoms Jacko had
waiting.
Away they went with cracking whips into York-
street and along it at a canter, to swing down into
Lower Fort-street, where the men jumped out and
shinned down the steps to the tugs, lying at Dawes
Point.
Big Bill was on the Heroic’s bridge, swearing and
pacing to and fro.
“All right, sir!” Johnny shouted, “All here!”
“Let go aft! ” Big Bill shouted. “Let go for’ard! ”
“All clear, sir!”
The lines were handled like lightning. The deep
gongs of the telegraph chimed, the heavy engines
rolled, and, as dusk fell, the Heroic swung into the
fairway, whistling to the ferries to give her room.
No lights shone from her deck or ports. Only the
black smoke of her funnel, rolling against the sky,
marked her whereabouts, for. the Champion would
be on her tail and Big Bill didn’t want Larsen to
know where he was or where he was going.
“What are we after?” a man asked Jacko Baines.
“Four-masted barque, Allensay, Stewart Line,
thirty miles off, wants a tow to Newcastle. Can’t
beat up against the nor’-easter, I suppose.”
Down-harbor they went, not a light showing,
while the lookouts, at South Head, who had picked
up the barque’s signals when she stood close in, swore
at the slowness of Big Bill and Larsen ; till twenty
minutes later they made out the black shape of the
Heroic, slipping out of the harbor, and a quarter of a
mile behind her the Champion, her bows boiling white.
“If any fireman shows a lick of flame from the
funnel,” Big Bill said to Johnny Voss, “I’ll flay him
alive. Tell ’em that!”
Outside, the Heroic steered nor’-east, in which
direction the barque had stood away after signalling.
For an hour she steamed, not a light showing, not a
wisp of flame from the funnel. Roughly then she was
fifteen miles out and the message had said thirty;
but that was before the barque stood in to signal and
after she had found progress too slow against the
light nor’-easter and the heavy coastal current.
“Port a point!” Big Bill called and turned with
his night-glasses to scan the gloom for the Champion.
There was no sign of her —not a glimmer or a shadow.
Big Bill paced his bridge with quick steps; he knew
that if the Champion was nearer the barque when they
sighted her the Heroic’s extra speed would be of no
avail.
For another half-hour they went through the dark-
ness. Then all of a sudden Big Bill had an idea. He
switched on all his lights and rang the telegraph
loudly for full steam. And the men in the Champion,
still not far away, were astounded to suddenly see the
Heroic sweeping in a wide circle at full speed.
“He’s sighted her!” Larsen told his mate. “We’ll
take her in a wider sweep and pick the barque up
first,”
When Big Bill saw the Champion’s lights flash on
so near him and the tug begin to circle, too, he had
a horrible feeling that he had made a mistake ; that
wider circle looked dangerous; at any moment it
might bring the Champion a mile nearer the barque,
wherever she was. And then, suddenly, he knew where
she was. A Morse lamp flashed out of the gloom,
about a mile nor’-east of him. Before he read a word
of the message, Big Bill wrenched the telegraph wildly
and yelled down to the deck: “Give her every ounce
you’ve got. Blast me! Look at Larsen where he
is! ” The Champion was nearer that Morse light;
and the light was flicking out the words “Tugs ahoy!
Tugs ahoy!”
“What ship’s that?” Bill flashed back while the
thunder of the engines under him made his hands
tremble.
“Allensay! Lay alongside—and hurry!”
Big Bill pulled at the telegraph again till Johnny
Voss came up red-faced, wiping his hands on cotton
waste and wanting to know if Bill thought he was
ringing up the Sydney exchange.
For answer Bill shouted at him: “Look at that
blasted Champion—look at her!”
“Holy Moses!” shouted Johnny and ran down
to stir things up a bit more.
The Champion was tearing into it now, her power-
ful propeller roaring almost alongside them and her
bows a few yards in the lead. But the Heroic’s engines
shouted, too, shaking her hull, thundering far below,
driving her propellers frantic, while deckhands shouted
taunts and threw lumps of coal across the strip of
water between the tugs. Neck and neck, not thirty
yards apart, the tugs raced for the red and green
navigation lights now headed towards them.
The Heroic did that mile in four minutes—
Johnny timed her—and as Jack Baines cleverly threw
his heaving line on to the high forecastle-head of the
barque the Champion slowed, too. Ten seconds
later her heaving line fell with a thump on the
ship’s deck.
By the light of a lantern the Scots mate directed
his men in hauling the lines in.
Big Bill in his high bridge saw that they were
heaving on the Champion’s line. “Hey,” he shouted.
“Let go that line. I spoke you first! ”
“Let go? What’s bitin’ ye?” the mate asked.
“Yer own towline’s on the bitts. Go ahead and lay
into it! Walk her along the pair o’ ye.”
“The pair of us? You mean you’re taking both
our lines?”
/‘Aye, we’re doin’ that. We got to be under the
coal shoots the morrn. So get along wi’ ye an’ don’t
be playin’ kiss-in-the-ring like yon, when a guid ship
was waitin’ for a tow. Neck an’ neck ye go, and no
fighting, either!”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
jJuctl Idm <rftake mellcu r ne44andimiq/ue£
Seppelt's
CHELSEA OLD CHURCH.
Few ecclesiastical buildings in London can claim a more interesting past than this venerable, if not architecturally lovely,
church, which stands on the eastern corner of Church-street and Chelsea Embankment, and overlooks the Thames, with
the rural prospect of Battersea Park “across the water.” In the building itself several architectural “periods” are represented.
For instance, the somewhat massive and ungainly tower and the entire west end of the edifice came into existence between
1667 and 1670. The chancel and chapels, however, go back to the fourteenth and sixteenth centuries. The tomb with the
stone canopy on the right-hand corner of the illustration is that of the famed physician and botanist, Sir Hans Sloane,
whose fortune was devoted to the collections which formed the nucleus of the British Museum, and whose name is closely
associated with this suburb of London. By far the chief world interest attached to the church lies in the fact that the great
Chancellor, jurist, statesman and Christian, now numbered justly among “the hierarchy of the Saints,” St. Thomas More,
worshipped here. This splendid man, one of the noblest Englishmen the race has produced, fell a victim to the brutal
action of Henry VIII, and ended his life with the executioner’s axe for conscience sake. In the chancel is a monument
Sir Thomas More erected during his lifetime. From all parts of the world travellers turn their steps to this Chelsea Church,
those of the Roman Catholic communion largely predominating, as is but natural.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62.—N0. 3211.
Wednesday, August 27, 1941.
CUCKOOS IN THE NEST.
"Nazis in disguise have poured into Iran; and Britain and Russia have demanded their expulsion."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man,”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ippp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas C Foreign ) ;
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
Id. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
STALIN'S WAR AND OURS.
People who have all along supported the war on the
bedrock principle of loyalty to race and Common-
wealth have not had the wool pulled over their eyes
by those whose attitude of cold-blooded indifference or
venomous hostility changed so suddenly when Russia
became an enforced belligerent. The feelings of the
honest Australian were well expressed by a Melbourne
trade-unionist who wrote a letter to the “Age” and
put his name and address to it —a defiance of the
“scab”-branding type of union boss which required
no small degree of moral courage.
“Six months ago,” this unionist wrote, “some
leaders of my union openly urged that the workers
had ‘no interest in this imperialist war.’ Today that
same war to these gentry has become ‘a crusade.’ ”
One may well ask what are the real sentiments of
those whom the sufferings of our kinsfolk overseas and
the call of our own land leave unmoved, but who at
the call of the “Soviet Fatherland” are ready to don
their shining armor. The first allegiance of Australians
is to Australia and to our own folk of the Empire.
The action of the A.L.P. shows that it retains its solid
national character, and we welcome its refusal to have
any truck with any who by their actions and words
proclaim that their first < loyalty is elsewhere.
A concern called the Soviet Friendship League,
obviously from the same muddy spring as the Leagues
Against War and Fascism and For Peace and
Democracy of pre-“imperialist war” days, has been
washed up in Victoria, and the State A.L.P. executive
has very properly forbidden Labor members to speak
from its platforms as such. Representing, as it does,
a party which supported the struggle against Hitler-
ism when Reds were stirring up strikes in defence
industries and demanding that Australia should hang
out the white flag (hoping to smother it with their
own rag), and which has always prided itself on put-
ting Australia first, it took the only logical course.
This is the “action” to which the good Australian
trade-unionist referred.
But the outbreak of Russophile sentiment has by
no means been confined to the Labor-union world.
Here and overseas it has infected quarters in which
kid gloves and silk stockings and collars that button
at the back abound. English bishops have suddenly
discovered that Russians are crammed with all the
Christian virtues, though they have oddly neglected
to profess and practise the Christian religion. An
Australian bishop has been inspired to write a prayer
for their success in arms and to blither that “We sink
or swim with Russia.” And gentlemen of the press
and the radio stations have availed themselves of an
opportunity never before vouchsafed to proclaim their
fervent admiration for everything Russian. No
Moscow story is too silly for these worthies to swallow,
and no Moscow claim too outrageous for them to
repeat, with additions of their own. One radio spouter
had the effrontery to declare that the whole burden
of the war had fallen on Moscow’s shoulders. In
other words, the Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force,
the R.A.N. and the R.A.F. and the men of Tobruk,
have done and are doing nothing.
This form of Moscowmania is not merely con-
temptible ; it is dangerous. In the reporting of the
Russian war the public has been seriously misled.
Faith and credit have been given to Moscow fairy-
tales regardless of the evidence of the map. It has
been conveniently forgotten that for 23 years lying
has been part of the Soviet technique. Not until
weeks after the Russian military position had become
very serious was it admitted the Russians might really
be suffering reverses, and these were represented as
unimportant and temporary. A hero was found in
Marshal Budenny, “the brilliant cavalry leader” of
the civil war —a mere affair of armed mobs—whom
100 “commentators” proclaimed “a master of mobile
warfare over a shifting front.” Everything Budenny
did was alleged to bear the stamp of genius. The
chorus of praise for him went on even when it had
become evident to anyone with eyes to read and a
brain without bias that he had got his armies into a
most appalling mess.
One of the furiously foolish fancies which have
been served up to the people is that the Russians
have only to hang on till the end of September to win
their war, for the Germans must then stop and sink to
destruction, bogged down in a wilderness from which
they can neither advance nor retreat. Those who
peddle this rubbish are blind to what happened in
the last Russo-German war. Operating in country
with the same climate and natural features as that in
which they have been fighting since June 22, the
Germans conducted not only summer and autumn
campaigns, but winter campaigns, and the greater part
of it they occupied for upwards of three years. At
Tannenberg, where they broke Samsonov’s army and
rounded up 92,000 prisoners, the last shots were fired
on August 31, 1914. The Battle of the Masurian
Lakes, which grew out of Tannenberg, began on Sep-
tember 7 and lasted for more than a week, when
Rennenkampf bolted to obscurity, leaving 30,000
prisoners. And the Battle of Masuria, which cost the
Russians 110,000 men in prisoners alone, was fought
in the second week of February, 1915, and begun in
a snowstorm, which was followed by heavy rain.
The carefully cultivated notion that the Soviet
system has effected a magical change in the quality
of the Russian soldier is unjust to the troops of the
last Czar. Until they were demoralised by Czarist dis-
organisation and Red politics, they fought with stub-
born valor and rallied stoically after dreadful defeats.
In August, 1915, the Germans crossed the Bug-
mentioned in accounts of the present war —and beat
them in a series of battles. On August 20 they took
the fortress of Novogeorgievsk, with 85,000 prisoners ;
on September 2-3 they occupied the towns of Grodno
and Brest-Litovsk ; on September 16 they had Pinsk,
and by the middle of October they had reached a line
which ran from Pinsk to a point on the Gulf of Riga.
There they stayed till 1917, having had their hands
full elsewhere —mainly in southern Poland, Rumania,
round Verdun and, above all, on the Somme. But in
September, 1917, they resumed their northern advance,
crossing the Dvina south-east of Riga and occupying
that port (Sept. 2). In the third week of October they
stormed the islands of Dago, Osel and Moon, from
which the Red Air Force has been raiding Berlin (a
thing which would have been impossible if the R.N.
and the R.A.F. had not taken such heavy toll of
German warships and merchantmen as to prevent the
enemy from repeating his 1917 achievement), and
in the ensuing month the Bolshevist leaders —of
whom Stalin was one, though he was then over-
shadowed by Lenin and Trotsky—asked for an
armistice. There followed the humiliating peace of
Brest-Litovsk, from the worst consequences of which
the Bolshevists were saved by the victories of the
Allies they had deserted. They repaid their saviours
by starting revolutionary movements in their terri-
tories.
In America it has been suggested very cautiously
that a defeated Stalin may come to terms with Hitler
again. This may happen—anything is possible in this
war —but it is much more likely that Stalin would be
missing from the peace negotiations if peace nego-
tiations had to be made. A cardinal weakness of dic-
tatorships is that they have to be continuously suc-
cessful, otherwise they are apt to fall suddenly and
horribly, and there is nothing in the history of Bol-
shevist Russia to warrant the belief that the Stalin
regime would survive the downfall of its Red Army
and the dismemberment of its U.S.S.R., with the en-
forced inclusion of the parts not portioned out among
Germans, Finns, Balts, Hungarians and Rumanians in
Hitler’s “new order.”
Much more credible are the reports, also of
American origin, that Stalin has demanded a far
greater measure of Anglo-American support than
London and Washington contemplated giving him as
his price for continuing the struggle. He has been
promised ’planes and bombs, tanks, guns and shells,
and the Americans are sending tankers to Vladi-
vostok ; but there are indications that he wants also
assurances of a British offensive somewhere in Europe,
and active American assistance if his Pacific dominions
are attacked.
What the Americans choose to do is their own
business. Mr. Curtin has expressed “the utmost satis-
faction with the declarations made by the President
from time to time,” but in those declarations, and in
the statements of service Ministers, and in the
debates and divisions in Congress—particularly the
vote on the extension of the army-training period,
carried by a majority of one, which was followed by
a Ministerial assurance that the army was being trained
for the defence of America alone—there is no indica-
tion whatever that America will in any eventuality take
military measures to protect the Russian empire in
our Near North. And if America won’t take such
measures, Britain and Australia can’t.
A British offensive somewhere in Europe is urged
by Communists in Australia —and no doubt elsewhere
—and by Left-Wing newspapers everywhere. The
idea appeals to non-military Britons, who have a fellow-
feeling for the Russian people in their dreadful suf-
ferings, and naturally desire to mitigate them, as well
as to keep Russia in the conflict. But in the present
situation of the war a British offensive in Europe
would be midsummer madness. Mr. Churchill him-
self has said that “to land even five divisions, how-
ever lightly equipped,” on a foreign coast “would
require 200 to 250 ships.”
With modern air reconnaissance and photography, it
would not be easy to collect such an armada, marshal
it and conduct it across the sea without any powerful
naval forces to escort it. And there would be a very
great possibility, to put it mildly, that this armada would
be intercepted long before it reached the coast, and all
the men drowned in the sea or blown to pieces with
their equipment while they were trying to land.
Though the Battle of the Atlantic seems to be
going better for us, “200 to 250 ships” cannot be
spared for another sideshow. Leaving out of con-
sideration possible political consequences of failure, it
would spell death to dozens of ships and hundreds of
naval and merchant seamen. And, in the light of what
happened in Greece, what good could five divisions do.
It has been necessary to invade Iran, m asso-
ciation with the Russians, to ensure oil supplies for
the Navy, and to prevent the imminent German coup
d’etat. Conscious of what they owe to the Navy, Aus-
tralians will accept their share of responsibility
for this movement now the harsh necessity has arisen,
as well as shouldering the other obligations they have
willingly undertaken —the protection of British
interests in the Mediterranean zone and the Near
North and the defence of their own territories and
Maoriland. More they cannot do. More they should
not be expected to do.
Forward, Mr. Curtin!
Mr. Menzies soon realised that Cabinet, by deciding
that it was “imperative” for him to proceed to London
as Prime Minister, had placed him—and itself —in a
position which could not be sustained. “Imperative”
was the word used by Dr. Page in a statement to the
newspapers, and that gentleman employed other ill-
chosen expressions. He said that it was “for Parlia-
ment to endorse our decision” and that “to reverse
our decision would precipitate a major political crisis
—create a deadlock that could end only in another
election,” with effects “abroad, especially in the
Pacific,” that would be “catastrophic.” He rounded
off his unlucky utterance by saying that it was “incon-
ceivable that at the moment this country’s existence is
threatened, and invasion may be imminent, we could
go electioneering; along that road lies treason.”
All this angered the Labor party, especially the
reference to “treason.” Dr. Evatt warned Dr. Page
against any further development of that line of argu-
ment. Other members of the party got out bound
volumes of “Hansard” and read once more what Dr.
Page said of Mr. Menzies, and what Mr. Menzies said
of Dr. Page, on April 20, 1939, though, having known
the member for Cowper in more gracious moods, they
refrained from quoting the interesting exchange pub-
licly. At this stage the Prime Minister deemed it
expedient to remove “apparent misapprehensions”
about the “proposal made by Cabinet.” He said “I
want to make it clear that I would not be prepared
to go to London unless all the parties in the Federal
Parliament agreed.”
Members were still turning these words oyer in
their minds when the House met. The Prime Minister
made a statement on the international position and
spoke in his best form. His most felicitous sentences
were meant for Japanese consumption. He denied
that the A.B.C.D. Powers were “contemplating an
encircling military movement or any policy of aggres-
sion” against the Japanese.
We point out to Japan that it is she who entered
French Indo-China and she who has apparently formu-
lated demands or requests on Thailand. It is her acts
that have created tension, not ours. If the tension
is to be relieved, as we all sincerely hope it will be,
Japan has the means of release in her own hands..
There is a long history, indeed, a tradition, of
friendship between Japan and Australia. But occasionally
it is a good thing, even for friends, to talk plainly and
honestly to each other.
Of Mr. Churchill and his War Cabinet, the Prime
Minister said “I found them in the highest degree
co-operative and willing to listen to the Australian
view—willing to attach significance and weight to
special Australian interests.” All the same it was
“true that each nation in this British Commonwealth
has its own immediate risks and interests, its own
method of approach, its own viewpoint” ; and it was
“the opinion of the Commonwealth Government that
Australia’s voice should be heard in the place where
major decisions must inevitably be made.” Here
members were with him, having read with concern
that the situation in the Pacific was rarely mentioned
in London, and then chiefly as matter for Left-Wing
newspaper invective, and having always in their minds
what occurred in Libya after the Sixth Division and
part of the British armored division were taken from
it, and what followed in Greece and Crete. But they
could not be convinced that Mr. Menzies should go
to London as Prime Minister (he admitted that it was
“impracticable” for the P.M. to be “absent from his
own country indefinitely, or for a prolonged period”)
or that precedent or dignity or something would pre-
vent the admission of any other Australian representa-
tive to British war councils when questions concerning
Australia were under consideration.
Certainly the Labor Opposition was not con-
vinced. It discussed the London project at a party
meeting, and resolved that it was “essential for Aus-
tralia to have its Prime Minister here” and for “arrange-
ments” to be “made with the British Government for
representation of the Commonwealth Government in
England, so as to ensure that its point of view in
respect of policy will be constantly before the British
War Cabinet.” Placing the terms of these resolutions
before the House, Mr. Curtin insisted that “the present
situation requires the Prime Minister to be here,” but
added: “We feel that the British Government owes
it to us to regard us as equal partners in a common
fate, because of what we have done, what we me
doing and what we propose to do.” Therefore, “we
say to the Government of the United Kingdom that
Australia is entitled to have its own view and voice
constantly before the British Cabinet, and it urges
the British Cabinet to accept a representative chosen
by the Australian Government.” “I don’t think the
British Government would consider for a moment the
proposal to send a Minister other than the Prime
Minister,” said Mr. Hughes. But why shouldn’t it?
The Lloyd George Government welcomed General
Smuts to its councils in 1917 when General Botha
was Prime Minister of the Union.
Meanwhile the Ministerial parties, “with only
one dissentient,” agreed that Mr. Menzies should go to
London as Prime Minister. Recognising, no doubt,
that this was merely beating the air, Mr. Menzies
addressed to Mr. Curtin a letter in which he proposed
that “a new Cabinet should be formed, to consist of
equal numbers of Government and Opposition
members” ; and that the leader should be (1) Men-
zies, (2) Curtin, or (3) some other person unnamed,
“chosen by some method to be agreed upon if the


general principle of a joint Government is accepted/’
For his part, he was prepared to serve under anybody.
Caucus was to consider this offer after The
Bulletin went to press. If, as anticipated, its answer
is a refusal, the Prime Minister’s course will be clear.
He should tender his resignation straightway and
advise the Governor-General to send for Mr. Curtin ;
and that gentleman must accept the responsibility of
fotming a Ministry or recommending a colleague
authorised to speak for the party who can and will.
Thus far in this Parliament Labor has exercised
power without responsibility. In the position that
has arrived —unless the present Administration chooses
lo pocket what is left of its pride and remain in office
for a few more humiliating weeks or months it must
be ready to exercise both. If it shirks this manifest duty
it will earn the contempt of a people that sets courage
above all other political qualities, and the accusing
ghost of Andrew Fisher—who served in one Labor
Government and led another without a party majority
—will haunt it.
Above all, another general election must be avoided.
The possibilities of a House elected only 11 months
ago will not have been exhausted if Mr. Curtin, Dr.
Evatt or Mr. Beasley refuses a commission. Another
general election would divide the nation into two
camps and set States against States. It would reveal
party politics as the last word in rottenness. It would
expose Parliamentary government to the ridicule of
Australia’s enemies.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Money for Fighting Men.
Announcing that his Cabinet had agreed to increased
pay and allowances for the fighting services, “in cer-
tain cases,” Mr. Menzies said that would be
part of the Budget discussions, adding that “the public
will appreciate that the questions are very complicated
and require much working out.”
He was right in that, and it is a pity the Army
Minister was allowed to rush in with his stunt of
sending 720 V.A.Ds. abroad on a minimum of 6s. a
day and an allowance of £37 10s. a head for personal
outfit, a rate equivalent to that of an A.I.F. private
and excessive compared with what trained nurses get.
This is to be followed by the enlistment of a Women’s
Home Army, whose “officers” are to receive 10s. to
£1 a day, with food, quarters and a uniform allowance
of £2O for all hands, from “lieutenant-colonels,
“majors” and “captains” to privates.
There is too much of the feminine complex about
the Army administration, too much of an eagerness
to fall in with any hasty suggestion from a press
dominated by the same complex. This was evident
in the way that same press tried to “glamorise ’ Mr.
Spender in his “fight” with Mr. Fadden over the rise
in pay of servicemen, both being placed, according to
Mr. Menzies, in an “embarrassing position” over it.
Right from the beginning the nation has felt that
A.I.F. pay is too low. Increased and still mounting
living costs make it difficult for soldiers dependants
to live. But a straightout rise in pay may not be as
good as it looks.
The gratuity system of the last war, under which
the returned soldier or sailor got Is. 6d. a day for every
day he was in service, is wortn considering. Old
Diggers of 1914-18 freely state that, but for the
gratuity money, most of them would have been forced
to take on relief work in the readjustment period aftei
their return. . ,
A man on active service necessarily believes be
will survive, but never forgets that he may not. So
long as he has money in his pocket he will spend it
on the assumption that tomorrow or next week will
bring the enemy missile with his name on it. Many
civilians have the same attitude with regard to present
and future taxation.
Whether it is to be increased pay or gratuity,
there should be no talk of “certain cases.” The
battlers of Libya, Greece, Crete and Syria, the men
who’ve worked Australian warships through the sea-
battles and the airmen who’ve been at it since the
beginning must get the benefit of any increase retro-
spectively. It would not be the fair thing to have men
joining up on an increased rate after the veterans
had fought on the lower one. This adds to the argu-
ment for the gratuity, and, if the gratuity were decided
upon some special arrangement should be made tor
dependants to allow them to meet increased living
Whatever is thrown up by the current Canberra
performance, the matter of increased rates for fighting
men will have to be given deep thought to ensure the
best possible benefit for them. As for highly-paid
V A Ds and Mr. Spender’s Women s Home Army,
the sooner both ideas are dropped the better. If there
is room for V.A.Ds. where Australian armies are
stationed abroad, it could be better filled by women
from Great Britain, which has thousands of them to
spare and might be glad of the chance to send them
abroad from the point of view of food rationing
alone.
New Offensive.
“Lord Luvus” : During the last war the moment an
unfortunate civilian donned khaki all the moral-uplift
societies were let loose upon him. So much did they
think it was their duty to tyrannise over him that
when I was in London and the army of Mons was
in danger of being cut off by the Germans the papers
were full of the propaganda of anti-cigarette societies,
which had so little sense of proportion that they
demanded that the soldier should be cut off from his
is going to be even worse in this war, judging
by a report in my morning paper. It says that “sixty
experienced speakers” have been detailed off to lecture
to the troops on 400 topics. Among the sixty are
“well-known commentators on international affairs,
and the range of topics embraces economics,
psychology, music, industry, history and vari £us
forms of science. Also Sovietism, which, if the public
stands it, will be dealt with by Friends of the Soviet.
I have listened to many well-known commentators
on international affairs and I have never heard one
who had even the glimmer of a notion ot the course
that events have taken. Concerning Germany, France
and Russia, to mention only three of the subjects
they have tackled with such assurance, well-known
commentators” have been wildly wrong. And 1 have
a dismal impression that the “experienced speakers
on textbook subjects will be textbook men. As lor
the proposed Soviet performance, the forthng
Cameron has pointed out that it will amount to using
taxpayers’ money to do work formerly deemed so
deadly that it has been prohibited in Australia.
At least a civilian can switch off the radio when
bores get going, but I suppose it would be definitely
fifth-column for anybody to switch off an official bore
detailed to the army.
If the soldiers have sufficient leisure to listen to
lectures, they have time to be given opportunities to
learn some interesting craft or other with possibilities
of beauty and of use when the war is over.
How They Voted Abroad.
“Forces overseas” voted at the Commonwealth
general election held on September 21, 1940. Judging
by details presented in Electoral Department publi-
cations, they were not greatly interested in the job
they did, and they would probably be even less inter-
ested if they were called upon to do it again before
the war is over ; but to them and to all others con-
cerned in the election it should be interesting to know
how they voted. The information, which did not
appear in newspaper reports, is subjoined. Only
primary votes for the House are given:
N.S.W. Electorates. Labor . u. A .P. C.P. Others.
Barton (Lab.) .. • • 179 68 25
Calare (Lab.) .. • • 29 9
Cook (Lab.) .. .-211 - ~ 2/
Cowper (C.P.) .. -. 55 - 81 48
Dailey (Lab.) .. ••I®* __ 13
Darling (Lab.) .. • • 43 9?
Sydney (Lab.) .. • • 252 48 __
Eden-Monaro (U.A.P.) •• 42 64
Gwydir (Lab.) • • • • I]] 57
Hume (C.P.) •• ■■ 44 106 57
Hunter (Lab.) .. 64
Lang (Lab.) 86 39 - 16
Macquarie (Lab.) .. •• 83
Martin (U.A.P ) .. •■ 35 91 - 40
Newcastle (Lab.) .. ••135 17
New England (C.P.) .. 56 119
North Sydney (U.A.P.I •• 78 213 38
Parkes (U.A.P.) .. -60 90 - 20
Parramatta (U.A.P.) •• 53 10.
Reid (Lab.) 101 ~ "
Richmond (C.P.) .. • ■ 55 |1
Riverina (Lab.) .. ..59 106 83
Robertson (U.A.P.) -• 20 56
Warringah (U.A.P.) •• 30 -47
Watson (Lab.) ... ■■ 49 12 - 51
Wentworth (U.A.P.) ■• 49 210 78
Werriwa (Lab.) .. •• }|3 58 41
West Sydney (Lab.) •• H 9
Victorian Electorates.
Balaclava (U.A.P.) .. .. 135 243 - 33
Ballarat (Lab.) .. • • 75 52
Batman (Lab.) .. •• 191 45
Bendigo (C.P.) .. ■ • 57 62 18
Bourke (Lab.) .. ■ • -09 35
Corangamite (U.A.P.) •• 73 73
Coric (Lab.) .. ■ • 15 J 126 - “
Deakin (U.A.P.) .. 66 80
Fawkner (U.A.P.) .. •• 155 191 -
Flinders (U.A.P.) .. •• |5 127 - 140
Gippsland (C.P.) .. •• 111 91 31
Henty (U.A.P.) ■ ■ • • 92 128 - 3^
v>lndi (C.P.) 87 142
Kooyong (U.A.P.) •• ■ • 91 176
Maribyrnong (Lab.) • • 160 4/
Melbourne (Lab.) .. • • 196 76 _
Ports (Lab.) .. 252 46
'Wannon (Lab.) . •■ 100 81 - 17
Wimmera (Ind. C.P.) • • 75. - 187 23
Yarra (Lab.) •• • • 182 47 12
Queensland Electorates.
Brisbane (Lab.) .. • • 139 108
Capricornia (Lab.) .. • • 134 - -
Downs (C.P.) • • 56
Griffith (Lab.) .. ■• 42 100 -
Herbert (Lab.) .. • • 10] J 3 45
Kennedy (Lab.) .. ••204
Lilley (U.A.P.) •• -.50 118 - 1J
Maranoa (Lab.) .. •• 114 8^
Moreton (U.A.P.) .. •• 58 148
Wide Bay (C.P.) .. -41 82 21
South Australian Electorates. 7n
Adelaide (U.A.P.) .. • • 78 02 - 70
Barker (U.A.P.) .. • • 59 35 - 22
Boothby (U.A.P.)-.. •• 71 137
Grey (C.P.) •• -99 “
Hindmarsh (Lab.) .. • • 144 51
Wakefield (U.A.P.) • • HI 65
Westralian Electorates.
Forrest (C.P.) .. •• \\ 7 “ ~
Fremantle (Lab.) .. ■ • 213 97
Perth (U.A.P.) .. -.146 206 -
Swan (C.P.> .. -.71 - 92 102
Tasmanian Electorates. ..
Bass (Lab.) 72 38 - 13
Darwin (U.A.P.) .. 54 67 __
Denison (U.A.P.) 49 79
Franklin (Lab.) 80 46
Wilmot (U.A.P.) .. ..70 34
How the nurses voted is an unrevealed mystery,
their ballot-papers having been lumped in with those
of the men. Taken by and large, the service vote was
too small to affect decisions, but Mr. Curtin found
it useful in Fremantle, and it helped to give General
Brand his big majority for the Senate in Victoria.
Percentages of informal ballot-papers natura y
varied, and, as a rule, were higher in the cas ®L°| th e
Senate than in that of the House. For East Sydney,
where there were seven candidates, 59 out of 4po
votes had to be rejected; for Lang (N.S.W.), 21 out
of 162. For Richmond (N.S.W.) one out of 180 was
informal; for Wimmera (Vic.), one out of -86. Lang
was the electorate in which ex-Premier Stevens was
TIJ.A.P. candidate-one of two. Of the 39 service
votes they shared, Mr. Stevens got 11.
Settlement in the Saltbush.
In a reference to the Sydney Government’s proposal
to withdraw 5,000,000 acres from N.S.W. Western
Division leases and to resume “some large estates” in
the same area, withdrawals and resumptions to be cut
up among “small-holders,” it was here stated,
(30/7/’4l) that all the W.D. was in the under-10in.-
rainfall belt and that “the saltbush is not kind to
Labor idealists, nor to the subjects of their ideal-
istic experiments.”
In his second-reading speech on the withdrawal bill,
Lands Minister Tully called the article “derogatory.”
It was obviously written by a person with little
knowledge or by one who had another purpose to
serve The article was not based on facts The rain-
fall varies from 1 Sin. to at Walgett and
Collarenebri to 15in. at Brcwarrina, shading away to
lOin. at Wilcannia.
The “person” is of opinion that he has scraped
more of the Division out of his ears and eyes and
from his tea than Mr. Tully ever saw. His only pur-
pose was to suggest that Mr. Tully “tread warily,” and
he sticks to his rainfall figures. The inches mentioned
by Mr. Tully may fall where he says they do, but
mostly in summer. Anybody knows that for sub-
stantial grazing there must be good rains between
April and October and in his own department Mr.
Tully can find maps showing the western limit of
lOin. rainfall in that period as anything from 60 to
130 miles east of Walgett, Collarenebri and Bre-
warrina. And Walgett and Collarenebri are on the
eastern border of the Division, all three of them in
the extreme north-east corner of it, the best speck of
the whole vast area.
The Western Division has been the plaything of
politicians ever since it was made available as leases
40 years ago. Government after Government has so
“amended the Act” that leaseholders, large and small,
have never known where they stood, though they
have gone on improving their leases as best they
could. Lack of rain, overstocking and the übiquitous
rabbit have made things tough enough. Political
juggling with the Act amounts to a fourth pest.
Mr. Tully insisted in his speech that the with-
drawals were announced as part of his party’s policy
before the election and since his party was returned
the policy should be implemented. It would be hard
to find a Labor voter who even thought of the Western
Division when deciding how to vote. Labor gets its
majorities in the crowded east; there 100 acres is a
vast area. Any politician can dazzle such people with
glib references to millions of acres in “the grasping
grip of land barons,” because few of them have ever
seen the saltbush.
The Minister also averred that he was anxious
to have some of the land ready for returned A.I.F.
men. He’s asking for trouble if he tries to settle sol-
diers on it, other than those who enlisted from the
W.D., and need only look to the south-west for a
shocking example.
There is a more or less practicable scheme in the
dreams of some people for a vast water project that
would bring water down through central Queensland
into the Darling system and so south. Given that, and
a linking up with the Keepit and mid-Murray schemes,
western N.S.W. coulfl be changed as was the Cali-
fornian desert. But that is a national scheme entail-
ing millions of money and associated with immigra-
tion and post-war decentralisation. In existing cir-
cumstances what was said can only be repeated: The
Sydney Government should tread warily, because the
saltbush isn’t kind either to Labor idealism or the
subjects of idealistic experiments.
The Road to Darwin.
“Highway”: “X.T.’s” (B. 6/8/’4l) criticism of the
Spender-Foil policy of road construction in the
Northern Territory is based on insufficient considera-
tion of facts. Briefly, these are that shipping space
is limited and there is a definite menace to this
country from the north, against which we are main-
taining an army in Malaya and an important garrison
at Darwin. Realisation of these matters, no doubt,
prompted Army Headquarters to recommend overland
transport as vitally important.
The Darwin overland road was located, cleared,
formed and lightly gravelled by the road authorities
of South Australia, N. S. Wales and Queensland dur-
ing September to December, 1940, for a distance of
307 miles (Tennant to Birdum). This stage of the
work provided a good dry-weather road in a minimum
of time. That some interruption to traffic would
occur in the brief wet season was anticipated by the
engineers concerned. The second stage of maintenance
and strengthening is proceeding, and little trouble
.should result next wet season. Apart from this incon-
venience for a month or so, the road will do all that
is required of it during the remainder of the year.
Incidentally, the achievement would probably be
hailed as a world record in peace-time and illustrates
what can be done by mechanisation. The transport of
heavy plant, supplies for men and machines oyer
some thousands of miles was a feat of organisation
not previously attempted in Australia. A further
point of interest to taxpayers is that at least one State
carried out its section considerably below the esti-
mated cost,
“X.T.’s” specification regarding the Indian Grand
Trunk would possibly be quite sound under similar
conditions. It costs money and takes time to elevate a
road. And to dispose of water in “young rivers” at
each side, whilst sheltering it from ram and wind by
“broad spreading trees,” would create some problems
under conditions prevailing in the Northern Territory.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: When Mr. McKell
finally makes up his mind to reduce my
taxes by doubling ’em and I am driven
out into the bitter world to scratch for a
living, I shall not, I have decided, be-
come a street musician. Ignored by the
passers-by, he stood on Peters’ Corner,
Randwick, in the full blast of a wind
burdened with winter and hamburgers,
and scraped sadly at his violin. The
tune, I suspected—as also, apparently,
did a fox-terrier that blew round the
corner—was “The Last Time I Saw
Paris.” The terrier sniffed at the musi-
cian’s feet, squatted on his haunches and
began to howl. Overcome with the
sorrow of the universe, an Irish setter
crept alongside the terrier, pointed his
nose to the sky and howled blue murder
in harmony. The violinist, a proud man,
kept on playing; the dogs kept on howl-
ing ; the passers-by, though grinning,
kept on passing by; and all that the trio
got for the most dismal chorus I’ve ever
heard was the wind’s bleak gift of the
stench of the hamburgers of the happy.
* * * *
“Clooter”; Mrs. Potter Mac Queen’s
marble bath (B. 20/8/’4l) and the legend
that after she - had filled it with milk
and bathed therein the milk was served
out to convicts may or may not have
founded a Melba tradition. This alleged
that on a tour of France somebody per-
suaded the diva that a bath in cham-
pagne was the acme of bodily refresh-
ment. Melba didn’t cotton to the idea
at once but finally consented to give it
a go. I never heard whether or not she
testified to the virtue claimed for the
ablution, but was assured that the
practical French proprietor of the pub
re-bottled the stuff the moment he could
get at it, thus showing a double profit.
"Good morning , Daniel. Have you any prophecies to make about Australia?"
"Yes. There will be a man called Menzies, who will enjoy the unlimited confidence of his fellow-politicians
until he reaches the age of fourscore and ten."
“T. McN.”: Doubt if the Diggers re-
duced "You’re in. for it” to “You’re for
it” (B. 20/8/’4l). The latter is a typical
English phrase ; I can’t remember hearing
it from Aussie lips. In the film “The
Drum,” dealing with the life of an Eng-
lish regiment in India, great play was
made with the term. An Australian
version would be “You’ll cop out,” or
just a significant “’Struth!” and an
equally significant look. My tip is that
t£ You’re for it” is of British regiment
origin, applied to the defaulter due for
orderly room parade.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: Anybody familiar with
evidence knows that an eyewitness can-
not be trusted implicitly, even though the
evidence be given in all sincerity. It
becomes even more doubtful in a tough
spot such as that in which the crew of
the Australian destroyer Waterhen found
themselves when the ship was bombed
and sunk off the Libyan coast. One petty
officer, to “S.M.H.”; “We waited for the
other destroyer to come alongside and
pick us up. After we had boarded
her a submarine broke surface and fired
two torpedoes at us. We soon dealt with
the submarine.” Another p.o. to Sydney
‘‘Sun”: “After dark, in bright moon-
light, the other destroyer returned to the
spot for salvage and found an Italian sub-
marine sitting on the surface. The sub-
marine crash-dived and the destroyer
sprang into action with depth charges.”
But maybe one of the reporters got it
mixed.
* * * *
“Blue Tumbler”; A new horror may
come into warfare—the U.S.A. Signal
Corps is dabbling with the idea of train-
ing falcons to intercept and destroy
enemy homing pigeons. It is claimed that
the peregrine falcon drops on its prey
at 100 m.p.h., “whistling like a dive-
bomber.” Like Hitler’s “secret weapon”
of the early days, this new device can’t
be turned against the U.S.A.’s own
pigeons, because they are to be trained
for night flying and, “so far as is known,
the U.S. falcon squadron will be the first
such military force in the world.” I’m
now retiring from view and am not to
be disturbed, for I have an idea for cross-
ing homers with water-hens to produce
a camouflaged pigeon that no falcon will
be able to see without a prismatic detec-
tor. Maybe I’ll try some of those Aus-
tralian crows that fly backwards to keep
the sand out of their eyes or perhaps
develop an escort of fighter wagtails for
my pigeons.
* ♦ * *
“Zake”; The match of the day was
over and a few of the losing team's
supporters were in the bar conducting
post-mortems on lost tries and knock-ons.
Near by, swaying in front of a double-
header, was a wizened cove whose drawn
face was of a dreadful pallor. “Bluey”
Fowler nudged “Chicker” Matthews.
“Gripes!” he said, sotto voce. “Just get
a mince-pieful of the joker alongside y’,
will y’? Don’t he look a monte for the
morgue?” “Chicker” took up his handle.
“Ar, he’s all right,” he pronounced. ‘.‘lt’s
just too much gay-and-frisky making him
green about the gills.” “Chicker” hadn’t
gulped twice when there was a crash
behind them. The seedy individual had
heeled over and fallen flat on his back.
“Bluey” looked down at the waxen face.
“ ’Struth! I think he’s a goner! ”he said.
“Goner me foot,” “Chicker” replied; “a
good puke and he’ll be as right as rain
again!” But “Bluey” was convinced. “Well,
I’ll bet y’ a flag he’s wriggled out!” he
said. “Chicker” took another calmly
appraising look. “Make it two if you
like,” he said. “Blue’s” fighting blood
was up, “If y’ want a bet, I’ll have y’ f’r
an even fiver he’s dead.” “You’re on,”
agreed “Chicker.” Just then a barman
bustled around, dropped on one knee and
began to loosen the fallen one’s collar.
As he tugged at the knot “Bluey” roared
“Hey, whadda y’ think you’re doing.”
“Giving him air, of course,” said the
surprised beer-juggler. “Well, don’t you
get shovin’ y’r bib in where it’s not
wanted,” returned “Blue.” “I got a fiver
on that bloke and I don’t want any mug
muckin’ up my chance of collectin’!”
« * * *
“Kiowa”: The serious-minded M.
Hartley Grattan, who never seems to tire
of haranguing benighted Australians, said
we would panic if an enemy attempted
invasion. I don’t see it. Australians are
pretty much the one stock, unlike the
mixture that comprises the U.S.A., and
it is in mixtures that the panic germ
thrives. Nobody has forgotten the mad-
ness that swept north-east U.S.A. over
a realistic broadcast of a Wellsian fantasy
of invasion from another sphere, and
recently three were killed and 40 injured
when 5000 negroes gathered for a picnic
and a rumor went round that many of
them had been sold faked tickets. It took
two hours to quell them. Every time I
see photographs or read descriptions of
American religious fervors, “swing
maniacs” and “jitterbugs” I shudder to
picture what a heavy air-raid would do
to one of America’s polyglot cities. The
U.S.A. ought to thank its gods for its
British leaven of well-balanced citizens.
* * * *
“Ex-Vic.”: The old yarn of “the one
that got away” has been outdone on the
South Gippsland coast. Somebody
spotted a shoal of millions of salmon in
a bay west of Mallacoota. The authorities
decided to net and can them for the
Army. The Twofold Bay (N.S.W.)
cannery was urged to get ready and
negotiations were opened with the Vic-
torian Fisheries Department to use nets
in the bay. This, of course, took time.
So much so that before the boats could
get there a storm had arisen, so had the
tide, and the salmon fled over the bar
to sea. When the boats arrived there
wasn’t a scale in sight.
* # * *
“Smilax”: One result of the visit of
the U.S.A. cruisers Salt Lake City and
Northampton to Brisbane is to make me
suspect that Uncle Sam has been engaged
in a lot of surreptitious naval actions in
recent times. How else explain the rows
of medals and decorations which the
marines wore in their parade? Nearly
every one of them had two medals; many
half a dozen. Last American naval
action of which the outside world has
knowledge was in connection with the
Haiti intervention. That was 20 years
ago, and as most of the marines are only
in their twenties they could not have won
their decorations there. They formed
quite a contrast to the batch of medal-
less and colorless R.A.N, men who re-
turned to Brisbane on leave after nearly
two years of extremely active service in
the Mediterranean about the same time.
* * * *
“Colbun”: A Dutch device for pro-
tecting home-workers from undesired
and time-wasting interruptions has caught
on in London and should offer attractive
advantages to many Australian city-
dwellers. It consists of a front-door bell-
push, which will not operate until a
penny is put into a slot beneath it, and
a diagonally-placed mirror which enables
the caller to be viewed from within the
house without being able to see the
viewer. Rapping gives the show away
except in the case of legitimate visitors
who don’t happen to have a penny—
they are identifiable in the mirror.
Hawkers and canvassers naturally don’t
care to risk the brown. Others whom
the dweller is willing to receive get their
penny back when the door is opened.
The rest don’t, thus assuring a small but
certain return on the cost of installation.
The apparatus should prove popular in
Aberdeen.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The Shepherd’s Flat (Vic.)
State school must be unique in educa-
tional annals. Recently its teacher in-
advertently unearthed the skeleton of a
human being which Was buried six inches
deep under the floor of the school garage.
Theories of murder were partly allayed
when the framework was identified as
that of an abo., but it still had to be ex-
plained how the relic got there. Then a
former pupil remembered a teacher who
had carried out the department’s instruc-
tions with regard to making lessons
interesting by importing the skeleton of
an aboriginal for anatomical demonstra-
tions. When the schoolmaster died the
skeleton mysteriously vanished. There
is a theory that a member of the family
buried the grisly memento.
♦ * ♦ »
“L.L.”; Minister for Home Security
Abbott remarked the other day that Pro-
fessor Dakin, chief Commonwealth ad-
viser on camouflage, was possibly the
world’s greatest authority on fish; that
fish were unsurpassed in camouflage, and
the lessons learned from Nature would
be applied to the art of war. Animals
are just as expert camoufleurs as fishes.
A tiger in the desert would be a con-
spicuous object, but I have been close
to one of the beasts in the jungle and
looked at him without seeing him for
minutes, his stripes and the dappled shade
and color of the foliage forming a per-
fect match. A lion in the desert seen
from the level is admirably designed by
Nature to escape notice, and he would
presumably be equally invisible from an
elevation; but his shadow would not.
Modern camouflage largely has to do
with shadow, not with color. A building
camouflaged with color may be invisible
to an artillery observer, but from a few
thousand feet in the air color becomes a
negligible factor and shadow, which de-
lineates form, all-important.
* * H: #
“R. Volt”: The latest report from the
Land of Marvels is that scientists are
developing an explosive which, contained
in a 101 b. bomb, would blast a hole 25
miles in diameter and more than a mile
deep, and wreck every structure within 100
miles. It is “reliably reported” that the
Government is so impressed with the re-
searches that it is going to control the
scientists and use their discovery for war
purposes. But reports like that crop up
every two months in war-time. It was an
American scientist who announced that
at no distant date electrical power would
be broadcast through the ether, and
motor-cars, factories and battleships
would just have to put up an aerial to
draw the juice in. What he forgot was
that an impulse in the ether is dissipated
in all directions, and the amount of
power required even to cover a small
area would be economically impossible
and probably a frightful menace.
* * ♦ *
“X.S.”: Victorian bushfire-prevention
services are all in train for the forth-
coming season and they are to be sup-
plemented by radio and air-spotting. It
is suggested in some quarters that some
foreign Power might try to start bush-
fires. People with experience laugh at
the notion of raiders wasting incendiary
bombs on Victoria’s bush cover when
they would have all their work cut out to
reach military objectives. The only con-
ditions when even tons of incendiary
bombs could start a worth-while con-
flagration would be precisely the same
conditions that produce the terrific out-
breaks which sweep Victoria from one
end to the other —a day of intense heat
and a north wind of 60 m.p.h. or over.
And when these conditions appertain
there is no need for anybody to start a
bushfire —it flares up of its own accord
from a hundred directions.
A RENDEZVOUS WITH DESTINY.
Two trusty chiefs of nations twain,
Hard by the rugged coast and steep,
The storm-swept shores and cliffs of Maine,
From east and west they came to keep
A hidden date upon the deep,
A tryst whereto they held the key,
’Mid waves that toss and winds that sweep,
A rendezvous with Destiny.
Two figures on the roll of Fame
Set high by peoples twain but kin,
Their purpose one, and one their aim,
A foe to crush, a war to win.
Each with a chosen paladin
To meet in counsel vis-a-vis
And keep (for all involved therein)
A rendezvous with Destiny.
What worthier scene, what better place,
Than where Atlantic billows roll
To seal the ties of blood and race
Twkt those who side by side must take
Their stand for precious freedom’s sake,
The breeds whose sons have ruled the sea?
What fitter zone wherein to make
A rendezvous with Destiny?
A coign unmarked, unmapped, untold—
Yet men may tell in days to be
Twas hereabouts they came to hold
A meeting deep in history scrolled,
A rendezvous with Destiny.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Dick Tafone”: Something must be
done by the world’s press in the way of
standardising the face-foliage of G. H.
Wilkins for purposes of publication. For
years he emerged from successive explor-
ing trips showing a full-blown ziff, com-
plete with cheek-hackles and unpruned
mo. Then the hackles disappeared sud-
denly and the mo altered to a neatly-
trimmed cavalry-style affair surmounting
an inverted pyramid of chin-spinach. Just
as the world’s block-custodians had got
used to the change some infernal Ameri-
can encountered Wilkins with a camera
and depicted his features as clean as a
Ukraine plain after an earth-scorching.
Now the Wilkins visage returns from
China and Japan displaying a Clark
Gable lip-smear above a V-for-Victory
beaver cut from the corners of the
mouth. It’s time the Federal authorities
recalled the man to some sort ,of whisker-
control, even if he does come from South
Australia.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: An 11-year-old Port
Melbourne newsboy saved up 30 shil-
lings, went to Australian National Air-
ways, asked where he could fly to for
that figure and was told Mount Gam-
bier, at half-fare. He stepped aboard a
’plane lugging a suitcase, and an hour or
so later was telling the assistant manager
of the concern in the town by the Blue
Lake that he had just two halfpence in
his pocket to pay for his stay and the
return trip. He stayed and returned.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Thailand introduced a
Hew form of propaganda when the
Bangkok Radio, plainly heard in Aus-
tralia, broadcast four terrible curses in
the name of Sakyamuni Buddha, to the
effect that people making war against the
country would be afflicted with insanity,
bankruptcy, loss of relatives, earthquakes,
plagues and other misfortunes. To make
the imprecation comprehensive, all who
survive its other effects will be for ever
social outcasts. Thailanders are Buddhists,
and there are 16,185 temples and upwards
of 130,000 priests in the country who
have taken the threefold vow of poverty,
chastity and self-abnegation. Buddha, of
course, believed in non-resistance. He gave
up a crown, wealth, a wife and children
to sit under the bo-tree with his ricebowl
and struggle with his soul to kill all
earthly desire and concentrate on Nir-
vana. It is as difficult to imagine him
giving substance to curses made in his
name as to imagine Hitler granting
equality to the Jews; but when religion
and patriotism intermingle strange things
ensue.
“F.S.”: On the authority of one of
those wandering correspondents, Japan
.has offered Thailand the Buddhist rums
of Angkor-Wat. For centuries those
ruins lay buried in dense jungle. The
modern Thailanders couldn’t have built
the vast temple-palace-city or carved
the frescoes of dancing-girls, gods and
goddesses, nor could the Indo-Chinese.
They were built by the Khmers, a mys-
terious people who came from nobody-
knows-where, but showed Graeco-Indian
influence in their sculpture. Some extra-
ordinary individual must have stimulated
the lethargic native to this amazing effort
in the tropical delta of the Mekong, just
as some extraordinary individual must
have stimulated the easygoing Javanese
to build the almost contemporary Boro
Budur and Prambahan. In their tortuous
history Thailanders and Cambodians
fought over the territory where a kindly
"Since Jim Went away things is so peaceful you wouldn't know there Was
a war on."
Nature had buried the ruins, and the
brutality and ferocity of their wars,
beggar description. Then the French
came, routed the jungle, got archaeological
savants to catalogue the treasures and
revealed to the Cambodians a master-
piece of art whose existence they were
utterly unaware of and were incapable of
appreciating.
* * * *
“Jacques”: It is an example of the
whimsical irony of fate that at a time
when the leading (one might almost say
the only) theatrical entrepreneur of Aus-
tralasia is smitten with a desire to revivify
the theatre by importing some new plays
from the U.S.A. it should be discovered
that the world is at war and that dollar
exchange must be conserved. During 10
piping years of peace Australian theatrical
fare has mostly consisted of the Gil-
sullivan operettas (popular in England
60 years ago) and songandance extrava-
ganzas by Lehar, Straus, Monckton and
Talbot which were sensational successes
in London when the century was young.
The job of presenting worth-while Eng-
lish arid American plays of the last three
decades has been left almost wholly to
repertory societies. And now that there is
a change of heart and a desire to splash
money around on importations of the
up-to-date an unfeeling Customs Minister
says Australia has no dollars available
for “trash.” It’s very sad.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: One of Melbourne’s most
promising young violinists has been dis-
covered amongst the apricots and water-
melons of a fruit stall in the Victoria
Markets, Melbourne. He is a Greek who
is learning from one of the city s leading
teachers and looks after his father’s fruit
business in the daytime. Recalls that the
late Tom Glover, one time Bulletin car-
toonist in Melbourne, learnt to draw in a
lift in Wellington (M.L.).
"There's nothing here to suit—well have to try the Air Force ."
“Spokeshave”: Concern is being ex-
pressed by the State Emergency Council
in Melbourne at the fact that many muni-
cipalities have not yet circulated the
householders’ booklet on air-raid pre-
cautions, 300,000 of which are alleged to
have been printed. Ignorance that there
is such a thing as A.R.P. in the southern
city is quite common. A nurse at a lead-
ing hospital, after a recent test, said to
the janitor. “What did you think of the
blackout?” “What blackout?” asked the
old retainer. “Why, the blackout we had
last night.” “I didn’t see any blackout,”
retorted the ancient servitor. “All the
lights went out.”
“Listinsect”: Was suffering the A.B.C.
commentator’s account of Sydney’s
blackout. “Nothing but darkness, dark-*
ness, darkness,” said the Voice. “The
blackest since Captain Cook’s day,” it
continued. “You can’t see anything but
blackness!” My Melbourne daily re-
ported that a huge Neon-light sign func-
tioned throughout the proceedings, and
the official observer’s comment was: “If
that is the best Sydney can do, then God
help Sydney! ”
* * * *
“A Major”: The association of the
“V for Victory” slogan with Beethoven’s
Fifth Symphony strikes me as being un-
fortunate for two reasons. Firstly, who
can remember without a shudder the last
musical illustration that was wedded to
a war cause —the first bars of Chopin s
“Military” polonaise? Secondly, Beet-
hoven’s dot-dot-dot-dash represented in
his mind (so far as that mind could be
ascertained) “Fate knocking at the door
—doom, not victory. The motif appears
in other Beethoven compositions, and
always its connotation is not only solemn
but a bit sinister. Anyway, “Victory”
as a slogan for the moment seems less
appropriate than “Work.”
“Bohemian”: John Norton
didn’t create the term “wow-
ser,” The expression origi-
nated in England in the days
of Cromwell. It was cus-
tomary for the Roundheads
when they saw the Cavaliers
carousing to go up to them,
touch them on the arm and
with dour faces say “Wow,
sir! Wow, sir!” (“Stop, sir!
Stop, sir!”) In England until
this day countrymen pro-
nounce (when they are speak-
ing to their horses) “woe” as
“wow.” The Cavaliers hailed
the appearance of the Round-
heads with “Here comes one
of these infernal ‘wow-sirs.’ ”
In a very old work in my
possession, Dictionary of Old
English Terms and Phrases,
the word and its origin are
fully dealt with.
* * *
“Bill Ding”: In the pioneer-
ing days of the W.A. timber
industry at Torbay, Karridale
and Denmark, the bowyanged
Irish navvy and the Irish
teamster were numerous and
as useful as they were pic-
turesque. The Davieses and
the Millar brothers knew the
energy and reliableness of
these men. But they have
faded away. Today very few
Irishmen fill these jobs. As
a navvy the Irishman’s place has been
filled' by men from the Mediterranean,
and teamsters have almost vanished with
the coming of the tractor. Old-time pay-
sheets had a homely ring about them with
their Murphys, McCarthys, Costelloes
and Flanagans. The Scragnovitches don’t
trip off the tongue so well,
* ♦ » •
“Ecuil”: Some surprise was expressed
when the report of the Victorian Society
for preventing cruelty to children men-
tioned that in one home almost devoid of
furniture kiddies were found sleeping on a
ramshackle bed under the most miserable
coverings, that they were obviously half-
starved and the dirty condition of them,
their parents and the home was shock-
ing, but that ferrets kept there were clean
and well-cared-for. Cases like that aren t
rare, and range from the outback through
the slums to the.toniest suburbs. In Mel-
bourne’s Toorak I once called at a place
to demonstrate a vacuum-clehner. It was
big, thick with carpets and upholstery,
and there were ample signs of money.
Filth was everywhere; you could write
your name in the dust on tables and man-
tels ; there wasn’t a clean windowpane
and smells were strong. The woman
who invited me in wore a greasy dressing-
gown her nails were black, she had a
dirty neck and hadn’t done her hair for
days; but under her arm she carried a
Dandy Dinmont terrier —the most im-
maculate pup I’ve ever seen and glowing
with health. No, I didn’t make a sale.
* ♦ * *
“F.S.”: A modernist painter in Mel-
bourne is nursing a grievance against
modern poets. He invited one to an exhi-
bition of his paintings and the poet ex-
pressed a desire to write an appreciation,
of his pictures for a leading journal. The
painter was delighted, and when the
article appeared rushed out to buy an
issue of the paper. He is now looking
for the youthful poet with a meataxe.
“Mr. Dauber’s pictures represent the dis-
integration of modern life,’’ was the
opening sentence.
sfc * * *
The Sydney that has gone:
With the deplorable demolition of the Com-
missariat Stores on the western side of the
Cove, Old Sydney has almost completely dis-
appeared. Today its aspect exists only in the
galleries of the Mitchell Library.
There is a drawing of George-street which
shows the neighborhood of the G.P.O. in
1842 It is obviously enough an accurate pic-
ture "of Sydney’s main highway, looking south,
but hasn’t the slightest suggestion of the street
that exists today. The post office stands on
the i e ft—a gabled building with a verandah —
and faces the wall of the military barracks,
which ran all the way northward to Grosvenor-
St The first premises occupied by the David
Jones concern adjoin the barrack wall and are
the sort of commercial building to be found
in some market town in Buckinghamshire to-
day The whole thoroughfare, except in its
compass bearings, has no more resemblance to
the one we know than to a street in Pompeii.
The only bits of Old Sydney now remaining
are situated on the outskirts of the area occu-
pied by the town that existed in Macquarie’s
time St. James’s Church and the Supreme
Court buildings, with the old convict barracks
on the other side of the space decorated by
Queen Victoria’s statue, are Sydney’s oldest
monuments to the beginnings of the city—each
of them also a monument to Greenway—
though there are one or two buildings on “the
Rocks,” in the vicinity of the Bradfield High-
way that are contemporaries or even seniors.
However, there will always remain to Sydney
one aspect of its earliest days that may never
be completely changed—its narrow, winding
streets The people are apparently indifferent
to any vandalism affecting their historic build-
ings but they cannot modernise the ground
plan of the streets they use most.
SAY IT IN PROSE.
“J.A.P.: Say it in prose J .D.: Why try, tosay
ft in verse?” —Answers to Cones. (B. 20/8/ 41).
When some inspiring thought, some fancy
pleasant,
Is generated in your nimble mind
Of which you feel you’d' like to make a present
In print to all accessible mankind,
Something that you account a masterstroke is
Your literary talent to disclose,
Don’t mess about with anapests and trochees,
Say it in prose.
Think of the toiling “subs” whose constant
mission
Of handling such a plethora of stuff
Necessitates a certain expedition
In picking out the raisins from the dutt.
Some poem that requires a second reading,
Or p'r’aps a third, its beauties to expose,
May fail to get the tender care it’s needing.
Say it in prose.
Dactyls, iambics, too, may be conclusive
Aids to constructing lilts of high romance;
Withal they’re naturally not conducive
To flashing out your meaning at a glance.
So you who dream of earning panegyrics
When from your pen some stirring message
goes, . , .
Shun elegiacs and abstain from lyrics,
Say it in prose.
You highbrows, too, whose poesy rings so
hollow;
For all its verbiage, so few the signs
Of any fealty to bright Apollo,
Save that it’s cut in lengths and served in
lines; .
Here’s a suggestion that might even make it
Less unintelligible, Heaven knows!
A friendly tip, and let me hope you 11 take it;
Write it in prose.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Queensland
insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
am
w
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
PETROL FROM COAL.
TAXATION AND SQUEALERS.
August Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging l , painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a.
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, puillness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness.
Don’t waitl Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well .and keep you well.
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies became P.M. on April 26,
1939. Of the 15 Ministers he gathered
round him three (Street, Gullett and Fair-
bairn) are dead, a fourth (Casey) is in
Washington, a fifth (Lawson) lost his seat
and a sixth (Perkins) was dropped. Of
the rest, only Hughes, Foil and Stewart
retain portfolios he gave them, and in
each case the title has been altered or
added to. And now the sands are run-
ning out fast.
“S. M. Herald” does a bit of wishful
thinking:
The Government parties will probably
attempt to reconstitute Cabinet under
the leadership of a P.M. acceptable to
Labor and conjointly chosen by the U.A.P,
and the C.P.
“A P.M. acceptable to Labor.” That
would mean a Fadden Government— i.e.,
a Government without guts, Australia
wants a Government that will govern.
Young Mr. McCall, the U.A.P. “rebel,”
on 29/7/’4l:
I will support any leader of any Govern-
ment likely to prosecute the war effort
with vigor.
Young Mr. McCall on 24/8/’4l:
I have withdrawn previous statements
that I will give conditional support to a
Labor Government.
And every political ghost from Red Hill
to Molonglo whispered “Twister.”
The latest from Sydney Premier Mc-
Kell, who promised “100 per cent, co-
operation in the war effort”:
There is only one way in which Australia
can possibly get what it has needed for
so long—strong, vigorous government—and
that is by holding another Federal elec-
tion....! view with the utmost disquiet the
possibility of any continuation of the
existing state of affairs.
Other people are viewing with the
utmost disquiet the possibility of any
continuation of McKell as a privileged
butter-in and nark.
In 1930 there were 53,943 registered
unemployed in Victoria and the relief
tax receipts were £1,234,463. In 1939
the unemployed had declined to 26,928
but the tax receipts were at their peak,
£1,999,902. Registered Unemployed in
this year are estimated at 6000 and the
estimated receipts will be £1,060,000, de-
spite the 33 p.c. reduction. As a bare-
faced political steal this beats all Vic-
torian records.
In a manifesto issued by the Aus-
tralian-Soviet Friendship League appears
a demand “for the immediate removal
from office by the Federal Government
of all persons hostile to fullest aid and
friendship with the Soviet Union.”
Appended to the document are names of
members of the Council for Civil
Liberties.
Anticipating a record revenue of
£13,345,000 for his State, Premier Play-
ford told the S.A. Parliament of tax con-
cessions amounting to £BO,OOO for the
year. It will go mainly to fathers of
families in the £2OO-£5OO group, who are
to get 2d. in the £1 off tax on “earned”
income. A small thing, but one must
be thankful for small things these times.
A refugee living in Sydney Anglicised
his name without authority and was
prosecuted. His solicitor argued that
Jews had been denationalised by the
German Government, and that therefore
German Jews living abroad were no
longer Germans. “He is a German sub-
ject, born of German parents in Ger-
many,” flatly said the magistrate, and
made it a £2O bond and £7 13s. in costs.
The “Australia - Soviet Friendship
League” is still getting the icy shoulder
in Melbourne. The Victorian A.L.P.
won’t have it at any price, and Melbourne
City Council won’t let it use the Town
Hall. However, it got a better reception
out in the wilds of Footscray. The local
football team is being stoushed in the
League, and ’Scray must have something
to barrack for.
Dunstan, of Victoria, touched on the
raw by Anthony, of Canberra, who said
that State Governments were the real
bottlenecks of the nation’s war-effort:
At a time like this, when maximum co-
operation between all Governments must
be maintained, such statements are not
calculated to bring about the unanimity
which is so essential for successful prose-
cution of the war.
The State Premiers illustrated their ideas
of “maximum co-operation” by rejecting
the plan for one income tax, like Britain’s
and Maoriland’s, and putting in for
nearly £40,000,000 for “works.”
Of the £1,432,000 which Victoria got
from the Loan Council for departmental
undertakings, £1,020,000 is to be handed
over to the railways, £400,000 of it for
"You don’t want it, Curtin? Then you shall have it!"
addlll ? nal locomotives and rolling stock
for defence purposes No mention of
™ads, thou / h ’V s a safe b f_ l that Wlthm
1° 7ea , rs afte f 1 the end ° f this wa f man y
Australian railways will become obsolete,
80 § reat Wlll be the u P rush of motor
trans Por-
t there is a getting-out-of-
Europe movement afoot comparable with
the Exodus of the Israelites. Every news-
P a P er ever y da Y or 80 has a stot T by a
“neutral who was in Germany” or “a
traveller who has just reached Switzer-
land °r “ an observer who has been
am ° n g tbe German-occupied countries ”
Each and all ° f J s credited with
, tale ? f Hitlers brainstorms,
Gonng s lost legs, German divisions re-
‘ °
e *l° rs headhne the rubb sin
y 1 e betting shops that blot the S.A.
landsca P e are not 8 ° P^° s P^ rous as , tbe y
used to be ‘, J n 1937-38 tbe y ai * d Itb f
racecour l es had a turnover of £7,741,°00.
sunn®5 unn ® the year to June 30 the Adelaide
Government, as part of its war effort or
something reduced the number of per-
nutted betting days from 130 to 68, and
turnover slumped half a million or so to
«,639,000, there being decreases of 16.3
p c ; n bettin jn and of 23
in betting on races in other States. All
the same, the number of bets laid in
shops and on courses amounted to
27,186,000. The sordid experiment in
licensing shops would have its useful side
if punters were capable of learning from
it that, year in and year out, they can’t
win. If they could, there would be no
shops. The shops keep going only be-
cause a mug is born every minute.
It is unsafe to mention Petain in the
hearing of any politician anywhere in
the world. Not only has the queer old
man swung as far to the Right as he can
go (he says “France is bound by the force
of events to change the Old Regime,”
which means the Republic and all it stood
for), but he has declared for “the aboli-
tion of salaries of members of Parlia-
ment and the abolition of Parliamentary
immunity.” If anyone proposed that on
the hallowed premises in Macquarie-
street, Sydney, he would be thrown bodily
into the Domain.
Cameron on the creation of the
Women’s Home Army (Controller £1 a
day, Assistant Controller 17s. 6d. a day,
Commandant 15s. a day, Assistant Com-
mandant 10s. a day, Group Leader
7s. 6d. a day, Section Leader 6s. 6d., with
food, quarters and a £2O uniform allow-
ance for all ranks):
We have a women’s naval organisation,
a women’s air force and now the Minister
for the Army has launched out afresh.
It is most humiliating that we should have a
Government prepared to ask women to do
all sorts of things connected with war and
not men. The situation is not helped when
we see public statements by the Minister
for the Army such as he made when he came
back from Libya in which he said that what
was wanted in the Middle East was the
softening influence of women. It would
be a good thing for this country if some
of the softening influence of women could
be exported to some of our enemies.
How vulgar of the creature to say such
things of dear Mr. Spender! How fright-
f’lly common !
The “National Review” has said an
arresting thing which throws some light
on the attitude of the Vichy French. It
is to the effect that what Britain regards,
and always will regard, as “the miracle
of Dunkirk” was “a bitter abandonment”
to the French. In the retreat on the port
Prioux’s French soldiers fought a stub-
born rearguard action, and Dunkirk itself
was held for five days, “without bread
or drinking water,” by the 68th French
Division. The 68th numbered 15,000, and
14,986 were killed, wounded or taken.
There followed the De Gaulle movement,
which the Vichy French persist in regard-
ing as a British attempt to divide a nation
whose only hope lay in unity. So the
Vichy French increasingly tend to blame
the British for their calamities. Illogical,
but human nature.
A quotation from Lloyd George, pre-
served in Lord Riddell’s Diary (“Win-
ston has Bolshevism on the brain” and
is “mad for operations in Russia”),
brought The Bulletin a letter from one
of those people who won’t have Churchill
criticised, protesting that “to say that
there is only one man in the British War
Cabinet is to sow seeds of distrust and
disloyalty.” The Bulletin turned for
comfort to “S. M. Herald’s” cable
columns, and there it read that “Mr.
Churchill wants to be Prime Minister and
everything else.”
Mr. Churchill does not sack his failures,
he promotes them. Colonies and Dominions
are becoming dumps for Government
failures. Mr. Churchill’s resentment of
criticism is rather hard to understand,
seeing that he has been the chief critic of
his day.... Mr. Churchill must realise
that... .no man here is big enough to take
on the whole task of administration. There
is no room for dictators. Our task is to
fight dictatorship, not encourage it.
The indictment came from Shinwell, the
British Labor member, who sports the
brand of the coming man.
Latham, the Westralian Agrarian
leader, who may be Premier next year,
suggested the setting up of a House Com-
mittee to curtail wasteful expenditure.
Challenged to give an example, he men-
tioned Government cars.
Repeatedly along Stirling Highway one
can see a Government car proceeding with
a single officer. Five minutes later another
Government car will pass, and still another,
all three going in the same direction.
That is in Perth, of course, but the same
sort of thing can be seen in any Big City.
In a country overloaded with Parlia-
ments, Governments and departments,
and with an easy-money tradition, such
extravagances come natural.
The Victorian Premier, who says that
“unanimity is essential for the successful
prosecution of the war,” is insisting that
Melbourne City Council spend part of
its share of the Loan Council allocation
on remodelling its fish market.
Some of the State Premiers will live
to regret that they turned down the
uniform-income-tax plan without even
bothering to examine it. Jackson, the
Commonwealth Commissioner of Taxes,
suggests that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment should bring about uniformity
in respect of Federal tax —now essentially
a war tax —by ceasing to exempt State
imposts from taxable income. This, if
the present Federal rates were main-
tained, would mean a lot more revenue
for the Commonwealth, and it should
mean a lot less for the States. Anyway,
it would put State Treasurers in a very
awkward position, and McKell, who
promised to abolish the N.S.W. wages
tax, and won’t be allowed to forget it,
would be in the worst plight of all.
Everyone but a rank provincialist would
agree that the Government responsible
for the war effort should have the first
call on income. But because State taxes
are imposed without regard to national
necessities taxes paid for war purposes
differ in every income group and in every
State. Commissioner Jackson has col-
lected some astonishing figures in respect
of Federal tax on “earned income of
taxpayers without dependants.”
On £300: £lO 2s. in S.A., £ll 2s. in
N.S.W. and W.A., £ll 14s. in Q’land,
£ll 18s. in Tas. and £l2 Bs. in Vic.
On £1000: £l3l 2s. in S.A., £133 10s. in
Q’land, £139 10s. in W.A., £142 18s. in
N.S.W., £145 Bs. in Tas. and £l4B 4s. in.
"Vic.
On £5000; £1496 in Q’land, £1550 in
W.A., £1593 in S.A., £1676 in N.S.W.,
£l7Ol in Tas. and £1852 in Vic.
And there must be as bad or worse dis-
crepancies in other groups. Local im-
posts are, of course, additional. They
are comparatively low in Victoria and
very high in Queensland.


PROBLEM BIRD.
"Are we watching him or is he watching us?"


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
. SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1053 of 1941.
BETWEEN DOROTHY EVELYN DAWSON-
PARKES Petitioner and
CLIFFORD JOHN DAWSON-PARKES Re-
spondent.
TO CLIFFORD JOHN DAWSON-PARKES
late of Marrickville.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOROTHY
EVELYN DAWSON-PARKES has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted her and without any
such cause or excuse left her continuously so
deserted during three years and upwards
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Eighteenth day of November next
and in the event of your not so doing within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding A
copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of August,
a.d. 1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
HAROLD MUNRO, Petitioner’s Solicitor, 81
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1168 of 1941.
BETWEEN AMELIA ANNIE BOWMAN
Petitioner and
VALENTINE VICTOR BOWMAN Re-
spondent.
TO VALENTINE VICTOR BOWMAN late
of Sydney and Melbourne.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AMELIA
ANNIE BOWMAN has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for the
dissolution of her marriage on the grounds of
your desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Nineteenth day of November
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition in this suit may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-second day of August
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
JOHN H. PEOPLES, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 77-79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
iFthTsupreme court“of~new
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1226 of 1941.
BETWEEN THELMA CECILIA SMITH
Petitioner and
BRUCE PARKER SMITH Respondent.
TO BRUCE PARKER SMITH late of Prince’s
Highway Engadine near Sydney in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said THELMA
CECILIA SMITH has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Fifth day of November next and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
allowed or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit‘be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the Petition filled herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twelfth day of August, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. J. TAYLOR, WILLIAM ARNOTT
AND CO., Solicitors for the Petitioner,, 27
Hunter Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEM S
It is fitting that New England (N.S.W.)
should harbor Sir Hugh Croft, Bart. Up
on the tableland they have planted English
trees, and what with snow in winter and
the quiet style of land people who’ve been
there for generations there are traditions,
even to the Guyra ghost. Sir Hugh has
been around Guyra and Uralla most of
his life. He managed Boorollong till it was
broken up, then bought Salisbury Court,
near Uralla, having married a daughter
of the Terrible Vale Taylors. Apart
from fine wools his public interests have
been chiefly in land affairs —he is chair-
man of both the local show society and
PP. Board—and he finds time for pat-
riotic movements and a councillorship of
the Armidale diocese. His elder brother
was killed in Gallipoli; the title went to
his nephew, who died recently in Ayr-
shire, and so came to the Uralla man,
who is the 12th baronet. It is an English
baronetcy, dating from 1671, and Sir
Hugh, who is 67, has six children.
Wing - Commander Thomas Walter
White, whose appointment to an over-
seas command is announced, has been
M.H.R. for Balaclava since 1929, and
in recent months has had command
of the Somers Initial Training School
of the R.A.A.F. He was born in
North Melbourne and is 53. He was
Minister of Trade and Customs, 1933-38.
In the 1914-18 war he served in Meso-
potamia with the A.F.C. and was cap-
tured by the Turks ; his experiences are
recorded in Guests of the Unspeakable.
“Tommy” to everyone who knows him,
he married a daughter of Alfred Deakin,
and no Australian statesman has had a
son-in-law more devoted to his memory.
Norman Rupert Mighell, the Com-
monwealth’s first Coal Commissioner,
was born in North Queensland, is a
lawyer by profession and has business
N.R.MIGHELL.
interests in Cairns. Latterly he has been
chairman of the Repatriation Commis-
sion, and has resided in Melbourne. He’s
47, married, and plays golf,
Australia’s oldest and best-known
teacher of elocution and the other his-
trionic arts, Lawrence Campbell, died
at his Lindfield (Sydney) home on
Friday, aged 74. English born, he had
a brief career on the English stage before
health reasons drove him to seek a milder
climate. He arrived in Tasmania in
1893, and the following year commenced
teaching in Sydney. He was in demand
as a judge at competitions, and his gift,
the Campbell Trophy, for public speak-
ing, is competed for annually by pupils
of the “great public schools.” Campbell
was a master of make-up, and his im-
personations of characters as diverse as
Shakspeare, Beethoven, Liszt and Falstaff
were remarkably convincing.
Richard Thomas Baker, who died
recently aged 86, was for many years
Curator and Economic Botanist of the
Sydney Technological Museum and
lecturer on botany at Sydney University.
His principal scientific monument is
A Research on the Eucalypts and their
Essential Oils, written in collaboration
with H, G. Smith, and The Hardwoods
of A ustralia. Baker was born and
educated in England.
Reshuffle of Maoriland’s military
organisation brings out as Chief of
General Staff Brigadier Edward Puttick
a more than usually popular appoint-
ment. Puttick, bora at Timaru 51 years
ago, commenced his career as a civil
servant, but has held a commission for
30 years, and after the 1914-18 war, in
which he commanded M.L. battalions,
he joined the Staff Corps. He was
O.C. Central Military District when the
present war broke out, and since Sep-
tember, 1939, has been on active service.
John Lawrence Baird, Viscount Stone-
haven, dead at 67, was A.D.C. to
Governor Duff of N.S.W. in 1894, and
came to Australia again in 1925 for a term
as Governor-General that ended in 1930.
Eton and Oxford paved his way to the
diplomatic service. After the 1914-18
war, in which he was an intelligence
officer, winning the D. 5.0., he occupied
various minor Ministerial positions be-
fore he became First Commissioner of
Public Works in 1922. His Australian
appointment followed. In retirement
after that, he was for some years chair-
man of the Conservative party organi-
sation. Impulsive, peppery and a stickler
for dignity, he was nevertheless a very
good-hearted little man.
Died in Townsville (N.Q.), Arthur
James Crowther, for many years a
notable figure in Queensland railway
development. Appointed private secre-
tary to Commissioner J. F. Thallon in
1907 after 23 years of audit work, he
became secretary of the department five
years later, acting-Commissioner in
1918-19, and then general manager
for the northern division. His book, The
First Half Century, is the standard work
of reference on Queensland’s early rail-
way history. Retiring in 1933, he found
escape from railway whistles by living
on Magnetic Island.
David Edward Lewis, dead in Mel-
bourne at 75, was a foundation partner
in the drapery firm of Love and Lewis,
and since 1910 sole proprietor. A few
years ago he bought Carabobala station
and made it a showplace. He built an
engineering school at Melbourne Univer-
sity and showered benefactions on the
suburb of Prahran. Both his sons are
electrical engineers.
D. Lyon McLarty, appointed by the
N. S. Wales Government to run its new
shipbuilding yard at Carrington (Walsh
Island having been washed out), is an
engineer who served his time in a ship-
yard at Greenock, became assistant
works manager for a Glasgow ship-
building firm and then assistant g.m. of
the Shanghai Dock and Engineering Co.
He came to Australia in 1925, and after
two years at Cockatoo Dockyard, Syd-
ney, became manager of Monson and
Brearly, Newcastle. Latterly he has been
g.m. of Robison Bros., Melbourne ship-
builders and engineers.
Dr. Mclntyre Sinclair, who pioneered
the Spahlinger treatment for tuberculosis
in Australia, is dead at 69. London-born,
he graduated at Glasgow and had
specialised in t.b. before he came to Aus-
tralia in 1902 to be medical superinten-
dent of Queen Victoria Homes, Went-
worth Falls, N. S. Wales. In 1908 he
set up as a specialist in Macquarie-street,
Sydney, and became visiting officer to
the R. T. Hall Sanatorium at Hazelbrook.
In 1925 he visited Geneva to study
Spahlinger’s methods for the N. S. Wales
Government. He saw service in England
and France in the 1914-18 war.
The Exhibition Building in Melbourne
used to be one of the city’s leading white
elephants, full of silence except on rare
occasions. Now it reverberates with
commands, trainees salute smartly and
instructors discourse on flying technique
in the vast interior, which has been trans-
Wing-Commander R.G.FRANCIS.
formed into the h.q. of No. 1 school of
technical training for the Air Force.
Wing-Commander R. G. Francis, here
depicted by Counihan, controls its thou-
sands of trainees. One of the 1914-18
war’s flying aces, in civil life he is a
chemist. He was born in a bank, his
father being the manager of the State
Savings Bank at Geelong, was educated at
Ballarat Grammar, got a diploma at the
Victorian Pharmacy College, and started
his business career as an apprentice in a
Maryborough pharmacy. Feet damaged
through playing football in his socks
caused A.I.F. doctors to reject him in
1914. Undeterred by the fact that he
had never seen an aircraft, Francis went
to Queensland to join the Flying Corps,
ending with one of the most brilliant
records in the A.F.C. and a D.F.C. When
the present war started he entered the
R.A.A.F. as a flight-lieutenant. Used to
play golf, but has no time for recreation
these days.
Passed on in Nedlands (W.A.), Walter
Bernard Shaw, a cousin of George the
playwright. He was editor of the “Mining
and Engineering Journal.”
After well over 50 years with 8.H.P.,
40 of them as chief engineer of the Pro-
prietary mine at Broken Hill, John Alex-
ander Maxwell Lindsay has died at
Whyalla aged over 80, In -his day he
supervised some of the most important
works at the Big Mine, and looked after
other important jobs at Newcastle steel-
works. Lindsay learned the engineering
business from his father at Port Adel-
aide, arid started with the B.H.P. in the
fitting shop. On retirement he first took
an orchard in the Murray valley, and
later went to live at Whyalla, in sight and
sound of the B.H.P.’s newest baby.
Adviser to the British Army in Eng-
land on plastic surgery is a Maorilander,
Harold Gillies. He and those trained by
him are responsible for the 12 plastic
hospitals in the U.K. Gillies hails from
Dunedin. From there he went to Cam-
bridge, starting his life work in 1916. At
Sidcup he taught his technique to pupils
from all over the globe. His eldest son,
in the R.A.F., is a prisoner of war;
another son and daughter are medicoes.
Their dad’s hobby is painting.
Adelaide lawyer E. J. R. Morgan con-
tinues an upward career. He has been
S.M. for seven years, though only 41
now. He now succeeds Kelly as Presi-
dent of S.A. Industrial Court. Morgan,
whose grandfather was Premier of S.A.
60 years back, has as sidelines literature
and art, and he is one of the small board
(two painters and three lawyers) which
assists McCubbin to run the National
Gallery of Adelaide.
Although Major Eugene Gorman,
appointed chief Comforts Fund Commis-
sioner in the Levant in succession to
Lieut.-Col. Coward, fought in the 1914-18
war and won an M.G., he has had nearly
as much adventure as a non-combatant
in this one. He was a leading figure
in one of the many remarkable escapes
from Greece; he and his unit found
themselves fighting with one rifle, not
Germans, but Greek machine-gunners
who wanted to pirate their vessel. In
peace-time Gorman is a Melbourne K.C.
with a great practice, a horseowner, a
punter and a trenchant speaker at meet-
ings of radical societies.
Reported missing after operations over
enemy territory, acting Squadron-Leader
G. R. Taylor. He was one of the pilots
who participated in the first raid on Sylt,
and after 32 operational flights he got
an M.C. Educated at Melbourne Gram-
mar and only 23, he was one of the
youngest R.A.F. officers commanding a
squadron of the latest high - speed
bombers. George Taylor, who edits Mel-
bourne “Sun,” is his father. ,
Stanley Price Weir, pictured here by
Coventry, knows about all sorts of war.
He was colonel in command of the 10th
Battalion A.I.F. at Gallipoli and holds
rank today as a brigadier-general (re-
tired). For the last five years he has been
South Australia’s matrimonial conciliator,
S.PRICE WEIR.
has handled 400 domestic disputes, and
isn’t downcast because he has reconciled
not many more than 40 couples. He’S
75 and has been in the S.A. public
service since 1879. He holds the D.S.O.
and was A.D.C. to the Governor-General
in 1922.


m
* K
Product of Scotland
“BIRKMYRE”
WATERPROOF TARPAULINS
Made from Scottish Canvas by British Trade Union labour,
" BIRKMYRE“ tarpaulins give maximum protection. The famous
"BIRKMYRE" proofing process is recognised os the World's
Best. It is IN the canvas not ON the canvas and —it stays
IN! In various weights and colours. If difficulty is experi-
enced in getting supplies, write Wholesale Distributors :
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“Give a couple of pence to one of these
beggars and he straightway walks oft to buy a
pint of beer.” —“Sun correspondent.
At what pub, man, at what pub?
’4. 4* 4* 4*
“Plumber Knocked Unconscious by Falling
Bricks.” —Paper heading.
He probably took a long time to come
round.
•fr 4* 4* 4 1
“ ‘And how did you like your nurse,
Horace?’ his mother asked with a twinkle m
her eye. A look of rapture came 1019 the
patient’s eye. ‘Mother,’ he said, she is simp y
an angle.’ ” —Short story.
In short, she had her points.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“Hedding—North.”
—Melbourne engagement announcement.
But they’ll have to sock something
down south to prepare for it.
* 4. * 4-
“After all, the kleptomaniac is more to be
pitied than condemned. He cannot help him-
self.” —Prison reform article.
No?
»j» 4* 4* 4*
“Thompson, the arrogant bank manager, gave
the impression that nobody in the town counted
but himself.” —Short story.
Except, of course, his teller.
Art Affairs.
“Women are invariably fascinated by men
who can sketch.” — Woman’s paper.
Although artistic fellows can
Attract the weaker sex.
Most girls prefer the type of man
Who’s always drawing cheques !
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Germans can be charged with many
things.”—“s. M. Herald.”
The most effective being bayonets,
4* 4* * 4*
“Wanted, a gardener or handyman, full two
days a week.”— Advt. in suburban paper.
But does the employer supply the beer?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It was Alexander the Great who refused to
give battle to Attila, saying he had other worlds
to conquer.” —Schoolboy howler.
More likely it was that Alex., a per-
fect gentleman, refused to hit a man who
wasn’t of his own age.
"I don't care if you ARE out of petrol—you pull over to the kerb."
“He was recognised throughout the theatn-
cal world as a manager without a peer. He
was remarkably success f u i in the elaborately;
staged and go rgeously-dressed type of chow.
—Dramatic critic.
lUo? Chu Chin.
.j. Jf. q* 4*
» If the junket is not setting quickly enough,
stand in cold water.”— Woman’s paper.
With or without goloshes?
* * ❖
“ For Sale. Seaside business. Big summer
week-end trade. Provisions, soft drinks; ices;
hot water owner been in it 10 years.”— Advt.
wonder be wan t s to get out.
an} yQur views on hotel closing hour s
flours?” — “Sunday Telegraph.”
j tQ think obit made the printer see
, it
double. .
“What Are ‘Best-sellers’?” —Literary heading.
Beer i otte ry tickets, silk stockings, lip-
stick, hamburgers,
*** *** T 1 . „, ~
“ Her ,L,r coal was a ‘““‘-sLcia"!'/,”/,'
Made up of so many of her husband's
notes.
* v »
The wife’s like a dictionary. Not that
she knows very much, but she always
has the last word.
“An American dental journal says that bottled
beer has an injurious effect on teeth enamel.
Still, what are you to do if you’ve lost
the opener?
4* 4* * *
“Points for perfect washing.”
— Woman’s paper.
All depends on what you happen to be
dipping. If it’s the dog, the main point
is to wear your bathing-suit, no matter
what the weather’s like. After the dog
has bathed you thoroughly remove him
from the inch of water still in the tub.
The main point to remember is to wipe
yourself down briskly while he is rolling
in the dirt.
“Beryl realised that she couldn’t go on like
this. Things seemed to be slipping from her.
But what could she do about it?”
—Extract from novel.
Put new elastic in them.
•i*
Few men will fall for the same trick
twice. A cove will be taken down but
once by strangers in a card game on a
train ; it’s the same with the three-card
trick, the rich uncle from Fiji, and so
on. Yet look at the number of widowers
who marry again!
On the Home Front.
“Sydney Girls Learn How to Fight ”
—“Sunday Sun.
They learn the rudiments of war
And practise them sincerely.
They learn {to filch a metaphor)
To sell their freedom dearly,
To check with care their aim and lange,
Projectiles, too, to parry.
They learn sharp charges to exchange
And then, of course, they marry.
P.C.
The Idle Day.
“Sunday should be a day of complete idle-
ness for men who work all the week.
—Woman s paper.
“I’m going to church this morning,
said Maria. “I wish you’d fix those
shelves in the laundry. It won t take
you five minutes.”
Thinking I’ll get the agony over before
the paper comes, I started on it, only
to hear Maria call from the bedroom.
“Aitchem! You can’t make all that
noise. Other people want to sleep on
Sunday mornings. If you want to do
something useful without making a row
put new washers in the leaking taps in
the bathroom. You can do the shelves
later. And now you’re up you might
bring my breakfast. It’s surely not too
much that I should have it in bed one
day a week.” ,
By the time she’d got away for churcn
I’d tightened the clotheslines, fixed the
curtain-rods, washed the dog, nailed up
all the fence holes where the dog got out
and put fresh cords in one of the bed-
room windows. All I had to do while
she was away was peel the vegetables,
pluck the fowl and do the shelves. In
the afternoon, mowing, weeding and
painting were interrupted only to get her
afternoon tea and shift the lounge-room
furniture around. By tea-time I was too
dog-tired to read the paper.
“Well,” said Maria as we got to bed,
“if you haven’t done the work you
wanted to, it’s certainly your own fault.
You’ve had the whole day to yourself.”
On the Monday I had a beautiful rest
at work. . .
H.M.
"Investments."
“ ‘I bet one man a new hat that Kindergarten
would get here,’ said one bookmaker. bun.
Doubtless this habit of bookies want-
ing to wager new hats on the slightest
provocation is explained by the monotony
of collecting shirts from confirmee,
punters Saturday after Saturday. Like
other people, bookmakers need a change
sometimes, and there certainly isn’t much
variety about the shirts won and lost in
the leger.
Quietly observing anxious-eyed young
men dashing through the ring trying to
get their shirts or braces on the favorite
makes me wonder why women resolutely
refuse to take a sporting chance with
their wardrobes. But, then, women aren t
reckless like men they’d rather close
their eyes, count three, notice a flapper
wearing violets, tote Floral Girl and col-
lect £37 19s. 9d. for five bob.
PERCIVAL.
Thorned.
“Amongst all the girls who had shown a
u for him he had to marry R ose , who had
treated hj m so shabbily! She had ruined his
life.”— Woman’s paper story.
May, Iris, Daphne—all were kind
p ut not suit his humor.
So Rose j ie we( j . ’Twas but to find
That Rose was his worst bloomer.
P. P.
Finale.
“Her husband was a conjuror engaged in
vaudeville when they married. He deserted her
in 1938.”
He did his tricks with box and hat,
changed a cushion to a brick ;
And
He d.d the dtsappearmg
HAMER.
Test for Wives.
“If you can make a good scone you are
well on the way to being a really good cook.
—Woman s paper.
The test for wives is simple. Pick up
a freshly-cooked scone and heave it at
window. If it drops inside the room, fall-
ing gently to the floor you get half
marks. If it strikes the window and floats
gracefully to the roof you get full marks.
If it breaks the window and crashes
over on to the garden fence and knocks
a paling out your best plan is to get a
cook.
E.
Proof Positive.
“A message from Zurich (Switzerland) says
that Hitler is reported to be cracking up.
When he hears unpleasant news he flies into a
rage.” —“Daily Mirror."
What better proof could we have that
Adolf is going to the pack? Still, in
these matters one must be careful not to
arrive at false conclusions.
Hitler’s bout of carpet-biting, as re-
vealed by the Ankara correspondent of
the “Neue Nationale Zeitung,” was not
the result of a tantrum. The correspon-
dent was reliably informed that when they
wiped the froth from his mouth the
Fiihrer sat up and said, in answer to his
aide’s question: “Why do I do it? 1
like it. It’s good for the teeth, and the
frayed ends tickle my moustache delight-
fully. Bring me the floral pile carpet
from the reception house —no, reception
room.” The fact is, of course, that Pro-
fessor Spitzenkoffs, his personal physician,
has ordered the patient roughage to
stimulate his digestion, carpets being
classed as vegetarian fodder.
It was reserved for the brilliant Hedger
Frost, Oslo correspondent of the Little
Bend (Pa.) “Moonshine,” to reveal the
malady which struck down Dr. Ley.
The leader of the Labor Front was
on his hands and knees under his dressing-
table searching for a collar stud when he
bobbed up before he was clear of the
bottom drawer. A few seconds later he
was cursing violently and seen to be
holding his head. Hedger Frost, in a
piercing analysis of the occurrence,
ascribed it to long-standing addiction to
heroin, and predicted that the doctor
would soon have to be chained to his
deathbed. '
A London “Sunday Flyer” correspon-
dent on the German border has learned
from a usually reliable source that Goring
is going into a rapid decline. According
to a high party member, Goring not
only lost two legs when a R.A.F. bomb
landed on an aerodrome he was inspect-
ing but lost seven stone in a week.
Goring now goes only 16 stone, and this
can only mean that the deputy Fiihrer is
now in the dread grip of t.b.
According to the Stockholm cor-
respondent of the Turkish paper “Cum-
hurryup,” the “Aftonbladet” prints an
unconfirmed message from Bergen that
Herr Terboven, the Nazi Commissioner
for Norway, has been struck down by
paralysis. For two days, it is said, he
has been barely able to hobble about
Oslo, to which he has just returned after
having been in the country with Major
Quisling learning to ski. It is believed
that a subtle poison, introduced into his
leberwurst, is the cause of it. Color is
lent to this theory by the fact that before
going out ski-ing two days before he
had been in perfect health.
A neutral correspondent w ho has just
returned to Teheran from Belgrade has,
according tb the Tass Agency, reported
that Marshal von List, the Blitzkrieg
expert, who committed suicide after
the campaigns in Greece and Crete,
and who subsequently led the attack
on Russia, is now in failing health
at his headquarters at Zagreb, where
he has been putting down Yugo-
slavian sabotage. The correspondent,
whose message is not confirmed from
any other source, says Von List had
to be carried to his room, where he re-
mained in a state of coma until late the
next morning. It is thought that he is
a victim of the dread Encephalitis leth-
argica, and that his doom is sealed. When
the news was conveyed to him the
Fiihrer, it is reported, beat his breast and
wept uncontrollably for two hours.
Since Marshal Budenny was placed in
command in the Ukraine, various stories
have been rife concerning the great
cavalry leader’s various foibles. One
comes from Karl Humperdinck, the
Moscow correspondent of the Milwaukee
“Wow.” Karl reveals that the marshal,
who is affectionately called “Buddy”
by everyone from generals to cooks,
has a habit of soaking his 14-inch
moustache in a mixture of vodka and
molasses and sucking the ends when
thinking out strategic moves, as it stimu-
lates thought. The “Wow” correspondent
points out that, far from being a mani-
festation of eccentricity, as his enemies
allege, this habit is the logical outcome
of his early Cossack training of always
mounting on the left side of his horse.
Bo.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Nagheer”: “I tell y’, carpet snakes
do eat blowflies!” roared Bill, leading
bar-naturalist in these parts, glaring at
the spectacled gent, from the city who
has been prowling round after insects for
the last fortnight. “An’ wot’s more I’ll
prove it to y’. Y’know that big patch
o’ scrub up at the ’ead of Skelerton
Crick? Well, only larst month I killed
a ten-footer there. Real snodger ’e was,
thick round as y’r thigh, so 1 opens ’im
up t’ see wot ’e’d got inside. Stone the
little dicky birds if it wasn’t a seven-foot
brown-snake with a bulge on ’im like a
member uv Parliment’s weskit, I’m get-
tin’ real interested by then, so in goes the
old knife again an’ out pops a three-foot
goanna. Blow me if ’e ain’t got a bingey,
too, an’ w’en I gets a squiz inter ’is tucker-
box there’s a blue-tongue lizard. So,
thinkin’ I might’s well see it out t’ the
end, I undoes the blue-tongue an’ there’s
one o’ them little brown lizards inside ’im
again.” Bill paused and absentmindedly
drank off the stranger’s beer. “But what
about the flies?” asked that puzzled in-
dividual. “Wuz just cornin’ t’ that w’en
y’ interrupted me,” resumed Bill. “In-
side the little lizard o’ course!”
* * * *
“Bulong K, Kanowna”; Early each
evening at a railway siding a score of
miles west of Coolgardie there is enacted
a comedy which would bring down the
house could it be thrown on the silver
screen. While the loco, hauling the
Perth-bound goldfields express jugs up
at the water tank, drouthy male pas-
sengers pour out of the coaches and
make a mad dash for the only sign of
habitation, the little life-saving station
where the beer pump squeaketh. But
what makes the stampede madder is a
wire running from the siding to a distant
signal. Cunningly placed about six
inches off the ground and invisible in
the half-light, it never fails to bring the
leaders smashing down in tumult. Like
a machine-gun company opening up,
windows rattle down along the train to
shut out the profanities of strong men
in the toils.
* * * •
“Pinjarrah”: Bovines with portions of
tents, etc., enveloping their heads used
to be common at Mandurah (W.A.) dur-
ing the Christmas camping season. A
regular gang, led by a veteran camp-
robber named Kate, used to make
frequent forays on the tents and
tucker-boxes of trusting holiday-makers
when the latter were away at the
beach fishing. Kate could find her
way into any tent, no matter how
securely tied, and open any tucker-
box short of its being padlocked. The
only time I ever saw her rattled was when
she horned in on an angler’s basket which
contained a couple of sizable crays. With
her horn through the lid Kate was toss-
ing the basket in her usual trick of get-
ting such things open, when the catch
gave way and a couple of flapping crays
landed on her head and slid down her
face. She took tent and all in her devas-
tating fright. Poor Kate—she came to a
sticky end. On her last season she made
the mistake of breaking into the tent
of a holidaying policeman. Indignant,
the cop sought out her owner, and that
person sold Kate to the butcher. I got
a sirloin —and 1 will say that, having fed
so often on succulent booty, Kate ate
exceedingly well.
* * * *
“Naturala”: In the Argentine ant, now
consolidating its earlier invasion, the
W.A. agriculturist and apiarist are facing
a formidable enemy. Slightly reddish in
color, these ants in the worker form are
tiny, smaller even than the common black
sugar- and meat-ants. Mingled with the
workers in about the proportion of one
to every 200 are the much larger war-
riors, dark-red, and at least 3-16th of an
inch in length. This division into workers
and the soldier escort which always
covers the line of march enables the
Argentines to oust every other type with
which they make contact. Then they
carry all before them. Garden beds will be
stripped almost competely of seeds, and
stripped again after resowing. Nests will
be formed around growing stalks and
young trees, the plant’s grip on the soil
"I hate to think how Tom Blarney an the mob'll get on if We don't find
our Way back soon."
loosened,. its sources of moisture dis-
turbed, while the fine succulent roots with
which it absorbs nourishment will be
eaten. As for hives, unless protected
with legs standing in water, the bees’
fight against the pressing myriads is
hopeless. In the Argentine farms and
homes in numbers of cases have been
abandoned through sheer inability to
combat this pest.
* * * *
“Zend Avesta”; “Old-timer’s” boss (B.
6/ 8 / ’4l) put himself to unnecessary dis-
comfort by going below in a bucket to fix
the foot-valve on the windmill pump
which had stuck. They managed things
better on Queensland properties on which
I’ve worked. There they pulled the
piping up by means of horses or a
tractor, and each length of piping as it
came to the surface was unscrewed and
stacked inside ihe windmill tower. The
foot valve, usually gummed up with mud,
would be repaired and lowered again, the
piping following, length by length. It is
a common practice in semi-artesian bore
country.
* * * *
“Propalong”: That fox-poisoner of
“Barwon’s” (B. 16/7/’4l) was just an
effete Noo South crow. Over here in the
crow-eating State the Kellys have to be
a darned sight more acute—in self-
defence. Many a time I’ve seen a crow
follow a poison trail until he had located
a suitably luscious bait, which he would
at once swallow. He’d then flap off,
cawing in a peculiarly weak and senile
fashion, towards the nearest clump of
porcupine or lignum. Alighting clumsily
—the real artists always throw a crash-
landing—he’d at once begin to call all
Kellydom to his rescue, while he hopped
feebly about, trailing a wing or two, and
giving an excellent imitation of a lame,
senile decadent in the horrors. Pretty
soon out’d come the red cove. Kelly
would put on some extra fancy flutters
and hops, and then, when capture seemed
imminent, he’d regurgitate the bait and
revive sufficiently to flap off sixty yards
or so. The fox’d be no more able to
resist that meat than a taxation bloke
would a cheque. Down it’d go, and so
would Reynard, while Kelly reached for
his knife and fork. I’ve never known
it to miss.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: “Py chove, I can never
Jet a bridle look me in te face again,”
growled Hone, back from a week-end
spree. “After fighting Moko outside
Artie’s saddle shop, I sit down to sleep
away beer capers, an’ next t’ing I know
te John Hop over me with handcuffs
on my wrists. ‘This time it never take
free men to put you in te chokey pen,’
he say with dirty voice ; so I just give
te beaten sigh, an’ go off with him like
te rejected lamb. When he get in te cell
he say: ‘Now you can work your fists
out of ’em fings I borrowed on te spurs
of te moment from Artie, an’ I’ll return
’em.’ T’en, py korry, I find I wearing
a bridle bit, with a hand t’rough each
ring! ”
* Jf: * *
“Wippegong”: It’s a good idea to
master the mechanism of any new piece
of equipment—microscope, camera, fire-
arm—before you go hunting with it. The
Donovan boys knew this, and spent a
whole day trying out their new high-
powered rifle, ending with intensive target
practice and gaining a good knowledge
of what it could and could not do. Next
day Mrs. D. saw a hare busy in the
carrot patch. As all the boys were in
the back paddock and as all rifles were
just rifles to her she slipped a cartridge
into the new weapon and crept up be-
hind the woodheap for a shot. Apart
from looking up on hearing the report
the hare was apparently not interested,
but across in the next block Ted Mc-
Hugh leapt high in the air with a howl
that produced varied effects upon his
team. Old Kate, plodding along in the
furrow, stopped dead —all noises other
than a firm “Giddap” mean “Whoa” to
an old mare —but the filly in the middle
flew into the collar and was promptly
nipped by Nugget for speeding up. Then
they all suddenly discovered that nobody
held the reins and off they pounded,
soil spraying from the plough, till they
piled up in joyous abandon on the
boundary fence. Ted spent a blasphem-
ous afternoon mending hamhs, chains and
swinglebars; then, still shaky, dropped
in at Donovan’s for a yarn after tea.
There the whole story gradually came
out; but the lads were never able to
convince their mother that, just because
a little sliding gadget on the barrel stood
at “500,” she was responsible for the
neat hole through the crown of Ted’s
hat.
* * * *
“0.P.”: “A bit orf me account!”
snorted the cocky to the storekeeper.
“How can I pay a bit orf? What are
y’ talkin’ about?” The storekeeper looked
a bit dashed. “Aw, well,” he said, “surely
y’ could manage something.” “Look,”
answered the cocky in measured tones,
“if turkeys was fourpence a dozen I
wouldn’t have enough t’ buy a tomtit’s
tail feathers. But I’ll tell y’ what I’ll
do. You make out a cheque, payable t’
me, f’r the amount; I’ll cash the cheque
at the bank, hand the money back t’ you,
you allow me a rebate for payment an’
we’ll go over t’ the pub an’ I’ll shout.”
The storekeeper had his chequebook half
out of his pocket before he woke up.
*„* * *
recent mention of poet
Will Ogilvie and his connection with
Nelungaloo station (N.S.W.) recalls that
‘A. was somewhere about there that Ben
Hall went down before the police car-
bines back in the sixties. R. G. Lackey,
now a . stl P e f° r northern N.S.W. racing
clubs, is a son of the former owner of
Nelungaloo and owns a pair of stirrup-
Irons that once carried Hall s feet. Writer
while in Forbes was taken out and shown
Ben Halls caves’ at Nelungaloo, and
heard a wondrous tale of how Hall used
to hide in them with his horses. If he
did he must have melted the nags down
an d poured ’em in. H. K. Nock, the
present owner, put a charge of explosive
into the rifts, ostensibly because he feared
that the foul gases they contained might
out some tourist, but I suspect Nock was
fed up with the irruptions of stickybeaks
on to his place. There’s a range of low
hills out from the station towards Gun-
nmg Gap ; m five years I was shown six
different humps, each “the spot where
Hall was shot.” I also heard all about
the “mysterious” hand that used to place
fresh flowers on Hall’s grave, but I never
saw any floral tributes in many visits to
the grave, nor could I ever locate any-
body who had seen them. But I did
strike an old-timer in the district who
confessed, somewhat ashamedly, that
he’d never known Hall,
* * * *
“Capricorn”; I was superintendent of
the old Kahlin Compound in Darwin.
One night a couple
of youths did a
bunk. Early next
morning I put
police-tracker Bull-
Bull, said to be the
smartest tracker
ever known in the
North, on the job.
He returned after
12 hours and said
the quarry had
beaten him by
swimming a salt-
arm about 10 miles
east of the town,
and that he would
need a horse to
continue the search.
H e want o ff,
mounted this time ;
three days later he
returned empty-
handed, saying that
the birds had
finally outwitted
him in a mangrove
swamp. Two weeks
later the pair were
nabbed by the
police at Adelaide
River. Investiga-
tions on their re-
turn to the corn-
pound elicited the fact that one of the
boys had been named after Bull-Bull in
accordance with some intertribal system.
The two had often exchanged presents,
although they had never met before.
And they were bound to help each other
in trouble.
* * * *
“X.T.4”: Though macadam and con-
crete reach out into the interior, roads
in W.Q. can still raise respectable dust
clouds, but none, I fancy, like the old
road from Duchess to Rochdale, between
O’Hara’s Gap and the Granite hole.
When the horse teams used to run that
track, taking loading to the ’Dangie and
the Barkly, the dust on the track lived
up to Ogilvie’s line: “Making extra
weight to pull.” If the wind was a fol-
lowing one, the driver drove on the hit-
or-miss principle: he couldn’t see his
horses. For 20 miles or more he’d see
his leaders only when he pulled up; for
most of the time he’d have to gauge his
progress by the polers’ tails.
• * * »
“Drover”: As they hadn’t had a drink
for 24 hours and the weather being hot
we didn’t anticipate having any trouble
watering the mob of 5000 sheep at
troughs they were to see for the first time.
Cutting off a few hundred back a bit
from the troughs we started the van-
guard in, and, although they rushed the
troughs as soon as they’d smelt the water,
none would drink. We erected a brake
round the mob at the troughs for the
night, but when daylight came the hollow
flanks of the jum bucks told they were
still on their thirst strike. It was 12
miles to the next water and it was a case
of making the stubborn brutes drink, so,
acting on the cook’s advice, the sheep
were’fed out for a couple of hours and
then brought into the troughs from a dif-
ferent direction. Within an hour they’d
taken a 20,000-gall on tank down to its
last half-sheet, and with contented sighs
they waddled away like bloated pups to
the nearest shade.
THE GOLDEN RIDERS.
The broad lagoon, a burnished shield,
Dazzled our aching eyes.
The sere grass rattled in the breeze,
When, on the distant rise,
We saw the golden riders come
Out of the long, chill shadow
The pinnacle of arid rock
Cast over the brown meadow.
Ahead, all startled suddenly,
Four wallabies broke cover,
Leaping in unbroken line
Along the brow, and over —
Four shadows out of shadow come.
They, and the riders, too,
Poised for a space, miraculous,
Against the matchless blue!
They, and the golden riders, who,
Saddleless and gay,
Came loping down the narrow path
. Where cattle plod each day.
Where gaunt red polls come down to drink,
In careless order stringing,
The golden youth and girl rode down
An old-time ballad singing.
Their hair blown backward in the breeze,
Their smooth arms burnt nut-brown,
They sang their carefree song about
Some little, old-world town —
They, whose every attitude
Spoke of such liberty,
Such wide, wide, fragrant solitudes
As cities never see.
And all the while the light flashed off
The water’s burning sheet,
And warm glints shone on cheek and hair,
On' strong and sandalled feet;
Finding highlights on the gloss
Of arching neck and mane,
On glistening side and burnished hoof,
Now veiled, now bright again.
Sometimes thus briefly, keen and bright.
Beauty shines out like this;
The joy of life is crystallised
Into a gem of bliss.
Just once, just for a little while,
The heart seems all aglow,
As on that brilliant day we saw
Those riders come and go!
QUEENSLAND.
E.M.ENGLAND.


"Hey, go to the end of the queue!”
“Bamekaw” (T. 1.): The Torres Strait
Binghi has, amongst other things, a dead
set on immorality and a certain apprecia-
tion of strict white-pfeller justice. The
newly-married headman of one of the
smaller islands found that his blushing
bride had not been altogether what she
might have been before marriage. He
accordingly reported her to the village
policeman ; then, as the local tribal coun-
cils are allowed to try such offences
themselves, in the absence of the other
councillors he constituted himself the
native Court, heard the evidence, found
the defendant guilty and fined her ten
shillings. Finally, since .his wife pos-
sessed no realisable property, he paid the
fine out of his own pocket.
* * * *
“Lay Dley”: For years I’ve heard
cattlemen use the term “beasting for
the first milk from a newly-calved cow.
Now a vet. tells me it’s a misnomer, and
that the correct word is colostrum. The
common term is widely used in England.
Any Aboliar know where it sprang from?
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The belief that a blue-
tongued lizard’s bite leaves a periodically
recurring sore is pretty universal, but an
old bushman recently gave me a new
version. “A bluey can t bite he has no
teeth,” declared the old-timer. “Actually
he sort of snaps and pinches ; but the
force he puts into that pinch would break
a kid’s finger!” Allowing a little for
exaggeration about the finger, Im in-
clined to agree with the old chap. Once,
in a magnanimous mood, I pushed a
sleepy-looking specimen off a bag of chaff
with a crowbar. If the Aboliar who
recently pronounced Bluey a good-natured
cuss had seen that reptile jerk from
slumber and snap, with a force that fairly
rang the bar, he’d have revised his views
on the subject. Yet a post-mortem re-
vealed no teeth at all—merely a bony-
looking gum.
* * * *
“ Waratah ”: Touching on Jim
Grahame’s description of the desert pea
as a flower “red as wine” (B. 23/7/’4l),
any wine of such a vivid scarlet as
Clianthus Dampieri must surely cause a
fiery internal disruption. We accept Vic-
tor Daley’s graphic portrayal of his sunset
as “like a peony drowning in wine”
gratefully, because peonies are that
color, but the desert pea, never. Its com-
ponent shades are scarlet and black, of
an intensity and brilliance seldom sur-
passed.
* * * *
“Catchum”: These mongs that have
been galloping through the Abo. pages
lately were in reverse gear compared with
my old dog Alligator. That speedster
wouldn’t chase hares ; they weren’t even
exercise for him. He used to go out m
the afternoon when the swallows were
flying low and amuse himself catching
them; but he always gave ’em a long
start. One evening he was at his usual
sport when a big thunderstorm was
rising, and he took off after a streak, of
chain lightning. Just as he was catching
up to it there was a big puff of smoke
and a loud explosion. There were only
the studs on his collar left to recognise
him by.
* * * *
“The Duke”: Humping the bluey, Joe
Sniffle called into the house adjoining
the orchard to scrounge a feed. When the
old girl asked him if he would be willing
to earn his tucker by doing a bit of work
in the orchard, he replied: “Missus, it
y’ sling us an’ ounce o’ shag, with this ol
pipe o’ mine I could smoke out any o’
them green flies that happen to be
around. Just select a tree an’ leave it
to me.”
« » • *
“Capricorn”: It isn’t desire for youi
company that brings a wagtail to your
camp (B. 6/ 8 / ’4l). Kirrikijirnt is no
mere bird, but the incarnated spirit of
"No, we're not going to Melbourne for the Cup this year , and that's final."
some great leader of the ancient and
sacred man-cult the Kurrawaddi, and
he is ever on the watch to see that its
laws are obeyed. He doesn t like white
men or women of any breed, and is
highly suspicious
o f uninitiated
boys. When he
seeks out such
as these, it is
only to spy or to
express his dislike
of them. And
what he learns by
his spying he goes
and reports to his
brethren, the
fully-fledged cult-
men. Lubras
loathe him. They
know what his
game is when he
flits into their
presence pretend-
ing to catch flies,
and they pelt him
with sticks and
stones. But they
are never quick
enough to see him,
much less hit
him. Flitting
nimbly out of
reach, he does an
angry little dance,
tells the ladies what he thinks of them,
then wheels away to tell their menfolk
what they were up to. And the menfolk
understand every word he utters and, be-
lieving it implicitly, go home and belt
their women. He keeps uninitiated boys
from going near sacred places and from
eating delicacies that are denied them,
and beats them unmercifully if he catches
them disobeying. The boys invariably
respect him if they see him about. And
then at night he watches for those hairy
debil-debils the Moombas, who often
come prowling round the camp, and he
warns his friends with that melodious
signal of his.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Tommy the Tiger ambled
into Pinnaroo (S.A.) one blazing day and
found the publicans adamant. Dry and
disappointed, he retreated to his swag
and gazed mournfully into the distance.
Then he spotted the wheat-lumpers at
work and drifted towards the stacks,
arriving in time to see a bloke come from
the town with a kero, bucket of beer,
which he placed in the shade, covered
with a wet bag, while he joined the others
in emptying a wagon-load of wheat. The
Tiger eyed the bucket, had a good look
at the mallee-tree which shaded it, and
a sudden grin lit his leathery old dial.
He went back to his swag, got his old billy
and, waiting his chance, slipped across,
sunk his billy in the bucket, gave the tree a
shake and skipped back to his possy by
the stack. Shortly a lumper came to the
beer, gave a startled curse, then roared:
“Hey, youse blokes! The bag got off
the beer an’ it’s full o’ them stinkin’
black ants.” Profanity from his mates
and an order, “Well, chuck it out an’ get
some more.” Then Tommy bobbed up
and pleaded to be given the beer. “But
it’ll stink an’ taste like hell,” said the
lumper; “if y’re game t’ drink it y’ can
have it.” He made for the pub. Tommy
made for his camp. Once there he
reached into the ruined beer, withdrew
his old billy, lifted the lid and prepared
to enjoy his reward, thanking whatever
gods he owned for the black ants on the
tree and the lumper’s failure to see the
billy in the bottom of the tin.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “Talkin’ about dawgs,”
said Mat, “give me a fierce watchdog any
time if I’m doin’ a bit o’ fruit-pinchin’ or
anythin’ like that. Y’ know where y’
stand with them. One time up in the
apple country out o’ Bathurst I’m feelin
round a orchard in the dark for a few
pippins when a flamin’ hound comes up,
wags his tail an’ starts jumpin’ round,
pleased as Punch. Thinkin’ his boss ain t
far away I lies low, but nothin’ happens.
I try t’ hunt the mong. away, but he
don’t go, just keeps on playin’ round.
I’m blowed if he don’t actually help me t
pinch his boss’s apples. Well, when I’ve
got a dozen or so I makes back to me
camp. The flamin’ hound follows me.
I bombards him with rocksj, but he
dodges ’em, an’ then, seein’ I meant it,
he goes off about 100 yards an’ sits down,
lookin’ at me in a sorrowful sort o’ way.
Next mornin’ he’s gone, but presently
back he comes, followed by a big bloke
grinnin’ like mad. ‘Well, how many did
y’ get?’ says the bloke. It’s no good me
squarin’ off, so I owns up. ‘Oh, well,
he says, ‘we won’t worry about that. Be
different if y’ was pinchin’ ’em t’ sell.
Then he explains how he’s trained the
hound to get friendly with strangers an
follow ’em home. Pretty shrewd, wasn’t
it?” Mat finished. “Yair,” said I, “but
what if y’ had bin pinchin’ ’em t’ sell?’
“Yair,” said Mat, “that’s what I meant
when I said I’d sooner meet a fierce
watchdawg any time,”
* * * *
“Currency Joe”: Successor to the camp
oven was that one-time pride of the
kitchen the colonial oven. It was an
oblong box with a full-length door in
front. Three-sixteenth- or quarter-inch
wrought-iron plate for top and bottom,
thinner sheet around back and sides.
Open fire on top for boiling or stewing,
extra fire underneath when roasting or
baking. Required a few bricks and a
little art in building-fin, but with that done
Mum was set. Real loaves could be
baked and the biggest leg that ever came
off a sheep roasted in that box. Ana
done to a crisp brownness that the
modern cooker knows not. Economical
of wood, too, since the heat was applied
directly, a few coals from off the top
being nearly enough to keep the bottom
heat going. Another good old cooker
was the 10-gallon oil-drum, complete with
lid, built in on the side of those huge
open fireplaces we used to sit at, the
oven-firing hole being accessible through
the open fireplace, with the oven flue
opening higher up into the chimney.
Properly built in so that the heat circu-
lated all around, that oven produced a
crisp roast and the crustiest of bread. It
was such ovens that made palatable the
rather monotonous home-made bread on
which so many of the first and second
generations of Australians were nour-
ished.
« * * *.
“0.P.”: That touching little vignette
of the mother bird on her eggs defying
the grassfire to the end (B. 13/8 / 41) is
excellent; but “Sailor Bill” got mixed m
calling it a “stone curlew.” It was really
a stone plover, commonly called curlew
from its weird cry, one of most
familiar nocturnal bush sounds. [“Sailor
Bill” as an ornithologist is now sunk. —
Ed.]
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: In fitting a handle to his
stone axe Binghi was really ingenious.
Having found a suitable blade, he took
from a wattle, a banksia or similar tree
a longish strip of wood about Him wide
bv half an inch thick. The bark or sap
side of this he left in its
natural round, but the inner
side he scraped and filed flat.
In the centre, where the bend
was to be, he worked down
somewhat thinner. Then,
alternately wetting and heat-
ing at a fire, he achieved a
sharp bend at this thin part,
bringing both ends around
parallel. Into the bend the
stone blade was next fitted,
the split handle being bound
from the head downwards
with string, kangaroo sinew
or even long strips of kan-
garoo skin. A little hot gum
worked around the head gave
the axe a final firmness.
Ground to an edge on a whet-
stone it made an implement
wherewith bardies or ’pos-
sums might be chopped from a tree or
the tree could be cut down.
GODDESS.
She’s good to get y’r blinkers on,
So mop y’r beer an’ look at her;
An’ mind y’r manners, too, me son,
An’ never go off crook at her.
No comets shine the way_ her eyes
Blaze out upon us drinkin’ here;
But she won’t be no pirate’s prize.
So no flash looks nor winkm here.
Dark goddess of the Starry Cross,
We likes the way you bosses us.
No wisecrack finds you at a loss,
On Wit’s hot fire you tosses us
Like flapjacks or a lump o’ steak—
You knows the way to sizzle em.
Smart alicks never gets a break
When once you starts to sizzle em.
Here’s to our goddess! May her life
Be sweeter than what nectar is.
Ah l Love may smite men with his knffe,
Stuck neatly through their pectoris
(Which is the windbag), an’ they may
Just bust, like bygone bodices,
With too much breath or love ... I say
Don’t do y’r block on goddesses.
Drink to them only with y’r eyes,
The way them poets sing abiiut,
An’ just remember it ain’t wise
Y’r blessed soul to sling about.
Just get y’r bloomin’ lamps upon
Her face an’ drink an’ look at her.
An’ may the Lord be kind, me son,
To you, if you go crook at her.
N.S.W.
Will Lawson.


m
9
l/lfeafiS
PROGRESS
In 1869 the Association was established, on the Mutual
principle. Funds were £6/0/10 (first quarterly premium
on the life of the founder). Funds at 30/9/’4O were
£47,495,193 ... a remarkable record of progress, and
a tribute to expert and careful management.
The Association belongs to its
Policyholders—there are NO
Shareholders .
For absolute protection and unrivalled benefits, assure with the progressive office —
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION </ A/ASIA. LTD.
(Inc. in Viet.) Established 186?.
350 George Street, Sydney.
(The Association has funds available for loans at current interest
rates on municipal and public body debentures and first mort-
gages of suitable City, pastoral and agricultural properties.)
CHARCOAL GAS
for the man with limited capital.
BUILD YOUR OWN UNIT FROM
ATOMA OFFICIALLY-APPROVED PARTS.
Hopper Lids 19/6 Water-jacketed Water Unions, each 3/S1
Filter Fids 13/6 Tuyeres £3/13/6 Atabestos Fining Coni-
Cleaning Doors 13/6 Manifold Adaptors .. 13/6 pound, per lb. 9d.
Grates 8/6 Idling Vents 13/6 Steel Wool, per lb. . . 3/2
Mixing Valves £5 Drip Taps, each 6/6 Sisal, per lb 1/3
The price of the complete parts is £l3/9/6, Parts can be bought separately If required.
ATOMA ENGINEERING CO., 26 O’Connell St., Sydney. ’Phone: 85520.
55 Years’ Experience as Executors
In these swift, moving times it is a good plan to read over your Will now
find again. Tto cnrn f hot +■ innlnrjnfi Ji ti j ... .
T. - , . . , . . o A II m uun
„ l i‘ e „ s !l!! e , provision for an Executor with lon-
idth any
book that
, , „ , - , = „ -- to you on
helpful.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Brigadier the Hon. T. A. .T. Playfair, M.L.C.;
E. R. Knox; H, Norman Pope; Allen 0. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon!
IT. V. Douglass, Managing Director. p. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £59,000 000
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
The WILD CAT COLUMN
New Zealand Insurance Co.
Net; Toße-
M a y, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 199,392 10 p.c. = 150,000 49,392 1,150,943
Written off, £20,748 1,130,195
1932.. 156,761 10 p.c. =150,000 6,761 1,136,956
1933.. 174,975 10 „ „ 150,000 24,975 1,161,931
From inner reserves, £147,585 .. 1,309,516
1934.. 228,295 12.5 p.c. =187,500 1
To staff pension fund, £20,000 1 10,795 1,320,311
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO
1935 232,809 10 p.c. = 150,000 \ » „„ 1 ,
lo tax reserve, £lO,OOO 3 72,509 1,393,120
1936.. 249,165 10 p.c. = 150,000 99,165 1,492,285
1937.. 288,456 10 „ „ 150,000 138,456 1,630,741
1938.. 321,884 TO „ ~150,000 171,884 1,802,625
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO . . . . 1,792,625
1939.. 260,837 10 p.c. = 150,000 110,837 1,903,462
Assets adjustment, £296,808.. ».. 2,200,270
To tax reserve, £40,000 .. .. 2,160,270
War exes, donation, £20,000.. .. 2,140,270
1940.. 346.718 10 p.c. = 150,000 196,718 2,336,983
1941.. 392,346 12 \ „ ~ 187,500 204.846 2,541,834
Easily the best showing since the co.,
which is Auckland-controlled and has
world-wide connections, began to accept
risks some 62 years ago. Earnings, etc.,
for ’4O and ’4l, being shown in N.Z. cur-
rency, are therefore somewhat inflated,
however, in comparison with earlier ones,
which take no account of exchange.
What this means can be judged from the
fact that the co. gathers about three-
fourths of its income and holds approxi-
mately the same proportion of its assets
outside the Dominion. At the end of
May, 56 p.c. of the total assets was rep-
resented by Government and municipal
securities, held as follows:
British Empire .. .. .. £2,113,984
United States of America .. .. 310,999
S’outh America . . . . . . 272.112
Japan, Indo-China and Manila . . 70,930
Total £2,768,025
The suggestion there is that three-quarters
or more of the business is done within
the Empire and only 2.5 p.c. in East Asia,
including the Philippines.
To whaTextent marine risks now figure
in the business isn’t apparent. But the
co. doesn’t appear to be involved to
any extent worth mentioning in war ship-
ping losses:
Loss Expense
Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1910. . £605,509 £391,321 £172,593 64.5 28.5
1925. . 1,072,761 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1931.. 1,145,257 740,245 353,439 64.6 30.8
1935.-1,050,792 596,778 348,938 56.7 33.2
1937. . 1.185,636 705,955 351,903 59.5 29.6
1938. . 1,359,994 823,852 363,337 60.5 26.7
1939. 910,489 377,632 64.8 26.8
1940. . 1,763,659 1,105,966 462,809 62.7 26.2
1941. . 1,948,595 1,099,744 570,448 56.5 29.2
Of each £lOO of last term’s net premiums
claims took £6 6s. less and exes, £3 more
than for the previous year. The sharp
spring of £184,936 in net premiums was
due largely to war-production and -pur-
chases of one kind and another, and to
the growth of stocks of merchandise and
lengthening payrolls. The underwriting
surplus (£278,403) was £83,519 better at
18.5 p.c. on capital. Interest and rents
(£142,492) —£9342 lighter, owing to taxa-
tion—turned in another 9.5 p.c, on capi-
tal. Allowing for an unexplained reduc-
tion of £28,549 in the investment fluctua-
tion reserve, etc., there was thus a net
gain of £45,628 in the return from all
sources (£392,346), which was a juicy 26.1
p.c. on capital, as against 23.1, 17.3, 21.4,
19.2, 16.6 and 15,5-p.c. back to 1935. A
bonus of 2£ p.c. was added to the 10 p.c.
div., making p.c. for the year.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1935. 1939'. 1940. 1941.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities., 225,940 369,722 609,555 772,193
Public securi-
ties .. 2,035,631 2,161,573 2,643,082 2,793,221
Mortgages. . 46,250 9,747 7,779
Shares, etc. 239,889 680,274 668,822 744 982
Freeholds . . 440,793 553,661 572,898 572,898
Agency bal-
ances and
cash . . 465,497 492,929 618,968 815,427
The feature there is the co.’s strength
from both policy-holders’ and share-
holders’ point of view. When the books
closed, net tangibles had a book value
equal to 207 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums; 150 p.c. is considered ade-
quate.
Maoriland prices the f.-p. pound
shares at 655., as against 58s. a year
ago. At the higher figure the return is
3.8 p.c. on a 12i p.c. div. basis, or 3.1
p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution. The cover
is 535. lid. in net tangibles, book value.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1931.. 65,251 9 p.c. = 45,000 20,251 247,014
1932.. 66,195 9 „ „ 45,000 21,195 268,209
Loss.
1933.. 6,627 6 „ „ 30,000 231,582
Profit.
1934.. 63,168 7 „ „ 35,000 28,168 259,750
1935.. 65,123 8 „ „ 40,000 25,123 284,873
1936.. 72,364 9 „ „ 45,000 27,364 312,237
1937.. 57,569 9 „ ~ 45,000 12,569 324,806
1938.. 59,437 11 „ „ 55,000 4,437 329,243
1939.. 62,640 11 ~ „ 55,000 7,640 336,883
1940.. 65,420 11 „ „ 55,000 10,420 347,303
1941.. 62,168 11 „ „ 55,000 7,168 354,471
Millaquin is the most highly-regarded
sugar-grower on ’Change, partly through
the stability to income afforded by a fine
wad of outside investments. Milling,
both on its own and growers’ account,
however, is the backbone of earnings,
supplemented by moderate pickings from
the refining of that portion of the crop
not handled by the C.S.R.
Nature brought a sharp drop in the
Australian production of raws last year,
all of which was disposed of ; but thanks
to better prices overseas there was less
than a million drop in the cheque for the
crop (£13,818,000), despite reduction in
the base price for home consumption;
Purchased, Export, Australian Average
Season. Tons. p.c. Price. Price.*
1931.. 605,000 50 £26 19 0 £lB 6 6
1932.. 533,000 37 25 2 3 19 6 1
1934.. 042,000 51 24 0 0 16 10 11
1936.. 782,000 54 24 2 0 17 1 4
1937.. 810,000 55 24 0 0 17 11 0
1938.. 822,000 56 24 0 0 16 19 1
1939.. 928,000 59 23 12 6 16 19 7
1940. . 800,000 50 23 1 0 17 11 9
* Excluding excess sugar.
Millaquin’s mill peak is 29,000 tons a
year.. Though the board doesn’t broad-
cast “excess” output, seasonally the co.
appears to have suffered little setback.
That disclosed earnings contracted £3252
was mainly the result of the more
voracious appetite of the taxgatherer and
provision of £4380 more at £23,044 for
depreciation. On capital the £62,168 ran
out at 12.4 p.c., compared with 13, 12.5,
11.8, 11.5 and 14.4 p.c. back to 1936.
Div. stayed at 7 p.c., with a 4 p.c. bonus
again added.
War has hastened an awkward ex-
port situation which may make the 11
p.c. difficult to maintain. An early esti-
mate of the current harvest was 830,000
tons of raws. Home consumption, in-
cluding 40,000 tons for power-alcohol, is
put at 440,000 tons ; Britain and Canada
will take 100,000 tons apiece and Maori-
land 85,000, So, even allowing for the
equivalent of 80,000 tons left standing
in the field, there may be a carryover of
some 30,000 tons. And, with Canada
pushing beet-sugar production, the posi-
tion won’t improve in 1942. Fertiliser
shortage will curtail output.
With the whole of its capital and
£22,318 besides invested outside the busi-
ness, this Bundaberg co., however, is well
ribbed to face whatever lies ahead;
1937; 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £500,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Creditors . . 102,814 104,617 141,530 156,515
Freeholds, re-
finery, etc. 333,580 329,860 341,983 338,786
Plantation, etc. 58,036 58,181 58,547 35,980
Railways, etc. 33,213 32,542 33,893 36,514
Stocks .. 88,541 89,143 100,382 96,872
Book debts.. 9.909 10,085 8,079 19,016
Investments .. 426,762 ' 396,562 406,562 454,946
Cash . . . . 7,579 63,127 76,885 67,372
Apart from cash, investments, etc., com-
prise mainly Consols (£366,572) and a
72 p.c. interest in Bundaberg Distillery
(paid capital £150,000, on which 9 p.c.
was paid last year), taken into account
at 60 p.c. of face value and worth much
more than par. During the year Hum-
mock plantation was sold at a small
profit on book values.
The pound shares, which ranged be-
tween 465. and 335. in 1940, now fetch
415., to return 5.3 p.c. so long as 11 p.c.
continues. Net tangible cover is 345. 2d.
Garratt’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Jan., Loss. 74 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 9,890 Nil Nil 7 495
1933.. 9,829 Nil Nil 17,324
Profit.
1934.. 10,367 Nil Nil 6,967
11 P.c. Reserves.
1935.. 19,853 11,110 5 p.c. = 1,065 7,678 711
12 p.c.
1936.. 21,179 12,120 10 „ „ 2,129 6,930 7,641
1937.. 21,230 12,120 10 „ „ 2,130 6,980 14,621
12i p.c.
1938.. 22,491 12,625 „ „ 2,662 7,204 21,825
1939.. 20,585 12,625 124 „ ~ 2,662 5,298 27,123
' 12 p.c.
1940. . 14,310 12,120 10 „ „ 2,130 60 27,183
Loss.
1941.. 5,939 Nil Nil 21,244
Again the motor-agency business has
become only a shadow of what it used
to be. This time, owing to war condi-
tions. And again Garratt’s financial
structure “has been receiving the directors’
most earnest consideration.” The board
puts it this way:
With the serious contraction in the co.’s
potential future business, an important
problem presents itself in the fact that such
a large proportion of the co.’s capital is
represented by preference shares entitled
to what, under today’s conditions, is an
extremely high rate of dividend. The posi-
tion is aggravated by the incidence of
companies income taxation. This matter
has been receiving the serious and con-
tinuous attention of your board, which
hopes to submit at an early date a proposal
to the preference shareholders.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts Garratt’s and its two
subsidiaries worked down stocks and
debtors’ balances and reduced outside
liabilities, recording a combined trading
loss of £5939. In the parent’s sheet
that left the whole of the share capital
and £21,244 besides intact.
The combined balance-sheet figures of
the parent and subsidiaries show a slightly
better position:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £122,296 £122,296 £122,296
Secured creditors . . 93,378 89,478 51,885
Trade creditors .. 46,770 33,530 9,811
Tax provision . . 14,056 11,880 4,945
Freeholds . . . . 58,284 58,105 57,754
Plant, etc 9,872 10,801 9,608
Stock, etc 165,198 154,818 97,299
Book debts . . . . 85,039 74,275 34,267
Cash, etc 2,013 2,239 20,549
Assuming assets are worth book value,
net tangibles amount to £152,836, or suffi-
cient to cover the whole of the pref. capi-
tal and show 9s. 9d. per 4s. ord. share
before allowing for pref.-div. arrears
(£43,177). That leaves out of the reckon-
ing a tax provision of £4945. During
the year stocks, etc., and book debts were
reduced by £57,519 and £40,008 respec-
tively, while £61,312 was clipped off the
outside debt. The contraction in the
more or less liquid surplus (£85,474)
was £10,970, including the tax provision
as a liability.
Since the close of accounts York
Motors Pty. has bought the stock, plant,
etc., of Overland Sydney, Ltd., and Auto
Cars, Ltd., both controlled by Garratt’s.
Terms aren’t mentioned, but the deal in-
volved transfer of franchises for Willys
Overland, Studebaker and Singer cars and
Dennis commercial vehicles. That leaves
Garratt’s with its freeholds and Queens-
land business and such stocks and book
debts as have not been taken over, to-
gether with a cash balance. The exact
position will, presumably, be disclosed
when the board puts forward its proposal
to pref. shareholders.
The £122,296 of capital is in 101,000
£1 10 p.c. prefs. and 106,480 ords. of
4s. each—the other 16s. was, lopped off
to cover losses, etc., since 1921. On
’Change the ords. fetch 2s. 6d. and the
prefs. 16s. The market thus values the
undertaking at £58,726 less than its net
book value.
Equity Trustees Co, (Melb.)
To Re— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 12,277 16 p.c. = 14,099 88,873
1932.. 10,072 12 „ „ 10,800 88,145
1933.. 11,760 12 „ ~ 10,800 960 89',105
1934.. 14,951 12 „ ~ 10,800 4,151 93,256
1935.. 11,973 12 ~ „ 10,800 1,173 94,429
Staff fund, £844 .. .. .. 93,585
1936.. 12,875 12 p.c. = 10,800 2,075 95,660
Staff fund, £1339 .. .. 1
1937.. 15,925 12 p.c. = 10,800 1- 1,255 96,915
Written off premises, £2531 J
Staff fund, £1499 .. .. ]
1938.. 15,984 12 ptc. = 10,800 J- 1,185 98,100
Written off premises, £2500 1
Staff fund, £1625 .. ..]
1939.. 15,344 12 p.c. = 10,800 ) 919 99,019
Written off premises, £2OOO J
Profit sale investments, £5Ol . . 99,520
Staff fund, £1092 .. ~ |
1940.. 13,907 11 p.c. = 9,900 ) 315 99,835
Written off premises, £2OOO J
Staff fund, £l7Ol . . . . 1
1941.. 13,149 10 p.c. = 9,000 ) 448 100,283
Written off premises, £2OOO J
In May last the 54-year-old Equity lost
its chairman, Edward Mitchell, one of
Melbourne’s legal knights. He had been
a director for 22 years, for the last nine
of which he sat at the head of the board
table. Here his place has been taken by
knight Stephen Morell, and C. H. A.
Eager, K.C., has been appointed to the
vacant directorship. Indeed, professional
legal ability has always figured promi-
nently in the Equity’s control. Seven of
the co.’s former directors have been
appointed Judges, one being the present
C.J. of the High Court, and another is
now Australia’s Ambassador in Tokyo.
The co. doesn’t broadcast the volume
of trusts on its books, but the business


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith. Hassel and "Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
# * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A W DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building-, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metalkirgists.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Advt,
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING machinery
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
For Sale.
GOLD AND TIN PLANTS AND
MINES FOR SALE.
Gold Bucket Dredge on steel pontoons,
capacity 60,000 yards monthly, spare parts,
stores and buildings, with about 1500 acres
dredging areas. Dredge cost £35,000 erected,
situated Palmer River, Q. Over £20,000 value
gold recovered from 150 acres when the price
of gold was £5 per ounce; on present-day
values it would have realised £40,000. _
Price • Dredge only, £4OOO where situated;
dredge and areas, £4500. Work can be resumed
Sll Tin property, situated Marranboy, N. Terri-
tory, 12 miles from railway, 20-head mill, 10
erected, gas-suction plant, all on concrete
foundations, working order, large concentrating
plant, concrete tin-drying building, about 60
acres tin lode leasehold areas.
Pipeline water supply, 3i miles 4in. piping,
good order, pumping station, plant, electric
motors, large lode 4 p.c.; open inspection, care-
value milling plant, £20,000, apart
from pipeline, which is valuable asset. Tin pro-
duction could be resumed small cost. Price,
£4 FuU information ARTHUR H. CLARKE,
P O. Box 828, Cairns.
Buyers will also have opportunity purchase
stock, share broker and mining and company
management business, controlling above two
undertakings, owning considerable interest in
same and other mining undertakings, established
1906 large excellent connection, regular in-
come, good opportunity young man or com-
pany. Owner would assist purchaser 12 months
longer if necessary.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA. LTD.
A thorough, comprehensive and efficient service—founded
on traditions of more than a century of sound banking
combined with a progressive policy organisa-
tion, enables THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED, to offer every facility tor the
transaction of all classes of Banking business.
Directors;
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman)
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager, C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Agents throughout the World.
A Small folder that
suggests a defence
programme yourself
SENDING for a copy of this folder will cost you only a twopenny
stamp, yet the reading of it should enable you greatly to
strengthen your financial position and make your future secure.
Life assurance is buying money on time-payment for future
delivery, with the advantage that should you die earlier than you
now expect, the money will be paid over to your heirs in full.
The extraordinary benefits of the A.M.P. plan for buying
money” are set out in this folder. Use this coupon to secure a
free copy of it.
To the AM.?. Society.
Please send me a free copy of "Buying Money.” I should like to
study it.
Name *
Address
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., _ A. E. WEBB,
General Manager and Actuary. Manager for New South Wales
Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
District Offices throughout all States.
Branch Offices at Melbourne. Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
keeps on expanding —“gratifyingly so
in N.S.W. as the definite advantages
of the corporate over the private trustee
become more widely known and a PP r |“
ciated. However, there isn’t the profit
in trusteeship and the agency business
that usually goes with it that there used
to be. Charges have remained un-
altered, while the work involved in
administration, collection, etc., has greatly
increased, and so, of course, has taxation.
The next table shows what has hap-
pened :
Gross Exes. p.c.
June, Earnings. Exes Earnings.
1920 . . £26,073 £14,775 55.3
1930 . . 52,328 34,364 65.6
1935 .. 50,300 38,327 76.1
1936 .. 51,527 38,652 75.4
1937 .. 54,961 39,036 71.0
1938 . . 57,415 41,431 72.1
1939 . . 57,281 41,937 73.2
1940 .. 57,288 43,381 75.7
1941 .. 59,226 40,077 <7.7
Whereas in 1920 exes, took 55.3 p.c. of
gross earnings they ran away with 77.7
p c. (up 2 p.c.) last term. So, despite a
lift of £1938 in the gross return from all
sources, the net result (£13,149) was
£758 lighter at 14.6 p.c. on capital, as
against 15.4, 17.3, 18, 17.7, 14.3 and 13.3
p.c. back to 1935. Another point was
chipped off the div., reducing it to 10
p.c.; £2OOO struck off the book value of
premises and £l7Ol sent to the staff fund
absorbed most of the balance.
Present disturbed and confused state
of international affairs fills the future
with uncertainty. But the Equity is well
equipped to gather whatever profits are to
be had from this class of business. The
market prices the 50s. shares paid to 10s.
(the other 40s. is a reserve liability call-
able only in the event of liquidation) at
21s. as against 225. 6d. a year ago. At
21s, the return would be 4.7 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis, or 4.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
distribution. The backing is 21s. Id. in
net tangibles. _ .
At the end of June the £90,000 of
share capital, reserves and £15,053 com-
ing to outsiders were represented by free-
hold, etc., £121,523, Government securi-
ties £23,000, book debts, etc., £67,701 and
cash £914,
Smith, Mitchell & Co., Ltd.
One of the largest of its kind in the
Commonwealth, this old - established
malting business is after £60,000 of fresn
capital at a premium of 2s. 6d. per share
to cope with local and export de-
mand. Present paid capital is £lBO,OOO,
of which £70,815 represents bonus scrip
handed out prior to recent conversion to
a public co. On that figure, net earnings
averaging 12.5 p.c. are certified to over
the last three years after providing for
all taxes at current rates except the un-
distributed-profits impost. At June 30
net tangibles at valuation book values
came to £165,677, allowing for divs.,
etc., since paid. Since that date the
adjoining similar business of C. S, Hood
has been taken oyer for £29,034. Sub-
ject to any goodwill involved in the deal,
the new shares, which have been under-
written by J. E. Martin, of Melbourne
’Change, at a commission of 9d. per
share, are backed by net tangibles of
19s. 3d. per share. The brewing, spirits,
vinegar and foodstuffs trades are large
consumers of malt, the by-products of
which find an outlet for stock feed and
manures. On £240,000 of capital, a div.
of, say, 8 p.c. would call for £19,200, as
against £31,388 (before taxes) netted last
term,
Papuan Apinaipi, whose issued capital
has quadrupled (to £100,250) since the
first balance sheet in 1938, is after an-
other £40,150 of money in ss. shares to
continue and extend its vigorous hunt for
flow-oil. Favorable geological omens
have not been lacking, but so far the drill
hasn’t tapped a gusher, and the 2s. 9d.
market for the old scrip isn’t much
inducement to shareholders to dig deeper
into their pockets. Commonwealth has
assisted to date with hire of a major
drilling plant and advances of £30,000,
with another £20,000 promised.
« # He •
South Virginia, on the Paddy Gully
line at the north end of Bendigo, slipped
in the half-year to June, and market for the
scrip has cut in two since February. Con-
traction in throughput (3163 tons, down
683 tons), recoveries of 5.46dwt. (against
6.2dwt.) and working costs 4s. 3d. higher
at 41s. sd. a ton all influenced a profit
£2437 lower at £990 (4d. a share). The
poppet legs and winding gear of New
South Moon having been bought to facili-
tate haulage, shareholders, who got Is. a
share in the previous six months, were
passed by. Work underground is cpn-
centrated at 530 ft. and 610 ft.; intention
is to go through an intrusion of mullock
at the former depth to ascertain.the influ-
ence of a fault zone which has favorably
affected other Eaglehawk mines.
* * * *
A Westralian Parliamentary Royal
Commission has tabled its report on a
new companies bill. Recommendations
to protect a long-suffering investing public
include (1) that if the report of an expert
be appended to, or referred to, in a
mining prospectus the nature and extent
of the interest of such expert in the ven-
ture, together with his qualifications,
should be given; (2) that registration of
prospectuses be refused unless certified
copies of all material contracts have been
filed with the registrar of cos.; (3) that
it be unlawful for a co. to give financial
assistance to its directors; (4) that house-
to-house hawkers be prohibited from
offering for sale or swapping shares; (5)
limitation of the liability of a partner in
a mining partnership to the amount con-
tributed, because of persons willing to
back the reopening of abandoned gold-
mines but not prepared to take a part-
nership risk of unlimited liability. A
recommendation at the suggestion of the
State Treasurer is that stamp duty pay-
able on the transfer of shares be made
comparable with the average duty pay-
able in other States. Duty now paid in
the West on shares other than mining is
£1 per cent, ad valorem, against ss. per
cent, in Victoria, N.S.W. and Queens-
land, and nil in South Australia.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated (W.A.), which
paid four sixpenny half-yearly and then
ten consecutive threepenny quarterly divi-
dends, distributes another threepence on
Sept, 15 after missing out for the last
two quarters. General improvement in
the mine position is reported, including
exposure for a length of 74ft. at the
No. 6 level of Nicholson’s lease of what
is apparently the downward extension of
the important western underlie lode
which pinched out and was lost below
No. 2 level. Values average 12dwt. a
ton over a 4ft. width, with the drive still
in ore. In McKenzie’s lease the lode
has been driven on for a length of 166 ft.
at No. 6 level. Values were erratic, the
average being about sdwt., but in the
leading slope above they have so far
bulked over 7dwt.
* * * *
Court assent has been obtained to sub-
division of the £1 shares of Australian
Gold Production, Ltd—formerly Emu
Gold Mines—Comet Gold Mines, Ltd.,
and Yellowdine Gold Development, Ltd.,
three De Bernales cos. formed in Perth.
Australian Gold Production and Comet
shares will be split into Is. counters, and
Yellowdine into scrip of 2s. 6d. denomina-
tion. It is for shares in these three con-
cerns that shareholders in the remaining
seven of the eight De Bernales London-
Westralian floats are required to exchange
their scrip.
» * * *
Told that it was either dub up or give
up, Freney Oil shareholders agreed at
an unusually calm meeting in Perth on
August 19 to the issue of 264,500 new
6s. shares on a pro rata basis at a bob
each, plus a call! ot ’jS
it is hoped, in instaiments oi not m „
than 3d. A syndicate has a g
an optionton shades
of one: 0f30,000 previc Ithought
man J. P. f sbare “ n die
the initial paym ~ • tto ge t the
new shares L| d tha t
borehole down to and hop^a
o. would be struck before then■ ?)
a letter from D . W <M bo
S he extremely interesting and tm-
portant” A Perth brokers circular
uotes the opinion of another broker that
an y luck Freneys are capable o
going to as many pounds as t ey a
now quoted pence. The marKei nas
own views.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
KERENSKY ON STALIN'S RUSSIA.
[Condensed extracts from an article in “Life,”
U.S.A., by Alexander Kerensky, who in 1917 took over
the Russian Provisional Government which ousted the
Czar, and who, losing control to Lenin, has ever since
been in exile.]
Hitler has clamped around the U.S.S.R. a ring
of Russia’s mortal enemies.
*****
During all of these years in which I have been
an emigre I remained an irreconcilable opponent of
the Bolshevist dictatorship. My opposition to the
Soviets was due neither to the fact that they had
snatched the power from my hands, nor to the hatred
which the Kremlin dictators felt for all the leaders of
the Russian democracy. If I had felt that Lenin and
later Stalin were making my people happy and were
leading Russia to new glory, I would have accepted
and even supported them. Instead, I discerned some-
thing which the new Chinese Wall of propaganda
concealed from most of the outside world. This was
the terrific destruction of my nation’s moral and
material powers.
Now the end has come—for, no matter what the
final outcome of the present war may be, the Krem-
lin cannot remain what it has been. What price will
Russia have to pay for liberation from her internal
despotism? Will she not fall, without a day’s respite,
under another, equally horrible despotism, imposed
by an outsider?
* * * * *
During the First World War, all Russians—with
the sole exception of Bolsheviks—implored, demanded
and insisted that the Czar reconcile himself with his
people. That, and that alone, we saw, could assure
victory and prevent a revolution. If the Czar had then
acceded to our entreaties, Russia would have trans-
formed herself into a Parliamentary Monarchy, and
present-day Europe would know neither Bolshevism
nor Nazism. Similarly Russia today demands of the
Soviets that, for the first and the last time, they heed
the voice of human conscience, respond to the laws
of historical logic and reconcile themselves with the
Russian people.
* * * * *
I would remain silent if I thought that the Red
Army, built up with the blood, sweat and tears of
unnumbered millions of Russians, would be able to
resist the smashing blows dealt it by Hitler’s war
machine. I do not doubt for a minute the Russian
officer’s or soldier’s valor and spirit of self-sacrifice.
To be sure, they will die fighting like heroes. But
heroism alone means little today. Endless distances
and poor roads cannot win a war either —for bombers
overcome any distances, and Panzer divisions pay no
attention to roads, or to the lack of them.
In order to grasp the Russian Army’s position in
the present war, one must refrain from drawing paral-
lels not only with the campaign of 1812, but even
with the war of 1914. In the First World War, Russia
was able to fight for three years because both her
international and internal position was entirely dif-
ferent from what it is today. In 1914 war with Ger-
many did not catch Russia unawares, as it caught the
Soviet Union, Diplomatic co-operation between the
Franco-Russian Alliance on the one hand, and Eng-
land and Japan on the other, had been going on since
1907. The entire strategical plan of the war was
drafted jointly by all of the Allies, and the methods of
mutual assistance were carefully outlined beforehand.
Germany and Austria were on that occasion
encircled by Russia’s allies, while a friendly Japan
guarded the Russian Far East and maintained the
supply lanes from the United States. Today Russia
is blocked on all sides by Hitler and his allies.
*****
What is the real military value of the Red Army?
It is built after the German pattern. In theory it
is, except for the Nazi war machine, the only mili-
tary force in Europe which fulfils the requirements
of mechanised warfare. To provide that mechanisa-
tion, all Russia, in the last 10 to 12 years, has been
reduced to hitherto unheard-of misery and such famine
that millions have died of starvation.
Having thus ruined the productive capacity of
the country, the Bolsheviks can today boast the largest
army in the world. Its regular strength aggregates
about 3.000,000 men, and it commands 24 tank divi-
sions (or 48 brigades) and, supposedly, 15,000 ’planes,
of which one-fifth are bombers. Washington believes
that the Soviets mustered on the Russo-German front
165 divisions and 4000 ’planes as against Germany’s
167 divisions and 6000 ’planes, plus 20 Rumanian and
10 Finnish divisions.
Thus, numerically, the forces confronting each
other at the front are almost equal. But the technical
equipment of an army is merely an inalienable aspect-
of the general industrial power of a nation ; and it
would be absurd even to compare Soviet with Ger-
man techniques. What matters most in mechanised
warfare is not the number of tanks and ’planes with
which a nation enters the war but the speed with
which it can replace them. In that respect, Soviet
industry will certainly prove unable to keep pace with
Germany.
An army is a live entity, capable of purposeful
action only if it is by a general staff worthy of
that name. In 1937 and 1938, Stalin caused the shoot-
ing or the “purging” from the Red Army of all its
competent strategists and commanders. The damage
done to Russia’s military establishment by this insane
procedure has not yet been repaired. At a critical
stage of the present struggle it may result in a disaster.
We must pray for but one thing—that the Red
Army may last until the autumn. Should it be able
to preserve its fighting capacity that long, it would
be a miracle.
* * * * *
The plan of attacking Russia, insane in its stupen-
dous daring, would never have originated even in
Hitler’s head if the Kremlin had not helped the Ger-
man Dictator. For 24 years of the Soviet Govern-
ment’s anti-national, ruin-breeding policy have sup-
plied Hitler with a very sharp political weapon. That
weapon is the fact that Russians themselves hate the
Bolshevist dictatorship and want to be rid of it—even
with the help of “the devil himself.”
Finland is a case in point. If it had not been
for Stalin’s absolutely unprovoked aggression of a
year and a half ago, would that little nation take up
arms against Russia today? And how about Lithu-
ania? Before invading it, Stalin guaranteed, by his
word of honor, the “inviolability” of its internal organ-
isation- —an organisation which he then smashed to bits.
Still more significant is the case of the so-called
“independent Ukraine,” The attempt to set up an
independent Ukraine in 1918, after the Peace of Brest
Litovsk, ended in a failure. The Ukrainian peasantry
conspicuously failed to lend its support to the separa-
tion of the country from Russia. But millions of men
died of starvation in the Ukraine from 1932 to 1934 ;
terror and religious persecutions were unleashed there.
It is true that that state of affairs in the Ukraine
differed in no way from that which prevailed in the
rest of Russia. But the separatist propaganda has
been striving to transform the Ukrainians’ hatred of
Red dictatorship into the hatred of Russia. And so —
a quarter of a century after the first Ukrainian experi-
ment —Ukrainian separation has once more become
a trump card in Germany’s psychological campaign
against Russia.
As for Russia proper, the whole nation is a poten-
tial volcano. An outburst of flaming hatred may any
—Rochester "Times-Union," U.S.A.
HANDING IT BACK.
day consume the national wisdom and the patriotic
discipline of the Russian masses.
* * * * *
The Russian resistance must last. In order to
enable it to last, the poisonous weapon of “liberative”
propaganda must be knocked out of Hitler’s hand.
The Kremlin, whose fate is now linked to that of
London and Washington, must itself, accepting destiny,
restore freedom to the Russian people. By doing so,
it can release in Russia new creative forces for the
organisation of defence and for the continuation of
the struggle.
At the dreadful cost of the Second War, the
Western democracies have at last come to understand
that they need Russia, and not a totalitarian dictator-
ship in Russia.
*****
o Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Charles M. Lincoln.)
Apart from its other causes, this great war within
a war is also an expression of the deep antipathy and
hatred that has existed between Teuton and Slav for
centuries. The Treaty of Versailles gave to Slavic
peoples in Europe small nations of their own. Ger-
many has “rectified” that. Those small nations have
been obliterated, their peoples once more submerged.
Disunited, scattered, they have been easy prey. Com-
plete subjugation of the Slavic race in Europe would
be, for Germany, the fulfilment of an ideal. Domina-
tion over the greatest of all Slavic nations, or its dis-
memberment, would go far toward fulfilling that ideal.
Russia can yield vast territory; lose cities, Lenin-
grad, Kiev, Odessa and others ; could abandon her
capital, Moscow, and go to Kazan 450 miles to the
east, or to Sverdslovsk beyond the Urals ; but if she
can maintain large armed forces, fairly intact, she
will still be capable of long and strong resistance. It
is a long, long time since Russia won a war, but to
“conquer” her, with all which that word implies, is
another matter.
Certainly the Russian resistance has been surpris-
ing to everyone but the Russians, including the Ger-
mans. The Five-Year Plans have produced tank for
tank and ’plane for ’plane against the Germans. And
the individual Russian soldier has fought superbly ;
no longer fighting for a mystical “Little Father,” but
believing, in a hazy kind of way perhaps, that he is
fighting for himself. The highly professional German
generals must have plenty of respect for the Russian
soldier, whatever their opinion of those who direct him.
Quite apart from her struggle for self-preserva-
tion, Russia has done, is doing, a great service for
Britain. This separate war has, regardless of its out-
come, been a costly one for Germany. Her losses in
men, ’planes, tanks, mechanised equipment have been
enormous. The decline in British shipping losses and
the striking decrease in the deaths by German bomb-
ings in England are directly traceable to Germany’s
invasion of Russia. Another matter. In the last war
Germany had an army of 500,000 men occupying only
a part of Russia. How many Germans would be
required to control all of European Russia?
Japan's Dilemma.
[Representative L'.S. views on Japan’s awkward
position, as expressed by experienced Par East corre-
spondents prior to the recent reports of possible
ll,T'Pr°veni^Jl*; 1 I , T'P r ° veni^J l * ; } n relationships with Britain and the
lhe hrst ltem is condensed from a New York
Times” article by Hallett Abend.]
Japan s present Cabinet faces the most difficult
situation any Government of the empire has had to
cope with, largely because Tokyo’s diplomacy has
made the fate of the nation depend entirely upon the
rate of Germany. If the Reich is victorious, then
Japan, as a minor partner, will share in a minor way
in the fruits of victory. If Germany is defeated, there
is no doubt that Japan will have to evacuate China,
move out of French Indo-China and probably have to
restore Manchuria to the Chinese.
The situation confronting Japan is a result of
gambling by the military clique and of a diplomacy
dictated in great part by the ambitions of the military
and the financiers. In other words, it is desire for
lands, money and glory which has brought the empire
to this grave crisis.
It will be 10 years in September since the mili-
tarists first challenged the control of the Emperor
and launched Japan upon a career of aggression and
conquest. On Sept. 19, 1931, the morning after the
so-called “Mukden incident,” Japanese military divi-
sions in Korea began moving into Manchuria, thus
defying one of the most important prerogatives of the
Throne, lor never before had Japanese armies been
permitted to go beyond the borders of the empire
except upon explicit imperial command.
Japan is now cut off entirely from either land or
sea communication with her allies. Her national
debt has increased fivefold, and her military forces
have suffered casualties exceeding a million and a
quarter men. She has roughly a million soldiers in
China, where for more than two years they have been
unable to make any important advances, and where
for four years they have tried in vain to restore order
and stability to vast occupied areas.
Avenues of escape from this dangerous situation
are few and difficult. Since the friendship of the
United States and of Britain has been sacrificed, and
since Japan cannot solidify her conquests or abandon
any of her occupied areas on the Asiatic mainland, she
apparently has no alternative but to continue trying
to expand.
There have been conjectures that Japan might
attempt to develop an appeasement policy toward
Washington and London, but this appears impossible.
Although the Japanese Navy clique probably would
welcome an end to the danger of war with the United
States, the Army group would not countenance any
compromise. Another reason is that the financiers and
industrialists would not willingly abandon their
ambitions of founding the “Greater East Asia Co-
Prosperity Sphere.” This project envisions Japan as
dominating the exploitation of China, Indo-China,
Thailand, the Netherlands Indies and the Philippines,
and would place Japanese in control of finance, ship-
ping, mining, insurance and railways over a huge area.
Knowing well that the era of Munich pacts is defi-
nitely past, the Japanese realise that they could not
appease the United States and Britain unless they were
to withdraw all their military forces from the whole
of China. This they dare not do. The mere attempt
would overturn the Government, would probably
result in mutiny in the army, and might cause actual
revolution in the empire itself.
Moreover, Japan does not dare to bring home
the 1,000,000 armed men now stationed in China.
There would be no work for them, for a cessation of
the China hostilities would entirely upset the economic
life of the country, where all the industry is geared
to war.
Since Japan must move, the question is in which
direction the next thrust will be made.
* * * * *
(Condensed extract from a “Saturday Evening Post’’
article by Edgar Snow.)
Matsuoka threw aside the last tattered veil
from Japan’s intentions when, as Foreign Minister,
he openly declared that “the white races must cede
Oceania to the Asiatics,” and Oceania was defined by
his Vice-Minister, Chuichi Ohasi, as including not only
Malaysia but Hawaii and New Zealand as well. But
to realise such modest ambitions Japan must right
now find a strategy of action to cope with the follow-
ing harsh truths of her dilemma.
First, Japan has gone too far to retreat from the
consequences of her militarisation or to withdraw
from her political entanglements with Europe. Neither
can she long occupy a static role ; the underlying com-
pulsions of her economy are toward action and
aggression.
Second, as long as Britain and America hold
positions from which they can and do aid Chungking
with money and arms, it is unlikely that Japan will be
able to impose a peace oyer all China, free her forces
for conquests farther south or secure essential Chinese
co-operation in “liberating the whole Greater East
Asia from the shackles of imperialism.”
Third, Japan is engaged in an armament contest
with American industry, a race which she cannot pos-
sibly win with her present resources. This means that
she must soon lose her present control of the air in
the Western Pacific.
Fourth, America’s two-ocean navy should ht
ready in 1945, regardless of the outcome in Europe.


Nothing but naval disaster is likely to halt the U.S.A.
accumulating such overwhelming superiority of sea
power against Japan that her fleet would be lucky to
retain security even in its home waters.
Fifth, Allied-controlled countries from India to
New Zealand, with populations totalling around half
a billion people, are now being mobilised for war.
They are developing a war industry based on resources
richer than Japan’s. If this goes on, they could, in a
few years, be able by their own strength to put an
end to Japanese domination in Eastern Asia.
Sixth, even if. Japan effectively conquered China,
she could not find there the resources necessary to
raise her war production sufficiently to change points
three, four and five.
Seventh, as long as Japan does not control the
strategic raw materials of south-eastern Asia, she must
ever remain highly vulnerable to economic warfare.
This is not a fear of the future ; it is already an ex-
perience of the present. Tightening of existing Anglo-
American embargoes has already stopped the rising
curve of Japan’s war production. It must soon enter
an actual decline.
Eighth, once in possession of the East Indies and
Malaya, Japan would be able to deny to the Allies
the use of key positions. And economically she would
at last find herself fabulously rich in oil, rubber, tin,
iron, coal, chromium, alloys and food which would
guarantee her self-sufficiency, perhaps making her
ultimately invincible.
Finally, Japan now has on her side certain other
important assets which she may not hold indefinitely.
She has, for example, more shipping than the Allies
and America could easily mobilise in the East just
now. She has a single naval front, whereas Britain
and America must both worry about the Atlantic.
She will, when she launches her new battleships this
year, perhaps briefly have as strong a battle fleet as
America could put against her. Newly-acquired naval
and air stations inside the Hong Kong-Singapore-
Manila triangle, at Hainan, the Paracels, the Spratleys
and in Indo-China, give Japan increased mobility and
far closer proximity to the vital interests of her poten-
tial enemies than the latter now enjoy against her.
Such is the frame of an inner logic driving Japan
inexorably toward a crucial decision. Just as Hitler
may not be able to delay his invasion of England much
longer, and conquer Europe, so a now-or-never
moment seems close at hand for Japan.
Future New Social Order.
[ln the article here condensed from London “Fort-
nightly” Lord Elton is dealing with Britain, but generally
for “Britain” Australia or New Zealand could be read.]
It by no means follows, as the incautious seem
too apt to assume, that, because it is difficult not to
believe that some social advance will follow the war,
therefore the ground plan of any New Social Order
sketched just now by well-meaning amateurs should
be accepted with indiscriminating enthusiasm. Yet so
eagerly have some prostrated themselves before the
new Jerusalems now beginning to be exhibited by
their various patentees that they almost appear to
assume that, granted reasonable goodwill and indus-
trious committee-work, the war will almost automati-
cally usher in a golden age—in which case, as some-
body has already pointed out, it seems a pity that the
war did not break out 15 years earlier. The only con-
sequence of victory upon which we can certainly rely
is that it will have rid us, and the world, of the rule
of gangsterdom ; a negative consequence but a tremen-
dous one. More positive results, such as a more
moral social order, we may well hope for, but cannot
rely upon achieving.
The most obvious characteristic of those who are
now busiest planning is that they have time to plan;
they are persons not wholly preoccupied with the war
effort. This fact arouses a half-humorous, but wide-
spread, public resentment. There is certainly a good
deal to be said for the view that the persons best
qualified, as well as best entitled, to shape the world
which is to follow the peace are the men and women,
soldiers and civilians, who have fought and won the
war. What was chiefly wrong with Britain after the
last war was that too many of its intellectual leaders
were men who had survived the war by evading the
posts of danger in it. In a struggle the worst of which
was fought without conscription the destined leaders
of the post-war generation mostly perished ; the men
of ability who did survive were too often hopelessly
out of touch with the common humanity whose sacri-
fices they were secretly conscious of not having shared.
An unpleasing symptom of many of the nostrums
recently pressed upon us has been that they have been
lifted bodily out of the past, often indeed being
panaceas dating from the Victorian era. It is well to
remember that, whatever else the new age may be, it
will almost certainly be a new age. To attempt, as
some seem to be attempting, to turn the world’s
present agony into a smoke-screen for the advance of
controversial theories, widely debated, but never
accepted, in the past, is a base form of war-profiteering.
Let us get the new social order into perspective.
Desirable as it is, natural consequence of the war
though it may be, it is not for a new social order that
we are fighting. We are fighting to defeat the dic-
tators and to preserve the British way of life.
To suggest (as has been suggested) that the British
will not put their whole hearts into the struggle unless
they are promised certain semi-revolutionary changes
in the structure of society which happen to be advo-
cated by a particular minority is a childish under-
estimate of their quality. The same people, after all,
doggedly fought against Napoleon, and for the same
reason —in order to preserve the British way of life —
before any of the social advances with which we are
familiar today had been thought of, and without-any
being promised them. The war speeches of William
Pitt indeed, though they are not concerned with new
social orders, strikingly resemble the war speeches of
Winston Churchill, and whole passages in them could
be delivered, unaltered, but completely apposite, today.
The unflattering suggestion that we shall only fight
wholeheartedly if we are guaranteed a series of highly
controversial post-war changes which will put an end
to Britain, as we knew it usually carries with it the
curious suggestion that the old Britain, to which we
said good-bye (and for a vast majority of us it was in
fact a regretful good-bye) in September, 1939, was a
shameful example.of social inertia and backwardness.
From some of the diatribes now launched at the
immediate past, one might almost suppose that
children, in 1939, had been working 12 hours a day
in the factories, women toiling in the mines and the
unemployed starving on the Embankment.
Let us recall then that in 1939 we had for several
years been building a thousand houses a day, the
equivalent, that is, of a city the size of Birmingham
every year; that we had halved the mortality of
mothers and children in childbirth, and brought the
deathrate from tuberculosis, that surest and grim-
mest indicator of malnutrition, to a new low record ;
that we had added three pounds to the average weight
of elementary schoolchildren and enormously de-
veloped the social services ; in short, that in general
the standard of life in this country was probably
higher than anywhere else in the world. There were
plenty of social scandals, no doubt, some of the worst
of them, incidentally, scandals in which it was impos-
sible to interest politicians—but to pretend, as some
people are now pretending, that British society in 1939
was something to be ashamed of is merely to repeat
Hitler's propaganda for him. Why not say that we
were a decadent demo-plutocracy, and have done
with it?
Lastly, there are two common defects in the New
Social Orders as now being designed in committee
which are particularly illuminating, I think, as to the
—New York “World-Telegram.”
THE NEW LIGHT OF ASIA.
nature of the New Social Order as it is likely in fact
to take shape. A blueprint widely circulated of late
by a popular journal was characteristic of much of
this propaganda, and of the people who are busy
with it, in that it presented a wholly materialist Utopia.
As might be expected, there will be less work, more
money, more amusements, more education ; but, as
far as can be seen, there will be no spiritual basis of
society whatever. And yet, if anything stands out
apparent from the history of the last 100 years, it is
surely that the world finds itself in its present plight
precisely because for too long too many people have
thought exclusively in terms of material benefits, a
Gbod Time for themselves.
Planned in study, office or committee-room, the
New Social Orders emerge as paper constitutions of a
familiar and fatal kind. This country has never taken
kindly to rigid systems or paper constitutions. There
are countries —France has been a conspicuous example
—which have displayed a consistent taste for paper
constitutions, almost invariably with the most disas-
trous results. Our own greatest reforms have seldom
been manufactured; they have grown, sometimes
apparently all but haphazard. Much of the New
Social Order needs little planning now ; the ground-
work of it is here already, the result of inexorable
circumstances and our instinctive reactions to them.
The ground plan of post-war society will be dictated
much less by the deliberate theorising of self-chosen,
unofficial planners than by a whole series of official
decisions and instinctive expedients, adopted to meet
the urgent problems of the moment.
France’s Birthrate to Blame.
(From a New York “Daily News” article.)
What was at the bottom of France’s colossal
downfall in 1940 was the French birthrate. The decline
in The French birthrate has been one of the mysteries
of the latter nineteenth century and the twentieth,
French Canadians are among the most prolific people
in the world. French Frenchmen have been produc-
ing smaller and smaller percentages of little French-
men for about three generations. Why?
Did the spread of irreligion in France have some-
thine to do with it? Or the small peasant land hold-
ings, which made their owners fear to have more
than two children per family? Or did some unknown
vital spirit ooze out of the French after the Franco-
Prussian War of 1870?
When this present war began, France’s popula-
tion was about 42,000,000, of whom 3,000,000 were
non-French, while Germany’s was close to 80,000,000.
Will France rise again? France, has been down
before, and always has risen again. We have a notion
France can repeat, though perhaps not for a long
time. We base this notion mainly on the fact that
the poor, in every country, for reasons nobody knows,
average far- more children per family than the wealthy
and well-to-do.
France is being bled white by the Germans. When
this war is over, we’re all probably going to be badly
bent if not flat broke ; and among the most poverty-
stricken of all of us are most likely going to be the
French. With their money gone, and unburdened by
property preoccupations, isn’t it reasonable to expect
that the French people of that time may go in for
mass production of children, after the fashion of poor
people everywhere?
It sounds- like a possible theory to us, and one
worth keeping in mind as we watch Europe’s tragedy.
No Choice Left for U.S.
[Though in the article here condensed from New
York “Herald Tribune” Major George Fielding Eliot is
mainly concerned with the somewhat local job of
demolishing arguments against American participation in
the war as put forward by Mr. Hoover, the item takes
on wider interest from the facts that the former Presi-
dent represents a still strong body of isolationists and
the statements Major Eliot attacks include mam planks
of their platform. At the same time, Major Eliot puts
t he case for those who, like himself, believe that the
U.S.A. should step in now; that it is too far committed
to be able to shun taking an active part.]
In a broadcast Mr. Hoover offers the follow-
ing statements, among others, as the considered
advice of a former Commander-in-Chief to his
fellow countrymen in the greatest crisis of their
history:
(1) “We could give Britain more aid if we
stayed out of the war.”
In the single field of morale alone, spoken
of by Napoleon as outweighing the material
3 to 1, has Mr. Hoover calculated the effect on
the German people, now at war with Russia,
of finding themselves also at war with the
United States?
(2) “If we join the war we must retain a
large part of our immediate production for our
own defence.”
Our defence against whom? Our enemy
will be the same, and our method of defeating
him the same. The fact of being at war would
enable us to increase our efforts for psycho-
logical as well as other reasons.
(3) “I proposed we should hand over to
Britain the same convoy warships that we
would use if we joined the war. If she operated
them it would do her as much good as if we
do it.”
This does not take into account the British
shortage of naval personnel, nor the delays
incident to transfer as already exemplified by
the 50 destroyers traded for bases. Nor does
Mr. Hoover explain why transferring more
ships to Britain would not weaken our own
defence while using those ships under our flag
would do so.
(4) “The figures now disclosed by the Mari-
time Commission, the Government depart-
ments, the Red Cross, all of them show that
less than 4 p.c. of the supplies shipped from
America to Britain have been sunk.”
But the Maritime Commission’s statement was
subsequently shown to concern only sinkings reported
in the press, and the chairman of the commission
stated that “there is reason to believe that actual
losses run substantially greater than reported losses.”
A careful analysis of reported losses, checked back
over a period of time adequate to give a basis for
estimate, very strongly suggests that the actual losses
of cargo-carrying ships loaded in whole or in part in
American ports for British destinations run to at least
twice Mr. Hoover’s figure for the first four months of
this year. And this estimate does not include losses
] n shipments of American goods from Canadian ports.
nor does it include losses of west-bound ships in cargo
Q r in ballast. N
(5) “Furthermore, many of these ships are being
f rom the air. No amount of American naval
p rot ection could stop that.”
Naval protection includes the operations of naval
a j rcra ft • experience has shown that the presence even
sma jj num b ers of defending aircraft are an almost
a F, So l u te assurance of safety to a convoy as far as air
attaclc is concerned ; to this must be added the results
obtained from the patrol and scouting activities
f .. , . ,
Mr Hoover recoils with horror from the idea of
accepting the aid that Russian belligerency automati-
cally brings to the democracies. Yet the founders of
e^ofoS this republic were happy to accept the aid o£ the
granny of Louis XVI of France when the French
people were suffering under a system to which the
condition of the Russian proletariat at the moment
would have looked like heaven itself. George Washing-
ton did not recoil in horror at the appearance of the
troops of Rochambeau and the warships of De Grasse ;
he thankfully accepted help where he cbuld find it, and
made the best use of it m the interests of his coun ry
Nor was Abraham Lincoln beset by any attack
of horrified international prudery when Russian
squadrons came during the Civil War to the ports of
New York and San Francisco to lend moral support
against the possibility that Great Britain or France
might recognise the Southern Confederacy and seek
to break our naval blockade of the Southern seaboard
despite the fact that we were waging a war which had
its origin in the desire to extirpate slavery from our
land, while in the Russia of that day millions of its
inhabitants were bought and sold like cattle with the
land on which they worked. Mr. Hoover may pre-
sume himself wiser and nobler than Washington or


Lincoln, but it is a judgment which will hardly find
endorsement now or hereafter.
Perhaps the chief fallacy of Mr. Hoover’s state-
ment is its curious assumption that we still possess the
choice of peace or war, when it is so apparent, so
terribly apparent, that that choice has passed from
us into the hands of our enemies, and that our choice
is only one between making war at our own selected
moment and in a manner most inconvenient to our
opponents, or waiting our enemy’s time and conveni-
ence. Mr. Hoover recites example after example of
what has happened to the nations which have fol-
lowed the policy he recommends to his own fellow-
countrymen, without apparently grasping for a
moment the terrible significance of what he is saying.
Uncle Sam's Dreams.
(Condensed from a New York
"Herald Tribune" article
by Walter Lippmann .)
Let us recall some of the self-deceptions which
we [Americans] have embraced. Dream No. 1 was:
“There will be no war.” Dream No. 2 followed
quickly: “This is a phony war.” Dream No. 3: “It
does not matter who wins and anyway the Allies
cannot lose. Hitler has no rubber, no oil, no non-
commissioned officers, his tanks are made of wood,
and he will soon be overthrown by the army.” Fol-
lowing the fall of France we had dream No. 4: “The
war is over,” Dream No. 5: “No one can touch us;
in 1946 we shall have a two-ocean navy.” Dream No.
6: “The British cannot be beaten, and so they do not
need help,” Dream No. 7 (after Benghazi): “The
British are winning the war.” Dream No. 8 (after
Crete): “The British have lost the war.” Dream No.
9 (the attack on Russia): “Hitler will fail like
Napoleon ; the two dictators will destroy one another.”
Dream No. 10, which will appear if and when Russia
is conquered: “Hitler is now satisfied ; he will not
try to conquer anyone else.”
In spite of all these self-deceptions, the great
majority of the people have come to believe in the
arms programme and in aiding the Allies. They have
followed the President. But the President who holds
these beliefs has never in actual practice been willing
to take them with full seriousness. The record shows
such a vast discrepancy between his words and his
acts as to raise the question whether Mr. Roosevelt’s
form of wishful self-deception is not to indulge in
strong language as a means of avoiding disagreeable
acts. He has encouraged the U.S.A. to remain asleep
and to dream that it could defeat Hitler without sacri-
fice, or even without inconvenience. He has declared
the existence of an unlimited emergency, which is a
tremendous imitation of an act, but, having uttered the
words, life went on as before. The proclamation was
not the prelude to action, but the substitute for it.
Thus Americans face the most formidable enemy
they have ever faced in the most critical period of
modern history with eyes half-closed and with much
less than half their energy enlisted for the ordeal.
Between the people who tell us that all will be well if
we do nothing and the people who promise that all
will be well if we do a little, though we need not in-
convenience ourselves too much, we are drifting—as
all the other nations have drifted —toward a situation
of such imminent and overwhelming peril that even the
sleepiest and the laziest and the most complacently
foolish will no longer be able to sleep and dream.
British 'Planes Can Take It.
[Anyone reading such a book as Winged Words
(reviewed on the Red Page) must be amazed at the
amount of damage R.A.F. ’planes somehow survive.
Here New York “Sun,” quoting a British authority,
gives some examples.]
The fortune by which some of Britain’s aircraft,
after terrible batterings by the German anti-aircraft
guns, have succeeded in reaching home is largely attri-
buted in England to the skill of British workmanship.
“It is doubtful,” says an R.A.F. spokesman in London
“Trade and Engineering,” “whether the majority of
German ’planes would have survived similar rough
treatment.”
Recently a Whitley bomber, seeking its targets
at Cologne, was hit by a splinter which penetrated the
fuselage, “By sheer bad luck the splinter also hit a
particularly large flare and blew it up. The whole
of the skin and ribs were blown off one side of the
fuselage, while on the other side most of the rivets
were forced out. There was very little left to hold on
the tailplane, but it held and pilot and crew safely
made their way back to England.”
There are a number of similar stories. One is of
the tail and rudder of a Hampden shattered by cannon
and machine-gun bullets from three Junkers bombers
which attacked at the same time ; another, of the
fuselage and wings of a Whitley which were holed by
anti-aircraft fire while the British bomber was flying
at a height of little more thati 2000 feet; a third is of
a Wellington hit in six places by a severe barrage over
Berlin ; and a fourth, of a Hurricane which came back
“looking more like a colander than a fighter aircraft.”
And yet, in the words of the official communique,
“all these aircraft returned safely.”
A Hampden, flying over Hamburg, received a
direct hit in the port wing which Tipped open the oil
tanks. Yet the port engine, much to the pilot’s relief
and astonishment, ran sweetly all the way home —a
distance of more than 400 miles.
A Blenheim operating over Rotterdam met excep-
tionally heavy anti-aircraft fire, and the port oil tank
was perforated in three places. The line from the
starboard gas tank was fractured, the elevator main
spar was holed, the main spar and fin shot through
and a rubber cable cut'half through. There were
also holes in the tail and fuselage. Yet the buffeted
machine not only got home, but was back in service
within three days.
Still another Blenheim actually rose safely again
after hitting the sea at almost full speed. After this
dangerous encounter with the water the propeller was
badly bent back, the tail wheel was missing, the bomb-
hatch cover stove in, and the cowlings and air intakes
completely wrecked. Yet once again the machine
remained airworthy and made what the pilot afterward
declared to have been a good journey home.
“This is the sort of thing which is happening every
week,” sums up the Royal Air Force observer.
“Nothing could have been put to a more severe test
than British workmanship and materials —and nothing
could have emerged from that test with greater credit.”
Men Around Stalin.
(From an article in "Life," U.S.A.)
Nine politicians rule the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics under Josef Stalin. Today they are engaged
in a war which may be the last heard of them and of
U.S.S.R. They will be the first the Nazis will shoot,
if they can catch them. Four plus Stalin form the
war dictatorship known as the State Defence Com-
mittee, to which Stalin has given the dictatorial powers
formerly reserved for himself. These four are the two
Old Bolsheviks, Molotov and Voroshilov, and two of
the youngest newcomers, Beria and Malenkov.
Stalin asks these nine their opinions at meetings
of the all-powerful Politburo, lets them argue among
themselves. When they have finished, he has made
up his mind. If a man finds himself too often in the
minority, he is “liquidated.” The one common quali-
fication these pine men have is that so far they have
been able to avert Stalin’s lethal suspicions.
Five of the nine have grown moustaches that are
modest copies of Stalin’s full-blown affair. They
would not be noticed unfavorably at an executive
meeting of an insurance corporation. They would be
an easy and agreeable group to meet. At least three
(Kaganovich, Zhdanov and Mikoyan) have charm and
a gift for words. Voroshilov has the charm but not
the words. Beria has polish and intellect. The remain-
ing four (Molotov, Andreyev, Malenkov and Kalinin)
are dull or silent men. The nine are a suspicious and
dangerous crew, superbly gifted in the art of survival.
—Los Angeles "Times."
"IMAGINE SEEING YOU HERE."
They are all intensely provincial with scant knowledge
of life beyond the border of Russia.
They fall into three divisions: the Old Bolsheviks
—Molotov, Andreyev, Voroshilov and Kalinin; the
young veterans —Zhdanov, Kaganovich, Mikoyan ; and
the new men —Beria and Malenkov. They are all
Stalin’s creatures. Otherwise they are all different.
The class origins of two (Molotov and Zhdanov) are
bourgeois; of three (Andreyev, Beria and Kalinin),
peasant; of the rest, more or less city proletariat. The
majority have a fair smattering of education. Two
(Zhdanov and Mikoyan) were theological students like
Stalin. But the most capable is Kaganovich, who
stands among the ill-educated four.
In a country of so many strange and hostile races,
the nationality of the rulers is important. Stalin’s own
Georgians have one representative besides Stalin ;
Beria. The Armenians south of the Georgians have
one; Mikoyan. The Jews have one: Kaganovich.
The Little Russians of the Ukraine have one : Voro-
shilov. The pure-blooded Great Russians have two:
Zhdanov and Malenkov. Also, from Russian Tartary
east of Moscow comes Molotov; from west Russia
near Poland, Andreyev; from north of Moscow,
Kalinin. This is a pretty fair distribution, but it omits
all the various Turkmen and Moslem races, the
Siberian peoples and the northern Karelian groups.
The average age of the group is lower than that
of any other Government save Nazi Germany. Six
of the nine are under 50.
Seven of these men are on the Politburo and two
(Beria and Malenkov) are alternates. The full name
is Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the
All-Union Communist Party. The Constitution gives
the power to a Supreme Council (Parliament) and a
Council of People’s Commissars (Cabinet), but nobody
pays any attention to this. The men of the Politburo
have absolute power.
They all have small suites in the grey pile of the
Kremlin in Moscow, heavily guarded. When they
travel, they are well-covered by bodyguards. Nearly
all live in' luxurious country houses.
One quality that all Soviet politicians have in
common is a sort of drab self-effacement. In contrast
to the splendid, staged pomp of the Nazis and Fascists
and Falangists, they stage their great rallies with an
ostentatious plainness that approaches dinginess. If
they chose, it would be easy for Russians to surpass
the pageantry of the Nazis, for Czarist Russians were
probably the world’s greatest show-offs, whose bar-
baric ceremonials were the wonder of the world. But
in Moscow the great men slouch on to the stage in
plain tunics or business suits. They drily mutter their
speeches without spotlight or forensics. They go to
the trouble of pretending that they live as humbly as
monks.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
We know, of course, that the disaster of France
was due in no small part to her indiscriminate hos-
pitality which encouraged abuse of asylum and enabled
the creation within her political body of poisonous
growths which sapped her life. There were always
those among the native French who, in the name of
democracy, would insist that alien devotees of this or
that ism or faction in other nations must be allowed
to enter and, in the course of time, take a full part in
the affairs of France —not necessarily as grateful
adopted children of the family but often as critical
and obstreperous intruders. One serious trouble was
that many of these immigrant refugees continued to
carry on in France the activities for which they or their
kind, whether imperial Russians or Italian or German
Communists, had become hunted men at home. They
wiped their shoes on the flag to which they owed
their escape from death, mocking the hospitality of a
people who risked and, finally, lost their freedom for
the sake of a tradition or superstition.— Westbrook
Pegler; New York “World-Telegram.”
*****
When Hitler promised at Munich to use “the
method of consultation” in all questions concerning
Great Britain and Germany, he defined no term for
the contract; he actually kept it—after a fashion —for
11 months. When he told the Reichstag on the day
after he had torn up that pact that his latest agree-
ment would rule out the use of violence between Ger-
many and Soviet Russia, the term was declared to be
“for ever,” or, as Ribbentrop later paraphrased it, “for
all eternity” ; it was accordingly expected that this
pledge would last longer. And so it did —just twice
as long. Once again Hitler demonstrated the strength
of the one principle in which his consistency is abso-
lute—that his signature to a treaty is to be used solely
as a bait to lure a victim into a trap, and that his word
is to be broken the moment any advantage can be
gained by the betrayal.— London “Times.”
Remember how Communists were
howling that even the mildest suggestions
for preventing strikes in defence industries
were a plot by capitalistic warmongers to
conscript and enslave labor? Well, labor
conscription for defence purposes has
been imposed by the Leningrad Soviet
on all able-bodied men and women in its
jurisdiction. And, naturally, the party-line
gymnasts in this country will consider
that a perfectly proper step. Forced
labor is O.K. by them—when it’s Russia
that’s to be defended.— New York ‘‘World
Telegram.”
* * * *
Loss of life in bombed England
actually is less than in peace-time, accord-
ing to James B. Forgan, of the American
Red Cross. “By taking automobiles off
the highways, by exercising caution in the
home and in industry, by improving diet,
by safeguarding self and community from
the threats of epidemics through sanita-
tion, vaccination and immunisation, the English are
saving more lives than their enemies are able to
take.”— ‘‘Reader’s Digest,” U.S.A.
♦ * * * *
Among the greatest heroes of the war are the
firemen who battle against terrific odds to keep Eng-
land’s cities from going up in flames. Before the war
London had between 1900 and 2000 firemen. Now
the capital proper has 24,000 persons, including 2000
women who operate the telephone system and key
control rooms, ready for fire-fighting duty. In the
whole London region the number is 35,000. The most
dramatic sight on a Blitz night is to witness the
arrival at a bad fire of a mass of firemen who shoot
their men up 150 feet in the air on four-section tele-
scope ladders to play water on the blaze despite the
fearful drone of the bombers above and the whistle
of more bombs falling. The scene is repeated at
scores of other places.— New York ‘‘Herald Tribune”
London correspondent.
* * * * *
The Government of Leon Blum, the Front
Populaire, the worst misgovernment of modern times,
sowed the seed of the heartbreaking tragedy of France.
France failed to organise her own industrial system.
It is now being organised for her in a different way.
Under the Front Populaire, Communist-directed
strikes, moral and physical sabotage, and the inability
of Government either to govern or produce —these
crimes conspired to rob France of the 5000 ’planes
which might have saved her life. — Thomas Kernan;
“Saturday Evening Post.”
% % $ * *
Sir Gerald Campbell, British Minister to the
United States, replying to a statement by Charles A.
Lindbergh that England had promised armed assist-
ance to nations, ranging from Poland to Greece, which
she could not send; “That is untrue. The size of
the British Expeditionary Force sent to France was
fixed by the French General Staff, and in honor bound
those troops were sent to defend Belgium, a§ others
have since been sent to defend Norway and Greece —
military blunders, perhaps, but so was the charge of the
Light Brigade at Balaclava, and we all learned at
school how proud the British Army and the British
people were of the Light Brigade. We may be despic-
able, decadent specimens of white trash, but at least
we are white and not yellow.”— New York ‘‘Herald
Tribune”


RUNG
m
mi
*
V
m
i
m
Sp
wts&3s&
' asSS
v
m
»
?s&**
The World Renowned ALFRED
HERBERT LTD., (Coventry) LATHE
as manufactured under licence by
A. Q. Healing Ltd. Background, a
Healing production line.
AS PRECISE AS
YOUR WATCH
MAKING NEW HISTORY IN AUSTRALIA, the factories of A. G. Healing Ltd. have delivered
a number of HERBERT DESIGN Capstan Lathes for the Defence Department, and several hundred
more are in course of production.
A further proof, if any be needed, that, given the opportunity the Australian craftsman has the
skill and exactitude to produce precision machines which are of world standard in material and
accuracy.
It is with a. feeling of pride In the staff and organisation which have made it possible, that
A. G. Healing Ltd. announce this contribution of vital precision machines . . . the basic tools
of our National Armament production.
Also Manufacturers and Distributors
HEALING’ Electric REFRIGERATORS . . . . HEALING BICYCLES
'HEALING'' Golden Voiced RADIOS . . .. "HEALING" BATTERIES
'HEALING " Electric VACUUM CLEANERS . 'HEALING" GAS PRODUCERS
RETAIL DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
A. G. HEALING LTD
167-173 FRANKLIN STREET & A BECKETT STREET. MELBOURNE
AND At SYDNEY AND ADELAIDE.
CRAVEN A
..me so
ST.
it***
10 for 10d
20 for 1/8
ElB6B
msm
PREVENT
A MIXED GRILL.
The Turks are very angry with London
“Times.” In an article obviously reflect-
ing the view of the Foreign Office (which
means Eden), the “Thunderer” declared
that “post-war leadership in Eastern
Europe is essential if the disorganiption
of the past 20 years is to be avoided,”
and offered the role to Russia. A
Turkish writer, Husin Hahit, replied in
angry terms:
Turkey allied itself with Britain at a time
when Russia refused a British alliance, and
remained loyal despite the French collapse
and the German drive in the Balkans.
Now, in return for Turkish loyalty, Britain
proposes to deliver Turkey into the hands
of Russia. We thought Britain was fight-
ing for the defence of the rights of small
nations.
Seems to be an occasion for another
Eden pilgrimage to Ankara.
% * *
Sixteen months ago Kaye Hunter, a
24-year-old research student at the Mel-
bourne University Engineering School,
started on an attack on the problems of
producer-gas. He had previously done
a course at the Melbourne Tech., entered
the University at 18 and four years later
got his degree of B.Mech.E. He has lately
received the rare degree of Master of
Engineering Science for a 12,000-word
thesis entitled “Tests on a Multi-cylinder
Engine Running on Producer-gas.”
♦ * * *
“Cauboy”: Now that foreign musicians
are no longer coming to Australia, A.B.C.
is making an excellent do of local pro-
ducts. There’s nothing surprising about
that. If all the Australian topnotchers
overseas at present were performing in
this country, Australia would stand
musical comparison with any land.
Singers John Brownlee, Marjorie Law-
rence and John Dudley and pianist-
composers Percy Grainger and Dr. Ernest
Hutcheson are all topliners in the U.S.A.,
and in its latest season the Metropolitan
Opera Co. engaged Australians for 63 out
of its 143 performances. Add to these Vic-
torians N.S.W. singers Robert Nicholson
and Ken Neate. Incidentally, Grainger,
though long a naturalised American,
caches a large proportion of his takings
to complete the Grainger Museum at
Melbourne University, and recently he
instructed his agents to pay all his Aus-
tralian royalties into war charities.
* * * *
Dead at 83 at Dunedin, one of the
best-known of Maoriland portrait
painters, Alfred Henry O’Keefe. He was
born in Bendigo, but arrived in Dunedin
at the age of four. He finished his art
training under Julian in Paris, and for
15 years taught in the Dunedin School
of Art. He is represented in every im-
portant M.L. gallery by portraiture,
flower pieces or still-life studies.
* * * *
“Phil A”: “N.C.” (B. 9/7/’4l) cites
Wentworth and Robert Lowe as Gipps’s
chief antagonists. An even more drastic-
critic was that forthright parson, John
Dunmore Lang. Annoyed at Gipps’s
“neglect to vindicate the majesty of the
law” in regard to the killing of a batch
of black brethren, Lang let loose an im-
peachment of the Governor that ended
on this brisk note: “Sir George Gipps
has still this black blood upon his hands,
and now that her Majesty has at length
relieved him of the task of misgoverning
the most important of her Australian
Colonies, he may wipe it off—if he can.”
Gipps died (February, 1847) before
Lang’s book, Cooksland, appeared and
while there was yet time for the reverend
gent, to hold his horses. Did he do so?
Not a bit of it. Instead, he added this
footnote: “Sir George Gipps was alive
when this was written. He has since
gone to his account. I see no reason,
however, why I should expunge a syllable
of what I have written in the case.”
How’s that for aggressive Christianity?


W iis uses
la
It was the only means of trade known
to primitive man, but it was troublesome and
inefficient, so man invented money. In due
course the credit system was developed, leading
to that great economiser of time and effort the
bank cheque. A current account with the National
Bank enables its owner to make his payments with
the least trouble and the greatest safety. Not only
does his current account assist him to save time,
effort and cost, but it makes available all the wide
range of financial services which the Bank has
developed for the use of its customers. Full
particulars may be obtained upon request at any
of the Bank’s branches.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
446 Offices and Branches in Australia
98—16—41
The Federal Mutual Insurance Comnany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager. -
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, y
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Credit and Bank Profits
Senator Darcey again:
1 thank you for publishing my letter (B.
20/8/’4l). Section 504 of the Banking Com-
mission’s report says just what you say, and
is a complete statement in itself. You are
quite right in saying that it does not state that
the Commonwealth Bank should lend money
free of charge. It would have been an imperti-
nence on the part of the commission to tell
the Government what it should do; its mission
was to point out to the Government what it
was empowered to do under the Constitution,
and leave it to the good sense of the Govern-
ment to act in the interests of taxpayers and
obtain the necessary war credits from our own
Commonwealth Bank, thus saving an enormous
interest bill.
But in your comment you make the mistake
of many of my critics. I have never said
that credits to an unlimited extent can be
created. Australia’s limit is based on its pro-
ductive capacity, which is constantly increas-
ing. Private banks’ power to create credit is
limited by their cash reserves. They can
lend up to at least eight times this amount.
Regarding bank profits: The Commonwealth
Bank’s profits for the year 1938 were £1,138,000,
which, on its working capital of £6,000,000,
represents nearly 25 p.c. As long as the private
banks can put hundreds of pounds into secret
reserves no balance sheet issued by the banks
gives any indication of what profits they are
making.
Without accepting Senator Darcey’s
opinion as to the impertinence or other-
wise of the Banking Commission advising
the Government what to do—there are
34 pages of “conclusions and recommen-
dations” in the commission’s report,
upon which a Government at one stage
proposed to pass legislation—comment
should be passed on the tail-end of the
long sentence in the Senator’s first para-
graph. He speaks of the commission
leaving it to the “good sense of the Gov-
ernment” to “obtain the necessary war
credits.” It should not be news to Senator
Darcey that the report of the commission
was “presented by command, August 24,
1937,” and that war finance was not one
of the special preoccupations of the com-
mission. Lest this be regarded as taking a
fine point, it must be emphasised that war
finance is the financing of waste, whereas
ordinary credit expansion is based on the
establishment of reproductive assets, or
should be. This is mentioned here with-
out any retirement from former opinions
regarding central bank credit and section
504, whether we happen to be at war
or at peace.
Regarding the “25 p.c, profit” made by
the Commonwealth Bank in 1938, Senator
Darcey really had better look at the
figures again. In the year to December
31, 1938, the Commonwealth Bank
earned £363,060 in its ordinary banking
department and rural credits branch, to
which its capital of £6,000,000 applies.
That represents a little over 6 p.c. on
capital. But throwing in the £295,912
earned in the savings bank, the capital of
which is really a reserve fund and a Gov-
ernment guarantee, profits rise to
£658,972, equal to 10.1 p.c. It is from
the note-issue branch that the central
bank makes most of its profits, and no
private bank in Australia is allowed to
participate in this attractive business. The.
profit in 1938 was £870,484, all due to the
bank’s exclusive right to lend its notes, at
interest, as legal tender. Profit here was
equal to 1.7 p.c. on the note issue.
Associated Pulp and Paper (Tas.) is
doing well after a little over five years
of life, including three years of commer-
cial production of paper. War economics
are helping, but the co.’s prices are sub-
ject to control. For the term to April
30 net profit, after providing £61,750 for
depreciation and £60,000 for taxation,
was £131,657, This net figure compares
with £31,717 in the preceding year, when
taxation provision was not disclosed, A
sum of £31,150 is being appropriated to
a reserve against high-priced stocks, and
£31,736 is being used for cleaning-up
purposes in connection with preliminary
exes, and establishment losses. A 6 p.c.
div. has been declared on all shares.
Orders on hand cover six to seven
months’ production, the board says.
Government requirements are calling for
more and more of the co.’s output, and
ordinary trade orders are being rationed.
In the beginning an output of 15,000 tons
of paper a year was visualised. In Oct.,
1939, No. 2 paper-making machine lifted
output to 22,500 tons a year, and in
March this year it was announced that
a third paper-making plant was being
installed and the capacity of the mill
raised 40 p.c. When this extension was
completed —it isn’t nearly finished yet
—the directors anticipated that the
co. would be able to supply Austra-
lian requirements in the types of paper
it was making. With all this capital
outlay going on, and with only a
moderate addition to capital account
since the beginning—£l,2oo,ooo to start
with, it has since lifted to £1,505,000 —it
is natural enough that divs. will be re-
stricted until profits are less urgently
needed for business expansion. The co.
has had a lucky break so far as markets
are concerned, but it has turned out a
good product, and the future seems
reasonably well assured. It was granted
a duty of £3 10s. a ton British
and £8 a ton foreign on its principal
lines, but under price-control the co.’s
present prices are below those ruling
overseas.
* * * ♦
Cement-co. scrip has been bought
keenly lately. The two holding cos. in
Australian Portland Cement Pty. have
maintained their divs. at 12£ p.c. The
operating co. last year made a reduction
in prices in Victoria, where the plant
has been overhauled to good effect so
far as costs are concerned. In spite of
modernisation of plant, the financial
position of A.P.C. apparently hasn’t been
strained; assets are unencumbered, ade-
quate provision for depreciation is re-
ported, “a large part of this reserve has
been invested in fixed deposits and Gov-
ernment securities, and there has been
no increase in capital since the co. was
formed,” Apparently sales of cement
have continued satisfactory. Shares in
Australian Cement, the Victorian arm
to the control of A.P.C., have been more
active than Kandos scrip. There have
been sales of Australian Cement £1
shares at 41s. Kandos 16s. scrip, as
usual, is the better buying at 315., repre-
senting 38s. 9d. per £1 of Kandos capi-
tal. The advantage in favor of Kandos
is more than that, too. It has a smaller
capital than Australian Cement, though
it possesses an equal share in the operat-
ing co,
$
The sharemarket had foreknowledge
of the new issue to be made by Felt
and Textiles, though it was slightly dis-
appointed about the premium charged.
During July the co.’s ords. ranged
between 38s. and 395., but a short
time before the new issue was announced
the scrip lifted to 41s. The issue is to
be one for four, at a 10s. premium, and
it will raise paid capital of the
Feltex concern to £1,419,839, of which
£1,179,839 will be in ord. money. The
co. will then be the largest textile concern
in Australia from a capital point of view.
Its rate of expansion vies with that
of Woolworths, the chain-store
phenomenon; though there is very little
bonus scrip in F. and T., paid capital has
sprung to its present figure from £130,000
in 1936. The co, and its subsidiaries
make Feltex floor coverings and other
felts, carpets, slippers, flocks, waddings,
wooltops, etc., and as a public concern
the enterprise has yet to suffer a reverse.
The premium being charged on the scrip
is a new departure.
* * * ♦
Melbourne Steamship Co., after setting
aside £38,546 for depreciation (compared
with £40,847 in the previous year),
showed shipping earnings of £5063 for
the term to June 30, compared with
£12,875 in 1939-40. Income from the
subsidiary, Hobson’s Bay Dock and
Engineering, improved, however, from
£5500 to £12,500; naval and increased
mercantile activity probably helped here.
Income from general investments fell
from £6522 to £2857. Net profit dis-
closed by the parent co. dropped from
£22,032 to £17,610, and the div. was cut
from 7 p.c. to 6 p.c. Shipping earnings,
the co. complains, were principally
affected by a shrinkage in passenger
traffic and increased running costs. Cargo
was plentiful. An increase in cargo rates
was allowed by the Prices Commissioner
from May 1, but that scarcely influenced
the figures to June 30. Since the close
of accounts the Commonwealth has
assumed control of all inter-State shipping
on a charter basis. At 255. Melbourne
Steam scrip yields a shade under 5 p.c.
so long as the 6 p.c. div. continues.
Earnings were £4300 short of div. re-
quirements last term, but depreciation
provisions appear to have been more than
ample for some time.
* * * m
Chain-store turnovers are increasing,
partly due to the redistribution of incomes
resulting from war finance, but G. J-
Coles and Co. reports that some depart-
ments of its organisation are finding diffi-
culty in offering their usual variety of
goods. Almost all toys are now made in
Australia. British stocks come forward
at irregular intervals, and shipments from
foreign sources have ceased entirely.
* * * *
Argus and Australasian, Ltd., of Mel-
bourne showed a profit of £38,562 for
the year to June 28, after providing
£14,394 for depreciation and £7500 for
taxation. In the preceding term £20,122
was earned after setting aside £14,346
for depreciation. Pref. div. arrears have
been reduced to £lB,OOO. The financial
position has improved, the outside debt
having been brought down to £70,853.
Since the close of accounts newsprint has
been rationed more severely, but the
price of the co.’s daily paper has been
put up to 2d. and advertising rates lifted
15 p.c.
* * * *
As the war continues Australian costs
rise, though there has been no runaway
movement. But the average basic wage
has lifted from 795. to 86s. in capital
cities since war broke out, and back, in
1937 the rate was 70s. Wages now buy
a little more than in 1937, but nothing
like 16s. a week in buying power has
been added to the pay envelope. Infla-
tion in living costs, which caused the
rise in wages, also offset the rise in the
money now being paid to basic-wage-
earners. We are getting in
Australian money for each pound of
Australian wool now, which is slightly
below the price averaged for the four
years prior to our entering into the war-
time contract with Britain, when wages
and other production costs were well
below the present level. The posi-
tion of the woolgrower, then, isn’t
as good as it was when the contract
was first signed. But without the wool
agreement he couldn’t have got rid of
all his production; Britain has been un-
able to do so, and the stuff is being
stored in the U.S.A. as well as in Empire
countries. Should the cost of living
continue to lift in Australia under
the influence of war conditions the
position may arise where we will have
to recognise the fact in our currency, and
readjust it both in relation to sterling
and to gold. But since Britain has prob-
ably suffered greater inflation than Aus-
tralia, rather than interfere with the
present Australia-London exchange rate
it may be more equitable to all parties
to review the price of wool. It isn’t
likely, however, that any review would
be pressed until the woolgrower’s exist-
ence became actually endangered by in-
flating costs. Our first effort should be,
so far as lies in our power, to keep costs
down, and one means towards this end
is the financing of the war effort as far
as possible out of taxation.
* * * *
Those people who in the past have
claimed as deductions calls paid to Aus-
tralian mining cos. may find their Federal
income-tax assessments swollen at an
inopportune time if they sell such scrip
now. If held for less than a certain
period, the entire proceeds of sale, less
the application and allotment money
(which was not previously allowed as a
deduction), or less the purchase price
where the scrip was bought as contribut-
ing on the open market, is treated as
“profit” by the Federal taxation authori-
ties. Such a situation arises with Table-
land Tin scrip, for instance. Most of the
calls have been paid over the past three
years, and if the scrip is sold now much
of the proceeds becomes subject to taxa-
tion—and at a much higher rate than
when the deduction was claimed. Still,
war is war.


BRANDAUER’S
w
G^
I*'*
do
i not experiment with imitations.
0. XBAXDAVSB * 00, Ltd, BIBUIHOHAU, EN»
PENS
Every point
guaranteed-
20 Investments in One!
Your purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES secures a “spread” of investment over 20
leading Australian Companies listed on the Stock Exchange.
You also obtain a yield, at present prices, of around 5 % per
annum, and your investment is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 gives full details. Your copy posted free on request
to the Managers of the Trust :
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone; 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V. X
1345-6.44
flH*
a
rH *
m
tl*
giiiiP
,0
d
m
i
w
u
m
5S\,
4k
Vrl
Ifc* 1
-&&&>/
St^*
\ /
tins *°* " 20 ,
10
„ i&'
tit'V
V
Capstan Special Mild . . Red Packs 'kc Capstan Medium
Blue Packs Capstan Full Strength . . Brown Packs
When this war is over there will be
a number of circumstances that will
occupy our minds to the full. There is
likely to be a huge demand for labor to
rebuild war-damaged Europe, including
Britain. There will be a big call for a
number of raw materials, particularly
metals, though it is doubtful whether
wool will be short owing to the unused
stocks likely to be carried into the post-
war era. There will be the problem of
price-control. Shipping capacity will be
taxed when trade routes reopen, and
there will be other international trade
problems, especially those concerning
former enemy countries. There will
be some years of unrestored plant
and property depreciation to make good
owing to the present non-availability of
important raw materials and labor
needed for war. There is likely to be,
for instance, a big inquiry in Australia
for galvanised iron, wire, etc., two
materials at present being largely diverted
to the Defence Department. Piping is
a similar item. In addition to all this,
there will be the problem of emergency
industries non-existent before war broke
out, and which no longer will be afforded
special war-time protection. In Australia
some such industries were started only
on a bounty or tariff basis, and appear
to have a reasonably secure future. Then
there will be the problem, transcending
all others, of national economics, which,
will include the matter of whether the
British people, including Australians, will
want to drop their bundle as soon as the
war is over and refuse to tolerate any-
thing but a complete abandonment of
war-time financial precautions. We
should never forget that, to the extent
that we don’t pay for the war now, finan-
cially the war continues when all the
fighting is finished. The peace, when it
comes, will bring very great financial
and political problems, and they won’t be
nearly as straightforward as the simple
and grim one of fighting with all we have.
jfc * *
A certain lack of tact by departmental
controllers of rationed products and offi-
cers of some cos. whose outputs are being
diverted to war-time industries is having
no good effect on the war effort.
Tradesmen who find they can’t get
materials with which to do a job may
be hard to convince that restriction is
necessary, but sharpness and incivility
will only be the opposite of helpful in
making them understand. There are so
many monopolies and near-monopolies
as well as price-fixing agreements that
a builder or contractor may feel that
there is a “ring” working against
him. This feeling becomes more hostile
when he meets with curtness in refusals
to do business with him at all owing to
the national emergency. And this dis-
content is not helping enlistments
« * * *
Optical instruments at one-third the
cost of previously imported articles are
now being turned out in Australia,
according to the Minister for Munitions.
Spectacle lenses and “good plate glass”
are being used as the raw material,
optical glass being no longer obtainable.
Where the spectacle lenses come from
in the first place Senator Mcßride is not
reported as having stated, but the market
for Arthur Cocks shares has been firming
lately. Arthur Cocks is one of the big-
gest distributors of optical goods in Aus-
tralia, and for some time following the
outbreak of war the scrip was weak, more
especially in recent months. Down to
18s. 3d. not so long ago, the ords. have
lately sold at 20s. 6d., yielding nearly
10 p.c. if the usual 2s. a share goes out
for the term which closed on June 30,
or 8 p.c. if a cut of two points is made
in the div. This generally comes along in
one lump in October. Earnings in 1939-
40 were equal to 13 p.c. on ord. capital.
* * * *
Dunlop-Perdriau’s net profit of £427,745
was £11,853 down on the previous year’s
result. It was equal to 8.9 p.c. on ord,
capital, against 9.1 p.c., and the 7 p.c.
distribution was maintained. The figures
are preliminary, and no balance sheet is
to hand. At 235. the ords. yield 6.1 p.c.
* * * *
It doesn’t take a person long to dis-
cover, when dealing with some Govern-
ment departments, that fear is a notable
factor in shaping the actions of many
civil servants. One has only to have
dealings with the Australian Customs on
some matter a little out of the ordinary
to find the reluctance of officers to give
a decision where the matter may possibly
be criticised later on. Officers in such
cases may be afraid of their jobs or
their pension rights, and the resultant
lack of initiative shows up in costly
delays to industry. It is not uncommon
for a businessman to have lo go to Can-
berra to get a decision on a matter that
has been held up by officials for weeks,
In many cases Canberra rules his way,
and expresses astonishment that the
matter couldn’t have been fixed up in
Sydney or Melbourne. None should
know the shortcomings of the “system’
better than Forde, deputy Labor leader,
who was Scullin s Minister for Customs,
and who has been demanding that control
of B.H.P. should be handed over to the
Government lor the duration ol the wax.
It seems necessary to remind Mr Forde
that the steel we are concerned about is
this w ar, noMhe next^one.
»production of 'alumina' from
P o£ great quanti-
; Where cheap
P»«« is o£ importance in the
manufacture of a commodity electro-
lytic zinc and copper, for example—Aus-
tralian cos. have usually preferred to set
up a factory in Tasmania, where power
from the Great Lake has helped con-
siderably. But hydro-electric power
shouldn’t be confined to Tasmania. The
Hume weir might be a great source of
cheap power if equipped with turbines,
and it is only about 200 miles from the
weir to Boolarra, where Victoria’s chief
known bauxite deposits exist. It is 250
miles from the weir to Port Kembla.
where various smelting and other metal
treatments are carried out. Distances
aren’t so great in Tasmania, but there is
the possibility of the Great Lake power
scheme becoming overloaded. And (here
is the shipping problem.


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Form reversals generally hit backers
where they feel it most, but, although
Rivette’s 10-to-l success in the Waverley
Handicap at Mentone on Saturday was
no exception, the big crowd showed its
affection for a former idol by giving her
and her customary jockey, Ted Preston,
a most enthusiastic reception. It was her
first win since her two Cups triumphs in
1939.
One week earlier Rivette had been
backed heavily, only to finish last in the
Moonee Valley race won by Watch
Guard. That form said little for her
chance on Saturday, and owner-trainer
Harry Bamber declared before the race
that unless Rivette showed considerable
improvement she would be retired to the
stud immediately. He stated that he let
her run unbacked, but other people were
prepared to give her another chance, with
the result that Rivette’s price firmed
five points from 15 to 1. The fast pace
set by Jiggle suited her, and, although
third-last at the half-mile, and still a
long way out of her ground rounding the
bend, she revealed much of her former
dash at the finish to win convincingly
from Snow White and Velocity.
Rivette’s near foreleg was bandaged,
but she appeared to pull up well, and,
unless there are unexpected developments,
Bamber intends to run her in this year’s
Cups. She has 8.8 in the Caulfield and
8.11 in the Melbourne Cup, but it is
difficult to visualise her winning either of
those races again at the age of eight.
Rivette would have been retired to the
stud last season but for the fact that, like
the 1940 Caulfield Cup winner Beaulivre,
she is ineligible for the Stud Book. Her
position is rather anomalous. Her dam
is a Stud Book mare, and other members
of the family are also officially recognised
as thoroughbreds, but Rivette’s foaling
was not returned within the stipulated
time, and Bamber has failed in his
attempts to have the keeper of the Stud
Book “recognise” her. Result is that
Rivette’s progeny will not be eligible for
the yearling catalogues proper or for the
classics, and her stud value has been
reduced proportionately.
Hopes were entertained that Jiggle
would follow in the footsteps of her dam,
Maple, and win the Caulfield Cup for
owner E. Lee Steere and trainer J. Holt.
She has good W.A. performances to her
credit, but, although sent out favorite for
the Waverley Handicap, gave in without
a fight after leading to the top of the
straight, and finished last. Snow White
revealed improved stamina to finish
second to Rivette, and, although Velocity
weakened slightly in third place, he should
be all the better for the race. It was his
first since the Sydney Cup. Koorenbeen
and Throttle disappointed, but the latter
might pick up a race shortly.
Contact compensated for two unlucky
performances when he defeated High
Title in the last stride for the August
Stakes. Luck of the start played an im-
portant part in the result. High Title,
probably the fastest beginner in Mel-
bourne, and backed from fours to 5 to 2,
stood flatfooted in No. 2 barrier posi-
tion, whereas Contact, disadvantageously
drawn in No. 15, happened to be walk-
ing in when the tapes rose. He jumped
out in front, had the box-seat when High
Title eventually took the lead, and, obtain-
ing an inside run when High Title veered
out under pressure in the straight, won
by half a head, with True Flight third.
Contact was one of the horses imported
from England to be raced by Frank Bul-
lock, and has been a good proposition
for his present owner, Leonard Wight.
He is engaged in both Cups, but has yet
to prove a stayer.
True Flight’s fast-finishing third at six
furlongs, a distance too short for him,
augured well for his spring prospects.
He disappointed in the Caulfield Cup last
year, but subsequently won the Eclipse
Stakes. Two races since a spell have
brought him along nicely, and, judged by
Saturday’s performance, he will be a
better horse this spring. Newmarket
winner All Veil, backed from 25 to 1
down to eights, was never dangerous, and
Sun also backed late at long odds,
never really flattered.
The Derby candidate Skipton, always
a warm favorite on the strength of his
easy win at the Valley a week earlier,
gave another impressive performance in
defeating Royal Peter and The Trapper
in the first division of the Berwick Handi-
cap. Badly placed rounding the turn, he
finished gamely to win by a neck after
Royal Peter had looked all over a winner.
Latter’s rider, J. Purtell, entered a protest
on the grounds that Skipton had veered
out and hampered Royal Peter in the
straight, but it was dismissed after a
short hearing. Skipton is one of the most
promising colts in training, and, having
raced only five times, seems certain to
keep on improving. He was bought by
J. J. Kitson for 250gns. as a yearling;
and given to Mrs. Kitson as a birthday
present. Kitson himself is part-owner of
another potential Derby colt, Lugano.
Kelos, racing for the first time since
March, landed a plunge in the second
division of the Berwick Handicap.
Backed from tens to favoritism at 7 to 2,
she quickly established a long lead and
ran home a comfortable winner from
Running Sea and Portfolio. Kelos, a
filly by Manitoba from Welosia, is any-
thing but impressive in stature, but she is
brilliant, and her success with 8,10 over
seven furlongs showed that she does not
lack strength. Trained by H. Wolters for
R. H, Sang, she has raced only four times
for two wins, a second and a fourth.
Jamestown made up a good deal of
ground to finish fourth, but Leo James
weakened from second on the turn.
Manpower gave trainer D. Paul his
first success when, starting at 15 to 1, he
defeated Manstar and Pretoria in a
“camera” finish for the Westminster
Welter. Paul was associated for many
years with trainer M. McGrath. Man-
star, backed from sevens to 9 to 2,
looked like completing a winning hat-
trick when he set up a useful lead early,
and, after having a “breather,” shot away
again rounding the turn. He battled on
gamely under pressure, but Manpower,
ridden vigorously by Mornement, gained
a half-head verdict. Pretoria, a head
away in third place, may have been a
trifle unlucky, and it should not be long
before she compensates for Saturday’s
defeat. Courage, though fourth, was a
disappointing favorite, but Chamberlain
came from last to finish fifth, and will do
better at a distance beyond a mile.
Skilfully ridden by Breasley, The Stork,
who failed this'winter as a hurdler, won
the Hume Handicap in rather good style
from Kynoona and the favorite, Corredor.
Latter was forced to swing wide at the
turn, but he has a lot of “convictions”
and evidently is not as good as his track
gallops indicate. The Stork completed
a winning double for Breasley, who, how-
ever, was suspended for one month for
interference in the August Stakes, which
he won on Contact.
Victory March won his second succes-
sive race over jumps when he battled on
gamely to stave off challenges by Lynton
and Virile in the Beach Hurdle. He has
not had much experience of jumping, but
gives first-class promise, and adds to the
number of good hurdlers developed by
trainer Des McCormick.
* * ♦ *
Followers of favorites did not enjoy
themselves at Moorefield on Saturday.
Six failed. Betting on the Carlton
Mile was surprisingly good, as, with only
seven runners, 7 to 2 the field was on
offer at the close of business, and the
winner turned up in Red Sails, who was
sixth in demand. Apprentice Terrill had
mixed luck, winning two races and then
being suspended for a month for care-
less riding on Ginger Alice. As stewards’
suspensions often run to two months for
carelessness, Terrill was possibly fortunate
in getting off with half that term. He will
now be able to ride at the A.J.C. spring
meeting.
Royal Sceptre has not fulfilled the
promise he gave when he dead-heated
Beaucaire for the Breeders’ Plate, but
with four wins in the last five months he
has done a lot to compensate for his
failures. The total value of the races
won was £640, and minor placings have
also contributed to his upkeep. In
moderate company he takes a lot of
running down whgi he goes to the front
at an early stage, and in the 'Moorefield
Handicap, after doing the pacemaking
from the barrier-rise, he was a sure
winner from the straight entrance, not-
withstanding that Lady Galadeer made a
game effort to get on terms. Dicktom
was second to the turn, but Trade Mark
was never a possibility, nor was Silver
Arbor, who must have been knocked out
by her hard run when she dead-heated
Many Ways at Kensington earlier in the
week.
There was an interesting finish for the
Carlton Mile, and Red Sails —never
further back than second —scored by a
neck from John Dory, who dropped back
to last approaching the home turn. In
the circumstances he seemed somewhat
unlucky to lose, Geebung, who started
favorite, with only 21b, more than he
has in, the Epsom, was being hard ridden
a long way from home, but though, when
he got through on the rails halfway down
the straight, he looked a winning possi-
bility, he did not do as well as either
Red Sails or John Dory in the last 50
yards. Sign On led until nearing the
turn, while Overbold’s poor showing sug-
gested the soft going troubled him, and,
though she looked well, Novice’s effort
gave the impression that a short let-up
might benefit her. She has had a fair
share of hard racing during the past few
months.
D. Lewis, who used to turn out good
winners with marked regularity, but has
not been in the limelight for some time,
won the first division of the Maiden
Handicap with Angus, a brother to
Remarc, jointly owned by R. W. Mc-
Fadyen and F. Packer, He was a 140gns.
yearling. Another win or two and the
motor-cars will again be seen in front of
Lewis’s stables on Sundays. Angus was
a sure winner from the time he headed
Soho and Daystar before reaching the
turn. The last-named hung on well to
beat Dundalk for second. Dundalk was
slow again in finding his legs, and may
also need a little more racing to bring
him to his best. Indian Emperor, as
usual, was putting in his best work when
the race was practically over. Dionne’s
trainer expected her to do well, but after
being one of the leading division to the
turn she tired.
The field for the second division of
the Maiden was decidedly ordinary, but
it was principally due to Munro being
her rider that Pickpocket was a short-
priced favorite. She quickly got to the
front and when she slipped away from
her followers at the top of the hill a win
for her seemed certain. However, she
was outstayed by R. Woottdn’s Bomb, a
four-year-old gelding by Air Balloon.
Ginger Alice, after being second most of
the way, ran third, and White Feather
was the only other starter to show a
semblance of form. Owing to the sound
pace set by Pickpocket, the time was a
second faster than that for the first divi-
sion.
Bright Court, a Double Court gelding,
entered into few backers’ calculations for
the Jumpers’ Flat Race, but he led
throughout, winning comfortably from
Glittering Flame. The latter was always
second, and Festoon finished fairly to run
third, followed by Good One, who was
squeezed back to second-last near the
half-mile and, though he later got a run
near the rails, had too much leeway to
make up to give him a chance. He tired
a hundred yards from home.
Lagoon commenced and finished well
to win the Three-year-old Handicap.
Although he started from an outside posi-
tion, he quickly got to the head of affairs,
and in the straight stalled off Chatham’s
Choice, who ran really well under his
9.4. St. Pancras, who was prominent
from barrier-rise, was a close third, and
looks so bright that he should win before
long. Zeno and Magi were the only
others reasonably close to the place-
getters. Magi, who won the Lady Fitzroy
Stakes at Rosehill last November, has not
grown much since then, but is in good
trim. Lagoon is trained by J. W. Cook,
who has recently had a run of success.
Milanja’s two-year-old form gave him
a great chance of a win in the first
division of the Flying Welter, when carry-
ing only 51b. over the minimum, and he
did not give his backers any cause for
anxiety. He was in charge when the field
settled down, with Southerly second, and
their relative positions remained the same
to the winning-post. Phalaran, one of
Nailon’s team, was always well up, while
Reception’s form suggested that soft going
was not to his liking. It was evidently
the same with Samurai and Tel Asur,
who were two of the last three at the
finish.
Pan Pipe, favorite for the second divi-
sion of the Flying Welter, gave his sup-
porters a poor run. He dwelt at barrier-
rise, and did not after get into a position
that gave him a winning chance. Denis
Lad, who was backed from 5 to 1
down to half those odds, led at the half-
mile, and was not after in danger of
defeat, though Glaucus, in second place,
ran well. Peruke, the early leader, was
pulled up in the straight, and was bleed-
ing on returning to the weighing yard.
The time was a second slower than that
for the first division.
* * * *
Some years ago Sydney backers were
always on the alert for horses from
Newcastle, but nowadays there are so
few of any account in that city that the
valuable Newcastle Cup was competed
for by Sydney horses. Triggerman was
favorite, but, though on their form at
Victoria Park the previous Saturday he
seemed almost certain to beat Lord
Valentine, the latter won easily from
Hilarious and Many Ways. As usual
Lord Valentine was a long way from the
front early in the race, but ran over his
opponents at the finish. The track was
heavy, and that probably told against
Fearless, Kurrawid and Triggerman, who
did not act up to their previous form. In
the circumstances it might be advisable
to overlook Saturday’s running. Fearless,
on the way he won at Moorefield re-
cently, should certainly have done much
better.
* * * *
In Brisbane on Saturday Malt Denis
showed such good form in winning a six
furlongs handicap with 8.4 in fast time
that he is mentioned as a probable visitor
to Sydney for the Epsom Handicap, in
which he has 7,6. He is evidently smart,
but it is doubtful whether he is within
61b. of High Rank. In the past some
Brisbane horses came to Sydney with fair
prospects of success in good races. A
few did score, but most failed to do as
well as expected. In some cases the
reason was that they were “on the turn”
as a result of fairly hard racing before
coming south.
* * * *
At the annual meeting of the V.R.C.
chairman Alan Currie mentioned that
this year the Royal Calcutta Turf Club’s
sweep was on the Melbourne Cup instead
of the English Derby, but, as in the past,
tickets would have to be procured
through members of the C.T.C. Agents
for the sale of lottery or sweep tickets
are barred in Victoria. This, of course,
puts difficulties in the way of the pur-
chase of tickets, and therefore it is im-
probable a great deal of Australian
money will find its way to India unless
the C.T.C. can devise some agency
scheme in Calcutta.
* * * *
Off-the-course betting is hitting Vic-
torian country racing associations very
hard, and the tipster racket is getting
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT"
August Hurdle Race: Generous
Gesture, 1 ; Berrima, 2 ; Panama,
3.
Campbelltown Handicap; Valve,
1 ; Martheus, 2 ; Session or Ami-
able, 3.
Hobartville Stakes: All Love, 1 ;
Yaralla, 2 ; Beau Son, 3.
Farm Novice Handicap; Daystar,
1 ; Dundalk, 2 ; Panabil, 3.
Warwick Stakes: Kindergarten,
1 ; High Caste, 2; Chatham’s
Choice, 3.
Warwick Farm Spring Handicap ;
Yours Truly, 1 ; Gundagai, 2;
Binnia Hero, 3.
Glenlee Handicap: Willie Green,
1 ; Levraut, 2 ; John Dory or John
Halifax, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
Paisley Hurdle Race: Winterset
or Victory March, 1 ; Amnesty, 2 ;
Virile, 3.
Manor Handicap: Foxhow, 1 ;
The Trapper, 2 ; Jamestown, 3.
August Steeplechase: Dorset, 1 ;
King Arthur, 2 ; Sir Trac, 3.
Underwood Stakes: Gold Salute,
1 ; Tranquil Star, 2 ; Zonda, 3.
August Handicap: Throttle, 1 ;
Palencia, 2 ; Hectare, 3.
Truganina Handicap: Wheat
Sheaf, 1; Orcadian, 2 ; Ortelli, 3.


worse down south. In commenting on
the latter phase, knight Alan Currie re-
cently stated that the V.R.C. was power-
less to protect those trainers and jockeys
whose names were used. The only
address given by these tipsters was a post-
office box, and the Postal Department
refused to disclose the real name of the
lessee of the box even to the gaming
police. Circularising tipsters seem even
harder to catch than starting-price book-
makers.
* * * *
Saturday’s racing did not affect the
Epsom and Metropolitan market to any
extent, and on Monday morning the
order of the fancied horses was as
follows:
Epsom Handicap,
High Caste.
Session.
Evergreen, Freckles, Rimveil.
High Rank.
Amiable, Duvach, Panchio, Reading, Valve.
Metropolitan.
Lucrative.
Gundagai, Pandect, Veiled Threat.
Remarc, Reading.
Beau Vite, Binnia Hero.
* * ♦ . ♦
Favorites have an excellent record in
the Epsom Handicap over the last 20
years, notwithstanding the last five did
not even provide a place-getter. On the
law of average that should favor the pos-
sibility of this year’s most popular selec-
tion giving its backers a good run. In
the last 30 years there has been no longer
sequence of unplaced favorites, and
backers never received a greater setback
in connection with the race than when
Beaulivre, at even money, failed so badly
a year ago. Commencing with Beauford
in 1921 favorites have fared as under;
Year. Horse. Price.
1921 Beauford .. .. 7 to 4 First
1922 Rostrum .. .. 9 to 2 First
1923 The Hawk .. .. 5 to 1 Unplaced
1924 Blackadder .. .. 9 to 4 First
1925 Honan .. .. 3 to 1 Unplaced
1926 — Amounis .. .. sto 2 First
„ Fujisan .. .. sto 2 Second
1927 Vaals .. .. 6to 1 First
„ Gothic .. .. 6to 1 Third
~ Mullagawn .. .. 6to 1 Unplaced
~ Aorangi .. .. 6to 1 Unplaced
1928 Amounis .. .. 5 to 2 First
1929 Gilt Edge .. .. 3to 1 Unplaced
1930 Mollison .. .. 7to 2 Unplaced
1931 — Pentheus .. .. 5 to 2 Third
1932 Chatham .. .. 4to 1 First
1933 — Chatham .. .. 5 to 4 First
1934 Chatham .. .. 4to 1 Unplaced
1935 Synagogue .. .. 3to 1 First
1936 The Marne .. .. 4to 1 Unplaced
1937 — Talking .. .. 7to 2 Unplaced
1938 — Nightguard .. .. 7to 4 Unplaced
1939 — Adios .. .. 3to 1 Unplaced
1940 Beaulivre .. .. Evens Unplaced
After Chatham’s successive wins with
8.13 and 9.10, such a steadier as 10.9
stopped him at his third attempt. When
Marvel won with 10.2 in 1891 his starting
price was 5 to 4.
* * * *
Without wishing to be pessimistic it
strikes me that the backers of some
heavily-weighted horses for Epsom and
Metropolitan doubles would have been
wiser to wait until nearer the commence-
ment of the A.J.C. meeting. After such
a long spell of dry weather, the possi-
bility of a wet spring is greater than in
some previous years, and that may lessen
the winning prospects of horses weighted
either above or near 9st. Over a long
period few Epsom Handicaps have been
run on a soft track, and though it is not
unusual to hear the comment that “A
good horse is good in any going,” that is
wide of the mark. It is possible to recall
first-class horses that were unsuited by
anything approaching heavy going, the
latest pronounced instance being Mildura.
The day before the Eclipse Stakes at
Flemington in November I saw 2 to 1
taken about him, but when it rained
heavily on the morning of the race he
drifted to 7 to 1. The books had no
cause to repent their liberality, as with
9st. he was never dangerous in a mile
and a quarter run in 2.11*. Less than
five months later, with the going firm,
he won the Doncaster Handicap with 9.3
in 1.35*.
* * * *
As a rule when any horse touches a
very short price for a big race, com-
paratively few of the other starters are
at less than 36 to 1. It was not so in
last year’s Epsom, as though Beaulivre
started at even money the following half-
dozen were inside 20 to 1: 5 High Caste,
9 Reading, 10 Mildura, 14 Rex Felt, 16
Gundagai and Tel Asur. For the Met-
ropolitan Beau Vite was at 2 to 1, next
in order coming: 6 Reading, 7 Beaulivre,
12 Dashing Cavalier, 14 St. Constant,
Cooranga and Old Rowley. At the time
of writing High Caste and Session are
the Epsom favorites and Lucrative the
popular pick for the Metropolitan. How-
ever, before the commencement of the
A.J.C. spring meeting there will be suf-
ficient racing to permit of a complete
revision of present ideas concerning the
probable result of the Epsom and Met-
ropolitan.
* * * *
All Love moved very freely in a sprint
over a few furlongs with Reading and
Galliard at Moorefield on Saturday. She
could have beaten both with ease if it
had been asked of her, and it is certain
she benefited from her race at Victoria
Park. If All Love does not win the
Hobartville Stakes I doubt whether there
will be much hope for her in the Derby.
Improvement in her condition will be
difficult, and if she cannot beat the colts
at seven furlongs the odds are greatly
against her doing so at a mile and a half.
She failed badly in an attempt to give
The Champion 241 b. at six furlongs at
Victoria Park, but, meeting him 291 b.
better, the result should be different, even
though there is an additional furlong to
be run.
The same contention applies as
between Yaralla and Beau Son. Con-
ceding Beau Son 281 b. at six fur-
longs Yaralla did not have any chance
against him at Randwick, but at 8.10
each it seems fairly safe to anticipate a
different result. It would be dangerous
to discount the form of The Champion
and Beau Son, but, applying handicap
figures, it will upset my calculations if
291 b. in one case and 281 b. in the other
do not bring about a change of positions.
Last year a non-stayer in Flying Knight
beat Lucrative in the Hobartville Stakes.
* , * « *
In her gallop with Broadcaster at
Moorefield on Saturday Session did not
greatly impress. The soft track may have
troubled her, but she was not going easier
than Broadcaster at any part of the spin,
though neither was all out at the finish.
*
Geldings are given the opportunity of
running in classic races in America, and
there is really no sound reason why it
should not be the same in Australia,
where imported stallions are generally
given much greater stud opportunities
than those bred in this country. Derby
and St, Leger wins do not greatly enhance
the stud values of our own horses, and
one outcome is that many horses that
might well be gelded are left entire.
Staretor, the gelding that ran second to
Whirlaway in the Kentucky Derby, im-
proved upon that performance by win-
ning the Hollywood Derby last month.
He ran the mile and a quarter in 2.3 y,
and first prize was approximately £6OOO,
of which $25,000 was added money.
* * * *
At the yearling sales buyers
occasionally set themselves for the pur-
chase of something that will, with age,
develop into a stayer. The trouble is
that you can never say with certainty
the quarter from which distance horses
will come. In the last 25 years only two
winners of the Metropolitan have been
by the same sire. Pedigree and con-
formation may point to a yearling buyer
being on the right path, but the odds
are still a long way against the realisa-
tion of his hopes.
* * * *
In an interview cabled from Auckland
the owner of Kindergarten is credited
with hinting that there is something in the
possibility of that horse being sold for
£25,000. I cannot say anything concern-
ing Kindergarten’s stud possibilities, but,
as a racing proposition in Australia, the
sum mentioned is decidedly unusual even
if Kindergarten should be sold before
the Caulfield Cup. Success in that race
carries £5OOO and a trophy, but, leaving
betting out of the question, he would
still have a long way to go to make up
the difference between that amount and
£25,000. The probabilities are that if
he wins the Caulfield Cup he will be
weighted in a fashion that will put
another important handicap win beyond
him. He would consequently have to
win the Caulfield Cup and most of the
w.f.a. races in which he runs this season
and next to get him reasonably close to
£25,000.
For instance, the total value of first
money in all the w.f.a. races at the
coming spring meeting is £2700, and the
£2lOO at the last V.R.C. spring meeting
is unlikely to be exceeded. In the autumn
there will not be a great increase in prize-
money for w.f.a. races as compared with
the spring, so it would be necessary for
Kindergarten to have a very long period
of success in those to return his pur-
chase money. Such an offer as £25,000
might come from America or India, pos-
sibly the former country, where there are
so many rich handicaps and topweights
rarely exceed 9.6. Still, unless sentimental
reasons stand in the way, owner Fitz-
gerald might be unwise to lose sight of
any buyer prepared to give £25,000 —or
even something less —for Kindergarten,
who, though undeniably good, has yet
to meet and defeat the best horses racing
in Australia,
Whoever buys Kindergarten at a high
price for racing in Australia may have
to depend greatly upon the betting
market for a return, and, if he wins his
first race or two he will be hard to back
at a remunerative price.
More racehorses are bred in New
South Wales than in Maoriland, but the
latter’s representatives were seen to
greater advantage than our own J as t
season. In each of this season’s principal
handicaps in Sydney and Melbourne the
topweignts are Maorilanders, and at
present they look like making a clean
sweep of the w.f.a. races over here. Is
Maoriland superiority due to the fact
that it is a much better country than
N. S. Wales for horse-breeding, or to its
breeders being better judges of what is
required when it comes to buying stal-
lions in other countries?
* * * *
Newspapers are playing their part in
the Red Cross race meeting to be held
at Randwick on September 27. The
Sydney “Morning Herald,” Consolidated
Press and Associated. Newspapers have
donated £5OO each.
* * * *
At Randwick this year there are 101
bookmakers licensed for the paddock,
125 for the leger reserve and 118 for the
flat. With the addition of the win-and-
place tote, the betting needs of the public
are well catered for at the A.J.C. head-
quarters. A double tote is the only thing
necessary to complete things.
* * * *
Unless alteration has been deemed
necessary the New St. Leger will be run
at Doncaster (Eng.) on Tuesday next,
Sept. 2. Having won this year’s New
Derby and New Oaks F. Darling may
be able to add that to his classic wins.
* * * *
Ruff’s Guide to the Turf for 1941
contains many interesting items. No
trainer in England has trained winners
of £lOO,OOO in one season, but J. Lawson
went reasonably close in 1931 with
£93,899 15s. from 69 wins by 34 horses.
The Duke of Portland still holds the
record as a winning owner for one
season with £73,858 10s. in 1889 ; and
from 1909-40 Lord Derby’s horses won
935 races, of the value of £729,467 10s.
Lord Derby also leads the breeders for
one season with 20 winners of 38 races
and prize-money totalling £64,944 in
1928, Coronach’s £39,624 is a record in
England for earnings of a three-year-old
though Donovan, with £38,666 155., was
not far behind. Isinglass’s £57,455 in
four seasons is the most won in England
by any horse, and Blandford’s £70,510
is a record for a sire in that country.
Among brood mares Scapa Flow has
given the greatest return. She threw
eight winners of 63 races, their earnings
totalling £86,064.
* * * *
The fastest five furlongs ever run in
England was by Devineress, who, with
7.5, did that distance in 54f at Epsom
in 1933. However, the five furlongs
course at Epsom is downhill until within
half a furlong of the winning post, when
there is a rise.
* * * *
When Dancing Time won the New
One Thousand Guineas at Newmarket
this year it completed Lord Glanely’s
classic wins. He won the Derby (1919)
with Grand Parade, Oaks (1930) with
Rose of England, Two Thousand Guineas
(1934) with Colombo, and St, Leger with
Singapore and Chulmleigh in 1930 and
1937 respectively.
* * * *
Racing luck is pursuing American
owner Warren Wright. Up to June his
colt Whirlaway had won £48,000 this
season, but at Arlington Park last month
Wright accomplished something that
seemed almost impossible. He ran three
two-year-olds in the valuable Arlington
Futurity, and they filled the places in a
field of eight, Sun Again winning from
Some Chance and Wishbone. First
money was $34,653 (about £A 10,540),
second $6300, and third $3OOO. The total
for the three place-getters was about
£A13,275 —a nice return from one race.
There was also $l5OO for fourth. The
added money was $20,000, forfeits and
sweepstakes making up the remainder.
* * * *
J. Winkfield, a once-noted colored
jockey, whose American wins included
the Kentucky Derby, recently returned
to Lexington from France, where he
trained for many years before the war.
He stated that shortly after the Germans
occupied Paris they took over that city’s
great racecourse, Longchamp, for some
secret purpose, and no civilian has
since been able to get on or near it.
Winkfield paid a high tribute to Aus-
tralian jockeys. He said he could not
exactly explain why, but he was sure the
best riders came from Australia. Wink-
field claims to have ridden over 2300
winners in America and France, so his
ouinion as to jockeys should count.
# sK *
Racing continues to boom in Cali-
fornia, and if is stated that for its meet-
ing extending from December 31, 1941,
to March 16, 1942, Santa Anita’s
distribution in prize-money will be
$1,160,000 (nearly £349,000). The Santa
Anita Handicap will again carry $lOO,OOO
added money, the Derby $50,000, and
the added money for the San Juan Capis-
trano Handicap is $50,000. A couple of
races for Californian-bred horses carry
$20,000 each. No race will be of less
value than $l5OO (approximately £A456),
and there are two three and a half fur-
longs two-year-old races of a little over
£A3OOO. Some day an enterprising Aus-
tralian syndicate may think it worth while
giving Santa Anita a trial with a few
older horses,
M.Q. and Rafferty
In beating Jimmy Dundee at Sydney
Stadium of Thursday night, lightweight
champion Vic Patrick showed that his
hard fights with Tod Morgan had greatly
improved him. He always was a hard,
aggressive fighter ; now he’s becoming a
pretty good boxer, with a solid defence.
He has splendid arms for defensive as
well as for punching purposes, and they
are his main defence armament, though
he’s learning to move about also.
Dundee’s only chance of beating him was
to out him with a right. Jimmy carries
a pretty deadly'punch in that hand, and
in the seventh round luckily got it home.
It floored Vic, but he was only down for
a moment or two, and in the next round
battered Jimmy about the head with both
hands till James sank dazed and ex-
hausted,
Footbrawl
Nearly 26,000 turned up at Colling-
wood to watch the locals and Carlton,
the match meaning “out” for one of
them, ’Wood had an edge on the Blues
in the ruck and in the air, but fast and
accurate passing gave Carlton a three-
goal lead at half-time, ’Wood made the
pace a cracker in the third quarter, but,
as is usual in fast play, there was a har-
vest of behinds. The crowd became hys-
terical as ’Wood wore down the lead
and Carlton as dourly hung on to it, and
the final bell brought pandemonium:
Carlton, 11.17 ; Collingwood, 10.21.
The only other match of interest was
at Essendon, where defeat by “Sowth”
may have let the loser of Collingwood v.
Carlton in. But the ’Dons belted “Sowth”
in the “Same Old” way, 12.23 to 7.4, and
clinched their place in the four with
Melbourne, Richmond and Carlton.
While the fight for positions was going
on elsewhere Richmond amused itself at
Hawthorn by kicking 18.22 to 8.12;
North and Saints staged an interesting
duel for North to win, 21.10-16.18 ; and
Melbourne went out full of confidence at
M.C.G. to clean Footscray up. The job
didn’t turn out so easy, and Melbourne
had a few scares before it ran out win-
ners by 17.20 to 16.9.
• •••••
Down at Geelong the subject under
discussion was Fitzroy, which was meet-
ing Geelong for the 90th time, each hav-
ing 44 wins and one match drawn. Fitz-
roy now has 45 wins: 16.13 to 13.16.
Next Saturday’s “big” game will be
Carlton v. Melbourne at Carlton. It
won’t affect “the four,” but will dictate
who meets whom in the semi-finals.
* * * *
It’s East, University, Randwick and
Manly for the Sydney Rugby Union semi-
finals. Parramatta finished level in fourth
place with Manly, but for the third con-
secutive year was eliminated on points
scored for and against. East will play
’Varsity on Saturday. The winner will
figure in the “grand” final a fortnight
later ; the loser will turn out against the
winner of Randwick v. Manly to decide
the other team for the “grand.”
East whitewashed Gordon 13-nil and
finished at the top of the table. ’Varsity,
beaten by Randwick, was second. On
recent showings ’Wick may take the
premiership again. Its forwards have
settled down to playing a hard-rucking,
close-knit type of football, and on Satur-
day the backs “galloped” in the traditional
Randwick fashion. Uni. seemed lacka-
daisical, scored only one try to eight, and
was walloped 37 to 12.
Manly got home 11-8 against West, but
must be considered most fortunate.
There was no scoring at all in the second
half, and the Villagers previously had
been beaten two to one in tries. Parra-
matta put Drummoyne through, 16-8
(three tries to one). North and St, George
had a pleasant afternoon with a foot-
ball, and, though nobody was very much
interested, did arrive at a decision in
favor of North 8-3.
Rutledge, of University, headed the list
of point scorers for the season with 130,
though he missed four of the 18 games.
Gray-Spence (120), full-back for Rand-
wick, was next', and the Randwick winger
young Stone—he didn’t come into the
team till the sixth round —did best as a
try-getter with 20.


Has yon car lost the
speed it nsed to have?
Racing champions will tell you that Champion Spark
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
some leakage, at me
shoulder and past the
center electrode, com-
mon to ordinary spark
plugs. This patented
feature corrects rough,
uneven and wasteful,
engine operation
caused by leaky,
overheated spark jb
plugs.
Aii
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; VVm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. . „ , , . .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. . , ...
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Qualified accountant, wide exp., wants advice
concerning favorable N. S. Wales or Q land
country town where it would be opportune to
begin business as a public accountant and
taxation agent. —2269,
To buy or borrow Angela Pisani (1858) and
Historic Fancies (1844), by George Smythe,
and Lord John Manners and His Friends (1925),
by Charles Whibley.—2257.
To buy a dachshund; age or pedigree no
consideration, though dog must be true to type.
—2266.
To buy Bushman or Buccaneer? —2178.
To buy copy of A. G. Stephens’s “Book-
fellow” for 15/3/20. —2250.
Information Sought.
What is the origin and meaning of the salute
as given by a private to an officer? —2137.
The Librarian, Department of Defence Co-
ordination, offers the following explanation:
The salute with the hand goes back to the days
when, if two armored knights met in friendship,
they uncovered their heads or raised their visors,
thus placing themselves in each other’s power.
This, for obvious reasons, was soon replaced
by the conventional raising of the hand only.
The open palm shows that no missile is con-
cealed.
* * ♦ *
Are members of the A.l.F. serving outside
Australia being paid their ordinary pay in the
equivalent of Australian currency or sterling ?—~
2053. . .
In the case of a private who has allotted
3s. a day of his pay in Australia and who draws
2s. a day abroad, the difference in rates be-
tween Australian and English currency is borne
by the Commonwealth. This is given effect
to by crediting the soldier with 6d. a day
exchange allowance, being 25 p.c. of 2s. Where
the soldier has allotted, say, 4s. in Australia
and draws only Is. abroad, the soldier is still
accredited with the 6d. a day .exchange allow-
ance and, therefore, receives more than the
sterling equivalent of his drawing rate of Is.
The only cases in which members do not re-
ceive exchange allowance on their full drawings
abroad are those in which the drawing rate ex-
ceeds two-fifths of their active pay.
* * * *
(1) What was the date of the beginning of the
Syrian campaign ? (2) Is there a regular airmail
to the A.l.F. abroad? —1967. .
(1) The British Government officially an-
nounced on June 8 that Free French forces
under General Catroux, and Imperial forces
under Sir Henry Maitland Wilson had_ entered
Syria and Lebanon at 2 a.m. that morning. (2)
Airmail for members of the A.l.F. abroad
leaves Australia twice weekly, but actual de-
livery is governed by conditions existing at the
time of mail arrivals at destinations. Every
effort is made, however, to deliver it quickly.
For instance, airmails from Australia on June
30, 1941, to Australians at Tobruk were re-
ported as in the hands of the addressees on
July 20, 1941 —a pretty good service consider-
ing conditions and difficulties over the route
from Egypt to Tobruk.
* * ♦ •
(1) Any particulars of a cement used by
American dentists and known as dental stone ?
How long does it take to set? Is it thinner
than plaster of Paris? (2) Source of informa-
tion!'—2185.
(1) It is of two types: (a) quick-setting stone
and ( b ) plaster cement stone. The constituent
of (a) is Alphagypsum crystals, which are non-
porous, thus reducing amount of water used in
mixing and reducing time of set. It has three
times the crushing strength of plaster—6ooo-
- as against 20001 b. Initial set takes 15
minutes, and its expansion is smaller than
plaster, being .05 p.c, as against .15 to .3 p.c.
It has, however, poor crushing strength alter
vulcanisation. It is an import and now on the
banned list. The constituents of (b) are plaster,
Portland cement and sand. This is slow setting,
has little setting expansion and a crushing
strength of 25001 b., but has good crushing
strength after vulcanisation (viz., 10001 b.). Chief
objections are slow setting and difficult manipu-
lation. (2) Sydney Dental Hospital.
* * * *
Recipe for black boot polish? —2239.
Take i-pint of turpentine, |lb. beeswax, loz.
nigrosene, one pint boiling water and -j-oz.
potassium bicarbonate. Melt the beeswax in
the boiling water, add the potassium, then dis-
solve the nigrosene in one tablespoon of cold
water and add it to the mixture. Place on fire,
stir well, boil gently for five minutes, then take
away from the fire and stir in the turpentine.
Beat to a cream and put in flat tins —this quan-
tity will fill 18 blacking tins.
* * * *
Method of ridding a fishpond of Spirogyra ?
—2215.
The Curator, Botanic Gardens, Sydney, sug-
gests that you try draining the pond, allowing
it to dry and then scrubbing it thoroughly. You
will have to be careful when replanting the
water-plants that the Spirogyra is not introduced
again. It has been noted that Spirogyra does
not flourish where a pond is well shaded.
* * * *
Method of salting herrings? —2oß7.
Head, belly, roe and viscera are removed
from the herring and the fish washed thoroughly
with water to remove scales, dirt, etc. They are
then placed in a saturated brine solution and
additional salt is added after each addition of
fish. They are kept in the brine for seven to
ten days. Stir once a day. After the fish are
cured they are allowed to drain for four to
ten days and then packed in barrels with 11b.
of salt to 41b. of fish.
* * * *
Method of obtaining zinc sulphide, zinc sul-
phite, zinc hyposulphate and zinc bisulphate ?
2122.
Zinc sulphide is produced as a white precipi-
tate by passing hydrogen sulphide gas into an
alkaline or neutral solution of zinc sulphate. If
the zinc sulphate is calcined strongly then zinc
sulphite is formed by the action of aqueous
sulphur dioxide on the zinc oxide formed by
ignition. Zinc hyposulphate or thiosulphate
is formed by boiling a solution of zinc sul-
phite with sulphur under pressure in a closed
vessel. Zinc bisulphate is obtained by crystal-
lisation of a sulphuric acid solution of zinc
sulphate. Zinc sulphide occurs naturally and is
used for producing zinc metal. See Mellor’s
Modern Inorganic Chemistry (revised by
Parkes), Longmans.
* * * *
(1) What is banana'oil? Formula for making
it on a small scale, preferably using old photo-
graphic films? (2) Formula for dope for model
aeroplanes (paper covered)? —2037.
(1) Banana oil is amyl acetate. It is prepared
by heating at lOOdeg. C. for five hours a
mixture of one part of amyl alcohol, one part
of glacial acetic acid and half-part concentrated
sulphuric acid. The mixture is then poured into
water and the oil separated. The oil is shaken
with a strong aqueous solution of washing
soda, dried and distilled. It is also prepared
by heating monochloropentane with sodium
acetate under pressure. It is not possible to
prepare it from photographic film because it
is only used as a solvent in the manufacture
of the film. (2) Nitrocellulose or photographic
film 40z., amyl acetate .15 pint, alcohol .2 pint,
benzol .2 pint and castor oil Hoz. If too thick
it can be thinned down with alcohol.
■j ; #
DIT6T Answers.
D.H.T.: You will have to get a proper dis-
~., . f , ,
charge of the mortgage, which must be regis
tered. You will also have to pay the mort-
gagee’s solicitor’s costs. You’d better see a
solicitor... .W.H.S.: There is anew edition
of Halsbury’s Laws of England, by Lord Hail-
sham, to which you probably refer. The
article you require appears in Vol. 24, but is
too long to copy. Suggest you refer to one
of the Oakey solicitors, who would be almost
certain to have a copy... .G.R.: Beyond lop-
ping overhanging branches and cutting any
roots which may be on your land, you can do
nothing... .A.G.R.: No. The Fair Rents Act
applies only to shops of which the rent does
not exceed £6 a week C.D.: (1) Rent pay-
able must not be higher than the rent payable
on August 31, 1939, if the property was let on
that date. If it was not, but was let at any
time between May 31 and August 31, 1939, then
rent must not exceed the rent which was pay-
able for the last rental period before August 31,
1939. (2) Yes. (3) and (4) Yes, you can sue
him for it. (5) If it was illegal, ye5....J.F.:
N. S. Wales—Yes, Moratorium Court. See
Moratorium Act. Commonwealth—Yes, in re-
spect of members of the forces or female de-
pendants only. See War Service Moratorium
Regulations... .L.H.: Know of no such agents
in Australia... .J.S.; Weights are 101 b., lib.,
201 b., 301 b., 31b., 501 b., 51b J.T.A.: Write
to the M.L. Department of Agriculture....
L. 0.: (1) No. (2) Approximately £6OO-£7OO.
W.T.: No, not without the consent of the
council or the Crown H.H.G.: “Are”
would be grammatically correct; “is” is prob-
ably used to make it clear that a total of two
quantities is to be taken J.G.: (1) The
operation, when performed by an experienced
orthopaedic surgeon, is very successful. (2)
and (4) Provided no inflammatory changes take
place at the site of operation, patient should
not be required to remain in bed longer than
about 14 days. (3) Cost is a matter of arrange-
ment with the surgeon; £lO 10s. should cover
it J.K.: Impossible to give advice about the
cause, prevention and treatment of your neu-
ritis without full details—the mere knowledge
that you have pains in elbows and shoulders
is useless... .A.W.: Cramp is a condition of
painful spasmodic muscular contraction, and
when confined to the legs in women is fre-
quently due to varicose veins or to flattening
of the arches of the feet. In elderly persons,
thickening of the blood vessels of the lower
limbs is a common cause. Massage and appli-
cations of heat relieve attacks, but the actual
cause should be investigated and treated
J.H.: (1) Although only small amounts are
essential to health, the important minerals in
the body are iodine, calcium, iron and phos-
phorus. (2) Cobalt is not considered to be
an essential J.A.: Bronchitis is not included
among the contagious diseases. It frequently
follows from “catching cold,” when the inflam-
matory process in the nose and throat extends
downwardsinto the bronchial tubes R.C.:
(1) It is difficult to exclude all such factors as
predispose to an attack, but sudden exposure
to cold must be avoided. Any exercise which
may be regarded as excessive for the individual
patient, mental strain and overuse of tobacco
and alcohol, as well as overindulgence in food,
should be forbidden. Exertion shortly after
a meal is inadvisable. The flatulent condition
so common in these cases is mostly due to the
swallowing of air by the patient. (2) Plant is
a member of the family Euphorbiacece. There
are about 30 species indigenous to Australia,
ranging all over the continent; they are shrubs
or herbs with an acid, whitish juice. The abo-
rigines employ a decoction of the plants for
medicinal purposes, and one species, sold by
herbalists, has some reputation for certain
chest diseases. Not recommended for treatment
of ailment mentioned F.M.: If the cut on
the horse s fetlock has not involved the joint
cavity, best treatment is to syringe out the
wound twice daily with an antiseptic solution
such as Melasol or Dettol in water. If, how-
ever, the joint cavity is involved, the treatment
is much more difficult and a rapid cure cannot
be expected—the joint cavity might be packed
with a pad containing 15 p.c. mercuric chloride
in glycerine. The pad should be changed each
day P.K.: Miners wanting employment out-
side Australia should apply either to the
Emperor (Fiji) Gold Mining Cos., 168 Castle-
reagh-street, or to Bulolo Gold Dredging Cos.,
Shell House, Carrington-street—both Sydney.
... .M.W.W.: (1) Specific information can’t be
given; the matter would have to be considered
by the examiners of the N. S. Wales Education
Department in the light of the teaching
certificates, teaching experience and official
record of the teacher concerned. (2) No
specific number of references of character or
testimonials is insisted upon. References, how-
evetj, are required from all past employers.
(3) Little prospect of the appointment of an
outside applicant to the department’s corre-
spondence school M.R.; Inquiries regarding
wills in N. S. Waies should be addressed to the
Registrar of Probates, Supreme Court Building,
Sydney. Information in respect of unclaimed
moneys or deposits may be obtainable from the
Under-Secretary, the Treasury... .J.H.: (1)
Government Printing Office, Gisborne-street,
Melbourne. (2) 11s. 4d. (3) Apply Govern-
ment Printer, Canberra R.W.8.; (1) Con-
densers fitted across brushes. About 2mfd.
(2) See commutator is clean and that generator
runs sparkless. (3) Obligatory on owner of
apparatus. Get in touch with radio inspector,
Sydney. (4) Mount aerial with insulator in
middle and use twisted leads from each side
into set. (4) Use earth wire J.D.: Best to
use compound such as Kasenit. Heat article
to bright red, dip or roll in hardening com
pound, reheat to bright red and quench in
clean, cold water. For deeper casing, allow
article to soak in compound for from five to
30 minutes, then reheat and quench A.S.H.:
Apply canvas covered with a bitumastic paint
(Ferrodor) L.C.H.: The word “acnestis”
occurs in no dictionary available to this office,
The book is» at present unprocurable
8.M.: There are a number of panic grasses
and you don’t say to which you refer. None,
however, are used to any extent as pasture in
Victoria; they are common in northern parts
of Australia where there is a summer rainfall,
Not likely to be as productive as Paspalum
dilatatum or Kikuyu under Victorian condi-
ti0n5.;,.8.M,: The first toll bridge in Aus-
tralia was constructed by Andrew Thompson
over South Creek, near Windsor (N.SAV.), xn
1802. By a Government Order dated May zj,
1802> Governor King grante d Thompson the
r j ght to levy a tod for 14 years to compensate
him for the cost of erection and repairs. The
bridge was in a line with Catherine-street at the
back of the Courthouse. Can’t trace the other.
P.N.C.; When last heard of she was ferry-
j ng ’planes in England F.8.H.; Sorry, no
record of “Tambrookum”... .R.1.D.M.: Betty
Field has appeared in “Of Mice and Men,”
“Seventeen,” “What a Life,” “Victory” and
“Shepherd of the Hills.” “Of Mice and Men’
was not shown in Australia; “Shepherd of the
Hills” is coming... .M.S.M.; Economically un-
sound to convert a.c. to d.c E.M.: Usual
method is to precipitate impurities, preferably
by putting oil in a glass container and placing
it in the sunlight A.W.: No difference. The
capstan or turret lathe is used for rapid pro-
Auction. The turret (or capstan) is a means
whereby various tools are held in radial holes,
and are presented to the work in turn, to avoid
waste of time in tool-changing... .W.A.R.:
Question too vague; what sort of b00k5?....
D.McG.: (1) No. (2) On the night of Sunday,
September 3, 1939, R. G. Menzies, as Prime
Minister, broadcast an address which included
the following statement: “It is my melancholy
duty to announce that, in consequence of
Germany’s invasion of Poland, Great Britain
has declared war, and that as a result Aus-
tralia is also at war.” (3) Parliament could
override such a declaration. (4) No difference.
L.P.: (1) Boil for half an hour, then dry
carefully. (2) Unsterilised feathers may carry
disease germs... .F.R.H.: Only materials neces-
S ary for making papier mach6 are paper and
paste or glue; an article giving details of the
craft was published in the “Australian Woman’s
Mirror” (31/12/ ’4O), 4d. posted from this office,
. ...G.T.: There is not, in N. S. Wales, any
statute or statutory regulation prohibiting any
person from setting up in the hairdressing busi-
ness after completing a course at a hairdressing
college. Apart from any contract between a
hairdrissing college or association and a pupil
thereof, which is a matter of general law, there
is no statute or statutory regulation in N. S.
Wales giving such college or association
authority to prevent a pupil opening her own
business... .J.E.8.: (1) Naive is pronounced
nah-eve, with the accent on the second
syllable. (2) No, the word should be tenor....
R.D.G.; Figures published in B. 25/6/’4l were
contained in an Admiralty statement issued on
June 22; those in B. 23/7/’4l were amended
figures issued by the Admiralty on July 15. In
the first statement it was made clear that the
losses included those incident to the evacuation
of Greece; in the second communique there was
no qualification. “Nobby II,” in his account
of the sinking of the Bartolomeo Colleoni,
wrote; “Sydney carries eight 6in. guns, four
4m. A.A. and 18 smaller guns.”
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:—
Out-a-Gas:
The pressure of the war effort by our democratic
nation
Gives the ordinary motorist a deal of agitation.
Doromisi:
I am a British subject
A loyal Australian, too;
I try to help my country
In everything I do—
Attend all “stop-work” meetings
And everything their like.
And even do my utmost
By voting for the strike.
It’s the right to strike alone
In my fair native land
That makes it worth a shilling
And gives us freedom grand.
So let the Union call us:
Ten thousand men in all
Shall sit and twirl their thumbs.
And not a hammer fall.
, ...G.W.: “Your artifices intensify our ten-
sion.” And yours ours... .H.S.: Try a
woman’s paper... .F.W.: Monumentally melo-
dramatic..M.S.K.; “The purple hills heave
sighs of joy.” So that’s what causes earth-
quakes? ... .L.H,: “O man! ” Oh, he 11!.... J.F.:
If you mean it’s the river which “whines and
ticks a message true” you should say so; and
then drown the poem G.H.: “And I feel
I’ve been an awful louse.” Well, you do write
lousy verse...,P.H.; Just misses., A
daily might bite... .M.J.O’R.: Merely a parade
of knowledge... .A.R.D.: The sheep got a silly
grin Z.T.: If all the poets who have cried
“Australia, arise!” since this war started were
placed in an upright position at the bottom of
the harbor it would be a bad thing for the coun-
try but a great relief to us D.McC.: Thin....
J.T.: Send “Victory V” to Lud Mayor Crick.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.M.8.: Why the close lattice work across
your figures’ faces?... .G.L.: Curate who
stunned the bullocky with a choice burst of
profanity duly reported to Synod... .D.M.N.:
You could get from Sydney to Bourke in a
three-ton truck on the charcoal you’ve wasted.
....Will N.: Cheers for the first lady we’ve
seen who could rest her elbows on her bust!
, ...W.G.: Wispy linework and woeful gags.
C.W.F.: We think a couple of gecko
lizards must have had a scrap on your drawing
before the ink dried... .C.R.C.: Grubby
dwarfs and bowlegged flappers don’t say any-
thing rib-tickling L. 8.; You might achieve
better results if you were to draw on a piece
of corrugated fibre... .J.F.S.: Surely our
cockies haven’t taken to milking water-
buffaloes!... .W.M.8.: Jests based on physical
or mental infirmities plop straight into the
basket P.D.C.: Reproduction is impossible
with that pale washwork H.W.: The
calendar on the wall was quite well drawn
R.R.: Cocky chasing the blowfly with the carv-
ing knife is a venerable acquaintance.


BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE .....
B 2
T. J
0
5
E
CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
/
X
.m
wmm
GIUSETTf
Wss
SHOIi.DEREt
*«*
EDGE
t'VWW'i
Only Gillette machines
can make this long-life blade
Only Gillette’s own machines, with their micro-
sensitive adjustments, can give three angles in the
formation of the cutting edge. And only those
three angles, forming a sort of shoulder or buttress
behind the cutting edge, are strong enough to give
a really long shaving life. Mind you, no edge is
strong enough to stand rough handling, but if you
will remember never to touch the edges (especially
when unwrapping the, blade) and always to lather
richly, you will get even longer shaving comfort
per blade.
USE
d
BUY
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
• AND SAVE STEEL
Gillette Sets 2/7$ to 47/-. Blue Gillette Blades 5 for t/7»
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
One of the nicest bits of music vouch-
safed to Melbourne lately was the New
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra’s concert
at the Samuel Meyers Hall at St. Kilda.
Through it all ran Heddle Nash’s lovely
tenor, especially rich and varied in the
“II Mio Tesoro” from Mozart’s “Don
Giovanni,” and the Dream from Mas-
senet’s “Manon.” F. Kramer obliged
with a violin obbligato to Dvorak’s
“Songs My Mother Taught Me.” Dr.
Herman Schildberger, a refugee and
musician to the Reformed Synagogue in
Melbourne, and one time of the Berlin
Opera House, conducted the new organi-
sation and also accompanied the singer
on the piano.
* * * *
The A.B.C.’s notion of keeping the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra on its toes
being, apparently, to give it a new con-
ductor every two or three weeks, an
Australian baton - wielder, Montague
Brearley, of Melbourne, got his chance
at Sydney Town Hall last week. He
seems to have a mind of his own, and
his reading of Dvorak’s Fourth Symphony
did not always follow the conventions.
That very graceful and accomplished
violinist Jeanne Gautier was soloist in
Beethoven’s D Major Concerto. She is
almost as enjoyable to watch as to listen
to.
* * * *
The third and last chamber music
concert of the 1941 season at Sydney
Conservatorium contained in its pro-
gramme no quartets or quintets. Phyllis
McDonald (violin), Kathleen Tuohy
(’cello) and Olga Krasnik (pianoforte)
performed Beethoven’s Op. 1, No. 1 —
the trio in E Flat—and the C Major trio
written by the Spanish ’cellist Cassado,
both enjoyable performances. Beet-
hoven’s ’Cello Sonata (Op.- 5, No. 2)
was played very thoughtfully by Misses
Tuohy and Krasnik.
* * * *
Hector Crawford, the young conductor
of the Botanic Gardens concerts, was out
to establish a new speed record when
he drove the Melbourne Conservatorium
Orchestra along the highway and up the
bypaths of Mendelssohn’s Symphony in A
at Melbourne Town Hall. Nevertheless,
there was some exhilarating music, in-
cluding a dithyramb by Margaret Suther-
land, played by the composer. Arnold
Matters sang some Handel and Mozart
and Ethel Parnham was allowed a peck
at a Beethoven piano concerto when she
might have been given the whole opus.
* * * ♦
A spate of grand opera at the Union
Theatre, University of Melbourne, pro-
duced a very fair performance of
“Pagliacci” and a very good one of
“Cavalleria Rusticana,” Undergrads.,
reinforced by one or two outsiders, sup-
plied unexpectedly good acting—in fact,
Melbourne has never seen in opera more
passion than and seldom as much sincerity
as Heddle Nash and Nancy Fryberg in-
jected into the furious row between
Turiddu and Santuzza. Nor were their
voices behind their acting. Both were
eloquent with feeling. Charles Lomas
made of the clown in “Pagliacci” a great
slummocky figure and sang well, but
Joyce Drysdale’s Nedda was too much a
finishing-school young lady. Conductor
J. Sutton Crow successfully disentangled
the various knots chorus and principals
got into. The good thing about the
chorus was that it didn’t stand round
as if stuffed. It was, if anything, over-
inclined to individual action. Thea
Philips was Santuzza in the second serv-
ing of “Cavalleria.”
* * * *
By the broad grins that settled on their
faces during the final item, it was easy to
tell who, amongst the audience at the
Melbourne Town Hall, had seen the
Disney “Fantasia” at the Savoy. Whether
by accident or design, Dr. Edgar Bainton
had selected Dukas’s “The Sorcerer’s
Apprentice” for his final number, and
when the insistent doo-doo-doo-dah
motive was struck up in the strings,
passed to the woodwind and flung back
to the flute and the oboe, all who had
been put in the know by Mr. Disney saw
his celebrated rodent stumping across the
platform with his buckets slopping over.
Heddle Nash is a magnificent Wagner
exponent, sensitive and full of feeling. He
got a prolonged ovation for the Pilgrim-
age from “Tannhauser.” It was one of
the most melodious concerts of the
season.
* * * ♦
.Sullivan’s “Golden Legend” does not
make the appeal now that it had when
new, over half a century back. But
Bernard Heinze gave a great rendering of
it in the Adelaide Town Hall, conduct-
ing the Philharmonic choir and the Sym-
phony Orchestra, immensely effective, and
sometimes rather overshadowing soloists
Thea Philips, Elsie Woolley, Arnold
Matters, and Fred Williamson.
» * * *
Adelaide Repertory’s latest, “Laburnum
Grove,” is slight but, being by Priestley,
worth while. A quiet householder tells
his family that he is a banknote forger,
but assures them next day that it wa-
just a legpull. Then, when the police ge
really suspicious without being able to
prove anything, he takes the family off
for an indefinite ocean trip. Best chances
to Ronald Peterson in the lead, Beryl
Roberts as his trusting wife, and Irving
Johnston as a hanger-on relative.
« * * *
Gilbert and Sullivan season at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, continues at an
even and polished tempo. “The Yeo-
men,” with its undertone of tragic drama
and its bubbling surface of Sullivan’s
music, occupied the co. last week,
“lolanthe” was due for an airing this
week. “Mikado” follows. Later the
season will be wrenched out of its tradi-
tional rut by the apparition of the little-
exercised “Sorcerer,”
ARTBURSTS
Paul Haefliger’s show at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, contains, in addition to
compositions in the vein of Picasso,
Vlaminck, Matisse and other exotic
stylists, some excellent still-lifes and at
least one landscape, “Near Martigues,”
which marks him out for better things
than to be a purveyor of second-hand
hysteria.
He * * *
Judging by her oils hanging at Mel-
bourne Velasquez, Tasmanienne Edith
Holmes has never heard of the modernist
movement or of Van Gogh, Gauguin and
Modigliani and all those chaps; and she
doesn’t seem to have heard of the classi-
cal masters either. Her pictures are
curiously crude and innocent of conven-
tions, as if she were struggling to work
things out for herself and not doing it
so badly in places. Nevertheless, the
right kind of instruction would do her
no harm.
AT THE TALKIES
Somebody, no doubt, had the right
idea in coining the phrase “eternal
triangle” for the two men and a woman
—or vice versa —situation, but the film-
smiths are taking it too literally and it’s
becoming a perennial pain. Since the
successful “Awful Truth” similar things
have been churned out by the score in the
best Hollywood “cash-in” manner, and
the limited possibilities of the situation
have been hashed and rehashed to ex-
haustion. Most have been fairly laugh-
able in themselves, but enough’s better
than an overdose, and two or three were
ample. The same “Awful Truth,” inci-
dentally, started something else which
seems to have become a Hollywood tra-
dition—to wit, that Ralph Bellamy
should be the second male in these struc-
tures ; a sober, reliable, slow-witted but
earnest male catching the goil on the re-
bound and losing her again when she
bounces back to her first choice in time
for the last reel.
With deference to the above, may it
then be recorded that Sydney Century
has a lightly amusing show, “Affection-
ately Yours,” with Denis Morgan as a
foreign correspondent, Merle Oberon as
a wife who tires of his long absences
and divorces him, and last but not least
Ralph Bellamy as an s., r., s.-w., but e.
male.
♦ * * ♦
Wynyard Newsreel theatrette has an
interesting bob’s worth, outstanding
being a picture of the R.A.A.F. flying-
boat patrol of Papua and another of
Mackay of Bardia farewelling his 6th
Division. There is also “the first pic-
ture from the Russian front,” a clever
mixture of manoeuvres and the real stuff,
which suggests that Josef Stalin is camera-
shy, that most of the German prisoners
taken by the Russians are mere boys,
and that a good camera-man can turn
one wrecked ’plane into a whole squad-
ron.
* * * *
Mentioned briefly on this page (B.
20/8 / ’4l) Sydney Mayfair’s current bill
makes nicely balanced entertainment.
“Topper Returns” is the third Topper
film based on the results of one of
Thorne Smith’s flights of imagination and
features a rather likeable variety of
comedy-ghost who flits around appear-
ing and disappearing at will. Altogether
bright comedy. The support, “Shining
Victory,” is from another of A. J.
Cronin’s medical-profession novels and
the last film in which the late James
Stephenson appeared. He generally
turned in a good job and does in the
current show —a more serious business
than “Topper,” but just as good enter-
tainment.
* * * *
Sydney Civic has a couple of revivals
specially designed for school holidays.
Laurel and Hardy figure in “Saps at
Sea,” and Conrad Veidt, Sabu, topnotch
color photography and some classic
technical effects in “The Thief of
Bagdad.” They are, respectively, the last
word in lunacy and fantasy.


THE SERVICE MAN
Budenny Retreats.
“Ek Dum”; Towards the end of the
seventh week the Russian war began to
assume much the shape of the final phase
of the German campaign against France
last year, when the Franco-British lines
had been pushed back to the Somme and
the joint was about to be broken at Mau-
beuge preparatory to the drive down the
Meuse and the push to Biscay and into
Paris.
To say that, however, is not neces-
sarily to say that the operation will have
the same victorious result. There are
many factors not present in France.
Familiarity with the causes of that disaster
is one. It should have bred prepared-
ness ; and the Russians had ample time
to prepare. Again, the man-power at
their disposal is far greater than the
Western Allies possessed, nor is their
area of retreat limited by a too-accessible
sea-coast.
The southern end of the defending
armies under Marshal Budenny had been
hurled into a deep bag, of which the
bottom was the wide and turbulent
Dnieper.
In the central sector the Russians were
apparently holding on a prepared defen-
sive line behind Smolensk.
But while Budenny’s men were stagger-
ing under the Panzer blows administered
to them, the German armies at the other
end of the line hurled themselves into a
fresh offensive on the Leningrad front, as
they did at a similar moment on the
southern end of the Maginot defences.
In the extreme north, the Red Army had
the Finns facing them as the French, after
June 10, had had the Italians, the differ-
ence being that the Finns are doing some
hard fighting and the Italians did none.
This set-up having been achieved, with
Budenny’s army crossing the Dnieper by
any means possible but “in good order,”
and the Germans in control of most of
the country west of the river and to the
south, and with both Kiev and Odessa
invested, Keitel began to put the crucial
touches to his manoeuvres at the equiva-
lent of the Maubeuge joint. His troops
had occupied bridgeheads on the Dnieper
both below and above Dnepropetrovsk
and the Dnieperstroy dam. His point
was at Gomel, about 15 miles from the
northern Ukraine border and 150 miles
from Kiev.
The move was made while optimists
were declaring that the Germans would
never get across the Dnieper. Unfortu-
nately they already held the bridgeheads
of the Upper Dnieper as far down as
Rogachev. And the High Command
would be unlikely to take the terrible
risks involved in crossing a wide, fast-
flowing river, full of crags and guarded
on the eastern side by cliffs, when its
forces could come down the left bank,
where both Kiev and Dnepropetrovsk
are situated. This line of attack also
would break the connection between
Moscow and the south by cutting the
Moscow-Kursk-Kharkov line, and be-
yond it the Moscow-Voronesh-Taganrog
line.
The blow had many other attractions
for the makers. It premised the fact that
the country immediately east of the Pripet
marshes was already substantially clear
of Soviet troops. It threatened immedi-
ately the great iron-ore deposits of Kursk,
150 miles eastward —the reef is 150 miles
long, 150 metres deep, and Soviet
authorities have estimated it to hold
40,000,000,000 tons of 50 p.c. average ore.
It was a fine kicking-off place for a rush
on the big junction of Bryansk, where
five railways meet, to form the southern
line of an encircling movement against
Moscow. Above all, it must put Budenny
in a dreadfully awkward quandary.
He is faced in the Ukraine across
the Dnieper by German hordes which
have already driven him over the river.
If he does not give particular attention
and set up a line of defence facing them,
they will cross the swirling stream even
if hell and high water are created by
the blowing up of the Dnieperstroy dam.
They will also penetrate the river from
the Black Sea, since they have taken
Kherson and its mouth, and the stream
will be just as navigable in its lower
reaches as it was before if the flood-
waters from the dam have swept by. He
must guard the Don and Volga industrial
towns.
At the same time he now has turned
to find some of the legions of Hitler
pressing grimly on his right flank from
Gomel and about to try to cut him off
from contact with the Kremlin. He knows
that if they once reach the Khursk Hills
it will be hard to dislodge them ; that
once they cross the divide to Voronesh
and Tambov districts an expanse of open
country will become their speed-track.
If they can they will pour along the new
Panzer cut and debouch north behind
Moscow to Gorki (old Nijni-Novgorod),
and south to the Volga mouth, thus en-
circling him, cutting the rest of European
Russia off from oil supplies, from the
Volga and Don and South Asia iron and
coal industries; also from the Black Sea,
the northern part of which, like the Sea
of Azov, would become a German lake.
Four days after the northern drive of
the Germans towards Leningrad had
begun, the whole front was aflame. Nov-
gorod, 100-odd miles from Leningrad,
was in German hands. The Lake Ilmen
German forces had linked up days before
with the armies from Estonia, and had
taken Kingisepp, where the Tallinn-
Leningrad line junctions with a branch
to the U.S.S.R.’s Singapore Kronstadt,
50 miles away (Kronstadt is an
island). They were within 70 miles
of the northern capital, and their
eastern wing from Ilmen was wheel-
ing on the Russians by the left, closing in
on the big wooden city like a pack of
wolves in the moonlight. Further north
the Finns were making their way down
both sides of Lake Ladoga. They were
beyond Kexholm on the west, within 60
miles of Leningrad. They were halfway
down on the east between Ladoga and
Onega.
Heavy storms raged on Ladoga all last
week. The Finns asserted that Russians
who attempted to “Dunkirk” from Sorta-
vala on the north and Kexholm on the
west were being washed up dead upon
the great lake’s many islands.
Marshal Voroshilov issued a rousing
appeal to every Soviet citizen of Lenin-
grad to arm and fight. The city was
described as an armed camp, with every
house and factory a fortress. New de-
fences were being piled up in the outer
perimeter. The Germans issued ruthless
warnings against the use of civilian com-
batants. They said that if they found
franc-tireurs operating the Red Army
must take the responsibility for the de-
struction of the city which would inevit-
ably ensue.
To win the Baltic the new 35,000-ton
Admiral Tirpitz bombarded Tallinn with
her 15-inch guns till driven off by land
batteries.
On the central front a swaying battle
continued between Moscow and Smol-
ensk, where the German corps were push-
ing their way up the foothills of the
range, to fight another Borodino.
At Gomel, the German High Com-
mand reported;
We have defeated the enemy, taking
87,000 prisoners, including two airborne
brigades and 700 guns and two armored
trains.
They declared that they were pursuing
the ragged remnants of smashed armies
down roads spewing torrents of wretched
prisoners, and fields and woods piled
high with wrecked armament, sheaves of
dead bodies, endless dumps of abandoned
food and personal belongings, round
which the acrid smoke of battle still hung.
The same night it was announced in
Stockholm that, having got 500,000 men
safely across the Dnieper and killed three-
fourths of the 94th German Infantry
Division in a ten-day battle, Budenny
had secured Stalin’s consent to blow up
the Dnieperstroy dam.
The dam spans the river 200 miles
from the Black Sea, at the extreme angle
of the big Dnieper bend and below the
turbulent stretch of crags against which
the current rips for mile upon mile.
These are known to the Russians as “The
Thresholds,” and the town which tends
the dam is named Zaporozhe “below
the Thresholds.” As new as Tel Aviv, it
is on the left bank, and holds about
130,000 people.
The dam took six years to build. Its
builder, Colonel Hugh of the
United States, began the work in 1926.
Many British, American and two or three
Australian engineers were engaged on the
job, which cost over £34,000,000 sterling,
and was opened on October 10, 1932. At
the site of the dam, which provides hydro-
electric power for the whole of the
Dnieper valley, which holds 16,000,000
people and many of the greatest indus-
tries of the U.S.S.R., the river presents
the drainings of approximately 170,000
square miles of country.
The site chosen was one at which the
river is broken by an island. Upstream
can be seen the fabricated steel power-
house, which originally held nine 77,500
kv-a., 0.8-p.f. generators which rate 13,800
volts, 50 cycles, 88.2 r.p.m. Five of
them were built by the General Electric
Co. at Schenectady, the rest at Leningrad
under G.E. supervision and with G.E.
parts. The 84,000 h.p. turbines were built
at Newport News. The dam is 2500 feet
long—the spillway 2000 feet. It is 170
feet high, 129 feet thick at the base, 69
feet at the top, and raises the water level
between 120 feet and 130 feet. Since it
was first completed, its power plant has
grown. Its capacity is now said to be
1,200,000 h.p.—the whole of N.S.W. with
all war industries in full blast probably
uses 750,000 electrical h.p. at most.
Blowing it up would be no easy matter.
It would destroy the navigation locks on
the west side which make water commu-
nication from the Black to the Baltic pos-
sible. It would then release most of the
1.300.000. tons of water in a career-
ing wall whose headlong rush, if it did
not find lateral outlet —which it certainly
would because of its scouring effect and
its height—would be felt as far afield as
Odessa.
Any towns or Germans in the way of
the flood would be swept away like
leaves, and the chances are that it would
kill as many Russians as Germans, be-
sides paralysing all industry and mining
in all the western and part of eastern
Ukraine and the* Dnieper Basin.
It might even pour over the Nogais
steppe on the east and destroy the road
and railway to the Crimea.
At the week-end neither side had
confirmed the story from Stockholm.
From the accounts of both sides, it
looked improbable. The German High
Command on Friday announced that
the last enemy bases on the Dnieper
had been cleared up with heavy
losses to the enemy, who north-west of
Kiev was retiring beyond the river. Ger-
man Radio added that the German forces
had reached the east bank of the Dnieper,
“and the next step, for which the path
is clear, is a drive into the eastern
Ukraine.” Mopping up was still being
carried on along the Black Sea, where
6000 prisoners had been taken at Ocha-
kov, 30 miles east of Odessa. There was,
however, still heavy fighting round
Odessa. And the Moscow communiques
said that life in Kiev, with the Germans
only 40 miles away at most, was normal
and a new theatre was opened during the
week.
The battle of statistics continued in full
blast. The Germans claimed to have de-
stroyed 16,000 Russian tanks, over 14,000
guns, 11,000 aircraft and to have caused
5.000. Russian casualties, of whom
1,200,000 were prisoners. They added
that they had actually occupied 388,000
square miles, but that much more was
encircled or behind their front.
These are Losovsky’s estimates: —•
Men. Tanks. ’Planes.
July 11 (3 weeks’ fighting)—
German .. 1,000,000 3000 2300
Russian .. 250,000 2200 1900
Aug. 5 (6 weeks’ fighting) — „„„
German .. 1,500,000 6000 6000
Russian .. 600,000 4000 4000
Aug. 19 (8 weeks’ fighting)—
• German .. 2,000,000 8000 7200
Russian .. 700,000 5500 4500
Truly appalling; but it is impossible
to believe that German losses in the
last fortnight, during which the Russians
were driven out of almost all the southern
Ukraine, were five times those of the
retreating armies. On the other hand,
the estimate of ’plane losses for the same
period, during which both sides insisted
that there had been violent air activity,
is incredibly small. In 24 raids on
Moscow in the past month 736 persons
were killed, 1444 seriously injured and
2069 slightly hurt, so Moscow reports.
On August 24 the Germans announced
the crossing of the Dnieper at Rogachev,
a few miles above Gomel. They reported
having reached that town some time ago,
and the Russians admitted it, claiming
its recapture. This suggests that a second
German drive is about to spring from
the same root as the one through Gomel,
but that it will cut directly eastward to
Bryansk as part of a Moscow-encircle-
ment movement, while the Gomel attack
sheers on towards Budenny’s flank and
the eastern towns and bridgeheads of the
Dnieper. The Germans said on the
morning of August 24 (German time)
that the Gomel thrust had passed that city
by 60 miles; that in the extreme southern
sector the main defences of Odessa had
been breached at one point to within 15
miles of the city by Germans and
Rumanians, and that all the strong forts
on the Dniester side were in German
hands. Further north-east, Dneprope-
trovsk (they said) was threatened. One
report declared that Dnieperstroy dam
and power plant had fallen into German
hands almost undamaged, but there was
no confirmation.
In communiques dealing with the
Leningrad front, Moscow Radio admitted
that the situation was dangerous, though
the enemy was 70 miles away, and Mar-
shal Voroshilov issued fresh exhortations
to the populace to join in the defence of
the city.
The Finns and Germans asserted that
on the north of Leningrad the Finnish
spearhead was beyond the old Russian
border and within 30 miles of the
city. The Finns said they had six
U.S.S.R. divisions encircled. German
forces on the south were represented as
being astride three of the four railway
lines which snake south or south-east
from the northern capital—the fourth
goes to Moscow.
Berlin did not suggest that the fall of
the city was imminent. The High Com-
mand spokesman said that the “next few
weeks” would be critical in the Leningrad
area.
Russian reports on the night of August
24 were to the effect that the Germans
were being held everywhere and that in
the central sector General Koniev’s troops
had recaptured nine villages and had
routed a German infantry division, kill-
ing and wounding 3000 men and wreck-
ing 130 tanks, large ammunition dumps
and more than 100 lorries. It was added
that “our victorious troops are still
advancing, giving the enemy no respite.”
And in the Baltic, it was said, two Ger-
man transports out of a convoy of five
and two escorting motor torpedo boats
had been sunk, while the rest of the
enemy ships were beached. A German
troop convoy was attacked in the Black
Sea, two transports sunk, two set on fire
and others damaged.
The Germans countered with the story
that the Luftwaffe had damaged a Soviet
destroyer off Odessa, sunk a 5000-ton
transport in the Gulf of Finland and
attacked eight aerodromes round Lenin-
grad, destroying 44 Russian aircraft. Also
a Russian attempt to land on the Estonian
coast had been beaten off and the crews
and boats from three ships completely
destroyed.
The first British observers who have
been allowed at the front have returned
to Moscow. Lieutenant-General F. N.
MacFarlane, head of the British mission,
saw a Russian division going into action
in the Smolensk sector, and was im-
pressed with the morale of the troops,
with the co-operation between different
arms and with the speed with which the
battlefield afterwards was cleaned up.
Air Vice-Marshal Collier praised Mos-
cow defences and the co-ordination be-
tween searchlights and guns.
Nevertheless, every move by the Rus-
sian armies appears to be eastward. And
there are serious dangers in a long-con-
tinued retreat. It must in time sap the
morale of the best troops ever born, and
where it is conducted with huge masses
it is apt, just as readily as an advance,
to gather momentum.
Talk in the Near North.
“Fong Tsz”: If controversy were as
deadly as war, the Near North would
be a shrivelled waste, dotted with burnt-
out furphies.
The only concrete facts about events
beyond Singapore last week are detailed:
The Japanese were obviously strengthening
their Manchurian forces. They continued never-
theless to profess that they are on the usual
terms with Russia and that there are no issues
between the two countries. According to Mr.
Ishii, Manchukuo-Siberian border claims have
been cleared up.
Bangkok Radio announced on August 22
that the Thai Government fully trusted the
assurances of the British and Japanese Gov-
ernments that Thailand would not be invaded.
A direct attack from Indo-China, the
announcer said, would be feasible; but one
from Burma or Malaya would be strategically
impossible. Still, the Thais were warned that
air-raid precautions and general alertness were
only commonsense.
The Japanese press and radio continued to
inveigh against what one oracular gentleman
before a microphone in Tokyo described as the
“chicory and intrigew” of the wily British in
their designs on Thai territory.
Mr. Cordell Hull said that the United States
Government would not recognise the annexa-
tion by Japan of islands near the already
appropriated Spratleys, inside the Philippine
Sea. New Japanese maps show as Japanese
every island round the Spratleys and Half
Moon Shoal and in the region 70 miles oil
Palawan, which screens the strait between the
Philippines and British Borneo.
The Port of Manila has been closed at night.
At the week-end it was announced in Japan
that anti-Communist committees, of which
both Chinese and Japanese were members, had
been formed in Peking and elsewhere in North
China. , .. A . .
Bangkok Radio on Saturday night asked.
“Why does not Japan say she will keep her
hands off Thailand, as Britain and other
nations have done?” . . .
Admiral Nomura, after interviewing Mr.
Cordell Hull at Washington, told the press
that he believed that the differences between


Legal Notice.
Harry Rodger Leech, Deceased.
ANYONE knowing of a Will of the above-
named, formerly of San Francisco, who died
in Brisbane on 10th July last, is requested
to communicate with THE PERPETUAL
TRUSTEES ASSOCIATION, 100 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
Personal and Missing Friend.
IF FRANK BYRNAND, of 346 Riley Street,
Sydney, will communicate with GIRLING,
Solicitor, 52 High Holborn, London, he will
hear of something to his advantage. Cable
reply.
INFORMATION is required as to WILLIAM
ROBERTSON, last heard of in Queensland, a
son of Mrs. Lilian Amelia Robertson, formerly
of Imperial Hotel, Launceston.—Particulars re-
quired by
CLARKE & GEE,
Solicitors, Launceston.
Japan and U.S. could somehow be solved.
“It would be the worst of folly to act other-
wise.”
Mr. Churchill followed by remarking
that for five long years the Japanese had
carried carnage and ruin through China.
They had now snatched Indo-China from
the “miserable” Vichy French and were
menacing other countries —Thailand, Sin-
gapore, “the British link with Austra-
lasia,” and the Philippines—and it was
certain that this had got to stop. Every
effort would be made to reach a settle-
ment, and the U.S. Government was
“laboring with infinite patience to arrive
at an amicable one,” but if these hopes
should fail the British Empire would
range itself “unhesitatingly” at the side
of the United States. That “at the side
of” is very significant.
Moves in Iron.
“Ek Dum”; At the week-end Britain
and Russia were discussing Reza Shah
Pahlevi’s reply to their joint demand for
the stifling of German activity in the
ancient kingdom. The text of the reply
had not been published.
Some accounts say that there are 2000
Germans in Iran. The Germans admit
690, as against 290 Britons and 390
Russians.
Iran is a tract of territory about which
neither Britain nor Russia can stand any
truckling with the enemy. It adjoins
Russia on the north, and at the Caspian
end the Iranian border is not 200 miles
from Baku.
The Soviet Union is Iran’s big-
gest trading customer, with Germany
second. In normal times Britain imports
about £9,000,000 worth of oil from Iran
annually ; and if the Persian oilfields were
threatened, so immediately would be
those of Iraq. Furthermore, the Caucasus
route provides the easiest access from a
Germany victorious in Russia to the
back doors of the Mediterranean.
Should the Germans reach the Caspian
ranges, the big upland plateaux above the
Alvand Range, which rises 9000 ft. from
the Iraq coast country,- would provide a
splendid speedway for Panzer divisions.
They could be on the Baluchistan border
in a week. If they were not stopped they
could drive right down to Basra, cutting
the Indian air route and depriving the
R.N. and Middle Eastern R.A.F. Com-
mand of adjacent oil. They might even
push to the Red Sea and Suez via Arabia
before they could be properly tackled.
They might secure control of the Bagdad-
Istanbul railway.
The threat to India is not nearly so
dangerous. Its borders are guarded by
some remarkable natural barriers. From
the Caucasian border ranges to Duzdab,.
where the Baluchistan military line ends
near the point where Afghanistan, India
and Iran meet, the running is very easy,
with only a little sand and a few hair-
pin bends in its later stages. But from
Duzdab onwards towards Quetta, along
the railway which is always in sight of
Afghanistan, the land is something like
that of Innamincka (Q.), though different
colored. The temperature goes up into
the 120’s in summer and down to snow
level in winter. The last few tens of
miles to Quetta go through arid gorges.
After Quetta there is a variety of treats
for invaders spread over a couple of
hundred miles —bridgeless rivers and
roads cut out of 800 ft. cliffs in the Sulei-
mans, with the Indus to follow. And
the Indus is a real river, not a mere canal
like the Dnieper, but nine miles wide in
the Dera Ghazi Khan region.. No Panzer
could cross it.
Different parts of the border up to the
northern passes to Afghanistan provide
different conditions, but they all average
out about the same.
The Russo-Iranian treaty of 1921 per-
mits the sending of Russian troops to
Iran if the Soviet Government should
feel itself menaced from the former coun-
try’s direction. On Monday morning
M. Molotov and the Russian ambassa-
dor at Tehran handed the representatives
of the Iranian Government notes which
stated that the U.S.S.R. now proposed to
take advantage of the treaty, not in a
spirit of aggression against the Persian
people, but to prevent a coup d’etat by
Germans which was believed to be immi-
nent. It was added that the occupation
would last only so long as was necessary
for Russian security. The British Gov-
ernment notified Reza Shah Pahlevi that
it would parallel the Soviet Government’s
action, and for the same reasons and
under the same conditions.
Shortly afterwards, it was announced
that both British and Russian troops had
entered Iran at unspecified points.
"More Realism Needed."
“Ek Dum”: Lieutenant-General Iven
Mackay, who has returned to become
the Commonwealth’s first war-time C.-in-
C, is no more afraid of political opinion
than he is of Italians.
On his arrival he said a lot of things
which needed urgently to be said by a
fighting general.
He declared that we could succeed
only by thorough training of all ranks,
but particularly of junior leaders, who
must be endowed in a few months with
qualifications which normally it would
take years to drill into them.
We have been on the warpath lately
about training, and we must do the same
thing here. In the last few months the
A.I.F. in Palestine, with its new reinforce-
ments, has been training right from scratch.
In the last few months! And the war
will be two years old next week.
There was a feeling, the man from
Bardia declared, that the Australian was
a born soldier and that so soon as he
received weapons he was fit for battle,
but intensive training was vitally neces-
sary to oppose highly trained enemies.
Training was on the right lines, but more
realism was wanted.
Closer co-operation between ground
and aircraft, too, was necessary. The
Germans used their aircraft as advanced
troops and as artillery before attack.
German co-operation between ground
and air was so close that corps and divi-
sional battle commands had squadrons
specifically at their individual disposal,
and ground troops that found themselves
in a tight corner merely had to send up
Verey lights to get quick help from the
clouds.
The C.-in-C. had a good deal to say
about the evolution of reconnaissance
vehicles as opposed to fighting tanks.
The machine-gun carrier which Austra-
lian cavalry now used was in some ways
a better vehicle than the light tank,
because it was well armored low down
on the sides, manoeuvrable and, because
of its low-set form, more difficult to spot.
The Australian-made carriers were
turning out “very good indeed.” Early
steering faults had been corrected and
the vehicles were now reaching the forces
overseas in reasonable numbers.
Also the general had a few things to
say about lax censorship. He stated that
“often newspapers unwittingly helped the
enemy intelligence service.” He revealed
how some bleating person on 8.8. C. had
told the enemy the location of the head-
quarters of our 6th Division during the
campaign in Libya, and how other reports
made it clear to the Italians that they
were facing an Imperial force inferior in
numbers, besides criticising British
weapons in such a way as to give infor-
mation to the enemy.
Directly after the publication of
the general’s remarks, Major Archie
Cameron, M.P., said that they raised such
grave questions that the C.-in-C. should
be summoned before a secret session. Mr.
Curtin supported Mr. Cameron’s opinion.
But Mr. Spender said he knew it all
already!
According to figures given by Mr.
Menzies on Saturday, the Common-
wealth already has 400,000 men in the
fighting forces and 50,000 making muni-
tions, and he expects that the number
will grow to 600,000 men in the forces
and 150,000 making munitions by the
end of next year. To date £333,594,000
has been spent by the Australian people
on the war effort.
So the stage certainly seems to have
been reached when a Minister in charge
of the army should be informed of the
necessities of modern training and mili-
tary intelligence.
"Intelligence."
“S.W.K.”: To the fictionist who takes
war as his theme, the mere generalissimo
always effaces himself and hands over the
wheel to—or, rather, the wheel is taken
out of his hand by—that glamor boy the
Intelligence Officer. The red-tabbed hero
is a handsome lad of 22 whose
piercingly keen blue eyes are set between
a noble sweep of forehead and a steel jaw
which can, whenever its owner desires,
“close like a trap.” He speaks 14 lan-
guages fluently.
It is quite a simple matter for the
aspirant for high Intelligence honors to
get a toehold on the lowest rung of the
ladder. Naturally, one or two qualifica-
tions are necessary. Nothing to speak
about, really. Most standard textbooks
refer to the most important of them.
He needs an “eye” for judging dis-
tances and a highly selective ear to dis-
tinguish between “ours’ and “theirs”
on a pitch-black night in anything from
’planes to tanks. He must be able to
draw and read maps and stalk battle
patrols. He requires a bushman’s sense
of direction and a knowledge of survey
work. He must be capable of locating
and blowing up—or, if they are ours that
have been destroyed by the enemy, of
supervising the repairing of—waterworks,
railway junctions, bridges, crossings,
cables, and powerhouses. Ability in read-
ing Morse, writing shorthand, knowing
all ground signals to aircraft and flares,
both enemy and friendly, and plotting
arcs of crossfire to cover the battalion’s
flanks against surprise attack is of
course, necessary.
The 1.0. is also expected to be a master
of camouflage and to be able to dismantle
and reassemble a mortar or machine-gun
in a few minutes and to wire up a listen-
ing post. Though not considered essen-
tial, it tells heavily in the applicant’s
favor if he has a sound knowledge of
numismology, inorganic chemistry, mili-
tary jurisprudence and psychology and
can do tatting neatly. In his spare time
from Intelligencing, he must be prepared
to undertake large-scale billeting arrange-
ments.
“Ente Marid”; Iven Mackay, on his
return to the Commonwealth after com-
manding the 6th Div., A.1.F., confirmed
the story that there were still A.I.F. men
in Crete operating as guerrillas. He said
that the numbers were not known, but as
late as July 16 50 were rescued and it was
hoped to get the rest out. In Syria, he
said, the Australian troops did amazing
things:
At Damour they climbed up unfamiliar
goat-tracks without reconnaissance, in the
dark, and* got behind the French lines.
This action probably forced the armistice.
The R.A.A.F. had co-operated with
the A.I.F. in Syria with great effect, and
there was no chance that Tobruk would
fall. In Libya, the Germans had one
armored division backed by three or
four Italian divisions. They had only
about 250 tanks left, though they were
still getting reinforcements and supplies
from Italy, in spite of the continuous de-
struction of shipping and convoy facilities
by the R.N. and F.A.A.
* * * »
“Buck P.”: Machine war has altered
the routine of the parade ground. Saw
a fine motion-picture of Mackay of
Bardia farewelling his 6th Division be-
fore leaving for his Australian command.
Instead of, as in the old days, the troops
marching past their General, the General
marched past them —in a Bren carrier.
And how the battlers of Libya, Greece
and Crete measured up in physique and
bearing against the soldiers of other races
pictured on the same programme!
♦ * # •
The air over Britain continued quiet
last week. In London life appears to be
almost normal, with theatres and restaur-
ants full and shrieking sirens almost
forgotten. Odd bombers have been seen
round the coast. The R.A.F. carried out
its usual raids and daylight sweeps against
shipping, ports and industrial centres in
France and the Low Countries. Western
Germany was less raided than in previous
weeks. The weather has been bad. An
R.A.F. spokesman said on Wednesday
that offensives, especially daylight sweeps,
cost us dearly, but the ratio of losses was
not increasing.
The Germans claimed that in beating
off a raid on August 21 their A.A. guns,
naval artillery and fighters shot down
29 British machines. They also claimed
to have wrecked two freighters in the
Channel and to have downed 800 British
machines and 2700 pilots in six weeks.
¥ $ * *
A High Command lecturer told Berlin
on August 22 that within the next fort-
night Germany’s military might would be
directly and entirely concerned with the
British, and that every German soldier
knew that he would soon be sent against
Britain.
* * * *
Japan’s Domei agency has a man at
Saigon, Indo-China, who has been trying
to find out how many British troops there
are in neighboring regions. He says there
are 73,000 (42,000 of them Indians), with
250 aircraft, within 20 miles of the Thai-
land-Malaya frontier; 33,000 (25,000 of
them Burmese) in Burma and 20,000 at
Singapore. He doesn’t mention Austra-
lians, though he doubtless includes them
in British, Very interesting though
whether it is right or nearly right is
another pair of sleeves.
* * * ♦
“Nobby II”: Louis Mountbatten, the
tallest member of the party which Edward
of Windsor brought to Australia in
H.M.S. Renown in 1920, has gone to
U.S.A. to take command of the aircraft-
carrier Illustrious, which is undergoing
overhaul there. Illustrious suffered two
Stuka attacks in the Sicilian Channel and
Malta Grand Harbor, and some further
battering during yEgean operations.
Mountbatten, son of the Battenberg
prince who was First Sea Lord when the
last war broke out, has built up a fine
record in this war, winning the D.S.O.
and turning up in the middle of many
gallant shows, the last of which was the
Crete evacuation. Then, his flotilla leader,
Kelly, was sunk under him in less than
a minute by bombers while he was
saucily handing out curry at short range
to Malemi aerodrome. He has served
in many historic ships, including Beatty’s
Lion, and is probably the most expert
royalty on wireless. He was head of the
Naval Wireless School at Portsmouth for
several years.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“X.T.”; The Germans in one of their
spasms of propaganda spent the week
digging up British “secret” weapons.
One was a land mine dropped by ’plane ;
the other was a tangle of wire rope fired
from a mortar for ship defence against
’planes. Pictures of this device went the
rounds of the world’s press over a year
ago. And land mines are nothing new.
The Germans have used them almost
since the beginning, and it is doubtful
whether any land mine yet invented ever
was as much worth carrying aloft as the
new British bombs, which are much
lighter and less awkward to carry.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: American radio circuits with
a sense of responsibility preface their
news with this formula:
All news from countries at war is cen-
sored at the source. Listeners are warned
that it may or may not contain propaganda.
8.8. C. and A.B.C. should adopt a
similar precaution. The quantity of
Russo-German rubbish distributed by
those stations is beyond computation,
* c • • • •
German Military High Command re-
ports — not those of the Luftwaffe and
Reichsmarine are trustworthy enough
when the day has gone well for Ger-
many. The three British fighting com-
mands are rarely guilty of any sin save
understatement. But the radio stations
of Germany and Russia live in a private
hell in which any assertion will pass if
it sounds likely to damage the other side,
• ♦ • •
“Aileron”: The R.A.A.F. squadrons in
Libya and Syria—only one most of the
time —have in eight months destroyed or
seriously damaged 200 enemy machines
—ll for every one of their own lost or
damaged. They have done about
£1,500,000 worth of injury to the Axis,
apart from damage to transport, tank
equipment, aerodromes and dumps. The
new Australian Spitfire squadron which
has been operating over the French coast
has been transferred to a new striking
base and recently shot down six enemy
machines in a fight. And the number of
R.A.A.F. men now in England—a tithe
of the whole —exceeds our whole air
strength in personnel at the outbreak of
war.
* * * *
The first batch of German prisoners
to land in Sydney last week looked fairly
poor by A.I.F. physical standards when
they came ashore, though they included
some fine specimens. Guards said they
were well behaved and had praise for
Australian initiative and training, as dis-
played in some phases of the Tobruk
campaign. The prisoners themselves im-
pressed their captors with three things—
their quickness and thoroughness in
organisation and intensive discipline,
their hatred of Jews and intolerance of
any other viewpoint save the German,
and their arrogant certainty that Germany
would win. There were, after the voyage,
no believers among the guards in the
easy creed , that this is only a Hitler-Nazi
war and that the hearts of the German
people are not in it.
* * * *
Maps published in 1937 in “Schwartze
Korps,” the organ of Hitler’s Black
Guards, illustrated fairly accurately the
Nazi programme of conquest. They show
an area covering all the land west of
the Volga, from Lake Ladoga to Kazan,
and thence west of a line from Kazan
to the border of Asia, on the north
Caspian, as under German control in the
autumn of 1941. The belt reaches down
south to include the Baku oilfields.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
An SOS to Sleeping Bags, 258 Flinders-
lane—“We’re cold at night”—from 260
men in camp brought forth a bag apiece
in 36 hours (counting sleeping hours),
which brings the number of bags issuea
up to date to 16,000. feelings
have to be sublimated by both workers
and recipients—the bags are purely
utilitarian. If they had to be beautiful
or even neatly finished they could not
be made so speedily. At the moment
blanket supplies are good, so that helpers
are welcomed at any hour of the day and
occasionally at night.
For those who aren’t familiar with
power machines there are always
jobs of cutting and of sewing on
buttons. From the one sewing machine
(now declared obsolete) with which
it started life 14 months ago Sleep-
ing Bags has grown to possess three
power machines, an overlocker, a button-
holer, a two-thread searaer and a
hemmer. Bags are issued free of charge
to any man in uniform. The Earl of Bec-
live is signing for one this week. In his
case it’s a gift from mutual friends, and
there will be a generous donation on
account of the extra length required to
accommodate six feet or more.
An unscheduled oration delayed pro-
ceedings at the Free French luncheon at
the Federal in honor of M. and Madame
Brenac. Finally, M. Brenac took things
into his own hands, arose, solicited that
the rest of the talk should be put in
writing, then proceeded with his own
short address in two languages, the only
speech on the programme. Probably
the youngest guest present was Denise
Volkerick, who did some translating for
Australian pals whose French is unrecog-
nisable as such. Miss Volkerick is bach-
ing at a flat in St. Leonard’s Court while
mother Madame Charrand and god-
mother Jeanne Gautier are in Sydney.
At last week’s annual general meeting
of contributors to the Royal Melbourne
Hospital the women brought out their
knitting, and tea, served by spry young
nurses, was much appreciated. Among
speakers at the meeting were surgeon
Basil Kilvington and physician Konrad
Hiller (a number of such well-known
specialists are back again as honoraries).
Dr. Hiller remembered in his vote of
thanks the co-operation of the Civil
Ambulance, the police and the Victorian
railways. The Lady Mayoress, with
Matron Grey alongside, presented prizes
of books to the year’s most proficient
nurses.
There was a spot of warmth, without
exaggerated sentiment, attached to , the
God-speed party given by the Lord
Mayor in honor of Admiral and Lady
Colvin. Apart from the fact that this
English couple had made many friends
in this country, the farewell took place
in the room in which the birth of Navy
House was effected just over a year ago
—and Navy House and the R.A.N.
Relief Fund have been Lady Colvin's
“babies” in this country.
Wearing brown English tweeds, the
Admiral spoke as he always does, right
from the shoulder without frills. For
quality he declared the Australian Navy
is second to nope in the world. Lady
Colvin in black and three gardenias
moved around the room with a bright
word for everyone. Among naval officers
present was Captain Bernard Foley,
accompanied by his wife.
Tallest man in the room —except, per-
haps, Agricultural Minister Hogan—was
T. A. Fancourt, accompanied by his
better half. Also present were the C. R.
Duncans, she in becoming hat and pluto-
cratic coat of Persian lamb ; a bunch of
ex-Lord Mayors, Reg Collins, the G. D.
Healys and the Kingsley Hendersons.
There were several toasts, and the Lord
Mayor begged his guests to clear the
board, where sardines with parsley col-
lars enjoyed their usual place of honor.
The mayoral pantry must have got in
early, for sardines are now up in price
and it is hard to obtain more than two
tins at a time.
Atmospherically tuned to the times and
the nature of the cause was the concert
in G.H. ballroom for the Y.W.C.A. Since
war broke out Lady Dugan has set her
face against overdressing, overeating and
other extravagances. Though evening
dress was general, the range of apparel
varied from black ties to tweeds and
from a tiara accompanied by a black
velvet train to daytime wear and fingers
busy with knitting in the back rows (in-
cidentally, the only plush seats; the
others came from the Town Hall com-
plete with their chronic squeaks). Sew-
ing machines, rows and rows of them,
used daily by the Red Cross, were put
to bed in one part of the ballroom tucked
into their brown-paper dust covers, and
there were no lavish floral decorations.
Afterwards there was supper, not for
gluttons, but all one needed to warm up
for the road home. The programme (an
A.B.C. orchestra conducted by Denis
Collison; tenor Heddle Nash ; Shaks-
pearean excerpts by Marie Ney) was
received with some stolidity, the orches-
tra’s performance of Ravel’s “Bolero”
being the only item that really got a
hand. The players obliged with a repeti-
tion. Transport on a rainswept night
to the wilds of the Domain was some-
thing of a problem. Many people who
seem to have enough ration tickets and
who, incidentally, have been on G.H.
“lists” for years didn’t buy seats. Some
others, minus cars or short of tickets,
who on a fine night would have trudged
from the tram had to try numerous taxi
cos. before running a conveyance to earth.
Commandants of V.A.D. detachments
were busy last week attending meetings.
At first there were inter-State and later
State conferences. Women ancl girls who
would like a chance to go abroad or to
join up for home service apply for enrol-
ment forms to the commandants of their
detachments (they can’t be V.A.Ds. unless
they belong to a detachment —qualifica-
tions being certificates in both St. John’s
First Aid and home nursing). In Victoria
there are 47 detachments, mostly metro-
politan, but a few in the country—includ-
ing Geelong, Shepparton, Mornington
and several scattered about Gippsland.
Applications are classified and sent by
St. John’s to the Defence Department.
Successful candidates pass a severe medi-
cal test. Present at the meetings was
Lieut.-Col. J. A. H. Sherwin, State Con-
troller of V.A.Ds., whose headquarters is
Heidelberg Military Hospital. Although
between the last war and this one little
was heard of V.A.Ds., they came into
existence in 1926, doing practical work
in certain hospitals.
A John Lee camera made this portrait
of Elsa Stenning, who spent last week
ski-ing at Buffalo. The snow is thick on
the mountains this year, and all favorite
haunts report good conditions. After a
tew days at Albury Elsa will return to
Melbourne to fulfil radio engagements.
She sings regularly for patriotic and
other good causes, and her engaging per-
sonality is always welcomed at camp
concerts.
A marriage arranged in a telephone
conversation between Perth and Mel-
bourne took place at the Angel Chapel
of St. John’s between Olive Thomson
and Surgeon-Lieut. Edward Lees (other-
wise Sam) Stening. The couple have
been pals, for years, and have corre-
sponded regularly, so, though Olive wore
no conventional engagement ring, she
wasn’t upset to find herself getting a
trousseau together in two days. For the
wedding she wore an ensemble of angel-
blue angora, and among her buyings in
a hurry were beach and sun suits, for the
honeymoon is being spent at Southport.
Olive is the only daughter of the Herbert
Thomsons, of Malvern, and is well known
for her clever designs and creative work
in color and clay. Husband Sam is the
son of the G. S. Stenings, of Bondi,
Sydney.
From Sydney
There was no happier woman in Syd-
ney last week-end than the wife of Mac-
kay of Bardia. From the time she greeted
her warrior knight last Friday, life has
been one smile to her. Alison Ann
Mackay had a pretty good time, too. She
was given no homework to do. She was
with her mother and a group of relations
who met the general, and was one of the
most admiring listeners to her famous
father’s broadcast.
h’ s useful, * t s sturd y- and stafEed the
It serves tea and coffee and maybe hot scones
(Keep the o in scones short and the two words
will rhyme), .
And it rolled into Martin-place strictly °a time.
Resplendent and useful, this mobile canteen
Drew applause loud and long from all on the
scene.
There were WANS by the hundred in uniform
The vS-Reine, their head, from the restaurant
cart
Handed smiles and hot tea to the men of the
forces.
The menu that day seemed shy on the courses;
When into its stride the canteen will be serving
Hot meals to relays of the brave and deserving.
The Cinderella piecart, after it has
been magicked by the good fairy, prob-
ably turns into, such a mobile canteen as
that which the Australian Gas Light Co.
presented to the W.A.N.S. Knight Sam
Cohen, president of the company, handed
a gold key to Lady Wakehurst during last
Friday’s lunch-hour ceremony, and with
it she opened the canteen. This will be
used, probably very soon, to cater for
members of the Volunteer Defence Corps
during night parades. The Tea Marketing
Board installed the tea equipment, and
the whole thing looked so entrancing that
the crowd pushed too close for the safety
of the canteen’s highly enamelled surface,
so the new treasure had to be locked up
and driven away at stately pace by Mrs.
Frank Lynch. The canteen’s services will
help not only the W.A.N.S., but will be at
the disposal of the military authorities,
The Lunch-time Music Club is filling
the little concert hall at History House
every second Monday. Margaret Gil-
lespie, of Turramurra, is the president,
and she announces that next Monday
Eileen Staedler, Claire Simpson, Richard
Farrell and Joyce Hutchinson will figure
on the programme. Norton Trevaire
photograph of Margaret.
Men and women in N, S. Wales whose
forebears walked the hills and valleys of
the Wales that was old in legend and
literary tradition even before the days of
King Arthur and his knights of the
Round Table are forming themselves
into a band of hope and help for the
bombed victims of their motherland. In
the language of consonants: “Cymorth,
Cymru Newydd Ir Hen” —which means
“New Wales helps the old.” The com-
mittee proposes to send £lO,OOO overseas
during the next month, and the call to
roll up with the doubloons goes out to
everyone with a drop of Welsh blood in
his or her veins, William Morris Hughes
is patron of the fund; Charles Lloyd
Jones its president; J. Gordon Jones the
treasurer. The secretaries are B. Elystan-
Price and J. Howells.
An attendance of 115,871 and a wait-
ing list at every day nursery and nursery
school in the city tell of the popularity
of the work done by the Day Nursery
Association. These schools care for, train
and feed the children entrusted to them
from the morning hours when their
mothers leave the babes till the evening
hours when they call for them again. As
long as mothers have to go to work the
day nursery is indispensable. Perhaps
one day the world will evolve a new
order in which no child will be without
its mother’s care all day. In the mean-
time the nurseries carry on and do their
job remarkably well.
The annual meeting of the association
was held at the Redfern Day Nursery.
Lady Wakehurst came to the gathering
and spoke of the work as a “valuable
bit of war work.” There was applause
all round at the announcement that C. P.
Johnson was giving a sum of money suf-
ficient to build a day nursery and a
nursery school at Balmain. Speaker of
the Legislative Assembly Daniel Clyne
was one who stressed the importance of
the movement. Mrs. W. P. McElhone
is president once again.
Probably more males were gathered
together at the A.B.C. Symphony Orches-
tral Concert than at any function for
weeks past. It was to be noted in the
vestibule during the interval. Beethoven’s
concerto in D major for piano and violin
was the star event of the night. Opinions
are still raging as to whether it was a
coruscating constellation or just a twinkle,
twinkle, little star. Anyway, dark-haired
violinist Jeanne Gautier has a most
pleasing stage presence. She stands well,
and she looks at once pictorial and in-
telligent. Her frock was loveliness in
Parma violet taffeta. Its skirt had full-
ness without that spreading awkward
look. In the audience was the wife of
conductor Montague Brearley. Noted
also Muriel Wilson with the Lashmars,
Mrs. A. G. Thomas, the Hope Gibsons
and composer Miriam Edwards, whose
captain husband is now a prisoner of
war.
The Lord Mayor’s Fund younger
workers determined to give a party that
was a party last week, so they decided
on champagne cocktails at Prince’s.
These were served between the hours of
five and seven, and the whole affair went
like a lyric from fair-haired Mrs. Bowden
on the door, all smiles because her hus-
band, who is flying instructor with the
R.A.A.F., was for once in the same city
as herself. He was, moreover, at the
party. Graceful Eve Sheedy was there,
too, and so was pretty publicity girl Ruth
Walker. When you had nibbled at sand-
wiches and savories you could introduce
a dish of spaghetti to the champagne and
let the two sink or swim along the alimen-
tary canal.
There was an enthralling and inno-
cent little game called (or so it sounded)
Totem. As far as could be ascertained
it had nothing to do with tribal customs.
It was democratic, and favored alter-
nately the plute who tossed down his
pound note and the gambler in a six-
penny line of business. There were over
300 guests, and dancers milled about in-
dustriously on the polished lake of floor
until just after six o’clock, when the
mannequin parade got into its swing.
There was a blithe look about these
spring clothes and enough stalwart fight-
ing men around to promise that the girls
who wear them will walk secure. The
All Services Canteen shares the booty
with the L.M.F.
Baskets of stock, purple, white and
pink, the stems of them seemingly
three feet long, decorated the ball-
room of the Australia, where the
concert for Air Force House was staged.
There was nothing skim milk about this
affair. Its audience was stylish, super
and mostly streamlined. Mrs. Robert
Dixson was one of the driving forces
behind this money-maker for the
R.A.A.F. lads’ comfort, and, of course,
an orchid of rare beauty (though not one
of her own famed blooms) was pinned on
her frock. This was of needle-run net,
was black and of great fullness. The
vice-regals sat with their guest, Admiral
Colvin’s lady, the Robert Dixsons and
knight Henry Braddon. Lady Wake-
hurst’s blue cape might have been formed
of feathers plucked from Walt Disney
cherubs’ wings.
Dorothy Helmrich, her frock all greens
and golds, lifted her voice in songs by
Duparc, Debussy, Strauss and Chausson
and other works suitable for mezzo-
soprano notes. The Sydney String
Quartet, Ramsay Pennicuick, who played
the accompaniments, and Neville Cardus
were others who created interest by their
talents. Among programme-sellers were
Mrs. Reg Bettington, Mrs. Dick Allen
and Virginia Heath. Laurels for the
lovely flower arrangements go to Mrs.
Hope Gibson, Mrs. Lionel McFadyen
and Mrs. S. Samuels. The Reading lady
and Mrs. Graham Pratten were others
busied in Air Force House affairs. The
petunia and blue of Mrs. Harold Bott’s
flowered taffetas made a striking color
scheme. Another North Shore-liner,
Mrs. McCartney, brightened her black
velvets with diamond clips. Dorothy
Porter and Amber Jacobs were listeners;
and (a reminder that war is with us)
groups of patriotic workers came in
their day clothes.
There was a great rush on the shop
run by Admiral Grace’s wife and the
wife of Commodore Muirhead-Gould to
benefit the King George Fund for Sailors.
The stock was all baby and children’s
clothes, had all been hand-sewn, knitted
and embroidered, and was one of the
most exquisite displays of such work
Sydney has seen. Some belle of four
or five is going to wait eagerly for
summer and the wearing of a primrose
muslin frock, hand-stitched and lace-
edged. There were hot-water bottles
about the size to fit a gum-nut fairy,
decorated with silvery swans and ducks.
They were complete with hand-knitted
cover, and should be quite a feature of
beginning citizens’ outfits.


LADIES' FITTED
DRESSING CASES
from KITCHINGS’.
In beautiful chrome tanned cowhide.
FITTED WITH mirror, comb, and hair
brush on lid and glass containers for
powder, toothpaste, scent, etc., on body
of case. Enamel and chrome fittings.
PRICES:
20 inches, £lO 22 inches, £ll.
Free Delivery to all Suburbs.
C E. KITCHING
319 George Street, Sydney.
Near Wynyard Station. 8W7133.
Pty.,
Etd.,
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM • Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
REWARD
7'6
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
i..*’
Abbey’s
famous
STOCKMAN
99
For work in the yards or the saddle there
isn’t another Boot made that can equal the
Abbey “Stockman.” Look at these specifica-
tions and judge for yourself: Uppers, genuine
strong calf. Sides, reinforced elastic. Soles,
genuine Goodyear welts.
When ordering, state size. Half-sizes also
available.
32'c
In Black
or Brown.
ABBEY
SHOES
316 George Street 224 Pitt Street
+
Another reason the
RED CROSS
needs your help!
mhfm.’t.'- vv/
+
Will you “Adopt” a Prisoner of War ?
One of the Society’s functions is the
provision of comforts to Australian
Prisoners of War during captivity. The
present estimated cost of this service
is approximately £1 per week per
prisoner. In pursuance of the above
appeal the Society asks the public for
financial help. For every fl given the
donor may know that he or she has a
direct personal interest in easing the
lot of a prisoner for at least a week.
For many reasons due to circumstances
overseas, the Society cannot allocate
to each donor a particular prisoner or
send a card with the name of the donor
with the goods but, should circum-
stances change later, the Society will
endeavour to make such arrangements.
In order to ensure tlie personal touch
the Society undertakes that donations
to the “Adoption” Scheme will not be
used for any other Red Cross purpose
unless and until the necessity for the
Society to provide this Service has
ceased to exist. Special receipts will
be issued.
Give HELP give NOW
IT’S URGENT
Authorised by the Central Council of the Australianße±Cross_Soaet3 r-IS.
NORTH OF TWENTY EIGHT
M. H. Ellis, journalist and author,
whose “Macquarie” shared first place
with two novels in the Prior Memorial
Prize last year, has been awarded
the Macrossan Lectureship for 1942
by the University of his native Queens-
land. The lectureship, which entails
the delivery of one or two lectures
to the University and the publication
thereof in a form approved by the Uni-
versity, carries a grant of £lOO. It was
"You told me you Were a lieutenant , Bert."
"So I Was, hut I've been purged."
established by the trustees of John Mur-
tagh Macrossan, sometimes Queensland
Secretary for Mines and Works, and
“M.H.E.” joins a rather distinguished
company of lecturers: W. A. Holman,
J. G, Latham, William Mitchell, Dr.
Grenfell Price, Bernard Hall, Professor
Melbourne, Dr. A. H. Martin, Professor
Copland, Professor Madsen, Dr. Evatt,
M.H.R., Professor Murdoch, Justice
Graham, H. H. Dare, Thomas Bavin and
Davidson of the “ ’Wales.” The new lec-
turer will go into verbal action (theme,
“Some Aspects of Macquarie’s Life”)
about this time next year.
« * * *
Soldiering is in the blood of Gordon
Otway Smithers, of Rockhampton (Q.),
awarded^a D.C.M. for bravery at Tobruk.
The “Otway” comes from his grandfather
—Major-General Otway Smithers —who
served in the Indian Mutiny. Smithers
lost an arm in the venture which brought
the award.
" “H.T.”: Brisbane’s six-day show put
up a record for attendances, 480,000
showing up—Bo,ooo more than the pre-
vious record in 1939. The total is more
than the population of the city,
* * * *
“23-4”: Tom Hussey, a Brookfield
miner, has a snake yarn that will take
some beating. He was down 90ft. in a
shaft when he met a black one which,
as snakes will when cornered, went for
him. Hussey stood it off as best he could
with lamp and hammer, but was bitten
on one leg. He settled Joe’s hash, scari-
fied and treated the punctures with
Condy’s, tied on a ligature, climbed to
the top and mounted his bike to ride
home. A mile or so along he told an
acquaintance about it and rode on. The
other, not liking the look of him, rang
the police and the ambulance. When they
arrived only the bike was in sight, and
that was two miles from the shaft. Three
and a half hours after Tom was bitten
searchers found him asleep in thick scrub
a mile off the track. He awoke delirious,
was treated and went home to recover.
He has no knowledge of that walk
through the scrub from his bike,
* * * ♦
“Tonner”: Three years ago there was
a mighty row in Townsville Council
when the Labor element plumped for an
Olympic pool. Now work has begun, the
estimated cost is £21,000, and half the
city reckons it’s a sheer waste in war-
time, especially as Townsville has the
sea to bathe in and isn’t likely to have
any Olympic swimmers for the duration.
But the strangest part is that the State
Co-ordinator of Works has allocated the
loan money. If*Mr. McKell, of Sydney,
reads this he’s likely to become apoplectic.
* * * *
“N.P.”: Queensland’s Minister of
Labor has announced that his Govern-
ment intends to set up employment com-
mittees to “develop avenues of employ-
ment.” It’s about time Governments
realised that none of their committees
can hope to “develop” employment so
long as private enterprise is shot at from
every blessed quarter by taxation, trans-
port strangulation and other means of
“control.” A prize of 7d. is offered to
any person who can produce definite
evidence that any such committee ever
got a man a really useful job.
* * * *
“Norther”: A group of men aboard
the Rockhampton mail missed one of
their number, a youth of 18, when the
train pulled out of Derajondo on the
way to Brisbane. Thinking he had got
in somewhere else along the train they
took little notice until one of them saw
blood running down a window of the
compartment. The train was stopped at
Rosedale and the missing youth’s dead
body was found on the roof of the car-
riage. It had evidently been carried seven
or eight miles, but how it got there is
a mystery.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: Candidates in the Warrego
Assembly by-election had their can-
vassing cut down by petrol rationing. The
electorate is bigger than Victoria, and a
normal canvass would entail close to
5000 miles motor travel. Each aspirant
for the seat was limited to 80 gallons,
enough for about 1600 miles, and a lot
of the voters will have to travel by horse
to the polls. Still, as most people generally
know where their vote is going almost
as soon as an election is announced, it
is doubtful if anybody will suffer through
the absence of a candidate, and plenty of
people will object that the 80 gallons was
sheer waste.
* * * *
“Boiler”: A couple of Atherton
farmers told the Commonwealth Man-
power Committee that 10,000 tons of
Atherton maize would rot unless labor
could be obtained to harvest it. They
suggested the forming of a land army
of men unfit for the A.I.F. One of the
committee suggested land girls. Said the
farmers, “They wouldn’t be of much
use.” One added, “Women can be very
handy in the cowyard. But not these
land girls. At one of their camps in
Brisbane it took 40 of them to milk a
cow.”
$ * * *
“Propalong”: The country between
Farina and Lake Torrens (S.A.),
where I raised my first crop of
sweat boils, gets a fine assortment
of stockmen. Drovers off the Birds-
ville track, many of them from far-
northern Queensland, and cattlemen from
the Territory are more or less common
on the runs around Farina and Marree.
And they carry their pet theories and
prejudices with ’em. Especially those
hypotheses which have to do with saddles.
The Crow-eater sticks up for his knee-
pad saddle. Some lanky poddy dodger
from the Gulf or thereabouts reckons
that ‘if y’r flamin’ horse comes down
with y’, y’ can’t get away from them
blanky kneepads, an’ so y’ get rolled on.
No real cattleman’d ever ride anything
but a poley.” Then a grey old Oodna-
datta-sider will offer the opinion that
“kneepads don’t matter, but none of
these here high-backed saddles is any
good. If y’r flamin’ horse kicks up
they’ll break y’r blasted back.” After that
the argument becomes technical.


NOW IS THE TIME TO FEED
oTfo-Gx^Cb
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
to keep stock in good all-round condition for maximum
production . . . Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is a pure bone
product without admixture of any other substance: It
contains a guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric acid
and 40% lime and is specially processed to ensure
maximum digestibility. Stock take to it readily.
Obtain all particulars about Tri-cal-os from—
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O.
Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Blowfly Strike Prevention
SAVE YOUR SHEEP—FOR LESS THAN ONE PENNY EACH!
Way-810 Blowfly Strike Preventive kills maggots, does not
scald, cannot evaporate or wash out. It heals raw patches
without scab formation, prevents re-strike, is non-poisonous
and harmless to sheep and fleece.
Way-810 is the result, of scientific treatment of many species of Bucalypts in a
specially designed plant wherein the compounding of their most active principles has
produced the most positive of all blowfly strike preventives. WAY-BLO saves time
and money—one dressing and you can forget fly worries for the whole season;
properly used, costs less than Id. per sheep treated.
Way-Bio
BLOWFLY STRIKE
PREVENTIVE
Obtainable from
AIX STOCK AND STATION
AGENTS AND LAKGE
STORES
or write to the manufacturers —
W. K. BURNSIDE Ply., Etd.,
Melbourne and Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Brisbane Show.
“Balander”: Maybe I’m old-fashioned
but there’s something about a Brisbane
Show that pleases me. The citizenry
seems well informed about the land in-
dustries, and you’re just as likely to meet
a bloke from the Valley able to discuss
a beast’s quality intelligently as one from
Thargomindah way. Perhaps this is be-
cause Queensland, of all the States, is
better decentralised and much less de-
pendent on export markets for its land
products.
All the same, though Queensland is
generally regarded as the beef-cattle
State, its beef breeders have apparently
a lot to learn from the south. N.S.W.
studs either collected most of the best
prizes in this section or supplied the
local animals that did so. Thus in an
Aberdeen-Angus line-up of some of the
best black polls ever seen in Brisbane,
W. E. Webster, of Kingaroy, won with
a Kahlua-bred bull, and the best cow
came from the Wallah stud at Narrabri
(N.S.W.).
It was the same in Herefords, easily
the most numerous breed on show.
Percy Reynolds sent the champion bull
up from Hobartville (N.S.W.) and the
cow came from Bexley, Narrabri. Some
of the Herefords should never have been
let near a show-ring. Queensland is good
on Polled Herefords, as J. Sparkes, of
Dalby, proved, but, though its Polled
Shorthorns have improved out of sight,
Gundibri stud, Merriwa (N.S.W.), had the
best bull, Jim Scrymgeour, of Warwick,
managing to land the best cow prize.
Shorthorn bull championship was a gift
for Woomargama (N.S.W.), and though
the Cambooya Taylors had the best cow
she was Turanville (N.S.W.) bred.
It was better in the dairy breeds, where
there was a big entry of A. 1.5., honors
going to Thompson, of Alfa Vale, and
Meier, of Grandchester. Queensland
Jerseys have come on well in recent years,
many being of. distinct J.I, type; still
there was nothing better than Mrs.
Stanton’s (Neurum) nine-year-old bull,
which won its seventh championship.
The Fowlers, of Coulston Lakes, had the
best cow. There were more Ayrshires
than usual and the quality was better,
top prizes going to G. Norgaard, of
Toowoomba, and R. M. Anderson, of
Southbrook. Guernseys and Friesians
hardly provided competition.
In fat cattle a pen of Shorthorn steers
from A. Langmore, Jondaryan, was the
outstanding exhibit.
Beating Soil Drift.
“Albacutya”: G. S. Staples, who has
630 acres just out of Rainbow (Vic.), did
well in that Malice soil-drift contest (B.
13/8/’4l). One of his theories is that, if
a paddock has a loose spot likely to drift,
working it up will result only in surface
break-down spreading outwards from it.
He doesn’t fallow the spots, big or small,
but works up the paddock all round
them, waits for rain in late autumn or
early winter, hits the pastures then and
sows oats or barley and wheat on the
fallowed portion. After the crop the
stubble is grazed. If there is enough rain
he ploughs the heavy soil in October, but
keeps off the light stuff till autumn, works
it then and sows the lot to oats in the
next season. After the oats the paddock
goes out to grass and doesn’t see a plough
for four years, when the process is
repeated.
Staples varies the programme if the
season dictates it. Last November he saw
that one paddock sown to oats in 1939
had failed to develop a grass cover owing
to the drought and looked like drift-
ing. Rain came in late December,
and he promptly ploughed the whole
paddock, worked it again later, and when
sowing time came it was all there and in
good seeding condition.
Staples stopped burning stubble 20
years ago, and when working sandy pad-
docks does his best to keep the fallow
ridged, the ridges catching and holding
the drift when it starts to blow in dry
weather.
Values in the Yard.
“Bogan Gate”: The C.5.1.R., looking
into certain problems associated with the
falling-off in the supply of ammonium
sulphate, points out that a hundred years
"We need some more charcoal, dear"
"O.K.! You"ll find the axe under the back seat."
ago artificial manures were rarely used.
Today these manures have almost en-
tirely displaced organic manures, and
“there is distinct evidence that the use
of mineral fertilisers alone is resulting in
soil changes detrimental to continued
agriculture.”
The C.S.I.R. gives statistics to show the
value of organic manures. An average
draught horse excretes about 12 tons of
manure a year, including urine. This is
worth 19s. 6d. a ton on the artificial
fertiliser basis. A dairy cow drops 12
tons worth 15s. a ton, a bullock seven
tons (19s. 6d. a ton), a sheep 15cwt.
(285.), a pig from birth to 2(K)lb. live
weight one ton (145.), and a hen ycwt.
(255.). In 1938 about 600,000 tons of
natural manure was used in Australia on
113,000 acres. Further use, it suggests,
is a matter for State Departments of
Agriculture, adding that farmyard manure
in practically any form benefits prac-
tically any crop.
Sheep manure, treated for weed seeds
and said to contain 3 p.c. of nitrogen,
is bringing 10s. a ton in Melbourne, and,
containing 25 p.c. moisture and 1.5 p.c.
nitrogen, 30s. a ton on the M.I.A. Stable
manure with 1 p.c. nitrogen is bringing
15s. In these cases the unit cost of the
nitrogen is 20s. and 15s. a ton as com-
pared with 17s. 6d. for ammonium
sulphate.
Using the English estimate of 25 tons
a year of manure from 1000 hens and
assuming there are 15,359,000 hens in
Australia (1937-38 census), about 384,000
tons of manure is being produced, the
equivalent of about 7700 tons of nitrogen,
or about 38,000 tons of ammonium sul-
phate. To this can be added another
2000 tons from turkeys, ducks, geese, etc.
In Victoria poultry manure brings about
255. a ton, or 12s. 6d. a unit of nitrogen.
These figures should bring home to
farmers the very great value of the stuff
that is allowed to waste away in heaps
or blow or wash off the place as the
weather decides.
Wheat Varieties.
“Ben Cubbin”: Sydney R.A.S. has
restricted varieties for its next field wheat
contests to 17 —12 “recommended” and
five wheats that have yet to prove them-
selves. Apollo, Bencubbin, Bordan,
Dundee, Eureka, Fedweb 1, Ford, Gular,
Pusa 4, Pusa 111, Ranee and Waratah
are the 12; the other five, Baldmin,
Cailloux, Carrabin, Gluford and Koala,
Last January the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department pointed out that of the 40
or so varieties grown in the State only 14
could be recommended, and for various
reasons it “outed” good bag-fillers in
Baringa, Geeralying, Marshall’s No. 3,
Turvey and Yandilla King along with
Fedweb 3, Free Gallipoli, Bena, Aussie,
Penny, Currawa, Gluclub and a bunch of
the Indians. The R.A.S. has probably
taken that as a guide.
All the same it’s hard to understand
the dropping of Nabawa, perhaps one of
the most important wheats since Farrer’s
Federation. It came to light at a time
when flag smut was threatening the in-
dustry with disaster. Nabawa added high
resistance to the disease to bag-filling
capacity, even in dry years. The grain
was a little soft and the flour inherently
weak, but it changed under dry con-
ditions, where it was mostly grown, and
came in as a heavy sample with good
gluten content and producing a well-
balanced self-baking flour. In 1926 it
grew on half the wheat acreage in West-
ralia, in 1929 on an even larger area,
and made similar headway in the east,
but quickly fell away before Bencubbin
and others in later years.
Despite the R.A.S. ruling, a lot of
people would still back Nabawa against
several of the chosen 17 varieties.
Tomato Troubles.
“Huxave”; Spotted or bronze wilt may
attack spring tomato crops. The chief
trouble is infection from diseased plants.
Symptoms are brownish, discolored areas
on upper surfaces of leaves. Affected
plants should be destroyed, others staked
and pruned, weeds in the vicinity de-
stroyed. Wash the hands with soapy
water before touching healthy plants. Use
home-made tobacco wash or commercial
nicotine sulphate and spray frequently at
the beginning of growing season.
Use the same treatment for mosaic,
recognised by irregular mottling of light
and dark green areas, and for big bud
(rosette); parts of the flower are enlarged
and distorted.
Fusarium wilt destroys the roots.
Leaves of young plants become sickly
in color, lower ones fall; later comes
complete wilting. In older ones the
disease becomes apparent only when the
first fruit fails to develop. The fungus
often lives in the soil for years. Seed
beds should be isolated. To sterilise the
soil for seed boxes, fill a kerosene tin
with slightly-moistened soil. Cover and
bake in an oven or over an open fire
for an hour. Throw away the burnt soil
and use the balance for the seed boxes.
Or use formalin, one part with 50 parts
of water. Applications range from 4gal.
to Hgal. to the square foot; cover for
12 hours with boards or sacking. Then
st i f several times and allow to remain
lh ree weeks before planting,
“Murrawong”: The Australian Wool
Board’s new handbook for woolgrowers
is concerned chiefly with veterinary sub-


Position Wanted.
Notice to Graziers, Pastoral Companies
and Woolbrokers.
STATION MANAGER/ 35, strong, active,
married, 2 children, no military obligations, at
present managing large Queensland station
(40,000 sheep, 1000 cattle), would consider man-
agement property carrying salary not less than
£750 p.a. Has had extensive experience sheep
(including studs) and cattle Victoria, N.S.W.
and Queensland, and has been managing 10
years. Thoroughly understands all classes of
improvement work and every phase of station
management. First-class references covering
ability and personal character from leading
pastoralists, woolbrokers, etc. This is an oppor-
tunity to secure the services of a good all-
round man. No. 306, Advt. Dept., 80x252188,
G.P.0., Sydney.
fd
TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO BING-BARKING!
Prevents suckering! Eradicates
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO <ISCt.) -
BEAKS HEAVILY FOB A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001bs. Sow NOAV. 3/6 packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St., SYDNEY
VcJveS UumU 6elc
ONCE A YEAR
f
Dli
Atmospheric changesaffect seal.
Coating burns off filament.
Vacuum declines with age.
Vibration upsets balance.
Heat injures insulation.
Gases upset stability.
Tiny grid wires warp.
Joints are strained.
REVALVE WITH
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN MADE .... ALWAYS AVAILABLE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SLA), ltd.,
47 York Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
a
m
gw«B
m
its
$
®
®
tittle
more but
it's WELL
worth it/
#> -.-1 n„ V,
uoraons
Gin
in £>Jon.
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
dht dUtilkhi in the wv\M
ggr
HI
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date
Telephone: 8W1531
Dining Room—All Meals ala Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
(7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
jects, handled briefly but fully. Besides,
there are articles on blowfly strike,
drought - feeding, fertility, lambing
troubles, lamb-marking and pasture man-
agement, and room for further articles
which are to be issued from time to
time.
The N.S.W. superintendent of the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board announces that from
now on a surcharge of Id. a bushel will
have to be made on old season’s wheat
delivered to cover handling costs. The
board won’t accept wheat in second-hand
bags, but it can be taken to a mill and
there emptied, the farmer to take the
bags away at once. If there is enough
wheat, either from an individual or a
group, the Railway Department will pro-
vide a bulk truck, into which it must be
emptied and the bags at once removed.
The idea is to get the surplus wheat out
of the road before the new harvest and
to minimise weevil risk.
“Mullengah”: Dingoes are more num-
erous in the north-west and central-west
of Queensland than they have been for
20 years. Many have travelled up the
Diamantina River in the north-west. The
dingoes are feeding on wild game, now
very plentiful, and are not causing
as much damage as they would in
normal times. Graziers are trying to
check their advance by trapping and
poisoning, and 60 dogs have been scalped
on one property alone this year.
J. Ernest Jelbart, who breeds Pol-
warths at Stony Park West, Jindera
(N.S.W.), has been a member of Hume
Shire Council for 28 years. When the
Stony Park holding was divided in 1919
he took over the western portion and
bred merinos until 1922, when he changed
over to Polwarths. The property of 2300
acres carries 2300 sheep, in addition to
a small stud of Herefords. A big area
is under improved pastures.
Outback Occupations.
No.LXXXIII.
SPEECH ON BUSHFIRES.
It’s a note from Billy McQuirk, and
it says: —
Nillynudgel Branch,
Agricultural Bureau.
Mr. John Fordcubbin
Lindisfarne
Cowra-road.
Dear Sir, —Well, Jack, I hope this finds you
alright and doing pretty fine, but we ought
to gett some rain soon or I dont know how
we’ll be. Well, Jack, we are hawing a meet-
ing of the Burex on the 25th and we
want you to come over and speak to the mem-
bers. You ought to speak about stopping bush
fires as you are pretty good at that. Well, Jack*
I have to hurry to catch the male but will putt
you down to speak on Bushfires. If anybody
over there wants to buy good sheep pups, I’ve
got some.
Yrs true friend,
William McQuirk.
You pass the note over to the missus.
“The twenty-fifth?” she says, quite
pleased ; “that’s a Tuesday night. Well
have an early tea.”
“Here, wait a minute,” you announce.
“Surely y’ don’t think I’m go in’ over
there t’ yap t’ that mob! What do y’
take me for?”
She tells you that she has taken you
for many things, but never for a squib.
She points out that you are a shire coun-
cillor and a man of substance in the dis-
trict; that if that Mr. Kollens and that
stuck-up young Jackson can speak in
public she is certain you can; that it is
up to leading citizens to take a part in
these things ; that you are captain of the
bushfire brigade, and so on and so on
and so on.
You get a word in: “But I’d be as
nervous as a worm in a fowlyard.”
This leads to more conversation, at the
end of which you write to Billy Mac
thanking him for the invitation and
accepting it and advising him that, as far
as you know, nobody is short of sheep
pups at the moment.
Between then and the 25th you spend
three hours every night writing a speech
entitled “Some Hints on the Prevention
and Stoppage of Bushfires.” By the 24th
you have 63 closely-written sheets of
writing-pad, and you realise that it will
take 4{ hours to deliver the speech. Aftpr
a consultation with the missus you decide
to make a few brief notes and speak from
them. When you finally arrive at the
Nillynudgel hall you have papers in every
pocket and some more in a pocket of the
car.
There are six grown men, four grown
women, five youths, two flappers and an
elderly spinster, seven small boys, one
small girl, an Indian hawker, a school-
teacher, two greyhound dogs and a
beagle, a soldier in khaki and Billy Mc-
Quirk in the hall when you and the
missus bowl in. Billy is at a table among
heaps of papers, but stands up when you
enter and says, “Ladies and gentlemen,
Mr, Fordcubbin an’ his wife. Mr. Ford-
cubbin is one of our shire councillors
and has kindly consented to honor us
by speaking on —speaking on —hey, Jack,
what’s it on? Eh? Bushflowers? Oh,
bushfires! —on bushfires, ladies and
gentlemen.” The soldier stamps his feet,
two of the grown men clap, a flapper
giggles, the Indian hawker gets up, looks
round in a startled manner and goes out-
side, followed by the beagle. You don’t
see the Indian any more. You and the
missus sit down.
Time marches on. Billy shuffles papers,
studies them and reshuffles. He cocks
his head at his hand, has another shuffle,
then throws the lot into an open suitcase
on the floor, grins cheerfully, opens an-
other case, brings out more papers and
begins shuffling again. The other people
talk. The soldier comes over and asks
your name. Then he wants to know how
long you’ve been in the district. You tell
him 20 years. “Gripes,” he marvels, and
goes over and starts chiacking the
flappers.
More time passes. Your wife is mur-
muring to the other women. One of the
greyhounds comes over, inspects your
boots in a leering sort of way and goes
back and tells the other greyhound some-
thing. Both of them survey you thought-
fully, then suddenly fill the hall with their
barking and rush to the door. Outside
there is a tremendous noise of crashing
gears, and a little man in an enormous
white beard enters. He sinks the boot in
one greyhound and comes forward.
Everybody hails him and somebody tells
him who you are. He shakes your hand,
spits and goes and sits with Billy
McQuirk.
After another period of waiting, Mc-
Quirk says, “Well, it looks as though
no more are coming. Still, we’ve got a
quorum. We’d better begin. Will you
take the chair, Mr. Benning?” White-
beard grunts and drags the chair forward.
The minutes of the last meeting are
read and haggled over. Correspondence
gets the same treatment. The chairman
makes an impassioned speech, punctuated
by frequent thumps on the table, about
a proposal to buy anew tennis net for
the young folks. Then they hold a debate
on Wheat Stabilisation, during which
McQuirk slips over to you and whispers,
“Sorry, Jack, we won’t have time for
your stuff. I’ll put it down for the next
meeting.” Before you can do anything
he is back at the table.
The debate ends, and McQuirk says,
“Mr. Chairman, I wish to move a resolu-
tion of thanks to Mr. Fordcubbin for so
kindly coming along tonight and promis-
ing to speak to us at our next meeting
on bush flowers—l mean bushfires—and
I suggest it be carried by acclamation.”
In the midst of the stamping and clap-
ping you collect the missus and, in a
silence more than words, drive home.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2id. per line.
First' place this week for the trenchant letter of a service man.
Retrospect
We were the first twenty thousand.
No one really seemed to want us in
October, 1939. There were few fare-
wells or presentations for us when we
left our local towns. “At home or abroad
for the duration and twelve months there-
after” didn’t seem to mean much to
anyone in those optimistic days when the
Maginot Line represented an invincible
barrier against the Hun. “The war will
fizzle out soon and you’ll have a good
trip overseas for nothing if you are lucky
enough to get away.” Only the Old
Diggers took much interest in us —they
knew what we were in for.
When we visited on week-end
leave we were called “Menzies’s Trippers”
and other names. When there was a
shortage of copy the dailies would fill up
with a paragraph or two about the “New
Digger.”
It is 18 months since most of us left
Australia. All we know of Australia to-
day is the news we get from our letters
and papers. From letters we know that
tobacco and beer are dearer, that the
racecourses and theatres are still crowded,
that everyone has plenty of money to
spend—except our wives, who struggle
along on as little as seven bob a day.
If the papers are city rags we can read
about two pages of “news,” accompanied
by posed photographs when it concerns
our actions overseas. If we like we can
read the remaining dozen or more pages
about racehorses, women, Yankee syn-
dicated stuff about film stars, astrology
and dogracing. Mostly we don’t bother.
Those of us who served in England can
remember the scant three sheets of the
London dailies.
We have learnt a lot in our 18 months
overseas. Almost all of us have taken
part in action in some sphere of the war.
Our sense of proportion and our realisa-
tion of the things that count have been
developed. We know now why the Old
Diggers have never really “fitted in” since
they returned from the last scrap. Some
of us are wondering if we will “fit in”
again in a country which idolises glamor
girls and racehorses while the Empire
buries its dead. To quote a recent letter
from England “.... I am glad that Lon-
don has been bombed again. Because
it means that after this war there will be
a far more effective memorial than a
Cenotaph showing how many more un-
employed there might have been.”
Does Australia need such a memorial?
—C. R. (Abroad).
Information
Lest we should tremble at the knees,
get the wind up, be left in outer dark-
ness and allow our spirits to wilt, the
Department of information was set up.
Announcing the decision to establish it,'
Mr. Menzies said in the House on Sep-
tember 8, 1939
Its sole purpose will be to serve the
Australian people in the widest sense. It
will be the duty of the new Ministry to
assemble and distribute over the widest
possible field and by every possible agency
the truth about the cause we are fighting
in this war, and information bearing on all
phases of the struggle; also by its many
agencies to keep the minds of our people as
enlightened as possible, and their spirit firm.
The department of course has not suc-
ceeded in the many thjngs which go to
make up “its sole purpose.” Whoever
expected it would or could? How could
it get news from abroad, which is what
matters most? In the last war the Aus-
tralian people were kept just as well in-
formed about things at home and abroad
as they have been in this one, without an
Information Department and without the
aid of wireless.
Nobody seems to know just what the
department is doing. We’ve seen a few
of its advertisements in the press contain-
ing—as ip the “I believe” series—some
trite sayings which exhausted the obvious
and had little or no influence on the
Australian spirit.
The department is understood to be
sending abroad films depicting Australia’s
war effort, and to be giving “the saltiest”
broadcasts to certain Pacific countries.
I dunno what effect these can have on
our “spirit.”
Whatever else the department is doing,
it has revealed a capacity for spending
the people’s money, which could have
been better applied to the manufacture
of munitions. This experiment at mind-
enlightenment, of dispensing buck-up
drops for our spirit and of serving us
caramel-coated cake instead of meat is
costing us dearly and is likely to cost us
a lot more.
The late Henry Gullett, Minister in
Charge of the department at the time,
said in Parliament in November, 1939,
that for the financial year 1939-40 —i.e.,
for seven months of that year —the de-
partment would cost £22,500. It actu-
ally spent in the time almost double that
amount. The vote for the year 1940-41
was £193,000, an increase of over
£150,000. The vote covered £69,000 for
salaries and £124,200 for general expen-
diture, including £20,580 for publicity
censorship.
The spirit of Australians keeps firm
without any adventitious aid, but their
indignation is roused whenever they see
evidences of expenditure from public
funds being devoted to any purpose that
does not directly assist the war effort. —
E. B. D. (N.S.W.).
Militia
Surely they weren’t Aussies, the army
chaps that suggested our militia should
have distinctive uniforms so as not to
confuse them with the A.I.F. No dinkum
Digger would support this move because
of the coercion the proposal implies.
Why differentiate between men willing
to serve abroad and those prepared to
defend Australia? What would be the
position if the militia as a body volun-
teered for overseas service, as some over-
zealous patriots consider they should?
Who’d be left to fill the gaps in our
defence? Nothing is more ridiculous
than to think that we should bleed our
country of eligible manhood, leaving un-
trained army-rejects, war veterans and
old-age pensioners to shape up to an
invader. — Jeff (Vic.).
Recruiting and War News
The Bulletin’s leading article on
recruiters and recruiting (6/8/’4l) ex-
pressed what many must feel on this
question. But there are other factors con-
tributing to the breakdown of the volun-
tary system of enlistment, and one of
them is the puerile rubbish which the
press calls war news. Right from the
very outset of the war the press has done
its utmost to debunk the enemy and all
his efforts. Nothing that the enemy has
ever achieved is really worth while from
the point of view of a nation at war. Our
armies have been driven from Norway,
Belgium, France, Greece and Crete, but
there has never been the slightest hint
of defeat from the press. Always, in
some way or other, the enemy happened
to be superior in equipment and men,
but man for man and machine for
machine he has been definitely inferior.
The general impression which the aver-
age reader must draw from press reports
of the war is that there is absolutely no-
thing to fear from the enemy. His bung-
ling luck must break in the end, and in
due time he will be mopped up, leaving
us to establish peace and goodwill for
the benefit of all men. Just at present
he is taking a terrific drubbing from the
Russians, and it won’t be long before
the mighty Russian steamroller has flat-
tened out the flower of Germany’s man-
power. Besides, there are rather serious
troubles at Nazi headquarters, and the
general collapse of the regime has been
predicted for the coming autumn. The
enemy is everything that a nation at war
should not be —disillusioned, discon-
tented and fearful of the consequences
which the stupidity of following Hitler
will certainly bring upon him.
With the enemy on the verge of defeat
and collapse, is there any particular
urgency for a flocking to the colors? With
nothing to fear from the enemy, why all
these frantic appeals for recruits? Had
we been informed from the outset of
the terrible efficiency and might of the
enemy; of the mathematical precision
with which his plans have so far suc-
ceeded ; of the serious dangers still con-
fronting us today—had we had that
driven home, the instinct for self-preser-
vation would have asserted itself even
under the voluntary system of enlist-
ment. —P. D. P. (Vic.).
Recruiting Age
To have any appreciable effect on
recruiting, when the age for enlistment
is lowered it should be automatically
legalised that minors can enlist without
the written consent of their parents.
It is futile to set the age at which
volunteers will be accepted at 18 or 19
years when lads in those age groups can
be prevented by their parents from join-
ing up.
If a man is old enough to fight for his
country he is also old enough to decide
for himself whether he will do so. —
Plain Jane (N.S.W.).
“Rejected Offer”
I, along with many others who have
sons serving in the A.I.F. who were
members of the 15th L.H., read with
regret the article by “Honorary Recruit-
ing Officer, N.S.W.” On the outbreak of
war the 15th L.H. Regiment volunteered
as a body but was not accepted. This
knock-back, however, did not daunt the
520 men who were encamped in Armi-
dale from Jan.-Apr., 1940. Of these 400
enlisted (some centres as a body); the
remainder were either too old or too
young. Of those who volunteered a large
number are amongst the defenders of
Tobruk, and many have given their lives
for their country’s cause. Others were
in action in Greece, Crete and Syria.
That offer, far from being ridiculous,
was made in all good faith. The regiment
was prepared to fight in any arm of the
service—to go when and where it was
required. All it asked for was to retain
its identity, of which the men were justly
proud.
The regiment’s second offer to go as
a unit was made early in 1941 at Ruther-
ford during the 90 days’ camp, when
a new division was being formed, and
again for any arm of the service any-
where. Most of the men concerned were
just under age but hoped to get into the
A.I.F. as a body where age barred them
as individuals. Since then, practically
•
every man who has reached the age has
enlisted.
The 15th is prepared to go anywhere
in its country’s cause, and at no time
will you find it making excuses or
blaming anyone for any shortcomings
it may have.— Anzac of the 15th L.H.
(N.S.W.).
“Fingal Lancer” (B. 13/8/’4l) in his
anger has revealed a cardinal weakness
of that A.L.H. offer to enlist in a body—
take one, take all. I met many of the
officers during their sojourn in Maitland.
Most of them had done their bit in the
last upheaval. Good luck to them; and
I take my hat off to one of the senior
officers who recently went overseas in a
certain capacity. But some of the officers
I met have no more chance of getting
back to front-line work than 1 have.
Hon. recruiting officers have no say in
the disposition of recruits. They were
told that if it was the wish of men enlist-
ing in bodies to remain together this
would be arranged, and most of them
learned in 1914 that a good soldier does
not criticise the “administration.” The
only stupidity (if it can be called such)
I have met in h.r.os. is the time given
each day to recruiting matters when other
parts of the Empire have chosen the
simpler method—conscription.
“F.G.” would do well to brush up
his military knowledge. The pioneers of
1914-18 have discarded their shovels for
more lethal weapons. A pioneer battalion
of today is a highly technical unit.
“F.G.” should know that there is a
certain allotment of machine-guns to each
infantry battalion.
True, a small, very small, percentage
of the troops in Syria were mounted on
horses, but it is equally true that the
troops that entered Acre and Beyrout
were mounted, not as they entered
Jerusalem in the last war, but on tanks
and Bren-carriers.
I am not concerned with the traditions
of any regiment. We are fighting for our
very existence in 1941, and we want
every available man at once to relieve
the pressure on those who are fighting
so valiantly. The militia forces are the
best fountain of supply the men are
partly trained and uniformed, ahd it is
known there are no hardship cases or
reserved-occupationists among them.
I don’t want to belittle any man or
body of men. Any disparaging re-
marks have been dragged forth in the
interests of recruiting generally, and more
particularly in the Maitland area, where
that bogey “the rejected offer” still
occasionally rears its head. —H.R. O.
(N.S.W.).
New Order
Too many politicians and others are
talking blithely about the new order that
is to come after the war, particularly the
new social order, when slums will be
abolished, the disparity of poverty and
wealth will disappear, unemployment will
be unknown and even farmers will get
enough for their produce to pay them-
selves and their employees a decent wage.
I don’t like it. It has all the charac-
teristics of the most fatuous wishful
thinking. This new order would require
not only that plenty of money should be
available after the war has ended (the
most unlikely thing imaginable), but that
there would be a fundamental change in
human nature which would ensure that
never again will the strong take advan-
tage of the weak.
At its best it looks like the remorse
that comes to peqple when they are in
danger (and which generally passes with
"Is this your scorched-earth policy, Major?"


WEAR MORE WOOL.
“ That's a good maxim” said the Woolgrower. “/’m
conducting a ‘Wear More Wool ’ campaign—in my flock!
Everythipg is going according to plan and , with Boonoke
as my ally , I am confident of success. Already my flock is
equipped with such a Weight of quality Wool that 1 am sure
of maximum indemnity from the appraisers.
BOONOKE
Offers rams to reinforce your flock.
Ready for service.
F. S. FALKINER & SONS PTY., LTD.,
Boonoke, Boonoke North,
Conargo, N.S.W. ’Phone Urana 15. Widgiewa, N.S.W.
f
df
Your Name on a Chequ
you, the possession of
a cheque account means
a more convenient, simpler,
safer and more accurate
method of conducting your
financial affairs, both busi-
ness and private. Always
pay by cheque, and make
your cheque butt a ready
record of your expenses. To
others —your business asso-
ciates and friends your
name on a cheque gives you
a certain status, it indicates
method and qualities which
make for prestige.
The cheque account service
of the Rural Bank is avail-
able to any reputable mem-
ber of the general public,
irrespective of occupation.
At the Rural Bank efficiency
is coloured with a friend-
liness which lifts your bank-
ing business above routine.
Interest-bearing fixed de-
posits are also accepted.
* Use the Bank's Service
Department to obtain
general information and
statistics. Rest and Writing
facilities are provided for
country visitors. The
Service Department is
situated on the Ground
Floor of the Head Office
Building.
BUBAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFF I C E:-M ART I H PLACE, STOKE?
Commissioners-.
C. R. McKERIHAN (President) —H. ROGERS —P. KEARNS
"Serving You . ... Serving the State”
FLU S. COLDS
21
iKVIUZZLED SNEEZE. —“Stop motion” photography showing barrage
of droplets ejected from mouth at speed of nearly two miles a
minute. The moisture evaporates, leaving 1 thousands of germ-laden
particles floating in the air.
KILL those GERMS
Ww with
Double D
SucalffUud Sxtftact
\\7IN your fight against Flu-Cold germs with the Double “D”
Eucalyptus Three-way Treatment —it’s quick and certain
and smashes Flu overnight.
TAME
nos
iNHALt
3 DROPS OF DOUBLE “D” ON SUGAR.
CHEST AND BACK WITH DOUBLE “D.”
15 DROPS OF DOUBLE “D” IN HOT WATER.
Fhis modern method is successful because it brings the powerful,
lestroying vapors of Double “D” right into contact with the Flu-Cold
germs in the nose, throat' and bronchial tubes. Also sprinkle Double U
cm your handkerchief and pillow and gargle with a few drops of
Double “D” in water. Double “D” Eucalyptus is extra pure and extra
strong —you'll like its sweet, fresh smell.
10d.—Enormous Sales —1/5
Double D”
THE PURE STRDITG EUCfILHPTUS UJITH THE SWEET FRESH SIR ELL
mm
«SSS?
• • To
PIUS
His back is as strong as a lion's now ! —yet not so long ago
backache was weighing him down, he was weak . . . tired . . .
depressed. Then Gin Pills made him a new man . . . brought
glorious relief to his overtaxed Kidneys.
Weak backs, aching muscles rheumatic joints can all come about
to escape
work is not done properly .. • -Rnrkache and other Kidney Troubles
gJfiT&S- Gin Pi
will do' this for you quickly, safely, economically.
rin Pills act directly on the Kidneys immediately stimulate them
Gin Puis act airec y „ ain filtering impurities from the blood-
happy and healthful once more.
If you’re troubled with
Backache and your Kidneys
are weak, then commence
a course of Gin Pills right
away they’ll do you
worlds of good.
Dr. S H E L D o
GIN PILLS
made Daddy's
back better
mmm
Queenslanders Note:
T H
r
Gin Pills are sold as Dr. Sheldons Kidney Pills in Q’land.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
the danger); at its worst it is an appeal to
the self-interest of those who are so dis-
contented with their present status that
they are not prepared to co-operate fully
in the war effort.
The whole thing is dishonest, and it
will only do harm, as dishonesty always
does, in the long run. The people of this
country have had too much of politi-
cians’ promises which cannot be fulfilled.
What they need now is a realistic state-
ment of facts and an appeal like this:
“When the war is over you may have no-
thing left but your liberty, and you will
only have that if you work and fight like
hell.”—E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
The Enemy Listens
Frequently over the radio I hear exhor-
tations to “stop that talking” and dire
warnings against “photographing fore-
shores, harbors, bridges, etc.” As these
warnings sink in, I pick up the daily
paper and read “Ten thousand Cana-
dians, American technicians, etc., arrive
in England” ; “The Beau fighter—a new
’plane—is being put into production,”
and a detailed account of its armor,
power and speed. Further, I read that re-
inforcements of British and Indian troops
have arrived in Singapore, and that
new American and British bombers of
specified design are arriving daily.
Then I ponder whether the photograph
of Sandy Creek Bridge or Mudflat
Inlet is of more use to the possible spy
than a copy of the usual daily or a cheap
air view of Sydney harbor, procurable
from any newsagency.— Flapdoodle (Q.).
A Mixed Grill
“Do people like to read of intrigues,
industrial irresponsibility and selfish-
ness?” said the P.M. Whether they do
or not, they certainly get a surfeit of it.
Here is a sheaf of news headings from a
single issue of Brisbane’s sober “Courier-
Mail”:—
Men in Public Service Demand Morning Tea.
Unpaid Work on Army Maps Opposed;
Union to Discontinue Draughtsmen Voluntarily
Doing Military Maps Outside Office Hours.
Coal Strike Affects Defence Production.
Patrick Stops Fay in 10 rounds; 5000
Attendance.
Ironically these items appeared side by
side with these:
How We Hold Tobruk.
Queensland Casualties; Latest List.
Pacific Tension. Cannot Guarantee That Aus-
tralia Will Not Become Scene of War. — Menzies.
Bravery Awards for 3 Australians.
The historian of the centuries to come,
thumbing the faded pages of the press
of 1941 and reading these items, will
probably come to the conclusion that
Australia was inhabited by two totally
distinct and different races of men. Per-
haps he won’t be far wrong at that, —
Smilax (Q.).
Taxing Soldiers’ Pay
When war was declared, the Federal
Government fixed a wage scale for all
branches and ranks of the fighting forces.
This scale has not fluctuated in accord-
ance with the cost of living ; perhaps be-
cause our political leaders are under the
impression that the Army, Navy and Air
Force support their members (and their
dependants) in such a complete and effi-
cient manner that if the case need be
payment of money could be dispensed
with entirely. But the individual who
thinks that the few shillings a day paid
to members of the fighting forces is
wholly entertainment money is very
much astray.
A good fighting Aussie requires more
than just meals and issued clothes to put
him in “top form.” There are untold
incidentals he must provide for himself
out of his few shillings a day, and with
this in mind I suggest that the Federal
Government pass a bill wherein all
Ordnance Departments of the fighting
forces be detailed to buy “duty-free and
free of sales tax” all such incidentals
other than those provided on issue, Ord-
nance to supply to canteens on demand
and canteens to be controlled by com-
mittees and conducted on a no-profit
basis.
That would mean that the fighting
man’s pay, which, because of the increase
in cost of living, has depreciated con-
siderably, would regain its original value.
Why should private enterprise and
Governments be permitted to make a
profit out of the few shillings earned by
members of the fighting forces?—G, A. J.
(N.S.W.).
A War-time Show
According to the pessimists, war-time
taxation is so high that commerce is
creaking beneath its weight and the aver-
age man is unable to make ends meet;
petrol rationing has made conditions in
industry chaotic; and the Army has
taken so many young fellows from the
farm and selection that the country dis-
tricts are going to rack and ruin.
In the teeth of these predictions
Queensland’s Royal National Association
held its exhibition in Brisbane. Results?
Ninety-five thousand attended on people’s
day—an all-time record —more money
was spent than ever before, trams and
trains picked up record and welcome tak-
ings, the district agricultural exhibits were
better than ever, the livestock up to
Queensland’s high standard and the
manufactures the best ever. And if
Queensland can do that and at the same
time carry the burden Qf war on its
back, it only goes to show that, properly
organised and managed, this country can
take the war in its stride without serious
detriment.—W. K. D. (Q.).
Dangerous Safety
During a trip to Scotland I visited a
huge ancient castle perched on the top of
a steep rock and surrounded by a deep
moat. It seemed impossible that an
enemy, armed only with swords and
spears, could successfully assault such an
“impregnable” stronghold. Yet it had
been taken and retaken many times in
the days of clan warfare.
As I peered over the dizzy battlements
the caretaker explained how the miracle
had been worked on the last occasion:
“The chief in charge felt so safe that
he went visiting other castles, where he
was feasted and flattered. The officers
left in charge felt so safe that they spent
most of their time gambling and quarrel-
ling among themselves about questions
of precedence. The soldiers felt so safe
that they did not worry about keeping a
lookout or keeping themselves fit. One
dark night a traitor kept the sentries
amused while a handful of enemies swam
the moat, scrambled up the rock, and
scaled the walls with the aid of a rope
ladder. The rest was easy. Most of the
garrison were killed while in a drunken
sleep or while searching for their weapons.
“It was actually the size, height and
strength of the castle that betrayed the
defenders. If they had been camped in
a barn on a plain they would have been
awake to the danger of their weakness.
They would have kept their eyes and ears
open and their weapons ready for imme-
diate use.”
That seems to be history, past and
present, foreign and local, in a nutshell.
—Safety First (S.A.).
Petrol-rationing
As far as light loads are concerned,
many utilities and light delivery vans now
on producer gas will not return to petrol
if and when it is available.
It is different, however, with heavy
transport. You stand a chance of being
marooned. Forty miles and over may be
done, as suggested, on level roads, but,
winding about and climbing in hilly
country with a heavy load, the gas pro-
ducer can let you down.
Content to deliver about town in a
utility using gas, one wood carter has
been forced out of business because his
reduced petrol allowance will not allow
him to take his big truck out and about
the timbered country to collect his timber.
—Bill Round (W.A.).
Birth Control
Theoretical discussion such as figures
in O.F.M. impresses me nothing like
the practical steps taken by the MX.
Government. When I got married ten
years ago it required a good bank
balance before one could think of hav-
ing children. There were hospital fees,
doctor and clothes, medicine, etc., as well
as the unlikelihood of the job lasting. The
strain and uncertainty were such that,
rightly or wrongly, after two kids
appeared we just couldn’t give them a
fair go and bring more to share hard
times.
But now things are different. Thanks
to the policy of seeing that labor receives
some of the fruits its work creates and
thanks to the protection of the toiler,
one’s job is steady and sure. Medicine
costs nothing. The hospital is free. So,
too, is the doctor, if you have one who
has signed up with the Social Security.
Expenses are confined to clothes and inci-
dentals. If the kiddy falls sick skilled
attention, hospital and medicine cost no-
thing. The nightmare of huge bills in
such cases is now past.
If I happen to be receiving under £5
weekly then there’s a bonus of four bob
each week for every child under 16. As
fast as possible the Government is build-
ing houses—over 11,000 contracts have
been signed to date —to be let at rentals
within reach of all. These homes are
commodious, well equipped, soundly
built and placed in spacious grounds. In
other words, ideal homes for kiddies.
They can be found in every city, town
or hamlet of the Dominion.
These steps, whilst certainly not per-
fect, do represent a real attempt to pro-
vide those economic conditions under
which the birthrate will rise. They are
far better than sitting down and com-
plaining of the effect of a falling birth-
rate. Possibly that is why MX.’s birth-
rate for 1940 is the highest since 1924. —
F. M. B. (M.L.).
The statements of “Aussie in Exile”
(B. 13/8/’4l) do not point to the harm-
ful effects of contraceptive measures.
Post hoc is not equivalent to propter hoc.
The fact that event B happens after event
A does not mean that event B was caused
by event A. Persons unused to logical
thinking are prone to fall into “Aussie’s”
error. It is always cropping up among
objections to birth control.
As a matter of fact an investigation
made by the National Birthrate Commis-
sion showed that in 287 families where
contraceptives were used there was an
average of 2.4 children per marriage,
while in 188 marriages in which contra-
ceptives were not used the average was
only 1.8. Lady Willoughby de Broke col-
lected statistics of 113 marriages; in 94
of these contraceptives were used and
there was an average of 3.1 children per
marriage, while in the other 19, where
contraceptives were not used, there was
an average of only 2.5. It would be easy
from these two investigations to fall into
the error of assuming that the use of
contraceptives tends to produce large
families, and the non-use of them small
ones. But the truth is that the data here,
as in the case of “Aussie’s” case-history,
are insufficient to draw any conclusions
at all.
It is not enough to “consult a doctor”
whose report is “nothing really wrong but
a minor operation might help.” “Aussie”
should have gone to a specialist in the
diagnosis and treatment of sterility. I
can think of a great many objections to
birth control, but if I were opposing con-
traception I would be careful not to
make the mistake of post hoc ergo
propter hoc reasoning.— Colin Street
(N.S.W.).
Caning in Schools
As with all social reforms, the aboli-
tion of caning in N. S. Wales schools has
been greeted with a storm of protest. It
is a certain forerunner to depravity, im-
morality, lawlessness and a host of other
evils. In short, the same arguments that
were advanced when petty theft ceased
to be a capital offence are being dug out
anew.
Surely those persons who declare that
it is impossible to control children with-
out corporal punishment haven’t given
the matter thought. If children can’t be
controlled how is it that thousands of
young men —unruly types among them
—are at present being controlled, very
much against their will in many cases, as
universal trainees?
Nobody would dream of reinstituting
corporal punishment in the army, yet
discipline is decidedly stricter there than
in schools. Isn’t it inconsistent to insist
that it is necessary to inflict pain on a
child who talks during lessons when we
have brutal murderers in our gaols who
have suffered no physical punishment
at all?
If a boy “wags it” from school he
must be made an “example.” At least
six cuts are his portion. But a garrotter
who has attacked, robbed and left bleed-
ing and unconscious some helpless or
aged person must not be flogged as it
would “brutalise” him.
As for the theory that caning is essen-
tial in big classes, when I went to school
one teacher managed a mixed class of
between 50 and 60 pupils. He never
used a cane, but by creating a healthy
competitive spirit inspired everyone of
his charges to strive for a better position
in class. —B. A. Ker (N.S.W.).
School-leaving Age
In announcing that the N. S. Wales
Government hoped to raise the school-
leaving age to 16 by gradual stages, Min-
ister for Education Evatt was reported
as saying that it was tragic that so many
children left school at an early age to
take up dead-end jobs.
There is no reason why a child who
leaves school at 14 should take up a
dead-end job. In most trades appren-
tices are not admitted after 16, while a
boy or girl who enters an office or shop
at 14 has as good a chance of rising to
a position of consequence as one who
remains at school for two or three years
longer. Indeed, there is more likelihood
of a male who starts his working life at
17 gravitating into a dead-end job, as I
know to my cost.
Because juniors must be paid by age,
not competence, many spheres of em-
ployment that offer good prospects are
virtually closed to the boy over 17 who
is without experience. Girls are not
similarly handicapped because their
wages are smaller. — Tom (N.S.W.).
Paper Saving
In this far western Queensland town
one of the war efforts is the saving of
waste paper, which is carried to the coast
free by the Railway Department. To
our surprise we now find our stores arriv-
ing in ever-increasing quantities of paper
or cardboard containers, and,, to top this
off, butter is arriving in cartons too. I
dunno, I really dunno. —Mug Collector
(Q.).
Fifty Years Ago
Are we on the right track with unions,
strikes, employers’ federations and the
like ever at loggerheads? In the old days
men struck for more wages when the
Moonta mine, only kept open to pay
wages, was going further and further
back with an increasing bank overdraft.
The mine became full of water. After
three months the men tired of the strike
and wanted to go back to work. The
directors agreed, but said that the losing
mine could not afford to put on any
more machinery, and they calculated that
it would take three months to discharge
the excess water.
When at the end of that time the men
returned to work, they did so at the old
rate of wages. But directors and men
felt that nothing was gained by strikes
and decided that the men were to parti-
cipate in the copper market rates. The
scheme was something like this; Copper
at £5O a ton, wages £4 ; £6O a ton, £4 6s.
Bd.; £7O a ton, £5 ; £BO a ton, £5 10s.;
and so on.
Wages rose and fell, and everyone par-
ticipated in the ill luck. Attempts were
made to “bring the men under control”
by unions, but the men, wise in their
generation, refused. Surely Australians
are no less sensible today than they were
50 years ago.— Constructor (W.A.).
Army Work and Pay
I agree in part with D. Laney (B.
16/7/’4l), who bewails the fact that the
indoor man is rated higher than the
soldier on the field. I also fail to see
why the Australian Army Pay Corps
should be made up of officers and n.c.os.
A visit to the Finance Office in Sydney
discloses an alarming number of clerks
but a far more alarming array of stripes,
crowns and stars. I still hope for that
red-letter day when I shall behold a full-
fledged private busily engaged carrying
three or four paybooks from one depart-
ment to another.
On the other side of the picture—and
where I heartily disagree—is the office
worker with an active unit. Here is an
entirely different state of affairs. Out of
some dozen clerks there may be three
or four n.c.os., according to establish-
ment. These men, unlike such units as
the A.A.P.C., do not start at nine and
knock off on the whistle—some start at
6 a.m. and go through to lights. Their
leave is worked on a strict rosier system,
making it necessary for them to toil
nights and week-ends.
I’ll concede that specialist pay is
granted—-Is. a day over a private—but
when it is remembered that these men
are penned inside for at least 12 hours
a day this is small compensation. Pro-
motion comes by no means automatically,
for an active unit can promote only a
certain number of indoor n.c.os. and not
ad lib. I am an indoor man, and any
promotion that has come my way has not
been handed out on a silver plate.
As for directors of entertainment and
band leaders joining the A.I.F. with rank
—well, perhaps that is on the same scale
as the promotion for Lt.-Col. P. C.
Spender while on the reserve of officers,
despite the fact that army regulations say
that there will be no advancement in rank
in such cases. —Kay (N.S.W.).
Revolutionary?
Among the momentous events of these
last few weeks, the announcement of uni-
fication of the British diplomatic and
Consular services has passed almost un-
noticed. Yet that announcement, made
by Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden, was
one of the greatest events in the internal
organisation of the Foreign Office since
the Vienna Congress in 1815.
Up to last month British Consular offi-
cers, among them some of the ablest and
most versatile representatives of the
Crown abroad, were debarred from enter-
ing the diplomatic service. Conversely,
some diplomatists who had failed to
achieve distinction in their own field had
to be pensioned off or given a nominal
appointment, whereas they could have
made very capable Consuls-General.
The United States had long recognised
the wisdom of amalgamating the two ser-
vices, American diplomatic and Consular
officials have been interchangeable since
1911. The British Foreign Office, how-
ever, conserved the traditional “old-
school-tie” character of its diplomatic
corps up to the present. Mr. Eden, him-
self an old Etonian, has certainly made a
revolutionary step, although many promi-
nent diplomatists have been urging this
step for years.—P. W. (N.S»W.).


cn't
DEFT NATURE
Fof Constipation Leads
to Endless Trouble
Nature has decreed that the Bowels shall
operate regularly —at least once a day.
Defiance or neglect of this law leads to many
kinds of suffering, including Headaches, Bad
Breath, Biliousness, Indigestion, Pimples, etc.
Constipation also makes you look and
feel dull, bad tempered and livery.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
proved remedy for regulating the Bowels
and restoring the system to proper working
order in a thorough yet gentle manner.
A course will convince.
Dr.Mors£
PILLS
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windbum and Sunburn.—When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sor.e and Tired Feet.—Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving.—A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry,. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/7£ per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are genera)
lymptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Fhread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
m excellent medicine compounded
m a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
.tores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
"'o Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
ir 6 Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
>rice 2/1 per box (six boxes 12/-), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
d
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
• For local office address (Subscribers living outside Australia and New
see Page 8. Zealand should send 30/-.)
SEND ‘THE BULLETIN”
THE LADS OVERSEAS-
Special Concession Rates:
12 months . . 15/-
6 months . 8/-
3 months, 4/-
post free.
o°:
.\\®
, Cfi\ £
*>w ,
X* „ «e v
ltf S
'■ .-••■■ ..-•■>
•*’ °? V '°‘0 e ’^ ce t^ e ’
••’ dWti .ft: o^»-


t
J
*
!>
J'.
mm
S'
FOR
lioi
The heavy, surgical steel —not wafer — of genuine
GEM Blades takes a super keen edge that stands
up to the toughest beard, gives double the usual
number of shaves per blade. Each shave with
genuine GEM Blades costs less than with cheaper
substitutes.
GEM RAZORS WITH 2 BLADES-
ON SALE AT ALL STORES, I'- COMPLETE.
r
▼
u
DouMe
Life
BLADES
