

The Bulletin
“TTie Bulletin,” Vol. 63. —No. 3252.
Wednesday, June 10, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
INTERIOR OF CANTERBURY CATHEDRAL.
U/HILE the external delineaments of
the Cathedral Church of Canterbury
are familiar to most people in the Eng-
lish-speaking world, it may be accepted
comparatively few comprising the “grand
total” have any idea of the internal
arrangements of this, one of the most
famed ecclesiastical structures in Christen-
dom. Perhaps the view from the great
western doors presented by the nave
will convey some conception of the
“splendour and glory” within the walls of
this sacred edifice. The nave, as illus-
trated, provides, so to speak, an epitome
of architectural history. Archbishop Lan-
franc, whom William the Conqueror
made Archbishop of Canterbury, pulled
down the Saxon Church and built an-
other, the nave being of the same noble
proportions as the present one. Towards
the end of the fourteenth century it was
found “Lanfranc’s Nave” was showing
symptoms of decay; so it was pulled
down and an appeal for funds for resto-
ration issued by Archbishop Arundel,
who gave 1000 marks, a huge dona-
tion in those days, and “five sweet-sound-
ing bells,” from which the n.-w. tower
is still known as the Arundel steeple.
The new nave followed the exact lines of
that of Lanfranc. His n.-w. tower was
allowed to stand, and it was not until last
century the beautiful Norman work was
replaced by what the late Rev. Dr.
Field described as “a feeble copy of the
south-west tower.” In the nave one is
conscious of the totally different feeling
of the Perpendicular style from the
Norman, as displayed in the crypt, and
the Early English in the choir. Yet many
prefer the elaborately fluted nave pillars,
the delicate shafts springing from the
floor and mounting to the clerestory. The
many-ribbed nave roof is an artistic joy.
Then there is the vast west window
divided by transoms and the perpendicu-
lar mullions, which gave the style its
name. Also, too, are the small and grace-
ful lancets which “look down” on wor-
shippers from the east end. The won-
derful and irreparable stained glass that
filled so many windows, great and small,
was wisely removed, for war conditions
as interpreted by foes which neither fear
nor love God or his temples have to be
provided against.


w
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
GAVIN CASEY’S STORIES.
“All the stories in this volume were first pub-
lished in The Bulletin, to which I owe as
much for encouragement in cheque and other
forms as any of the hundreds of Australian
writers it has helped in the past.”
That is Gavin Casey’s graceful
acknowledgment in the first collection of
his stories to reach book form; It’s
Harder for Girls, just published by Angus
and Robertson.
The publication of a volume of his
stories, either by a commercial firm or
through the Commonwealth Fund, was
strongly urged by the Red Page a year
ago, and round about the same time the
publication of three other books was
suggested: annual anthologies of Aus-
tralian short stories and of Australian
poetry (an idea which bore fruit in Angus
and Robertson’s publication of Coast to
Coast and Australian Poetry 1941) and
a collection of the poems of Tasmania’s
Norma Davis.
The individual poet, as usual, coming
last in this wicked world, Norma Davis’s'
verses are still, as far as is known, sus-
pended in the cobwebs of the Common-
wealth Fund. Of their own weight and
their own strength, they will surely break
out and into publication before long.
They may be out of the main stream of
poetry; but they are certain to be
cherished in Australia by anyone who cares
for the English landscapes of Clare and
Edmund Blunden ; anyone who likes to
read such nature-lovers as Charles Bar-
rett ; anyone who values the painted
landscapes of Gruner or John Eldershaw.
The publication of each of these books
was urged for two reasons, and for no
others: to encourage writers who are
worth encouraging, and to add to Aus-
tralian literature books of permanent
value. In a year that has seen some ex-
ceptionally good writing in Australia—
there have been such notable perform-
ances as Eleanor Dark’s The Timeless
Land, Ernestine Hill’s My Love Must
Wait and Eve Langley’s The Pea Pickers
—Casey’s stories, from the point of view
of craftsmanship, stand out alone.
It’s Harder for Girls does not represent
so arduous and sustained a bout of
creative effort as does The Timeless
Land; it has not needed the vast and
prolonged effort of construction that My
Love Must Wait must have entailed; it
has not the lyrical beauty of Eve Lang-
ley’s hymn to the Australian earth. But
it does represent years of repeated effort
at mastering the secret of the short story ;
such a masterpiece as the 15,000-word
“Short Shift Saturday” reveals the abso-
lute maximum of constructive power that
the story form will hold ; the writing,
though deliberately colloquial, is care-
fully done ; and nearly every story is a
gem of craftsmanship, hard, tight, econo-
mical, punching home with the power
and inevitability that the true short story
must have.
That’s the first and strongest impres-
sion left by a re-reading of these Gavin
Casey short stories: what good stories
they are. Not—except for a couple of
humorous items —yarns ; not —except for
a picture of a thunderstorm —sketches ;
but true short stories, each a world on
its own in which some aspect of charac-
ter is revealed as in a flash of lightning.
There is the girl of the title story, the
wild girl of the wild family that every
small town knows; the appealing, vivid
and extraordinarily dramatic picture of
small-boy gangsterdom in “Day of the
Sports” ; the man who was not afraid,
and the man who was terribly, unreason-
ingly and uncontrollably afraid in the
mine that “talked”:
But for Bill, Jim would have quit be-
fore the first week was out. He had
walked off his last job—a good one, on
profitable contract rates—before anyone
had discovered the reason. There, too, the
ground had “talked,” threatening and shift-
ing about behind its deceptive face, day
and night. It had creaked and groaned
and grated above and around him, until
it was no longer an interesting phenome-
non, but a promise of doom. It had de-
veloped voices, suggestions of impending
catastrophe that were almost articulate.
The rock had pressed around him, stifling
and startling, before he had decided not
to go down into it again. He had got into
a habit of staring, hypnotised, at a wall
of solid stone until it first melted into
vague, swirling, dark masses, and then leapt,
toppling and tumbling, towards him. The
seven-hundred level, where the masses were
quiet and still, and the only noises were
those of humans and scurrying, friendly
mice, had been heaven after that.
But now he was at the twelve, in the big
slope that was always filled with vague*
hints of irresistible power, crushing weight
and diabolical purpose, biding their time.
Lor that story alone, “Talking
Ground,” It’s Harder for Girls would
be an unforgettable book ; a new and
powerful experience, a new thing in
Australian writing.
t There is the Lawson-like humanity of
Back for Good,” where a man coming
back broke to his native town finds that
the only one of his old friends who is
willing to help him is stupid “Chook,”
whom he had always despised and who
will be “pushing barrels around” all his
L *^ ere the strong, masculine poetry
of “That Day at Brown Lakes”—and
again perhaps an echo (but never an
imitation) of Lawson in that pleasant
study of mateship. And there is the
amazing portrait-gallery of “Short Shift
Saturday”—miner after miner, roughly
gay or tragic, disillusioned or cheerful,
drunk or sober, working or relaxing,
glowing with life like the portraits of
the old Dutch masters; and “Short Shift
Saturday’s” complex but strictly patterned
drama, reaching an almost unbearable
intensity when Don, who has “got his
ticket”—has learned that he is to die of
phthisis—is seen roaring drunk and want-
ing to fight the world in the last great
upsurge of the spirit of life in his doomed
body.
Yes, first-class short stories. And,
looked at for their value as entertainment,
pleasantly varied by the humorous yarns,
which, if not of the quality of the others,
are valuable as light relief; and, too,
looked at for sustained interest, a re-
markably complete picture of the gold-
fields of the West and of the men who
work in them. A closely regional book
which Australians will value for its
documentation of Australian life and
which, because of the truth of its charac-
terisation, would have the same strong
impact anywhere in the world.
The publication of the book may be
valuable to Casey himself as a writer in
a different way from what it will to his
readers. It will let him see what he has
done, and what he has yet to do. He may
decide that he has exploited to the full
the possibilities of colloquial “prole-
tarian” prose ; he may see that there is
a strict limit to what can be achieved in
writing that, as a whole, deliberately ex-
cludes color and tone. There has not yet
been an enduring reputation made by a
colloquialist in English prose; perhaps
it can be done, but it is worth Casey’s
while to think about it.
And it is also worth his while to con-
sider what attitude to life, what under-
lying philosophy he has adopted, and to
decide whether or not he should broaden
his outlook in future writings as he does
momentarily at the end of “That Day at
Brown Lakes” when he admits that the
man who is staring woodenly into his
beer-mug may also, like the narrator,
be seeing in his mind something of the
joy and beauty of life.
Casey gives the impression that he has
read Lawson and Hemingway, but not
Chekhov and not De Maupassant. He
makes a “Buck Party” a thing of misery
and shame, as Lawson might have, not a
thing of wild exhilaration as De Maupas-
sant would have. Because he wants to
show that “it’s harder for girls,” he
makes his title story a sad one ; but De
Maupassant, taking the unrespectable
but very likely psychologically correct
view that the girl wanted to become a
“bad ’un,” might have made it a comedy
or even presented not her fall from grace
but her marriage as the tragedy.
Casey might look again at humanity
and think about whether in future
writings he should continue to make
stories out of resentment at life: miners
resenting the mines; wives resenting their
husbands’ drinking, husbands resenting
their wives’ growing old. Decide, in
effect, whether his characters are going
to accept life or reject it. For the state-
ment of It’s Harder for Girls is funda-
mentally one of rejection, and the greatest
reputations are made by the acceptors—
Shakspeare, Fielding, Dickens. Good as
this book is —because it is of such genu-
ine quality—Casey should be able to do
better.
Warning to Tourists.
One of the things that every fisherman
should know is how to behave on en-
countering a rhinoceros. This huge but
sensitive animal —Cherry Kearton re-
cords in Cherry Kearton’s Travels (Hale)
—can be given the jumps by a “little
Dick-dick” (baby detective?) and reacts
very unfavorably to the presence of
anglers:
My kindly hostess had a narrow escape.
She was sitting on the bank fishing when,
hearing a slight sound, she looked round
and saw a rhino with his nose pointed
in her direction, and ears stuck forward
to catch any sound, barely 15 yards away.
In this perilous situation, Lady Betty
Walker (it is pleasing to record) kept her
head: —
She kept perfectly still, as all good fisher-
men can do, and after a lapse of several
minutes the rhino, came to the conclusion
that there was no danger and moved away.
Golfers and motorists, likewise, should
not imagine that they are immune from
the attentions of these übiquitous
monsters. A rhino has been known to
trot across the golf course at Nyeri, “and
he was not a pet!” And then when Mr.
Kearton was about to go for a drive he
was
warned about an old rhino that sometimes
wandered near the road as he was going
home in the early morning, and, if he hap-
pened to smell a car, would at once give
chase, for apparently he disliked petrol
fumes. i
And, of course, if one speeds to escape
him one can never be quite certain that
the little Dick-dick will not spring from
the undergrowth with his little book-
book.
With lions, elephants, jackals, baboons,
etc., Africa is thus a perfect hell for the
tourist. Only at the “Treetop Hotel,”
apparently, is there any degree of com-
fort:—
This was a house built in a big tree
overlooking a drinking pool, where ele-
phant, rhino, buffalo and many other
animals came to drink, and it was so well
equipped that one could sleep up there and,
when any animals came along at night,
merely switch on a searchlight and watch
them from a comfortable bed. It sounds
too good to be true, but nevertheless is a
fact, and gives a great amount of interest
to those who otherwise would not be keen
on game. It says something, too, for the
progressive ideas of the proprietors of the
hotel.
Mr. Kearton does not give the opinion
of the rhinoceroses on this progressive
innovation, but it is safe to assume that
they have their noses pointed in the pro-
prietor’s direction.
Murder with Humor.
The American newspaperman who
proves so helpful to Frances Myles and
husband Richard in H. Mclnnes’s Above
Suspicion (Harrap; Angus and Robert-
son) complains that he finds their English
humor difficult to understand:
“It’s that dead-pan look you English have
when you have your little joke which makes
us think you’ve no sense of humor. You
don’t look as if you expected anyone to
laugh.”
Frances was smiling now. “Well, that
doubles the joke for us.”
“You mean that if I hadn’t laughed just
now you would have been laughing because
I didn’t laugh because you didn’t laugh.”
On the other hand if he had tailed
along with Donald Lam, the tough little
private investigator of A. A. Fair’s Gold
Comes in Bricks (Robert Hale), he could
have laughed aloud at any time and been
well on the safe side.
Myles is an Oxford don and his humor
is the quiet, leisurely humor of the Oxford
don. When in the midsummer of 1939
he and his wife go holidaying in Ger-
many, their real purpose to locate a
British agent whose messages have been
unaccountably delayed, their adventures
take on the same quiet and leisurely
approach to the climax. The picture—of
character and place and incident —is
whole and complete. The humor is neat
and polished, and the story takes on the
same neatness, the writing the same
polish.
Lam is coarse and shrewd and tough,
his humor of the rib-racking variety. His
story races along, with incident piled on
incident, and not a stop till he has pushed
and cheated and lied his way through to
a satisfactory conclusion for Lam. In the
Peter Cheyney tradition, his progress is
liberally sprinkled with dames.
Hinemoa: Anna Flaxman (Peter
Davies). Light romance; two men and
a girl. Early chapters set in Maoriland,
where the heroine, showing remarkable
strength of character, plucks oysters
from the rocks and opens them with her
bare hands.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Cauboy”: An enraged Gilsullivanite
writes to the Melbourne dailies protest-
ing against the Firm’s exclusion of “The
Mikado” from the current season on the
grounds that “the famous operetta is
really a wonderful satire on Japan, and
for that reason alone its inclusion in the
repertoire is all the more desirable.” If
this is all Gilsullivanites understand about
their idol, gazing at the plays over the
footlights hasn’t taught them much. Gil-
bert no more meant to satirise Japan
in “The Mikado” than Anatole France
meant to sling off at the penguins when
he wrote Penguin Island. The latter used
an inverted method the better to show
up the follies and failings of the France
of his own day, just as Dean Swift showed
up the evils and injustices of contempo-
rary England by writing about Lilliput.
And all Gilbert wanted to do in his
lighter vein was to show up the snob-
beries and prejudices of English institu-
tions. He wasn’t in the least bit inter-
ested in the Japanese, about whom he
knew next to nothing.
When poetry, generally regarded as
remote, obscure and not to be compared
with Edgar Wallace for dramatic interest,
has fallen upon such evil times as it has
in recent years, such an effort as th
A.B.C.’s “Poet’s Plays” series, demon
strating to a wide audience that Shelle
wrote an enthralling melodrama, tha
T. S. Eliot isn’t obscure, and that th
medieval morality play “Everyman” (th
latest of the series) will never be remot
while Everyman is mortal, might be o '
considerable value in bringing the ar
back into favor. But to be of real influ
ence the series would have to be a per
manent thing ; not once a month for si
months, and then never no more.
Only at rare moments does “Every
man” attain the intensity of a play; i
is, in essence, a dramatised sermon. Ye
it was pleasant to listen to, and any
dramatic weakness was more than atoned
for by its wealth of literary interest. Any
verse-writer who heard it might hav
been intrigued to notice that all the mos
daring tricks of “modern” technique-
assonance, consonant-rhyme, off-rhym
and that rare sort of off-beat rhyme in
which “and,” say, is rhymed with “thou
sand” —had been used freely by the
anonymous medieval author.
In her water-color sketches exhibited
at the Le Meilleur studio-cafe, Mel-
bourne, under the patronage of the Breac
and Cheese Club, Nancy Mclntosh
seems to have ranged widely. Wesi;
African negroes. Island belles, Chinese
sages, Scandinavians and Creoles and
common or garden blondes have fallen
to her pencil. She draws in crayon anc
dashesJn a bit of color. The best of her
works are the Chinese heads and the
worst of her misdeeds the girls of her own
race who look as if they had stepped out
of a cosmetics poster. It comes as a bit
of a surprise to learn that she got all her
types in the vicinity of Little Bourke-
street.
Principal interest in a show of draw-
ings and paintings by Maorilander James
Cook at the Notanda Gallery, Sydney,
attaches to some excellent drawings of
camp-life. But he is a very versatile and
competent craftsman, and his work in
oils and water-color is thoughtful and
pleasing. He was very successful as a
teacher of art in his native land and
latterly has been an official war artist.
Even if it were intended to be sharp
(which, in the case of John Goodchild’s
exhibition of etchings at the Vic. Nat.
Gallery, it wasn’t) criticism should stop
short of murder: wherefore Melbourne
Showman offers his condolences to Mr.
Goodchild for having unwarrantably de-
scribed him as “the late John Good-
child.” From Unley Park, South Aus-
tralia, Mr. Goodchild writes: “I’m not
altogether a stranger to metaphysics or
spiritualism, but so far, apart from a few
hours spent sometime each night, I feel
very much alive in a strange world. The
legal angle also must come into this, and
I understand that one is considered dead
only when the eyes do not react to a
poke ; mine certainly do. Your state-
ment in the Shows column is, there-
fore, journalistically incorrect.”
Raymond Massey and Emlyn Williams
—both among the screen’s best actors —
have cropped up in a couple of thrillers,
“Black Limelight” and “Dead Men Tell
No Tales.” The former —about a hus-
band accused of murdering a girl he’s
been carrying on with in a seaside shack
—misses because (1) he obviously didn’t
do it, (2) there’s only one other suspect,
and (3) because Massey’s a powerful
man, both physically and dramatically,
and fits into the part of the fugitive hus-
band like a railway engine in a spring-
cart. “Dead Men Tell No Tales” is a
better show because (1) the beautifully-
bearded hunchback who mur-rders ’em
all isn’t who he is at all, and (2) because
Emlyn Williams, as the schoolmaster,
and Christine Silver, as the spinster school-
teacher, who wins a lottery and starts
all the trouble, turn in excellent per-
formances along with the rest of a good
c,ast.


RICH-LOOKING ... TIME-DEFYING ...
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
fr>
J .
H ■
c
A.
w V
■>
m
M
-.•• m
v.l
AXMINSTER HALL AND STAIR CARPET
A—Best British Imperial Axminster Hall and Stair Carpets. Beautiful designs for Home,
Church, or Presbytery use, in rich colourings of Red, Green, and Blue. At Anthony
Horderns'.
Replacement SPECIAL
Sizes Price PRICE
wide Stair 29/6 .. 21/-
27-inch wide Stair 34/6 .. 23/6
36-inch wide Stair 52/- .. 45/-
27-inch wide Body 34/6 .. 29/6
m
:Xym
xliiSii
Sr
' .<■ c, ? « i
p*i
AXMINSTER RUGS
B—Bring individuality to your rooms with these British Axminster Rugs, built of the same
good quality that has always given satisfying service. With fringed ends. At Anthony
Horderns'.
Sizes
4 feet x 1 foot 10j inches
4 feet 3 inches x 2 feet 3 inches
5 feet 3 inches x 2 feet 8 inches
5 feet 8 inches x 3 feet
6 feet x 3 feet 9 inches
Replacement
Price
31/6
39/6
58/6
71/6
95/-
SPECIAL
PRICE
24/11
31/6
46/6
56/6
77/6
AXMINSTER CARPET SQUARES
C—These high-grade British Axminster Carpet Squares will give the utmost in service and
retain their beauty and luxuriousness because of quality construction and materials.
At Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes
7 feet 6 inches x 6 feet
9 feet x 6 feet
9 feet x 7 feet 6 inches
9 feet x 9 feet
10 feet 6 inches x 9 feet
12 feet x 9 feet
12 feet x 10 feet 6 inches
13 feet 6 inches x 10 feet 6 inches
Replacement
Price
£9/2/6
£lO/19/6
£l3/15/-
£l6/10/-
£l9/5/-
£2l/17/6
£25/12/6
£2B/ISA-
SPECIAL
PRICE
£ 6 /1 5/-
£B/2/6
£ll/7 /6
£l3/7/6
£l5/17/6
£l7/17/6
£2O/17/6
£23/13/6
■ * V
• <(■
,v
Carpets —Fourth Floor.
Wilton Wall-
to-wall Carpet
Splendid value in heavy
quality Wilton Wall-to-Wall
Carpet, in charming shades of
Blue, Peach, Brown, Rust,
Mushroom, Pink and White
27 inches wide. At Anthony
Horderns'. Replacement price,
yard, 35/—. SPECIAL PRICE,
yard 25/-
vt: *
v. *
'Phone: M 2401,
(Day and Night.)
Post to Box 2712 C,
G.P.0.. Sydney
Jo-"-
V/
ip
s
/A*
%


CROWN AND ANCHOR
By ULLIN McKEE WRIGHT.
‘ ‘ I mm \ OU pick ’em and I’ll pay! This
\ j lucky gentleman’s got the idea!
y Come on now. The more y’ put
£ on the more y’ pick up! Lay it
on hard and lay it on fast. Here, what
about the old crown? What about the
old heart? Are you all set? Going to
let the heart run for the Old Man? All
right! All right! Up she comes then.
Ah! Three jolly old hearts and a skinner
for the Old Man! Don’t say I didn’t
warn you! But it only happens once in
a lifetime. So, come on, gentlemen! No
waiting, no delay. Lay it on hard and
lay it on fast. If you don’t speculate you
can’t accumulate. Ah! this lucky gentle-
man’s got the idea.”
It was pay Friday. Terry lay on his
folded palliasse and writhed in agony.
A girl in town had said “If you don’t
give up gambling you can count me out.”
With a vision of her brown hair and a
memory of its perfume, Terry realised
that his pay was still intact in the pocket
of his tunic. He was keeping his word.
“What! Are you letting the heart run
for the Old Man again? Never let it be
said, gentlemen. If you don’t speculate
you can’t accumulate.”
“I’d have had two bob on the heart,”
Terry told himself and gritted his teeth.
“Don’t say I didn’t warn you, gentle-
men. No waiting, no delay, and up
she comes! Two hearts and a jolly old
hook. This lucky gentleman had the
idea. Fve bob to your five on the hook,
sir. It’s a pleasure to pay! Away she
goes again, gentlemen. Lay it on hard
and lay it on fast.”
“I’d have won four bob,” Terry told
himself. He left his palliasse and wan-
dered restlessly to the tar end of the hut.
What right had she to stop him from
gambling anyway?
“What about the old shamrock? Aren’t
there any Irishmen amongst us? Ah!
that’s the idea!”
“I’d have had four bob on the club,”
Terry muttered. He could hear the rattle
of the dice. He held his breath.
“All set, gentlemen? Well, up she
comes!” There was a dead, suffocating
silence. “Two jolly old clubs and a
crown. Just where the money lies! It’s
a pleasure to pay, gentlemen. It’s a
pleasure to pay!”
Terry grinned wryly. “That’s twelve
bob I would have won. Enough to pay
our way into the ball tomorrow night.”
He half yawned. “I’ll take a stroll down
to the river,” he told himself casually.
“My luck wouldn’t hold like that any-
way.” He went to his uniform and took
ten shillings from the roll of notes. “I
might want something if I come back
through the town. I might even meet
Grace down there.”
On the way to the gate he paused at
the crown and anchor board. Old Butch
was paying out. A corporal had put two
pounds on the spade and two spades
had turned up. The corporal pocketed
his six pounds and walked away.
“If I’d had it,” Terry told himself, “I’d
have put the whole lot on the crown.” He
waited while Butch went through his
rigmarole of persuasion and encourage-
ment. “All right, gentlemen. All set!
Well, up she comes!”
A crown and two spades! That would
have meant twelve quid. Terry watched
the corporal disappear round one of the
huts. He edged his way into the ring of
gamblers. “Here, change this.” He
pushed the ten bob across to Butch.
“No harm in risking a bob. I’d spend
that on fags and think nothing of it,”
he told himself. He looked at the colors
of the board and at the slouch hat full of
silver and notes on Butch’s lap.
“I’ll have a bob on the anchor.” He
put it down tail up in the square with
the brown anchor for its centre and
laughed. He had a feeling that the
anchor was a cert.
“Come on, gentlemen. Faint heart
never won fair lady! Lay it on hard
and lay it on fast.” Butch wasn’t in a
hurry. The money was well distributed.
That was how he liked it. A private
came over from the canteen with a froth-
ing mug of beer and Butch swallowed
it at a gulp. Terry had a growing con-
viction that the anchor would turn up.
“Faint heart never won fair lady.” He
let the remainder of the silver in his hand
trickle on to the anchor square.
He was tense then, watching Old Butch
shake the dice ; watching him place them
on the packing case that served as a
table with the leather shaker still over
them.
All right, gentlemen. Any more for
any more? Here’s where the trouble lies,
right under this little gadget. Quick
before we lift her up.”
“Two anchors,” Terry said under his
breath, “two anchors.”
“All right, gentlemen, and up she
comes! Two anchors and a jolly old
heart! And this lucky gentlemen gets a
pound for ten shillings. But it’s a pleasure
to pay, gentlemen. It’s a pleasure to
pay.”
Terry gripped the thirty shillings in his
hand. It was his lucky day. After all,
everybody had to have a lucky day
sooner or later.
“Come on, gentlemen, lay it on hard
and lay it on fast. That’s the stuff, gentle-
men! Where you like and where you
please. What about the old anchor?
Going to let it run for the Old Man?
All right, gentlemen, you know best!
Up she”
“Wait!” Terry shot his hand out,
slammed the thirty shillings back on the
anchor. He stayed leaning over the
board, tense and strained, forgetting
everything except the three little dice
hiding under the leather cover.
“Here’s where the trouble lies,” Butch
said. He lifted the cover. “Three jolly
clubs and this lucky gentleman wins
three shillings to one.”
The blood rushed into Terry’s head,
burning his face and ears. What a fool
he’d been. What a damned fool! He
turned away from the board, Mick
O’Reilly grabbed him by the arm. “It’s
the shamrock you should have been on,”
he grinned. “But if y’re broke I could be
lending you a few bob till next pay.”
Terry grinned back at him. “No,” he
said. “I’m not broke, Mick.”
? The Irishman pinched his arm. “Then
I’ll have a couple of bob on the sham-
rock meself for the fun of the thing.”
OLD Butch’s rasping voice followed
Terry back to the hut. “I can’t afford
to lose ten bob,” he told himself. “I’ve
got to get it back.” He went to his coat
again and took a pound out. That left
two—hs put the whole three pounds in
his trouser pocket.
“No bets barred, gentlemen. No bets
barred. If you don’t speculate you can’t
accumulate! Lay it on hard and lay it
on fast. Ah! here’s an old customer
back again. What about the old heart,
laddie?”
Terry put a pound on the heart. He
tried to be casual. He looked the other
way as Butch lifted the cover.
“One spade, one crown and one
diamond. Somebody had the idea.”
“But it wasn’t me.” Terry grinned.
What the hell did it matter anyway?
People took money too damned seriously.
What if he did go broke? “What about
the old heart this time?” he said. He
planked a pound on it. He didn’t look
at the dice.
“Two spades and one diamond,” said
Mick O’Reilly when Butch raised the
cover.
Terry laughed again. He had a pound
left. His next bet might leave him broke
for a fortnight, or it might give him a
chance to win his money back.
* Mick looked at him from the other
side of the board and winked. “Switch
to the old shamrock,” he suggested,
“That’ll change your luck.”
Why not? Terry flipped his last pound
carelessly across to the club. In a way
he hoped he’d lose it. He’d be out of it
then. He felt for his tobacco. He was
out of papers. He borrowed one from
the man next to him.
Old Butch seemed longer than usual
shaking the dice. Well, maybe, he’d shake
him out a couple of clubs. That’d bring
him back to three quid. He’d pull out
then and to hell with the ten bob. In a
moment of panic he wondered if it would
have been better to have left his bet on
the heart. Then Butch was lifting the
cover. “All right, gentlemen, if you’re
all satisfied —up she comes!” And then,
the voice seeming a mile away, “Two
hearts and a club and this lucky gentle-
man gets a pound to a pound.”
Terry’s hand was shaking as he reached
across the board for the two pounds.
“I could have been broke then,” he told
himself, “and now I’m not. Why not
again? All or nothing. It takes courage
to gamble.”
Mechanically he watched Old Butch
flourish the little leather cup. “If you
don’t speculate you can’t accumulate.
Faint heart never won fair lady. Come,
gentlemen! No waiting and no delay.”
Terry dropped his two pounds on the
crown. His fingers held it there, hard
and taut like strained wire.
“All set, gentlemen? Well, up she
comes!”
A crown, a heart and a club. Terry’s
hand shook again as he clutched the
four pounds. Then he stiffened as he put
three of them on the heart.
“Two lucky hearts and a diamond!
This lucky man had the idea. Six pounds
to your three, and it’s a pleasure to
pay.”
HE held a tenner now. He’d pull out.
It was silly to try his luck any fur-
ther. And yet, it was obviously his lucky
day. To be so near broke and then to
come out six pounds ten on top. Why
not make it twenty? That’s what he’d
do. No matter what happened, he’d
make it twenty or go broke. He’d play
carefully. You could win at this game
if you played carefully. He put two
pounds on the diamond. Anyone could
be a winner as well as another.
“One heart, one diamond, one crown!
and the Old Man pays again. But it’s a
pleasure to pay.”
That made it twelve pounds. Eight
pounds to go. He’d win it in one go.
Then he’d be out of it. The anchor was
due to come up. He put four pounds on
the anchor.
“Four pounds? That’s a bet. No bets
barred. You pick ’em and I’ll pay!
Up she comes again, and —three lucky
spades and a skinner for the Old Man.
Lay it on hard and lay it on fast.”
He was back to eight pounds. He
should have pulled out when he had the
tenner. But he’d said he’d make it up
to twenty, and he’d keep his bargain.
He’d try the anchor with another two
pounds.
“Honesty’s the name, gentlemen, and
you can’t go wrong if you stack it on!
This is where the trouble lies and up she
comes! Two clubs and a spade and the
Old Man pays out!”
Six pounds left. He’d have to be more
careful. He’d only bet a pound this time.
A pound on the crown.
“Don’t lose your nerve, gentlemen.
There’s plenty in the old hat yet. If you
don’t speculate you can’t accumulate.”
Terry stuck to his pound bet. They
couldn’t teach him to play. He grinned
confidently as he waited for the crown
to turn up.
It did and he laughed softly to himself.
His luck was back again. He had seven
pounds. He put four of it on the heart.
The dice turned up two anchors and
a spade. Terry cursed, his ears burning
again. If he had any sense he’d pull out
now while the going was goock But he’d
made a bargain with himself and he was
going to keep it.
“Two pounds on the crown,” he said.
Three diamonds! Terry watched
Butch counting the notes in his roll. He
put his last pound on the crown and
walked away. His nails bit into the
palms of his hands as he pushed them
into his pockets. From a long way away
he heard Butch say; “Two jolly old
hearts and a spade. It’s a pleasure to
pay, gentlemen. It’s a pleasure to pay!”
Terry turned back through the crowd
as if he hadn’t heard. His pound was
gone.
“Hearts and a spade, was it?” he asked.
Butch looked across at him and
nodded.
Terry swung away, hating the world,
hating himself. He thought of Grace.
He thought of the ball the next night.
He bit his lips. He’d been a fool. If only
he’d left that ten shillings safe in his
pocket. But it was no good wishing. He
had to do something. He turned toward
the camp post office. He’d ring her up
and say he’d been confined to barracks.
He could say he’d cheeked an officer.
Maybe she’d be fool enough to believe
him. He opened the door of the tele-
’phone-box.
A hand closed on his arm. “Would
the loan of a pound be helpin’ you any?”
It was Mick O’Reilly with his big grin.
The pound note crackled in his hand,
Terry crunched it against his palm.
“It’s a pleasure to pay, gentlemen!
You pick ’em and I’ll pay” Old
Butch’s voice drifted up from the huts.
Terry looked up at Mick and grinned.
The strain had gone. “It’s all right,
Mick,” he said; “I’m not going back
there. And thanks. I’ll see you next pay-
day.”
Various Verse
Cherry-picking.
Hearing the truck cresting the rise of the hill-
side
And the to-fro of voices over the laden branches,
The rustle and shuffle of leaves which the wind
disposes
And the day-long languor of summer, the song
and the silence,
I, heart-content, thinking of nothing,
Drop cherries like rounded pebbles into my
bucket
Which fall to their shore to heap up a minia-
ture mountain
Under this water, this air.
1 pause to dream and drift on the tide of
summer,
The haze and the shifting light on the air’s
placidity
Or the transient eddies of wind,
Till, being aware of a long-bowed back, I climb
down
And walk alone to the hilltop, thinking of
nothing.
Why should we take from the land who give
nothing to it,
Who reap the gradual harvest of the year,
Who buy with coin what should be earned with
toil
And sell our birthright cheaply, unaware?
We make no statements but of cash and carry,
We map our pathways for the eroding wind,
Carver of many dust-bowls, desolate places— >
And leave our evil on the earth unsigned.
Blistered by drought in strips of sandy cities,
We front a tide more terrible than ocean
And, like the ostrich, head in sand to danger.
We crowd defenceless on diminishing shores.
Here, round me, fallow-fields, red-loam pad-
docks, orchards
Glittering bright with the sun on apple and
cherry,
Diminished and tidied to rows by height and
distance,
Unfold their generous contours to the sky.
The heaped-up stooks
Speckle with points of light the stubble fields
And brown draught-horses plod far off, remote,
To draw the garnered trophy of the grain.
The whitewashed houses crooked in the arm
of the hill
Splay out their fringe of green, surrounding
trees;
Each rise and fall of earth
Gives imperceptible place to fall and rise
And lastly flows in quiet to the hills
Which shape their giant buttress on the sky.
And standing still on the hill at noonday,
With only wind between heart and heaven,
Wonder brims over my eyes, and beauty
Leaves me with peace at the last horizon.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Canefields.
These green ribbons will not tell you all; but
listen —
The tan men weeping sweat, swearing at the
town
That tears their hearts for wealth ... the cane-
fields glisten,
And their green sea of ribbons clears your
frown.
There was a wayfarer, one season past,
Who never mastered his farewell to her,
The brown decanter of his costly mirth,
Filled by each northern summer to the last.
He toiled, and in the hearsay of her bold green
fur
They called the priest and pegged his claim of
earth.
The canefields were his destiny.—Remember?
The fan-tan thrived, the houses of your loves
and next’s,
From August to each sweltering December,
And still he stayed on numerous pretexts.
Yet scentless, flowerless green ribbons . . . How —
How did they bind his wayward heart, or find
More constant each green summer your deep
lust?
The tan men earning for their lovers know
More than the warm earth tells; and green
ribbons bind
The secret of your toil, sealed in the red-
hued dust.
Queensland.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.
Palace of Dreams.
When death-dewed night is all a-swoon,
Haunted by the driving moon,
Haunted by long sweeps of shade,
Monolith and colonnade
Writhe fantastic arms in air;
Echoing flag and hollow stair
Chequered are by deep, black bars;
Far from grace of winds and stars,
Enmeshed in immortality,
I tread these stairs, and none but I.
Darkly yawns the looming portal,
Solid-hewn, deep-grained, immortal,
Where the stony griffins keep
Station, sunk in lidless sleep;
Earth-plots, where no flower blooms;
Cloisters, lost in mazing glooms;
Warded locks of mystery,
Oblivion the only key.
I have sensed, remote in dreams,
Thick musk, fuming censer-steams,
And heard a distant organ pour
Wild cadence down each corridor;
Traced the crusted wall-outline,
Hieroglyphed with secret sign,
Lingering o’er each storied scroll,
With nameless knowledge in my soul.
Alone, in one night’s spacious years,
Beset by crowding hopes and fears,
I have yearned and thought to see,
Through the moon-starts, fitfully,
Another wanderer slowly climb
These worn steps of Loss and Time —
No voice-music, hand-caress,
Spans my silent loneliness:
Enmeshed in immortality,
I tread these stairs —and none but I.
N.S.W.
F. WEBB.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63. —No. 3252.
Wednesday, June 10, 1942.
OVER THE WATER TO ADOLF.
“A message from Rudolf Hess. "It’s a braw, bricht moonlicht nicht, ye ken. Scotland for ever.’”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
SYDNEY HAS ITS HOUR.
“The Navy is always at war, because it
is always fighting winds and waves and
fog. The Navy is ready for an absolute
instant blow ; it has nothing to do with
strategic railways, lines of communica-
tion, or bridging rivers, or crossing moun-
tains, or the time of the year, when
mountain passes may be impassable. No!
the ocean is limitless and unobstructed ;
and the fleet, each ship manned, gunned,
provisioned and fuelled, ready to fight
within five minutes.” So said a mighty
seaman. Admiral of the Fleet Lord
Fisher, in September, 1919. He is
dead, but his words live. How true they
are in the broadest sense has been borne
in on the minds of the people of Sydney
and Australia since the Japanese tried
to catch the men in control of the Sydney
harbor defences napping and paid with
the loss of four submarines and their
crews.
Whether on the high seas or in ports
and harbors the Navy is always ready.
Ready to attack, ready to defend, ready
to pay the price of admiralty when it is
exacted, as it was in this case. In the
converted depot ship sunk by torpedo
31 naval ratings went down and only
ten survived, some of them saved from
imminent death by the gallantry of mates.
Had it not been for preparations “made”
(as the Minister for the Navy said) “long
before Japan entered the war,” and for
the cool courage and instant efficiency
shown by all hands when the presence
of the submarines was detected, the mor-
tality and the damage would have been
infinitely greater. In this war, as in the
last, the weapons carried by the sub-
marines have brought about thousands
of marine tragedies in circumstances that
sicken the soul. The havoc that might
have been wrought by one well-aimed
torpedo fired in enclosed waters that
Sunday night scarcely bears imagining.
Well it is for Sydney that the submarine
crews were hunted down before they
could get in a fair shot.
That day on which the war came to
Sydney’s doorstep, and which brought
death to the 21 naval ratings, was a busy
one for the Second-Front-in-Europe mob.
Second-Front stump-speeches were made
in the Domain. Men bearing Second-
Front petitions moved among the crowd.
A large Second-Front advertisement had
appeared in a daily paper, and one of
the Sunday sheets carried a story in which
a pillar of the alleged Legal Rights
Committee gave particulars of the “cam-
paign,” and explained that the considerable
funds required were being subscribed by
workers and others from motives of pure
patriotism.
One way in which Sydney could requite
the services of the men who saved it from
the horrors plotted by the enemy and, as
far as the living may, the sacrifices of
those who perished would be to stamp
this agitation flat. Crazy as it concerns
Australia, with the Japanese threatening
the continent from the north and so
powerful as to be able to strike at Syd-
ney, Midway, Dutch Harbor and Diego
Suarez at the same time, it is wicked,
stony-hearted, as it concerns the Navy
and the Merchant Navy. Since the
opening of a second front in Europe
would mean forcing a passage into ports
which, for the most part, have been
battered to pieces by the R.A.F. and in
any case are all in enemy occupation—
as are all the beaches, if beach
landings were attempted—it would bring
death in horrible forms to thousands, per-
haps tens of thousands, of naval and
merchant seamen. Surely Sydney can see
that and feel for the officers and men of
the noble services to whom its debt is
so vast.
. The Japanese are not at all likely to
risk their sea-power, of which they have
given so many startling examples, in any
such maniacal adventure. Neither the
epemy in Asia nor the enemy in Europe
is troubled with Second-Front agitators.
The Japanese have gained their successes
with comparatively small land forces
because their Intelligence-official and
unofficial —has been superior to that of
the democracies, and because they have
combined sea-power, air-power and land-
power with unquestionable skill. In effect,
they have turned British principles of
warfare—accepted always until, as Fisher
wrote, Britain, “forgetting the heaven-
sent gift of an incomparable Navy,” tried
to “become a great Continental Power”—
against the British Empire. The way to
beat them and Germany too is to employ
British principles of warfare against
both. That means ship- and ’plane-con-
struction and training programmes with
the sky the limit.
Australians have followed with admi-
ration for the skill and valor of the
British imperial forces the fortunes of
the struggle in North Africa. Opposed
from the beginning to enemies always
superior in numbers and nearly always
in equipment, and after their initial vic-
tories gravely weakened by the political
interference that led to the lost cam-
paign in Greece (it was lost before it
began), these forces have shown what a
happy combination of the three arms,
intelligently directed, can do. Indeed,
considering that Rommel, whom Mr.
Churchill has styled “a great general,”
has had at his disposal not only a numer-
ous and well-equipped German army but
all the resources of Italy, with only part
of the British Navy and Fleet Air Arm in
the way, the British imperial achieve-
ment in North Africa surpasses anything
that the Japanese have done.
With equal admiration, touched with
wonder, Australians have read the stones
of the tremendous air raids on Cologne
and Essen. The wonder is associated
with the policy of the Churchill Govern-
ment, which, with so many ’planes avail-
able for these impressive operations and
so many sent to Russia, could spare so
few for the defence of vital outposts of
the Empire. Mr. Curtin told us on Thurs-
day that, “in conformity with Mr.
Churchill’s earlier assurances, Dr. Evatt
has received promises of material aid”
amounting to “a practical gesture of great
significance to the Australian people.”
The “practical gesture” is welcome, but it
has been left very late.
The “National Review” declared in a
recent issue that the Empire had been
placed in peril by the “totally wrong
policy of the British Government,” which
had forgotten that “the maintenance of
the Empire is our first duty.” Com-
mander Bower, M.P., one of those naval
members who have been Mr. Churchill’s
keenest critics, said last week that the
net result of the P.M-’s “astonishing
ascendancy” is that “the country is facing
one of the most desperate situations in
its history, in the certain knowledge that
the men and the war-making organisation
that have botched and bungled almost
every campaign so far, and ended by
losing half the Empire in a few weeks,
are still functioning.” The honorable and
gallant member suggested that it was
“time Parliament and the people struck
a Churchill balance sheet,” and had a
shot at it himself. He gave the P.M.
credit for “an admirable portrayal of
will-to-win heroism,” but on the debit
side he placed “a dreary, lamentable
series of failures, nearly all of which
could have been avoided: they were
mostly due to bad strategy and haphazard
planning at the top.”
The latest hope of the Second Front
side is Mr. Joseph Davies, of the U.S.A.
Mr. Davies, a lawyer by profession,
represented his country at Moscow, and
returned as enthusiastic as the Dean of
Canterbury, and with about as much
knowledge of high strategy. Writing
in one of the London Sunday papers,
and graciously allowing that there would
be “risk” in opening a Second Front
“before Britain and the United States
are ready,” Mr. Davies intimated that if
he had the ordering of things he “would
risk half the man-power available in
Britain in an invasion of Europe.” The
gentleman omitted to mention that he
would not be present, but, as in the case
of all other Second-Fronters, that may
be taken for granted. In his opinion,
“even if the attempt failed it would not
leave Britain defenceless.” Possibly not,
but the loss of a million and a half sol-
diers (the Davies estimate), together with
countless ships, in one crazy operation
at the end of three years of war might
be too much for even a stout-hearted
nation like the British. And even though
they came through the war unconquered,
there might be reserved for them the fate
of Sweden, which permanently lost its
place among the great nations of Europe
because half its man-power was sacrificed
in the wars of Charles XII.
Mr. Churchill wrote finely of Jellicoe
at Jutland that he was the only man on
either side who could have lost the war
in an afternoon. Surrender to the clamor
for a Second Front, which the P.M. him-
self denounced in January as madness,
might mean that the same dread respon-
sibility would be placed on his own
shoulders or on those of Mr. Roosevelt,
One Parliament!
Mr. Menzies was not happy in oppos-
ing uniform income taxation, which he
did on legalistic grounds and also —
though he didn’t labor the point—because
the proposed distribution of the proceeds
didn’t appeal to him as a Victorian
member. But as if conscious that he
was pleading a lost cause and assisting,
albeit unwillingly, in a change which will
have enduring consequences, he turned
from the distasteful measures to the
subject of constitutional reform.
“After years of experience in Federal
and State politics, and after much think-
ing on the whole question,” the eminent
lawyer-politician had “come to the con-
clusion” that four things were “desir-
able” ;
(1) A new Commonwealth Constitution
on the South African model, with central-
ised powers and decentralised functions.
(2) An enlarged Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, producing greater reserves of author-
ity and administrative talent.
(3) The fullest access by the Common-
wealth Parliament to the financial re-
sources of all Australians, wherever they
may live.
(4) Uniform taxation for uniform pur-
poses.
Thus far the Court is with him. But,
unless he was misreported, he went on
to say that he did not believe in the
abolition of State Parliaments, and that
the South African plan did not “elimi-
nate” States or their Legislatures.
South Africa has no States, and no
Legislatures corresponding to our Six
Inflictions. It has a Union Parliament,
with “full power to make laws for the
peace, order and good government of
the Union,” and four provinces—Cape
of Good Hope, Natal, Transvaal and
Orange Free State—each with a provin-
cial council. Functions which in Aus-
tralia are left to the States or shared
with them by the Commonwealth in a
more or less confused fashion are in
South Africa, subject only to the one Par-
liament, controlled by Union Ministers.
There are a Union Minister of
Mines, a Union Minister of Lands, a
Union Minister of Railways and Harbors,
a Union Minister of Agriculture and
Forestry, a Union Minister of Education
and Finance, a Union Minister of Labor
and Social Welfare and a Union Minister
of Native Affairs. South Africans have
the odd notion that Ministers should
work, and work they do. As well as being
Prime Minister, Field-Marshal Smuts is
Minister of External Affairs and of
Defence, and he has only 12 colleagues,
one of whom is a general factotum with-
out portfolio. At the latest reckoning,
Australia had 79 Ministers (little Tas-
mania has nine), and, with their secre-
taries and secretaries’ secretaries and
press agents, these gentlemen could, if
necessary, contribute the best part of a
sort-of-a-kind of battalion to the V.D.C.
South Africa has no Loan Council,
nor any counterpart of the greedy
McKnell. By Section 124 of the South
Africa Act the Union was empowered
“to assume all debts and liabilities of
the colonies existing at its establishment,
under certain conditions” ; and Parlia-
ment laid down the conditions.
The Act—a very effective instrument
of government —specifies the conditions
under which railways and harbors are to
be constructed and administered. One
section provides for “the control and
management of the railways, ports and
harbors of the Union by a Board con-
sisting of not more than three Com-
missioners and a Minister of State
as chairman.” Another section directs
that “the railways, ports and harbors
are to be administered on business prin-
ciples: the total earnings are not to be
more than sufficient to meet the neces-
sary outlay on working, etc., and the pay-
ment of interest due on capital.” A third
section provides for “the establishment
out of railway and harbof revenue of a
fund to be used for maintaining uni-
formity of rates, notwithstanding fluctua-
tions of traffic.” A fourth reads:
Every proposal for construction is to be
considered by the Board. The Board is to
frame an estimate of the annual loss which,
in its opinion, will result from construc-
tion carried out contrary to its advice.
The amount of such estimate, when
approved by the Comptroller and Auditor-
General, is to be paid annually to the
Railways and Harbors Fund from the
Consolidated Revenue Fund. If in any
year the actual loss incurred is less than
the estimate the amount paid over is to
be reduced accordingly.
How sensible and sound! Australians,
contemplating their own railways, with
their three gauges and border breaks and
mazes of country lines (built in so many
cases to serve the purposes of bad poli-
ticians and in notorious instances main-
tained in a condition of hopeless insol-
vency to keep jobs for members of
politically powerful trade-unions), and
contemplating also the sacrifice of
rural districts and natural harbors to
the One Big Port “policy” and
events have shown that even in the
One Big Port necessary improvements
have been subordinated to State Govern-
ment revenue demands, port authorities
having been converted into taxing
authorities must envy the South
Africans. More especially when they re-
member how, every year, in every State,
they have had to find a prodigious tribute
because the railways always fail to yield
interest on the always-borrowed capital,
in spite of Transport Acts which have
struck savagely at commercial road com-
petition and made a mockery of Section
92 of the Commonwealth Constitution:
“Trade, commerce and intercourse
among the States, whether by means of
internal carriage or ocean navigation,
shall be absolutely free.”
The South African Government rail-
ways are no tax-eaters. On the con-
trary, after finding interest round
£5,000,000 p.a., and pensions round
£1,000,000 p.a., they have returned
annual surpluses—£s,623,loo in 1935-36,
£6,464,000 in 1936-37, £5,582,100 in 1937-
38, £3,484,400 in 1938-39 and £3,692,700
in 1939-40. In Australia, with interest
on £58,062,000 of written-off railway
capital charged up to taxpayers in
Queensland, Westralia and Tasmania,
as were also “exchange on interest pay-
ments abroad and loan management and
flotation expenses” in Queensland, West-
ralia and Tasmania, 1938-39 losses were
reckoned at £2,723,000.
As to the provincial councils, the
Constitutional provision (Section 70) is
that each province is to have “a pro-
vincial council consisting of the same
number of members as are elected in the
province for the [Union] House of
Assembly,” membership in no case to
be less than 25. Members of provincial
councils hold office for five years. So
do administrators, who are appointed by
the Governor-General-in-Council, their
salaries being “fixed and provided by
[Union] Parliament.” There are two at
£2OOO p.a. and two at £2500 p.a. Mem-
bers of provincial councils “receive allow-
ances of £IBO each” (i.e., £420 less than 80
members of Westralia’s two Chambers),
“subject to deductions for absences.”
The powers and, to a large extent,
the procedure of provincial councils are
expressly declared in the South Africa
Act; —•
An executive committee of four persons,
not necessarily members of the council,
together with the administrator as chairman,
is elected by the provincial council at its
first meeting after each general election.
Members of the executive committee
who are not members of the provincial
council may take part in the proceedings of
the council but may not vote.
The administration of affairs on behalf
of the provincial council is carried on by
the executive committee, or, when there are
not sufficient members to form a quorum,
by the administrator pending the election
of members to fill the vacancy.
The administrator may, and, when re-
quired to do so, must, act on behalf of the
Governor-General-in-Council in regard to
all matters in respect of which no powers
are reserved or delegated to the provincial
council.
The provincial council may make ordi-
nances in relation to certain specified
matters.
Any ordinance made by a provincial
council has effect in and for the province
as long and as so far only as it is not re-
pugnant to any Act of [the Union] Parlia-
ment.
A provincial council may recommend to
Parliament the passing of any law relating
to any matter in respect of which it is not
competent to make ordinances.
The Governor-General-in-Council may
assent to, or withhold his assent from, a
proposed ordinance passed by a provincial
council or may reserve it for further con-
sideration.
In short, the provinces are without
Parliaments, Ministries, Governors or
Government Houses, and last year theit
“authorised permanent staffs,” exclusive
of teachers, totalled only 2834 persons.
No provincial council can tax resi-
dents on property held in another
province, as the N.S.W. Government
has been doing for 12 years, nor
can any of them challenge the constitu-
tionality of the uniform income-tax law,
as three Premiers threaten to do. In
1932, when interest-default was the
N.S.W. Government’s “policy,” it was
left to the High Court to decide whether
the Commonwealth would survive or
come crashing down. The existence of
the Union can never depend on a
Supreme Court judgment. As between
the Union and the provinces, there is no
such thing as concurrent or disputed
powers, and there is a complete separa-
tion between the functions of the legis-
lature and the judiciary. In South Africa,
as in Britain, the one Parliament is
“omnipotent.”
Considering that the Union arrived
eight years after a war in which the
two white races had fought one an-
other for over two years and a
half, it must be accounted one of the
most successful democratic experiments
on record. It has weathered the storms
of two foreign wars. In the first there
was a Boer rising, swiftly put down by
the Boer Prime Minister, and under


commanders from both races Boers and
Britons fought splendidly in East Africa
and France. At the outset of the present
war, Prime Minister Hertzog tried to
keep his country out of it. He was
defeated and ousted by other members
of the Government and their followers,
Boers and Britons, led by Jan Smuts, in-
disputably one of the great men of the
age ; and South African service men have
gained more glory in Abyssinia and
North Africa. Recently the Smuts Gov-
ernment has had to contend with a
resurgence of Dopper irreconcilables,
organised in the so-called Ossewabrand-
wag movement. It is a nasty business, but
it looks like having less effect on the
South African war effort than anti-con-
scription had on the Australian war effort
in 1917 and 1918 —at least on the
home front. Things might be very
different if the Dopper irreconcil-
ables could look for support and a
measure of authority to a State Parlia-
ment in the Transvaal or the Orange
Free State, as our anti-conscriptionists
did to the Labor-controlled Queensland
Parliament in 1917-18.
No democracy should blindly copy
another’s Constitution. Race, history
and geography are factors which must
be considered. But in the evolution from
the costly chaos of seven Parliaments
and Governments (plus boards and com-
missions innumerable, world without end)
to one Parliament with supreme and un-
challengeable powers —and to this uniform
income taxation, now through the Senate,
as well as the House, will give a great
impetus—the excellent South African
model cannot be ignored.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Breed Holds True.
Whatever charges future historians may
lay against our race in this generation,
lack of courage and endurance will not
be among them. We have gathered, since
this war began, enough records of hero-
ism to justify a volume of true adven-
ture stories that would put fictional tales
of the kind in the shade.
Officers and crew of the Rawalpindi,
Fogarty Fegen and the men of the Jervis
Bay, civilian heroes of air raids, Corporal
Edmonson of Tobruk, the marines of
Wake Island, British naval and merchant
seamen, airmen and soldiers a long,
long record from Dunkirk to Sydney
Harbor.
In Australia last week there were
noble examples of the highest form ol
courage —that which inspires men to risk
their lives and sometimes sacrifice them
to save the lives of others.
Private Brown, of Idaho (U.S.A.), rear-
gunner in a Flying Fortress, took off his
oxygen mask at 23,000 feet, a height at
which to remove the mask is to stare
death in the face, and dragged collapsed
and wounded men to his compartment.
“Without this assistance,” the citation
says, “the men could not have survived.
An Australian naval bandsman, Cum-
mings, hurled through a glass door when
a torpedo blasted his depot ship on Syd-
ney Harbor, pulled himself together and
dived again and again into icy water to
rescue comrades. “Sparks Stafford,
wireless operator on an Australian ship
torpedoed off Sydney, with a bare five
minutes between himself and any hope
of rescue, stuck to his job of sending
signals. He was not among the rescued
men, though he was the means of rescu-
ing them. Then there were the unnamed
groups who worked on the job of getting
two Japanese submarines from the harbor
floor, knowing, apart from other risks,
that a partly-fired torpedo might explode
at any moment.
There have been many other examples.
There will be plenty more. Undefeat-
able are the nations which produce such
gallant spirits.
"State War Effort."
Record of a visit:
Premier McKnell and five or six standard-
bearers blew into Narromine, 25 miles up the
Bourke line from Dubbo, as part of the cam-
paign to win the by-election. The coming had
been well advertised.
There was a civic reception in the local
Town Hall. On the platform were the Mayor,
complete with party, and the Distinguished
Visitors. The public attendance numbered one
person. At 3 p.m. a public meeting in connec-
tion with the visit was to be held. Again the
politicians and the official party were present.
Again the crowd numbered one person —a
different person.
After half an hour the crowd had not in-
creased, so the McKnell cohort went to a
public place and began its election addresses.
It was shopping day in Narromine and the
politicians spoke in relays in that public place
from 3.30 p.m. until dark. A few people
paused to listen for five minutes or so, then
hurried on. The unfortunate Mayor, chairman
by virtue of his position and rural courtesy,
was so stiffened by the cold that when it was
over he had to be put into circulation by de-
grees.
Then darkness came down. Narromine went
home to tea and the McKnells faded away.
Still, the visit was not without results. The
shire council took the opportunity to refer
to a bit of funny business about charcoal
—an experience other shires have suffered. It
pointed out that it had compiled an evacuation
census at “considerable expense” on a McKnell
order, taken another and a third census on
further orders, and been lectured by N.E.S.
officials from Sydney; and that “all of these
officials in their travelling were not making'any
inroads into the supply of charcoal.” It
further pointed out that it was greatly interested
in the McKnell Public Works Department’s
method of removing a tree but was much more
deeply interested in the cost of the job, which
was estimated by locals as between £l5 and
£lB.
The by-election? McKnHl Labor won it. So
did Curtin Labor. Curtin Labor stands for
uniform income taxation, to which McKnell
Labor is bitterly opposed, so the honors may
be fairly divided.
Scared of Sunday.
Aside altogether from the rights or
wrongs of Sunday entertainment, the fact
that the claim is being made that workers
need some form of relaxation on a Sun-
day ought to receive the attention of
educationists. A demand for entertain-
ment on the Sabbath argues that a large
proportion of the population not only
have empty minds but are afraid of being
alone with themselves.
Australia has six Government educa-
tional systems, numerous private and
denominational schools, six universities
and a university school. Among the lot
it would be thought that they could turn
out finished products who would wel-
come a few hours every week in which
they could rest and ponder the many
things that should be pondered. But no,
the vast majority is frequently heard
complaining that it has nothing to do,
nowhere to go. Nobody, it seems, wants
to do any thinking.
The desire to go in herds is stronger
than ever. In olden times, of course,
humans herded together for protection.
Today that need doesn’t ordinarily exist;
there are police forces and laws. Today
the human herds together for escape —
escape from himself. The average
finished product of the Australian edu-
cational system is more scared of being
left alone than of enemy air raids. And
if he can get into a picture show or to
a sports meeting and forget himself for
a couple of hours he is even happier.
Yet, as those capable of doing it know,
to be alone for a few hours and ponder
lightly, fancifully or seriously over a
variety of things—in other words, to con-
template life —engenders a happy philo-
sophy that is proof against almost any-
thing. The scholar in his library and,
yes, the Murray hatter in his bend enjoy
life far more than those who run away
from themselves to picture theatres and
other escape-holes.
The main defect of our educational
systems is that they fail to teach pupils
to think. They impart knowledge by the
ton, but not the taste for self-knowledge.
A first essential in any Australian post-
war plan is a complete overhaul of
these systems with a view to establishing
one as good as that of Scotland. And a
first beginning should be a full apprecia-
tion of all that the word education
means.
To "Educate" the Army.
“Ek Dum”: Early this year the Aus-
tralian Army Education Service was
delivered of another paper-wasting publi-
cation in the “Current Affairs Bulletin.”
The cover of Vol. I, No. 7, bears this
instruction:
Officers will inform their men on the
matter contained in this Bulletin.... Dr.
W. G. K. Duncan, Director of Tutorial
Classes at the University of Sydney, con-
trols and administers all matters relating
to the “Current Affairs Bulletin.” He
invites comments, suggestions and criti-
cisms to be sent to him.
My comments, in response to his invita-
tion, begin with a map “illustrating” the
position in Russia (page 3):
It credits the Germans in the southern
sector with having captured a lot of terri-
tory north of Rostov which even Berlin
Radio never claimed. It credits the
Russians with having retaken a large bite
of the Ukraine, reaching almost to the
Dnieper bend, and with holding it (May
25). Nine-tenths of this not even the
“famous” John Gordon’s “Sunday Ex-
press” has “reoccupied.”
It shows the country for 75 miles round
Leningrad as having been recaptured by
the Russians, and the Germans as having
been driven 60 miles or so west of Lenin-
grad along the Baltic.
According to the map all the Leningrad-
Moscow railway and the country some-
times 150 miles west of it is in Russian
hands. Much of it hasn’t been since
September.
According to it, there are no Germans
in Russia, save on the Sea of Azov, east
of the longitude of Leningrad. Even
Smolensk appears to be in Russian hands.
The doctor has taken the city of
Dnepropetrovsk, pop. 500,000, carted it
bodily down the Dnieper 50 or 60 miles
to the site of the Dnieperstroi Dam and
ferried it across from the western to the
eastern bank. He has also performed
the herculean feat of removing Kiev
(800,000 pop.) about 30 miles and across
the river to the east.
The doctor has taken the A.zov Sea and
mutilated it by stretching it in a manner
which needs the attention of the Society
for Prevention of Cruelty to Geographic
Phenomena.
He has given Kharkov a bump which
has knocked it 100 miles into the Baltic
Sea longitude. Even Moscow has slid a
bit. He has made the Volga rise far to the
north-east of Moscow instead of near the
Valdai Hills, north-west of the capital,
and the Dnieper apparently in Poland in
the Pripet Marshes environs, hundreds of
miles from its real source, which is also
the Valdai Hills far to the north-west of
Moscow and 40 miles or so from the
source of the Volga.
Some of the letterpress is equally
“educational” soldiers are officially
instructed, for instance, that, after being
landed at Bandar Shahpur in Iran, sup-
plies for the Red Armies “have to be
sent 600 miles across Iran to the Caspian
Sea to Bandar Shah ; another 380 miles
by boat to Baku and another 780 miles
by rail to Rostov.”
Even a crow could not compress the
distance across Iran to 600 miles. The
Statesman’s Year Book gives the dis-
tance by rail as 870 miles. The sea
voyage along the Caspian shore is about
200 miles, not 380.
It seems that another department is
needed, one to educate Army educators
—who, incidentally, recommend Pro-
fessor Julius Stone and Mr. Kurt Offen-
burg as authorities on Russia.
"PUT HIM DOWN, COMRADE, AND SIGN THIS!”


YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that thera
3s something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
in your body passes through these tubes to be
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. Frequent or scanty passages with
smarting and burning also show there is
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN’S
BACKACHE BIC#SK HILLS ttrdajr.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
hi
Mi
up
lit
hit
ftp
■
Modern high-ctess accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors,
POLITICAL POINTS
With the uniform-income-tax measures
and the Broadcasting Bill passed and a
sheaf of war-finanCe proposals sanc-
tioned, Parliament completed its early-
winter job, and members have scattered
till perhaps early-spring. In the second-
leading division on uniform income taxa-
tion there were 20 Yeas and 12 Noes in
the Senate, Hayes (Tas.) and the Queens-
landers Crawford, Foil and Cooper
voting with the majority. In the
minority was Johnston, the Westralian.
On an Opposition proposal to reduce the
grant to N.S.W. from £15,356,000 to
£13,726,000, Johnston twisted. But for
that the amendment would have been
carried against the Government. After-
wards Johnston was told to come no
more to meetings of Opposition Senators.
Senator Johnston (Bertie to all West-
ralia) began his political career as a
moderately bright young Labor man.
Within five years he had become Ind.
Lab. and then C.P. (this after stigmatis-
ing the Agrarians as “the Bulgarians of
politics”), and had a record reign (for
brevity) as Speaker. Afterwards he
settled down as a C.P. Senator with beer-
shop interests, which at times became
a theme for merry discussion, and, in
these latter years, a chronic argument
with the taxation people. Now, nobody
knows whether he is C.P., ex-C.P., Ind.
Lab or Lab. Bertie himself doesn’t know.
The “code” that is to bring peace to
the N.S.W. coalfields did not operate last
week. Japanese subs, did, but the de-
struction of life and shipping for which
they were responsible brought no cessa-
tion of the damnable stoppages. On the
day which saw the waters of the Pacific
close over a coasting vessel and some of
her gallant company, 2500 N.S.W. coal-
miners were idle. Even the shelling of
Newcastle did not prevent the men in
two northern mines from absenting them-
selves for the day, and the no-work
whistle blew at other pits. If this were
the spirit of unionism, unionism would
have to be written off as a liability no
nation could carry. But it is sheer
dingoism.
During the session at Canberra savage
persona! attacks were made in both
Houses on newspapers and their con-
ductors, two being named. Nothing was
done to the attackers by those in control
of the Chambers, and nothing could be
done by those attacked, the assailants
being protected by privilege. As the
session was ending, the Parliamen-
tary reporters on three papers, Sydney
“D.T.,” Sydney “Sunday Telegraph” and
Perth “Sunday Times,” were excluded
from Parliament and its precincts, the
exclusion to stand till next session,
because of a “Sunday Telegraph” article
which was reprinted in the “Sunday
Times.” A signed article, it criticised the
Senate’s disallowance of the regulation
permitting the sale of Werribee beef, a
very proper subject for criticism, inciden-
tally referring—not flatteringly but not
slanderously—to President Cunningham
and Speaker Nairn, They are both good
fellows, but in this matter they have blun-
dered very badly. As a lawyer, Nairn
should have remembered that “He who
seeks equity must do equity.”
Lang was pretty Right about Dubbo.
In the election-eve issue of his “Cen-
tury,” after addressing a nasty Open
Letter to McKell, he got off this high-
minded effort in his 1930 style:
Dubbo now looks a certainty for Labor
candidate Robertson. Deciding factor
should be actions taken this week by the
Federal Government to assist rural indus-
tries. The first is the increase of twopence
per pound in wool. The second is the
guarantee of 4s. per bushel for the first
3000 ' bushels to wheat-farmers. These
should mean solid votes from the farmers.
State issues are only of secondary interest.
The most popular slogan is “Stand Square
with Curtin.”
And the Big Fellow picked them as they
finished: Robertson 1, Thorby 2, Yeo 3.
Dunstan is amazed at the perfidy of
Victorian Senators, who, he alleges, arc
gloating over the fact that uniform
income tax means unification. At the
height of their siz-e and voracity the dino-
sauri would have been amazed if they
had been told that they would ever be
annihilated ; but they were.
The Parliament at Ottawa has passed a
uniform income tax bill. The provinces
are to abandon income and corporation
taxation for the duration. So far, no
Canadian Premier has talked about tak-
ing the nation to law over it. But then
Canadian Premiers never had the powers
exercised by Australian Premiers, though
the latter won’t have theirs much longer.
Premier McKell can’t even do a good
deed without blundering. Announcing
“ ‘Tiger’ McKell speakin' from Dubbo. It was a wunnerful fight. Glad I won.
What’s this I ’ear ’bout subs, in Sydney ’Arbor?”
that entrance fees for intermediate and
leaving examinations would be abolished
(a great many people would like to see
the exams, abolished), he said it repre-
sented “a gift” to parents. These politi-
cians all have the idea that to return to
the public anything that has been ex-
torted from it is making a “gift.”
For printing illegal racing matter, for
printing matter without his name on it,
and for using an unregistered press, a
Sydney man has been fined £llO. The
police evidently did good work in tracing
him. But banned Communist sheets still
come out, full of lies and libels, under
imprints such as “The Dimitrov Press,
Sydney.” They are as illegal as the
racing matter, but nobody seems to make
any effort to trace their origin.
Dubbo police on by-election eve raided
premises in the town and seized “a
quantity of literature.” It was “supposedly
printed by the Communist party” in sup-
port of the Labor candidate. Labor
leaders, according to Sydney “Sun,”
“alleged that a plot had been discovered.”
It certainly stirred a faint momentary in-
terest in the by-election.
At any rate, the six Premiers of the
six States have a good chance of being
remembered long after many of their
predecessors are forgotten. Their names
are likely to go down in Australian his-
tory as “The last of the Premiers.”
Stating that his Government would
“probably” join with those of Victoria
and S.A. in legal action against the Com-
monwealth’s uniform income taxation
measures, Forgan Smith said: “If the
Premiers do not attack the legislation
now, the States would have no case at
the end of the war.” So that’s the game,
is it? No poorer was ever played by
provincial politicians.
Ward, with characteristic— er —dis-
ingenuousness :
Three months ago, when the registration
of the civilian population began, the public
was warned again and again that failure
to have an identity card would result in
personal inconvenience.
No ; the warning (issued by Ward him-
self on March 24 in the third person) was
that “the heavy penalties provided under
the regulations for people who failed to
register would be fully applied.” Now, it
seems, they may still register without
“heavy” or any penalties, but if they
don’t they won’t get their ration books
“when first issued.” Ward penalties are
only for people who object to Ward.
Sydney has been the scene of a crimi-
nal trial recalling the Mt. Rennie case,
and even more hideous in some particu-
lars. Lurking in wait for girls at Circular
Quay, two young ruffians, Reuben Wein-
berg and George Loyal Julius, the latter
only 16, offered to take two young
women pillion-riding to Wynyard station,
and bore them to Botany instead. There
the women were victims of ferocious
attacks which might be called animal-
like if it were not insulting to animals.
Six men were arraigned; two were
acquitted; Weinberg and one Shirley
were sentenced to death. The sentence
will not be carried out, but it should be.
Curtin has had to rebuke Ward once
more. The institution of a form of Gov-
ernment control over the British coal-
mining industry, in which dissatisfied
miners have been asking for a minimum
wage of £4 ss. a week —about a fifth of
what Ward’s proteges can earn on a good
seam —prompted Ward to come out with
another demand for “nationalisation” and
another attack on the mine-owners, few
of whom pay dividends, as profiteers.
Curtin wearily replied that he was “stick-
ing to the agreement.”
Marr told the House of Reps, that
“Evidence given to the Parliamentary
Committee on Broadcasting revealed that
very few radio commentators were worth
their salt.” In other words, the tripe
they deliver is without relish.
In the first of last week’s cases of
pillaging on Sydney wharves, the punish-
ment was tw 7 o months without the option.
The magistrate rather fatuously observed
that fines seemed to be no deterrent —in
other countries the favorite deterrent is
a halter. The thief was caught with a
store of prigged liquor in a bag. To the
police he said “Thousands do this sort
of thing, so I thought 1 would have a
go at it.” If waterside-union custom is
followed he will be back on the wharves
at the end of two months, with his license,
his paws, everything.
In “No. 27, New Series,” the poisonous
rag called the “Wharfie,” after the
familiar attacks on The Bulletin (to
which the “D.T.” was added) and a
gloating reference to the May Day
demonstration sanctioned by McKnell,
pleaded that it had “never condoned the
pillaging on the waterfront.” If the
“Wharfie” ever denounces it to the extent
of suggesting that pillagers be expelled
from the waterfront, the moon will turn
green.
Sydney “D.T.” sees a moral in the
attack by Jap submarines on Sydney
Harbor:
The obvious lesson is simple enough:
Reinforce the South-west Pacific front be-
fore the enemy strikes in force. Reinforce
it especially with ’pl an£ s and naval power.
Precisely; but what about “the Aus-
tralian demand” for a Second Front in
Europe?
In a contribution to the wheat head-
ache, H. S. Roberton, the Junee (N.S.W.)
man whose 4s. a bushel for the first
3000 bushels scheme is virtually the
one which Minister Scully is trying to
push through, said that the wheat stabili-
sation plan had “withstood the blizzard
of opposition fomented in the bosom of
cupidity and avarice,” That should force
the Government to set up a committee
or something.
The war between Senators and Sydney
pressmen had been working up for weeks.
To The Bulletin came a copy of the
Senate notice paper containing a series
of questions relative to “the large number
of persons at present occupied in the
Parliamentary Press Galleries.”
Are these press representatives in a re-
served occupation? If so, why?
If not, do their present activities serve
any useful purpose or help the national
war effort?
What is the number of males employed
in this manner, and what are their ages
and medical categories?
What newspapers do they represent and
what is the number attached to each news-
paper?
At the foot was an indignant statement
in unknown handwriting; “Not one
newspaper mentioned this.”
There is no gratitude in Corns. Though
Sydney “D.T.” has been Russophile for
years, they have turned savagely on it,
even while its Raving Reporter has been
rapturously explaining how mounted
Cossacks are beating tanks. One of its
offences is the republication of a weekly
Russian campaign report from the
American magazine known as “Time.”
Though never itself anti-Russian, “Time”
is critical of stories such as are swal-
lowed by the Raving Reporter, and in
a reference to the news from Kharkov
said “There was little to fire U.S.
cautious optimism always sceptical
where Russia was concerned.” Down
with it!


BRITISH NAVY'S TRIBUTE
“Submarines using your batteries
averaged 10,000 miles per month, and
there is no recorded instance of your
batteries failing.”
Thi* striking tribute was received from
the British Admiralty at the conclusion
of the World War, 1918. Needless to
say, Exide Batteries are again playing
their part in the present war. You,
too, can depend on Exide.
w
ŵ
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE
STOPPED.
m
m
PERSONAL ITEMS
During the war, Bruce, with philo-
sophic resignation, has seen dozens of
inferior men raised to high positions.
He was content to wait for a job worthy
of his talents, and it has come. He is
to represent Australia in the War Cabinet
and on the Pacific War Council, London
branch; and, in Curtin’s handsome
words, he will “speak for Australia with
knowledge and authority.” Duncan, the
official secretary, is to be Deputy High
Commissioner at Australia House.
Duncan is just on 56 ; Bruce is in his
60th year. He was P.M. before he
turned 40.
Melbourne City Fathers have appointed
ex-alderman Frank Stapley, who was Lud
Mayor in 1918, to referee building dis-
putes in succession to the late Kings-
ley Henderson. Stapley probably knows
more about the city’s maze of re-
strictions and prohibitions than any
man in Melbourne, having been mixed
up in them almost since their inception.
As the official referee has only been
asked for an opinion on an average once
in every generation, he may reach his
hundredth milestone before he has to
exercise his function. He is 84.
The job of Dr. H. C. Coombs,
Director of Rationing, is to tighten the
public’s belt and see that it remains tight.
It seems a big task for his small frame,
but Coombs looks as though he can
handle it. Born among the orchards of
Kalamunda (W.A.), Coombs climbed
right through the admirable education
system of that State before he went to
the London School of Economics, from
which he graduated in economics and
banking with a thesis on central banking
in the British Dominions. Then he
joined the Commonwealth Bank and was
its assistant economist from 1935 to 1939,
when he rose to economist in the Com-
monwealth Treasury. He was taken from
that job to issue the forthcoming
DIRECTOR OF RATIONING.
Draconian decrees, and when asked if he
was likely to be as tough as he looked
he remarked that he supposed he would
have to be. He is 36.
Long before the war extended his
laboratory to a whole army, the young
assistant-director of the Walter and Eliza
Hall Institute in Melbourne, Frank Mac-
farlane Burnet, M.D., was hunting the
influenza wog. A few months ago he
announced at a lecture that ’flu would
soon be one of the preventible diseases.
He has since succeeded in preparing a
vaccine from the main viruses known to
cause the trouble, diminishing the viru-
lence of the virus by a special process, so
that an attenuated dose of the complaint
could be communicated to subjects by
spraying the normal channels of infec-
tion. Individuals thus inoculated get a
mild dose of ’flu which soon passes,
and there is reason to believe that im-
munity results from the larger infection.
If so, Burnet has discovered something
research workers the world over have
been looking for for a long time. He was
born at Traralgon (Vic.) in 1899, and
went from Geelong College to a brilliant
career at Melbourne University. In 1926
he was appointed Beit Fellow at the
Lister Institute in London. He is the
author of numerous publications on his
subject.
Although the annual election of Mel-
bourne’s Lud Mayor is not due till Sep-
tember, names have been canvassed
already. Councillor Beaurepaire holds
that two years is sufficient for any Lud
Mayor, however superlative, but if he is
asked to stand he isn’t likely to refuse.
Councillors Nettlefold and Connelly are
certain candidates, and the ten Labor men
are expected to nominate an aspirant,
probably Councillor Coleman.
Albert Denzil Hill, who moves from
Adelaide to Melbourne to replace Fred-
erick Bridgman as g.m. of the Adelaide
Steamship Company, has had oyer 40
years with that company, serving in
every mainland State. Since 1918 he has
been in S.A., where he was born and
educated. He will be 62 this year.
Reported missing, Lieut. Hamilton
Lamb, M.L.A., who enlisted early and
served with the A.I.F. in Palestine
and Syria before being posted to
Java. Since then he has not been
heard from. Before he went in for State
politics as Country party member for
Lowan he was headmaster of Geelong
Grammar preparatory school for a space
and then principal of Kyneton College.
A 23-year-old M.L. flying man with a
veteran’s record is Squadron-Leader
A. M. Paape, son of Arthur Paape, who
presides over Dunedin’s Grand Hotel.
Young Paape won his bar to the D.F.C.
when, in the attack on the Scharnhorst
and Gneisenau, he scored a hit from 450
feet on an escorting destroyer. With
bomb doors open, turrets out of action,
petrol tanks leaking and other damage,
he returned to his base. He opened
his war record early in the piece as pilot
of a Bristol Blenheim, winning the D.F.C.
after 21 night operations. An elder
brother is also riding the wind in dis-
tant parts as a pilot officer.
Maoriland troops from Libya who
have settled down in Syria have found
two countrymen who remained in those
parts after the Armistice in 1918. They
are Gerald and Norman Nairn, two 1914-
18 Diggers who saw possibilities in sup-
planting the camel train —which took
four days to cross the desert from
Damascus to Bagdad—with more com-
fortable and less odorous travel facilities.
They developed a motor-bus service
despite, in the early stages, vested inter-
ests represented by the cameliers. A
Maoriland Digger recently tested the ser-
vice by crossing 530 miles of Syrian
desert in 18 hours in huge air-
conditioned buses, each as long as a rail-
way carriage. Meals are served en route
and beds provided.
The Canberra Government has called
on Herbert Gepp to head still an-
other committee —the Central Cargo
Committee. If anybody can remedy
the position Gepp will. The possi-
bility of this country’s isolation in
time of war has always been an obses-
sion of his, and he has written several
books about it which have a remarkable
bearing on the present crisis. South Aus-
tralian born, and Victorian by adoptorn,
he is rising 65.
William Stanley Kelly, who has just
returned to S.A. after two years in Eng-
land studying agricultural methods and
acting as representative of the Australian
Wool Board, has announced his retire-
ment from the Commonwealth Tariff
W. S. KELLY.
Board —he has been a member for 12
years. Kelly, who has an Australia-wide
reputation as a keen experimental farmer
and who has been exhibiting and judging
sheep since 1910, intends to take an
active interest in his wheat and sheep
property, Merrindie, at Tarlee (S.A.) —it
was started by his family 70 years ago,
and his two sons, one of whom is now
an A.I.F. prisoner in Italy, have been
running the place for some years. An
Old Digger and a past chairman of the
S.A. Board of Agriculture, Kelly is
just on 60.
William Fox Longley Ward, deputy-
governor of the M.L. Reserve Bank, and
at the moment acting-governor, is a
71-year-old banker who spent most of
his life in the service of the ’Asia, join-
ing the staff at the age of 16, and retir-
ing, after seven years’ service as an in-
spector, at 61. He thought his financial
career was finished then, but the Reserve
Bank plucked him forth to be its second-
in-command to Leslie Lefeaux (who came
from the Bank of England). Ward has
now been deputy for eight years and
looks good for many more years of
service.
Illness forced retirement on Bertram
O. Perrin after a brief span as N. S.
Wales Taxation Commissioner, and the
job now goes to J. W. Hughes, a N. S.
Welshman whose first job with the Gov-
ernment was in 1906, when he was a mes-
senger in the Postal Department. In
1923 he went over to the Federal Taxa-
tion Department, became a State officer
with the 1923 amalgamation and assistant
commissioner four years ago. He has
been acting commissioner for some
weeks.
Nobody seems too sure of John
Toomey’s age, though he has been
knocking about Brisbane for a fair
number of years and wears Boer War
and 1914-18 war medals. He is certain to
have followed closely the reports of the
salvaging of those Japanese subs, in Syd-
ney Harbor, for another of his trophies is
a gold diver’s badge, given him by the
Admiralty ’way back in 1907. That year
Toomey was a gunlayer on H.M.S.
Theseus and was one of three to volun-
teer for the diving job on the sunken
torpedo-boat “99,” which was salvaged,
though one of the trio lost his life on
the job. He renewed old memories with
the Queensland Governor, Sir Leslie
Wilson, at an old soldiers’ function in
Brisbane, both of them having served in
the Naval Brigade against the Boers.
On leave before retirement is Charles
Gilbert Johnston, accountant to the
N. S. Wales Education Department. He is
the man responsible for disbursing fort-
nightly payments to 10,000 teachers and
for keeping the department’s annual ex-
penditure within the limits of the Parlia-
mentary vote —around £5,000,000 this
year. Johnston started in the accounts
branch 45 years ago and reached the
top in 1927 ; now he intends to give him-
self over to the excitement of bowls.
Into the silence;
Death has steadily thinned the ranks of
Adelaide’s public men lately, and Fred Downer,
dead at 67, leaves a gap that will be hard to
fill. One of a great legal family —his father,
John Downer, was Premier, K.C. and one of
the framers of the Commonwealth Constitution
—Fred was chairman of directors of the “Adver-
tiser” newspaper concern, and, since Barr-
Smith’s death, of Elder, Smith and Co. and
of Elder’s Trustee Company. He also had a
seat on various pastoral, electric and insurance
boards. A son was in Java and is believed to
be a prisoner; an only daughter died a few
weeks ago.
Suddenly in Melbourne, at 62, Judge Joseph
Arthur Richardson, of the County Court. He
was noted for his rich, deep voice, an extensive
vocabulary and leniency. An English public-
school man —though bom in Fitzroy (Vic.) —he
graduated from London University to the Inner
Temple. He was admitted to practice in Vic-
toria in 1905 and became a County Court
Judge in 1936. He edited the Victorian Law
Reports for many years.
At Wanganui, M.L., aged 86, Gregor Mc-
Gregor, a good friend of the Maori race. He
was a civil servant till middle age, then became
a farmer, and later held apppointments adminis-
tering various aspects of the movement to
interest the Maoris in farming. He knew
more about the Maori tribes of the Wanganui
River than any other white man. Also he
made many important contributions to botanical
knowledge.
D.F.Cs. go to Wing-Commander J. P.
Ryland, Flight-Lieut. R. A. Dunne and
Flying-Officer W. V. D. White —all of the
R.A.A.F. —for their part in operations
north of Australia. At Ambon, Ryland
“led every raid made by his squadron”
and, after returning,to a northern base,
“led a very successful night raid against
Dilli.” Also at Ambon, Dunne “con-
tinuously led his flight in operations
against the enemy with grim deter-
mination and complete disregard of per-
sonal safety.” At Ambon, too, just
before the invasion, and in face of enemy
fighters, White “carried out almost con-
tinuous reconnaisance of the enemy fleet”
until it was “within 10 miles of its
objective.”
Despite his size—he is over six feet
and built in proportion —and battle ex-
perience, Lieut.-Colonel W. G. Clement-
son seemed to find Frith’s attack on him
the toughest show he had ever been
through—he writhed as though the artist’s
scrutiny were a 25-pounder levelled right
at him. And that after seven months in
Tobruk! Clementson, who is C.O. of
a Signals unit “somewhere in Australia,”
has been in the army for 16 years—he
joined the Royal Australian Engineers
when he was 19, had his commission
LIEUT.-COL. W. G. CLEMENTSON.
before the war and was in the A.I.F.
in October, 1939. He is a cobber of The
Bulletin’s Don B. Knock, who, a 1915-
18 Tommy, was in this war as soon as
it started, and is now a captain and in
charge of the instruction of 1000 women
of the A.W.A.S.!


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“A.R.P.”: Between a
Friday morning and a
Saturday midnight,
wardens in our suburb
were called out thrice
for air-r-id alerts. After
periods varying from
ten minutes to three
hours, during which
exactly nothing hap-
pened, they got the “all-
clear” and went home
again. On the Sunday
night four enemy sub-
marines slipped into the
harbor, but alert naval
forces dealt with all
four quickly and effec-
tively, though not till
after a gunning and a
booming that went on
pretty well all night.
None of our wardens
got an “alert” call, yet
with Pearl Harbor as
a guide it was natural to assume that the
submarine attack would either coincide
with or be shortly followed by an air
attack. I wish I knew how the A.R.P.
headquarters’ mind works.
* * * *
K. : That the sortie of Jap subs, into
Sydney harbor should be the cause of a
man nearly cracking his neck in a suburb
out of sound of harbor gunfire mightn’t
seem to make sense. But listen. Sudds,
in our street, returned late from a mild
bender to find that he had left his Yale
in his other suit. Going round to the
back of the house, he left the pathway
to cut across the lawn to the woodshed,
on a nail of which a spare back-door key
is kept. As he did so a large mound of
earth rose up and hit him ; a second
later he was sliding on his chest down
a steep, muddy incline, to finish up in
several inches of water. His frenzied
bellowing brought the family to the
rescue. Yes, Sudds had been going to dig
a slit trench, but kept procrastinating,
and with the wearing-off of air-raid scares
had dropped the idea. That morning
Mrs. Sudds had read in the paper some-
one’s opinion that air raids might follow
swiftly on the sub. attack. Seeing a
council man chipping paspalum from the
gutters in the street she offered him a
quid to get to work with Mad Mick and
banjo in the place handiest for her to hop
into from the kitchen.
* * * *
J ummas McNar-r-rk”: Queenslanders
live under strange laws. The effect of a
recent interpretation of the Act govern-
ing the civil defence organistion there —
why it can’t be called A.R.P. or N.E.S.
in all States is a mystery—is that no
person, be he or she ever so highly quali-
fied, may touch any person injured
through enemy action without being open
to a charge of assault. Marriott, Director
of First-Aid Posts, gives that interpre-
tation, and adds that to avoid that risk
certified first-aiders must enrol in the
first-aid posts before presuming to aid
the injured. If the interpretation is legally
sound, thoughtful Queenslanders must
be wondering whether it wouldn’t be
better to hop over the border before an
air-raid arrives.
* * t- *
“Balander”: If the late Randolph Bed-
ford was, as one daily paper described
him, “a colorful Queensland politician,”
what sort of title fits J. F. Barnes, the
Bundaberg publican who, on the strength
of a feud with rival Bungs, got into
Queensland Parliament, where he has
been a boon to the press gallery? Hardly
a week goes by without some mention of
him in the news. His latest effort was
to defy a police ban on a street meeting
in Bundaberg. Pinched, he was released
on £2O bail, failed to appear when due
and submitted a letter to the Bench stat-
ing that he would be in Brisbane on
“prearranged matters of State/’ and ask-
ing for an adjournment. The Bench re-
fused to accept the missive as an appear-
ance and the £2O was estreated. Some
people have dubbed Barnes the “Bunda-
berg Bombshell.”
“Wot Would y ’ do if you spotted a midget sub.?”
“Zigzag , o’ course!”
“K.L.M.”; Ted Scorfield slipped when
he depicted (B. 27/5/’42) two naval
officers wearing badges of rank both on
sleeves and shoulder-straps in “square
rig,” also three pairs of buttons. Shoulder-
straps are not worn with that kit, either
j n the Royal or Merchant Navy. Petty
officers R.N. wear three sets of buttons
in front, commissioned officers four. In
the 1914-18 war all rules were broken
by R.N. officers serving in the Levant,
Native officials and troops were familiar
with the Army badges of rank but not
with those of the Navy. Naval officers
were therefore instructed to wear shoulder-
straps carrying “pips” and crowns cor-
responding with their naval rank. This
saved much confusion. The naval men
were, for the time being, true marines—
“soldier and sailor too.”
* * * *
“Clooter”; This ought to settle the
controversy or symposium or whatever
it is about the Australian national
anthem. In Melbourne some years ago
—Melbourne’s a place down in Victoria
—I found myself among a mixed bunch
°f seamen and we were soon in
a mixed mood. There was a Russian
who got off a dirge which a Scot
assured us was the Russian national
anthem, whereupon Cocky climbed
on the bar counter and announced
“Here’s the Australian national an-
them,” He swung into “The Wild
Colonial Boy,” and when he was finished
the enthusiasm of both the Russian and
Scot were such that they irrigated all
hands and demanded an encore. They’d
have got it, too, only for a nasty, prying,
unappreciative Melbourne policeman
who took Cocky’s swing at him for
aggression and took Cocky away.
“Bo”: For the umpteenth time I have
seen in a comic strip a man shaving him-
self, the latest example being the work
of a topnotch Australian black-and-
white man. In every case the shaver has
been shown wielding the “safety” with
his right hand while the left one was
dangling at his side. Perhaps artists, an
eccentric brotherhood, favor pulling each
hair out separately with tweezers and
know not how a scrape is performed.
Of the thousands of men I have seen
shave not one let his other hand
“hang out to dry” while he guided the
blade through the stubble. Probably not
one shaver in a thousand is aware that he
tautens his face with the left hand, for
the action is automatic. But let anyone
try a one-handed shave and he’ll not only
take three times longer than usual to per-
form the operation, but will draw blood.
Most difficulty will be experienced around
chin and lower jaw. I once saw a
fellow —he was 16 stone of bubbles and
topping his three chins was a full-moon
face as mobile as a half-set jelly in a tor-
nado—try to shave himself while his left
hand was in a sling. After he’d finished
chasing his dial around the bathroom
the place could have been mistaken for
an abattoir, and there were still enough
missed tufts of hair left to have lined
an eaglehawk’s nest. If ever I lose my left
hand 1 shall grow a beaver.
* ifc *
“Oliver Filter”: Once, in beautiful
innocence, I believed in the printed word.
My faith wavered when a certain Knicker-
bocker stayed at the pleasant, tropical
hamlet of Katherine (N.T.) and found in
his room scorpions as big as small
. • . j . , ... ,
chickens and cockroaches which made a
galloping sound across the floor, while the
walls swarmed with every conceivable
kind of insect monster. My faith has
now been shattered by a Mr. Laytha,
who has been writing about our Curtin.
According to Mr. Laytha, the esteemed
P.M. is “a lone wolf of politics who was
almost unknown before the war” (the
mild-mannered John has been M.H.R.
for Fremantle, off and on, since 1928, and
was Leader of the Opposition for seven
years before he became P.M.); “has
stopped strikes” (my morning paper
records that six N. S. Wales coalmines
are idle); “his favorite magazines are the
trim Invo tvno in his hmrlt.W storios
tiue-iote type in nis bedtime stories
everybody must be happy at the end
and he “lives in a dry hotel because he
fears he would embarrass hard-drinking
i,,., . . • - &
cobbers by determinedly taking ginger-
ale.” Yes, my faith has been shattered,
and not until Curtin—with a true-lurv
magazine under his arm and his eyes
bleary from drinking dry-ginger—lopes
wolf-like across the floor of the House
and bites Fadden will it be restored.
* * * *
“L. de Rideau”; War’s changes, is it?
When the crowd debouched into the
r e ~ ~ ... tt n x
foyer of the Melbourne Town Hall at the
interval of the second Friedman concert
; r cts , ffff p r pH tr, find nntside
it was a time staggeied to unci outsi
two immense rn.ps., complete with brass
whistles, huge pistols in holsters and those
i j ■ , ... , , • , •
long wooden swingers with which Amen-
can policemen are outfitted — night-
sticks,” according to the movies. They
surveyed the scene with a benevolence
that belied their grim appearance. But
apparently our American cousins don’t
altogether believe that music hath charms
to soothe the savage breast.
* $ * *
“Spokeshave”: Walked into the office
of a staid Melbourne businessman the
other morning and heard a scuffle, saw
him duck suddenly beneath his desk and
emerge in a crouched posture, instead of
rising to greet me as is his usual custom.
Simultaneously I caught a glimpse of
two stout legs encased in underpants
underneath the table. “What is the
reason for that manoeuvre?” I asked him.
“Well, you see,” he answered, girlishly
blushing, “one of my daughters is an
Air Force driver, the other is a W.A.A.C.
and my wife is a V.A.D. or something.
I am a section warden. This is the only
chance I get of sewing on a trousers
button.”
* % ❖
“M.Q.”: I had explained to an Ameri-
can friend that, although the wilderness
surrounding his canvas home was, to
him, the woods, for Australians it was
the bush. He then met an octogenarian,
returned, after many years, to find a
flourishing township on a site which, as
a youth, he had known as virgin scrub-
land. “Quite a change in the old place,
I guess,” said America to him chattily.
“Cripes, yes!” mused the old-timer.
“Why, when I go down there where the
old creek an’ the bluegums useter be, an’
I find instead houses an’ shops, why—l
get bushed!” And now a puzzled Yank
wants to know just what this word “bush”
means in Australianese.
“Cinefan”: To my
mind there’s something
shuddersome and grue-
some about the way the
moving - talking - picture
rises superior to death.
Will Rogers,for instance,
went on clowning be-
fore audiences of count-
less millions for months
after his life ended in an
aeroplane accident. That
wasn’t so bad, for Will
was ever a comedian.
But John Barrymore
is scurvily served.
The latest film to
appear in Australia in
which he is represented,
“Playmates,” is one in
which John, under his
own name, burlesques
himself, representing an
old has-been actor, in-
curably stagy, who
undertakes to coach
another performer in
Shakspearean roles.
He’s funny, all right,
but there’s nothing very
funny about him to any
audience now when he
recites Hamlet’s solilo-
quy upon impending
dissolution. I suppose
that sort of thing is in-
evitable with science
marching so briskly,
but I sympathise with the old codger
who said, after hearing a Melba
record broadcast from a Melbourne sta-
tion: “I never thought I’d sit in Sydney
and hear a dead woman sing in Mel-
bourne —and I don’t like it.”
FACING BOTH WAYS.
“Two Queensland M5.11.R., Conelan and Riordan,
spoke against the uniform taxation measures before
voting for them.”
Queer birds you will find ’mong the magpies
and ’daws
We pay for assisting to fashion our laws.
In the gentle acquirement of blowing by turn
Hot and cold it’s apparent they’ve nothing to
learn.
From speaking their minds they will ne’er be
deterred,
But the notion of suiting the act to the word
Is an outworn convention, it seems, that evokes
Unblushing dissent from these amiable blokes.
“Yes-No” was a nickname, it once was agreed,
Applied with some measure of justice to Reid,
But which of his changes could ever compare
With the nimble volte-face of this pliable pair?
Yet what in the world is a fellow to do
When, instead of one junta of bosses, he’s two,
And he has a conviction firm fixed in his nob
That flouting of either may cost him his job?
Obeying two masters, we’re all well aware,
Is ever a difficult, ticklish affair,
But when to be breaking with either he’s loath
A man may find some way to satisfy both.
He can talk for the Noes without any disguise
And be found, when the numbers go up, with
the Ayes,
Supporting one side with his voice, you may
note,
And t’other, to equalise things, with his vote.
So, chaps, if for any advice you would care
How to hunt with the
hounds and to run
with the hare,
How to stand facing both
ways —as Janus could
do,
And one of the figures that
Bunyan drew—
How the views and
opinions you hold to
express
In terms of Yes-No or it
may be No-Yes,
I’m moved to suggest that,
as mentors for you,
No better exist than these
slippery two.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
THE ACID TEST
“H.A.C.: Don’t doubt that it sings well; print’s an-
other horse.” —Answers to Correspondents, H. 3/6/’ft.
Beefed out from lusty lungs with tuneful clatter,
Backed by the punch a pianist achieves,
It might occasion compliments that flatter
And warm applause, one readily believes.
But put in print —well, that’s another matter,
What one might call a diff’rent pair of
sleeves,
A neddy of a quite dissim’lar tint.
So many songs look deadly cheap in print.
Who hasn’t heard some politician thunder
And fondly reckon that he’s scored a hit?
The storm of words with which he snows you
under
Produces some effect, you will admit,
Till, reading it in type next morn, you wonder
What in the dickens you could see in it.
The fleeting spell it casts has vanished quite
When you encounter it in black and white.
The musty platitudes of rhetoricians
May sound 0.K., spilt from a silver tongue;
Bubble and froth, decked out by apt musicians,
May warm the cockles of your heart, when
sung;
Yet both may suffer swift decompositions,
Be robbed of all their spell—in short, go
bung.
Be relegated promptly to the pack,
When once they stare at you in white and black.
How few the sentiments, declaimed or chanted,
That linger longest on the list’ning ear,
Whether by tribunes of the people ranted.
Warbled in halls or bellowed over beer,
How few can stand the shock of being decanted
Into (let’s say) “long primer” or “brevier,”
And keep what force they had, as firm as flint,
Beneath the test, the acid test, of print!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Buzz off, Diggahs, or you'll break the spell!"
“Spokeshave”: The influx of generous
strangers has produced an art boom in
Melbourne. The tattooers of lower
Flinders-street and Collins-street are doing
a roaring trade, and, unlike the artists
who exhibit in galleries, they are ready
to change with the times. Americans
have a fondness for designs depicting
Red Cross nurses and American eagles
affectionately embracing R.A.F. and
sometimes R.A.A.F. wings. They take
the place of the old charms against
drowning, such as the pig-and-roostcr
design. Tattooing has never been a com-
pletely lost art in Melbourne, but until
recently there were only a couple of full-
time practitioners. Now the demand is
so great that there is a shortage of man-
power.
♦ * * •
“Jago”: She was a large woman, well
dressed but obviously a little shaken. Her
hat had slipped from its accustomed place
and she clutched her handbag to her
breast as she stood jammed in the serried
ranks at the dress-materials counter. She
spoke loudly. "1 will take the roll."
The perspiring assistant answered firmly:
“Five yards the limit, Madam." “Ridi-
culous” (the hat slipped a little more).
"I want the roll. I have a charge account
here, my man.” “Five yards the limit,
Madam.” “What rot! 1 must have the
roll. Charge it. My name is Mrs. Q. P.
Bumpelbilk.” “Five yards the limit.
Madam.” The woman tried to look dig-
nified but found it difficult in the crush.
“1 will report you. You are insolent,
my man.” The assistant’s eye kindled
slightly, but he weakened not. “The
office is on the fourth floor, Madam.
Take the lift over there and the young
lady at the desk will direct you to the
managing director’s office. Good after-
noon.” He faced the next customer with
the steadiness of a soldier on parade, I
nearly cheered.
« * • •
“Strict Veg”: That Victory Belle
movement in Melbourne was not quite
so successful as “Lao-dah” suggests (B.
27/5/’42). Several truckloads of the
dedicated damsels were conveyed to a
dance hall in St. Kilda. They sat around
and waited. As the time passed it gradu-
ally dawned upon them that those thou-
sands of American and Australian sol-
diers, sailors and airmen who were starv-
ing for female companionship were not
going to make an appearance. They
were just 500 wallflowers. Their feel-
ings were beyond expression, but there
was nobody to blame. The publicity had
been perfect.
* ♦ * ♦
“Chevroford": Melbourne's A.Re-
organisation saved the city from a
dull Sunday. For three hours Mel-
bourne endured a reign of terror. At
headquarters incendiary bombs and high
explosive were reported as being rained
down on the devoted city from one end
to the other. Towering buildings were
blown sky-high, important thoroughfares
were a mass of ruins, bridges collapsed
and electricity, rail, tram and other ser-
vicas were temporarily reduced to a state
of chaos. The dastardly enemy dropped
mustard gas in the vicinity of the North
Wharf, causing numerous casualties
amongst the civilian population, though
a dispatch rider who had not been
informed as to the situation dashed
through the affected area without notic-
ing anything whatever. In the final wash-
up it was reported that there was a lack
of co-ordination between the A.R.P. per-
sonnel and the essential services, neither
having learnt the other’s language. The
railways and other transport organisa-
tions excused themselves by saying that
they were too busy during the week con-
veying munition workers to study the
elaborate technique of A.R.P. science.
The only other major grievance reported
was the pinching from certain mobile
units of their allotment of gassed and
wounded Boy Scouts by a too-zealous
band of First-Aiders who arrived on the
scene first and got away with the victims.
♦*. • *
“Hacksaw”: Allow me to commiserate
with "Eve” (B. 27/5/’42). Nature has
treated her despitefully, and 1 haven’t
the slightest objection to her repairing
Nature’s mistakes by art, if she can do it.
But that is no reason why her more for-
tunate sisters should emulate her example.
And would she deny that that is precisely
what their slavish adherence to fashion
amounts to? A fresh young girl may be
richly endowed by Nature. A middle-
aged woman may have lost some of her
endowment, so she paints in order to
look young. But she doesn’t succeed in
looking one minute younger. Then why
does the young woman paint? Docs she
paint in order to look like the middle-
aged woman, or is she simply throwing
away her weapons out of deference to a
stupid fashion?
* * * *
"Hamfat”: George Robey, as well as
Little Tich (B. 27/5/’42). got the “penny-
drop” at the Tiv. in Melbourne, the only
city in Australia in my knowledge where
that cruel method of displaying an audi-
ence's disapproval, common in England,
has been adopted ; but it wasn't, as
"Curtain Raiser” suggests, because
the audience thought the performers
were pinching other people’s stuff.
If it was that, why wasn’t Harry
Lauder, who was given great recep-
tions, similarly treated? Actually,
both performers came when their
powers were failing from a country
where, once a name has been estab-
lished, its owner can do no wrong.
The Melbourne audiences, not will-
ing to accept them just because they
were Robey and Little Tich but
expecting a lot, were bored and dis-
appointed. I saw Robey several
times in London, but the only time
when I thought him really funny
was when he was trying not to be
funny but to be intensely patriotic.
He was giving an address at a
soldiers’ fete towards the end of
1918; and his audience laughed up-
roariously at everything he said. The
conflict between the ideas of the audi-
ence and those of Robey the Patriot
struck me as intensely amusing. Com-
missioned to do the fete "from the point
of view of an Australian soldier” for the
"Daily Mail,” I mentioned Robey’s recep-
tion. It was the only par. cut out. North-
cliflfe wouldn’t publish what might be
taken as an aspersion on a British insti-
tution.
* ♦ * ♦
"F.S.”: You can’t completely sup-
press the aesthetic instinct. When Mel-
bourne shopmen first put up air raid
shutters over the plate-glass windows
they were content with plain, gaunt
palings. Then some started chalking
the appropriate legends on them. Then
the signwriter came along and made
their signs a little more pretentious.
Here and there a dash of color was
added. Then some more forward-look-
ing individual came out with an arti-
ficial shopfront, chaste, elegant, curved
and with little inset windows through
which intriguing glimpses could be
gained of a gown model or a small bevy
of hats. Finally the rush began, and
today every haberdasher is trying to
outdo his neighbor in the design of his
window-maskings, but with a certain
artistic restraint, out of deference to the
austerity of the times. The result looks
so modcrnistically unusual that there is
a possibility that the old open window
with its vulgar display of all the firm
has to offer has gone for ever and that
the present style will become the fashion
after the war is over. Moreover, the
mysterious always allures.
* * * •
"Ho": I disagree with “Spascbo” (B.
20/5/’42) and also with the information
Department as to the efficacy of artificially
propagated hate. It is useless in any sort
of fight, as every schoolboy learns. The
fighter that wins through must keep a
cool head and have all his wits about
him, so that he will he able to sustain
a supreme effort until the other fellow
collapses. "Spasebo" has a bad case
in Mahomet’s followers and successors.
They certainly overran a great deal of
territory in a very short time, but at last
were utterly defeated by Charles Martel
and dwindled thenceforward till they split
into a number of different tribes, mostly
ruled by foreigners.
» « • •
"F.S.": Upholding the right of a critic
to express his views, Jordan, C.J., re-
marked, in giving judgment in a Sydney
libel case, on appeal, that a critic is
entitled to dip his pen in gall for the
purpose of legitimate criticism and "need
not be mealy-mouthed in denouncing
what he regards as twaddle, daub or dis-
cord.” No doubt; but he docs need to
be extraordinarily cautious and humble,
inasmuch as the critics of the past who
have dipped their pens in gall have some-
times fulminated against the great. The
critics of Athens gave Socrates the hem-
lock because they regarded him as a
corrupter of the youth and a producer of
discord ; but he happened to be the wisest
man in Greece. The critics of the Third
George’s time regarded Keats’s poetry as
twaddle, and, according to Shelley, their
lack of discrimination killed the poet.
Ruskin was certainly not mealy-mouthed
about Whistler’s landscapes, but the
things he regarded as daubs were
regarded by a later generation of critics
as artistic treasures. The critics of Mel-
bourne dipped their pens in gall against
the paintings of Max Mcldrum and his
school, but today Mcldrum is a Gallery
trustee and his work is universally
approved.
“Zake”: Each year since 1919, I
have met hundreds of fellow-Diggers
at reunions, and never noticed any-
thing queer about them. I should have
done. Reading about the New Diggers
from a war correspondent of my Sunday
paper, 1 found that Bill Jones was a
typical soldier. Then I was hit between
the eyes with this:
Bill Jones, like every normal man, was
no fatalist.
With a sigh at the thought that practi-
cally every one of my cobbers who had
ever been under fire was sub-normal, I
idly turned the pages. Then I came
across an item about a staff sergeant
from Bondi who in the big Coventry
Blitz . had a hunch to keep out of a cer-
tain air-raid shelter and seek sanctuary
in the gutter instead. The shelter received
a direct hit; the sergeant escaped un-
scathed. His reaction?
‘•Well," he thought, "none of those
bombs could have had my number on.”
Then Truscott hud something to say
about the boys in his Spitfire squadron
in England:
They arc all fatalists, and they just go
up and enjoy the scrap.
No doubt when Bill Jones runs into his
first box barrage he’ll forget all that his
analyst has said about him and become
one with the mob and an avid subscriber
to the popular theory: "II your number's
on it you're a goner."
* * * •
“Visitor": With the betting shops
closed. Adelaide is aspiring to regain its
old reputation as the City of Churches.
The opening of a new “Epworth Chris-
tain Club" lately was attended by Prem-
ier Playford, Attorney-General Jeffries.
Speaker Nicholls, and Opposition-leader
Richards, as well as by the assorted
heads of denominations. Would that be
possible in any other Australian city?
* ♦ * *
"Cine Ma": The new Commonwealth
film censor, J. O. Alexander, says that
he is going to try to please everybody
and offend none. Well. I hope he suc-
ceeds ; but tastes do differ so. Take
tomatoes. I like ’em. but I have a friend
who gets sick at the thought of them.
To rid him of his prejudices against
tomatoes would be comparatively simple
compared with Mr. Alexander’s job ol
changing the prejudices of the three mil-
lion-odd movie fans of Australia in
regard to such things as crimes ol
violence, boozing parties, sexual matters
and so forth. He would have to dig down
into their unconscious to find out what
was conditioning their likes and dislikes.
It took Freud ten years to do it with
some of his patients, and Mr. Alexander,
with three million patients, would have
no time to look at the films he is sup-
posed to censor.
* • ♦ •
"Faber” on the discovery of Aus-
tralia :
"Diego Dick" (B. 20/5/*42). recalling the
voyage of Torres through his strait, suggests that
the Spaniard “must have seen" the tip of C ape
York without realising that it was part of a
southern continent. Most historians think he
didn’t sec it at all. Says Ernest Scott in his
History of Australia: “It is improbable that
Torres sighted any part of the coast ol Aus-
tralia. From no point on the route could Aus-
tralia have been seen, unless a hill (Mount
Ernest), rising to a height of 750 ft. from an
island in Torres Strait, had been climbed. But
neither Torres nor Dc Prado mentions that the
hill was climbed." The first European to sec
the Australian coast was probably the Dutcrv
man Willem Jansz, who coasted along the Gulf
of Carpentaria and was actually in lorrcs
Strait a few weeks before Torres sailed through
it. However, he did not find his way through it
and returned to Java believing that the south
coast of New Guinea was joined to the land
along which he had sailed.
“Gad, you haven't shaved this morning !"


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; This is being written
beside a blazing log on one of those
innumerable Riverina road corners
topped by one of the innumerable signs
that read “To Boree Creek.” It has jus
struck me that in all the years of m>
wandering in these parts I’ve passed
dozens and dozens of these signs, yet
never once have I had the pleasure of
visiting the town, village or hamlet of
Boree Creek. I’m moved to these
thoughts by reason of the fact that last
night, about ten miles back, I helped
myself to a most attractive young cross-
bred lamb which had first somehow got
tangled in a wire fence and, shortly after
I appeared, its throat somehow happened
to fall against something hard and sharp,
and following this unfortunate accident
its pelt and innards had been removed
and its carcass was in my nosebag. I’ve
just polished off five short-loin chops
grilled over a box fire and am hurriedly
inditing this because down the road come;
a motor-bike bearing a constable wear
ing all the signs of having found what
he seeks. I haven’t time to get rid of
the rest of that crossbred lamb, and I’ve
a feeling that within the hour I am going
to be in Boree Creek at last, though for
how long is another matter.
* ♦ % *
“B. A. Ker”: The new medico was
full of modern ideas, plus a contempt
for the methods of our previous prac-
titioner. He was frankly scornful when
Johnson took in a bottle of tank water
to be analysed as a possible cause of his
offspring’s gastric disturbance. When
young Bensly’s ma brought in a sample
of the creek in which he “might have
picked up” his skin infection the doctor
was just as sceptical. But after five
other inhabitants had produced bottles of
drinking water while relating their symp-
toms, the quack informed the commu-
nity that he didn’t want to be bothered
with any more samples;the water in the
locality was neither harmful nor defi-
cient of any essential, and anyone who
had said it was ought to be in a strait-
jacket. Some months later the former
doc. dropped in while passing through
and his successor demanded, “Hey,
what’s the idea of instilling into ’em
that the water needs analysing?” The
old hand smiled quietly. “I did my own
dispensing,” he said. “So do I; but
what’s that got to do with it?” “I was
never short of bottles. But I’ll bet you’ve
never had a bottle returned since you
killed that water scare!” came the Voice
of Experience.
* * * *
“Naturala”: That shark which failed
to snatch the hooked snapper (B.
29/4/’42) may have been a female in
labor, though the depth of water at the
spot should have afforded some evidence.
Nature teaches even a shark to take some
elementary precautions so that some of
its offspring shall survive. For parturi-
tion the female shark seeks fairly shallow
water close to a reef where weed growth
! may afford the newly-born some conceal-
ment. But the shark “S.” mentions may
merely not have been hungry ; sea deni-
zens become sated just as do land-
dwellers. How else explain the pheno-
menon of notoriously voracious fish swim-
ming about in numbers yet refusing to
take a bait?
“Gumsucker”: “Beersucker” may have
the theory of beer-making right down
to tintacks, but he interests me with his
idea that tobacco was put into the brew
“to color it” (B. 29/4/’42). Coloring
in my brewery days was done with cara-
mel or burnt sugar. Many a lump we
bottle-washing kids smuggled out for the
delectation of the out-of-work kids down
by the corner. Old brewery hands always
held that the weed was put in to give
“kick.” More, my father, widely experi-
enced in sampling malt brews in more
than one part of the globe, informed
me that bush shanty-keepers, on finding
a barrel, through slow sales, had gone
flat, used to liven it up by threading a
foot or so of that old nigger twist through
the bunghole. And it was such nicotine-
livened suds that sent the shearer and
other blokes into the horrors in next to
no time. One of the phenomena of the
present anno Domini is the absence of
wild-eyed blokes who, in my juvenile
days, used to be found wandering in just
about every part of Australia. Thus, I
declare that beer today is better ; the
only thing it suffers from is “moreish.”
* * ♦ *
“Nor-’west”: “Emmeter” (B. 29/4/ ’42)
expresses a queer idea when he suggests
that the bull-ant isn’t of Australian origin.
In my Cabbage Garden days of 50 years
“ Didn't you say I ’ad to be firm with ’em?”
ago we called them bulldog-ants, and
they ran to about fin., jet black, and no
one then questioned their Australian citi-
zenship. In Westralia I found two
parallels of the bull-ant: the red sergeant-
ant, over lin. long and the most hostile
insect ever spawned (only the fact that
she doesn’t breed freely prevents her
owning the western part of the continent),
and the soldier-ant, which lives in
colonies of tens of thousands and attacks
in regiments. Let only so much as a
twig scratch their castle and the garrison
is out; and, true Aussies, they can cer-
tainly stoush. It has been foretold by
observers that all native ants, being primi-
tive types, wifi be ultimately outed by im-
ported types, but so far none of the
exotics have so much as dinted the
soldier-ant population.
* * * *
“Scuta”: For the greater part of the
year the Murchison River near Meeka-
tharra (W.A.) is just a long sandy depres-
sion between shallow banks carpeted in
a good season with Sturt’s desert pea.
After heavy rain, perhaps once in two
years, it carries for a few weeks a decent
stream which soon subsides into a string
of waterholes lasting a month or two.
There is no mystery about all this; but
where do the small bream-shaped fish
come from? Do ducks, shags and other
aquatic birds flocking south with the
rains carry fish spawn? Hardly time for
development into sizable fish, surely. I
have caught them up to half a pound in
a bend that was dry a month before. As
water can be got even in the driest
season by digging in the river bed it
seems more likely that these fish survive
between rains by burying themselves in
the moist sand. Anyway, that is the ex-
planation I got from an abo. while cut-
ting a fish-hook from his finger. I sup-
pose he knew.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Took a shot at a hare in a
thick patch of hopbush the other day
and crippled it in the loins. A second
shot was impossible, because of the thick
scrub, so I ran to head it, only to find
that it had vanished. Going back on the
tracks I found that puss had turned a
little towards me, had been headed and
had doubled sharply. Just then a thud-
ding noise attracted my attention. It
came from a rabbit warren. The tracks
led straight to the burrows and were lost
in the slipping sand of a steeply-inclined
entrance. The thudding came intermit-
tently from the hole. Now, I ran circles
round that bunny town till I’m prepared
to swear that hare never passed beyond
the burrows. I don’t believe a word of
it, but my eyes assert that a hare took
refuge in a rabbit warren. Any other
° known 7
cases _ own. ....
', . * * * , *. ‘
Bush Naturalist . Returning o my
humpy after a three-months absence
I opened a halt-full canister ot
barley. From the lid strung a
fuzzy spider web, which enfolded one
of the biggest spiders I had ever
seen. The barley was riddled with
weevils and moths. When I closed that
canister the barley was clean, showing
no signs of insect life whatever. The
moth and weevil eggs were there, of
course. The spider may also have slipped
in ; the moths would have supplied food
for it. But here’s the puzzle: how did
the whole concourse of life within that
canister get on for air? The lid was a
tight fit.
“Bad Australian”: It would appear
that “Sur Cingle” (B. 27/5/’42) uses very
fragile gear on that dude ranch of his
where he exercises his privilege of over-
lordship by hoofing out any of his vas-
sals found using his saddle as a pillow,
thereby “spreading the waist, weakening
the gullet and endangering kneepad and
cantle leather.” The ordinary stock
saddle is built to carry about 15 stone,
so how can “spreading,” etc., be caused
by its use as a headrest? I have an old
“Wagga” that has seen service as a pillow
on many a cattle camp between the Gulf
and the Murray ; it has served as a pack-
saddle on occasion and has been rolled
on time and again, but it is still unspread
and as sound in the gullet as ever. The
“only sensible bush bolster” recom-
mended by “Sur C.” may be right
enough around his dudery, but let him
go on the road with it and see (and hear)
what happens. An ordinary pillow
measures approx. 18in. x 30in. Adopting
“Sur C.’s” figures we have a real “new-
chum bundle” sft. long, which would
hang out about a foot at each end 5f
his blanket roll —if he doubled-up the
bolster inside the swag it would be so
bulky that he would need a periscope to
see where he was going.
* * * sp
“The 0.D.”: The ideal camp-site, is
it (B. 3/6/’42)? I’ve tried most of those
outlined and found ’em pretty much of
a muchness. Better than any of them is
a clump of gumsuckers on a Murray billa-
bong, a hole beaten out in a big patch of
Mitchell grass or a kipsy of interlaced
boughs with a high bank to the west.
But" even they pale into insignificance
beside the best camp of all, the one worth
going miles to find, the one that wel-
comes body and spirit in an embrace
warm, comforting and soporific—a good
bed in a good little pub.
« * * *
“Anthropo”: Suicide was unknown to
the wild abo. Property never worried
him and drink he never knew. For a
nagging woman he had the butt-end of
his spear, and if that failed, the point,
though the last-mentioned remedy was
seldom necessary, for, until they learned
the trick from the white woman, abo.
wives never nagged. In his primitive state
the abo. was probably the happiest of all
mortals. To seek a voluntary exit from
such a pleasant sphere would have
seemed to him utterly preposterous,
* .„* T *,♦ * , .
Sur 1 wasn t surprised at
Rom u Neys lltde eff f lon (B 20/5/ 42).
Jve heard a baggy-trousered jackeroo
tal + k that before this, and Ive seen
a tough little Cockney break down and
blubber over these same merry picnics
which, from the centre of his half-acre
chicken run, “R.N.” derides. So listen.
The only sensible way to work a 1000-sq.-
mde s k eep nurser y j s to use a mustering
camp when the flies arrive out of the
bi ue;i as thick as Moses’ plague, as they
usua iiy come, tha only thing to do is to
se t that camp mustering and crutching
from daylight to dark while odd riders
comb the paddocks doctoring bad cases
wherever found—and a badly-struck
merino ewe is easy to catch, when you
know how. It’s bitterly hard work while
it lasts, hard on horses, men and sheep,
But it has to be done, and it can be done,
but not by dudes or dachshunds. That it
is done will be proved to “R.N.’s” satis-
faction if he gets in touch with Farina
Hospital (Far North S.A.) and asks how
Billy Grey got the shears wound in his
leg back in ’3l.
“Naturala”: The fact that wild horses
within a few decades increased to such
numbers that brumbies had to be shot
by the thousand (B. 15/4/ ’42) makes one
wonder what would have happened had
the Dutch dropped a stallion or two and
a few mares on their visits
in the seventeenth century.
The ’roo and other large mar-
supials perhaps would have
been routed through the
superiority of the equine
teeth in eating off all avail-
able grass. And perhaps
when this point arrived some
of the horses might have
turned from herbivora into
carnivora. Under pressure of
starvation horses, cattle and
even sheep have been known
to eat flesh, and from the
eating of flesh the making of a kill is but a
step—as witness the kea parrot of Maori-
land. So Australia might have evolved
its own large carnivora. That the horse,
when suffering no natural check, would
have bred to countless millions is illus-
trated by the bison of North America
and our own water buffalo of the N.T.
4; A
“Flight”: A kestrel falcon gave me
a close-up of his work the other day. He
hovered in space with a high wind blow-
ing. At times his wing-tips only flut-
tered ; he breasted up and used his wings ;
then he lay horizontal and put in heavy
strokes, remaining stationary all the time,
as if pinned in space. His job done, he
darted to earth like a streak of licking
light in grey and buff. He caught his
mouse, lifted and went home with his
meal. But what appealed to me was the
way that rooster hit the earth. He was
doing all out 60 m.p.h. when he reached
the ground. There was no ease, no re-
duction of speed, and he stopped as dead
as any other thing would do when he
touched bottom. Has he shock-absorbers
on his hips to take the buffet?
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: “B 4” (B. 8/4/’42)
seems to be one of those Queen-street
wild westerners when he “leans over to
read a brand” (by moonlight!) and talks
of rushing cattle “bellowing and bawl-
ing”! Excepting only a light red-roan
beast, which frequently has its brand
clearly picked out with red hairs, I’ll eat
raw all the cattle that “8.4” can read
brands on in the open by moonlight.
Also, cattle “rush” and bulls and their
kin almost always charge in silence, ex-
cept for the noise of galloping hooves and
crashing timber, and (in the case of a
charging beast) a snappy little snort when
contact is about to be made; but these
noises are in themselves plenty, and in-
spire much haste of movement in those
hearing them for the first or any other
time. If “8.4” had heard a mob of Queens-
land back-country bullocks moving off a
night-camp a bit faster than a meteor he
would have left the bellowing to that
later and very welcome stage when the
anxious drover hears scattered mates
calling one another. The “rush” is over
then. Further, a real rush does not start
among wakeful cattle. The drover prefers
to “turn in” restless stragglers than to
have a tired mob all asleep. A possum
running up the dry bark of a tree can
make a quietly sleeping mob “jump up”
and depart so fast that “8.4” would think
it had happened the night before —pro-
vided they didn’t go his way.
NATIONHOOD.
Fate’s finger touched Australia’s brow,
War’s wings have brushed her mouth —
She is the white man’s bastion now,
The lone land of the south.
Full armed she stands from crown to heel,
Stout ships are on the sea:
While nations locked in battle reel,
Australia still is free.
Too long Australians talked and planned,
Too long vast riches lay
Untouched in distances unspanned,
In sunsets far away.
While others were in iron clad,
She let her homespun be
The only buckler that she had
’Gainst peril from the sea.
Tobruk yet saw the foeman wheel
Across the desert sand
Before Australian guns and steel,
Sent from our far-off land.
Australians bore the flag six-starred
From Anzac Cove to Aire:
Enough are here to hold and guard
Australia brave and fair.
Now have Fate’s fingers touched her brow
Which bears the battle wounds;
We are not careless children now
The battle trumpet sounds;
With free men like ourselves we face
The doom-trail overcast,
In the free world to take our place—
A nation born at last.
n.s.w.
WILL LAWSON.


“Aratta”: “That mare is a bit out of
condition, I’ll admit, an’ p’raps a trifle
on the old side,” said the horsedealer,
pointing to a decrepit quadruped stand-
ing in a corner of the yard. “But,” he
continued, scenting in Dad a possible
buyer, “she’s only a bit poor through
bein’ in drought country these last few
munce. With a bit of condition on she 11
be a picture, I can give you my word.
She’s one of a pair the bloke I got her
from had. A treat for sore eyes them
two horses was when he had them. There
wasn’t another pair like them t’ be seen
anywhere.” “I certainly believe y’ there,
said Dad, with conviction in his voice.
The dealer eyed Dad suspiciously and
remarked, a trifle sourly, “Y’ ain’t tryin
t’ be funny by any chance, are y’? Did
y’ know the bloke who owned them?
“No, I can’t say I knew him,” answered
Dad ; “but I’ve of’en heard of him. His
name was Noah!”
5£
“Silverdee”: Prior to the arrival of the
white man with his cattle, the blowfly
must have had a pretty poor time, for with
the dingo and the crow always on the
hunt for odd carrion there couldn’t have
been much dead meat for the lady fly
to use as a nursery. Actually, it is a
wonder the breed persisted. But when
the jumbuck came to die, and those
brumby carcasses were left to rot over
miles of country —well, how many mil-
lions of maggots could be begotten in
the one equine carcass? Once saw an
example of fly on the W.A. Murchison,
never reckoned to be a district very much
troubled with “strike.” A horse had
died, and over it the station overseer had
rigged a cover of scrim canvas, close-
grained enough to prevent all insect
entry ; the flap edges were buried in the
ground. Around this trap were literally
drayloads of dead flies. Attracted there,
they had been unable to leave again and
so had hovered around, surcharged with
life and the instinct to transmit it, until
“It's the chief warden calling me to my post- is it O.K. for me
to go, dear ?”
thev died of starvation. Yet the trap
was a failure, stocelhe mass of dead fly
became a breeding ground for a million
more * * * * *
“Avon”: Noting reports of the depre-
dations of “cat-burglars,” an English
newsoauer remarked: “If this sort of
thing is allowed to continue nobody’s
cats will be safe.” In Maoriland also
pussy-will be in dire peril if some of
the stalwarts of the Forest and Bird
Protection Society have their way. At a
recent meeting in Wellington, when de-
Suction of native birds by cats was
being discussed, a medico member de-
dared he would like to see cats outlawed
altogether and make it a crime to keep
one. A lady member, who evidently had
not heard of the homing proclivities of
felines, said all the trouble was caused
by townspeople who took unwanted cats
“ Drunk, an' on Sunday, too! Disgustin'!"
tQ thg « nearest bit of bush” (in Welling-
tQn tbat ’ s now here more than two miles
awa ) and maroo ned them. The presi-
c}ent wound up the debate by remarking
wearily that t b e licensing of cats (first
tQ their abolition) had been mooted
aP over tbe world, but nothing ever
came of it< “i am afraid the ordinary
po bti c ian would never dare to face the
cat question,” he concluded. The mem-
bers, however, may take heart of grace.
WeUs in h i s Modern Utopia predicts an
era w ben all cats and dogs will be exter-
mjPated as unhygienic,
* * * *
“U2B”: Lately observers in Aus-
tralia, S. Africa and S. America have
wakened to the fact that arsenic dip has
i os t its punch with cattle ticks, which
apparently have bred immunity to it.
And in Queensland we have noticed that
these insects have lately taken to leaving
the cow for the man in increasing
numbers. Perhaps they got the tip from
their cousin the dog tick, which will try
a human host occasionally as a diet
variation. But the cattle tick is a far
WO rse proposition, and if it gets too
affectionate it looks like becoming a new
headache to those who move among
s t o ck.
*.* TT * f ■ „ „
“JayenT : Long Harry was facing a
charge of driving in a manner dangero
to the public—]i-had[been.® by
everyone in the district. The police ser
geant was cross-examining him in court.
“How long have you been driving?” he
asked. “Twenty years,” the long ’un
replied. “How is it, then, that you haye
held a license for only one year?” “I
drove a horse and sulky for 19 years,”
Harry told him.
;|c *
“Betcha”: There are some unbeliev-
ing dog-working sheepmen in these East
Gippsland parts who would like to know
how “Sur Cingle” (B. 13/5/’42) does it.
Allowing under certain circumstances
that two bottles of dip will last through
the day, how, without a dog or knocking
the animal about, does one catch the
sheep in that 80-square-mile paddock?
If a restless, stamping, fly-touched woolly
can be crept on unawares it’s something
new to them. Of course, the jumbucks
could perhaps be run down on foot, pro-
vided there’s a classy sprinter on the
station. But what they are most anxious
to know is whether “5.C.,” tearing along-
side the sheep at a hand gallop, leans
down and snatches up 601 b. to 1801 b. of
kicking, struggling mutton on to the front
of his saddle. Or does his well-trained
prad edge the sheep against the trunk
of a kurrajong, and when it is pinned
“S.C.” take a flying dive on to it and
get to work with the dip?
* * * *
“Don Me”: “I don’t want f go to the
fight,” roared Grandpa. “Got something
better to do than watch a pair o’ waltzin’
Willies brushin’ flies off each other. When
I was a young feller on the road with
me team out west, I fought 30 rounds
with me bare knuckles, an’ when the
doctor patched the other bloke up he
looked like a pair of sundowner’s pants.
A bloke started t’ give me a bit of lip
in Cootermundra one day, an’ when ’e
finished bouncin’ ’e was sittin’ in front
of the Wagga post office. One-punch
Ryan they called me. I’d have had a
crack at the world’s champeen if I hadn’t
been scared out of the game. They
matched me to fight the Queensland
Terror in a little town up north for a
purse of a hundred soverings. When I
hopped out of me corner and let go me
right uppercut, which starts fr.om floor
level, all I remembered was a rush of
air like a cyclone, an’ when I looked up
there was a big gapin’ hole in the roof
an’ no Terror in sight. Although black-
trackers an’ mounted troopers searched
for days they never found a trace of him.
I was had up, but let orf, and, scared o
me punchin’ powers, I quit the game fer
good. Ten years later the papers kicked
up a great shindy over what they called
a bush mystery. Two timbercutters
near a northern town discovered the
skeleton of a bloke hangin’ in the fork
of a big gum, an’ nobody could solve the
mysterv. I knew who it was, but I kept
me trap shut. Don’t talk to me o’ these
penny-jelly fighters!”
* * * *
“Loo”: Flour, as “Bughouse” says (B.
20/5/’42), is merely the “ground-up seed
of a modified grass.” But I doubt if
any grass could, starting from one or
two seeds, give such quick results as
wheat. In 1903 Dr. Saunders dropped
a few grains of a new wheat in an experi-
mental plot at Ottawa. Its male parent
was a mid-European Red Fife, the female
parent the less promising Red Calcutta ;
from nearly 100 resultant varieties there
was evolved the Marquis. When the food
crisis loomed blackly in 1918 this early-
ripening variety was planted. From it
came enough to overtax the mightiest
elevators in the U.S.A. And that all
came from what had once been contained
in a labelled envelope.
* * * *
“Solitude”: The cattle were strung
along the river, and Seventyfiver, one eye
on the dogs and the other on the cattle,
was hacking off slabs of bread, thatch-
ing them with boiled mutton and passing
them to his boss. “W°rk!” the boss
said to me between chews. “It’s nuthin’
but flamin’ work these days. Daylight
till dark, a bloke’s just sweatin’ his hide
off.” He drained his pannikin and threw
it to the ancient one for a refill. “Yair,
jus’ slavin’ hisself inside out, an’ where’s
it get a man, eh? Where’s it—aw, cripes,
look at them cattle, will y’! ” Old
Seventyfiver turned back the strays,
cleared up the noon camp and began
collecting the horses. “Aw, break it
down, can’t y’?” the boss moaned at him.
“Can’t a man have a coupla minutes’
peace?” An hour later he eased himself
up. “Well, s’long,” he groaned. “More
sweatin’ an’ puffin’ to do! Slavin a trail
t’ heaven! Life’s like that though, ain't
it? Hey, Ancient, get ’em goin’. I’ll
ride in the cart for a bit.” Seventyfiver
pepped the mob into motion, and the last
I saw of the outfit was a drift of smoke
from the baggage cart where the old
philosopher was puffing his way to
heaven in the wake of the herd.
* * * *
“Narooma”: Stingrays are pretty plen-
tiful on the east coast, too (B. 3/6/’42).
Down at Narooma, where the tide runs
into Wagonga Inlet through a training
wall and then opens out over a wide,
shallow sandy bottom, you can see ’em
in dozens at low tide or just before the
make and ebb. They’re the curse of the
whiting fisherman on the sandbanks, for
they invariably swallow the hook and
about six inches of line, and, time being
precious when whiting are on the go, the
only thing to do is cut the line and bend
another hook on. I’ve distributed more
profanity along the shores of Wagonga
than in any other pilace, though I’ve been
in other places much longer.
* * *
“Scuta”: Camped recently on a high
bank of the Murray commanding a mile
stretch of water, I awoke at daybreak to
a remarkable sight. The stream was
covered with waterfowl —ducks and cor-
morants of every variety. The water
edges were lined with waders, blue,
brown, white and speckled cranes, and
the air was thick with swimmers and
waders flocking to join the mob. They
took no notice of me as I descended the
bank for a closer view. I then discovered
that a mighty banquet was in progress,
but with only one course. The birds were
busy mopping up shrimps swarming from
a freshet upstream. I timed the feast to
last half an hour, when almost as one
the huge flock of uninvited guests took
heavily to its' wings and disappeared to
digest its bewhiskered meal at leisure.
Fish, too, must have been in at the kill
We got no bites for two clear days, and
even then they would not look at a
shrimp. *
* * * *
“Propalong”: The latest addition to
the horse-paddock mob was a big-boned,
wall-eyed chestnut mare, all hair and
heels. The first morning she was driven
in with the other workers she decided to
assert herself. Booting poor old Barney
out of the way she savaged Eileen,
feinted at Bos’n, charged Taffy and took
the lead. After that things became
general. With the horsetailer pounding
after them the mob thundered through
the tar bush, lunged up the sandhill,
rooted down the other side and tore
across the flat. They slowed down on
the long rise to the tank, and there the
equine she-Hitler made her mistake.
Wantonly she took a shot at old Biddy.
Mam’selle, the little pony mare, was can-
tering demurely along on the wing. See-
ing the attack on her old cobber she
turned into a red streak. Darting
through the mob she was alongside the
aggressor before the big mare knew it.
Rearing, she took a mouthful of neck and
mane and shook the belligerent one.
Then as suddenly she let go, whipped
round, slammed in two beauties to the
slats and danced off a few yards, ready
for the next move. But the big mare
wasn’t having any. Cowed, she dropped
back, running the gauntlet all the way to
the tail of the mob. Then the profane
and sweating horsetailer caught up and
the horses trotted quietly into the yard.
THE INTANGIBLES.
I sat by a running water
When I was as young as God,
And a dream came out ot the stillness
And burned on the goldenrod.
A golden fish in the water,
A silver bird in the sky,
A burning dream on the blossom;
And the world grew as young as 1.
And something rose from the water,
And fell from the silver wing,
Then broke my heart with the beauty
Of Beauty’s vanishing.
A glint of gold in the water,
A flame on the goldenrod;
And the heart of a fool shall find them,
Though the world be as old as God!
And the rune of the running water,
The gold and the silver gleam,
Shall have drifted deep o’er the heartbreak
And left but the burning dream.
S.A.
J. HOLLOWAY.


LYSAGHTS
to
A~
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER m
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
3m
B jL
W&
mmm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPEC
FY "LYSAGHT'S" WIR
.... . .
. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fly-strike Method's.
‘'Rom Ney”: Most sheepowners be-
gin their attack on the fly after it has
struck and the sheep show signs of
carrying maggots. Those who’ve studied
the thing insist that prevention is better
than cure. The concentration on blowfly
dressings to combat maggots suggests
that a majority of sheepmen are satis-
fied that fly-strike is inevitable. It isn’t.
The most logical form of attack on the
fly is prevention of strike, though it is
fairly evident that no single method of
control is ever likely to prove effective.
A sheepowner is halfway to victory
over the fly when he makes himself
thoroughly acquainted with its habits,
incidence of attack, prevention of attack
and cure. Waiting until the sheep are
struck is like putting up with a recur-
rently aching tooth rather than having it
yanked out. With a knowledge of the
various methods it is possible to set out
a definite plan to combat the fly.
For instance, it is fairly easy to antici-
pate a wave of flies. If the sheep are
well-woolled and on heavy green feed,
have not been crutched for some time
and there is a humid turn of weather,
flies can be expected. They can be ex-
pected in the first sudden heat of spring
or during the last hot kick of summer
in autumn. It is possible to know which
of the sheep are more likely to be
attacked and to segregate them for
crutching and, if necessary, jetting. It
may save time and money to render
them partially immune by a clean crutch-
ing or by the Mules operation. Short
of either, it might be a good plan to sell
them and restock with plain-bodied sheep
in good condition.
Careful flock-classing at regular inter-
vals gets rid of wrinkly breeches and
selects plain-bodied sheep for breeding.
Breeding out wrinkles takes a long time,
but it’s worth it. It is also worth re-
membering that a lot more flies are bred
on living sheep than on carrion and that
the keynote to control is prevention of
breeding on living sheep. It has been
proved again and again that suscepti-
bility of lambs can be reduced nearly 80
p.c. by docking the tails slightly longer
than has been the custom and that a
careful choice of shearing time enables
the flock to escape a good many waves
of body-strike.
A Sheep Race.
“Nooraloo”: In many parts of Queens-
land previously untroubled by worms
in sheep drenching has now become
necessary. The job is easier in specially
designed yards. A race 2ft. 6in. wide,
tapering to 2ft. at the extreme end and
having a narrow exit gate at the filling
end, opening out to one side, is best.
The operator begins at the entrance
and works forward, but after drenching
one or two sheep he opens the exit gate
at the side, so that as he works through
the sheep they turn back and go out
quietly. The narrowed end at the head
of the race makes it easy to control the
last few sheep, and when these are done
the race is empty and ready for refilling.
The side exit prevents crushing and
jamming of the sheep after being
drenched, when they crowd back from
the operator and are often giddy from
the effects of the drench.
If the floor of the race is battened it
becomes available for jetting as well as
drenching, but a gate at the narrow head
of the race is required for exit of jetted
sheep. A drafting gate at the head of
the race, or just outside it, will prove
useful.
Fodder and Pastures.
‘Whorouly’’; It’s pretty good country
about Benalla (Vic,), but when a man
succeeds in carrying over 700 head of
stock on 565 acres his methods are worth
looking into. A. T. James is the man, and
his farm near Warrenbayne carried 450
breeding ewes, 220 dry sheep, 30 milking
cows, 41 young cattle, two bulls and
three working horses last year,
James had over 4000 bales of pressed
hay in stout sheds, most of it first-class
rye grass and sub. clover, a stack of oaten
hay and some oaten chaff which neither
weather nor vermin could get at and
about 300 tons of silage from Phalaris
“Stick to un, Nich'las; you're on top 's often as 'e is."
tuberosa, perennial rye and sub. clover.
This, in addition to pasture improvement,
is his method.
James got perennial rye into his sub.
clover pastures by running a springtooth
with narrow points each way over the
clover when it was at the primary leaf
stage and then sowed 41b. of p. rye grass
seed an acre with a drill towing a harrow
to give the seed cover. He thus got good
balance into the pasture and was sure
of a green pick for the stock in early
autumn before the sub. got away.
Too much of the pasture hay in the
district carries barley, silver and fog
grass, and lesser inferior species. James,
by introducing the p. rye, beat them down
and showed that a secondary form of
pasture improvement can get a good grass
into the established clover cover. In
parts where the soil may be too dry in
summer for sowing p. rye, Wimmera rye
or P. tuberosa would doubtless make
good substitutes. James’s stock get good
supplementary feeding in February,
March, June and July—normal periods
of scarce pastures in n.-e. Victoria. This
year he took the prize in his district in
the Victorian R.A.S. fodder contest. He
was second in 1937 and 1939.
Drenching Horses.
“Huxave”: You’ll need a conical pint
metal container with a reinforced neck,
or a drenching bit, which is fitted in the
mouth as an ordinary bit, the drench
being poured into a funnel attachment.
Failing either of these, use a good strong
bottle with a tapering neck fitted with a
piece of hose.
Don’t excite the horse. You’ll need
help. One man should keep a hand on
the horse’s nose to prevent the head
being thrown too high, while the drencher
should keep the head horizontal by pres-
sure on the lower jaw. The neck of the
container should be kept just within the
angle of the mouth and should be moved
to and fro to promote swallowing. Care
should be taken that the animal’s teeth
are not broken.
When the head is held too high, there’s
danger of the drench passing down the
windpipe to the lungs and setting up
pneumonia. When a horse is drenched
through the nostrils, the greater part of
the drench does pass to the lungs. A
horse should not be drenched when lying
down, nor should pressure be applied to
the throat to force the horse to swallow.
Putting a horse to work immediately
after giving it linseed or any purgative
is likely to bring about overpurging and
death. A horse suffering from tetanus.
sore throat or strangles may not be able
to swallow and is therefore not in a fit
condition for drenching.
Vegetables on the Highlands.
“Pat Ater”: What can be grown on
windswept highlands, both in the open
and under glass, is being demonstrated
at Robertson (N.S.W.) by W. R. Brown,
late Director of Agriculture in North-
west India. This 2000-feet-high plateau,
almost overlooking the sea, yet open to
inland westerlies, has conditions which
can be as trying as possible, particularly
in drought years. The soil is volcanic,
typical deep red basalt, which dries to a
powder after a long dry spell. By a sys-
tem of tall and medium windbreaks,
Brown has shown that drying winds can
be controlled and wind erosion greatly
lessened.
On the plateau there are high winds
for eight months of the year, yet two
crops of tomatoes are grown each year
under glass, and no extra heat is re-
quired. This in a climate where the tem-
perature touches four and five degrees of
frost in winter! On the west very tall
English laurels, which grow readily in
any cool inland area, mixed with coni-
fers, give splendid protection, and near
the market-garden patches another dense
laurel hedge breaks the southerlies. This
hedge was propagated by the “truncheon”
method —pieces 18in. long and 3in. thick
laid end-on with a 6in. soil cover —and
it has grown over 10ft. in six years.
Other ground cover is provided in
summer with rows of buckwheat, fring-
ing each crop. The buckwheat is also a
rich source of honey. Diagonal and cross
furrows help to lessen wind erosion.
Brown believes in putting back into
the soil what has been taken from
it. This means humus in addition to
the special fertilisers used for each crop.
Here it is usually blood and bone for
leaf and super, for pod crops. Lime is
applied generously. The humus comes
from green manure, mostly lupins turned
in at the flower-bursting stage; barley,
rye, vetches and field peas are just as
effective.
Rotation of crops is another natural
process to aid fertility. Root crops,
potatoes, carrots and parsnips follow leaf
vegetables, cabbage, lettuce or beans and
peas. Fallow would help, but in closer
settlement it is a luxury which cannot
always be availed of.
Dealing with Fruit Pests.
“Sailor Bill”: When flying-foxes start
unloading your fruit trees stick a few
forked poles in the orchard with barbed-
wire stretched between them. The poles
should rise 10ft. or 12ft. high and should
be planted firmly about six yards apart.
Any old barbed wire will serve. Run
the top wire through the forks and make
fast at each end. As many more wires
as you please may be stretched between
the top wire and the ground and laced
vertically with short lengths. Wire-
netting will make the barrier far more
efficient. A few large tins filled with
stones and hung from the wires so that
they’ll swing and rattle when a flying-
fox hits the defences are useful.
Black and piping crows are trouble-
some in melon patches. Black crows can
be poisoned. I’ve used one part flour,
one part pollard, a half part white
arsenic, mixed together with a little water
and rolled into pills, with success. And
I’ve saved many melons by wrapping
sacking around them or by cutting sec-
tions of chicken netting and pegging them
down to form “tents” over the melons.
The chicken netting was covered with dry
grass.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bundalinga”; Maize responds to
deep, early ploughing and winter fallow.
With thorough preparation maximum
moisture is stored and plant food re-
leased for the young seedlings. Official
tests in N.S.W. over a seven-year period
showed that average yield from May-
ploughed land was almost five bushels an
acre greater than from land ploughed in
June and more than 10 bushels better
than from land ploughed in August.
“Canbelego”: Immature pumpkins
should be used as soon as possible.
Store only the mature ones. Leave the
pumpkin on the vine until it is difficult
to pierce the rind with the thumbnail,
it will keep provided a short stalk is left.
Early pumpkins keep best, as they have
longer to ripen. Don’t bruise when
handling, store on slatted shelves in a
dry, airy room, examine them frequently
and throw out any showing signs of
decay.
“J.H.”: When rats and mice are
troublesome in haystacks or about barns
make a mixture of one part sulphur and
20 parts of lime and spread it about. The
rodents will soon disappear. The mix-
ture is harmless to stock.
“Mattock”: When making reinforced
slabs or concrete steps which later may
carry posts, put in short pieces of stout
hollow piping level with the surface
before it sets. A wooden plug will keep


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCIAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY. HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind-training.” Dr.
Norwood.
Can the Memory be
Trained? It can.
"‘The process of committing to
memory, beipg a straightforward
and controllable activity, is exceed-
ingly suscentible to training.
Professor Woodworth, Ph.D., in
“Psychology: A Study of Mental
Life.”
“....Intelligent training and
exercise will develop a high degree
of efficiency and service (in the
memory).
“The cultivation of the memory
is really a cultivation of the entire
mind, for the whole process of
intelligent thought depends upon
memory as a foundation. . . . In any
system of natural memory training
the entire faculties receive training
and development.”—W. W. Atkin-
son, author of “The New Psy-
chology.”
“Memory is not an isolated faculty
but the manifestation of other facul-
ties in varying degrees. It is an act
of co-operation in which each
faculty participates effectively
according to its development. The
training of any one mental quality
assists in training the memory, and
a conscious effort to train the
memory in any one of its many
aspects helps, consciously or un-
consciously, to develop other facul-
ties.”—The Pelman Institute.
", . . . the graduated and scientific
system which is to be found in
Pelmanism unquestionably does
train the eye and mind together. . . .
I have known the Pelman System
for some seven years. I have served
both before and during the war
(1914-18) with many who have
followed it.... A memory which
works instantly and automatically
when roused suddenly from a short
and insufficient nap, or when the
brain is numbed by fatigue and want
of sleep is a priceless possession.”
—Major - General Sir F. Maurice,
K.C.M.G., C.B.
Sources of Strength
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being
wanted, of being acceptable to at least one group of people.
A second source is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make
ourselves of use to other groups and acceptable to them. The
enlargement of the number of groups and the intensification of
our influence in any one of them are determined by the degree
of development of certain qualities, viz. y
PERCEPTIVE FACULTY SELF-CONFIDENCE
CONCENTRATION WILL-POWER
SELF-CONTROL INITIATIVE
JUDGMENT ORGANISATION
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains* these qualities, not with the object of
making A like B or anyone else, but so that he, as A, will be as
strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets out
seriously to develop the individual so that he will he himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post free.
Inquiries are condeutial. We have no outside representatives.
Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D.
Write, call, telephone
(MU2355) or tele-
graph. When writing'
or telegraphing
Pelman Institute,
Melbourne, is suf-
ficient address.
H.M. FORCES.
160 admirals and
generals and nearly
100,000 other ranks
have taken the
Pelman Course.
Approved by the War
Office.
There are over half a
million Pelmanists, of
whom more than 44,000
have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
Headquarters: London.
DOCTOR: “Pelmanism has shown me how
to observe instead of merely seeing.”
TEACHER: “Increase in my powers of
Concentration and Memory. Increase in Self-
Confidence. Greater interest in people and in
my surroundings.”
STAFF CAPTAIN: “I want to thank you
for your attention and express the hope that
I may keep in touch with the Institute in the
future as the occasion offers.”
ENGINED RIVER: “It is with a wonderful
sense of ability and security that I face the
future.”
AIKRCKAFTMAN: “My memory is im-
proved, my concentration developed and I am
a better observer.”
PRIVATE: “I have developed Will Power,
Observation and Memory. I feel that I can
step into the future with both feet firmly
planted on the path to success.”
SOLDIER (ENGINEER): “Yesterday I
learned that promotion, and to a higher rank
than that which I have expected, is coming
my way in the near future. I attribute my
promised advancement to Pelraanism. It was
only the benefit I had already gained from it
which carried me through at .”
SOLDIER: “I was one of three to be pro-
moted out of a class of thirty selected for
special training.”
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 356 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU 2355.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
306 Hinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind.’
Name
Address
145
10 for lid. • 30 for 110
CRAVENA
Ifoull appreciate theh
00
rm.
:
tm.
m
ŵ
the pipe clean. You’ll appreciate this
foresight if later you attempt to chip out
the concrete.
Outback Occasions.
No. 39.
THE VISITOR.
We sat down to tea one Saturday night
—we had gone into town early and come
back because we intended getting up
early next morning and going to a big
hare drive —and waited for our sister.
For a while we talked about the hare
drive, but the time dragged and Father
looked at Mother and said “Where is
that girl?”
“She won’t be long,” said Mother, and
then our sister came in and sat down.
She was wearing a dress we hadn’t seen
before, and she had her hair piled up in
front of her head as though she intended
to wash her neck, but when you looked
again you saw that the hair was meant
to be that way. It was waved and combed
like a merino ram’s fleece when he goes
to a sheep show. We boys nudged each
other and grinned, but we’d got used to
our sister and didn’t take much notice.
Mother served the tea and we got busy.
It was when Father asked our sister
for the butter that a change came. “Pass
us the butter,” he began, broke off, stared
hard at our sister and growled “What’s
that on your face?”
Of course, we boys looked closer then
and saw that our sister’s cheeks and mouth
were redder than they’d ever been before.
“By cripes,” said Father, “doin’ y’rself
up like that! Y’ look like a flamin’ doll.”
“Leave her alone,” said our mother.
Our sister’s face had got redder and
she kept her gaze on the tablecloth.
“What’s she up to?” demanded Father.
“Topdressin’ her dial,” sneered our
brother. Mother reached over the table
and boxed his ears and 1 bit back what
I was about to say just in time,
“You mind y’r own business,” Father
growled at our brother and me and then
looked at Mother in a puzzled sort of
way. Mother went on with her tea in
a superior sort of way and then leaned
over close to our sister and said some-
thing in a low voice. Our sister looked
at her quickly and began to eat. Father
looked at us boys and looked away again
and we could feel that he felt himself
to be the victim of some sort of a con-
spiracy, same as we did.
“Bit of a chit of a girl,” he mumbled,
aggrieved.
“She’s eighteen,” said our mother
coldly. “I was seventeen when I was
married. Bit of a chit of a girl, was I?”
Father didn’t say anything. Our
brother just went on eating. So did I,
but there were things going on in that
room that puzzled and alarmed me.
After tea Father and we boys went in
to the fire in the living-room and got
our guns and began making ready for
the hare drive. Mother and our sister
did the washing-up out in the kitchen
and presently came and sat on one side
of the fire and started knitting.
About 8 o’clock we heard a car, and
our dogs tore past the house and gave
tongue. Then there was a knock at the
front door. Our sister shot out of her
chair like a startled rabbit, went all of
a quiver and ran to her room. Father
got up, but Mother beat him to the door,
saying sweetly “Don’t bother, dear, I’ll
go.”
Muttering something about the “ruddy
women in this place” Father sat down
again and resumed oiling his gun. We
boys kept our ears cocked. We heard
Mother greeting someone, and then she
came into the room with the school-
teacher from down at The Forks. He was
a bloke called Mr. Stevens and was a
pretty good tennis player. We’d seen
him a few times but he’d never called at
our place before.
Mother introduced him to us and our
brother got him a seat. You could see
that Father was a bit flummoxed, and our
brother stared at Mr. Stevens as though
he’d never seen a man before. After a
bit, however, Father started talking, and
so did Mr. Stevens, and before long we
were all talking to each other about
different things. Our sister came in
presently and 1 noticed that she and Mr.
Stevens smiled at each other without
Mother doing any introducing.
Well, we sat there, talking away like
men do. Mother said very little and our
sister hardly spoke at all, except when
the teacher bloke said something to her,
when she’d blush and drop her eyes and
move restlessly on her chair. Once or
twice she’d get up and go out and Mother
would follow her, and if we didn’t happen
to be talking we’d hear them talking in
low voices in another room. Then they’d
come back and sit down as though
nothing had happened. Gripes, it was
funny, the way they went on.
Then we had supper and the teacher
bloke looked at our sister and said,
“We’re having a bit of a tennis party
down at the school court tomorrow
afternoon, Miss —er?”
“I’d love to,” said our sister, who’d
never played tennis in her life. Mother
looked mighty pleased about something
and our brother said, “Gripes I wouldn’t
mind havin’ a go at that tennis meself.
I might come down and”
“You,” said our Mother, firmly and
irrevocably, “are going to the hare drive.”
At this Father gave Mother a quick
look and then looked from the teacher
bloke to our sister. Then he sat back in
his chair and stared up at the ceiling and
wore a very thoughtful look.
Presently Mr. Stevens said he’d have
to be going and thanked us for the en-
joyable evening and Mother and our sister
for the supper and got up to go. We all
said we’d open the gate and rushed out-
side, and Father and we boys stood on
the running board and our sister got in
the front seat and we all went down to
the gate, with Father and our brother
sticking their heads inside the car and
talking in loud voices to Mr. Stevens. I
opened the gate and he drove through
and went up the road.
Our sister ran home, and when we got
back she was in her room and crying and
Mother was trying to soothe her and we
heard our sister yell “It’s awful. They
never—they don’t Oh, why can’t they
they leave me alone?” Then Father said
some more about the “ruddy women in
this place,” booted our brother in the
pants and sent us to bed. Gripes, that
was a funny night if you like.


The SHAPE of
Ihings to come!
v;
W.
m
U
A tube, says the dictionary, is a long hollow cylinder.
B.T.M. respectfully begs to differ. It is already producing
Cold Drawn Precision Seamless Steel Tubes with cross
sections that are square, rectangular, oval, oblate and many
other shapes. It will, as need arises, produce Steel Tubes of
even more weird and wonderful design ... for B.T.M. has
inherited the combined experience of 30 English firms whose
business is the production of
Steel Tubes for every con-
ceivable purpose.
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
ẁ
PRECISION
ALL WAYS
j R. &- Me
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICA
BTMB j
T E S
m
/
“The secrefs in
the 333’s blendl?
Our Service Department
Wants.
Address in Australia of book club known as
“World’s Books” or similar title.—3274.
To buy copy of The Cauldron of Disease, by
Are Waeldren.—3l7l.
Words of recitation “The Night Stampede.”
—3272.
Words of recitations “When Father Carves
the Duck” and “Continued in Our Next.” —
3273.
Words of poem finishing with:
“Back of the dream is the dreamer
Who’s making the dream come true.”
—3175.
Information Sought.
(1) Particulars of exploits of monoplane
Winnie Mae around northern air circumfer-
ence of the world? (2) Where was Wiley Post
killed ? /'
(1) In 1931 Wiley Post (pilot) and Harold
Gatty (navigator) travelled 15,474 miles in eight
days 15 hours 51 minutes between 4.56 a.m.
on June 23 and 8.45 p.m. on July 1; and in
1933 Wiley Post (alone) made the course of
15,596 miles in seven days 18 hours minutes
between 5.10 a.m. on July 15 and 11.59£ p.m.
on July 22. (2) Wiley Post (36) was killed
when an aeroplane crashed in a fog near
Alaska on May 18, 1935.
* * * *
Some particulars of the Canadian National
Art Gallery?
The National Gallery of Canada, at Ottawa,
was founded in 1880 by the Marquis of Lome,
Gov.-General of the Dominion, and in 1913
organised in its present form under a Board
of Trustees. Its purposes are to build up a
representative collection of the art of all periods
and encourage and cultivate artistic taste. The
collection of Canadian painting, sculpture and
graphic arts is claimed to be the most complete
in existence. The gallery is entrusted with the
care of the Canadian War Memorials Collec-
tion, comprising over 1000 works, mainly by
Canadian and British artists. An important
branch of the National Gallery work is the
management 9f exhibitions of Canadian art in
other countries, and collections have been
shown at the British Empire Exhibition,
Musee du Jeu de Panne in Paris, South Africa,
Maoriland and Australia.
Words of the Arabian proverb about “know-
ing and not knowing”?
He who knows not and knows not that he
knows not; he is a fool, shun him.
He who knows not and knows that he knows
not; he is simple, teach him.
He who knows and knows not that he knows;
he is asleep, wake him.
He who knows and knows he knows; he is
wise, follow him.
• * * »
Any information concerning the Maori charm
tiki? What is it and what are its supposed
capabilities ?
The tiki, known throughout Polynesia,
usually under that name, is the image of a
man, and is supposed to represent the first
ancestor (Adam in Biblical nomenclature).
Among the Maoris its wearing as a charm used
to be confined to matrons who desired to bear
children. Nowadays many white men and some
Maoris, uninstructed in the lore of their own
race, wear the little greenstone images thus
fashioned as watchchain pendants.
* * * &
What is meant by the verb “to be " ? In a
grammar I have before me I read “Conjugation
of the Verb ‘To Be,’ ” and it starts off “Indica-
tive Mood, Present Tense: ‘I am,’ ‘We are? ”
What is the connection between “to be” and
“I am,” etc. ?
“To be” is often called the “substantive
verb,” meaning “betokening or expressing
existence.” It is both a principal verb and an
auxiliary (helping) verb. It is a principal verb
in the-sentence “A horse is a quadruped”;
it is an auxiliary in “He was going.” Conjuga-
tion is the enumeration in their proper order of
the inflexions (or changes of form) and com-
binations of a verb which are used to denote
voice, mood, tense, number and person.
“Am,” “is,” “are,” “was,” “were,” etc., are
all conjugational forms of “to be.” An item
of interest is that, whereas “are” is now the
usual form for the plural in the indicative
present tense, first, second and third persons
(“we are,” “you are,” “they are”), it was
formerly also “be” itself, as in “They that be
with us are more than they that be with them”
(2 Kings vi. 16). In “the powers that be” and
in archaic and dialect usage this plural “be”
still survives. Maybe the difficulty of seeing the
connection between “to be” and “am,” “are,”
etc., lies in the fact that “to be” is, as gram-
marian Nesfield notes, a patchwork of three
distinct Anglo-Saxon roots, es, beo and wes.
% * *
In answer to an earlier query by me you
say my dog may be suffering from eczema
and" ask as to his condition, diet, etc. The dog
has not been wormed for about three months,
but I have not observed any symptoms since
then. Diet consists of most any kind of meat,
nearly always cooked, table scraps, including
cake, etc. For washes have tried a couple of
different lotions from chemists, weak solutions
of sheep dip, lysol, and also weak solution of
kerosene, and also applied a mixture of sulphur
and lard, all without effect. Nothing appears
to relieve the irritation. 1 shall be pleased to
hear of something that will cure the dog, other-
wise I shall have to destroy him. Is the com-
plaint contagious?
This is definitely a case of the survival of
the fittest. A dog which could survive such
treatment should not be destroyed. A dog
should be fed as a dog. His natural food is
raw beef. No sweets, puddings, pastry, pies or
milk. One meal a day for an adult dog is
sufficient. A little broken wholemeal dog biscuit
and scraped raw carrot added to the beef is
advantageous in cases of eczema. In no
circumstances whatever should sheep dip, lysol,
kerosene or any products of tar or carbolic
be applied to the skin. They only serve to
aggravate the trouble. Eczema, arising, as it
does, from some internal disorder, usually due
to worms or improper feeding, is not con-
tagious. Internal complaints cannot be cured
by the application of external lotions, creams or
ointments. These only serve to suppress the
trouble by driving inwards with the certainty
of periodical recurrences. The cause should
be sought for and eliminated. An excellent
remedy is the homoeopathic preparation of
sulphur 30, three drops in water each morning.
Externally there is nothing better than oil of
cade, methylated spirit and green soft soap,
8.P., in equal parts. If there is any difficulty
in procuring these remedies they can be sup-
plied by D. Moore, 16 Bridge-street, Sydney,
* * * *
Any method of keeping fat from setting—
i.e., in liquid form—for use with arsenic as a
swab on sheep ? I use the mixture for blowflies
and it poisons more flies than jetting, but I
can’t use it other than as a swab, which makes
the treatment very slow.
Your idea of using fat means that you first
attract the fly to the sheep, then hope that the
arsenic will kill the maggots. Doubtless it
will kill those which encounter it, but some
maggots are bound to escape. The idea of a
dressing should be to repel flies, not attract
them, and though perhaps you kill many
maggots it is almost certain that the fat brings
more and more flies. You would be well ad-
vised to drop the method and try crutching,
jetting or dressing with the 8.T.8. mixture,
If your sheep are very wrinkly, then breeding
for plain bodies and Mules operations are in-
dicated. The faLand-arsenic method seems to
be asking for trouble.
* * * *
Best method of growing an oak-tree from an
acorn?
Sow acorn seed two inches deep as soon as
they fall ripe from the trees—generally May and
June-yeither in open garden or large pots. Ger-
mination, which cannot always be relied on,
takes place in the warmer weather. Sow a
dozen seeds to make sure of getting one tree,
When 12 months old shift seedlings to another
bed; they should not be placed in the open
garden until three years old. Staking is neces-
sary in the early stages to force upright growth,
and all spindly and low-growing limbs should
be removed to promote shapeliness.
How should carrot (Chantenay variety) be
grown for seed ; also, method for harvesting ?
Broadcast seed thin and evenly as possible in
well-pulverised deep light loam which had been
well manured for a previous crop of vegetables
(fresh manure should not be used), and cover
lightly with sifted soil. Fortify edges against
erosion and loss of seed. Autumn is planting-
time, but in warm areas it can be done in early
winter. Harvest seed when ripe and dry, and
store in a box containing tobacco dust or a
little naphthalene.
* * * *
(1) What is the longest accredited swimming
record? (2) Fastest swimmer to cross the Eng-
lish Channel, and the first swimmer to accom-
plish the feat?
The record belongs to John V. Sigmund, of
St. Louis, who swam down Mississippi River,
St. Louis to Caruthersville, 292 miles, in 89
hours 48 minutes. Previous holder was Clarence
Giles, with 288 miles in 77 hours 31 minutes, in
Yellowstone River between Glendine and Bil-
lings, Montana. (2) Venceslas Spacek (Bo-
hernia) swam the Channel in 10 hours 45
minutes in 1926;. Matthew Webb (Eng.) was the
first to swim across—in 1875 in 21 hours 45
minutes. E. H. Temme (Eng.) is the only
swimmer to cross the Channel in both direc-
tions from Cape Griz-Nez, France, to Dover,
England.
* * * *
In a poker game first player bets 2s. ; second
player sees him ; third player sees and raises to
4s. Must the first and second players say
whether they will play for 4s. or not before
the fourth and fifth players speak?
No, for the reason that it is open to any of
th . e players who have not yet spoken to raise
still further the amount at stake. First and
second players cannot speak again till all the
other players have spoken. But they can throw
i n their hands at any stage.
D _. * .
DTISt MtISWGTS.
Mrs. W.D.M.T.; Too long and complicated
to print here. Rules, etc., are supplied with
materials for the game. Most dealers in such
goods can also supply separately a little book
on mah jongg embodying the rules Amateur
Painter: Brush walls down with a hard brush,
wipe down with dry rags to remove dust, then
give ceiling and walls a good coat of flat paint
(thinning with turps where necessary). Room
can then be painted (with second coat of flat
white) or kalsomined A.A.H.: See reply to
Amateur Painter. The stain cannot be removed.
Use a good flat paint over it and then give an
all-over coat... .A.M.F.: No record of such
an address G. 5.8.: No record... .X.R.:
Smallpox raged in London and there was a
heavy deathroll in 1870-71. There were many
cases in 1876-78, deaths occurring mainly among
unvaccinated persons. The disease was prevalent
again in London in 1880-81 J.M. and
J.TJ.: Write to the Red Cross Bureau for
Wounded, Missing and Prisoners of War, 34
Martin-place, Sydney R.P.L.; Write to
Kodaks, Sydney G.R.: Barnes was the man
who, using a principle discovered by K. F.
Gauss (a German pioneer in electrical research).


Divorce Notice.
TO PETER CROMBIE formerly of Forrest
Street Palmyra in the State of Western
Australia but present address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia citing you to appear and answer the
petition of KATHLEEN CROMBIE of Capel
in the State of Western Australia Married
Woman praying for a dissolution of marriage
In default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said petition proved
and pronounce sentence in respect thereto
For the purpose aforesaid you are within 31)
days after the date of this publication to attend
in person or by your solicitor at the Supreme
Court Perth in the said State and there enter
an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose. G j BOyLSONS
Registrar.
HARDWICK, SLATTERY & GIBSON, of
Victoria House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
STAMPS
100 New Zeal an (Is, all different 8/”
100 Australians, all different
40 Pacific Islands, all different ••••• 4 j
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air lasts—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street. Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
KEEPS HIM FIT
You can’t keep fit if you Suffer 'from
constipation. NYAL FIGSEN—-the
gentle, natural laxative is dependable,
thorough and non-habit forming because
it is made from three of Natures own
laxatives —figs, senna and cascara. Try
Figsen Tablets yourself and slip a
tin regularly in your service parcels.
Figsen is one of the 168 dependable
NYAL FAMILY MEDICINES and
suits every member of the family. NY AL*
FIGSEN is sold by chemists every-
where. l/3iatm.
rphe next Tie si tfiw.ct id NdiufP • . ■
NyalFigsen
THE GENTLE LRXRTIVE
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 2S O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
ENT
To-day, perhaps more than
ever before, there is much
to be gained from the com-
panionship of good music.
☆
'Dke IVatLd’s Sighed
cdudueuements in Sound
ate. to
be. found in
HIS MASTER'S VOICE
SADIS 8 SICQSBS
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
For defence and attack —
Support the Liberty Loan .
R.lB/42
FORM
BUY
A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
SPECIAL FEATURES
Of the DIRECTORS’ REPORT presented at the
annual meeting
Held Wednesday, MAY 27, 1942,
at the Offices of the Society, No. 316 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SOUND PROGRESS
for Guaranteed Income Policies, and Accident and
Sickness
12,472
£9,075,128
£5,274,058
£1,220,453
£2,191,553
£1,085,098
£1,578,550
£29,536,971
New Policies issued during tKe year
Assuring (excluding term assurances
Benefits)
Total Income for 1941
Interest Income .... ••• • • • ..•••••• •• • •
Total payments to Policyholders during IV4 I
Total Surpluses
Special Reserves for Contingencies ..
Total Funds as at 3I st December, 1941 ....
CONTINUED ECONOMY. The percentage of R ® n ® wal . ° rdmary Dcpat
£ Expenses (excluding Taxation and Self-charged Rent) wa. on!, ». policyholders only .
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL, all 3PP !! ENCY RESERVE FUNDS, GUARANTEE FUNDS
INTEREST EARNED ON ALL FUNDSi y5rVnN^F DEPARTMENTS, £4/7/4 PER CENT.
AND PROVISION FOR ACCRUED TAXATION) FOR ALL DEPAR 1M £34,962,069
TOTAL payments to policyholders since inception
, . ,1. _ A PnKiir
rhe
Colonial Mutual Lit. Ae.ut.nce Society aim. to R.nJe, Exceptional Service to the Acting Public.
NO SHAREHOLDERS
PURELY MUTUAL
PIONEERS OF GROUP ASSURANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND PRINCIPAL OFFICERS:
Sir DALZIEL KELLY, LL.B.
ALEX. COOCH .T.r.
GEORGE D. HBALI.
General Manager: CECIL B HEARN, C.8.E., F.C.I
Secretary: A. H. A*I.A. .
Actuary: D. DBYBBOUGH,_M.A. i jrJVA.
Chief Medical Officer: A.
F.B.A.C.P.
’E. BOWDEN WHITE,
EOCAE boards of directors and officers
NEW SOUTH WALKS j, 14 Martto Pl.«,^Thaimum;
ffiHS,ssawffl.
(Loud.).
ottpfnqt.AND • 289 and 291 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ioHN B TKUPB. Medical Director:
M E.. E.8.0.P.. F.K.A.C.P.
Maiaget; F. H. IRONSIDE, A.C.I.S.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 45 Kins Willem |tr«t A fl elaldo.
SS'caT = D B i2SSr'sfJ TBErn A CBiMKON-bE CEES-
PIGNY. D. 5.0., F.B.C.P.
DIAMOND. Medical Director : D. M. McM H - •
ISSNIA! a iS : EU Z atef 1 91 Cameron
Dir ec to " Honf * Sir JOliN McPHEE, K.C.M.G., M.H.A.
Manager: A. DE JONGH.
BRANCHES IN NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH AFRICA AND GREAT BRITAIN.
devised the “degaussing’ apparatus which
countered the magnetic mines R.G.8.; ine
Roaring Forties” are westerly winds blowing
from the west across the Indian Ocean at
roughly 40 degrees south of the Equator....
G.J.: Too much of a job to provide descrip-
tions and diagrams of aircraft markings ot all
the countries engaged in the war. Suggest you
beg, borrow or buy a copy of Fighting Planes
of the World, by E. C. Talbot 800th... .W.J.:
The valuer in charge of the district including
the municipality of Kogarah is A. A. Cook,
who is a salaried officer. His district includes
other municipalities and the Sutherland Shire.
Mr. Cook has a staff of two assistants, both
salaried officers... .W.S.T.; French polishing is
too lengthy to describe here. The Public
Library has books on the subject; also Angus
and Robertson....C.W.: (1) Close enough to
do damage. (2) A lateral exploding bomb
JHF.: Try the Department of Agriculture,
Sydney F.McM.: Question not_ clear. Cant
see how you can get the book if it hasn t been
published... .R.J.8.: The address is Western
Electric Company, 181 Clarence-street, Sydney.
P.H.; Write to the Taxation Department,
Brisbane... .E.A.K.: “Literary Guide and
Rationalist Review,” 326 Johnson’s Court,
London, E.C.4. No record of the others....
C.L.L.: Any large retail store in Adelaide
should have them if they are still available....
G.E.P.: (1) The George Cross. (2) The Mili-
tary Cross. (3) The Albert Medal... .W.S.rL.
(2) Why not write to the association? its
address is 57 William-street, Sydney. (2) The
book is out of print. Could advertise for a
second-hand copy if you wish... .C.M.: Such
rumors often spring up; no evidence whatever
to support them... .G.W.MacL.: The world s
largest islands (taking Australia as a continent)
are Greenland 877,300 square miles, New Guinea
330,000, Borneo 307,000, Baffin Land 231,000
and Madagascar 228,000... .0.W.F.; Write to
Angus and Robertson, Sydney 1.H.: Ques-
tions should be confined to one subject....
M.McN.; The Mines Department, Brisbane, is
the best place for advice 8.G.: The C.5.1.R.,
Melbourne, might be able to put you on the
right track....l.W.: Write to the Department
of Invalid and Old-age Pensions, Australia
House, Carrington-street, Sydney A J.H.:
Write to the Taxation Department, Melbourne.
J.H.G.: (1) Discussed almost every week.
(2) There are 36 Commonwealth Senators
(£lOOO a year each) and 75 Ms.H.R. (£1000);
60 Ms.L.C. in N, S. Wales (unpaid) and 90
Ms.L.A. (£875); 34 Victorian Ms.L.C. (£200)
and 65 Ms.L.A. (£500); 20 Ms.L.C. m S.A.
(£400) and 39 Ms.L.A. (£400); 30 Ms.L.C. m
Westralia (£600) and 50 Ms.L.A. (£600); 18
Ms.L.C. in Tasmania (£370-500, according to
area of electorate and distance from the capital)
and 30 Ms.H.A. (£4OO-500). In Queensland the
Upper House was abolished in 1922, but there
are 62 members in the Lower House, receiving
£650 a year each. (3) Know of no one who has
ever calculated the number —they are legion.
Classic examples include the Peanut Board and
the Canary Seed Board in Queensland, and the
Chicory Board and Onion Board in Victoria....
V.W.: Edward VII died on May 6, 1910, from
heart failure while suffering from bronchitis.
His coronation (set for June 26, 1902) was post-
poned when, on June 24, it was announced that
he was suffering from perityphlitis. Sir Frede-
rick Treves operated immediately, and the
monarch made a quick recovery. He was
crowned on August 9 of the same year.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and, address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. Mo-
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
You’re the same old “Cheery Jacks” of old,
The same old lusty cheer.
Shoulder to shoulder we’ll fight again—
Oh, Buddy, I’m glad you’re here!
J.D.: —
For everything that s grown, it seems.
There’s a Board.
You can’t escape by any means
From a Board.
They took my wheat, I had no say,
My pears and apples went their way,
The lovely eggs my good hens lay
—Poached by the Board.
F.S.G.: It says the expected thing quite
well; but it never says an unexpected thing.
Taurus: Until somebody is fined for it, the
howl seems premature J.R.8.; One new
thought; the rest conventional.. . .0.P.:
Whether the bumps are an imitation of Hop-
kins or just an accident they’re indubitably
bumpy.... A.V.: Call again R.W.: There
is no greater abomination beneath the sun than
a rhymed alphabet... .H.A.: “Lament” lament-
able M.K.: Somebody might sing it tor
you G.W.H.: Hard work, wasn’t it?
F.L.: Album sentiments... .W.J.: Your rhymes
are elementary... .E.M.J.: “Sonnet, thou art an
iron treasure-chest.” Poet, thou speakest in
an antic tongue C.P.M.: Not far away....
R.J.: Tempting....P.B.: Are you sure that
Billy would like you to call her a filly?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
M.J.C.: We’ll take your word for it that
they’re humans... .J.L.; The towel was faith-
fully depicted A.H.S.: Shuddermgly re-
mindful of things seen in the albums of our
youth D.O’C.: Two scratchy and harsh.. .
C.M.J.: The title “A Shot in the Dark’ was
certainly apt... .W.M.M.: You’ll have to take
pains with your work, instead of giving them
with that slapdash style P.H.: A mouldy
malapropism and a muddy wash... .E.L.w..
“All’s Well Aboard the Ship of State.” Not when
it has no scuppers, the wheel is octagonal and
the skipper has crossed swords and eyes....
J.W.: Quite promising if you haven’t yet lett
the kindergarten class E.G.G.: Rotten!
R.T.M.: Refuse to believe that bishops stagger
home dragging lobsters on strings..-.F.H.W.:
Still fumbling a10ng.... Bert C.: Shorten the
lady’s legs by a yard or two and chisel a few
cubic feet of flesh off her neck E.E.: You
have a crisp line, but why select such uninterest-
ing subjects?... .S.L.R.: Your goose will lay
no golden eggs for you; in fact, judging by
its peculiar construction, it isn t capable or
laying anything... .K.T.M.: Fair detail work
in background, but figures too stiff....
R.D.C.: Your boxing joke fell down before
the handshake was over.


ẅ
Correct belt tension, the all important factor
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by. installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Office: 20 Queen's Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States
m
m
w
ŵ
INSTALL A
I IT YORK
BELTING
PULLEYS • BEARINGS • SHAFTINGS • COUPLINGS • ALL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON. T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst Oen. Manager,
No More
Coughing or
Nights
BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL Mixture cer-
tainly makes short work of these stub-
born old hang-on coughs and colds, that
no other cough remedy will budge,
according to Mr. H. A. Allen. Mr. Allen
says: “For years I suffered every winter
with a terrible cough. I have had many
sleepless nights and coughed until tears
ran, and my stomach ached. I started
again with the same old cough this year
—but after a few doses of BUCKLEY’S
CANADIOL Mixture my cough was gone.
You can’t go wrong on Buckley’s—by
far the largest-selling cough medicine
in all of blizzardly cold Canada. One
or two doses ends a stubborn cough
and even the toughest old hang-on
coughs leave for good in a day or two.
At any chemist or store.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends. Writ- To
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 276,838 300,000 3,425,951
5 p.c.
1933.. 291,944 250,000 20,000 21,944 3,447,895
1934.. 274,024 250,000 20,000 4,024 3,451,919
1935.. 275,591 250,000 20,000 5,591 8,457,510
5i p.c.
1936.. 294,403 262,500 30,000 1,903 3,459,413
5J p.c.
1937.. 325,627 287,500 40,000 3,457,540
6 p.c.
1938.. 347;401 300,000 50,000 3,454,941
1939.. 351,245 300,000 50,000 1,245 3.456.186
1940.. 356,096 300,000 50,000 6,096 3,462,282
1941.. 301,296 300,000 20,000 3,443,578
5 j p.c.
1942.. 289,759 275,000 20,000 3,438,337
The soundness of the trading banks and
the part they have played in the war
effort help to explain the smoothness
with which trade and industry have
switched from peace to war conditions—
from a free to a controlled economy.
The change involved the nature of
production and consumption, and pro-
duced a host of financial, man-power
and related problems. To help diver-
sion of the required goods and
services, one of the first steps was
an attempt to curtail, and in some direc-
tions stop, private spending and capital
outlay on non-essentials; this by control
and direction of the flow of money, the
Treasury, central bank and trading banks
being the chief instruments used.
However, with war expenditure and
wages on the rise and employment
at the full, spending power, especially of
the lower incomes, continued to increase.
The growth in the volume of money has
been reflected partly in expansion of
bank deposits and partly in sharper civi-
lian demand for consumer goods. In an
attempt to curb demand and prevent in-
flation, more direct control of prices,
rents, wages, incomes and profits was
adopted, popular savings campaigns were
introduced and new types of securities,
designed to appeal to the lower-income
groups, were issued.
Still, all this failed to do the job com-
pletely. So rationing, priorities, etc., have
been introduced in the case of tea,
tobacco, beer and clothes, with the possi-
bility of some food lines being added to
the list. Experience in Britain and else-
where shows that speculative tendencies
have been controlled when supplies
have been adequate to meet ordi-
nary demands. By effective price-con-
trol of consumer goods, combined with
restriction of civilian demand by ration-
ing, etc., part of the wage-earners’ in-
creased income becomes virtually un-
spendable, thus helping the Government
in the fields of taxation and borrowing,
while at the same time ensuring more
equitable distribution of goods available,
as well as tending to guard against the
secondary inflation usually looked for in
such circumstances.
As immediate steps to meet the ends
in view these measures have much to
commend them. It is their administra-
tion that requires care and foresight if
serious trouble is to be avoided later.
Capital invested in plant for production
of war goods which becomes redundant
at the end of hostilities is sunk and
gone. So, in the interests of post-
war activity, which will affect post-war
employment, traders should be allowed
to set aside amortisation reserves to cover
such loss, as well as for replacement of
other equipment, wear and tear of which
has been accelerated by war demands.
Another danger lies in the cost -plus basis,
especially for goods urgently needed for
war purposes. This leads to both manu-
facturing efficiency and wages getting out
of touch with reality, which during the
last war got the coal trade into such a
sorry mess.
The trading banks had agreed volun-
tarily to most of the restrictions now
imposed upon them. They follow the
Commonwealth Bank in matters of policy
relating to advances, buying public secu-
rities and interest rates—the maximum
rate chargeable is 5 p.c.—and surplus in-
vestible funds (roughly the growth in
Australian deposits since Aug., 1939) have
to be deposited with the central bank. The
interest paid on these deposits—less than
I p.c. at the moment —is regulated to
ensure that profits don’t exceed aver-
age annual trading profits for the
three years to the end of Aug.,
1939. To help offset rising costs
and man-power problems, trading hours
of the banks have been reduced
and, where there has been overlapping
and waste, some country branches have
been closed. The earning power of the
trading banks and their power to influ-
ence monetary policy have been thus
tethered by regulation, while the central
bank has been given wider control over
credit and, within the limits of its influ-
ence, power to deal with encroachments
by private enterprise on labor and
materials needed by the Government.
The National’s declared trading profits
for the three years to the close of
accounts in 1939 averaged 6.8 p.c. on
capital (£5,000,000). For the 12 months
covered by the latest figures the net
return was 5.7 p.c.—the taxgatherer and
higher costs made off with the extra in-
come resulting from an increase of nearly
£2,000,000 in total assets. Half a point
was clipped off the div., reducing it to
5i p.c., because the outlook favors no
improvement in earnings. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) last term’s net earnings were a
mere 3.4 p.c.
The co.’s already strong financial posi-
tion was further strengthened:
1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £5,000,000 £5,000,000 £5,000,000
Notes . . . . 47,549 47,531 47,515
Bills, etc. . . 1,518,426 1,803,049 2,017,820
Deposits .. 44,057,573 49,750,915 51,417,271
Liquid assets.. 16.433,644 22,712,848 27,264,274
Advances .. 36,403,779 33,348,151
Premises, etc.. . 1,392,312 1,437,136 1,433,518
When the books closed liquids amounted
to 50.9 p.c. of liabilities to the public,
advances to 64.8 p.c. of deposits, and the
bank was holding £6 6s. 9d. of the public’s
money for every pound of its own. It
is a very strong position, and the bank is
well equipped to take advantage of what-
ever opportunities circumstances and
restrictions permit.
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
( Dividends N To Nominal
Pref. Re- Re-
Feb., Loss.* 74 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.!
1932.. 16,907 Nil Nil 64,990
Profit.
1933.. 16,817 Nil Nil 16,817 81,807
1934.. 51,864 51,139 Nil 725 82,532
11.6 p.c.
1935.. 84,387 87,188 f Nil 79,731
1936.. 97,941 87,188 t 2 p.c. = 25,000 65,484
5.8 p.c.
1937. 43,593 4£ „ ~56,250 9,573 75,057
1938. .113,026 43,593 6 „ „ 62,500 6,933 81,990
1939. .107,695 43,593 5 „ ~62,500 1,602 83,592
1940. .110,950 43,594 5 „ ~62,500 4,856 88,448
1941. .111,732 43,594 5 „ ~62,500 5,638 94,086
1942. 43,594 5 „ ~ 62,500 4,259 98,345
* After deducting debenture interest. f Two years.
+ Subject to goodwill, etc., now £273,153.
Canberra’s handling of clothes-ration-
ing has been as irksome to retailers as to
their customers (particularly country
folk), the trade being left to take the
pinpricks of both the public and the
Government, which kept it completely in
the dark as to administrative policy, ques-
tions like stock replacement, etc.—mat-
ters on which the experience of those
directly affected might have been helpful.
Altogether, impending rationing was a
poorly-kept official “secret” which had
become practically common knowledge.
Thus, after the buying boilover which
last year denuded Sydney of blankets,
for example, had simmered down to a
gentle 5 p.c. spending increase between
October and February, March saw
retail sales lift by 25.9 p.c. on the corre-
sponding month of 1941, and all last
month’s partial spending-stop achieved
was to divert the flood of excess purchas-
ing power to unrationed commodities,
irrespective of need.
For Horderns’ and others, rationing
portends an end to the progressive
growth in turnovers that has characterised
department-store earnings since the last
quarter of 1933 —to what extent isn’t yet
as certain as the addition to costs it will
entail. In past expansion the improved
earpings of the century-old Brickfield Hill
concern have been mostly garnered by the
taxgatherer. The co. isn’t to be judged
in the same light as specialty stores up
town, however, partly because of the
universal nature of the undertaking
that is in a measure due to rural trade
handled. The service offered here has
built up a heap of goodwill, and recent
close attention to shopping facilities
hasn’t harmed city custom either.
Owing to drought and/or market-
ing and labor problems, last year
was a mixed one for wheat, meat,
dairying and other land men, and
these days the co.’s factories are engaged
on munitions and other Government
work from which gain isn’t looked for.
Still, city-dwellers at least had pockets
of the required depth, and sales went
further ahead. Again the extra profits
were absorbed into tax reserve (up from
£112,720 to £158,211), leaving net £1379
lower at £110,353. Depreciation charged
was £53,643. The £110,353 was
5.5 p.c. on the £2,000,000 of capital, of
which £750,000 carries a cumulative
p.c., reduced to 5.8 p.c. by N.S.W. in-
terest reduction. The prefs. got their
minimum rate, and the ords.’ 5 p.c.
absorbed all but £4259 of the balance.
Though the visible lay-by hasn’t put
on much weight over the past half-dozen
years, over £324,000 has been debited to
earnings for depreciation. Hence, despite
continued modernisation of the store, the
reduction in the book value of fixed
assets and, on the other side of the sheet,
in the fixed debt (down another £lO,OOO
since the close of accounts):
1937. 1941. 1942.
Orel, capital . . £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital .. 750,000 750,000 750,000
Debentures .. 600,000 * —
Mortgage .. .. 450,000 410,000
Creditors, etc. .. 84,633 177,736 370,286
Tax reserves .. 43,582 112,720 158,211
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 1,281,236 1,206,640 1,177,890
Plant, etc. . . 256,951 150,535 119,258
.Stocks . . . . 757,221 853,295 1,091,645
Book debts . . 224,469 375,387 379,244
Cash, etc 63,289' 28,579 48,698
Sale of portion of the Camperdown prop-
erty and residues of former suburban
depot lands helped the movements last
year, the feature of which was the snap-
ping-up of overseas supplies while they
were still available. This added over a
quarter-million to stock at a time when
the inroads of war into local sources of
supply have become more acute than
ever.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
, Dividends N
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’32. .22,342 4000 8 p.c. =20,000 261,465
Sept.,’32. .23,458 4000 8„„ 20,000 260,923
Mar.,’53..25,678 4000 8„„ 20,000 1,678 262,601
5ept.,’33..31,280 4000 8 „„ 20,000 7,280 269,881
Mar.,’34. .30,807 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 1,867 271,748
Sept.,’34. .32,989 4000 10 ~ „ 25,000 3,989 275,737
Mar.,’3s. .31,660 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 2,660 278,397
Sept.,’3s. .33,548 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 4,548 282,945
Mar.,’36. .37,593 4000 12 „ ~ 30,000 3,593 286,538
Sept.,’36. .41,970 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 7,970 294,508
Mar.,’37. .45,235 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 11,235 305,744
Sept.,’37. .52,254 4000 12 ~ „ 30,000 18,254 323.998
Mar.,’3B. .47,734 4000 14 „ „ 35,000 8,734 332,732
Goodwill written off, £118,074 .. 214,658
Sept.,’3B. .50,983 4000 14 p.c. =35,000 11,983 226,641
Mar.,’39. .43,844 4000 14 „., 35,000 4,844 231,485
Sept.,’39. .46,245 4000 14 „ „ 35,000 7,245 238,730
Mar.,’4o. .46,422 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 12,422 251,152
Sept.,’4o. .40,452 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 6,452 257,604
Mar.,’4l. .45,864 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 11,864 269,468
To provident fund, £9915 . . .. 259,553
Sept.,’4l. . 48,676 4000 16 p.c. =40,000 4,676 264,229
To provident fund, £4192 .. .. 260,037
Mar., ’42. .35,549 4000 12 p.c. =30,000 1,549 261,586
* Subject to goodwill, £118,074, till Mar., ’3B.
The div. has exhibited fine stability of
recent times, and the position is every
bit as comfortable as it looks. Consider
these figures:
Mar.,’3B. Mar.,’39. Mar.,’4l. Mar.,’42.
Paid capital.. £BOO,OOO £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Liabilities . . 108,566 139,421 120,429 143,350
Tax reserve . . 44,403 48,350 80,218 106,867
Freeholds . . 191,262 194,118 190,526 187,850
Leaseholds . . 16,542 16,024 15,507 14,990
Plant, etc. . . 30,877 30,298 28,775 27,327
Stock.. .. 183,861 235,265 293,512 222,020
Book debts . . 311,776 398,953 327,186 248.271
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 293,084 204,478 238,695 445,340
The cash, etc., drawn upon to cover the
war-time expansion in stocks and cus-
tomers’ debit balances has now come
back, and at the end of March there was
£403,134, or 13s. sd. in the £1 of capital,
invested outside the business, mainly in
Consols and on deposit. The other
£42,206 of the last line of the table repre-
sents book value of subsidiary
ings, chiefly scrip in the trans-Tasman
offshoot. To find debtors’ accounts in
more favorable-looking shape, the “Wild
Cat” searched well back into the ’twen-
ties without success.
The co. is in the wholesale-newsagency
and advertising business throughout


IN VE-NTOIiS. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Aovr.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament l-ooli
hydraulic, electric and general lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all clashes ot
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Lire
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Advt.
-THAT
the
RELIEF FROM
A GREAT ANXIETY
Under present conditions of uncertainty and strain, the thought of complete
relief from personal business detail has special appeal to those who are living
in retirement or whose business activities are of an arduous character. It is the
business of this Company to relieve you of that anxiety whether in regard to
your estate during lifetime or afterwards. The organisation of Burns Philp
Trust Company Ltd. is such that it can assure its clients of uninterrupted, faithful,
and efficient service, despite accident or mishap to any of its officers.
It is suggested as a matter of some urgency that you permit this Company
to explain the service it can render to those anxious to attain greater peace
of mind in regard to the administration of their affairs or estate. Two special
books will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B ' G - PO- ' Sydney.
Incorporated
in England
by Royal Charter
in 1835.
as
9.
1 835
Jvaqb
The liability of the
members is
limited.
THE BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank) . .
Currency Reserve (used in the business of the Bank)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter
£4,500,000
2.500.000
2,000,000
4.500.000
£13,500,000
ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO OCTOBER 13, 1941,
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING,
HELD ON THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 1942.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance Sheet as at October 13 last, with
the Profit and Loss Account for the year to that date. Alter providing lor rebate oni w
current, for British, Australian and New Zealand rates and taxes, and makmg a transier
to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which account provision for ali bad
doubtful debts has been made, the net profit for the year amounted to £237,012/11/1.
To this has to be added £242,212/13/11 brought forward from the
making a total of £479,225/5/-. From this £115,335/18/9 was paid as anV? 4B %/T/3
on October 3 last, and the Directors have now appropriated a further sum °‘
to pay a Final Dividend of 4/6 per Share, less Income Tax at 5/4 2 in the £, making, in ,
063,62?, equal to 8/■ per Share/W Tax and for the year > « fe
rate of 8 per cent., less Tax. There will remain £215,600/5/- to be carried lorwaru
The Dividend will be payable in London, Australia and New Zealand on March 27.
the SkTSttt'SjS S relief "
tto'ZSS S rate “Veh £
extent the Proprietors benefit. The increase in the Carry Forward m recent years p
due to an over-deduction of tax in respect of the years 1938 and 19 j 9
The Directors have to record with much regret the death, on 13th ultimo, of thei
esteemed colleague, Rt. Hon. the Earl of Midleton, K.P., P. . c ar »dpr«ni
The Directors retiring by rotation are: D. F. Anderson, Esq., and Sir John Sanderson,
KB E who. bein? eligible, offer themselves for re-election. , . ..
The Auditors,"Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer themselves for re-electio .
Since the date of the last Report, a Branch has been opened at 285 George-street, Brisbane,
and branches at C Fhigal in Tasmania, Youanmi in Western Austral,a, and at Rosevdle. a
suburb of Sydney, have been closed. DAVID J. ROBARTS, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle-street, London, March 16, 1942.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FROM OCTOBER 15, 1940, TO OCTOBER 13, 1941
_i i_ 1 nia ■ •• •• 242,212 13 11
Rnlanoe brousrht forward from October, ly4U • • * • * * * j ,
Profit for the year to October 13, 1941, after deducting Rebate
(£l2 287/2/5) on Bills current at Balance date, and alter making
a transfer to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which
account provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts has been made . . £1,527,930 18 10
' m f. Charges of Management—Australia and New
Zealand gnd allowances at 247 branches
and Agencies
General Expenses
London —
Salaries and allowances
General Expenses, including
remuneration
Directors
11. Rates and t Taxcs Z( , ala|ld and Lon don
From which Deduct ■ .
Dividend paid October 3, 1941 • •
Dividend payable March 27, 194_
Balance carried forward per balance sheet ■.
£584,180 4 0
119,121 0 11
30,253 18 0
. 33,343 6 2
£766,898 9 1
524,024 18 8
1,290.923 7 9
237,012 11 1
£115,335 18
148,289 1
£479,225 5 0
- 263,625 0 0
£215,600 5 0
BALANCE SHEET, OCTOBER 13, 1941.
liabilities.
Circulation
Deposits at Interest
Current Accounts .. , • • : ''
Bills Payable, Drafts in _ Ti ansit,
and other Liabilities, including
provision for contingencies . .
Acceptances for Customers, as per
contra
£2,716 0
24,372,448 8
22,395,791 13
Capital—
-900,000 shares
of £5 each,
fully paid ..£4,500,000
(There is
under the
Charter a re-
serve liability
of the Pro-
prietors of £ 5
per share.)
Reserve _ Fund
used in the
business of the
Bank
Currency Re-
serve (used in
the business of
the Bank) ..
Dividend pay-
able March 27,
1942
Profit and Loss
Acco u n t
Balance
2,500,000
0 0
0 0
2,000,000 0 0
148,289
215,600 5 0
5,943,139 7
441,270 18
£53,155,366 7 0
9,363,889 6 3
£62,519,255 13 3
A. 11. BULLOCK, Accountant.
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes
and Cash Balances ..
British Government Securities ..
Australian and New Zealand Gov-
ernment Securities, and other
Investments
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in transit
Advances on Securities, and other
Liability of Customers for Accept-
ances as per contra
Bank Premises and Sites in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and
London, at Cost, less amounts
written off
Note. —The Australian and New
Zealand assets and liabilities
are included at the par rates of
exchange and the net difference
which would have arisen had
they been converted at the rates
ruling at the date of the
Balance Sheet is covered by
Currency Reserves.
£7,737,883 18
2,294,9-42 17
12,826,253 14
3,155,667 10
35,240,846 9
441,270 18
822,440 5
0
7
7
0
7
6
0
£62,519,255 13 3
G. C. COWAN, Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS.
We have examined the We
with the Returns received in Fxchanae Investments and Securities held in London.
ta« yjMgjgJS* required, we report .ha. in
Having obtained all the informal on H drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct
our opinion the above Balance Sh P t t f c bes t of our information and the
explanations JvS by the book! in London and the Rerurns received from
the branches. DELOITTE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS AND CO., Auditors.
London, March 11, 1942.
Australia, the former being the most profit-
able section of activities. It handles
most of the British periodicals sold m
this part of the world, and though the
stream of these has lately diminished and
American books and papers have been
on the outer since April, 1940, there has
been some compensation in the incieased
circulations most local journals have en-
joyed. Also contributing to the attrac-
tive results shown is a substantial busi-
ness in newsprint, printers’ requisites and
fancy-goods.
The wide range of problems scarcity
of shipping, exchange and newsprint has
ushered in is therefore obvious. Thanks
partly to the substantial stockholding at
war’s outbreak, however, it has been
taxation and not diminished turnover
that has caused what little profit contrac-
tion has occurred. Taking the figures for
the last 12 months, net earnings were
only £2091 lighter at £84,225 ; taxation,
or rather provision therefor, went up
from £78,088 to £110,688. In accordance
with normal summer experience, trade for
the second half of the year wasn t quite
so brisk as in the first, but compared
with the warmer portion of 1941 it
appears to have shown a 13 p.c. increase.
The 600,000 issued shares all rank alike
for return of capital, but 100,000 have a
first claim to an 8 p.c. div. Allowing
for this, the balance of last year s sur-
plus left 15.6 p.c. for the half-million
ords., compared with 16 and 16.9 p.c. for
the two preceding years. The div.
was kept at 12 p.c., with a bonus of 2 p.c.,
from ex-Australian takings added in the
vSeptember half, making 14 p.c. for the
year.
The future is largely wrapped up with
the question of supplies, now more
hedged about with restrictions than ever.
Equitable Probate and General
Gradual but sure improvement in the
affairs of this Queensland life co. is
revealed in the latest quinquennial in-
vestigation of E. S. Wolfenden, consult-
ing actuary, mostly along the lines of
more economic handling of the business
and expanding profitability of funds. In
the normal course of events, actuarial
solvency appears just around the corner ;
even when attained, however, internal
consolidation will be more in policy-
holders’ interests than such premature
distribution of bonuses as indulged in
after the last valuation, when £9269 was
distributed in reversionary additions to
policies against the actuary’s recommen-
dation.
For the five years a summary ot
receipts and disbursements shows a life
department surplus of £146,914 (up
£26,404), or two-fifths of the period’s
income:
Life Department.
r 1932-1936 N r~ '—1937-1941 ——%
Net Premiums £286,593 283,767
Interest, etc. 48,184
Capital profit
Income .. £334,777 £360,773
Claims .. £89,291 £107,018
Expenses .. 124,970 106,841
Outgoings £214,267 £213,859
Revenue Surplus £120,510 £146,914
Deducting taxes, the improvement in
expense ratio was from 40.7 p.c. to 34.4
p.c. of net premiums, while for the 1941
year the percentage was down to 31.9.
For an office transacting entirely Ordi-
nary business like the Equitable, tue
figure needs cutting in two again. Un-
fortunately, the savings here don’t show
up in the revenue surplus, being offset by
a corresponding increase in claims. On
business in force, the loading allowed
for future expenses and profits is an
adequate 33.7 p.c.
The £146,914 was £3703 more than the
growth in actuarial liabilities under poli-
cies. At Sept. 31 that liability was still
£llBB in excess of the book value of
assets available to meet them, so there is
as yet nothing of a tangible nature to
represent the £252,491 of share capital.
1936. 1941-
Tangible assets .. •• £3 56.901 £566,050
Sundry creditors .. • • 10,Too i
Net tangible assets. . . . £346,146 £493,823
Net actuarial liability under
policies 351,800 195,011
Excess liability .. ■ • £5,654 £l,lBB
Composition of the assets is mainly
Consols 35 p.c., mortgages 20 p.c., prop-
erty 17 p.c. and public-co. investments,
to which more attention has lately been
given, 15 p.c. The lot was invested at a
rate of £4 15s. 2d. p.c. last year, show-
ing a margin of 15s. 2d. p.c. over the £4
assumed, as against ss. 4d. p.c. in 1937.
The valuation was made on a modified
net-premium basis, with mortality accord-
ing to the A 1924-29 ultimate table and
interest as indicated.
Apparently South Africa considers
goldmining an essential industry in war-
time, in its dependence on goldmining
the economic position of the Union as
a whole being rather like that of West-
ralia as a State. New mines are being
opened up, plants are being enlarged and
efforts are being made to step up produc-
tion all round.
* * * *
Disregarding a capital profit of £4607
in 1940, Sons of Gwalia’s latest surplus
is only £2480 lighter at £134,436.
Directors’ percentage (additional to ordi-
nary remuneration) takes £630, British
and Dominion taxes £65,000 (up £5000)
and depreciation £7500 (£2500 more),
leaving the year’s earnings available for
distribution at £61,936. Interim div. ot
20 p.c. absorbed £32,500, but a final has
been deferred pending clarification of the
proposal to limit profits and the possi-
bility of more labor being withdrawn
from the mines. Latest development re-
port shows that values in the south drive
off the winze below No. 31 (bottom)
level, which took a turn for the better
recently, are keeping up, those for the
last 19ft. averaging S.ldwt. over Bft.
* 4= * *
For the 15 months to December,
Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.) shows its net
share from re-treatment of the old Great
Boulder dumps, together with other in-
come, at £19,266 stg., against £28,390
for the 12 months before, and div.
is reduced from 6d. to 4d. per share
(£18,333). No. 3 dump showed unprofit-
able’results for several months to the end
of October, when work was stopped and
operations concentrated on No. 2, where
just over a million tons of 1.035dwt.
material was measured up —about two
years’ work. A proposal to return part
of the capital (£165,000, and more than
covered by liquid balances) has been
shelved.
* * * *
Ngahere Gold Dredging (M.L.) has
taken up a prospecting license over 1270
acres adjoining its present disappointing
48,000,000-c.y. block on the Grey River.
It will later bore the property.


Hi
;
U£** **&■
aHim
1
'POWELL
ON THE JOB
Urgent foods. Vital fuels and timbers.
Important civil transport services.
Paramount army supplies. Wherever
there are priority loads to handle,
you’ll find “Powell on the Job” —get-
ting things done quickly and efficiently
with lower operating costs. Powell’s
heavy-duty construction keeps trucks
out of the repair shop and on the
road. Powell’s famous Beresinsky
Cleaner reduces engine wear to “less
than with petrol.”
There’s a model for every purpose,
and Powell are the only units with
Government approved models up to
40 horse-power.
Immediate delivery of
POWELL GAS UNITS
from H. C. SLEIGH, Melbourne, Sydney,
or Powell Dealers throughout Australia.
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Shaping Up to Realities
With the passing of the uniform-
income-tax bills through the Senate last
week Australia moved a big step
towards intelligent government. The
legislation is for the duration and one
year, but if it is properly administered it
is likely to become permanent. Those
against the measure were largely self-
styled State-righters, more correctly State
bureaucrats, because the only rights they
were protecting were those of the bureau-
cracy and members of redundant provin-
cial Parliaments. On all sides the people
were for the measure, and on few occa-
sions has there been such a popular
achievement by Canberra.
To give credit where credit is due, it
is one occasion, too, where Prime Minis-
ter Curtin has practised as leader of the
Government what he criticised the former
Government for not doing when he was
leader of the Opposition. The obvious
thing has been done when so often Aus-
tralian Governments are afraid to do the
blunt, obvious thing. Too frequently
in Australia Government members put
their own trade-unionism above the
welfare of the people, and perhaps not
since Lyons and Lang clashed in 1932
have the Commonwealth and State Gov-
ernments come to holts on a big issue
like that settled last week. Altogether,
it was an excellent thing to see. Un-
checked and undisturbed, State Govern-
ments, especially that in N. S. Wales,
have gone from excess to excess.
One income tax throughout the Com-
monwealth is vital to the war effort. One
of the greatest obstructions to a war or
any other kind of effort is waste, and the
waste caused by bewildering and unneces-
sary taxation “systems” has been a very
real thing. In addition to the form-fill-
ing and victimisation, it has disheartened
practical-minded people who can no more
see the reason for a superfluity of taxa-
tion offices, staffs and regulations than
can the most learned and intellectual
people in the land. Now that a start has
been made on eliminating the political
frustration of effort the move may go
even further.
“Streamlining” is a word perhaps over-
done these days, but Australia’s indus-
trial and political life could do with a
lot of streamlining. Waste, red-tape and
bottlenecks are enemies to a full war
effort. Mr. Chifley says Australia’s por-
tion of war’s cost in 1942-43 may be
£400 million, which is up on the Prime
Minister’s estimate of a million a day.
It is a terrific figure when one considers
the size of Australia’s population and the
natural advantages and disadvantages of
the country “at a time like this.” A
nation that is still largely devoted to
primary production doesn’t find the
changeover from peace to war so easy
as Britain, U.S.A., Germany and Japan,
but if a war effort equal to 40 p.c. of the
national income is achieved in this coun-
try, and the figure is really one of effort
and production and not one substantially
of wasted money, then we shall be doing
very well indeed. The Prime Minister’s
smaller estimate of £365 million repre-
sents over 36 p.c, of the national income,
and even that is higher than was expected
six months ago. The menace of
Japan has produced an industrial and
economic revolution within half a year.
Averaging the estimates of the
Treasurer and the Prime Minister, an
outlay of £380 million a year on war,
while a magnificent effort so far as the
people paying for it are concerned, repre-
sents a heavy burden on those people. The
strain will increase as the months pass,
and while bearing this strain the produc-
tive and fighting services will be found
more and more insistent on sensible and
fearless government. Red-tape and de-
partmental waste will have to be cut
back ruthlessly and the burden of war
allotted to those best equipped, finan-
cially and otherwise, to bear it.
At present the burden is not well dis-
tributed. One taxation authority may
help to correct this, but Canberra has
shown a fear of taxing the voting—and
consuming—masses that can only arise
from political expediency. The best way
of financing a war is through well-
spread taxation and limited borrowing,
with a minimum of bank credit. But the
people who have more money in their
pockets as a result of this war are prin-
cipally the skilled artisan type and
laborers, perhaps most comprehensively
described as trade-unionists, and it is
these people who have been let off light-
est in the allocation of war’s cost —not
because they happen to be trade-union-
ists, but because they represent a par-
ticular income group.
A recent computation showed that 70
p.c. of the incomes earned in the Com-
monwealth represented wages of £8 a
week and under, and that, prior to the
flat-rate tax imposed early this year,
their contribution to the war effort in
direct taxation was almost nil. They are
paying more now, but it is clear that
much of the bank-credit finance to
which the Government has resorted has
been the result of not taxing this income
class with its obvious share of the war
bill. The higher incomes have already
been taxed almost to exhaustion. The
30 p.c. above the £B-a-weekers is not
nearly enough, even if entirely confis-
cated, to pay for war on its present
scale. And overborrowing is not going
to give the 70 p.c. permanent protection.
It was ex-Prime Minister Menzies who
said lately that the middle class in Aus-
tralia was constantly in danger of being
“ground between the upper and nether
millstones of the false class war.” The
middle class was not sufficiently organ-
ised for “pressure politics” like the
wealthy and powerful and the well-
represented unionists, and on many
occasions the votes of the thriftless had
been used to defeat the thrifty. Mr.
Menzies added that the middle class had
great national virtues ; with a stake in
the country it provided the intelligent
ambition which was the motive power
of human progress, Mr. Curtin will find
that in order for a major project like
Australia’s present war effort to succeed
he will have to give more regard to this
middle class. It is the sheet-anchor of
political and economic sanity, and with-
out its willing and full co-operation we
aren’t likely to get anywhere very fast.
The old argument about whether banks
create credit and what they do with it is
still alive. One genius writing to The
Bulletin points with envy to the increase
in the assets of the banks over the past
few years—an increase of millions and
millions—and suggests that by “creating
credit they aren’t doing too badly for
themselves.” Like so many people who
make the world easy for the confidence
man he has failed to look at the increase
in liabilities at the same time. And that,
of course, is the whole story —or most of
it—around this matter of bank credit.
When credit is expanded the bank takes
unto itself a liability as well as an asset,
and in return for the interest margin it
earns it provides service, runs the risk of
loss on the “assets” it has created (it
never loses its liabilities, though), and
pays all the expenses relevant to the
organisation of the credit that it handles
on behalf of the people. The only matters
for argument are whether it pays too
little when it borrows, charges too much
when it lends, whether it lends to the
right people at the right time and whether
its general service, including economic
forecasts, are of the right quality. People
who fall for the fable that banks add to
their net assets simply by lending money
to people would come at green prawns.
* * * *
The trading banks have recently been
called on for more than usual help in the
way of advances to customers apart from
the Government. During April there was
a rise of £8 million in these advances, lift-
ing the total to £271.3 million. This lift
is greater than in the same month of last
year, when an increase of about £4 mil-
lion was recorded. Though overdrafts
for the purpose of paying income tax
have been officially banned, it is about
this time of the year that personal assess-
ments are mainly payable, and in past
years, anyway, they have been partly re-
sponsible for the demand for bank assis-
tance. The wherewithal to make these
advances has been found by drawing on
cash reserves and disposing of Treasury
bills. Possibly some of the latter have
lately been retired by the Government,
as in the case of the Commonwealth
Bank. Other Government securities held
by the trading banks have lately shown
little or no movement.
w » * ♦
An intriguing difficulty has arisen in
connection with the uniform-income-tax
plan. Commonwealth loans have been
issued free of State income tax —the issue
now afloat is no exception—and some
earlier issues were free of Federal tax
in excess of rates ruling in 1930. In spite
of advice to the contrary by McKell, of
N. S. Wales, who collects State tax on
divs. paid out of State-tax-free income,
the Commonwealth refused to abrogate
in any way its undertaking not to in-
crease the Commonwealth tax on income
from these issues. Now that a single
income tax is law throughout Aus-
tralia, with the Commonwealth the col-
lector, a few nice points of law as
opposed to equity will arise. There will
be, in the letter, no State income tax,
so that, in the letter, there should be no
difference between Consols interest or
any other interest for the purpose of
taxation. But the Commonwealth has
promised a rebate of 2s. in the £to com-
pensate for the change. That will operate
arbitrarily, and will be open to objec-
tion by those paying State tax at a rate
above 2s. in the £ ; but it is at least
some recognition of the Commonwealth’s
moral obligation. The issues that are
free of increases in Commonwealth tax
in excess of 1930 rates will, apparently,
still have full freedom from State, alias
Commonwealth, taxation.
* * * *
The Rationing Commission, which is
headed by Coles, M.H.R., has decided to
call in the help of “small committees of
clothing manufacturers, wholesalers and
retailers in all capital cities” to advise
on clothes-rationing. It is a sensible move,
and the remarkable thing is that it wasn’t
done before in other problems besides
those of clothes. Mr. Spooner has sug-
gested that greater use be made of busi-
nessmen in planning the rationalisation of
Australian industry, indicating that the
job is beyond the capacity of most civil
servants even when advised by econo-
mists. Mr. Curtin is now to consider a
suggestion that a Food Ministry be estab-
lished.
ak * * *
At the annual meeting of the C.S.R.
chairman E. R. Knox said that the drop
from 783,000 tons to 721,000 tons in the
Australian sugar crop in 1941 was due
to Government discouragement of excess
production, labor shortage and dry
weather. In 1942 the crop might run to
675,000 tons, which would be ample for
Australian use. (Peace-time consumption
in Australia is normally about 400,000
tons, but an increase since is probable.)
Demand for cane-ite and masonite —the
C.S.R. is interested in both of these build-
ing boards —exceeded the capacity of the
two factories last year.


DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
$50533=
io
tco*
Me Symbol of
Security I
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria')
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
.N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
k k
:
i V V
*
i
k
Subscriptions may be
paid in full or by In-
stalments and may
be lodged with any
Bank, Savings Bank,
Money Order Post
Office or Stockbroker.
Our 'planes will roar a song of triumph as they soar
into the skies; our ships will sweep the seas; our
soldiers will swing along to victory... but this success
can be won only if we strain every effort now. Your
job is to lend to the very limit of your resources, it
is a premium you pay to ensure protection and
lasting liberty. Here is your opportunity the
Second Liberty Loan is now open.
V
L"
/
Stock Exchange tone has displayed
signs of convalescence in the last week or
two. Midget subs, in Sydney Harbor and
bigger ones outside caused no shakiness.
Possibly there are hopes that the prepos-
terous profits-limitation plan will be aban-
doned, less than a month now remaining in
which to finalise the machinery necessary
to put such a proposition into action. As
stated here many times, the objection to
limitation of company profits isn’t that
taxation should not be heavy, but that
there should always remain the outlet for
rewards for initiative and enterprise. As
a matter of cold fact, most Australian
companies and their shareholders are
already severely taxed, shareholders with-
out rebate in the case of divs. that have
borne tax in the hands of the company.
Income from companies is taxed at a
higher rate in Australia than any other —
it is invariably doubly taxed for Com-
monwealth purposes. There will be no
economic justice dealt out by limiting
profits to 4 p.c. on capital and reserves,
since the only person to suffer severely
will be the smaller investor, though in the
aggregate he represents the largest in-
vestor in Australia. The man with the
bigger income may get from 6s. 6d. in
the £ down to 2s. in the £ left to him
after paying present personal taxes. It
will make little difference to him whether
his div. is 10 p.c. or 4 p.c. But the person
earning a modest £2OO a year from
shares may find his means of sustenance
cut in halves if divs. drop to 4 p.c. or
thereabouts. The average ord. sharehold-
ing in 73 representative Australian cos.
is only 472, on which a 10 p.c. div. would
represent £47 a year. Even two such
holdings would bring in less than £2 a
week. And 10 p.c. is above the average
war-time div.
* * * *
The Stock Exchanges, in spite of their
improved tone, are doing so little busi-
ness that they represent no obstruction
whatsoever to any war-time economic
planning. Even at the 1941 level of
activity it is doubtful whether they were
any hindrance to Government policy.
Confidence has been bludgeoned out of
them, and weak holders of shares have suf-
fered. But the present unobtrusiveness
of the sharemarkets may prove an asset
to investors during the journey ahead
towards more settled times.
♦ # * *
The man-power authorities seem to be
caught in a squeeze between the demands
of essential industry, including muni-
tions, and the fighting services. There
have been occasions where the taking of
skilled men away from essential war pro-
duction and replacing them with female
or unskilled male labor has resulted in
urgent work having to be rejected at
a heavy money cost. A man who
has learned his trade thoroughly may
be a hundred times more valuable at a
bench or machine than he ever will be in
a fighting service, and this should never
be forgotten when call-ups are being
considered. In between the pressure of
the Government demand for labor and
the services’ requirements of fighting men
other industries are being strained this
way and that. Up to a point it is all
understandable. But our man-power re-
sources have their limits the same as in
the case of materials and money. In
fact it may now be said that Australia
is up against the real crux of a big prob-
lem. What we should realise is that
man-power is too valuable and vital a
thing to be handled haphazardly. It re-
quires thoroughgoing attention from ex-
perts, not jacks-in-office. Now that the
pressure is really on we may see the
matter, from necessity, handled with
much more care and discretion.
»
“Highlights from Alberta’s Budget”
being publicised by Douglas Crediters
in Australia include “No new or higher
taxes. No income tax. No corporation
tax.” The fact that all provincial income
and company taxes in Canada have been
wiped out in favor of the Federal
authority for the duration finds no men-
tion in the “highlights.” Like Alberta’s
providential development of the oil indus-
try (Alberta is a neighbor to Montana in
the U.S.A.), none of these things has
been due to Douglas Credit. But the
fanciful and entertaining Douglas Credit
idea is still attached like a barnacle to
the imaginations (rather than the minds)
of a number of Australians. It is good
“escape” literature, and gets one away
from the sordid facts of life.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government’s in-
debtedness to the Commonwealth Bank
has fallen somewhat over the past few
weeks. The £103.7 million at which
Government securities appeared in the
bank’s weekly return to June 1 was down
£6.1 million on the recent peak. Taxa-
tion revenue is rolling in now and has
apparently made the war Budget easier
to handle for the time being. Little or
none of the record loan subscription of
a couple of months ago was used to
reduce the short-term debt, though it
appeared to have the effect of checking
the growth slightly. Anew public loan
opened on June 2. At the present time
Australia’s war expenditure is in the
vicinity of a million a day. It is expected
to exceed that figure during 1942-43.
Associated Pulp, the Burnie (Tas.) fine-
paper enterprise that is working to capa-
city in order to keep up Australian sup-
plies of commercial and writing papers,
is maintaining its div. at 6 p.c. p.a.
Buyers are in the market at 265. for the
ords., which have suffered comparatively
little in the past six months of internal
and external shocks.
* * * *
Australasian Paper cut its interim
ord. div. from 4 p.c, to 3 p.c.
Taxation is probably the principal
reason, though paper of any kind
is a scarce commodity in Australia
at the present time. Before the war,
though the local woodpulp industry was
developing satisfactorily, there was still
a deficiency of pulp which had to be
made up by imports and the use of
waste paper for cardboard and brown
paper. It is now not only difficult to
get imported pulp but waste paper is
also scarce on account of the reduced
sizes of the newspapers. There are three
sources of woodpulp in Australia. A.P.M.
has its plant in Gippsland, where it turns
out about a quarter of its normal re-
quirements. Associated Pulp and Paper,
at Burnie, manufactures between 20,000
and 30,000 tons of pulp and paper a year
—the paper in this case is a high-quality
writing and printing type. Down south
in Tasmania Australian Newsprint Mills
is pushing ahead with production of
newsprint for its shareholding news-
papers, and is doing a satisfactory job
considering the difficulties associated with
making pulp out of eucalypts. War has
pushed aside all the usual Freetrade argu-
ments about the manufacture of paper
in this country. Our paper companies
are an essential at present,
* * * *
“The importation and sale of motor
vehicles for civilian use has ceased,
and the nature of our business has
changed to munitions,” says the annual
report of General-Motors Holden’s.
Though turnover for the year increased
£400,000, and the number of employees
has risen from 5865 to 9300 (payroll last
year was £2,282,000), net profit has fallen
from £451,190 to £255,241. The co.
draws attention to the co-operation it
has enjoyed with hundreds of other con-
cerns in achieving its war production.


THE SERVICE MAN
War Comes to Sydney.
“Ek Dum”: The wave of confidence
which swept the United States and Aus-
tralia ended in some shocks with the
opening of June.
The Chinese were at that moment
wrestling for the control of three prov-
inces in China. Simultaneously the
Japanese opened a new phase of their
operations. The body of their Pacific
octopus, embracing all the territory from
the Assam border to the Bismarcks and
the outer Philippines, was now consoli-
dated. Six tentacles now reached out as
if to test their reach.
One felt for Dutch Harbor from the
air, right across the North Pacific. An-
other was thrown out in an attempt to
coil round Midway Island, There were
reports of a movements of a fleet from
Truk, the main base in the southern Jap
mandated islands. New types of fighter
formations lashed out at Moresby, A
school of submarines suddenly appeared
in and around Sydney Harbor and along
the adjacent coast. More submarines
attempted mischief at Diego Suarez, the
naval base at the northern tip of Mada-
gascar recently taken over by the British
and Free French. They failed.
There was a new landing on Sumbawa
in Flores. The enemy now has a curling
clutch round the whole north of the con-
tinent, of which the strong points are
Cocos—if the enemy claim to occupy it is
accurate —D.E.1., Timor, the Tanimbar
Islands, Ambon, Lae and Rabaul and
the Solomons, with the Louisiades base
on the inside of their grip.
Let there be no doubt about the danger
of attack. There is no ground for the
belief that anything lies ahead but a stern
struggle for a foothold in our north. The
enemy will prepare fully before he strikes.
He will destroy, if he can, the footholds
from which we can fend him off. He
will presently intensify his air campaign,
which he has now brought into a new
phase to cause destruction of defensive
machines greater than we can replace.
He will, if he can, strangle both internal
and external communications.
The significance of the clouds of
fighters which he has begun to use over
New Guinea cannot be missed. They
are not there so much to destroy bombers
as to attack and destroy our own fighters,
if possible. Short of fighters, our
northern airfields and shipping would be
at the mercy of enemy bombers.
The lull in North Australia, as opposed
to New Guinea, is not without signifi-
cance either. There seems to be an
attempt to force a concentration of the
fighting into one corner of the long defen-
sive arc, while at Timor, D.E.1., Tanim-
bar and Amboina a concentration
of strength is being gathered. Per-
sistent Allied raids against Koepang
brand this as a main point of assembly.
At any rate, an enemy who has the
audacity to strike in one week round the
perimeter of a great triangle of which
the base is 10,000 miles long, stretching
from 100 miles off the Alaska coast to
within less than 500 miles of the South
African coast, and to menace all the
main routes to two oceans is no foe to
be despised or to be easily beaten.
The sum total of the operations was
not large, but they were important in
their effects, and still more important in
their newness of technique. They were
concerted. They centred on a major naval
operation at Midway, which could be
calculated to keep powerful U.S. forces
mobilised round the Hawaiian area to
ward off a major threat. The two raids
on Dutch Harbor, though actual results
were negligible, were palpably designed
to prevent a counter-stroke south-
wards by the Americans there to relieve
the pressure on Hawaii. The attacks
along the Australian coast were more
than nuisance raids. They were obvi-
ously intended to force the concentra-
tion of as much Allied naval strength,
particularly of small craft so useful in
the shallow northern seas, as far away
from North Australia as possible, at the
same time to harass coastwise shipping
serving northern and north-western de-
fence and the main routes bringing sup-
plies from overseas.
Submarines at Sydney
The attacks in the vicinity of Sydney
carried the war 1800 miles south from
its locale the week before. They began
on May 31 on a bright clear night with a
high tide.
Just before 10 p.m. patrol vessels round
the mouth of Sydney Harbor reported the
presence of a strange submarine or sub-
marines. Within a few minutes one was
discovered. Depth charges were dropped.
There was one ocean pest the less within
a few minutes. Meantime, it was known
that others had pushed their way into
the harbor proper. At about 10.50 p.m.
a periscope was sighted. A short burst of
firing was followed by a racking explo-
sion which shook window-frames two or
three miles away. It was followed by
the crackle of falling timbers. More
noises were heard far into the night and
beyond.
In the end it was found that four midget
submarines, somewhat larger than those
which were used fruitlessly at Pearl Har-
bor, had made the attack. All had been
accounted for.
One had succeeded in firing two 18in.
torpedoes, apparently both at the same
objective. Both had missed their mark.
One had run harmlessly ashore. It was
still a danger there and had to be dealt
with tenderly a beached torpedo at
Pearl Harbor had exploded when an
attempt was made to move it and killed
four naval investigators.
The second torpedo had struck a
moored ferryboat used as a naval depot
ship. In this there were a number of
petty officers and ratings. Many of them
had escaped dire perils in other engage-
ments. They included survivors from
H.M.S. Repulse. Thirteen were killed, 10
injured and eight are missing.
The survivors showed the greatest
gallantry. One dived three times into the
water to save comrades.
The Navy’s Fine Job
None of the invaders travelled much
more than a mile before they were picked
up.
By the end of the week two had been
found on the bottom.
Both turned out to be flimsy affairs of
thin-guage metal, a few feet longer than
the midgets used at Pearl Harbor. They
carried no guns Their sole obvious
weapons were two 18in. torpedoes apiece
in the bows. The bows were fitted with
net cutters. The crews —two to each
vessel—were found dead at their posts.
The one in the deeper water had
attempted to discharge a torpedo, but
the protective cap had fouled and it was
loose in its tube. About 15 feet of the
stern of that sea rover had been blown
away. The midgets found in Pearl Har-
bor were fitted with 3001 b. of explosive,
tied beneath their sterns and wired to
the batteries inside the ship.
The second ship raised had been
broken in halves, apparently by a depth
charge. Lifting both was a ticklish and
dangerous job. Rear-Admiral Muirhead-
Gould and Commander Palmer super-
vised all the difficult operations.
In the first vessel found the loose tor-
pedo presented hair-raising problems.
The hull round both torpedoes had to be
dinted with hammers to make purchase
for a hawser. The fact that one torpedo
would move had to be faced. Once the
submarine slipped out of its bight and fell
back to the bottom. For most of the
week all those concerned with the job
lived in mortal peril. Eventually, a Titan
crane pushed by tugs towed the wreck-
age to a cradle by the shore.
Then the second was hauled up ; the
others were left till later.
Any submarine, especially one with a
keel-conning-tower draft of no more
than 10 or 12 feet, could push its way
into Sydney Harbor if its crew were
ready to commit suicide. These crews
evidently were not merely ready to do it,
but bent on doing it. It was obvious
that even if they escaped to the open sea
their chances of survival were next to
nothing, as no depot ship had much hope
of coming for them. The best they could
hope for would be to come to the surface
alongside a large ocean-going submarine
within a few miles of the coast and trans-
fer themselves, leaving their craft to sink.
However, they arrived suddenly in the
harbor, in which it is easy to find a mark.
A torpedo in a confined port is more
dangerous than gunfire. It is really a
self-steering robot war vessel loaded with
explosive. An 18-inch specimen carries
3501 b. It does not have to be aimed
head on at its target. It can be set by
dial to place itself on any specified
course. And 3501 b. of explosive decanted
into a magazine on a cruiser near land
will clear a lot of foreshores and kill an
appalling number of civilians amid the
ruins.
Attack, especially suicide attack, as this
form of assault was, has to be throttled
instantly and decisively. In this case one
invader was attacked before it could get
into harbor. The first to show its nose
was fired on before it could launch a
torpedo. It launched two, wildly aimed.
The whole school was forced immediately
into a race for the open sea, but could
not make even the couple of miles needed
to give them a chance,
Tokyo said nothing for five days. Then
it declared that a flotilla of special sub-
marines had attacked Sydney Harbor and
sunk a warship. Tokyo Radio added that
“three of our gallant submarines failed
to return to their base.” Next it said that
the assault had proved “bewildering”
and “must surely awaken Australians to
the weakness of their defence under so-
called American protection.”
Coastal Shipping Attacked
The Sydney raid did not end with the
disaster which befel the enemy in Port
Jackson. Three nights afterwards, about
11.30 p.m., a small ship was torpedoed
and sunk about 35 miles off Sydney
Heads. A crew of 49 was on board.
Twelve were rescued from Carley
floats on Thursday ; a further 25, numbed
with cold, shock and hunger, came ashore
from an open boat on a Sydney beach
33 hours after the disaster. Captain Had-
dersley, the chief engineer and three
other engineers, radio officer Stafford,
who stuck to his post, three firemen, two
A.Bs. and the deckboy, J. Lindeman—l2
in all, mostly from Newcastle (N.S.W.)
—are missing. One of the lifeboats had
jammed in its chocks.
The submarine came to the surface and
hung round for some time, but made no
attempt to gun or to rescue the helpless
men, some of whom had to face the cold
nearly naked.
Hard on the heels of this new tragedy
came news of two other attacks on ships.
One was near the sunken vessel. It was
shelled twice —from both port and star-
board—at intervals of 20 minutes, and
some of the crew said they saw a sub-
marine 300 yards away in the moonlight.
The other ship was 225 miles from the
harbor mouth off Twofold Bay. Both
escaped.
A torpedo scraped across the keel of
the one in the south. It exploded 200
yards away and showered the decks and
hatches with fragments.
The Air Forces at Work
It took the Allied Air Forces a very
short while to start gunning for the
enemy. The Royal Dutch soon picked
up a mark. It was a boat about 120 feet
long. Pilot-Officer Winckel dived down.
His bomb-aimer, Flight-Lieutenant van
Loggan, let go a full stick of six heavies
from 400 feet right along the enemy’s
deck as he tried to crash-dive. The sub.
disappeared. Five feet or so of bow
bobbed in the waves and then sank in a
flather of oil and wreckage.
Two R.A.A.F. squadrons in the mean-
time picked up two other submarines at
widely-separated points as they worked
a checkerboard pattern across coastal
waters. One was sunk for certain. It
seemed likely that the other, which tried
to escape by crash-diving, had gone as
well. Thus six pests had been wiped out
in four days—possibly seven.
The submarine shot up by the
R.A.A.F. fell victim to a bomber
piloted by Flight-Lieutenant Geoffrey
Hitchcock, 22 years old. He and his
crew had been out about five hours on
Friday when they picked up a feathery
wake from only 700 feet. They went
down with a swoop and a whoop, let
go four bombs, caught their crash-diving
mark five feet or so behind the periscope
and rose on the blast which lifted them
and a column of water and rubbish 200
feet in the air.
Still another sub. was sunk in the week-
end by a bomber piloted by Flight-Lieu-
tenant V. M. Morgan, of Claremont
(W.A.).
Hopes at the mid-week that the whole
school of trouble had been cleaned up
proved premature.
On Thursday a terrible blast sank a
second ship off the N.S.W. coast in 30
seconds. Out of 43 on board only five
had been rescued at the week-end. None
of the five survivors saw the submarine.
Four of them were clinging to the roof
of the chart-room, which had been blown
clean off the ship. It seemed that there
was little hope for the rest —20 of the
38 missing had been below decks.
Sydney Is Shelled
In the early morning of June 8, about
12.7 a.m., shells began to fall in eastern
suburbs of Sydney, apparently fired from
a sub. One buried itself 40 or 50 feet from
the front door of a Bulletin camera
man. Another tore through a block of
flats. It ripped a hole through two
thicknesses of brick above a bed
in which a woman was sleeping, and
finished up on an interior staircase. The
woman was uninjured, though her bed
was broken. Her son, sleeping in an-
other room and injured by a fall of
bricks, was the raid’s only casualty. An-
other shell blew the back out of a house.
At 12.15 the coast defences opened up
and fired a dozen shells or so. At 12.30
the air-raid sirens sounded. People rose
in their nightgowns and went to air-raid
shelters.
There was a dull wait of half an hour,
during which all was pitch-blackness and
silence. Then the all-clear sounded. Syd-
ney went back to bed. About 99.5 per
cent, of the population had not the slight-
est idea of what had happened until the
morning papers came out.
About two hours after the Sydney
attack Newcastle had a few shells fired
at it. One made a small hole in a park.
Another fell in the harbor. The Fort
guns replied. Newcastle, like Sydney, was
blacked out.
These two raids were nothing more
than displays of bravado. If they were
aimed at specific objectives, these Japs
are the world’s worst shots. If they aimed
to affect morale, they were farcical—
Sydney seemed to enjoy the sensation.
But they advertised some stern facts.
The subs, carry four to six 21-inch tor-
pedo tubes. Some have two guns, some
one gun and a seaplane—which might ac-
count for the reports of unidentified
’planes.
The largest of these vessels have cruis-
ing ranges which could take them from
Japan to Sydney and home again. They
are 320 to 344 feet long, with a 29.9 ft.
beam, are 1950-2600 tons, 6000-1800 h.p.,
and some have a surface speed up to 21
knots. Their crews number 60. They
would be quite capable of carrying a
midget submarine even two from
Tulagi or the Solomons to within strik-
ing distance of Sydney Harbor.
The crucial fact at the week-end was
that these monsters were still at large.
In the raids on Sydney seven or eight
submarines was a heavy price to pay for
a couple of cargo vessels and an old
ferry and a few helpless and innocent
civilian lives. Tokyo towards the end of
the week did not sound happy about the
exchange.
The Enemy Pays
The rest of the week was all devoted
to Japanese sea disasters. Apart from the
seven or eight submarines in the N. S.
Wales area, an Allied submarine in the
south-west Pacific sank an armed trans-
port—capacity 10,000 troops —with all
hands, as well as two armed supply ships.
Another armed supply ship was damaged.
Then came early results of the battle
for Midway Island. This appears to have
been a first-class naval and air action,
fought in a series of bitter gusts over a
period of days.
On June 7 Admiral Nimitz issued a
communique which placed the enemy ship
casualties at two, and possibly three, air-
craft carriers sunk with all their ’planes;
two more damaged and most of their
’planes destroyed ; three battleships dam-
aged, at least one seriously; two
cruisers badly crippled and two others
and three transports damaged. It was
reported that some of the damaged ships
ships might not be able to reach home.
Admiral Nimitz added:
Pearl Harbor has been partially avenged.
The battle is not over. All returns have
not yet been received. One American
aircraft carrier was hit and some U.S.
’planes were lost. American casualties
were light.
This placed it beyond doubt that the
operation was a major one in which at
least a quarter and probably more qf
the enemy capital fleet was employed in
an attempt to establish a foothold in the
Hawaiian Islands.
The result is important to Australia.
Hawaii while in U.S. hands is a deadly
threat to the communication lines of
any enemy expedition against this con-
tinent.
It is unlikely that a full-dress attack
would be attempted here until the enemy
has done his utmost to immobilise Pearl
Harbor and adjacent fortified positions.
Success there is not absolutely pre-
requisite to successful attacks on the
Commonwealth, but it would make an
expedition against Australia infinitely


Are you
watching
his health?
If your dog’s
coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —
start him now on
ẃ
a course of
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
lively and eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole system-
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
ẅ
FISHING TACKLE FOR EVERY NEED
As practical anglers, with complete stocks of tackle, we can supply everything
needed for beach, rock, deep-sea, harbour and river fishing. Call or write
for full particulars ... or for advice about specialised tackle. are
moderate ... and all goods are GUARANTEED by us.
CRAIG
&
AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
1
9l
•fit
•*y
°*/
•4
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
easier and release large enemy naval and
air resources for the attack, besides
throttling one of the most impoitant
Allied trans-Pacific supply routes.
On the whole, there is every ground tor
satisfaction at the manner in which the
week’s onslaughts have been warded ott.
But there is no room for complacency.
The naval struggle is only beginning.
Life and Death in Libya.
“Ek Dum”: After days of incessant
fighting, the struggle for control of the
road systems of the Gazala-Tobruk area
was still in being in clouds of dust and
vitiating heat on June 7. ,
The pivot of the battle seemed to be
what the Tommies call Knightsbridge.
This lies just off the escarpment on a
road which leads from Bir Hakheim (on
the Mekili-Bir el Gubbi road) to Gazala.
The battle extended north towards Gazala.
In essence it consisted at first of a series
of fierce, heavy mechanised stabs by
Rommel’s forces in an attempt to /me
through minefield gaps and hold the
British engaged while the way was cleared
for further advances. The British, with
the coastal road at their command to the
west of Gazala, were soon countering
this by a stern attempt to wring the
neck of Rommel’s supply system.
The Germans had pushed two thrusts
some distance into British-held territory
and had succeeded in linking up their
spearheads, forming a staple-shaped
salient, apparently well established, with
the fierce driving weight of Panzers
behind and within it. This was typical
German tactics in Russia ; but Libya is
not Russia.
The enemy’s surging mass of tanks and
Afrikakorps infantry are hemmed in on
three sides by determined, desert-trained
troops, then mass infiltrated. Overhead
are the Imperial Air Forces, equipped
with everything from the latest desert
Spitfires downwards and upwards. More-
over, the defenders have the sea on their
near right hand, and the sea Rommel
cannot take from them.
He has, also, on his southern
flank a terrain which is ideal for defen-
sive harassing. F i rom somewhere down
that flank in the Bir Hakheim region the
R.H.A. materialised late in the week and
began plastering some of the German
rear, behind which they squeezed with
too many 25-pounders for his comfort.
The three Italian divisions, which are
within sound of this operation near the
coast athwart the Derna-Gazala road,
can derive no satisfaction from it. Their
opposite numbers were the flower of
Smuts’s S’Africans. But they made only
one pass at these latter. Then they fell
over each other in a precipitate retreat,
leaving behind several hundred human
souvenirs and throwing the responsibility
of winning the battle on Rome Radio,
which, as usual, rose to the occasion.
Among the claims is the capture of a
whole Indian brigade. The British have
captured General Ludwig Cruewell,
G.O.C. of the Afrikakorps, whose ’plane
was brought down.
Eventually Rommel found it necessary
to send German motorised regiments
northwards to prevent his ebullient allies
from falling to bits. These tougher
warriors slapped themselves into a gap in
a minefield covering a S’African brigade.
But the S’Africans quickly built post-
and-rail of m.-g. and field-artillery fire
across the western base of the gap and
began to spray the contents of it with a
very hail of steel. In the evening the
Germans sent out a flag of truce to ask
permission to remove their wounded. It
was chivalrously granted. Then permis-
sion was given to bring in an ambulance,
but it turned up full of ammunition. The
doom of these Germans was sealed next
day.
By the end of the week it was seen
that the Axis headway was stemmed, at
least for the time being. The staple-
shaped gap formed by the enemy was an
inferno of fire ; the stern attempts on Bir
Hakheim, held mainly by Free French,
had, for the time at any rate, been
beaten off; the central heavily fortified
dump area in the enemy rear at Rotunda
Segnali was in British hands. And fresh
British pressure was being applied north
and south to try to crush the forces in
the inferno of the “staple” —now called
the “Devil’s Cauldron” —while on the east
continual smashes were being adminis-
tered to break in the German front.
It has been touch-and-go —perhaps is
still touch-and-go. But on June 8 the
British counter-attacks were in full swing,
and in the vital Knightsbridge area the
enemy showed signs of .flinching.
He may still have fresh resources to
bring up, but he will need them quickly
if they are to be of any use.
Next Move in Russia.
“Ek Dum”; After the issue of the end-
of-May communiques summing up the
Kharkov battle, it was allowed to sink
into oblivion. Newspapers declared them-
selves satisfied that Von Bock had had
an awful licking which might make an
offensive on the Ukraine front impos-
sible and generally upset the whole of
the German plans.
Russian official statements disclosed
nothing to justify this optimism. They
amounted to a claim to have killed 90,000
Germans, but only 1100 prisoners were
mentioned. Coupled with this estimate
was an admission of retreat back to the
Donetz after the first forward drive,
though it was declared that at - least
one important bridgehead was in Red
Army hands.
On June 2 the Germans issued a
further statement in which they pur-
ported to describe the battle in detail.
They said that Timoshenko’s forces had
concentrated all their strength on an
attempt to reach Krasnograd. The Ger-
mans fell back, with strategic intent.
Timoshenko hurtled on, but failed to take
due precautions to cover his Donetz-
Losovaya flank on the south. The Ger-
man armies struck and broke through it
on the Isyum-Barvenkova sector. At
once, another German force was let
down from the north, shutting off the
three Russian armies in an area of 1000
square miles. After the mopping up, it
was asserted, the Russians had no ground
west of the Donetz except one or two
bridgeheads. Russian prisoners by June
3 were estimated at 257,000.
On other fronts there was purely pre-
paratory activity last week.
The liveliest fighting was described as
taking place north of the Smolensk-
Moscow road in the internals of the huge,
blunt, northern claw of the Moscow
pincer.
This area embraces the tree of railway
systems growing eastward from Velikye
Luki and the road system which grows
eastward from Kholm. It covers the
whole of the Valdai Hills and the drain-
age areas of the headquarters of both
Volga and Dnieper.
Last year the Germans were at Velikye
Luki in July. They pushed on to the
Moscow-Leningrad line via Rshev by the
middle of October, when they took
Kalinin, on the Volga, 120 miles from
Moscow. They went on along the Volga
valley s.-e. nearly 30 miles to Korcheva,
where they were actually in the longi-
tude of Moscow itself. They held the
whole of the railway northward from
Kalinin to the great Bologoe junction,
100 miles nearer Leningrad, and the
whole of the Riga (via Pskov) line west
from there, via Staraya Russa. On the
Moscow side of Kalinin, they had
pushed down to Klin, within 50-odd
miles of Moscow itself.
With the opening of winter the enemy
began to pull his pincer head back. He
was driven out of Mojaisk, on the
Smolensk road, and abandoned Voloko-
lamsk, Klin, Kalinin, Korcheva, Bologoe,
Staritza. He consolidated his front in a
series of fortified areas, roughly based
100 miles back from the points of ex-
treme advance, save on the main
Smolensk-Moscow road.
These were:
Viazma-Gzhatsk, embracing the main road
and the Viazma-Rshev, Viazma-Moscow,
Viazma-Tula and Viazma-Smolensk roads
and railways; also the most defendable
part of the main road to Moscow, and the
Gzhatsk River valley approach to the Volga
and Kalinin.
Rshev, well placed for offence, to control
the Volga valley, the approaches across the
Valdais from the west. It embraced the
Rshev-Riga, Rshev-Viazma, Rshev-Moscow
and Rshev-Kalinin road and railway com-
munications.
Velikye Luki, including the main northern
junction feeding from Riga, and a kingpin
of the lateral rail communication system
of the German front above the Moscow-
Smolensk road.
Staraya Russa, controlling the Bologoe
to Estonia route and communications of the
northern Valdai Hills in general. It is
here that the 16th German Army has
allegedly been in process of being wiped out
since early in the year. In reality it seems
that the Germans left a couple of impreg-
nably entrenched divisions there.
It has been the policy of the German
General Staff to advance evenly along the
whole front. It is not unlikely, therefore,
that the next advance attempted might
be made in the Kalinin area, but much
depends on the condition of Russian de-
fences further north and south. If the
chance came of plucking Leningrad
early it would not be passed over. Hitler’s
visit to, Finland last week, with Marshal
Keitel, suggested that this might be in
train.
Wreckage on the Rhine.
“E.D,”: The first 1000-machine raid in
history was made on the 1001st day of the
war—on Cologne. In September, 1939, it
would have been regarded as sceptically
as anything which ever came out of the
Arabian Nights.
Cologne is about 25 miles south-east
of Dusseldorf, the first town blasted in
the last war—by the R.F.C. Because of
its importance as one of the guardian
gates at the entrance of Germany and
particularly the Ruhr, and because of
its vital role in communications, it is well
protected.
It has searchlights enough to turn night
into day, night-fighter squadrons and
several hundred guns.
But it hasn’t the facilities, and neither
has any other city in the world of the
same size, to deal effectively with ’planes
of 13 different types, ranging down from
Stirlings and Halifaxes toting eight-ton
bombs at 300 m.p.h. and coming over at
the rate of 14 a minute.
A sentence in the Order of the Day of
Air-Marshal Harris, R.A.F., read:
The force of which you form part to-
night is at least twice the size and has more
than four times the carrying capacity of
the largest air force ever concentrated on
one objective.
Each machine had its carefully-plotted
objectives. Aerodromes all over England
were used for the take-off. The whole
affair was run to a timetable. Lighter
’planes and fighters established a strangle-
hold on aerodromes from which the
Cologne defences might be reinforced.
The enemy played his usual trick of
lighting dummy fires after the first
’planes had gone over, but they looked
like candle flares when the incendiaries,
falling in the mouldy old Cologne streets
and on the oil and petrol tanks out along
the Venloer-strasse past the goods yards
towards Ehrenfeld, started the real thing.
Only a day’s interval was allowed
between the Cologne raid and one on
Essen, in which 1036 machines were
used. Essen is 54 miles up the Rhine
from Cologne beyond Dusseldorf —the
industrial towns of the Ruhr and Rhine-
land almost run one into another. Before
the visitors left the great armament
centre must have longed for the days
before the nineteenth century when it
was ruled peacefully by an abbess with a
council of ten princesses, and when drop-
forges had never been heard of in the
Ruhr.
The attack was just as fruitful as the
previous one on Cologne, and was
topped off with a second raid by 300
machines the next night to make sure
that the fires would not go out.
When the smoke cleared away a little
the R.A.F. photographed Cologne’s
damage. Six areas totalling nearly eight
square miles had been devastated, includ-
ing most of the old town, the railway
areas and most of the factory suburb of
Ehrenfeld.
Again a pall of smoke hid the Essen
blaze and its results, though Berlin
admitted that the water supply had been
rendered unfit for human consumption,
and continued to treat the whole affair
with a cold, thwarted fury. Well might
the enemy feel thwarted —over 2000
machines, half bombers and half fighters,
ẁ
Allied bombers continued their opera-
tions against the enemy in the North last
week, but not on their previous scale.
Koepang was bombed, and “all bombs
fell in the target area.” At Rabaul in-
cendiaries fell in a military camp, and
Carpenter’s wharf and adjacent ware-
houses were hit. A float ’plane was
gunned at Tulagi by Allied reconnais-
sance machines.
* * * *
The Maoriland Government has de-
cided that in all future ballots men called
up for military service will be liable to be
used either at home or overseas. All
men between 21 and 40 previously called
up for home service and all Territorial
volunteers are now liable to be sent out
of the Dominion. Canberra can’t be
listening.
« * * *
The Admiralty has admitted the loss of
H.M.S. Trinidad, one of the unlucky Fiji
class (8000 tons). She was launched after
war broke out. She carried 12 6in. guns.
There were some casualties.
* * * *
German claims to have sunk 130,000
tons of ships in a convoy bound for
Russia last week were seriously dis-
counted when the Allied report was
issued. The convoy beat its way through
incessant attacks by U-boats and some-
times 100 bombers, even though ham-
pered in its movements by Arctic ice and
almost continuous daylight. On June 2
it was reported officially that the convoy
had arrived with important supplies at
a northern Russian port. Three of the
attacking German aircraft were de-
stroyed and four damaged.
* * * *
The Hudson squadron manned by Aus-
tralians and led by Squadron-Leader
R. W. Davy along the Bay of Bengal
is doing great work. Akyab recently has
been attacked by it and two “O” fighters
brought down there. Sergt.-Pilot Ken
White in a daybreak raid on the Anda-
man Islands sank four enemy flying boats
and damaged 12 others. Pilot-Officer
P. T. Scott-Young (Lane Cove, Sydney)
next day broke through a strong ground
defence, which wrecked a companion
British ’plane, and destroyed three more
enemy flying boats. One of the three
Australian raiders in this attack had his
petrol tank holed.


COMMONWEALTH
w
OF AUSTRALIA
CLOTHES
RATIONING
HVhut you must do
QUICKLY!
CLOTHES RATIONING starts Monday, June 13th.
Rationing means fair sharing. The Government is
giving to each man, woman and child an equal right
to a reasonable share of clothing and footwear. Next
Saturday, ]une X'fith, and Sunday, June 14th, from 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m., Ration Books will be issued to all holders of
Civilian Identity Cards or Aliens Registration Cards who
were over the age of 16 on March 15 th, and to their
dependants who were under the age of 16 on March 15 th,
1942.
HOW TO GET YOUR RATION BOOK
To obtain a ration card you must show your Civilian Identity
Card, or if you are an alien, your Aliens Registration Card, at the
nearest Ration Book Issuing Centre. 7/ away from home during
the days of issue, go to the Ration Book Issuing Centre nearest
to where you are.
Watch your newspaper for the location of Ration Book Issuing
Centres. They will be notified in the Press on Thursday, June
11th, in metropolitan papers, and during the week ending June
13th, in provincial papers. In general, they will be the places used
as polling booths at Commonwealth elections.
RATION BOOKS FOR DEPENDANTS UNDER 16
If you have dependants who were under the age of 16 on 15 th
March, 1942, you must make a declaration of their name, sex and
age before you can obtain Ration Books for them. Declaration
forms may be obtained from a post office. Then you can take it
to the Issuing Officer already completed, next Saturday or Sunday.
This will make it quicker for you and will relieve congestion at
the Issuing Centres.
You can obtain Ration Books only for children who are actually
living with you. They will be issued at the same time as you
receive your own. The Ration Books of evacuee children, or
children at boarding school or other institutions, will be issued to
the person in charge of them at the date of issue. Thus a boy
or girl at boarding school will have his or her Ration Book
collected by the Head Teacher.
In cases where children are not living with their parents at the
time of issue, the person in charge of them at that time will be
required to produce to the Issuing Officer a declaration setting
out the name, sex and age of each child. This must be made on
the ordinary declaration form for parents or guardians, which is
obtainable at Post Offices.
IF YOU CANNOT ATTEND ISSUING CENTRES
If you are an invalid, seriously ill, or approaching maternity, or
live more than five miles away from the nearest Ration Book
Issuing Centre, you may obtain your book by post or through an
agent. Special application forms, which must be completed by you,
will be obtainable from post offices.
Where your hook is to be collected by an agent, you must hand
him your Identity Card (i.e.. Civilian Identity Cards or Aliens
Registration Card) as well as your completed application form.
Make sure you get your Identity Card back from your agent.
Where your hook is to be sent by post, you must send your
completed form to the Divisional Returning Officer. You should
not ask for a book to he sent by post if you can arrange for
someone to collect it for you.
When applying for forms from the post office, you must state
clearly whether you want:—
(1) declaration for dependants;
(2) application for issue of ration book to an agent; or
(3) application for postal issue.
IF YOU HAVE NO IDENTITY CARD
If you have not yet applied for a Civilian Identity Card, secure
Form CRI (males) or CR2 (females) from your nearest post
office and send it to your Divisional Returning Officer. If you are
an alien and have not yet applied for your Aliens Registration
Card, go to your nearest police station to obtain one.
If you have applied for your Civilian Identity Card, hut have
not yet received it, make enquiries immediately at the office of the
Divisional Returning Officer for the Commonwealth Electoral
Division in which you live. If you are an alien, and have applied
for your Aliens Registration Card but have not received it, enquire
at your police station.
If you have lost your Civilian Identity Card, apply at once for a
duplicate to the Divisional Returning Officer of the Commonwealth
Electoral Division in which you live. If you are an alien and
have lost your Aliens Registration Card, apply at once to your
nearest police station.
REMEMBER: Mo Civilian Identity Card (or Aliens Registration Card)-
No Ration Book! If you have not received your Identity Card by June 13th
or 14th, it is useless applying to the Issuing Centre fora Ration Book.
Take care of your Ration Book. If it is lost, stolen or
destroyed you will not find it easy to get another. You will have to
satisfy the Rationing Commission of the circumstances of your loss,
and if a new book is issued it will have some of the coupons removed
from it. in addition to that, a charge will be imposed on you.
•
Do not expect Issuing Officers to answer queries on special cases.
These are under consideration now, and decisions will be announced later.
SMOKE-OH!
“Discipline is strict; even when off duty the
soldiers are expected to be in their billies by
nine o’clock.” — “Sun.”
Enough to make them boil.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The case had peculiar features, as the man
appeared to think that he really possessed a
banking account against which he drew the
cheques. ’ ’ —‘ ‘D.T.’’
Instead, he was drawing on his imagi-
nation.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He desired to please Elsie in every way.
He went to a lot of trouble at the wedding.”
— Woman’s paper.
Doesn’t every man go to a lot of
trouble when he marries?
A Matter of Selectivity.
“If Wireless Stops. What Listeners Should
Do.”— “S. M. Herald.’’
They can register their unalloyed elation
By breaking into hearty British cheers,
Or make of it a dinkum celebration
And greet the happy tidings with some
beers.
Zake.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A Gifted Man.
“Girl’s gifts influence him.”— Dorothy Dix.
She gave him, first, a pleasant smile.
This flattered him, the dope. And then,
with gentle girlish guile, she gave him
still more hope by giving him a birthday
tie, and then to understand that if he
really cared to try he’d doubtless win her
hand. She gave him hints on buying
rings. For marriage then he fell. She
hasn’t knocked off giving things; for
now she gives him hell.
Eve.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Cigarettes seem to have gone into
smoke.
“Man Worked 90 Years as Farmer.”
—News item.
It is confidently expected that by the
time his grandson is 60 or 70 he’ll own
the farm.
4* *b 4* *b
Chronometrical.
“Respondent once threw a clock at him,
causing injuries that necessitated hospital treat-
ment.” — Divorce report.
She timed her shot, it would appear;
No second thoughts e’er troubled Mum.
The timepiece hit him on the . ear —
And he believed his hour had come.
P. P.
“She was drawing on her gloves.”
— “Women's Weekly."
That’s the worst of this vexing paper
shortage.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Milkmen are doing their blocks.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Strength and Capacity.
“The only real way to test wine for its
strength is to find out how much is needed
to make the average man drunk.”
— “World’s News.”
It seems a bright idea ; but there
Is this about the plan:
It hardly tests the wine so much
As it must test the man.
N. E. BOTTLES.
Ancestors.
“Some families have spent considerable sums
tracing their ancestors overseas.”
— Woman’s paper.
Genealogists all agree on one point:
our clan was able to keep on keeping
on because of an abiding faith in a good
pair of spiked running shoes.
The founder of the clan, Dumbell Mc-
Muckintosh, dwelt, when the police were
not too hot on his tail, at Castle Crankie,
an edifice of noble design in freestone.
The builder didn’t know that the stone
was to be free, but Dumbell didn’t leave
him long in doubt.
There is a legend that Deadlegs Mc-
Muckintosh was Scotland’s Great Lover
and spent most of his time laughing at
lochs and bars —saloon bars for prefer-
ence.
They were great sportsmen, never start-
ing in ugly-man competitions unless
under a handicap of five thousand votes
behind scratch.
The family crest is a Highlander ram-
pant on a field of empty bottles with a
bar sinister. The shelves of the bar are
empty.
The war cry of the clan was suppressed
by Act of Parliament following com-
plaints that delicate earthquake record-
ing instruments were being wrecked all
over the kingdom.
One day our clan left Scotland, lock,
stock and barrels. That day is still
observed as a public holiday in Scotland.
The first McMuckintosh to land in
Sydney presented his letters of introduc-
tion to the Governor. His Excellency
scratched his head for a split second and
then roared an order for all guards at
the Mint to be put on a war footing. A
Scot himself, he had once been enter-
tained at Castle Crankie.
But we’re still here!
DON McM.
What’s in a Name?
“Leader of the Chinese military mission to
Australia is Captain Chih Kuang Wang. Other
members are Lieut.-Colonel C. Wang (military
staff officer) and Captain N. H. Wang (military
secretary). The three Wangs are unrelated.”
— “D.T.”
To the Occidental mind the grouping
of three unrelated Smiths or Williamses is
a thing to be avoided as the plague, but
Celestials view these things in a different
light. Archpriests of the what-is-to-be-
will-be theory, they will have 17 Wings
or Changs or Bungs in the one concern
and think nothing of it. And not only
does this occur fortuitously.
I once landed a job as chief taster,
financial adviser and assistant feather-
remover to the Bird’s-nest Soup Supply
Co. in Whang Poh. The managing
director was 800 Hoo, the secretary Sok
Hoo, the general manager Hooz Hoo, the
works manager Wot Hoo, the chief nest-
robber Dong Hoo, the principal nest-
spotter Wu Hoo and the chief feather-
remover Do Hoo. The other 400-odd
employees, being menials who couldn’t
afford a front name, were all just plain
Hoo. The managing director told me he
had selected all the staff purely on their
names as a tribute to his illustrious ances-
tors on the male side.
I found it rather confusing at first.
For instance, having finished a bit of
assistant-feather-removing and wishing to
take advantage of an imminent flight
from the silver dollar that my keen finan-
cial intuition could intuit, I would want
to get on to the works manager to in-
struct him to concentrate on manufac-
turing thick bird’s-nest soups in anticipa-
tion of the demands of the newly rich
thus created. The conversation would
go something like this:
“Hullo! Is that Hoo?”
“What Hoo?”
“Oh, is that Wot Hoo? Now,
listen”
“What Hoo do you want?”
“Of course I do. Put him on.”
“Who?”
“Now let’s get this thing straight. I
want to speak to Wot Hoo, the works
manager.”
“Well, why didn’t you say so? You’re
on the wrong number. Wait till I get
you switched through.”
Once I was up at Long Wei Awei buy-
ing up a crop of aloes for the new
season’s seasoning. There being no tele-
phone or telegraph there, a mule mail
brought a letter asking me to get in touch
with the managing director. I sent a letter
back asking for instructions. Three
weeks later I got a reply from Sok Hoo
saying Mr. 800 Hoo had gone to Wu
Hoo. By return I instructed that my
letter be sent on. Thereafter I threw
myself into the job of tasting the new
crop of aloes, and it wasn’t until another
eight weeks that I got a letter from the
managing director asking why I had
ignored his request. Hot words passed,
and it wasn’t until two years later that
the mystery was cleared up. My letter
was returned from the dead-letter office
in Wuhu, in Hop Hi province.
To a man less strong of nerve than I,
working with 472 men named Hoo would
have meant a breakdown. But I was get-
ting on well, and at the end of 10 years
I could tell at least four of them from
the rest by sight. I might have been with
the company still had it not been for an
unfortunate incident.
One day the police came and said a
man named Hoo was suspected of hav-
ing robbed another Whang Po citizen of
a pet silverfish. The accuser demanded
an identification line-up, and the whole
staff, from the managing director down,
were taken to the police station. I was
left to carry on the entire factory. That
the accuser had a first-class job on his
hands I was aware, and it was nine
weeks before he finally decided that it
must have been a man named Hu who
was the culprit. By that time, what with
managing directing, tasting, financial ad-
vising, stoking, cooking, packing and the
rest I had lost seven stone and not only
looked but even smelt and acted like
bird’s-nest soup.
So I poured myself out and took a job
with the Sing Goldfish Breeding Co. as
the fish dentist. There were only 147
Sings in that concern.
Bo.


SADDLERY OF QUALITY
No. 163,
"TUMBA"
“PRIDE OF THE ROAD.”
ẃ
£ll/8/6
(COMPLETE)
A high-grade
Saddle with
narrowest
possible grip
and comfort-
ab 1 e no n-
chafing seat.
First- class
materials used
throughout.
☆
N.S. W. Freight on
Saddles Paid /or
Cash with Order.
AETHER * STEVEMSOM SJ:
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
PROVIDES THE SAME COMFORT AND SAFETY AS CITY SEWERAGE
WITHOUT ANY W'ATER SUPPLY.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SEEF-CONTAINEI). SANITARY" SYSTEM IN ITSEEI AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CEOSET PAN.
All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and runs off into the soi .
It eliminates closet pans and saves sanitary rates.
IT PREVENTS THE SPREAD OF THE BLOWFLY PES .
There is no emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
NO SMELLS. NO FEIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health and is fully guaranteed. Over -000 in use.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
TfirsvT'l i P i IT|T aD V r Dl- I 30 » K I DGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd. Telephone 81052.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.b. SYDNEY, including 10% Sales Tax.
Plus 20/- war surcharge; crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
Obtainable direct jrom us or all leading stores , pastoral firms, etc. Agents all -State.
a 3 ; t d d -’Co.. e^:> Pe 1 l Ui.
Missing Friends.
MALAY A-SINGAPORE. —Will anyone with
news of Gunner CLIFF WHITELOCKE,
NX 30,254, and Bdr. E. A. TUBMAN,
NX 30,255, 2/15th Field Regiment, communi-
cate with MRS. WHITELOCKE, News Office,
Narromine?
STUBBS, Hazel Julia Grace, daughter of Annie
Grace and James Stubbs (formerly of Bal-
ranald, New South Wales).—Will the above-
named, or anyone knowing her thereabouts,
kindly communicate with the PUBLIC IKUS-
TEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, regarding
the estate of her late mother?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAVID ALLAN MACDONALD late of
Tamworth. —TAKE NOTICE that IRIS. LUR-
LINE MACDONALD has filed a Petition lor
Divorce No. 1462 of 1941 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance on or before the
25th day of August 1942 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from J. J.
LYONS Solicitor Tamworth or his city agents
E A. CLEARY & CO. 56 Hunter Street Sydney.
—(ls.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO UNA CHAFFER formerly of 574 Old
South Head Road Bellevue Hill N.S.W.
TAKE NOTICE that AGNES SIMMONS has
filed a Petition No. 1124 of a.d. 1941 in this
Court praying for a divorce from JOHN
CHARLES GEORGE SIMMONS on the
ground of his adultery with you You may
apply to the Court for leave to defend the
charge if you so desire A copy of the petition
may be obtained without charge from GILBERi
C MURDOCH Solicitor 133 Pitt Street Sydney.
—C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Isambard and Winterset consolidated
their positions as Grand National
favorites by impressive wins at Flemmg-
ton on Saturday. Favorites since the
declaration of weights, the combination
figures now at almost prohibitive odds.
Generally considered to be too back-
ward on a public preparation of one flat
race, and starting at sevens after easing
from fives to eights, Isambard outclassed
the York Hurdle field. Well-positioned
throughout, he jumped better than in his
previous races, joined Browser in the lead
at the last hurdle and won easily from
that gelding and International. The win
was his fifth in succession over Fleming-
ton hurdles, and left him open to a
National rehandicap. Additional weight,
however, does not prejudice his G.N.
chance.
Winterset maintained his unbeaten fenc-
ing record by winning the Hopetoun
Steeplechase from Great Treat and Paren-
tena. Always favorite, he covered a
fair amount of extra ground during the
race, but was still able to beat off all
challengers after leading, or sharing the
lead, for the greater part of the trip
and win by three lengths. It was his
third success from as many starts with
maximum weight, 12.7, over fences, and
at this stage it is difficult to look beyond
him in the National with the same
weight. He has been coupled in doubles
with his stable-mate Cheery Jack for a
substantial sum, Cheery Jack inciden-
tally having been supported heavily to
win both races.
Great Treat, racing over fences for the
first time, made a creditable showing,
and looks the type sure to do well at
this branch of the game. Whether he
will improve sufficiently to defeat Winter-
set in the National, however, is doubt-
ful. He meets Winterset on the same
terms in that race. Brightello, without
ever being a real danger, made up ground
to finish fourth, and Winterset’s stable-
mate Highland March (sixth) should
derive benefit from the race. Giant
Killer, 1939 G.N. Steeple winner, broke
his neck when he fell near the five fur-
longs.
• •••**
Aurie’s Star, rising 10, ended Tuhi-
tarata’s winning sequence when he de-
feated that horse and Counsel in the
Royal Handicap. The Australian record-
holder for six furlongs, who is several
pounds better up the straight-six than
on any other track, hit the front soon
after the start and was not afterwards
headed. Winner of a Newmarket and
two Oakleigh Plates, the veteran cham-
pion sprinter is one of the marvels of the
age. His stake-earnings total more than
£13,000. Tuhitarata may have been some-
what unlucky, as he did not receive a
clear run until late in the race. Counsel
will do better over a longer distance.
Gusher, an entrant for the Cups, ran
up to her Moonee Valley form of a week
earlier by defeating Martinez and Rua
in the Sandringham Handicap. A
graduate from restricted company, she
provides further proof of the wisdom of
Melbourne clubs in their attempts to
foster stayers. Rua weakened after run-
ning past the pacemaker, Alstone, at the
top of the straight, but his first experi-
ence of H mile should do a lot for him.
Cheery Jack dropped out over the con-
cluding stages.
Clashes in the metropolitan area be-
tween clubs racing under the A.J.C.
banner may not be altogether desirable
but Saturday s experience proved that at
present racing has such a strong appeal
that two profitable meetings can be he d
in Sydney the same afternoon. There
we re nearly 11,000 at Rosehill (tote turn-
over £18,615 for eight races) and 8000
Ascot (turnover £7528 for seven),
p a t ro ns of each course were able to get
about i n comfort,
-*** * ' *
The win of most note at Rosehill was
that of Two’s Company (Beckett) in the
Hawkesbury Handicap. She twice fell
back after passing the five furlongs,
but, getting a run through on the rails,
she led a furlong from home and was
going at her ease when she passed the
winning-post ahead of Katanga and
Pinero, both of whom ran well, though
w ithout ever being actually dangerous,
Tbe dme was a seconc i and a quarter
outside the course record. Under a light
we j gbt Two’s Company is likely to get
a distance Santa and Overjoyed led to
the straight and then tired .
Towards the end of any season a smart
two-year-old must be considered in open
company. In the Flying Handicap Man-
nerheim (Freedman) further demon-
strated the correctness of this idea. He
had Martheus beaten at the turn, and,
after being joined by Fermanagh, hung
on so well that he scored by a head from
the latter, with Astrid a neck further
back and not more than a head in
front of Kingsdale. At the top of the
straight Astrid’s chance appeared a win-
ning one, and though Kingsdale put in
a fast run in the straight it finished about
thirty yards from the winning-post.
Broadcaster was not far from the first
four, and is worth keeping in mind.
Battle King did the pacemaking in the
first division of the Nursery Handicap,
but Boor Chief (Munro) had the race in
hand a furlong from home. Hauteur,
though third, was never a winning pos-
sibility, and of those behind the place-
getters April Tide and Gryphon gave
most promise.
Grand Vision was generally credited
with having a mortgage on the second
division of the Nursery, but though
looked to have the race won when Young
Valais ran off at the turn, leaving her
well in front, she was outstayed by Pan-
branch (Freedman). Of the remainder
only Crystal ran respectably. Panbranch,
trained by D. Lewis, is a black colt by
Pantheon from Rosebranch, by Rosewing
from Brank. i
• • . • *
Hurdle Race favorite Kinmar lost his
rider at the first jump, and Pimm’s, who
was second to Tea Denis at the six fur-
longs, headed the last-named before
reaching the final jump. However, Tea
Denis fought on so gamely that Pimm’s
had very little in hand in beating him a
neck. Kenil Gem shaped fairly, while
the other four were “also rans” when
half the journey was covered. Hynes
rode Pimm’s 61b. overweight.
***’ ’ * . .
Radical, favorite for the first division
of the Welter, looked like pulling his
backers through when he ran past Old
Sport and Merry Monarch after entering
tic straight, but could not stall oft Mus-
tapha (K. Cook) when the latter put in
his claim. Brazen Boy then made a run
that seemed like carrying him up to Mus-
tapha, but the latter was going away
from him again at the end. Beau Port,
who is for sale next week, made up
ground in the straight to get fourth, and
a return to his two-year-old form on
America’s part is probable.
*
Cable (Podmore), who led soon after
the start of the second division of the
Welter, looked a comfortable winner a
hundred yards from the post, but he
scored by only a neck from Red Pete,
who was one of the tail-enders soon after
the start. Half Way ran on fairly in
third place, while well-backed Rodbor-
ough, though in a handy position at the
turn, dropped out in the straight. Still,
the support accorded him suggests he
may not be long in improving upon that
form. Cable gave D. Lewis his second
winner of the afternoon.
* * * *
Turning to Ascot results, Chatham’s
Choice is good on that track, but the
effort of disposing of Happy Lass before
reaching the straight entrance in the
Rosebery Handicap proved too much for
him, and the slower-beginning Buzzal (W.
Cook) worried him out of first money
in the last few strides. Buzzal is back
to his earlier form, and will win again.
Triggerman, in third place, gave his
backers a good run, but it is doubtful
whether he is improving.
An allowance of 51b. caused backers to
lay odds on Milanja (W. Cook) for the
Ascot Flying Welter, and after he had
waited on Queanbeyan Boy to the turn
they had the satisfaction of seeing him
win nicely from Maradadi. Jazbeau, who
evidently missed McMenamin, stopped
at the post, and Cradle Song and Bon
Bouche, who were expected to run well,
were unlucky at barrier-rise.
Beau Timide (W. Cook) made a race
record of 1.58 i in winning the Trial
Stakes, but was lucky in getting a run
through in the straight. The result would
have been different if Plimsoll had not
shifted out from the rails, and, while
Beau Timide’s win left doubt as to
whether he was as good as previously
supposed, Plimsoll is apparently nearly
back to his best. Cook also won the Three-
and Four-year-old Handicap on Gigli.
« » * *
It appears that Melbourne Cup day, to
be run on a Saturday, has nothing to
fear on the score of racing being barred
within 50 miles of munition works on
public holidays. Victorian Chief Sec-
retary Bailey stated that, as far as Vic-
toria was concerned, Cup Day holiday
has to be specially proclaimed by an
Order-in-Council issued through the
Chief Secretary each year. As Saturday
is not a public holiday a proclamation
in connection with Cup Day will be un-
necessary this year.
The Sydney Owners and Trainers’
Association is moving to make a mori-
bund body a live one, but at a meeting
recently held with that object in view
nearly half of a small attendance repre-
sented Randwick trainers. Without adopt-
ing anything in the way of an antagonis-
tic attitude trainers should be able to
put before clubs suggestions that would
be helpful to the latter as well as them-
selves. Individually, trainers do a lot
to help each other, but there is no
reason why they should not do so as
an organised body.
The A.J.C. has spent many thousands
in the relief of retired trainers and
jockeys, without any return in direct
contributions from those taking active
part in the sport, but that should not pre-
vent the Owners and Trainers’ Associa-
tion from running a benevolent fund of
its own, if there is any inclination that
way. Inclusive of those with permits,
over 350 trainers appear in the A.J.C.
Racing Calendar, and a comparatively
small weekly contribution from each
would run into a substantial sum. If neces-
sary a portion could be used for supple-
menting last year’s A.J.C.’s grant to 60
trainers and jockeys, and the remainder
could be used by the association for
other deserving cases. A racing day to
help the fund should also not be beyond
the bounds of possibility.
Miscellaneous
After a dreary start, Jimmy Dundee
(lO.Oi) and Ron McLaughlin (10.8 i) put
on a corker of a fight at Leichhardt last
Thursday. In the third round Dundee
was floored three times. In the sixth he
took more punishment, and the bell came
to his rescue when he was down for the
third time. But, fighting with great for-
titude, Dundee won the seventh from
end to end. Again floored twice, for
“eight” each time, in the eighth, once in
the ninth and twice in the tenth, the
game lad dropped McLaughlin in the
eleventh, and Mac seemed settled. But
he was up at “nine,” and the twelfth was
all McLaughlin. It was a Dundee
“house,” and the decision for McLaugh-
lin brought cheers for the loser and
hoots for the winner—though he had
done nothing to deserve them.
* * * *
A howl of rage and despair went up
from Collingwood on Saturday. The
Magpies had been stoushed by Hawthorn
—yea, even by Hawthorn, 13.10 to 10.20,
and loud maledictions fell on the Ger-
man, the Itie and the Japanee for
causing such things to be. On the same
day Richmond beat Carlton, 15.14-10.17,
Essendon walloped North Melbourne,
15.19-9.15, “Sowth” practically destroyed
Melbourne, 23.10-16.19, and even Foot-
scray got a win over Fitzroy, 12.11-11.13.
Richmond and Essendon, still unbeaten,
meet next Saturday.
t * * *
University looks to have a good chance
of going through this Sydney Rpgby
Union competition unbeaten. Drummoyne
was the side’s latest victim ; scores, 44-14
(nine tries to one). Parramatta, using its
forwards as spoilers, beat Manly 9-6 ; it
shares second place with East, which
accounted for West, 19-6. North had a
meritorious win, 25-16, over Randwick,
and Gordon was too strong for St.
George, 19-3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
By Our Melbourne Representative.
(Before Acceptances .)
Windarra Hurdle: Boisterous, 1 ;
Browser, 2 ; Jack Farr, 3.
Burnewang Plate: Featured, 1 ;
Good Intentions, 2 ; Mandoric, 3.
Woodlands Plate: Burberry, 1 ;
Alterio, 2 ; Parida, 3.
Travancore Steeplechase: Tente,
1 ; Collier, 2; Dorset, 3.
Deep Creek Handicap: Basalt, 1 ;
Similar, 2 ; Gusher, 3.
Greenvale Handicap: Rex Buzz,
1 ; Reg, 2 ; Counsel, 3.
Chandos Handicap: Naval Re-
vue, 1 ; Student, 2; Alcmena, 3.
FOR RANDWICK.
Before Acceptances.
By “PILOT."
Trial Handicap: Dyne, 1 ;
Mutineer, 2 ; The Gambler or Addi-
tion, 3.
Winter Plate: Jgaatler? 1 ; Two’s
Company, 2 ; Fearless Fox, 3.
Exeter Handicap: Connette, 1 ;
Red Pete, 2 ; Mustapha or Gipsy
Way, 3.
Hurdle Race: Rameo, 1 ; Kin-
mar, 2 ; Shot Gun, 3.
Nursery Handicap: BiJQLjutlk/*
1 ; Temerity, 2 ; Hawklet or Pan-
branch, 3.
June Plate: Winnipeg, 1 ; Trim-
mer, 2 ; Radical, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Last Saturday morning was perfect, and
warmed by the June sunshine Sydney
University looked mellow and benevo-
lent as it bestowed accolade on a flock
of graduates. This conferring of degrees
had unusual features. Uniform of the
R.A.A.F. was worn by Frederick Blake-
ney, whose scholarly attainments in-
cluded first-class honors in History, the
University medal, and first-class honors
in English, sharing the James Coutts
scholarship No. 11. Girls in uniform, too,
went forward for their B.A. degrees.
For the first time in the history of Aus-
tralian universities, Divinity degrees
were conferred. The three students
attaining distinction were Evan C. B.
MacLaurin, 8.A., Neil MacLeod, M.A.,
and Dugald MacTaggart, B.A. Evan
MacLaurin is a grandson of knight Nor-
mand MacLaurin, onetime Chancellor
of Sydney University. Mrs. E. E. Mac-
Laurin gave a lunch at the Queen’s Club
to celebrate.
Proudest woman present in the Great
Hall was Mrs. Greg. McGirr. Mrs.
McGirr, herself a graduate of Sydney
University, was there to see daughter
Bea (Mrs. Tom Bateman) receive her de-
gree of Bachelor of Law. Bea is
already an M-A., and, to prove her the
woman of complete achievement, watch-
ing proceedings was her baby son
Edmund. Members of husband Dr.
Tom Bateman’s family were also present.
Later the two families held a lunch of
felicitation at the Australia.
Another to receive the degree of
Bachelor of Law was a priest of
the Greek Orthodox Church. He is
Mitrofanis Dimitrius Nikolaidis, and he
is fluent in four or five languages. His
mother was at the ceremony. The Hon.
Henrietta Loder received a diploma for
social studies.
“The Importance of Being Earnest”
makes the spectator sit back and sigh
for the security of an age depicted (even
in travesty) on the stage. Such sprightly
pas de seal of the imagination can
spring only from the safe foothold of at
least a 99-year leasehold. The airy-
fairy grace, the coy femininity of the
women’s manners and frocks, the dressed-
for-the-occasion look of the men were in
sharp contrast to the 1942 audience.
Oswald Cheeke, of last Friday night’s
audience at the Minerva, was probably
alone in that he saw, as a small boy in
an Eton suit, the original cast in its
London production. The scenery by Bill
Constable has charm.
Something of a literary atmosphere
pervaded the oak room at Farmer’s on
Friday last, when a large number of
Labor women gathered there to give
greeting to Mrs. Curtin, wife of the Prime
Minister, over morning tea and cakes.
Mrs. Bertha Lawson, widow of poet
Henry, presented the smiling guest with
a sumptuous edition of Professor Mur-
doch’s Oxford Book of Australian Verse,
in which Rod Quinn had penned an in-
scription. Mrs. Curtin, in thanking the
gathering for the warmth of their greet-
ing and their unique gift, said she would
treasure the book, not only for the spirit
of the givers, but also because Professor
Murdoch is a close friend of hers, as is
also Bernard O’Dowd, who was born in
Beaufort, where she first saw the light.
She added that her father was a jour-
nalist, and that he and O’Dowd had been
boys together in the little Victorian town.
Death came for a few, but not disaster
for the many, as Tokyo had obviously
planned, when Jap submarines made their
first raid on Sydney’s harbor. The night was
one of beauty, moonlit and still, and the
visitation might seem like a swift dream
if it were not for the burial of our dead
last week at Rookwood. While comrades
stood with arms reversed, under a leaden
sky, six victims of the torpedo, the near-by
explosion of which wrecked the wooden
ship (formerly a harbor ferry) on which
they were sleeping, were with prayer and
naval honors committed to the last long
sleep.
Before she joined the Navy the ship
wrecked by an enemy torpedo was one
of the Sydney Ferries fleet. She hadn’t
even reached her twenty-first birthday.
She was built in 1922 at Walsh Island,
served on the Milson’s Point run in
pre-bridge days, and then ferried folk to
Cremorne. Later still on many a gala
night she echoed to concert or to dance
music as, with electrics blazing, she made
leisurely tour of the harbor ways. Now
the ferries have had an active part in the
Great Adventure. No longer can they
be looked upon as just the means to
carry people to work and to play. One
of the sisterhood has been in the firing line.
The new wing to the Karitane mother-
craft training centre at Woollahra is
three-storeyed. Besides the bedrooms for
the mothers it holds the nurses’ quarters,
a sun-room and laundries and drying
rooms. It is built about a courtyard
garden which is a memorial to the late
Lieut.-Col. Cunningham, A.1.F., who was
killed on active service in the Middle
East. Lieut.-Col. Cunningham had been
for years one of Karitane’s honoraries,
and was deeply interested in the work.
The wing was opened last week by Lady
Gowrie.
President of the Australian Mother-
craft Society Mrs. L. V. Waterhouse is
proud of the scheme of furnishings,
which had been planned by daughter
Mrs. Keith Waterhouse. Curtains of
bright candy red and white stripes, light
colored woods, and blue and white
upholstery give an air of freshness that
is quite uplifting.
Mrs, A. J. Cunningham and daughter
Alison were among the guests. Matron
Warnecke helped to receive. Mary Truby
King, daughter of the Maoriland founder
of the Karitane method, had come from
Adelaide for the opening. Mr. T. Nicol-
son was one of the speakers.
At her twenty-first birthday party
Betty Walker announced her engagement
to Rodney Samuel St. Clair, only child
of P. J. Sinclair, of Holtspur, Armidale.
Betty is the younger daughter of the
Lieut.-Colonel (Dr.) Allan Walker couple
of Darling Point. Very much in the army
are the Walker family. Father was senior
physician of the Ist General Military
Hospital. He was in khaki as far
back as 1939. Son Malcolm, Bachelor
of Engineering, also enlisted in 1939,
and is now a squadron-leader in
the R.A.A.F. Betty’s elder sister is a
W.A.A.A.F. Father, back from the
Middle East, brother and sister were all
present at Betty’s party. Malcolm's
engagement reminds that war is a grim
reality. His betrothed is Joyce Copland,
a daughter of Professor Copland, of Mel-
bourne University and of prices-fixing
renown. Photograph by Norton Trevaire.
Many a cobwebby bottle has been
drawn from its lair in Ye Olde Crusty
cellars in preparation for the celebration
this afternoon of the safe return of
Major Charles Moses after his Malayan
service. Charles is one of the brotherhood
of the Blue Friars (not part of any re-
ligious fraternity), whose headquarters
were the George-street cellars. Here the
Friars met in pre-war days, periodically,
and discussed good wines and good food.
The party will commence at half-past
four, and is expected to end about seven.
The Friars this time will be partnered
by wives and girl friends. About sixty,
all told, are expected to dash along with
the smile of congratulation.
One of the women helpers at the ex-
hibition of Russian photographs now on
view in David Jones’s auditorium related
that the Russians are captivated with Aus-
tralian sheepskins. In return they say
they will send to Australia as many silver
foxes as they possibly can. The exhibi-
tion is drawing a steady stream of
visitors, and its purpose is to help the
Russian Medical Aid Fund to send still
more sheepskins. Already 40,000 have
gone forward. The wife of Archbishop
Mowll made the opening speech, and the
room was pleasantly crowded with ad-
mirers who, on entering, bought tiny red
stars, small red hankies decorated with
the hammer and the sickle, and other
emblems.
There is the mellowed beauty of fine
workmanship and age in two ikons. One
representing the Virgin Mary drew a
chorus of admiration from all arrivals.
In a glass case is one of the gentle St.
Nicholas. Gleaming samovars remind
of characters in a Tolstoy novel or a
Chekhov play, drinking tea and talking
more of infinite than of finite things.
There are hand-woven and -embroidered
linens. There is a paper knife said to
have belonged to Maxim Gorky. The
posters are forceful, and bring home
their story at a glance. • Many are brightly
colored. Almost all have as their sub-
ject the war and the German invader.
From Melboyrne
Many names familiar to Melbourne
were included among those mentioned in
the news as having taken part in the
gigantic raids on West Germany, Mrs.
Otway Falkiner is one of the pleased
and proud parents. Son John was
very keen on getting up in the air some-
where where some really exciting fight-
ing was going on, and glad when the long
training period in Canada was over. He
was doing a law course when he left
for the Air Force and was much missed
around the University, particularly by
fellow-skiers of the M.U. Ski Club, as he
was a most enthusiastic member.
The vegetable drive which started off
with such a flourish of spades and
shovels has died down, if not to a gentle
raking, at least to something pretty in-
effective. Women who joined up with
the Garden Army have not faded out of
the picture, but recruits were too few.
A little section of the community which
did its best was the small fry in the free
kindergartens. In each of these schools
there has been a carefully tended plot in
which carrots and the like have grown
up, as they always do when children
plant them, the young being proverbial
for the green finger. To show what the
little ones can do Miss Notcutt of the
Free Kindergartens is making a tour
preliminary to writing a report on kin-
dergarten gardens. This should start
something.
The medical finals always produce a
crop of engagements as well as a list of
passes. This year the hurry-up course
demanded by the national emergency has
brought both out in June instead of
December. Margaret Campbell, pictured
here by Antoine-Kershaw, announced the
good tidings concerning self and Dr.
Harry Hiller, son of the Konrad Hillers,
the day after the conferring of degrees.
Extra reason for jubilations was that
fiance Harry had got himself into the
Melbourne Hospital list, which means
that he will do his year of practical
medical work as a junior medical resident
officer of this great hospital, along with
other leading men and women of his
year. Margaret herself is in her third
year science. She and fiance should have
plenty in common, as she is doing the
bacteriology and physiology side of the
science course. Dr. Harry Hiller’s
mother, who is a leading spirit in Red
Cross Variety Shop, was herself Dr.
Muriel Davies and one of the prettiest
women who ever entered the Medical
School.
The American Women’s Auxiliary is
going ahead with arrangements for its
annual Fourth of July Ball for Children’s
Hospital funds, following the example
of President Roosevelt, who insists that
his “Birthday Balls,” which provide funds
to help crippled children in the U.S.,
should continue to be nation-wide in
spite of the war. The Americans usually
bring in about £lOOO by their ball for the
hospital, which needs it, and so they feel
it must go on as usual. There will be
no reserved tables and no holding back
of tickets, which cost 15s. and will be
sold from nine to six on weekdays and
nine to one on Saturdays at the Victorian
Government Tourist Bureau, on the mez-
zanine floor. There will be no mailing
list.
Committee members grow as silent
as totem poles when asked for a hint
or two about the ball preparations, but
with Mrs. Judd Holt in charge of the re-
freshments, always a feature of American
dos, and Mrs. Earle Moser and Mrs. E.
Young working up some fine sideshows,
things should be very bright. This year,
instead of Mrs. Luiggi, who has gone
back to Detroit with her engineer hus-
band and son, Mrs. Gerald Bacon is
doing press-agent work and advertising
for the auxiliary. Mrs. Bacon has lived
long enough in Australia to know the
public’s tastes, and has a great reputation
as a hard worker. This week she is doing
the arduous round of the organiser with
a very gay step, as news has just come
from home that her son Charles, just
graduated from the Mackay School of
Mines in the University of Nevada, is to
be a junior metallurgist at the U.S.A.
Bureau of Mines.
Minister for the Air Drakeford had to
take a few hours off on Saturday to see
daughter Doreen married to Bob Robert-
son. Bob is in the R.A.A.F. and Doreen
is doing a hush-hush job, and doing it
very well, if one may judge by the feel-
ings which prompted speeches and presen-
tations from fellow-workers in her office.
Future plans have not been advertised,
but so many of the girls who are filling
a niche in the war effort go back to work
after the honeymoon that no one will be
surprised if Doreen does likewise.
The reputation for good organising
ability which Kitty McEwen won through
her efforts with charity and war funds
campaigns has brought her into the man-
power drive. She has already toured Mil-
dura and South and East Gippsland dis-
tricts, seeing into the flax and dried-fruit
industries, and is now thinking up ways
of making country life attractive enough
for city girls, who will take on jobs in
country flax mills or in the fruitgrowing
industry. In her work for the Lady
Mayoress’s radio party in aid of comforts
funds Miss McEwen came to know fac-
tory girls, and to like them, and she is
not likely to err in her views of what
they have a right to expect in the way
of country board and lodging. Girls who
have tried say that the fruit areas offer
healthy work, if a bit backbreaking for
the first few days. After that it is won-
derful for the figure and complexion that
suffer from the effects of too many late
parties.
Popular Colonel William Kirkhope,
A.1.F., once secretary to Melbourne Scots
and interested in military matters long
before he went to the Middle East early
in the war, is engaged to a girl whose
popularity with her own sex rivals her
fiance’s with his. She is Chloe Harper,
secretary to Mrs. Sidney Myer, who not
only maintains her social round and looks
after charities which can be managed
from home, but also keeps in touch with
many business and philanthropic centres
of interest through her office in town.
Chloe is an Old Girl of Melbourne
Grammar, and went through the Arts
School at Melbourne University. The
wedding will probably take place soon,
for the colonel is now back from the
Middle East. The Kirkhopes are a family
of varied interests, one sister of Bill’s being
head of Lauriston and another of Inver-
gowrie Homecraft Hostel. His father,
John Kirkhope, is a pillar in the Mel-
bourne branch of the Catholic Apostolic
Church, among whose founders was that
Edward Irving whom Jane Welsh Car-
lyle loved and would have married. His
descendants came to Australia from Scot-
land.
With a cablegram from San Francisco
announcing the birth of her first grand-
son, Mrs. Sidney Myer is a very jubi-
lant grandmother. As elder daughter
Neilma, otherwise Mrs. Vallejo Gantner,
had a genius for friendship, many folk
in Melbourne, and particularly school and
University friends, are drinking the babe’s
health. Mrs. Myer has been very busy
helping, as patron of the Myer Women’s
Association, to entertain Red Cross
workers and nurses at the club the women
employees of Myers have established in
Bourke-street some way up the hill from
the store. This club, which admits junior
members for about 6d. a week to privi-
leges as good as the Alexandra can give,
is one of the best efforts of business-
women in the city.
Happy smiles greet her friends when
the former Joan Rowell meets them in
street or tram, for not only is baby
daughter, born while father Captain John
Ackland, A.1.F., was in Tobruk, flourish-
ing, but hubby himself is home again.
Joan inherits brains from father John
Rowell, the artist, and was specialising
in modern languages when she married
her captain on the eve of his departure
for war. Another little wife not quite
so happily placed is Mrs. Rohan Rivett,
who has lost her baby, while father
Rohan, a well-known pressman, is a
prisoner in Java. So go the fortunes of
war.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is oaid
4|d. per line; all others 2|dL per line.
Munition Worker#
“W.P.T.” (B. 13/5/’42), like many
other people, is suffering from delusions
regarding the supposedly high wages
earned by munition workers. Ninety per
cent, of the work in munition factories
is done by process workers, for whom
the award rate of pay is 955. for a 44-
hour week. Three different shifts of
eight hours each are worked —day, after-
noon and night. With 10 p.c. extra for
night work, plus a little overtime and
4s. 6d. a week war loading, the average
weekly wage is in the vicinity of £5 15s.
—rather less than the £lO and £l5 men-
tioned by “W.P.T.”
Even the skilled tradesman’s average
weekly wage rarely exceeds £B. And, con-
sidering the present high cost of living,
severe taxation (especially in this State),
the fact that he has to work six days a
week—sometimes seven —and the incon-
venience caused by shift work, the muni-
tion worker isn’t particularly well paid.
As far as making sacrifices is con-
cerned, I’d like “W.P.T.” to see the army
of mothers and fathers, with sons over-
seas, and girls with brothers and sweet-
hearts in the front line, all working in
munition factories, not for any great per-
sonal gain, but just because they’d rather
do their bit than waste time criticising
others.— One of ’Em (S.A.).
A.R.P.
Even if “Valleyite’s” sneer at “Tin-
hatted elderly gents letting off hungers
and risking apoplexy by running to war-
dens’ posts” (B. 27 / 5 /’42) were true —-
which it decidedly isn’t —what kind of
queer mentality is it that can find humor
in men and women voluntarily devoting
their leisure hours to equip themselves in
first-aid and fire-fighting for the protec-
tion of life and property? “V.” seems to
think that most wardens are decrepit
old men. As one who has reached
the senile age of 40, I can swear that
the average is round 45, and there
are plenty of wardens well under 30-
Most of them are hard-working men, and
they don’t turn up to meetings after a
day’s work just for fun.
We don’t let off hungers at practices.
A bottle of methylated spirits blazing in
the roadway after having been thrown
from a passing car simulates the action
of an incendiary bomb much more effec-
tively, and the phosphorus cards used at
demonstrations are the real Mackay.
A.R.P. drills and practices are not in-
tended to be funny ; they are only funny
to people with the distorted sense of
humor revealed by “V.” What a laugh
“V.” will get out of real air raids!
A.R.P. in England was a great joke—
before the bombers came over.
I wonder if “V.” has given as many
hours voluntarily to any form of civil
defence effort as has any one warden in
the Brisbane metropolitan area. —C. L.
(Q-). ,
A Service Men’s Party
Agree wholeheartedly with “2nd
Divvy” (B. 27/5/’42) about the forma-
tion of a political league of returned sol-
diers after this war. My father, since
the last war, has struggled along with an
orchard in the M.I.A. When he has
called down a curse on the general lousi-
ness of things I have often asked why
the returned men did not form a political
party after the 1914-18 war. His reply
is always the same: there was no poli-
tical unity in the A.1.F., they were of all
classes and creeds, and remained the
same to the end of the war.
That sounded pretty hopeless, I know —
if there could be no political unity
among soldiers who had fought and died
for their country it’s a poor outlook for
Australia. But I hope—and think —that
it will be different after this war. After
1914-18 the soldier lost the peace, eating
his heart out in some under-financed
farm, or in unemployment, while the
fruits of his victory were squandered
away. The new Digger must remember
that!—U.E. (N.S.W.).
Sightless Service Men
From Captain Gilbert Nobbs, of Syd-
ney: —
The N.S.W. War-blinded Welfare Committee
has been formed under the authority of the
Minister for Repatriation to care for service
men blinded in this war. Its registered address
is Repat. Commission, Chalmers-street, Sydney.
Members act in a voluntary capacity. The
Voluntary War Transport has placed cars at
their disposal so that men may be taken about
without being jostled on buses. In the early
days of their affliction they are apt to be very
nervous, and mental confusion must be avoided.
While a patient is in hospital in Sydney a
V.A.D. Welfare Officer reads to him, wntes his
letters, and acts as his escort. He is pro-
vided with cigarettes and is taken to theatres
and other places of entertainment so that he
may gain a feeling of independence, a desire to
do things for himself.
The secret of overcoming the handicap of
blindness is to develop the faculty to visualise
surroundings. This can be developed to an
astonishing extent. Everything the patient finds
he can do for himself brings him a new hope,
a new ambition, and an ever-growing indiffer-
ence to his handicap.
On arrival a Braille watch is slipped into his
hands. With the tip of his finger he can tell
the time without having to ask, and thus gain
his first and simplest feeling of independence.
Then he is shown how to play indoor games.
He is provided with a set of dominoes, with
the spots raised; these he can play with his
pals in hospital. After this he is taught the
simpler form of Braille, so that with an ordi-
nary pack of cards bearing Braille dots in the
corner he is soon able to play any card game.
Mr. Kippax, the well-known authority on
Braille, visits the men twice each week to
give them lessons in Braille, so that they may
learn how to read books. When demobilisation
time arrives they come under “Repatriation’s”
special training, under the advice of the com-
mittee, which makes a special study of each
man, to see what form of occupation he may
be best able to follow.
During the last war 60 men in N. S. Wales
alone were permanently blinded. We have
benefited from their experience. Thus far only
“ Roughly, gentlemen, that's the idea."
two N.S.W. men have lost their sight in the
present war. The committee has been set up
to look after not only these men but others
who may be returned, as well as blinded service
men who may be sent here from other parts of
the Empire or who have been serving in Allied
forces.
So far very little expense has been incurred.
It has been met by contributions from each of
the organisations represented on the committee,
but if the numbers increase a general appeal for
assistance will become necessary. An audited,
balance sheet is to be submitted annually,
together with a report to the Minister.
‘Sunday Night Shows
Urgers for Sunday night entertainment
for munition workers as well as troops
overlook one important aspect. These
shows don’t start until 8.15 and end
about 10.30, so outer-suburban residents
leaving a town show at 10.30 would prob-
ably not hit the kapok until midnight.
The munition worker who precedes
six 12-hour shifts with a midnight turn-in
has the stamina to be in a guerrilla bat-
talion or is not working as hard as we
are led to believe, —Me (N.S.W.).
A Fancy Scheme?
Refusing to commit Labor to what he
calls “fancy schemes,” Federal Treasurer
Chifley has again rejected the Fadden
plan of post-war credits. One result of
the plan, according to Mr. Fadden, would
be “to give the people an opportunity of
having a nest egg” after the war. They
may need it to face unemployment, which
is, unhappily, likely to be a problem dur-
ing the reconstruction period.
But post-war credits— i.e., compulsory
saving—would serve other desirable ends.
They would, of course, provide more
money for the war and leave less for un-
wise spending. But, in addition, the
spending of the nest egg would help to
restart peace-time industry and therefore
to make post-war unemployment much
less severe.
If this is a fancy scheme, why does the
Government urge people to save at all?
Compulsion would do the job more com-
pletely, fairly and efficiently, and would
confer benefits even upon the unwilling.
—Col (N.S.W.).
Not Forgotten
It was asked in B. 20/5/’42 why is
Malta forgotten, while “aid to Russia”
societies and others flourish.
Last year a public subscription was
raised for Malta and over £ll,OOO was
collected in New South Wales —witness
Rear-Admiral Muirhead-Gould, who,
with other prominent citizens, sponsored
the scheme.
Other amounts were collected in other
States and forwarded to Malta and grate-
fully acknowledged from Malta in a
letter published in the “S. M. Herald.” —
S. L. (N.S.W.).
Group Settlement Drift
Many group settlers in the Denmark
(W.A.) area have already discarded red-
tape fetters —interest payments, stocking
of holdings restrictions, etc. —and joined
the fighting services. Some have been
accompanied by every male member of
the family, leaving Mum and the kids to
battle along as best they can.
Some of the groupees now in uniform
could legitimately claim exemption from
military duty, but they find service con-
ditions more congenial than attending to
the everlasting needs of the herd and the
juggling of cream cans. They are also
assured that Mum will handle real cash
from their allotments and enjoy at least
some peace of mind, without eternal
juggling of figures to eke out the family
budget each month.
Even if they elect to walk off the hold-
ing—as many have done in recent months
—they can still head for the town or
the city and there enjoy, on a limited
scale at least, some of the amenities of
social life so long denied them. God
knows, there is much that is drab and
unattractive in their daily routine down
on the farm. A plain four-roomed
shack, a small garden plot, cow sheds,
pasture paddocks, set down in isolation
among the giant karri and jarrah. A
friendly chat with the neighbor entails a
tramp of many miles cross country.
Many of the youngsters attending school
daily face long and lonely treks in the
sacred cause of education.
Agricultural Bank officials “view with
alarm” the ceaseless exodus from hold-
ings. “Freezing” of accrued interest
arrears would go a long way in stopping
the drift— Ah Gee (W.A.).
Six Points
The new Archbishop of Canterbury
is out with a six-point plan (Wood-
row Wilson had 14): good hous-
ing for all, no malnutrition, univer-
sal education, holidays with pay,
nobody to receive in interest more
than the capital invested, and, finally, a
“wisdom pool,” covering every section of
the community, for the working out of all
national problems on the basis of their
own experience. Nobody could object
very strenuously to any of that; certainly
I don’t, but how is it to be brought about?
If the archbishop doesn’t know any more
than ! do he is uttering platitudes.
Take one single item —universal educa-
tion. Rousseau thought that would be a
good thing, and his belief has been acted
upon to such an extent that there is uni-
versal and compulsory State education in
Australia, as well as other places. But
Rousseau thought that people like himself
would be the world’s educators. It never
entered his head that the job would be
principally looked after by Hearsts,
Beaverbrooks and their imitators. —
Pawang (Vic.).
Two Widows
As the Federal Government has re-
cently evinced much solicitude for the
welfare of widows, members of the
Cabinet and others may be interested in
the following statement on the affairs of
two sisters who lost their husbands about
five years ago.
In many respects their circumstances
are similar. Both are middle-aged, in in-
different health, childless and without
relatives able to assist them. They are
not, however, destitute, as their husbands’
estates each realised about £3OOO net from
life assurances and savings. This is how
they invested their money;
Mrs. A —
In-
Cost. come.
1000 industrial shares, face value
£l, dividend 8£ p.c., buying
price £2 5s £2250 £B5
600 building investment shares,
face value £l, dividend 5 p.c.,
buying price £1 5s £750 £3O
Total income, £ll5 yearly.
Mrs. B
In-
Cost. come.
Duplex home (two flats) .. .. £3OOO £135
Net income calculated as follows:
Rents ~ 225
Less
Rates and taxes .. .. .. 25
Insurance (fire and war) .. 8
Maintenance 20
Depreciation on building (H%) 37 90
Net income .. .. .. £135
If Mr. Curtin carries out his threat to
confiscate all company profits in excess of
4 p.c., Mrs. A’s income will be reduced
from £ll5 to £64 yearly (possibly a bit
more if the cos. have reserves), and she
will thus pay £5l a year in direct taxation,
in addition to her share of the taxation
levied on her companies’ profits before
distribution among shareholders. Mrs.
B, on the other hand, will continue to
enjoy her present income, subject to the
exigencies contingent upon the owner-
ship of real estate.
Mrs. A’s bewildered comment is:
“Why pick on me?” Incidentally, the
company in which she is most interested
is almost fully employed on war work. —
K. L. M. (N.S.W.).
Journalese
So Fowler is attempting
to freeze the language, is he
(B. 20/5/*42)? I think the
belief is ill founded. I
should say that all he and
others in the same line of
business are attempting is to
help conscientious writers
to avoid falling into the
deplorable habit of careless
journalists of misusing
words and phrases that
should not be misused and
breaking rules of grammar
that should not be broken.
Examples? “Prototype”—a pet word
of the book-reviewer or -reviewers of a
leading Sydney daily—as in “It [the book
under review] is not more ‘modern’ than
many of its prototypes [contemporaries]”;
“Due to shortage of staff,” instead of
“owing to”; “She is one of the
best if not the best filly in Aus-
tralia” (“one of the best” must be
followed by the plural “fillies”; the
sentence should be corrected to “She
is one of the best fillies in Australia, if
not the best,” the singular “filly” being
properly understood after “if not the
best”); “Either your brother or his
friend have [has] made a mistake”;
“Neither he nor she know [knows] any-
thing about it” ; “This is one of the best
books that has [have] been written on
the subject” (“that” is the subject of
“have been written” ; it is plural because
its antecedent, “books,” is plural); “No
data is [are] available” (“data” is plural;
“strata” is a similar plural often given a
singular verb); “He was as strong [as],
if not stronger than, his opponent” (very
common is the omission of “as” in such
sentences).
The foregoing are only a few of the
mistakes seen frequently in newspapers.
Careful, intelligent writers should be
grateful to Fowler and other authorities
on English usage for enabling them to
steer dear of the errors committed by
careless, less painstaking and perhaps less
knowledgeable users of the pen.
Ologist (N.S.W.).
Unnecessary
Reports of murders in Melbourne
give the names of the women victims
a cruelty which should be suppressed.
This particular can be interesting only
to the morbid, and must be a bitter and
unnecessary blow to relatives who have
already suffered. Names of juvenile
delinquents are not printed in newspapers,
and surely their case is less deserving ol
consideration than that of women who,
through no fault of their own, have been
cruelly done to death. — Mrs. P. (S.A.).


Qrnotts
Ae/u^ 1
Dear Sirs:
.'i-i
My grocer cannot supply some of my favourite
biscuits. Have you stopped making them?
Dear Sir or Madam:
Our factories are working at full capacity.
Arnott's Biscuits are "On Service" on every
Australian battle front. We have removed many
lines from our lists to enable us to fulfil war
orders, and we look forward to that happy day
when supplies will once again be ample.
Grocers everywhere are assisting us to fairly
distribute our available supplies and avoid
disappointment to our many friends.
Land to Dafand
FAMOUS
B SCU TS
PLEASE RETURN ALL EMPTY TINS TO YOUR GROCER AS SOON AS POSSIBLE
