

'
<
J] (pcti c ttme 'uM meUcume^mtdJmui/uei
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3234.
Wednesday, February 4, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
EXETER CATHEDRAL.
No cathedral city in England was better known to Australia’s soldiery of the 1914-18 war than Exeter, Q u-?? fm "became
9mr . ni> hilk ” No n'tv is richer in its anneals to the'British race. Here the Roman eagle came, ousted the British bird from its stiong nest and became
SS!t B aidpowerful Here 5Se sTxon up his abode and called his fair town Exan f astre-‘hhe camp by to nv«j" Here Jhc proud, prosperous and
valiant city long kept William the Conqueror at bay and might, perchance, have prevented England c 9™ ,ng ™ d e , sway, were it_ ot, a ■
“Saxon Chronicle” pathetically records, “the citizens surrendered the town because their chiefs betrayed v • o 1688 hut met with a cold reception The
called i, Ropge-MoV perjp. from .he colour of the soih wh'h'nlvi %(S 'ft. « hffif
cnief glory of Exeter is its Cctthcdr&l, founded in 1112, lit some - Q ' ~0 r _ ~n , i 14s hioli THp western entrance of this
The transept and part of choir are 140 feet long, a screen, with three doorways, sculptured over with canopied niches
superb Gothic temple consists of three stones if is P .. cm btematical figure*. The second story has the noble west window of the
containing statues of patriarchs, apostles, kings, ciusaders, prelates and other emoiema icai mgui _ tracerv—■•
nave, 40 feet by 27, with nine rimo lights, trefoiled, supporting a magnificent rose filled with geometncal tracery.
“Flamboyant with a thousand georgeous colours,
The perfect flower of Gothic loveliness.” , . .
. , . , , 1 |. .„„ _ f r | n otp r pH marble columns with the arches above; the lofty vaulted stone roof which spaces the
The nave is spacious, impressive and beautiful its long; row of dust^ered■ co ’ mniand the admiration of the beholder. Entering the choir the rich
whole extent of nave and choir, and the noble ? er ' es ,° ( . . t altar screen are noted. The,last-named, a comparatively modern work, has seven
colouring of the east window splepdtd episcopal and the shamrock.’ The chapels are numerous and some
divisions, ihe central enriched by a canopy entwined it y g _r j,,. md the aee of the moon It is believed to date from the
beautiful The North Tower has an ancient anc' pounds In the South Tower are 11 bells, 10 of which are rung in peal. They form
P A e, “■ “>«*•
£1,000,000 annually. The well-known Homton pillow lace is largely made in the city and neighbouitioou.


Rednwlwrtg 1
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
[’lease send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write /or Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
s.B. 142
The Red Page
EPIC IN DOLLARS.
A young German, boorish, avaricious
and unscrupulous, the son of a butcher
of Waldorf, emigrates to America in
1784. The fur irade attracts him, and this
sort of thing happens;
The great object of every Indian was to
, obtain a gun. Now a good gun was not
to be had under 20 beaver skins; and some
idea of the profit may be formed when I
State that the wholesale price of a gun
is about one pound ten shillings, while the
average value of 20 beaver skins is about 25
pounds! Two yards of cloth, which
originally cost 12 shillings, would generally
bring six or eight beavers, value eight or
ten pounds!
And this sort of thing:
The most profitable trade and the most
ruinous trade Mackinaw ever had was in
whisky. The formula used was: actual
cost not to exceed five cents a gallon and
retailed to the Indians for 50 cents a bottle,
of which thousands of bottles were sold
every year Take two gallons of common
whisky or unrectified spirits, add to 30
gallons of water and to this add red pepper
enough to make it fiery and tobacco enough
to make it intoxicating, and you have a
decation that will cause the Indian to give
everything he possesses into the hands of
the white; man.
After which it becomes possible for a
historian to record, “Take the American
Fur Company in the aggregate, and they
are the greatest scoundrels the world ever
knew'’; and it also becomes possible for
the fur trader, who is John Jacob Astor
the First, to extend his operations to
China and traffic in opium ; and then,
when his adopted country fights its War
of Independence, to offer to lend money
to its enemy;
To Astor, it seemed as natural to float
part of an American war loan in London
as it did, on the eve of war, to offer to
lend fifty thousand pounds to help equip
the British Army in Quebec. Nor did he
hesitate to flash the news of the declaration
of war into Canada itself and thus prevent
American surprise attacks on British frontier
forts. It was not that he was treacherous,
but that he had furs in Canada which he
wanted hustled to the border. It was an
Astor message to an Astor agent at the
Sault that enabled the British to swoop
down on Mackinac Island and capture by
surprise the northernmost American post.
The news sent a shock through the States,
for hordes of Indians in war paint
descended on frontier settlements, accom-
panied in many cases by Astor employees,
to massacre and desolate.
Such delicate dabblings in charity and
patriotism made it possible for Astor to
buy more and more properties in New
York, to erect more and more slum tene-
ments. He gave up the fur trade and
sat down to watch his money multiply
as if by magic as the growth of New
York sent up the value of his properties
At 84, worth twenty million dollars, he
died.
His life, records Harvey O'Connor it
The Astors (Knopf ; Angus and Robert
son), was an inspiration to his sorrowing
descendants. They learned from him to
keep the money in the family, never to
leave more than a “millionaire’s mite” to
charity, to keep out of speculative com-
merce and politics as much as possible
to sit tight and let the money roll in
from the slums. So successful was the
Astor laissez faire policy that by 1912 the
estate had multiplied to the staggering
total of three hundred million dollars.
And what can three hundred million
dollars do? Hire Nellie Melba and
Paderewski for private entertainments;
buy a hereditary title for the English
branch of the family ; buy the London
“Times”; make Nancy Astor the first
woman to break into the British House
of Commons; start the “Cliveden Set”
rumors; bring the Roosevelt family and
the Bowes-Lyon family, Prince Alexis
Mdivani, Barbara Hutton, Pola Negri
and, it seems, half the notabilities of two
continents, from the most distinguished
to the most notorious, into an extraordi-
nary patchwork of marriage, intermar-
riage and divorce ; set all America laugh-
ing at the two Mrs. Astors who both
wanted to be The Mrs. Astor, all America
gossiping about the family sinners and
the family lunatics, all America goggling
at New York’s exclusive Four Hundred,
all America-—in the pre-Hollywood days
when Society was news—getting ten times
more fun out of the Astor wealth than
its possessors ever got.
The Astors is one of those amazingly
intimate biographies that are possible
only in the U.S. O’Connor follows the
family fortune from its beginning, right
through to its peak and on to the present
when death duties and income tax have
reduced it to something like reasonable
proportions again ; each member of the
family is inspected, examined, judged
without mercy ; each scandal is presented
in loving detail; and all that is left to
the imagination about the Astor family
is how the Astor family likes its history
being exposed to the public view as if it
were a newsreel of the life story of the
newt.
Something else that is left to the
reader’s imagination is O’Connor’s poli-
tical coloring and, consequently, the reli-
ability of his comments. His concluding
chapter is a diatribe against the appease-
ment policy on orthodox Leftist lines,
with the touch of the propagandist rather
than the historian.
Punch and Judy Show .
Over the whole field of contemporary
Australian short-story writing, broods the
shadow of Henry Lawson, and Lawson,
though he wrote much comedy, was an
earnest-minded man. As minor influences
under that greater shadow float Ernest
Hemingway and William Saroyan, and
Ernest and William are earnest-minded
men. Also like a cold fog in the mind,
Leftism —a very earnest creed, indeed,
indeed.
Afnong so much worthy gloom in a
gloomy and unworthy world, it’s pleasant
to be reminded that The Bulletin’s
A. C. Headley, sorrowful though he can
be at times, varies and enriches his out-
put with comedy. Though writers rarely
admit it (for comedy’s harder to write
than tragedy) the normal man weeps
about twice in his life and laughs about
ten times every day, so that the gay story
—if realism is the accurate reflection of
life—is more realistic than the gloomy.
Except in their implied assertion that
people like to laugh, however, Headley’s
comedies can’t be called realistic ; for the
Skinny Hazlitt stories, strung together
into a loose sort of picaresque for book
form under the title Alias the- Bearded
Lady (Frank Johnson), don’t seem to be
placed in life but several feet above it,
on the plane of mathematics where prob-
lems are neatly solved, plots are neatly
worked out to a trick ending, and nothing
has happened that affects the butcher or
the baker in his daily life. Farce rather
than comedy, yarns rather than stories.
Scut and Skinny, tricking or being
tricked on the racecourses, at the dogs,
at the boxing and wrestling stadiums, are
like the Punch and Judy show one of
the yarns describes: a grin in them all
the time, a bellow occasionally, a good
show while it lasts. And when it’s over
—nothing except a fading grin, like the
Cheshire cat’s.
One of the good things about Frank
Dalby Davison’s The Woman at the Mill
was that he balanced the statement of
his serious stories by realistic comedy;
the comedy, that is, of character.
Headley, who can certainly create charac-
ter in his serious stories, has sacrificed it
here for the trick ending and the humor
of the rogue. O. Henry and Damon
Runyon, from whom he has probably
learned something, both write tricky
stories about tricksters; but their rogues
and their victims are usually real people.
And their writing, even when colloquial,
is usually more careful than Headley’s.
Was he or his proofreader responsible
for “in the natural cause of events”
instead of “in the natural course of
events”?
One sentence of Headley’s—“He began
saying things that wouldn’t even be said
between ladies in a wine bar towards
six o’clock” —shows what he could do
with the life of Sydney if he brought to
it his humor and his realism together.
A Popular Dictionary of Australian
Slang: Sidney J. Baker (Robertson and
Mullens). To be interesting a dictionary
must give derivations; to have the bare
right to exist it must be as complete as
possible. This one’s admittedly incom-
plete and does not give derivations. Mr.
Baker says he is working on a complete
dictionary, to be published later. The
present one seems about as much use as
half a bicycle.
For verse writers —Brisbane “Meanjin
Papers” is offering two prizes of two
guineas each for poems; details from
“Meanjin Papers,” Box 1871 W, G.P.0.,
Brisbane. A new quarterly, “Poetry,”
has sprung up in South Australia; New
Zealanders as well as Australians in-
cluded ; editor, Flexmore Hudson, Ham-
mond, S.A.; the first number’s promising,
and Mr. Hudson’s recent anthology of
children’s poetry showed that he has taste.
New Zealand Now : Oliver Duff (N.Z,
Internal Affairs Department). The latest
of the “centennial surveys,” and a good
one. The author wanders pleasantly
about the country, its life, literature and
history, and his own life in it, to discover
what a New Zealander is. He notes that
M.L. has never had a Bulletin of its
own, nor a Lawson nor a Paterson: “We
are a sober, diligent, Puritan community
in which the seeds of irreverence sprout
slowly. That’s both true and significant,
but he underrates New Zealand’s own
hterary growth when all he can say about
1S M Poetry, of course, will out in the
end. It has “outed” to some purpose
m Robin Hyde, Eileen Duggan and
others. •
Concise Handbook of Australian Fish-
ing; “Taggerty” (Robertson and Mul-
lens). Title a bit ambitious, seeing that
the booklet applies mainly to Victoria,
fish being such confirmed State-bound
parochialists that some of the advice
wouldn’t work in other parts. However,
it’s well enough done to be good read-
ing anywhere when they’re not biting.
Listening to the Orchestra, by Kitty
Same (Dent). Help for concertgoers
and radio-listeners who wish to appreciate
and understand great music. The intro-
duction chapters, exceptionally well illus-
trated, cover the field of orchestral instru-
mentation more clearly and simply than
has ever been done before.
, r „
Yo Other Ccesar: Felix Grendon
(Bodley Head). Depicts Cssar as a coun-
terpart of Franklin D. Roosevelt, with
dialogue m the idiom of current Ameri-
can journalism. Mr. Grendon, as others
have done, employs present-day images
o help hi the modernising. Rome
bad ds ■ 9fP u ° r T Gestapo as well as
its liquidations. Instead of making the
ancient scene clearer, which is the inten-
tion, this, by the overriding power of
association of ideas, makes a complete
jumble. Every such modern term em-
ployed starts a train of thought running
into Russia, Germany or elsewhere. And
that defeats the purpose, which is to
keep the thought running on Caesar.
S. H. PRIOR PRIZE
Important Announcement
Owing to war-time depletion of staff, and the difficulty, in the circum-
stances, of having large numbers of MSS. read in anything like reasonable
time, the Trustees of the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize have decided to change
the plan of making this annual award.
There had to be a very long 1 delay after the closing date of last year's
competition before the final judging could be arranged and the decision
eventually announced. With further national calls on the services of members
t Sl . nce t * len a nd others pending, trying to cope with the reading
of the MSS. that would come in by next June 6 would be utterly hopeless.
It has therefore been decided that—for the duration of the war, at least
—there' will be NO competition inviting submitting of MSS.
Instead, the Prize will be awarded each year for the book published in
Australia which the Trustees consider the most valuable contribution to
Australian literature. (As in the past, “Australia” and “Australian” for
the purposes of this award are to be taken as including New Zealand.)
This changed arrangement becomes operative at once. There will be
NO competition in the old form this year. Instead, the Prize—an annual
award of £loo—will be awarded this year to the author, or authors, of what
the Trustees consider (on the ground stated) the best book published in
Australia between June 6. 1941, and June 6, 1942 (similarly in regard to
succeeding years).
No work that has already won a monetary prize will be considered
eligible.
SUNDRY SHOWS,
Looking ovpr current shows for w ar
etlects discovers a striking contrast be
tween film entertainment and legit. tiJ
latter sticks to a formula it has largely
followed for at least 20 years—that aJ
ences want entertainment that will blot
out their immediate troubles. It offers
an opiate strongly flavored with essence
of, mothballs: even where the offering«
of recent concoction this flavor somehow
attaches to it, and the bulk of legit, shows
for a long time haven’t been contempor-
ary even in construction; mostly they
have been revivals—of froth. ’’
Sydney Royal, last of the city’s old
showhouses, has had a long stretch of
revivals. Just now Gilsullivan is on the
last of its centipede legs there, with the
pretty-prettiness of “Lilac Time” loom-
ing up. The other legit, house, the
Minerva, has modern comedy, “The Man
Who Came to Dinner,” none the less
escapist for being modern. The Minerva
has shown some awareness of the con-
temporary scene by putting on at mati-
nees a show based on air-raid pre-
cautions, helpful and instructive, though
if dramatists and legit, together were alive
in a contemporary sense what they would
be doing on this subject would be biting
satire.
Nobody would accuse film people of
basing their entertainment on a cultural
or intellectual appeal, but the large and
increasing proportion of documentary in
their bills alone associates their enter-
tainment positively with the contemporary
scene. There is not a single film house,
from the most ostentatious city theatre
to the smallest country hall, in which the
entertainment doesn’t at some point touch
on the war—that is, on what is upper-
most in everybody’s mind, and what the
general legit, aim is to help everybody
to forget.
The great bulk of film entertainment,
too, is escapist; but a film house is cer-
tainly the last place for any ostrich to
enter bent on forgetting the war. In
shorts by the endless thousand, and
directly and indirectly in feature offer-
ings, contemporary film entertainment is
contemporary. It either deals directly
with the life that all people are in some
sense experiencing, or its appeal is based
on the war psychosis from which also
nobody is free. Directly inspired war
films current in Sydney last week included
“Dive Bomber” (Plaza), “In the Navy”
(comedy, State) and “International Lady”
(spies, Mayfair). There has been a steady
supply of such things since the war
started. As well, every film house runs
to some such direct item as “War Comes
to Australia” or the excellent “Letter
from Syria” and elsewhere series in the
way of documentary shorts.
Even more strikingly in contrast with
legit.’s pretty-and-light entertainment out-
look is the current crop of elaborately-
made films of violence —particularly
violent death —which, on the face of
them, have no direct relationship with
the war, but which are as certainly pro-
ducts of war psychosis as the most direct
war films. These films, made in America
before America came in, were evidently
meant to cater for the artificial or vicari-
ous psychosis there, and there might now
be a change in the taste for witnessing
violent death depicted realistically.
Against the likelihood of such a change
stands the fact that in Australia, with the
actuality of what these films represent
pressing very close, the parades of violent
death as entertainment draw crowded
audiences.
Two current films in point are “Western
Union” (Sydney Regent) and “Billy the
Kid” (Sydney St. James), elaborate tech-
nicolor Westerns. In each a man, killed
by a wound in the body, is partly lifted
up by another man, whose back-support-
ing hand, on being drawn away in horror,
is shown dripping red blood (technicolor
triumphant). In each, per technicolor,
blood is shown spreading on shirt-fronts
of killed men. In each there is a closing
orgy of wholesale human slaughter, pre-
sented as realistically as simulated agony,
death croaks, twitchings and technicolor
can manage. Men are shot, stabbed and
tommyhawked at point-blank range, in
anger, in cold blood, from the front and
from the back. It is not enough to show
murdered men huddled at a campfire in
obvious death attitudes ; the finders must
push them, so that the audience can see
how dead men sprawl horribly over.
Both these films are ostensibly Ameri-
can period pieces; but nothing could be
more contemporary than the sweeping
change from a past romantic and evasive
to their bluntly realistic depiction of
violent death, or than the war psychosis
which makes of this a box-office triumph.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— the pulse of business 1
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Half Yearly Genuine
27'e, 30'- High Grade Shoes, 25"
A.-—2OO Pairs Men's Shoes in Black Box Calf or Tan Calf. All have
genuine welted soles. Ten styles, all shapes and fittings, full and
half sizes. At Anthony Horderns'. Prices 30/-, 27/6
SALE PRICE 25/-
37'6 "Tree" Brand Super Shoes, 35 /
B.—" Tree" Brand Super Shoes in Brogues, made of the finest quality
Box Calf with stout leather soles and stitched heel seats. Also the
popular whole Golosh Model on the Ace Last with smart wide welts
in Tan Calf or Black Box Calf. Full and half sizes. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price 37/6
SALE PRICE 35/-
rf
15'n Men's Sandals, 1411
Men's Tan Sandals with Flex sewn leather
soles. Two styles with full and half sizes. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 15/11
SALE PRICE 14/H
18'ii Men's Slippers, 1711
Men's High-grade Slippers with genuine
sewn pump soles, in Havana Brown Calf or
Black Glace Kid. Full and half sizes. At
Anthony Horderns'; Price 18/11
SALE PRICE 17/11
• Men’s Footwear —Ground Floor. George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
df
TREE" BRAND RADIANT HEALTH
SHOES 37'e; SALE PRICE, 35'-
"Tree" Brand Radiant Health Shoes in Tan Calf, Black Box Calf and
Glace Kid, fitted with special Steel Arch-Brace to prevent flat feet.
All have genuine welted soles of solid leather. Full and half sizes.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price 37/6
SALE PRICE 35/-
Phone; M 2401 (Day and Night)
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


RESOLUTION
By E. O. SCHLUNKE.
V \ Charlie’s family saw him
\A/ yolce , a cou Pl e °f horses in the
VV six-ton farm wagon which
had served merely as a hen roost
for the last four years, pull it to the
front of the smithy and begin work on
it with robust enthusiasm, they knew that
he had one of his ideas.
His wife and little daughters stared at
him from the door of the hot lean-to
kitchen, and speculated about what “he”
was going to do. The little girls excited
themselves tremendously, jumping about
on their bare toes and asking innumer-
able questions, but the more vigorously
Charlie worked the more certain his wife
became that his idea was crazy. The
children soon became aware of her dis-
approval, and whispered to each other
that “she” was “getting wild.”
Presently they saw “him” pulling some
of the farm gates off their hinges and
loading them on to the wagon. That
was too much for Mrs. Charlie. She
stopped watching him, and began to work
with desperate speed as if to make up for
the time she felt sure he was wasting.
The children sidled away from her and
whispered to each other: “She’s properly
wild now.”
Charlie, however, was well pleased with
himself. He had conceived an idea for
making extra money so that he could pay
off the R.1.8.’s lien and be free and in-
dependent again. He toiled with zest, for
he liked work when he had an attractive
prospect in view. He heaved the heavy
iron gates into position, and fastened
them together upright to form a pen. He
was going to take a load of fat lambs
to the sale on his wagon, in imitation
of the motor-lorries with their elaborate
double-decker floats.
That, however, was only a minor part
of his plan. His scheme was to have the
old wagon put into working order again,
and to go carting wheat as soon as he
had finished his harvest. He figured that
petrol rationing and the shortage of
motor-trucks and men would create a
demand for his services as a teamster.
The wagon needed its tyres cut and
various minor repairs which would cost,
in all, about fifteen pounds ; the load of
fat lambs would pay for it.
But there were weaknesses in this part
of the scheme. Charlie was being financed
by the bank through the R. 1.8., a sys-
tem under which the bank advanced him
money to carry on, but took a lien over
all his income to cover the loan. Hence
any money Charlie could get for the
lambs was earmarked for repayment to
the bank. But there was a human ele-
ment, and Charlie was prepared to
gamble on that. The bank manager was
a reasonable man, and Charlie was cer-
tain that, on being told how much money
he was going to make by carting wheat,
the manager would shut one eye in regard
to the money for the lambs. He was
always urging Charlie to make more
money.
KJ EXT morning Charlie was up at 4.30.
* An hour later he had loaded his
lambs, harnessed his horses and was off.
He stood erect on the wagon with the
reins in his hands, full of enthusiasm and
virtue. He looked down on the fat backs
of his horses in frpnt of him, and some-
times down on the fat backs of the
lambs in the pen behind him, and felt
extraordinarily happy, as only a healthy
man can when he is full of good resolu-
tion early in the morning.
He had persuaded his wife into a state
of negative neutrality towards his ven-
ture, though she would still have pre-
ferred him staying at the orthodox jobs
on the farm, particularly if he had put
the same enthusiasm into them. He had
promised the children a big tin of fancy
biscuits, so they approved heartily.
As he drove along, the horses walking
freely with their easy load, he planned
his day in a leisurely way. First he would
go to the saleyards and unload his lambs ;
then to the blacksmith and leave the
wagon so that they could get to work
on it immediately ; then to the bank to
get approval for spending the lamb
money on the wagon repairs ; then to the
sale to see that the auctioneer got the
last possible penny for his lambs ; then
his bit of shopping ; collect the wagon
and harness up again at four, and be
home again at eight.
He arrived at the yards in good time,
and endured with a good-humored grin
the uproarious mirth which his novel
use of an ancient vehicle created. The
drivers of the big double-decker motor-
floats —there were so many of them that
Charlie began to think that he had been
deceived about the shortage of motor
transport—accused him of ruining them
with his cheap competition.
“You wait,” he prophesied, “when you
fellows run short of them little tickets,
people will come running after me to
cart their stuff. I don’t need no little
tickets to feed my horses.”
He drove off in his three-mile-an-hour
hurry and entered the blacksmith’s yard
with a great clatter of wagon and snort-
in S of horses. Only one chimney at
O’Farrell’s big place was smoking, and
when Charlie went inside he was dis-
appointed by the absence of the din and
bustle of former days. Of all the men
who had worked there only O’Farrell
and Baxter, his striker, remained,
O Farrell’s curly black hair now showed
grey through the soot, his shoulders were
rounded and the charcoal-engrained lines
on his face were deeper. Baxter was still
the gorilla, glorying in his strength. There
was a new boy fiddling disconsolately
over a heap of scrap-iron ; he had the
same backless head as Gorilla Baxter,
but he looked as if even he knew that he
was learning a dead-end job.
“So you want your tyres cut,” said
O’Farrell, completely amazed and look-
ing dubious. “It’s a long time since we
cut any big wagon tyres. I don’t know
if I can handle it with the men I’ve got
now.”
Three of you used to handle it in the
old days,” Charlie reminded him.
And another thing,” O’Farrell said
grimly, “it’ll have to be spot cash” —he
looked away as he said it-—“a cove in the
city runs this place now for my creditors.
His orders are ‘Spot cash.’ ”
“I’ll soon fix up about the cash,” said
Charlie; “you get going on the wagon.”
p ROM the blacksmith’s Charlie rushed
off to the bank. The manager was
engaged with a man, and there
were two others sitting uneasily on hard
chairs near his door. Charlie sat
down next the less dejected of the two,
wondering if he would get away in time
to see his lambs sold. He watched the
clerks frowning over their books, rush-
ing to each other and holding little con-
ferences, and making as much fuss as if
they were doing real work. Inside the
office he could hear the manager’s voice
speaking loudly, at times rather testily.
The man next to Charlie nodded his
head towards the office and said: “He’s
‘giving it’ to that bloke in there.”
Charlie grinned at him, and they began
to talk about bank managers and the
R. 1.8. Soon they discovered that they
had many mutual acquaintances, and had
even heard of each other by repute. They
became quite friendly. They began to
joke about how “hard up” they were,
how long they had been “under” the
R. 1.8., and how much they owed it. The
other man looked at them in embarrass-
ment and horror, like an innocent first
offender listening to the shamelessness of
habitual criminals. They saw his uneasi-
ness.
“One thing I’m sure of,” said Charlie
with a wink at his new friend, “is that
once you have to go under the R. 1.8.
you never get out again.”
“They say,” Bill Henley replied, catch-
ing on, “that they let you go on until you
owe them a thousand pounds. Then
they sell you up and boot you out.”
At that moment the manager’s door
opened, A vastly relieved man came out
and the embarrassed man went in.
“Looks like it’s his first experience,
and he’s ashamed of it,” laughed Henley.
“I bet he’ll come out feeling as grateful
as if he’d been given a motor-car with
as many lights on it as a Christmas tree.”
“I used to be grateful,” Charlie con-
fessed, “until I found out that they don’t
give you anything. They just write a
few figures in a book, and you owe them
a couple of hundred pounds. They don’t
give you money, only credit. You ask
them to hand you two hundred pounds
in notes and see if you’ll get it.”
“Not bloody likely,” said Henley. And
they began to talk about the iniquities
of the financial system, under which they
had no money although they worked very
hard and produced enough to feed hun-
dreds of people every year.
The embarrassed man came out of the
office after a long session looking thor-
oughly humiliated but a little less wor-
ried. Bill Henley went in, and being an
old hand was out again in a few minutes.
Then Charlie went in, shook hands with
the manager, sat down and had his usual
trouble of finding a place to put his hat.
He drew a deep breath and began to out-
line his scheme. But in the bare little
office, under the sceptical eye of the man-
ager, it didn’t seem as good as it had
done.
The manager kept interrupting him
with questions. “Have you any carting
contracts in view? Are you sure you'll
finish your harvesting in time to cart
other farmers’ wheat?”
But it wasn’t until Charlie got to the
financing that the manager became firmly
hostile to the plan. He looked up
Charlie’s file and positively refused to
shut one eye.
Charlie left the bank more than ever
convinced that the financial system needed
drastic reform. He hurried to the sale-
yards, only to find that his lambs had
been sold for only ten shillings. He
watched a pen of similar lambs being
auctioned. The owner refused to accept
ten shillings. The auctioneer, with a great
show of labor, worked them up to 11s.
6d. Charlie, feeling that he had been
swindled of Is. 6d. per head in his
absence, added the auction system to his
list of reforms.
He went from there to the blacksmith,
a bit conscience-stricken for letting him
work on the wagon when he hadn’t the
money to pay him, but deciding to
promise him the first cash he earned at
wheat-carting. He needn’t have worried ;
O’Farrell hadn’t touched the wagon. He
forestalled Charlie’s protests by asking:
“Did you get the cash?”
Charlie could only reply with an attack
on the financial system, with which the
blacksmith heartily agreed.
CHARLIE went to do his shopping in
a very depressed state of mind. He
knew that the only thing he could do
now was go home and admit complete
failure. But he walked up and down the
street with a vague hope that something
would turn up to better things. And so
it did ; he met Henley again and experi-
enced the relief of telling a sympathetic
soul of how “they” had deliberately frus-
trated him, so that he could not escape
from “their” clutches.
“There’s only one thing to do,” Henley
said; “come and have a drink.”
So they had a few drinks, and Charlie
was just beginning to feel better when
he remembered something which made
him feel worse. “I’ve got another
trouble now,” he said. “I’ve spent my
shopping money, and the wife and kids
are expecting things.”
Over the next drink Henley thought of
a solution.
“Tell you what,” he said. “You go to
the auctioneer and say to him ‘Look
here, I want to collect the money for my
lambs,’ and then look as if you changed
your mind and say ‘No, better pay it
into me bank, but just give me a couple
of notes now.’ Then you give him a
wink and say ‘Don’t put forty lambs
at ten shillings, £2O, on the docket; put
thirty-six lambs at ten shillings, £lB.’
He’ll do it all right and won’t say a
word.”
So they went to the auctioneer’s office,
and soon Charlie had £2 in his pocket.
They had a feed at the Greek’s and then
a few more drinks. They were enjoying
each other’s company so much that they
went together to do Charlie’s shopping.
Charlie remembered the children’s biscuits
well enough, but was somewhat uncer-
tain about his wife’s requirements. He
did his best, however, and bought a
couple of loaves of bread and a great
bag of saveloys to make good any defi-
ciencies.
Before going home they decided to
have a last drink. They met some
acquaintances in the bar and had a long
round. By this time Charlie was far
happier than an unfortunate farmer had
any right to be. The six o’clock warning
made him suddenly realise that he was
two hours behind schedule, but for
Charlie time had ceased to matter much.
However, he left soon, after spending the
last of his money on two quart bottles
of port to take home.
ON the way home Charlie’s cheerful-
ness began slowly to ebb. He had a
few pulls at the port, but drinking alone
was a melancholy business. He met a
swaggie tramping towards the town and
easily persuaded him to accept a lift in
the opposite direction. Things became
pleasant again. The sundowner was
hungry as well as thirsty, and between
them they ate most of the saveloys and
a loaf of bread. Charlie suggested that
they might nibble a few fancy biscuits to
“square off” the meal, so they ate over
half the tin. They had a great talk after
darkness settled down, lying on their
backs on the floor of the wagon and let-
ting the horses choose their pace.
When they were a few miles from
home Charlie invited the swaggie to spend
the night with him. But he declined ;
perhaps he had an intuition that Charlie’s
wife might consider him one over the
last straw. So Charlie directed him to
a farm, abandoned by the owner for a
job in the city, where he would be com
fortable, and gave him the remainder of
the bread and saveloys, feeling very grand
and benevolent. The swaggie was pre-
pared to take the biscuits, too, but when
Charlie explained what they were for he
contented himself with filling his pockets
It was eleven o’clock when Charlie’s
horses stopped at his gate and so woke
him. He clambered down to open the
gate, feeling a tremendous regret for
having lost something very valuable—
but what it was he couldn’t remember.
As he drove along the overfamiliar track
to his home a dead depression settled
down upon him ; even recalling the glori-
ous afternoon and evening he had had
could not dispel it. Suddenly he remem-
bered just how he had felt when he drove
along the same track early in the morn-
ing, and then he remembered what he
had lost.
Behind him, on the wagon, the biscuit
tin had upset and the remaining biscuits
were scattered, dirty and broken, on the
floor. But the children had long ago
given up waiting for him and gone to
bed.
OYSTERS
By LES ROBINSON.
THE ideal oyster-farm should, of
course, be surrounded by lemon-
trees, since lemon-juice is by most
people preferred to vinegar for
seasoning purposes. If, however, the
shore for miles round consists mainly of
discarded oyster-shells and is therefore
more suitable for lime-burning than for
lemon-growing, preserved lemon-juice or
clever imitations can be substituted. If
possible, the farm should also be situated
where plenty of stout is obtainable, for
stout has always been considered the best
of liquid incentives to oyster consump-
tion, just as oysters themselves have
always been regarded as the best and
most harmonious of all semi-solid incen-
tives to stout-consumption. If he doesn’t
keep his pepper-bins full the oyster-
farmer is sure to regret the oversight;
but, as oysters salt themselves, salt may
be dispensed with.
Oysters have several characteristics
which exalt them in the esteem of philo-
sophers. They never hurry, for instance,
and therefore never suffer from over-
exertion or the discomfort of perspiring
profusely in hot weather. By remain-
ing in the same place indefinitely they
also avoid a considerable amount of in-
convenience and fatigue. They are dili-
gent or would not be able to obtain suffi-
cient nutriment from swiftly-flowing
tides. They are reflective between meals ;
they don’t make a noise, and even at
Christmastime drink only water.
Oyster-beds are exceedingly hard.
Oysters themselves, if they sleep at all,
do so with one eye or ear open, as the
consumer, unless he removes his boots
in order to creep noiselessly upon them
and take them by surprise, soon dis-
covers. They are equipped with a self-
locking device which functions quickly
if even the shadow of a potential enemy
should fall across them. A method the
more astute have of getting even with an
assailant, particularly if his oyster-knife
should happen to be both rusty and blunt,
is to detach themselves suddenly and un-
expectedly from their seemingly solid
background while the maximum amount
of pressure is being applied to the knife.
This manoeuvre on their part results, nine
jabs out of ten, in the assailant gashing
his fingers on the sharp edges of neigh-
boring oysters, while that which he was
endeavoring so strenuously to open
tumbles off the rock and into deep water.
Oyster-shells are often used at the sea-
side in rockeries, ferneries and artificial
ponds. Companioned by water-sprites,
dolphins, frogs, storks and the statues of
diviners, they are also to be noticed
mingled in the ornamentation of foun-
tains. The more romantic of seasiders
use them, together with periwinkles, star-
fish, barnacles, fragments of coral, etc.,
for making the exterior of a dwelling
look as much like the entrance to an
aquarium as possible. Kept as souvenirs
of a banquet or happy holiday, the larger
specimens help to overcrowd the shelves
and mantelpieces of living-rooms; be-
sides making excellent pin-, ash-, stud-,
oddment-trays and scoops, short pieces
of candle may be stuck in them, and they
also come in handy as receptacles for
seeds, mucilage, tacks and soap.
Bottles, jars or other utensils, particu-
larly if ancient-looking, to which oyster-
shells have been glued can be exhibited
as curios found in the ocean depths.
When pulverised the shells are a valuable
aid to egg-production ; in fact, a poultry-
keeper cannot spend his spare time more
profitably or pleasantly any sunny morn-
ing than on a flat rock with a sledge-
hammer and several sackfuls.


SOUTHERLY BUSTER.
“Hey, shut that confounded door!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
"THE ONE-MAN BAND."
“We have our great preoccupation here in
Europe, but at the same time everything of
our resources, everything that forethought can
do, has been done to prepare for this long-
threatened storm in the Far East which has
now broken upon us and our friends across
the Atlantic Ocean.” — Mr. Churchill, in a world
broadcast, December 8.
A Churchill speech is never without dis-
tinction, for the Prime Minister is a lord
of language and a master of the art of
making the most of his case, good, bad
or indifferent. In his latest appearance in
the House of Commons, his verbal skill
and his perfect understanding of the
House in all its moods and tenses served
him well. He got what he wanted, a
vote of confidence—464 to 1, the majority
being swollen by critics —and his elo-
quence left his editorial aad other ad-
mirers gasping, even in Australia. All
the same no Australian who puts Aus-
tralia first, and who retains a lively con-
sciousness of present perils and of past
promises, which were not redeemed in the
Malayan peninsula, can read a report of
the debate in which Mr. Churchill was
the principal performer without alarm
and dismay.
On one of the many subjects he
touched the Prime Minister was altogether
convincing, though it was at the expense
of some still-idolatrous editors. He ex-
plained why he had not surrendered to
the crazy agitation for a second European
front, and “what would have happened”
if he had.
Every ton of our shipping, every flotilla
of aeroplanes, the whole strength of our
army would have been fighting for its life
on the shores of {Be Low Countries. These
troubles in the Far East might have sunk
into insignificance beside another and far
worse Dunkirk. I suppose some of those
who clamored for a second front in France
will now come up, bland and smiling, and
ask why we haven’t ample forces for
Malaya, Burma, Borneo and the Celebes.
They have done so already, though not
“bland and smiling”—timorous and
screeching rather, with renewed demands
for the heads of the “Men of Munich.”
Another and really dreadful charge
the Prime Minister denied. He was
accused in both Houses, directly in the
Commons by Commander Sir Archibald
Southby and indirectly in the Lords by
Admiral of the Fleet Lord Chatfield, of
having personally overruled a decision
that an aircraft-carrier should be sent to
Malaya with the ill-fated battleships
Prince of Wales and Repulse. Replying
to the naval M.P., he said “The sugges-
tion is as mischievous as it is untrue:
except for one carrier in Home waters,
not a single carrier was available.” This,
while disposing of the direct charge, was
by no means a specific answer to Lord
Chatfield, who indeed said things that
were unanswerable. After declaring that
no “naval disposition was responsible for
sending Prince of Wales and Repulse to
a dangerous area without air protection
and the necessary ancillary craft” (“it
was a political decision”), the Admiral,
tilting at Mr. Churchill, said “You cannot
get the lay mind to understand naval
strategy.”
Mr. Churchill has said that these ships
were sent out as a spearpoint. But battle-
ships aren’t spearpoints. They aren’t for-
wards in the game; they are full-backs.
They oughtn’t to be sent to dangerous posi-
tions where a great disaster may occur
unless they are adequately supported.
Lord Chatfield was Mr. Chamberlain’s
Minister for Co-ordination of Defence —
the only man with a service training in
the Chamberlain War Cabinet. He left
it just before the expedition to Norway—
Mr. Churchill’s first campaign in this
war, though Mr. Chamberlain has always
had a full issue of blame for it. And
after discussing the still-unexplained
tragedy of Prince of Wales and Repulse,
he explained how he and Mr. Chamber-
lain had parted company. Because there
were three service Ministers in the War
Cabinet, he found himself with nothing
to do, and told Mr. Chamberlain so,
adding that the Prime Minister was the
proper person to be Minister of Defence.
And so it came about. But “when Mr.
Churchill became Prime Minister, he
removed the service Ministers from his
War Cabinet and became not only
Minister of Defence but chairman of the
committee of chiefs of staffs.”
Ihat was an important change, because
it meant that the Prime Minister would
take part in the deepest technical consulta-
tions with the chiefs of staffs. With his
service Ministers outside the War Cabinet,
he could then meet the War Cabinet with
his determined mind made up. How can
you expect in these circumstances that there
can be free and full discussion resulting in
the avoidance of mistakes? Great as Mr.
Churchill is, and immense as is ray admira-
h°n for him, there is no man who can*
hold that single responsibility safely in war-
time. Unless we make our strategical war
machine as efficient as the enemy’s we are
in for more trouble.
Mr. Churchill admitted that there
would be “more trouble,” especially in
the Pacific zone, since “naval superiority
in the Pacific and the Malayan
Archipelago wi11... .remain in Japanese
hands.... long enough to enable Japan
to inflict many heavy and painful losses
on all the united nations with possessions
ip the Far East.” He admitted also that
hostile bombers may soon [! ] be within
range of Australia’s shores,” though his
expectation is that Australia will not be
invaded—-an expectation which Austra-
lian Ministers, naturally enough, do not
share. But he did not dispute Lord Chat-
field’s astounding account of the “strate-
gical war machine” as it has operated for
nearly 20 months, nor did he allow that
it was too mighty for any one man to
work. On the contrary, he gloried in his
possession of the supreme powers he has
seized and exercised, with the consent of
a Government whose weakness is recog-
nised by everyone except the weaklings
and himself.
“I» personally, am responsible,” he
said ; “I am the man Parliament and the
nation must blame for the way in which
they have been served” ; and he made it
perfectly clear that he thought it was a
case for praise rather than blame. “It
was I who decided that supplies of many
kinds of raw materials and munitions,
particularly tanks and aircraft,” should
be sent to Russia, though “our forces at
home and abroad had long been waiting
for these weapons.”
It has been suggested that Russia has
received from Britain 1000 tanks, 1000
guns and 1000 ’planes. A thousand ’planes
sent to Singapore might have saved Prince
of Wales and Repulse and made North
Malaya a Japanese shambles. Half the
number might have enabled the soldiers
to hold a line there, instead of being dive-
bombed and machine-gunned from Kotah
Bahru to the Johore causeway. But “far
from regretting” what has been done for
Russia, Mr. Churchill said, “I only wish
it had been in our power to do more.”
This was a decision of major strategy and
policy, and anyone can see it was right to
put it first, after watching the wonderful
achievements of the Russian army.
Anyone “can see it was right”! Austra-
lians who put Australia first fail to see
it, nor can hearty concurrence be ex-
pected of Britons who have been driven
from their homes in Hong Kong and
Malaya or remain there as captives.
Whatever the issue of the Russo-German
war, there will always be a Russia. No
Power or combination of Powers can
conquer 170,000,000 Russians in the
sense of making conquest permanent.
But it is possible for British Malaya,
British Burma, British Borneo and even
British Australia and New Zealand to
become and remain conquests even if the
Russians win the German war, though
no doubts assail Mr. Churchill on this
score.
The decision was taken to contribute to
Russia, to try to beat Rommel, to form a
strong point from the Levant to the Cas-
pian. Therefore, we could make only par-
tial provision in the Far East against the
hypothetical danger 1 take the fullest
personal responsibility for this decision.
Nobody is as much to blame as I if we
handled our resources wrongly. lam re-
sponsible if we have no large forces in
Burma and elsewhere in the Far East.
The so-called “hypothetical” danger wor-
ried Australian Ministers for a twelve-
month at least. It became all too
real last July, when the Japanese marched
into Indo-China and retaliatory trade and
financial measures were taken by the
United States and the British Common-
wealth. It must have ceased to be “hypo-
thetical” to Mr. Churchill himself when
he announced (August 24) that if U.S.A.-
Japanese “negotiations for an amicable
settlement in the Pacific failed Britain
would range herself unhesitatingly beside
the United States.” Yet what prepara-
tions did he make for what he must then
have considered a grim probability?
Sixty thousand men were concentrated at
Singapore, but priority in ’planes, tanks,
anti-aircraft guns and anti-tank guns was
accorded to the Nile Valley.
Here Mr. Churchill was not as precise
as he should have been. He had pre-
viously stated that aid to Russia was put
“first,” so “priority” must have been
“accorded” to Russia as well as to the
Nile Valley. What Nile Valley “priority”
amounted to may be judged from his
admission—completely at variance with
his previous assurances, though dread-
fully familiar to all students of all Mr.
Churchill’s campaigns—that Auchinleck’s
men have had to fight “forces more than
doubly strong”—this though, as a Conser-
vative member pointed out, there are
“4,000,000 or 5,000,000 men under arms
in Britain.”
And, with a vast reservoir of man-power
in India, only 60,000 men in Malaya!
Sixty thousand men, a trifle over one to
every square mile of territory, to hold a
vital region, very difficult to defend, from
which Britain and the U.S.A. drew a very
large part of their rubber and tin require-
ments and Australia no small part of its
national income, against a Power already
conquest-crazy and already on the fron-
tier ; a Power with (in Mr. Churchill’s
own words) “70 mobile divisions, the
third-strongest navy in the world, a great
air force and the thrust of 80,000,000 to
90,000,000 hardy, warlike Asiatics”! And
the 60,000 devastatingly inferior in equip-
ment —using the term in its broadest sense
—as well as in numbers, as were their
comrades in Greece and Crete!
By a fortunate chance, though there
are sentimental regrets, “the one-man
band,” still playing in Downing-street, is
no longer to have the world for its audi-
torium.
The eastward approaches to Australia
and New Zealand, “the Anzac area,” will
be under American command. The com-
munications between the Anzac area and
North America are an American responsi-
bility, while the communications across the
Indian Ocean to India remain a British
responsibility.
That is good as far as it goes, and, with
Wavell in the Near North as Supreme
Commander and the Americans hitting
out nobly, the southward drive of
the Japanese has already come up against
stiff resistance, though it has not
been checked. Moreover, Australia is to
have a wandering voice in the British
War Cabinet and representation on a
Pacific Council —at London, if Mr.
Churchill has his way ; at Washington, if
Mr. Roosevelt agrees to what Australia
and Maoriland prefer. These concessions,
which have had to be extorted from Mr.
Churchill, don’t appear to measure up to
what Mr. Lloyd George voluntarily and
graciously granted to the Dominions
when he became Prime Minister, Mr.
Curtin hailed them with a delight which
seems premature. It will be time enough
for elation when something concrete
emerges from the cloud of Churchillian
rhetoric.
Benghazi, Moulmein and Malaya!
“Menzies Is With You, Churchill!” If
Singapore falls and the garrison cannot
be saved, it may become a case of
Churchill Is With You, Menzies, vote
of confidence notwithstanding.
More Little and Late.
Australia Day, January 26, 1941, will
need no writing into Australian history.
It wrote itself there indelibly. It was a
public holiday. There was racing on
capital-city courses and elsewhere. People,
having nothing else to do, went pic-
nicking, taking advantage of the long
week-end from midday on Saturday to
the Tuesday morning; just as in peace-
time. On the day after the binge this
was reported:
About 1200 moulders did not report for
duty yesterday. The boilermakers, who are
also skilled workers, also failed to put in
an appearance. The attitude of the
moulders was that they would not get the
ss. war loading under their latest award
for working on the holiday.
“On the holiday!” There was an
opportunity to make this Australia Day
memorable. Its name suggested itself for
use symbolically. It could have been
made to stand for Australian determina-
tion to break with every aspect of a care-
less, easygoing past. Somebody had
shouted “To your battle stations!”—
and this, the permitting of a public holi-
day, was the official follow-up.
Since the Japs came in—if not before
that —Australians in all walks of life have
looked to the Government for positive
orders. There is no need now for poli-
tical apologies or explanations. What is
looked for is direction. Australians want
no wheedling winning over to an under-
standing either of the closeness to them
of the menace or of the duty of every
Australian worth his salt to do his utmost
towards helping to beat that menace off.
Australians do not want now pleadings
from anybody. They want only to be
told. What they have hitherto been told
—even with Jap invaders already on
their territory—has been that they can
take holidays more or less as usual.
It can be answered that Australians in
the armed forces were not on holiday on
Australia Day and that essential war
work —except for a batch of moulders
and boilermakers —was being carried on.
It is not, however, the actual material
aspect of the war-time holiday that
matters. As with the strikes that were
still raging when the Japs were already
on Australian territory, what matters is
the spirit represented. If Australians at
large had been really alive to the nature
of the menace and the size of the task
of coping with it, they would have refused
the holiday and shamed the Governments
that permitted it.
After the long week-end of rest, capped
with Australia Day as a day dedicated to
taking it easy, Australians heard their
Prime Minister speaking on the text of
“Fight or Work.” The speech was char-
acteristic of Mr. Curtin’s completely con-
vincing sincerity. It was weeks late—
actually it was years late. Mr. Curtin
touched on the cry that has been pain-
fully heard oyer and over, “Too little, too
l ate ” —the epitaph of Belgium, Holland,
Greece and elsewhere. It is something
gained to hear the P.M. voice a recog-
nition of that root cause of past disasters.
But this recognition itself might also be
described as little and late.
When, many months ago, Mr, Menzies
tried to galvanise this country into an
awareness of the Jap threat he was
accused by present members of Mr.
Curtin’s Government of working up
scares for political purposes. This and
other things make warnings on the same
line now seem somewhat late. As to
the “little” aspect of it —it is very little
to make a fighting speech now, however
good, on the last night of an extended
holiday permitted by the Government.
One serious handicap of the Govern-
ment is that its members have all along
fostered the notion that Australia could
fight this war on a strictly voluntary
basis. In Opposition its leader and others
opposed even small compulsory loans on
the ground that they were contrary to
the voluntary principle. In power they
are today reaping the harvest of that
political romanticism. It has needed Jap
bombs and invaders on Australian terri-
tory to shake the lethargy engendered by
the past opposition to anything that might
so much as sound like compulsion.
Even now the Government shies at the
mention of that word. It still prefers
appeals. The result is an eager response
to any such fighting speech as Mr. Curtin
made last week ; then, for want of direc-
tion, an immediate falling back into the
old individualistic grooves.
The worst immediate aspect of this is
to be seen on the N.E.S. or A.R.P. front.
Here the “voluntary principle” still holds
at its worst. Men can join up—and
resign. They can sit up at telephones
or watch from roofs in the knowledge
that, because this is the worst-directed
organisation of the war-effort, they can
do very little else except sit and watch.
This calls for urgent Federal Govern-
ment attention. It is as bad an example
of “Too little, too late” as anything in
any of the lost countries mentioned by
Mr. Curtin,
There is still time to do something
about this —and something must be done.
It calls for nothing less than an exten-
sion of compulsory national service,
applied to men not already called up or
liable to be called. In this way a respon-
sible organisation with definite power to
act could be quickly formed and could
be properly equipped.
Surely the Government does not take
the preposterous stand that Australia
would have been as ready as it is to put
up a strong defence against invasion if
compulsory national service had not been
introduced by a previous Government.
The N.E.S. position today is exactly the
same as the military position was when
that measure was enforced. What on
earth is the Government waiting for?
Mr. Curtin rightly said that the rule
now must be “Defence first.” He said
that the Government was taking this
way inflexibly and determinedly; that
“nothing will be permitted to stand
against that work.” Envisaging air raids,
he said that “every human being unhurt
can help those not so fortunate.” The
spirit is good; only the practice is weak.
Every human being unhurt can not help
those not so fortunate unless he is trained
for the job. Not one man in twenty
could be of any use whatever. How
many men know that, say, a person
wounded in the stomach soon craves for
water, and that to give him water is to
murder him? How many, in fact, know
the most elementary things about succor
and first-aid?
There should be at once an N.E.S.
army, compulsorily raised, trained and
equipped, with full power to do what
needs to be done. The time for scruples
about infringing on the “voluntary prin-
ciple” is well past. Thanks only to the
timely enforcement of compulsory service
Australia has an army today that will
make invasion extremely costly to the
enemy. It urgently needs another com-
pulsory army now, dedicated to the job of
making the practically certain enemy air
raids of as little value as possible to the
enemy and as least costly as possible to
Australia.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Barmy "Army" Plan.
Silly fellows who write for silly papers
have produced a characteristic project
“a civilian People’s Army.” The “civilian
People’s Army” is, it seems, to be com-
posed of people of both sexes who will
undertake to blow up tanks with Molotov
cocktails, smash them with mattocks, pick
off their crews with rifles, pot infantry-
men from behind boulders, demolish
bridges, block roads and in all things
behave like the “dynamiteros” of Madrid,
the Asturias and other places dear to the
hearts of Reds and Parlor Pinks. They
are urged to take as their preceptor the
“famous” Tom Wintringham, who com-
manded or was at least associated with
a battalion of the Red International
militia (“the finest fighting force the
world has ever seen”), the French ele-
ments of which were last seen making
fast time across the Pyrenees, first aban-
doning the body of a murdered bishop,
preparatory to white-anting the defence
of their own country against German
invasion. . . .
Communists are backing the “civilian
People’s Army” for all they are worth.
Though it would most probably be a
road-cluttering nuisance, they are positive
it would be useful —especially, no doubt,
after the war. For this reason alone,
the Commonwealth Government should
strangle the thing before birth.
No Australian worthy of the name
wants any Australian woman to fight for
him. There are a hundred other things
Australian women can do and are
doing, from working in munition fac-
tories and hospitals to making camou-
flage nets and knitting socks. And for
every Australian who is fit and willing
to fight for Australia there is a place in
one or other of the fighting services,
where he will be trained by men who
know their jobs and will wear the uni-
form appropriate to his rank. If he wants
to be a soldier and is ineligible for the
A.I.F. or the C.M.F., he can join the
Volunteer Defence Corps. The yolun-
teer Defence Corps is composed in the
main of returned soldiers who are doing
a great job. Given a fair issue of the
modern weapons they have so rapidly
mastered, they would walk through any
number of Red International battalions
if it were possible to assemble those
heroes in one body on a convenient line.
The Volunteer Defence Corps has its
own uniform. In the nature of things
uniforms could not be issued to “a
civilian People’s Army,” and under the
laws of war civilians taken with arms in
their hands or caught performing any of
the acts of violence sketched out for them
by the armchair organisers of victory,
who have Madrid, the Asturias and other
places on the brain, could and would be
shot out of hand. And though the arm-
chair projectors do not stress the point,
myriads of civilians have been shot in
this war by an enemy who has no
scruples about evidence, while soldiers
taken in uniform have been spared.
It is certain that the enemy would not
spare even captured members of rifle
clubs if they fought in mufti. The francs-
tireurs of 1870 developed out of a rifle-
club organisation and went into action
without uniform. When the Germans
caught them they butchered the unfor-
tunate patriots without mercy. And so,
if Australia were invaded, would the
Japanese butcher members of “a civilian
People’s Army” if the Government
implements what fools propose.
The Complete Realist.
Nobody with the gift of seeing the comic
side of smugness in high places can afford
to miss the weekly newspaper articles to
which Mr. McKell, the Sydney Premier,
puts his name. They are superb, and
the one published on January 24 was
priceless.
It came out on the second day of the
Japanese invasion of New Guinea. It
being a Saturday, thousands of McKell
Government clerks were preparing for
three days of perfect idleness. With a
few casual and unhappy exceptions, they
never work on Saturday (or, of course,
on Sunday), and Monday was one of the
eight annual holidays to which they are
prescriptively entitled, along with three
weeks’ annual holidays, sick leave when
indisposed and “long” leave.
Wrote Mr. McKell:
The war has crossed our threshold. The
moment for complete realism can no longer
be deferred. The people of Australia, and
more particularly those living on the east
coast, must face the fact that at any
moment bombs may be falling on us, or
even an invading force making for our
C °lf t Japan moves only one step further
southward, it will be necessary for the
Governments of Australia to take steps
which, temporarily at least, will revolu-
tionise the lives of hundreds of thousands
of our families. The people must be pre-
pared for anything and for any demand
that may have to be made upon them.
There was a lot more, but Lord Mayor
Crick must come in here. On that same
momentous day, referring to the Mc-
Kell Government’s “arrangements” for
evacuation, Mr. Crick declared savagely
that, “though responsible for the protec-
tion and safety of the citizens, I have no
instructions on what I am to do or on
what is expected of me in an emergency.”
Conflicting and overlapping regulations
have been sent to the City Council, first
from the Minister for N.E.S. and later from
the Premier’s Department. Other State
departments also issue conflicting instruc-
tions dealing with evacuation and N.E.S.
The State Government is merely trying
to pass on to the councils financial and
other responsibilities that the Government
itself should undertake.
The City Council is now asked practically
to take a census of all the people in the
city area and the suburban councils are
expected to do the same. This work will
take months to complete.
Who is responsible for preventing a rush
of people to shelters?
Evacuation and all matters relating to
it should be immediately co-ordinated and
placed under the control of an official
Federal body.
The Monday holiday arrived. Workers
in war industries were implored by the
Commonwealth Government to work,
and nearly all of them did ; but “many
complained that they were late in reach-
ing their places of employment because
holiday timetables were observed, par-
ticularly by the [McKell] Railway De-
partment” (“S. M. Herald”).
The McKell department which controls
trams and buses also sacrificed the needs
of war workers to the convenience of
holiday-makers: McKell Government
clerks and the rest. Special McKell
trams (124!) were put on for the Rand-
wick races (attendance, 24,500) and for
a Stadium fight (attendance, 12,000).
But “an A.C.I. employee said that he
and about 400 other workers waited
outside the company’s gates at Waterloo
after finishing work. They counted more
than 40 special race trams go by; then
one already-crowded ordinary tram came
to take them home” (“Daily Telegraph”).
It is to be hoped that the claims of
“complete realism” will not be too exact-
ing to prevent Mr. McKell continuing
his journalistic exercises. Though they
doubtless make many people leap with
rage, others persist in regarding them as
funny without being vulgar.
The Superfluous Six.
Bad as was their record before, the per-
formance of the six State excrescences
since the advent of Japan in the war
beggars description. Though a page were
filled with the muddle, confusion, conflict,
waste for which they are responsible,
more pages would be needed to outline in
full the dreadful state of affairs. And in
their constant clashing with the national
Government they have come to be a posi-
tive menace. Witness, for one thing, the
frequent Loan Council wrangles —there
was to have been another this week.
Many a thoughtful serviceman, at
grips with the old enemy, and going out
to meet the new, must turn his back on
the excrescences with an uneasy shiver at
what he is leaving behind. And still more
thoughtful men, forced by age or unfit-
ness to stay at home and wait, eager to
work, to do anything to help, but baulked
at every turn by the awful bottleneck of
departments, politicians, boards, regula-
tions, etc., turn envious eyes across the
Tasman to Maoriland, where a Labor
Government, with no illusions about any-
body’s rights or privileges in such a time,
with no squawking State Governments
to bother it, is getting on with the big
job at full speed and with full credit.
The sort of spectacle we must present
to the Maorilander should not be allowed
to hold the stage a day longer.
THE NEW BOUNDARY RIDER.
"The eastern approaches to Australia and New Zealand are to be known a. 'The Ansae' Area, and will
be under American command.”


■THE ARIZONA'
COWBOY SADDLE
☆
£l2/17/6
made with Double
i Riggins', with Two-cord
(Jmchas, 17/6 extra.
V.S.W. Freight on Saddles
Paid for Cash with Order.
ALTHER & STEVENSON Cr?:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
■
T
RELIEF FROM PERSONAL WORRIES
Two special books are available, free of charge, from Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd.
The first, entitled, " The Task That Few Men Want/' deals with the Company's
special service in connection with the execution of Wills and the administration
of Estates. The second book {''Hand Over Your Worry") tells how Burns Philp
Trust Co. Ltd. can assume responsibility for your personal business affairs during
your lifetime. It has special appeal to those living in retirement and to those
whose professional activities are of an arduous character.
These publications will gladly be forwarded on request. Both are of particular
importance in current circumstances.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
THAT
•-
the
1 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 7901 Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
KEEPS HER FIT
A clear skin and bright, sparkling eyes
are signs of radiant health. If YOU
suffer from constipation take one or two
NYAL FIGSEN TABLETS before
retiring; no nausea, no griping pain.
In the morning the action of Figsen is
'wild, gentle, sure. NYAL FIGSEN
helps to restore a normal bowel action
without forming a habit. Equally good
for young and old. Figsen is one of the
168 dependable NYAL FAMILY
MEDICINES. Sold by chemists every-
where. l/3i a tin.
The next best thing to Nature . .»
NyaS Figs&m
FOB CONSTIPATION
POLITICAL POINTS
For several weeks it has been no secret
at Canberra that Curtin was very angry
with Churchill, but he did not boil over
until he got to Perth. There he said in
a broadcast:—•
No single nation can afford to risk its
future on the infallibility of one man, nor
can any nation afford to submerge its right
of speaking for itself because of the
assumed omniscience of another.
Pity it wasn’t said two years ago —not
necessarily for publication, but as an
assertion of what Churchill and the
Churchill press have chosen to forget.
To judge by the uproar, everybody who
can raise his voice in Parliaments, the
press, the radio or the street is howling
about evacuation. Everybody, that is,
except those most concerned, the mothers
of families. Nobody has bothered to get
their views.
Victoria’s Mr. Dunstan has expressed
“gratification” that Victorian A.L.P.
branches have withdrawn motions to end
Labor support for his C.P. Ministry. He
has also said that he is still waiting on
Commonwealth approval of his evacua-
tion plans. If he means that he proposes
to evacuate his Government he needn’t
worry about anybody stopping him, pro-
vided he evacuates it to Wyndham.
Curtin got in a shrewd uppercut when
8.8. C. twitted him about “holidaying in
West Australia.” Said John: “8.8. C. is
always too garrulous and frequently very
ignorant... .1 know of no combination
so useful to the enemy as a dull mind and
a voluble tongue.” True, but why pick
on 8.8. C. alone? There are others.
According to a London message, James
Purves-Stewart, an aged doctor, caused a
“stir in British and Soviet circles” by
criticising Communism. Why British
circles? Has Communism suddenly be-
come something that is above criticism?
Enter Mr. Sam Aarons, after a long
absence from print. Sydney “D.T.,”
which seems to have an extensive
acquaintance among people like Mr. Sam
Aarons, describes Mr. Sam Aarons as
a “sergeant-major in the People’s Army
of Spain, where he spent 21 months in
1937-38,” and reports him as saying that
“we in Sydney should be organised into
a huge citizen army on the same lines as
Madrid.” Australia already has an
A.1.F., a C.M.F. and a Volunteer De-
fence Corps, so it doesn’t need “a huge
citizen army on the same lines as
Madrid.” It can even do without the
eminent military talents of Mr. Sam
Aarons.
Though Australian airmen and at least
one battalion of Australian soldiers have
taken part in the second Libyan cam-
paign, Churchill gave all the credit to
“British, South African, New Zealand,
Indian, Free French and Polish soldiers
and airmen.” Certainly no Australian
could wish to deny these fine fighting
men their due meed of recognition, but
it seems queer that the P.M. did not men-
tion that one Australian division had a
glorious share in the first Libyan cam-
paign and another in the “prolonged,
stubborn, steadfast and successful defence
of Tobruk.” In another paragraph he
said “we shall not put any obstacles to
the return of the splendid Australian
troops who volunteered for Imperial ser-
vice to defend their own homeland,” so
the omission may not have been deli-
berate. But it was distinctly unfortunate.
With a background of menacing events
on Australia’s northern frontier-to throw
it into stark relief, there was a week-end
outbreak of political charges and counter-
charges that beggars description. “Guilty
men,” screeched Ward (Ward, of all
men!) at the previous Government, and
Spender, Menzies, Hughes, Senators
Keans and Cameron, Fadden, Ward
again, Spender again and Senator Ashley
joined in. The last thing heard was Arjny
Minister Forde having a crack at S.A.
Premier Playford. Constructive criticism
is always useful and welcome. Destruc-
tive criticism of the kind indulged in by
party politicians at the height of what the
newspapers call a “bitter election” should
be abandoned by mutual consent, or the
abandonment should be forced by public
opinion, for the duration.
“Canberra Calling,” the A.B.C.
“feature,” should be mended or ended
“The arrival of American troops, ‘the vanguard of a larger force,’ in Northern Ireland
has drawn a strong protest from Mr. De Valera.”
“Share an’ it’s a respectable house Oi kape, Mrs. Ulster, an’ Oi’ll not be puttin’
up wid me neighbor enthertainin’ strange men.”
with promptitude and dispatch. Last
week it was mostly “Canberra Politicians
Squalling,” and who wants to hear them
squall?
“To those who are now demanding
that Mr. Duff Cooper should be thrown
to the wolves, I say that I regret that I
am unable to gratify their wishes,” Thus
Churchill in his “I take the fullest per-
sonal responsibility” speech. Then he
said; “The Libyan battle would have
been lost on November 24 if General
Auchinleck had not changed the com-
mand.” In short, Sir Alan Cunningham,
his great previous services notwithstand-
ing, was thrown to the wolves. He didn’t
happen to be a politician in the Churchill
set.
Journals published in English must'be
among the unreported casualties of the
war in the Pacific. While it still kept the
old flag flying, the Peking and Tientsin
“Times” had an article about the Aus-
tralian Labor Government. Flattering
to Curtin, it praised also his “two strong
righthanders,” Dr. Evatt and—yes—
“ Mr. John Beasley, son of the former
leader of the Australian Non-Communist
Labor party.” It is only 15 months since
Beasley led his Non-Com. group into the
larger Caucus, but it must seem ages to
Pekin and Tientsin.
It is pleasing to observe that at least
one staple industry is carrying on undis-
turbed, Borthwick, a Victorian M.L.A.,
forecast an early State election ; issue, re-
distribution of seats. Premier Dunstan
does not agree.
Even if the Allies achieve what all de-
voutly hope for —a speedy victory—there
will be other matters of more urgency to
be dealt with than redistribution of seats.
True; and State Parliaments will be one
of ’em.
Moscow is negotiating with Canberra
for shipments of Australian wheat. There
is plenty on hand, but, in the light of
Curtin’s external policy that was to have
been “shaped toward obtaining Russian
aid,” it is queer to read that “Australia
has suggested to Russia that, as she is at
peace with Japan, she should use her own
ships.” That appeared in a Moscow-
maniac paper which for years assured
the Australian flapper and knut that the
moment Japan went looking for trouble
Russia would be at it with scores of sub-
marines and thousands of ’planes which
in no time would have the Japs wailing
over the ruins of their ports and “paper
cities.”
Note how inevitably the little chickens
come home to roost. The Victorian rail-
way department has been forced to
announce “restrictions on the transport
of many commodities.... owing to de-
pleted coal stocks.”
Received from the Apple and Pear
Board, seven sheets of foolscap, closely
typed on both sides, purporting to ex-
plain when and why the A. and P. Board
was established. It explains when the
A. and P. B. was established.
“S. M, Herald” thinks it’s “time the
State Government gave the public some
clear idea of what it intends regarding
both education and evacuation, for the
two questions are inseparable.” How
can anything completely lacking in clear
ideas give away clear ideas?
The war worker earning anything from
£8 to £l5 a week is protected by regula-
tions which provide, among other things,
that the owner who refuses lodgings to
a war worker cannot subsequently accept
as a lodger any person not a war worker,
Moreover, a landlord may not sell a
house if the tenant is a war worker and
doesn’t give his consent without the land-
lord becoming liable to a heavy penalty,
This may be necessary in the opinion of
Ministers like Ward, but it makes strange
reading alongside the constant complaints
of service men’s wives about their in-
ability to rent homes. There is no provi-
sion compelling a landlord to rent his
house to a service man’s wife.
“It is unfortunate that you should take
a delight in raising this most contentious
question at a time when unity is essen-
tial,” has now become the common reply
in Melbourne to anybody who starts an
argument on anything from football to
Hitler. The citizens have picked it up
from their Premier, Mr. Dunstan.
Curtin is indignant because his Indus-
trial Relations Conference collapsed ; but
what else could he expect? To it he
sent Minister Dedman, who seven months
ago said, “with a full sense of responsi-
bility,” that “I don’t believe we can win
this war under the capitalistic system,” and
Minister Ward, who shares Dedman’s
views, with incivility added. The wage-
payers’ representatives, outvoted from
the beginning, declined to commit the
general body of wage-payers to plans for
which they had no authority, though
thoroughly approved of by Dedman and
Ward. So they left, pursued by Ward
with one of those gibes that go down so
well in the ’Loo.
In Billy’s opinion, Churchill is “the man
to whom the Empire owes its existence
today,” and it is “anti-British” to criticise
him. Was it “anti-British” to criticise
him in 1915, as Monash did from Anzac
on July 18 (“We have dropped the
Churchill way of rushing in before we
are ready, and hardly knowing what we
are going to do next, in favor of the
Kitchener way”)? Was it “anti-British"
to criticise Asquith in 1916? Both had
to resign.
“0.C.5.H.”: As it appeared in the
papers:
The Loan Council is to meet at Canberra
to reconsider the States’ loan programme.
A more or less intelligent anticipation
of the procedure:
The gun was to go off at 11 a.m. By 11.15
State Ministers, two or three Federal Ministers,
Treasury officials and a number of economists
have arrived. Salutations all round. Enter the
P.M., with worried look. More salutations.
All seated. The P.M. announces that he de-
sires to confer with Premiers alone. Other
Ministers, officers and economists depart. All
doors are closed. The P.M. holds forth on the
national emergency, hoping that “Tiger” McKell
will be a shade less unreasonable. The last time
reduction of loan expenditure was discussed the
only “adjustments” made were to allot another
£750,000 to N. S. Wales. Queensland, not to
be outdone, hopped in for another £250,000.
A South Australian resolution for a reduction
of £5,000,000 had to be withdrawn after it had
slated by nearly all and sundry. The
P.M. is left hoping.


THE BRITISH NAVY USES EXIDE
The British Navy—from battleships to submarines —
places implicit faith in Exide Batteries for essential
equipment. Bear this in mind when buying a new
battery for your car, radio or home lighting plant.
Obtainable from dealers throughout Australia.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOINS WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
r«
in
d§p
PERSONAL ITEMS
The musterer who tallied up the Greek
gods and made the total 30,000 can have
the job of grading the world’s living
orators, but in one respect, at least, Aus-
tralian Prime Minister John Curtin can
be named for a place—his radio voice is
by far the most youthful of them all. In
fact, it is boyish. His “fight or work’
broadcast last week sounded over the air
exactly like a neatly prepared set speech
read by a high-school boy on speech day,
except that sincerity was in every word,
which can’t be said of all leading orators.
In places the intonation resembled that
of R. G. Menzies (though a shade more
distinctly Australian). There was the
same clarity; but not, however, even the
Menzies maturity, and the ex-P.M.’s voice
is juvenile enough compared with that of
Churchill or Roosevelt, both of whom
sound every minute of their age, and
sometimes more.
A coat of arms for William (Bill)
Queale, new president of the S.A.
Chamber of Manufactures, would need
to include penguin and Polar bear at bay
(he pioneered frigeration engineering in
Adelaide and is a director of Kel-
vinators); magpie and galah couchant
(he’s chairman of directors of two S.A.
broadcasting stations); crossed pick and
shovel (for 10 years manager of Broken
Hill Junction lead mine); and petrol
license rampant (he’s a director of
Richards, motor-body builders). And per-
President of S.A. Chamber of
Manufactures.
haps some learned ornithologist could
name also the rara avis a fledgling of
which would represent Born in South
Australia.
One of Australia’s flock of Agents-
General in London has learnt some-
thing useful! As a voluntary worker
both in that bombed city and other bat-
tered spots over the last two years, Vic-
toria’s representative in the flock, Albert
Louis Bussau, has got first-hand experi-
ence of Fritz’s Blitzes. So Premier Dun-
stan is bringing him back (complete with
knighthood and other souvenirs) to advise
on A.R.P. Born at Natimuk (Vic.), this
pattern of a modern Agent-General has
been mixed up in wheat and politics most
of his life —Ouyen’s choice for the Legis-
lative Ass. (1932-38); president of both
Federal and State Wheatgrowers’ Asso-
ciations for years; and Minister for
Transport before being told to pack his
bags for Fogtown.
Some of these flying chaps move as
fast in their career as in their ’planes.
Instance, Keith Truscott, the Victorian
ace promoted last week to squadron-
leader and command of the Australian
Spitfire Squadron in England, In August,
1940, an aircraftman at Essendon ’drome,
he only just scraped through his preli-
minary flying tests under the Empire
scheme. Crossing to Canada to complete
training early in 1941, he became a flight-
lieutenant six months later. Then to
England, and in no time a name as one
of the best of fighter pilots.
In what spare time he can wangle W.
R. Glasson, the Molong (N.S.W.) Rom-
ney Marsh sheepman, has been doing a
useful job compiling histories of his dis-
trict, publishing them at his own expense
for circulation among friends. His latest
is a history of the shepherd days, when
only a good dog stood between the sheep
and the distance. It records that in 1861
Titus Evers, Lewis Rymer and John
Woolbank put up the first wire fence ever
built in Australia, the first in a series of
twitches that were to choke the shepherds
out of a job.
Welcome, and filed as a souvenir, Vol.
I, No. 1, of “Through,” the official jour-
nal of Signals, Bth Aus. Div., forwarded
to The Bulletin “with the compliments
of the Commanding Officer and all ranks,
Malaya, Christmas, 1941.” Named as
editor, Cpl. G. C. Bingham ; in the news
the other day through a story he told a
press correspondent of a particularly
tough bit of scrapping, including a
desperate dash made by a volunteer driver
attempting to take a truck loaded with
wounded through a Jap-held position:
The Japanese machine-gunned them, kill-
ing the driver. The truck turned over in a
ditch. It is unlikely any of the wounded
inside survived. But it was their only
chance.
In charge of this Sig. unit is Lt.-Col. C.
H. Kappe, who started at Duntroon near
the end of last war, and who built up the
right sort of physique for the hard
Malayan fighting when he twice repre-
sented Victoria and once represented
Queensland in inter-State hockey.
He can think quicker than he can
write and he can write quicker than any-
body in the public service sums up
George Brown, the Victorian Emergency
Service czar appointed to co-ordinate
A.R.P. in Melbourne. He once won a
shorthand speed certificate by writing 250
words per minute, and today he’s even
better at it. His Short Cuts to Shorthand
is a Pitman textbook. Emerging from
Mount Pleasant State school at Ballarat,
his birth town, he entered the Vic. Rail-
ways in 1901 ; since 1934 has been Sec-
retary for Mines and is Secretary of the
State Coal Committee. When in 1940
there was an urgent cry for salvage, he
went in and put the campaign on a work-
ing basis.
With a Maoriland soldiering record
dating back to 1902 and including being
hit on Gallip., four times mentioned in
dispatches, D.S.O. and the Russian Order
of St. Stanislaus, Brigadier William Henry
Cunningham has been made major-
general for his splendid leadership
with the N.Z.E.F. in Libya. Now 59, a
Wellington barrister of 30 years’ stand-
ing, he was Public Prosecutor when this
war drew him off to more soldiering.
Well enough qualified as accountant
and auditor to act as Relieving Recording
Angel, Maoriland-born Salvation Army
Commissioner John F. Lewis has been
given the man-size job of managing the
S.A.’s publishing and supplies h.q. in
London. For the last two of his 45 years
with the S.A, he has been Governor of
Men’s Social Work in the U.K. and
Ireland. A while back he held S.A. com-
mands in various Australian States.
For a long time it’s been a safe bet
that anything to do with feathers and
chickens in Australia would have a Jud-
son or a Judson bird somewhere around.
Even the N.S.W. Egg Board had to have
a Judson on it. As far as Noel Judson
is concerned they’ll all have to wait now
—he has torn himself away from his
Thornleigh (Sydney) Australorps to get
into the A.I.F. Last time he’d got as far
as Africa on his way to join the R.A.F.
when the Armistice turned him back.
“El V.” on a broken link:
Latest English papers to arrive report the
death of the third Earl of Leicester. I re-
member sitting next to him at a Parliamentary
function in Westminster Hall —an unobtrusive
and kindly old soul who might have been taken
for a retired country professional man. We
went out together. The Speaker’s Chair for
the new capital at Canberra, fashioned from
some of Westminster’s beams which had seen :
Charles I tried, stood in the hall. His lord-
ship contemplated it, sat in it and remarked:
“I have a great interest in Australia —my grand-
father attended Council the day its foundation
was approved.” In 1926, he was speaking ot
something which happened in 1786! Grandpa
was born in 1754; his grandson died at the end
of 1941, so that they spanned the ages between
George II and George VI —187 years. The
new earl is a mere boy—6l.
A gentle-voiced, rather slight figure,
with collar the other way round, greeted
present writer and Fred Waite, Maoriland
journalist-politician, having a look over
the Rev. Samuel Marsden’s old haunts
at Windsor (N.S.W.), Identified as the
Rev. Norman Jenkyn, he showed the
visitors over the old rectory and church,
mentioned a plan for their restoration,
produced a postcard of the fane and,
before the visitors realised they were
marked men, extracted £1 from Waite
for the cause with an ease, a delicacy and
precision that left the donor in a daze
only dispersed by a couple of quickies
at the nearest pub. “Well,” said Waite,
when he recovered, “I wish to heaven we
had that cove collecting party funds.”
For 30 years rector in the old town, and
one of the very small tally of parson
mayors. Rev. Jenkyn, who passed hence
the other day, hailed from Rockhampton
(Q.); his grandfather, Arthur Macalister,
was a former Queensland Premier.
“Oxmead” embraces Clio:
Heaven forbid I should throw doubts on the
record of any veteran soldier, but a par. about
the ancient warrior Harry Brown (B. 28/1/ 42)
leaves me sorely puzzled. He was 94, it is
recorded, when the Last Post sounded for him,
and had fought, in addition to various other
wars, in the Crimea and the Indian Mutiny.
But if he was born in 1848 (or even in 1847)
how on earth could he have been a participant
in either campaign? The Crimean War was
finished in 1856; the Mutiny ended in 1858.
The last accepted survivor from the Mutiny—an
officer, if my recollection serves aright—died
in England some years ago.
If the Japs hadn’t poked a neck out,
Major-General Alan B. Steele would by
now probably have taken over the in-
fantry command in the Middle East to
which he was appointed late last year.
Kept in Australia to help with the axing,
he’s now in charge of Southern Com-
mand Base. A Queenslander (Gympie ;
1895), he is yet another convincing ad.
for Duntroon: he was the youngest mem-
ber of the first class to enter there, and
one of five to get cricket and football
colors throughout their four-year term.
Graduating when 19, he went straight
abroad, and two years later was second-
in-command of the 52nd Battalion. When
the present shindy started he went to a
succession of appointments in Queens-
land, Victoria and Tasmania, and was
commandant at Darwin during its most
MAJOR-GENERAL STEELE.
hectic period of development. His
strategical study of the 1914-18 war in
France drew high praise from Monash.
Wallace Charles Wurth, named
Director-General of Man-power, had
three and a half years with the 7th Field
Ambulance and remained a full private.
Even Fritz, trying to promote him
elsewhere, only wounded him. Back
to his chosen public service, he has
gone higher and higher. It’s a pure
furphy that he actually ran away from
home to join the public service, but
he has that sort of zeal. Not that
it’s done him any harm. Instead of
being dried up to parchment, with a
pigeonhole set aside for an air-raid
shelter, he looks to have thrived on
spending most of his 46 years in the
N.S.W. Lands and Justice Departments,
Director of Man-power.
graduating at the Law School, then
Under-Secretary for Labor, Industrial
Registrar and chairmanship of the Public
Service Board. Perhaps his best work
was done as Registrar—that is, acting
as Solomon’s Understudy to Capital and
Labor. That led to the present large job.
Into the silence:
At Neutral Bay, Sydney, Mrs. Dorothy Bad-
gery, known to vast numbers of Australian
youngsters as Dorothy Wall, author-illustrator
of some of the most charming books for young
folk so far produced here. Like many another
Australian literary figure, she came from
Maoriland.
At Strathfield, Sydney, at 86, John Henry
Wise, M.L.C., in the N.S.W. House from 1917
to 1934; a District Chief Ruler of Rechabites
and a president of the Friendly Societies’
Association.
From the Tweed to the Murray and beyond
the name of Brunskill crops up every time a
farmer looks at his stored fodder or a show
society stages a competition in that line:
Anthony S. Brunskill, dead at 51, carried on
at his Border Leicester stud at Old Borambola
the tradition started by the late Anthony
Brunskill, of Allonby, Wagga (N.S.W.), who
had led the way in forcing Australian landmen,
agricultural societies, Governments and banks
to see the advantage of putting something aside
for droughty days.
Brigadier Eric Sudley Unwin, M.C., in a
flying accident in the Middle East. His father
was Harry Addington Unwin, onetime private
sec. to N.S.W. Governor Lord Loftus, and he
was born in Sydney. Taken as a boy to
London, he was sent to Charles Lamb’s and
Coleridge’s old school, Christ Hospital, and
subsequently Sandhurst. He won his M.C. in
the last war.
In Brisbane, at 62, John O’Keefe, Queensland
Minister for Mines. He had the probably
unique record of having replaced two State
Premiers in Parliament, being elected for Chilla-
goe when E. G. Theodore resigned to meet his
Water'oo (or Moscow) at Herbert, and later
succeeding Bill McCormack for Cairns. A
foundation member of the Labor movement
in Queensland.
Out for 82, in London, Sir Jeremiah Colman,
last of the banqueters who welcomed Dave
Gregory’s 1878 Australian XI and a few days
later were staggered when the tourists dished
the M.C.C. at Lord’s by nine wickets in one
day. He was a mainstay of Surrey; president,
1916-23. I’om Garrett, of Sydney, due for his
84th birthday next July, is sole survivor of that
Australian team.
At Ambo station, Longreach (Q.), Alexander
E. Moray, who, when near 70, led the land
relief party when Kingsford Smith and Ulm
were lost (1929). A Scot (Inverness), brought to
Australia when he was two, he knew every
square mile of North Australia, managed cattle
and sheep stations for Queensland National and
was pastoral inspector for N.T. and W.A.
stations controlled by Vestey interests. A son
is Major Maurice Moray, who when last heard
of was at Darwin.
In Sydney, W. B. Dailey, journalist; son of
the William Bede Dailey who was a N.S.W.
Attorney-General and Acting-Premier, and
brother of John B. Dailey, former associate-
editor of The Bulletin, on whose literary staff
W. B. Dailey also served just before the 1914-18
war, after doing his bit in which he conducted
a very popular Diggers’ page for “Smith’s
Weekly.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Wodgil”: Two of those young women
whom the flapper press calls “socialites,”
and whose heads it turns by putting their
pictures in the paper and expatiating ad-
miringly on their imbecilities, have made
appearances in the Divorce Court; one
in London, the other in Sydney. Both
belong to the Periwinkle Beach Set or
something of the kind. One, married at
19 to an A.I.F. man, betrayed her neo-
Hollywood romances, which were very
sudden, by keeping a diary, choice
extracts from which were tendered in
evidence. This was the choicest;
Soon I will be able to walk into Romano’s
when the band is playing “I Could Kiss
You for That” or “Night and Day” or
any one of a dozen tunes without feeling
Bobbie’s arms around me and without hear-
ing Bobbie’s voice saying in its funny
tender way “Hello, sweetheart, how’s my
little girl?” 1 don’t think 1 will ever do
a rhumba without feeling again my eyes
caught and held by Bobbie’s, and my body
caught closely to him, while Brian is sing-
ing “Make Love with a Guitar.”
“Brian” is unknown to this chronicler.
“Bobbie,” it seems, was an American, an
assistant purser or something, who “was
only in the country for a couple of days.”
Among the many merits of all-in con-
scription is that it would oblige “social-
ites,” for the first time in their lives, to
get a first-hand acquaintance with toil.
* * * *
“Simon Crusher”: Of all the mistakes
Hollywood makes there is one which
seems to turn up every time I visit the
local flea-hatchery—the depiction of a
person who has been bedridden for
months getting up and walking imme-
“ Height, five-ten; chest, forty-two — U.K.!”
diately. I’ve seen it twice in the last
couple of weeks, and I wish someone
would explain to Pandrum Z. Gobble-
gutz or whoever is responsible that a
person who has been confined to bed for
only a few weeks can hardly stand, let
alone walk. After a few months in bed
it’s not merely a matter of balance and
learning to walk again, but the muscles
become so weak from inaction that they
need a good deal of exercise and massage
before they can support the body. So
next time Sonja Sawdust arises from
months in bed and totters across the
room to the arms of Dark Stable I shall
rise and scream for the return of my
money.
♦ * ♦ «
“D.E.”: Macassar, whose strait has
been the scene of the greatest doing the
Japs have ever had in all their recorded
history, is mentioned in Byron’s “Don
Juan”: —•
In virtues nothing earthly could surpass her
Save thine “incomparable oil,” Macassar!
Neat and, I fancy, unique. Only a
Byron could mention an apothecary’s
preparation in such a connection and get
away with it. Apropos, do the women
ever use Macassar oil nowadays? I sup-
pose they would hate the notion of apply-
ing it to their shorn locks, but smeared
below the knee it might have a better
effect than some of the stuff with which
so many of them try to hide coarse hair
and other leg-blemishes.
* * * *
“Archbell”: Responding to an appeal
by the military authorities to hand in
binoculars, a punter friend of mine sur-
rendered his long-treasured race glasses
with the remark “If you see as many
flamin’ dead ’uns through the damn’
things as I have, the war will soon be
over.”
» * # •
“Craiser”; The uncultured layman isn’t
the only one who has prejudices against
the wine of this country (B. 21 /1 / ’42). A
winegrowers’ association has an annual
banquet in Melbourne to which each
member brings two unlabelled bottles of
the best from his cellars. They are
handed round incognito and tasted so that
every individual can pass an unprejudiced
opinion on them. On a recent occasion
two bottles were handed to a man
who owns vineyards famous from one
end of Australia to the other. He poured
a little into a glass, sniffed it sagely, held
it up to the light, pondered for half a
minute in the way connoisseurs have
and then applied a few drops of the
beverage conscientiously to his palate.
“Muck!” he snorted. It turned out to
be his own highest-priced vintage.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: If Australia can’t grow as
many war-unconscious Bumbles to the
acre as England, having been a shorter
time at it, she is doing pretty well in Mel-
bourne. A clarion call went out from
the State Emergency Council for carters
to bring sand into the metropolis for the
convenience of householders who had
learnt the technique of the incendiary-
bomb business. The carters nobly rose to
the occasion, toiled out and got the sand,
loaded it on to their trucks and made
for the threatened city. Then some other
authority got up on its hind legs and
stopped them because their loads ex-
ceeded the statutory limit!
# * * *
“Mac Hoots”: In spite of its somewhat
colorful reputation, I had always regarded
Sydney’s King’s Cross —until a few weeks
ago—as a most quiet and respectable area
in which to live: no gunmen, no crime
and only the most decorous misbehavior.
But with the brownout it has become
sinister; shop doorways have become
dark caves in which every loiterer looks
as if he’s plotting something really un-
pleasant. And, seriously, I wouldn’t be
surprised if Crime returns when the full
blackout is imposed. The only brownout
garrotting so far has been in the city—
Macquarie-street—but the other night I
helped my landlady politely eject a
prowler who said he was looking for a
flat, but who was obviously looking for
loot; and a couple of hundred yards
away some enterprising cat-burglar got
away with £5OO worth of diamonds. Air-
raid wardens who were patrolling the
street saw nothing of him,
* * * *
“Homo Ipse”: Recently in an A.I.F.
camp where leave was non-existent owing
to the Japanese threat to Australia, a
Digger applied for and received three
“ Laundry , pliz, for Honorable Diggair Smith!"
days’ leave “as his wife was going to have
an infant.” Returning, his C.O. put the
inevitable “Well, my man, was it a boy
or a girl?” Snorted the Digger, “Don’t
be silly—it takes months!”
* * * ♦
“Oliver Filter”: I was rather amused
to see a Sydney afternoon paper trying
to force a tear over “the once-prosperous
centre of Youanmi,” which is “fast be-
coming just another Goldfields ghost
town.” As for being a “centre,” Youanmi
is about 300 miles from Perth as a mad
dog runs, about 40 miles south of the
Mount Magnet-Sandstone railway and
about 90 miles south-east of Magnet. It
lies in the Black Range district and was,
I believe, named by two prospectors who
discovered gold there—“you an’ me”
was the intention of the title, but whether
time or the prospectors arranged the
present spelling I don’t know. “Pros-
perous” the town may have been —after
the fashion of many other small towns
which spring up around any streak of
gold which shows sufficient promise to
attract capital—but the fact that “its
yearly tax contribution total was about
£lO,OOO, while the mine payroll was about
£4OOO a fortnight” doesn’t mean much.
Less than 300 men could earn that £4OOO
and pay the major part of the £lO,OOO
tax. And, anyway, since the shareholders
in the mine dropped something like
£500,000 I’ll bet they didn’t regard it as
“prosperous.”
♦ * * *
“F.S.”: It has leaked out that a few
months ago the trustees of Melbourne
National Gallery disposed of copies of
the Elgin marbles and other sculptures
for an average of two and sixpence
apiece. For some reason or other, pos-
sibly because they were a bit dam-
aged, it was thought fit to sell them by
auction. The sale was advertised, but
bidding was confined to two or three.
Apparently the trustees did not know that
artists the world over regard these copies
for all practical purposes as just as good
as the originals, and that a few chips
don’t matter. The Venus de Milo is not
valueless because she is minus a couple
of limbs.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Judging by a matrimonial
advt. in Australia’s oldest daily news-
paper, the single man in a reserved occu-
pation is something of a prize. “Gentle-
man,” it says, “30, exempt military,
wishes meet young lady, view mat.” It’s
to be hoped this prize specimen isn’t left
too long in lonely state, else he’s likely
to spend some of his savings in the Syd-
ney store known as Farmer’s. To the gent,
who writes Farmer’s Monday advertise-
ment, “Gentleman, 30, exempt,” must
have a special appeal, otherwise how ex-
plain that “Esquire’s Monday Column”
—bang alongside a double headline
announcing that both A.I.F. and militia
were in holts with the Japs —was urging
the fit male Australian to buy golf-sticks
at 375. 6d., a flannel sports suit at £8 Bs.
and shoes at 495. 6d., and reminding him
that “a taboo on checks for the duration
would be tantamount to sartorial
suicide”? Yair, sartorial suicide!
* * * *
“Methuselah, All this blither
about Curtin being the first Australian to
short-cut diplomatic channels and tell the
British Government where it gets off
makes me wonder what sort of history
peahen journalists learned at school. Cer-
tainly they were not introduced to some
of the greatest battles of the political
past—for instance, to Joe Chamberlain
saying he would be damned if the Com-
monwealth Constitution Bill would go
through without amendment, and to the
substantial forms of Deakin, Barton and
Kingston dancing round a room hand in
hand in triumph after they had used the
social functions which Joe himself had
arranged for them as platforms to defeat
him and force on him the famous com-
promise on Clause 74 (Privy Council
appeal). And at the 1907 Imperial Con-
ference Churchill got it in the neck from
Deakin in a way he never forgot. When
he insisted that the British party system
was “a fatal bar to the settlement of any
tariff agreement” with the Dominions,
Deakin asked him blandly whether the
“British party system” was “to destroy
everything but itself,” and whether the
Empire was to be “closed down to avoid
friction in the House of Commons.”
Also, to those who heard Bruce talk to
some authoritative London gatherings
during the birth-throes of the Westminster
Statute, Curtin and Evatt sound mild.
* * * *
“Mcßawbee”; Whether all this black-
ing-out and browning-out with which
Australian cities are experimenting is
worth while from an A.R.P. standpoint
may be debated, but as for me I’m going
to obey the law and run no risk of fines.
Forbye, there’s economy in it—no out-
side lights, no window display lighting,
no neon signs, and all the street lighting
reduced in number and candle-power. It
must be saving a city like Sydney some-
where about £30,000 a week, and the
County Council (which supplies electri-
city) isn’t altogether a loser, for it can
cut down its coal bill. I’m suggesting that
advantage could be improved upon if on
moonlight nights all outside lighting—on
streets, railway stations and all public
places—should be cut out. Street light-
ing is cut out during moonlight in hun-
dreds of small Australasian boroughs and
counties, and nobody a penny the worse.
In fact, I for one prefer unaided moon-
light to the half-pie effect of moonlight-
cum brownout. It’s safer, and, hech,
mon! it’s cheaperrr!
LAY OF THE LONG DOG.
“The much-stressed ‘workingman’s sport.’ ”
— “Pilot” on greyhound racing (U. 28/l/’42).
“The poor man’s racehorse” was a designation
That one occasionally heard applied
To the lean whippet in his avocation
Of gambling counter- —on the other side.
But since the artificial hare’s employment
It seems the greyhound’s locomotive powers
Suffice to thrill the worker with enjoyment
And give the son of toil his crowded hours.
Where is the whippet, once so swift and tractile?
Where is he now? Ah, where are last year’s
snows?
Gone with the dodo and the pterodactyl,
Evanished with the moa, I suppose.
And these gaunt tykes whose frantic sprints and
scrambles,
As after a synthetic prey they flew,
Afforded such a scope for modest gambles,
Can they be headed for oblivion, too?
What do their owners think, those sturdy fellows
Deep-versed in canine lore? Do they grow
wan
Sensing their occupation (like Othello’s).
Should war persist, will mighty soon be gone?
If proletarian sport should come a mucker,
-However fast he’s guaranteed to scud,
What dog can ever hope to earn his tucker,
As far less nimble noddies, at the stud?
What then awaits these good old kennel-stagers
Who’ve given coves and blokes like me and
you
A chance to risk our weekly wage in wagers?
Nothing, presumably, except the Zoo.
And even there those fierce, voracious mammals
Who reckon aged horseflesh toothsome prog,
And wouldn’t shy at donkeys or at camels,
Might draw the line at masticating dog.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
LET’S.
“Let us be brethren in the face of the common
foe.” — Prime Minister Curtin.
A wish that well may win agreement hearty,
A hope that history may yet relate
These were the days when “none was for a
party
And all were for the State.”
“Let us be brethren.” Points of view aforetime
That couldn’t be adjusted or ignored
May profitably, you infer, in war-time
Be bundled overboard.
Close up the ranks. To hell with feud and
faction!
Old party shibboleths perforce must go,
That one and all may heed the call to action
Against a ruthless foe.
Let’s all be brethren in our spheres respective—
For such fraternity as this begets
Firm confidence of reaching an objective —
Yes, Mr. Curtin, let’s!
And, seeing that example beats direction,
A mild suggestion I’m impelled to drop:
Viz., that the opening move in this connection
Should come from those on top.
A Cabinet to represent the nation,
A Ministry drawn from all sections would
Surely provide the aptest illustration
Of genuine brotherhood.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“S.”: Sometimes in the blade middle
of the night, when the world seems less
lovely than it used to be, I console
myself with gentle and beautiful thoughts
about the benevolence of the N. S. Wales
Taxation Department. You don’t believe
me? I hardly believe myself. But here’s
the story: One of Mr. McMahon’s
annual blisters was addressed to a bloke
who had enlisted, and sent on to him in
Syria. The Digger, amused to the point
of outrage, wrote back to the Commis-
sioner saying that all the time he’d been
overseas he’d never had a letter ; nothing
from the Comforts Fund, not a single
canteen order. So that when the mailman
l at last called at his dugout his heart
leapt for joy. He reckoned that instead
of his owing the Taxation Department
anything, it owed him an apology. The
department’s heart melted. The hat was
passed round among the staff, and the
Digger was sent canteen orders for four
quid. This is a true story. I now believe
in Santa Claus, the Fairy Godmother and
the bunyip.
* * * ♦
“Roy G. Biv”: So Malay is a simple,
euphonious language, sounded just as it
is spelt (B. 14/1/’42). Well, how would
“Spasebo” pronounce Ipoh, which 8.8. C.
announcers “make such a mouthful of”?
Would he say Eye-p-oa-h? Or would
he sound the “i” as in “tin” or
as in “casino”? Having settled that,
what about the “o”? Should it be as
in “no” or “not” or “wolf” or “lose”
or “women” or “love” or “long”?
Finally, should the “h” be a gentle sigh-
ing “h” or an emphatic, aggressive “huh” ?
Different combinations of these sounds
give a choice of 42 different pronuncia-
tions,
* * * *
“Nakh”: Victoria’s Premier Dunstan,
who proposes to make owners and occu-
piers of business premises in Melbourne
responsible for air-raid protection of
employees, might go a little further and
explain where they are to get the materials,
most essential supplies being “frozen.
The State Electricity Commission
“bricked” in its first floor in Fiinders-
street with concrete blocks, but if all the
business places in the city tried to do like-
wise there would be both a labor and a
cement crisis. A simple and more effec-
tive substitute which would require no
skilled labor, and for which there is
enough material to cover Melbourne com-
pletely, is mud bricks reinforced with
straw, as used by the ancient Egyptians.
In every suburban backyard except the
sandy seaside districts there is enough
clay and earth to build a new house. A
wooden mould, about 18in. by 9in. by
9in., can be made in an hour ; the earth
as it comes out of the ground, stones and
all, is shovelled into it in a sufficiently
moist state to be trodden down by the
feet; the mould is then lifted, and the
brick left to dry in the sun. The bricks
can then be laid on top of one another
with a plaster of wet mud or bedded
in lime mortar. A wall of this descrip-
tion is much more resistant than concrete,
which cracks and splinters. Chateaux
in France and Roman walls built in this
way are still standing.
* * * *
“Mac”: Just to put the poor retailer
wise, here’s how a neighbor of mine gets
rid of a crook florin. She goes to a
shop, buys something and tenders a ten-
bob note. The change will almost cer-
tainly include a two-shilling piece. Whilst
the goods she has bought are being
wrapped she makes a small addition to
her order and hands over the bad coin
in payment. Mr. Shopkeeper spots the
brummy and protests. She comes back
with “Well, you just gave it to me ; I had
nothing in my purse but the ten-shilling
note I gave you.”
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: The Sydney habit of
applying diminutives, with an “o” at-
tached, is expanding dangerously. While h
was confined to Kenso., Dario., Rando.,
Paddo. and so forth, there was scarce
need to worry, but I heard a conductor
on a Vaucluse bus inform a startled
social light of the suburb that it was “a
Cemmo. bus,” meaning South Head
Cemetery, and the youth of the area
speaks of Watso. and Nielso. rather than
of Watson’s Bay and Nielsen Park. It’s
but a matter of time before Vauco.,
Pottso. and Rose Bayo will be sending
their sons to the Uno. and listening to
concos. at the Conno.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Reported that an American
gallery curator, after X-raying Gains-
borough’s “Blue Boy,” found a “mystery
face” of a man with a flat nose and a
thin moustache behind it. The chances
are that Gainsborough, needing canvas,
cut a bit off an unfinished portrait, either
of John, fourth Duke of Bedford, or
Ralph Schomberg, both sitters to the
painter. Not that there is any evi-
dence for believing that Gainsborough
was so hard up that he had to
destroy a picture he valued. All artists
“Release bombs —an this time see if y' can hit it!”
who are not mere manufacturers paint
over pictures when their work doesn t
satisfy them. Behind most great land-
scapes or portraits there are probably
rejected sketches.
* * * *
“Shabash”: The episode of the “lady ’
who received a glass eye in exchange for
a white feather reminds me. Two young
Diggers in a Melbourne pub had each a
glass eye. While doing a bit of fooling
one dropped his “glassy” on the floor, and
his boot made it a cot case. There was
a lull in the fooling, and we heard the
Digger say “And I’ve got a date with the
girl tonight.” “You’re 0.K., boy,” said
his cobber; “she won’t spot it in the
dark” ; and he handed his own “glassy”
over. As it was blue and the other chap s
eye was brown the effect was laughable,
but the two went off quite happy. Trust
a Digger to do his best for a cobber!
* » * *
“Strict Veg.”: Cabled that at Narrows,
Virginia, U.S.A., a sixteenth consecutive
son has been born to Mr. and Mrs.
Cover Jones, Mr. Cover Jones is a
schoolteacher, and his prolific partner
is one of his ex-pupils. A civil
servant in Perth had 11 consecutive
daughters, and though he didn’t equal
Mr. Cover Jones’s numerical record he
deserves recognition for the harmonious
way he manipulated his feminine regi-
ment. He taught every one of them a
musical instrument, and it was one of
the pleasures of the residents of South
Perth, where he had a cottage, to hang
over his front gate o’ evenings and listen
to the excellent music coming through
the drawing-room window from this
domestic orchestra. On still, moonlit
Sunday evenings the family embarked in
an outsize in canoes and drifted down
the River Swan filling the air with sweet
strains.
*
“Cauboy”: Australian artist Alex.
Sass’s faux pas in calling his American
hostess a “grafter” (B. 21/1/ ’42) recalls
a similar bloomer made by an eminent
English lecturer in Boston many years
ago. Desiring to make his audience of
women sympathetic he led off by remark-
ing how glad he felt to see, so far away
from England, so many homely Anglo-
Saxon faces. He felt his hearers stiffen,
and it was not till after the meeting ended
that he learnt from his chairwoman that
one of the standard American dictionary
meanings of “homely” is of plain
features ; not handsome.”
« * * •
“M.H.M.”: The daily reading of Army
Routine Orders was usually of little inter-
est to the troops except on one occasion
in 1917 when it was announced that “A
number of Mrs. Burton’s flappers will be
provided.” At last, we enthusiastically de-
cided, the war was going to be run in a
proper manner: Mrs. Burton we hailed
as a heroine and a woman of vast under-
standing. A day or two later a truck-
load of the “flappers” arrived. They
were contraptions of bamboo and canvas
suitable for putting out a bushfire, and
their use was to flap gas out of trenches.
What Mrs. Burton had to do with them
I never discovered.
« * * *
“Jurumudi”; If the Japanese who are
reported to have occupied Amboina had
the aesthetic sensibility of their fore-
fathers they would stay in that island, for
“And this is known as the recoil !"
it is one of the loveliest gems in an
archipelago which the poetically-
minded Dutchman calls “a garland
of emeralds.” It was the great spice
centre of the Moluccas in the days
of the Portuguese and then of the
Dutch, and it was also the site of a
massacre of English sailors by the
Dutch East India Company which
would have brought war between
England and Holland if the English
throne had not been occupied by a
Stuart who took but a languid interest
in these distant places. Though there
were no daily newspapers in those days
and no “famous” correspondents to cable
dispatches, there was a multitude of con-
trary accounts of the Amboina affair,
and the fog of a centuries-old contro-
versy still hangs about it.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The war has had a stimulating
effect on the matrimonial statistics in
Victoria. All records were broken last
month with 178 splicings. The year’s
figure, 1363, was also a record. Army
and Air Force provided a large propor-
tion of the bridegrooms.
* * * *
“A Major”: It cannot have escaped
any observer of musical tendencies that
in the last 40 years or so melody has
been becoming scarcer and scarcer in
allegedly high-class and serious musical
composition. Whether that is because
the sources of musical inspiration in that
direction are drying up or because in
these enlightened days no serious com-
poser seeks such trivialities has long been
a matter of surmise—but mostly of silent
surmise. I’m pleased to find Walter
Kettle, editor of an English musical
journal, “The Choir,” discussing the
matter. He suggests that the years of
warfare, military and industrial, through
which the world has been passing in the
last quarter of a century have banished
melody, and that it will come again with
peace. So may it be, but one can’t help
remembering that the world saw quite a
lot of war even in the nineteenth century,
and that some of that century’s best
tunes were produced while the smoke of
battle hung over Europe.
* * * *
“Pawang”: “Colonel Bungstarter” (B.
7/1/’42) needn’t be unduly upset at the
discovery that his hero Napoleon had
the itch. All men of genius have had
something or other to distress them, and
in that were no different from other
people. The most striking example, per-
haps, was the poet Heine. The number
of complaints he had in his lifetime would
make a page in a medical dictionary,
but the worst was that which leads to
g.p.i. In his last seven years he was so
emaciated that his friends sometimes took
him for a corpse. The crude medical
practice of his day had reduced his back
to such a state that he had to be sus-
pended in mid-air. With one blind eye,
and on the other an eyelid that he had
to prop open with his finger, he used his
remaining hand to write his finest and
tenderest lyrics. No doubt Napoleon
solaced himself for his itch by studying
military problems. He could have solaced
himself just as effectively with drink or
self-pity, but then he wouldn’t have be-
come “Colonel B.’s” hero. In fact, the
Colonel would never have heard of him.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: A manifesto issued by the
Communist party in Malaya calls upon
local Chinese to support the struggle
against aggression. It recalls
that underground political
parties in Indonesia have a
history linked with the old
secret societies which gave
the first administrators of
Singapore a pain in the
stomach. For many years
they practically held the
island at their mercy, and
once stole a cannon from the
verandah of the British resi-
dency. They had strange
bloody rites of initiation
which go back thousands of
years to ancient China. The
first man to describe them
was Abdullah Munshi, a
Malay secretary to Raffles,
who got himself smuggled
into their secret conclave. An
English police officer suc-
ceeded in suppressing them,
but it took years of struggle.
They were never wholly
wiped out, however, and have
constantly bobbed up under
one label or another. The
Javanese Communists got as
far as a rising and captured
part of Weltevreden, Batavia’s
poshest suburb. Their chief
inspiration was Dekker, a descendant of
the Dutchman who wrote Max Havelaar,
the novel which caused the downfall of
the old Dutch East India Company and
the reform of the N.E.I. administration.


ABORIGINALITIES
The outback school where I
had to separate flea-bitten dogs from their
youthful Maori owners before we could
get any work started was overrun by half-
wild pigs. Nobody appeared to own
them, and they carried on a scavenging
feud for the school lunch scraps. The
boys used them for impromptu buck-
jumping displays, and young Hori was
a wizard at it. While his pal Henare
bribed the porker with a piece of cake
or biscuit, Hori crept up behind it and
with a quick spring he would be on its
back. In a flash its ears would be
grabbed, bare toes would be linked under
its belly and the fight was on. Usually
the pig won by the simple means of
making for a hole in the fence, forcing
the jockey to bale out or be scraped off.
1 noticed, though, that Henare never had
a go at riding, and I asked him why. He
bent on me a pitying look. “Me no ride,”
he replied scornfully. “Me Hori’s
trainer! ”
* * * «
“Ah Me”: Don’t know about the lotus
bird’s swimming ability (B. 14/1/’42),
but the toes are not webbed, and would
be a hindrance rather than a help under
water. They are extremely long and
thin, three in front and one behind, and
all eight to nine inches long. Where
Nature has evolved the duck’s webbed
foot for swimming, and clutching talons
for birds of prey like the eagle, she has
provided the lotus bird with a portable
weight-distributor in the form of outsize
feet. On the same principle by which
the skater rescues one who has fallen
through by lying flat on the treacherous
ice, the lotus bird’s spread of toe enables
it to walk where anything else but an
angel would fear to tread. It skips over
the surface of pools, resting its feet on
floating lily-leaves and weeds which do
not sink beneath its weight. When the
leaves are just under the surface the
bird appears to be actually “walking on
water” in miraculous fashion.
* * *
“Bo”: He was a short, slight man with
wisps of mousy hair stuck out from under
a shapeless hat and an ear that looked
as if a dog had chewed it. As the mob
were discussing the close finish of the
Grassfed Stakes he came along from
where he had been drinking on his own
and asked if any of them had seen a
long, red-haired man in an old blue Chev.
tourer about. It appeared that the small
man had bought it from the large bloke
for £B, and that the seller had taken it,
with the little cove’s permission, out to
the railhead at Jackeroo Flat to pick up
some motor spirit his brother-in-law was
sending him and which he was ready to
sell for 3s. a gallon. He hadn’t come
back, and he ought to have been back two
hours ago. Joe Wheeler laughed. "You re
an aleck!” he said. “He didn’t intend to
come back. You’ve done your sugar.”
But Mousy-hair seemed to have a touch-
ing faith in the car-seller. “Aw, he
seemed too decent a bloke to do that,”
he asserted. “Anyway, d’ y’ think I can't
tell a spieler when 1 see one?” Joe
thought he couldn’t, and said so. “Well,
I’ll give him another half-hour, any-
way,” said Mousy-hair. Twenty minutes
later they were still chiacking him. “Well,
if he ain’t here be seven I’ll admit I bin
stung. But I’m willing to bet I ain’t.”
Joe took him for an even quid. At a
minute to seven by the bar clock the
squawk of a horn came from outside, and
the mob drifted to the door. At the
wheel of a battered old blue Chev. tourer
sat a long, red-haired man. “Sorry I’m
late,” he said as he sighted Mousy-hair,
“but I got a puncture.”. “And I got an
easy quid,” said Joe Wheeler, pocketing
the stakes. “Bung’s clock’s five minutes
slow, and, anyway, Chewed-ear, I recog-
nised your copper-topped cobber —strucK
him doin’ the thimble and pea last week
at the Wombat Flat races!”
* * * *
“6FN”: Agree generally with “Had-
dington’s” remarks on horses (B.
14/1/’42), though not as regards his con-
demnation of the yellow bay. Have
known one to carry 13st. between 70 and
80 miles from dawn to dark and finish
with his ears pricked. The washy chest-
nut, especially if he has a lot of white
in his eyes, is certainly not much good.
But for a horse you can’t kill with work
give me a skewbald. Have one in the
yard now which did 200 miles in four
days, and off the grass at that.
* * * #
“Bill Round”: Choom and Lonergan
were loading hay. While Choom hoisted
the stocks, Lonergan trimmed the wagon.
Noticing a snake wriggling among some
loose stuff on the ground, Lonergan
yelled out “Look out, snake—prod him
with your fork.” Choom stabbed wildly,
but not a prong could he manoeuvre
through Joe. Then Lonergan, with heavy
sarcasm, said “Sling him up here, man,
and I’ll fix him.” To the surprise of
all Choom grasped the visible tail and
with a swish swung it aloft; the five-foot
red-bellied black hit the top of the wagon
at the same instant as Lonergan took off
on a swallow dive to the ground. “Nah,”
said Choom, “Ah’ll go and get some
more oatmeal-water at the house ; you
can unload the wagon and kill the
beastie.” And he stumped off.
* * * *
“Wang”! “I ain’t one usually to get
interferin’ between a man an’ his wife,”
remarked Dan, “but once—well, I’ll tell
you, I’m trampin’ along the road near
Corkscrew Flat when I hear a hullabaloo
cornin’ from a house a coupla hundred
yards off, an’ the next thing I sees a
weedy little bloke come tearin’ out, with
a huge woman, armed with a hefty stick.
“AH!"
after him. The bloke comes rushin’
towards me, an’ I never seen anyone so
scared lookin’ in me life. He’s almost on
top of me before he notices me standin’
there, an’ he lets out a frightened squeal
an’ shoots like a rabbit behind a thick
clump of bushes. A few seconds later
the female comes lumberin’ up, puffin’
like a grampus, an’ stops. ‘Where’s he
gorn?’ she gasps. Well, Td seen a good
bit o’ married life, so I said ‘That way!’
and pointed in the opposite direction to
where the bloke’s vanished. She glares
mad at me fr a second or two, an’
then beefs out ‘Why didn’t y’ stop him?’
‘Well,’ I ses, ‘it wasn’t none of my bizness
t’ interfere. Anyway,’ I goes on, paci-
“Boy, did that curried rice get 'em!”
fyin’ like, ‘things’ll come out all right in
the end, they alwus do. It’s jist a matter
of fergivin’ an’ fergettin’, y’ know.’ She
stands glarin’ at me with her mouth open
like a landed cod’s, an’ I continyer quick,
eager to press home me good work on
the little bloke’s behalf, ‘After all, y’
know, he’s still y’r husband’ ‘What
are y’ maggin’ about?’ she yelps, her eyes
stickin’ out like glass marbles. ‘I jist
disturbed that little runt sneak-thievin’
some jool’ry out o’ me house! ’ ”
* * * ♦
“Gip”: The giant toad, that question-
able blessing of the canefields, seems to
have found an enemy' at last. Apropos
of six dead toads having been found in
a nest of white-tailed scrub rats, a
northern scribe reported that “the rats
are difficult to catch, as they seem to
overcome ordinary rat-traps.” Any
nipper between Ingham and Mossman
could have told him that. I first met the
rats in the Cairns scrub. Up to 2ft. in
length, including tail, they would raid
the camp tucker every night. In my
ignorance I set ordinary rat-traps, but I
was soon enlightened when I found a
couple of strong traps with the springs
smashed to a pulp. Nothing but a .22
bullet satisfied me after; that.
* * * *
“O’Murphy”: Maoriland, in addition
to its war anxieties, is suffering a potato
famine —it has ’em every few years as
Australia has droughts—and the Maori-
landers, as usual on such occasions, are
telling each other that the spud is, after
all, a much overrated vegetable. A good
deal of this argument is sour-grapes stuff,
but it is none the less a fact, as any
vitamins-and-calories expert will tell you,
that as commonly cooked in Australasia
the tuber has hardly any nutritive value.
Its most valuable constituent is vitamin
C, An infallible way to remove this is
to peel the spud and soak it in water —
the vitamin is easily soluble. And that’s
exactly what every Australasian house-
wife does to potatoes. The scientific
way to cook a potato is to roast it in its
jacket.
* * $ *
“C.W.J.”: “Narrin” (B. 21/1/ ’42), who
caught a trout in the Murray with small
worms embedded in the skin, called for
a report from the Council. Here it is:
And next you are to note that, till the
sun gets to such a height as to warm the
earth and the water, the trout is sick,
and lean, and lousy, and unwholesome;
for you shall, in winter, find him to
have a big head, and then to be lank,
and thin, and lean: at which time many
of them have sticking on them sugs,
or trout-lice, which is a kind of worm,
in shape like a clove, or pin with a big
head, and sticks close to him and sucks
his moisture; those, I think, the trout
breeds himself, ‘ and never thrives till he
free himself from them, which is when
warm weather comes; and then, as he
grows stronger, he gets from the dead,
still water, into the sharp streams, and
the gravel, and there rubs off these
worms or lice.
Izaak Walton prepared it about 280
years ago. And nobody can say that Ike
didn’t know his ichthyology.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Happy Jack is the best-
hearted joker I know ; but he hates to
be imposed upon. In town for the week-
end, he was accosted by the human
species of humming-bird. The tale of
woe was so plausible and decorated with
such graphic details that Happy was
moved to double the amount asked for.
“But, mind you,” he warned, “if I cop
you spending it on beer I’ll kick your
pants till your nose bleeds!” The “nip”
pocketed the two florins, stepped back
several paces and leered, “Thanks, mate ;
but you’d better start kickin’, because
I’ve got the thirst of Erin!” Quick off
the mark though he was, one avenging
root thudded home. But it was poor
satisfaction for Happy. A bunion is not
improved by being violently impacted
against a hip-pocket tobacco-tin.
“Avon”: The Maori race, before it
came in contact with the blessings of white
civilisation, had developed a number of
handicrafts, but metal-working was not
among them. If a Maori Tubal Cain
had arisen, however, I have a feeling that
progress would have been rapid. One
of the very first men to be married in
Maoriland was a surveyor named Wyeth.
There was a parson available, but no
ring. An enterprising Maori warrior
offered to solve the problem if given a
sovereign. The coin was handed over
and it was turned into a ring in ten
minutes —the Maori neatly bit out all the
metal save a sixteenth of an inch around
the rim. He made the circlet slender
because by the terms of the bargain he
retained the excavated gold. Death of
Wyeth’s 83-year-old son has revived the
memory.
* * # *
“8.P.”: Admiring note in “Fact,” the
“up-to-the-minute Australian news re-
view” given free with Sydney’s “Sunday
Sun.”:
The problem of restoring cattle to the
Ukraine’s scorched earth has been partly
solved by Professor Victorov, head of
the Timiryazev Academy of Agriculture
in Moscow. Professor Victorov has de-
veloped a serum which improves the
sexual vigor of cattle. It helps cows
to calve more frequently and increases
their milk yield.
The astonishment of the cow on discover-
ing herself with another calf before time
is causing some trouble, but another pro-
fessor will doubtless be discovered who
can provide a serum to control this
astonishment. If not, anti-social cows
can be purged.
* * * *
“Übisco”: Is it a national disease, this
Australian mania for chopping down
trees? The south-west W.A. fishing vil-
lage where I had my rooftree 25 years
ago was a model of “eucalyptred
cloisterdom.” Then progress arrived ;
first roadmaking, then the electric light.
Tuarts and white gums that had taken
500 years to grow were hacked down
and burnt to make room for speeding
cars and the sagging copper wire. Now
grass withers, dust rises—and there isn’t
even a spot where the motorist, that
high apostle of progress, can park in the
shade. And in thousands of such hamlets
Progress has made the same blasting pro-
gress. With individuals the same. My
block, being of limestone, was devoid of
large trees, but on the boundary line, so
that it shaded my kitchen door from the
rising sun, stood a fine white gum. A
progressive bloke built next door. His
first act was to ring that centuries-old
gum despite protests, which he regarded
as impertinence. For years the old
monarch slowly withered and died, stand-
ing at last a thing of horror, sans leaves,
sans bark, sans everything. It came down
with the inevitable cyclone across my
block, the great canopy of dead roots
just lying on the boundary line. Well,
if I live to be 100 I have firewood to
look forward to. And the other bloke
has none. And I wouldn’t give him
enough of the corpse to boil his billy.
MISERY MICK.
Old Misery Mick from Moulam’n
Was never known to smile.
He’d tramped from B'ourke to Coolam’n
And cursed each weary mile.
“We’re fools,” he’d grumble, day and night,
“T toil an’ tramp an’ sweat:
No wonder blokes get on the booze
To ease their minds fr’m fret.
“This blasted country’s dust an’ sand,
Dry rivers full o’ cracks;
We ought t’ take a tumble and
Return it to the blacks.”
And thus, in seasons good and bad.
Old Michael scattered gloom:
The only thing that made him glad
Was contemplating doom.
Old Misery Mick from Moulam’n
Told lies about his age:
With lads from Bourke and Coolam’n
He’s where the battles rage.
“The place is crook enough,” said he,
Enlisting for the scrap,
“But, strike me, think what life would be
Drum-humpin’ with a Jap!”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Old-timer”: There was no more en-
during thing on the middle Murray than
Jimmy Begg’s collar. Of white celluloid,
he had acquired it in some mysterious
fashion and wore it with all the pride of
an abo. king wearing his name-plate.
Nobody ever saw the Begg without that
white, shiny fence round his neck, for if
you called on him in the middle of the
night he would rise from the Wagga rug
clad in that collar and little else. Jimmy
relied on no brummy studs to hold it in
place ; tie-wire held it together securely.
It was something to see James pull off
or put on his shirt over that collar, some-
thing more to see him wet a sweat-rag and
carefully go over the celluloid until it
shone again. What it looked like on the
inside none ever knew, and, though at-
tempts were made to burn it or other-
wise deprive him of it, luck or Allah or
something stuck to that decoration and
the vandals were defeated again and
again. It nearly settled James once, when
he was after black-duck eggs in a swamp
and the collar hooked and huffg him to
a spur on the tree. Tom the Liar hap-
pened along in time, drawn, he said, by
the violent color of Jimmy’s face against
the stark white ring that held him.
Wherever Jimmy now sleeps, I hope the
collar is still with him.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: We had a much more
efficient way of dealing with ticks than
those Burgoo blokes (B. 28 /1 / ’42). Soon
as a ticky fleece hit the wool-table there
was a cry of “Salt!” and the tar-boys
rushed up with a bucket of it and rubbed
it well into the fleece. Then the fleece
was put on the floor between two kero,
buckets of water, and as soon as the
thirsty ticks came out for a drink we
held the blankards under and drowned
’em. Never a one escaped.
« ♦ * ♦
“Oliver Filter”; All this talk of fear
of the dark bush sounds rather like the
pub chatter of Pitt-street bushmen to me.
When I stretch out for the night under
the stars and there isn’t another human
being for miles I know that, since the
reptile population isn’t likely to bother
me while I’m sleeping, and since I don’t
stamp in crocodile country, there’s not
an animal in the bush that will hurt me.
The air I breathe is pure, the noises I
hear are natural ones, and it’s a million
to one against any human with ill intent
coming my way. On the other hand,
when I slide between the sheets in the
city I can meditate on the facts that the
air I breathe is laden with dust and
smoke and the breath of a million other
people, that at any time during the night
my dwelling may be broken into by some
criminal who would probably cut my
throat or shoot me for what little wealth
I have, that the lights may fuse and burn
the house down with me in it, that the
gas may leak and asphyxiate me, or that
a Jap bomber will drone overhead and
blast me to smithereens. No, brother,
for a peaceful, dreamless sleep give me
the bush.
•s * * *
“M.U.R.”: Tell “Feathers” (B.
28 /1 / ’42) that Murray-River ducks never
have any difficulty in getting to their
nests in hollows. They always select a
hollow with a small ledge on the lip on
its underside, and on this they land when
arriving home.
* * * *
“Youanmi”: I’m sorry to see that the
mine at Youanmi (W.A.) has thrown in
the towel (B. 21 /1 /’42), but I’m not alto-
gether surprised —two or three unsuccess-
ful attempts were made to open it up
before the last spectacular and expen-
sive effort. Doubtless the town will either
rust away altogether or shrink to a depot
for prospectors and the centre of sheep
properties around it. Still, it will leave
some good yarns behind it, most of
which, I suspect, had their origin in a
draught beer rendered particularly potent
by a very rough 90-mile truck ride from
the railway at Magnet. Wonderful beer,
it moved men to do strange things, from
trying to stonker the shift boss to
lighting straw mattresses and nearly
burning the compound down. Once
some of the boys, after celebrating a run
of heads at the school, decided to visit
some sick cobbers in the little hospital.
It was not until the following morning
that Matron associated the delirious con-
dition of her patients with a good-sized
stack of empty bottles under one of the
beds.
« * * »
“R. Ney”: Agree with “Splodger” (B.
28 1 1 1 ’42) that the “merino ewe will have
no other lamb but her own,” but only
it man, that despicable trickster, doesn’t
take a hand. A bereft ewe can be in-
duced to adopt an orphaned lamb if the
skin of her own dead be chucked over
the orphan for an hour or so. When the
pair first meet the doubt, suspicion and
gradual acceptance by the ewe is some-
thing worth watching. The lamb never
hesitates ; udder is what he wants, ana
udder is what he goes for.
* * * *
“T.P.”: The young teacher, who had
come straight from the training college,
had gone nap on “visual education.” We
all turned up with the kids to see his
new projector in action —stills as well as
movies. On a screen he showed pictures
of Australia from an old English produc-
tion —photos, splendid, but the letterpress
“ Ta-ta, missus; keep your chins up."
“Wavell said to me What about joining the tanks, Bert?' So the
tanks got me!"
evidently the work of a journalist whose
knowledge of the sheep industry was
limited to appreciation of a mutton chop.
Halfway through a picture flashed on
the screen entitled “Lamb Marking,” and
this is what we read in boldest type: “In
Australia millions of lambs are born
every season. Each squatter brands each
of his lambs with a distinctive mark. The
lamb in the arms of the workman evi-
dently enjoys the admiration of its
squatter-owner with smile and prominent
teeth who kneels before it.” Amid the
roar of laughter, somebody whispered to
the operator, and a “Blue Mountains
slide slipped into the slot.
* * * *
“Flight”: “The 0.D.” and others can
glance at any school atlas and see which
is the coastal fall. I don’t consider the
Darling “a bit of a coastal stream running
past Sydney’s western suburbs.” But the
birds know where the Darling empties.
Climatic extremes upset them. Plain
turkeys have been common on the Dar-
ling Downs and also on the plains further
north within sight of the sea. A drought
in the west sent them in there. As soon
as the rains came they, with the budgeri-
gars, quarrions, topknot pigeons, zebra
finches and others, skipped it to their own
country. A few stragglers might remain ;
I’ve seen a permanent flock of quarrions
on the upper waters of the Brisbane
River. Similarly, a succession of wet
seasons in the interior coaxes coastal
birds to give that country a fly. I’ve shot
a seagull on Marion Lake, six miles
below Urandangie, on the Georgina, have
known kookaburras to go down Moona
Creek almost to the junction of the
Georgina, and I’ve heard ’em hold hell’s
revels at the junction of the Barcoo and
Alice. In my par. about national birds
I was referring to permanence of abode.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Somebody asked in a
recent Bulletin about “Bill Bowyang,”
who runs a page in the “N.Q. Register.”
He seems to be all right, as witness his
reply to a correspondent. “You state you
are worried about the war. Why? This
is the big chapter in the history of Aus-
tralia when our young nation is going
to show, more than in the past, the won-
derful fighting spirit of her manhood.”
After a diet of flapper-press pessimism
that put me on my feet again.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Map-makers who filled
their productions with alphabetical pro-
cessions like those cited from s.-e. Q. (B.
7/1 / ’42) under the impression that they
were perpetuating abo. nomenclature
were on a false scent. Binghi had no
place-names in the white man’s sense, or
lack of it. His method was on all fours
with that of his successor, the met-by-
chance bushie who in giving directions
spoke of “close by the big dry gum in
the corner of the paddock where the
roads turn off” or “the half-dry pool in
the creek where you cross near the burnt
she-oaks.” Binghi, less wordy, describ-
ing his country’s places to the white in-
truder, spoke of “the cool water under
the big rock” or “where the fishing is
good when the tide runs in.” Early en-
thusiasts Anglicised these, with the result
that we have the map dotted with abo.
“names” that would have evoked loud
laughter from the original inhabitants.
Even with his personal names the abo,
followed much the same idea. The
father named his sons generally from
some portent on the day of their birth,
such as good hunting, if the chase had
been successful.
* * * *
“Aratta”: Dad, who had been attend-
ing a meeting of the Bindajumba Agri-
cultural Society, arrived home while the
family was seated at tea. He was in a
bad humor, and they soon learnt the
cause. “That there cow Bill Jenkins, ’
Dad growled, “thinks ’cos he’s president
of the society nobody’s got any right to
any say at all. He’s there blitherin’ away
when 1 hops in f’r a word. He tells me
t’ sit down an’ not interrupt the chair.
An’ all I wanted was t’ tell the ole goat
he was wrong ’bout what he was talkin’.
I tries half a dozen times t’ put in me say,
but each time he knocks me back an’
ses I oughter have more respect than in-
terrupt when anyone’s speakin’.” “P’raps
he wanted” began Dave. Dad glared
across at his son and continued with his
grievance. “Thinks becos he’s president
nobody knows nothin’ ’bout anything but
’im.” “Yes, but” Dave began again.
“You shut up,” Dad exploded, his eyes
glinting angrily. “Spare me blanky days,
I dunno what the present gen’ration is
cornin’ to. No thought of what due
to anybody but themselves. Can’t y’
show a bit of decency an’ wait till a
feller’s finished speakin’ before buttin in
with y’r remarks?”
* * * *
“Old Court”: For years Sam the Soak
had ridden the same old horse into town
every Saturday afternoon. The nag
would stand patiently with its head just
above the trough outside the pub while
Sam spent the evening with his in the
same position above a schooner. This
procedure never varied until one night
some busybody turned the horse around.
Towards midnight Sam groped his way
out of the pub, and managed to grab the
trough and hoist himself up. Confident
that he was on the right track Sam felt
for the bridle, only to encounter space ;
running his hands along the horse’s rump
he made a few more passes through the
air before his wail of woe roused the
town. “Gostrewth! The head’s come
offa me ’orsh!” Sam yelled, and bolted
to sign.
* * * *
“Kinsella”: Just as boys “guddle for
troot,” so blacks on the Ord River
“guddle for ’gators.” They know that
the saurian has a weakness. The wife of
one of the blacks fell a victim to a man-
eater ; two days later the tribe saw the
same ’gator, recognisable by certain
markings, drifting up the stream. With
light sticks they began to tickle the
saurian, which appreciated their fondlings
so much that it edged closer to them and
at last rolled over to allow them to tickle
his belly. At that waited-for moment
the widower appeared from behind the
ticklers, and with all his strength drove
a heavy killing spear through the soft
skin under the foreleg. And what finer
ironical enjoyment than feasting on the
creature that had feasted on a member
of their tribe?
THE SILENT PLAINS.
When I was young the plains’ dark silence
crept
Into the very marrow of my bones.
Seeping through flesh and muscle while I sicpt.
I learned to know the secret undertones,
Too faint for human ears, that throbbed be-
hind
The rolling spirals of the voiceless wind;
The crepitations and the rustling breath
That oozed from out a silence deep as death
While earth lay locked in blackness, dumb and
blind,
“How still tonight! No stir nor sound," they
said,
But I who knew that crowded silence rife
With the small urgent sounds that silence bred
Heard dim mysterious stirrings into life:
Mouthings and mumblings from the thirsty
moss
That cushioned the cold ground; sighs blown
across
Chasms of air where spinning creatures toiled —
The lisp of tiny dew-born runnels coiled
Deep unto roots as fine as thistle floss.
I heard the hollow laughter of the wheat
Along the sullen black-barred road that lay
Bare to the moon; the scrape of furry feet
Moving among harsh stems, and far away
The click and clack of little beaks in logs
That thrust between the reeds of watery bogs.
I heard mouths nibbling in the tussocked grass,
And like lost bells rung under muffling glass
The muted mellow notes from myriad frogs.
Back to a time long-vanished I could hear;
I heard the padding feet of wild, black men
Hunting across the plain, the hurtled spear
Cleaving the singing air again, again.
I heard the tinkling campfires through the night,
The sound of savage dance and secret rite —
And high above the scarred and tortured trees
Heavy with hoarded honey, hung with bees,
The scream of rose galahs in frenzied flight.
The plains and I are one. I am akin
To the sad rain that soaks the withered grass.
The sun’s sharp needles pierce my welcoming
skin.
I am the tree thickening while seasons pass,
1 am the dust-encumbered wind that moans
Among the she-oaks, rattling hollow cones.
I am the curlew making wild lament
Day-long, night-long till grief itself be spent.
1 am the lubra with her grinding-stones
Squatting outside the camp! Of such am I,
So fashioned, shaped and moulded in that
place
By winds and rains and the wide, empty sky;
Suckled in silence outside time and space.
Of such am I, at home where, deep and dense,
Peace laves a lovely world, aloof, immense.
What wonder then that I, seeking to ride
The scummy froth of life’s engulfing tide,
Feed on nostalgic dreams for recompense.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


HTS
LYS
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
.--■*•
m
■
m n
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING.
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep on Scrub.
"R. Ney”: If you have to cut scrub
for sheep it isn’t simply a matter of going
out with the axe and dropping anything
green that looks as though sheep should
eat it.
Old-stagers—sheep that have been
reared in tough country where there’s a
perennial scarcity of tucker —can eat
almost anything. But sheep used to good
feed suddenly introduced to scrub fodder
may react in 50 different ways. I’ve even
seen ’em get drunk, though I couldn’t
find out which kind of scrub did it.
Sheep new to the game have to be
brought on to the scrub gradually—cut
only a little here and there ; if you cut
a lot it’ll dry off and be wasted. They’ll
take a tentative nibble or two, then pros-
pect the barren earth, come back for a
little more and so on. In a short time
they’ll learn to follow the sound of the
axe.
Sheep will take readily enough to kur-
rajong, sandalwood and pepperina, but
they hesitate about ti-tree, Murray pine.
myall and Argyle apple.
In western Riverina we
found that too much of
the Murray pine gave
them fatal impaction,
and in some parts the
Argyle apple—which is
a grey-leaved, white-
wooded scrub—caused
a blowing -up like
lucerne. We got the
best results, after some
trial and error, by a
judicious mixture of the
various scrubs, and
found it best to leave
Murray pine out if pos-
sible.
Never cut a scrub
completely off the
stump if you can help
it, but rather cut into
the trunk until the top
hamper brings it over,
leaving enough sap-
wood and bark on one
side to allow growth to
go on. Lopping, of
course, should always leave a small pro-
portion of branches on the tree to allow
enough leaves for breathing.
If the sheep are weak—a diet of scrub
only keeps them on their feet and no-
thing moie they 11 get tangled in the
brambles and become easy victims to
e y and the fly. See that no heavy
branches are left about; chop them into
smal bits and make the sheep clean up
tf 1 m ot scru k delore cutting another.
If there are many sheep and a big acre-
age and a lot of scrub, have someone
wandering, round the paddock all the
time watching for distressed sheep.
A good lick should be used with scrub,
and if there’s any chaff, hay or silage
available whack it out in conjunction
with the scrub. Sheep on scrub will get
pretty thirsty because the feed is dry
and salty ; see that there’s fair water to
be had. Bonemeal is the best basis for
the lick, and if you can add linseed or
any other seedmeal, like peanut, do so.
Like most aspects of animal husbandry,
a study of the sheep on scrub will save
you making a lot of bloomers.
.
Cheaper Drenchmg.
“J.R.D.”; The chief disadvantages of
phenothiazine as a sheep drench are the
difficulty of administering because of its
thick, sticky nature and its high cost.
A recent C.S.I.R. experiment showed
that a reduction of the dose rate for
grown sheep is possible so that a greater
number can be drenched per pound of
phenothiazine. Aged ewes were drenched
with ten-gramme doses. Number of
nodule worms removed by the dose aver-
aged about 56 p.c. Another lot, drenched
with a 20-gramme dose, gave excellent
results, the average percentage of nodule
worms removed being 94.3. This dose
is now recommended for general use in
place of the 25 grammes per head recom-
mended previously. Although the mar-
gin appears to be small, it represents a
saving of over 7s. per 100.
Where instructions are given to make
up the drench to three pints with water
(60 fl. oz.) for an individual, dose of 3 fl.
oz. per grown sheep, the same amount
of water may still be used and the dose
cut down to 2.4 fl. oz. However, as this
dose will be difficult to control with a
“Any good, Dave?”
drenching funnel or even with a drench-
ing g Ullj jj- would be simpler to increase
the water when mixing so as to bring
the total volume up to 75 fl. oz. per pound
of powder and give 3 fl. oz. at this
strength. This will work out at 25 grown
sheep to the pound,
These altered dose rates are for grown
sheep only> Doses for tW o-tooths and
younger sheep must remain as at present,
So far the only practicable methods of
administering the drench are the drench-
j ng f unne i C r a single-shot drenching
of j fl . oz . capacity,
Contour Furrowing.
„ , ~ „, . .
C - Gardener : Water erosion has
deen a problem on the Dookie Codege
estate (Vic.), and in dealing with it the
chief factors were found to be the phy-
sical character of the soil, its fertility,
amount and character of vegetation,
slope, incidence and intensity of rainfall,
G. B. Woodgate, the principal, sug-
gests that for control through the con-
tour system it is necessary that furrows
be level. Inaccuracies in surveying or
ploughing—perhaps where the plough has
had to go round a tree—can be corrected
by placing earth blocks in the furrow
about a chain apart. The furrows should
be wide, and they should be spaced so
that run-off between them is collected in
the next furrow below. Spacing can be
determined by finding out the steepest
as well as the average slope.
Woodgate says that a paddock having
a fall of 16ft. in 100 ft. is said to have
a 16 p.c. slope. On this, furrows are
run 25ft. apart, and there is thus a verti-
cal fall of 4ft. from furrow to furrow.
This vertical interval is maintained on
slopes ranging from 14 p.c. to 20 p.c.; on
anything steeper the furrows are too far
apart. At Dookie a maximum of 30ft.
between furrows is fixed for the present.
Anything wider may prevent the furrow
from handling the run-off. If this occurs
an intermediate furrow is put in.
Conditions vary in different districts,
but a study of the five chief factors on
any property should give the owner a
lead as to the best way to space his fur-
rows. Where a furrow has to go round
an obstruction, it should always pass
above it. Depressions on the furrow line
cause problems. When crossing wide and
shallow ones it is best to follow the true
contour, blocking the furrow at the de-
pression ends to stop water running into
the depression.
Old tracks and roads may cause trouble
through being lower than the surrounding
surface, and their hard surface is tough
to plough and provides 100 p.c. run-off.
One way is to wait for rain before
ploughing across them and to run short
intermediate furrows to cope with the
run-off. If necessary, earth can be carted
to build up the furrow banks across the
track.
Contour furrowing on pasture land
should be accompanied by efforts to build
up the pasture. Shortly after the con-
tours were put in at Dookie they got a
heavy rain. Uncontoured slopes ran
small floods, but the contoured held, and
land below the slope was dry except for
local drainage. The effect on the pas-
tures was so impressive that a farmer
who saw the result and had no erosion
problem of his own decided to contour
merely as a means of retaining water on
his land.
Sorghum Poisoning.
“Huxave”; Molasses, sufficiently diluted
to allow its being used as a drench, is a
safe antidote for sorghum poisoning.
One quart per cow is usually enough.
Better still is a drench of carbonate of
soda (washing variety) and sulphate of
iron. Dissolve loz. of washing soda in
one pint of water ; in a separate con-
tainer dissolve \oz. of sulphate of iron
in another pint of water. The ingredients
should not be mixed until just before use.
Two pints is enough for a cow and
half a pint for a sheep. The soda and
sulphate of iron should be kept stored
in separate glass or wooden containers
not tin or iron.
For animals too far gone for drench-
ing puncture the left side with a trocar
and cannula about a handbreadth for-
ward of the point of the hipbone, as for
ordinary bloat. Withdraw the’trocar
leave the cannula in position and pour
the mixture direct into the paunch in
good doses every 15 minutes until the
full dose of two pints has been given
Hyposulphite of soda (ordinary photo-
graphic hypo) is effective. I n the early
stages, use 2oz. in sufficient water to
make a drench. When giving it through
the cannula, use 2oz. in just enough water
to dissolve it and pour it straight down
the cannula. This dose can be repeated
every 15 minutes according to the
animal’s progress.
Even in very bad cases animals usually
regain their feet within an hour of either
treatment. After that watch for a pos-
sible relapse. v
Storing Seed Grain.
“H.C.”: To protect maize, wheat or
oats stored in bags when no bin or tank
is available use a mixture of paradichloro-
benzene and napthalene. Both are white,
crystalline solids that evaporate quickly
on exposure to the air, are toxic to insects
already present in the seed and insure
the bags against further attack.
Take equal parts of either fumigant,
mix thoroughly and incorporate with the
grain at the rate of Iflb. to the bushel.
Another way is to place cloth bags each
containing 11b. of the mixture through
the bags of grain. Any crystals remain-
ing after the grain is used can be stored
m airtight tins for future use. These resi-
dues can always be regarded as naphtha-
lene.
Grain treated with these fumigants,
though quite suitable for seed purposes,
should not be fed to stock.
Hints for the Farm.
“L. Cove”: The cow should be well
fed during both milking and dry periods.
This enables her to build up body re-
sources. Apart from good grazing, give
her a balanced ration. Equalised mix-
tures of bran, pollard, crushed oats and
linseed-meal, with a much lesser quantity
1 bonemeal and salt, fed to each cow
at each milking, give good returns.
“H.C.”; Harness should be oiled at
least four times a year. Try neatsfoot
oil mixed with a half-pint of fat black
to the gallon. A warm, dry day helps the
oil penetrate the leather better. Dust
and grease should be cleaned off before
oiling. Place the reins in a shallow tin
and paint the oil on with a brush. Make
sure it gets into joints and around rings.
Wedge a small piece of leather on buckle
tongues to stop rust.
“Hux”; Oat crops intended for hay
or grain not be sown till the bulk
of the wheat seeding is finished. Correct
seeding for grazing ranges from 601 b.
to 701 b., and for hay or grain from 501 b.
to 601 b. an acre. As a control for oats
smut, dust with 2oz. of mercurial dust
per bushel. Superphosphate with the
seed, of course.
“R.N.”: If irrigation is feasible you
can’t beat a mixture of Wimmera rye and
sub. clover for autumn, winter and spring
feed. With some lucerne, you’ll have an
all-year supply, the lucerne giving hay
and summer grazing to supplement the
mixture. If the land is new, sow Jap
millet, Sudan grass or oats as a catch-
crop ; they provide good feed and pre-
pare the land for the permanent pasture
or lucerne. The rye-sub. mixture makes
far less demands on water than any other,
thus saving in costs and giving the same
amount of feed. Further, you should not
need a topdressing of more than lewt.
of super, annually. Good grazing
management has to be part of the scheme.
“Brecko”: Steeping fresh green timber
in cold solutions of zinc chloride or


am
5 :
m
£'i
YES- they
had everything
while he lived
. . . . but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND CENERALINSURfINCE CO LTD. A
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St.. Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
K, V. PERKINS, General Manager.
Smokers are saying—
“Vm not cutting down
my smoking, I’m smoking
*Hillmans ’ ”
The greatest tobacco value
in Australia —Specially Cut
for slow smoking— therefore
must be economical.
As perfect a tobacco nature
can provide and art can devise.
No throat rasps, cool to the
tongue however much it is
smoked,
LOOK AT THE PRICES,
TOO! From Manufacturer to
you. That’s why smokers are
sticking to “Hillmans.
PRICE LIST as from Ist Dec., 1941.
Per lb.
Four Square 10/-
First Crop, mild 10/-
All British, mild 10/-
Riverhead Gold, medium ... 10/-
Old Peter, dark 10/-
Cavendish, strong 10/-
Beech Nut, medium 10/-
Africanda, mellow and mild . . 10/-
Soldier’s Own, mild 10/-
Normandie, medium 10/-
Winning Post, medium 10/-
Three Bells, strong 10/-
Bird’s Eye, medium 10/-
Nigeroid, in pipe only 10/-
Barlock, pipe only mixture . . 11/-
Latakia, in pipe only 11/-
White Lodge Medium 11/-
White Lodge Light 11/-
Cahill's Special 11/-
Union Leader, medium 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium 11/-
Imperial 14/-
Premier 16/-
Postage Extra.
When ordering please state whether
for cigarette or pipe smoking.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY
Tobacco Blemlers,
Box 6, P. 0., Valley Nl, Brisbane.
Telegrams, “Comgrow.”
'Phone No. 84587.
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE MANAGER: A. M. MURDOCH.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
FULLY GUARANTEED AS TO LONGEVITY, EFFICIENCY AND MECHANISM.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF, AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine, and automatically runs off into
n
an underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
THERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT JOB.
Approved by the Board ot Health—over 1700 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
ANY HANDYMAN GAN INSTAL IT.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co.Pty. Lid.
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 81052.
Price, £l7/17/0 f.o.h. SYDNEY, including 10% Sales Tax.
Plus 20/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
Obtainable direct, or from, all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
eft*
SF
UUc^ cfl
less
in©
when you
cook with an
AGA
Everywhere women are giving their
time, their energies, their enthusi-
asm to war work. And often un-
expected demands are made on hos-
pitality. In homes where there’s an
AGA Cooker delicious meals can he
prepared, at any hour, with a mini-
mum of attention.
The AGA Cooker burns continu-
ously; cooks fast or slow as desired;
conserves food flavours; saves shrink-
age of meats; and is almost un-
believably economical. Model C, for
instance, suitable for city or country
houses, cannot burn more than £3
worth of fuel in a whole year, with
coke at 30/- per ton in the city.
(Freight increases price in the
country, but annual consumption i»
so low that amazing economy is
possible anywhere in Australia.)
The AGA Cooker is finished in
sparkling, easily-cleaned vitreous
enamel. Its insulation keeps
kitchens cool. It operates scientifi-
cally by STORED heat. You can
leave a whole dinner to cook itself,
while you devote extra time to your
war effort.
You will find it most interesting to
have an AGA Cooker demonstrated.
Or, if you cannot call, write for
illustrated AGA Catalogue R 3.
t
AGA
(RICH TRADE MARK)
’ JhOrkindikatSimm
COOKER ,
LEVIN & CO.. LTD..
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street. Sydney, ami
433 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and at Wellington, N.Z. .
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd.. Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents; A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd Hobart.
Agent for Western Australia: Malloch Bros., Ltd., I erth.
for Queensland: Queensland Primary Producers
” Co-operative Association, Ltd.. Brisbane,
copper sulphate adds to its life. For
ordinary farm use steep in a 5 p.c. solu-
tion of either salt for at least one week.
For longer service, increase the chemical
up to 20 p.c. and steep for four or five
weeks. A high chemical resistance is
built up in the wood to a depth of at
least half an inch. Copper sulphate is
more toxic to decay fungi than is zinc
chloride.
“FI.C.”: Always remember branding-
irons should be bright ruby-red and
should be touched on firmly and instan-
taneously lifted.
“Spreader”: Lime is a soil improver,
but it is not a fertiliser, and it’s a mistake
to use lime with the idea of saving super-
phosphate. Good results can be ex-
pected from liming in autumn and super-
ing in spring, since super, should always
follow lime. Supering in autumn and
liming in spring is a waste of time and
money. ______
Outback Occasions.
No. 21.
A LITTLE SULPHURING.
It was the occasion when the pear-
trees round the house bore a big crop.
Our brother and our sister and 1 ate
them raw', preserved, stewed, skinned and
unskinned ; our father and our mother
ate them all ways ; the man we had woo-
ing for us that year ate them ; the fowls
of air and farmyard ate them; even
foxes came down from the hills and ate
them. But somehow the trees remained
heavy with pears.
Then the second crop showed up and
it looked as though it would be as big
as the first. Father said he’d never seen
such a season for pears, and Mother said
it seemed a pity to waste them. Father
didn’t say anything about pears for a
couple of days, then he suddenly an-
nounced that we would dry them.
It was the first we’d heard that you
could dry them. Of course, we knew you
could buy dried pears in the town, but
we never had thought much about them,
assuming that they just dried themselves
or something. When Father said we
would dry our pears, our brother and 1
had some sort of an idea of picking the
things and stringing them up in the
barn, like you do rabbit-skins, only dif-
ferent.
Father soon corrected that idea. He
said we’d have to make trays out of
boards, and that the pears had to be
split in half, placed on the trays and then
the trays placed in a sulphur box for
a while. “To bring out the juice,
Father said, and after that the trays
would be left in the sun until the pears
dried.
Well, our brother and I got a lot of
boards and nails and hammers and saws
and chisels and made trays. Our brother
sliced a lump out of his wrist with a
chisel, and I hit our sister s ankle with
a hammer, and Father hit my ear with
his fist because our sister said I did it on
purpose, and so presently we had five flat
wooden trays ready.
Father had meantime made a big hes-
sian box with handles at each end. .Then
he whitewashed the hessian and himselt
and most of the back verandah floor and
some of Mother’s geraniums. After he
got the whitewash out of his eyes he
said it was to keep the sulphur in, and
we would pick and split the pears
next day.
In the morning we all got buckets and
boxes and baskets and picked all the
pears and stacked them in a big heap
near the trays. Then Father brought
along his pocket-knife and our brother’s
skinning-knife and Mother’s potato-knife
and a few other weapons which he had
sharpened up and showed us how to split
the pears.
You held the fruit in the left hand
and split it with a sort of round-cutting
movement. Father said that down in the
irrigation areas you could earn good
money splitting pears on piecework, and
our brother and I started a race to see
who would earn the most; but Mother
stopped us because, as she said, there
was too much blood and bits of skin and
fingernails getting in the pears. Our
sister was the best splitter. Father did
pretty good, too, though the bandages
round his thumb and two fingers made it
a bit awkward.
Anyhow, that afternoon we had them
done and all spread in halves on the
trays, and after we stood up and eased
the kinks from our backs and got our
fingers straight again. Father got an old
camp-oven and put a shovelful of sul-
phur and some paper in it and lit it, and
put it in a little hole in the ground.
Then we had to stack the trays one on
top of the other over the burning sulphur,
and we spluttered and coughed and wept.
When we had them stacked, we lifted up
Father’s hessian box and lowered it over
the lot and heaped up the earth round
the sides to stop the sulphur smoke from
getting out. Then we all went inside and
lay down while our mother made some
tea.
Of course, our dogs had watched all
this, and when they saw us heap up the
earth they reckoned we’d blocked in a
rabbit or something, and as soon as we
got inside they started to dig the rabbit
out. It was Spieler’s coughing that
attracted us, and we went out and saw
dogs reeking and spluttering and pawing
their eyes in all directions. Father let
out a lot of cuss words and ran over
and blocked up the box again with more
dirt. Our dogs never even looked at him.
and for months after that you couldn’t
persuade them to dig loose earth any-
where.
Around about sundown Father said it
was time to take the box off, so he got
one end and our brother got the other
and they lifted. When they did this the
wind rushed in, and the smouldering
trays on the bottom burst into flame and
the hessian went up like a rocket. Father
dropped his end and ran over to the house
and got a bucket of water and came back
and threw it over the fire, and sulphur
and ashes and steam flew up all over
Father and he fell down and choked.
Our brother and I grabbed as many
trays as we could and carted them away
and put them out of danger. Then we
ran back and dragged Father away. He
kept on choking, so our brother threw a
bucket of water over him and Father
got straight up and walked over and sat
on a strainer post, swearing.
Our mother and sister came and looked
at everything, and Mother said it was
remarkable how clumsy some people were
and Father must have put too much
sulphur in the pot. Father said to the
devil with the pot and everything else,
and he’d be condemned if he and ever try
to save a few bob again because some
people picked on him every time. rhen
Mother got that look on her face, aT )
we boys went round and sa on an
stand till Father got what was coming,
We managed to save three out of the
fiye trays of pears? but when we came to
eat tbem they b ad a terrible, harsh, acrid
taste. So Father put them in a box, and
be used to give them to swagmen who
came along, but after a while the swag-
men stopped calling at our place. Which
just shows what the bush telegraph
can do.


teJ
sai
4^
Lm ff
Sa**s
THE SCOPE OF MANUFACTURE
The progress made during the last twenty years toward
developing the industries of Australia is truly remark-
able. Such progress would have been impossible
without the aid of sound and competent Banking
Institutions, through which the monetary savings of
the people are directed to those industries and
those places where they most fully benefit the people
as a whole. The actual progress, as shown by the
annual value of goods produced, is set out in the
following table:
Values in Millions of Pounds
branches spread throughout the Commonwealth.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
84 years experience of Australian Banking
■- s/u/n
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of ail Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M4383. 86371.
85,000 NEW HAIRS
GROWN!
1,1 ‘ !
f: i •
|te„
S
hr
THE ageing effect of baldness
upon one’s appearance could
not be more strikingly depicted
than in these pictures.
WHAT MURCHISON
DISCOVERED ABOUT
HAIR
IT does not matter if your hair is falling
out, if you are fast going bald —or
what you have tried. You have not used
the RIGHT method. Hundreds of people
who had tried all kinds of “tonics” found
their hair falling out in handfuls, and
were fast going bald. Blit now their hair
is thick and lustrous—thanks to the im-
portant discovery that —
TONICS WILL NEVER
GROW HAIR
THEY never have—because it is impos-
sible while the scalp remains in a
clinked condition. There is one under-
lying principle that stimulates New Hair
Growth—that principle is involved in the
New Murchison Treatment. It’s a new
way entirely different and successful.
It approaches baldness, falling hair, etc.,
from a new angle. With it you can stop
your hair troubles overnight, or it won’t
cost you one penny! POST COUPON
AT ONCE!
1500 TRIAL
TREATMENTS
for
Distribution
Test It Yourself
TVTOW you can test it your-
self try this famous
treatment in your own home
—under any conditions you
like, and if it doesn’t grow
new hair, rid you of dan-
druff or any other hair
troubles you suffer from
within 30 days, it COSTS
VOU NOTHING !—not one
penny! But you must
hurry: this offer may never
he repeated. It x>laces you
under no obligation; all
you have to do is to post
that coupon NOW!
p “HAIR GROWING LIKE
WILDFIRE”
f COITX.D have told you after one appli-
cation that your treatment would cer-
tainly grow hair. It has completely changed
tiie color of my hair; it has turned it from
its dry, dead, straw-looking color back to
its original shade of brown, and now, after
about three weeks’ use, 1 have a lot of
new hair growing all over my head. It's
growing like wildfire. I mention that I
never gave your treatment a very fair go
either.”—E. J. KEYAOEDS, M.
SEND NO MONEY? I
' <*• KELSO MURCHISON,
! DEPT. 94, WAYNE HOUSE,
I CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
I
[ NAME
I
I ADDRESS
I
. (Enclose 3d. in stamps.) 4/2/’42.
Our Service Department
Wants.
To exchange for other (Australian) books
Proceedings of the Trial for Perjury of Sir
Roger Tichborne, by Dr. Kenealy, in nine
vols., illustrated.—3232.
j nd au *hor of an old Scottish song
The Road to the 151e5.”—3231.
Information Sought.
Directions for gas-proofing a room ?
Best and cheapest materials to cover air vents
and entrances are good-quality blankets and
some proprietary felts which are flexible and
can be used as gas-excluding curtains. If poor-
quality stuff is used it should be dampened
to make it swell. A good practical test is to
try to blow cigarette smoke through the material
when dry—if this is possible it should be damp-
ened. Don’t soak it in chemicals —the physical
obstruction offered by the material is the main
thing, and, in any case, a gas-proof room is a
draught-proof one and outside air should not
enter it, occupants having to rely on the im-
prisoned air. Cover any imperfections in
joinery such as the gap between flooring and
skirting boards with a strip of paper folded
in four like a W. If one arm of the W is
pasted to. the floor and the other to the skirting
board the house can then be rocked by con-
cussion without the paper tearing, as it would
if it were stretched tight. For further infor-
mation, write to National Emergency Services,
Box 160 d, G.P.0., Sydney.
* * * *
Would it be possible to grow tea on a com-
mercial basis in Australia ?
Here is the N. S. Wales Department of Agri-
culture’s advice: “The growing of the plant
almost anywhere in the agricultural districts of
Australia is the least difficult part of the matter.
Outstanding difficulties are, firstly, to obtain a
supply of seed, the export of which from India
and other tea-growing countries is prohibited by
legislation, and, secondly, the labor involved in
picking the leaves. Tea culture is confined to
tropical countries mainly because of the availa-
bility of abundant cheap labor rather than be-
cause of climatic conditions—most tea-produc-
ing districts are situated on highlands where
the climate is temperate rather than tropical.”
A leaflet on “The Cultivation of Tea,” issued
by the Department of Agriculture, has been
posted to you.
* * * *
How can I enter the diplomatic service in
Australia. Some idea of the scale of salaries?
■ are recruited for permanent positions
in the Department of External Affairs in two
ways: (1) Graduates of approved universities
(which include all Australian universities) who
are under 25 may be appointed to the Public
service Board without further examination;
(2) in certain cases applications are called for
from persons possessing the required \qualilica-
tions by advertisement in the “Commonwealth
Government Gazette” and in the Australian press.
No assurances are given that particular qualifi-
cations will secure an appointment but it is
usually specified that candidates should have,
as well _as a university degree in law, arts or
economics, a sound knowledge of at least one
modern language and of current affairs and his-
tory. Applications should be addressed to the
Secretary, Department of External Affairs, Can-
berra ; there are no vacancies at present, either
temporary or permanent, and no permanent
appointments will be made for the duration of
the war. Salaries of Third Secretaries range
from £222 to £5lO a year, according to experi-
ence and qualifications.
* =* * *
(1) Recipe for hop beer? (2) For ginger
beer ?
(1) Tie one cup of wheat, a good handful
of hops and one cup of raisins in a muslin bag
(leave room to swell) and boil in four gallons of
water for two hours. Put 21b. brown sugar in
a boiler (a kero.-tin will do for half quantities),
pour boiling liquid over it and, when cold, add
the juice of a lemon and loz. of isinglass.
Stir well, leave for 24 hours, strain and bottle.
When head begins to rise cork tightly and tie
down. Ready in eight days. (2) Boil soz. of
bruised ginger in three quarts of water for half
an hour, add 51b. of white sugar, half a cup
of lemon juice and £lb. of honey, with water
to make up to four gallons. Blend well. Strain
through cloth and when cold add a quarter of
an egg-white and one teaspoon of essence of
lemon. Leave for four days, boil up, leave to
cool and then strain and bottle. Ready in a
fortnight; will keep for two years.
» * * *
Recipe for cider?
Store fully-ripe apples on shelves or tables
(so that none touch) in any airy room for a
fortnight to get them mellow, then crush them
to pulp and place in a strong coarse bag. Apply
heavy weights and express juice into an open
tub, keeping the temperature at about 60 de-
grees. When sediment has settled siphon off
clear liquid into a clean cask and stand in
a cool place until the following spring. Then
draw off and bottle.
* * * *
(1) What studies are included in a course
of botany? (2) Any botanists in good positions
in Australia? (3) What chemicals are used to
grow plants in water? (4) Are they expensive ?
(1) The University (Queensland in your case)
course in botany covers three years’ study and
is part ot the science of agricultural courses.
It includes plant anatomy', classification, plant
Physiology, plant geography and ecology, plant
pathology and palaeobotany. (2) University
graduates who have specialised in botany find
employment in departments of agriculture, the
Division of Plant Industry at Canberra and at
various field stations of the C.5.1.R., and as
science teachers in secondary schools. (3) The
lormulae vary. An account is given in the
Penguin book Hydroponics. (4) Because of war-
time restrictions many of the chemicals are
unobtainable. Water cultivation, even in normal
times, is more expensive than soil cultivation.
* * * K
Locality of Twon goldfields, N. S. Wales,
about the middle of last century? What
towns are in the area? .
About 30-35 miles north of Bathurst, on
luron River, a tributary to the Macquarie
from the Dividing Range. Locality of the
famous Hill End mine. Only villages there
now, Sofala, lurondale, Hill End, Turnbu-
ll? 0 !. 3 ; district is about equidistant between
Mudgee on the north and Bathurst on the south.
Henry Neary s book, Ghosts of the Goldfields,
is a mine of early Turon history.
* * * *
(1) Who are the present world’s boxing
from flyweight to heavyweight?
T W ne y retire undefeated?
Worlds flyweight championship vacant, but
JacKie Paterson, of Glasgow, is regarded as
best boxer in that division. Lou Salica holds
bantam title, but featherweight championship
is disputed by Chalky Wright, Jackie Wilson —
who (ought in Australia four years ago—and
Ritchie Lemos. Sammy Angott is world’s light-
tight champion, Freddie (“Red”) Cochrane
welter, Tony Zale middle, Gus Lesnevich light-
heavy, and Joe Louis heavyweight. (2) Tunney
was only beaten once, by Harry Greb, in his
whole career. Greb lost to Tunney when they
met again, and Tunney retired as undefeated
heavyweight champion of the world after knock-
ing out Tom Heeney in 1928.
Brief Answers.
m Ml?- : J L ou nee . d P ay only £2 2s. a week....
1.W.1.; Hie period is 20 years, but the cost
of proving a possessory title would probably
be greater than getting a documentary title.
See a solicitor....N.E.K.: (1) Everybody ex-
cept the Crown. (2) Too wide to set out here.
A copy of the Act can be obtained at small
cost from the Government Printer... .N.K.:
One week s rent for letting and 5 p.c. for the
collection.. . .D. 8.5.: You cannot be sued for
the rent without leave of the Court, and it is
unlikely that leave would be granted J.J.:
Most towns have 240-volt A.C. distribution.
Where it varies it is generally direct current,
ij course > makes the shaver useless.
Would not recommend laminated core
, fT. : C° ns ult whatever firm supplied the
building materials... .G.S.: If it is possible to
recharge them, is it worth it? The CS I R
Melbourne, may be able to help you F.R.C. •
You should have no difficulty using “Corn-
weld bronze flux and ordinary brazing rod.
.. ..E.D.: The N. S. Wales Maritime Services
Board states that (1) some years ago a U.S.A.
Navy diver, off Honolulu, descended to a
submarine lying at a depth of 350 ft. As far as
is known that is the greatest depth reached in
a rubber diving suit. (2) The official limit
for the British Navy is 300 ft. with under-water
decompressing chamber. (3) When carrying
out salvage work on the liner Egypt, the New-
feldt and Kutmke articulated steel shell was
used. This, made of special steel, was designed
to be safe at a depth of 600 ft. The IS
operated with hooks or pincers at the end of
ne arras in place of hands, as in the case of
the rubber fabric suit. jp- A
Department of Agriculture leaflet on black spo
or blossom-end rot m tomatoes has been posted
were^WlTOTO 0 " | At . the last estimate there
Austraia ’w i n i en 21 and 45 »
Australia.... W L (1) When you marry your
pension rate will be reduced. (2) Annuity £So
cash and the £3OO invested are property within
the meaning of the Invalid and Old Age Pen-
sions Act JX.n.; No need t 0 ofl "
silk tor shower screen; oiled calico will last
much longer and give equal service. Cut screen
out or unbleached calico and attach rings. Soak
lor a while in clean water, rinse in several
waters and hang up to dry. Mix half a pint of
the best raw linseed oil with one tablespoon
of pure copal varnish, stirring well, then paint
the screen with the mixture, working it well
m, especially at the seams. Hang up to dry in
a shady place. Looks neat and will not dis-
color E.J.H.: Idle Hour is the only book
listed so far by that author... .J.S.i The water-
proofing substance is Velan PF, a pamphlet on
which has been posted to you. For further
information write to 1.C.1.A.N.Z., Estate
Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane F. 8.: Le»al
cos^J™ out Duty vaiaes from about £3OO
to £5OO according to manner in which estate
devolves.. . .D.C.W.: Difficult to advise without
knowing provisions of your mortgage, but
generally the answers are; (1) No. (2) and (3)
Payment of principal is postponed for a period
after the date on which you cease to be
engaged on war service equal to the period
during which you were so engaged or six
months following that date, whichever is the
shorter. (4) Yes. (5) You would still have to
pay the interest, but in default of payment no
proceedings could be taken against you without
the leave of the appropriate Court. (6) Can’t
say; its a matter for the army. (7) Would
not make any difference. (8) Yes. MR-
•Washington, District of Columbia P.C:
Write to the Colonial Secretary, Mauritius...
T.L.: George Brown, 267 Clarence-street Syd-
ney, handles Ultimate wireless sets G.S.T.:
T. A. Rickard is the name of the American
writer on English usage mentioned on this page
in 1/10/’4I —“Rickett” was a misprint..!.
A.H.C.: Dust the entire surface of the
The Bulletin
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Aus-
tralasia, weekly: 12 months, £1 45.;
6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s. (Ex-
change must be added to Country and
inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas
(British Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 165.; 3 months, Bs. To
members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any Address Overseas
(Foreign): 12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6
months, £1 25.; 3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua,
Fiji, New Hebrides and other places
within the British Empire, I(d • per copy.
United Kingdom, 2 jd. per copy. To all
other places, A\d.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS; HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
I VBiiaEEiliisi"-
19fs
f
W
ft
51
<an%i
ft
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
• theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
!
[Manager W. G. Bulfin
How much
from
f
df
No one need tell you how
urgently our troops need
'planes, tanks, guns and
ammunition.
Perhaps you can't take an
active part in the lighting, or
even in munitions produc-
tion, but nearly everyone who really wants to, can
find enough to make some investment in Australia's
security.
Will you look into your own affairs—find out the
most that you can lend—and put it into the next
Commonwealth Loan at once!
Don't wait till the Loan opens officially. Get your
money working right away!
Even the smallest amount counts double if you lend
it quickly, for the need is urgent.
INVEST IN THE /jfext
COMMONWEALTH
I LOAN
Interest is paid from the
date of your subscription.
Any Bank or Stockbroker
will arrange this for you.
Vote Can Aanid
INFERIORITY
COMPLEX , FEAR
AND NERVOUSNESS
Inferiority Complex has its roots deep down in the Sub-
conscious Mind. Its origin may be attributed to
%
i
N
a
m
s)
sm
unpleasant incidents which
occurred in your early life,
the memory of which your
Sub-conscious Mind still
vividly retains, although
long since forgotten to your
conscious mind.
SEND FOR OUR
AMAZING
FREE BOOK
Here is a list of the
Mental and Physical
Troubles which may
be traced back to the
negative forces in the
Sub-conscious Mind.
See imaginary dia-
gram above.
1. Self-consciousness.
2. Depression.
3. Forgetfulness.
4. Brain Fag.
5. Bashfulness.
6. Trembling.
7. Sleeplessness.
8. Cnsociability.
9. Worry.
10. Back of Concen-
tration.
11. Blushing.
12. Nerve Troubles.
13. Stammering.
14. Causeless Fear.
15. “Stage Fright.”
16. Nervous Indiges-
tion.
17. Nervous Catarrh.
18. Physical Fatigue.
on Practical Psychology
As applied to
Health, Happiness Success
60
PAGES
60
PAGES
It will show you-
how to Exchange War-worn
Nerves for Nerves of Steel,
how to Overcome Shyness and
Self-Consciousness,
how to Cure Physical Fatigue
and “Brain-Fag."
how to Remedy Blushing and
Stammering.
how to Develop a Marvellous
Memory.
How to Stay Well or Get Well.
How to Change Your Entire Life!
How to Develop Magnetic Personality and Succeed in
your chosen line. Printed in seven colours. 170 beautiful
illustrations. Positively the most Marvellous Free Book
ever offered to the public.
IT
POST
IS FREE
THE COUPON
NOW!
UNIVERSAL OPPORTUNITY LEAGUE,
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Please send me your famous Free Book. I
enclose 6d., being cost of registered postage.
NAME
(Mr., airs., aiiss)
Address
Bulletin, 4/2/’42.
painting with a soft brush, then with a clean
soft rag. Then apply poppy oil with a piece
of old (washed) silk. Do not use cotton wool.
Allow to dry before replacing C.N.H.:
Tooth powder: Borax (finest powdered) 2oz.
precipitated chalk 40z., myrrh loz., orris root
1 oz.; sift through fine gauze and keep in boxes.
Tooth paste: Camphor four drams, sal am-
moniac loz., pure honey to make paste. Grind
with mortar and pestle until all ingredients form
a thick, gritless paste V.M.D.: (1) The first
Australian contingent for the S. African War
left Sydney on October 28, 1899. The main
portion of the first and second contingents re-
turned in s.s. Orient to Sydney on January 8,
1901. (2) The “great flood” at West Maitland
occurred in 1893 (information from the . Royal
Australian Historical Society) W.J.ISf.: (1)
None until after war broke out. He ruled
Russia by virtue of being secretary of the
Communist party. (2) The Statesman’s Year-
Book (1941) says that the Central Executive of
the Communist party is “the Cabinet” of Russia.
Legislation is either initiated in or primarily
passed by the Secretariat of the Communist
party. (3) General secretary.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no M.S. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —-
8.C.J.:
John Curtin, John Curtin, come back from Perth!
The Japs rush on for all they’re worth.
And what are you doing at the end of the eai’th ?
T.E.McC. :
“To hell with this neutrality!” said Paddy unto Mike.
“For the honor of old Ireland it’s up to us to fight,
For if these gangsters conquer we’ll be in a sorry
plight,
And if the Allies win the war we’ll look a pretty
sight.”
M.I.A.: Nonsense needs to be funnier than
that G.T.: Let’s see the “twice as good
stuff” E.W.: There are worse things than
water restrictions, and your poem is one of
them C.E.P.: Somebody might give “The
Merchant Marine” a haven G.C.: Like the
end only F.D.G.: A lightweight
K.E.C.: Not far away R.J.: Try a
daily... .J.P.: Next time there’s a blackout
take it up a dark lane and lose it S.W.:
To write a line such as “And acrobatic feats
display” is itself something of an acrobatic
feat G.8.H.: Tempting; but if you mean
what you seem to mean by line 23 the Re-
ligious Editor will take a job with the Water
Board P.K.: “The Ploughman” homeward
plods his weary way WJ.McA.: They’re
not stories E.P.: Another feeble fable
P.F.: Try it elsewhere F. 8.: Not far off
H.L.: No “Interludes” F.D.: “The Pre-
lim. Boy” couldn’t make the grade A.F.:
“Heat Wave” exhausting N.C.: Too slight.
. ...M.H.: Conventional M-D.: Brevity in
your case isn’t the soul of wit C.E.L.: It
was reviewed some time ago.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.L.: If Hitler saw that cartoon he’d have
another bout of carpet-biting W.M.: Gag
attached to too-faint pencil sketch sent to
our Puzzle Department for elucidation Bert
C.: We wonder why only one of your figures
casts a shadow... J.Mc.: If true art is to con-
ceal art, you’ve discovered the great truth....
F.P.: We knew one of the fashion-plate girls
was talking through her hat because they both
had their mouths closed N. 8.: Slapdash
art and ancient wheezes don’t make the com-
bination to open our peter-keeper’s safe....
J.S.M.; Two corpses propped perpendicularly
against the bar aren’t saying anything funny.
K.A.C.: For the art race, you’ve scratched,
badly L.N.8.: We know John Bull has been
on short commons of late, but your effort
makes him look more like Cassius D.SJ.:
A brace of awful grotesques... .J.H.C.: If
you’d put Sarah in slacks we couldn’t have dis-
tinguished her from Dave.


J •; -
s
mL I
Since 1858 IUDOWICIS
have provided Australian Industry
with the finest leather belting.
★ power
TRANSMISSION
ENCINEERS
Ludowici's engineering work-
shop — largest of its kind in
Australia—produces a com-
plete range of Transmission
Equipment.
f
The quality of Pioneer Leather Belting is the result of years of con-
tinuous specialisation in tanning and belt making. Constant chemical
control of raw materials and tanning processes, routine inspection of
every stage of manufacture, ensure that uniform quality essential for
long term dependability.
Not only our Tannery and Belt-making Factories, but our Engineering Plant is the
largest of its kind in Australia producing Pivot and Torque Drives, V Belt Drives,
Pulleys, Bearings, Shaftings, a complete line of Power Transmission Equipment.
I. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
112 YORK STREET (NEAR MARKET STREET), SYDNEY
20-26 QUEENS BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated Dy
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness.
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
JThey give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN'S BACK
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well and keep you well.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Woolworths (N.Z.), Ltd.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
1931.. 20,217 9 p.c. 15 p.c. 10,460 9,757 13,394
1932.. 32,773 9 „ 20 „ 14,338 ) 7 91 ....
Estab. a/c written off, £10,667 J G'o/ 41,Xbi
Goodwill written up, £65,8X2.. .. 86,973
Reserves disappear, £1402 .. .. 85,571
1933.. 42,383 9 p.c. 20 p.c.* 19,746 22,637 108,208
Reserves capitalised, £43,560 . . . . 64,648
1934.. 48,225 9 p.c. 224 p.c. 26,552 21,673 86,321
Goodwill written up, £238,417 . . 324,738
Reserves disappear, £5500 . . .. 819,238
Reserves capitalised, £147,015'.. .. 172,223
1935.. 60,104 9 p.c. 14 p.c. 38,803 21,301 193,524
Reserves capitalised, £98,010 . . .. 95,514
1936.. 72,787 9 p.c. 17J p.c. 59,630 18,157 108,671
1937.. 111,461 9 „ 15 „ 64,245 47,216 155,887
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 150,887
Reserves capitalised, £56,601 .. . . 94,286
1938.. 125,212 9 p.c. 16 p.c. 104,117 21,095 115,381
Staff fund, £2500 .. .. .. 112,881
1939.. 116,866 9 p.c. 16 p.c. 104,117 12,749 125,630
Staff fund, £l5OO .. .. .. 124,130
Taxation underprovided, £26,500 . . 97,630
1940.. 99,070 9 p.c. 14 p.c. 91,330 7,740 105,370
1941.. 94,612 9 „ 14 „ 91,215 3.397 108,767
* Includes 10 p.c. on bonus shares issued Oct., 1933.
t Subject to goodwill ( £304,229 at October 1, 1940),
and excluding depreciation reserve (now £120,160).
Well-handled variety chain-store organi-
sations get their fair share of increased
business when the economic barometer
is rising, and when it falls many who
used to pass by their doors turn and go
in, as experience during the early 1930’s
shows. This offshoot of Woolworths,
Sydney, set up in the Dominion 12 years
ago with a capital of £50,000-odd. The
figure is now £672,608 —50,000 £1 9 p.c.
prefs. and 2,490,432 ords. of ss. each—
of which £345,186 (11s. Id. per pound
of ord. capital) is bonus scrip, the last of
which was scattered at the end of 1937.
But war, which has brought immediate
and artificial prosperity, threatens to
leave in its wake some fundamental eco-
nomic changes, which will render past
performances unreliable as a guide to the
future.
The 12 months covered by the co.’s
latest accounts was again a seller’s
market. An interesting feature is that,
while the velocity of circulation of bank
money showed little or no inclination to
increase, there was marked expansion in
the note circulation, the monthly average
of which promises to exceed £17,000,000
for 1941 as against £14,791,000 for 1940.
The note circulation expanded because
the national wage bill increased, partly
by growth of employment and partly by
lifts in wage rates. Obviously this has
done chain-store turnover no harm.
Now the Federation of Labor has asked
for a further lift of 7.8 p.c. in award
rates of pay to help cover increased cost
of living. It has been refused. Unless
some reduction in the general standard
of living is to be accepted as a contri-
bution to a much-talked-of total war
effort, it is difficult to see how
equitable stabilisation of prices, costs
and wages is to be brought about.
The alternative is the vicious spiral of
inflation, which is the most cruel and
least scientific method of making a levy
on the people, who would feel the back-
wash of inflation most severely when
the artificial stimulus of war expendi-
ture ceases.
The growth in Woolworths’ turnover
last term is reflected in a spring of
£19,792 in profit claimed, £306,862. That
was after paying all exes, and allowing
for depreciation, but before providing for
taxation. The allowance for taxation was
£24,250 heavier at £212,250, or 69.1 p.c.
of the profit claimed. No increase in the
tax rate was provided for in the Gov-
ernment s last Budget, but the co.’s allow-
ance for the purpose in 1940 was £26,500
short of the mark, and reserves were
tapped for this amount. Actually, there-
fore, the 1941 net result was better than
its immediate predecessor, though on
paper it was sufficient to pay the pref.
div. and show 14.5 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 15.2, 18, 19.3, 26.7 and 21 p.c.
for the five preceding terms. The con-
traction in net earnings reflects the inci-
dence of taxation as a factor in war-time-
cwm-socialistic , economy. The div. was
kept at 14 p.c., and there is no guarantee
that it will remain there.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows;
„ . 1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £615,982 £672,608 £672,608 £672,608
Mortgage . . 113,500 137,900 98,300 186,700
Sundry creditors 102,240 125,402 140,227 117,775
Tax provision 129,541 258,842 203,560 385,787
Freeholds . . 246,574 361,838 407,418 418,846
Leasehold . . 14,044 15,489 17,570
Plant . . 143,960 181,583 188,797 198,095
bVxares other cos. —• 7 7 7
Stocks . . 384,913 437,411 390,409 515,603
Debtors, etc... 59,486 20,616 10,413 9,079
Cash, etc. . . 95,1,38 187,153 90,523 239,471
To help finance a net addition of £129,194
to stocks, £22,807 to fixed assets and
reduce the amount coming to sundry
creditors by £22,452 the board raised an
extra £88,400 on mortgage. The growth
of £182,217 in the tax reserve and of
£148,948 in cash, etc., are interrelated.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids exceeded the amount coming to
mortgagees and sundry creditors by
£459,678, the year’s improvement being
£206,860, which approximates the pro-
vision for taxation.
At 14s. Bd. the ss. ords. yield 4.7 p.c.
on a 14 p.c. div. basis and reveal net
tangible cover of ss. lid. The 9 p.c.
prefs. return 5.2 p.c. at 395.; cover in
net tangibles is £l5 12s. 7d.
Victoria Nyanza Sugar Co., Ltd.
Nominal
. „ . To Re- Re-
Aprii, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves
£ £ £ £
1929.. 62,338 15 p.c. = 45,000 17,338 34,259
1930.. 55,003 10 „ „ 30,000 25,003 59,262
1 93 *-* 799 Nil 799 60,061
1932.. 718 Nil 718 60,779
Loss.
1933.. 38,617 Nil 22,162
June.
1934 t. 18,367 Nil _ 3 795
Profit.
1935.. 4,215 Nil 4,215 8,010
1936.. 17,336 3 p.c. = 9,000 8,336 16,346
1937.. 25,624 6 „ „ 18,000 7,624 23,970
1938.. 23,071 6 „ „ 18,000 5,071 29,041
1939.. 5,988 Nil 5,988 35,029
1940'.. 2,048 Nil 2,048 37,077
1941.. 10,227 5 p.c. = 15,000 32,304
f 14 months.
The story of this Australian venture
in Kenya can, like Caesar’s Gaul, be
divided into three parts. Registered in
1921 to work a property acquired by
G. R. Mayers, a successful planter for-
merly of Cairns, the co. started sugar
production in 1923. Monopoly, a pro-
tective duty of £l3 6s. Bd. per ton and
an abundance of cheap native labor pro-
duced divs. totalling 18s. a share during
the prosperous period to 1930. Then
followed famine years. Several other con-
cerns started to compete, and, with local
overproduction, export of the surplus was
a losing proposition, as land freight over
the 600 miles to the main port of Mom-
bassa was expensive, and world prices
had crashed calamitously. Locusts
(“hoppers”) and drought added to the
problems. Local price-cutting was only
partly relieved by the formation in 1931
of East Africa Sugar Distributors, Ltd.
The third and present phase was
marked by a 3 p.c. dividend in 1937.
Beginnings of the recovery started with
the reorganisation following B. Y. Abel’s
visit in 1934. The local board was abol-
ished and many technical economies
were effected, bringing overall costs
down by pounds per ton of sugar. Larger
plantings of soft cane, assisted by a
couple of good seasons, further reduced
mill costs and increased average yield of
sucrose. E.A. Distributors was liquidated
in 1934, followed by a heavy price fall
in the local market. But compensation
came soon after, as the lower price stimu-
lated local consumption from the earlier
average of 15,000 tons a year to 30,000
tons in 1937. By 1941 the figure for
Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika had
climbed to 48,000 tons.
War conditions —blackout and military
call-ups—made it impossible to operate
three shifts at any time during last season.
Nevertheless, the tonnage of cane crushed
was greater, as was also the production
of sugar:—•
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Cane grown .. 74,943 62,031 55,891 66.449
Cane purchased .. 20,825 17,596 18,914 24,304
Sugar (white) pro-
duced . . . . 11,122 7,653 5,411 6.402
Lately the proportion of soft cane
crushed has notably decreased. In 1941
it was down to 22 p.c. of the total, com-
pared with 38 p.c. and 48 p.c. previously.
Soft canes crush much more rapidly and
cheaply, and usually yield more sugar.
But they don’t stand up so hardily to the
local climate or ratoon so freely as the
hard canes. The co. has been develop-
ing its own varieties of hard canes, for
which it claims exceptionally high ton-
nages per acre, with sugar yields
approaching the soft canes. In the total
of 9091 acres which was under cane at
June, 1941, hard cane now predominates.
Net profit for the year, including £3075
investment income, was £10,227, equal
to 3.4 p.c. on capital, as against 0.6, 1.9,
7.6 and 8.5 p.c. for the four preceding
terms. This was after charging deprecia-
tion £8731 (last year £9160) and taxation
£1832 (£247). The 5 p.c. dividend, recom-
mended after closing date of the ac-
counts, looks liberal. It absorbs £15,000,
all but £3263 of the profits earned dur-
ing the last three yedrs. After providing
for it, nominal reserves fell by £4773.
They are subject to £48,000 of develop-
ment expenditure capitalised.
The liquid position at balancing date
showed further improvement:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. . . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . , . . 9,456 5,597 4,356
Mill 94,796 90,080 85,637
Land, buildings, etc. 1
Rolling stock, tramways, ) 118,905 116,176 110,461
plant, etc. . . .. J
Plantation development 48,000 48,300 48 000
Sugar stocks . . . . 322 875 394
Book debts . . . . 12,919 12,651 12,102
Cash. etc. . . .. 96,947 103,194 127,168
Stocks were low at £394, book debts were
about £5OO down at £12,102, but cash
(£127,168) was well up. The more or
less liquid surplus of £135,308 Improved
sy/2i 285 ~~ sub j ect . to dividend payment
±lj,ooo and to unpaid taxation.
The record of the last five years is not
so impressive as to encourage extrava-
gant hopes for the future. Area under
cane expanded by 700 acres, approxi-
mately 10 p.c. Costs, prices, plagues and
drought are taken into consideration by
the market, which is not inclined to be
bullish. At, say, Bs., which compares with
19s. 9d. and ss. 6d.—highest and lowest
sales m recent years—the yield is 124 p.c.
should the 5 p.c. dividend be repeated
and the backing 225. 7d. per share ex
div.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reswvrf
£££ £ '
1931 • • 24,302 6 p.c. = 21,000 3,302 61,731
1935“ ? ” ” 28,000 4 > 538 60,269
I ” » 24,796 4 7 79 68.048
8 » » 29,600 6,261 74.309
1935.. 39,481 9 „,, 33,300 6.182 80 490
1936 ’ • , 43 ’ 948 10 »,, 37,000 6,948 87*438
Bha £e premiums, £8692 .. .. 96,130
10 P- c -= 39,178 8,512 104.643
1938.. 51,875 11 „ „ 44,000 7,875 112,517
Goodwill disclosed, £30,429 .. 82 088
iofo' ' f 9, 8 12 - p-c- = 50 > 000 9 ,891 91,979
1 9 40. . 56,173 12 „,, 48,000 8,173 100,152
Goodwill increased by £33 .. 100 119
1941.. 55,386 12 p.c. = 48,000 7,386 107,505
The slight contraction in last year’s net
earnings was due entirely to provision
of an extra £75,000 for taxation (£97,000).
Sales were the best in the co.’s history,
turnover being no less than 19 p.c. in
excess of the previous year’s, which was
9 p.c. better than its predecessor. Exports
to the U.K., India and other Eastern
countries contributed largely to the new
record, which was also assisted by a
strong trade demand locally and by de-
fence contracts, though these were taken
at or very near cost.
The co. started the term with substan-
tial stocks in India, and the British Gov-
ernment agreed to take Australia’s sur-
plus pack of canned fruits, provided ship-
ping space was available. If sufficient
space was not offering, the Federal Gov-
ernment agreed to take over and store
surplus export stock as at the end of
September last. So the manufacturer’s
risk on a bumper turnover was less than
usual and growers fared well. Because
of increased turnover, and especially the
profitable overseas portion, the co. was
able to maintain unaltered selling prices
for most of its products marketed locally.
Gross earnings shot up £81,696, reach-
ing £320,224. But exes. (£266,367) took
all the increase and £1238 besides. Allow-
ing for minor reserve adjustments, the
net result was only £787 lighter at
£55,386, equal to a wink under 14 p.c.
on capital as against 14.1, 14.2, 12.9,
12.1, 11.8, 10.6, 9.7 and 7.5 p.c. back to
1933. The div. was kept at 12 p.c., mak-
ing the average over the last decade 9.9
p.c. The £7386 that remained visibly
lifted the lay-by to £107,505, subject to
£30,461 of goodwill, etc. The history
of the undertaking suggests that plant is
kept thoroughly up to date, and that
means much in a manufacturing busi-
ness.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1935. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Capital . . £370,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 15,878 49,678 57,564 79,695
Property ( *99« ino » 9 0 0 101 1 169,507 171,602
Plant, etc. ) -' ZB,lod -.39,121 5 3> g 11 53,924
Stock.. .. 202,254 286,925 331,573 360,063
Debtors .. 73,037 89,384 78,488 84,324
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 6,224 1,767 16,014 52,287
* Including goodwill, etc., now disclosed at £30,461.
To meet last term’s increase of £28,490
in stocks, £5836 in debtors’ balances and


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised ..
Capital Issued
.. £1,250,000
.. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund .. .. ..
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
£1,250,000
1,000,000
1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street!
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE; 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over
years, has safeguarded the interests of the
and the man-on-the-land.
appoint your executor
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
55
property-owner
AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Security
Economy
Service
Or AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon.
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham
Robert 0. Wilson.
Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ;
Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A.
Manager: J.
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G. ;
G. H. Shipway.
7/
%
t/MlTtO
IT'S THE
GROUNDWORK THAT COUNTS
m
m
sw
SSsSS
i
m
m
Micrometer testinq
precision built R.I.L.
hydraulic tank for
Beaufort Bombers.
Soy
RICHARDS
A five-miles-a-minute dash into
enemy territory . . . target sighted
. . . ten hectic minutes of torturing,
racking twists, turns, lurches and
slips as the pilot weaves his way through probing
searchlight beams and fierce anti-aircraft fire.
“All our planes returned safely” is the cold
official tribute to the supreme R.I.L. craftsman-
ship that imparts the toughness and reliability
to weather such ordeals night after night . . .
ordeals where a loose bolt or careless joint would
spell disaster.
Every R.I.L. workman realizes that his comrades
in the R.A.A.F. rely on the excellence of his
handiwork ... so each man devotes his full
measure of skill and fidelity to upholding the
R.I.L. tradition of Reliability. The hazardous
task of our Bristol Beauforts is made surer and
safer by the superlative craftsmanship that gave
Australia “Body by Richards.”
HICHAMS
INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
KESWICK AND MILE END, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
£36,273 in cash, etc., only £22,134 was
added to the amount coming to trade
creditors. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£416,979, excluding
provision for taxation) was £48,488.
The co. turns out high-grade canned
fruits, jams and condiments, etc., from
factories at Richmond and Bendigo
(Vic.), Rosebery and Windsor (N.S.W.),
Adelaide (S. Aus.) and Risdon Park
(Tas.), and is well equipped, financially
and otherwise, to win whatever pro tits
are to be had from the trade.
As for the current term, the turnover
in the local market promises to be well
maintained, but what will happen to
exports will largely depend upon develop-
ments in the war with Japan. Costs con-
tinue on the up-grade, and there is the
ever-present possibility of further Gov-
ernment interference with profits an
dividends. At 455. the scrip returns 5.3
p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis, and the cover
is 255. sd. in net tangibles.
The future of Mt. Chalmers, near
Rockhampton (C.Q.), should be clearly
indicated in the immediate future as a
potential copper-producer in the present
critical shortage. Mt. Morgan, Ltd., has
unwatered it to 300 ft. and has found that
on the whole it is in fairly good shape
for working, timber being sound with no
evidence of serious subsidence since its
closure in 1914. A large tonnage of ore
is now broken and will be taken to Mt.
Morgan for treatment. If it comes up to
the published grade of reserves in gold
and copper values it is likely to be one ot
the biggest new sources of copper in the
Commonweath.
♦ * * *
Owing to the shortage of underground
labor through call-ups and enlistments,
the output of ore from Wattle Gully
(Chewton, Vic.) is insufficient to keep the
battery running at full capacity. All but
essential development work is to be sus-
pended, and the available labor will be
put on to stoping from the No. 7 and No.
8 levels, where large reserves of good-
grade ore occur. Fortnightly
tion will be lower in tonnage but some-
what higher in grade, and operating costs
should be considerably reduced. During
the week ended January 29 the battery
crushed 950 tons for 3470 z. Crushing
is still going on. On a paid capital of,
under £40,000, Wattle Gully has dis-
tributed £261,000 in divs. Over foui,
years’ ore is in sight.
* * * *
From London:
Lake View and Star’s financial position isn t
bad. Last balance day (June 30, 1941) it had,
apart from mines and ore reserves of a gross
value of over ten millions in Australian cur-
rency, the following assets in sterling: Invest-
ments in war loans £187,449, cash £233,840,
plant and machinery (heavily written down)
£289,849, and stores—they would cost con-
siderably more to buy now—£l4o,ooo. Indebted-
ness included sundry creditors, mostly reserve
for taxation, £286,905, and unclaimed divs.
£31,191. Chairman D. Christopherson told a
cheerful story at the annual meeting. Briefly
outlining the main points in general manager
Joe Thorn’s report, he said that, notwithstand-
ing a decrease of 2566 ft. in the total develop-
ment footage, ore reserves had been further
increased during the year by 276,000 tons and
were now of great strength. A satisfactory
feature also was that positive and broken ore
tonnages now constituted 91 p.c. of the total
reserve. Broken ore at 831,200 tons amounted
to considerably more than the total treated
during the year, and reserves were practically
equivalent to six years’ supply at the present
rate of milling. About 78 p.c. was m
the western group, comprising Ivanhoe, Horse-
shoe, Chaffers and Hannans Star, and 22 p.c.
represented the combined tonnages in Lake
View and Associated. Higher wages and in-
creasing cost of all materials had increased
working expenses by 2s. 7.21 d. to 225. 10.45 d.,
and these, notwithstanding mechanical improve-
ments and simplifications in transport and
treatment of ore, were expected to be higher this
year. With regard to the future, Christopherson
said that the co.’s greatest concern was the possi-
bility of shortage of some essential stores. Very
substantial quantities were ordered in anticipa-
tion of war, but, owing to non-deliveries of one
or two items and the extreme difficulty in re-
placing them, the management was faced with
the possibility of having to curtail treatment. It
was perhaps not fully realised that shortage of
an y o ne essential commodity could upset the
whole m i n i ng a nd milling circuit,
* * * *
Following a report that Western
Mining Corporation had abandoned its
tbree months’ non-working option on the
F vans t on goldmine, on the Yilgarn field,
an o ffj c i a ] announcement has been made
p er th that negotiations for a continu-
ance of the opt i on did not result in any
a g reem ent being reached,
* « * *
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L., the main
support of Norseman (W.A.), netted
£ 49j300 for year t 0 Qct. 31 last, against
£50*550 for the previous 12 months. Pro-
cegds g o t d won were £276,248, against
£261>,122>. From profit £1839 has been
transferred to special reserve. Ore
reserves a t 261,000 tons (averaging
4 3 dwt \ com pare with 233,000 tons a year
» * * *
Tindals Gold Mines, London, repeats
a year-old statement that Herman Man-
dalstam, a member of the board and one
vendors co >s Coolgard e
Qduce has been given the job of rev-
P director in Westralia . It is no t
whether he has et left London.
Management reports that recent develop-
m£nt indicates a prob able addition to
reserveSj which were last estimated at
29J j t ons, of from 60,000 to
>
75,000 tons. The grade remains unaltered
at about 4^dwt.
* * * *
Burma Corporation, which includes
Australian speculators among its share-
holders, earned a profit of £393,472 ster-
ling for the year ended June 30 last,
against £510,297 in the previous 12
months. Dividends, whose aggregate runs
into millions to date, absorbed £412,598.
Co. is the successor of one formed 36
years ago by H. C. Hoover, the late F. A.
Govett and others to acquire ancient
silver-lead-zinc and copper mines in
Upper Burma, which are among the big-
gest of their kind in the world. One
prominent Australian mining-man, Percy
Marmion, has been general manager, and
is now chairman, and another, Hogan
Taylor, is at present in control.
} ** * *
Collie coalminers want pensions at 60,
and Panton, Minister for Mines, has
promised to consult Cabinet on the
matter. In reply to their argument that
Westralia is the only coal-producing Stale
where such pensions are not paid, the
Minister said in N. S. Wales coalminers
made up the majority of those engaged
in mining. In Westralia there were only
800 coalminers, as against 13,000 metal-
liferous. If any pension scheme were
provided for Westralian coalminers it was
difficult to see how metalliferous miners
could be ignored, particularly as most
goldminers there were silicotic before
they reached the age of 60.


THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
A THOROUGH, comprehensive and
efficient service—founded on traditions
of more than a century of sound bank-
ing combined with a progressive
policy and extensive organisation,
enables THE COMMERCIAL BANK-
ING COMPANY OF SYDNEY,
LIMITED, to offer every facility for
the transaction of all classes of Banking
business.
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.;
Robert Vicars.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE ST,, SYDNEY
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Public Notice.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT
COMPANY.
Annual General Meeting of Proprietors.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual
General Meeting of the Proprietors of the Com-
pany will be held at the Conference Room, 7th
Floor, Grand United Order of Oddfellows
Building, 149 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, on
Thursday, 26th February, 1942, at 12 noon.
BUSINESS.
1. To receive the Report of the Directors for
the past year and authorise the payment of a
dividend for the half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1941.
2. To elect two Directors in the place of James
Vicars, Esq., and Ottomar George Vickery,
Esq., who retire and who have given the
requisite notice that they are candidates for
re-election, for which they are eligible.
3. To appoint two Auditors in the place of
Messrs. Robert William Nelson, F.C.A.
(Aust.), and William Thomas Morris, F.C.A.
(Aust.), who retire and who have given the
requisite notice that they are candidates for
reappointment, for which they are eligible.
4. To transact such other business as may be
properly brought forward.
Candidates for the Directorship are required
to give notice of their candidature in writing
to the undersigned not later than Wednesday,
11th February, 1942.
The Transfer Book of the Company will be
closed from the 12th to the 26th February,
1942, both dates inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
W. A. TAYLOR,
Company’s Head Office, Secretary.
Haymarket, Sydney, 29th January, 1942.
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
14 Castlereagh St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.)»
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
“Tremendous Sacrifices”
The Port Kembla branch of the Iron-
workers’ Association has carried a reso-
lution congratulating Minister for Labor
Ward on his advocacy of nationalisation
of basic industries and his claim that
profits therefrom should be limited to 3
p.c. “We feel,” it was stated, “that this
would be in keeping with the tremendous
sacrifices that the workers are making
in the speeding-up of production.” No
doubt the ironworkers included them-
selves among the workers mentioned ; if
so, no bashfulness or embarrassment was
noticed when the statement was made.
The “tremendous” sacrifices made by
unionists are, in truth, mostly mythi-
cal. The speeding-up of the war effort,
plus the extra effort required in order to
make up for the shortage of man-power
caused by enlistments and call-ups for
the fighting forces, has demanded the
working of more hours a day by men
in many industries. This work has not
been done free by the unions, nor even
at ordinary “time” rates. Overtime
penalties are exacted instead, though
overtime rates are entirely out of place
in war, when there is a job for
everyone and the working of overtime
keeps no one out of employment. And
it was not until recently that any sub-
stantial war taxation was paid by people
earning under £8 a week, though £8 a
week is far above the average received
by the income-earning population of the
Commonwealth.
Some people on £8 and under now
have very noticeable contributions to
make to the nation’s fighting fund, but the
“tremendous” sacrifices are still reserved
for people receiving more than that
figure. In the case of some of these,
the more they earn the less they get!
And it is stupid to say that until all
are reduced to a net income of £8 a
week the man on under £8 a week should
bear no tax. The reason for the im-
provement in man’s living standard in the
last couple of centuries has been largely
due to the enterprise of the organiser and
the inventor, and without extra remunera-
tion for these people the organisation
and development of industries would
never take place. Increased commitments
are invariably the associate of increased
effort. But envy and jealousy, carefully
implanted in workers’ minds by cunning
agitators, are obstructions to fair and
sensible thinking so far as numbers of
Australian unionists are concerned.
Many Australians are free spenders,
even though others are great supporters
of life assurance and the savings banks.
The free spenders often resent thrift in
others, as they resent anything in the
shape of organising ability or employ-
ment-giving enterprise. Some of such
people put education at a discount; but
education is an essential of the demo-
cratic system. Lazy-mindedness is one
reason for the way false doctrines are so
easily swallowed in this country —why
workers fall for the flattering but fishy
stuff poured into their receptive ears, and
why they read only headlines. It is
also largely responsible for the attitude
taken by many unions—“the workers are
paying for everything ; the bosses have
plenty of money—make them pay.”
Even such an authority on “economics”
as Treasurer Chifley has said, “The
workers have suffered the privations of
peace ; they are now asked to suffer the
privations of war.” Sanctimonious hum-
bug of this kind isn’t likely to stiffen
backs for the war effort.
There are facts and figures aplenty
prepared by the Government Statistician
and the taxation authorities to enlighten
Australians in the matter of production,
incomes and taxation. Obviously they
are never consulted by some trade-union
leaders ; but a “good” talker doesn’t have
to rely on facts. Australian gullibility in
this regard is about on a par with
that in the U.S.A. half a century ago,
when all kinds of “pups” were widely
sold. Wild-cat get-rich-quick schemes
have had a wide vogue in this coun-
try. The Woolcott-Forbes affair, Hod-
son’s Investments, etc., plus numer-
ous pine-tree, flax, tobacco, shale and
oil fiascos are evidence of this failing
among one section of the people in Aus-
tralia. And there is plenty of other evi-
dence among other classes. The suscep-
tibility of thousands to “easy” but crack-
pot currency systems is notorious.
Seamen have lately asked for —and got
—-“better conditions.” In this case no
private employer pays. The Government
has chartered nearly all the shipping on
the Australian coast, and the nation is
charged—it is now paying through the
nose —for all increased running costs.
An employer or a company of any kind
seems to be “set” by many unionists and
Labor Parliamentarians. No treatment
is bad enough for “the bosses.” Though
every basic-wage-earner throughout the
Commonwealth has had his income lifted
(in terms of money) since war broke out,
maintenance of incomes by company
shareholders would be denied by such
people as the Port Kembla ironworkers.
In many instances company share-
holders have suffered cuts in income
(even before they pay their own taxa-
tion) ; still much hollow humbug about
“profiteering” is heard from Mr. Ward
and unionists. “Profiteering” is so
obvious among war-time industries that
shares in most of them can be bought by
trade-unionists or anyone else at two-
thirds (or less) of their average pre-war
price. Most other kinds of property and
goods have gone up in price. Actually,
the greatest opportunity to profiteer in
this country is in the hands of overtime
workers.
Taxation of company shareholders
the folk whom Mr. Ward and the
ironworkers would limit to a 3 p.c.
return, and that not guaranteed—is
particularly severe. A company, though
it is representative of nothing but its in-
dividual shareholders, is taxed savagely
as a company—in N. S. Wales the mini-
mum is 7s. in the £—and then, when
such of the income as remains is dis-
tributed among shareholders, it is taxed
again at a rate applicable to the share-
holder’s income, without regard to the
tax already paid by the company. Thus
the shareholder in a company in N. S.
Wales, however small his income may be,
pays at least 7s. in the £ more taxation
than the worker on similar income. If
company incomes represented the major
part of Australia’s national revenue com-
pany taxation on this scale would pay for
far the greater proportion of war’s
cost. But company incomes are small in
relation to workers’ wages. Incomes of
under £8 a week represent 70 p.c. of
the money earned in this country.
The savings banks throughout the
Commonwealth continue to gather in
record deposits. At the end of November
they totalled £265 million, up £2l million
since the outbreak of war. By itself, this
increase is no more than equal to the
depreciation in the value of money since
war began—the basic wage has been lifted
over 10 p.c. in keeping with rising living
costs —but in addition to the increase
shown the net subscriptions to war sav-
ings certificates have to be taken into
account. They amount to approximately
another £2O million, and may be said to
represent a true increase in savings since
war started. There are probably addi-
tional savings in the trading banks as well
—there has been a slight increase in fixed
deposits since war started and a
lift of £43 million in free deposits, with
a substantial reduction in advances to
private industry. The Commonwealth
Bank, trading department, also shows a
lift of £l3 million in its deposits over the
past two years. Since Sept., 1939, too,
Australian notes held by the public have
increased by £3O million, nearly doubling.
Thus in many directions there are indi-
cations of increased wealth belonging to
individual members of the community.
This growth is mostly among the lower-
income-earners, thousands of whom are
earning more in overtime than they pay
in war taxes. A good deal of the extra
money deposited in the banks has been
made available to the Federal Govern-
ment in the form of bank credit. It would
be far better lent direct to the Govern-
ment by the depositor.
¥ * * «
The new £35 million war loan will be
launched on February 17. It represents
a request for the second instalment of
Australia’s public-loan requirements for
the current financial year. Terms have
not yet been disclosed, but they will prob-
ably be on all fours with the last couple
of issues. About £3O million of new
money was raised by the operation in
November last, when a £7O million con-
version was also accomplished.
* * * *
In debatable circumstances the Indus-
trial Relations Council has collapsed.
“The only co-operation offered by the
employers was on their own terms and
conditions,” said Mr. Ward. There are
other stories abroad. The Minister for
Labor added: “Perhaps as I extend the
man-power regulations I will be able to
fit the employers’ representatives into
some vital war work.” And perhaps,
eventually, Mr. Ward might be able to
fit himself into some vital war work.
* * * *
The building regulations have been
amended. A temporary ban has been
placed on the commencement of work on
any dwelling within 25 miles of the Syd-
ney or Melbourne G.P.O. The ban
applies to alterations as well as to new
buildings. A new building costing more
than £2OOO may not now be built with-
out special Treasury consent anywhere in
Australia. Previously the limit was
£3OOO.
* * * *
Mortgages of more than £l5OO may not
be raised, without the Treasurer’s con-
sent, by persons or companies during a
period of 12 months. This is a new
Capital Issues Regulation. It is part and
parcel of the attempt to assist war-loan
flotations, of which we are soon to have
some big ones.
* * * «
The A.B.C.’s Canberra “spokesman,”
during the Curtin-Churchill explosions,
made the fatuous announcement that
Australia couldn’t have done more for
its own defence in Malaya and that all
that could possibly be done by ourselves
for the defence of Australia had now been
done, A compliment indeed to strikers, and
equally complimentary to the six useless
State Governments now standing in the
way of a full war effort. Also very flat-
tering to the Government of which Eddie
Ward is a member—after four months
of office it has apparently performed
miracles, because before Labor ascended
to the Treasury benches it was very dis-
satisfied, or said it was, with Australia’s
war effort, (Maxie Falstein in particular
may be referred to, but Eddie Ward on
the necessity for nationalisation in a
full war effort is also educational.) The
tricky N. S. Wales Government, which
put over a roughie in its “abolition” of
unemployed-relief tax, is typical of the
trouble struck by the Commonwealth
Government in getting a streamlined
war effort going. In November last
the Commonwealth introduced legis-
lation to provide a rebate of taxation
where Federal and State taxes combined
exceeded 18 s, in the £. This was done
on the assumption that the States would
follow suit. So far N. S. Wales has done
nothing, and in that State taxation may
still exceed 20s. in the £. Australian
taxation “systems” are a decided hin-
drance to a speeding-up of the war job.
They waste man-power and obstruct
initiative,
* * * *
The higher incomes of many members
of the community are reflected in the in-
creased new business written by the
A.M.P. and other life assurance cos. in
their last year. In the previous term
there was an almost general falling-off
in new policies taken out. The recent
recovery has been stimulated in part by
the exemption of annual premiums (up to
£100) from income tax. On moderately
high incomes this exemption has meant
very cheap life assurance.


v
i
iimm
. *
- .......
w
>
*
m
Teen ico
PART OF AN INCH
When error may mean death—when the lives of the
Empire's fighting men hang on the thread of extreme
accuracy—when the thousandth part of an inch may
spell disaster or success—then it is that Australia's
Industrial Army must give of their best.
Armed with the tools of Science, housed in a modern
factory, the men of E.T.C. take their place in the front
line of Industry, guiding with patience and extreme
precision the machines and instruments which produce
war equipment for the nation.
And out of the seeming chaos, above the din and
clamour of this wartime factory, runs a steady stream
of finely made equipment worthy to carry the com-
pany's hall mark—"A tecnico Product."
Speeding through the skies on missions of defence or
destruction, men of the air arm may be content that
"they also serve" who carry on in the factories' front
line.
When the last battle is over and victory is won, history
will be written of the men who served on the industrial
front and gave of their best in a nation's need.
E. T. C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CH R, CARRINGTON RD. AND REN WICK SI., MARRICKVILLE, N. S. W.
3-33-41
V-
k
10 for lid. • 20 for I 10
E 1869
CRAVENA
l/mll appreciate theh
00
-ii"!
A
r
m
M A
E
EE
Share Prices
After some recovery, Australian share-
markets weakened again ; there was evi-
dence of a steadying, then a dip as the
Allied forces in Malaya withdrew to
Singapore Island. Last week-end prices
were still below the lowest levels
touched in 1941, during the end of which
there was three weeks of Japanese Blitz
in the Pacific. They are not quite as
low, on the whole, as in June, 1940, but
some sections, notably investments repre-
senting interests in Pacific outposts, are
at the* lowest point touched in a decade.
Apart from Malayan tin stocks, the most
representative of these issues are Bulolo
Gold Dredging and W. R. Carpenter.
These have extensive interests in New
Guinea. Carpenter’s have been severely
hit by the Japanese disruption of business
at Rabaul, and Bulolo, on the main island
of New Guinea, has also suffered damage
not fully ascertained —loss of part of the
co.’s air fleet has been announced.
In view of the uncertainty associated
with the whole New Guinea area, in
which the Carpenter co. has its main but
not entire interests, the market has been
prepared to accept as low as 275. for
Carpenter shares. A sale of Bulolo
Dredging shares at 255. last week
represented half the price of the previous
sale. At last balance day Bulolo had
over 20s. a share in surplus liquid assets
away from New Guinea, and that was
exclusive of stores and supplies in New
Guinea or elsewhere. The 255. was there-
fore a bargain price for the scrip, and
this angle on funds held by companies
away from the war zone is one to be
considered seriously by holders before
sacrificing their holdings. Whatever the
damage (if any) done to the plant in
New Guinea, the course of the war in the
Pacific, particularly from the Australian
point of view, will depend on whether
such places as New Guinea are held, or
at least regained. Judgment on the value
of investments in these areas should not be
passed without taking into the picture the
idea of Australian values generally if New
Guinea were to be permanently lost.
Placer Development owns 300,000 of
the million issued shares in Bulolo. But
it also has a 36 p.c. interest in Pato Con-
solidated, a Colombia (South America)
concern of increasing value, as well as a
45 p.c. interest in Asnazu, in the same
Republic. Placer has other interests in
various parts of the American continent
and in Australia. Placer shares have sold
as low as 355. lately, which compares with
a highest price of 71s. 6d. in 1941. At
355. they were particularly cheap, and
buyers have since raised their bids to 375.
In the Commonwealth, Broken Hill
Prop, shares are down heavily, and this
has been so for several weeks. Apart
from the Japanese situation, the fulmina-
tions of Messrs, Ward and Forde have
affected this and other efficient essential
industries. The taxation position comes
into the picture also in a general way.
But if one can assume that sanity will
eventually come to the world at large and
to Canberra radicals in particular, the
day will also arrive when B.H.P. shares
at present prices will look like a lost
opportunity to those who were thinking
of buying but didn’t.
G. J. Coles shares have sold at under
505., ex div. The interim was reduced
because of the new, heavier company tax,
and there has been a delayed decline in
market support. Woolworths ss. shares
can be picked up at 13s, 6d.
Australian Cement, whose £1 denomi-
nators were selling at 425, a few months
ago, could be bought into at 345. 6d. last
week, which compares with 30s. for
Kandos 16s. scrip. For once in a way
Kandos scrip is overvalued by compari-
son. The textile group is well supported,
considering, especially in the case of
woollen cos. Cotton concerns have been
rather neglected, but their activities are
expanding rapidly.
Barrier mines have fluctuated only
moderately of late. They had their fall
wee ks ago, and have shown little subse-
quent recovery. Electrolytic Zinc at 425. 6d.
hasn t moved much since the market re-
adjustment following the div. reduction.
„ , ~ , , , , . _ . „
Canada, which has placed income tax
under 01,15 authority, is doing wonders
industrially. Mackenzie King has an-
nounced that it is proposed to provide
Britain with $lOOO million worth of muni-
tions and food free of charge, though
over what period it is not stated. Also,
Canada, in order to help Britain out in
the matter of Canadian funds, is to buy
back $295 million worth of Canadian
National Railways stock. It is pro-
posed that £7OO million sterling owing in
London to Canada should be lent to
Britain for the duration free of interest,
All this is being done by a population of
11,000,000. It shows the possibilities in
this country if we only shape up to facts,
both pleasant and unpleasant.


THE SERVICE MAN
The Pacific Front.
“Ek Dum”; Though deplorable things
happened last week, the results of a
little orderly military thinking are begin-
ning to make themselves felt in the
Pacific zone.
Washington, as the most central point,
has become in effect the temporary capi-
tal and headquarters of the southern
Pacific war; Sourabaya, the fighting
headquarters.
In the fighting zone, which embraces
everything involved north of Australia
and as far south as New Guinea, a single
command has been established, co-operat-
ing with China and linking with the
Middle Eastern command.
East of Australia along the line of the
south-eastward thrust of which New
Guinea and the Marshalls are the elbow,
together with the whole fringe of the
eastern Australian coast, has been created
a United States responsibility—the
“Anzac area,” It is obviously not linked
with the fighting zone to the north
because, for a time, it can concern itself
mainly with the swift building of defence
outside and defence depots within Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, rather than with
actual fighting.
Washington’s proper function, like that
of Canberra, will be to cut away all
obstacles to the supply of every man and
every pound of fighting metal which can
be shipped to the command in the fight-
ing zone.
General Wavell has succeeded already
in wresting some of the initiative from
the enemy and forcing him to draw in
some of his tentacles slightly.
A few weeks ago the Japs were rang-
ing all over the north and mid-Pacific.
They seemed bent on acquiring various
protective outskirts of the battle area
before building a central position in
the Indies from which they could strike
anew in all directions.
Their first intentions seemed to be to
clean up Malaya and the Philippines and
to obtain a foothold at the nearest end
of the Hawaiian Islands —Midway—
before they proceeded further with their
completion of their new territorial base
in the Indies.
They have failed to take Midway.
Manila Bay, which would be more valu-
able to them than the rest of the Philip-
pines put together, is still not theirs.
They have the responsibility of managing
the city of Manila, which is accustomed
to U.S. luxuries and an abundance of
outside traffic. But the harbor is still
stoppered by Corregidor.
The continual breezy assurances of
Tokyo Radio that General MacArthur’s
force is negligible is belied by Japan’s
own stories of the toughness of the
fighting. The invaders hold only one-
third of the whole area of the
Philippines. MacArthur still holds out
stoutly against the bulk of the Japanese
14th Army, which may consist of any-
thing from 80,000 to 120,000 men. It is
most encouraging that the U.S.A. should
already have thrown up a first-class fight-
ing general,
Burma
At the other end of the enemy’s main
attack area is Burma. The Japs’ first
attention to that country seemed to sug-
gest that they believed it to be in a state
of semi-rebellion.
Conquest of Burma became an urgent
necessity, though Jess urgent than the
blotting out of the port facilities of Ran-
goon.
On Jan. 25 Thailand declared war on
Britain and U.S.A., and Thai troops
began to join the Japanese across the
border.
On the night of January 26 a visit by
General Wavell to Rangoon was an-
nounced —a sure sign that Burma was be-
coming a major war theatre.
Since December 23, the raiding Jap-
anese had killed 1102 persons in Ran-
goon, but the raiders were paying heavily.
To Feb. I, 52 Japanese aircraft had been
destroyed since Jan, 23, and 11 probably
destroyed, for the loss of six machines
and five pilots.
On the morning of Jan. 30 Moul-
mein was attacked savagely from all
directions. The enemy was beaten off,
but he came again in the afternoon. A
strenuous counter-attack stabilised the
position for a time, but after two days.
during which bloody casualties were in-
flicted and all stores and ammunition de-
stroyed or removed, the British troops
withdrew from Moulmein across the wide
river mouth.
Moulmein lies south of a wide double
estuary out of which the Salween flows
northward and the Houng east and south.
Directly on the other side, beyond the
Salween fork and on the coast, is Marta-
ban, from which the railway runs to Ran-
goon. The revealed fact that the main
Japanese air and infantry attacks were
directed at Martaban shows how com-
pletely the district has been infiltrated.
Martaban is only 120 miles or so from
Rangoon. In between is some terrible
swamp country. However, the Japanese
are more concerned with the port than
with an advance on Rangoon, which
they could make more advantageously
from further north, on the Thai border.
Burma must be held. Apart from the
fact that it is the way of approach from
the East to India and cradles the sea
routes across the Bay of Bengal, it is
also the main door to China. Not only
supplies may go from Burma through
China one day ; it offers the one route by
which Japan’s main supply lines to the
south might be cut in time. And their
severance might wither the southern in-
vasions if Japanese shipping disappears
at its present rate. Unless the U.S.S.R.
comes in it is the joint through which
an invasion of Japanese-held territory
must be pushed.
The Invasion of Malaya
The retirement in Malaya continued.
Save for the time element, the British
forces might have done better in Singa-
pore itself than holding back a wall of
the enemy across Johore. Still, every day
meant fresh reinforcements of men,
machines, ships and stores for the fort-
ress, and allowed more of those who had
arrived to be sorted into their proper
niches.
In the first days of the seventh week the
Jap onrush had engulfed Kluang, the
last rural aerodrome, and the front ran
straight N.N.E., with one or two slight
pressure curves, to the Singapore side of
Jemaluang below Mersing. Only a tip
of the peninsula and the island itself
remained in British hands—perhaps 3800
out of the 51,000 square miles which com-
prises the whole Malayan peninsula. On
an average the British front was 60 to 70
miles from Singapore proper, but there
was bad news from the eastern side.
There, a new landing was reported at
Endau. Aircraft hit an enemy cruiser,
scored a dozen hits on troop transports
and shore dumps, machine-gunned land-
ing troops and brought down 12 fighters.
But they did not prevent the landing.
The Japanese angrily—too angrily—
claimed a major air and sea victory. They
had “shot down 50 British aeroplanes”
on January 27, they said ; at Endau they
had destroyed 20 out of a whirling mass
of Consolidateds, Hudsons, Buffaloes,
Hurricanes and others; in other areas
they had wiped out 30 ’planes. And they
had made their twenty-third raid on
Singapore itself, causing “huge damage”
on the Tengan airfield, while a few miles
away they noticed 20,000 “sullen and
despondent” troops —A.I.F. and other-
wise—marching back to “another Dun-
kirk.”
A Veteran Victorious
The reason for the anger in their voices
when relating these triumphs gradually
leaked out. Apart from other heavy
wounds, they had suffered worse than
they at first believed at sea. H.M.A.S.
Vampire, the battered 1090-ton, 24-year-
old veteran which boasts only four four-
inch guns, on January 26 stuck a nose
much marked by the scars of a dozen
Mediterranean encounters into a covey
of the Endau escorts, a Japanese cruiser
and three destroyers well covered from
the air.
She thus had the first chance accorded
to a British vessel to try the mettle of
the Nipponese Navy, It was a good run-
ning fight. Little H.M.S. Thanet (900-
odd tons) went down, but so did a Jap
destroyer. Another was damaged, leav-
ing Vampire to go home in peace. Never-
theless, the new invaders landed. The
clearing of the strip along the Johore
Strait western shore of Singapore Island,
so that it might be turned into a defence
area, was begun.
At the Lion City’s Gates
By January 29 the enemy claimed to
have reached Layang Layang, 36 miles
from the nearest point on the strait and
on the railway to Kluang. From Singa-
pore city the distance is 51 miles.
The main pressure was from a spear-
head driving directly for the causeway
which connects Singapore Island with
the mainland, across Johore Strait. This
leaves the mainland at Johore Bahru, on
a blunt peninsula formed on the west by
the Melana, on the east by the Tehran
and Pelentong river estuaries. The cause-
way carries the railway to Woodlands, on
Singapore Island, two-thirds of a mile
away, and immediately west of the naval
base, which the Japanese have several
times claimed to have destroyed—a large
order.
By the night of January 29 this sec-
tion of the advance, following down the
railway, had reached the junction of the
rail with the road leading in from the
south-west at Kulai, 18 miles from Johore
Strait.
A further 1000 troops which had been
encircled in the Batu Pahat fighting
sliced their way back to their main
forces. The eastern advance was still
far behind —somewhere along the trans-
verse road across the peninsula in the
region of Lenggor, 45 miles from Johore
Bahru. Here the Japanese claimed to
have joined from the south-west with
the new landing force from Endau and
“routed” the A.I.F.
Singapore itself was still cheerful under
the ceaseless battering of air raids, even
after Wednesday’s experience, when 105
civilians were killed and 843 wounded.
On Thursday night there was ominous
news that 150 Japanese transports, heavily
escorted, had been seen off Hainan Island
south of Hong Kong, apparently setting
out on a 1300-mile voyage to Singapore,
The numbers, as usual, are probably
much exaggerated.
Throughout the retreat over rivers
beset with saurians and jungles full of
snakes and leeches and other pests, in
incessant rain and ambush, our men
have faced the worst kind of fighting—
that against an enemy who cares no
more for the lives of his own troops than
for those of his adversaries.
The invasion ran in a dozen lanes in a
ceaseless dribble. Those who sent its
little streams along the jungle tracks
knew that their messengers must be killed
off again and still again slaughtered to
the last man.
But they counted on the irritating con-
tinuity of small efforts to wear down the
A.1.F., British and Indians until, bereft
of sleep and broken into the parties
which this sort of fighting calls for, they
could be engulfed in a final heavy onrush.
In vain.
Back to Singapore
The withdrawal of the main British
forces into Singapore was managed with-
out loss or flurry—a remarkable achieve-
ment considering the trials and decima-
tions which units had been through.
Two sturdy and seasoned A.I.F. bat-
talions, including one of those which had
taken the brunt of the fighting in the gap
of Muar within the previous ten days,
were brigaded with the Gordon High-
landers to hold back the enemy’s outer
flank advances. Contact was lost with
the invaders 18 miles up the railway and
25 and 35 miles away in the east and
west.
The inner line immediately facing the
Causeway was entrusted to the Argyll
and Sutherland Highlanders, the British
veterans of the war in Malaya, who,
as the first to come, brigaded with the
initial contingents of Indian troops, and
the furthest flung, were allowed the honor
of being the last to leave.
Having fought all the way down the
peninsula, 450 miles from Thailand, they
lined the road as the Australians moved
across the strait in the muggy dawn of
Jan. 31. Then, to skirl of pipe, they
marched proudly on to the Lion Island.
Two great explosions followed, the
second of which shook Singapore. The
lock system which let ships through on
the north had been destroyed; further
south there was a great gap filled with
muddy water.
At 8.15 a.m. Singapore had closed its
gates.
Thirty hours afterwards it was re-
ported that in the city, 15 miles away,
the northern horizon seemed strangely
peaceful. But the rumble of artillery
had been heard during the night, and the
war was closer to Raffles Bund than Parra-
matta is to Sydney, and the enemy sepa-
rated from the naval base by a stretch
of water as narrow as that from Sydney’s
Circular Quay to Kirribilli Point.
A Japanese correspondent incautiously
admitted that the campaign in the penin-
sula had imposed a severe strain on the
invaders —which may explain their failure
to challenge the movement into Singa-
pore Tokyo Radio states that the Japs
fought 92 engagements, “killed 5000”
“about” 8000 prisoners and captured
330 field guns, 250 tanks and armored
cars, 550 machine-guns and 3600 motor-
lorries and “enough other booty to supply
the entire Japanese forces”—for how
long wasn’t mentioned.
Mr. Churchill says reinforcements have
been pouring into Singapore in a steady
stream, the first having started within a
few hours of the outbreak of war. Some
from Australia reached there with record
speed. In view of the enemy’s temporary
control of the seas, the feeding in of men
and materials has been one of the most
gallant operations of the troopers during
the whole war.
It can scarcely have been achieved
without some losses. And losses the
Japanese claim to have inflicted. They
reported having attacked “a large con-
voy” Singapore-bound between Sumatra
and Banka, sunk a transport of 5000 tons
and damaged two other ships, while an-
other transport was sunk off Lingga Island.
It was stated in Australia on Govern-
ment authority that a convoy was at-
tacked by 60 enemy ’planes, but was
saved by a providential storm.
Still another Japanese claim refers to
the sinking of six enemy transports at
Port Padang in Sumatra on Tuesday and
Wednesday.
Can Singapore hold out till the neces-
sary help is forthcoming? It should,
provided its routes from the out-
side world can be kept open on a full
scale. It has great sea defences —or rather
the fortress base for them. But it must
have proper naval forces and adequate
air support, otherwise it would be like a
heavyweight boxer with a lame ankle
and a broken fist. The large civil popu-
lation, as at Hong Kong, is a burden to
the defenders, and it is not exactly re-
assuring to read a sentence in Lieut.-
General Pownall’s message to the troops
and the populace—“ The enemy within
our gates must be ruthlessly weeded out.”
In “Massacre Strait”
Far more important than it seemed at
first glance has been the establishment
of the British centralised control at
Sourabaya, a very strong and very well-
placed port strategically and from every
other point of view ; in the very heart of
Japan’s main primary objectives. Its
adoption and strengthening immediately
robbed the Japanese of some advantage
of time.
Sourabaya is the centre of a circle of a
1000-mile radius which includes Singa-
pore, most of Sumatra and the whole of
the heavily-populated part of the East
Indies, including nearly all Borneo, the
Celebes and part of the Moluccas, as
well as Timor. A segment of the circle
touches the Westralian coast.
Within 600 miles of Sourabaya is the
greatest part of 70,000,000 people. Less
than 250 miles away is the beginning of
Macassar Strait, the great sea street which
leads to the China coast and Japan. The
hurricane of war must roar through this
on its main course southward.
The Tokyo command has seen the
need to pause in all its minor efforts
while it sweeps down the strait in an
attempt to strike an annihilating blow at
General Wavell’s lair before he can dig
himself in and organise the defence of the
fence of islands —they fence off the south
and bar the pathway to the Indian Ocean
and the South Seas from Malacca to New
Guinea,
In a series of hurried and sometimes
sternly-resisted invasions, the Japanese
clambered down both sides of the strait,
taking a foothold here Tarakan and
ruined Balik Papan on the west, a few
bomb-scarred strongholds along the lash-
ing tail of the Celebes on the east: Balik
Papan was still fighting at the week-end.
Then they flung southward a great sea
armada aimed directly for Sourabaya,
250 miles from southern Borneo
It should have passed through the
strait in 33 to 40 hours, but the events
which followed its course made apt a re-
christening by an excited Tokyo radio
announcer. He spoke of the “Massacre
Strait.”
The convoy entered Macassar Strait
on January 23, and immediately was
beset by Dutch and American aircraft,
including Flying Fortresses, covered by
fighter and naval protection based on
southern Borneo fields still held by the
Allies.
On Monday it was announced in
Washington that eight enemy ships had
been sunk —possibly 13 —and 16 others
damaged. The Allies had suffered only
the loss of a destroyer.
This was the beginning of a week of
steady and ruthless harrying in which
Allied destroyers, bombers and sub-
marines all joined. Every few hours
news of fresh destruction came —a de-
stroyer sunk at night by a Dutch sub-
marine, an aircraft-carrier sunk by a


Divorce Notices.
TO MRS. KITTY WILKINSON of George
Street West Post Office Sydney or of 48 City
Road Sydney or of 3 Cambridge Street Single-
ton. —TAKE NOTICE that INA BELL JEAN
RICHARDS has filed a Petition in Divorce No.
1771 of 1941 against her husband HENRY
ISRAEL RICHARDS on the ground that you
have committed adultery with one another be-
tween 29th December 1940 and 15th September
1941 at Singleton and Sydney You may apply
to the Court to be allowed in to defend the
charge if you so desire and you may obtain a
copy of the petition free of charge from BUT-
TERWORTH & COWAN Solicitors Victoria
Street Taree or from F. C. PETRIE & SON
Solicitors 375 George Street Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Deputy Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM CHARLES DE LAUNAY (also
known as De Launey) late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that GLORIA VERONICA DE
LAUNAY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2349 of 1941 on the ground of desertion with-
out reasonable cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance on or before the 13th
March 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MAD DOCKS COHEN
AND MAGUIRE Solicitors 38 Martin Place
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce, Sydney.
U.S. submarine, transports hit again and
again.
Jap bombers ranged far afield, blast-
ing points in Sumatra and Amboina,
where several were killed ; but the Dutch
and Americans refused to leave their fine
target. By the evening of January 30
the Commonwealth Government esti-
mated the total enemy losses at two
cruisers, 11 transports, two tankers and
two merchant ships sunk, an aircraft-
carrier, eight cruisers, four destroyers, 14
transports, a large warship and a pas-
senger ship heavily damaged.
The Japs nevertheless claimed to have
taken Samhas, on the western tip of
Borneo, and Pontianak, the Dutch capital
in southern Borneo. They bombed a
dozen other centres throughout the
Indies.
Amboina Invaded
On the night of Jan. 31 the Army Min-
ister announced in Melbourne that on the
previous day three cruisers, six destroyers
and four transports had been sighted off
Amboina on Friday. There had been
a third bombing raid on the island, which
nestles on the south of Ceram, off the
New Guinea coast.
At midday the enemy was close in to
the land. Fires of destruction were started
by the military in occupation. In the
evening the enemy squadron had spread
out along the coast, and early on Satur-
day began to shell and bomb the island.
The R.A.A.F. reported that landings
had been made on Saturday by parties
which late in the day had reached the
vicinity of the aerodrome.
Almost simultaneously Koepang, in
Dutch Timor, was bombed. It lies at the
southern tip of the island, on the north
of a narrow peninsula, between which
and North Australia there is no land.
These attacks bring the war within 600
miles of Northern Territory shores and
within less than 400 of Westralia’s
northern coastline.
In New Guinea
During the first part of last week in
New Guinea the weather was very bad,
and there was little news from there. But,
according to refugees, the sudden arrival
of the enemy off Watom Island, near
Rabaul, was followed by a necessarily
hasty departure from the town, in which
there were still 750 inhabitants. There had
been no final evacuation plan, and the
most the authorities appeared able to do
was to destroy fuel and ammunition
dumps and blow up the runways on the
two aerodromes.
Then military and civilians alike re-
tired round Blanche Bay and took to the
hills of Toma and beyond. Some made
across the harbor in a ship which was
veiled off just in time by a rain squall
from the first Japanese sampan. The
captain speeded up and got away.
Behind, the town was burning like
dozens of other towns which have been
included in the “East Asia Co-prosperity
Sphere,” but civilian damage was not
large. The Japanese knew what military
objectives they wanted and where they
were, and picked them out with deadly
accuracy. They also wrecked whatever
vessels were about the bay, including a
Catholic mission schooner, on which a
nun was killed. They fired a 6000-ton
ship at the main wharf.
The R.A.A.F. found itself up against
superior machines and numbers. After
the enemy had established himself, it
made four raids on his shipping in
Blanche Bay; the last on Jan. 30, from
which all aircraft returned safely, scored
at least one direct hit, though weather
conditions continued unfavorable.
Late in the week attacks on the isolated
goldfields towns on the New Guinea
mainland were resumed. Bulolo and Wau
were raided; at Wau on Sunday one
person was killed and one injured in the
final visit, but not much damage was done
to installations or private property.
Nothing is known about the casualties
on Saturday, when the attacks included
Salamaua.
The militiamen in the country behind
Rabaul are in no enviable position, though
with careful organisation they can be
trusted to put up a stiff fight. The coun-
try is wild, hilly, full of jungle, pests,
fever and rain. For anybody to talk of
any large body of people living off it is
absurd. Many of the civilians are not
young. An attempt should be made to
take them out at any cost if it is not
already under way.
A heartening bit of news at the week-
end was of the sudden appearance of a
detachment of the U.S. Navy from Pearl
Harbor in the Marshalls, just north of
the Gilberts. Jaluit, the islands’ old
German centre and main lagoon on the
south, is about 1350 miles from New
Ireland in the Bismarcks. The attack
swept across the centre of the group from
Wotje to Kwajalong, down to Jaluit and
other bases and on to Makin Island (Gil-
berts), which the enemy had occupied.
No large enemy vessels were found.
The U.S. ships bombarded key positions,
while ’planes dealt with naval installa-
tions, sank many fleet auxiliaries and
wrecked a number of enemy ’planes. Two
U.S. naval vessels were slightly damaged
by bombs and 11 ’planes did not return,
but man-power losses were small.
It is to be hoped that Admiral Nimitz’s
latest signal reads “Next stop Rabaul,”
but the main enemy bases in the Caro-
lines —Ponape (770 miles) and Truk (1200
miles) —seem more convenient.
Another Libyan Retreat.
“Ek Dum”: It seems to be plain that
from the beginning the Germans and
Italians have had a strong base organi-
sation in the El Agheila-Marade Wadi
—one from which large-scale surprise
attack at short notice is possible.
It was here in the early part of the
1941 campaign that odd German scouting
cars swelled into a river of attack which
caught British imperial forces napping
on the El Regima escarpment line and
swept through Cyrenaica, past Tobruk
and over the Egyptian border in 10 days.
The enemy is now trying to do the
same thing again, and more. And while
the movement was in progress Mr.
Churchill came out with the astonishing
statement that “we have had in action
more than 45,000 men against forces
doubly strong.”
To correspondents three weeks ago
Rommel’s Panzers seemed to be “hope-
lessly bogged” along the eastern coast of
the Gulf 120 miles below Benghazi. A
few days more and he had “escaped”
round the corner westward to the El
Agheila position.
Another three or four days and he had
stretched out a muscular claw north-
ward. A fortnight after he was sup-
posed to be mired up in his death throes
he had achieved the most difficult of
operations —the formation of a triangular
wedge in the frontages of a supposedly
powerful and mobile army of attackers
served by good roads from their bases,
and its expansion and division in a
manner which showed the dominating
weight and vigor of his forces.
By January 21 he had penetrated 80
miles from his El Agheila line, secured
control of the Jedabya area round which
the main British forces had been clus-
tered a few days before, swept east
another 30 miles along the southern
caravan route and was driving another
spearhead up the first step of the escarp-
ment across the Benghazi-Soluch railway.
Most of this advance was achieved in
three or four days in what was described
as “the worst kind of weather.” During
this period, Rommel had evident air
superiority, which was attributed to “the
sandy nature of his coastal aerodromes,”
the British having the inland ones, which
rain and traffic had turned into bogs.
Between January 21 and 25 the enemy
claimed to have taken or destroyed 118
guns, 239 tanks and armored cars and 28
British ’planes, besides having captured
several thousand prisoners and large
quantities of war material and secured
the arrival of an important convoy,
despite violent and repeated attacks.
This convoy was apparently the one in
which a 20,000-ton liner was sunk. The
enemy admitted the loss of a troopship,
from which “all the troops were trans-
ferred,” and a U-boat.
It was further said that Malta had
been heavily raided and that bombers
had made direct hits on an R.N. naval
squadron off Tobruk and had bombarded
the Halfaya positions.
British communiques stated that all
these claims were exaggerated, but did
not mention to what extent.
Less than three days after the period to
which the enemy communique referred,
the Germans and Italians had cut the
Benghazi-Soluch railway and reached the
edges of the top shelf of the escarpment
at El Regima, thus acquiring control of all
road and rail routes out of Benghazi, save
that along the coast to Driana and Tokra.
The 4th Indian Division, then holding
Benghazi, next found itself menaced in
a twinkling by two columns, one of
which, by a circular sweep, had cut the
coastal road to the north, while the other
came up the El Agheila-Tripoli road
from the south.
British information about this second
evacuation of Benghazi was still meagre
at the week-end. The Germans claimed
to have dispersed British lorry columns
near Barce, east of Solium and in other
places, and to have caused severe dam-
age in Tobruk. The Italians reported
the surrender of large numbers of
prisoners, including a whole Indian bat-
talion. By Feb. 1 the Axis troops had
captured Barce, 52 miles east of Benghazi,
and were threatening Marau, 25 miles
still further on.
There is no avoiding the seriousness of
the position. Attempts to minimise the
importance of Benghazi are so much rub-
bish. Even if the town were a heap of
rubble, its position and communications
make it important. And the fact that the
enemy has got there at the rate of 40
miles a day, climbing two escarpment
steps in one of his advances by a round-
about route, which pierced some of the
most dominating positions in Libya, ad-
vertises his strength, especially as his 150,-
mile flank should have been devastatingly
open to attack from the east throughout
the operation.
Unless British forces are greatly
strengthened they are in serious danger
of losing most of the ground they have
gained most gallantly in the last two
months.
It is certain that the main handicap of
the British is not generalship. The
generalship has been good in the main,
and in some cases excellent.
Not one instance has so far been seen
in this war in which a British commander
has been given reasonable force with
which to do his job.
What the so-called Eighth “Army” has
done against double odds in the last two
heartbreaking months, at the cost of 40
per cent, of front-line fighting strength,
advertises both the quality of the leader-
ship and of the men. It also emphasises
that Downing-street never learns its
lessons.
On the Russian Front.
“Ek Dum”: Newspaper correspondents
have been allowed to visit the Moscow
front, and that ought to be a good sign.
One of them was a Sydney “Herald”
man, who reported on January 28 that
General Leonid Govorov, who organised
the assault on Mojaisk, had said to the
press: —
The German Army has not lost its strik-
ing power. I expect gigantic tank battles
in the spring. The Germans will continue
to depend on mass attacks by tanks, in
which they still have numerical superiority.
The “Herald” man’s own impressions
are that “the Germans will have to over-
come very serious difficulties if they are
to maintain an unbroken line in favor-
able defensive positions.” He noted “the
limited part played by German tanks and
aircraft,” and he and other writers
stressed the difficulties caused by the
weather; there was 18 to 24 inches of
snow on the roads and “tanks were un-
able to operate efficiently under those
conditions.” The correspondents made
their tour in “30 below.” On the drive
from Moscow to Mojaisk, the “Herald”
man’s hands were “continuously painful,
although I was wearing heavy woollen
gloves and leather mittens.” It was (he
wrote) “beyond comprehension how it
was possible to operate weapons under
such conditions,” But General Govorov,
he added, was keeping the Germans mov-
ing “rapidly.”
Hitler made a speech on January 30
which was broadcast and heard in Syd-
ney. He said that what was going on in
Russia was “stabilising operations” and
that at key points the fighting was static
in nature. He declared that the German
High Command had made all prepara-
tions for a new offensive in the spring.
But he would say something like that if
typhus had decimated his armies.
Meanwhile, the Russians announced a
drive of 130 miles on the Donetz, south
of Kharkov —97 miles in three days—
towards Dnepropetrovsk, which A.B.C.
described erroneously as the site of the
Dnieperstroy Dam. They took Losovaga,
65 miles from Dnepropetrovsk, due south
of Kharkov and on the Kharkov-Crimea
railway. They also reported taking «-
am to the west on the Samara River,
37 miles from the Dnieper, and various
points on the Moscow-Bryansk line.
North-west of Moscow, the Red Army
was reported to be developing spear-
heads driving southward from Toropetz
and Zapadanaya Dvina towards Smol-
ensk, 120 miles away, to “force the Ger-
man retirement from Rshev and Smol-
ensk.” Yelnia, 60 miles to the s.-e. of
Smolensk, was being attacked.
Schlusselburg, Rshev, Viazma, Bry-
ansk, Orel, Kursk, Kharkov, Stalino and
the head of the Caucasian oil pipeline and
Taganrog are now the main underpin-
nings of the German front line. What
happens in between them is not so im-
portant as what happens to them.
The German High Command’s com-
munique of Feb. 1 asserted that fight-
ing had varied between local Russian
operations to German counter-attacks,
that Russian losses had been extremely
high, and that the Luftwaffe had destroyed
numerous trains and road convoys and
inflicted severe losses on marching Rus-
sian troops.
Vale Barham.
“Nobby II”: Exit H.M.S. Barham, one
of the 31,000-ton veterans of Jutland, tor-
pedoed on November 25. The excuse for
not announcing the disaster before was
that the enemy was not sure about it.
Actually, about that date Berlin Radio
several times announced that a ship of
the Queen Elizabeth class had been hit
heavily, and then that a ship of the
Malaya class had been sunk.
The Barham was leading her sister
battleship Valiant in a zigzag, and the
customary three cable lengths ahead,
along the African coast, with a destroyer
screen thrown out.
Early in the afternoon those on the
Valiant heard two series of explosions
and saw two volumes of smoke and
water burst skyward from Barham. A
U-boat was sighted. Captain Morgan,
of Valiant, ordered full speed and swerved
to ram the enemy, but the U-boat had
crash-dived 40 yards away, and, though
fire was opened from the battleship, the
range was too close to allow full depres-
sion of the guns.
Barham heeled and exploded, throw-
ing many men in the air and showering
Valiant with debris.
There were 1172 officers and men
aboard, and “303 survivors” have been
accounted for. Among them was Vice-
Admiral Pridham-Whippell, one of the
most gallant destroyer flotilla leaders of
the age, who has lived through many a
close thing in the last two years.
Vessels reported as torpedoed in
American waters last week included a
Canadian National liner, the Lady
Hawkins (250 missing), in the West
Indies ; four other ships torpedoed off
the Canadian coast; a British liner, whose
34 survivors have been landed at Ber-
muda by a U.S. destroyer—the U-boat
tried to ram the lifeboats ; and the U.S.
tanker Rochester. Four U-boats were
reported off the New Jersey coast. Berlin
glories in all this murder—its Radio
gloated on Feb. 1 that 43 U.S. ships total-
ling 302,000 tons had been destroyed off
the American coast since Uncle Sam
entered the war.
» ♦ • •
Nearly 250,000 have applied for enlist-
ment in the R.A.A.F. since war broke
out. The numbers called up are not
stated by the Director of Recruiting in
N.S.W. (Donald Cameron), but they have
been sufficient to permit the Common-
wealth to honor its undertaking to supply
60,000 trained airmen and ground staff
under the Empire Air scheme. Aus-
tralians are now flying on seven fronts
in every type of machine.
* ♦ * ♦
“Aileron”: In 1938 Air Marshal Elling-
ton, who reported on the R.A.A.F., re-
marked, when he heard that the Lyons
Government intended to bring the
strength of the Air Force to 198 machines
by adding 110 Wirraways, that “the
maximum speed of those machines is not
sufficient for a modern fighter ; the Wirra-
way can only be regarded as an advanced
trainer.” Said The Bulletin (7/9/’38):
All this has been said by Australians
again and again, but Mr. Parkhill knows
better.
In the same article it was mentioned that
“any hostile Power could establish itself
in New Guinea and have bases from
which the heart of Northern Australia
could be attacked” ; also, that while Aus-
tralians were still fiddling with Wirraways
and their like, British Spitfires and Hurri-
canes could “go twice as fast as our best
machines and operate at double their
maximum height with three times their
gunpower.” This, written three years ago
and a year before the outbreak of war,
would be a gross understatement of the
case today. Yet only within the past three
weeks I have seen a film sponsored by
the Information Department acclaiming
the genius of the man who introduced
Wirraways,


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The new recreation block at A.G.H.
13 was opened on Sunday afternoon to
the murmur of appreciation and rounds
of applause. Here are concert hall,
library, billiard-room, and below all an
immense remedial workshop. The concert
hall seats 500, and on Sunday it held a
happy audience who listened to the sing-
ing of Gladys Moncrieff, the violin music
of Richard Farrell, the impersonations of
Bebe Scott, the excellent showmanship
of Dick Bentley. That the ear of all
was pleased was shown by the happy
looks of the audience.
The whole of the block shows the
great care for the soldier patients
taken by the Red Cross, the military
and the general public. The hall
is a real theatre. Its stages, lighting
effects and dressing-rooms make it suit-
able for theatrical purposes. It is also
fitted as a cinema, and films will
be supplied twice a week through
the generosity of the film business.
The whole cost £2OOO, and this was
given by the Coles employees. All
the furnishings of the library are the
gift of the Real Estate Institute of N. S.
Wales. The g.p. and the Red Cross
have supplied the books, which include
German and Italian grammars and text-
books. The billiard-room with its two
tables has been equipped by the pupils
of the Coogee Boys’ Preparatory School.
Last, though to Australians this should
come first, there’s a kitchenette where
willing V.As. will brew a dish of tea as
required.
Joan Waterhouse became the wife of
Paymaster-Lieutenant Keith Waterhouse,
R.A.N.V.R., last Thursday afternoon in
St. Mark’s at Darling Point. Joan and
Keith belong to the |ame clan, but there
has been no linking up between the two
branches for over 100 years. Joan’s
people are the Leslie Waterhouses, of
Bellevue Hill. Keith’s parents are the
B. J. Waterhouse couple, of Neutral Bay.
B.J. is president of the National Gallery
trustees, is a well-known architect and,
in addition, an authority on Keats. The
reception was a family affair at the home
of the bride’s parents.
There seemed a distinct influence of
the A.I.F. in the autumn millinery at the
mannequin parade to aid the deaf and
dumb and the blind children at the Dar-
lington Institution. This brought nearly
300 supporters of this kindly work to
Prince’s, much to the satisfaction of presi-
dent Mrs. E. K. White. The suits and
sportswear came from the workrooms
of Mrs. Miculetz, who had, with her
usual generosity, given an evening frock
for a lucky-number competition. This
was a rainbow-striped bit of dazzle, and
every woman present tried her luck. Pass-
ing remarks were made with spirit by
Mrs. Bennett Bremner. Mrs. John
Hawkes, Jaqueline Mills and a Wool-
cock lass from Brisbane were among
the fashion displayers. Joy McArthur
wore the frock of many colors. Mayoress
Crick was a guest. Mrs. Theodora Paige,
Charmaine Ross and Charles Nicis made
up the programme.
Guests, relations mostly, were got to-
gether in a few hours for Lachlan
Beaton’s marriage to Coral Birrell. Lach-
lan (“Gag” to his friends) was going into
camp, and he and Coral decided on a
quick ceremony. Coral, a tall and pretty
girl, wore an afternoon frock of hyacinth-
blue and a small hat. Her orchids were
mauve. The bride’s parents, Lachlan’s
sister, Mrs, Lindsay, and his cousin,
Oswald Cheeke, were a few of the guests.
Lachlan’s mother was a Dailey. He is
a nephew of The Bulletin’s John Dailey
and a grandson of William Bede Dailey,
whose statue overlooks Macquarie-street.
Ever since the foundation of their
society 12 or so years ago the
Women Pioneers have held a re-
ception to celebrate Anniversary Day.
That the 26th of January is now called
Australia Day and the Japanese are like
a cloud of midges around the Pacific did
not prevent these ladies carrying on.
Their rooms'in Market-street were gay
and fragrant with gladioli and frangi-
panni when nearly 70 members came
along to drink a toast to Governor
Phillip. Among them was Miss Marion
Lockyer, a descendant of the Major
Lockyer of West Australia’s pioneer
history. Kelso King, president of
the Men Pioneers, gave the toasts of the
King and Governor Phillip. Women
Pioneers’ president, Mrs. Wentworth
Grayson, her frock lobelia blue, her
roses pink, received the guests. The His-
torical Society’s Mr. Kramp found a
spare half-hour or so to take part in the
ceremony. Secretary Cecilia Foley put
in some good work in the smooth
arrangements.
How deceptive are appearances. Kil-
lara had always given the impression of
being the handsome, conservative matron
of the North Shore line. But as soon as
the war bugle blew she dashed forward,
a real daughter of the regiment. Killara
was about the first suburb to try
the experiment of a girl milk-oh.
There was even a whisper of the
women liking the idea of being
trained in guerrilla warfare. Now the
suburb is’ the site of the Australian
Women’s Army School. One hundred
recruits installed there were inspected by
Major-General Fewtrell, who praised the
selection. For 14 days the recruits will
be at the school, and will then be posted
to various camps. Their training will
consist in army routine, physical train-
ing, squad drill and so on.
Army routine is very important. If
leave of absence is desired, for instance,
it isn’t the thing to breeze up to the
O.C. and say “Oh, by the way, I want
a couple of hours off this afternoon.
Jack’s come up to scratch at last, and I
want to try on the engagement ring.” Not
at all. That’s not the army way. There’s
a regulation method. Suppose a change
of duty is sought for. A “Gosh, I’m fed
up with typing ; can’t I change to keeping
records?” won’t serve. Application must
be made in the proper way. In short,
army routine serves the purpose of eti-
quette in social life. It keeps the common
round of everyday running smoothly.
After training, the girls will be fitted to
take up departmental duties in the army.
The uniform is a khaki shirt-maker frock
with short sleeves. It has a matching
jacket for street wear. A khaki felt hat
and brown shoes make up the picture.
The rank and file address their officers
as “Madam.”
With the thoughts of Australia turned
to her fighting men in the Near North,
a photograph of the wife of Major-
General Gordon Bennett seems indicated
as the picture of the week. While he. is
doing a fine job with the A.I.F. she is
carrying on the tradition among the
members of the A.I.F. Women’s Club,
which meets at the Y.W.C.A. Mrs.
Gordon Bennett is its deputy-chairman
and one of its vice-presidents. Norton
Trevaire photograph.
The popular and good-looking Mrs.
Reg Fagan, of Sunny Ridge station, Man-
durama, got into the news in a very un-
expected way last week, Mrs. Reg, down
with her husband for the wedding of
Mary Hawthorne, of Dalby, Queensland,
and lan MacDonald, of Dunumbral
station, Collarenebri, at which her
daughter Marie was one of the brides-
maids, had the bad luck to lose £3OOO
or so worth of jewellery on the evening
before the wedding. Mrs. Fagan took
her jewels from the safe deposit on
Friday. In the evening she and her hus-
band had supper with some friends in
the lounge of their hotel at Manly. After
they had gone upstairs, Mrs. Fagan
missed her handbag, in which she was
carrying the jewels, and went downstairs
to collect it. But it could not be found.
And the handbag is still missing, but the
jewels were retrieved from a vacant block
on Monday.
When Ken Brodziak (now Sergeant-
Observer) returns home he will find his
small and bright-faced sister Iris has
joined the ranks of the married women.
Iris became the wife of Maitland Parr,
an Englishman and an aircraft expert,
recently. The ceremony was on simple,
war-time lines. Later, a family party
forgathered at the home of Dr. and Mrs.
Alexander in the T. and G. Building.
From Melbourne
Where two or three women gather
together and the conversation is in
whispers they probably are discussing
“bags.” Overnight the subject has
assumed such proportions with women
that it is seldom off the mind, particu-
larly of her whose hip measurements
aren’t what they should be. At the
Teachers’ Conference, while the women
listened politely to Director Seitz discuss-
ing the more obvious points of evacua-
tion, you could see that the mind was
far away at the draper’s, and that the
astral body was facing its frankest critic
in “bags.” Are there enough in the
country for all? Well, the general con-
sensus of opinion is that if a woman
teacher can carry only so many pounds
weight of changes, and is almost sure to
have in her other hand a small clammy
hand of some tearful child, she will cut
a better figure in “bags” than in petti-
coats and the rest of it. “Stylist stouts,”
as the drapers euphoniously call them,
can, it is opined, cover their greatest area
of amplitude with a blouse made Russian
fashion with its tails worn outside, or
with a boxy jacket.
The possession of a swimming pool has
become one of the major blessings of
life. Those who have them can use them
as air raid shelters; and air wardens rise
up and call them blessed for the possi-
bility they offer for putting out incendiary
bombs. Lord Mayor Beaurepaire, as be-
fits a former swimming champion, has a
most useful pool in his garden at Ford-
ham-road, Hawthorn, and at his party
for the Summer Girl Quest he and the
Lady Mayoress made it available for
Kath True, girl champion, to give a dis-
play of diving and other watery sports.
Many entrants for the Quest who ap-
peared during the afternoon found the
Lord Mayoral garden an effective back-
ground for their charms. Pictured by
Broothorn is Betty Wallace Mitchell,
whose vivacious brunette good looks seem
likely to land her well towards the top
of the list when the Quest finals are an-
nounced. Betty’s engagement to Lieut.
Carl (“Digger” to his friends) Jess was
announced not long before the Aus-
tralians went into action in Greece and
Crete, and she still hopes for better news
of him, though he was posted “missing”
after that terrible time.
When Matron E. Howes Roberts takes
over as matron of Stonnington Red
Cross Hospital from Matron Rhoden she
will not come as a stranger. Far from it,
for her first inquiry will probably be
“Who sent that leek?” the leek in
question having made her the centre of
interest to fellow-guests in a St. Kilda-
road hostelry when she arrived back
there after a week at Stonnington a few
months ago. The leek was tied with
pink ribbon and was sitting nonchalantly
on the top of her luggage in the main
hall, where it was goggled at by dozens
of visitors. The reference implied in the
choice of fruit was to Matron Roberts’s
birthplace, St. Asaph, Wales, from which
far spot she has travelled round most of
the British possessions in the East and
in particular to Penang, where she was
matron of the General Hospital. In
Stonnington during her visit she was ex-
ceedingly popular, and had she returned
to Malaya, as was then intended, she
would have been a friend from home to
wounded Australians in that harried land.
It seems a pity that the war situation
has decided Victorian Artists and their
business advisers to postpone the Com-
bined Exhibition that was to have been
held in March to some less troubled time.
The exhibition, which was to have aided
war funds, had the enthusiastic support
of the Lord Mayor, and would have been
particularly interesting, as plans included
all schools and types, with both the very
modern and the very classic in painting
and sculpture, and women artists were
to be well represented. Some dis-
appointed art-lovers are pointing out that,
while those less admirable outlets for
the higher self bridge and backing the
fancy remain unchecked, it is hard that
the populace should be deprived of an
art exhibition, particularly as afternoon
entertainment is quite favorably looked
on and daylight saving makes it possible
to enjoy the “after” part to the full.
Exhibition or not, however, plans for
the Artists’ Congress go on. The idea of
artists having a get-together is staggering
local Philistines, as mostly it is their
harsher views about each other’s artistic
efforts that one hears from the artists.
But the congress will discuss how artists
may be better used to help the war effort.
Most of them feel that the Government
is not taking sufficient advantage of their
talents. The women, who will roll up
in full strength for the congress, are not
slow to express the view that even war
artists could be put to better use in the
most difficult side of camouflage work, as,
for example, making the Japs believe that
the gasworks are a baby having a bath.
Ola Cohn’s sculpture, they think, entitles
her to be considered a possible offsider
to a plastic surgeon. (Or would her
artistic instincts and desire for the beau-
tiful be too strong?) Another woman
artist eager to push the congress is Mar-
guerite Mahood, whose pottery is widely
known. She admits that since her small
son’s birth pottery has suffered a black-
out, but she thinks she could be used for
something other than knitting socks.
A call from Canada, where brother
Peter Hedderwick had just received his
wings, was a cheering preliminary to the
wedding rush for Betty, daughter of Mrs.
Bruce Hedderwick, of Kew. Peter and
the bridegroom, Trevor Laidlaw, had
been law students together, and at Gee-
long College, too, and had turned aside
from study to serve in the Air Force.
The wedding day was cold, and the bride
and her two maidens, Gwenyth Robinson
and Merri Urquhart, in their pure-white
raiment, looked most ethereal when the
wind blew their net veils across their faces
as they entered Scots Church. Bride-
groom is a son of the popular “Hally,”
otherwise Halliburton, Laidlaw, whose
place, Toora, Glenthompson, is a favorite
port of call for his and his wife’s many
friends. The wedding took place during
three weeks’ leave, and, like so many
other young couples, the Trevor Laid-
laws have no particular plans except to
see the war through.
Saturday saw another service wedding
when Shirley Hey became Mrs. Basil
Lathrop Murray at Melbourne Grammar
chapel. Known to his fellow-students of
Trinity College as “Tony,” the bride-
groom completed his law course at Mel-
bourne University two years ago and
immediately joined the Navy as a sub-
lieutenant. His home-town is Perth,
though he spent his early years in Mel-
bourne, which accounts for the choice of
the chapel of M.G.S, for the wedding,
as he is an “old boy” of the school.
The golden-haired, pale-skinned bride
was striking in her cream and gold net
bridal gown. After the ceremony the
guests repaired to Menzies, where a recep-
tion was held.
Isabel Green, born Isabel Menzies and
sister of ex-Priminister Menzies, passed
from the extreme of heartache and
anxiety to the seventh heaven of relief
and joy in 48 hours last week, when her
elder son Robert was first reported miss-
ing off Rabaul, and then “found.” In
that time 102 telephone calls had come
for her. “Bob” Green, handsome, young
pilot-officer, had been in a reconnaissance
flight over Papua, and last heard of had
signalled that he was attempting to get
out the ’plane’s dinghy to land on the
water. Then came flares and silence. Now
that Bob is found anxiety commences
soon again, for not only will he go on
in the service but younger brother Max
is ready for the Air Force, too. But
typical of all Australia’s mothers, their
mother just lives for the day and hopes
for continued “happy landings” for her
boys.
In spite of war tension the Kirsova
Ballet met an enthusiastic reception from
a packed theatre on its opening night.
Dressing in the audience was quiet, and
it was an artistic and ballet-loving rather
than a “social-event” turnout. Most
noticeable was the number of “young
things” present (the men, of course,
mostly in khaki), who obviously knew
their ballet and were full of enthusiasm
for Kirsova’s new venture. The playing
of pianists Henry Krips and Marcel
Lorber and the decor of Loudon Saint-
hill created much comment in the
foyers at intervals. Loudon Sainthill
received an ovation when he appeared
on the stage with Kirsova at the close of
the performance. Applause doubled
when Kirsova kissed him.


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by “PILOT”)
Twelve races at Canterbury on Satur-
day was an inordinately long programme,
and what made it more wearisome for
many punters was that winners included
only two favorites.
The principal races were the two divi-
sions of the Radical Handicap and the
Patriotic Handicap. The first division of
the former went to the consistent Post-
man, who shook off Poi Morse after
entering the straight, and won by half
a length from Watto, who finished
strongly. Of the remainder only Milanja
made a fair showing.
Flying Knight, despite his 9.6, out-
classed his opponents in the second divi-
sion of the Radical Handicap. He led
practically throughout, and won easily
from Old Sport and Stylish, with In-
signia and Good Company next. It will
not be long before Stylish scores a win.
Climax outstayed Jymjon in the run
home in the Patriotic Handicap, and
scored her first win since she was suc-
cessful in a similar race at Canterbury
in February of last year. Beau Frere
finished strongly to run a close third,
while Aristocrat, after tailing off in the
first quarter-mile, did not subsequently
raise a decent gallop.
•
Penny Tan, Nubian Prince and Stain-
less won their divisions of the Members’
Encourage in similar fashion, taking
charge soon after barrier-rise, but in his
division Blue Gala was only fourth into
the straight, Montfort being the leader.
With a little more luck in running Be
Friendly would have made Blue Gala’s
task much harder. Alertful, Shogun,
Social Notes, Spirit of Progress and Miss
Leonard, who were unplaced in one or
other of the divisions, are worth keep-
ing in mind. Stainless made the best
time, 1.13 L
Halfway down the straight in the first
division of the Two-year-old Handicap
Fervent held a slight lead from San
Sebastian, and looked like beating him,
but the latter fought on to make a dead-
heat. A protest on the score that San
Sebastian crowded Fervent in the straight
was dismissed. The favorite, Hawklet,
was third without ever being dangerous.
San Sebastian, who is trained and raced
by J. Booth, is by imported Assignation
(by Son-in-Law), who showed good stay-
ing form in England, Clionda (by Medi-
eval Knight) and Two Macs (by Lack-
ham) shaped promisingly.
In the second division April Tide fin-
ished gamely to stall off Birthday Double,
with Jonathan Jo (by Christopher Robin),
who will improve, heading the remainder.
April Tide, who added to F. W. Hughes’s
successful outsiders of this season, is by
Tiderace from April Fool (dam of Beau-
partir) and cost 400gns. in Maoriland.
The Newcastle winner Goorama, who
started favorite with Lo Dokes for the
first division of the Trial Stakes, led
into the straight from Precise and Lo
Dokes, but had no chance against Hasty
Decision at the finish. It was the latter’s
first success since a two-year-old race at
Rosehill in February of last year, and
she was so little fancied that her totali-
sator dividend was at the rate of a little
over 136 to 1.
J. Pike has not had much luck as a
trainer, and it was a pleasure to see him
win the second division of the Trial
Stakes with Indian Emperor. As usual
that horse was slow in finding his legs,
and it was only in the last few strides
he got his head in front of Alluring and
Widden. The later is returning to his
best form. Platero and Addition could
not see it out after leading into the
straight.
* * * *
Upsets are always likely when a trainer
starts two or more horses in one race.
T. O’Dwyer considered Alibi (7 to 1) a
much better proposition than Brave Lady
for the J. L. Reilly Stakes at Mentone on
Saturday, but, whereas the former never
threatened danger, Brave Lady, starting
at 20 to 1, led over the last seven fur-
longs and won decisively from Bev Rose
and John Wilkes. Brave Lady is a four-
year-old half-sister, by Madagascar, to
the dual Derby winner Nuffield, and, like
the latter, is owned by C. B. Kellow.
She is raced on lease by O’Dwyer, and
her only success prior to Saturday was
in the Birthday Handicap (li mile) at
Flemington last June.
Velocity (Caulfield Cup winner) and
Saul (Australian Cup winner) reappeared
in the Reilly Stakes, but each looked
above himself in condition, and neither
gave any trouble. The race will help fit
them for more important engagements
ahead. Similar and Shanghai, lesser can-
didates for the Australian Cup, won their
respective divisions of the Frankston
Trial. Similar was more impressive of
the two, this four-year-old gelding being
one of the most improved moderate
stayers in training, with a record of three
wins from his last four starts. His sire,
Son o’ Mine, ran third in Trivalve’s Mel-
bourne Cup.
• «••••
An unusual accident prevented H.
Mornement taking the winning mount
on Duomint in the Chelsea Handicap. He
dislocated a shoulder when being legged
into the saddle, but apprentice J, Crilley
proved a worth-while substitute on the
favorite. Duomint won well from Milne
and Jill Ann, and further improvement
is probable. J. Purtell, stiff and sore
from his fall at Flemington five days
earlier, declined to accept any of his
eight engagements on Saturday. His
absence meant a lucky ride for apprentice
T. Wells on Law Hall, who dead-heated
with Legality in the first division of the
Bass Juvenile Handicap. Refractive was
only half a head away third. Both dead-
heaters are by Law Maker, Law Hall,
who finished best, costing 130gns. and
Legality 350gns, as yearlings. Great
Britain, favorite at 5 to 4, swerved into
the running rail at the start, and lost all
chance.
Kippilaw, another son of Law Maker,
represented the first leg of a winning
treble for rider E. Preston when he easily
defeated Lord Raglan and Simmana in
the second division of the Bass Juvenile.
Preston later won the first and third
divisions of the Moorabbin Handicap on
Averne and Son o’ Val. Averne, who
has raced three times for two wins since
being trained by K. Bones, outstayed
Atorna, while Son o’ Val, who was started
in preference to his stablemate Darra-
weit, finished strongly to defeat Some-
where and Limerick Lace. Pamelus,
now 10 years old, reappeared in the first
Moorabbin division, but showed no dash
and finished last. He looked burly.
Ex-Sydney sprinter Denis recorded his
first Melbourne win in the second divi-
sion of the Moorabbin Handicap. He is
now raced on lease by former Sydney
trainer J. Cook, and substantial support
preceded his defeat of Sunshine Boy and
Angular.
* * * *
Winner of the Challenge Stakes with
10.1, and fourth in last year’s Newmarket
with 10.2, High Caste is not overweighted
in that race this time with 10.3. All Veil,
Phoines and Zonda, who beat him a year
ago, have respectively gone up 211 b., 61b.
and 91b. Of that trio Phoines may have
the best chance. Mildura, who ran in the
last Newmarket with 9.7, and High Caste
meet on the same terms as when they
dead-heated in the Australia Day Handi-
cap, but, though Mildura should be a little
better than in that race, a rise of 121 b. may
trouble him more than it will High Caste.
Greenline holds the record for weight
successfully carried in the Newmarket. He
had 10.2 when he won in 1930 and 10.6
when third two years later.
Saul, winner of last year’s Australian
Cup with 8.2, has, with an additional 61b.,
been given a fair chance of repeating that
performance. Disappointing in some races
since his win, he is, at six years, not too
old to return to his best form. Great old
stayer Maikai has 21b. more than when
second in 1940 Melbourne Cup. Skip-
ton’s 8.7 is 41b. more than Sylvandale
carried when he won as a three-year-old.
Laureate reads well with 8.3, and Elan-
age, Togo, Portfolio and Similar are nicely
treated. The lightweights include possi-
bilities in Brave Lady and Shanghai.
♦ * * *
It is not belittling High Caste in the
least to say that, with the benefit of a
recent race, Mildura would have beaten
him in the Australia Day Handicap. It
was Mildura’s first run since last October,
and though he had his head in front a
few strides from the winning-post he
could not stall off High Caste. They
had finished close together on previous
occasions. In the 1940 Epsom High
Caste gave Mildura 11b. and a neck beat-
ing ; at the same meeting Mildura, carry-
ing the same weight as High Caste, beat
him for second place in the Craven Plate,
the winner being Beau Vite; in the C. F.
Orr Stakes Mildura, with a pull of 71b.,
got home a half-head in front of High
Caste. The last Doncaster was won by
Mildura with 9.3, High Caste finishing
fourth with 9.12. He was also out of a
place with 9.0 in Mildura’s (8.8) previous
Doncaster,
* ♦ * *
At the trotting meeting at Victoria
Park, Sydney, on Saturday bookmakers
operated on Canterbury and Mentone.
As Canterbury did not go on with the
threatened injunction to debar betting at
Victoria Park on its meeting, its com-
mittee must, at the last moment, have
arrived at the conclusion it would be un-
wise to take any action that might inter-
fere with trotting interests.
« * * *
With 19 days against 20 the tote turn-
over for the first half of the current
season at Randwick is greater than for
the same period in 1940-41. This season’s
figures are £789,454, against £722,559.
Attendances were lower on several occa-
sions, but though the aggregate for Tat-
tersall’s meeting and the A.J.C. Anniver-
sary meeting was below that of a year
ago, many people must have had more
money to spend. Compared with last
season there was a tote increase of a little
over £17,300 at Tattersall’s meeting and
£15,741 at the Anniversary meeting. If
tote figures continue up to that standard
there may be no necessity for the
A.J.C. to consider any reduction of prize-
money. It has not yet done so, the aver-
age for the three days of the autumn
meeting being slightly higher than for
last year’s four days. If the tote is turn-
ing over more money it is reasonable to
believe it is the same with the books,
though they cannot well be expected to
advertise the fact.
« « * •
The Victorian ban on railway trans-
port for horses naturally has southern
breeders greatly worried. Last week they
asked that the ban should be lifted so
that yearlings could be sent to Mel-
bourne, and were told that an exception
could not be made in their case. In Vic-
toria, as in N. S. Wales, it seems as if
some breeders will almost be forced into
racing horses from their studs to a greater
extent than in the past. Breeding and
racing are being so hard hit that one
cannot help wondering if they will even-
tually be added to the non-essential Aus-
tralian industries.
* * * *
It has been decided by the N.S.W.
Cabinet that in future racing in Sydney
must not start before 1.30 p.m. and finish
not later than 5.15 p.m. With intervals
of 25 minutes, against the customary 30
minutes, that will permit of 10 races in
an afternoon, and make a sufficiently
long programme to satisfy anyone who is
keen on getting full value for his admis-
sion money. To keep entries within
reasonable limits clubs may have to in-
crease distances of minor races, reduce
the difference between the maximum and
minimum weight in others, and restore
the sweepstakes for starters. All of
which will be unfortunate for owners
and trainers of moderate horses.
« * * *
E. Hush has never had reason to be
more satisfied with a horse than with
Dewar, and must be given full credit
for the way he has developed him.
Bought for 180gns. by F. Christey in
September, 1940, as a maiden, Dewar
won a Novice Handicap at Randwick
the following month, and his record in
his present ownership stands at 10jr wins,
a second and two thirds for £3885. Since
the weights were issued for the Summer
Cup early in December, Dewar has ad-
vanced at least a stone and a half in the
A.J.C, handicapper’s opinion as a stayer.
* # * *
A medical authority has communicated
his belief to the press that a large number
of people go to race meetings principally
for health and relaxation. Perhaps, but
I can almost hear some scornful book-
maker snort: “Health and relaxation!
Those are not the reasons over 300 of us
go to Randwick. It is in the hope of
laying all the losers ; and it is the hope
of backing all the winners that sends
most other people racing.” A racecourse
is certainly not the place anyone would
choose as a temporary health resort, and
as for relaxation —well, there is a deal
of tension but not much relaxation in
trying to “get even” on the last race
after backing the losers of all the others.
* * * *
Bing Crosby has made horseracing pay
in Sydney, thanks to Miss Hua, and the
following paragraph in an American
paper shows he is doing well out of it
as principal shareholder in a racecourse:
A 20 per cent, dividend, the same as
in 1940, was declared recently by the Del
Mar Turf Club. President Bing Crosby
received the principal share, $125,000 [about
£A3B,OOO], because of the initial investment
he made in establishing the track in 1937.
He was supposed to have received $200,000
this year, but accepted only $125,000 and
let the remainder be divided among the
180 stockholders.
* * « «
The war has changed the position, but,
unless the “Thoroughbred Record” was
astray in its figures, grooms and exercise
boys were on a good wicket in California
up to the end of November. They re-
received a minimum wage of $125 (about
£3B) a month. Apart from grooms and
exercise boys a large percentage of Aus-
tralian trainers would gladly work for
a sure £9 a week.
* * * *
A drop in the entries for the Don-
caster Handicap and Sydney Cup does
not necessarily mean smaller fields than
last year. The record number of starters
still stands at 36, that being when Marvel
won with 10.4 in 1892 and Cremorne
the following year. Most starters for the
Sydney Cup were 28 in the respective
years of Tartan and Moorilla. The
largest field for the Melbourne Cup was
39, when Carbine won in 1889, and there
were only 127 entries. In Melbourne
Newmarket entries are 64 against 69 last
year, but those for the Australian Cup
advanced to 77 against 45. It would
seem as if many southern trainers are
overoptimistic as to the staying ability of
their charges.
» • * *
Alsab was the only real bargain at the
American 1940 yearling sales. He cost
$7OO (about £AI43) and last year won
$110,600 (a little over £A33,600). The
only other outstanding' bargain among the
1940 yearlings was Requested, who was
sold for $l3OO (£A395). American buyers
find it as difficult as those of Australia
to select a yearling that is going to be a
money-earning proposition.
* * * *
Nizam, at two years, does not bear
much resemblance to his brother High
Caste at the same age. He has not
the latter’s big barrel, but, according to
his photograph, is a medium-sized,
shapely colt, with a good head. As a
supporter of J. T, Jamieson’s stable was
able to tell me that Nizam was “definitely
not for sale,” it would seem as if there
had been a move towards buying him.
Incidentally, there is at present nothing
in the rumored early retirement of Jamie-
son and High Caste.
« * * *
The finish for the Australia Day Han-
dicap at Randwick last week was reminis-
cent of the great tussle between Cetigne,
Wolaroi, Estland and Desert Gold in the
1918 Craven Plate. Cetigne got through
on the rails, and won by a long head
from Wolaroi, who beat Estland a half-
head, with Desert Gold scarcely that dis-
tance further away. Cetigne definitely
won, but there was so little between the
other three that it seemed as if the judge
might have decided they ran a dead-heat.
Little fault would have been found if he
had done so. Desert Gold was a 5-to-2-
on favorite, and Cetigne’s price was
12 to 1.
Cleaning Ron Richards up inside eight
rounds at Sydney Stadium last week—-
per that nowadays expected stopper of
stoush carved eyebrow—the Alabama
Kid showed the best form he’s ever dis-
played in Sydney, Richards looked to
have slipped a bit. When the Kid was
last in these parts, Ron could make him
look as easy as he usually looked lazy.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “ PILOT ”
Maiden Handicap: Royal Laddie
or Adjust, 1 ; Belle Doree, 2;
Beachcomber, 3,
Ingleburn Nursery: Hawklet, 1 ;
San Sebastian, 2 ; Lady Hamilton, 3.
Glenfield Handicap: John Hali-
fax, 1 ; Petruchio, 2; My Friend
or Forward, 3.
Farm Novice Handicap: Bru-
maire, 1 ; Mutineer, 2; Barren-
joey, 3.
Warwick February Handicap:
Jymjon, 1 ; Gundagai, 2 ; Climax, 3.
Minto Handicap; Willie Green,
1 ; Ron Rico, 2; Saki or Man-
dowie, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
( Before acceptances .)
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
February Trial: Mercury Bay,
1 ; Similar, 2; Ashton, 3.
Electric Handicap: Great Britain,
1 ; Register, 2 ; White Line, 3.
Wyndham Handicap: Rex Buzz,
1 ; Royal Jubilee, 2 ; Status Quo, 3.
C. F. Orr Stakes: High Caste, 1;
Mildura, 2 ; Laureate, 3.
Marine Handicap: Queen Baccha,
1 ; Darraweit, 2 ; Reception, 3.
Newport Welter: Darraweit, 1;
Retnuha, 2 ; Golden Aura, 3.


Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ;F. E. Loxton, Esq. •
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ; E. E. B. White, Esq. ; H. C. Morrow, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all areneral banking business.
Want to give yon car
greater power?
To enjoy all of your car’s power, provide the
strong, hot sparks that produce complete
combustion without waste of fuel. Install
Champion Spark Plugs. They have ex-
clusive features that ensure
longest, strongest, cheapest
ignition and will actually
pay for themselves in the
fuel they save. Factories,
Feltham, Eng. Windsor,
Can. Ibledo, USA.
/
at
L
1
a
fffC*
mm
rff
wHlftti 111
cf»
fir/
(ciftciftiitm
yrCtcttii.
ifi
SiSi
i!!l
m
Hi!
W,
<k
Vy
%
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Sillment seals
Champions against
troublesome leak-
age, at the shoulder
and past the center
electrode, common
to ordinary spark
plugs. This paten-
ted feature corrects
rough, uneven and
wasteful engine op-
eration caused by
leaky, overheated
spark plugs.
Install new
fd
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
81l mw u«« US ® S
T.JONES t CO,
CHEMISTS, 319 Georee Street, Sydney.
STAMPS
100 New Zealamis, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air lists—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, ST.Z. (Ist. 56 Years.)
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
St
£
's
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
SMOKE-OH!
“Talking generally of far Western Queens-
land, two contributing causes of water famine
are: First, scanty and inadequate rainfall,
and, secondly, excessive evaporation.
“The intensity of the latter is so great as to
render conversation impracticable.”
—Wireless paper.
In fact, everything and everyone dries
up.
4* 4* -I- 4*
“I am satisfied to do all I possibly can to
unmask the humbug, hypocrisy and can that
goes on amongst those in Parliament in order
to help the people.”— Queensland M.L.A. in a
manifesto to his supporters.
A resolution that can’t be too highly
commended.
4* 4* 4» 4*
“Nobody seemed to notice the musician. A
coin clinked on the pavement, but it was only
a ha’penny. The musician was playing some
dance.” — “D.T.”
It sounds like the Highland fling.
4* •b 4* 4>
“Pianos have temperaments.”— Radio musical
talk.
They are highly strung.
“Wanted, a lad able to strike, 18-20.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
This recognition at long last has raised
shouts of joy from all militant union
leaders.
4* 4* 4* 4*
New Idea For .
“Malta Has Night Of.
“Last night Malta enjoyed freedom from air-
raids.” — News item and heading.
“What we need to brighten up this
paper,” said the editor to the chief sub.,
“is an element of suspense. That’s what
people like —answers in column five, and
that sort of thing.
“For instance, this story about the
strikers. Make it read ‘ “Men who will
strike at a time like this are nothing but
a lot of s,” said Judge Whosit today.’
And the heading on that Berne cable
‘Report That Mussolini Will Fly to .’
Get the idea? ‘Goebbels, writing in
“Das ,” says that the fighting in
has not developed according to .’
‘Mr. Churchill was greeted with a roar of
s when he entered the Commons.’
“Readers can fill in the blanks them-
selves from their imagination, or look up
the answers on page eight, column four.
If that doesn’t put our circulation up I’ll
eat an ingot of linotype metal!”
Ah Me.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Spotted blonde visitors from Launceston.”
—Hobart “Mercury” gossip column.
What! Measles?
•1* ffp 4* 4>
“Arthur was a fool, but a wealthy fool. It
seemed madness to her friends when Edna left
him.”— Woman’s paper.
She had gone off her chump, evidently.
“ Big-game hunter, you say? No; he used to work at the slaughterhouse .”
“ ‘That’s funny, your knowing Hartley and
Graham, too,’ said Stephen. T knew them
bath years ago at college.’ ” — Serial.
Perhaps they only believe in dry-clean-
ing themselves now.
+ 4* 4* 4>
“Wanted, nice old gentleman fond of garden-
ing and handy at odd jobs for nice quiet
station.” — “Farmer and Settler.”
Ex-shearers’ cooks and A.W.U. organ-
isers need not apply,
•b 4* 4*
“A temporary screen wall, covering windows,
and a gas-lock are war-time expedients which
can be easily removed in the periods between
wars.” — Architectural magazine.
And they still say we are wishful
thinkers.
“Mothers who are like old-fashioned roses.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
Often have daughters who are full-
blown climbers and sons who are
ramblers.
4*
“Geraldine sat listening with parted lips as
Rupert launched into a long rigmarole, trying
to justify his coming home in that condition.”
—Short story.
Why didn’t she close her eyes to save
hearing the stream of words?
4* -I* •!• 4*
Heard of “Exact”?
{You haven’t? Then you’re still half dead!
It’s the new right-off-the-spot, second-hand, dug-
up-from-tabloid news-hash with a strange twist.
And it hits a new high in Australian journalism.
It gives you the low-down on every high-up in
the war game, and then some. It brings to you
the real truth, as guessed by our staff of home-
spun experts, behind the bald cables and tele-
graphs from abroad and home. It goes free
with this week’s Sunday “Flapperthrill.” Motto
of its editor, Percy Pinktint, is “If it’s worth
publishing, it’s in ‘Exact.’ ” We proudly present
the first issue. Read it! Tell your friends
about it!)
Tough Russian.
Who is Knottatoff, who has pushed his
way into headlines since Soviet counter-
drive began?
Born Ilyiminy Mikaelosplotovitch
Yub, of Armenian mother, father born
on leaking barge in Caspian Sea, his
genius for organising early evident. His
stoicism derived from maternal aunt Olga
Bolerova, who at four years age ate
whole 81b. codfish raw, bones and all.
Ilyiminy himself, two hours after being
born in snowdrift with temp. 90 deg. of
frost, ate handful ice, no ill-effects.
Natural, then, that Ilyiminy Knotta-
toff (he retains baptismal Christian name)
should be leading ski troops Lake Ilmen
area with conspicuous success. First to
think of brilliant tactics of putting skis
back to front on troops so as confuse
Nazis whether coming, going. Weakness
for wolf steaks garnished with boiled
pine needles and reciting Chaucer, smokes
cigars in pipe (legacy of early poverty)
has all teeth stopped with rustless iron!
Known as Iron Leader (for this reason)!
Germans dread him, offered five billion
roubles for betrayal, scorned by troops
who worship him.
Untouchable Luxembourger.
When Nazis struck at tiny Luxembourg
State in May, 1940, many wondered why
Luxembourg army didn’t put up fight.
“Exact’s” correspondent on Tibetan
border can now give authenticated facts.
Man who spiked Luxembourg guns
was super-Quisling Rupert von Bidweasel.
Spent boyhood State school Moose
Bend (Va.), educated Paris University,
became wine-bottler-elect to Prince Ernst
of Schleswig-Wiirttemberg. Served lOyears
in German Foreign Office organising con-
version of clocks of Wilhelmstrasse taxis
used by foreign diplomats to dictaphones.
Got job as Grand Duchess Nita of Lux-
embourg’s head cellarman, organised fifth
column, local Gestapo. When zero hour
struck had under-Quislings ready hand
over all forts intact. Never talks while
eating, drinking, sleeping, smoking or
thinking. This horse-faced traitor has one
ear higher than other, favors watch fobs,
canvas underpants, elastic-side boots. Is
freckle-faced, flat-footed, hopes to become
Gauleiter of all eastern Europe ; rival to,
hates fellow-Quisling Seiss-Inquart.
Fruit.
{From “Exact’s” Riverina correspondent.)
Home news underlines difficulties of
dried-fruit growers in northern Victoria,
southern N.S.W. owing to lack of skilled
labor.
Popular fallacy is that women could
do equally well as men at picking dried
fruits. It takes years of training to tell
growing seedless raisins from those with
seeds still in. Trees themselves no guide,
as foliage of each is same. Exception is
prunes (all dehydrated plums except
blood variety, which might stain paper-
bags). These are judged for picking by
feel, crisscrossed creases denote first
quality, deep creases second-grade. Hence
women’s delicate touch might be used
advantageously here.
When Riverina was barren waste of
prickly-pear, sword grass, lawyer vines
and given over to wild brumbies and
wombats, German settler Otto Schnortz
visited, saw possibilities, started grape
orchard at Gol Gol. Diverted near-by
Darling River, converted sandy desert
into garden, made Gol Gol world famous
along Murrumbidgee and Murray. Now
Riverina, from Pt. Augusta (S.A.) to
Cooma (N.S.W.), produces three million
tons (approx.) dried fruit, four million
hogsheads (near enough) of wine annu-
ally.
80.
Appendix.
Well, Enid, since the time’s gone by
When I could fondly fold you.
The truth about those poems I
Composed should now be told you.
They state that you’re my queen, ’tis true,
And burning passion fired ’em ;
But, though they were addressed to you,
’Twas Ada who inspired ’em!
T. W. N.
Horror Story.
“A policeman was called in to kill a 6ft.
carpet-snake in a block of flats at King’s
Cross.”— “Daily Mirror.”
It isn’t always wise to enlist the aid of
the law in such cases. Consider my hor-
rible experience at the Glorioso.
Sighting a large red-backed python
coiled on my pillow, evidently waiting for
me .to retire, I immediately hurried out to
get a policeman. Strange to say, I found
one in the bathroom. Ushering him into
my flatette I implored him to slay the
reptile, but he had the insolence to deny
that it was there. After a violent argu-
ment I decided to call in the soldier from
the flat downstairs to arbitrate. He was
having a party, but he came.
“There’sh shnake there, all right!” was
his verdict, “but I’m hanged if there’sh
policeman! ”
Even as he spoke I noticed something
very peculiar about the policeman. Then
without a moment’s warning he dissolved
into a writhing mass of crabs.
It took me several weeks to recover
from the experience. It’s the last time
I’ll call a cop!
T. W. NATHAN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
Maor Hand’s Example
“The Voluntary System” (B. 10/12/’4l)
expresses a viewpoint and contains a
demand for action that I feel certain
represent the feelings of the majority of
good Australians. You can have con-
scription in Australia if you adopt the
methods used by the people of this
country.
It is not exactly correct that the prin-
ciple of conscription was accepted in this
country when we went to war. It was
not accepted by our Government, which
believed that the country could and
would make a 100 p.c. contribution to
the fight on a voluntary basis.
Conscription arrived because of the
pressure brought to bear on the Govern-
ment by the people facing up to realities.
The people were not prepared to admit
that the recruiting figures were satisfac-
tory, or that equality of sacrifice was
being made on a voluntary basis. In-
spired by returned soldiers, overflowing
meetings were held from one end of the
country to the other, and declarations
demanding the immediate introduction of
conscription were registered. In every
case it was made clear that the object
pf the meeting was to impress on the
Government the desire of the people for
greater sacrifices.
These meetings were not political
gatherings in any sense. Their object
was in line with The Bulletin’s claim
that conscription is not a political or sec-
tional affair but a matter of national im-
portance.
Before conscription came in we heard
all the shallow arguments that were
dragged into Australia’s 1916 and 1917
referendum campaigns. We have heard
nothing of them since. We also heard
mutterings about disruption in the coun-
try ; heard that an industrial upheaval
could be expected. It is true that we
have had a certain amount of industrial
trouble, but good reasons have been sup-
plied why conscription should be carried
a stage further so that equality of sacri-
fice can be taken into consideration.
You can get conscription in Australia
if you go the right way about it. Give
the Government a lead and the Govern-
ment will follow. The Australian is
noted for two outstanding qualities: he
sticks to his mates; he demands a fair
go. You get them with conscription
A. R. T. (M.L.).
What Have We Done?
Until the war came to the Pacific
we calmly went about our work, our
play, our strikes, our squabbles just as
if nothing was happening in Europe. Cer-
tainly we put up a lot of not very encour-
aging posters which intimated to the
youth of the country that perhaps they
might do something about it, and we
brought in “special” correspondents from
America and elsewhere and showed them
what we wanted them to see.
Then the thunderbolt fell, and we woke
up —to find that what we should have
been prepared for (we had had warning
enough) had caught us unprepared.
Have we done anything since? Of course
we have! Haven’t we demanded that all
the brasshats be sacked? Haven’t we
demanded that England should drop the
war in Europe, which wasn’t very in-
teresting anyhow, and come to our
rescue? Haven’t we subtly hinted that
if England doesn’t do this or that we shall
allow America to save us instead? Of
course we have!
But have we immediately brought in
conscription? Have we organised our
man-power and woman-power for an
all-in fight? Have we made it a punish-
able crime to strike?
The sooner we realise that nothing but
a maximum effort will avail us, the sooner
shall we be in a position to hit back at
the Japs in the real Australian manner. —
G. G. (Q.).
Wooden Guns
In our district, a farming one, 80 p.c,
of the population are aliens. The British
minority recently formed a branch of
the Voluntary Defence Corps. That was
five weeks ago, and, although we have
brought a doctor here and had our
members medically examined, we have
not yet been officially recognised.
Requests for rifles and other training
equipment have so far proved fruitless.
Local enthusiasts, however, have made
wooden guns, and with these we tram
every Sunday, much to the amusement
of any Italians who happen to be in the
vicinity. Now, to cap everything, we
are being ordered to hand in any private
rifles we may have in our possession.
I sometimes wonder what really would
happen if the Japs landed here tomorrow,
and whether we would be able to clean
up the local Italians —who outnumber
us by three to one —with our wooden
guns. — Optimist (Q.).
“Empty Vessels”
Far too much noise is being kicked
up by bodies which have nothing to do
with either military or civilian defence,
a popular theme being the necessity to
man the barricades or empty the cities
or something.
Leading ’epi all in N.S.W. are the
vociferous bosses of the Teachers’ Federa-
tion, Mr. McGuinness (president) and Mr.
Hendry (secretary). These gentlemen have
been hurling warnings at everybody. They
have an “evacuation plan,” and their
Federation, according to the McGuinness,
“again places its army of teachers, who
know and understand, at the disposal of
the authorities.”
The Federation has no “army of
teachers” to place at anybody’s disposal.
Its members are public servants, subject
to the authority of the Minister for Edu-
cation and nobody else. Constituting it-
self an advisory body and offering “its
army of teachers” is a piece of presump-
tion.— O. T. (N.S.W.).
Words
The Fowlers’ incomparable The King's
English states the first rule for the writ-
ing of good English as “Prefer the con-
crete word to the abstract; the single
word to the circumlocution,” and quotes
as an example of how English should not
be written this extract from the “Times”;
“One reform is the unification of the
organisation of the judicial institutions
and the guarantee for all the tribunals of
the independence necessary for securing
to all classes equality before the law.”
If anyone doubts that lack of direct-
ness in expression is a sure sign of a
lack of clearness in thought, he has only
“But I haven't heard you sing yet, madam!"
to compare the “Times” example with
the language used by our more fatuous
and blundering politicians. During the
last few weeks the phrases most com-
monly in their mouths have been such
empty verbosities as “marshalling and
co-ordination of allied action,” “balanced
strategy,” “air disparity,” “machinery of
consultations” and “orderly, planned war
economy.”
Even the usually forthright Curtin was
guilty of this:
Planning and formulation of proposals
on which policy will be based will be for-
mulated by the Department of War
Organisation of Industry.
In Queensland the refusal to call a
spade a spade has been given statutory
authority by the abolition of the term
“insane” and the “Insanity Act” and the
substitution of “mentally sick” and “The
Mental Hygiene Act.” The same disease
has made every wireless speaker a “well-
known commentator” and every rambling
journalist “our expert on Pacific affairs.”
When our leaders speak to us in clear
and forthright terms we shall know they
are getting down to business; until they
lo they shall be under the suspicion of
merely beating the air.—Smilax (Q.).
Russia
There is a lot of sentimental rubbish
talked about Russia these days. One
daren’t suggest that her actions spring
from any but the most unselfish and
benevolent motives ; for everything that
she does or does not do there is a favor-
able explanation put forward by her sup-
porters. Criticisms are met by a shocked
silence or by indignant denials. Con-
servatives support the Russia cult because
it is fashionable and it shows their broad-
mindedness ; gentle idealists welcome a
fresh object of whole-hearted worship ;
erstwhile Pinks have become Red, and
Reds are basking in reflected glory.
Very few seem able to stand sufficiently
apart from this fashionable fervor to
realise that Russia is doing what she has
done all along—pursuing a policy of
pure self-interest; demanding and receiv-
ing our assistance to a degree that is
crippling our war effort in more vital
spheres, but prepared to give none in
return. If in defending herself so ably
she has also done us a good turn, I do
not think that she finds this particularly
pleasing. Soviet Russia has always dis-
liked Britain —the “arch-capitalist” —and
bears a special grudge for the scant cour-
tesy with which she was treated in
Munich days.
It seems to me very unlikely that she
will declare war on Japan unless it suits
her own interests to do so. Meanwhile,
she denies us a base at Vladivostok and
allows Japan to obtain oil and fish from
her possessions.—J. R. (N.S.W.).
“A Nation of Squealers”
I dips me lid (once) to “H.W.M.” (B.
14/1/’42) for having the guts to say that
we are; but I dips it twice to The Bul-
letin for providing the space for him to
say so.
The knowall who can tell you all about
the betrayal of Darcy and Phar Lap and
the way they put arsenic in the beer is
not, however, confined to Australia or
any other country. If we are a less than
half-educated community (again I don’t
deny it), then most other countries are
still lower down the scale, and the chief
reason why they are not heard is that
they haven’t learned enough even to
squeal loudly enough for the world
to hear. That some good may even come
out of squealing about momentous
matters in the Pacific will, I hope, be
shown before this
note sees print.
But there is an-
other side to the pic-
ture. The squealing
miners and the bush-
pub loungers are
galvanised into
action when mine
accident or bushfire
suddenly endangers
their mates. And
even “H.W.M.” will
admit that they make
damn’ fine soldiers.
Perhaps a psycholo-
gist could straighten
it out it’s beyond
me. But let
“H.W.M.” note care-
fully that with all
our “foul mentality”
we are, in this coun-
try, making a
genuine effort to
raise the living stand-
ard of the whole
community. That is
where we differ from
old England, where
I believe there are
still some supercili-
ous people who,
while condemning the
squealing proclivities of the Australian,
can on occasion be seen touching their
caps and murmuring “God bless the
squire.”—Jack Point (Q.).
Fellowship
Might I suggest that, in place of con-
centrating so much of our criticisms on
the subject of leadership, we devote more
attention to fellowship. Everyone seems
to imagine he knows what leadership
means, or should mean, but very few of
us in this country, apart from the fighting
services, really understand what fellow-
ship means.
In this country our chief difficulty is
that there are far too many people who
are trying to lead or who imagine they
know all about leadership. Even flapper-
press editors who have never led any-
thing or anyone in their lives try to set
themselves up as leaders of public
opinion, and in their endeavor to dis-
place generals and others assume for
themselves powers which even Hitler
himself would use only with the utmost
discretion.
We do not yet understand the might
of the enemy who confronts us. Whether
they be Germans or Japanese, their real
strength lies in the strength of their unity
in fellowship. If the German press was
allowed to spend its time canvassing for
new leaders and new generals every other
day how long would their fighting
machine hold together?
The art of command is understood only
by those who have first learned how to
obey, and the art of leadership is under-
stood only by those who have first
learned how to follow. Our main diffi-
culty is not so much what to follow or
whom to follow as how to follow. I
don’t suppose there is a worse follower
in the world than the average Australian
civilian, whose allegiance is demanded
by so many spurious leaders (trade union,
political and journalistic). A Soldier
(N.S.W.).
Birth Control
“Chippendale” (B. 21/1/ ’42) blames
the instrument, not the cause. The fun-
damental cause of our declining birth-
rate is hard to_ define unless we may
loosely call it progress. In the last cen-
tury the jobs and the means of livelihood
of millions have been replaced by
machines. The result has been a soaring
cost of living and, except in war, an ever-
increasing number of unemployed.
In addition to this the people as a
whole have been educated to a better
standard of living, and are no longer
content with the simple pleasures they
enjoyed 100 years ago. Many of our
womenfolk, who should be bringing up
their families, are now in city offices, in
industry and a thousand and one other
places. Can we blame them if they prefer
to work and thus to enjoy the various
amusements that our so-called progress
has thrust upon us?
If “Chippendale’s” contention that con-
traceptives and birth prevention were the
real cause our Nazi enemy would have
had no difficulty in solving the problem.
Instead we find him trying to solve it
with marriage loans and baby bonuses.
The obvious solution to the problem is
to evolve a state of affairs where every
male over 21 can earn a wage sufficient
to keep himself, his wife and family.
Then to educate the young woman in
homecraft and domestic duties instead of
business training and, finally, to dis-
courage the use of women in business
and industry.— Period (N.S.W.).
“Teacher”
Agree with “Tonsi” (B. 7/l/’42) that
the system of university scholarships is
unsatisfactory and long due for amend-
ment, but my particular grouch is with
what comes after. I have three daughters,
the eldest able to absorb knowledge from
books, etc., as a sponge takes up water.
She won all possible scholarships, took
her arts degree with honors, a diploma
of education and a musical degree, and
always topped the score in languages.
When she decided to be a school-
teacher, friends told her that she might
be sent outback. Wishing to avoid
that, she studied for secondary edu-
cation and teaching of languages.
When she had finished her train-
ing and received her classification
she had turned 22. She was sent to
take charge of a school of nine children
in a farming district about 200 miles
from the city. The farm where she had
to board was four miles away from the
school, her room was a rough annexe to
the house, without a window and too
dark for reading in the daytime. Because
of the scarcity of water a bath was a
luxury, the food served was mostly bread
and meat, and fresh vegetables and fruit
were rarely seen.
She has now served two years in that
bush school and has excellent reports
from the visiting inspector, yet all her
applications to the Education Depart-
ment for a transfer to more civilised con-
ditions meet with a tomblike silence. In
each letter home she threatens to resign,
and if she does do so without serving
three years lam liable to pay £3O. Com-
pared with her sisters, she is a big loser
with her brains and university degrees.
They started earning at 17 ; one took up
commercial work, the other is a shop
assistant. They do not get quite as much
money, but live at home near the city
and are happy and contented with their
friends and social connections.
A paragraph in the morning paper
recently stated that the department was
short of teachers through enlistments and
military call-ups, and was taking back
teachers, married and retired, for the
duration. What interests my daughter
and others in the bush is that it is stated
that these comebacks refuse to go out-
side the metropolitan area, Sphinx
(W.A.).


.
ilii
II
m
: :
I
m
#
at
m
Wmm
■
It
■
■•-
m
!
■i
m
I
■
N
■
m
■
■
/
f K\Jil£iL' I
& * J
J
V,
w
&
■if ~ n
, _/J
ffl
K
/
\l
I \
(AhM
i
0 tanks, no guns, no armoured cars obey the order that issues today, for this is an order to a new
army, in a new front line.
It’s the army of the factories that responds. Men, women, youths, girls, who day in and day out
control the machines in Australia’s industrial plants that supply the essentials of war.
“The front line runs through the factories says Britain’s Prime Minister for this is a war of
national industrial strength against national industrial strength. Every man, woman and machine of
the nation is just as surely a weapon of total war as every soldier, gun and tank.
df
Today in the Yarra Falls Mills largest Textile Mills in
the Southern Hemisphere huge quantities of Australian
wools are being converted into fabric for the Empire’s
defence. This company is proud to believe that its organisa-
tion, its plant and equipment, its 1,550 employees are all
playing a great part in the most momentous effort in Australia’s
history. It is especially proud of the great effort displayed
by its personnel .... so apparent in the excellence of the
Yarra Falls materials.
YARHA FALLS
ABBOTSFORD, VICTORIA
L
T
D
MANUFACTURERS OF WORSTED FABRICS AND YARNS
W.J.H. 1309
