

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
'liine Wie TnellotmeMundImuq/ueb
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3248.
Wednesday, May 13, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE ROYAL THRONES, HOUSE OF LORDS.
THE House of Commons, as a material,
* integral section of the Royal Palace of
Westminster, the official title of the superb
Gothic structure in which it, with the House of
Lords, is situated, or, respecting the former,
“was” at least for a time situated, but will be
again, though Nazi bombs secured its demo-
lition. The Upper House did not entirely
escape, but damage caused partook of a minor
character compared with what happened to
the Lower Chamber, So far as is known, the
Royal Thrones for the King and Queen, when
Parliament is opened with full state ceremonial,
are “as of yore.” These beautiful chairs, with
their wealth of ornamentation, much of a
symbolic character, are placed under an
exquisite Gothic gilded canopy. The “close
up” illustration will convey some idea of these
most important “articles of State furniture."
Immediately in front of them is the bench
known as the Woolsack, on which the Lord
Chancellor sits when presiding over the Lords
in the absence of the Sovereign. It was origi-
nally a sack of wool, emblematic of the days
when wool was the staple article of England’s
commerce. Doubtless Nazi mentality imagined
that if, by the agency of the Luftwaffe, the
seat of Britain’s Legislative Assembly could be
destroyed, the moral effect would be such as
to markedly aid in their ambition to conquer
the nation. In this they displayed their ignor-
ance of some of the fundamental characteristics
of the British race. It may be well, while
discussing this attempt to wreck by bombs
the Mother of Parliament, to recall words
which in 1941 bore a deeper significance then
when penned in 1923. In that year Mr. A,
McCallum Scott, better known as author than
member of Parliament, wrote an article on
“Parliamentary London.” From it this excerpt
is taken;
“About midnight, one evening in March, 1917,
I left the House of Commons with Mr. Winston
Churchill. It was the third year of the Great
War. The fortunes of the Allies were at their
lowest. The German submarine campaign was
making alarming headway. Members of the War
Cabinet watched grimly the weekly diagram which
showed the extent by which the tonnage sunk
exceeded the tonnage of new shipping turned out
by the yards. Mr. Churchill, 100, was at the
lowest point in his political fortunes. He had
been driven from the Admiralty by powerful
enemies and he was laboring hard, and, as it
seemed, in vain, with all his matchless powers of
speech, to regain his position in the House. The
stars in their courses seemed to fight against him.
Just before we left the building he took me by
the arm and steered me into the deserted
Commons Chamber. All was darkness, except
for a ring of faint light from concealed lamps
under the Gallery. We could dimly discern the
untidy litter of papers on the floor and the table,
but the walls and the roof were invisible.
‘Look at it!’ he said. ‘This little place is what
makes the difference between us and Germany.
It is in virtue of this that we muddle through
to success, and for Jack of this Germany’s
brilliant efficiency will lead her to final disaster.
This little room is the shrine of the world’s
liberties.’ ”


Storu Writing
vJIUi y of HOWE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
The Mind of John Masefield.
“He seemed to be the one sensible
man of modern times. 5 '
Karl Marx? No. Freud? No. Aldous
Huxley? No. Gandhi, President Roose-
velt or T. S. Eliot? No. Professor load,
F. E. Baume or Popeye? Alas, no. It was
William Morris whom the young John
Masefield selected for this most honor-
able distinction; and the older John
Masefield in In the Mill: A Chapter of
Autobiography (Heinemann ; Angus and
Robertson) apparently has no wish to
recant.
That is one example of the quiet,
sturdy, out-of-the-way singlemindedness
which is the keynote of Masefield’s self-
portrait. The book gives his experiences
while working as a young man in a text-
tile mill in the U.S., but there is less in-
terest in his descriptions of the compli-
cated processes of carpet-making than in
the picture of the development of his
mind, under the impact of the great
books of the world, towards the practice
of writing.
Poetry, by Wordsworth’s definition, is
“emotion recollected in tranquillity,” and
Masefield, before he had ever written a
verse, had evolved out of the necessities
of his being a technique of tranquillity
which must have served him well in later
years. This is how the young millhand
taught his mind to be still after the
turmoil of the day:
For some years, at intervals, whenever
life was not pressing too hard and making
, me too tired at the end of a day, I had prac-
tised the getting of tranquillity before going
to sleep... .Sometimes I had repeated the
process in the early morning before turning
out, so as to start the day with a quiet
mind. The process was very simple. 1
read a page of some thoughtful vprose,
then, shutting my eyes, I repeated to myself
a couple of poems, and then sang to myself,
with a mental voice, one, two, three or even
lour songs. Usually, before I reached the
tourth, I had attained a mental quiet in
which 1 could sort out the experience of
the day, annul its trouble as illusion and
sec its good as j011y... .Often enough, 1 ■
did not attempt the process; sometimes it
did not work; but when it did work it
made me master of the day.
Working at the mill, he had need of
some conscious effort at tranquillisation ;
lor all day long there was the noise of
machinery, the confusion of voices ; and
at night, in his lodgings;
On trying to sleep I was roused by the
patter of tiny feet and the nibble of minute
mouths. The light showed me that the
room swarmed with cockroaches, which had
crept out of the crannies [“Cockroach in
the crannied wall,” as Tennyson might have
sung!] and were everywhere. The chinks
in the plaster showed their little heads
tlainng the prospect; some of the creatures
had come on to the bed and nibbled at
my toes. 1 had been on a ship multi-
tudmously infested with these things and
had no particular horror of them I
lound it possible to keep the cockroaches
Irom touching me; after all, their nibbles
were only experimental; they never suc-
ceeded in biting through. 1 had learned
two of the blessings of life, abundant water,
abundant sleep; 1 slept in peace.
Preserving its tranquillity against the
machines by day and the bugs by night,
Masefield’s mind received and welcomed
with equal delight Mallory and Buddha;
adventured with Walton, took “some
faint pleasure in Venator and the milk-
maid’ but felt “hot indignation against
Piscator for his beastly cruelty to frogs
and worms”; took Shelley hook, line and
sinker and (knowing nothing of the in-
consistencies of Shelley’s life) was con-
verted by that irresponsible angel to
vegetarianism. There was even, he felt
in those days, “a carnal twang about
milk.” Later, “sick and homesick,” he
still let Shelley lead him:
If I had had the sense to go to the
restaurant and eat a pound of steak daily
for a week my sickness would have
vanished, but Shelley was still stronger than
sense; 1 wasn't near enough to Death yet,
though rapidly hasting to him.
During his vegetarian period, however,
he did receive some benefit, he says, in
increased sensitivity and clarity of mind,
and, discovering Keats at a time when
he was considering abandoning millwork
for Medicine, came to the conviction
that his own vocation was poetry:—-
I was in a new world where incredible
beauty was daily bread and breath of life.
Everything I had read until then seemed
like paving-stones on the path leading to
this Paradise; now I seemed to be in the
garden, and the ecstasy was so great that
the joy seemed almost to burn. 1 knew,
then, that life is very brief, and that the
use of life is to discover the law of one’s
being, and to follow that law, at whatever
cost, to the utmost. I knew then that
Medicine was not the law of my being, but
the shadow of it; and that my law was to
follow poetry, even if I died of it. Who
could mind dying for a thing so fair?
Occasionally, the quiet tone of In the
Mill sinks to a mumble; occasionally
the studied simplicity of expression (at
its best recalling the natural felicities of
W. H. Davies) becomes bare to the point
of barrenness, leyel to a proletarian flat-
ness ; and, though the style as a whole
is pleasant, one misses the Homeric ring
of the most successful of Masefield’s
earlier adventures into prose. But here
and there, when he is writing about
poetry, or about ships, or about war, the
heroic trumpet still sounds;
I had been seeing a terrible photograph
of a graveyard in Darien; it was called
“Little Ireland,” because it contained the
graves of Irish laborers who had gone to
dig the abortive Panama Canal and had
died. Why should those frostbitten men
in the crosstrees and the dead near Cule-
bra be disregarded while someone who
gave a dance at which the dancers dressed
like wild animals, or the man who wore
skirts or the woman who wore trousers
received columns in the press? I knew
that there was some defect in. the sense of
value. It was borne in upon me that the
seeker for truth goes into the desert, or
wherever there is nothing, to correct his
sense of values. Presently men would look
again at bare manhood, whether in the frost
or in the jungle, and would clear a lot of
folly and idolatry away. I judged that in
any clearing they would destroy much that
was precious; for Life seemed to me to be
haphazard and extraordinarily wasteful;
and the nations seemed to take no fore-
thought for anything save evil to their
neighbors.
Besides being a fine piece of writing,
that passage—which surely must be taken
as Masefield’s statement on the two
Great Wars—is another example of the
clarity and dramatic unexpectedness of
his thought behind his mask of simplicity.
“Presently men would look again at bare
manhood, whether in the frost or in the
jungle, and would clear a lot of folly and
idolatry away.”
Two on Australia.
If Ransome T. Wyatt had written his
History of Goulburn with the same
intention as Frank Clone has written
Last of the Explorers (Angus and
Robertson), deliberately making his
theme symbolic of the spirit of Australia,
there’d have been two good Australian
books to recommend for general reading.
His style considerably improved by the
curb he has put on the wild brumby
Pegasus of some of his earlier books,
Clune makes a workmanlike job of the
biography of Donald Mackay and, by
peopling his background with pioneers,
early explorers, bushrangers and bush-
men, gives himself as wide a range for
the examination of the Australian spirit
as Mr. Wyatt has in his History.
Because it was written for (and pub-
lished by) the Municipality of Goulburn
and is packed with historical minutiae of
only local interest, the History’s appeal
is restricted to the Goulburn-Yass area ;
yet the whole history of Australia —all
the struggle and all the comedy—is
implicit in it. The material is magnifi-
cent, and deserves a wider immortality
than this book can give it.
There is no reason, for instance, why
Goulburn alone should be allowed to
cherish the immortal symbol of Con-
stable Jones’s nose;
In 1838 the dog nuisance was so bad
that the Governor issued a proclamation
extending the Dog Act to Goulburn. Ten
years later the police under Lieut. Patterson
instituted a “dog war” and rounded up all
the strays and drove them into the Market
Square. One policeman (Jones) was caught
by the nose by one of the mongrels, and
another was bitten “in a vulnerable spot.”
The public was asked to subscribe for a
“solid silver plate” to be given to the
constable returning the largest number of
tails.
And why should Goulburn alone be
able to look back to the pleasant days
when “the goat nuisance was so bad
that the P.M. called a meeting of the
magistrates to ascertain if the minimum
fine of 10s. could be increased to £1”?
A wider audience would like to .know
that: —
In 1876 it was complained that in old St.
Savior’s, and later in the temporary church,
gentlemen’s coat-tails were pinned to the
seats in church and ladies’ ribbons were
either pinned or cut.
And also about the Goulburn ghost that
used to appear “in the range above
Stewart’s garden, where there is an un-
finished house,” about the second ghost
which was photographed in the Bishop’s
Throne in St. Savior’s Cathedraland
about the Goulburn bunyip ;—-
The Loch Ness monster had nothing on
the bird-beast-reptile described as appearing
locally. It had “a body as big as a goose,
a head as big as a diver’s body, or, more
correctly, a retriever’s head. It dives like
a porpoise, is black, and seems to have
hair upon its body and a long neck like a
crane.” The apparition was vouched for
by a well-known settler. Later correspon-
dence suggested it was a “bunyip” or a
“loon,” and added that it made a sound
like “the bellowing of half a dozen bulls.”
Then there is this even lovelier appari-
tion :
In 1911 C. Percy Holloway exhibited a
harem skirt in his shop window. He failed
to find a living model, but, although it was
exhibited on a dummy, the crowd was so
great that three policemen were employed
in protecting the windows.
Grim stories of convicts, mercilessly
lashed or hanged in irons; dramatic
yarns of the bushrangers; the strange
story of the white woman who was living
with the blacks, the humorous story of
the half-caste who loved her “black mon-
ster” better than civilisation, the com-
plaint in the “Monitor”;
The black who killed and did eat J.
Taylor at Lake Bathurst has been loosed
out of gaol and has returned to the Lake
for similar acts and human feasts.
And, touching on the pleasant subject
of cannibalism, this one, told by “the
late John Horton, who was born in
1848”;
The first man I saw hanged (at the old
gaol) was Talbot for the murder of a man
near Yass. After killing him, Talbot took
his kidneys out, fried them in a pan and
ate them.
Glorious fights in the Council
Chamber, when Aldermen Byrne and
O’Brien quarrelled as to where they should
sit; the celebrated Goulburn Cathedral
dispute, which nobody ever understood ;
a happy note in the Fire Brigade minutes
when, on the election of the Rev. J.
Auchinleck Ross as a member, the sug-
gestion was made that this would “tend
to check the use of improper language at
practices” ; sporting events such as those
advertised by Duggan of the Argyle Inn
on Easter Monday, 1849;
A main of cocks, game every inch....
pitted for the sport of the fancy a
hurdle race by a tame bandicoot, now in
training, against a tortoiseshell cat of a
Chinese breed. A footrace between Mr.
Webster’s native companion and a well-
known schneiderkin of this town....
The roaring days of the 74 hotels ; the
somewhat doubtful peace of the cemetery
where Thomas Barnes (died 1859)
reposed under the legend:—
We hope the change is for the best
He died in peace to join the blest.
And then such a family saga as that
of the Morans;
Jas. J. Moran, who was born in Goulburn
in 1852, published some reminiscences in
1932. His father, Thomas Moran, had the
Carriers’ Arms and later the Coach and
Horses, and ran a line of coaches from
Goulburn to Cooma, Queanbeyan, Braid-
wood, etc., before the advent of Cobb and
Co. Cobb and Co. took them over. James
Moran at the age of 13 was given the
horseback mail run to Gundaroo. He had
encounters with Gilbert and Hail, the
bushrangers The Moran family still has
the mail contract between Goulburn and
Taralga.
All this, haphazard as it is and clut-
tered with much material of no general
interest, could very easily be turned into
a splendidly human history of Australia,
as symbolised in the growth of one town.
Mr. Wyatt himself, on the evidence of
the articles he has occasionally submitted
to the Red Page, and on this History’s
evidence as to his eye for all that is color-
ful or dramatic, could well make such a
book.
Made up of essentially the same sort
of material, but having form as the
straightforward record of a life and sig-
nificance in the portrayal o| Mackay as
a representative Australian, Frank
Clune’s book owes most of its contents
to diaries kept by the still-living “last
of the explorers” and most of its drama
to the amazing adventurousness of
Mackay’s career.
From his schooldays, when Clune
shows him merrily at work raiding
neighboring orchards, fowlruns and pig-
geries, Mackay adventured all his life.
At 60 he began the aerial exploration of
Australia for which he is chiefly known ;
and between the schoolboy pranks and
the adventures in the air were sculling
feats, gold-seeking, opal-seeking, a
record-breaking bicycle marathon right
round the rim of Australia, exploring in
New Guinea, treasure-hunting on Pacific
islands, explorations in Centralia and
Arnhem Land —heat, thirst, danger, wild
Australian comedy and wild Australian
tragedy all the way.
At one point there’s a meeting with
the bushranger “Starlight”:
When Mackay met him at Burketown in
1889, he saw at once that Bedford was an
amazing man, “equal to anything from
wooing a lady to winning a kingdom.”
Squatter Harry was painting Burketown
red, took possession of the hotel, flirted
with the ladies, served free drinks for the
town himself from behind the bar. “Take
your choice—drink with me or fight me!”
was Herculean Harry’s option,
There’s the drunken barmaid ; and the
f°*L $£ d ™ k **
J? nely Chinaman the cyclists ran over in
“J® moonlight on the track from Darwin
(“He was making his way towards
Camooweal, hoping to smuggle himself
ove f the bord ®r into Queensland without
Paying poll tax”); the wild blacks with
'S L, ** ?entlemen of New
y uiaea Wlth &«r poisoned arrows ; coal
*rt m® remote jungle ; no treasure, but
an enchanting glimpse of hell from the
crater of a volcano on Tanna Island ; a
’plane on its nose in a patch of mulga
on the dry, salty, remote and God-
forsaken surface of Lake Anec—an
amazing career and, in its vigor and
daring, every bit as inspiringly Australian
as Clune has tried to make it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
At the A.B.C. orchestral concert
Sydney Town Hall a crowded house 01
music-lovers (no social laurels are to be
earned by listening to music on a sunny
Saturday afternoon) heard: Elgar’s Firs
Symphony (slightly metaphysical but
scored in a manner that must have
delighted dedicatee Richter), the Delius
Pianoforte Concerto (in which all the fat
goes to the first horn and the pianist just
comes up for air when permitted) and
the No. 3 Leonore Overture. A splen-
didly theatrical performance was given
of the Beethoven work, the Elgar was
clearly interpreted and Eunice Gardiner
held her own against Delius so bravely
as to gain a great ovation. Conductor
Percy Code once again demonstrated that
the bottom did not drop out of music in
Australia when the importation of “cele-
brities” ceased.
Victorian Nat. Gallery Director Daryl
Lindsay is making good use of his de-
pleted collection. The latest exhibition
in the Print Room includes etchings by
the late John Goodchild, flower-pieces by
Maude .Sherwood, an extensive array of
the highly derivative lino, cuts of Murray
Griffin, official war artist in Malaya and
now presumably a prisoner of war, some
of the woodcuts of Napier Waller, the
one-armed Digger artist, and sundry Eng-
lish examples, Len Annois has a spirited
lithograph, “Rough House,” which looks
like a bit of Sydney low life.
War has made no difference to the
quantity of art or near-art in the Vic-
torian Society of Artists’ autumn exhibi-
tion and time hasn’t affected its quality
either. The Old Guard repeat themselves
with unflagging zeal, while the modernists
make their now customary gestures on
the east wall. C. Bush gets most of the
attention with a nude which looks like
a balloon defying the laws of gravitation
by reclining on a cushion.
S.A. Society of Arts’ autumn show,
otherwise an average affair, brought
one innovation —it was opened by Bishop
Robin’s wife. Louis McCubbin and
Rudolf Buring gave the still-life award to
a flower-piece by Jeff Smart, and the
drawing to a powerful “Light-horseman
Saddling,” by T. H. Clare.
The late E. Phillips Fox was so strongly
influenced by almost every artist whose
pictures he looked at during a lifetime
of painting that his latest memorial exhi-
bition at the Athenaeum, Melbourne, is
almost a compendium of the art of his
period. The only school he did not suc-
cessfully impersonate was the one he is
traditionally credited with having intro-
duced to stay-at-home Australian artists
—the impressionistic. Meldrum did that
—not Fox. Included in the present show
is a lot of his wife’s work. A brief
sketch of a French market is one of the
freshest-looking.
Gordon A. Speary has a show of paint-
ings at the Le Meilleur Cafe-Studio in
Collins-street, Melbourne. Mr. Speary
has strong traces of the Nat, Gallery
tradition in most of his pictures, but he
shakes it off in some others in quite a
surprising manner. When he tries to say
a lot he says very little and relapses into
commonplaces. When, here and there,
he tries to say very little he succeeds in
saying much more.
A striking first-time-in-Australia show
is “Aussies on Parade,” as “given in
Libya, Greece, Crete and the Middle
East” for the past two years. Production
by W.O. Bill Young, one of the founders ;
and General Allen, another of them, was
present in a first-night crowd that packed
Adelaide’s biggest theatre, the Tivoli.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act
“THE SENIOR STORE
VO THAT PAINT JOB
: g
NOW
vs
, :
■
6
i
l I?
mm
mm m
*
wmm
lUJ
ill*
ff
V
vs
9-
K>
M
a' c
lit
e
or
cf*
a
WR’I
fKs
\t &
vA/H
HI
s
COO
o*
G
*
\\
*
G
V
&
i v
SOLPAH ROOF AND STRUCTURAL PAINT, distinguished for
extraordinary tenacity and durability on all exposed iron
and steel surfaces. 1 Gall, i Gall. Qts. Pints
Red 24/1 12/9 7/- 3/10
Grey, Cream, White, Terratile, 27/9 14/7 7/11 4/4
Green 32/7 17/- 9/2 4/11
white
TAUBMAN'S DYNAMEL comes
to you in gleaming colours to
offset sombre events. Paint brings
new beauty and freshness- into
the home —you will get pleasure
out of changing the colour of
your furniture. At Anthony
Horderns'. Qts. Pts. /Pts. *Pts.
Prices, tin, 10/1 5/6 3/1 1/8
STREET'S WHITE ANT AND BORER
CURE, a sure and safe remedy for
the eradication of these pests. At
Anthony Horderns'.
Quantity: 1 Gall, i Gall. Qts. Pts.
Prices .. 8/9 5/- 3/8 1/10
"CALZIC" WHITE ROOF COOLING PAINT, reduces
temperature of iron roofs of Farmhouses, Sheds, etc. In
powder form, and ready for use after adding water
and mixing thoroughly. One 50 lb. tin is sufficient to
cover 100 square yards with two coats. We are sole
agents for ''Calzic." Price, per 50 lb. tin 17/6
%
.vC?
m
,r
$
%
»
v 5
-
c
%
o
m
v zh
4
<v <
•e,. N.x
>.; f
! :t
-•
DULSETTA SEMI FLAT ENAMEL, for all in-
terior Walls and Woodwork. At Anthony
Horderns'. 1 Gall. Gall. Ots. Pints
Prices, tin 33/- 17/5 9/2 4/9
• Paints —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night) Post to Box 2712C ' G - p -°" Sydney


A NURSE CALLED RICHARDS
By MARGARET TRIST.
THE train rumbled towards the lower
mountains. Looking through the
wtndow he could see the blue hills
huddled on the skyline Against he
pale late-afternoon sky they flaunted
their concentrated color. Ahead he could
distinguish the cleft through which the
line ran. He had a sudden hollow feeling
in the pit of his stomach.
The old man in the cnrnpr rmnncifp
smiled benignly. “NeartyTome! P eh?
Your folks’ll be g!ad to have you back.
The train rattled into the cutting. In
three minutes it would pull into the
station. Often in the past two and a
half years he had looked ahead to this
moment. He had heard the train screech-
ing to a standstill. He had seen himself
alight on the platform, a crowd of wel-
coming friends surge forward to meet
him—his mother, his father, the girls,
Ruth. At first he had visualised it like
that. Later he decided to surprise them.
He would walk in home for, the evening
meal and later wander up the hill to
Ruth. As the train slowed he was glad
he had arranged it that way. He shrank
from the idea of facing a crowd.
There was no one he recognised at the
station. The station-mistress peered in-
quiringly in the half light. “You Camp-
bell’s boy?” she asked.
He shook his head. “No Huntley’s ”
“Sakes alive! You just walking in on
them? Why, I was speaking to your mum
, h i s afternoon and she said you wasn’t
even in the country. You be careful you
don’t scare her wits out ” *
» T Wl -ii » „. , . ,
d ,’ and str ode away
S?, S f e “fY-Men darkness.
" e ,. felt more himself now. The hollow
l™“ S t he ° f I
o“had pSd enflrdy
dar |s tles .^. be sense d rather than
saw * be familiar objects of the road
th® sea * outside the corner shop, the
ornamental gates fronting the little park,
the turpentines growing in tall clumps
at the bend. The road dwindled under
his feet. Ahead were the lights of his
own home ; further up the hill a soft
yellow blur shone from the house where
Ruth lived. He wondered whether she
wa s really as beautiful as he remem-
bered ; the soft brown hair curling back
from her clear white forehead, the steady
glance of her brown eyes, the indescrib-
able sweetness of her mouth where it
curved at the corners.
At his own gate he paused and gave a
long, clear whistle. At the back of the
house a dog barked excitedly. As he
strode up the path the front door opened.
A girl peered out at him. She gasped
and stared incredulously.
“Mother, Mother, come quickly. It’s
Jim.”
After the first tumultuous greetings he
felt awkward and ill at ease. The house
seemed small and full of people. There
didn’t seem to be any place he could stay
by himself for two seconds. Their affection
overwhelmed and stifled him. The busi-
ness of their everyday lives rose up about
him and crashed over him like a wave ;
N.E.S., first-aid, home nursing, a little
local quarrel about where the first-aid
post should be, a big quarrel about an
air-raid shelter for the school. He felt a
little guilty as if he had been loafing
somewhere, dodging the earnest activity
at home.
Sitting among them he knew himself
suddenly to be older than all of them put
together, older than his father by a score
of years, fifty years older than his
mother,
“I’m sorry you didn’t see your Auntie
Bess and Uncle George in Melbourne,”
his mother said, “How I’m going to ex-
plain it to them I don’t know.”
“You dropped in on your grand-
mother in Sydney of course?” His father
smiled at him over the paper.
He hadn’t. He’d been busy in Sydney
getting Richards on to her train. He
frowned suddenly. Should he or should
he not tell Ruth about Richards. Prob-
ably not. Yet she had a right to know.
Still, anything between himself and
Richards was over now. They had helped
each other over some bad times that was
all.
“Your grandmother knitted you
twenty-six pairs of socks”—there was re-
proach in his mother’s voice—“and you
know how bad her eyes have always
been.”
“I’ll go to town and see her as soon
as I can,” he promised.
As soon as he could he went to find
Ruth.
SHE stood in the lamplight at the
open door and stared at him. Her
forehead was whiter than he had dared
to believe under the waves of her hair.
Her brown eyes glanced steadily at him.
“Why, Jim!” she said.
He thought cynically of Richards, her
hard mouth, the short hair she stuffed
under her nurse’s cap, the cigarette dan-
gling from the corner of her mouth when
off duty. It occurred to him that he had
never even known her Christian name.
It didn’t matter anyhow.
“Oh, Jim darling! Oh, I am glad you’re
back. I’ve been so worried about you.
Mummie, Dad, come and see who’s here?
When did you come? Why ever didn’t
you let us know? We could have had a
welcome home and I could have worn
my new blue frock. I’ll go to town to-
morrow and put the satin for my wed-
ding dress on the lay-by; that’s if that
hasn’t been rationed too!” She laughed.
“You must see my glory-box. I’ve
worked at it day and night since you’ve
been gone. Don’t be silly, Mummie ; of
course I can take him up to my bedroom.
All right, you come too.”
Jim sat on the bed in a dazed state.
Sheets and towels and tablecloths piled
up beside him. Arrangements for his
wedding went on about him. He hadn’t
realised that his homecoming meant the
wedding too. Somehow he had not even
thought of the wedding. But if that was
what Ruth wanted, he wanted it too. The
sweetness of her mouth was like a pain
in his heart.
I ATER on they went hand in hand up
' —'the hill. She chattered incessantly.
How young and gay she was. Again he
remembered Richards. He had been in
her ambulance when it had been
bombed. Out of the wreckage they had
been all that was left. They had dived
together under a culvert for shelter. He
had a photograph of Ruth in his pocket
and had taken it out to show her. She
had looked at it almost bitterly. “I’ll
never look like that again,” Richards had
said ; “I know too much.”
“If you hadn’t come back, I’d have
killed myself,” Ruth was saying. “I just
couldn’t have borne it. I’ve dreamed day
and night of the wedding.”
He drew her to him and kissed her,
holding her close against him. So many
times he had dreamed of just this. Below
them the lights of the little town glowed
yellow, Down the mountains a long way
off the dark bulk of Sydney sprawled
under the stars. The woman he loved and
the places he loved. So much had been
worth while. This night was a poem
that would be with him always.
“There’s to be one hundred and twenty
guests and I’m going to have six brides-
maids all in palest pink. Oh, Jim,
wouldn’t it have been dreadful if you
hadn’t come back?”
“Perhaps you could have married
someone else,” Jim suggested.
“Oh, darling, how can you say such
a thing! You know I couldn’t.” She put
her arms round his neck and hugged him
excitedly.
It was a hug such as his own sisters
had given him, he thought. She told him
of a million plans and preparations. Their
vastness staggered him. To think that
getting married implied all this. She
talked while he smoked in silence and
watched her. The moon rose, a little
silver crescent in the dark sky. He stared
at it reflectively.
‘•‘Jim, you haven’t spoken for half an
hour. Aren’t you interested about the
wedding?”
“Of course I am. I was just thinking
of something.”
“Thinking of something. I like that.
You might at least tell me.”
He answered her soberly. “With our
lot we had a nurse called Richards. I’ve
been wondering what was her Christian
name.”
THE ASTROLOGICAL PUG
By A. C. HEADLEY.
astrology,” said Battling Bob
I Sherack —.“there’s something in it.”
I “Sure,” I said—“for the astro-
loger.”
“It’s genuine,” said Battling Bob, “and
them that makes a study of it earns their
reward. There was a woman the other
day won a lottery because of it. She was
a Leo an’ she bought a ticket when Venus
was in just-a-position.”
“And who,” said I, “is Leo?”
Battling Bob allowed a look of what
he imagined was pity to spread between
his cauliflower ears. “Leo is Leo the
Lion,” he announced, “and to them that
’as birthdays in August it is very lucky.
The same as how I am Taurus, the Bull.
When was you born, ’Offy?”
“Listen,” I said. “On Wednesday night
you’re fighting Magrew, and if you’re
gonner think about stars instead of train-
ing you’ll probably finish up by seeing
them.”
“Wednesday,” said Battling Bob, “will
be a lucky day for me between the hours
of nine and ten. I seen it in a magazine.”
I was managing Bob in those days,
building him up for a crack at the title.
He was a pretty fair prospect and as
tough as they make them. I’ve seen
punches bounce off his chin that would
have made a conditional stop for a tram,
and all he gave was the impression that
he was warming up to his work. He was
tough, and now he was getting into the
position where I wanted him. People
were beginning to wonder why he wasn’t
matched against the champ. The trouble,
though, when he was that far was that he
couldn’t afford to lose a fight, and that
was why I was bucking him into the
training.
“Listen,” I said. “After you beat the
champ you can have a birthday when
you want one, and every day will be
your lucky day.”
“There was a feller,” said Bob, “that
’ad a system on the ’orses worked be the
stars, an’ he won a packet.”
“Yeah,” I said, “and I’ll bet there was
a dozen fellers that had a system worked
on the stars that did a packet. What I’d
like to know is what happens when a
feller has a bet with a bookmaker whose
birthday is on the same day.”
Bob wiped a hand over his flat face.
“You’re talkin’,” he said, “about some-
thin’ you don’t know nothin’ about.”
“All I’m supposed to know,” I said,
“is left hooks, right crosses and the way
to keep your feet untangled.”
WE left it at that, and Bob worked his
way through the morning’s workout.
The night of the fight came round and I
had him as right as he could be. Sitting on
the rubbing table while I wiped vaseline
over his face he said: “Listen, ’Offy, I’d
like to know when it was Magrew’s bii th-
day. If he was to ’ave been born in
June or December he’d beat me, no
matter what I done.”
Him talking about getting beaten after
I’d spent the last month building up his
confidence made me feel weak in the
stomach. But he just sat there looking
remote and thoughtful.
Fight-time came, and I followed him
out behind the bucket boys. When
he climbed into the ring he still
had that dopey look about him, and I
was beginning to get worried. The boy
he was fighting was hard and Irish, and
it wasn’t what you could call an easy
fight. But Battling Bob went into it look-
ing like a fairy. All through the first
round all he seemed to be doing was
resting his head on Magrew’s gloves.
“What’s up?” I asked when he came
back to his corner at the end of the
round.
Battling Bob looked at me, “I wish I
knew when ’is birthday was,” he said.
Then I remembered about him saying
something about Wednesday night be-
tween nine and ten being lucky for him.
“What about that?” I asked.
Battling Bob looked dismal. “That’s
all right,” he said, “if only Magrew
wasn’t born in June or December, when
Mars is ip conjunction with Jupiter.
I wish I knew when ’is birthday was.”
“Listen,” I said, “I’ll find out.”
During the next round I went round
and asked Maurie Ree, who was manag-
ing Magrew, for the use of one of his
matches.
“What’s wrong with Battling Bob?”
said Maurie. “He looks like an exhibi-
tion of an old-time waltz.”
“It’s a new idea he’s got,” I said, “He’s
trying to get your boy to break his hands
on his chin. If I was you I’d tell him
not to hit so hard.”
Up above us Battling Bob was being
pushed around the ring. At the end of
the round I came back to his corner.
“Did y’ find out?” he said, blinking
through a closed eye.
“It’s all right,” I said ; “he was born
in March —the ninth.”
Battling Bob smacked his gloves to-
gether. “That’s all I wanter know,” he
said.
When the bell for the next round came
I settled myself on the ring steps to watch
what was going to happen, but I wasn’t
properly settled before it was all over.
Battling Bob brushed a lead and let
Magrew have it. There wasn’t any need
for the referee to count, I helped Bob
into his dressing-gown.
“I told y’,” he said, “you can put y’
faith in astrology.”
LATER on I was doing a lot of think-
ing about this astrology idea and I be-
gan to see a lot of possibilities. Battling
Bob won a couple of fights and it was be-
cause I managed to show him before-
hand that the boys he was fighting didn’t
have propitious signs. You’d have
thought he was a new fighter. Fights
that would have meant a decision he
was wiping off in one or two rounds.
The papers were printing bits about him
as a championship contender, and all I
had to do was to tell him the bloke he
had to meet was born on a day that was
bad for him.
Came the fight with the champ.
“What months,” I said to Bob, “would
be bad for him?”
“January,” said Bob, “would be crook.
and so would November. November
would be very crook.”
“I’ll find out,” I said, and a day or
two later I was telling him. “The
champ,” I said, “was born on the fifth
of November.”
“Gee,” said Bob, “that’s good. I
oughter beat him in one round.”
He made a slight mistake about that
because it wasn’t till the third round that
he put the champion on the floor and
the radio man was asking him to say a
few words into the mike.
That made me a champion’s manager
and I was thinking of the dough to be
picked up at the top. I knew I could
keep him winning no matter who he was
fighting if they didn’t have what he called
propitious birthdays. The trouble was
that he kept on winning his fights so
easily that the crowds started dropping
off. It gave us a kick where it hurt most
—in the percentages.
That’s when I started getting the idea
of Bob losing a fight with me betting on
the other feller. The way Bob was fight-
ing I could get any old price about the
other feller. So when he was getting
ready for a fight with a boy he could
finish with a couple of punches, I started
telling him that the boy he was fighting
was born in a month that didn’t give
Bob a chance against him.
I’ve never seen a man change so much.
You’d have thought he was training for
the old buffers’ race at the butchers’
picnic. So I got in some good work at
placing the treasury at long odds on the
other feller. It was working well. It
looked as though I’d cop the coin when
Bob lost, and the way he was looking he
couldn’t beat time.
I WAS in his corner at the ringside the
night of the fight, and I was glad to
see that he had the dopey look in his
eye. But I didn’t stay glad very long.
In the first round Bob stepped out of his
corner and started to slug, and it was
surprising that the boy he was fighting
lasted the round. I was feeling very sick.
When he came back to his corner I
couldn’t ask him quick enough. “What
about the astrology?” I said.
“Astrology,” said Bob ; “I don’t have
none of that now. I found I been wrong.
I went to the races with an astrologer
today and it taught me a lesson. He
showed me how to pick horses by the
stars, and then he went an’ put me money
on. I lorst everything. I got something
new now.”
I could feel my throat beginning to
work again. “Something new?” I stam-
mered.
“Yeah,” said Battling Bob, “I ’ad me
palm read and I’m gonner triumph, over
a dark-haired man.” He jerked his head
towards the other side of the ring. “He’s
dark, ain’t ’e?”
The bell rang and he moved out of his
corner, while I sat on the ring steps,
wondering how I was going to tell him
that I’d bet his share of the purse and
everything else on the dark-haired man
and wishing that I could find someone to
read my palm about it.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63. —No. 3248.
Wednesday, May 13, 1942.
MESSAGE TO GOERING.
“From ‘The Bulletin’s’ Secret Radio, Sydney. The R.A.F. is going to stamp YOU flat.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
SECOND FRONT!
During a week which saw the Japanese
effect a separation between the British
and Chinese armies in doomed Burma,
invade China from the south, gain a foot-
hold on the Indian frontier, capture Cor-
regidor, send a squadron into Manila Bay
and hurl another towards the Barrier
Reef; during a week big with the fate
of all the white settlements in the South
Pacific which moved our Prime Minister
to warn the nation that “invasion is a
menace capable hourly of becoming an
actuality,” there was hawked round
this imperilled country a petition for the
opening of a Second Front in Western
Europe.
A Second Front in Western Europe!
Lord Beaverbrook, the Dean of Canter-
bury, Bishop Burgmann, Canon Garnsey,
many ladies and flapper-paper editors
and the entire body of Reds and Pinks
“demand” it, regardless of the shipping
position and of what “another and worse
Dunkirk” would mean at this stage of
the war, with Japan still engaged on a
career of conquest, checked only by the
magnificent work of the Allied airmen
and seamen in the Battle of the Coral Sea.
And by “Western Europe” these distant
spectators mean France, for another and
worse Walcheren or another and worse
Narvik is not even remotely practicable.
To have the slightest chance of coping
with an enemy in possession of all the
French ports, airfields, railways and mili-
tary roads, it would be necessary to land
and establish an army at least twice as
strong as the B.E.F. was at the end of
January, 1940, and with far better equip-
ment than it had then. Do any of the
distant spectators know how long it took
to place four British divisions in the line?
Has any of them read Lord Gort’s dis-
patches? If any of the gentlemen has,
more shame to him for urging that a
vast number of his fellow-subjects should
be sent to a bloody sacrifice while the
safety of his own skin is assured!
Wrote Lord Gort: “The possibility of
an attack by sea and air” —a grim cer-
tainty today—“made it necessary to use
the western ports of France instead of
the Channel ports, while the total re-
placement of animals by mechanical
vehicles presented a new problem in
transportation.” So “the troops were
landed at Cherbourg, and their stores and
vehicles were dispatched to Nantes, St.
Nazaire and Brest” —all now German
strongholds, though battered by the
R.A.F.
Lord Gort took command of the force
on September 3, 1939. On the following
day “small advanced parties and techni-
cal personnel” began arriving in France.
They were followed on September 10 by
the first units of the Ist Corps, and Lord
Gort himself landed on September 14,
proceeding by car to Le Mans, where
a chateau had been placed at his dis-
posal by the French Government. But
seven days elapsed before “the concen-
tration of G.H.Q. staff and essential
Lines-of-communication units was com-
plete.” Although the landing was undis-
puted by the enemy, and was carried out
according to plan, “some vehicles were
damaged during the sea passage,” and
there were “mechanical failures” on the
roads.
“An assembly area had been chosen
in the vicinity of Le Mans and Laval.”
These towns are 50 miles apart, and “the
base ports were on an average 150 miles
from the assembly area”; so “the
assembling of troops by rail and vehicles
by road took about six days.” It was
September 22 before the advanced ele-
ments of Ist Corps and of G.H.Q. troops
reached the Le Mans-Laval positions,
and all sorts of difficulties had to be
tackled and overcome:
Units were given a minimum of one
week in which to assemble and reorganise.
Although some of the units of Ist Corps
were still incomplete, the limited accom-
modation available in the assembly area
made it essential to begin the move for-
ward before September 26, when the lead-
ing units of 2nd Corps were due to
arrive. During these early weeks the
maintenance of the Force presented a
problem which called for the greatest
resource and initiative... .The administra-
tive staff were obliged to deal with the
day-to-day work of landing troops, their
vehicles and current supplies and to
undertake the equally important task of
building up reserves and ammunition
supplies and ordnance stores. Covered
accommodation was difficult to obtain and
temporary dumps of non-perishable stores
had to be established wherever the neces-
sary space could be found in the vicinity
of the ports of entry.
From September 26 to October 3 Ist
Corps was engaged in moving into the
Belgian-frontier sector assigned to it. A
division of 2nd Corps took up its allotted
positions on October 12—five weeks and
three days after the “small advanced
parties” stepped ashore.
In all these operations the B.E.F. had
“the willing help of the French naval,
military and civil authorities.” Another
and bigger B.E.F. could expect only
fierce German opposition from the
moment troopships began taking on
soldiers beyond the Channel and the
sweepers got to work on the mines which
would assuredly have been sown in all
the fairways leading to ports—ports
which, if captured, would be left without
wharves, cranes or lighters—until, as is all
too probable, the vision that came to Mr.
Churchill of “every ton of our shipping,
every flotilla of aeroplanes, the whole
strength of our army fighting for its life
on the coasts of France” became a ter-
rible reality.
The idea of Australians demanding a
Second Front in Western Europe in the
interests of a Power which “with
1,000,000 first-line Red Army men and
mighty forces of bombers and fighters”
(the claim of a Russia-Firster named
Lockwood) is not fighting in East Asia!
Australians, who owe so much to the
Royal Navy, the Merchant Navy and the
R.A.F,, and who have seen British Com-
monwealth armies, among them at least
22,000 of our own soldiers, lost in the
unavailing defence of rich territories for
lack of bombers and fighters that were
sent to Russia! Australians, who should
know that a defeated Russia, because of
its vast man-power and resources, must
come again, whereas if Australia fell to
the Asiatic enemy, who has killed people
in Darwin and Broome, has established
himself in New Britain and New Guinea,
and, though repulsed in the Coral Sea,
is in control of the Timor and Arafura
Seas, it would fall for ever.
Any male person who publicly demands
a Second Front in Western Europe, what-
ever his calling and place of residence,
should be compelled by law, British or
Dominion, to enrol as a conscript so
that he may share the perils of the
expedition.
Anzac Day and May Day.
With loyal, though sad, hearts, the men
in control of the service men’s league
dispensed with their Anzac Day cere-
monies at the wish of the Prime Minister,
expressed in communications to branches
of the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. in all the States. In a
telegram to the N. S. Wales branch Mr.
Curtin said “The fact that the enemy is
on our threshold and that dangers to the
public from warlike operations cannot be
disregarded will make it desirable that
any large congregations of people out-
side the normal should be discouraged.”
Accordingly it is the desire of the Gov-
ernment that marches of returned men
through the streets and other outside
gatherings at memorial services should not
be organised.
So, although wreaths were placed on the
Cenotaph, and commemorative services
were held in churches and halls, and
small groups of Old Diggers, met by
chance, exchanged memories of the death-
less dead, the day on which the nation
annually dedicates itself to the cause for
which the Anzacs bled was empty of
treasured features. Abandoned were the
solemn and beautiful dawn services, the
proud street march of Diggers, Old and
Young, the great gathering of a hushed
people in the Domain, the old-battalion
reunions and, “at the going down of the
sun,” the Festival of Remembrance in
the flag-bedecked Town Hall, where
masses of ageing men, many with honor-
able wounds and scars and all with
trophies of service and valor, intoned
the words “We will remember them.”
Though every sentiment but that of the
good citizenship which has always dis-
tinguished the organised Diggers revolted
against the giving up of things precious
in all their lives, “the desire of the Gov-
ernment” prevailed.
Eight days afterwards the Diggers
realised in bitterness that their sacrifice
had been made in vain. With the prior
knowledge of Mr. Curtin and with the
sanction of Mr. McKell a strident imita-
tion of a foreign May Day performance
was staged in Sydney by Reds and Pinks.
According to “S. M- Herald,” “5000
persons marched in the city streets and
25,000 attended the subsequent meeting
in the Domain,” and the chairman “read
apologies for non-attendance from Mr.
Curtin and Mr. McKell.” The “Daily
Telegraph” report noted that “a float
was devoted* to the Sydney ‘Bulletin’:
copies of the paper which had been
covered with the swastika were dis-
played.” And an A.B.C. announcer, with
a note of indignation in his voice, men-
tioned that at one stage the voices of the
speakers had been drowned by the roai
of low-flying aeroplanes whose crews had
chosen to carry out war manoeuvres at a
most unseasonable time.
The Bulletin, for its part, was de-
lighted with the intervention of the flying
men, and it trusts that they scared the
speakers as thoroughly as they did many
of the “sports” at Canterbury Park race-
course, where another “large congrega-
tion of people” was assembled on April
18. On that occasion also there were
indignant protests, race meetings and Red
and Pink Domain demonstrations being
regarded as far more important than mere
war exercises. The insult to The Bulletin
was part of a Red and Pink campaign
against the paper, and it left the staff
unmoved. If The Bulletin ever finds
favor with Red and Pink blatherskites it
will feel that its 62 years’ work in the
cause of White Australia has been labor
in vain.
A Second Front was demanded by pro-
cessionists and was the theme of most
of the speeches. Not the Second Front
in Siberia which was promised by the
same crowd a thousand times as a certain
and immediate consequence of Japan’s
going to war with the British Empire and
Soviet Russia, but a Second Front in
France, in which all the sufferings and
sacrifices would be reserved for British
soldiers, airmen, naval and merchant sea-
men, and the deadly consequences of
failure would be shared by the Com-
monwealth and Maoriland.
Among the marchers, though not
among the speakers, Was Mr. Ward,
the Minister for Labor and National
Service; and the surpassing merits of
Mr. Ward were a minor theme on some
platforms, particularly the one on which
Comrade Thornton, of the Ironworkers,
did his Red stuff. Mr. Ward must have
been fully aware of his Government’s
attitude to the Anzac Day ceremonies,
and it is hard to believe that Mr. Curtin
was ignorant of Mr. Ward’s May Day
intentions when he wrote his own apology
for non-attendance.
Asked by Mr. Harrison, voicing the
R.S.S.A.I.L.A.’s protest, why so disgrace-
ful a distinction had been made between
Anzac Day and May Day, the Prime
Minister cut a poor figure. While admit-
ting that he had “communicated with the
State Governments and soldiers’ organi-
sations in the States regarding marches
and gatherings of crowds,” he protested
that his Government had not “issued a
prohibition against such gatherings; it
left it to the State Governments to take
whatever action they considered neces-
sary.” This does not accord with his
telegram to the N.S.W. branch of the
R.S.S.A.I.L.A. There is no mention in that
telegram of the State Governments hav-
ing a final or any say. It was addressed
by the leader of the nation to a nation-
wide organisation whose tradition of
service is such that merely to express “the
desire of the Government” was to be
assured of loyal co-operation everywhere.
Did Mr. Curtin convey “the desire of
the Government” to the May Day mob
when it asked him to form part of the
May Day show? If he did he would
have made a weak case look less weak
by saying so. If he didn’t it was idle for
him to plead, as he did in reply to Mr.
Harrison, that “the State Government in
New South Wales should have stuck to
its ban.”
When Mr. McKell was put on his
defence he had to contradict the Prime
Minister. There was no ban —“neither a
Commonwealth nor a State ban has been
imposed on processions or congregations
of people.” As reported by “S. M.
Herald” in the third person, he proceeded
in these terms:
The Commonwealth Government had
intimated that such congregations of
people were inadvisable. He had en-
tirely concurred with that view. Some
organisations, accepting the advice of the
Commonwealth, did not hold processions.
Other organisations did not accept the
Commonwealth view and held processions.
Those who had accepted the Common-
wealth advice had acted wisely.
Then it must be Mr. McKell’s opinion
that those who rejected “the Common-
wealth advice” acted unwisely. But he
did not express this opinion, nor in his
pitiful attempt at self-justification did he
reveal that he was a consenting party.
For upwards of two months Mr. Mc-
Kell has himself been in control of the
Police Department. Without the approval
of that department the procession and the
demonstration could not have been held.
As Police Minister Mr, McKell had full
power to veto both, or if he could recon-
cile the “wise” and loyal cancellation of
the Anzac Day ceremonies with the grant-
ing of a special favor to Reds and Pinks
he might have made hijs sanction condi-
tional on the street display being void of
objectionable features and on the
speakers being drawn only from men
known to be consistent supporters of the
war. Obviously in his ignominious readi-
ness to placate noisy fellows bent on stag-
ing a vulgar political show regardless alike
of the Prime Minister’s request and the
sacrifice of Anzac Day, he did none of
these things.
Yet at least one of the speakers and
other persons prominent in the show
must have been well known to him. As
leader of the party Mr. McKell was
present at the 1940 Easter Conference of
the State A.L.P. organisation, then under
Red and Pink control, when a stop-the-
war resolution was “carried unani-
mously.” It is too long for quotation in
full, but salient passages may be repeated.
The Labor party has always been opposed
to imperialist wars.... We declare that
the Australian people have nothing to
gain from the continuance of this war....
pursued in the interests of big finance and
monopolists
The clear attitude of the Labor party is
that it stands opposed to Australia’s parti-
cipation in any overseas imperialist con-
flict .... and unhesitatingly demands that no
Australian troops be permitted to leave
Australia’s shores We declare with-
out qualification that the Australian people
will not tolerate the introduction of con-
scription and that the Labor movement is
opposed to compulsory military service in
all its forms.
It is immaterial that the authors and
supporters of the disgraceful resolution
found it expedient 15 months later to
change their tune. The point is that these
very people and their Communist asso-
ciates were permitted to put on a
coarse political performance when the
R.S.S.A.I.L.A. had been asked in the
public interest to sacrifice its noble and
moving Anzac Day ceremonies—and did.
Mr. McKell and Mr. Curtin will no
doubt try to forget the damnable differen-
tiation. The Old Diggers and the Young
Diggers returned from Libya, Greece,
Crete, Syria and the Near North never
will.
On the Form Front.
If the Curtin Government doesn’t weaken
on its one-income-tax plan it should
make a point of showing, as far as it
can, what the simplifying of procedure
will mean to taxpayers in different
groups. This alone will make a strong
appeal, especially to victims of legalised
extortion which is not far removed from
legalised swindling, and to the thousands
of Sydney people who, day after day and
week after week, queue up in depart-
mental offices to get refunds of overpaid
taxes —though they have been graciously
informed that they will be attended to
by letter if they prefer to post their
stamps, of which the department keeps
no record, at their own cost and risk.
As things are, not only concerns but
individuals drawing income from two or
more States have to waste time and
money preparing unnecessary returns,
writing unnecessary letters, stamping
them unnecessarily and making out un-
necessary cheques. In the case of com-
panies with inter-State connections these
superfluous operations not only amount
to chronic business worries but make no
inconsiderable addition to annual expen-
diture, especially as they are always
accompanied by unnecessary arguments.
One case—one of a thousand—has
been stated:
My company operates in every State.
We prepare seven returns and pay 15
different income taxes —three Federal, 12
State. We find it necessary to lodge objec-
tions against at least half of the assess-
ments, because of departmental interpreta-
tion of sections of the various Acts. At
present we have objections outstanding m
respect of Queensland income tax for
1939, 1940 and 1941. It will take at least
a further year to clear these up. Recently
we were able to come to a satisfactory
arrangement with the N.S.W. Commissioner
for the adjustment of assessments for
1938, 1939 and 1940. We were congratu-
lating ourselves on having acquired a good
knowledge of the N.S.W. Statute when
along came Mr. McKell’s new Act. Our
1941 assessment for tax under this Act
has just been received. It has so many
errors that, judging from past experience,
it will take at least a year to straighten it
out.
But comparatively small taxpayers are
not spared.
Take the case of a man who draws £250
or £3OO p.a. from a job in N. S. Wales
and £l5O or so from an investment in
Victoria. Three sets of income-tax papers
are required from him —one by the
N.S.W. Taxation Department, one by
the department in Victoria and one by
the Commonwealth Central Office in
Melbourne. That means three assess-
ments, arrived at in the tedious official
way by three lots of Government em-
ployees, and three cheques. If the victim
claims medical or hospital payments as
a deduction from taxable income he is
expected to send his receipts to the
N.S.W. department, get them back and
post them to the Commonwealth Central


Sd o, Stf bethinks* he'‘has°been
I bosstt X
often does, he has to engage in more
correspondence or decide in bitterness
that it isn’t worth the trouble.
Taxpayers who have to conform to
these crazy requirements are utterly weary
of them. Indeed, the Government should
know from its experience that there is
a widespread revolt against filling-in
forms. Its Mr. Ward, who was so furious
about the national-register cards issued
f ,i up r-o mitErpak of the
a few months before the outbreak ot the
German war, issued a few million on his
own account, threatening non-co-opera-
tors with stiff penalties. About the same
time he issued a forest of call-up cards,
though the information demanded of the
men receiving the call-up cards could
have been furnished on properly drafted
national-register cards. The Ward
national-register is a subject on which
the author, so loquacious on other topics,
prefers not to talk, but he was driven to
admit that 10 p.c. of the cards received
in his department were “incomplete,”
and that 150,000 people (since reduced
to “less than 100,000”) hadn’t returned
them at all
While Mr. Ward was frying no. to
thmk about the punishment he had
threatened m these cases and rehevi g
his mind by having cracks at employers,
some jack-in-office conceived the notion
of demanding information about the bil-
leting resources of householders through
Sydney municipalities—though this also
could have been supplied on intelligently-
, c . , ~ , •
drafted national-register cards. So me
City Council and other municipal bodies
had arms nf forms minted and told
nad acres ol rorms prmiea ana turn
householders to come and get them at
.own halls, police stations and post offices.
For many people in suburbs it meant a
journey of miles. The response was so
poor that closing dates had to be ex-
tended, but this expedient was of no
avail. In the end it had to be admitted
that those who had filled in forms were
vastly outnumbered by those who hadn’t,
This nation is fed up with filling in
forms.
PLAIN ENGLISH
"Australia First" Case.
Last Thursday four persons described as
members of the “Australia First” move-
ment, three men and a woman, were
charged in Perth (W.A.) with having con-
spired together to assist, within the Com-
monwealth, the armed forces of Japan.
After evidence had been given for the
Crown by a C. 1.8. investigator “attached
to Military Intelligence,” the Crown
Prosecutor intimated that the defence
would be that the whole proceedings were
a joke against the investigator, and that
he had acted as a provocateur.
The principal witness for the Crown
is named Frederick James Thomas. He
said he had made himself known to and
been accepted by the alleged conspira-
tors, who, with his apparent acquiescence,
had planned the “liquidation” of certain
people, including members of the Com-
munist party, the Catholic hierarchy and
Major-General Gordon Bennett. Jews
were to be sterilised and priests put on
road work. One of the alleged conspira-
tors had declared, “We don’t want to
shoot too many, otherwise we wouldn’t
have enough labor for constructional
work.”
An alleged proclamation was read in
court. It condemned the Curtin Govern-
ment and, among other things, welcomed
as “friends and liberators the Japanese
military leaders and the army.”
The witness described a meeting at
which the alleged leader read the procla-
mation and said:
I will now form the Government. I will
take the Premiership, control of the Army
and Treasury. Quicke will take over the
police, Williams the Labor Front, Man-
power and Transport, Hardt [the name
witness assumed] Propaganda, Health and
Public Service. Krakouer [a young woman]
will take over all the women’s organisa-
tions.
Thereupon there was “loud laughter
in the court.”
The witness was asked for his personal
history. He said he was a probationary
member of the Communist party but not
a Communist agent, having joined on the
instruction of a detective-sergeant. He
had friends whom he believed to
be Communists. He had “jumped”
trains and stowed away on a ship
on his travels about Australia and
been in gaol for it. He had been an in-
vestigator for 12 months, having previ-
ously done odd jobs. He had painted
the Bishop’s residence at Townsville;
he had read Plato, Plutarch, Wells,
Darwin and the Dean of Canterbury ; he
had been a member of the Left Book
Club and was on the Medical Aid to
Russia committee. He had left New
Zealand, where he was born on October
17—he could npt remember exactly in
what year—because, for one thing, he
did not get on too well with his father.
The accused are D. F. Bullock, a
Primary Producers’ Association organ-
iser ; Nancy R. Krakouer, a postal em-
ployee ; C. L. Williams, an insurance
agent, and E. C. Quicke, a dairy-farmer
—all Westralians. The charge does not
amount to high treason.
Abram and Carlo Camillo.
Concerning some more mud from a
muddy spring:
Two of the three U.A.P. Assemblymen who
went into the A.I.F. from their small party
early in the German war were back in Sydney
last week from overseas service. If they had
the inclination to listen to one of the large
number of Labor members who have no record
of war service—of course, their useless occu-
pation is reserved —indulging in one more of
those foul attacks, delivered from behind the
stone wall of privilege, for which N.S.W. Labor
politicians are notorious, they had the oppor-
tunity. Doubtless they decided that it was no
part of a soldier’s duty.
The privileged mudslinger in this case was
Mr. Abram Landa or Slanda, and his target
was The Bulletin. Mr. Slanda did not repeat
his false charge that “certain members of the
University Senate” had adopted “the Nazi and
Fascist tactics of trying to get rid of a man
for the simple reason that he happens to be a
Jew.” Neither did he refer to his own efforts
and those of his Government —unfortunately
they succeeded —to get the “brilliant man” and
another young gentleman, both strangers,
appointed for life to the Law School over the
heads of two Australians on overseas service
who were denied the opportunity, granted to the
strangers, of presenting their claims in person,
at a time when two Justices of the Supreme
Court testified that other arrangements could be
made for carrying on the work of the Law
School —which has since lost two-thirds of
its students. Mr. Slanda did not mention
that subject. Instead, he applied the terms
“Nazi and Fascist” to The Bulletin (everyone
who doesn’t accept the opinions of the Slandas
and Ehrenfried Baumes is “a Nazi” or “a Fas-
cist”), added more expressions from the mucky
vocabulary of the politician who abuses “privi-
lege,” whined that “what The Bulletin calls the
McKnell Government is attacked by this news-
paper week after week,” and implored it to
“draw the attention of the Federal authorities to
the attacks of this newspaper,” to the end that
“if there is to be any knell it will be the
death-knell of this scurrilous paper, which is
doing so much to undermine the efficiency of
the Australian people in this war.”
The Bulletin would be content to let its
war record, together with that of Mr. Slanda,
who was rising 37 when the German war broke
out, and that of Mr. Carlo Camillo Lazzarini,
go before a tribunal of Diggers, hundreds
of whom have written from overseas to thank
it for its war articles. Knowing that Australia
was not prepared to fight a blind asylum, and
convinced that the French alliance was “not
worth two centimes,” The Bulletin raised its
solitary and remote voice against forcible inter-
vention in Abyssinia, Austria, Czechoslovakia,
China, Poland and Spain, concerning which
country Mr. Slanda had the effrontery to say
that “England lost much by not standing up for
constitutional government in Spain in the days
when Franco attacked that Government” —had
it intervened in the civil war it would have
“lost” the support of the U.S.A. and the sym-
pathy of South America. The Bulletin even
tried to start a Back-to-the-Empire movement.
And during all that period and after it cam-
paigned for the reintroduction of compulsory
military training, for a modern air force (no
Wirraways!), for a greatly strengthened R.A.N.,
with at least one capital ship, and for the
defence of New Guinea, in spite of the League
that was even then dead on its feet.
At the outbreak of the German war The
Bulletin had 17 men on its literary staff.
Two were too old for service in the last war ;
each has two sons on active service in this
war. Of the others, four were Old Diggers,
one was a Tommy and three, too old for
service in this war, were rejected on medical
grounds in the last war. One of the Old
Diggers is back in the A.1.F.; another (who
lost a leg in France) has been on the military
staff since September, 1939, and the Tommy has
been wearing an Australian uniform since Sep-
tember, 1939. Of the younger men, three
volunteered for the A.I.F. (one has been in it
from the beginning), two are in the A.M.F.
(one has been temporarily released) and one
is joining the R.A.A.F. Also in the A.M.F. is
a young man added to the staff since the out-
break —the only addition. And The Bulletin
makes up all its service men’s pay.
Two members interrupted Mr. Slanda’s tirade.
One, Mr. Macdonald, pointed out that The
Bulletin supported conscription. The other,
Mr. Carlo Camillo Lazzarini, screeched that
“The Bulletin is the only Quisling in New
South Wales.” Carlo Camillo did not fight
in the last war for the country adopted by
his father, though he was all there in the 1917
strike. He got in that year—at the age of 36 —
on the anti-conscription ticket, and he heard
and presumably shares the opinion of Mr. Slanda
that “there is no need for conscription” today—
though they had better not tell that to General
(Continued at foot of page 9.)
“WE WILL REMEMBER THEM”—ALSO THOSE WHO FORGOT.


QUICK RELIEF
THIS NATURAL WAY
Here’s how you can get prompt, pleasant
relief from constipation. To-night, before
going to bed, take one or two NYAL
FIGSEN tablets. Figsen is easy and
pleasant to take; no stomach upsets, no
griping pain. In the morning Figsen acts
mildly, thoroughly and effectively.
Figsen is so gentle and natural that, only
for the pleasant relief it brings, you would
scarcely know you had taken a laxative.
Figsen is sold by chemists everywhere—
-1/31 a tin. The next best thing to. Nature ,
NyaiFigsen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
TIME WORKS CHANGES IN FAMILIES
TIME works changes in family circumstances. It creates problems that only the
experienced may be able to foresee. For that reason it is wise to appoint in your
Will an experienced and level-headed Executor and Trustee, one upon whose integrity,
mental vigour and good judgment you can rely; one who will never die.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, offers you the permanence of a Company, the
collective judgment of many trained minds, and an understanding of family financial
and business problems born of 56 years’ experience with thousands of Estates.
That you may understand the Company’s service, ask that we send you a copy of a book
“Your Executor and Trustee.” It explains the service in detail and tells what it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. 11. Kelly (Chairman); Brigadier the lion. T. A. .1. Playfair, M.L.O.
E. R. Knox; 11. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
11. Y. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £59,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
sd
Are you
watching
his health ?
If your dog's
coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —
start him now on
a course of
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
lively and eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole system.
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
B 2:
CLANO
tome
WRITE
TO-DAY
T. JONES £ CO.
ClUSlIISf. Sia Georg* street., Sidney
WE ARE
SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
£l5/5/-
DOUBLE RIGGED.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15/- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
N.S.W. Freight on Saddles Paid for Cash with
Order.
COWBOY BITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
puAD»n a irxc TAP*n r ’Oos r TC
WALTHER <k STEVEKSOH ltd j
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
There are two Curtins, as there were
two Wordsworths.
Two voices are there: one is of the deep;
It breathes the storm-cloud’s thunderous
monody;
And one is of an old, half-witted sheep,
That intimates that two and one are three.
Examples of the lesser Curtin appear in his
dealings with Ward and the coalminers
—some of whom were still on strike at
the beginning of this week. But when
the Battle of the Coral Sea was raging the
P.M. spoke like a real leader in a strain
of noble eloquence.
Minister Dedman blundered badly
over clothes-rationing. On Friday after-
noon he gave it out that the thing would
be introduced “in the nsar future,” and
that sales would be cut 25 p.c. p.w. “as
from Monday.” The P.M. followed with
a Friday-night broadcast. So on Satur-
day morning there was a stampede to the
stores by people who could spare the time
and money, and stocks were depleted
and retailers were left almost speechless
with rage. Any businessman could have
told the Government that no announce-
ment should have been made until ration-
books were ready. But Labor’s attitude
to the businessman varies from mistrust
to loathing. It pays for this by making
itself look foolish time and again ; and
working people pay by being deprived
of protection by those to whom they have
a right to look for it.
“Some short time ago,” remark the
Labor members who reported on the
Homebush (Sydney) abattoir, “the finances
were in a sorry state, but for some reason
best known to himself the Commissioner
increased the salaries of certain higher-
paid officers.” Perhaps he adopted the
example of the Sydney Parliament, which
added £4 a week to the member’s salary
when the State finances “were in a sorry
state.”
Falstein and Calwell objected to Justice
Owen Dixon being named Minister to
Washington, the former because the Jus-
tice bad “lived in a rarefied atmosphere
and his outlook was too transcendental”
and the latter because “a member of the
High Court Bench should not accept a
position likely to involve him in politics”
—which is precisely what Dr. Evatt did.
In the Senate Ashley said it had been
“necessary” to appoint the man from the
“rarefied atmosphere” because the Aus-
tralian Minister had to be of the “highest
reputation.”
Said that N.S.W. and Queensland State
members are lobbying in Canberra
against the uniform-tax plan. They can
lobby till they’re black in the face. Aus-
tralia has been promised a uniform tax
and will kick up a dreadful shindy if it
doesn’t get it.
The dreadful Sydney Water Board is
on the warpath again. It announces a
continuance of restrictions and an increase
of rates —rates payable after July 1 will
include a charge for use of meters and
garden moisture. This, though nobody
was allowed to hose a garden for most
of the year, is, in the words of Upton,
the president, to meet “extra charges on
the board for war and other purposes.”
As for meter rent, milkmen don’t charge
for the use of pint measures nor butchers
for their scales. And if a water board
gets away with it how far behind will
electricity and gas suppliers be?
The McKnell Government intends to
increase widows’ pensions to 255. a week.
The Federal Government intends to pay
the same amount. If both go through
there’ll be an early-door'rush of widows
from other States to the McKnell haven.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Mair says
it would be a “good thing if the Federal
Government took over the social services
of the State—in fact, if it took over the
State.” The cold shades have improved
Mair.
In March the Joint Committee on
Rural Industries warned the Common-
wealth Government that the combi-
nation of mounting numbers of war-
workers and Allied service men and the
effect of man-power regulations and arti-
ficial fertiliser shortage had conspired to
bring Australia face to face with a pos-
sible food shortage. Now there is to
be temporary exemption for such farm
labor as remains, and an Allied Supply
SONG OF THE HOARDERS : “For HE’S a jolly good Ded-man!”
Council has been set up. It is described
as an “advisory body.” Its first advice
should be to abolish the majority of the
useless bottlenecks masquerading as con-
trol boards.
It is disquieting to read that “Can-
berra is taking legal advice” as to whether
it can enforce its uniform-tax proposals.
There is no occasion for legal advice,
since ways of enforcement are obvious.
Under Section 109 “the” income-tax “law
of a State” may be made “inconsistent
with a law of the Commonwealth,” and
hence invalid “to the extent of the in-
consistency,” by getting a 100 p.c. income-
tax bill passed in the Commonwealth
Parliament, Government taking what it
wants by regulation. Or Government
could call up all the State Taxation De-
partment employees under a man-power
regulation and leave the Premiers to be
their own assessors and collectors of
State taxes.
Yards of space have been devoted
by Australian dailies to the distress-
ful spectacle of Moslems, Hindus,
kshatryas and outcastes, princes and
others being unable to sink their party
differences in the face of a threat to their
common security. Probably a footnote
will be devoted in the future history of
Australia to the spectacle of six State
Governments “fighting” for their “rights”
against the Government charged with the
duty of saving the country at a time when
an enemy had taken possession of part
of New Guinea and had killed Austra-
lians in their own continent.
The “famous” Tom Wintringham is
quoted by one of those knowalls who
dish up war-at-a-glance supplements as
having given the British public the
straight griffin about the Old Diggers’
attitude to conscription—while they “were
preparing for the black day of the
German Army,” they voted conscription
down. The facts are given in Ernest
Scott’s volume of the Official War History.
At the referendum of October 28, 1916,
the service men’s vote was 72,399 Yes
and 58,894 No; at the one taken on
December 20, 1917, it was 103,789 Yes
and 93,910 No. Votes of men in Austra-
lian camps and sea-going transports were
included in both cases. On the second
occasion, these were separated from the
totals, and it was found that “among
those actually on service overseas or on
the way thither the Yes majority was
slightly over 1600.” Incidentally, “Ger-
many’s black day” was August 8, 1918.
Lazzarini, the Commonwealth Min-
ister for Home Security, is troubled about
ways of identifying young children when
bombers come over. “They would prob-
ably lose cards and remove metal discs,”
he protests. “Short of tattooing, I don’t
see any method that would be effective.”
What’s wrong with earmarking?
Britain’s connection with Madagascar
began in the reign of Charles I. In
the Napoleonic wars British forces
seized Tamatave and other French
settlements, and they were made over to
Britain under the Peace Treaty of 1814.
Subsequently, a dual Franco-British
supervision of the rule of Madagascar
by its kings and queens was established.
The London Missionary Society gave
Madagascar the written language which
it had failed to invent. The Torrens title,
native to S. Australia, was adopted as its
land registration system.
N.S.W. coalmining companies listed in
the Stock Exchange “Gazette” show a
paid-up capital of £5,324,290. During
the ten years 1931-1940 inclusive, share-
holders received dividends amounting
to £760,801, or less than \\ p.c. p.a.,
though nearly 100,000,000 tons of coal
were mined. The shareholders would
have been £1,368,915 better off had they
put their money into Commonwealth
loans.
Michael Bruxner bobbed up in the
N.S.W. “Parliament” to declare that
unless the McKell Government cut motor
license fees more than 20 p.c. more cars
would go off the road. Mick’s Government
increased motor registration fees by 124
p.c. soon after war broke out and refused
any reduction when petrol rationing be-
came severe. Now the diminishing band
of car-owners is to pay third-party insur-
ance, which would have been an excel-
lent thing when all and sundry were run-
ning cars.
N. vS. Wales must be the world’s
worst example of the mania for requir-
ing people to fill in forms and cards.
A sick woman applying for treat-
ment at Sydney Hospital has to
fill in a form (13in. x 84in.) containing
21 questions and sign it, after making a
solemn declaration as to her means, if
any. The thing has also to be signed by
a witness and an “interviewing officer,”
after the patient has assimilated the in-
formation, printed in red ink, that if
she fibs on any point she is “liable for
prosecution in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Public Hospitals Act,
1929-36”; also that “Legal proceedings
may be instituted for recovering remuner-
ation for treatment at this Institution.”
On the other hand, a man may go to a
Government V.D. clinic and get free
treatment without signing any form.
A Scallop Industry Committee has
been set up in Tasmania to see that
scallop-gatherers aren’t destroyed, and
“suggested modifications” of a plan to
ensure this are now being considered.
Meantime, nothing has been heard from
the Murray Cod Industry Committee nor
the Mutton Bird Export Control Board.
Having in its time being much exposed
to elderly newspaper proprietors The
Bulletin never swallowed the story that
Lord Beaverbrook, formerly Mr. Max
Aitken, had achieved miracles in the pro-
duction of war weapons. His recent per-
formances on the flute suggest that
Cabinet is well rid of him. He had the
face to tell the Americans that there was
ample equipment in Singapore. Then,
regardless of the fate of other expedi-
tions and of the increased seriousness of
the shipping position, he came out with
a wild demand for a Second Front in
Western Europe “immediately—Strike
out violently, even recklessly,” It is good
to read that Dr. Evatt, now in Britain,
has no patience with the Second-
Fronters.
Room for Mr. Rupert Lockwood,
“National President Australian Friends of
the Soviet Union”:
Forty to fifty trains loaded with troops,
moving from the Urals to the Far East,
would transport about 800,000 men in 10
days. There is nothing wrong with that
rate of reinforcement.
Nothing—except that the 800,000 would
have to board super-size trains at quick-
motion-film speed and travel without sup-
plies or equipment and without any sort
of interruption en route. If any Austra-
lian railwaymen read Lockwood’s rubbish
they must have had a good laugh.


m
■
m '
m
mm m
4
rC $
FLEEIS of the DEMOCRACIES use
txibc
f
BATTERIES
Still keep going when the rest have stopped
AT LEFT: American battleships in
formation with gun turrets raised.
AT RIGHT: One of Hritain’s most for-
midable battleships patrolling the seas.
■-
asp
MacArthur. It has been written that, in the in-
solence of security bought with other men s
blood, he shouted when an interjector mispro-
nounced his name, “It’s Lazzarini; and, it
you don’t like it, I’ll change it to Windsor.
Mr. Lazzarini and Mr. Slanda were abject
supporters of Mr. Lang when that gentleman
was engaged in his mad crusade of default anc
attempted confiscation. Now that it is sate to
snarl at him they snarl. . . ~
The Bulletin served and expressed Australia
before Mr. Lazzarini learned his political
manners, which derive from an Italian guttei,
and long before Mr. Slanda learned his, which
originated in the ghetto. It will be coming
out when Abram and Carlo Camillo are foi-
aotten and when their “Parliament’ is remem-
bered only as a noxious example of parasitism
on the bodv politic and of the scandalous abuse
of an outworn privilege.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Towards the end of 1914 a lad of 18,
Norman Thomas Gilroy, who had been
a telegraph messenger at the Sydney
G.P.0., left his native city in the trans-
port Hessen as a member of the Naval
Wireless Transport Service. At dawn
on Sunday, April 25, 1915, he saw the
first Anzacs land on the storied beach,
wondering with an anxious heart what
their fate would be and perhaps giving a
thought to his own destiny. In St. Mary s
Cathedral on Sunday, May 10, 1942, as
the first native-born Archbishop of Syd-
ney, he received the Pallium from the
Pope. Dr. Folding, the first archbishop,
was invested with the Pallium at Rome in
June, 1842, so it was a centenary com-
memoration as well.
Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Burnett
—he is returning to England—was lent by
the R.A.F. His reorganisation of the
R.A.A.F. defensive plans will be remem-
bered with gratitude. Had he had an-
other year and a Fairbairn as his Min-
ister, the history of the air war with
Japan during the early phases of develop-
ment in the North would have had a
different complexion.
Air Vice-Marshal Bostock, appointed
Chief of the Air Staff under the supreme
command of General MacArthur,jwas an
original member of the R.A.A.F. He
served through the last war with the
A.I.F. and A.F.C., and has been Deputy
C.O.S. since 1939. He, therefore, has
been at the top during the whole period
of war-time expansion. He passed
the British Air Staff College, served for
two years with the R.A.F. from 1936-38,
when fighting methods were being revised
round the Spitfires and Hurricanes and
strategy in general reorganised to meet
conditions developed by the advent of
machines of Wellington type. He is 50.
A great many people have a friend in
John Menzies White without knowing it.
As secretary of the N. S. Wales Tax-
payers’ Association he is a kind of tax-
payers’ watchdog, ready to argue with
anyone who tries to dip too deeply or by
doubtful means into the public’s pocket.
He is working to remove injustices in-
flicted on service men by taxation depart-
ments and can string off a list of cases that
would curl the hair of a Tobruk Digger.
Born at Elsternwick (Vic.) 31 years ago,
White could claim that his ability for his
JOHN M. WHITE.
job is hereditary—his father, Stanley
McKellar White, is president of the Tax-
payers’ Association and has been secre-
tary to the Federal Tax Commissioner,
assistant deputy Federal Commissioner
in Sydney and deputy Federal Commis-
sioner in Adelaide and Brisbane.
Despite the rigors of this frightful
climate, Fr. Thomas Gartlan, S.J. —
“Tommy” to generations of Riverview
College (Sydney) old boys—has entered
his 90th year and is still hale and
hearty. And he was sent to Australia
in 1881 because of poor health! In the
same year he was ordained priest in the
chapel of St. John’s College, since when
he has spent most of his years at St.
Ignatius’ College—he was headmaster for
20 years. Fr. Gartlan organised the first
of the Riverview regattas over 50 years
ago, and was present at the latest on
April 18 of this year—the only person
there who had seen both.
Known to the girls of “Porter’s Mob”
as “Pop,” John Durward Porter received
his legal name with Monash as god-
JOHN D. PORTER.
father, Monash having received his first
stripes at the hands of Porter, senior, then
W.O. Porter, junior, has been Booster
No. 1 behind war loan and savings cam-
paigns for two years. The lighter side of
his activities has been the entertaining
of the soldiers in Victoria, a job he took
on voluntarily at the request of General
Blarney. “Porter’s Mob,” the organisation
of amateur talent which he takes around
the country several times a week in
private cars and charabancs, was due
this week to give its 199th performance
at the Town Hall, Melbourne, its repu-
tation having raised it to metropolitan
status. Born at Williamstown 48 years
ago, Porter first displayed his initiative
by running away from Scotch College
to take a job, only to smart under the
punitive hand of his old man and be
sent back to school. He left Australia in
1914 with the 24th Battalion under
“Pompey” Elliott, was wounded on Galli-
poli and in France, and returned to the
Inky Way, serving the “Argus,” “Sun
and “Herald” as police roundsman. Lud
Mayor Steve Morell grabbed him to run
his million shillings appeal for a perma-
nent symphony orchestra in Melbourne,
after which Porter went into the mana-
gerial and publicity side of the theatrical
profession.
Australia has a sky-pilot who is also
an R.A.A.F. pilot-officer. He is the Rev.
Reginald Kirby, minister of the Collins-
street Baptist Church in Melbourne.
“K.”: Mention of Lord Bledisloe (B.
29/4/’42), onetime Governor-General of
M.L., recalls a story his Ex. stored
among his favorite recollections. He was
visiting a small town in Taranaki an
was billed to speak at the local park, with
the usual bodyguard of schoolchildren
to mark, learn and sing. The next day
the youngsters were set to writing an
essay on the mighty occasion. The star
performance came from a girl of nine,
and the effort ended up in gubernatorial
circles: “The Governor came to our
town yesterday,” she wrote. “We all had
to march up to the park to hear his
speech. It was so hot that several women
fainted.”
Of all the old Victorians who saw Ned
Kelly, one of the best authenticated was
Michael Reardon, who has passed over at
Bendigo at one milestone short of 80.
His father was a platelayer, and Michael
was 16 when Ned and his gang met their
Waterloo at Glenrowan. When the
desperadoes made their final stand in the
hotel Reardon was among the guests who
found themselves involuntary prisoners,
and when the police gave the law-abiders
two minutes to evacuate before their
final assault young Reardon made a
break but was hit by a bullet. Right up
to the day of his death Reardon carried
about with him a memento of the battle
—the bullet which lodged in his lung and
was never removed. A son of his was
killed at Tobruk.
Among our American friends is Private
Anthony Ferrara, who has an invitation
in his kitbag to appear at the New York
Metropolitan after the war. His father
was a noted tenor, and his mother a
pianist. The son was born in Kansas
City, and made his first big appearance
at St. Louis in a musical play under the
direction of Jerome Kern and Oscar
Hammerstein ; then he joined the cast of
“Knights of Song,” a dramatised biog-
raphy of Gilbert and Sullivan, showing
in New York. While Ferrara was on
three days’ leave Wilfred Pelletier, of the
Metropolitan Opera Company, offered
him his post-war contract.
Promoted temporary Air Vice-Marshal,
Air Commodore T. E. V. Hurley is one
of the leading medical identities in Aus-
tralia, both in and out of the service.
He served in the A.M.C. in the 1914-18
war, was mentioned in dispatches and
landed his C.M.G. during the conflict.
Later he became A.D.M.S., Army H.Q.,
Melbourne. In 1940 Hurley was ap-
pointed director of R.A.A.F. medical ser-
vices, and was made honorary surgeon
to the King in the same year. The son
of a school inspector, he was bom in
Melbourne in 1888, careered brilliantly
through Wesley College and the Univer-
sity of Melbourne and soon made a
name for himself as an outstanding sur-
geon, He is Stewart Lecturer in Surgery
at Melbourne University and a Fellow
of the Royal College of Surgeons.
T. J. Hughes, counsel for two of the
accused in the “Australia First case at
Perth, is the Assemblyman who ousted
J. J. Kenneally from the East Perth seat
when Kenneally—now chairman of the
Lotteries Commission —was a strong can-
didate for the succession to Phil Collier
as Premier. Bullock, one of his clients,
was an election worker for the forthright
Hughes.
Into the silence:
At South Melbourne, at 83, William Benjamin
Joyner, Melbourne’s aptly-named veteran ship-
wright. He helped to build and launch a long
line of vessels and to overhaul many famous
clippers. His six stalwart sons are South Mel-
bourne shipwrights.
In Sydney, at 52, Ernest James Kendall, steel
man of Bradford and Kendall, Ltd., who came
to Australia from Nova Scotia in 1910. He was
at Rabaul with the First Expeditionary Force
and, after the war, worked for B.H.P. until
he and Bradford resigned and went into their
own business. A racing, sailing and ice-hockey
enthusiast, Kendall captained the N. S. Wales
ice-hockey team for some years and practically
fathered the game in Australia. His son Bill
represented Australia as a swimmer at the
Olympic Games in Berlin.
In Adelaide at 74, Dr. Arthur Shepherd, a
colonel in the 1914-18 war, with C.8.E.,
D.S.O. and V.D. He had been in the Array
Medical since 1900, and in France commanded
the Bth Australian Field Ambulance.
Collapsed and died suddenly in his Melbourne
office, F. L. King, secretary of the Board of
Works since 1928 and a sharer in its up and
downs since 1890, then as a junior clerk. King
was an efficient servant of one of Melbourne s
most efficient departments and wrote a hand-
book of its operations.
At Dunedin (M.L.), in his 98th year, Canon
C. H. Statham. He took holy orders at 70,
having been a public accountant. Two sons died
on Gallipoli; a surviving son is knight Charles
Statham, erstwhile Speaker of the M.L. Parlia-
ment.
In Wanganui (M.L.), at 74, W. J. Treadwell,
barrister, who figured in many important crimi-
nal trials. He created a Fernland precedent
when, defending a Chinese accused of murder,
he induced a magistrate to dismiss the charge
without reference to a higher Court.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 82, W. L. Edman-
son, who founded and assisted to administer
three Esperanto clubs —two in Melbourne, one
in Wellington. He was examiner in Esperanto
for M.L., and was for some years Prisons De-
partment instructor in English, French, Esper-
anto and shorthand.
At Sale (Vic.), A. H. Borthwick, U.C.P.
member for Gippsland North in the Victorian
Assembly—he defeated the Labor candidate
for the seat by a substantial , m f
Borthwick came of an old Gippsland tamuy
of pioneerS; but spen t most of his youth as a
banker in South Africa. He returned to Aus-
tralia in 1911, started farming and then went
to the 1914-18 war with the Bth Light Horse
fal^cr _ on aboriginal
nameSj prolific nature writer and hard-doer. He
was generally seen on his rare visits to town
in old clothes and with a sugarbag over one
shouJder; but for all that he shunne d society
was fourth baronet of his line. The
title passes to a brother at Galen, near Mackay,
and four other brothers are in the north. Sir
was 75.
In B. 29/4/’42, touching on the pro-
posed appointment of a tea commis-
sioner at a salary of £l5OO a year, it
was complained that “these gentlemen
*P^ h tolk
"
troller, this paper withdraws all com-
» as tea is concerne d.
£ annrenticed to the trade at
and b e ’s now a f ew W eeks
j n ’bis new job he already feels much
“ a TUI as out of pocket. His
o JJJ comp , ensation is a f und c f good
stories about tea-rationing. Born at
M orn i ng t on (Vic.), Bennett has studied
tea wherever the stuff is grown or
mar j <eteds and j n between has found
time to manage the swimming team sent
Olympic Games in 1920, and to
act as president of the Victorian Amateur
Swimming Association and vice-presi-
dent G f the A.S.U. He has been sole
TEA CONTROLLER BENNETT.
selector of teams for overseas since 1920.
Of his six sons, three are in uniform.
“C.Q.”: Whistler once remarked to
a pupil who was smoking in front ot
his canvas: “Don’t paint —your pipe
might go out!” Julian Ashton was a
kindly man but his wit was as caustic
as Whistler’s when the behavior of a
pupil merited it. I had been drawing an
aboriginal’s skull, off and on, foi six
months, hated the thing and wanted to get
into the life class. One day Ashton stopped
in front of my easel, sucked his pipe for
a few minutes, then grunted and passed
onwards. I said: “Mr. Ashton, Im
sick of this old skull. Couldn’t I start
in on the life class?” “Young man,
he said, “you could draw that skull all
your life and still find something new in
it.” Next day he told me I could go into
the life class, but I felt that he didn t
have much belief in me.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Ike Hollar”: The difficulty refugees
find in mastering the idiom of this coun-
try has some quaint results. There was
an unsuspected truth in the description
of a local “sport” by an ex-Viennese.
“I dink he haf a dirt-track mind,” though
of course “one-track” was meant. The
description of another man as “a credi-
tor to the district,” too, was more correct
than the alien commentator intended.
* * * *
“Clooter” : I was brought up with a
sharp reminder of the passage of time
the other day when I saw a young man
of about 25 wearing the familiar returned
soldier’s badge. Fd got so used to seeing
the badge on the lapels of fellows with
lined faces and grey and disappearing
hair that the upright young figure burst
on me like a dream. Then I thought of
the undying comradeship of the Old Dig-
gers, demonstrated in the way dustman
and magnate commingled at Anzac re-
unions, and of how with their passing
that spirit might have died out. It will
be revived by the New Diggers, and the
country will gain from it some measure
of compensation for the precious lives
it must sacrifice.
* * * *
“K.”: The political firm of Stevens
and Spooner was no shrinking violet
when it came to staking out claims on
posterity’s remembrance. In addition
to the parks mentioned (B. 6/5/’42) there
are sprinkled all over N.S.W. scenic
drives, roads, crescents, reserves, look-
outs, gullies, hills, pools, etc., named after
Bertram and Eric. Eric seems to have
fared rather better than his boss—a high-
way and a collection of workmen’s cot-
tages outside Pt. Kembla is called
Spoonerville. A nice morsel to roll round
the tongue! Almost inevitably, the deni-
zens will one day revolt as the inhabi-
tants of Dumbleton (Sydney suburb) did.
And when they do they’ll probably plump
for an aboriginal name. Compare Mort-
dale, Normanhurst and Marrickville with
Warrawee, Allawah and Warringah. In
any post-war New Deal the replacement
of stodgy names of suburbs and towns
by mellifluous abo. names should come
high on the programme.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: “Here,” according to my
Sydney morning paper, “are some of the
latest slang scraps brought back by A.I.F.
men from the Middle East”;
Crabs: bomb- or shell-fire. To bring
the crabs: to expose yourself to enemy
fire. _ Gink: anybody. Mug-gunners:
machine - gunners. Mungaree: food.
Faloush: money.
If any of the Diggers of this generation
had to go abroad to learn those terms
they must have been stone-deaf before
they left. All of them are familiar
enough to Old Diggers, and almost as
familiar to latter-day Australians. “Bint,”
remarks the paper, “has come into
fashion again.” It never went out.
* * * *
“Strathbogie”: The death is reported
of Mick Reardon, aged 79. Nobody
would have heard of Mick had it not
been that the report could add that he
was “one of the last links with the Kelly
gang.” It seems that Mick, then 16,
copped a police bullet in a lung at the
Glenrowan siege and carried it there till
his death. I’m sorry Mick’s gone, but
I’m glad the reporter was careful enough
to call him “one of the links” and not
the last. A long chain of links, clad in
white whiskers and faraway looks and
infesting rural bars, will continue to turn
up for at least 20 years ; it is only 62
since the Kelly gang was eradicated.
*'* * *
“Cauboy”: I hear that the Performing
Rights Association is searching for some
individual who can legally demand a
royalty for every public performance of
an undistinguished ditty because he
or she is the descendant of the person
who wrote “Advance, Australia Fair.”
The P.R.A. estimates that if patriotic
fervor is maintained the unexpected
annual income that will come to this
individual will be in the region of £5OO.
I don’t begrudge this person his or her
stroke of fortune, but I do object to the
implied theory that patriotic sentiment
is a proper source of private profit.
*&s . . $
“W.C.”: Along the central coast dis-
tricts of N. S. Wales they’re convinced
that the climate as well as humanity has
gone mad. May, which usually intro-
duces winter, brought in a sort of “Indian
summer” of sunny days and high tem-
peratures. Birds greeted the mornings in
the belief that spring had come, fruit
trees blossomed and at evening crickets
raised their cheerful chorus in browned-
out suburban streets. Knock-off time
found workers with summer thirsts, and
here and there pubs, on short beer
rations, sold out before closing time. The
"Where to, sir?"
“Where do you suggest?"
ladies, or those of them who managed to
do so, having acquired the usual autumn
outfits, had to leave them in cold storage
while this weather madness persisted, and
Suburbia, which usually at this time of
year gathers round the fire after tea,
went out walking for a breath of air.”
The moon came to the full, big and
golden, and there was a mellowness over
all. But with it, whether inspired by the
weather or the brownout or a combina-
tion of both, Sydney got a wave of brutal
crimes. Talk about the merry month
of May !
iv*r ,* *
Ex-G.G. ; My Melbourne paper in-
forms me that Graduands have a useful
part to play,” that advice has been given
"Wish Eddie Ward 'ad to 'elp tow the flamin' thing. Might change 'is
views on coal-strikers!"
to “graduands” by the University Chan-
cellor, Mr. Justice Lowe, and that the
Vice-Chancellor has pointed something
out to “graduands.” A visit to Webster
and the O.E.D. has left me in the dark as
to the identity of these beings. People who
attain a degree at a university are gradu-
ates ; those studying for a degree are un-
dergraduates. What need for yet another
term? I thought it might be a way of
marking the sexes, but surely graduette
would be preferable to indicate the
feminine graduate. Sandy O’Pfitch-
baum, my Scotch mate, murmured
something about its being a Caledonian
term, but didn’t seem sure. Some-
one else has suggested it to be Ameri-
can, but I can’t help wondering why
Webster hadn’t heard it, since most
Americanisms date back to the Pilgrim
Fathers. Enlightenment will be gratefully
received.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Clearly there is no point in
arguing any more about the dawn-morn
rhyme. In one week I have had these
four experiences; (1) The cultured
“Oxmead” writing that, if they are to
rhyme, “either dawn must be pronounced
’dorn’ or morn ‘mawn.’ There is no
middle way.” (2) An equally cultured
scholar commenting, “What on earth
does he mean by that? The two things
are identical.” (3) And yet another of
the same, meeting my (merely second)
line of defence, that, anyway, to object
would be straining at a gnat, with “No ;
more like straining at a bad oyster.” (4)
And yet a fourth, producing Dent's Eng-
lish Pronouncing Dictionary, 1937
edition, revised (which claims to repre-
sent “the pronunciation of educated
southern English people”); and it gives
exactly the same vowel symbol (“as in
saw”) for dawn and morn both. So
what’s the use? Some obviously can hear
a difference. But I have yet to meet any-
one —not being (or imitating) Scotch —
who could indicate it definitely to the
others, of equal culture, who deny that
there is any. So why go on echoing—or
even contradicting old Saintsbury?
R.I.P.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Observation is strangely
rare amongst city-dwellers, although
almost general in the country. Walking
along Collins-street, Melbourne, with
a friend who traverses that thorough-
fare daily, I remarked: “It will soon
look like a suburban backlane running
1 ffween paling fences,” “What will?”
he asked. He hadn’t noticed that most
of the bank fronts, shop windows and
office entrances had either been bricked
or boarded in and their titles repainted
on the new front. He was so astounded
that he hadn’t observed the fact that it
took me a long time to convince him that
it hadn’t been done by magic or as the
result of a phenomenal working-bee at
the week-end. Then we came to his
own number. The building he worked
in had a bright new brick wall obscuring
the faqade, and the windows were bricked
up to the second storey. “Well, I’m
bothered! ” he ejaculated. “I never noticed
that! ”
“F.E.C.”: “Dryblower” Murphy’s
ditty could well stand revival, but 1 must
defend the Williamson version, which to
my mind has an aptness, force and
patriotic appeal lacking in the original.
The opening verse:
Jonathan has visited the lonely Kangaroo,
Lonely by the old Pacific Sea.
As his ships went by we heard a warning cry:
“Keep the broad Pacific white and free!”
So we’ll ask the Motherland if she’ll show us
how
Old Britain’s ships were built to steam and
fight.
We’ll train our sturdy sons to stand beside
the guns
And we’ll help her to defend the Empire’s
might.
CHORUS.
And we’ve got the boys to do it in Australia,
Australia, Australia.
The rest is the same as in “Big Brother
in America.”
THE THIN END OF THE WEDGE.
“What should we do without the Thin End of the
Wedge? No argument in England would be complete
without it.”—A. P. Herbert in What a Word!
It’s a figure encountered where’er politicians
Discern se or excitable aldermen spout,
A cliche employed in all sorts and conditions
Of topics that disputants differ about.
Whatever the change that is mooted, some
smarty
Is pretty well sure to arise and allege
Some other unscrupulous person or party
Is out to “get in the thin end of the wedge.”
Is the subject Conscription? Are State rights
assaulted?
Do Premiers fidget at Federal rubs?
Should hours for the vending of liquor that’s
malted
Be shortened, extended or “staggered” in
pubs?
All such are admittedly warranted questions
To set tongues a-wagging and tempers on edge
Without the assistance of mouldy suggestions
About “getting in the thin end of the wedge.”
Are our methods with “conchies” too harsh or
too gentle?
Should we list to their warnings who view
with chagrin
The risk of our Sundays being made “Conti-
nental”
If they open the joints where you pay to go
in?
I can’t say I trouble a hoot or a cooee,
Unhampered by principle, platform or pledge,
But I weary of this metaphorical hooey
About “getting in the thin end of the wedge.”
It's due, I should say, for protracted intern-
ment,
From public addresses it ought to be scrapped,
As showing a ludicrous lack of discernment
Though garrulous nitwits may reckon it apt.
Come, tell me, you spruikers whose constant
endeavor
Is figures of speech from the dustbin to dredge,
Why the thin is accented. Did anyone ever
Attempt to “get in the thick end of the
wedge”?
N.S.W.
IFORD.
THE MELANCHOLY MAN.
I saw him passing near
And marked his visage drear,
Nor could i help but hear
The words he muttered
As glumly he surveyed
The figure poor they made,
Shops that once goods displayed
Now drably shuttered.
“Cheer up!” I ventured, “Dad,
Lots more, like you, are sad
At losing things they had
To gloat before on.
There’s many a gratis show
Of frill and furbelow
That we must needs forgo
Now there’s a war on.
“That dainty merchandise
Free views of which we’d prize
No more may greet our eyes
Annoys and vexes.
Still, you can scarce deny
You know as well as I
That Salus populi
Suprema lex is.”
“No doubt,” he said, “ ’tis so,
But you can hardly know
The measure of my woe,
You luckier fellows.
What makes me look so wan
Is that my pot is on;
My occupation’s gone,
Same as Othello’s.”
I steered him to a tot,
And over that I got
The obvious clue to what
Still had me guessing.
“My trade,” he owned, “my trade,”
As down his glass he laid,
“Perhaps I should have said
Is window-dressipg.”
n.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Strict Whatever else comes
out cf the Battle for Australia, a
culinary revolution is certain. Ameri-
cans in Melbourne obviously don t like
Australian cooking. They shun the
regular eateries and crowd the Chinese
and Latin cafds. So do Dutchmen,
Javanese, Filipinos and other aliens whom
the Pacific upheaval has cast up on these
shores. The dailies, of course, are
cashing in on the prevailing fashion by
printing recipes of American dishes tor
the hostesses of Toorak. But I doubt
whether anybody will ever reconcile Aus-
tralian and foreign culinary notions. It
was a refugee from Java who leant oyer
and said confidentially to his Eurasian
wife in his native tongue, which I happen
to understand: “Australians are funny
people. Do you know they fry eggs in
water?”
« * * *
“M.F.M.”: At 13 I was office boy to
a much respected Adelaide lawyer—he’s
a K.C. now —and I well remember the
occasion on which he reprimanded me
for the use of the word “alright” (B.
22/4/’42). “I notice, Frank,” he re-
marked, “that whenever I ask you to do
anything for me you invariably reply
‘Alright, sir.’ Well, I don’t like the word
‘alright.’ It is not a nice word, and
sounds too much like a bullocky starting
off his team. In future I should be glad
if you would instead use a term such as
‘Very well.’ Would you do that for me?”
“Alright, sir,” I answered readily, and
I shall never forget the look of dis-
appointment on his face as he exclaimed
“There you are, you have said it again.”
But I have never used the word since.
“F.N.T.”: “Alright” has been recog-
nised in the radiotelegraphic and inter-
national telegraphic services for many
years. It appeared in the Handbook for
Wireless Operators issued in 1918 and is
contained in the regulations approved of
by the London International Radiotele-
graphic Convention. Under those regu-
lations “alright” counts as one word in
the text of a message, “allright” as two
words.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: My morning daily, announc-
ing the death of a pioneer, added that
her paternal ancestor had sold the site of
the Melbourne Town Hall for a team of
bullocks. This story has been attached to
the biography of nearly every old iden-
tity in Victoria from Lome to Malla-
coota, but unfortunately it is a furphy.
Lands Department records show that
allotments one to twenty of section II in
the city of Melbourne, now the site of
the Town Hall, were created a Govern-
ment reserve when Surveyor Hoddle sub-
divided the town in March, 1837. They
have never since been offered for sale. The
corner site opposite has a more exciting
history. The most valuable bit of soil
in the city, it was offered at Melbourne’s
second land auction. One of the most
affluent of the prospective bidders had
come to the conclusion that Williamstown
was the predestined site of the future
capital and that Batman was wrong about
his village. The block he bought in
Williamstown is still about the same
price. The Melbourne block he neglected
accommodates a population of thousands
and has provided rich substance for a
succession of absentee landlords in Eng-
land.
« * * *
“X.S.”: The Melboune Romeo who
used a public telephone to further an
unwanted courtship with a girl at the
exchange was the victim of his own ignor-
ance of modern progress. After he had
carried on an amorous conversation with
his unseen listener for 15 minutes and
felt himself to be getting on more and
more intimate terms with the lady he was
disgusted to find himself interrupted by
the police patrol. The ’phone girl had
informed a supervisor of the situation,
the supervisor had instructed her to keep
the fellow in conversation, and, as re-
quested, the police had sped to the scene.
Fined £lO.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: lam interested in the argu-
ment of the A.B.C. management that,
even if 700 of an audience walked out
of a concert, the fact that more than
1500 remained would be the Commis-
sion’s justification. If that is the Com-
mission’s notion of success the sooner it
goes out of the entrepreneur business the
better. Nobody wants to walk out of a
Tiv. show and nobody dares to walk out
of a concert conducted by Sir Thomas
Beecham. If the Commission cannot
command either the Tiv. or the Beecham
kind of allegiance it is obviously a tyro
at the amusement business. At that Mel-
bourne Sunday concert it tried to main-
tain its alleged dignity and at the same
time do a crawl to the soldiers put-
ting on a programme of so-called “light
classical” and “not-difficult-to-under-
stand” items. The result was that the sec-
tion of the audience which liked low, hot
stuff was disappointed; the quite large
section that wanted and was used to the
best in symphonic music was dis-
appointed, and hundreds more walked
out on finding that the programme con-
sisted of the sort of music which the
very doors creak nowadays,
» * • •
“Bumpkin”: The consumption of hard
liquor in Victoria has more prohibi-
tions, restrictions, taboos, penalties and
conditions attached to it than are in-
flicted in respect of food, clothing,
“Target for tonight , Charlie?”
houses, motor-cars or any other necessi-
ties of human life, so I was not sur-
prised to hear from Judge Martin, of
the Banco Court, about the profits on
its sale. In discussing a case where
parties disputed over the goodwill of a
country pub, he recited that there was
100 p.c. profit on beer sold in handled
mugs ; 60 p.c. on bottled beer removed
from the premises to be drunk in parks,
back lanes and other private places;
nearly 200 p.c. on beer sold in wasp-
waisted glasses, and 120 p.c. on wines
and spirits. This is the effect of most
Government regulations which have a
sumptuary or moral basis. The reason
why it is more difficult to make 200 p.c.
on a suit of clothes than on a glass of
beer is that the wearing of clothes has
not been stigmatised as immoral. Inci-
dentally, the Judge’s assessment of profits
throws a new light on the practice of
some superior hotels of encouraging the
drinking of beer from glasses instead of
pots.
* * * *
“Kay-see”: The orator’s subject was
the connection between religion and the
moral strength of a nation, and he was
putting his heart and soul into it. In
a fine Scottish burr he told how the
French had of recent years grown lax
in their worship. “And this caused
mor-r-r-ral degr-r-r-radation,” he thun-
dered, “that br-r-rought about the tr-r-r-
-reacher-ry that mak’s the name o’ Vichy
stink in our-r-r ver-r-ry ear-r-rs.”
* H= * *
“J.H.M.A.”: Now that Australia has
to be defended, it is curious to recall how
long it took for the whole of the island
to become a British possession. Cook
annexed “the whole eastern coast.” Phil-
lip’s commission gave him the govern-
ment of “the country inland as far as
135 deg. long. E., as well as over the
islands adjacent in the Pacific Ocean”
between the latitudes of Cape York and
Van Diemen’s Land’s South Cape. To
get over the occupation of Melville
Island, the western boundary was ex-
tended in 1825 to 129 deg. E. longitude.
In the following year the King George’s
Sound country was occupied and an-
nexed. Three years later, when the Swan
River settlement was formed and pro-
claimed—with the King George’s Sound
area —as the colony of Western Australia,
it was made to extend to the east as far
as the N.S.W. boundary, so that the whole
of the continent then became British —just
59 years after Cook sailed into Botany Bay.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Our drunk, awaking
some time in the night with a mighty
thirst, felt his way out to the rear and
a hidden cache of bottles. He carried
one back to the kitchen, switched on the
light and was hunting round when a
knock came on the door. He ignored it.
There was a louder knock. “Go ’way,”
said our drunk ; “can’t y’ shee’m busy?”
Next a heavy boot hit the door and our
drunk yanked it open. Two faces thrust
into the circle of light and a voice said
“We’re wardens. You can’t have this
light on like” “You gorrer borrel-
opener?” demanded our drunk. The
warden, a bit taken aback, answered
“No.” Then our drunk reared up and
roared “Wharrer y’ mean? Wakin’
people up in the mirrel o’ the night an’
y’ got no borrel-opener? Y’ orter be
reported!” And he slammed the door.
Having no further powers, the wardens
were forced to retire, what time our
drunk resumed his search for the needed
implement, muttering “Lorrer silly cows.
Draggin’ man outa bed an’ got no borrel-
opener. What’sh this plashe cornin’ t’?”
* * * *
“Hacksaw”: “Eve” (B. 29/4/’42) gives
herself a plum when she says that she is
immune from the advertiser’s influence
when she sets out to paint her features.
If so, where does her inspiration come
from? It can’t come from Nature. Any-
thing less like the hues of Nature could
scarcely be imagined than the synthetic
dyes and tints with which lovely woman
obscures her beauty. True, I have seen
similar hues on the face of a Javanese
“ Doesn't it occur to you that the men seem somewhat listless,
Fitchworthy?”
in the last stages of cholera. But “Eve”
would hardly feel flattered if she thought
she got inspiration from a cholera-
smitten native. Does she get it from art?
I doubt it. It is to be presumed that
Rembrandt knew more about what
beauty was than the average flapper, and
he would no more have dreamed of slash-
ing a face with crimson than of flying.
He would have known that the variety of
the human visage is so subtle that the
slightest artificial touch would upset all
the relations and make what was deli-
cate look coarse and what was robust
look frowsy. I am ready to boil my hat
for soup and drink it if “Eve” doesn’t
get her inspiration from the magazines
she reads, the colored talkies she sees and
the girl next door, though she may vary
the prescription by preferring pink to
purple and think that the shade she
chooses is “her” shade, although she first
saw it on Joan Crawford,
He * ❖ *
“Musicus”: If either “Sobart” (B.
29/4/’42) or “Avon” (B. 8/4/’42) had
been acquainted with the opera “Mari-
tana,” and the aria “Scenes That Are
Brightest” in particular, I doubt if either
would have bothered to refer to claims
as to which particular bit of scenery
“inspired” Wallace to write the song.
The song occurs in about the saddest
part of the opera, and the opening phrase
is the only one in which a reference is
made to scenery. A point that both
“Avon” and “Sobart” have overlooked is
that Wallace wrote only the music of the
opera. The libretto was by Edward Fitz-
ball, who probably never saw any of the
places in dispute.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Epstein’s latest sculpture, a
colossal group representing Jacob and
the Angel, hasn’t caused the excitement
it would have produced in pre-war days.
The hewer of six-ton blocks of stone has
suffered the usual fate of the unusual
artist by becoming a fashion, and the
scenes that accompanied the unveiling of
his first big commission, the decoration
of the B.M.A. building in the Strand,
are never likely to be repeated. Epstein
took 14 months to complete the
eight gigantic figures, and it took the
critics 24 hours to start a gigantic uproar.
Policemen came along with notebooks as
if they expected the statues to tell them
the truth about their creator. Ep.’s next
commission was the monument to Oscar
Wilde, cut in 20 tons of Hopton Wood
stone in the graveyard while plainclothes
detectives dodged behind tombstones to
watch the sculptor. After his “Christ” the
tide turned and Epstein became a fashion.
His “Genesis,” bought by a showman,
was taken on a tour of England. An-
other enormous slab of masonry was
bought by a Westralian businessman and
was reported to be on its way to Aus-
tralia when the war broke out.
* * * *
“Ad”: A new defence has been put
up in an Adelaide court on a charge of
having smashed a bottle so that the
pieces fell on the roadway. “I did it for
my own good. It looked as if there was
going to be a fight, so I broke the bottle.”
One pound and costs.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Entered a Collins-street
shop the other morning in pursuit of the
means of satisfying a craving. There
were at least 40 men and women, of all
degrees of social standing, queuing in it.
The individual nearest the counter asked
the usual question and got the usual
answer, and like a well-regimented bat-
talion the whole forty silently right-
about-faced and marched out, no doubt
to continue their Odyssey elsewhere. A
small boy, however, repeated the request,
drawing an almost frenzied refusal from
the harassed shopman. The boy turned
slowly towards the door. Tears filled his
eyes. “If I don’t take a packet of fags to
my boss,” he whimpered, “I’ll get the
sack.” Instantly a packet of Cappies
came from under the counter. A few
minutes later I saw the bright lad repeat-
ing the request and the lachrymose appeal
in a Swanston-street department store.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: When “Hamer” says (B.
29/4/’42) that most of the suicides of
his acquaintance have been pessimists I
can’t contradict him; but he says my
premises are wrong, so I must argue with
him. He has found that the pessimist is
perpetually grouching and the opti-
mist isn’t. Precisely, and the pessi-
mist’s grouch is his protector. His
belief that it is not himself but
his conditions which are the cause
of his misfortunes preserves his self-
respect. If you knocked away his
excuse he would find another. As
human beings have an almost limit-
less capacity to invent excuses, suicides
amongst grouchers are relatively infre-
quent. The sanguine individual has no
such buffer against misfortune. Tolstoy
spilled a bibful on the subject when he
said the alternative to self-justification
was self-destruction.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The publican was doing
out the bar when an inoffensive-looking
little bloke appeared silently in the door
and looked at him, but advanced no
further. “G’day,” said the publican.
“Heard of y’,” said the stranger unemo-
tionally, adding “Come t’ have a look
at y’.” Uncertain how to take it, the
publican worked on. Presently that
fixed, unwavering stare got on his nerves,
but the starer was so harmless that no
offence could be taken. “Have a drink?”
said the Bung desperately. The stranger
advanced solemnly to the bar, absorbed
the drink, retreated to the door and
resumed his station, saying “Heard of
y’. Come t’ have a look at y’.” The
publican got on with his work, but was
obviously worried by those staring eyes.
He straightened up. “Look,” he said,
“I got work t’ do. Here, have another
drink an’ then clear out, will y’?” Silently
the stranger downed the second drink,
turned and went out, saying “Well, so
long.” There were five pubs in that town,
and by early afternoon each one of them
had been visited by “Headlamp” Thomp-
son, each proprietor had been worked on
by Headlamp’s tactic and Headlamp
himself was heading happily for a camp
down at the bridge, satisfied that he was
on free beer for life so long as he never
visited the same town twice.
* =1: * *
“Snowy”: The new hand from the
city had lobbed in during drought time,
and as the dam near the house was dry
he was instructed to water the stock every
evening at a bore three miles away. The
boss had to leave for a few weeks, and
when he returned the drought had
broken and everything looked rosy.
“Well, how are things, Joe?” he asked
the hand. “Aw, not so good,” growled
Joe. “The flamin’ cattle won’t drink. I
bin takin’ ’em to the bore every evenin’,
but I think they must fill up on the dam
here.”
* * * Hi
“Dirty Dick”: “Zake” (B. 22/4/’42),
who complains that some of those old-
timers didn’t live up to the pseudonyms
given them, should have travelled with
me in parts of W.Q, He’d have met The
Bull Tosser, Billy the Pup, Dick the Dog,
Storm Bird, Tropical Frog, Blue Bob,
Jack the Rager, Dick the Rat and others
whose ways were even more picturesque
than their monikers —and they were
tough to a man. And out there nomen-
clatural originality wasn’t limited to the
men. The Speckled Hen, The Long-
Handled Shovel, The Deep Lead, The
Black Stump—these were only a few of
the ladies who sported handles indicative
of their various characteristics, and the
toughness of those skirted pioneers is
proverbial.
**. * *
“Avon”: Maoriland in pre-war days
obtained most of its vegetable-derived
drugs from Europe—so did Britain. Dis-
ruption of supplies has led the Fernland
people to have a look-see into their own
resources and possibilities, and the results
of that investigation have been surpris-
ing. It was found possible to get seeds
of almost all the plants that matter, and
now there are acres under cultivation of
such quaint crops as foxglove, deadly
nightshade, thorn apple and henbane.
Already, so the Plant Research Bureau
reports, exports are being made to
Britain, and at prices that make gold-
mining look sick. Thorn apple dried leaf
brings 2s. 6d. a pound, henbane 7s. 6d.,
foxglove 3s. 4d., deadly nightshade 4s. —
up to 20 times the pre-war rates. The
herbs mentioned, of course, are the
sources of digitalis, belladonna, stra-
monium and other drugs. The Bureau
is continuing its labors and hopes soon
to add considerably to its home-grown
pharmacopoeia.
* * $ :i=
“Bill Ding”: It seems that a serious
effort is to be made to use the mountains
of sawdust on the W.A. sawmills.
Hitherto they have been burnt. Now the
petrol problem directs attention to the
possible power latent in sawdust, and
early experiments are promising,. The
West, always grousing about lack of in-
dustries, may here discover one valuable
outlet for its energies.
* * *
“B 4”: Thanks to “How E.” (B.
22/4/’42) I now realise it was eye magni-
fication and not a cussed mirage that
“Now, tell me about the bravest deed you ever saw, Larry.”
“Nothing doing—I never skite about meself.”
occasioned the objection of a pair of
mokes I had in a buckboard to cross a
boredrain near Dick the Dog’s pub. No
amount of cajoling or cursing could
induce them to wet their hooves in that
yard-wide trickle. At last under lash and
language one moke leapt high to take the
plunge just as his mulish mate sat down
on strike, with the result that the leaper
fell flat on his back in the “ocean.”
Before I could remove the winkers he was
drowned in his imagination. I backed
the other prad across, and had to trot
beside him in harness before he’d con-
sent to get going, and many a doubtful
glance I got from him on the way. I
have since fitted all my nags with reduc-
ing-lensed glasses.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Veto”: “Naturala” (B. 15/4/’42)
claims that cold-blooded reptiles and
fish lack the strong maternal instinct of
warm-blooded creatures. He might ex-
plain, then, what impels the carpet snake
to gobble up its young when danger
lurks and beat it for safety, to disgorge
them later when the menace to her off-
spring and herself has departed. Also
the attitude of the cold-blooded jewfish
in the fresh-water creeks of N.Q. would
interest him. The jew stands constant
and determined guard over the small fry
when she shepherds them to feeding
grounds.
w * * «
“The 0.D.”: That Indian cremation
(B. 6/5/’42) reminds me of Bhul Rham,
who used to come among our Victorian
Mallee youth like a merchant prince
from far bazaars, with his gewgaws and
diidois carried in a black van drawn by
two pocket Clydesdales. When word
came through the Sunset country that
Bhul had pegged out and was to be fare-
welled in flame and smoke according to
the custom of his people it seemed to
hold promise of carnival, so we saddled
up and headed south. It was after dark
when we reached the spot and the
cremation was already well advanced.
Our little group stood about and eyed
the fire and pretended to be unconcerned
until a well-known voice said “How you
doin’, you fella?” There in the wreath-
ing smoke, against the fitful stars, stood
Bhul Rham. When we got over it we
learned that it was only his cousin who
was being disposed of. But it spoilt the
entertainment for us.
:!: * * *
“Faber”: The current flood of regis-
tration forms has given many a simple
citizen a headache, and the results have
astounded many a receiving officer. For
instance, a Tweed River (N.S.W.) farmer
proclaimed that his household contained
two males and 37 females. With thoughts
of Brigham Young in his mind the R.O.
began an inquiry, but his fears were
allayed when he found that the cocky,
muddled between his forms for personal
evacuation and evacuation of stock, had
with unusual chivalry included his dairy
herd among his female dependants.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: My neighbor has great
faith in the might of advertising. When
he had a surplus of plums a ragged piece
of tin nailed to the paddock gate an-
nounced drunkenly “pLUMS 4 SAiL.”
The same medium advertised to passers-
by “NeW LadE eGGs” when the
ebooks were coming up to scratch;
“pUre HuNNy” in season ; and “MUSH
RooMS 2 SELL” after a good
rain. But when I recently saw several
motors stop for a space outside the gate
and the occupants were still smiling
broadly as they passed me, a little inves-
tigation seemed in order. Tethered near
the fence was a very dispirited looking
nag. On both of the moke’s bony flanks
wobbly, whitewashed characters pro-
claimed “4 SAIL £6 10/-.”
“Looby”; The talk in the little bush
pub had turned to advertising. Murdoch,
the scrub-cutter, said his favorites when
he visited Sydney were those soap ads.
of ladies about to step into the bath.
Dad Mulligan was more practical—or
cautious. He said he liked ads, about
machinery. “The feminine form’s the
most beautiful bit o’ machinery you could
get,” said Murdoch, “Yair,” growled
Dad, “but it costs too much to run.”
* HS * *
“M. U. Ray”: It’s on the cards that
“Ah Me’s” shrimp, found in an irri-
gation furrow four miles from the river
(B. 6/5/’42), first saw the light in the
main channel or head-ditch, the spawn
or egg or whatever shrimps start from
being carried in from the river and left
in some hole in the channel that didn’t
dry between waterings. Down round
Mildura we often filled the horse-tank
from the irrigation channel, and respect-
able Murray denizens used to come in
in embryo and go out per frying-pan or
boiling water. In the big 70ft. channel
that ran out by Etiwanda-avenue it was
common to collar fair-sized cod and
perch that could never have got through
the feeders except as tiny fish. And old
Redmond one day found an outsize in
catfish in the channel, popped it in a
kero, bucket and let it loose in his horse-
tank. He forgot to tell his son, who
practised swimming in that tank, and his
omission only dawned on him when he
saw the lad shoot from the tank and
race, nude, to the house. The gash from
the barb kept the lad in bed for three
days,
* * * *
“Yak”; Sam boasted that he had
tasted every bird that ever grew feathers
and could tell each by tasting' alone. So
a dish was prepared up at Cleary’s place
and then brought down to Sam’s. Planked
on the kitchen table before him as he
sat blindfolded, it was up to him to guess
correctly or spar up the bets that had
been made. “It’s easy,” said Sam, and
bit a chunk out of what seemed to be
breast. Then he looked a bit puzzled.
“It ain’t plover,” he drawled, chewing
thoughtfully; “it’s jest a fraction too
sweet. And it ain’t crow or hawk be-
cause it hasn’t made me crook yet. But
I’m positive I know that flavor. Maybe
it’s heron or a full-grown ibis.” He took
another bite or two, sat back and pon-
dered. Carefully he went through the list
of birds he reckoned he’d eaten, from
cuckoo to raven, and then, deflated, he
sat back and said, “You cows trickin’
me? Maybe it ain’t a bird at all. Half
a mo! I think I’ve got it. It’s a brown-
winged tern.” Then they gently removed
the bandage and pointed to the head of
a common or garden domestic fowl
reposing on the table.
v *l* '!*
“Sur Cingle”: Before “R. Ney” (B.
22/4/’42) puts down the pen and the
shears and returns to the drill, combine
or any other toy to which he’s partial,
let me make a confession: I’ve never
been through a mob in a 1000-acre
field for fly. But, with a bottle
of dip on each kneepad and a pair
of shears in an old waterbag beside the
saddle, and with no dog, I’ve ridden
many a paddock of from 30 to 80 square
miles crutching green-tails wherever
found. And any camp of 13 horsemen
that couldn’t punch 5000 wethers,
goannas or kangaroos without the help
of a cross between a fox and a dingo
should be retired to acre country with
a nurse to cut up its bread and milk.
Anyway, next August, when I start riding
50-odd miles a day after woolly stragglers,
“R. Ney” can send along any tripehound
he may possess that will keep up with
me. And, if he’s not entirely spoiled for
sheep work by dogs, he can come along
as well.
“K.1.N.”: “Sur Cingle” (B. 8/4/’42)
talks like a newchum when he finds the
old Jack Shea quartpot a nuisance. The
only times it ever got in my way were
due to my own carelessness by putting
it on the offside of the saddle. When a
man’s getting on something lively he
shaves the saddle on that side as he slips
into the stirrup, and if the quart’s there
he may jerk his leg and take a fall. But,
strapped tight to the lining on the near-
side, it’s never in the way.
* * » *
“Aratta”; The crowd in the bar were
blowing about strong horses they had
owned. “Horses, you call ’em?” said
Alf. “They was on’y kittens compared to a
horse I had once —yair, kittens. One day I
bet some o’ the neighbors that ole Nugget
would pull any three horses they liked t’
put up agin him. They took me up. We
hooked them together on the roadway in
front of the pub, the three facin’ one
way an’ Nugget the other. At the word
‘Go’ the owners of the three started bel-
lerin’ an’ beltin’ at their nags, while I
ses t’ Nugget, quiet, ‘Get up, ole boy!’
He pushed his shoulders inter the collar
an’ starts orf steady, an’ them three
tearin’, strainin’ nags jest follered him
backwards. He wus just pullin’ ’em over
the level crossin’ when along comes a
engine an’ tender. Ole Nugget gets clear ;
but the trace chains of the other three
got caught in the cow-catcher an’ the
next thing we see is the engine bein’
dragged off the line. Nugget seems t’ be
enjoyin’ himself, an’ plods steadily on,
draggin’ the lot behind him fer half a
mile along the road before the engine-
driver manages t’ get the chain orf. An’
that wus the end of poor ole Nugget;
he passed in his chips there and then.”
“Busted his heart, I s’pose?” scoffed
someone. “No,” replied Alf evenly.
“Kicked t’ death. The sudden releasin’
of the strain on the chain sent ole Nugget
on to his knees, an’ the other three on
top of him, kickin’ like mad, an’ they
cracked ole Nugget’s skull. I’ve thought
sometimes since,” concluded Alf, reach-
ing for his pot, “that they did it outa
jealousy.”
THE HORSE COMES BACK.
They tell us that the horse is
Returning to his own.
That not alone on courses
Henceforth he will be known.
The highways shall receive him,
The by-ways test his strength,
The flat bush roads deceive him
With their hot dusty length.
We’ll see the hot heads tossing.
The foam on bits and flanks.
Down at the river crossing
Their hooves will shake the planks.
On hill and bend and siding
The whips will sing again
Where toppling loads roll, riding
To waterside and train.
In city dray and lorry
That rattle on their way,
The horses will be sorry
We’ve given them back their day.
Blit they’ll have hard and wide roads,
Good grades and tarmac, too.
They’ll have far better side-roads
Than those their fathers knew.
When Cobb and Co. went dashing,
The work was cruel then;
The headlamps, bravely flashing
On crest and bushy glen,
Showed roads no car would run on;
But strong hoofs could—and did,
Though teams were quickly “done” on
The roads the darkness hid.
We bid you welcome, Neddy,
We’re glad you’re coming back
As buggy pacer steady,
As wagon drudge or hack.
We hope you’ll have kind drivers,
We hope they’ll feed you well;
And by the hills and rivers
Some day you’ll get a spell!
n.s.w.
WILL LAWSON.


“Bangadang”: The talk had drifted to
the tobacco shortage. “Well, if it was
me,” asserted the self-righteous non-
smoker confidently, “I’d cut it clean out.
No crawlin’ to the barber or the grocer
for me —and it’s just because you fellers
ha’ got no willpower you can’t give up
smokin’.” “ Tain’t as easy as all that,”
rejoined Old Sam, thoughtfully inhaling
a lungful of his last ounce of fine cut.
“You got to have a substitoot, and it’s
hard to find a good ’un. I tried once
when we wus livin’ in town and got
on t’ boiled lollies. I never missed the
weed after three days, and be the end
o’ the week I reckons I’m jake. ’Course
I had the kids run dog-poor duckin’
down to the store every so often fer ’em,
and I reckoned the missus’d hit the roof
w’en she saw Old Jackson’s bill at the
end o’ the month ; but, allowin’ for ail
that, it was a good enough substitoot
orlright till the ants got t’ work.”
“Ants? What ha’ they got t’ do with
it?” inquired the unsuspecting s.-r.n.-s.
“Well,” drawled Sam, “I et so many the
missus had t’ stand me in a dish o’
water to keep the sugar-ants orf! ’
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: Our foxies treed a possum
in a loaded orange-tree. We noted the
large number of half-eaten oranges and
shook the branches. The possum hurtled
out of the tree almost under the jaws of
the waiting dogs. But just as they were
about to pounce on the marauder our
big tomcat came racing across the pad-
dock and sprang into the fray. The three
dogs couldn’t fight the spitting, scratching
fury that Sweep had become ; howling,
they fled. The orange thief, uninjured,
beat it up a big bloodwood and vanished
into a hollow limb. The motive for the
unusual burst of chivalry is still a mys-
tery. Ordinarily, the nearest Sweep gets
to being friendly with anyone is with the
dogs. * * *
» * * *
“Nigel Dugan”: During late summer
and autumn south-west W.A. estuaries
swarm with the cobbler (catfish). Any
river bank or pile of submerged stones
provides a harvest. Shunning the sun-
light, the cobbler gets its head under
cover, but frequently leaves its tail ex-
posed. The trick then is for the spears-
man to strike the head through the
tangle of rock weed. The abo. used to
do it with a slender wooden spear carry-
ing a single barb. The modern white
kid has the advantage of iron, but he
“ Wouldn't it make you spit blood?"
mostly adheres to the tradition of the
one barb, though the more commercial-
minded frequently adopt a double- or
even a three-pronged spear. Two or
three extra big snapper hooks straight-
ened out and lashed to a woodeq shaft
make a pretty effective implement. But
the game isn’t altogether one-sided, since
the quarry itself has its barbs—three ivory
lances, triple-barbed, that project from
behind its head, and these are capable of
piercing deeply and implanting a venom
that can cause terrific agony for the best
part of 24 hours. The fish when attacked
will often charge the attacker’s legs,
lunging fiercely as it swirls past.
« * * *
“Jayem”: In Long Harry’s district it
was the custom for each family to board
the schoolteacher for a month in turn.
Harry was never too happy about it,
because most of the teachers were in-
clined to be superior. The new one, who
started off at Harry’s place, was always
talking about her ambitions as a
writer. She hoped to produce a master-
piece. “I want to write something that
will live for ever,” she said one night.
“That’s easy, miss,” the long ’un replied ;
“all y’ got to do is buy a farm an’ sign
the mortgage.”
# * *
“Naturala”: The blue-tongued sleepy
lizard is a ball of restless energy com-
pared with the spiny-tailed sleepy that
spreads plentifully enough across the
western edge of the central plateau.
These torpid reptiles, running at largest
to about a foot in length, have a festoon
of quite harmless spines that form their
tails, but which are sufficient to deter
the desert snake from securing a too-easy
meal. Invariably I have found the spine-
tails hidden in black oak logs. The black
oak, a species of casuarina, also known
as desert oak, is full of outside roaks
and gnarls. Into these the spiny-tails
creep and it takes a courageous snake to
bite on to the armament of their hinder
parts. But, as so often happens - when
civilisation arrives on the scene, this won-
derful provision of Nature has merely
accelerated the spiny-tail’s extinction.
Black oak being heavy weighing timber
it was seldom missed by the cutter ; it
came into Kalgoorlie mines by the thou-
sands of tons. It used to be a minor
tragedy with a stoker friend of mine that
he could seldom spare the time to extract
all the spiny-tails before having to put
the logs under the boilers.
* * * *
“McMulga”: Dad Chalker’s schooling
had been considerably hampered because
he had been forced to battle very hard
for a crust in the bush since early boy-
hood. When modest success came his
way in later years he took great pride
in sending his stock to the local show.
When young Bill came back leading the
filly that was the apple of his eye with-
out even a third ribbon on her neck he
was furious. “What did them lousy
judges say about ’er?” he roared. “Well,”
said the lad, “they walked all round ’er,
looked at ’er for a long time, and tnen
said she wasn’t * bad for ’er age, but they
didn’t think she ’ad enough stammer.’
“There you are!” snapped the old chap.
“The swine must ’ave been bribed to
advertise them fancy stock foods. She
mightn’t ’ave any of their blasted stam
in ’er, but, by cripes, she’s got plenty
of good oats an’ corn in ’er!”
li % $
“J.H.M.A.”: The Santa Cruz group,
between the Solomons and the New
Hebrides, reported to have been occu-
pied by the Japs, is inhabited by some
of the ugliest and fiercest savages in the
South Seas. It was here, 350 years ago,
that Spain’s dream of conquest in the
Western Pacific ended. About 25 years
after his first expedition to the Isles of
Salomon, Alvaro de Mendana safie
again from Peru, with four ships and 400
people, to colonise his discoveries, but
didn’t succeed m finding them. So ne
landed his settlement at Gracrosa Bay.
Followed a hurricane of disaster. Malaria
and the 4ft. arrows of the hideous mhabi-
tants killed a good many ; mutiny raised
its head ; the worn-out Mendana died
“This is your new junior clerk!”
broken-hearted and his successor in com-
mand was killed a fortnight later. So a
little more than two months after their
arrival the Spaniards gave up the job and
sailed for Manila in the Philippines,
There is no trace of them at Graciosa Bay
and no tradition of them amongst the
natives. Their graves have been lost,
and time and the jungle have obliterated
all their footsteps.
* * * *
“Solitude”: There is no school at
Willigobung. There was none in the
old man’s day either, but folks managed
right enough, and when young Joe
reached school age the old chap reckoned
the kid’d see it through without no
darned book-larnin’ anyway. So for
20-odd years Joe milked the cows and
exchanged the cheque for whatever the
bloke at the store reckoned was a fair
thing. One day a neighbor suggested
that the old man might profitably unload
the half-wild brood of turkeys that ran
in the scrub. Consequently Joe was
bundled off to the saleyards with a cart-
load of prime fats. The auctioneer got
up to twenty-three and six, and there he
stuck. “Take twenty-three-a-half, Joe?”
Joe shook his head. “All right. Twenty-
three-a-half, twenty-three-a-half, twenty-
four, twenty-four. Any advance on
twenty-four? What about it, Joe?” Still
Joe’s head wagged sideways. The auc-
tioneer returned to the job, roaring,
sweating, swearing and blowing all those
turkeys into heavyweight champions,
Minor agents got busy among the crowd.
but not another sixpence was forthcoming
anywhere. Presently the auctioneer
stepped aside. “Look here, Joe, that’s
a helluva shot for ’em. Why don’t you
take it?” But Joe was not to be coerced,
“No,” he baulked stubbornly; “the ole
man said they’re worth a quid, an’ if y’
don’t git it I’ll damwell take the flamin’
things home again.”
, * « *
“Mat’s Mate”: Me and Mat were
tramping through the Goulburn Valley
(Vic.) early one autumn. At Seymour
we encountered some fairly big mos-
quitoes ; at Tatura they were bigger and
more voracious. After battling Kya-
bramwe camped along the line above
the cannery and had hardly got into bunk
when a low humming, rising to a roar,
announced the arrival of squadrons of
the real thing. Mat, who was particu-
larly susceptible to insect bites, hurriedly
wrapped himself like a mummy in his
Wotfw ‘‘Fir. v’ think thpv’ll Pnt us?” I
“No” lam
“what I’m scared of is they’ll carry us
down to the swamp and hold a banquet.’”
Silence The enemv attacked It was too
hot under the blanket and Mat emerged,
“We’re sunk!” he said ; “they won’t take
thp cwsrnn f’r fear the bie ones’ll
“ s J tear thC blg ° nC
taKe us ![: oir * *
“Zend Avesta”: While the boss and a
few of us were riding back to the station
homestead we met up with a smart-
looking young fellow. He was from Ga-
Ga Downs, he told us, and his boss had
sent him over to collect a couple of
horses. All the way to the homestead he
entertained us with what he had done,
what he could do and what he would
do, and his knowledge of station work
was positively awe-inspiring. When we
arrived at the horse yards Mr. Knowall,
scorning our own amateur methods of
tying up, flung his horse’s reins over the
horse-trough tap. Something frightened
the prad, it pulled back sharp and bang
went the tap. As precious water gushed
all over the place the boss gave us a
beautiful example of how words can be
made to bring up blisters.
“Flight”: If “The 0.D.” (B. 22/4/’42)
hasn’t tasted flock pigeon then he doesn’t
know what good eating is among bush
birds. The flock and the wonga are two
of the very few white-fleshed Australian
native birds. But one of the best items
you can put on any bush menu is that
rainbow atom the spinifex quail. Its
white flesh has a depth surprising in so
small a bird.
« * * *
“Nor’-west”: Strange the solicitude
with which the female crocodile builds her
nest. Usually she chooses a quiet lagoon
or swamp where a stand of timber or
scrub gives a measure of isolation, though
she also wants leaves and plenty of
grass. Round and round she works,
scraping up forest debris from many
square yards, raking with forearms and
claws, with an occasional sweep of the
tail. Deftly and intelligently she builds
until she has a conical mound perhaps
3ft. across the top and about 6ft, in
diameter at the base. Twigs and even
sizable branches well embedded give
stability to the structure, which at the
climax of her building efforts has to bear
her own heavy weight. In the centre she
leaves a cavity about 12in. deep, and in
this she drops her eggs, seldom fewer than
50; then over all heaps a final layer
of grass and leaves. Soon the nest
becomes very warm, and in about four
weeks the infant crocs, hatch out. Eggs
have very thin shells, being about the
size of a goose egg, but with the same
taper at both ends. The newly-hatched
crocs, are small but lively, and they need
to be, for mamma’s care ends with their
emergence, while papa is often in the
offing, not unwilling to partake of a
cheap meal.
* * * *
“Wang”; “I’m doin’ some fencin’ fer
a young chap up at Bungeraup,” related
Dan, “an’ one day I hear angry voices
cornin’ from a clump o’ belar. I take
a screw an’ see two ole blokes, neither
a day under eighty, shufflin’ about, shak-
in’ skinny fists at each other an’ lookin’
earnest about it, too. Suddenly a voice
behind me ses ‘Now, you two ole rascals,
cut that out,’ an’ I look round t’ see me
boss standin’ there grinnin’. The ole
blokes shuffle off in diff’rent directions.
I ask him what the ole codgers are rowin’
about. ‘Me,’ ses the boss. ‘Y’ see, they’re
me gran’fathers, both name o’ Williams.
I’m their only grandson, an’ have been
a bone of contention between ’em since
I wus born twenty-seven years ago.
Grandad Henry is my dad’s father an’
Grandad John is Mum’s. My parents
unconsciouslike started the feud between
the ole chaps when they christened me
John Henry. Grandad Henry contends he
has first claim on my affections becos
I’d have been a Williams anyway, that
bein’ my father’s name. Grandad John
argues that he wus first fav’rite in my
parents’ eyes becos my first Christian
name is John.’ He chuckled. ‘An’ I’m
afraid that baby boy the wife’s just had
ain’t goin’ to improve matters,’ he ses,
‘because she says he’s goin’ t’ be called
Thomas, after her father.’ ‘Well, how
does that affect the ole blokes?’ I asked.
‘This way,’ he ses. ‘Both their second
Christian names is Thomas! ”
STAND TO.
Stand to, old man. Stand to!
And come rouse up yourself from your
sleeping. , ~
I’ve finished my turn, and you’re next on the
list.
(O Christ, how the red blood is seeping.)
Stand to, old man. Stand to!
My watch over you I’ve been keeping,
For I know you’ll rouse up to the sound of
my voice
(If not to the sound of my weeping).
Stand to, old man. Stand to!
In the line you were quick at awaking,
But now you lie quiet and still —and so cold . . .
(God in heaven, my heart’s near to breaking.)
Stand to, old man. Stand to!
Come rouse up yourself to the warning,
For I know you’ll rouse up to the sound of
my voice
(Or they’ll take you away—in the morning).
A.I.F.
PAUL BUDDEE.


LYSAOHTS
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
•••••; •" ~~—
M
mm
»>■->:>.
* -w
.. ...
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Murrawong”: They were held two
months earlier than usual and the sheep
were not seen at their best from a fleece
point of view. Many showed the effects
of the dry season. Most well-known
studs and some new ones sent rams and
numbers were little short of last year.
Corriedales and British breeds were
fewer, and the export-lamb position was
strongly reflected in the lack of interest
in Downs breeds.
Buyers were scarce, and some studs,
anticipating a poor market, sent in sheep
much below their usual standard. Those
who brought along really good rams
found a market which, in the circum-
stances, was satisfactory. Specially good
merinos were eagerly sought. Best prices
were 700gns. for a Boonoke ram, 650gns.
fora Haddon Rig and 500gns. for a Bun-
demar.
Demand for anything outside the best-
known studs was very patchy. Some
breeders refused to sell at the prices and
others didn’t get a bid. There were prob-
ably more sheep passed in than ever be-
fore.
All the same, there were outstanding
opportunities. Many good studs changed
hands at flock prices. Chief demand was
for the big, deep, strong-wool type. Any-
thing tending to fineness was neglected,
except by one or two specialists. The
merino average was little below last
year’s, chiefly because a much higher
proportion of studs was sold.
Corriedale type of wool is in demand
at the moment, and this doubtless ex-
plains the good showing the breed made.
Highest price was 170gns. for a Wellwood
ram. A Bulgandra ram made 150gns.
and a Cullingral 145gns. Again, many
were passed in and some couldn’t raise
a bid.
About 80 p.c. of the Border Leicesters
came from Victoria and prices were
fairly good. The demand was more
general than for other breeds. There were
not many Dorsets and very few sales
were made. Southdowns were few and
had even fewer buyers ; the only sales
were at 2gns. a head.
Fly-strike and Classing.
“Rom Ney”: Keeping low-grade sheep
was always a mistake ; it’s a bigger one
now that labor is short. Rigorous cull-
ing of the flock will get rid of them and,
since they are more susceptible to fly-
strike, will give the owner a better chance
of handling the good sheep properly.
What to do with the low grades is an-
other matter, but anything is better than
keeping them in the flock.
Ewes are the greatest sufferers from
fly, and the greatest proportion of ewe-
strikes is in the crutch. Obviously, to
beat the fly the crutch must be kept clean
and dry, so get rid of sheep with folds
and wrinkles.
As J. C. Cotsell, a N.S.W. sheep expert,
points out, breeding or the surgical
method can get rid of wrinkles. After
that, removal of crutch wool and the
application of a poisonous jetting fluid
carry on the good work. Breeding plain-
breeched sheep is a long programme, but
a couple of bad fly seasons will convince
the most sceptical that it’s worth while.
Like the Mules operation to remove
wrinkles, it is a permanent remedy and
less cruel for the sheep. Even the best
crutching-jetting system is only a tern-
porary expedient, useful when the fly
wave reaches its height.
The plain-breeched ewe, largely be-
cause she suffers no fly-attack to pull her
back, is usually a better doer and mother
of lambs than her wrinkly-breeched sister.
Some people hold that plainness of body
means plainness of fleece in that the wool
becomes too open. Close investigation
has shown the difference in value be-
tween wool from both types to be very
small, and loss in density is more than
equalled by greater size, length and
higher scoured yield, to say nothing of
labor-saving in crutching and other pre-
ventive work.
Classing for plain breeches, of course,
goes with classing for other faults. And
it is always the narrow, misshapen sheep
with short, harsh and ultra-heavy wool
“Ever get a feelin' you're bein' watched, Ma?"
that has the worst breech. By getting rid
of both the sheepowner is preparing for
himself a time when crutching, jetting and
dressing and loss from fly-strike become
little more than memories.
Use the Hands.
“Southdown”: Use the hands when
selecting lambs —you can’t see through
the wool.
The dock, its firmness, size and “feel”
will give you a dependable estimate, but
it won’t say where the fleshing is. Keep
the fingers together and handle gently.
Start at the dock, estimating the finish
and general condition of the lamb. Then
go to the other end. Feel the neck,
noting the smoothness of its junction with
the shoulders. Test the depth of the
forequarters by pressing one hand on top
of the shoulders and the other on the
floor of the chest. Let your fingers tell
of the compactness and thickness of the
shoulders.
One hand passed along the back will
show the thickness of the fleshing along
the ribs and where the lamb chops grow.
Use both hands like callipers to find out
width of fore ribs, hind ribs and rump.
Get a fistful of the leg-of-lamb and of
the twist. Note the finish, strength of
back, width of loin and general trim-
ness and firmness. Shut your eyes if
you like —some good judges do; the
hands will tell the story.
Dehydrated Mutton.
“Graz.”; Percy Bates, chairman of the
Cunard Line, fears that after the war
Britain may have to live on dehydrated
mutton ; that refrigerated space for beef
and lamb may be a useless luxury. Such
fears may be unwarranted, but an outlet
for aged mutton would be good foi sheep-
owners. For 50 years we have depended
on droughts to get rid of our old sheep.
Lack of markets for gummies has been
the chief cause of overstocking, denuda-
tion of pastures and soil erosion.
Two sample tons of dehydrated mutton
sent by the C.S.I.R. from Homebush
(N.S.W.) so impressed the British Min-
istry of Food that an order for several
thousand tons is now being arranged.
The practice of drying meat is as old as
the hills, but under modern methods the
meat is tender and tasty.
. Fat sheep are unsuitable. The meat is
steamed off the bones, no refrigeration
is needed and 5-j tons of dehydrated meat
can be packed in the space taken up by a
ton of carcasses. Costs of processing are
much less than for canning, and if de-
hydrating plants were established in
country centres transport costs would be
cut to the bone.
Dog Troubles.
“Huxave”: Pneumonia and distemper
symptoms are similar in dogs —quick
breathing, rapid pulse, high temperature
and frequent shivering. In distemper,
the discharge from eyes and nose may
be heavier.
Quarter the dog in a warm, dry place
free of draughts. One of the best home
methods is to make a long, warm jacket
that reaches the full length of the body
but does not take in the hind legs. It
should be brought up high over the
shoulders and tied closely at the neck,
with holes for the front legs. The jacket
prevents draughts striking at the bron-
chial tubes and should be left on day
and night. In cold weather another rug
should be placed over the jacket.
Where respiration is choked, two good
plasters of antiphlogistine should be
applied. Make them on pieces of linen
—about 6in. square for small dogs and
Sin. to 12in. square for large dogs. The
plaster can be put straight on short-
haired dogs, but for “woolly” ones clip
the part. Plasters should be put on
each side over the ribs and should be
repeated every 12 hours till the condition
improves. The second lot should be ready
to be placed before the old ones are
taken off. If the plasters are hard to
remove, don’t wash them off but place
the new plasters over them. As the dog
recovers, let the plaster crumble away
gradually.
A sick dog’s mouth will need cleaning
daily with a weak solution of peroxide
or Condy’s or salt and water. Dis-
charges from the eyes should be wiped
away with a weak solution of boracic
acid. Relieve blockage of the nostrils
by placing some cotton wool round the
blunt end of a hairpin, dip it in a little
paraffin and insert it into the nostril
about a quarter of an inch and clean
away the pus and hard substances.
Dogs suffering from pneumonia or dis-
temper should be given warm drinking
water. Vitamin D Gluco keeps the dog’s
strength up. In pneumonia, keep the dog
on warm milk, thin gruel or beef tea for
a day or two. Then feed him what he
wants —raw or cooked meat, tripe or
brains. If dysentery sets in, reduce the
amount of liquid. If the condition gets
very low, rum, whisky or brandy, in the
proportion of one teaspoon to two of
water, helps the heart action. In addi-
tion, a vet.’s prescription is useful.
Hints for the Farm.
“Feline”; No amount of cultivation
whilst the crop is growing will compen-
sate for indifferent working of the soil
before maize is sown. The ground must
be brought to a loose, pliable condition
before seeding. Really good crops
demand very rich land and a mild
climate. Broadcast the seed if you
intend to cut the stalks for stock
feed, but for grain sow it in drills
and cultivate regularly during the
growing period. Don’t sow maize
if frost is likely.
“Valerin”: Post-war land settle-
ment may create a demand for
active farm horses. Every decent
type of mare .should be mated with
a Clydesdale or Suffolk ; the result
will be a horse fit for plough or
gig-
“Canbelego”: Keep the white
clover up to 30 p.c. of the pasture.
On medium to high fertility soils
it can be done by mowing, harrow-
ing, topdressing and correct stock-
ing. The pasture harrows should
be used frequently to break up the
manure and ensure good distribu-
tion and germination of seed.
“L. Cove”; Soak a sugar-bag of fresh
poultry, cow or pig manure in a cask
holding 40 to 50 gallons of water. The
result is a fairly strong solution which
should be used in the proportion of one
part to three parts of water. Refill the
cask and soak the manure again for a
week. Use that solution with equal parts
of fresh water. Fill the cask and soak
the manure for the third time ; the liquid
can be used neat. Given to vegetables
at the rate of 4gal. to every 18 feet of
a running row, no other stimulant is
necessary. Have the soil moist before
the liquid manure is applied.
“Camsa”: A Melbourne engineer, M.
J. Martin, claims success for a device
for using wheat in a gas producer. For
the past three months he has run a car
on a mixture of wheat and charcoal. The
wheat burns to a clean, white ash. The
density of grain reduces fuel space by
two-thirds, and weevily or low-grade
milling wheat gives as good results as
high-grade wheat. Barley may also be
used, says Martin. The wheat-charcoal
mixture can be used with most standard
gas producers provided a special hopper,
with an automatic feeder, is attached.
Converted into producer gas, Martin
claims a bushel of wheat equals the
power output of three gallons of petrol.
His tests disclosed that, whereas charcoal
gives about 50 p.c. of the pulling power


Situation Vacant.
WANTED Manager for “Elcho” (Geelong)
Corriedale Sheep Stud. Personality and Sales-
manship desirable. Attractive home and good
salary. Previous Manager has joined A.I.F.
Apply
J. F. GUTHRIE (Corriedale) PTY. LTD.,
Geelong, Vic.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS
. TQn ._ „ SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MORSE, TOWNSVILLE.
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
SPECIAL, NOTICE,
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Is not just a modified closet pan but a complete self-contained sanitary system
in itself. All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and automatically
runs off and is absorbed in the soil. No water supply required.
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH AND IS FULLY GUARANTEED.
Many other chemical systems have come and gone during past years, but the
sturdiness, efficiency and longevity of the Hygeia Dissolvenator are beyond dispute.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
No emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instai it.
Price, £l7/17/6, F.O.R. SYDNEY, includes 10% Sales Tax.
Pius 30/- war surcharge. Crating (if necessary) 10/6 extra.
WRITE OR TELEPHONE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd.
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 81053,
Obtainable direct from us or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide;
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd.,
all States.
Victorian
Perth.
/! puendiy tip to- the.
tyitflduuf. tyoAoei, and all
mho- ui.e Qillette Qladei
When you buy Gillette Blades, you can give them longer life
by proper care. Unwrap the blade carefully, without touching
the cutting edge. Handle the blade at the ends. After use,
rinse in clean water and dry gently on a smooth towel.
This care will ensure longer life for the hard, electrically
tempered cutting edges of all Gillette Blades you buy.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
1
MSS
rn&vcMi
lilt n
ar« so much smoother
.•••;>
/
lO for lid.
30 for 110
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
4005
m
of petrol, the charcoal-grain mixture gives
75 p.c. Charcoal is about £ll- per ton;
the same price for wheat would mean 6s.
a bushel.
“Graz”: The N.S.W. Agricultural De-
partment has been experimenting with an
Aberdeen-Angus bull on A.I.S. and
Ayrshire cows, using pure-bred A.-A.
cows as checks. Test steers of each class
were good beefy types, the A.-A.
xAyrshire steer being as shapely as a pure
A.-A. The A.I.S. crossbred had a faulty
underline but the weight test gave him
a win.
Age in Live Dressed
Months. Weight. Weight.
A.-A. XA.I.S. .. m 12941 b. 8061 b.
A.-A. x Ayr. .. 22 11741 b. 7041 b.
A.-A. (pure) .. 22 11491 b. 7311 b.
The pure A.-A. steer dressed with a
minimum of waste.
Outback Occasions.
No. 35.
THE COMING OF THE CATE.
These things happen in the bush. You
go to bed one night and there isn’t a
rabbit in sight. Next morning the land-
scape is alive with them. Or it might
be mice, or grasshoppers, or meat-ants,
or bagmen, or machinery agents. If
you’re near a big river like the Murray
it might be water-hens or snakes. We’d
had most of ’em in our time, and felt
pretty sure there was nothing much left,
unless it was the Japanese nation or a
sudden election. We hadn’t thought of
cats.
The eve of the event was one of those
nights which make the bush so splen-
did. A dead calm, with the smoke going
straight up and a touch of frost and the
stars leaning closer to earth and blazing
like campfires and, falling through the
silence like far fairy singing, the echo of
some distant swans’ bugling their way
to the west. Our father, who is very
responsive to the moods of the bush, was
sitting near the window and held up his
hand for silence, his face turned to the
night, his whole countenance alight
with anticipation. Then there swept
through that window the most dreadful
caterwaul we’d ever heard, and Father’s
chair came down with a crash.
He poured out a vivid curse at the
feline vandals without, seized his old
shotgun and blazed into the darkness.
There was a stunned silence, then from
north and south of the house, from east
and west and other directions, arose a
swelling horror of sound.
“Gripes,” whispered our brother, awe-
stricken, “there must be forty million
cats out there.” Then we got up and
rushed outside and let the dogs loose
and shot holes in the night with rifles and
shotguns, while the horses galloped round
the night paddock and the startled chooks
woke up and chattered and squawked.
Above and below these things ran the
strident chorus of the cats, near and far.
We drove the invisible serenaders back
with dog and gun, then retired to bunk,
but all night up on the ridge and down
along the road the cat-calls went on.
Our dogs we left unloosed, and we heard
them rush first one way and presently
return and rush another way, yelping
blue murder on those cats, and after a
bit we slept.
Next morning we were invested. Cats
held the stables, the machinery shed, the
shearing shed—every structure wherein
they could get above ground and spit
defiance at our weary dogs was held by
cats. They were of all colors and sizes,
and all of them were fat and big as bush
cats are. In the fowlyard murder had
been done. It would have been worse
only the top of the yard was open and a
good many of the chooks had got over it
and taken to the scrub. You could hear
indignant Leghorns at odd points in the
scrub all the morning, and Bunty, the
big Rhode Island rooster, somehow
bumbled his way up on to the windmill
platform, and from there defied all and
sundry.
We held a council of war, but short
of arming ourselves and pot-shooting at
every cat in sight, a wearying, expensive
and apparently futile process, there
wasn’t much we could do. We debated
poisoning, but the kind of bait we'd have
to lay for cats would be likely to kill our
dogs, and Mother, who’d been frantically
hunting for her own cat, lazy old Samuel,
vetoed the poisoning plan at once.
Samuel’s disappearance added to the
mystery. We had practical and certain
knowledge that Sam’s interest in lady-
cats had been—er —liquidated, and he
would as soon think of fighting as he
would of going for a swim. Never before
had he been known to miss the morning
milking; never before between 10 and
11 a.m. had Samuel failed to curl up on
top of Mother’s wardrobe for his morn-
ing sleep. Mother went around calling
“Sammy, Sammy,” but no voice
answered. Mother strained her eyesight
that day trying to see if Sammy was
among the feline myriad that sat, fought,
scampered and clambered round our
farm.
Our dogs were worn out by midday.
Seeing that we did nothing about it, they
evidently concluded that we’d been up to
our incomprehensible tricks and had de-
cided to start a cat ranch. Ruff, our
kelpie, made a half-hearted attempt to
yard a few of ’em, but retired in disgust
when they shot over posts and round
corners out of his way. Sausage, the half-
grown staghound pup, got in a bit of
running practice and then tried to have a
game with an old tom he bailed up under
the tank. The tom wasn’t on for games
and Sausage retired with a torn nose and
a disillusioned expression. He never
spoke to a cat after that.
Night came and with it the caterwaul-
ing. Again we shot off our guns and
yelled, we urged the dogs to go forth and
slay but they ignored us, we snatched
open doors and threw pails of water into
the night, we rang up the stock inspector
and the rabbit inspector and all we got
from them was laughter and what they
thought were humorous remarks. In the
end, baffled, we went to bed, having
battened down all the hatches and
blocked every means of entrance.
It was a subdued family that greeted
the dawn and the invaders. More o' f our
chooks had vanished into the feline maw,
and somehow through the night the beasts
had clawed down the meatsafe from its
hook op the verandah. This led to violent
recriminations as our father insisted that
we ought to have had enough sense to
take the thing inside, and we insisted that
he’d sworn the night before that it was
secure against anything.
After breakfast Father went outside and
walked around for a bit, and then came
back and said he had an idea. We shut
up the house, left the dogs loose, got in
the car and drove into the town for the
day. There is nothing more boring than
spending an entire day in a country town
in the middle of the week. We were glad
when night came and we could go home.
Scarcely daring to credit it, we saw that
Father’s plan had worked. There wasn’t
a sign of a cat. The dogs greeted us
enthusiastically and old Samuel appeared,
disdaining to explain his absence. Next
day Mr. Thomson, five miles away, rang
up full of excitement to say there was a
plague of cats at his place.


s>
,V,
** **■
£
/>
Time magazine reports on
U S A WAR PRODUCTION
Towards the end of 1941 and in
March of this year the publishers
and producers of the famous
'•'Time” magazine and March of
Time films sent representatives to
see what was going on in the U.S.
Ford plants. They wrote.
“In thundering engine test cells
Pratt & Whitney aircraft engines
bellowed. Elsewhere engineers were
working out an experimental 2,000
h.p. air cooled engine. Also in the
works was a smaller 8 cylinder air
cooled engine for tanks and aero-
planes.”
Walking themselves footsore round
the great River Rouge plant at
Detroit news men spotted “blitz
buggies” (army reconnaisance cars)
everywhere. They saw a great air-
craft apprentice school geared to
turn out aircraft mechanics 3,000
at a time. They saw Henry Ford’s
favourite contribution, the Navy
Service School. Quartered in 8
gleaming white barracks live 3,000
sailormen learning in factory shops
and class rooms how to be mech-
anics, electricians, ships’ fitters and
carpenters for the Navy.
At the Rouge plant too work is
being concentrated on 30 and 60
ton tanks to fulfil a contract re-
cently issued by the U.S. Govern-
ment.
But the prize exhibit was not at
River Rouge. It was at Willow Run,
17 miles away. “A year ago there
was a lazy little creek surrounded
by woodlands, a few farmhouses, a
few country schools. Today on this
site is the most enormous room in
the history of man. More than half
a mile long, nearly a quarter of a
mile wide. In this enormous work-
room Ford hopes to turn out a four
motored Consolidated bomber every
hour. The bombers will be borne
from half mile assembly lines so
fast that no attempt will be made
to store them. The deadly infants
will be ranked at a great new air-
field stretching out from the as-
sembly end of the plant with
enough white concrete runaways to
make a highway 22 miles long.
From these runaways the new-born
bombers will make their first test
flights then take off for service.”
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
GEELONG . . SYDNEY . . BRISBANE . . ADELAIDE . . PERTH
Tough Old Cough
Yields To New
Canadiol Mixture
His relief almost overnight from Bron-
chitis of thirty years’ standing is re-
garded as nothing short of a miracle
by his friends and neighbours. Read
what Mr. Gull says:
“From the time I was a small boy until
the age of thirty-two, I was never free
from a hacking cough night and day.
Doctors told me I was suffering from
chronic bronchitis —that there was
no permanent relief. One day I saw
an advertisement for BUCKLEY’S
CANADIOL Mixture. The word bron-
chitis arrested my attention. I pur-
chased a bottle. It gave me relief. I
bought two more, and my cough left
me completely. That happened six years
ago, and the cough has never returned.”
BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL Mixture will
give you the same instant relief from
the strangling torture of Bronchitis. It
acts like a flash on coughs and colds.
Why not get a bottle to-day ? Buckley’s
—by far the largest-selling cough medi-
cine in all of blizzardly cold Canada-
sold by chemists and stores everywhere
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can ba
relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints &
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
if the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
in the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, puffiness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
BOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well and keep you well.
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy copy of Turgenev’s Lear of the
Steppes. —3264.
To buy vocal and musical score of Gilbert
and Sullivan’s opera “The Sorcerer.” —3267.
Information Sought.
The call for backyard vegetable gardening is
loud in the land and over radio stations. (1)
What plants are suitable for winter growing ?
(2) How should they be grown?
(1) Silver beet and spinach, beetroot (round
varieties), cabbage (St. John’s Day and Suc-
cession), carrots (Shorthorn), peas (Greenfeast),
broad beans (Broad Windsor), rhubarb,
potatoes (only in districts free from frosts),
lettuce (Iceberg), bulb and tree onions, white
turnips (round sorts), parsnips (Hollow Crown),
Jerusalem artichokes (in out - of - the - way
corners), horseradish, and such herbs as thyme,
marjoram, sage, mint and tarragon. (2) Trench
the land at least 2ft. deep, digging in a dress-
ing of lime; follow three weeks later with
rotted manure and fertiliser (superphosphate
or blood-and-bone). If plants are procurable,
use them in preference to seed-sowing. At least
three .weeks will be saved. The size of the
area and the likes and dislikes of the family
should be studied. Use narrow beds which
will permit of easy weeding and attention, and
in the colder days be moderate in the use of
water. Unless breakwinds can be erected, avoid
areas open to strong winds; also allow plenty
of room between plants for the sun to assist
quick growth. When the plants are firmly
established use the cultivator regularly.
* * * *
Average rainfall for the last five years on
Sydney’s catchment areas? Average of all
recorded years?
Nepean catchment: Sherbrook, average over
the last five years 45.31 inches, average of all
recorded (49) years 57.15 inches; Cataract,
27.69, 34.94 (38 years); Avon Dam, 26.56, 33.03
(23 years); Robertson, 54.1, 56.58 (39 years).
Warragamba catchment: Goulburn, 22.56, 24.93
(84 years); Katoomba, 39.29, 53.85 (56 years),
* * * *
Points to be observed in the selection of
racing yearlings ? Diet ?
It’s a difficult job, but the following points
should be observed: (1) The yearling should
be by a successful sire and from a dam noted
for her production of successful horses rather
than her record on the track. (2) It should be
well-grown, showing quality, substance and
character, expressed by superior bearing, a head
with a full bright eye, broad forehead, deep,
wide jowl and head set on neck cleanly and
openly and not at a sharp angle. Legs with
ample but flat bone, showing no sign of
coarseness; all joints large but clean and flat;
pasterns not too long and sloping, nor yet too
short and upright; feet compact, but with an
open hoof head —avoid thin, shelly feet above
all things. (3) Other details of conformation
are hard to assess in a yearling, but, generally,
look for long rein, long forearm, great length
from hip to buttocks to stifle to hock. The
horse should “stand over a lot of ground.”
Avoid long backs and loose coupling; depth of
girth and well-sprung ribs are desirable. (4)
Action should be free and true. (5) Horse
should be free of blemishes; watch for abnor-
mality about the eyes, swellings about the
joints, particularly fetlocks and hocks. Most
important factor in diet is access to good, fresh
pasture. Good-quality lucerne hay should be
fed at least once daily. A concentrate mixture
of four parts by weight of oats and one part
bran gives good results—if grazing is poor
and only a limited supply of lucerne hay avail-
able, add one pound of linseed meal daily.
Amounts fed depend on grazing available, but
an approximate daily allowance is 151b.-201b.
concentrate and roughage, made up of
51b.-l 11b. concentrate and 121b.-161b. hay or other
roughage. (Information from the Queensland
Department of Stock and Agriculture.)
❖ ❖ *
(1) What constitutes a city in Victoria ? (2)
Names of Victorian cities, excluding those in
the metropolitan area ?
(1) The Victorian Year Book, 1928-29, states
that “Any portion of Victoria, not exceeding
in area nine square miles, and having no point
in such area distant more than six miles from
any other point therein, which contains at least
500 inhabitant householders and rateable pro-
perty capable of yielding £3OO per annum upon
a rate of one shilling in the pound, may be
constituted a borough. Any borough having
during the preceding financial year a revenue
of £lO,OOO may be declared a town; or, haying
a revenue of £20,000, may be declared a city.”
(2) The Victorian Year Book, 1939-40, states
that “The total number of municipalities
throughout the State at September 30, 1939,
was 197. Of these, 34 ranked as cities.” Cities
outside Greater Melbourne were Ballarat, Ben-
digo, Geelong, Geelong West, Mildura and
Warrnambool.
* # * *
What kind of soil is most suitable for grow-
ing gladioli? Are they a good marketable
product ? Varieties suitable ?
The type of soil doesn’t matter, provided it
is at least 12in. deep. Choose an open posi-
tion free from damaging winds, thoroughly
drain the area, then give a dressing of lime.
Two weeks later dig in plenty of rotted manure
to which is added equal parts of bonedust and
superphosphate (loz. to the square yard). Dip
the bulbs in a mixture of 4 pint formalin to
a kero.-tin of water (a prevention against scab
and insects) and set them 4in. deep and 12in.
apart. As plants grow, provide staking to
enforce straight stalks. The light shades (pink,
for preference) are most sought after for
bouquets and sheaths. Since the lists vary m
each State, ask local florists to help you in
procuring named varieties. Gladioli are an
excellent selling line, and, provided the blooms
are up to standard, you shouldn’t have diffi-
culty in securing plenty of customers.
* * H; **
Origin of the phrase “the Three Tailors of
Tooley-street” ?
It refers to three tailors in Tooley-street,
Southwark, London, who are alleged to have
addressed a petition of grievances to the House
of Commons, beginning “We, the People of
England.” Since then the phrase “the Three
Tailors of Tooley-street” has been applied as
a synonym for any small pettifogging clique
of persons having an exaggerated opinion ol
themselves.
■* * * *
(1) Results of the Bread and Cheese Club
short-story competition? (2) Results of the
poetry competition conducted by Mean jin
Papers? (3) Addresses of the Bread and
Cheese Club and of Meanjin Papers?
(1) First prize to Mrs. Anderson, 61 East
Crescent-street, McMahon’s Point, Sydney;
second to William Lynch, 19 Bligh-street,
Sydney; and third to Miss Joan Dowell, 177
St. George’s-terrace, Perth. (2) The lyric sec-
tion was won by Miss D. C. Hewett, 20 Ridge-
street, South Perth; and the narrative section
by Peter Miles, Vulture-street, Brisbane. (3)
Bread and Cheese Club, Box 1663, Elizabeth-
street G.P.O., Melbourne; and Meanjin Papers,
Box 1871W, G.P.O., Brisbane.
Brief Answers.
P.D.O’R.: You have the drinks. Arm-
strong’s team won all Tests v. England in
Australia in 1920-21 —the first by 377 runs,
second by an innings and 91 runs, third by
119 runs, fourth by eight wickets, and fifth by
nine wickets. Australia also won four out of
five Tests in Australia in 1924-25... .W.D.R.:
Write to the Superintendent, Mercantile Marine
Office, York-street North, Sydney L.M.:
Know nothing about the gentleman... .B.M.:
Buy some oxalic acid, make into a solution as
directed on the packet, apply to the bath with
a piece of rag tied to a stick, then wash the
bath thoroughly. Be careful not to get the
acid on your hands... .L.M.; According to
Who’s Who in Australia, E. G. Theodore was
born at Port Adelaide on December 29, 1884.
....A.B.C.: Webster gives Dionysus as “an
Olympian god of vegetation; later, god and
giver of the grape and its wine, in which
character he was worshipped with orgiastic rites
and conceived as leader of a wild rout of
satyrs, maenads and sileni. He was also patron
of the drama. A later name of Dionysus, which
came to be the usual one among the Romans,
is Bacchus” G.P.: The Victoria Cross was
instituted on January 29, 1856, but awarded
for previous acts of gallantry. That is how
it went to Lieut. C. D. Lucas, R.N., who won
it in the Baltic on June 21, 1854, for throwing
overboard a live shell which had fallen on the
deck of H.M.S. Hecla at Bomaasund....
X.Y.Z.: Who’s Who in Australia makes it
“Eugene Gorman, M.C., K.C.”... .R.W.:
Any large music store should be able to supply
the words and music of “Night and Day”....
T.P.S.: Deus ex machine is “one who puts
things right at the critical moment”... .G.W.:
Most assurance companies apply the surrender
value of bonuses to payment of premiums, thus
keeping the policy alive until the surrender
value of the bonuses is exhausted. If the policy
has been in force for some years, it will
probably be kept up for a good while....
H.J.B.: When a petitioner gets a decree for
restitution of conjugal rights he does not get
a divorce —he gets an order directing his wife
to return to him. If she disobeys this order


Public Notices.
I, KATHLEEN MATILDA WOLF, of Ger-
man nationality, born at Semaphore, South
Australia, and resident all my life in Australia,
now residing at 7 Belgrave Street, Waverley,
New South Wales, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act, 1920-36.
Estate of THOMAS HAMMERTON, deceased,
late of Sydney, formerly of Gunnedah. —The
Public Trustee, of No. 19 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, is the administrator of the estate of
the abovenamed deceased, who died intestate
on 24th April, 1929. The said deceased was
born in England and was a son of Henry
Hammerton and Theresa Fisher. He was
believed to have married a Rita who
was supposed to be residing in the Maitland
or Singleton district, and of such marnage
there was said to be two children. If the said
Rita Hammerton was living on 24th April,
1929, she would be entitled to a one-third share
of deceased’s estate, and if any child or children
were then living the remaining two-thirds would
be divisible equally amongst them. Therefore,
let the said Rita Hammerton and the children
of her alleged marriage to the said deceased,
or their legal personal representatives, take
notice that unless a claim from them or either
of them is received on or before the expiration
of three months from the publication of this
notice the Public Trustee will proceed to disti-
bute the estate of the said deceased amongst
the next-of-kin of whose claim the Public
Trustee then has notice.
STAMPS
100 New Zealand®, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
10 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air JLists —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street. Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 36 Vfears.)
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
Volet
J2juucJtitip
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE” is co-operating to the full with
requirements of National importance. Because of these
requirements, shortages exist in certain raw materials
needed for radios and radiograms, and there will be a
universal decrease in the number of instruments to be
made. Hence “HIS MASTER’S VOICE” radios will be
fewer, but “His Master’s Voice” engineers will still main-
tain the high standard of design and performance which
has made “His Master’s Voice” radio famous throughout
Australia.
“HIS MASTER'S VOICE” RADIO
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH K.S.W.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
“I feel that no man —no matter how educated, or what his age, or what
his profession—who seriously takes up the Course, can go through it without
improving himself.” —Lord Baden Powell.
■m
1* ■ . V?
) !
The late
Liorcl Baden Powell.
TRIBUTES
One of the finest tributes paid to Pelmanism in its 42 years of service to the public is the increasing number
of people in Great Britain who, strained in body, mind and spirit as they have been and still are, seek help
in the Pelman Course of Training. They believe, that it will help them ; they find that it does help them and
they tell others.
The same tribute of increasing interest month by month in the Pelman Course is paid to the Melbourne
Branch by the people of Australia and New Zealand, with a corresponding increase in the number ot
men and women who enrol for the Course.
This is not onlv the reward of excellence. It is a recognition
that the Pelmaii Course contains within itself the constituents
of the rare and resolute thinking process of the peoples of
the British Empire.
Pel man ism is scientific training of Mind, Memory and
Personality. It substitutes good and faithful habits of
mind and memory for slovenly and fearful ones. Thus it
promotes steadfastness, definiteness and continuity of
effort.
Among the qualities and attributes it specifically develops
are Observation. Will-Power, Decision. Self-Confidence, Judg-
ment, Organisation, Concentration, Initiative, Social Ease and
a thoroughly dependable Memory for faces, figures, names,
appointments, prices, and useful data of every kind.
DOCTOR: “Pelmanism lias shown me how to observe
instead of merely seeing.’’
TEACHER: “Increase in my powers of concentration and
Memory. Increase in Self-Confidence. Greater interest
in people and in my surroundings.”
STAFF CAPTAIN: “I want to thank you for your attention,
and express the hope that I may keep in touch with the
Institute in the future as the occasion otters.
SHEEPFAEMER: “I have kept an account of the time spent
on the Course. It amounted to a shade under three
months, and the average time per day, 40 minutes.”
AIRCRAFTMAN: “My memory is improved, my concent ra-
tion developed, and I am a better observer.”
PRIVATE: “I have developed Will-Power, Observation and
Memory.”
SOLDIER (Engineer): “Yesterday I learned that promotion,
and to a higher rank than that which I had expected, is
coming my way in the near future. I attribute my
promised advancement to Pelmanism.”
SOLDIER: “I was one of three to be promoted out of a
class of thirty selected for special training.”
ENGINEDRIVER: “It is with a wonderful sense of ability
and security that I face the future.”
We shall be glad to send readers a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” 70 pages, post free. Your
inquiry will be x’egarded as a confidential communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
Gloucester House, 396 Flinders lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU 3335.
There are over half a million Pelman-
ists, of whom more than 44,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
Headquarters: London.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of “THE
EFFICIENT MINI).’’
Name
Address
142
she is guilty of desertion and the husband may,
Jf he so desires, then petition for a divorce,
A decree nisi is usually made absolute six
months after service on the Crown Solicitor,
but in very special circumstances this time is
shortened The husband mav be ordered to
pay alimony and his children
both during the nendine of the petition and
permanently afte/the decree absolute. The
custody of the children is a matter for the
discretion of the Court, the primary considers-
tion being the welfare of the children. In the
case of very young children the mother is, in
the absence of moral misconduct, usually pre-
ferred A.C.J.: You can do it yourself and
save a few shillings... .R.L.McL.: You cannot
charge more than the rent which was paid for
the premises on August 31, 1939... JLJ.R.:
“Issue” means legitimate children and does
not extend to children of children... .X.Y.Z.:
The four Georges, William IV and Victoria
belonged to the House of Hanover, and some
authorities, such as The Statesman’s Year Book
included Edward VII and George V (until he
became head of the House of Windsor) in
the same House. Other authorities, such
as Whitaker's Almanack , placed Edward
VII and George V in the House of Saxe-
Coburg because Edward’s father, Albert, was
Prince of Coburg and Gotha... .G.H.K. *
Don’t know of a .blue marketed
tor the extermmat.on ofJ'hrteants, aunou^
such a. P f f Brisbane R.N.:
Extermmat , B . ' o ’f” W.A.,
The a , Perth should be
Gleddon Building, Hay-street, Perm, snouiu uc
able to tell you the conditions for becom ng
an architect. . . .A.G.D . A N. S. Wales JJepari
mcnt of AgricuUure lcakt on the control
ants has been te Ihe
dog appears to be suffering a •
pernicious eczema » for which there s no
external remedy. May be able to assist if you
furnish information as to diet when last
wormed, kind of soap. *° r
whether any kind of disinfectants or odier
medicares are used m washing, -• •
The ruling is that “a member of the A.M.F
who served on active service overseas may
above the regimental color patch a half-size
color patch of the last unit of th ® :
(or other Empire force) in which he served
the color patch for ex-naval members will
be of navy-blue material 2m. by Im., with
‘R.A.N.’ in white superposed. There is no
reference in the Standing Orders to colei
patches to be worn by those who served during
the 1914-18 war in the R.F.C. or R.A.F.,
though presumably either ot those service
would be classed as an Empire force.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —
D.H.:
Empire of Empires, faithful nations,
Guarding each respective stations.
Individual effort is required
To hold our position as desired.
H.V.W.:
But ’ltler! Starve the lizards! ’E don’t know
anything.
And I bet ’e bites ’is fingers when ’e ’ears ’ow we
can sing.
D.S.: Naught but a gentle tear for Perci-
val....K.E.: As dead as the fish... .H.P.M.:
Well off our beat... .T.EJ.; Thin... .F.C.J.:
Don’t like “Sniggs and C 0.”... .W.V.M.: No!
Even in spite of its “impish humor”
A.M.M.: A smile in it; try it as a brief
H.G.: It doesn’t get anywhere F.M.:
Feeble R.C.: Flapper fodder L.E.H.:
Interested —“ever so little”... .K.H.: The best
thing you could do with “Ted’s Last Chop”
would be to grill it.—l.M.: Take those
“vegies rich in vities” to some market where
the buyers are blind and deaf... .J.S.; But
you write as if the recruit is still about four
years 01d... .A. 8.8.; Don’t use archaisms such
as “erst”; and, if you do, use them correctly.
B.S.G.: For the Tiny Tots.... W.T.T.:
There’s feeling in it; but your reason’s at the
mercy of your rhymes... .M.LB.: We don’t
reprint J.8.D.: Surely you don’t pronounce
"Anzac” with the accent on the second
syllable? C.E.G.: Pleasant, in a mild sort
of way... .Y. 8.: Promising... .L.H.C.; Come
again... .J.W.McC.: That theme’s a fossil.
R.S.: Even if it does happen to mean
something, the line “And simmers in the sculls
of shattered shells” hisses unendurably
W.M.F.: Strong theme feebly treated
M.T.: Unfinished T.P.: “Still” isn’t a noun.
W.A.C.: Make a par of it H.G.:
Comes near; try it elsewhere 0.T.5.: Three
faint cheers as “homage to the resourcefulness
of Mrs. Bob” H.W.K.: Too adjectival
D.W.: Sweet H.M.D.: Think over “Last
Night” a little longer R.W.T.; That little
place called Writing On Stone is too far out
of our territory... .M.G.: Doesn’t hit it off.
K.A.; Gave us indigestion N.A.M.M.:
Not here... .P.H.8.: Feeble... .W.A.E.: Lacks
form M. 8.: Nothing to it C.H.L.: No,
thanks F.W.L.: True enough, but it’s been
done before.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.L.C.: Two scarecrows burdened with
logs across shoulders leaning against enlarged
dog-kennel labelled “Murphy’s Pub” JG- :
Don’t throw your rejected drawings away; they
would make the ideal surrealist wallpaper
design D.H.L.: Your grip on the war situa-
tion seems as confused as your art M.W.;
An undertakers’ trade journal might accept it.
... .N.8.L.: Brewer practically indistinguish-
able from surrounding kegs.... Bert C.: Your
reluctance in previous drawings to give your
characters hands is understandable after your
latest effort... .F.J.: There is no market for
used gags C.J.G.: Head studies with he-she
gags attached are as dead as the late J. Caesar.
.... J.D.M.: Four perpendicular corpses, a 7ft.
dog with 7in. legs and elephant ears and a
hopeless jest M.C.: You haven’t explained
why a hirsute swaggie is leaping in the air
while another whiskered individual is handing
a bottle over a fence to a cow D.F.: The
letterpress reads “We’re doin’ 70 now, Joe —
wonder where the brake is”; this would have
slightly more point if the car seemed to be
moving PJ.: We don’t publish jokes about
physical deformities —or are you unaware that
arms, let fall, come below the chest? 8.N.:
Did you draw it while going over hilly country
in a tank? ... .W.S.M.: Doubt if the cretins
with jointless legs that you depict could talk
like that.


Correct belt tension, the all important factor
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen bell
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Office: 20 Queen's Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States.
I
H
ff
35
*
0
2
Wa
///
• PULLEYS • BEARINGS
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * r *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LIMITED.
INTERIM DIVIDEND No. 50.
NOTICE is hereby given that a first Interim
Dividend of 12i per cent. (6d. per share) in
respect of the year ending 30th June, 1942, less
United Kingdom income tax at 6s. 2d. in the £
(1.85 d. per share), has been declared, and will
be payable on 24th June next to all persons
registered as holders of shares on the Australian
register at the close of business on 9th May,
1942. The net amount of dividend sterling is
equal to 4.15 d. per share. The transfer books
will be closed from 11th May to 13th May
(both days inclusive).
For LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LIMITED,
WM. THOMAS, Local Secretary, Kalgoorlie,
Ist May, 1942.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
, Dividends >,
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 25 p.c. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £ £ £
1934.. 85,552 7500 4,579 41,947 31,526 71,525
Assets written up and £253,182 1
of bonus scrip distributed. Un- I „
explained addition reserves, £16,088; ( ’ 0
added goodwill, £77,732. J
12$ p.c.
1935. .100,418 7500 7,000 52,746 33,172 43,053
To staff fund, £lOOO 42,053
Share premiums, £30,000 .. .. 72,053
17$ p.c.
1936. .147,550 7500 11,862 73,844 t rn
Staff fund and charities, £4OOO j d ’ ’ 1
Assets written up and unexplained
additions to reserves, £455,583 .. 577,980
Reserves capitalised, £421,969 .. 156,011
12% p.c
1937. .172,341 7500 14,000 105,492*1 .„ iqs
Staff fund and charities, £3OOO ] 4 ’ ’
Share premiums, £126.591 .. .. 324,951
!988 217 7 1 ? 7500 14,000 13 L 562 \ . 878fl0(t
Staff fund and chanties, £5500 j
Reserves capitalised, £185,667 . • 192,439
Insurance, etc., reserve disappears,
£7500 184,939
174 p.c.
1939 27! 693 7500 14,000 194,950 1 235 ,182
Staff fund and chanties, £5OOO ] ’ ’
286,654
Tax reserve taken in, £120,095 . . 406,749
1941. .282,566 7500 14,000 194,950 66,116 472,865
12$ p.c.
1942. .253,790 7500 14,000 139,250 93,040 565,905
+ Excluding depreciation reserve, £234,786 at
31/l/’42.
For 12 months or more now the Govern-
ment’s policy has been to discourage
further expansion of ordinary retail
trading. The idea is to divert investible
capital and savings into production of
essential war materials and back into the
Treasury to help finance rapidly increas-
ing defence expenditure and, of course,
at the same time keep a light curb on in-
flationary tendencies. One instrument of
control is the licensing of capital ex-
penditure in excess of certain amounts ;
another is the complicated system of
taxes that has been introduced, includ-
ing proposed confiscation of co. profits
in excess of 4 p.c. on capital—capital
being share capital and reserves com-
bined.
Despite the Government inhibition,
Woolworths’ business has continued to
expand, partly because of capital com-
mitments entered into prior to the close
of accounts in 1941, partly because there
was more money about and partly be-
cause the public snapped up and hoarded
goods which were becoming difficult or
impossible to replace. Another factor
which has helped to inflate the money
value of turnover has been the rise in
prices that followed on the heels of
mounting costs.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts the board figured net
earnings £28,776 lighter at £253,790. The
contraction was due mainly to bigger
tax payments (£56,185, up £20,849) and
heavier depreciation (£28,108, up
£3051). The £253,790, which includes
divs. from holdings in seven healthy
subsidiaries —shares in these offshoots
appear in the books at £1,376,151 —was
sufficient to pay the pref. divs. (together
£21,500) and show 20.8 p.c. on ord,
capital. Still, the div. was reduced from
\l\ p.c. to 12-2- p.c. That was because
no specific allowance had been made to
meet the next tax bill when it arrives.
The probabilities are that it will gobble
most or all of the £93,040 of the year’s
declared net earnings that remained in
the business.
Including the lay-by for depreciation
(£234,786), capital and reserves combined
amounted to £2,189,690 when the books
closed. On that amount 4 p.c. would be
equal to 6.3 p.c. on capital alone. The
capital totals £1,388,999 in 75,000 £1
10 p.c. and 200,000 £l7 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 4,455,996 ords. of ss. each. However,
of the £1,113,999 of ord. capital,
£944,712 (approx. 17s. in the £) repre-
sents bonus scrip scattered since 1930.
So, although new issues brought with
them £199,977 of share premiums, a
4 p.c. div. would be worth a lot more
to shareholders who held their scrip for
the last dozen years or more.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1937. 1940. 1941. 1942.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,118,938 1,388,999 1,388,999 1,388,999
Liabilities. . 306,662 316,798 377,915 626,390
Freeholds, etc. 417,585 36,717 41,148 41,148
Leaseholds. . 87,016 82,506 89,062 82,065
Plant . . 239,571 282,531 317,799 350,928
Shares other
cos., etc. . 847,326 1,226,263 1,286,263 1,376,263
Stocks . . 349,439 465,024 590,027 767,109
Debtors . . *64,359 *344,625 *281,630 *298,600
Cash . . 4,749 6,479 15,846 8,627
* Includes advances to associated cos.— £58,291,
1937 ; £317,321, 1940 ; £272,889,1941 ; £287,624,
1942.
Last year’s addition of £177,082 to stock
augurs well for the current year’s earn-
ings. The growth in the plant item (up
£33,129) mainly represents fitting of
the new bulk store at Glebe and of
the new branch at Lithgow, while the
addition of £90,000 to shareholdings re-
flects capitalisation of advances made to
the Vic. and Qld. offshoots before the
outbreak of war. Liabilities (up £248,475)
include £275,323 owing to subsidiaries,
which is more than offset by the sub-
sidiaries’ debt of £287,624 to the parent.
For their part the pups (paid capitals
£1,240,601) showed combined earnings
before taxation of £640,867 (up £30,633).
But Treasury demands (£392,624) were
£129,211 heavier, leaving their net balance
£98,578 lighter at £248,243. That excludes
past taxation of £35,936 written back.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
r- Dividends %
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 5.4-7 p.c. Ordinary. serves serves,
£> £f £ £ £
1934.. 22,446 8140 5 p.c. = 22,000 66,587
Written off buildings and machinery,
£33,076 33,511
1935.. 28,355 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 392 33,903
Written off plant and buildings. Deficit.
£38,361 4,458
Reserves.
1936.. 40,738 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 12,775 8,317
6-7 p.c.
1937.. 57,563 10,669 6 „ „ 26,400 20,494 28,811
7 p.c.
1938.. 58,875 11,200 7 „ „ 30,800 16,875 45,686
1939.. 59,804 11,200 7 „ ~ 30,800 17,804 63,490
To staff fund, £3OOO . . . . .. 60,490
1940.. 62,520 11,200 7$ p.c. =33,000 18,320 78,810
To staff fund, £3OOO .. .. .. 75,810
1941.. 50,553 11,200 8 p.c. =35,200 4,153 79,963
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 74,963
6-7 p.c.
1942.. 68,957 10,699 6 p.c. =26,400 31,858 106,821
To staff partners, £lO.OOO ' . . . . 96,821
* After deducting bonuses to staff.
The National Security (Building Con-
trol) Regulations of December, 1940,
placed all new building and alterations
costing more than £5OOO under control
of the Commonwealth Treasury, the idea
being to limit private competition for
Government-required labor and materials.
Stringent amendments lowered the
general building limit to £3OOO in June
last, and since February the only con-
struction free of control has been new
dwellings up to £2OOO beyond a radius
of 25 miles of G.P.Os. of the capital
cities; also alterations up to £250 for
houses, £5OO for shops and hotels and
£lOOO for other buildings. For the sake
of flexibility, control is being passed to
the deputy-directors of war organisation
in each State, though this does not neces-
sarily imply any relaxation of the regu-
lations. Supplementary measures have
been financial controls over mortgages.
Partly because of the time lag, the
effects of all this are only just showing
up in private building activity. For the
period traversed by Wunderlich’s latest
accounts, the monthly average of metro-
politan building permits in Australia was
£1,856,000, compared with £2,265,000 for
the year before. But there has been a
precipitous fall in which South Australia
has been specially excepted since the
beginning of 1942, the March figure
shrinking to a beggarly £245,000. Those
figures, of course, would look a whole
heap better if Government defence and
other building and such permits as the
Treasury may have issued were included.
For the large and efficient Wunderlich
business, which spreads throughout all
the Australian States and Maoriland,
last year was a period of heavily
mounting costs to boot, and the
apparent improvement in profits reflects
provision (£59,549) for taxation £25,054
smaller than found necessary for 1941
and a depreciation charge £13,782 lighter
at £22,896. The £68,957 shown was
enough to pay the prefs. their full 7 p.c.
and hand the ords. 13.1 p.c., against 8.9
p.c. Actually, ord. div. was reduced
from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c., and except where
the N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act was
inapplicable the prefs. were cut to the
same rate. Another £lO,OOO was ear-
marked for staff benefits —for long a
feature of the management’s industrial
code.
The year saw sizable additions to the
modern plant and heavy increment in
stocks before the February ban:
1938. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Staff funds .. 31,700 30,601 28,519 43,000
Creditors .. 127,665* 107,878* 154,971 142,303
Tax provision 95,852 141,415
Freeholds . . 362,629 318,703 327,630 331,613
leaseholds . . 777 200 130 116
Plant, etc. .. 198,703 158,307 149,741 161,981
Stocks.. .. 162,034 188,873 282,053 335,310
Book debts . . 98,939 118,623 181,566 177,299
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 5,918 56,328 66,016 91,527
* Including tax provision.
Investments are partly scrip in a West-
ralian associate, partly unspecified Com-
monwealth loan.
Government and A.R.P. demand may
help make up for virtual cessation of
home-building, but substitution of fixed
prices for the old automatic self-adjust-
ing formula threaten to keep selling prices
perpetually behind any increment in costs.
Uniform taxation, however, promises
overdue relief from the maze of double
State taxation to which Australia-wide
concerns like Wunderlichs are subject.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends s To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Old Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932. .14,822 14.4 p.c. Nil 12,030 2,792 52,702
1933. .24,514 15.6 „ 5 p.c. 21,250 3,264 55,966
1934. .32,331 7f „ 74 „ 19,375 12,956 68,922
1935.. 29,824 7f „ 7 J „ 19,375 10,449 79,371
Insurances surrendered, £2OOB . . 77,363
Written off, £2900 .. .. .. 74,463
1936.-21,127 7f p.c. 7| p.c. 22,822 72,768
1937.. 31.827 7} „ 7J „ 24,412 7,415 80.183
1938.-29,437 8 „ 8 „ 24,800 4,637 84,820
1939.. 32.338 8 „ 8 „ 24,800 7,538 92,358
1940.. 32.730 9 ~ 9 „ 27,900 4,830 97,188
Depreciation written back, £15,000.. 112,188
1941.-27,909 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,000 9 112,197
Pref. div. subject to 22J p.c. cut from 1/10/’3l.
The textile industry, a bounteous field
for this sort of thing, is in process of
“rationalisation,” by which is meant
broadly the standardisation and concen-
tration of output into the most useful
channels, one aim being conservation of
the nation’s fast-diminishing labor re-
serves. Thus is the trend towards mono-
polies and State-planned production
accentuated. Elimination of trade-marks
is causing “considerable concern” to the
Lustre management, which has spent
large sums on the improvement and
popularising of its products. So have
others, and until free production is again
possible some protection must be afforded
those who, by the needs of war, may
be put out of business or made to switch
entirely to defence production or con-
centrate on one line only. An objection
is that unbranded products may cheapen
quality.
In its last term, partly to offset the
dearth of labor in the metropolitan area,
the enterprising Lustre control opened a
subsidiary factory in Newcastle. A small
engineering subsidiary, which showed a
loss of £250, was also acquired to supple-
ment the existing workshop in catering
for both plant renewals and Government
work. The other pups. Lustre (N.Z.)
and Siltex, operated at a “satisfactory
profit.” But the textile strike of several
weeks added to the cost, price-control
and other difficulties engendered by war,
and with growing production for mili-
tary purposes on a cost basis internal
economies failed to offset the fall in gross
by £4821, leaving the declared net result
that much lower at 9 p.c. on capital.
An all-round distribution at the same
rate took all but £9 of the surplus.
Government action in commandeering
pure-silk reserves and the physical and
monetary obstacles to replenishing raw-
material imports cut a deep swathe in
stocks, which enabled a corresponding
reduction in the overdraft. Inventories,
however, are still hefty:
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Ord. capital. . £226,667 £226,667 £226,667 £226,667
Pref. capital. . 83,333 83,333 83,333 83,333
Mortgages .. 31,928 31,928 31,928 31,928
Overdraft .. 72,740 84,803 163,243 82,817
Creditors .. 37,016 43,643 68,855 59,098
Tax provision 16,597 15,696 37,731' 41,794
Freeholds . . 122,381 122,391 122,847 123,207
Plant.. .. 164,725 149,969 133,485 128,674
Stocks . . 159,158 197,485 332,250 262,202
Debtors . . 108,275 108,150 115,820 101,649
Cash, etc. . . 509 532 3,287 10,712
Shares subsid. 10,452 12,303 15,206 25,341
Depreciation of £25,890 charged had
little visible effect on the book value of
plant because past provisions of £15,000
have been written back to an intangible
asset and war expenditure account —this
“in view of the strength 0f... .written-
down values and the fact that large addi-
tions appear unlikely during the war
period.” Assets, however, are being
maintained in the “best possible condi-
tion” to meet post-war developments.
In the knitwear department non-profit-
able military orders are more and more
displacing civilian production, and to eke
out stocks Australian women will have


THE
lIMITCn iNSURA NCE
UIV I I ft. U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862,
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUwTEj* UduU. SYJ)N£Y.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution
A. C. DAWSON, T. (J. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M4383. 86371.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HOMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
The Symbol of
Security I
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
aaimn
‘vnvsixsav ao
(Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman);
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E,. M.L.C.; James Kidd; A.
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J.
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G.;
G. H. Shipway.
num
Z
.
ATTUNED Til WAR
Action Stations! The dramatic staccato cry
cuts the silence, and changes the regular
routine of the ship of war into a war ship—and
the dim grey smudge on the horizon becomes a
definite target to be attacked and destroyed.
So with industry—with all the dramatic tension
of the battleship's order, comes the command
to produce the nation's needs.
One by one the cluttering activities of peace-
time production are laid aside, until the great
ship of industry has cleared her decks for war-
time production.
And E.T.C., famous for the integrity and pre-
cision of its technical products, moves into
industry's front line, and an ever-increasing
stream of equipment for the nation's need
flows from the machines.
E.T.C. are proud of their share in the national
effort, and to know that each unit produced is
worthy of the company's hail mark —"A
feenieo Product."
leciiico
ETC. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. AND RENWICK ST., MARRICKVILLE
6-33-41
to do with heavily-reduced aids to leg
glamor. Their trans-Tasman sisters are
on a ration of four pairs of hosiery a
year.
Commonwealth Life (Amalgamated)
The 1927 merger of the Commonwealth
Life and Citizens and Graziers’ into this
Amalgamated co. saved policy-holders’
bacon. Under the new management the
expense rate was halved in a decade, and
a policy of property and mortgage
investment has lifted the effective
rate of interest on the mean funds to
£6 12s. p.c. Bonuses, however, are still
something in the future, depending on
the war-risk experience and the extent
to which the control desires to strengthen
the position further.
Feature of actuary Traversi’s latest
quinquennial investigation is the adop-
tion of the net-premium basis of policy
valuation and the latest (A —1924-29)
mortality tables. Altogether in those five
years actuarial reserves (i.e., the protec-
tion for policy contracts) have been
strengthened by £102,300, or half the
revenue surplus (£204,255, down £30,484
because of the crop of early policies
becoming claims);
t —*—1932—1936 ——, 1937-1941 \
Premiums . . £483,145 £561,011
Interest, etc. 129,330 168,012
Income .. £612,475 £729,023
Claims ..£121,382 £303,157
Expenses .. 256,354 221,611
Outgoings.. £377,736 £524,768
Surplus .. £234,739 £204,255
Of the £204,255, £169,320 was added
to the life funds in meeting the normal
growth in policy liabilities and stiffening
things as indicated, £27,935 was written
off intangibles and the balance of £7OOO
transferred to investment fluctuation
account. Deducting taxes, expenses
absorbed 38.7 p.c. of premium income,
compared with 54.8 p.c. for the five
years before. War appears to have
arrested the good work here, partly be-
cause two-thirds of the business com-
prises the expensive Industrial type. The
actuary’s loading for future expenses and
profits of existing business is 33.6 p.c.
The effect of all this since 1936 has
been to turn a policy-holders’ deficit of
£30,870, on the old less-stringent basis,
into a surplus of £6164, which is all there
is in the way of tangible representation
for the £154,781 of share capital:
1936. 1941.
Total tangible assets . . £443,359 £671,780
Sundry creditors* . . . . 11,164 33,230
Xet tangible assets . . . . £432,195 £638,550
Assurance funds .. . . 463,065 632,386
Surplus £30,8701 £6,104
* Other than under policies. + Excess Life fund.
Property and mortgages together com-
prise 84.4 p.c. of the assets. Obviously
everything depends on book values and
the annual allowance for repairs, etc.
The co. assumes its funds will net 4 p.c.,
so there is a handy margin of £2 12s. p.c.
for contingencies. Greater liability for
taxation has arisen because of the actu-
arial solvency now attained.
Federal Labor’s “two cardinal prin-
ciples” for the war-time future of the
goldmining industry, announced per
Minister Dedman last week, are:
(1) Except for a limited number of key
men, no protection from military call-ups
for men employed either directly or in-
directly in the industry; and (2) withdrawal
of some then remaining for Allied works
projects on a method to be decided by
“consultation with mineowners and the
A.W.U., so that as little disturbance as pos-
sible would be caused”—this apparently
after other labor resources for the purpose
have been gone into.
After his return from the Premiers’
Conference, Westralian Premier Willcock
said that war organiser Dedman had
stated in Melbourne that the Kalgoorlie
Chamber of Mines had assured him as
Minister that, after every fit man within
the army age groups (with the exception
of a few indispensable key men) had been
taken and after a reasonable number of
workers had been provided for jobs under
the Allied Works Council, it would still
be possible to carry on goldmining in
the West on a fairly good scale. The
Chamber flatly denies such an assurance,
and says it gave Dedman clearly to
understand that if the present drain con-
tinued the industry would shortly be in
a chaotic condition. Aged Dick Hamil-
ton, just elected president for the 42nd
consecutive year, on the subject of closing
down goldmines adds:
This would be disastrous to Westralia,
with its small population, spread over a
huge area Westralia has already been
called upon to make a bigger reduction
than any other State in her wheat acreage.
If, in addition, the goldmines are closed
down, Westralia, which is principally a
primary-producing State, will suffer a most
serious setback in her economic life. A
suggestion has been made that a few men
be left on each mine to carry on pumping
and other necessary operations to keep the
mines in repair, both above- and under-
ground, but the financial positions of the
mines are so different that many would be
inevitably closed and would never reopen.
The average number of men employed
in Westralian goldmining in 1941 was
12,929, as against 14,368 in 1940. Those
figures include men registered as lease-
holders and others employed on areas
which in many instances have hardly
passed beyond the prospecting stage.
* * * *
A yield of £5OOO from 1000 tons —
about £20,000 has been extracted from
3600 tons to date —from the privately-
owned Surprise mine brings Westfalia’s
one and only freehold goldmining field
once more into the limelight. It covers
a big area, and was acquired by a
London co. before Coolgardie was dis-
covered, In fact, before a survey showed
that it wasn’t, Coolgardie was reckoned
to be within the “Plains.” The Surprise
is working two lodes. Both are claimed
to be going strongly underfoot, and to be
improving in value with depth. The
White Hope and Celebration mines, which
were the cause of a boom in 1921, are
within a few miles of each other on
Hampton Plains, but nearer Kalgoorlie
than Coolgardie. Shoots on the “Plains”
are short and mostly erratic.
An industrial group in Brisbane has
taken over the Alpha oil-shale leases
(C.Q.), and its agents have been up on
the field to set things going. Samples
of 150 gallons per ton were brought
away. Production will be started in a
small plant, intention being to supply
industrialists’ own shortage. Any over
will be sold at cost price, so philanthropy
is not yet extinct.


Courage
and the right equipment
.. will win
“The front line,” said Churchill, “runs through
the factories.” At the great mills of Felt & Textiles
of Australia Ltd. loyal operatives are working
night and day to manufacture equipment that will
speed the hour of Victory. In this endeavour,
thiey are absorbing vast quantities of Australia’s
richest primary product, wool. At the same time,
they are learning technical lessons of the utmost
value to this country, both now and in the years
following a victorious Peace.
Felt and Textiles manufacture Lambs'
Wool Linings for Airmen ? s Boots and
Gloves, Felt Back-pads for Parachute
Linings, Woolly Insoles for Boots,
Toolholders and Quilted
Wadding to line our
Airmen s Suits.
An R.A.A.F. dawn
patrol prepares to
take off.
FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
261 George Street, Sydney
Manufacturers of
Feltex Floor Coverings
IN SYDNEY—STAY AT THE WENTWORTH
The Wentworth Hotel, noted for kindly hospitality, combines a
full measure of courteous service with modern appointments that
make for your comfort. Bedrooms with telephones, private bathrooms
and toilets.
TARIFF: Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-. Our
tariff remains constant the year round; we do NOT follow the
policy of increasing tariff during Christmas. Easter or any other
season.
HI
MACLURCAN: Managing Director
SYDNEY
Business. Rollery. Etc.
‘ ‘ Rationalisation’ ’
In the midst of all the sudden activity
following the threatening approach of the
Japanese towards the Australian conti-
nent there has been a great deal of con-
fusion and bungling. Australia has had
suddenly to adjust its affairs to meet
dangers and difficulties of the like it has
never encountered before. Irresponsible
politicians of the Ward variety have added
to the confusion by creating doubt and
disunity, and other members of the Gov-
ernment have shown too great a regard
for abstract party “principles” consider-
ing the real issue at stake. Overmuch
attention has been given to old-age pen-
sions and similar vote-catching activity.
Australia is in great danger, and one
would think that the occasion would be
one for full and hearty co-operation in
the obvious job of getting the country
into fighting trim with the least possible
dislocation to the really essential civil
structure. But manoeuvring and humbug
still go on at Canberra, and in the mean-
time some of the “war organisation of
industry” seems remote from realities.
There is far too much trial and error —
and waste.
The transition from comparative peace
to an actual fighting front has put Aus-
tralia in desperate need of a really big
and capable administrator. But where
in the present Government are there signs
of such a man? The Government for the
most part is a scratch crew —how scratch
can be judged by the presence of Ward
in the Ministry. True, learning by experi-
ence, any normal person can acquire
ability to handle the average job. But
the jobs ahead of the Government are
exceptional ones, and time is against the
trial-and-error system. Few of the
present Ministers showed any great indi-
cation that they appreciated the size of
the job in hand after they took office.
Instead, many displayed that cocksure-
ness which arises from ignorance, and
which is always fatal, whether in politics,
commerce or the boxing-ring.
In Sydney people are being put to great
inconvenience by rationing and “rational-
isation.” Businessmen are harried by
“freezing” orders, etc., that may be based
on departmental routine, nervousness
or oversight rather than reason. This
city has been visited by more
curses than any other. Rationing
and “rationalisation” in some shape and
degree are known to be inevitable. But
the Government appears to be satisfied
that it has done its job when it issues a
few regulations “covering” the problem
in hand and handing the matter over to
some “commissioner” or “director,” often
a new addition to the civil service. Some-
times these appointees are capable and
skilled in the job they are about to
handle ; but there are also the other kind.
And all the time behind the new civil
service there is the old civil service with
its traditional form-filling, red-tape and
disregard of public convenience and wel-
fare. There are departments, true, that
are gracious and helpful where they aie
set up mainly to give information or ser-
vice to the people. But our various taxa-
tion departments have rarely shown sym-
pathetic consideration of the national
welfare in framing the legislation which
the Government of the day has been
asked to pass. And there are others ol
the same order which together exercise
great control over the lives and welfare
of Australians.
Labor and National Service and War
Organisation of Industry are two port-
folios of considerable consequence U
Australians under present conditions. The
first is held by Mr. Ward, the second by
Mr. Dedman. Both these politicians are
given over to ideas of an experimental
nature rather than to realities. Man-
power, the greatest asset this country pos-
sesses, has been assigned to the remarkable
Mr. Ward. Organisation of industry and
all that goes with it comes within the
realm of Mr. Dedman, who doesn’t like
the private banking system for a start.
(Mr. Ward doesn’t like the private banks
at all.) If either of these gentlemen knew
as much about his Ministerial job as
the banks do about theirs Australia would
have been spared much noise and harsh-
running in the war-time gearbox.
Mr. Ward has found time to criticise
the army way of doing things. He is
rarely, if ever, critical of what unionists
do, though it is hard to believe that they
are entirely without faults —for instance,
on the wharves and in coalmines. The
army way isn’t blameless either, especially
in regard to waste of foodstuffs and the
like. But much of the disability under
which the forces suffer can be traced back
to the multitude of departments with
which co-operation is necessary. An active
organisation finds it difficult to get any-
where in a hurry with officialdom.
Inconvenience is one of the smallest of
war’s burdens. But often it is a symptom
that indicates more serious trouble in
the national industrial machine. There
is not the slightest doubt that Australia’s
war effort is capable of greater results,
and that one of the impediments is red-
tape. It is very easy to use a catch-cry
like “red-tape,” but in this case it is not
difficult to be more specific. State Parlia-
ments are an impediment to streamlined
taxation collections —a most vital item
in war finance —and an inordinate
amount of duplicated work goes on
throughout the country where Common-
wealth and State authorities overlap.
Usually the people’s time is also wasted.
Another delaying factor is the sys-
tem of referring all sorts of minor
matters in all parts of the Common-
wealth to headquarters in Melbourne.
Energetic people find the ensuing waste
of time and money utterly exasperating.
Time and money wasted also mean addi-
tions to the war burden.
Some experts who have taken on Gov-
ernment jobs to help the country out have
found their tasks far harder than any
they have tackled in a lifetime devoted
to their particular calling. The trouble
arises not from the work itself so much
as from the fact that the expert has to
co-operate with cumbersome officialdom.
He has loose ends to tie together after
some Government man has broken down
under the strain.
War organisation of industry and man-
power control are too serious and funda-
mental to be just “political” matters
Very difficult problems are involved, and
neither timidity nor cocksureness will
solve them. Wide knowledge and ability
are wanted on the part of the adminis-
trators, while co-operation by the public
is also called for. Muddle, strikes, “go-
slow” and party politics won’t encourage
co-operation.
Winchcombe Carson, the wool people,
point out that wool production in Aus-
tralia during the war so far has been a
record. For the season now closing the
estimate is 3,590,000 bales, making an
average of 3,623,000 bales for the past
three seasons. That is an increase of
360,000 bales over the average of the
Jhree immediately preceding pre-war
years. The three war-time clips have
been worth approximately £lB6 million.
It is contended that the original contract
price of 13.4 d. a pound no longer yields
the intended moderate profit to growers.
Canberra reports that Minister Ward’s
“recommendations for reconstruction of
the coal industry,” which came before
the War Cabinet last week, “will not be
further considered.” Mr. Ward, of
course, blames the owners for everything,
and he recommended nationalisation as
the solution; but conditions in mines
already Government-owned made the
ridiculous Minister’s recommendations
more absurd than usual. However, the
whole incident had the virtue of giving
a practical demonstration of the value
of Eddie’s recommendations; he has
made many more, but nowhere has their
absurdity been proved more promptly.
The Canberra report says that other
Ministers considered the Ward coal
scheme as “at present hopelessly imprac-
ticable, and calculated to profit only
coal-owners, who could seek compen-
sation on the basis of enhanced war-time
trade.” The Cabinet meeting included
“the presentation of facts showing that
the chairman of the Coal Commission,
Mr. Mighell, was right and Mr. Ward
was wrong on issues which Mr. Ward
had made the foundation of public criti-
cism of Mr. Mighell.” Mr. Ward, it may
now be recalled with interest, was the
principal calamity connected with the
defunct Industrial Relations Council. At
the time of its collapse Mr. Ward’s
personality was not so well known to his
fellow-Ministers.
* * * *
Senator Mcßride said last week that
since the outbreak of war wages of coal-
miners had increased by 27 p.c. and their
working hours had been reduced to 40
a week from 44. At one N. S. Wales pit
during the fortnight to April 18 the daily
average earnings were: Miners, 40s. 2d.;
cutters, 525. Bd. ; borers, 475. 6d.;
wheelers, 31s. 4d. “I do not say,” said
the Senator, “that the miners are out to
sabotage the war effort or are disloyal.
The number of enlistments from the in-
dustry would refute that. I do say,
though, that a number of miners are irre-
sponsible. They have net yet realised
the seriousness of the war, and have en-
deavored to carry on on a peace-time
basis.” In the 10 years to 1941 the
N. S. Wales coal industry had earned an
average of 1| p.c. on its paid-up capital,
Senator Mcßride added.
* * $ *
In Britain the 100 p.c. excess-profirs
tax (20 p.c. is returnable after the war)
is regarded as the chief hindrance to full
development of the country’s war re-
sources. In the U.S.A. there are similar
fears in respect of e.-p.t. legislation.
Canada has the best system; in that
Dominion 791 p.c. of profits in excess of
pre-war standards is taken by the Gov-
ernment, and 201 p.c. remains with the co.
or business. There is a flat-rate tax of
40 p.c. on all company earnings in addi-
tion, and there is the usual scale of
tax on divs. in the hands of recipients.
The beauty of the Canadian system
is that, though taxation is heavy all
round, by working harder the inroads
of taxation may be partly met. In such
cases the nation collects additional tax
and the industrialist a little more than
he would had he not worked so hard.
An avenue, however it may be equipped
with tollgates, should always be left
open to initiative and efficiency.


Missing Friend.
TO CLARENCE GEORGE TAYLOR formerly
of 6 Church Street Abbotsford in the State of
Victoria Laundryman.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife has commenced divorce proceedings
against you on the ground of desertion Unless
you enter an appearance in the Office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria in Melbourne on or before the twenty-
fifth day of May 1942 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs. —ROY SCHILLING of 379 Collins Street
Melbourne Proctor for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ALMA MAY TEEGE late of Armidale.—
TAKE NOTICE that THOMAS WILLIAM
TEEGE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 262 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance on or before
the thirty-first day of July next and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
Messieurs MACKENZIE & BIDDULPH Solici-
tors Guyra or their agents Messieurs BID-
DULPH & SALENGER Solicitors Selborne
Chambers 174 Phillip Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notice.
I, ANTON ALFRED ROTER, of Swiss nation-
ality, born at Frauenfeld, Switzerland, and
resident 14 years in Australia, now residing at
74 Bayview Road, Five Dock, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-36.
THAT
u
the
A LOAD
OFF YOUR MIND
If you will call at the offices of this Company, or make a brief request in writing,
you will learn of a plan whereby your mind can be relieved of worry regarding
the efficient conduct of your affairs during lifetime and the administration of your
estate should death occur.
The plan has a special appeal to those who have neither time nor liking for the
complicated details of taxation, rent collection, estate supervision, and other
business matters rendered doubly complex by current conditions. Furthermore,
it is a plan which ensures uninterrupted attention to your affairs no matter what
contingency may arise.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
FISHING TACKLE FOR EVERY NEED
As practical anglers, with complete stocks of tackle, we can supply everything
needed for beach, rock, deep-sea, harbour and river fishing. Call or write
for full particulars ... or for advice about specialised tackle. Prices are
moderate ... and all goods are GUARANTEED by us.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 854 “% G N E EY STREET
<r
ARE MAKING WEAPONS OF VICTORY.
M
u
a
s?^
/h
TJLOL
m
m.
H
m
rfSP
rn
i
L*
v/2
w
Crus’S:
m
THIS is a war in which everyone has a share, everyone
has a job to do ... and an enormous burden of responsi-
bility falls on the great industrial plants of Australia.
Here in the mills and workshops Australian workmen
lend their greatest efforts to the task of supplying
Australian fighting men with the weapons of war . . .
giving every ounce of energy to the job, that a victorious
peace may the quicker be achieved.
a
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
KEMBLA ROAD, PORT KEMBLA
THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION - MANUFACTURERS OF STEEL SHEETS
Since the Commonwealth decided to
interfere with the Stock Exchanges by
closing their doors for a few weeks, deal-
ings have never regained much volume
even though the Exchanges have reopened
for business on a restricted range of
prices for all classes of shares. The
Parliamentary committee appointed to
investigate the position condemned the
ban on share and land sales, and since
then the 4 p.c. profits limit has
also been reported on adversely. The
whole idea behind the so-called “eco-
nomic organisation” regulations was
wrong ; of an entirely political character,
they astounded everyone capable of think-
ing in terms of simple economics. The
only purpose they could possibly serve
was of a political nature, as already
the shareholding class is the most heavily
taxed in the Commonwealth, and the
non-shareholding class is now the better
fitted to pay taxes, especially in view of
the inflationary effect of the spending of
wages bloated by overtime earnings
in war industries. Australia has not
reached its maximum taxable capacity
even yet. It is only nervous political
thinking that has induced Canberra Labor
to borrow on the vast scale that is now
becoming noticeable. This chalking up
behind the Commonwealth Bank door of
large war-expense bills is all of a piece
with the decision to increase the base
of old-age pension rates and generally
curry favor with the “gimme” type of
voter. It is unintelligent and minus
backbone. So is the failure to tax the
under-£B-a-weeker adequately. He repre-
sents the biggest income class.
* * * *
Pending the introduction of a coupon
system of rationing, a reduction of 25
p.c. in permissible sales by clothing
retailers began this week. This is similar
to the tobacco restrictions. An “orgy” of
buying was said to have preceded the
announcement; “pandemonium” was
the word afterwards. While the restric-
tions operate advertising of clothing
will be banned. Importation of cloth-
ing is now difficult, and in Australia there
has been a diversion of manufacturing
activity to war work. In announcing the
decision to curtail consumption of cloth-
ing last week the Prime Minister said
“the darning needle is a weapon of war
these days.” A form of clothing ration-
ing has appeared inevitable for some
time. When it did come its introduction
was bungled.
* * He *
Australian Consolidated Industries is
reducing its div. The final for the year
to March 31 will be 3f p.c., making
p.c., against 8 p.c. in the preceding
term. In future the co. will bal-
ance on May 31. In reply to Mr.
Falstein, Munitions Minister Makin said
in the House last week that the Govern-
ment had saved £48,425 on war work
done by A.C.I. by agreement with the
co. The co. desired that it should work
to a basis of cost, plus the standard allow-
ance of 4 p.c., and that payments in
excess of bare costs should be refunded
later.
H* H*
In N. S. Wales, where the system of
taxation-instalment deductions is a war-
time measure, the department has
appealed to taxpayers to post their in-
stalments to avoid the stampede of people
that is now a feature of the payments
section. Congestion has been terrific,
with inconvenience on the one hand and
administrative difficulties on the other in
proportion. But it is all very fine for
the department to suggest that the tax-
payer take the risk of committing to the
ordinary processes of mailing stamps that
represent the only evidence of the fact
that he has paid for all or part of his
income-tax assessment. He will need
assurance that there is less confusion in
the postal receiving section of the taxa-
tion office than in the cash-receiving.
Unless the present congestion is over-
come by some means it may be neces-
sary to appoint officers or deputies to
inspect and record instalments at the
offices of the employers who pay the
wages. It would be almost as unbusiness-
like to send taxation stamps of which
there was no other record through the
post as it would be to send pound notes.
A person’s stamps may run into hundreds
of pounds.
* * * *
Developmental work at the Boyer
(Tas.) works of Australian Newsprint
Mills has been suspended until after the
war. Boyer is near New Norfolk, in
the Derwent Valley. Several men will
be released for important war work. The
mill has recently reached the record out-
put of 500 tons a week, and the aim is
to attain 2500 tons a week three years
after the war finishes. The shutting-down
on development is for the duration only.
* * * *
The Prices Commissioner has author-
ised a lift of 0.012 d. per unit in the price
charged for gas by the Australian Gas
Light Co. and the North Shore Gas Co.,
both of Sydney. The present price
charged by A.G.L. is 0.428 d. per unit
and by the North Shore Co. 0.449 d. The
increase represents slightly less than 3 p.c.
By reason of advancing costs since war
broke out A.G.L. has been forced to
reduce its div. from 6 p.c. to 4 p.c. Suc-
cessive State Governments refused to
sanction any increase in the price.
If: * * *
Petrol-rationing has come even to the
United States. Deliveries to the Atlantic
seaboard areas are to be cut 50 p.c. as
from May 16. Permanent rationing
begins on July 1.


THE SERVICE MAN
Thrown off the Doorstep.
“Ek Dum”: At the beginning of the
present week the story of the Battle of
the Coral Sea was not complete. Battles
of that sort have to be judged by their
aftermaths, and the aftermath of this
battle is not known. It may prove only
a preliminary action.
Following a very wise policy the Allied
South-west Pacific Headquarters will issue
no account of the operation—or any other
of the kind—until news can no longer help
the enemy. And although the peahen
press professes to be full of news —which
differs as usual, even as to the number
of ships sunk or damaged from paper
to paper—Mr. Churchill said on the
night of May 10 that no details had been
received, but that from the lies told by
the enemy it was obvious that it had
been a most vigorous and a most suc-
cessful battle for the American and Aus-
tralian forces.
The first official statement came from
Tokyo on the evening of May 7, and was
amplified on the morning of May 8. By
the evening of May 8 the enemy claimed
that he had sunk two U.S. battleships of
the California class—California was the
flagship of the U.S. Fleet which visited
Sydney in 1925 —two U.S. aircraft-
carriers, Yorktown (19,800 tons) and
Saratoga (33,000 tons), an Australian
cruiser of the Canberra class and other
vessels, among them H.M. battleship
Warspite. This the Admiralty promptly
denied. Next day he added 89
Allied ’planes. His third communique
on May 8 declared that the result had
been a smashing victory for Japan, and
would ensure the objective of the expedi-
tion —the full conquest of New Guinea.
It was asserted that the Japanese losses
were light—a tanker converted into an
aircraft-carrier, some minor vessels and
31 ’planes.
There had been signs from April 30
onward both that Japanese efforts in the
New Guinea area were increasing and
that the South-west Pacific Command
was handling raiders with a firmer and
heavier hand.
On May 8 Mr. Curtin read in the
House at Canberra a communique issued
by General MacArthur;
South-west Pacific: Very excellent news
has been received. A naval engagement
between U.S. and Japanese forces on May
4 resulted in the following damage to the
enemy: One light cruiser, two destroyers,
four gunboats and one supply vessel sunk;
one 9000-ton aircraft tender, one light
cruiser and one cargo vessel damaged; six
enemy aircraft destroyed. This highly suc-
cessful action took place in the vicinity of
the Solomon Islands. It was accomplished
with the loss of only three aircraft.
An earlier communique had spoken of
Allied raids on enemy shipping concen-
trations in the Louisiade Islands. These
islands lie well inside the Solomons, only
100 to 200 miles or so from the eastern
tip of Papua ; 400 to 500 miles from
Moresby, 600 odd from Cairns, about
800 from Townsville. The concentra-
tions were beyond question perilously
near the Australian coast, and bent either
on an attack on Moresby or a direct in-
vasion of the continent.
At 5.30 p.m. another communique
came out of General MacArthur’s Head-
quarters:—
Heavy naval and air fighting continues.
In addition to the previous enemy losses
reported, our forces have now sunk one
enemy aircraft carrier and badly damaged
a second, which, it is believed, will be a
total loss. We have also sunk one heavy
cruiser and badly damaged a second. Our
losses are not reported.
As Parliament adjourned, Mr. Curtin
said he had received information from
General MacArthur that a great naval
battle was still proceeding in the South-
west Pacific area, and that this battle
“arose from the operations which he had
mentioned earlier as having begun on
May 4 with some losses to the enemy.”
By next morning, unofficial estimates
from an advanced base described the
enemy’s Louisiades concentration as
“huge,” and announced that both the
Jap aircraft-carriers mentioned in the
earlier messages had been sunk.
It was now clear that the enemy fleet
had been bent on a full-dress invasion
similar to that of Rabaul, but on a larger
scale. Though there was no inkling of the
size of the naval force, the presence of two
aircraft-carriers was significant, and even
9000-ton converted tankers would not
be risked under the very wings of Aus-
tralian heavy bomber bases except for a
major purpose. And gunboats would
not be with a force unless for use in land-
ings. The natural inference from the
type of ships sunk was that the engage-
ment so far had been against an enemy
covering force screening transports
escorted by heavy ships.
On May 9 General MacArthur
reported that the battle had temporarily
ceased. He said the action represented
the continued efforts of the Japanese to
extend aggressive conquests towards the
south and south-east. First efforts were
aimed at expanding their air bases. But
our forces had effectively attacked the
enemy’s airfields in the last six weeks,
dislocating his plans through the destruc-
tion of installations and aircraft.
Reconnaissances had revealed the
gradual building up of naval and trans-
port elements for a co-ordinated attack
of combined forces which was initiated
“several days ago.”
Our naval forces then attacked in inter-
ception. They were handled with marked
skill and fought with admirable courage
and tenacity, and the enemy has been re-
pulsed. Our attacks will continue.
A second H.Q. statement the same
day described the hysterical Japanese
claims to resounding and even decisive
victories as “fictional.... bearing no
resemblance to a true communique of
the facts.” Japanese claims of damage
on the Allied forces were described as
“fantastic” ; Allied losses by comparison
with the enemy’s were “relatively light.”
On May 11 in a communique from
the U.S. Navy Department the Japanese
losses were summarised as an aircraft-
carrier, a heavy cruiser, a light cruiser,
two destroyers, four gunboats and two
transports or cargo ships sunk, and an
aircraft-carrier, a heavy cruiser, a light
cruiser, a seaplane tender, a tanker, and
two transports or cargo ships damaged,
some of them heavily. The whole made
up the respectable total of at least
80,000 tons of naval shipping, most of
it in the fighting classes. Later, two Jap
submarines were reported sunk or
damaged by patrol ’planes.
Stripped of astronomical estimates pur-
veyed under screaming headlines, the
facts, so far as they are known, are that
the biggest battle in the Pacific and the
first big naval battle in history off the
Australian coast has been fought skilfully
and successfully by men of the United
Nations (Australians among them)
whose daring, fortitude and sacrifices can
never be forgotten.
Japan has suffered its first substantial
naval defeat. Its losses are only a small
sample of what its navy may expect in
the future when it strikes at the limit
of its reach against well-prepared enemies
who will become even better prepared
every month the war goes on.
At the same time, it should be borne
in mind that only one phase of the battle
of invasion has been fought. General
MacArthur, who never makes extravagant
claims —he is not that sort of leader —says
the enemy has been “repulsed.” He
does not say the enemy has been “de-
feated.” Until a smashing defeat is in-
flicted, until the bases which the enemy
has taken in New Guinea and the Louisi-
ades and Solomons are recovered, and
until he has been driven out of his own
“mandated” islands and his lines of com-
munications are so threatened that he is
forced to keep his major naval forces at
home, the Commonwealth is not safe
from attack.
If the initial success, the most pleas-
antly heartening event of a war which
has always previously moved in the
wrong direction, can be capped with the
recapture of Rabaul and Lae, it will be
a large step forward. And it will be in-
teresting to see how Nippon reacts to
defeat. Its reaction to the war of 1904-5,
when it gained sweeping victories on land
and sea, but became exhausted in the
process, was to accept a not particularly
favorable peace.
The reaction so far is most satisfac-
tory to us. Whatever has happened,
Tokyo is afraid to tell the Japanese and
the world the truth. It didn’t tell the
truth about the American bombing raids
on Japan till it had to reveal portion of
the truth; it transpired that parts of
Tokyo, Nagoya and Yokohama were
bombed from low altitudes and that some
of the fires started burnt for two days.
Gallant Corregidor Falls.
“Ek Dum”: When Manila was aban-
doned on January 4 and Bataan and
Corregidor were invested, it was here
suggested (B. 7/1/’42) that Corregidor
would prove once more the power of the
well-organised fortress to make a stand.
With its wide sea moat, its attendant
islet fortresses covering approaches, its
deep network of tunnels, it was well
equipped to resist naval assault even by
battleships, and any air attack.
The land approach was over the Bataan
Peninsula, two volcanoes on a narrow
strip of land between Manila Bay and
the sea, rising into cones between 4000
and 5000 feet high. These lent them-
selves to the creation of a double line of
strong defences, which the enemy must
approach from below and facing enfilad-
ing fire.
Bataan and Corregidor, moreover, had
features which they shared with Tobruk
and which separated them as a military
problem from Hong Kong and Singa-
pore. They had a few thousand refugees,
but no teeming hordes of Asiatic civilians
to feed and water, and their water lines
were not vulnerable like those of the two
great British centres.
On the other hand, the Japanese had
the preponderating advantages. They
held —so far as major supplies were con-
cerned —all outer lines of communica-
tions. They commanded local labor and
food in quantities much greater than
their needs called for. They had over-
whelming command of the air, and the
command of the sea gave them the
ability to bring in as many men as they
needed and keep them well fed and
ammunitioned, while the Bataan and
Corregidor defenders had to live under
siege conditions. And the enemy’s bases
in Formosa were only 400 miles away
from the tip of Luzon ; 700 from Bataan
itself.
While Singapore remained untaken
and the East Indies unconquered Manila
Bay was an important stronghold for
Japan ; a base which could be used as
a concentration point for naval action
against everything east of the Indian
coast.
General MacArthur hung on stub-
bornly to the Philippine strongpoints until
the uses of the bay had been nullified by
the Japanese victories in the Malaya-East
Indies campaign, until a substantial U.S,
fleet had been assembled in the south-
west Pacific and until the nucleus of a
strong defending force had been built up
in Australia to screen future Allied con-
centrations. The defence of Bataan and
Corregidor was a splendid feat of arms.
Under orders from Washington, General
MacArthur arrived in Australia on March
18, after the collapse of the main defence
of Java. General Wainwright, his second
in command, held on on Bataan till
April 12. On May 7 the surrender of
Corregidor was announced.
The island .fortress had suffered con-
tinuous bombardment and 250 raids from
the air. It did not give in till it had
fired its last shell. A condition of the
surrender was the capitulation of the
small Allied forces in other parts of the
islands.
The U.S. War Department cited both
the U.S, and Philippine troops involved
in Bataan and elsewhere in the islands
for gallantry. President Roosevelt sent
General Wainwright a final message in
which he said that the American people
asked for no finer example of tenacity,
resourcefulness and steadfast courage
than that shown by the defenders of
Corregidor.
General MacArthur remarked after
silence had fallen and the Japanese had
rushed the beaches and stormed the for-
tress that the epic of Corregidor needed
no comment from him, since it had
sounded its own story at the mouth of
its own guns.
It has scrolled its own epitaph on enemy
tablets, but through the bloody haze of its
last reverberating shot I shall always seem
to see a vision of grim, gaunt, ghastly men
still unafraid.
Tokyo Radio fixed the times of the
last two fights as 11.15 p.m. on May 6
and 8 a.m. on May 7. The Japanese
announced the occupation of the
guardian isles of Fort Hughes and Fort
Drum, which lie on Corregidor’s flanks,
and the U.S. Navy Department admitted
the loss of three minesweepers and two
gunboats.
The defenders at the last formed a
residue of a force of 10,000 men or
thereabouts who had included 3845
officers and men of the U.S.N. and
marines. The estimated numbers which
surrendered throughout the Philippines
was under 12,000.
The “victory” is an almost empty one.
Three months ago the Japanese would
have given their ears for it. Now, though
there is talk of 100,000 men and 50
squadrons of heavy bombers being
released for action elsewhere, the
fact is that the only important releases
may be some shipping. Time and
General Royce have taught the enemy
that if he wants to keep the Philippines
he must defend them strongly by land,
sea and air, because of the strides which
Allied military and air accumulations
have made in Australia.
Had he been able to begin in January
the job of organising to put 50 heavy
squadrons into action over this country,
the war certainly could have been car-
ried deep down into the east Australian
coastal belt and interior by this time.
But MacArthur and Wainwright and their
gallant men earned us the respite that
was needed. Eternal honor to their
names!
The defence of Corregidor is part of
Australian history, as well as of that of
the United States.
Burma's Travail.
“Ek Dum”; In Burma the enemy has
beaten the rains as well as the forces
opposed to him. On all fronts last week
the story was one of retreat, though not
of disaster.
The Japanese on May 4 were moving
forward in three columns. The heaviest
right wing column was moving north-
wards, and by the week-end had sealed
the fate of northern railway communi-
cations and had crossed the Chinese fron-
tier into Yunnan. The central column
was attempting to outflank the Chinese
and seize Bhamo.
The left column on the west was held
for a time at Monywa, 50 miles to the
west of Mandalay, by a British rear-
guard while British ’planes blasted barges
and motor-boats which carried hurrying
units bent on outflanking General Alex-
ander’s main force. That force, harassed
for five months, but still in good heart,
was moving steadily up the Chindwin
towards the Manipur Road exit.
Early in the week the Jap column on
the Chindwin suddenly abandoned its
apparent objective and flung itself west-
ward to join the right column, to lock
the Chinese sth and 6th Armies in a
tight embrace. These Chinese armies
constitute the main defence of Burma.
Their numbers were much greater than
those of the British. Having regard to the
length of the encircling Japanese lines,
they must either be short of supplies or
have suffered heavy casualties if they
cannot break through encirclement by a
force which cannot be larger than their
own at the worst estimate. They are still
full of vigor, as shown by their recapture
of Maymyo, the former British summer
capital, and reported assault on Manda-
lay itself at the week-end. The test, how-
ever, is whether they can break through
embracing Japanese lines three times as
long as their own.
By the week-end General Alexander
seemed to be well out of the reach of
any encircling movement. His retreat
has been a neat job, if not a palatable
one for the British Empire.
Meanwhile a new menace matured in
the south, when it was confirmed that the
enemy was in possession of Akyab, facing
across the bay to the Ganges mouths,
and had found his way towards the
eastern extremity of the Ganges-Brahma-
putra estuary. He claimed to be approach-
ing Chittagong, which is in Assam, and
would bring him within 250 miles of
Calcutta. Akyab had been evacuated
some weeks ago.
On May 9 the Chinese spearheads on
the east w'ere 40 miles inside Yunnan
and the enemy apparently in command of
the Burma Road approaches.
The British Governor of Burma has
retired to India on Government orders.
African troops—King’s Royal African
Rifles and other units which fought in
Ethiopia—are now in Ceylon in quan-
tity. They include askaris from all the
Central African colonies and protec-
torates.
Bombing and Invasion.
“Ek Dum”: The R.A.F. made three
raids on Stuttgart in the Rhineland last
week, aiming at Bosch magneto works,
Daimler-Benz engine works and a dozen
other plants making important war
machinery from tanks down to precision
instruments. Lighter machines attacked
Zeebrugge, Caen and several other
French coastal centres.
Friday night saw a heavy raid on
Warnemiinde, which lies eight miles down
the river from the centre of Rostock.
It is the port through which most of the
Rostock traffic passes and one of the
termini of the train ferry service which
crosses the sea to the isles of Denmark,
25 miles away. The raid was heavy, and


so were the losses —19 bombers. These
attacks were merely the kernel of a con-
tinuous harassing of the enemy in which
large forces of the fast Bostons and
Hurricane bombers blasted nearer objec-
tives, and clouds of fighters and Hudsons
ranged the sea and coastal areas adjacent
to England every day in search of prey,
Hudsons fired shipping as far afield as
Norway.
German raiding was light. A few
’planes were driven off from the south
of England and London had one alert.
On May 8 Norwich had its third
“reprisal” raid; there were some
casualties and much damage. During that
day an enemy bomber crashed on an
east coast town and two Messer-
schmitts were shot down in daylight.
With bombers lost over Germany and
machines written off in the Middle East,
April cost Britain 314 bombers and
fighters. The average was not heavy,
considering that 134 attacks were made
on enemy objectives. The enemy had 287
aircraft destroyed. German raiding,
except for savage Blitzes on non-military
objectives, was light, and the R.A.F. had
much the better of the exchanges, having
regard to the huge damage done to
ground facilities in the Reich and in
occupied France.
Air Minister Archibald Sinclair has
said that “Britain’s victory plan is to
smash the German Air Force and then
invade the Continent” ; but he empha-
sised that before there could be any
invasion the Luftwaffe must be ham-
mered out of shape.
Air Command.
“Ek Dum”: The Allied High Com-
mand in the South Pacific has been com-
pleted by the appointment of the Allied
Air Staff,
It had been previously announced that
Lieut.-General George H. Brett would be
supreme commander in the air, subject to
General MacArthur. He has appointed
a staff, thus linking the R.A.A.F. and
the U.S.A.F., plus what remains of other
Allied Air Forces in the area, into a
single fighting formation at least
strategically.
The appointments so far made are:
Chief of Staff: Air Vice-Marshal William
D. Bostock, R.A.A.F.
Deputy Chief of Staff: Col. Edwin S.
Perrin, A.C., U.S.A.
Senior Air Staff Officer: Brig.-General
Ralph Royce, U.S.A.
Director of Plans: Col. Eugene L.
Eubank, A.C., U.S.A.
Director of Operations: Col. Ross G.
Hoyt, A.C., U.S.A.
Director of Intelligence: Air Commodore
Joseph E. Hewitt, R.A.A.F.
Director of Defence: Group-Captain
Frederick R. W. Scherger, R.A.A.F.
Director of Communications: Group-
Captain Cam S. Wiggins, R.A.A.F.
Asst. Director of Plans: Wing-Com-
mander Valston E. Hancock, R.A.A.F.
Asst. Director of Operations: Wing-
Commander Allan L. Walters, R.A.A.F.
Asst. Director of Intelligence: Lieut.-
Col. Reginald F. C. Vanes, A.C., U.S.A.
Asst. Director of Communications: Ist
Lieut. Warner Croxton, A.C., U.S.A.
This places one of Australia’s most
experienced officers in the position of
chief planner to the forces among a staff
equally divided into six Australians and
six Americans. An excellent arrange-
ment. It uses Australians at the
head of the departments in which
their local knowledge can be of
best advantage, and it maintains the
national unity of the executive command,
in keeping with the fact that the High
Command is in Uncle Sam’s hands.
Air Marshal “Dick” Williams, the
R.A.A.F.’s first commander, goes to
Washington as its representative.
For a new Chief of the Australian Air
Staff the command has looked among
the younger men. Air Commodore
George Jones will be promoted Air Vice-
Marshal before he steps into the job.
He was a group-captain when war
broke out, was Director of Personnel for
four years. Director of Training,
R.A.A.F., during the last year. He, too,
has passed the R.A.F. Staff College.
Jones was on Gallipoli at 18. He was
captain of No. 1 Squadron, A.F.C., with
a D.F.C. to his credit, when the war
ended.
His great days began with the battles
north of the Scarf e early in 1918. He
was wounded in the back during the Ger-
man advance in March, when his Camels
gave their opponents a solid taste of Aus-
tralian quality. He was not fit to fight
again till July, but in the sweeps in Flan-
ders early in September he was under-
neath his lively namesake Murray Jones,
who was floating about round 14,000 ft.
with his S.E.s’s waiting for Fokkers.
George J. found them after Murray J. fell
on a crowd of them and chased them
downward. George J. and two of his mess-
mates each notched a kill. But they had
not finished with Fokkers. Next morning
G.J. and poor A. J. Palliser from Laun-
ceston (Tas.), who was killed a week
before the Armistice, and Lieut. Barkell
were swooped on from over Fre-
linghien by 11 or 12 of them.
Barkell and Palliser fired and two
Fokkers were noticed precipitately visit-
ing Armentieres, which lay a little west.
Jones, with yelping Fokkers on his tail,
went nose first after a diving biplane
which had missed Palliser by inches, shot
it full of lead and watched it fall south
of Armentieres to the ground. The rest
of the Germans flew hurriedly home,
three machines lost in a few seconds.
Madagascar Captured.
“Ek Dum”: At dawn on May 5 an
Allied naval and military force, mostly
British, suddenly appeared off Courrier
Bay on the extreme north of Madagascar
and, under air cover, got ready to cross
the isthmus to Diego Suarez Bay. The
expedition was two months out from
Britain.
Diego Suarez Bay must have been a
headache to the British Government ever
since it was reported at the beginning
of April that a Japanese mission was
negotiating in Madagascar. It is one of
the finest naval harbors in the world, in
many respects like Port Jackson. The
French have a naval base and dockyard
of sorts there. It commands the only
route from the Atlantic to Australia and
Britain’s main route to the Middle East
and the Red Sea, now that the Suez
Canal is closed.
Madagascar has over 3,000,000 inhabi-
tants. These, unlike the 200,000-odd
petits creoles of little Reunion, who
proudly describe themselves as French,
have never had representation in the
French Parliament, and are absolutely
subject to the will of the French Govern-
ment.
With the Japanese in control of Diego
Suarez, S. African ports would cease to
be safe. Parts of Tanganyika, South
Rhodesia and the Transvaal as well as
Mauritius would be within reach of
bombers from the west or south of the
island. And the presence of an enemy
would increase the burden of defence of
the British and Portuguese territories on
the Eastern African coast 1000 per cent.
The landings on May 5 at Courrier
Bay were at two places. The main attack
with forces from the Navy and from a
S. African division was made on the
south of the harbor. The attackers
skirted across the peninsula to within
sight of the Indian Ocean shores on the
east near Antsirane, which lies on a pen-
insula inside the mouth of the main
harbor and which is the main centre of
defence.
The Royal Marines meanwhile created
a diversion north-west of the harbor.
Both forces came ashore lightly armed,
though well supported from the air, but
afterwards brought ashore much heavier
equipment, including tanks.
Mr. Churchill said on May 7 that to
prevent bloodshed as much as possible
a large force was employed. As in Syria,
the French did not realise the anticipa-
tions of the Second Front advocates and
rush to welcome the British troops. On
the contrary, they attacked our men from
strongly defended positions with 75’s and
machine-gun fire. Contact was made a
few hours after the landing, around Diego
Suarez itself and on the Antsirane
promontory further east.
The British were commanded by
Major-General Sturgess of the Royal
Marines, the French by General Guille-
mot.
Vichy issued the first statement on
May 6. It declared that the British
numbered 25,000 and used the latest
commando-landing equipment. The
French numbered 7000, of which a small
number were on the Ambre Peninsula to
the north of the harbor. Laval said that
the British were using two troopships, a
cruiser, a destroyer and an aircraft-
carrier, but German accounts added a
cruiser and three destroyers.
Mr. Churchill, giving the official
British account, said that the first assault
had been made on Antsirane on May 6
at dawn and that the capture of the town
was achieved with “losses that may have
exceeded 1000 men” (a later account
reduced the number to 500). A second
attack in the evening put the whole of
the Antsirane Peninsula under British
control, together with the town of Diego
Suarez, and the French military and
naval commanders surrendered.
On the morning of May 7 the batteries
at the harbor mouth were rushed.
The operations were covered by a fleet
which included units under the Free
French Admiral Syfret. Its minesweepers
before the end of the week had cleared
the harbor approaches, after the 2000-
ton colonial cruiser Bougainville and the
submarine Beveziers had been sunk.
The French, Mr. Churchill said, fought
with “great gallantry and discipline.”
We grieve that bloodshed has occurred
between the troops of our two countries,
whose peoples at heart are united against
a common foe. We trust that the French
nation will in time come to regard this
episode as a recognisable fact in the libera-
tion of their country, including Alsace-
Lorraine, from the German yoke.
The French say that five out of 27
British aircraft used in the attacks were
brought down, and that several British
tanks were put out of action.
Tamatave was later attacked, and with
this the conquest of French interests was
virtually complete, though Vichy claimed
on May 10 that Antananarivo was still
in French hands and French resistance
continuing. The normal French popu-
lation is only 27,000.
Russia and Supply Lines.
“Ek Dum”: Little real news came last
week from Russia, Actions along the
front were only feelers. The one unani-
mous report is that arteries on both sides
are chocked with moving troops and
armament on the way to the summer
fighting.
It is certain that Hitler will attack
shortly; but the attack is not likely to
be made until conditions are such that
action can be correlated along the whole
front. In the Ukraine the spring defi-
nitely has arrived and the Russian armies
have gone into summer uniforms.
In the north there usually is not a
full thaw until June and a thaw there is
most important. All the land east of the
Volkhov River from Lake Ladoga to
Lake Ilmen is bog land; so is much
south of Lake Ilmen. It is in this bog
sector, frozen for the winter, that the
Russians have made their greatest ad-
vances in the last three months.
In front of these areas last year, the
German attacks were held back until
swamps and bogs had thawed and the
Russian communication lines from the
east were at their worst. While they
were in this condition the investment of
Leningrad was arranged ; as the country
dried up to the eastward late in summer
the Germans pushed on over it across the
Moscow-Leningrad line to Tikhvin.
Bog soil runs in large areas almost
down to the latitude of Rshev,
One thing is obvious. Correspondents
who were convinced that a major war
was in progress during the winter, and
that the German forces were being hurled
backward with enormous losses, are
coming round to the view that the
Germans unfortunately succeeded in
holding and consolidating a strong for-
tress line which will be used as a series
of springboards from which to launch
the summer’s attacks.
The case of Staraya Russa points the
change in opinion. On March 18 it was
reported that the 16th German Army,
after “fighting desperately for 19 days”
to ward off the surrounding Russians,
had only 40,000 men left out of 96,000.
Stockholm reported their position as
“hopeless.” They were said to be “starv-
ing and dying like flies from the cold.”
On March 30 the Sydney “D.T.’s” Rus-
sian Rover said that the fate of this army
“trapped at Staraya Russa is now hang-
ing in the balance, with the odds heavily
in favor of its being wiped out.” He said
that the fighting was “the most intense
of the whole front.”
But on May 8 a London “Daily Ex-
press” man at Stockholm declared that
there had been “a lull for four months”
in the sector, but that fighting had flared
up again. He described the Staraya Russa
siege in an entirely new light;
German forces are attempting to break
the Russian ring round General Scherer’s
forces on the Lovat River. Isolated from
the rest of the German forces. General
Scherer’s force, estimated at two divisions,
ha*; held on to form one of the German
springboards for attack against either
Leningrad or Moscow The Germans
claim to have effected a junction with
General Scherer’s divisions, which are now
pursuing the retreating Russians.
The Russians accuse the Germans of
using gas mines in the Crimea ; the Ger-
mans deny it.
Meanwhile the enemy is trying to
cut off the British supply line via Mur-
mansk.
This route is being kept open, though
at perilous risk. Within ten days two
British convoys by the Arctic route
were harassed continuously by U-boats,
’planes and surface warships.
One convoy, thanks to the Navy,
reached Murmansk only 10 p.c. short of
its supplies. The other on its way home
lost a ship in ballast. The Germans lost
a destroyer and three ’planes and had
another destroyer badly damaged.
The British cruiser Edinburgh was tor-
pedoed by a U-boat on April 30 with the
home-bound convoy. Her steering gear
was damaged, but she was able to steam
slowly.
Next day three destroyers tried to
break into the convoy, sank a ship, killed
seven on two escort vessels and wounded
many more before the gallant naval units
fought them off.
On May 2 the weather was heavy.
Three destroyers again attacked the
wounded Edinburgh, which by this time
had been taken in tow, with a destroyer
escort. The limping cruiser took part
in the fight. One enemy destroyer was
sunk, another severely damaged, the third
made off. But Edinburgh was torpedoed
again and, proving untowable in the
heavy seas, had to be sunk.
The Murmansk-bound convoy was
harassed night and day for three days by
all kinds of small sea- and large aircraft,
but got there.
These things are only a foretaste of
what the R.N. and Mercantile Marine
will have to go through as the weather
improves. They are getting little credit
in the world’s press, but then they never
get much for their splendid work.
Edinburgh was a 1939-vintage cruiser,
10,000 tons, six-inch guns, sister of the
gallant Belfast, lost some time ago ; the
pair made up the “improved Southamp-
ton class,” built by Swan Hunter at Walls-
end. Edinburgh had 80,000 h.p. (G.T.)
in her. Her admitted speed was 32|
knots. She cost over £2,000,000, but
saved her cost many times over. She
had been in the thick of it from the be-
ginning—was, in fact, one of the first two
British cruisers to be attacked by
bombers. When 14 ’planes flew over the
Firth of Forth on Oct. 16, 1939, they hit
H.M.S. Southampton and caused seven
casualties in Edinburgh through bomb
splinters.
Lord Gort, V.C., leaves Gibraltar to
become G.O.C. at Malta in succession to
General Dobbie, who returned to Eng-
land with one of the most remarkable
defensive records ever held to the credit
of an old man. Malta has had 2500
alerts. It has been pounded from every
angle till two-thirds of its dwellings have
either ceased to exist or acquired marks
of the blizzard ; but it is still firmly held,
and May 9-10 attacks cost the enemy 71
’planes wrecked or damaged. Australians
are now taking part in the defence.
* * *
Among recent British naval casualties
are H.M.S. Jaguar, a destroyer, sunk,
and the cruiser Exeter, of River Plate
fame, damaged.
* * * *
U-boats have been reported in the
Mexican Gulf, where a U.S. and a
Honduran merchantman were torpedoed.
* * * *
Libya’s fighting week was made up
of the usual artillery exchanges and
reconnaisances and air raids. The Luft-
waffe raided Alexandria on Friday night;
22 killed and 40 wounded.
* * * *
Air Marshal “Peter” Drummond, the
Westralian who is now deputy Air C. -in-
C. of the Middle East, says the four
Australian air squadrons in the area were
to be built up to 16. Nineteen per cent,
of all air crews in the Middle East are
R.A.A.F. men. Australians are now serv-
ing on the air fronts in Iceland, Britain,
Malta, the Middle East, Australia and
the Pacific, apart from the large training
quota in Canada and a small one in
Africa.
* * * *
U.S. State Department announces the
arrival in Martinique of Admiral John
Hoover, U.S.N. Commander in the Carib-
bean, with an offer to safeguard French
interests —“all the assets of the French
Government in the Caribbean possessions
will be held for the ultimate use of the
French Government.” Causes for anxiety
are three warships, including the 22,000-
ton aircraft-carrier Bearn, which are lying
off Martinique.
* * * *
None so generous as a seaman! Sur-
vivors from H.M.S. Repulse and the men
of H.M.S. Ajax have subscribed £lOOO
for dependants of men who served on
H.M.A.S. Perth, Sydney and Vampire in
recognition of the rescue of British sea-
men by those ships. In naval parlance
the contribution is “handsome.” British
sailors earn little enough for the gallant
and unremitting work they do. One
thousand pounds represents a real sacri-
fice which will touch the hearts of those
with knowledge to appreciate its full
meaning.
* * * *
Twelve airmen—four R.A.F. and the
others R.A.A.F. —arrived in the Common-
wealth the other day at the end of a 44-
day, 1500-mile voyage which began when
Java fell. They bagged a 30ft. lifeboat, a
sextant and two compasses, but had to
work with a scratch map. They set out
on March 7, were inspected next day by
a Jap submarine at 30 yards, broke their
rudder and spent three days mending it.
They weathered two storms, in the first of
which they lost most of their good water ;
the second saved their lives by provid-
ing them with a fresh supply. Once a
whale came up alongside and looked them
over carefully. Then one day Sergeant-
Gunner Corney, R.A.A.F., thought he
smelt spinifex—you can’t miss it if you
know it!—and at 2.30 a.m. they stepped
ashore. A passing flying-boat did the
rest.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
For weeks past the whisperers had been
busy saying that rationing was about to
start “tomorrow” or “the day after” or
“the day after that”’ But on Friday oyer
the radio came the voice of Authority
telling that a 25 p.c. cut in the stocks of
shops would commence as from this
week. Pity the poor shop assistant on
Saturday morning! Every store in the
city and suburbs was rushed. Depart-
ments were overpopulated antheaps. Even
men joined in the melee. In shoe depart-
ments women were seen hugging four
and five pairs, either hoping to scoop
the lot or waiting to be fitted. Hats were
sold with less trying-on than ever in the
history of millinery. Underwear coun-
ters were stripped clean by human
locusts. The clever woman was she who
plucked what she thought she wanted
from stand or rack, and said firmly “I’ll
take that.” But most of the customers
seemed to want the whole store. One
unfortunate middle-aged man timidly
asked for razor blades. “Out of them,”
snapped the girl behind the counter. “Out
of them?” queried the man in a dazed
way. “Haven’t you heard there’s a war
on?” said the supercilious one. A woman
customer turned and said to the man, “I
know where you can get razor blades,”
and directed him to the place. He hur-
ried off thankfully. Then, such is the
cussedness of human nature, the shop-
girl said reproachfully, “Madam, you
shouldn’t interfere with the trade of the
store by sending a customer to another
shop.”
Lieut. Fullerton Smith, of Scots Col-
lege band, who piped the official guests
into the A.B.C.D.A. lunch, had the
artistic pleasure of knowing that the air
he had played was known and loved by
one listener at least. Lady Wakehurst
not only recognised it, but put a name
to it in her speech. The luncheon
brought 400 Scots, by taxation bled, but
still indomitable, to the Wentworth. The
cause was the Red Cross Prisoners of
War Fund, which the Parents and
Friends of the tartan and heather col-
lege are determined to help with £500.
There are already 600 Scots College
boys fighting in this war. Five have been
decorated. Twenty are missing ; 10 of
these presumably are prisoners of war.
Lady Wakehurst spoke of these things in
her speech. After her, representatives
of the Allied Pacific Powers spoke.
Robert Grinnell was U.S.A. Consul-
General Ely Palmer’s ambassador.
Greatly applauded was the Red Cross
Mr. Blythe’s announcement that a ship
carrying £300,000 of comforts for
prisoners of war in Malaya will set out
directly Japan gives promise of safe con-
duct. Following the ship from Australia
another from America, just as richly
laden, would set out on the same mission
of mercy.
The lunch was a miracle of organisa-
tion, and, as usual in Scots College affairs,
Jane Bernays had a lot to do with it.
In the gallery, draped by the flags of the
Allies, a band played, stimulating but
not drowning conversation. It gave
“Dolores” in dreamy style while the
sweets were being served and brisked up
to a marching swing with the arrival of
the black coffee. With Lady Wakehurst
were Joan Holman and Peter Lubbock.
Colin Sinclair presided.
Last week the Legacy War Orphans’
appeal gained £1500 from a bale
of wool. This was auctioned at a
cocktail party given for the cause by the
Wool Trade War Fund. Men by the
dozen made their way to the ballroom
of the Wentworth, and when the bidding
started the air crackled with excitement.
In 25 minutes the £1500 was achieved.
G. Dewez dropped a trifle of 50 guineas
into the treasury, shipping knight Thomas
Gordon 75 guineas. He spoke, too, on
behalf of Owen Dixon, Australia’s
new Minister to the U.S.A., who
is patron of the W.T.W.F. This was
pre-eminently a man’s party. Women,
for once, were in the minority. The bale
of wool will now be shared by the C.W.A.
and the Mercantile Marine Comforts
Fund, and will be knitted up for soldier
wear.
Myra Dempsey’s warm, golden voice
has been fluting over many a tele-
phone during the last fortnight. She has
been whipping up interest in the “Flags
of the Allies” May 22 cabaret. This is to
help Gladys Moncrieff’s “Cavalcade of
Stars” matinee, which in turn will help the
All Services Canteen at Central Railway.
Rose’s restaurant in York-street will
supply the dancing space.
The Glaciarium will buzz with bud-
ding Sonja Henies and Phil Taylors on
the afternoon of May 21. This is the
date chosen for the ice carnival for
children. There will be sports and exhi-
bition skating, for which a long list of
prizes has been drawn up. These range
in value from two guineas to five shil-
lings. The fun will rage from three to
five o’clock. Tickets (which include hire
of skates) are three shillings each. The
R.A.A.F. Central Area Comforts Fund
benefits.
United States Army nurses are now in
this land and visible to the naked eye.
They are an alert, attractive group.
The U.S. military foreign service, as
far as the nurses are concerned, is a bit
like heaven, inasmuch as in it there is
neither marrying nor giving in marriage.
If the girls, however, see any lads who
take their eye, they are allowed to
become engaged. They are in the army
for the duration and for six months
after. The nurses are a sparkling group,
most of them in the mid-twenties. The
baby of the piece, from Pennsylvania,
owns to the decrepit age of 21.
This is a Norton Trevaire photograph
of Mrs. Boyd Moriarty, wearing the
smart khaki uniform in which she
arrived from the Middle East. Mrs.
Moriarty gave splendid service to the
Red Cross overseas, and when she re-
turned to Australia she received and re-
plied to innumerable letters of inquiry
from parents and relations of soldiers in
the Middle East. Vocational therapy is
one of her special subjects. She is now
continuing her labor of mercy at a mili-
tary hospital in this State.
Wentworthville, one of Sydney’s outer
suburbs, within sight of the Blue
Mountains, is the possessor of a musical
society devoted to the performance of
choral works. The conductor is A. W.
B. Webb, of T.K.S., Parramatta. Local
patriotic and comforts funds will receive
a comforting cheque from last week’s
concert by the society. The soloists were
singer Emmy Kimmel, violinist Amalia
Cowley, and pianist Beryl Mole. The con-
cert was well supported by members of
T.K.S. staff and other Parramatta citizens.
The play at the Minerva, “Believe It
or Not,” failed to amuse at least one of
those who viewed it last week-end. Alec
Coppel’s new theatre piece lingers in the
memory by virtue of one line, “A gigolo
without portfolio,” a flawless bit of pan-
tomime by Leslie Victor, and Marjorie
Gordon’s neat figure, which she clothes
so sleekly. First impressive clothes whirl
was a negligee affair of primrose green
with a deep waist swathe of violet. Then
the dream white evening frock gives food
for rumination, though not determina-
tion of emulation these clothes-rationed
nights,
Friday’s first-night audience included
Lady Wakehurst. With her were Peter
Lubbock and Joan Holman. The Bridges
trio, three attractive girls in dahlia-red
frocks with white bows in their hair,
provide the intermission music just now
at the Minerva. They play violin, piano
and xylophone, the last-named with
great agility. Miss Jobson, of Hopewood
House, Winifred Wilson and Miss Suter
from the same Darling Point finishing
school, Banksia Buchanan, returned
from war-work in the Middle East, Anne
Bevan, Oswald Cheeke and the H. J.
Bradys were others at the play.
The Town Hall was rosy with fes-
tivity last Saturday night when dancers
numbering almost 1400 made the
Bomber Cabaret the success of the week.
The Mascot Beaufort Social Club set the
ball rolling, and the R.A.A.F. Air Train-
ing Corps and the Allied Comforts Fund
are the beneficiaries. Model Beau-
fort Bombers and clusters of flags hinted
that beyond the portals life was real, life
was earnest, and that everyone realised
it. John Storey and Mrs. Storey came
to the party, all the way from Mel-
bourne.
From Melbourne
The provision of places of entertain-
ment and refreshment for men of the
forces goes apace. Latest is the Dug Out,
where the Ambassadors stood, in Swan-
ston-street. It is a Myer effort, the man-
agement of that store having taken the
place and renovated it. They are now not
only buying and cooking the food, but
providing the staff for it. About 150
men and women will go on duty each day
at the Dug Out, all Myer store employees,
and theirs is a voluntary effort. Hav-
ing run various clubs for themselves, the
Myer men and women know what rules
are necessary. Here are some for the
new club: Men must be on leave to be
its clients ; they may not bring their own
partners to its dances, girl partners being
provided by the management from their
own approved sets. Meals, though
astoundingly cheap, will be charged for, so
that the services may feel they are paying
their way. Norman Myer, managing
director, insisted on this, remembering
his experiences and feelings as a soldier
in the 1914-18 war. The Dug Out opened
with a flourish of trumpets on Friday.
The latest craze is making gramo-
phone records for the people at home.
American soldiers started it, turning up
in dozens at shops where they could make
records to send back to the home folk.
Their comments on us and the country
were complimentary for the most part,
but often comic, too. But nearly always
the record ended up with “Fd like to be
home for Thanksgiving Day.” Mel-
bourne people caught the idea, and whole
families are rolling up to tell mother how
they feel about her and what the weather
is like. There’s not much originality
about these extempore speeches, but an
American managed to strike a new and
startling note. “The girls here are a
wow, and if you want me to go on loving
you, darling, you had better say ‘Yes’
right now.”
Joan, daughter of the Leslie Lathams
(father is a leading medico and brother
of John, erstwhile Minister at Tokyo),
married Dr. G. G. Harkness at Littlejohn
Memorial Chapel on Friday in formal
wedding garb and heirloom Limerick
lace, latter lent. The newlyweds will
make the new Latham home their head-
quarters for the time being, as Dr. Hark-
ness expects his call-up to the A.I.F. as
soon as his hospital term ends. Earlier
in the week a kitchen tea furnished the
bride with all the needful for the most
important room in her house when she
sets up housekeeping. Matron of honor
(who also gave the kitchen tea) was Mrs.
Russell Clark, Irene Balfour that was.
Broothorn made this picture of the attrac-
tive Joan.
Horticulturally-minded Melbourne has
been trotting up to the Fitzroy Gardens
to see the tropical plants in the Conser-
vatory. The garden staff keeps an un-
wavering watch on some delicious snow
and lemon-yellow orchids, while envious
eyes look on. But the plants are mostly
the kind grown for their brilliant leaves,
patterned superbly but flowerless.
Maidenhair fern from Queensland the
size of small palms comes in for much
admiration, but good Melburnians have
been heard to say that the tiny variety
now all over the hills that surround the
city is more lovely. Fly-catching pitcher
plants provide sideshow interest —every-
one had a look inside to see how many
flies they had caught. An over-curious
lady even tipped a pitcher plant upside
down, getting an eyeful of dead fly.
On Saturday night the Beaurepaires
threw the party without which Lud
Mayoralty would not be what it is, with a
theatre party at Nightbirds and after-
wards supper in the banquet hall at the
T.H. To this annual affair are asked
staff at the T.H., as well as press friends
of the City Fathers, and, of course. City
Fathers, their wives and families. There
is a suggestion of the tribes setting out
for the Promised Land about it all, but
it’s great fun, and everyone goes home
saying what a good time he or she has
had. In these days there is no champagne
at the Town Hall, and so far its absence at
any dos there has had only beneficial
results, in that there are fewer speeches,
and those made are brief.
The heavens above Melbourne must
have been filled with music at the week-
end. There was music at the Town Hall,
where the first afternoon celebrity con-
cert was packed out, showing that people
are glad to come earlier to avoid the in-
convenience of the brownout. Then on
Sunday afternoon the lakeside concert at
the Botanical Gardens brought out more
musical folk, who ran all sorts of risks
by sitting on the damp ground with only
Saturday’s newspaper between them and
Mother Earth. Twixt these two there
was a round dozen of minor singsongs,
and on Sunday night the hilarity-makers
who call themselves Porter’s Mob were
joyously vocal at the Town Hall for boys
of the forces and their women friends.
The introduction of the afternoon orches-
tral concerts puts an end to the effort
to dress ornately for such occasions.
Everyone was in whatever her fancy sug-
gested, and the effect was good enough.
The Owen Dixon family has been hav-
ing the usual pre-travel troubles, packing
up what it is to take to U.S.A. and park-
ing what it must leave behind, also
making final arrangements about its
pleasant home, Yallambee, Upper Haw-
thorn. The family goes with the parents,
Mr. Justice Owen Dixon being a real
family man, not happy away from his
children. They should be a help to him
as Resident Minister in Washington, for
children make as many friends as their
elders. Franklin, the eldest son, is a
University student; the second boy is in
a woolstore. The girls are younger, and
will be at school for many a day. It is
not yet announced, but quite likely, that
Mrs, “Dicky” Williams, wife of the Air
Vice-Marshal, may also go with her hus-
band, but for Mrs. Williams there will
not be so much packing, for she had her
big pack-up when the Air Vice-Marshal
went off to London and she took a small
flat.
Love still laughs at awful warnings, if
not at locksmiths. In spite of the frowns
of officials, marriages between American
service men and our girls take place, and
now the engagement of one of Mel-
bourne’s best-known girls to a young
officer at U.S.A. Army headquarters has
suggested that Toorak is not more likely
to be worried than less tony areas by offi-
cial coldness in the matter. The engage-
ment in question is that of Maisie,
daughter of Chris Cowper, city architect,
and Mrs. Cowper, a well-known charity
and social worker, to Ensign Jackson.
Maisie had always taken a line of her
own, and when her friends married at
Toorak churches she would wait outside
with her beautiful little camera to get
good shots of them rather than sit with
the elect inside in her best bib and tucker.
Handsome Lieut. lan Braid, who in
the course of his musical career helped
many a revue and entertainment to suc-
cess, is now trying matrimony as a new
job, and everyone believes that he and
Lorna Candy will make a fine duet of
it. lan went Middle Eastward after the
engagement was announced, and invita-
tions to the wedding were sent out when
his return was daily expected. These gave
no date but said “Be ready to come when
lan gets back.” He arrived on a Mon-
day and the knot-tying was next day.
Lorna studied commerce, so is able to
mix a little business wisdom with lan's
musical ability in directing domestic
affairs while he enjoys a little leave now
and again from Army efforts.
The Glanville Hicks family, which is a
specially close-knit one, as Cornish
families are wont to be, is rejoicing ovet
the engagement of the younger son, Cap-
tain Beric Glanville Hicks, to the Claude
Daleys’ girl, Patricia Vivienne. Captain
Hicks has been on the medical staff of
Royal Melbourne for eight months and
is now waiting his summons to join the
troops, hence his rank. His fiancee is
a delightful lass with that well-developed
interest in the arts which will make her
a doubly-happy choice for a member of
the clever Hicks family. Peggy, only
daughter of the Hicks family, has written
from New York telling of the splendid
reception given at a concert conducted by
Sir Thomas Beecham to the concerto of
her composer husband. When she was
in Melbourne after the beginning of the
war Peggy was one of the picturesque
sights of the city with her windblown
locks and her vivid face, always alight
with enthusiasm for something.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Moorefield lost nothing by holding its
meeting at Canterbury on Saturday. Syd-
ney people now seem to have more money
for racing than for a long time past, and
recent attendances have been notably
large. The books had the unusual experi-
ence nowadays of winners not including
a double-figure chance, and, while five
were at less than 5 to 1, one was at that
figure.
Rimveil would have been unlucky to
lose the Brighton Handicap, even though
the stewards were of opinion that Chat-
ham’s Choice accidentally interfered with
Goose Boy in the straight. In a handy
position to the turn Rimveil was in dan-
ger of being pocketed after entering the
straight, but Munro’s vigor told, and
making his way through he got Rimveil
up just in time to beat Goose Boy, who
led fifty yards from home. Chatham’s
Choice, in third place, ran a good race
without looking a winner. Brazen Lad
was reported to have broken down after
leading into the straight from His Lord-
ship, who finished fourth. Sedunum im-
proved upon his most recent efforts, and
as he is getting down in the weights a
winning turn for him may not be long
in coming.
Third to Stylish and Climax entering
the straight in the Moorefield Handicap,
Scarlet Ranger won in such good style
from Lord Valentine that further success
for him at middle distances is certain.
Early Bird’s third was a good effort, con-
sidering she was a long last less than five
furlongs from home. For some reason
or other she could not gallop in the early
part. Overjoyed, who is returning to
form, was a fair fourth, but nothing
favorable can be said of any of the
others.
• 4 • • • »
Rameo justified the short price taken
about him for the Brush Hurdle. Fifth
running along the back, he went up to
the pacemaker, Kenil Gem, before reach-
ing the turn, and was a sure winner from
the top of the straight. Kenil Gem and
Mag Mort filled the minor places, but
of those behind the winner Gold Pan
may be most worth keeping in mind for
Randwick. He is again looking well, and
was making up leeway at the end. Fiery
Cross also made a fair showing and will
do better over a longer distance.
• • • • • •
Martheus had every chance in the
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap,
but, though he had a useful lead from
Kingsdale approaching the turn, the
latter fairly ran over him in the straight.
Silverelda again shaped well, while
Kama, after getting away indifferently
and then being hard ridden to get third
when half the trip was covered, died
away over the last furlong. Dawn
Mary’s form was below expectations,
but Queenslander Beau Head’s fourth
drew attention to him as a future pros-
pect. Metaloff, too, should be equal to
picking up a race.
After doing the pacemaking in the
first division of the Juvenile Handicap,
Battle King looked a winner when he
shook off The Beaver, who challenged
him at the top of the straight. However,
he was unable to withstand Afloat’s solid
finishing effort, and the latter scored by
a neck. General Smuts, an Air Balloon
colt owned by R. Wootton, was third
and is sure to improve, as will La Belle.
Set Free (The Buzzard-Manumit) and
Oriole were prominent to the turn. Afloat
is by Midstream from Lightness, whose
dam. Lightsome, is a sister to Gloaming.
He is a probable stayer and cost 150gns.
as a yearling. I. H. Andrews trains him
for C. E. Hopkins,
In the second division of the Juvenile
Handicap the issue appeared to rest with
Minnamurra, Sandman and Temerity
half a furlong from home, but then Flying
Shuttle suddenly appeared on the scene,
and with a fast finishing run won from
Sandman and Temerity. After the way
she ran the previous week her win was
not a surprise. Minnamurra, who weak-
ened at the end, was fourth, followed by
Bedford, who was always fairly placed.
Flying Shuttle, like Afloat, was bred at
Kia-Ora, and is by Double Remove from
Box On, by Magpie. She was sold for
600gns. as a yearling. Sir Neith again
failed to repeat his earlier form, and
Dome Wyn did not act up to her Bris-
bane reputation.
Radical, a good horse under weight,
finished too strongly for Jazbeau and
Milanja in the first division of the Flying
Welter and scored a half-length win.
Jazbeau was first into the straight from
Milanja, Chrisman and Irish Sea, the
last-named finishing fourth. Skerries
looked well but stumbled, and in collid-
ing with the rail caused interference to
Beau Port and Tyrannus.
Nubian Prince was the winner of the
second division of the Flying Welter all
the way over the last half-mile. At the
finish he was going away from Metallic
and Guild Hall, who at the turn looked
as if they might trouble him. In the run
home nothing apart from the three men-
tioned had a chance, though Elson did
better than in his two previous races.
Cable was in second place at the home
turn, but failed over the last furlong.
Half of the large field shaped so indiffer-
ently that it is difficult to believe they
were started with any idea they were
winning possibilities.
* * * *
Canterbury Park recently made a sub-
stantial donation to war funds, the result
of the club’s meeting in January. In view
of that amount being lost to racing in
the way of prize-money, such procedure
may not meet with the approval of a
breeder-owner who has been finding
fault with the A.J.C. in connection with
alleged overliberality in contributions to
various funds, shortsightedness in not
building up reserves and general inability
to keep things up to the standard ex-
pected of a ruling body. So far as re-
serves are concerned, the A.J.C. unfor-
tunately could not see into the future,
but if that breeder were really able to
boast the foresight he finds lacking in
others it is surprising he should have in-
dulged in a big stud venture at a time
when many authorities on such matters
were forecasting war at a comparatively
early date. One can be excused for think-
ing that his summing-up of what he con-
siders the A.J.C.’s inefficiency sounds
more like the plaint of a somewhat dis-
appointed breeder than anything else.
Throttle, smallest horse in the field,
improved considerably on her Ascot
form of a week earlier to defeat Similar
and Saul in the Glen Elgin Handicap at
Moonee Valley on Saturday. She had
finished second-last of 12 runners for the
division of the Ascot Autumn Cup won
by Watchguard, but was given plenty of
time to settle down on Saturday, and, in
addition, revelled in the heavy ground.
Many backers anticipated her improve-
ment, her price shortening from 10 to 1
to sixes. Throttle, a four-year-old by
Windbag from Little Valve, has been a
decidedly good performer for part-
owners G. R. Nicholas and A. G. Hunter.
She won the Williamstown Easter Cup
and the Williamstown Cup last year.
Similar, although not quite a match
for Throttle on the day, ran up to his
Ascot Cup form, and must be rated one
of the season’s most consistent per-
formers. He has recorded five wins, two
seconds and five thirds for £1245 in
stakes. Saul’s failure to do better than
third completed a disappointing day for
his trainer, D. Mcßae. St. David and
Brightello, other members of Mcßae’s
team, were beaten into second place in
their respective races, Brightello being
rather unlucky in the Moreland Steeple-
chase.
Colonus, bought several weeks ago by
L. O. Menck for 150 guineas, led
throughout the mile and a quarter of
the Bulla Handicap to give bookmakers a
33-to-l result. Considered by most
backers to be a speedy squib, he wound
up with four lengths to spare from Royal
Peter, with Melchett a moderate third.
F. Manning, junior, and apprentice H.
McCloud, respectively trainer and rider of
Colonus, completed a double with Mollie
Con in the Magdala Welter. Favored
with a lucky inside run in the straight,
Mollie Con, who had won at Ascot a
week earlier, upset a plunge on Contact
by defeating the latter half a length.
Contact was backed from eights to
favoritism at 7 to 2, and his wide barrier
position might have made the difference
between success and defeat.
• •••»*
Audacity looked like justifying his
warm favoritism for the first Kinross
Handicap when he held a lead of three
lengths about two furlongs from home,
but he shortened stride in the heavy
going and just missed a place. Gay Roi,
on the other hand, battled on gamely to
win a close finish from Adelaide-owned
Parida, who started at 50 to 1, and
Dennis James. Gay Roi, a Gay Lothario-
Planetry colt, who cost 700 guineas as a
yearling, is a brother-in-blood to Lucra-
tive. Portsmouth compensated for two
successive seconds by easily defeating
Parmant and Compere in the second
Kinross division. By Portfolio from
Hushai, he looks like developing into a
bargain at his yearling cost of 100
guineas.
Nalong, raced on lease by three
brothers, R. A., P. R. and B. C. O’Rourke,
none of whom had figured previously as
a racehorse owner, won the Warroona
Handicap in good style from Reply Paid
and Lamiere. Last-named led for home,
but 9st, combined with the soft going,
anchored her at the finish. Nalong, who
is in the same stable as another smart
juvenile, Haros, is a daughter of Valiant
Chief, sire of the Maribyrnong Trial
Stakes winner Lady Valiant.
Shortly before the death last week of
R. Stewart in Wellington he had arranged
for Beau Vite to remain in Australia for
spring racing. It is improbable the ex-
ecutors of Beau Vite’s late owner will
depart from that intention. There is very
little w.f.a. racing in Maoriland in Octo-
ber and November, and Beau Vite would
be heavily weighted in handicaps. It
would be the same here, but w.f.a.
opportunities will, unless the war further
intervenes, be numerous, and Beau Vite
may be restricted to that class of racing.
* * * *
Rimveil’s owner expects him to win
the Newcastle Cup. He may, but the
task will be tough at eleven furlongs
with his big weight. He is conceding
several pounds to Katanga, who is work-
ing well, and, only for striking interfer-
ence, would have given a good account
of himself at Canterbury Park a fort-
night ago. Triggerman, who will be rid-
den by J. Thompson, is down to a weight
that suits him, as is Pantler. Beaulivre’s
track work since he ran in the Sydney
Cup has been excellent, and, as in the
Cameron Handicap, It’s Funny should
beat Bragger and Catch Up. Fearless Fox
finished fast in that race, and was un-
lucky not to have got a place. Scarlet
Ranger’s win at Canterbury puts him
among the possibilities, and Goose Boy
is improving. I expect the winner to be
Katanga or Triggerman, with Scarlet
Ranger and Pantler most dangerous of
the others.
* * * *
The value of the Caulfield Cup is to be
the same as last year, £6500 and a trophy
of £l5O, Up to Monday there was no-
thing definite as to what the Epsom
and Metropolitan will carry. If certainty
attached to Randwick being available it
is probable even the A.J.C.’s harshest
critics would be left with little room for
fault-finding.
* * * *
Fermanagh’s two wins at Canterbury
Park did not cause him to be fancied
for the Cameron Handicap at Newcastle.
Presumably he was not reckoned to be of
sufficient class, and he started at 15 to 1.
There was nothing fluky about his win in
for a mile. Sold as a yearling for
65gns., Fermanagh is by Dunnottar from
Glow, by Corban from Suntint, by Paper
Money. Fermanagh did not start at two
years, and won his first race at Menangle
in June of last year.
* * * *
In respect of satisfactorily starting
High Caste on a stud career his owner
is—or was up to last week—in something
of a quandary. It is understood there is
still a N.S.W. buyer for him, and he could
also be placed at a leading Queensland
stud. As an alternative his owner could
purchase a stud property that is—or
shortly will be —on the market. That,
however, would mean buying mares, and
shortage of labor would make it an in-
opportune time for anyone to start a
stud, Jamieson left High Caste looking
very well, but he has definitely finished
racing.
* * * *
The Brisbane A.T.C. has four races,
in addition to its £3OOO Doomben New-
market Handicap, on its programme for
July 4. If there had been only three the
club’s patrons would have been assured
of a full afternoon’s racing. The New-
market may run into three divisions, and
it is practically certain there will be two
for at least another race. In the days of
heat-racing in N.S.W. it was not un-
usual to see only three races advertised
as a day’s programme. Occasionally
eight or nine races resulted.
* * * *
The fact of Prime Minister Curtin say-
ing that race meetings, as well as other
sporting fixtures, were among matters
between the public of a State and the
Government of that State has raised
hope in Sydney racing circles that Premier
McKell will assist in avoidance of clash
galloping meetings, even if a once-a-
month regular Wednesday meeting should
be out of the question. One trouble in
avoiding clashes would be that each
club concerned would want Saturday.
* * * *
In addition to the valuable Eclipse
Stakes, E. Britt was successful in other
important races at the Bombay meeting
in February. He won the Arab Derby
(Rs. 10,000 for first) on Seventh Heaven,
2 to 1 on in a field of nine ; Mysore
Cup (Rs. 11,000) on Gay Spaniard, 5 to
4 on; and Hughes Memorial Plate
(Rs.l 1,000) on Golden Fawn, 4 to 1 on.
Each of the horses mentioned is owned
by the Maharajah Gaekwar of Baroda.
* * * *
The best racing news of last week was
that Randwick would be available for
Tattersall’s meeting on May 23 and the
A.J.C. meeting on June 13. It was
thought both fixtures would have to be
held at Rosehill, and because of that con-
tingency Tattersall’s had arranged for a
£1650 programme and the A.J.C. for a
similar sum. Those amounts have re-
spectively been increased to £3OOO and
£3200. Last year the A.J.C. advertised
£2850 for the first day of its winter meet-
ing. This year there will be no second
day, consequent on the banning of holi-
days. With its two courses, Randwick
and Warwick Farm, unavailable, loss of
dates, and decreased revenue because of
change of venue, caution in respect of
prize-money was practically forced on
the A.J.C., but the position has changed,
and, with it, the attitude of the ruling
body.
* * * *
In England this year there has been
a further cut in racing, and last year
under Jockey Club rules (flat-racing)
only 13 courses operated, compared with
56 in 1938. The appended figures make
interesting reading:
Racecourses Racing No. of
in Operation. Days. Runners.
1938 .. .. 56 329 5143
1939 .. .. 54 253 3994
1940 .. .. 27 89 2246
1941 .. .. 13 86 1479
The position over the last four years was
much the same under National Hunt
(jumping) rules. Courses on which there
was racing dropped from 64 with 233
days in 1938 to nine with 40 days
in 1941, and the number of com-
petitors from 3078 to 755. Small owners
looked to the jumping meetings to give
them their opportunity of making ends
meet, but now the “battling” owner is
worse off in England than in Australia.
Foofbrcawl
The V.F.L. opened the season with 11
clubs. Geelong has dropped out; Carlton
had the bye; the other ten fielded more
or less scratch teams. Not more than
40,000 attended the five games. Essendon
(25.14) licked Melbourne (16.14); Rich-
mond (19.17) beat Footscray (16.15);
“Sowth” (18.25) had the measure of
Collingwood (14.11) all the way ; Fitzroy
(14.13) stoushed St. Kilda (10.12) and
North Melbourne (18.19) gave Hawthorn
(13.15) the first of many drubbings.
* * * *
Thus early, University looks Sydney’s
strongest Rugby Union side. A shade
faster and equally solid, the Students
administered a defeat, 14-6, to Eastern
Suburbs, Manly, strong this year, beat
Randwick 21-12. West headed North
14-11, and Drummoyne touched off
Gordon 17-13. St. George, beaten by
Parramatta, has had 66 points scored
against it without scoring one. Appeal-
ing on residential grounds, it got a re-
luctant full-back, Gray-Spence, from
Randwick, and is to lose him again the
young man had a collarbone broken in
his first match for Saints.
FOR KENSINGTON.
(At Ascot.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Beau Head, 1; Valve, 2;
Skerries or Metaloff, 3.
Flying Handicap: Nubian Prince,
1 ; Jazbeau, 2 ; Milanja or Mar-
theus, 3.
Fourteen-two Handicap: Vanity
Fair, 1 ; Easy Mark, 2 ; Te Rama, 3.
Kensington Handicap: Chatham’s
Choice, 1 ; Overjoyed, 2 ; Pimm’s, 3.
Encourage Stakes: Beau Timide,
1 ; Druce, 2 ; March By, 3.
Welter Mile: Kingsdale, 1 ; My
Friend, 2 ; Astounding or Plimsol, 3.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Osborne Hurdle: Browser, 1;
Great Treat, 2 ; Fearnought, 3.
Dartmouth Trial; Rua, 1 ; Mar-
tinez, 2 ; Lilette, 3.
Albacutya Handicap: Nalong, 1;
Lamiere, 2; Gay Roi, 3.
Cambridge Handicap; Reception,
1 ; Tuhitarata, 2 ; Chatasan, 3.
Granville Handicap: Similar, 1;
Damalis, 2 ; Watchguard, 3.
Villiers Welter; Prince Sion, 1 ;
Appeal, 2 ; Pannade, 3.


INSURE
and be sure!
your
your CLOTHES
your MOTOR car
your RADIO
Now is the time
furniture i cover yourself
against loss of
ill i your personal
effects through
war damaS®
No doubt you have made all pos-
sible arrangements for the protec-
tion of yourself and family during
air raids. But have you insured
your household goods and per-
sonal property against this or
other war damage? The only way
to do this is to join the Government's voluntary war damage
insurance scheme. The contribution is only 8/- for each
£lOO insured. Do it now!
NOTE—Buildings and property are separately and compul-
sorily protected. Owners need take no action at present—
Local Governing authorities will shortly call for valuations.
Go to any Insurance Office
and take out a
War Damage Certificate now
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
ill
m
ill!
ill
II
111
lit
111
fill
Modern high-cbss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
4" -I- *l* 4«
“An American has invented a buttonless
shirt.” — Oddity.
It is said he got the idea after one of
his ordinary shirts came back from the
laundry.
4* *F 4* *F
“How do you cough?”— Advt.
Up.
4* 4* *F 4*
“The hands can be made one of woman’s
great beauty points. The average woman,
however, has little idea how to use them.”
— Woman’s paper.
The woman in the flat next door who
spends an hour daily at the piano is, we
are now convinced, an average one.
“The animated talk ceased as a bulb-flash
made them aware that their phonographs had
been taken.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
It is claimed that the results were
speaking likenesses.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“How Hollywood is reacting to war.”
— Woman’s paper.
It’s simply remaking old films. This
brings about the reacting.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“On Chain for 20 Years.”
—“Daily Mirror” heading.
What of it? Many men have been
married much longer than that.
Fatal Mistake.
“Many make the fatal mistake of putting
bananas on ice to keep.”— Woman’s paper.
Their marriage has now struck a snag.
He says she is naught but a cheat. She
isn’t a nark or a nag, but, still, you will
hear him repeat: “The trouble began
when I brought some cobbers home one
afternoon. We’re thirsty and hot, and
I thought we were in for a beautiful boon
when the wife said, ‘You seem rather
hoarse ; there’s some on the ice for you,
dear.’ ’Twas bananas she meant, but,
of course, I thought she had brains and
meant beer!”
Looby.
“Man Hangs 60 Feet Over Street.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
Sort of human centipede.
*l* *2*
“Unrest at Abattoirs.” — Sydney “Sun.”
Perhaps the tripe objected to being
labelled purl and plain.
4 >l<
“A good husband cannot lie in bed and see
his wife preparing early-morning tea.”
— Woman’s paper.
Certainly not; but he can always turn
over and kid to be asleep.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Fireplace comfort at no cost at all.”
—Furnishing note.
We’ve had the pests at our place, too,
and they always pinch the best possie.
-I- 4 -I- v
’ “Napoleon frequently bathed himself with
eau-de-Cologne.”—“ World’s News.”
His enemies said this was just scenting
trouble.
Reaction.
“He sat there motionless, his bowed head
resting on his hands, a picture of unutterable
despair.” —Short story.
In short, he looked so very blue,
So overcome with bleak despair.
You’d swear that he had listened to
A cheer-up session on the air.
Nat.
“To Fight on Wedding Day.”
—Sydney “Sun.'’
That’ll help him take it.
Wool Away!
“It has been suggested
that women could help
out with the labor
shortage in shearing
sheds.”
“It beats me,
Millie, how she be-
came ringer in this
shed.”
“It doesn’t me.
Look at the experi-
ence she’s had fleec-
ing men!”
“I’m just about
fed up, anyway.
Fancy having to use
a billycan for a cock-
tail-shaker ! I think
it’s a rotten award.
No bridge afternoons
or lipstick money.
And that cook de-
serves a kick in the
pants, too. Always
the same old eclairs
for smoke-oh.”
“What a ghasfly-
looking creature
they’ve got drafting
in the yards! He’s
broken out in a
rash.”
“Don’t be silly;
that’s lipstick. He’s
the only man on the
job,”
“Well, there goes
blow-o! ”
“They can go to
hell! I’m going into
town this afternoon
for a wet-set.”
Don McM.
“One clothing factory has already doubled
its output of trousers for the fighting forces.”
They’re making great strides.
Poles Apart.
Though she’s the kind of girl a man
would die for,
Or suffer torments of the damned to
ai( l .
Though she possesses graces poets sigh
f or
In their conceptions of the perfect
maid •
Though she’s, in fact, the ideal combina-
t - lon
Of charm and looks for which my soul
is thirsting
I’m forced to terminate our sweet rela-
tion—
The plackets of her frocks are always
bursting!
P. O. M. C.
The Wake-up.
“Before they were married he regarded her
as a simple sort of woman. He was shocked
when he learnt about her conduct.”
—Evidence in divorce.
A man knows not the wife he’s wed
Until they’re married, lawful;
“She’s awf ully simple” may be said —
He finds her simply awful.
H. M.
The Art of Wardening.
IV.
We belong to a race that is justly famed
as the world’s greatest fillers-in of forms.
From licenses relating to dogs, radios
and wives to tax returns; from electoral
cards to applications to run fowls, motor-
mowers or around the park on a Sunday
morning—in the course of my life I have
filled in countless thousands of forms.
It was, therefore, with no little confidence
that I retired to the public telephone-box
and got to work on my report form.
Now, I have always found it a sound
axiom to ignore any question in a form
that is difficult or contentious. That has
been the secret behind my success as a
form-filler-in. Sure enough, I struck a
snag first go-off in the No. 1 question as
to the shire or municipality.
Now, whereas Mary-street, where Mrs.
McGoogan lives, is, I believe, in Chistle-
wick shire, Wumple-crescent, where I
live and the Warden’s Post is, comes under
the municipality of Palmhurst. At least,
Alljaw, our candidate in the last Federal
elections, was a Palmhurst alderman. On
the other hand, during the State election
when I went to vote they said I should
have been in Pinedale subdivision of the
electoral division of Chistlewick. I
therefore left this one vacant.
I went down the list, filling in con-
scientiously to the best of my belief all
the information my keen questioning and
observation could elicit, and leaving out
where I had forgotten or hadn’t bothered
to find out. That my finished report was
a model of neatness, packed with concise,
vital information, I modestly claim,
and a copy of it is subjoined here so that
those wardens who are timid, hesitant or
inexpert may see for themselves how it
should be filled in.
It had cost me my six spare torch bat-
teries and a lot of arguing with would-
be users of the telephone, but I accounted
that nothing so that the job was done.
It was with no little pride that I again
gathered up my stirrup-pump, rattle,
respirator, umbrella, pad of forms, etc.,
and made back to the Warden’s Post. 1
found it in darkness and nobody about.
I glanced at my watch. It was just 9.30.
So that was the Senior Warden’s concep-
tion of duty!
I immediately went along to old Joi-
lup’s house. It was not until I had rung
loudly several times that a light went on,
and a few minutes later Joilup came to
the door in his pyjamas, looking, I
thought, even dopier than is his wont.
I raised my tin hat in ironic politeness
to a pansy who could go to bed at 9.30.
“Fortunately for the war effort and the
safety of the nation,” I began, “not all
of us dingo their jobs and crawl home
before it is finished. Here”—and 1
held out the form to him.
He peered at it. “What the hell does
this mean,” he burst out, “dragging a
man out of bed on a Sunday mgm trying
to sell him a pak-a-pu ticket! It’s an
outrage! ”
“That,” I replied sternly, “is my report
form that you didn’t deem sufficiently im-
portant to wait for. For two pins I’d
resign! ”
He seemed to rally at that. “If only
you would,” he said fervently, half to
himself. “To think that it should have
been me that had to strike”
“Now, now,” I broke in in strong
admonition. “Who are you to talk about
striking on your job? Do you think you re
a New South Wales coalminer or some-
body? Remember the oath that you
took. Your oath. My oath!”
And with that I left him, shaken and,
I think, chastened. By the next test, I
don’t doubt, I shall have replaced him
as Senior Warden.
Bo.


Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Aus-
tralasia, weekly: 12 months, £1 45.;
6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s. ( Ex-
change must be added to Country and
inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas
(British Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 165.; 3 months, Bs. To
members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any Address Overseas
(Foreign): 12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6
months, £1 25.; 3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua,
Fiji, New Hebrides and other places
within the British Empire, lid. per copy.
United Kingdom, 2|d. per copy. To all
other places, 4-}d.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4gd. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Pinned
The Government restrictions on land
sales are highly successful. 1 took details
of my property to an agent and was told
a permit would be necessary. At the
Sub-Treasury I obtained the required
form, five pages of typewritten questions.
I took it home. One of the questions
requested the buyer’s name. As I cannot
obtain the permit until I fill in the form
and apparently can’t look for a buyer
until I have the permit, I find myself
nicely pinned. It’s a pity, though, be-
cause I wanted to put the cash into the
war loan. — Reward (Q.).
Banks
If “Sandpatch” (B. 29/4/ ’42) had
regard to the population of Sydney and
suburbs he might not find the 117 Com-
monwealth Bank branches too many.
This represents one branch to over
12,000 people, and it is certain that the
bank does not open branches unless cir-
cumstances warrant it.
While nearly all these branch offices
are equipped with full banking facilities,
they are, in the main, merely glorified
decentralisations of the vast metropolitan
savings bank system, it having been
proved that a branch operates more effi-
ciently with a set maximum of accounts.
At a time when thrift seems to be fighting
a losing battle the Commonwealth Savings
Bank still preaches its gospel, carrying
it even to the younger generation in the
schools and giving the wage-earner every
encouragement to save.
I hold no brief for the Labor Govern-
ment’s attitude towards the private banks,
which have served the country and its
people very well. The average Labor
politician’s view seems to be on a level
with that of the ignorant layman who
regards all bank shareholders as “bloated
capitalists.” But, at the same time, the
banks themselves have done little to
dispel this illusion. Check Sheet
(N.S.W.),
Another Board?
We have an Egg Board, an Apple and
Pear Board, a Road Transport Board, a
Milk Board and many others, useful and
useless. No doubt they make nice cushy
jobs for some people, but isn’t it about
time we had a Board Board? A cleaning
up is long overdue. —M. H. M. (N.S.W.).
“Textbook Generals”
In Andrd Maurois’s Art of Living I
have just discovered an extract from a
letter by Marshal Fayolle. It could be
read with benefit by all the knowalls
who are busy sneering at “textbook
generals.”
It has not been sufficiently recognised
that many in high command during the last
war were professors in the Ecole de
Guerre'. Foch, Petain, myself and many
others it resulted from the essentially
practical instruction offered at the Ec01e ....
textbook study and written exercises in
winter; studies and field manoeuvres in
summer the man who, for years, has
solved varied problems in military tactics
does not find himself at a loss on the
battlefield.
Lawrence of Arabia, describing his
campaign, tells how he used to spend his
nights studying all books available to
him on military strategy.
It is obvious that a man can’t obtain
first-hand experience of all kinds of war-
fare in one lifetime any more than a
doctor or scientist can acquire his neces-
sary groundwork first hand. If we were
to believe what these same journalists,
who are now asking for the hides of the
“old men,” wrote a short time ago, the
Germans have made themselves word-
perfect in the textbooks of certain de-
parted military theorists, and are simply
applying them systematically. —H. O.
(N.S.W.). _____
Men and the Machine
While there are men who would take
the dole rather than a job any day
“Caprica’s” tirade (B. 15/4/’42) is mostly
eyewash. A couple of days ago an
Innisfail (N.Q.) councillor told the local
M.P. that 2000 men were looking for
work in the sugar district between Innis-
fail and Cairns. They are not dole men
the curse of the “slack season” is on
them —and when the ‘crushing” begins
they will be working, most of them. But
in Hitler’s Germany, war-time or peace-
time, would 2000 men have to cool their
heels on the dole or take occasional jobs
during six or seven months between har-
vest and harvest?
A chap I know is over 50, has done a
lot of hard work in his time, is now tak-
ing it fairly easy—sort of half-retired, as
was his due. But when war came he filled
in the Menzies man-power card, waited,
prepared to do his bit. Nothing hap-
pened and he thought the need for men
was not overurgent. Then he heard
Herbert Gepp’s radio speech urging snug-
corner men to come out in the open—
the need for labor was desperate.
Promptly he offered his services at the
labor bureau, keeping the registration
alive for six months or so by weekly
stampings of the card. But always there
were more men than jobs—and other men
needed the wages. So in disgust he let
the thing slide.
Then Japan entered the war. The radio
hummed with appeals to every man to
get busy. My friend wrote to Mr. Ward
at Canberra, gave particulars of him-
self and offered to serve where the need
was greatest, at whatever the authorities
concerned thought he could do best. He
received a courteous letter from a secre-
tary ; his offer had been referred to the
Employment Inspector in Brisbane. A
week later came from this gentleman:
“I am unable to offer you anything at
present. If unemployed you should
register at the nearest Government Labor
Exchange
So was completed what might perhaps
be termed “the vicious circle.”— Nordbo
(Q-). .
No Overseas Service
So the Federal Parliament has rejected
a motion which would have the effect ot
FORE!
compelling conscripted Australian troops
to serve overseas. Among the majority
were Mr. Curtin and the members of his
Ministry, who have been crying for help
from America to save Australia from the
Japs. And among those who paired with
the Government was Dr. Evatt," who until
recently was in America beseeching extra
help for his country!
The main supporters of a second front
in Europe are politicians and labor unions
of the no-conscription-for-overseas-ser-
vice brand. Yet if British soldiers had
the right to refuse to serve outside Great
Britain there would be no second front
anywhere. — Veritas (N.S.W.).
“The Interests of the State”
“Fitzwilliam” (B. 29/4/’42) draws a
harrowing picture of the grasping State
taking, and compelling “Fitz” to take, a
large proportion of an o.a. pensioner’s
small legacy (house and land) in fees and
legal costs. But what is the true posi-
tion? To examine this, the transaction
must be separated into its component
parts; (1) probate and (2) transfer.
Firstly, “Fitz.” states that the scale
costs allowed by the Court on probate
are £lO. Admittedly, but the legal agent
is not compelled to charge that amount.
Seeing that in this case the client was an
0.a.p., a smaller charge could have been
made, and nobody would have com-
plained. But “Fitz.” could have sent his
client to the local courthouse to see that
Pooh-Bah of the country community the
C.P.S. That laddie is (inter alia ) district
agent for the Registrar of Probates, and
in all cases where the value of an estate
is less than £3OO the C.P.S. will do all
work necessary to obtain probate at a
purely nominal cost. This ranges from
15s. to 305., and, in the case quoted,
would have been 15s. The only other
cost to the applicant is the cost of an
advertisement in a newspaper, say 10s.,
and the Valuer-General’s certificate of
value, 2s. 6d. Total cost of obtaining
probate, 275. 6d.
Secondly, probate having been
obtained, if the o.a.p. went along to the
Pooh-Bah and saw him in his capacity as
Crown Land Agent the o.a.p. would find
that all necessary forms would be supplied
and filled in in order to obtain transfer.
The cost? No charge for filling in, etc.,
but the following fees; 10s. for Minister’s
consent to the transfer and £2 2s. for the
Crown Solicitor’s certificate. (It might
even be £1 11s. 6d.) Then £1 transfer
fee and £1 stamp duty, and away we
go. Total cost of transfer, £4 12s. at
most.
So the “interests of the State” are
satisfied by a total cost to the o.a.p. of
£5 19s. 6d. at most. Quite a different
story from “Fitzwilliam’s” tale of over
twenty quid.—Macßopus (N.S.W.).
A Nice Cup of Tea
I was privileged to study one of the
departmental circulars issued from Can-
berra to merchants concerning the
rationing of tea. One paragraph pro-
vided that retailers were empowered to
ration customers on a basis of 50 p.c.
of normal requirements. The light-
hearted way in which this colossal task
was set out would have done one’s heart
good—if you weren’t a retailer. The very
next paragraph, without any circumlo-
cution, baldly stated that the same re-
tailers were not to have in stock tea of
a greater quantity than one-third of their
normal requirements. Just how they
were supposed to supply consumers on a
50 p.c. basis from one-third of normal
stocks was not explained.
Now the latest rationing stunt has been
sprung on us, and we are told that re-
tailers in the country must supply con-
sumers with a month’s ration based on
one ounce per head per week. That is
obviously impossible, since the tea isn’t
in stock to do it. Fifty customers with
“Consumers: 4” each would mean 501 b.
of tea and would wipe out quite a
number of retailers immediately, leaving
other consumers lamenting. Yet on the
basis of the wild-eyed radio reports, etc.,
all are entitled to come in straightway
and draw their month’s ration.
All these weird ideas ‘ apparently
emanate from departmental sources in
Canberra, and are drawn up by officials
who cannot possibly have the slightest
notion of what goes on when such plans
ate carried into effect. —R. H. G. (W.A.).
Teachers
For the benefit of “Lyle” (B. 22/4/’42)
I’d like to point out that the short hours
of the schools were decided on long
before teachers’ organisations were strong
enough to have much say in the matter
and can therefore be regarded as fair.
Nine-to-four, however, is the pupil’s
working period; most teachers work
more than an eight-hour day. And their
“pensions” are self-contributed. As for
the work, I’ve taught school, punched
sheep, cattle, donkeys and bullocks, tasted
most manly diversions from axe-swinging
to scooping, shovelled out vats at vin-
tage time for several years and worked
in a responsible position in a wine
laboratory, and I know chalk-splashing is
the hardest of the lot.— Taylor Ville
(S.A.).
Teaching is essentially a career,
although seldom treated as such. Young
men and women, the latter especially,
take it up as a job, merely to earn a
living and often as a stopgap. Actually
teachers should be born to the work, and
for them the work is not arduous, but
an engrossing career. In this commercial
world there are too many square pegs in
round holes, and many of them are in
the teaching profession.— Gab (Q.).
Strange that the other chap always has
a better job. “Lyle,” I allow, had most
of his right, but that does
not prove teaching a sinecure any more
than one warm flannel shirt makes a
man well-dressed. Security of tenure and
pensions, yes; but also a sentence to
mediocrity—the sheltered job means
shelter from the plums as well as the hail-
stones. Three figures are generally
enough to express the average ped.'s
estate (if he has one).
The nervous strain? It’s not imagi-
nary. The fatigue that comes after a
spell of teaching is a deadly and depress-
ing thing, of which physical weariness is
only a part. In case “Lyle” feels like
rushing in to test this there are other
things. Progress by seniority, for in-
stance, is a paralysis that affects all of
us, crippling initiative when and where
it is needed most.
In yictoria comment on Government
administration is forbidden imagine
what that means to the average Aussie.
Then in our reflective moments we can
consider the ceaseless struggle to free
education from the straitjacket so that
this country will really get what a young
democracy needs instead of a muss of
stale scraps.— Athos (Vic.).
These Sacrifices
Isn’t it lime politicians toned down on
“the sacrifices made by men and women
working long hours in munition fac-
tories”? From the eagerness with which
these people go after war loadings, etc.,
I very much doubt whether many of
them would work one extra hour unless
they were paid overtime rates and given
all sorts of fancy conditions. Cut out
the war loading, overtime rates and so
forth and see just what sacrifices these
people are willing to make. Hear what
the man who draws £lO or £l5 a week
while the soldier gets 6s. a day would
say.
As far as I can see, with few excep-
tions, the only people making real sacri-
fices in this war are the soldiers, sailors,
airmen, their dependants and the nurses
who are willing to risk their lives any
minute for a wage that would send the
coalminers out on a 20-year strike. The
workers are doing a good job, but they
are being well paid for it. —W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
The Death of Art
No change from verse to prose was
ushered in by printing (B. 22/4/’42).
Prose was as common as poetry before
the invention of the printing press, and
for over four centuries after that poetry
remained a popular medium of literary
expression. It is only within the last 30
years or so that it has suffered a marked
decline. The commercial spirit of the
age can hardly be responsible for its
present neglect, that, spirit being just as
pronounced in the nineteenth century,
when poetry was widely appreciated.
Great works in literature or any of the
arts that have been created in garrets are
rare. Periods of high literary and artistic
achievements have always been notable
for generous and discriminating patron-
age, whether on the part of royal
dynasty, aristocracy, church, or cultured
community. When little interest is shown
in a particular sphere there is scant
accomplishment in that field.
Tennyson and Shakspeare are unfor-
tunate choices to cite as examples of
literary men who endured penury and
hardship when creating their master-
pieces. Tennyson never knew poverty,
and his poetry won him not only two
country seats but a peerage, .Shakspeare
began his working life without resources,
but he made a fortune as a playwright
and most of his best plays were written
after he became rich. As playwright for
a commercial theatre, in which he was
also a partner, he wrote to please his
public as much as any hireling of Holly-
wood. That his work was so superlative
was due partly to the accident of genius
and partly to the fact that the Eliza-
bethan Londoner had the taste to appreci-
ate plays of high quality.
As for Milton and Burns, the former
left an estate of £l5OO (worth easily
£BOOO in modern money), while Burns
received reasonable recompense for his
poems, and for several years before his
death—at only 37—he was an excise
officer. — Tom (N.S.W.).


Qraottls
Dear Sirs:
My grocer cannot supply some of my favourite
biscuits. Have you stopped making them?
Dear Sir or Madam:
Our factories are working at full capacity.
Arnott's Biscuits are \ "On Service" on every
Australian battle front. We have removed many
lines from our lists to enable us to fulfil war
orders, and we look forward to that happy day
when supplies will once again be ample.
Grocers everywhere are assisting us to fairly
distribute our available supplies and avoid
disappointment to our many friends.
lend to Dehnd
7
FAMOUS
PLEASE RETURN ALL EMPTY TINS TO YOUR GROCER AS SOON AS POSSIBLE
