

PURPLE PARA
ffctt mellcwneuanalmiq/uei>
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3240.
Wednesday, March 18, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
FOUNTAINS ABBEY.
T 1 HERE are lovely ruins in England vastly different from the ghastly modern ruins for which Nazi “total war” technique was responsible.
* Near the Cathedral City of Ripon, in Yorkshire, are the beautiful ruins of the historical abbeys, Fountains, Bolton, Riyaulx and
Bylands. The first-named, founded in 1131, is regarded as a fine example of the early English style of architecture. The origin of the
name has been variously explained—one authority, in poetic metre, gives his opinion thus:
“Low in a vale, with springs well stored, and wood,
And sovereign herbs whence failing health’s renewed,
A neighboring abbey next invites the eye,
Stupendous acts of former piety;
From streams and springs which nature here contrives,
The name of Fountains this sweet place derives.”
How it came to be founded is another matter. Scenes of violence had taken place among the monks of St. Mary’s at York, and, the
restoration of order being difficult, the Archbishop assigned to some of them a place of retreat in the valley of the Skell. Here they at
first sheltered themselves under rocks and yew-trees, subsequently erecting wooden cells and a chapel beneath an enormous elm, which
survived until the Dissolution. Wealth poured in upon the monks until their lands extended to Pennygent, a mountain some miles to
the west, and included in one estate 60,000 acres, besides other domains elsewhere. To reach the Abbey the Skell has to be crossed if the
visitor comes from Ripon, three miles distant. The ruins consist of nave, transept, choir and tower, 168 feet high. The nave is the
oldest portion. Probably, the Lady Chapel is the most beautiful part of the church, and this testimony has been left by the late J. Phillips,
F.G.S., no mean authority, “The slender octagonal pillars of vast height which bear the lofty arches connected with the clerestory of
the nave are almost a miracle.” The Refectory, the Frater-House, the Chapter House, the Abbot’s House and other remains found by
succeeding generations are worthy of careful examination. The whole, as all who have had the good fortune to go to Fountains Abbey
will confess, is wonderfully beautiful and impressive.


ţ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
Action and nostalgia—there are the
traditional themes of soldier poetry, as
old as war itself. But the real poets of
the A.I.F. in Malaya, except for these
two, hadn’t had time to develop, and most
of the contributions that came to this
office were the rough-and-ready, humor-
ous stuff of men who hadn’t seen action
and who had a grouch to work off or a
joke to tell. One man sent in “A Soldier’s
Idea of Malaya”—“the land of stinks and
smells”
Where we sweat while doing nothing
And the mosquitoes give us hell.
And another thing we do not like
Is the awful beer.
Oh, when I think of Tenterfield,
I almost shed a tear.
On the climate and on the bugs,.all the
other contributors agreed with him, A
corporal suggested:
Give the Japs Malaya; it isn’t worth a Jack.
They won’t keep it very long before they hand
it back.
Although we need the rubber, and find a use
for tin,
If we stay here much longer we’ll be mighty
• thin!
One and all, protesting good-humoredly
against a celebrated faux pas, they denied
that there was any “glamor” in Malaya ;
one and all, believing that there would
be no war in the Pacific, they complained
(this one was from Rabaul);
When the story of Tobruk has adorned the
history-book
And we hear about our cobbers’ gallant stand,
We’ll be left out in the cold —we can never
join the fold,
For they wouldn’t let us lend a helping hand.
And one and all they demanded ;
So take us to the Middle East, where it is cold
at night,
And we can join our cobbers and help to win
the fight.
One man among the balladists gave
promise of a talent that might have done
for Malaya what Tip Kelaher and young
‘Banjo” Paterson have done in Libya:
The scarcity of verses from Malaya is
understandable. But why is it that the
Navy so seldom strums the lyre? Here’s
one from a man on an Australian war-
ship who signs himself “Sub”;
But even a ballad such as that is a rarity.
Maybe the tradition of the Silent Service
is operating. But the real reason for the
shortage is probably that men of the Navy
take up the service as a career, accept
battle as part of the natural, traditional
order of things ; whereas to the volunteer
soldier poet war comes as a physical and
psychological earthquake in the midst of
a normal civilian life.
The R.A.A.F., too, seems less given to
versifying than the A.I.F. Perhaps it’s
harder to write skyscapes than land-
scapes ; perhaps the conditions and
nature of the flying service make it diffi-
cult to write. Comparative numbers
would have something to do with it. But
when two cheerful giants in Air Force
shorts stalked into The Bulletin while
this article was being prepared with eighty
(80) stanzas of an R.A.A.F. version of
the celebrated “Bloody, bloody, bloody! ”
ode, it wouldn’t be accurate to suggest
that no sweet song has come from the
birds of the air.
Faber and Faber, it might be men-
tioned here, have published the Verses
of a Fighter Pilot, by Flying-Officer A. N.
C. Weir, D.F.C., a book which, though
set in England, should have some interest
for Australian airmen. The quality of the
verse is Georgian; pleasant, but without
much “bite.” The pilot-poet doesn’t, in
fact, reach the standard of this verse,
“Early Flying,” by an Australian “Flight
Loot” —easily the best R.A.A.F. contri-
bution so far to come to this office;
The steadiest flow of verse, and—gener-
ally speaking—the best in quality as
poetry, still comes from the Middle East;
and chiefly from men whose names will
be known to readers of the previous Red
Pages of A.I.F. verse. Maurice Biggs
again, on “Christmas, 1941”;
It’s worth noting, incidentally, that such
“holidays” as Christmas and Easter take
on all their old significance of “holy
days” for the soldier. On December 24
The Bulletin published J. Alex. Allan’s
“Christmas Card” ; Shawn O’Leary in his
Spikenard and Bayonet (recently reviewed
here) had a New Year poem striking
much the same note. And among three
new contributions from Sgt. Eric Irvin
are both a Christmas and a New Year
verse. His “Swan Song, 1941,” runs:
Those are the known names: Aus-
tralia’s poets of this war. Here’s one
from a promising newcomer, J. A. Hen-
derson.
One of the contributors to the first
Red Page of A.I.F. verse sent in a good
description of how the page was received
in Libya;
Copies of that particular number of The
Bulletin have just reached us after a long
letter, newspaper and magazine drought. I
wish you could see all the fellows reading
like mad. as though their lives depended on
it, and then swapping a “Woman” for a
SSSTV* “ SmithV ’ for an “*■*»
What pleased me more than anythin.
DigMrTr r siS P ' 1 A Re<l de,o, '"»
on^hie V h er^eho A ,s,TlfSrappt
rsf’ca®
tured the imagination of everyone here P
Ihe more serious work, however’ k
whkh°, ( | W / th tllat , sus P‘cious expression
which denotes one of two things* (1) “k
this poetry?” (i.e., sissy stuff), or (2) “Is
somebody trying to teach me something?
Because if they are I won’t learn.”
the f . of „ Digger poets’ work
of Palestine, I think, is definitely
the best, with “Spring Offensive, 1941“
running it a close second.
The colorful “Ode to Darwin” certainly
did become a classic. New versions of it
cropped up all over the place; “Libya’s
Reply to Darwin’s Ode” began with:
You say your Darwin’s bloody bad
We read your “Ode,” it’s bloody sad.
If you come to Libya you’re bloody mad
So, bloody, bloody, bloody!
Twenty-three new stanzas of it came
winging from Tobruk, ending on the sub-
lime note:
So give us our dis-bloody-charges,
Send us home in bloody barges—
But drop me off at bloody Marge’s!
Bloody, bloody, bloody!
It’s to be doubted that the war will
produce anything quite as fruity as the
“Ode” again ; but there’s one of the latest
batch of contributions that should have
a reasonably wide appeal. Diphtheria
inspired it; it came from the Middle East,
is entitled “The Great Awakening” and is
dedicated “to those kind members of the
A.A.N.S. who will persist in waking up
a bloke at very odd hours of the day and
night”;—
Malaya. Australia, Libya.
Because the best and deepest war
poetry is written only by men who have
been in action, and action in Malaya was
so swift and so disastrous, no Digger
there had a chance to establish himself
as a poet of the A.I.F. as Maurice Biggs,
Eric Irvin and others have been able to
do in the Middle East. A campaign in
which Australians fought with such
courage is certain to have produced its
poet; but not until mails begin to come,
or perhaps not until after the war, can
there be the Red Page of verse from
Malaya which had been planned and for
which a few contributions had been
stored.
Two poems written in Malaya when
the war loomed so close as to be almost
the stark reality that inspires the poetry
of action strike the authentic note of
soldier verse. A sergeant wrote of
“Our
Task”:
We wait expectantly who are alone:
A brotherhood of men exiled apart
From our accustomed ways; each one his
thoughts
Of Home and Love deep-buried in his heart.
We wait (and patiently) through days and
nights;
A calm resolve grows strong with steadfast
will,
With our appointed task made crystal-clear:
Forget our God, forget all else, to kill.
And another man wrote:
To wander westward o’er the blowing plain,
To see the smoke uncoiling from the fire,
To smell the sweet earth after summer rain—
What else could I desire?
To tarry by the cool, round-pebbled streams
And watch the tadpoles loafing in the deep;
Fo drowse upon the sand and dream the dreams
Of sweet half-wakefulness, half-sleep;
To gaze in awe upon the thundering sea
Leaping at rocky headlands of the shore,
And hear the salt wind scream in ecstasy—
How could I ask for more?
To watch the dying splendor of the sun
Bathe the far distant hills with amber light
As darkling shadows lengthen into one
And day fades into night;
To live the life that man was born to live,
Set free from war’s annihilating strain —
O broken heart, this is the balm to give
When I sail home again.
DISPERSE.
At last we have a battle cry—
Disperse!
Don’t question us or ask us why—
Disperse!
We heard the shout come on the breeze
I hat floated through the rubber-trees;
Our corporal begged us on his knees—
“ Disperse!”
No longer formed up side by side —
Disperse!
In ranks that fought with sausage pride—
Disperse!
I know where I would rather be
If fellows bunched around near me—
A mile away behind a tree.
Dispei se!
And when we stroll along a track —
Disperse!
If Tom’s within five yards, drop back —
Disperse!
The captain roars it to the lieut.,
The sergeant’s next to get the boot,
The corporal shouts “You bleeding coot—
Disperse! ”
And when we stroll down Martin-place—
Disperse!
You might meet Bluey face to face —
Disperse!
But when my Flo once more I see
And sit her down upon my knee,
I’ll brain the cow who says to me
“Disperse! ”
If you think this war is skittles,
With some beer chucked in as well,
Just listen to the story
That a sailor has to tell.
When you’ve been on board the cruisers
And the “battlers” or the “boats,”
When the Stukas come a-diving,
Bombing everything that floats;
When you’ve heard the point-fives chatter
And the Bredas sing in choir.
While the four-inch guns are barking
And the pom-poms open fire;
When you’ve seen the blood and slather
And you’ve heard the big guns roar,
And you’ve seen the grand fleet steaming
Off a rugged, desert shore;
When you’ve kept the “first” and “morning”
Till your eyes are hot and red,
And you fail to see the Stukas
Till they’re just above your head;
When you’ve seen the sunbrowned Diggers
That you’ve taken from the field.
With their faces grim and weary.
Though you know they’ll never yield;
When you’ve felt the bombs come crashing
Through the din and flame and smoke,
And you’ve seen your mates go over—
Then you know the war’s no joke.
Dim in the grey of the dawning, the hangars
take their shape;
Deep the darkness within them, with ready
doors agape,
Ready to loose the aircraft, silent with wide
wings spread,
Awaiting life in the motors and the day that
lies ahead.
Sudden the flick of a light-switch, glaring the
arc light’s glow,
Winking down from the girders on the blue-
clad forms below;
Swarming amid the aircraft, pushing and pull-
ing there,
Until, slow-moving and stately, it noses the
morning air.
There, on the lightening tarmac, facing the long
takeoff,
Come the whine of the starter and the motor’s
cold, hard cough,
Whirr of sleek propeller and the deep, full-
throated roar
Of open exhausts in the stillness greeting the
day once more.
Throttled back by the fitter, the roar dies down
to a throb,
Questing hands are checking, doing the daily
job.
Testing controls for the pilot, peering at instru-
ment-board,
Watching the slender needles shake like a
quivering sword.
At length comes a sturdy figure, helmeted,
young of face,
Cased in his heavy sidcot, climbs up to take
his place.
Sure and serene in the cockpit, the craft and
he are one,
Sweeping swiftly upwards into a blood-red sun.
Whence is this star keeps growing in the sky,
Turning the Libyan blackness into day,
Waking the Syrian shepherds with a start.
Lighting the bloodied jungles of Malay?
Whence is this exultation of the heart
That men are laughing in the olden way,
Talk of a thing called Peace long laid away,
And think to kill no more nor want to die?
Today is Christmas Day. I wonder had,
Adown the wornout ages, shone your light
Upon a world so needing it, O Christ!
Or is our armed magnificence and might
Your puissance only: Your Blood sacrificed
Our certain armor: our destructive blow
Your ire? And even as we think it, 10,
A star is rising over Leningrad!
And of the Dead? The unreturning ones
Caught in the quick, sharp wonderment of
Death?
Who is to tell them about Bethlehem
And of a king who lived in Nazareth?
Poppies will bloom in Greece and Crete for
them.
And sheep-bells tinkle from an ancient hill.
And, somewhere home, those white-haired
women still
Ponder the memory of their murdered sons.
Lieut. A. G. Austin, on “Good Friday”:
Still tired, we wakened from a fitful sleep
That held alarums and calls and sudden cries,
And from our desert holes we watched the deep
Unearthly red that filled the eastern skies;
The sun came up into a blinding storm.
So came the Easter Day; and at its sign
No sound of worship, but all day the fierce
And sudden thud of guns—the vicious whine
Of death. Men’s curses, not their prayers
and tears,
He must have wondered why He should have
died.
Lower those guns, soft-pedal on the note
That roars so loudly from destruction’s throat;
This is the sacred moment, this the time
That calls for calmer faces, for sublime
Aspirations, visions—truth to tell,
We would say “Nice to have known you” and
“Farewell.”
Farewell the disappointments and the fears,
The agony too great for human tears.
Farewell the failures and the hope that strives
To find a profit in the loss of lives.
Farewell the fumbling and the uselessness
That sings Utopia and creates a mess.
No more sweet sentiment, the heart that cries
At filmdom’s glamored deaths while mankind
dies.
No more the grave, the cypress ’gainst the sky;
The hope that’s born a whisper dies a sigh.
No more those souls, the ego’s dull defenders,
The Audens, the MacNeices and the Spenders.
Let them all go; they’re old, halt in their gait;
Their purpose ended, their Nemesis late.
Too long we’ve put more worth into the grave
Than ever we have been able to save.
Let’s bed the dull, the hopeless and the fools
In fresh-turned earth—the task will find the
tools.
So good-bye to their lovely, fatal charms.
Good-bye the love turned ghost within our arms.
Good-bye the pledges never yet fulfilled.
The ill-planned house that no one here could
build.
No matter glory, false the rolling drum,
Our fate is freedom, living is the sum.
“The Waiting Dreams”: —
Along the path the little dreams must wait
Beside the hopes we cherished through the
years
Till common men are masters of their fate,
To live and love and shed besetting fears.
Is there no peace—did not our other dead
Purchase it to make a fair domain
Where men could dream of greater things ahead
And set another star and march again?
That is freedom. We must turn aside
To guard the path for those who follow on.
We—who knows? Perhaps our dreams will
guide
The eager marching when the strife has gone.
Count no loss the striving and the dreams —
Out of these are things of glory shown.
Leave them waiting till as fortune deems
A passing child will take them for his own.
The doctor comes an’ says ter me
“To ’ospital I’m sending thee;
It’s only just a mild complaint,
Your throat will need a little paint.”
"0.K.,” I says, an’ packs me gear
(Threw away a dozen beer)
An’ went to where I thought I’d rest—
Gaw’ blime, that ain’t ’arf a jest.
I gets ter bed all peaceful, see?
An’ sleeps as soundly as can be,
But after ’arf an ’our or so
1 feel ’em ticklin’ of me toe.
“Come on, wake up!” sister said,
“You’ve got ter wash an’ make yer bed.”
An’ there’s me goin’ off ter sleep—
Wouldn’t it make yer marrows creep!
At last I settled down again.
An’ then a noise like some damn’ train
Woke me again—an’ there she was,
Standin’ there like me ol’-time boss.
“Whadda yer want?” I says, says I.
“Pulse an’ temp, an’ drop yer eye!”
An’ there was I, just orf ter sleep—
Wouldn’t it make yer toenails creep!
Well, orf I goes agen ter bed
Until a crowbar ’its me ’ead;
Or so it felt —but it was ’er,
Lookin’ like a ’awk she were.
She pounced orl right, so ’elp me bob,
An’ painted up an’ down me gob.
An’ there was I, ’bout ’arf asleep —
Wouldn't it make yer whiskers creep!
“Ding, dang!” I says, an’ so would you.
I’ll stay awake an’ think o’ stew.
Fold up like a bloomin’ flower
An’ get woke up in ’arf an ’our?
Well, aft’ra bit she comes around
(Blime, don’t she cover ground!)
With pills to make me go to sleep—
Wouldn’t it make yer adenoids creep!
She let me sleep from two to four;
I could ’ave done with plenty more.
But wake me up she did an’ all,
An’ in she comes just like a squall.
“It’s teatime now,” she brightly said.
So ’elp me bob, I wished Fse dead!
An’ there was me enjoyin’ sleep—
Wouldn’t it make yer tonsils creep!
So night comes round —thank Gawd for that—
An’ when it’s dark I grabs me ’at
An’ creeps away from that there place
Where nevermore they’ll see my face.
I’m walkin’ ’long the street, yer see.
An’ runs into a “blank” M.P.,
Who takes me back to sister’s door.
Oh, what’d I join the Army for?
For the Troops.
The Army Education people are mak-
ing a good job of their weekly magazine
for the troops, “Salt” (Army Hq., Vic-
toria Barracks, Melbourne). The Bulle-
tin’s review copy, dated Feb. 16, is
packed with material that couldn’t fail
to interest any A.I.F. man: item, a de-
scription of the Jap army (“The A.I.F.
up north call them ‘Nips’ ”), what it’s
made of and how it works ; a rank chart
of the N.E.I. army; a first-class medical
essay; historical and geographical
articles on Australia ; short stories and
verse by A.I.F. men ; humor ; a question
department; and even “ ‘Salt’s’ Super
Quiz.”
It’s a handy size; as interesting as a
“digest” ; and they issue it free.
Reading and Remembering, an Army
Education Service pamphlet by J. A.
Passmore, is heavier going. It’s one of
those “How to read a book” essays which
(it being desirable to read for education)
everyone should read apd which (it being
pleasant to read for entertainment)
nobody does read. The serious student
(and no doubt the A.I.F. has one) should
find it valuable; and it is, in fact, a
guide to true entertainment from litera-
ture as opposed to time-killing.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
“THE SENIOR STORE
m
Wm
■
wmamm'
3H
X
#
# t
%1
UNDERWEAR.
Underwear lor Autumn and Winter . . .
"Jumbuk" Brand is consistently chosen lor
its quality and texture. Made from selected
long staple pure woollen yarn, which is
faultless and will not irritate the tenderest
skin. "Jumbuk'' Underwear is stocked in a
wide range of sizes, but owing to the great
difficulty in obtaining supplies from the
Mills, we cannot guarantee that all sizes
in every weight will always be available,
Wmmver. every possibltTendeavour will be
Order as early as
possible.
*
cr
fj
■
•
m
■■■ ;|--3
mm
:
f
4
tmmm
u
w
TALL SLIM SHORT STOUT FOR MEN OF AVERAGE BUILD
or II
\
WH
220. "Jumbuk" All Wool Light Underwear,
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48
Shirts, short sleeves B/6 9/3 10/- 10/9 11/9 13/- 4/6 16/-
Underpants •• 9/9 ™ ™ I
Trunk Drawers 9/3 9/9 10/6 11/3 12/3 13/6 15/- 16/6
330. "Jumbuk" All Wool Medium Winter-weight Underwear.
* . , 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48
shod sieevesl3/3 w w w* w - w* w-
Underpants W 6 15/6 16/6 17/9 19/3 20/9 22/3 24/3
440. "Jumbuk" Natural All Wool Heavyweight Underwear.
34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48
Sizes, inches 22/9 24/6
S. S. w ™ ™
NSW and seaports in the Commonwealth.
, Men’s Mercery-Ground Floor, Geor S e Street. Freight pa.d to all radway stat.ons rn N.5.W.
ANTHONY
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


THE HUNTER
By E. DITHMACK.
Everything was quiet in the
kitchen after the old people went
off to bed. There wasn’t a sound
except the fire crackling in the
stove and Joe every now and then
rattling the cartridges as he filled the belt.
Outside the night was silent and frosty.
The trees were stark against a full moon,
standing like giant silhouettes so that the
stars seemed to be caught and held in
the branches. Joe had told her that it
was easy to see the possums on a night
like this. His trained eyes scarcely
needed the electric torch with focused
beam, but he took it just the same.
“You get the light in their eyes,” he
said, “and it’s easy then to make a clean
hit.”
“Yes,” she said, not allowing herself
to think too far along those lines. It
wasn’t the hunt she was concerned with
so much as a walk alone with Joe —a
romantic interlude at the end of her
brief holiday.
She watched his hands as he fixed the
last cartridge in the belt —strong hands.
His dark, bushy brows were drawn to-
gether across his eyes as he concentrated
on the job, his shoulders were strong and
muscular. She thought he looked brutal
until he raised his eyes to smile at her.
They were quiet eyes.
The last cartridge fixed, Joe fastened
on the belt; then he picked up the rifle
and moved to the door.
THE sky was cold and clear —immense.
There was no other light within miles
—nothing but the trees and moon and
illimitable space. Far, far away on some
neighboring farm she could hear a dog
barking, the insistent yaps echoing and
re-echoing through the clear stillness.
Then there was silence again.
Joe said nothing, stalking a little ahead,
his big body jerking up and down to
make shadows on the narrow path. The
long, dry grass on either side swished as
they passed, making a sound like the far-
off rising of a wind. Inside the post-and-
rail paddock the leaves of the box-trees
glittered so that numerous lamps seemed
to be moving erratically in the breeze.
The girl knew that Joe’s eyes were
alert, even though he wouldn’t start scan-
ning the trees until the creek paddock
was reached, where it was known the pos-
sums were plentiful this year. But that,
of course, was like Joe. Keeping his
mind on only one thing and letting no
outside influences affect him.
Well, she wasn’t a child now like she'd
been on those other occasions when
they’d gone possuming together on her
rare trips out from town. Neither was
he. Even though they were cousins she
began to wonder whether it might not be
a very different proposition tonight.
Whether perhaps, in spite of her wish to
bring things to a head, it was quite a
wise thing moving out into the limitless
night with someone who had grown into
a stranger.
They were a long way from the house
now —isolated in a world of their own.
Just the two of them. Fear came up
into her throat, choking her. She felt
nervy, her heart jumping every now and
again when something scuttled into the
undergrowth or rustled across the path.
“Are there snakes about at night?”
she asked.
“Not often. Why, you’re not afraid,
are you?”
“Of course not!”
He took her arm and led her away
from the track to where the ringbarked
trees leaned up against the moon-filled
sky. She felt her heart jump at the con-
tact, wondering what was in his mind.
She didn’t try to draw her arm away
but followed where he led, keeping quiet
and watching with him for any movement
in the trees. Better, she thought, to keep
all emotions on that level.
A little further on they stopped and
Joe jerked his arm upward. “Look,” he
said, “there’s one.”
“Where?”
“There —can’t you see?”
He stood close behind her, one hand
gripping her shoulder, the other pointing
upward. His face was close to hers, his
arm almost about her as he stood point-
ing, but when she glanced from the bough
back to his eyes there was nothing per-
sonal in their look, only a keenness fol-
lowing each movement of the possum
and a desire to bring it down.
“I can’t see it,” she complained.
“Where?”
“Look.” He pointed again. “Wait till
I focus it with the torch and you’ll see.”
Far up the creek a mopoke was calling.
The night seemed alive, quivering with
unseen forces. Beside her Joe was warm
and human. She could feel the heat from
his face against hers.
“Can you see it?” he asked, removing
his gaze for a moment to look question-
ingly at her,
“Yes, I can see it now. Don’t shoot
it, Joe. It seems so cruel.”
“Don’t be silly. What else did we come
out for?”
CTHE felt a sudden surge of anger and
wondered why he should remain un-
aware of her. “The great gawk!” she
thought resentfully. “He might just as
well have a man out with him.”
He was moving round the tree, getting
into the bole’s shadow so that the moon’s
rays struck the dark, clinging shape side-
ways. She could see it plainly now, two
furry paws about the bough, the pointed,
inquisitive little nose and eyes luminous
in the strong torchlight. Joe settled his
position and raised the rifle. She saw a
point of light strike the barrel and remain
there as Joe sighted to take aim.
The possum moved deliberately, climb-
ing into a higher bough. Joe moved
the light, and again the furry bulk was
revealed, looking down with questioning
eyes. Before the rifle found a target
the creature moved again, this time a
little way round the bough so that Joe
had to change his position until he could
be sure of his aim. He did it ail patiently,
waiting with remorseless calm until he
could make a clean hit. It aroused in
the girl a burning irritability.
“Oh, hurry up, hurry up!” she was
thinking, anxious to get the agony over.
Her eyes wavered from the barrel to the
form in the torchlight. She saw the
down-watching eyes regarding them un-
blinkingly as though to question their
business there, and she thought passion-
ately, “In a minute they’ll be closed for
ever.”
Joe was still standing motionless under
the tree, the rifle poised. A second later
the air was split with an explosion, there
was the sound of leaves being disturbed
and the possum came tumbling down like
an acrobat performing at a circus, to lie
still on the grass in the shadow.
She couldn’t bear to look. It made
her feel sick,
A shadow wavered across the wide
illumined sky, and some night bird
flapped its way to a tree on the creek
bank. Joe pushed the possum into a bag
and stood up.
“Cold?” he asked.
“No.”
“Tired?”
“A bit.”
“Well, come on. The night’s young
yet.”
"T HEY moved off together again across
' the damp grass and again her heart
came up to her mouth. His ruthlessness
terrified her. They were so alone. Not
even the house roof in sight. The night
was vast —frightening. There was death
and destruction all round —fugitive and
pursuer. Several times Joe’s rifle was
raised, and again there came the same
sickening thud, the same thrusting of a
body into a bag. She could smell the
blood, see the dark patch growing larger
and soaking through to Joe’s shirt. Yet
she still followed.
They still moved through a world of
unreal shadows and calm light, hearing
now and again an owl startled from
shelter or the frightened shriek of some
small bird that had fallen prey to watch-
ful eyes. Once a wallaby sprang up
before them and went bounding away,
but Joe’s hands were quick on the rifle
and the animal was safe only when it dis-
appeared behind an outcrop of rock.
“Just as well,” Joe said. “I didn’t
really want to get it tonight.”
“Then why did you fire?” she asked.
He shrugged. “Everything’s game, and
the skins fetch a bit.”
Again she waited while he moved
cautiously round a tree focusing the
light on a body. Once again she saw the
down-looking eyes gleaming like balls
of phosphorus in the torch-ray ; then the
report, the thud, the bag’s growing
burden.
She felt that she couldn’t bear it any
longer. It seemed too much like murder
—a massacre of innocents. She felt she’d
soon be sick.
“It’s horrible,” she said. “Come on
home.”
“It’s early yet.”
“No. Come on home. I’m tired.”
“Poor little towney!”
He stuffed the last possum into the bag
and laughed. “All right,” he agreed, “but
the beggars want thinning out. They’re
getting a bit of a pest.”
They descended the slope and crossed
the creek to the home paddock. He
began to whistle through his teeth, some-
thing that had been on the radio earlier
in the evening;
“Oh, the Martins and McCoys,
They were reckless mountain boys”
“It’s cruel to kill those poor little
things,” she said defiantly. “I think
you’re awful.”
“Towney.”
“Brute.”
HE looked at her sideways and
laughed again. The bag was thrown
across his shoulder and she could see a
furry paw where a hole had rubbed
through the hessian. She felt that she
hated him with his primitive outlook and
rude strength.
They got through the fence and out
on to the main path. The grass still
swished against their legs as though a
wind disturbed it; the box-leaves still
shifted in the moon’s white light, but
now there was no feeling of anticipation
or glamor riding the night. The girl
felt flat. Deflated.
WHEN they reached the garden gate
he paused and pulled her into the
shadow of an orange-tree. Her heart did
not leap now with anticipatory fear. All
excitement had been drained from her by
that earlier turbulence. She could feel
his hands about her waist and shoulders
—hands that earlier in the night had
dealt callous death. 8 had
“Give me a kiss,” he said
“No.”
She pushed him away. She felt cold
—past all emotion. If only he’d asked
her earlier m the night when everything
had been glamorous and palpitating with
life! But now everything seemed dead
The moon, and stars, and the furry
creatures at their feet. Dead, like her
heart.
She flung the gate open and ran inside
She turned up the light and stood blink-
ing in the harsh glare, shivering and
warming her hands before the embers in
the stove. The cat was curled up, warm
and soft, like a roll of black velvet, at
her feet, snoring softly. She heard Joe
come up the steps and start fumbling
about on the verandah, lighting a lantern
and whistling the same tune:
“Oh. the Martins and McCoys,
They were reckless mountain hoys”-
He made no attempt to follow her
inside. She heard him thump down the
stairs, taking the spoils to the barn for
skinning. Then there was silence.
“The gawk! ” she thought, “The great
silly gawk!”
She picked up the lamp and went
through to her room, wondering why
tears stung her eyes and resentment
mounted in her heart.
THE LAST TRIP
By PETER SPRENT
. \ELL, lad, it’s our last trip,” the
\A / k° ss said to me just before we
V V startec h
The boss had run the dis-
trict “commercial road service” for
years ever since the end of the last
war, I think. He was a queer sort of
chap, a bit old-fashioned and pretty near
always on the lookout for a bit of praise.
If he didn’t get it he’d go on praising
himself until you admitted that his
achievements were rather remarkable. He
boasted that he’d never missed a trip, no
matter how much trouble the old truck
gave him, and that people set their clocks
when they heard his lorry passing.
“Yes,” he’d say, “when I pass, Gor-
don’s they know it’s a quarter to
seven, and when I get to Harris’s it’s
exactly five-past seven, and by the time
it’s half-past seven I’m gettin’ round by
Wilson’s gate.”
He could give you the timetable like
that for every holding along the route.
Even when the old engine wouldn’t start
in the morning he somehow managed to
coax it to go before it was time to set
out.
That same old truck had served him
without a break ever since he began the
run, but now things were coming to an
end. Petrol restrictions meant that he
couldn’t continue without a gas-producer
and the garage people reckoned it was
hopeless to fit one to his old bus. The
boss didn’t have the money for a new
truck, and even if he had had I don’t
think he would have got one —the old
job meant more to him than anything
else.
So that’s how things were. On this
last day just on half-past six he took
out his watch and said “H’m, half-past.
Well, lad, it’s our last trip. We’d better
be goin’.”
I went round to give the crank handle
a twirl. The engine was dead silent. I
tried twelve more times with the same
result. The boss got out and mumbled
something about damned incompetent
motor manufacturers. He lifted the
bonnet and peered inside at the collec-
tion of worn machinery. He tugged sav-
agely at this wire and that, and pulled
at all the old joins and connections.
Everything looked all right. For ten
minutes he kept up a running commen-
tary on motor manufacturers and their
parentage.
I thought I might improve his temper
if I got his mind off the engine a bit.
“Why didn’t you take on driving the
truck the National Transport Company
are putting on the run?” 1 asked.
He didn’t look up. “To hell with the
National Transport Company,” he said.
“Do you think I’m goin’ to drive one of
their newfangled trucks? This one’s been
on the job for twenty years and she’s still
O.K. One of their new things wouldn’t
last more than two years. Anyway, I’ve
always worked for myself, so why the
hell should I work for them?”
I knew how he felt and I was sorry
for him. I’d never seen him so cut up.
I wandered round to the cab and took
a peep at the dashboard. The ignition
switch was closed—that was all the
trouble.
The boss then began to say about me
all the things he’d already said about
motor-car manufacturers, but after we
started—ten minutes late —he gradually
quietened down. This morning he drove
the old rattler faster than I’d ever seen
him drive before. By the time we’d got
to Gordon’s he’d made up three minutes,
but luck was right against him. Gordon
had one of those platform arrangements
at the side of the road and all you had
to do was to drive in alongside of it and
load on the stuff. It had saved me a devil
of a lot of heavy lifting at different times.
In his hurry the boss swerved too quickly
and ran the left front wheel into the
ditch about fifteen feet short of the plat-
form. By the time we’d got her jacked
up and out again we were a quarter of
an hour late.
All the way we were picking up more
stuff than usual. Everyone wanted to
get his freight forwarded on this last
day because there was to be a gap of
about a week before the new crowd took
over. Instead of making up lost time we
seemed to get further and further behind
schedule. It made the boss feel particu-
larly rotten when several of the farmers
made joking remarks about him falling
down on the job on his last day.
It was nearly ten when we arrived at
the top of Lisdillon Hill —a point we
usually reached at a quarter-past nine.
The boss was so wild he wouldn’t even
speak to me.
Just over the top of the rise there
were a couple of cases of fruit at the road-
side for us to pick up. They belonged to
Lewis, who lived in a shack a little back
from the road. The people round about
reckoned he had a screw or two missing,
but I’d never seen enough of him to form
an opinion. Once or twice when he’d
been near the road when we’d passed I’d
asked him how things were and he’d just
answered with a “what-the-hell’s-it-got-
to-do-with-you” sort of grunt. There was
no sign of him when I got out to load
the cases.
Today the boss got out when I did.
He usually didn’t bother when it was
only a one-man job like this. As I bent
down to lift the first case I looked up
and saw him standing to the driver’s side
of the truck with his hands on the brake.
As I watched he released it and stood
clear. The lorry went careering down
the steep hill. For a while it held the
road, but after it had gained a bit of
speed it slurred sideways and hit a post
smack between the headlights. The whole
contraption seemed to buckle under the
strain, and freight and all scattered back
on to the road.
The boss turned to me. “You saw how
it happened, lad. The brakes failed,
didn’t they?”
For a moment I didn’t answer, I was
too taken aback ; but, realising how the
old man felt, I said in a rather nervous
voice, not quite certain if I was doing the
right thing, “Yes, I saw.”
I heard a dry sort of cough behind us
then and looked round. There was that
fellow Lewis.


THE AUSTRAL-AISE.
Fellers of Australier,
Cobbers, chaps an 5 mates,
Hear the enermy
Kickin’ at the gates!
Blow the bugle,
Beat the drum,
Uppercut an’ out the cows
Jo Kingdom come!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ‘Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp:
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
AWAITING THE HOUR.
With Rangoon gone and Java become a
bitter memory of a twin disaster which
took all the press prophets by surprise,
Australians await the hour when the
enemy may strike at them with his three
arms on their own continent.
They are under no illusions as to the
strength with which he has smitten their
allies in the Dutch and British posses-
sions and their own people in Malaya,
Singapore, New Britain, New Guinea,
Timor, Darwin, Wyndham and Broome.
They realise the peril to what remains
of Britain’s Indian empire, confessed by
the evacuation of non-combatants from
Ceylon and by the dispatch of Sir Stafford
Cripps to India in a desperate eleventh-
hour attempt to bring about a union of
hearts and hands. They know that it
is within the enemy’s power to invade,
not India alone and Australia alone, but
both countries. And they have heard and
read the threats addressed to them by
Japanese war lords and spokesmen.
The latest came from General To jo,
the Premier. Flushed with victory over
a couple of hundred thousand whites,
who at the crisis found the swarming
Asiatic populations by which they were
everywhere surrounded not assets but
liabilities, this militarist Premier spoke
as if the 7,000,000 white Australians
were already at Japan’s mercy. They, he
said, “must be fully aware of the fact
that it is utterly impossible for them,
being situated so far from the United
States and Great Britain, to protect their
vast territory—to defend themselves
against the might of our invincible
forces.”
It is therefore self-evident what attitude
Australia should take to secure the well-
being of her people. If Australia does not
rectify her present attitude, she will inevit-
ably follow in the footsteps of the Nether-
lands East Indies. I expect that Australia
will be untrammelled by old relations and
other considerations and will rightly decide
her attitude at this most important juncture.
That attitude has been decided already.
It was decided even before Australia
became a nation, and before valorous
sons of Australia immortalised them-
selves in hundreds of aerial combats, sea
fights and land battles, from London to
the Rhineland, from Cocos to Matapan,
and from Anzac to Tobruk. Australians
will resist invasion with everything they
ha.ve, and with no thought of surrender or
of acceptance of a Japanese hegemony.
They would fight it and beat it if they
stood alone; and they don’t stand
alone, as the Japanese Premier well
knows. When he tried to frighten Aus-
tralia into disgraceful submission, Ameri-
can bombers had already co-operated
with the R.A.F. in the smashing attacks
on the New Guinea invasion fleet which
cost the enemy, according to the part of
the story he published himself, three
“vessels” sunk or “forced aground” and
a cruiser, two destroyers and three other
“vessels” damaged. The Japanese may
learn from this sharp lesson what in-
vasion of the mainland will entail, and
they will find in this continent no sheep-
like masses of Asiatics, whom they may
scare or suborn —only white men, fight-
ing in a country that white men made,
and grimly resolved to save it for the
white man.
It was for long the fashion to dis-
miss Japan as a second-rate Power and
to ridicule the idea of its challenging the
A.B.C.D. countries with its exhausted
army, its “push-over” air force and its
precarious financial and economic posi-
tion. There is now a tendency in the
very same quarters to regard it as a
nation of super-fighters. This estimate
may be as false as the other proved to be.
It would be folly to deny that the
Japanese have shown themselves daring
and skilful seamen, airmen and soldiers,
and that the successes that they have
gained in three months have rarely been
matched in military history. But it must
be remembered that since December 7
they have had everywhere what the
British have had nowhere since Septem-
ber 3, 1939 —great superiority in numbers
and equipment. What is more, in every
operation they have undertaken they have
worked to a plan. As Wavell puts it,
they made the most detailed prepara-
tions and left nothing to chance.” If
their opponents had plans at all, the plans
were of the sketchiest description and
everything was left to chance. Not only
were the forces employed too small and
1 "equipped, but half-trained reinforce-
ments, newly arrived, had to be thrown
in against veterans familiar with the
climate and the country and full of tricks,
bor once Time, which has been hailed
as our ally in two wars, was on the
enemy s side. There were failures in
leadership also. And politics came into
the picture.
Quite shortly, we were not ready for a
* le j^ ar -^ ast - We could only have
by taking forces from
■f East Command or Great Britain
itself which were immediately threatened,
, y , withholding from Russia supplies
which have helped to enable her to stage a
great recovery.
Such are General Wavell’s words, “in
no way said to cover the undoubted mis-
takes that were made in preparation,
planning and handling of the forces
available. The importance of preserv-
ing the position in the Mediterranean,
and, above all, of maintaining an im-
penetrable shield against the invasion of
the United Kingdom, has never been
questioned ; but the diversion to Russia
of forces sorely needed in attacked or
threatened parts of the Empire itself can
be justified only if the Russians win the
German war. Even “a great recoveiy”
will be insufficient if it leads to a stale-
mate or nothing in the west, with con-
tinued inertia in the east, and if the
Indian Empire goes, and if Australians
and Maorilanders have to wage a despe-
rate struggle for survival on their own
soil. In that case those who supplied
Russia and left Empire countries with-
out the means of saving themselves will
have to answer to this generation and
to history.
In common with the other members
of the Axis, the Japanese have another
military asset —a controlled press. Their
newspapers are mere instruments of
national policy. Our newspapers shape
national policy and meddle in military
matters.
This may be all very well in peace-
tirne, but in war it has proved a serious
liability. It has resulted, for one thing,
in placing the supreme direction of the
war in the hands of a newspaper darling
who is always quoting Blenheim, and
whose military and imperial ideas belong
to that period. It has resulted also in
the presenting as foreign news of the
wildest and most persistent farrago of
dangerous nonsense that ever stained
paper, and in the outrageous pretence
that namby-pamby and niminy-piminy
writers are military authorities, qualified
to instruct the nation how to reorganise
its forces and run its war. The latest
discovery of these persons is that the
way to beat the Japanese is to attack them
all the time —presumably in Wirraways
or speedboats if nothing else is available.
Their previous notion was that a great
Australian army should be sent to Java,
“our first line of defence” —it used to be
placed somewhere in China —by way of
being “worthy,” one genius wrote, “of
our friendship and alliance with the
Dutch,” “already,” according to another
authority, “demonstrating the value of
attack as a form of defence” and “not
bothering about small infiltrations.” In
the history of human folly the perform-
ances of a parcel of writing boys and
radio oracles in Australia these last few
years have never been surpassed.
In a stirring address to the American
people Mr. Curtin said “We will hit the
enemy wherever we can and as often as
we can: we believe that attack is the
best defence.” So it may be if the
requisite numbers and equipment are
available, but in Java, where they were
lacking, it worked out horribly. There
must be no premature offensives, no
repetition in Australia of Neuve Chapelle,
Aubers Ridge, Loos, Gaza and First
Villers-Bret., such as would waste man-
hood and materials and shake the confi-
dence of the troops. In any case, strategy
and tactics are matters for the service
chiefs. It is the Government’s job to
support and sustain them, and it should
tell the newspaper and radio know-alls
to lie down.
Saturday brought the heavy news that
H.M.A.S. Perth and Yarra had been lost,
with all their officers and men —682 in
Perth and 151 in Yarra —in the disastrous
Dutch-commanded naval operations in
Java waters. In some measure the
public had been prepared for the mourn-
ful official announcement by enemy
claims, but the addition of so many gal-
lant men to the glorious roll on which
the names of the officers and men of
Sydney, Parramatta and Waterhen had
been written was a cruel blow. Australia
can never forget what these brave Aus-
tralians did for it, they and their British
comrades who served it and the common
cause with equal devotion. Great have
been the R.A.N.’s achievements and
great its sufferings in the war which non-
starters contemplated so light-heartedly.
T f b H°r d the price of admiralt y>
Lord God, we ha’ paid in full!
In the same week Mr. Anthony Eden
brought atrocity charges against the con-
querors of Hong Kong. On the strength
of statements made by “reliable eyewit-
nesses who escaped,” he asserted that “50
officers and men of the British Army
were bound hand and foot and then
bayoneted to death” ; that “women, both
Asiatic and European, have been’raped
and murdered, and one entire Chinese
district declared a brothel area, regard-
less of the inhabitants’ status,” and that
Briffsh 6 S l^9 V °r ° d thC ga S n r ( i° 72
and 353 ‘2rS“h dlail k 3829
and 3t)3 others ) have been nerded into
a camp of brick huts without doors, win-
dows, light or sanitation.” Other “eye-
witnesses have given shocking stones to
duce S rr r ™fn n f d l t le accusatlop s have pro-
duced a painful impression throughout
tWeTsT d I 1", A r raUi f h ° W ‘
\ . , is a distinct tendency to sus-
pend judgment partly because of the in-
-rent improbability of some of the alle-
f atl ° ns an f P artl Y because many people
from Malaya and Singapore, A.I.F.
nurses among them, have testified that
he Japanese permitted the saving of
of w^,« d m T £r ° m *T ISe -, and
of Wales and respected military hos-
—in S ’ choT ta l u am l apd hospital ships
m short, behaved better than the
Germans have done in like circumstances.
True or false, atrocity stories can in no
way stiffen the resolution of Australians
to save Australia; and, though, as Mr.
£ u . rbn told the Americans, we have to
bhs™nn7le wiTcr rUmS ’n OUSh
masted and nre-swept cities and across
scorched plains,” saved Australia will be.
Young Churchill and Old
Chatfield.
On an unfortunate occasion in the career
of Sir Robert Peel, one of his Ministers,
Mr. Sidney Herbert, was put up to scold
the agricultural interest, which Peel had
lately deserted. Disraeli was ready with
a rebuke which has become historical:
“The right honorable gentleman,” he
barked, “sends his valet to the House to
tell us there must be no whining here.”
Mr. Churchill has recently cast his son
Randolph—now Major Randolph, pre-
viously one of “the Glamor Boys”—for
the part of Sidney Herbert, with equally
unhappy results.
Major Randolph was put up to defend
the Government in the January debate
on Mr. Churchill’s demand for a vote
of confidence, “We are told it is not a
very good Government,” he said, but-
looking round the Chamber with a
typical glamor-boy pose of superiority—
“is it a very good House of Commons?”
Then he referred to Lord Winterton as
“the stepfather of the House.” “I have
no such ambition,” his Lordship inter-
posed. “My one great ambition is to be
a military spokesman, so that I may exer-
cise a natural talent for inaccuracy.”
Knowing that the young man had been
a military spokesman at Cairo, the House
chuckled and Major Randolph sat down.
Undiscouraged by this experience,
Major Randolph turned on Admiral of
the Fleet Lord Chatfield. That seadog’s
offence was that he had criticised the
sending of Repulse and Prince of Wales
“to a dangerous area without air pro-
tection and ancillary craft,” and ridiculed
the P.M.’s ideas of naval strategy.
Mr. Churchill referred to these ships as
spearpoints; but battleships are not spear-
points. They are not forwards in the
game, they are full-backs; and they ought
not to be sent into dangerous positions
unless they are adequately supported.
It took Major Randolph some weeks to
prepare his indictment of Lord Chatfield.
Then he described the Admiral of the
Fleet as “a Man of Munich who has
recently become a stern critic of the Gov-
ernment” ; one of those “improvident
and reckless leaders who landed us in
history’s greatest war shamefully unpre-
pared” ; one of those “counsellors who
owe it to the country as much as to any
feeling of shame which they might prop-
erly be expected to entertain to judge
with caution and criticise with special
care the efforts of those who are trying
to pull the country and the world out
of the fearful disasters into which we
have been plunged by those who thought
appeasement a good substitute for
defence.”
Lord Chatfield replied in a letter to
the “Times.” In this he mentioned inci-
dentally that the giving up of the Eire
ports was a consequence of a report by
the Chiefs of Staffs Committee that, in
the state to which the army had been
reduced, they could not be held against
a hostile Eire. Lord Chatfield went on
to say:
I supported Munich, mainly because I
did not wish to see the country plunged
into a bloody struggle without arms or
® bips ’ due to years of Parliamentary neglect
7 1 MaTTMmriA 1 F eferred to be
of a Pight-Without-Arm? party 3 Fo^the
same reason I agreed with the Churchill
t °d a ? p , ea f ng Ja P an
one was right, the other was If
Lord Chatfield was m „
tain at Jutland Third Sea ford
troller of the IW f n °?'
Atlantic and Mediterranean m ’ tS',™
32), Rrst Sefwi
Naval Staff 11933 Ren 16 * be
of^Parliamento^
an“^b? ra the
C preWd ‘‘cof
lective security” to rarmarnmt lord
Chatfidd and bis ’goUhe
naval votes the y asked for, but it must
be acknowledged that the Naw with
which thev had to be rrmtent
out ta exSIS ,L “has beTasS
times without number that Mr Churchill
was in favor of rearmament to the lira
This assertion has to be examined in the
li f ht ° f his Programme ™ dSiSg
of aggression everywhere and of hk
preparations for thTSWiaSf in North
Africa (after our Sixth Division and the
bulk of the British armored division wire
withdrawn), Greece, Crete Malava
Singapore and Burma. A dreadful im-
pression exists that Mr Churchill would
have been satisfied with alliw more S
ships, a few more Tommy divisions and
a few hundred more Gloster Gladiators
and Fairey Battles.
'
Are They "Perturbed"?
Those Australians who for many years
have given thought to the possibility of
a Japanese attack on their country and
have, perhaps, wondered what our
strength would be when that attack
came never dreamed that on the eve of
it they would read in a daily newspaper
words like these;
CANBERRA, Tuesday.—Federal Minis-
ters are perturbed at what they consider a
lowering of public morale in Sydney and
some other Australian cities.
They believe that swift and positive
action must be taken to halt what is con-
sidered to be a dangerous trend in public
thought.
It appeared in the Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph.” The same afternoon the Sydney
“Daily Mirror” discovered a “reputed
tremor of civilian morale through some
sections in Australia,” and called for
something like a public revelation of our
own and our American ally’s war strength
as a means of suppressing the “tremor.”
These politicians and newspapers don’t
know their own people. The Australian
humor that talks sardonically about bet-
ting in yen at the races, working for
Japanese or growing rice to feed the new
population they misjudge altogether.
Far too much prominence is being
given to chattering no bodies in press and
radio. Of the latter, Melbourne “Age”
felt impelled to remark that “a subtle
change appears to have come over the
national service, so that, instead of con-
tributing to the enlightenment and
strengthening the solidarity of the people,
it is manifesting curious tendencies which
may produce the very opposite effect.”
A.8.C., like sections of the press, is
suffering just now from the attentions of
a lot of “commentators,” some of whose
articles and broadcasts, highly “glamor-
ised” and “dramatised” in the best tradi-
tions of the gentlemen’s training, would
be enough to give a bullocky the horrors
—if he took any notice of them.
Flibberty-minded Australian “commen-
tators” can be found in plenty to imitate
them. “Dismal talks over the radio,”
notes Hobart “Mercury,” “have not been
without their effect.”
Yet, if the Federal Government has the
understanding to appreciate it, Austra-
lians have given it two answers in recent
days good enough for anybody. They
oversubscribed the war loan by upwards
of 30 p.c. and when two new classes were
asked to register for home defence the
applicants swamped the post offices and
used all the forms available in a matter
of hours. That should show Mr. Curtin
that the people, far from exhibiting a
“lowering of public morale,” are ready
and eager to back him to the limit.
“Wherever the A.I.F. met the Japanese
in Malaya they beat them.” Major-
General Bennett’s words should be ring-
ing from every radio station, flaring on
every hoarding. All the Japanese con-
quests have been made in tropic countries
with vast native populations, either in-
different to the white man’s fate or eager
to hasten his end. The enemy could
mingle with the natives undetected. He
could live cp the country. In Australia
he will have no such advantages. He will
be up against the sons and brothers and
fathers of warriors who made fighting
history all over the world. He will be
up against a race sprung from men who
made their country what it is by sheer
hard work and who, in doing it, took


from the land and the work and their
own dreams a quality that marks them
wherever they go- —a quality plainly ex-
pressed by the Commander of the Home
Forces (“We must not count on others
nor flop back like jellyfish ; when we get
at the enemy we will drive him out )
and by a North Queenslander, invalided
home from the Middle East ( Fix me
up and give me a gun: I’ll do anything
to fix these Japs if they set foot in Aus-
tralia”). „
Let those who may be “perturbed”
take notice of those words rather than
of prattling “news-analysts” and radio
calamity-howlers.
There is no “defeatist” spirit in the
real Australian. The nation is sound as
a rock, and like a rock it will stand.
C. H. S.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Odious Comparison.
All of them have important interests in the Far
East. With this market closed, and supplies
of British, American and Dutch oil cut off,
Japan would soon be brought to her senses.—
Sydney “D.T.”
The central objective of Britain and France
has always been identical, but they pursued
different paths. France proceeded with a
system of alliances, while Britain has been
traditionally opposed to commitments. France’s
policy has been justified by events which have
compelled Britain to recognise French fore-
sight.—Hore Belisha, then Minister of War.
England’s frontiers are no longer the
Channel, and no longer even the Rhine. The
Vistula and the Danube are as important to
Britain as the chalk cliffs of Dover —Sydney
“D.T.”
We do not think the British Government can
afford to ignore an affront to Britain, or to
seek a reason for inaction because of the
laying of mines off Bilbao. Is it only above-
water attack that the British Navy will resent?
— “S. M. Herald.”
Wellington and Sydney Ways.
“Fernie” : There are no “State rights”
to complicate Maoriland’s war effort, but
pessimists expected a lot of friction
between Government and municipali-
ties. It hasn’t happened. Co-operation
is willing and harmonious.
Take Wellington’s action in the matter
of air-raid shelters. Part of the city’s plan
is construction of an Bft. by Bft. tunnel
under the Terrace (one of the hills that
With pardonable gratification, the
Government announced that £46,000,000
had been subscribed to the Liberty Loan
in, roughly, 200,000 parcels. Very good,
but not so good as to warrant newspaper
assertions that “this is a record result
for any loan issue by the Common-
wealth” or Mr. Chifley’s exultant amplifi-
cation of them:
The result of this loan surpasses that of
any previous loan issued by the Common-
wealth, even those floated during the last
war. The most successful war loan was
the last, issued in September, 1918. That
loan was for £40,000,000, and was open for
six weeks, when £44,000,000 was subscribed
by 243,000 people. The Liberty Loan was
open for three weeks, and resulted in an
oversubscription of £11,000,000.
It would be more to the point to give
the population and the Savings Bank
amount of deposits for the contrasted
periods—s,ooo,ooo and £116,339,800
(December, 1918); 7,000,000 and
£266,096,110 (December, 1941). More
to the point also to mention that the
population smaller by 2,000,000 had
previously contributed upwards of
£144,000,000 to war loans. Again, of the
September-October, 1918, operation it
was recorded by the Commonwealth Bank
that there were then in Australia “just a
little more than 1,000,000 dwellings,
which meant that practically one house-
hold in every four contributed to the
loan.”
This cannot be said of the Liberty
Loan, for nowadays there are not far
short of 2,000,000 dwellings—the census-
takers found 1,618,500 on June 30, 1933.
Nor can it be said that subscriptions to
the £44,000,000 raised in September-
October, 1918, were impelled by a sense
of the danger which threatens Australia
at this moment, victory being then in sight
and actually very near. On the other
hand, there were no Wards in the Com-
monwealth Ministry of the day, nor was
there a Ministerial tendency to regard
trading banks and Stock Exchanges as
public enemies and lotteries as laudable
enterprises—the one lottery then in exist-
ence was under a Post Office ban.
It is one thing to claim success for a
loan which redounds to the credit of
the nation ; another thing to make invidi-
dious comparisons. Let justice be done
to a smaller but no less sturdy Australia
that fought and financed the last war
to a triumphant conclusion.
From "The Bulletin" Files.
Fruits of an hour’s browsing:
We have got our Mandate. On this rock
we have built our church, and all hell is not
going to take away what we have. — W. M.
Hughes at Rabaul, June 1, 1938.
My Government is definitely and absolutely
committed against conscription.— J. A. Lyons,
the U.A.P. P.M., June 8, 1938.
The Federal executive of the A.L.P. has
decreed (so far as in its power lies) that when
our young manhood is called upon to meet
an invading army it shall do so quite untrained
and unequipped. What the youth of Australia
has done to merit such a fate does not seem
clear. — Veteran Labor man Arthur Griffith to
The Bulletin, June 22, 1938.
“New Guinea Must Be Defended.” Heading
of a Bulletin article (June 22, 1938) in which
it was pointed out: (1) The Japanese declared
their mandated islands parts of their Empire
and fortified them; (2) it must be patent that
anybody with designs on Australia might seize
New Guinea as a first move; (3) such seizure
could give the invader an archipelago with
magnificent harbors and natural seaplane bases,
one of which, Rabaul, is only 1100 miles from
Townsville; (4) the mountains afford natural
defensive positions, and effective defence of
New Guinea might be the means of keeping
war off Australian soil; (5) New Guinea, the
Bismarcks particularly, controls the main
northern approaches to the Australian coast.
Britain, the U.S.A., France and Holland buy
more than 80 ner cent, of Japan’s total exports.
diversify the city). Now this was planned
long before the war as a means of by-
passing traffic, and the Government, which
subsidises such works, might have been
expected to haggle. But no. Bob Semple,
Minister of National Service, came along,
looked at the plans and gave his cele-
brated imitation of the old warhorse
sniffing the battle from afar. He never
forgets that he put up an Australasian
tunnelling record in 1923.
“Don’t you have any headaches over
this job,” the Minister said to the Mayor.
“I’ll see you get all the labor you want.
We must get on with the job at once.
I’ll work with you night and day to get
labor and material.” And he added that
the full 75 p.c. subsidy would be avail-
able from the Government.
How differently we do these things—or
leave them undone —in Sydney!
Uniform Taxation.
Two of the Premiers have commented on
the uniform-tax proposal, Mr. Forgan
Smith (Q.) and Mr. Dunstan (Vic.), and
both are agin it. Nothing had been heard
from the other four when this went to
the printer, but there are hopes of Mr.
Playford (S.A.).
Mr. Forgan Smith opposes uniform
taxation because “Government costs are
greater in Queensland than in southern
States.” He has a “counter-proposal,” a
“ceiling income plan.” It is not original
and its weaknesses are glaringly apparent.
For instance, what man would allow his
income to increase beyond the limit if he
knew he wasn’t going to get it?
Mr. Smith’s Treasurer, Mr. Cooper,
babbled a lot of nonsense about equitable
adjustments and some States having to
pay more than others, mentioning that
taxation in his State was greater per head
than in Victoria —a fact that should make
Queenslanders eager for a uniform tax.
Mr. Cooper also compares the area of
the two as indicating why Government
costs in Queensland are higher, a typical
State Treasurer’s argument.
Mr. Dunstan, while not “feeling dis-
posed to comment” until he receives the
“full text of the proposals,” is neverthe-
less “opposed on broad principles to any
system which enables the Commonwealth
to obtain additional revenue by discrimi-
nating amongst taxpayers according to
their State.” Which is just another ex-
ample of the mind that simply cannot go
beyond State borders.
If uniform taxation did nothing else
than reduce the powers of these provin-
cial politicians to slap taxes on whenever
they felt like it, it would be welcome.
“IT’S A LONG, LONG LINE OF COMMUNICATIONS!”


Just Published.
OF VITAL IMPORTANCE.
HOW TO IDENTIFY
JAPANESE AIRCRAFT
by George B. Graham, with 66
illustrations of Japanese Aircraft,
hints on identification methods
and sound advice upon Air Raid
Precautions.
Price 1/- (posted 1/2).
BUY FROM YOUR NEAREST
BOOKSELLER.
If he will not secure it for you, then
send 1/3 for a copy to Robertson and
Mullens, Ltd., 107-109-111-113 Eliza-
beth Street, Melbourne, C.l. If more
than one required send 1/- per book
and 3d. postage for every three
copies.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
k m ms
■IS
m
m
in
hi
in
TI
■-S-
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates—
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that there
Is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
hnd filters. Every three minutes all the blood
!n your body passes through these tubes to be
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
(Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. Frequent or scanty passages with
smarting and burning also show there Is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don't delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN’S
BAfigACSfi BIBKBY PUAS
POLITICAL POINTS
Dr, Evatt is off to the U.S.A. to sup-
port Australia’s case for the setting up
of a real Pacific War Council at Wash-
ington, not something the cat dragged
into No. 10 Downing-street. Meanwhile
Curtin has reminded the Americans that
if Australia falls their Pacific Slope will
be the next to be attacked and their
Monroe Doctrine will become eyewash.
He spoke with force and passion, and
seems to have made a hit where it will
do most good.
Under National Security Regs., the
Government is now obliging work-
stoppers to choose between returning to
the job and being called up under the
Defence Act, perhaps to join a civilian
labor corps. One difficulty is that Mc-
Leay, the U.A.P. leader in the Senate,
has moved for disallowance of the regu-
lation invoked (statutory rule 77). The
U.A.P. does some very foolish things.
On Thursday Sydney “D.T.” came out
with a ghastly account of the outrages
imputed to the Japs in Hongkong. On
another page it had all the particulars
of the office’s Beach Girl competition,
illustrated with a group portrait of half-
naked young women gathered about a
robust-looking “radio and stage star.”
History will go into the question of how
far nudity competitions and other
varieties of flapper-worship contributed
to the unpreparedness for which English-
speaking nations are paying so bitterly
today—or to the state of mind in which
unpreparedness and demands for “posi-
tive action” against nations armed to the
teeth became fashionable. Meantime,
nudity competitions should be banned
for the duration and 20 years after.
Some 130 years ago Napoleon said of
China: “There lies a sleeping giant. Let
him sleep ; for when he wakes he will
move the world.” He should have said
“Nippon.”
Betty and Peggy have become a war-
time problem in Melbourne, They are
twin elephants, born at the Zoo. Too
large to be safely tethered, they require
a castle and a moat or something of that
sort, and Premier Dunstan won’t sanction
the expenditure on the ground that it is
non-essential. Nobody wants Betty and
Peggy for pets, as their upkeep would
run away with a weekly fiver. Centuries
ago a use was found for elephants in
India and Malaya, where they are expert
log-rollers. Betty and Peggy might be
lent to members of the State Parlia-
ment to roll their logs up the steps of
the Spring-street institution.
Delegation of the A.R.P. and evacua-
tion jobs to State Governments was one
of Canberra’s many blunders. It brought
protests last week from the Manly Coun-
cil and the Teachers’ Federation, which
have had bitter experience of the Mc-
Kell-Heffron Government and its “works”
and verbal substitutes. In a telegram to
the P.M., embodying a resolution passed
at a meeting of 250 teachers, the federa-
tion asked his Government to make
“adequate provision for the protection
of schoolchildren,” the McKell-Heffron
Government having “failed” to do so.
“This sort of thing is not only cowardly
but, to my mind, criminal.” Thus
Lazzarini, the Home Security Minister,
commenting on the allegation that a Mel-
bourne firm was making 400 p.c, profit
on sandbags. On the same day another
Melbourne firm said it had imported large
stocks of hessian and accepted contracts
for sandbags from suburban councils, oil
cos. and others urgently needing protec-
tion from air raids, only to see Supply
and Development freeze supplies till
Army requirements were satisfied. That
was on December 19, and the firm can’t
get any decision from the department.
What name would Lazzarini apply to
that sort of thing?
Although Churchill’s speeches in the
Commons are reported in full in some
Australian papers (the Melbourne
“Herald” group, for example), Austra-
lians have to put up with very scrappy
reports of their own Government’s state-
ments on foreign affairs, even those of
Dr. Evatt, which are full of information
important to them. In his speech of
February 25 Dr. Evatt explained the
attitude of the Latin-American republics:
“All,” he said, “except Argentina and
Chile, which are maintaining a textbook
interpretation of neutrality, have either
declared war or broken off relations with
Axis countries.” Uruguay, for its part, has
declared the British Empire a non-belli-
gerent. which means, among other things,
that Empire vessels may be repaired in
Uruguayan ports as U.S. vessels may be
“Ex-Premier Stevens is to be recalled from Delhi, the march of events having left him
with only the shadow of an occupation.”
“As one gentleman to another — good-bye!”
repaired in the ports of other Latin-
American countries, Argentina and Chile
excepted ; and the Allies are to get the
major part of the export production of
South American countries. Newspapers
mad about racing and nudity competi-
tions left this particular record to
“Hansard.”
The position in Timor, as stated by the
Minister for External Affairs:
On December 17 Australian and Nether-
lands forces landed in Portuguese territory.
Portugal protested violently, and an
agreement was made for the withdrawal
of Australians and Dutch, provided Portu-
guese forces were sent to carry out the
defence of the colony.
Portuguese forces were en route to
Timor, with the full knowledge of the
Japanese, when the latter launched an
attack on Dilli on February 21 —the very
event we had foreseen and sought to guard
against.
The Portuguese Government formally
protested to Japan. It will be interesting
to observe whether Portuguese troops will
now insist upon the evacuation of Dilli by
Japan.
Portugal is in the position of having an
overseas empire without having force
enough to protect a casino.
A tick war has broken out with some
violence on N.S.W. northern rivers. Gov-
eminent dips out of Grafton have been
blown up with dynamite and tick officers
and police have been barred from farms.
The dispute is between owners of clean
herds and the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, which insists on dipping all
herds in a declared tick area. Seeing
that the Commonwealth Government is
charged with the “peace, order and good
government” of the country it begins to
look like a job for the Commonwealth
Government.
Dunstan doesn’t want to see Victorians
“penalised” by substitution of one taxa-
tion authority for seven. If he doesn’t
want Victorians to be penalised why
doesn’t he suggest the abolition of their
State “Parliament”?
Various people are trying to work up
a first-class sensation about some sand
in bearings of a conveyor system at a
Lithgow (N.S.W.) coalmine. It held up
production for some time and may have
been put there by children or saboteurs.
Yet it is as nothing compared with the
holdups caused by striking coalminers, to
whom drastic things were to have been
done —and never were.
Maximum rates of interest for bank
overdrafts, fixed and savings-bank de-
posits and some other types of trans-
actions have been fixed. Lottery prizes—
there are four big lotteries going full blast
in Australia—are still free of tax, and
Stats taxation goes on its way unchecked.
Minister Ward on his new man-power
list:
Its purpose is to meet the demands of
the armed forces for man-power and supply,
retaining to industry only such male labor
of military age as is essential for the ade-
quate supply of foodstuffs, munitions and
essential services to the forces and to meet
the essential minimum needs of civilian life.
If that means what it says, there should
be a vast weeding out of Government
employees. The total at June 30, 1939,
was 388,857 —the population then was
estimated at 6,997,326.
Canberra has warned would-be looters
“in any area affected by war operations”
that they may be fined £lOO and/or six
months on summary jurisdiction and get
unlimited fine and/or gaol on indict-
ment. There is only one remedy for
looting in war-time —shooting at sight.
Under the new man-power regulations
those 141 Sydney undergraduates who
demanded that two Law School vacan-
cies be filled forthwith are not exempt
from military service, so Sydney may
presently have a Law School without
students. This should give Abram Landa,
M.L.A., a chance to raise his voice again.
Abram is the Landa who scented a Nazi
and Fascist plot against “a brilliant co-
religionist.” a successful candidate for one
of the plums.
Sydney “D.T.” has sadly discovered
that “too many people in the United
States and the British Empire looked for
an easy way out when Hitler attacked
Russia.” They put too much faith in
papers like the “D.T.”
What dashing fellows these “roving
reporters” are! One discovered that
Australia is “a peninsula of Asia,” and
announced that he was off to Russia, “the
largest and most influential of all the
countries of Asia,” hoping “to find there
some answer to Australia’s problem.” If
his travels take him to Vladivostok he
may find there Australian airmen man-
ning “500 American ’planes” —his pre-
scription for winning the war.
Queensland’s Government has sus-
pended publication of the State Mining
and Agricultural Journals. Now, if it
could only suspend publication of “Han-
sard” by suspending the State “Parlia-
ment” for the duration
Dunstan, Victoria’s Premier, detests
profiteering. Dunstan makes owners of
private cars pay the registration fees they
paid when they really could use the roads.
He also still collects unemployed relief
tax at the rate of a million a year,
although unemployment is non-existent.
Dunstan detests profiteering.
“War or no war, football must go on”!
Statement attributed by a Sydney paper
which glorifies a professional brand of
footbrawl to a Sydney Labor member.
For saying things like that the Sydney
Labor member gets £875 p.a., has a free
pass over the Government railways and
tramways and, if he chooses to carry his
crazy gospel into other States and M.L.,
can travel on the nod wherever there is
a railway.
Now that it’s all over, an International
News Service man has declared that the
Dutch had only 70 fighters and 40
bombers in Java and an army of 48,000
men, three-fourths native. Astounding,
but probably nearer the truth than the
optimistic stuff with which the public was
fed.
“Inspectors of the Department of
Labor are checking employment in pro-
tected industries to ensure that as many
men as possible can be spared.” It’s to
be hoped they have a look round the
multitude of State and Federal depart-
ments —or is that too much to hope for?
Lord Wedgwood (Lab.), working him-
self to a pitch of fury on some alleged
anti-Semitism in Palestine, demanded:
“Are we going to abandon the Jews in
Palestine as we abandoned the Chinese
in Malaya?” Wedgy, who was 70 on
Monday, served his country well as a
younger man. Things happen too fast
for him now.
From W. F. Sheehan, M.L.A.
(N.S.W.): —
That contributor who wrote on the margin
of a brief (B. 4/3 / ’42) regarding Mr. Weir,
M.L.A., and myself, possesses no sense ol
humor, otherwise he would have mentioned
when the N.S.W. Bar Association became a
union and was registered as such.
It is not a union but a company registered
in 1936 {vide page 60 of the Law Almanac).
You like frankness. I did not join the Bar
Association. I commenced practice contem-
poraneously with the appointment of certain
Judges by the last Labor Government. The
Bar Association departed from the usual prac-
tice and precedent of tendering a dinner to the
appointees —one was the present Federal Attor-
ney-General. This to me savored of partiality.
Both Mr. Weir, M.L.A., and myself were
members of the Public Service Association, a
registered trade union, until we severed our
connection with the public service. Both Mr.
Weir, M.L.A., and myself were and still are
members of the Federated Clerks, a registered
trade union.
However, I have forwarded to the secretary
of the Bar Association my contribution to the
barristers’ own union. This should tickle the
delicate palates of those who were amused.


uni
Uli
si
-• ■>:
iB
m
NAVY, THE ARMY, THE AIR FORGE use
♦
♦
B ATT E RIE S
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lieut.-colonel on September 3, 1939,
Charles Edward Maurice Lloyd is
now major-general, “temporary”—which
doesn’t necessarily mean what it says.
Too young to serve in the last war,
though he was a Duntroon cadet in 1918,
Lloyd has been in this war with both
hands and feet and a keen artillerist’s
brain, which received a Camberley polish.
He was Morshead’s chief staff officer at
Tobruk, and one of Wavell’s men when
Wavell had the South Pacific command.
Fremantle’s “Sentinel” claims him as a
local boy who has made good; “48 ;
educated at Fremantle Boys’ School and
Perth Model School; 6ft. 2in.; a good
sport, and with a proud mother at East
Fremantle.”
Two gallant Australians on whom
darkness has descended:
Captain Hector Macdonald Laws Waller, of
H.M.A.S. Perth, was a Ballarat man who entered
the R.A.N. college in 1913, became lieutenant in
’2l, It.-commander in ’29, commander in ’34 and
captain in 1940. In command of H.M.A.S.
Stuart in the Mediterranean he received the
D.S.O. and, later, a bar to it for his part in
the battle of Matapan. He was twice mentioned
in dispatches, once for work in the Mediter-
ranean and once for his part in the excellent
naval co-operation with the army in Cyrenaica.
Lt.-Commander Rankin took command of
H.M.A.S. Yarra on January 31 this year. Born
at Cobar, he entered the R.A.N. college in 1921,
became sub.-lieut. in ’2B, lieutenant in ’29 and
It.-commander in ’37. He was with the R.N. for
exchange duties and courses in 1926-28 and
again in 1938-41.
DR. EVATT. He goes to Washington.
A feature of the Syrian campaign was
the accuracy of the French mortar fire
and Lieut, A. R. Cutler, of Manly
(N.S.W.), has good reason to vouch for
it —he was resting with a cobber on a
goat track near the Damour River when
a mortar bomb landed about a foot away
from hisi leg. The bomb was a dud and
Cutler reckoned then that his alley was
good for the rest of the war. Unfortu-
nately it wasn’t, and the tall, bronzed
young man left a leg in Syria, but came
home with a V.C. Now, at 25, he has
been appointed State secretary of the
R.S.L. in N. S. Wales, a job to which
he should be admirably suited.
From his little parish at Oberon in
the hills between Lithgow and Bathurst
(N.S.W.) the Very Rev. Dr. Alfred
Gummer goes to Geraldton (W.A.) as its
fourth bishop. There he will be spiritual
head of 6500 Catholics in a diocese of
half a million square miles, and it’s not
only hotter than the Oberon country but
a darned sight dustier. A native of Perth-
ville (N.S.W.), he was ordained in 1923.
J. E. Bowker, the man who drove a
motor-car 65 miles in S.A. on electricity
at a cost of ninepence, and who believes
that his invention will revolutionise
transport, is a Melbourne X-ray con-
sultant who, in the early days of the
science, made a trip to Paris and studied
under Madame Curie. He started in
the X-ray business in Adelaide, but 10
years ago became interested in the theory
that a car could be designed which could
use the power generated in travelling
downhill to help push it uphiU. He was
told he was another crank who had dis-
covered perpetual motion, but he per-
severed and built a car of his own, which
travelled 95 miles at 25 m.p.h. at a cost
of a shilling, Government officials and
physicists being his companions in the
demonstration. The same amount of
juice would cost twopence in Tasmania.
Nowadays when the British Army is in
a tight spot the War Office sends for
Alexander, as it used to send for Kit-
chener. Sandhurst knew Alexander as
Harold Rupert Leofric George Alex-
ander, son of the Earl of Caledon, and
in France he proved himself a daring
young battalion commander who emerged
from the last war with a pile of decora-
tions and mentions in dispatches. As
major-general, he took over command of
the First Corps when Gort was recalled
to England, and he devised the plan
which enabled the remaining British and
French soldiers to be embarked at Dun-
kirk. Then, as is recorded in the last
chapter of Gort’s dispatch:
Major-General Alexander, with a senior
naval officer (Captain W. G. Tennant,
R.N.), made a tour of the beaches and
harbor in a motor-boat, and, on being satis-
fied that no British troops were left on
shore, they themselves left for England.
Now a lieut.-general, Alexander has been
appointed to the very ticklish command
in Burma. A burly, active 50-year-old,
addicted to making inspections at the
double, he is married to a daughter of
the Earl of Lucan.
David Hunter, Stevens’s successor as
M.L.A. for Croydon, set an example to
his constituents by arriving at the Bur-
wood Government school with a long-
handle shovel to dig slit trenches. After
many hours, noticing that his hands were
masses of blisters, fellow-toilers begged
him to call it a day, but he was still peg-
ging away when the knock-off signal was
sounded. An unconquerable spirit,
Hunter is blind.
Daryl Lindsay becomes Director of
Victorian National Gallery just when
that institution has been practically
scuttled of first-rate pictures and objects
of art, all the most expensive having
been removed to secret places of conceal-
ment. An adaptable person, however, he
should not be unduly perturbed—he’s
been jackeroo, sheep-station overseer,
farmer on the Mornington Peninsula,
soldier in France in the 1914-18 scrap,
and is now mainly occupied with Army
camouflage problems. Born in 1890, he
was not bitten by the family obsession till
30, but since has been hung on the line
at the R.A., is represented in most Aus-
tralian public galleries and has published
two books of drawings, mainly of the
flying limbs of Russian ballerinas. Tall,
suave and easy in manner, he is not likely
to become the storm centre of art con-
troversy —when art controversy begins
again.
Colonel Arthur Seaforth Blackburn,
V.C., who commanded the A.I.F. detach-
ment in Java, was City Coroner in Adel-
aide before he left to join the A.I.F. in
1940. He was an active peace-time sol-
dier and commanded the 18th Light
Horse in S.A. —it became a machine-gun
regiment after the outbreak. He his
battalion to the Middle East, but when
the Pacific pot boiled over was sent to
Java to command the Diggers. Black-
burn got his V.C. in France for personally
leading four bombing parties into the
German trenches on July 23, 1916 ; he
had been in Gallipoli with the 10th. He
is a son of the late Canon Blackburn, of
the City of Churches, and St. Peter’s
College claims him as an old boy.
The vicissitudes of war haven’t inter-
rupted the meteoric career of Hubert
Clifford, the young composer-conductor
who left Melbourne 10 years ago to
make a name for himself in England.
Author of an impressive string of com-
positions, conductor of the Beckenham
County School Orchestra —best-known
juvenile orchestra in England—and con-
ductor of big stuff at the London Phil-
harmonic on several occasions, he is now
in charge of the musical service of the
8.8. C., one of the biggest official posts
in English music. He composed his last
symphony in an air-raid shelter during
the London Blitzkrieg and tried it out
on a piano lowered into the shelter.
Clifford was a pupil of Fritz Hart, the
Melbourne conductor now directing
Honolulu’s music.
There are still peace-time epics in these
war days. Dr. Straede, of Tennant
Creek, received a call by pedal wireless
to go to Rockhampton Downs to give a
blood transfusion to Matron Jones,
0.8. E., who was evacuated from the
leprosarium at Darwin after the Japanese
advent. He set out in his car with his
wife, and nothing more was heard of him.
Three days later a police sergeant found
the car, abandoned, close to its destina-
tion. Then the bodies of the young
wife and husband were discovered, both
having apparently died of thirst after
struggling on for 27 miles.
“C.R.”: Even in my young days knight
William Bragg, dead at 80 in London,
was a legendary figure. Fresh from
Cambridge to the chair of physics at
Adelaide University, he was, at 24, the
youngest professor in Australia. His
researches into pure physics, radio acti-
vity and the application of the X-ray to
the structure of matter were respected the
world over in the pure realm of science
and were highly valued in the grosser
worlds of the wool and metal industries.
His son wasn’t far behind, and in
1915 the distinguished pair were
awarded the Nobel Prize for work on
X-rays and crystals. After 22 years in
Adelaide the father moved to Leeds Uni-
versity. He was made president of the
Royal Society and Director of the Royal
Institution in 1935, and as such was
noted for his children’s Christmas parties,
where he made science interesting and
delightful by magical demonstrations.
His son is professor of experimental
physics at Cambridge.
“M.G.S.”: The little Dutch boy who
stuck his finger in the hole in the dyke
had nothing on Juffrouw Josta van Len-
ning. Now of Broome, she left Soura-
baya in a flying-boat with her mother,
only to hear the sound of Japanese
machine-guns as they were alighting at
the Westralian port. The 17-year-okl
Dutch girl jumped into the water and
swam for two hours in the shark-infested
ocean supporting her mother and a dis-
abled man, both of whom were wounded.
Instead of collapsing when she was
rescued she immediately offered her ser-
vices to the doctors who were attending
to the raiders’ victims.
Anyone compiling a book of historic
remarks should reserve an illuminated
page for the speech of Robert H. Nesbitt
when he was appointed chairman of the
N. S. Wales Milk Board: “I don’t know
anything about cows.” No objection
R. H. NESBITT.
having come from the cows, Nesbitt has
held the position since his appointment in
1937. A Manxman of 58, he studied
accountancy and has had experience in
timber, machinery and dried-fruit indus-
tries. He was secretary to the Federated
Wholesale Grocers, and Trade Commis-
sioner in M.L. for three years, 1934-37.
In December, 1918, Squadron-leader
Eric George McMurtrie, C.O. Recruiting
Depot, R.A.A.F. (S.A.), brought out from
England the nucleus flight of 36 specially
selected mechanics and artisans which
was the foundation of the R.A.A.F.
McMurtrie had a good record in 1914-
18, first as a sergeant-major in the A.S.C.
and later as a pilot with the 24th Flying
Squadron, R.F.C.—he figured in the aerial
scrap in which Richthofen was shot
Squadron-Leader E. G. McMURTRIE.
down. In 1919 he was adjutant at the
School of Aeronautics at Portsea (Vic.)
and was later stationed at Point Cook.
A pastoralist with property at Canberra,
he has been on the land since 1906 and
reckons he knows the back of N. S.
Wales, Victoria and Queensland as well
as the lines on his hand.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 83, William Alfred Byam
Shand, Justice of the Q. Supreme Court from
1908 to 1925. Harrow- and Oxford-educated,
he was called to the English Bar in 1884 and
came to Brisbane two years later. Webb, C.J.,
summarised his old friend’s judicial career:
“He had the complete confidence of the public,
the profession and his colleagues.” Philp, J.,
was associate to him before enlisting with the
First A.I.F.
Frank Nasmith, who retired to Clovelly,
Sydney, after a strenuous life running big
stations outback. He took on Auvergne, on the
Victoria River (N.T.), after previous bosses
had been killed by myalls, and there lorded it
over thousands of square miles from one of the
most isolated homesteads in Australia. Later,
he ran properties on the Dawson, in the Gulf
country, Maranoa and on the Darling in N.S.W.
At Barmera (S.A.), Thomas Ernest Caddy, a
former president of the local Diggers’ and
Grape Growers’ Associations. For conspicuous
gallantry at Hamel (1918) he won the U.S.A.
Distinguished Service Cross, four only of which
were awarded to the First A.I.F.
At St. Kilda (Vic.), at 38, Dr. Kenneth Nor-
man Welch, who did a good deal of re-
search at the Commonwealth Serum Labora-
tories at Royal Park. A graduate of Durham
University (Eng.), he came to Australia in 1928
to lecture and demonstrate in organic chemistry
at Melbourne University.
Died suddenly in Melbourne the other day a
man whose songs have been beefed out and
warbled from a million suburban pianos and
have had the freedom of the international ether
for a generation. He was Reginald Stoneham,
composer in the last war of “Heroes of the
Dardanelles” and “The Most Beautiful Girl in
the World,” and author in the last decade of
numerous other patriotic and sentimental bal-
lads. He was one of the first local broadcasters
to sing his own songs at the piano.
Geoffrey Philip Dangerfield, at 38, was one
of the first to be killed by Jap bombs at Darwin.
He was in the Customs shed on the Darwin
jetty when the raiders swept over and scored
a direct hit. A Canadian, educated at Charter-
house (Eng.), he did much exploring along the
n.-Westralian coast. He was a much-valued
friend and associate of A. M. Blain, M.H.R.,
who was godfather to his son.
In Melbourne, at 87, E. G. Robinson, asso-
ciate to Justice Lowe for 14 years, and pre-
viously to Justices a’Beckett, Hodges and Schutt.
M.A. of Melbourne University, he was classics
master at Melbourne Grammar and University
High School, and was a'partner in a grammar
school.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
s£ Clooter”; I see by the papers that
‘nearly 60 members of the Women’s
Cavalry Corps have offered their services
to the Australian People’s Defence
Auxiliary.” I can admire the fair sex
in most situations, but I’ve never been
able to reconcile myself to the spectacle
of a woman on horseback. No matter
how accomplished a rider she may be,
the thing always looks wrong, and I’m
forced to the conclusion that Nature never
intended Eve for the part. From a fairly
close study of horses, I’m equally sure
that the equine race is also against the
proposition, for the expression on the
face of nags carrying human females, of
whatever tonnage, social or physical,
ranges from sheer boredom to a sort of
humorous “Well, it’s the boss’s orders.”
A Women’s Cavalry Corps in a time of
war is surely the height of absurdity, and
the fact that such a body can muster
even 60 members is a sad reflection on
the declining sense of humor of a country
which used to pride itself both on its
horsemanship and its capacity for seeing
a joke.
* * * m
“Mac Hoots”: You may not think
there is any breath-taking literary ability
shown in using such a cliche as “a pain-
ful example” in a newspaper editorial;
yet the art of prose consists of finding
the exact word, and “painful,” on the
occasion when Sydney “Sun” used it,
was so beautifully exact that I am filled
with new hope for the prose standards
of Sydney dailies. Mr. Curtin, you
remember, has been hitting out at the
advertisers of luxuries, declaring, with
much reason, that it’s not much use the
Government asking the people not to
waste their money if advertisers are
going to keep on tempting them. “There
have been,” the “Sun” reproved him,
many Ministerial railings, a painful example
of which we had in the Prime Minister’s
statement that certain advertisers should be
“strung up” and pleasure travellers by air
burnt at a slow fire.”
Elsewhere, the “Sun’s” English is not
good ; the “than” of “Nothing is so apt
to fritter away enthusiasm and faith than
constant nagging” should, for example,
have been “as.” But the choice of
“painful” to describe the “Sun’s” feelings
at the nagging of advertisers is a literary
achievement that atones for all faults.
So simple ; so graphic ; so penetrating ;
so exquisitely precise!
* * * *
“K.”; “R. Volt’s” report (B. 11/3/ ’42)
that nobody seems to know why economy
in electric light owing to daylight saving is
not reflected in the Melbourne public’s
bills points to a quaint ingenuousness on
the part of that city’s bill-payers. Good
Lord! No Sydney paterfamilias who
has taken his family either to seaside or
country for his annual three weeks’ holi-
day expects, when his quarterly gas and
electricity bills covering that period come
in, that they will be other than as big as
the preceding ones, or bigger. No bill-
payer in captivity has ever had the ex-
perience of their being smaller!
“Cauboy” (B. 11/3/ ’42)
holds that the important thing is what
Miss Sayers says—in her rendering of
a Bible play in modern “slanguage”— not
how she says it. What I’ve been trying to
defend is the English language and the
perfect sample of it achieved in the
Bible. 1 now suggest that “Cauboy” give
us the Ten Commandments in the Sayers
style. Here’s the first, just as a sort of
prompt: “Lay off falling for them other
gods, Bo.”
* * * *
“Avon”; “I am quite sure your coun-
sel's eloquent appeal will find an echo
in the hearts of a great many of the
public, and I dare say in the heart of the
prosecutor himself, f admire and respect
you for what you have done, and regret
that a conviction must be recorded
against you.” That’s what a Maoriland
magistrate said to a police constable who
had resigned from the force without the
Commissioner’s permission to join the
N.Z.E.F. This is the third case of the
kind. A fine of £5 with 10s. costs was
imposed (the prescribed penalty), and this
amount was at once subscribed by people
in court. The accused, having thus been
purged of his civil offence, went off to
don khaki. The Army accepts these fel-
lows gladly, but the law (always a bit
of a hass in these matters) must be
observed. Counsel’s plea in this case,
by the way, was that the defendant
should be treated as a conscientious
“Important C.H.Q. orders for O.C. 2nd ’Eavy Batt’ru."
objector against not being allowed to
fight in defence of his country.
* * * *
R. Volt”: Two Perth dot-pushers are
performing one of the longest Odysseys
in local history. Volunteering to relieve
the pressure of telegraphic work at
Broome since the Jap bomb-dropping,
they stepped into a ’plane at the Westra-
lian capital two hours later. Some time
later the plane made a forced landing
and another ’plane providentially came to
their rescue. It deposited them in Dar-
win, 800 miles the other side of their
objective. They received orders to re-
turn to Perth via the Eastern States and
a fresh plane started out, but made a
forced landing on the Gulf of Carpen-
taria, There they were at latest hearing,
with approximately 5000 miles, instead of
the original 800, to cover to reach their
destination.
• *,***
Yair : My favorite magazine at
present is the 1936 issue of the “Osaka
Mainichi.” Elaborately printed, it tells
almost more about Australia than Aus-
tralia knows about itself. Photographs
aie abundant and educational, there are
reproductions of Aus. paintings, and the
articles range from “Wool Industry in
Australia,” by a worthy knight, to “Aus-
tralian Economy,” by a worthy professor,
there being also messages of goodwill
from Australian Premiers. It all gives
you the comforting feeling that if a
Jap pilot were told to land by para-
chute in Sydney’s George-street, the
only request he’d make would be,
“Well, can I pick my own pub?” Of
“ Where's the other two thousand?"
"Cripes, a bloke's allowed ration sheep, ain't 'e?"
particular interest is the dedication page,
the printed words having the traditional
cherry-blossom, water and mountain
background. It reads so sweet-and-
brotherly: “Dedication; To Lasting
Friendship among Australia, New Zea-
land and Japan, founded upon realisation
of the bond of mutual benefit and com-
mon interests.”
* * * *
“Balander”; Claim: Mrs. C. F.
Nugent, a Bundaberg (Q.) woman, has
seven sons and a stepson in the A.1.F.,
her only remaining son is in the V.D.C.
and her daughter is on war work. Can
anybody beat it?
* * * *
“Zake”: Those cavilling critics who
are fond of asserting that Sydney Gov-
ernment departments are wasteful now
have the accusation flung back in their
teeth by the Department of Road Trans-
port. Across that portion of the motor-
driver’s license form allotted to the per-
sonal description of the licensee a rubber-
stamp notice now says; “Details omitted
as a war economy measure.” I estimate
that the saving in the typist’s time by
not having to copy “blue” for eyes and
“fair” for hair from last year’s form is
six seconds. Offsetting this is the time
taken to rubber-stamp the two copies,
s|sec. The aggregating of |sec. per form
thus saved in a day will allow the typist
to put on her lipstick and arrange her
hair more carefully after morning and
afternoon tea. A fellow who apparently
knows nothing about Government de-
partments asks why they couldn’t econo-
mise properly by cutting down the size
of the form now that one-third of it is
rendered useless by the new economy
measure. He doesn’t realise that they’ve
got to use up ten years’ stocks of forms
first.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; Some of these crisp Ameri-
canisms are good ; but surely “stand for,”
as meaning “tolerate” or “put up with,”
is a rotten term? Because to us it means
several other things already. A man
stands for Parliament. He stands for a
particular constituency, with the hone
of eventually sitting for it. Or the word
can mean “represent or signify,” as “the
very name of Cricket has come to stand
for fair play.” Or it can mean “stand
up for,” as “Australia has always stood
for freedom and justice to all.” Why
then should we let Holywood teach us
that “stand for” now means “lie down
to”?
* * * *
“Avoca”: The Oxford Group and
Beverley Nichols (dear Beverley) have
parted company. In a newspaper article
which somehow recalls the Confessions
of an Escaped Nun, dear Beverley relates
how it came about. His introduction
to the movement took place at a
meeting which gave him one of the
most wonderful experiences he had
ever known: “One after another speakers
testified to the miracles which God had
wrought in them. One after another they
rose and confessed gladly, whole-
heartedly, and with every appearance of
spontaneity.” A year later, continues
dear Beverley, he was on the verge of a
serious illness and felt the need of “peace
and healing,” so went to Oxford to attend
another meeting. In conversation with
Dr. Buchman prior to the gathering, he
asked the leader whether the previous
experience was likely to be repeated:
“Dr. Buchman winked, ■ put his arm
through mine and whispered: ‘Not quite
like that. You see, on that occasion we
knew that you were going to be in the
audience. So we put on all our star
turns. ” These words, says Mr. Nichols,
drove him out of the Group.
* * * *
“Taurus”; The long drop, referred to
by “S.T.S.” (B. 18/2/’42) as merciful
and modern, was neither. It was used in
Europe long before the 1860’s. Pressure
of public opinion led to the drop
of a few feet. The result of . this
was that the victim, after a nasty jolt,
swung like a pendulum until he died.
From this was evolved the calculation
of the exact drop required for each
victim, based on his weight, and now
universally adopted and always effective.
The placing of the knot also has been a
matter of much inquiry and research. At
the back of the neck it was seldom effec-
tive except in the long drop, where death
was caused by decapitation. The Thugs
of India used a graceful form of pres-
sure on the front of the neck which was
easy, comfortable and effective. But this
was done by finger action and was not
found effective as applied to hanging. A
close study of the spinal column finally
led to the knot being placed under the
ear, where it has remained.
USUALLY.
“The women who throng city shops to buy ex-
pensive frocks and furs are usually not half as good-
looking as those who cannot afford to buy such
luxuries.” —Prime Minister Curtin,
There’s little that escapes our politicians,
Or hes outside their purview. Even though
They’re seldom seen at artists’ exhibitions
Where radiant faces on the canvas glow,
Or take a hand in beauty competitions,
There’s naught it’s not their business to know.
And ’mong much else —if not their “only
books”
(Like Moore’s) —are obviously “woman’s looks.”
Can grappling with the problems of a nation,
Or of a far-flung Empire, not combine
With due and adequate appreciation
Of what we call the female form divine?
Perish the thought! In every rank and station,
From Mr. Curtin’s down to yours and mine,
Jack surely may examine and assess
Whatever tends to Jill’s attractiveness.
Tou dames who fancy that adornment matters
So much when charms and graces you dis-
play,
Think of the beggar-maid in rags and tatters
Who fascinated King Cophetua
— 50 the story runs—became the latter’s
Queen, proving shapeliness may well out-
weigh
The absence not alone of furs and frocks
‘hut even of a hat and shoes and socks.
Tine feathers make fine birds —there’s no deny-
ing
A certain aptness in that well-worn line —
But what of those who can’t indulge in buying
What fashion’s costly arbiters design?
you get what Curtin is implying—
Would surely strike the eye as twice as fine
As wealthier matrons or less comely maids,
Were they equipped with such expensive aids.
dames who seek in shopping rich diversion
And find the estimate whereby you’re viewed
In this severe economist’s assertion
A bit disquieting, a trifle rude,
A none too courteously phrased aspersion
Upon your individual pulchritude,
You must collect what comfort there may be
Found in that diplomatic “usually.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE LEICHHARDT MYSTERY.
Tis near a hundred years since Leichhardt passed
Into the shadows beyond human ken,
But still some desert holds the secret fast
Of how the lost explorer breathed his last,
And where it was and when.
For twenty years and more, from east and west,
Men sought for traces of the trail he’d trod;
A barren enterprise, a fruitless quest!
Where his and his companions’ bones may rest
Is only known to God.
To meet his doom into the wilds he went,
The fate that was ordained him to fulfil;
But in what section of the continent
It came remains, by general consent,
A baffling mystery still.
And not alone the question where he died
Perplexes our historians, because
In spite of all the evidence supplied
It seems we’re still unable to decide
What sort of rhan he was.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


"War! War! War! Can't you think of anything else,
Miss Smythingthwaite?"
“Notaden”: Twenty years ago a police
magistrate at Chillagoe (N.Q.) lost a £5
note, advertised a reward which brought
no result, and wrote it off. Last month,
being then stipendiary magistrate at War-
wick (S.Q.), he received a letter signed
“Better Late Than Never,” enclosing £1
as part of the long-lost fiver, which the
writer stated he had picked up, add-
ing that the owner would get it all back.
Four days afterwards three envelopes
arrived, each enclosing a pound note,
and a day later still another one com-
pleted the act of atonement for the sin
of 20 years before. War-neurosis? Fear
of impending death? A lottery prize or
a legacy? New-found religion? Or any
of a dozen other possible activating im-
pulses toward the expulsion of a sub-
conscious irritant.
* * HS *
“Feng-Shui”: In Solo, Central Java,
the Japanese will meet a figure who
ought to be familiar to them. He
is the Susuhunan of Soerakarta, the
spiritual head of Java. He rules in an
immense kraton populated with anything
up to 20,000 of his wives, sons, daughters
and relations, and’he never goes outside
it, except on particular occasions. Like
the Emperor of Japan, he is descended
from the gods, and, like the Japanese
ruler, he goes periodically to the ances-
tral shrine on the south coast and informs
his forefathers of the latest develop-
ments in his kingdom. He is directly
responsible if the crops fail, but this is a
theoretical distinction, as the Dutch long
ago transferred the responsibility to their
Agricultural Department and put the
Susuhunan on a pension. The Susu-
hunan’s gaze is theoretically deadly, and
if he keeps it too long in one direction
Smeroe has an eruption or there is an
outbreak of cholera or something in the
district on which his attention is so in-
conveniently focused. His princes and
retainers crawl backwards on their
haunches out of his presence. But when
/ called on him I found a stout, amiable
gentleman who, on the strength of a
letter from S. H. Prior, of The Bulletin,
offered me the freedom of his hot-weather
resort in the mountains, complete with
lake and scores of servants, as long as I
cared to stay, a huge Studebaker and a
chauffeur in a wonderful hat to trans-
port me, and a ballet composed entirely
of his own daughters to entertain me.
$ Jj! * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: The defendant in the
maintenance case was a bit hard of hear-
ing, and when the magistrate gave his
decision he inquired from the court ser-
geant what the bloke had said. “Awarded
your wife and children £2 a week,”
replied the minion of the law briefly.
“Gripes! ” said the defendant, “that’s
bonzer of ’im. I was thinkin’ of givin’
them a few bob meself now and then,
but now the old woman can ’and me out
a bit instead.”
* *■ * *
“D.E.”; With blessings from the Pope,
the Apostolic Delegate, Archbishop
Gilroy and many bishops, the “Catholic
Weekly” has been launched in Sydney.
Projected by the late Archbishop Kelly,
it makes its appearance 100 years after
John Bede Folding, then Vicar-Apostolic
and afterwards first Archbishop of Syd-
ney, presented to Rome his “Report on
the Mission of New Holland, known also
as Australia.” In effect, it amalgamates
the “Freeman’s Journal” and the
“Catholic Press,” published for 91 years
and 47 years respectively. For this the
proprietors of secular journals have set
many a precedent, but I cannot recall
any of these gentlemen admitting
“inconvenience and sorrow” were fea-
tures inseparable from” their amalga-
mations or “personally regretting any
pain or loss sustained” in the process.
This Archbishop Gilroy did in one of
several graceful tributes to those respon-
sible for the departed weeklies. Another
thing that interested me in the first
number was an article on Catholic fight-
ing men in this war, among them the
V.Cs. Ervine-Andrews and Fogarty
Fegan (of the Jervis Bay), Squadron-
Leaders Finucane, Hickey and Halahan,
and Flight-Lieut. Thorold-Smith. Apropos,
how do you pronounce Finucane? Radio
announcers make it Fm-u-kin and Fin-«-
kin, but shouldn’t it be Fm-u-cane ?
m. * * *
“S.”: I sore in The Bulletin
(11/3/ ’42) that a bloke has given your
“Answers to Correspondents” man a jolly
good sock in the jore for declaring that
“mawn” does not rhyme with ‘ dorn.
Much as I deplaw the very existence of
the “Answers” man myself, I feel bound
to recawd that there are two oreful
flores in his opponent’s argument. Item,
he says “apart from the initial con-
sonant the sounds are identical.” But I
have just swawn to myself a mighty
oath that in standard English, however
faintly by comparison with “Nawth
Country or Irish dialects,” there is
enough “r” to be heard in “morn” jmd
enough “w” to be heard in dawn to
make the sounds different and distress-
ingly discawdant to the nice poetic ear.
If phonetics says otherwise, pshore to
phonetics! Item, he says that “objec-
tions arise because people are guided by
the eye —which is no arbiter of sound in
English.” Brother, the eye-rhyme is a
recognised poetic license. Generations
of poets have submitted and generations
of readers have accepted the “love-move”
rhyme, because it is recognised that the
eye does guide the ear. “Love-move”
offends the ear, but mildly, and pardon-
ably, But “mawn-dorn” so offends both
eye and ear that I feel as if my ear-
drums had been tawn with clores. I raw,
I core like a crow, my tears paw on the
flaw, I can lay down the lore no maw!
« * * •
“X.S.”: A spectacle reminiscent of the
movies was on tap in Melbourne the
other evening when a party of policemen
followed a trail of bloodstains down a
thoroughfare in St. Kilda. Tracing it for
a quarter of a mile they tracked it up a
footpath on to a doorstep. Then they
rang the bell, arrested a man in a doc-
tor’s consulting-room and charged him
with breaking a plateglass window.
# ♦ *
“Cine Ma” : Mr. Chief Film Censor
Cresswell O’Reilly, in his annual report,
announces that, of 460 dramatic films im-
ported in 1941, only six had to be re-
jected. The percentage of final rejections
was 1.3, as against 2.5 in 1940. He
appears to regard this as a triumph or
something; but of what is it a triumph?
May it not have been that in 1940 there
were still a few producers who were more
concerned about artistic truth than about
what Mr. O’Reilly and his confreres
thought of them and that in 1941 they had
become discouraged and got out, or sub-
ordinated art to money-making or am-
bition? After all, the fact that a film
doesn’t merit rejection in the view of Mr.
O’Reilly may mean that it contains
nothing of importance. Mr. O’Reilly gives
a handsome pat on the back to Australian
film production, and his praise may be
justified; but when he talks of breadth
and variety of interest and adequate,
thoughtful and pungent commentary I
can’t help muttering “Oh, yeah! ”
# * * *
“R. Volt”: When that man of peace
the Rev. John Flynn—“ Flynn of the In-
land” —started the Flying Doctor service
with its necessary component the pedal
wireless, probably the last thing in his
mind was that it might some day be of
some value in the event of a Japanese
invasion. Yet throughout the Far North
there are now approximately 250 wireless
transmitting and receiving sets worked
largely by the bicycle gadget whose pos-
sibilities were immediately spotted by the
unusual parson when a young Adelaide
inventor showed him its simple workings.
Last year the system, linked together by
the six flying-doctor bases, transmitted
52,389 commercial telegrams and bore
unnumbered thousands of prescriptions
and words of advice to expectant mothers
and sick persons in lonely homesteads in
the Outback. The flying physicians car-
ried out 300 flights and covered 130,000
miles. The annual cost of the orgamsa-’
tion is a mere £21,000, half of which
comes out of Governmental funds and
half out of charitable private pockets.
Flynn spent nearly 30 years on the work
of the Inland Mission in the Centre, and
since 1939 has been the Presbyterian
Church’s most active Moderator-General.
* * * *
“Galenus”: A fearsome picture of
Japanese germ-warfare is given by
“famous correspondent” Fletcher Pratt.
According to the “famous” one, a plane
showered down upon a Chinese city
grains of rice wrapped in cotton, all
of them infected with plague germs.
Other ’planes trailed white clouds
resembling fumes but actually composed
of fleas and fish-eggs. No details are
given of the methods used to catch the
fleas for examination after they landed
or to sort them out from the millions ot
local fleas with which every Chinese
town abounds, but they were intended to
bite the local rats and thus spread
bubonic plague. What the fish-eggs were
to do is not stated—perhaps to mfect the
local water supply, because they, like the
rats, were loaded with typhus germs as
well as plague. Neither plague nor
typhus can be contracted from food or
water. The casual organisms of both lose
virulence rapidly and are extremely
cate. But little details like that don t
deter a “famous correspondent.”
* ■ * * *
“Uramao”: The dag of our company
in World War No. 1 was an Aussie who
held officers in disdain. He had been up
the line for a considerable time before
he received a wound in the arm. His
company officer told him to get back to
a dressing station far in the rear. On
the way back he met an officer who, see-
ing the Digger was faint, offered him a
brandy. “Thanks, sergeant, that was
good.” “My man, I’m not a sergeant;
I’m a major.” “Stone the bleeding
crows,” exclaimed our dag, “I never
thought I was as far back from the front
line as that.”
*
“Spokeshave” surveys orgiastic Mel-
bourne ; —-
Melbourne’s brownout has given the streets
a sombre beauty and mysterious shadows which
the citizen can people in any way he fancies.
The wowseristic “Herald,” some of the clergy,
the Cold Tea party (redivivus after its crushing
defeat at the last referendum) and the spinster
"On my right—Williams. Junior, eight pounds three ounces; on my lefl-
Young Dixon , seven twelve!"
ladies who get rid of their repressions by shriek-
ingin the dailies about cruelty to cats in peace-
time and the viciousness of soldiers in war-
time have suddenly elected to pe P p !^J‘? T
shadows with drunken soldiers and sauors lying
vhito?s rW m S unffofms, g anT brawls? fights and
scenes of vice and debauchery that suggest that
the city after dark becomes the capital ot
Saturnalia As one I suggest
that U ffis M dreadful picture is a product of
fevered imaginations. The imaginers have never
seen the. sights they describe> soi glibly. they
take their cue from the papers — mamiy me
“Herald,” which is in the forefront of a move-
ment that will be pigeonholed the moment it
ceases to have news value. The duef cterac
teristic of the crowds which drift and lounge
about the streets in the brownout is boredom.
What does this city of old maids d 0 to reheve
their boredom? Except for a mediocre leg-
show at the King’s, vaudeville at the Tw a
musical comedy at H.s Majesty s, a.feeble.far-
cical affair at the Comedy, and the pitchers,
there is nowhere to go in Me ’ bo V™e. • J
pubs have been shut at six and the dnnkers
flung out on the pavement. A few of the more
determined, by devious means and extraordi-
nary exertions, succeed in continuing the ‘ r
tions, but the vast majority have been broug
up politely and are incapable of taking part
in a bacchanal.
* * * *
“j W.”: A good deal of the war news,
particularly that dished up by iamous
correspondents,” reminds me of ? that
grand old parlor game “Rumors, m
which the players sat around in a circle.
One originated a statement and the tact
was passed on, being whispered by each
player and suffering mutilations in its
passage. A typical result was when the
first bloke said “The general’s going to
advance and wants reinforcements, and
the last announced “The general’s going
to a dance and wants three and four-
P ence '”*
“Bo” - It was a scorching Saturday
afternoon, and we were digging trenches
in the grounds of a suburban school.
The going was hard as the picks got to
the shale and clay four feet down ; and
as the billy of water circulated the gang
of middle-aged fathers leaned back and
critically surveyed their work. It was
then that a large, well-nourished, red-
faced toiler, whose most strenuous exer-
cise over the last decade or so appeared
to have been slipping his braces over his
shoulders, wiped his streaming brow and
said fervently: “Well, every time I pass
a gory gravedigger on the job from now
on I’m going to hoist my hat to him.
* * *
“T.McN.”: My Melbourne paper has
it that a Sydney woman has succeeded
in insuring her tame goldfish to a £5O
limit against war damage. She claimed
that she had paid £4 for one of them,
had provided special glass ponds and
that they were valuable, whereupon the
insurance officers (declaring vehemently
at the same time that no domestic pets
could be insured) classed them as “private
chattels.” This exception in favor of
animal curios, while animal pets are
barred, seems likely to make for the
future embarrassment of insurance
officials, who may have it held up
to them as a precedent for cover on
such animals as white mice, guinea pigs,
carpet snakes and moloch lizards. You
can still find an occasional pet goanna
in the outer suburbs. And if a team of
goldfish can be insured for £50,. why
shouldn’t like cover be given to a herd
of performing fleas? #
“Spasebo”: The commandeering for
military offices of Melbourne Grammar,
Wesley College, Macßobertson Girls’
High School and Melbourne Boys’ High
has been described as blows to the
higher education, but they are unlikely
to be deathblows. The Melbourne
G rammar { a ds will be accommodated
elsewhere, and the Wesley boys are to
Xavier where they will
constitute a self-contained unit. Senior
Wesley students may also go to Scotch,
&nd there j § some talk G f others being
distributed between the two distant Gee-
long colleges. The principal loss will
b e borne financially by parents already
hard _ pressed by the surcharges of war-
tr
time.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Was cleaning out an irri-
gation ditch down Mildura (Vic.) way,
much to the pleasure of old Bob, who’d
once- been a good sheep-dog but was now
reduced, by age and failing eyesight, to
chasing imaginary things from under cul-
verts and rooting enthusiastically in old
rubbish under the pretence that he was
mustering earthworms or something.
Every time I cleared the weeds away
from a crack in the baked soil of the
ditch, Bob stuck his nozzle hard against
the crack, blew heartily, wagged his
rudder, wuffed once or twice and began
to dig, all the time with a grin that in-
dicated plainly he was only fooling.
Then I came to some old bagging and
rooted it away. Bob revelled in the
smells under it, sniffed and snorted and
unearthed a bombardier beetle which
promptly went “phit” and shot out a
tiny puff of smoke. Bob propped, eyed
me with some suspicion, then quickly
quartered the area till he touched the
beetle again. There was another “phit”
and another puff. Bob fell over back-
wards, got up, wrung his head, tried to
paw the end of his nose off and then
went dejectedly off and slumped under
an olive-tree, plainly convinced that I’d
sprung some sort of a trick on him. He
never sniffed near bagging again.
• * » *
“Abeeram”: Nominate the Dalby
(S.Q.) district for the highest assaying of
violence and lugubriousness to the
nomenclatural ton. Here are a few:
Suicide Gully, Hell’s Hole, Devil’s Bend,
Cut Throat Creek, Agony Hill, Linger
and Die and Mt. Misery. I await chal-
lenges from other parts of our continent.
• * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Back in the dim days
between the last war and this one we
were talking from the depths of our
ignorance about international affairs
when Mat advanced his theory. “It’s a
"One of these mornings you'll Wake up and the whole Jap fleet'll be in
Sydney Harbor!"
"Y airs? An' wot'd the Water p'lice be doin'?"
ruddy mistake t’ let them Japs get any-
wheres close t’ us,” he said. “Y* can’t
trust a mob that don’t even think in the
same manner as y’rself. Why, blime, if
y’ dealt a Jap a full house pat on aces
in a six-handed poker school he’d be
suspicious that y’d stacked ’em an’
wouldn’t bet. Take me tip, one o’ these
days some o’ these Governments of
ours’ll wake up an’ find New Guinea an’
them places up north swarmin’ with ’em.
It’s got t’ be, unless we wake up.” Some-
body asked Mat what he’d suggest as a
:ounter. He thought hard for a bit, then
said, “Well, f’r a start I’d fill New
Guinea an’ them places full o’ dairy
eockies. Anybody that gets anythin’
from them’ll be earnin’ it, by cripes.”
* * * *
“Don Me.”; Dad Sorghum had never
been too optimistic about the mental
alertness of his son Bill. When young
Bill put on something extra in the way
of bungling he was always told with
grs t emphasis that he was wasting his
time on the farm and should be in Par-
liament. Young Bill surprised them all
when he enlisted. Back home on leave,
his first greeting was from his sire:
“Don’t tell me those blokes in the army
taught you anything!” “Didn’t they!”
retorted Bill. “If all them new names
the sergeant-majors calls me is right, I
reckon you must’ve been the ’ottest
thing on two legs in this district when
you was a bit younger!”
« * ♦ 9
“Bo”; “Tiewire” Tremlett, alarmed at
the speed with which his dome-fibre was
disappearing, tried all the hair-restorers
in the ads., but with no observable
results. It was then that Lanky gave him
his own special remedy, the basis of
which were wood-ash from hardwood that
had been grown on swampy land, mutton
fat and alcohol. Religiously did “Tie-
wire” nightly soak his scalp in the mix-
ture, after which he would spend the
next half-hour working the stuff in with
the aid of ten restless fingertips. Co-
incidental with the inauguration of this
follicle-urging campaign was the brighter
outlook on life adopted by Sam the rouse-
about. Sam assured “Tiewire” that a
higher proportion of alcohol to the other
ingredients would be beneficial; and
the patient tried it. But with the con-
tinued failure of new growth to sprout
“Tiewire” lost faith in the nostrum, so
when Big Olssen, the shed ringer, told
him that sheep dip, broken down, was
as good as anything for killing dandruff
he decided to give it a fly, his decision
being influenced by the fact that it was
free. The morning after “Tiewire” tossed
out the old stuff from the bottle and re-
placed it with the new remedy Sam
rushed into the poisoner, clawing at his
throttle and gasping out incoherent sen-
tences. The poisoner’s diagnosis was
sound; a handful of salt rammed
down Sam’s throat had the desired effect.
As he fought his way back to a right
to continue to be cursed by the outfit
Sara took a deep breath and said, “What
a lousy thing not to tell a man he was
changin’ his remedy!”
* * * *
“Modeller”: I’ve heard a lot of people
complain about the grain in poina wood
—the red kind—alleging that its friable
habit makes it impossible tt> bore even
small holes and that it won’t take a
screw without splitting. Most of the
trouble is in inadequate seasoning. Only
that half of the log that has faced south
on the tree answers kindly to the plane,
and it should be stored for three months
in a cool place with plenty of air but
no sun or wind. The log will bleed a
lot, but that can be stopped by twitch-
ing a double No. 8 wire a foot up from
the bottom. After that give it a good
coating of Macassar oil one part, insecti-
bane two parts and fish-glue and leave
for another three days. Never use a fire
within 100 yards of the seasoning log;
poina—the red kind—reacts to the slight-
est heat unless properly cured.
„ A/r * ™, * * c
Murray Cod’: Old-timers from Swan
Hill (Vic.) to Demliquin (N.S.W.) assert
with the vigor of conviction that the ex-
?o e , S ™J‘ Send her down ’ Hu § hie ” (B-
18/2/42) is inexorably associated with
Hugh McColl, the great advocate of
irrigation for the Riverina and Northern
“I’m on camouflage work now, Helen.”
"Ah, I thought you were hiding something from me.”
Vic. and father of the Senator. The
“Send it down” referred to. his first large
channel, into which he released the first
waters for irrigation, stock and domestic
supplies. Since then it has been asso-
ciated with deluges, whether man-made,
or heaven-tsent.
• * * *
“B. 4”: Leichhardt must have had plenty
of time to waste if he waited for the
mustard and cress to grow that Bunce
planted (B. 25/2/’42). It’s doubtful, any-
way, if he had the need to pinch it, as
Ludwig was an accomplished botanist. It
is known that he obtained many drugs
and draughts from the native flora, in
particular an excellent though bitter febri-
fuge from the C.Q. whitewood. If his
motley crew jibbed at this awful brew
why blame the boss? As for pills,
Double L’s sheep and goats provided
plenty. Old-time shepherds used nothing
else. Anyhow, Ludwig did Australia
proud when he staggered out of the bush
into Port Essington with a load of
geography he’d garnered on his trip in
’45. The Roma-Mitchell blacks of the
’nineties were positive that “blackfellow
bin killum Leichhardt.”
* * * *
“Char”: Being a bloke of sceptical
mind I at once got four bricks, laid them
on edge in the shape of a four-pointed
star (B. 18/2/’42), and now I am pre-
pared to declare that no human hand that
ever wielded a pen or lifted a pot of beer
could lift those bricks placed as described.
The actual way the lift is done is to plant
one brick on end and stack the other
three on top. A powerful hand can then
grip the upright brick and lift the lot.
Just a trick to catch the mug, since the
inexperienced keep thinking of four
bricks placed on edge side by side and
an enormous hand spreading right across
them —again a feat no human hand is
capable of.
* $ $ *
“Oxmead”: “Factshoun d” (B.
25/2/’42) is right in his statement that
rabbits were introduced into West-
ralia in the early days of that colony.
No explanation has ever been given as
to why, instead of thriving and multiply-
ing, they died out; it can hardly have
been because they had more natural
enemies than in eastern Australia, yet I
have heard that there were small islands
off the western coast where they survived
much longer than on the mainland. But
it isn’t quite correct to say that the over-
landing rabbits didn’t reach W.A. “until
well on in the present century.” They
were reported a long way over the border
in the ’nineties. Alex. Forrest brother
of Bigjohn, seriously suggested in the
Assembly that a few men and does
should be dispatched to block the in-
vaders on their route along the southern
coast, and it is a fact that—in 1896 I
think—a shipment of 100 domestic cats
was sent by schooner to be loosed
between Eucla and Esperance in the hone
that they might act as a check on the
invading army. What became of the
cats was never ascertained but it wasn’t
long before bunny was on the eastern
goldfields. When I was in Menzies in
1901 I found an enterprising publican
exhibiting a captured rabbit in a cage
on his bar. It created a lot of interest
and must have stimulated trade appre-
ciably,
• • • • • •
“Naturala”: Having battled consider-
ably against cats run wild, I agree with
“B. A. Ker” that such animals, although
troublesome, have never become a plague
(B. 18/2/ *42). The reason is that puss,
being a feline, is subject to the natural
laws that govern all her kind once she
returns to the wild. The hearth-dozing
cat, fed every day, becomes fat and full-
blooded, and her powers of reproduc-
tion respond. But the bush feline, be it
lion, tiger or merely cat, never attains
to that condition. For the feline is not
a good hunter —few carnivores are —and
this especially applies at the critical
period when the female must suckle her
young. The number of offspring the
wildcat can nourish thus becomes limited,
for the last thing the tomcat would think
of Would be to act as a provider. In
fact, not seldom the mother has to defend
her young against the male, who is not
above indulging in a little cannibalism.
Nor is the female altogether exempt,
since cases are not unknown when semi-
wild cats, such as infest large factories
and other works, have been seen making
a meal of their own kittens. Probably
when hunger pinches in the wilds the
bush cat is capable of the same practice.
So we have the influences that prevent
wildcat-breeding in unlimited numbers.
* * # *
“Tiny”; “Bo” (B. 18/2/’42) makes his
farmer “whittle a stick.” This quaint
old American custom hasn’t penetrated
this island yet, I think; and I’ve been
over a lot of it. I can remember when
males of all ages carried penknives; but
even then whittlers were non-existent.
* * * *
“Eucla”; If the Commonwealth
should decide to name the East-West road
after Edward John Eyre it would be well
to arrive at finality first as to how the
name should be pronounced. In W.A., at
least, educationists have decided that
the pronunciation is “air.” But when
writer went to the Victorian State schools
it was “hire” ; in Ballarat there is an
Eyre-street which is always referred to
as “Hire”-street. And the fathers of
that city should have had the good oil,
since the street was named not after the
explorer but in honor of his cousin, a
Major Eyre, at one time attached to the
Ballarat garrison.
WOUNDED RETURN.
We saw Australia through the shimmering haze
Fade like a dream before our straining gaze.
Then we were strong, and laughed, and did
not know
The Libyan heat, or chill of Grecian snow.
Now on the skyline see her slowly rise
Just like a dream before our happy eyes.
So often in the rock and in the sand
We slept to dream of her, our own fair land.
Still like a nightmare on the battleground
War rears his awful head; but we have found
The soft deep tones the shades of home release:
Kindness and love, they fill the heart with
peace.
A.I.F.
D. M. EERRY.


“B. A. Ker”: There is a quixotic
streak in Happy Jack’s make-up that
sometimes leads him into trouble. On a
visit to the city he struck an irate in-
ebriate who was loudly giving vent to
some pungent remarks concerning an
unknown so-and-so who had pinched a
sanguinary lobster. Jack, his bush-bred
respect for “the sex” strong within him,
pointed out that a lady was present.
When the fluent one took violent excep-
tion to the reproach, it cost him two
teeth and resulted in both of them being
lumbered. At the court Happy Jack
was, agreeably surprised to see the in-
direct cause of the rumpus waiting by
the door. “Is that lady a witness?” he
asked the orderly. “Good Lord, no!”
exclaimed the cop. “That’s Liz Smith ;
she’s the next case —just her usual ‘drunk
and language’ charge.”
* * * *
“Wire-buster”; I, too, once tried a
new use for the forked stick (B.
18/2/’42). The ice cart I drove in a small
mid-west N.S.W. country town was one of
those where you stood in the back, and the
moke, a living example of delayed action,
refused point-blank to shift out of a
jog. One Saturday morning, wanting
to finish up early, I measured the
distance from where I stood in the back
of the cart to her rump, cut a forked
stick and put it in position. Effective?
They picked me off the street with a
broken collarbone ; the kids around had
free ice all the morning ; the blacksmith
and the saddler had to work all the week-
end repairing the damage, and for
months afterwards all you had to do to
get a gallop out of the old nag was to
lean forward in the cart so that the
weight came on her back.
* * * #
“Gryllus”: When the greenheads get
down one’s collar or jumpers break up the
Sunday-school picnic, it may be consoling
to recall that Australia has many more
species and sub-families of ants than any
other country in the world and a whole
lot which occur nowhere else. Their
forthrightness of character is shown by
“This IS a reserved occupation, ain't it ?”
the fact that not one of the 600-odd kinds
condescends to protective mimicry, though
some other insects mimic them. They
range in size from inch-long bulldogs
with stings that could stampede a rhino-
ceros to minute nuisances that can be
smelt further than they can be seen. Lots
of them get on perfectly well without
stings, and one of Nature’s silliest jokes
was to provide the unnecessary article at
all. The prevailing ill-temper, class-dis-
tinction and inquisitiveness in the aver-
age ant-community arises possibly from
the fact that it is run by its old maids.
After a brief honeymoon a few males
are permitted to live on as gigolos for
the queen, but if tucker runs short they
are amongst the first things to be eaten.
Devoted nurses usually, the N.Q. green-
heads provide a heartless exception—
they sew their leaf-homes together with
silk squeezed out of the community in-
fants, using the poor little devils as
shuttles. Also, they keep as pets the
larvse of a butterfly which eats numbers
of the royal family and robs the larder
as well. But nobody with experience of
greenheads would put anything past
them.
t * * =r
“The 0.D.”: “Water,” says “Dickie
B.” (B. 11/3/’42), sticking to his argu-
ment, “can’t be cushioned because it’s
incompressible,” Exactly, but it can be
displaced, and that is what happens when
something heavy hits a body of water
from a height or from a gun. A bit is dis-
placed and the projectile then encounters
the incompressible rest and proceeds to
sink gently, its force “cushioned” by that
very displacement at the point of entry.
Anyhow, to cut the barney short, bring
along your .303, Richard. I’ll lie six
feet under water and you can shoot at
me from anywhere above. Hit me with
sufficient force to raise a bruise and I’ll
buy ’em.
* * * *
“6F.N.”: It has happened at last,
something of which every worshipper of
Cow has so often dreamed. A profes-
sional udder-masseur was inspecting a
newly-born heifer on his South Coast
(N.S.W.) milkery when he noticed that
the bag slung under its hind parts was
larger than is wont among infant Straw-
berries. The teat-squeezing urge was
strong within him, and in a trice he was
in the old familiar position with his
forehead against the youthful flanks and
his digits lovingly grasping the quartet
of taps. And, lo! the prodigy yielded
half a pint of milk which contained the
regulation cream and butterfat content.
The calf, a roan from a good type A.I.S.
cow, has since been milked twice daily
for the same quantity at each pulling.
* * * *
“Aratta”: The family was playing cards
when from outside came a couple of
appalling shrieks. The next instant the kit-
chen door was violently opened, and the
hand staggered into the room almost in a
state of collapse, with the two dogs whim-
pering in terror at his heels. “What’s
wrong?” Dad asked in an alarmed tone.
“There’s a ghost outside!” replied the
hand in awed accents. “I came outa me
room t’ get a drink of water before goin’
t’ bed, an’ seen it walkin’ across the yard
in a long white shroud.” Dad and Dave
got their guns and moved outside. It was
a pitch-black night, with the gentlest of
breezes blowing. “Gripes! He’s right!”
ejaculated Dad, backing suddenly into the
kitchen. Dave gasped and backed on to
Dad’s toes. About fifty yards away a long
white object was moving slowly through
the air a few feet from the ground. It
would glide a foot or so, then pause for
a second, then continue for another foot
and pause again. Simultaneously Dad
and Dave fired. When the smoke cleared
away the object was still there and still
moving slowly. They raised their
weapons again, but before they could
fire there came a shriek from Mary,
who had crept up fearfully behind them.
She brushed past them and rushed out-
side, and came back a second or two
later. “You pack of fools!” she cried
angrily. “Look at what you’ve done to
the diessT’d ironed for the ball tomorrow
night!” And she held up a white shot-
riddled garment that had been propelled
by the breeze along the wire clothesline
on a coat-hanger.
.„ T * , * * * , „
N. Sylvester”: I don’t take “Props
carpet-snake vtfaterbag yarn seriously (B.
38/2/ ’42), but if he and Clever Hayes
filled the Axminster up with salt there
would have been a dead snake instanter.
Although humans use it every day, and
sheep and cattle like an occasional lick,
salt is one of the world’s poisons. Knew
one bloke who decimated his poultry
yards when, with a mistaken notion of
economy, he contracted to buy the floor
sweepings of a large bakehouse. To the
dough-puncher lumpy salt is anathema,
Too busy to crush it, unwilling to put it into
the flour lest it concentrate in one loaf,
“Yes, gents P”
with resultant complaints, he short-cut by
dumping it on the floor. There it ground
to dust, mixing with spilt flour. Used as
an addition to the poultry menu it
cleaned up the chooks by the dozen.
What it would do to wild fauna may be
imagined.
* * * 9
“Taylor Ville”: Admittedly some bush-
men (B. 4/2/’42) are susceptible to noc-
turnal noises—the dingo’s howl, the cur-
lew’s crying, the mating yabber of a fox,
even the call of the old mopoke. Others,
usually nerveless, have had frights in
places which by association or reputation
they have learned subconsciously to fear.
Others again have had the fear of the
devil put into them by a tree-stump or
the wind, just because they were in an
appropriate physical state. If a man has
been shovelling sand on the netting all
day, or riding behind cattle from 5 a.m.
to 8 p.m. with a two-hour nightwatch
chucked in, he’s usually too tired to
worry about anything except sleep. But
put him on boundary- or track-riding at
a slack time, with only an hour or two’s
riding each day, and leave him alone
long enough to acquire abnormally sen-
sitive perceptions—then, as soon as a
thunderstorm or the let-down after read-
ing a ghost story produces the required
physical depression, he’s all set to get a
fright from his own hat.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: So “Youanmi” (B.
18/2/’42) finds a resemblance between a
steamboat and a fish, both in shape,
steering and propulsion. I let the shape
question pass, but where is there the
slightest resemblance between the
mechanics of the screw propeller and the
combined action of a fish’s fins and tail?
The steamship is screwed through the
water by precisely the same action as a
nut is screwed on to a bolt —the
mechanics of the inclined plane. Where
in Nature can one find any application
of the screw? Early experimenters with
the steamboat thought to imitate the
webbed feet of the duck in the paddle-
wheel. Though mechanically successful,
it was costly in power and failed, since
no material was strong enough to with-
stand the downward blow of the paddle
meeting the upward surge of the waves.
Again, the steamship is steered not by
waggling the rudder, as the fish does its
tail, but by turning the rudder at such
angles as will bring it against the flow
of the water created by the ship’s motion,
known as steerage way. Likewise, though
a ’plane may resemble the bird in shape,
it, too, is screwed through the air by a
propeller copied from the original marine
screw —in no way resembling the flight
of the bird, which is accomplished by
the flapping of the wings.
* * * *
“Paddler”: Touching these white-
tailed rats which have been killing giant
toads in N.Q. canefields, I’ve seen one
put uo a good go with a noted sheep-
bitch rat-slayer. The only way a dog
can beat them is to take ’em with a
run, sweep in on them before they have
time to consolidate their position. As
for their appetite. I’ve known six rats
to get outside a kero.-tin of preserved
eggs in a night, even dipping down
through the brine to lift them out. In
a war between the toads and the rats
even the protective odor of the toad won’t
save it,
<k * * *
“Dungeness”: An interesting feature
of several eyewitness accounts of the
Darwin air raids has been the staunch
fashion in which Brother Binghi stayed
put and didn’t go bush. A different story
comes from Papua and New Guinea,
where the very first bombs seem, with
few exceptions, to have started colored
brother on an all-in marathon for the
hills. Is the difference due to relative in-
herent courage amongst the races, less or
greater appreciation of danger or balance
of character, confidence or lack of it in
that cranky feller white man and his in-
comprehensible but mostly efficient ways?
Perhaps the last —Papuan and New
Guinea native police appear to have been
amongst the notable exceptions, so long
at any rate as they remained in contact
with their white officers.
sit * * .♦
“Bohemian”: When a five-year-old
Maori girl fell into the Waikato River
her companion ran to the mother, who
pulled the unconscious child out several
minutes later. It was over half an hour
before the father could get from his work
to where the apparently drowned child
was lying on the bank. He made a fire
of ti-tree, and held the child over the
hot smoke by the heels. Within 30
minutes the lass was completely resusci-
tate J. Old Maoris in the Rotorua dis-
trict declare that they have known cases
where natives, apparently drowned for
two horns, have been resuscitated by the
same process.
* .*:< * #
“Sigsie”: Emerging from the horrors
Hardhead found himself walking slowly
along the dusty road to his mallee scrub-
cutting camp. Something or somebody
was pad, pad, padding close behind him.
He jumped around a couple of times,
hands ready to grapple—to find nothing.
He had a nip from a small bottle of
rum and walked on. He was plodding
drowsily along the soft cart track when
something nudged him in the back. He
jumped off the track as Mongel Singh’s
big draught and buckboard, horse and
Indian dozing, went slowly past. So it
was Mongel all the time, tailing him out
to see that he turned in the right gate—-
to finish his contract! Cursing con-
tentedly, Hardhead took another swig,
climbed quietly in the back and dozed off
with the rest.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: How the Awful Climate
of our Tropic North continues to exer-
cise its deadly effects upon suffering
humanity is shown by recent records of
the Eventide Home in Charters Towers
(N.Q.). From August, 1941, to February,
1942, 38 inmates passed to the great
beyond. The oldest was 102, three were
still in their nineties and 24 others be-
tween 80 and 90. Average age of the
departed was a little under 81, a tragic
proof of the inescapable fact that the
climate gets them in the end.
* * * *
‘ “Narrin”: Went to Blue for advice on
this fish-tickling business (B. 4/2/’42).
He was scaling a 101 b. cod, but he
straightened up to give his opinion.
“True? Yair. Look.” He ran down the
cod’s back the currycomb he uses for
scaling. The dead fish curve 1 and
wriggled in an apparent ecstasy of delight.
SONG OUT OF SYRIA.
Where Hiram felled his cedar-wood,
Where Saladin rode by:
In sorrow and in solitude
Grave-hallowed mountains lie.
Far-winging over Syria
Our burdened bombers go
O’er walls of wild wistaria
And paths where poplars grow.
Home-dreaming under Hermon’s height
Our columned companies plod
And pause before his snowy light
Like dwarfs before their god.
Swung silvern on the Middle Sea
Our silent ships are sent
From ancient Tyre and Tripoli
Where Greek and Roman went.
Till Time’s slow-healing instancy
Bring Peace to newer birth,
We hold this sky, this ancient sea,
These mountains old as Earth.
Where Paul has preached, where Naaman
strode,
We guard our brethren slain.
By forest stream, by mountain road,
No foe comes here again.
A.I.F. ABROAD.
R. S. BYRNES.


MTS
LYS
k
PROOF
HftMf
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
IpSps?
■o£.
wm
Or:
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Sheep Fly.
“Rom Ney”: After 10 years of investi-
gation by the C.S.I.R. and other bodies
it is now fairly cleat that the emerald-
green fly is responsible for 90 p.c. of all
fly-strike in sheep, the familiar old brown
blowfly causing the other 10 p.c. The
others, such as the blue-green bloke often
seen, will not cause strike, but are quick
to deposit maggots once the spadework
is done.
As R. N. McCulloch, of N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, points out, it
is also clear that the form of attack
against the fly so far followed needs re-
vision before anything like control can
be claimed. Speed of green-fly multipli-
cation can be imagined from the fact
that the full life cycle in summer is only
three weeks and that a female can live
three months and produce 3000 eggs.
There is a general belief that carcasses
are breeding grounds; hence rabbit-kill-
ing campaigns in which thousands of
dead rabbits were left about were blamed
for spreading fly. On a carcass there is
intense competition for food, and the
maggots of other flies beat those of the
green fly every time. There will be thou-
sands of the less important maggots to
perhaps 20 or 30 green-fly maggots. In
a test a carcass was exposed for two
days and then protected from flies;
green-fly maggots promptly increased
enormously.
A badly-struck sheep drops hundreds
of fully-fed green-fly maggots every day
until it is dressed. They pupate in the
ground, and there is thus a constant cloud
of young green flies emerging during
strike periods. To come to life on the
sheep, however, it is necessary that the
eggs be laid in a sufficiently wet place ;
hence sheep that can be kept dry are
much less likely to breed flies.
Experiments have demonstrated that
neither destruction of carcasses, trapping
and poisoning flies nor mere crutching
and treating of struck sheep will keep the
flies down. Hand-dressing, with one mid-
season crutching, is-likely to breed green
flies in large numbers. Jetting will reduce
flies to some extent, but the “small
strikes” so often mentioned in a jetting
programme will breed them. Crutching
so frequently that there is little chance
of wet britches is a big help. The best
and surest method is plain crutches,
either by breeding,out or by the Mules
operation to remove wrinkles. This, with
additional crutching and jetting, will
reduce strikes by 90 p.c. The new aim
of merino management should be, not
to reduce flies, but to protect sheep from
strike.
Pink Eye.
“Hux”: It makes headway where
sheep graze on tall pastures. Infection is
often brushed off by the herbage and
transferred to the other eyes. Keep the
grass well cropped. Isolate affected
sheep.
Once attacked in both eyes the sheep
is immune. When only one eye is in-
fected only that eye is immune. On dry-
ing, matter from the eye becomes non-
infectious, and in fine, warm weather
healthy sheep can graze a suspicious area
48 hours after affected sheep have been
removed.
Symptoms: Discharge from one or
both eyes, inflamed eye membranes, eye-
lids swollen. Later, front of eyeball
grows smoky looking, a scum forms, pus
appears and the sheep goes blind gradu-
ally. In the worst cases ulcers form in
the front of the eye and the eye is
covered with pus.
Most recover in a week if isolated in
shady paddocks with plenty of water.
To treat, make a solution of loz. of zinc
sulphate in a quart of water. Use 2\ p.c.
of the lotion in water and drop into the
affected eyes through an oilcan. The
eyes should be wiped clean of pus and
other matter with a wiper soaked in the
solution. Mortality from pink eye mostly
occurs when blind sheep are unable to
reach water.
Grow More Oats.
“A1 Gerian”: As much oats as pos-
sible should be grown on inland farms
this season. Apart from the possibility
of an influx of stock from the coast,
which will have to be fed, there is the
fact that existing fodder reserves have
“This’ll be one bit of information the Japs won't get!”
been sorely depleted and that thou-
sands of tons of hay and silage will be
needed to build up reserves.
There is no easier crop to grow than
oats, and none that can be put to such
a variety of fodder purposes. They can
be grazed completely, grazed and cut
for hay, grazed and stripped for grain
or grown especially for hay or grain.
Also they make splendid silage, and
whether as hay, grain or silage their keep-
ing quality and nutritional value are un-
equalled by any other cereal from a
general point of view.
Where there has been a fair drop of
rain and the soil is in good condition,
oats can be sown from now on. On
tableland country the best variety is
Algerian, good for grazing, hay or grain
and likely to do well if sown before
the end of March. On the slopes—run-
ning from the tablelands inland —
Algerian can be sown up to mid-April
for all purposes, and Fulghum will serve
equally well sown from mid-March to
the end of April. Sow Belar from mid-
March to mid-April for hay and to the
end of April for grain. If the wheat
stubble is from a light wheat crop oats
can be sown on it with a combine. On
stubble a drop or two of sulphate of
ammonia is handy.
Sow oats for grazing at somewhere
between 601b. and 701b. an acre ; for hay
or grain, between 501b. and 601b. an acre.
The heavier sowing may yield hay or
grain after grazing, but that is governed
by the developing season and the needs
of the grazing animals. Get super, in
with the oats if you can and if your dis-
trict is one where crops respond to super.
The normal rate is 561b. to the acre,
but if rationing stops that even 281b. an
acre is better than none and may mean
the difference between a good and bad
start for the crop.
Protect Late Tomatoes.
“E. Mahrio”; Those on the N.S.W.
central coast may need defence against
the fruit caterpillar, and weekly routine
sprays should have begun when blos-
soming started, following treatment with
lime-sulphur — 3i pints to 40gal. — to
check mites. The spray has to get on
the underparts of the leaves as well as
on the rest of the plant.
A good spray for the early work up to
the end of March, when tomatoes are
growing vigorously and setting fruit, is
made from lead arsenate, nicotine sul-
phate and colloidal or wettable sulphur
in a 1-1-40 Bordeaux mixture. There
are several examples of yield increases
by 20 p.c. to 30 p.c. when this mixture
is used, in comparison with the more
popular 1-1-10 Bordeaux.
If the district is liable to heavy cater-
pillar attack, use 31b. of lead arsenate to
every 40gal. of the Bordeaux mixture,
reducing the lead arsenate by a gallon if
only moderate caterpillar onsets are ex-
pected. Usually the caterpillars hit hard
during heavy blossoming and fruit setting
and especially after heavy rain. Under
these conditions give the crop a dusting
between sprays with a 1-2 lead arsenate-
kaolin mixture.
Remember, sprays must get every-
where on the plants, concentrating on
blossoms and young fruit. Dusts should
go mainly on the tops, blossoms and
young fruit.
Pea Seed.
“R.G.M.”: Faulty germination of peas
is always a problem in wet soils when
a heavy fall of rain follows sowing and
where poor quality seed is used.
Quality of pea seed can be gauged to
some extent from its appearance—cracks
and discoloration indicate poor seed—but
this is not an infallible guide. All pea
seed should be treated before planting
with a fungicidal dust to protect it from
soil-inhabiting and seed-borne fungi,
which can kill the young plant even
before it gets above soil level.
Tests, says C. J. Magee, N.S.W. depart-
mental biologist, have shown that.
although there may not be an increase in
the stand after treatment, it nevertheless
is an excellent insurance against poor
stands and well worth the small cost of
a few pence per bushel of seed.
Recommended dusts include copper
carbonate, copper oxychloride, cuprous
oxide, ceresan and agrosan. The first
two are used at the rate of 2oz. to
per bushel, and ceresan and agrosan at
*°v° lioz - tests co PP e r carbonate
at the rate oi 2oz. per bushel has given
the best results. With small lots, seed
and dust may be shaken up in a closed
container for several minutes. With
larger quantities, a hand-operated revolv-
ing drum or barrel is needed.
Hints for the Farm.
“‘Sailor Bill” : English spuds should be
shot before they are put in the ground.
Spread the seed out in a moist place under
a tree and cover with grass or sacking.
In a few days they’ll be all eyes and ready
to plant.
“Feline” ; In a mild climate try Cape
gooseberries. There’s always a demand
for them. They do best in scrub loam
rich in humus, but any good, well-
drained soil will do. Sow in seedbeds in
July and August and transplant 4ft. apart.
Keep weeds down. They’ll grow for
several years, but it’s best to plant a
fresh batch every year, as the first crop
is always the best.
“S.B.”: Good way to raise seedling
fruit-trees is in 21b. jam tins cut down
the side from top to bottom so that they
are quartered but still retain their shape.
When ready for transplanting bend # the
tins apart and lift the plants out, soil and
all. They’ll grow on unchecked.
“Plane Creek”: Plant cowcane beside
that watercourse where the soil is always
moist. Mixed with other grasses it makes
excellent chaff for horses or cattle.
Chinese Java is a vigorous grower that
throws up canes 12ft. high, each set pro-
ducing 30 or more canes. It can be cut
and cut again because, once established,
it hever dies out.
“H.C.”: Calves with blood scour should
be isolated, starved for 24 hours and
dosed with 2oz. to 4oz. of castor oil
according to age and size. After a fur-
ther 24 hours put them back on whole
milk for a few days. If the scouring
keeps on, add a teaspoon of chlorodyne
to each drink of milk. Then gradually
get back to the original diet. When the
calf is again on skim-milk limewater
should be added at the rate of two table-
spoons to each drink. Increase till the
dose is about one breakfast cup in each
feed and keep it up. Buckets and uten-
sils should be well sterilised and not used
for healthy animals.
“Yeno Ham”: An acre of good crop
will generally carry llcwt. to 12cwt. of
pigs for 120 to 180 days if properly
grazed. Green barley, rape, oats, maize,
pumpkins and mangels need a protein
supplement for best results. From Febru-
ary to April sow forage crops like
lucerne, barley, oats, rape, kale, cattle
cabbage and mangels. September-
October sowings can include lucerne,
cowpeas, pumpkins, maize, millet, sor-
ghum, artichokes, sweet potatoes and
mangfels,
“Mullengah”; Some mixed bales are
necessary. Press together such qualities
as two or three different classes of
merino fleece, fleece and broken; broken
and pieces; pieces, bellies and locks;
locks and crutchings. Mixed lots on these
lines will be accepted for appraisement
with no deductions for regrading. Bales
pressed with merino and crossbred wool
mixed together mean loss to the grower.
“Canbelego”: Certain varieties ot
green oats and maize are eaten more
readily than others. Cattle and pigs


BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA
Just a Few Sips and—
Like a Flash Relief!
Sleep Sound All Night.
To-day at any chemist or store get a
bottle of BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL
(triple acting)—by far the largest-sell-
ing cough medicine in all of blizzardly
cold Canada—take a couple of doses
and sleep sound all night long.
One little sip and the ordinary cough
is “on its way”—continue for 2 or 3
days and you’ll hear no more from
that tough old hang-on cough that
nothing seems to help.
SluckU-tfi
CANADIOL
M I X TORE
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: B. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY. HAY, MOREL, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES. LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOB NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
FOLLOW THIS
LINE OF
REASON
★ j
fX •-
A J
K
1
ass
«e
M
WLONDOH.
8
1 0| » » COMHwHf
\w.
a***
m.
s? Orr
"'*r
%
£
aV
®^7
*/v
?0«
GENUINE
LONDON
GIN CAN
ONLY
COME FROM
LONDON
ENGLAND
where
Gordon’s
Gin
IS DISTILLED
It mai| cost a
little more but
it's WELL worth it!
Sta^
SapM*
THE HEART OF A COOP COCKTAIL
TANQUERAY.GORDON & CO
LTD. LONDON. ENGLAND.
'Jhe LabgeSt girt dIUiiUM in the woiid
CRAVEN A
are kinder . .
to the throat
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
m
m
2819
10 for ll d 20 for 110
Also in Fifties
make greater gains during the earlier
part of the fattening process when appe-
tites are keen, but slow down later when
appetites are becoming sated. Thus appe-
tite is a controlling factor in weight gains
per day, so palatability, which affects
appetite, is important. Pick your crops
well.
“Illawarra”: Restricted superphosphate
supplies make farmyard manure very
valuable. Not a skerrick of it should be
wasted. It needs no special treatment,
can be gathered from bails, stalls, yards
and grazing areas, scattered where re-
quired and ploughed under. This method
reduces loss of ingredients to a minimum.
To step up grass production, shove heavy
doses of cowdung on to picked areas or
concentrate the night herd on them, then
use the grass harrows.
“Mackay”: Phosphates are necessary
to the pregnant cow. In good seasons
she gets them from the pastures, but may
go short in dry months. When rain falls
phosphorus is brought into solution, feeds
the roots of plants, is carried into the
green shoots and renews the supply for
animals grazing. In dry spells, less phos-
phorus finds its way above ground. Get
over the difficulty by supplying phosphates
in the form of sterilised bonemeal. A
1001 b. bag of calphos costs about 12s.
at the abattoirs. This is mixed with an
equal amount of salt and left in a shel-
tered trough for the cow. A nourishing
lick, it keeps.
“R.N.”: N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Asso-
ciation intends to hold its annual ram
sales in Sydney, beginning on April 27.
Full particulars are available from Syd-
ney R.A.S. office, Macquarie-place.
Outback Occasions.
No. 27.
THE FLOOD.
A warning came that the biggest flood
in history was on the way. Everybody
was advised to make for high ground.
Our father got home about eight o’clock
that night, and when our mother asked
him what we’d better do he laughed
cheerfully and said, “Now, don’t worry.
There’s plenty of time. It’ll take the
water at least eighteen hours to get here,
and by that time it’ll have spread so
much there won’t be much.”
This disappointed our brother and me,
because we’d had mental visions of a wall
of water racing down and us struggling
grimly through the night and seeing the.
dawn from a raft on a waste of waters
and perhaps being picked up by a gun-
boat or something. We didn’t know how
the gunboat was to get there, of course,
but small things like that don’t bother
children visualising exciting things. Any-
how, when Father took it so calmly we
went to bed, though rather excited at the
prospect of going down to the creek in
the morning and watching it rtm a
banker.
There was just a glimmer of dawn next
morning when Father woke us up and
said to come and have some breakfast.
When we got to the kitchen Father was
blowing the fire under the kettle and
Mother was getting some bacon ready.
Our sister went to the door and then let
out a scream because she’d stepped in a
puddle of water
“Gripes” said Father, “it must have
rained last night. I must get that leak
fixed.” He look up at the roof and
stepped over to the door and looked up
again and then went back to the fire.
Mother opened the door and a lot of
water and bits of stick and things rushed
in, and Mother grabbed our sister and
shot out of that house without a word.
Our brother called out to Father just
as the water hit the fire, and there was
a gush of steam and ashes, and Father
got up and paddled through the water to
the table. He grabbed the raw bacon,
stuffed it in his pockets and led us out-
side. By this time we could see fairly
well, and there were Mother and our sister
high and dry on the sandhill leading up
to Thomson’s woolshed and looking back
at us.
When we got to them Mother looked
at Father and said “It’s a pity you didn’t
tell the water about that eighteen hours
of yours.” Father said, “Gripes, I’d have
liked a cup of tea.” By this time we could
see the flood Was creeping up, and one
of the Thomsons came down and took
Mother and our sister up to their wool-
shed, and we sat with Father and watched
the water.
Our dogs came swimming and jump-
ing through the water. They thought it
was great fun, and we could see the
chooks hopping up on to the roof of
the barn. Suddenly Father said we’d have
to try and get the stock out. He told
me to stay where I was, and with our
brother went wading off through the
water. I watched them go down and
force some of the gates open and head
the horses up to the hill; then they went
behind the house and got the cows. Mother
came down and asked were they were,
and when I pointed she started to yell
to Father to come back. By this time
there were a lot of other women at that
woolshed, and when they heard Mother
yelling several of them came down and
started yelling, too.
Father and our brother headed back
for the hill until they got to the fence
below it. They were up to their waists
in water, and we saw them get through
the fence. Then they seemed to have a
wrestle, and our brother left Father on
the fence and waded ashore. Mother got
excited and shouted to our brother, but
he just walked up towards the woolshed.
Then Mother flopped into the water and
waded out. to Father. Two other women
went after Mother. When they got near
Father he shouted at them to go back,
but they pushed bravely on until they
reached him. Then they turned round
and came back and got on the land and
went away with red faces, having dis-
covered that Father had merely lost his
pants on the barbed wire.
Well, the flood didn’t rise much after
that, and on the first night we had an
impromptu concert in the woolshed. We
boys climbed among the dark pens and
up in the rafters and made noises and
sprang out of corners at the little girls
until they were all frightened. Th?n Mr.
Thomson got a stockwhip and searched
for us, and we were all frightened and
hid in various places.
Next day we went to the flood and
looked at our home, and Mother wor-
ried and said she hoped the beds wouldn t
get wet. Just then one corner of the
house fell in and a bed floated out and
came by with a cat, two hens and a
frilled lizard sitting on it and our brother
and some big boys swam out and got on
it and around it and paddled it ashore.
There was a horse-doctor, a Scot, who
lived in a house about a mile south on
a little hill. He’d refused to leave, and
every night we’d hear him playing the
pipes across the waters. “Cock o’ the
North” and “Bonny Dundee” and “Abie’s
Irish Rose” and other Scottish airs that
brought tears to the eyes of the Chinese
cook from Wilgavale station. One night
we heard the pipes break off in the
middle, there was silence and then they
broke out again, growing nearer, like
Havelock’s pipes did to Lucknow, until
in the moonlight we saw the horse-doctoi,
with his wife on his shoulders and his
pipes in full cry, come surging through
the passive waters.
We got them out and dried them ott
and filled them, except the pipes, wit.i
hot stew and hot tea, and there was a
mild jollification. After that we were glad
to see the water going down and to know
we could soon leave the woolshed, be-
cause that horse-doctor persisted in play-
ing for hours every night and our island
of refuge lost most of the charm mat
had sustained us. They carried a resoJu-
tion in that woolshed that m future floods
no Scottish horse-doctor with bagpipes
would be permitted to land.


FAMOUS WRITERS
SHOW YOU SHORT GUTS TO SUCCESS!
Wouldn’t you like to make a second income
with your pen? Wouldn’t you like an absorb-
ing new interest—the thrill of seeing YOUR
name featured above stories —articles —plays
—poems —across the cover of the year’s best-
seller? This is your great opportunity. The
celebrated writers pictured on this page
have prepared the most practical and highly-
specialised Course in Journalism, Radio and
Story-Writing ever written. Never before
has so expert and authentic a Course been
made available to ambitious people. Imagine
being able to learn the success-secrets
of writers who have captured the most
highly-paid markets in the world.
Imagine being able to profit by their
many years’ experience—in a
few short months of fascinat-
ing study! No matter where
you live, nor how limited
your leisure, you
can learn with an
expert at your
elbow.
VANCE
PALMER
MYRA MORRIS
REX
GRAYSON
BEATRICE
GBIMBHAW
XAVIER
HERBERT
MAX
AFFORD
WILLIAM
HATFIELD
Write (or
simply
mail the
coupon
below)
for your
free copy of the Pros-
pectus. Its profusely
illustrated pages will
tell you more about
these and other
noted writers who have compiled
the Course, and show how you,
too, can win success and financial
rewards in this delightful profes-
sion. No cost or obligation what-
soever if you use the coupon or mention ‘‘The
Bulletin.”
AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL
OF JOURNALISM
Where the Experts of Today Teach
the Writers of Tomorrow,
80 SWANSTON STREET. MELBOURNE
POST THIS COUPON NOW!
Australian School of Journalism,
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Please forward your Free Illustrated Pros-
pectus to —
NAME
APDRESS
STATE
There is only one Way to
be sure of the future . . .
SAVE FOR IT
This is a time for the bending of every effort to
the common cause of winning the war.
Australia is up against its greatest crisis and only
if every citizen restricts his or her spending to
absolute necessities, and saves every possible penny,
can victory eventually be won.
As never before, Saving is of national and most
immediate importance. You can do your bit, as
every Australian should and as every true Australian
undoubtedly will Save for safety.
A Commonwealth Savings Bank
Account provides the easiest, most effective way.
IT IS OF THE UTMOST IMMEDIATE
NATIONAL IMPORTANCE THAT
EVERY CITIZEN SHOULD SAVE
Our Service Department
Wants.
Disabled soldier (1914-18 war), over 40 years,
Bulletin contributor prose and verse, wants
work at home Verse, letters, articles (social
or business) written on supplied facts. MS.
revision and advice. Clerical work generally.
—3254.
Pensioner country town, with small agency
business, wants partner to share living expenses.
—3252.
To buy or borrow The Gulistan, by S’adi.
—3253.
To buy issues “Saturday Evening Post,” June
21 to September 27, 1941, inclusive. —3255.
Information Supplied.
What is the history of (1) the Victoria Cross
and (2) the George Cross ?
(1) The Victoria Cross was instituted January
29, 1856, for conspicuous bravery. The ribbon
is crimson for all services, and is worn before
all other decorations on the left breast, and
consists of a bronze Maltese Cross, lyin. in
diameter, with the Royal Crown surmounted
by a lion in the centre, and beneath there is
the inscription “For Valour.” In 1920 a Royal
warrant extended the right to earn this decora-
tion to matrons, sisters and nurses, and the
staff of the nursing services and other services
pertaining to hospitals and nursing, and to civi-
lians of either sex regularly or temporarily under
the orders, direction or supervision of the naval,
military or air forces of the Empire. (2) The
George Cross was instituted September 23,
1940, for gallantry. The ribbon is dark blue
threaded through a bar adorned with oak
leaves. It is worn before all other decorations
except the V.C. on the left breast, and consists
of a cross of silver with a medallion in centre
carrying a design of St. George and the Dragon.
* * w »
(1) How has horsebreeding fared in N. S.
Wales over, say, the last 30 years? (2) What
is the purpose of the N. S. Wales Horse Breed-
ing Act, 1940? (3) Numbers and types of
horses in N. S. Wales?
(1) It has declined since 1913 as motor trac-
tion and transport have developed. The number
of foals reared in 1919 had declined from
79,620 in 1913 to 40,015. The 1919-20 drought
caused a sudden decrease and, except for a
slight increase in 1925, the decrease continued
to 1931, when the number of foals was only
16,370. From then until 1937 the number
steadily increased; since then, however, bad
seasons have caused further setbacks. (2) To im-
prove the class of horse being bred. The Western
Division of N. S. Wales is outside the scope
of the Act, and thoroughbred horses registered
in the Australian Stud Book are exempt. The
Act aims at ensuring the registration of all other
stallions, registration being obtainable only
after a Department of Agriculture veterinary
officer has examined the stallion and certified
that it is up to standard. For the duration of
the war examinations have been suspended and
breeding restrictions lifted. Sales, leases for
more than six months and deaths must be re-
ported. (3) Broken, draught 228,713, van horses
31,285, saddle horses 141,521, ponies at 14
hands and under 43,687; unbroken over one
year 60,617; foals under one year 29,014.
* * * *
Were there many Jews fighting with the Allies
in the 1914-18 war ? What sort of show did
they put up?
Yes, about 50,000, of whom 316 officers and
3000 n.c.os. were killed in action. Jews won
five V.Cs., 50 D.S.Os., 240 M.Cs., 70 D.C.Ms.
and 250 M.Ms. Monash was one of the 2304
Australian-born Jews who enlisted in the A.I.F.
* * * *
What was the text of Lincoln’s Gettysburg
address ?
Fourscore and seven years ago our fathers
brought forth on this continent a new* nation,
conceived in liberty and dedicated to the propo-
sition that all men are created equal. Now we
are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether
that nation or any nation so conceived and so
dedicated can long endure. We are met on a
great battlefield of that war. We have come to
dedicate a portion of that field as a final
resting place for those who here gave their lives
that this nation might live. It is altogether
fitting and proper that we should do this. But,
in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate—we can-
not consecrate —we cannot hallow —this ground.
The brave men, living and dead, who struggled
here have consecrated it far above our poor
power to add or detract. The world will little
note, nor long remember, what we say here,
but it can never forget what they did here. It
is for us, the living, rather to be dedicated here
to the unfinished work which they who fought
here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is
rather for us to be here dedicated to the great
task remaining before us—that from these
honored dead we take increased devotion to
that cause for which they gave the last full
measure of devotion —that we here highly
resolve that these dead shall not have died in
vain—that this nation, under God, shall have
a new birth of freedom —and that government
of the people, by the people, for the people
shall not perish from the earth.
3= * * *
What are teleprinters, and are they used in
Australia ?
Briefly, teleprinting consists of typewriting
over electrical circuits, teleprinters being similar
in performance to a typewriter, except that the
keyboard and distant printer are electrically
connected by a telegraph line. Communications
are automatically produced at each end exactly
as sent and may be carried on either within a
building or over distances up to thousands of
miles. Messages may be transmitted at speeds
up to 60 words a minute. The Commonwealth
Year-Book, 1940, records that “seventy private
wire services employing 180 teleprinter units
have already been installed, including a stock-
ticker enabling the simultaneous communica-
tion of information from a single transmitting
unit located in the Sydney Stock Exchange to
each of 26 printer units installed in the offices
of city stockbrokers.”
• * * •
Is there a confectionery industry of any size
in Australia? Particulars?
In 1938-39 there were 209 confectionery
factories, employing 8276 persons, paying
£1,231,375 in wages and producing £3,257,922
worth of goods. The industry grew rapidly
during 1914-19, when there was an embargo
on imported luxuries, was knocked by the
depression, but has since recovered. Produc-
tion is sufficient to meet Australian requirements,
and before the war an export trade was being
developed. Some large British manufacturers
have established branches here.
* * * *
(1) Longest ship canals in the world and their
cost? (2) Highest buildings; height of the
Pyramid of Cheops, Egypt?
(1) Gota (Sweden), 115 miles long, 10ft. deep,
47ft. wide (at bottom), cost £770,000; Suez
(Egypt), 100 miles long,. 30ft. deep, 147 ft.
wide, cost £29,725,000; Kiel (Germany), 61
miles long, 45ft. deep, 150 ft. wide, cost
£19,000,000; Panama (U.S.A.), 50.5 miles long,
45ft. deep, 300 ft. wide, cost £75,000,000; Man-
chester (Eng.), 35.5 miles long, 26ft. deep,
120 ft. wide, cost £15,500,000. (2) Empire State,
N.Y., 1248 ft.; Chrysler Building, N.Y., 1030 ft.;
Eiffel Tower, Paris, 985 ft, The Pyramid of
Cheops is 450 ft. high.
♦ * ♦ •
(1) In what rep. Rugby Union football
matches did knight Henry Braddon take part?
(2) Did the late Charlie Wade, one-time N.S.W.
Premier, play for England, and when ?
(1) Braddon was full-back for Maoriland v.
N.S.W. at Sydney in 1884; he stayed, and later
played for N.S.W. v. Great Britain in 1888 ; y.
Queensland in 1890 and 1892; and v. Victoria
in 1889. He was president of N.S.W. Rugby
Union, 1916-25. (2) C. G. Wade, while at
Oxford, represented England v. Ireland, 1883
and 1886; v. Scotland, 1883 and. 1884; v.
Wales, 1883, 1884, 1885, 1886. Sporting critics
regarded Wade as the finest three-quarter in that
series of big football.
* * * *
(1) When did Australasia win challenge
rounds in Davis Cup tennis matches? (2)
What Australian and N. S. W. tennis champion-
ships were won by H. M. Rice?
(1) Australasia defeated British Isles at
Wimbledon, 3-2 (1907); America at Melbourne,
3-2 (1908); America at Sydney, 5-0 (1909);
America at Christchurch (M.L.), 5-0 (1911);
America at New York, 3-2 (1914); British Isles
at Sydney 3-2 (1919). (2) Rice won these
Australian titles: Singles (1907), doubles with A
Campbell (1910) and c! Todd 1915), mixti
doubles with Miss S. Lance (1923). NSW
championships: Singles (1900 and 1907)’
doubles with L Gaden (1898 and 1902) and
Eq Pockley (1 9° 7 and 1908), A Campbell
mixed doubles with Mrs. Molesworth
Brief Answers.
M.F.M.: Apply to Registrar in Divorce,
Supreme Court, King-street, Sydney. Costs
about £7 X.Y.Z.; You should apply to the
Court under the National Security Regulations
for a readjustment of your contract. See the
local C.P.S. or a solicitor L.E.M.; (1) N. S.
Wales Forests Commission would know. (2)
Methods and materials for polishing are the
same as for other woods, french polishing, for
instance....R.B.: Yuan Shih-kai came forward
in the 1911 revolution as a successful general,
but after his death in 1916 his subordinates
and their successors fought with each other for
supreme power J.M.: Germany and Italy
signed the anti-Comintern pact on November
25, 1936; Japan, Manchukuo, Hungary and
Spain expressed adherence F.L.D.: Gold
production figures (1939) were: S. Africa
12.820.000 fine ounces, Canada 5,100,000,
U.S.S.R. 5,000,000, U.S.A. 4,250,000, Japan and
Korea 1,800,000, Australia 1,600,000, Philippines
1,000,000... .E.R.L.; Main purpose of the
Hatches Acts of 1939 and 1940 is “to enjoin
U.S. Government employees from taking part
in political campaigns other than by voting.”
H.P.: There were no Cambridge-Oxford
boatraces in 1915-19 G.P.T.: “Mechanical
puip” in paper-making is wood torn to shreds
between spiked rollers and converted to pulp;
it becomes “chemical pulp” after chemicals
have been added to improve the quality of the
paper... .C.H.G.: Yes, Dr. Thompson pub-
lished a report; it should be obtainable from
the Government Printer, Canberra... .J.S.S.:
Write to Flexmore Hudson, Hammond, S.A.
R.F.B.: Ewes mated in N. S. Wales in
1939-40 totalled 22,231,510; lambs marked in
the same year totalled 15,674,227... .W.D.: Six
Australians won the V.C. in the S. African
war D.R.: E. G. Theodore succeeded J. H.
Scullin as Commonwealth Treasurer on Jan.
29, 1931 R.B.: The number of divorces in
Great Britain increased from 827 in 1913 to
5535 in 1937 D.R.: Viscount Canning
assumed office as Governor of India on Nov. 1,
1858; he was succeeded on March 12, 1862, by
the Earl of Elgin and Kincardine W.C.:
Gibraltar is a rocky promontory, 2| miles in
length, f of a mile in breadth and 1396ft. high
at its greatest elevation, near the southern ex-
tremity of Spain, with which it is connected by
a low isthmus. It was captured in 1704 during
the war of Spanish Succession by combined
English and Dutch forces and was ceded to
Great Britain by the Treaty of Utrecht, 1713.
Several attempts to retake it were repulsed, the
most notable being in 1779-83, when it was held
for three years and seven months against a
siege of French and Spanish forces G.R.D.:
There are 16 ounces to the pound avoirdupois,
and 12 ounces to the pound troy F.T.: In-
formation not available P.R.D.: The U.S.A.
led easily with a total registration of 30,180,224
automobiles at January 1, 1940. World figure
was 44,515,137 F.G.W.: Apply to the
R.A.A.F. Recruiting Depot, Woolloomooloo.
B.T.L.: Payment is made at the rate of 5s.
a week for all children under 16 in excess of
one child in each family provided the claimant
and the children have lived in Australia for at
least 12 months preceding date of claim....
F.R.: Doesn’t seem to be anyth rag _ in the
theory—of the 2709 persons who died from
tubercular diseases in Australia in 1939, 2222
were born here. The Australian deathrate per
100.000 is comparatively low —39 as against,
say, 210 in Finland (1939)... .R.D.M.: Tommy
Farr won the Welsh cruiser- and heavyweight


Missing Friends.
RE EINAR GEORGE LARSEN—WouId the
abovenamed person, or anybody knowing the
whereabouts of the abovenamed person, kindly
communicate with W. T. King, Solicitor, 26
Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane, Q.?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND JOHN GOODMAN late of
Aero Club Archerfield Brisbane Queensland. —
TAKE NOTICE that ALISON DAWN GOOD-
MAN has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2144
of 1941 on the ground of desertion without
reasonable cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance on or before the 16th May
1942 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from PHILIP N. ROACH Solicitor 160
Castlereagh Street Sydney. DATED the 27th
day of February 1942. —C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAVID STEVENSON ROBERTSON late
of Newcastle. —TAKE NOTICE that BESSIE
ALEATHEA ROBERTSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 915 of 1941 on the ground or
desertion without reasonable cause or excuse
for three years and upwards. If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance on or
before the 22nd May 1942 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from BRAYE
CRAGG & COHEN Solicitors Bolton Street
Newcastle or their Sydney Agents Braye &
Malcomson 92 Pitt Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARCHIBALD JOSEPH McDONALD late
of Parramatta. —TAKE NOTICE that MARY
MCDONALD has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1765 of 1941 on the ground that during
three years and upwards you have been an
habitual drunkard and have habitually left her
without means of support. You may enter an
appearance before the 4th of June 1942 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from K. G. B. ROBILLIARD Solicitor for the
Petitioner 16 George Street Parramatta. —C. K.
BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLAUDE YATES late of North Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that ELVA HEATHER
YATES has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2014 of 1941 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance on or before the 4th of
May 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from JOHN BARNETT
GREAVES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney
(L.S.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
STAMPS
100 New Zealand®, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
VVe buy all Australians lor Cash. Retail and
Air Lists—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (list. 66 Vears.)
1;
m
m
y
BH
ft
:
- < v
: ; : ■ ' : '
■53 '»«»« tti
HI
n 1
m
--r»j
: I
Pictured above is just one
row of Lathes which, in
ever-increasing numbers, are
leaving our production lines
to go into the active service
of national defence and vital
industries.
In addition to the "Rapson" Lathes
shown above, we manufacture
"Fredline" Vertical Turret Lathes,
"Mars" Machine Tools, "Rand"
Diesel Engines, Machines,
Machine Parts and Machine Cut
Gears (all sizes).
RAPSON & DUTTON PTYITD.
MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURERS
General, Marine, Motor and Diesel Engineers^
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
TELEPHONE B 2277 (3 LINES) TELEGRAMS: 44 RAND,? BRISBANE
4. * o s. Advl
TH AT
A LOAD
OFF YOUR MIND
If you will call at the offices of this Company, or make a brief request in writing,
you will learn of a plan whereby your mind can be relieved of worry regarding
the efficient conduct of your affairs during lifetime and the administration of your
estate should death occur.
The plan has a special appeal to those who have neither time nor liking for the
complicated details of taxation, rent collection, estate supervision, and other
business matters rendered doubly complex by current conditions. Furthermore,
it is a plan which ensures uninterrupted attention to your affairs no matter what
contingency may arise.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COiWPANY L I IW I TED
7 bridge street
PHONE; B 7901.
SYDNEY
Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney,
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always. “THE SENIOR STORE”
r\/*
Ik
1 1
lA
NL
.S
15
m
HI
L^-
Parcels for Australian
Prisoners of War
Interned in Enemy or Enemy Occupied Territory
Here's your opportunity to brighten the life of your Husband,
Son or Brother Prisoner of War . . . Anthony Horderns , in
conjunction with the Australian Red Cross, have established
a special section of permissible goods which may be included
in a next-of-kin parcel, to be sent by next-of-kin or nominee
tn nrisoners of war in enemy or enemy occupied territory.
GOODS CHOSEN ARE PACKED AND FORWARDED TO
AUSTRALIAN RED CROSS FREE OF CHARGE.
PERMIT PARCELS which contain Books, Music, Packs ot Cards,
Games, Sports Equipment, Tobacco, Cigarettes and Pipes may
be purchased and sent by friends. These goods are also
packed and forwarded to Australian Red Cross free of charge.
See for yourself the special display in the Big Bargain Hall,
Ground Floor, Pitt Street, and for further particulars AbK.
FOR MR. LOVETT.
PERMISSIBLE ARTICLES
The following articles may be included:—
Slab Chocolate in tins which can be conveniently opened;
Blankets;
Brilliantine in tins;
Brushes of all kinds;
Chewing Gum; _ _ „ ~ ~ , .
Cigarette Tips and Cigarette Rolling Machines, but NUI
Cigarettes or Cigarette Papers;
Clothing, including underwear, civilian or service shirts;
Any Footwear;
Windcheaters;
Knitted Silks and Cottons; -
Coloured Silks and Cottons;
Plain Linen or Canvas Embroidering; . . . .
Toothbrush Dentifrice (solid or powder, but not in tubes;;
Frames with Talc or unbreakable glass;
Hussifs containing the usual items;
Kit and Sleeping Bags;
Knitting Needles and Wool;
Pencils and Fountain Pens;
Pipes and Tobacco Pouches;
Safety Razors and Blades;
Safety Tin Openers;
Shoe Polish (solid, not liquid or in tubes)},
Small Musical Instruments;
Soaps of all kinds;
Towels;
Face Cloths and Sponges.
• Big Bargain Hall—Ground Floor — Pitt Street.
Anthony Horderns
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone M 2401
(Day or Night)
Post to Box 2712 C
G.P.0.. Sydney
on March 15, 1937. Lost on points to Joe
Louis, world heavyweight championship, Aug.
30, 1937. Resigned British titles in July, 1938.
B.F.N.: Apply to the Lands Department,
Perth .. . .8.R.: There is no statutory provision
in N. s! Wales for compulsory vaccination
F.T.: Write to Angus and Robertson, Sydney
N.G.R.: Apply to the Taxation Depart-
ment, Castlereagh-street, Sydney S.L.R.:
Processes are too lengthy and too many to de-
scribe here; try the nearest public library.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany, MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
J.G.:
0 Time, in thy grim race
Is there no breathing space?
Why march thou on ?
You’ve baffled man for years,
Your problem brings us tears.
Why march thou on?
M.G.P.: —
Unbridled passions have been our curse,
Brought us to straits of woe.
Better far they’d have served the earth
If they’d only answered “No”.
B.P.: A featherweight M.E.0.: About
as close as the North P01e... .J.P.: Your land-
scapes are sentimentalised; the stars aren’t
really “shy,” you know... .R.H.: It would be
a waste of postage trying “Try That One
Elsewhere” elsewhere... .A.F.: Dreams rarely
make good poems K.S.: Nearly F.R.8.:
Those obstetrical images are dreadful
J.J.L.; Only if it were genuinely from a
“Jungle Outpost” would it have any value
D.L.M.S.: Too bad P.T.: Epitaph on “The
Epitaph,” R.I.P B.B.: Come again
W.W.: “The Idle Waster” has been turned
sternly from the d00r... .G.M.: It doesn’t get
up steam till the last stanza....A.P.M.: Cheer
up P.K.: Off with “His Head” R.F.:
Fizzles out R.H.: A dull tale of disaster.
B.AJ.F.: Doesn’t make a story V.W.:
Pages 1 and 2 superfluous; page 3 telegraphs
the not so very rich joke arrived at on page 9.
....8.D.: Short as it is it gives away its
denouement halfway through W.McD.: Not
as well told as it might be H.F.H.: A neat
idea, but your characters are cut out of card-
board E.A.S.: Two men and a dog—all
incredible....N.L.R.: Not quite enough point.
. ...G.W.: Just melodrama... .C.M.M.: Not
at all convincing... .D.W.8.: Too leisurely for
this market Gwen H.: Not this time, but
call again E.D.; Not a very sprightly fairy
tale V.H.: Might do more harm than good.
....D.M.T.: Too slight A.E.K.: Sym-
pathetic character-drawing, but little else.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.H.J.: Sorting out the dogs from the blots
might prove a fascinating pastime, but we
haven’t time. •. .N.P. i Wooden jest, and draw-
ing of the same material A.K.L.: When we
said draw from life, we didn’t say it with
a capital “L”... .Bert C.: Have a look at youi
pen and see if the dead blowfly is still stuck to
the nib.... V.R.C.: Lengthy letterpress be-
longs to the 1904 gag school P.J.: Now
send us an illustrated funeral notice and be done
with it! W.S.C.: Your bunch of yawn-pro-
vokers going back.... Billo: Cultivate a firmer
line A.R.8.: At least, the distant tele-
graph pole is faithfully drawn... .L.R.D.; Just
a guess whether Mum and Sarah have a new
skin disease or are victims to a new method of
shading....H.M.G.: Your tattooed tar went
overboard... .M.J. • As to the laws of perspec-
tive, you rebel magnificently... .L.H.S.: Sil-
houettes went out with sidelevers and narrow-
brimmed bowlers... .D.J.E.: It cost Is. 3d. for
a reviver after One look at the angular appari-
tion learning against what is either a fence or
two cockies holding some string between them.
....R.D.: You’re in early with that one of
the cow-cocky wanting the bags from under the
shivering hand—it usually doesn’t start to come
in till about May....8i1l R.: Gent, with two
left hands floating above the brass rail isn t
saying anything funny to the barmaid, anyway.
E.B.: Learn to make every line tell and go
easy bn the shading... .L.D.M.: Welcome to
wild abo., complete to pipeclay, emerging
from igloo carrying bow and arrow! Bert
C • If that’s a bus the bitter remarks we hear
about the Transport Department are justified.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ;F. E. Loxton, Esq.:
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ; E. E. D. White, Esq. ; H. C. Morrow, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivera, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all ereneral banking business.
An army
is only as good
equipment
as its
h
ScrT %Glliu
Some war-time products manufac-
tured by Felt & Textiles:
Blankets, Army Flannel, Khaki
Uniform Cloth, Hospital Dressings,
Cotton Wool, Linters for Gun
Cotton, Polishing Bobs, for Shell
Cases, and many more.
A.I.F. Gun
Crew in action
at Tobruk.
An army is only as good as its equipment. Realis-
ing this, Felt & Textiles of Australia Ltd. have
brought every resource at their disposal to the
task of supplying the Navy, the Army and the
Air Force with vital war-time products. In the
process the Company has evolved engineering
and technical advances which will be of inestim-
able value to Australia when the war is over.
Furthermore, because of its increased war-time
output, Fell & Textiles is the largest consumer
of Australian wool in the Commonwealth.
Felt and Textiles
of Australia Limited
261 George Street, Sydney
F. 1.3.18.
Are you
watching
his health?
If your dog’s
coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts— j
start him now on
a course of
mr ■
ŧ
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
lively and eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole system.
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
Your Baby’s
Future
This folder is post free to parents.
It tells how to ensure that your baby
will have the money for higher edu-
cation when he (or she) leaves
school; or money to start in busi-
ness or (if a girl) to equip herself
for marriage. It shows how little
you need to invest each year to make
your baby’s future secure. It tells
also how to reduce the cost of Life
Assurance in later years. Send for
a free copy.
USE THIS COUPON
To the A.M.P. Society.
Please send me a copy of "Planning
Your Baby’s Future.” lily baby is
years old.
Name
Address
A.M.P.
Society
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart
and Canberra, A.C.T.
District Offices throughout all States.
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
z\m
81l
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd. (Perth)
Dividends.
Twelve , -A (
Months Pref. To Re- Re-
Scpt., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves,
1931.. 69,929 3000 14 p.c. = 59,563 7,366 eiS^OO
1932.. 83,449 3000 14 „ „ 59,563 20,886 634,382
1933.. 89,645 3000 14 „ „ 59,563 27,082 661,464
1934.. 105,215 3000 18 „ „ 76,581 25,634 687,098
Written off freeholds. £5OOO .. .. 682,098
1935.. 98,974 3000 20 p.c. = 86,090 10,884 692,982
1936.. 120,253 3000 20 „ „ 85,090 32,163 725,145
Share premiums, £33,981 .. .. .. 759,126
1937.. 116,390 3000 25 p.c.= 114,859 757,657
1938.. 128,983 3000 25 „ „ 127,617 756,021
1939.. 126,082 3000 25 „ „ 127,617 751,486
Swan Brewery and Subsidiaries*
Reserves capitalised (1 for 3), £170,156.. 721,568
Unexplained additions, £9711 .. .. 731 279
1940.. 182,368 3000 25 p.c.= 144,633 34,735 766,014
Share premiums, £84,781.. .. .. 850,795
Unexplained reductions, £16,570 .. .. 834,225
Excess cost over par value subsidiary
shares purchased, £94 .. .. .. 834,131
1941.. 151,555 3000 21§p.c.=165,838 816,848
*After eliminating outsiders’ equity.
Consolidated figures of the co. and its
two pups, Emu Brewery and W.A. Glass,
are presented; and, as the “Wild
Cat” envisaged, they indicate a position
more glittersome than the parent alone
long exhibited. Though div. has been
nibbled at, that, remember, is on a capi-
tal bonus-enlarged by a one-for-three
issue in June, 1940.
This added £170,156 to the share-
register, further expanded by last term’s
cash ord. issue of £84,781, which brought
a similar amount of share premiums into
the family stocking. Shareholders’ funds
now run to £1,632,255, 4 p.c. on which
would enable the co., which isn’t short
of loose change, to pay double that rate
on capital alone. Perhaps something
more remunerative if given credit for the
inner strength bulging forth here and
there as a result of past conservative
profit disposition.
The co.’s product encounters practically
no opposition in Westralia, where the
thirsty goldfields keep individual con-
sumption some 50 p.c. above the aver-
age for the Commonwealth. Emu
brewery was equipped with new plant
and reopened not so very long back, and
there has been little if any time when
the vats haven’t been full since. Still,
allowing for the reserve movements indi-
cated and striking £36,935 off non-liquid
assets, admitted group earnings shrank
from £192,079 to £134,985 in the year to
September—sufficient to cover the prefs.’
titbit (£3000) and show 18 p.c. on aver-
age ord. capital against 32.6 p.c. in 1940.
Taxation—with contingencies, £111,206
(up £32,733) in the parent’s sheet—
largely explains the reversal ; with most
pay envelopes better-fed looking, demand
conditions were close to ideal, and
exports helped.
Last year’s new capital, which wasn’t
without criticism, financed the larger
volume of trade and helped lengthen the
register of pubs:
Swan. 'Group Figures--,
Sept., Sept., Sept.
. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. ..£560,469 £730,625 £815,407
Outside shares* .. 1,524 1,180
Mortgages . . . . 43,075 11,016
Other liabilities . . 50,286 136,621 93,663
“A/cs in credit” . . 94,535 t 180,253 243,299
Freeholds .. •• 1 o ql I 1,153,835 1,205,257
Plant, etc J £ 277,385 270,323
Mortgages .. .. 37,080 50,971 63,915
Stocks .. .. 74,545 128,705 143,235
Shares in other cos. .. 112,397 925 925
Book debts.. .. 93,441 147,600 178,808
Gash, etc 51,567 168,254 197,492
Emu advance .. 178,000
* Including proportion undivided profits. f Includes
goodwills accruing!
Little recourse has ever been had to
outside funds in financing that swag of
property. Fixed assets represent a net
figure ; the parent shows cost of its hold-
ings £2,068,545, book value £1,084,322.
“Accounts in credit” is an item of indis-
cernible nature—-possibly in part at least
a repository for taxation and anything
unexpected that may crop up.
In the current term, the miner in the
aggregate will be a smaller consumer, ex-
ports have vanished and the Govern-
ment considers the footrail habit has
reached a stage to be discouraged ; but,
in Swan’s case, these factors lose normal
significance if profits are statutorily cur-
tailed,
Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney)
Dividends To Re- Ee-
June, Profit. (All Shares). serves, serves.
1932.. 204,647 6jp.c.= 256,875 25,077
1933.. 284,148 6 „ „ 246,600 37,848 62,925
1934.. 270,625 6 „ „ 246,600 24,025 86,950
1935.. 247,024 6 „ „ 246,600 424 87,374
Deo.,
1935*. 235,464 6 „ „ 246,600 77,499
1936.. 209,740 6 „ „ 249,320 37,919
1937.. 265,825 6 „ „ 258,371 7,454 45.373
1938.. 281,553 6 „ „ 269,846 11,707 57,080
1939.. 232,325 6„ „ 287,629 1,776
1940.. 218,774 4J „ „ 218,700 74 1,850
1941.. 202,100 4 „ ~ 194,400 7,700 9,550
* Balance date changed; twelve months’ figures,
including six months of previous term.
Fixation of profits at a maximum 4 p.c.,
tax free, provided no terrors —and per-
haps even a little solace —to this Sydney
co.’s shareholders, more than half of
them women. They have been on a 4 p.c.
basis for 18 months past, gas being
early singled out by the State Govern-
ment as the one essential commodity un-
avoidable increases in the costs of which
weren’t to be passed on to consumers.
And that notwithstanding an Act of 1932,
which purports to allow the co. charge
sufficient to enable it distribute 6 p.c.
on share capital, after meeting exes, and
setting aside not more than 3 p.c. of the
capital outlay on buildings and plant
for special purposes or depreciation. But
gas has long been the football of N.S.W.’s
Macquarie-street, starting with Car-
michael in 1912.
Even last term’s 4 p.c. was achieved
only by chipping £28,980 off the bill for
repairs and renewals (£235,516). The
term’s gas sales of 7751 million c.f, were
up 6 p.c., mainly because of the Harbor’s
south-side industrial demand. This and
the better return from by-products—coke
and tar particularly—produced most of
the extra income shown in this analysis:
, 1940 1941
Per Per
• 1000 c.f. 1000' c.f.
Sales: —- s. d. s. d.
Gas.. ..£2,101,035 5 9 £2,228,171 5 9
Residuals .. 220,734 7f 275,295 8-J
Meter rents, etc. 35,101 1J 38,606 l|
Total ..£2,356,870 6 54 £2,542,072 6 6f
Manufac. and
distrib. exes. 1,363,983 3 8$ 1,391,884 3 7J
Other charges 392,613 1 Of 557,158 1 6i
Interest . . 124,977 4 125,963 4
Depreciation, etc. 256,523 8£ 264,967 8
Total outgo £2,138,096 5 10 £2,339,972 6 0}
Coal, up 30 p.c. in two years, and wage
adjustments were the stubborn factors in
the determined assault after production
economies evidenced there. “Other
charges” leapt £164,545, chiefly on ac-
count of rates and taxes (£138,896 higher
at £277,167); so Governments them-
selves are the chief culprits in adding to
overall costs. The wonder is that the slip
in net revenue was restricted to £16,674.
Industrial demand continues to grow
with the advancing war effort, but con-
tinuance of the 4 p.c. div. may partly
depend on Government relaxation of its
attitude towards gas charges. Though
wage control will restrain future move-
ments in costs, £15,000 p.a. was added to
the wage bill in December, with further
increments pending, and war damage
insurance will take another £20,000 in
the current year. Domestic gas, coke
and appliance sales haven’t been helped
by water and now metropolitan building
restrictions.
At the end of December depreciated
book value of this century-old under-
taking, fifth-largest of its kind in the
Empire, stood at £7,567,576 ; next con-
spicuous assets were debtors £692,160,
stocks £269,108, cash, etc., £326,886.
Share capital is down at £4,860,000, de-
bentures £2,500,000, temporary loans
£442,522, other indebtedness £555,456.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
» Towards
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£> £ £ £
1935 .. 24,224 3.3 p.c. = 8,111 16,113 65,535
1936 . . 44,680 10 „ „ 24,333 20,347 45,188
1937 .. 45,512 11.6,, „ 28,389 17,123 28,065
1938 .. 3,089 Nil 3,089 24,976
1939 . . 29,698 10 p.c. = 24,334 5,364 19,612
1940 .. 23,854 8j „ „ 20,278 3,576 16,037
1941 .. 17,011 3| „ „ 8,111 8,900 7,137
In this class of business —the co. has
been a run-owner out west in N. S.
Wales and over the border in Queens-
land for the last 60 years—average rather
than immediate return is the only fair
basis on which to assess earnings. At
the moment the gamble is with Nature,
prices being more or less fixed. Divs!
averaged only 4\ p.c. for 23 years to the
end of 1923. Then half the capital was
jettisoned to cover amortisation of leases,
and more capital was gathered to buy
new properties. But drought followed
and a loss of £101,680 showed up in ’29
and another of £35,570 in ’3O, and the
co. went to its bankers for £151,000-odd
to save breeding-stock. Shareholders
experienced a six-year drought to 1934.
Things have been better since, but over
the past 13 years divs. have averaged
only 3.6 p.c.
It is obvious, therefore, that the Gov-
ernment decree fixing the maximum div.
at 4 p.c. on shareholders’ funds —capital
alone in the case of this co. —and swal-
lowing any balance in taxation is likely to
prove comparatively unfair to many in
the pastoral industry. Before Parlia-
ment brings this regulation into force,
n P harm would be done if special pro-
vision were made to meet cases of
obvious hardship in the pastoral and
other industries.
Though more rain fell on the runs last
year, the wool clip felt the effects of the
previous year’s drought:
I Sheep
On Books Wool, Pro— Average
Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1932.. 166,757 192,281 4626 55,719 12/0/11
1934.. 155,935 184,469 4205 54,395 12/18/8
1935.. 150,220 148,691 4086 69,075 16/18/-
1936.. 131,167 160,344 3912 76,769 19/12/5
1937.. 116,696 104,589 3520 67,198 19/1/9
1938.. 74,505 98,618 1842 25,455 13/16/5
1939.. 95,212 125,508 2958 48,381 16/7/1
1940.. 111,120 102,310 3532 56,951 16/2/6
1941.. 98,807 131,479 2894 50,259' 17/7/10
A lighter clip (12,313 fewer sheep were
shorn) was sold at a better price ; but
gross earnings (£65,639) were down
£8836. After providing £5339 (down
£7025) for taxation, the net result was
6.9 p.c. on capital as against 9.8, 12.2,


IN VENTOKS. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and H.ydraulie Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HOMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become youv
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land. , , .
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and m
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
’OH/’ ttAaja
Ilf
siw!
The Symbol of
Security I
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OB’ AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K/8.8. (Chapman) ,
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.. M.L.C.; James Kidd, A.
Robert C. Wilson. Manager. J.
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G.;
G. H. Shipway.
The Acme of
QUALITY
FLOORING
SERVICE
“T. & O.” Parquetry is firmly established
as the Superlative Flooring:, unrivaljed
for Beauty and Permanence.
The same degrree of Quality is built into
all “T. & O.” Floors and Super Floors.
All timber is specially selected, and kiln-
dried or air-seasoned to minimum
moisture content.
Additions to St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney,
containing 2100 sq. yds. of Parquetry, by
Thatcher and Oberg.
General Flooring Contracts undertaken anywhere in Australia.
OUR HUGE STOCKS INCLUDE—
RIMU.—An attractive reddish-brown flooring, especially suitable for staining and
assuring a high-class softwood floor.
JARRAH. —3 x H, in particularly long lengths. 3 x 1 and 4 x I also stocked.
MATAI. —A delightful honey-coloured timber available in usual standard sizes,
3,4, 4J and 6 x 1 inch.
CYPRESS PINE.—The well-known White Ant and Borer-resistant timber.
N.S.W. BLUE GUM. Dark pink colour, specially suited for hospitals and public halls.
TALLOWWOOD. —Standard grading, kiln-dried, guaranteed free of sap and similar
defects in the high quality. Specially suitable for dance and
similar floors, where a special quality can be supplied.
For Quotations
’Phone MU 1221
(5 lines)
HATCHER
AND OBERGmim
Flooring Specialists, Detail Joiners, Timber Merchants,
% GARDENER’S ROAD • • ■ - - MASCOT ®
Correct belt tension, the all important factor
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen be t
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Office: 20 Queen's Bridge Street ,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States.
1.2 and 18.7 p.c. back to 1937. The div.
was lowered from 8-jr p.c. to 3| p.c.
The year’s better lambing is reflected
in a growth of £10,369 in livestock:
1935. 1937. 1940. 1941.
Capital . . £243,338 £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities .. 7,382 1,179 40,414 42,131
Stations, plant,
etc. .. 125,141 107,718 218,244 213,590
Sheep, cattle,
horses .. 75,599 62,132 52,261 62,630
Wool unsold.. 1.317 10,267 41 105
Cash, etc. .. 3,189 81,612 31,447 10,50/
The shrinkage of £12,224 in the more or
less liquid surplus (£31,111) was on
account of payment of the previous
year’s div.
With invasion of our shores a near
possibility, speculation as what the cur-
rent term holds for shareholders is worth-
less. The f.-p. 30s. shares, covered by
295. Id. in net tangibles, were recently
offered at 19s. 6d., at which figure the
return would be 6.1 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Loss. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 1.618 Nil 1958 6,280
Profit.
1932.. 261 Nil 261 6,541
1933.. 1,087 Nil 1087 7,628
1934.. 3,706 6 p.c. = 3,150 556 8,184
1935.. 4,691 8 „ „ 4,200 491 8,675
1936.. 9,425 10 „ „ 5,250 I ,-,130
Staff bonus, £1720 .. ..J ’
1937 -- ®> B f 9 12 P- £i7r Q 6,30 ° “ \ 1000 12,130
Staff bonus, £1559 . . . . (
1938.. 11,376 12 p.c. = 6,300 \ 3076 15 2 06
Staff bonus, £2OOO . . .. j
1939.. 5,928 11 p.c. - 5,775 153 15,359
1940.. 5,746 9 „ „ 4,725 7 _
S'taff bonus £lO2l . . . . }
1941.. 9,017 14 p.c. = 7350 1 _ 14026
Staff bonus, £3OOO .. . . )
R. and W., one of Sydney’s leading
real-estate businesses, must have filled
competitors with envy last year. It man-
aged to pull off sales of some city proper-
ties of “unusual magnitude.” Within a
month the Imperial Arcade, the Hotel
Arcadia and annexes with shops adjoin-
ing, the St. James Theatre and St. James
Building, and Rofe Chambers, in
O’Connell-street, were all sold, the aggre-
gate figure being £1,419,200. They were
negotiated sales for special purposes, and
therefore not a reliable guide to the
state of the market. They also explain
the sudden growth of £1,413,000 in the
aggregate value of all city sales for the
year, as the following table shows:
City. Suburbs. City. Suburbs.
’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO.
1926 .£7,000 £3,750 1936.. £1,174 £2,994
1928. 2,750 4,816 1937.. 887 4,368
1930. 698 1,340 1938.. 1,185 5,083
1931.. 364 484 1939.. 575 4.925
1933.. 786 794 1940.. 326 6,176
1935.. 1,238 2,339 1941.. 1,739 6,509
Aggregate turnover in suburban property
was £333,000 better. Speaking generally,
supply was here unequal to demand,
which was strongest for industrial sites
and factory premises, residential flats,
semi-detached cottages and homes up to
£2OOO. On the letting side, requirements
of expanding defence services helped to
stimulate demand.
The increased city turnover, or all but
a fraction of it, was handled by R. and
W., whose own sales shot up to
£2,039,000, an increase of £1,378,000.
Including a net reduction of £1337 in
contingency fund, the net result ran
out at 17.1 p.c. on capital as against
10.9, 11.2, 21.6, 16.8, 17.9, 8.9 and
7 p.c. back to 1934. The div. was
lifted from 9 p.c. to 14 p.c. On capital
and reserves combined, 4 p.c. is equal to
5 p.c. on capital alone ; so 5 p.c. will be
the maximum div. after June 30
under existing Government proposals. If
the proposed ban on transfer of capital
is applied to property it will freeze the
real-estate market, and agents generally
will experience a thin time.
The co.’s finances are comfortable
enough:—
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Capital .. . . £52,500 £52,500 £52,560 £52,500
Liabilities.. .. 25,956 10,720 17,119 27,911
Advances .. .. 34,227 27,361 26,256 24,130
Shares in other cos. 2,966 2,966
Cash, etc 55,304 49,221 54,519 69,268
Commission
suspense, etc. . . 3,770 2,869 2,680 9,660
Sundry debtors . . 4,266 4,338 8,680 4,242
When the books closed, the amount
coming to outsiders was more than twice
covered by cash, etc., alone.
“Q.”: Why does the Commonwealth
Government not do something about the
Alpha oil-shale deposits (C.Q.)? The
leaseholders have had ground containing
millions of tons of 150-gallons-to-the-ton
grade over two years, yet they have not
produced a cupful of petrol for public
use. If the holders haven’t the money
or the initiative to get the petrol out
within a time limit , surely it’s up to the
Government to intervene. Given money,
plus brains, the field could have been
supplying Central Queensland a year ago.
And what is the C.Q. Development
League, which has extended its front to
Canberra, doing about it?
* * * *
Chillagoe Smelter (N.Q.) is expecting
greatly increased tonnages of copper ore
now assistance is being largely switched
from gold to copper. Herberton is a
copper district as well as tin, and it ap-
pears that an extension of the big sul-
phide ore-body in the Consolation has
been met in a new shaft at 90ft. The
Separation has lately been reopened. Its
basic sulphide with a bit of copper will
do for fluxing ore. In addition, Her-
berton supplies small parcels of high-
grade ore from narrow veins. The
Lenette, at Silver Valley, is likely to in-
crease its supplies of 10 p.c. ore. The
Einasleigh mines, on the Etheridge, were
formerly great standbys for Chillagoe,
and here the 90 Mile Coppermine is to
be reworked. A new shaft has been put
down to 160 ft., and old levels will be
reopened from it. Queensland has had
so many copper shows that it should
put up a good effort now.
* * * *
Future of Wattle Gully (Chewton),
Victoria’s third and most consistent gold-
winner, is reckoned “assured” following
diamond-drilling from Forest Creek
Wattle Gully (No. 2) shaft and develop-
ments on No. 8 level of the main mine,
which have proved the northern con-
tinuation of the ore-body. With reserves
over four years ahead of the mill, all
but essential development has now been
suspended and available labor concen-
trated on sloping the big flat-dipping reef
at 713ft.-781ft, Tonnage won’t be quite
the same, but grade will be better and
cost-savings should show up. The half-
year’s work to December yielded a sur-
plus £1309 higher at £32,603 following
17 p.c. increase in throughput (16,709
tons), and £27,000 was again distributed
in divs. of 3s, a share. Anything over
half the present 7dwt. grade represents
clear profit. Capital is only £38,500, but
there is a p. and 1. balance of £58,939 to
help temper any rigid application of
4 p.c. profit-earning to goldmining.
* * * *
Chairman Frederic Hamilton, Kt., sum-
marising the position at Wiluna Gold
Corp.’s annual meeting:
Ore reserves at March 31, 1941, were
1,115,000 tons, average grade 3.sdwt. a ton—
a reduction in tonnage of 71,000 and in
grade of o.3dwt. compared with the previous
estimate It is noticeable that below the
1800 ft. level average grade is only 2.95dwt.
Obviously, it is on developments at depth that
the operating life of the mine depends, and it
would be foolish to ignore the fact that profit-
able working of Wiluna’s refractory ores of an
average grade of less than 3dwt. demands not
only a most efficient management and adminis-
tration —which, fortunately, the mine possesses
—but smooth and continuous operations on a
large scale. Since the close of the financial
year monthly throughout has slightly increased
[labor shortage is now affecting the figures],
while recovery also shows an improvement of
3 per cent. These factors, however, have been
more than offset by a reduction in the grade
of ore treated and a rise of about 9d. a ton
in working costs, with corresponding reduction
in the working surplus. Unfortunately, there is
no reason to expect any relief in the direction
of lower costs.
Turning to Mt. Charlotte, at Kalgoorlie,
Hamilton said the property had certain
special elements of attraction to a co.
with an established organisation like
Wiluna. If the option was exercised, it
would be possible to utilise a considerable
amount of the Wiluna plant by the time
it was required, a big advantage. Wiluna
invested £250,000 of its accumulated
wealth in the Liberty Loan, leaving a bal-
ance in the bank of substantially more
than that amount. There was talk
towards the end of 1941 of a capital re-
turn, but exchange difficulties in paying
oversea shareholders appear to have
stood in the way.
* * * *
London-controlled Youanmi, which
closed down its mine on the East Mur-
chison field in spite of labor protests and
businessmen’s lamentations, is reported to
be pufchaser, wholly or partly, of the
Nevoria gold group, near Southern Cross.
Another London-controlled co. has held
this property for some time, and has tried
without success to get a plant. Youanmi
has a plant, but no mine. Nevoria is a
low-grade show, estimated some years ago
to contain 400,000 tons of s.Bdwt. grade,
140,000 tons of it assaying B.Bdwt.
* * * *
A few weeks ago Yellowdine Gold
Areas (W.A.) abandoned its option on an
auriferous block at Evanston. Now it
has closed down its Newfield Central
mine, near Bullfinch, because of shortage
of miners. It intends to have another go
when labor is available. Co. has about
£15,000 in hand (about lOd. a share).


Ussential work requires
motor transpo . . ,
m
\
m
There are limited stocks of
CHEVROLET CARS
With fewer cars and restrictions on th;ir use,
the available units will naturally be applied to essential purposes. If you
need transportation Chevrolet offers you good value . , . and Chevrolet has
a world-wide reputation for dependability in all kinds of service.
CHEVROLET IS A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
Consult Your Local Authorised Chevrolet Dealer
Sold & Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD. C 765-24
THE
UNITE n insurance
Ull I I CII COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HOWTEK STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution,
A. C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Am Gen. Manager,
Business, Rollery, etc.
Still Meddling with “Systems”!
There was a better-than-usual answer
to the appeal for £35 million of war-loan
funds from the people. Over 216,000 Aus-
tralians responded at the most uncertain
and perilous hour in their country’s his-
tory. Already the people themselves were
waiting to be told what to do in the Battle
for Australia in cases where they had not
yet received instructions. And the loan
was oversubscribed by £ll million—in all
the circumstances, including those of an
internal nature, a significant thing.
But better still may have to be done.
War’s cost is mounting each month, and
taxation hasn’t been spread evenly over
the people or the States. Uniform and
equitable taxation would bring in much
more revenue than at present, and the
need for borrowing—a makeshift form
of war finance—would lessen. The lower-
income-earners, who represent the great-
est proportion of income and consump-
tion in Australia, will have to bear a
greater share of war’s cost. They are
very ignorant, on the whole, as to what
companies and those on higher incomes
have paid on their behalf already.
It is plain that most people are only
awaiting a clear-cut and commonsense
lead from their Government in order to
put themselves 100 per cent, into the
fight, win or lose. Many feel they have
already waited far too long. During the
period of the loan’s flotation they were
presented with some sorry sights by their
leaders, especially Labor Minister Ward.
He blabbed about the iniquity (or some-
thing) of paying for the war now and pay-
ing interest on loans afterwards, was
attacked inside and outside the House,
said he was misreported, was reminded
that he hadn’t corrected any newspaper,
caused his patient leader Curtin to come
forth and deny any policy of repudiation,
and then started tc talk piously about pay-
ing for war “by taxation, with all sections
making an equal sacrifice.” This was the
same Ward who a few months previously
had been skiting about his Government
having done “more to protect the social
interests of the people than any other.
We have now tremendous powers, and
we will use them.” It was the same gentle-
man who talked of dealing with members
of the Opposition under the man-power
regulations, and of dealing with em-
ployers’ representatives (who were hum-
bugged from start to finish) on the Indus-
trial Relations Council in the same way.
It is possible that Mr. Ward could find
useful work for these people, but it is
doubtful whether Australia has any real
use for Mr. Ward as a member of the
Government. His Government has not
thought fit to rebuke him openly after
several months of class-distinctive and
obstructive behavior that borders on the
childish. So Mr. Ward, the most talkative
Minister, is allowed to set a standard.
Canberra—Messrs. Ward, Dedman,
Chifley and Senator Cameron are especi-
ally prominent— at present has a predilec-
tion for introducing sweeping alterations
to the “financial and social systems.” It
loves talking about these things. And it
loves talking anyway. But the words of
Pope are at this hour as apt as ever they
were—“whate’er is best administered is
best.” Where our war effort falls down
it isn’t the form so much as the adminis-
tration that is at fault. Administration
is the thing, and only those who have
done productive work on a large and
complicated scale understand the real
difficulties and values of proper adminis-
tration. Few Australian politicians, as
politicians, have learnt anything about
management and direction of anything.
Many of them have never got beyond
telling a good electioneering story. And
what might have once been good elec-
tioneering tactics are the very worst
principles on which to base a war effort.
Sacrifices have to be asked for now ; it is
fatal to think in terms of social comforts
and benefits. There should be no such
things as political friends and foes at the
present time. The country and the times
can afford no party politics or experi-
mental manceuvrings. There is one job
to be done. The so-called “capitalist”
knows it. Everyone else should know it.
Canberra Labor still shows a diffidence
about taxing the voting majority. It still
shows a reluctance to govern any except
those who wish to be governed. The re-
sult is that the willing horse is being
worked to exhaustion and dismay.
There is a noticeable tendency to accept
superficial evidence, such as entertaining
press reports and statements by trade-
union “spokesmen,” as proof of feeling
and “morale” without further intelligent
investigation and inquiry. Canberra of
all places should be aware of the doubt-
ful mirror of public opinion and feeling
afforded by the daily press. What bad
tipsters most dailies are at election time
could be eloquently expressed by a num-
ber of “outstanding” candidates left
standing out in the cold after the last
election. Press opinion at present may
be ahead of the standard shown at elec-
tions, but a Government shouldn’t be
dependent on this source of information ;
it should have its own. And with no
doubts in its mind it should go ahead with
a full war effort, determined to govern
the country for the sake of the country,
with parties and sectional interests sub-
merged and with a worldly and shrewd
knowledge of the problem ahead. Con-
tinuous delving into the poets for inspira-
tion isn’t as inspiring to others as it
might appear.
A smokescreen of economic meddling
surrounds Canberra’s activities. The basis
of these economics is political, not practi-
tical, Mr. Dedman is “agin” the private
banks. But the restrictions imposed on
transfers of shares, land and other prop-
erty have already been modified or re-
moved altogether. The 4 p.c. limitation on
profits in relation to capital and reserves
has been deferred to next financial year,
and it is sincerely to be hoped that this
proposed cementing-up of business
organisation and initiative is abandoned
before it settles into a solid rock of
inertia. The injustice that would be im-
posed on thousands of shareholders is
a trifle compared with the injury to the
war organisation and effort that would
follow introduction of this experimental
principle.
The proposed four-per-cent, foolish-
ness represents a sell-out to inefficiency
and obstructionism. The underlying idea
is unnatural and unsound. It is in-
tended to take all earnings above 4 p.c.
on capital and reserves in the form of
taxation or to apply them towards price
reductions. There is no denying that
taxation should be as heavy as the occa-
sion demands and as the nation can
physically stand, but it should be prop-
erly spread, and it should never be of a
nature which, however heavily it may
reduce incomes, discourages hard work
and efficiency by prohibiting a person
from getting a few shillings out of every
extra pound earned. General taxation
rates should be increased rather than cer-
tain earnings absolutely confiscated. The
rigid limitation of profits in no way en-
courages subscription to war loans. The
oversubscription of the £35 million issue
was mainly a result of overdue support
from the lightly-taxed non-investor class,
hitherto conspicuous by their absence.
Resumption of trading on the Stock
Exchanges was a very quiet affair. Range
of bids was restricted to 10 p.c. above
and below the closing quotations on
February 19, and such quotes as there
were on the opening day were very wide.
Bank of New South Wales, because of
its strong reserve position and low past
div. policy, was bought at £25 10s., up
9s, on February 19 prices. Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney was also up. But
brewery shares were weaker because of
the doubtful character of the export
trade and because of the proposed re-
striction on beer output and consumption.
* * * «
The Federal Government has ordered
a one-third cut in the production and
sale of beer, and in sales of spirits by
wholesalers to retailers. Advertising of
spirits will be prohibited. The idea is to
release man-power and to curb the “drink
orgy.” In N. S. Wales home-delivery
of beer is to be stopped.
* * * *
Australians have been allowed to learn
by cable that the New York “Journal of
Commerce” says that Australia’s “eco-
nomic control plan” is likely to be copied
by other belligerents on the Allied side.
So much the worse for belligerents on
the Allied side. Canada has done a far
better production job than Australia with-
out such an “economic plan,” though it
has taxed the people on a scale commen-
surate with the war effort, which is the
only sensible thing to do. In the U.S.A.
Roosevelt, who thought of the Brain
Trust and the New Deal, has brought
down a Budget for 1942-43 which pro-
vides for a certain $16,500 million
revenue from taxes, a probable $7OOO
million from “proposed tax legislation,”
a war expenditure of $52,700 million,
and borrowings of $35,400 million. With
total taxation revenue at the most $23,500
million, equal to 45 p.c. of war expendi-
ture, this Budget is the most inflationary
of all the belligerents, Allied or other-
wise. The “Wall-street Journal” of Nov.
26, before the entry of the U.S.A. into
the war, said “the nine experts whose
views have just been presented were
almost unanimously agreed that inflation
is already here, and agreed that more in-
flation is in store.” The paper added
that they also decided that the remedy
lay in reducing public buying power
through taxation, in controlling prices
and in reducing non-defence expenditure.
Roosevelt has shied off general taxation
even more than Australia has done. The
“Journal of Commerce” on January 8
said “President Roosevelt’s war Budget
is anything but reassuring to those who
fear the threat of inflation.” It is a
matter of history that the President’s
strong point is not finance.
It was cabled to Australia on Friday
that “President Roosevelt has decided to
put ceilings on prices, profits and wages.
It is said in informed circles that the
President believes that general ceilings
are now necessary to prevent inflation.”
“Ceilings” are only necessary where more
appropriate machinery has not been used.


Divorce Nolice-
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 174 of 1942.
TO CARL EMIL RICH late of Darlinghurst
Road Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that ALICE
MAUDE RICH has commenced a suit against
you and is seeking a dissolution of her marriage
with you on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance on or
before the 26th of May 1942. A copy of the
petition may be obtained from CLIVE
CLARKE Solicitor for the Petitioner 79 Eliza-
beth Street Sydney.—C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
IT MEANS MUCH TO
AUSTRALIA AND YOU
It' I '''* JV
to
T *>d o prf**
i/ f _ * 3f1,7 f O fVI . ™ '*
Dee
e osf s# ** e </.
£OOO
n
1 U/•
Sf *ve s
O
r/ 3r/
Co »si r L ***«<
**o/SES
.
% ’^e e/ °«e
>.. / °
"'-.v
t *’e n J ine v en
a *ifi
l ini.
m%
Olympic
TYRES
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind. Memory and Personality
Can the Memory be
Trained? It can.
"The process of committing to
memory, being a straightforward
and controllable activity, is exceed-
ingly susceptible to training.
Professor Ph.D., in
“Psychology: A Study of Mental
Life.”
' "....Intelligent training and
exercise will develop a high degree
of efficiency and service (in the
memory).
"The cultivation of the memory
is really a cultivation of the entire
mind, for the whole process of
intelligent thought depends upon
memory as a foundation. . . .In any
system of natural memory training
the entire faculties receive training
and development.”—W. W. Atkin-
son, author of The New Psy-
chology.
“Memory is not an isolated faculty
but the manifestation of other facul-
ties in varying degrees. It is an act
of co-operation in which each
faculty participates. effectively
according to its development. Ihe
training of any one mental quality
assists in training the memory, and
a conscious effort to tram the
memory in any one of its many
aspects helps, consciously or un-
consciously, to develop other facul-
ties.”' —The Pelman Institute.
“, . . . the graduated and scientific
system which is to be found in
Pelmanism unquestionably does
train the eye and mind together. . . .
I have known the Pelman System
for some seven years. I have served
both before and during the war
(1914-18) with many who have
followed it A memory which
works instantly and automatically
when roused suddenly from a short
and insufficient nap, or when the
brain is numbed by fatigue and want
of sleep is a priceless possession.
Major - General Sir F. Maurice,
K.C.M.G., C.B.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system or
mind-training.” Dr.
Norwood.
Sources of Strength
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being
wanted, of being acceptable to at least one group of people.
A second source is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make
ourselves of use to other groups and acceptable to them. Ihe
enlargement of the number of groups and the intensification ot
our influence in any one of them are determined by the degree
of development of certain qualities, viz.:
PERCEPTIVE FACULTY
CONCENTRATION
SELF-CONTROL
JUDGMENT
and a good memory for faces,
SELF-CONFIDENCE
WILL-POWER
INITIATIVE
ORGANISATION
figures, names, appointments,
prices and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of
making A -like B or anyone else, but so that he, as A. will be as
strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets out
seriously to develop the individual so that he will be hvwself at Jus best 3 ay it
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post free.
Inquiries are condential. W r e have no outside representatives.
hi
Dr. F. W. Norwood, 8.8
Write, call, telephone
(MU2355) or tele-
graph. When writing
or telegraphing
Pelman Institute,
Melbourne, is suf-
ficient address.
H.M. FORCES.
160 admirals and
generals and nearly
100,000 other ranks
have taken the
Pelman Course.
Approved by the War
Office.
There are over half a
million Pelmanists, of
whom more than 44,000
have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
Headquarters: London.
DOCTOR: “Pelmanism has shown me how
to observe instead of merely seeing.”
TEACHER: “Increase in. my powers of
Concentration and Memory. Increase m belt-
Confidence. Greater interest in people and in
my surroundings.”
STAFF CAPTAIN; “I want to thank you
for your attention and express the hope that
I may keep in touch with the Institute in the
future as the occasion offers.”
ENGINEDRIYER: “It is with a wonderful
sense of ability and security that I face the
future.”
AIRRCRAFTMAN: “My memory is im-
proved, my concentration developed and I am
a better observer.”
PRIVATE: “I have developed Will Tower.
Observation and Memory. I feel that I can
step into the future with both feet firmly
planted on the path to success.”
SOLDIER (ENGINEER): “Yesterday 1
learned that promotion, and to a higher rank
than that which I have expected, is coming
my way in the near future. I attribute ray
promised advancement to Pelmanism. It was
only the benefit I had already gained from it
which carried me through at .”
SOLDIER: “I was one of three to be pro-
moted out of a class of thirty selected for
special training.”
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 356 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone; MU 2355.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
I To the Telman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
I 396 Hinders Lane, Melbourne.
I Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind.’
Name .
Address
• 145
“Instrument of Total War”
The revised list of reserved occupations
came out last week. Officers of private
banks are no longer reserved in any capa-
city, though in the case of the largest
private bank in Australia it has been
announced that 52 p.c. of the male staff
has joined the forces. The Common-
wealth Bank, however, is looked after by
“administrative arrangements by deputy
directors-general.” Linotype operators
and compositors are reserved above the
age of 30, but newspaper editors of any
age are not. Radio announcers over 35
are exempt. The Minister for Labor has
described this reserved list as “an instru-
ment of total war.” On another occa-
sion the gentleman stated:
As a matter of fact, the workers of Japan,
Germany and other overseas countries are
fighting for the identical things that the
Australian workers desire. The workers
should therefore examine the position to
find out who are their real enemies ; and
when they make this discovery they should
avail themselves of the earliest opportunity
to destroy them.
Again:
To hear honorable gentlemen oppo-
site talking about defending this country
makes me wonder just what it is that many
of the unfortunate citizens of this country
would have to defend against any foreign
aggressor. Surely no one imagines for
one moment that if Australia were unfor-
tunate enough to come under the heel of
some foreign country the whole of the
population would be wiped out of existence,
or that the material conditions of the people
relatively would be much worse than at
present.
On the same day the same gentleman
stated:
I should not be prepared to take up arms
against the workers of any country whether
they be German or'of any o;her nationality.
As a matter of fact, because I am not pre-
pared to do that, I am not prepared to
tell others to do so.
The occasion was a debate on the defence
vote in the 1936-37 Estimates in the
Federal House on Nov. 5, 1936. The sum
asked for was £B.B million! The speaker,
Edward J. Ward, was not Minister for
Labor then. As Minister for Labor and
National Service now he has vast
powers, especially under the Man-power
Regulations. It is under these regulations
that he compiled his “instrument of total
war” issued last week.
Treasurer Chifley having announced
that the 4 p.c. profits limit will have no
application to earnings for 1941-42, a few
deferred divs. are now coming to hand.
Yarra Falls is one of the first to act, the
usual 5 p.c. interim being announced as
payable on April 2. A flow of divs.
about which no previous announcement
had been made is also coming along —
where the co. concerned is able to pay
without asking for bank assistance. What
is going to happen in 1942-43 is an un-
known matter at this stage, even leaving
possible war damage, etc., out of the
question.
* * * *
Some small base-metal mines, especially
those interested in tin, are marking time
now when all possible production of
metals —particularly tin and copper —-is
wanted for the war programme. The
reason for the marking time is that in-
come from base-metal mining in the Com-
monwealth is subject to the same taxes
as income from industry, Tinminers in
particular feel that they are simply wast-
ing their asset by winning tin at the
present time. Even during the last war,
when taxes were not nearly so heavy as
at present, tinmining was free of income
tax. Taxation departments have always
maintained that they are not concerned
with the economic effects of taxes, and
presumably they are no more public-
minded now that a war is on. It is for
the Government to act in cases where
taxes, etc., impede the defence effort.
* * * *
Share prices are one of the few things
in which inflation has not occurred in
Australia. The fall of Singapore brought
lower prices again for Australian indus-
trial stocks. All the stamina had been
knocked out of the market previously
by the Federal Government’s desperate
and drastic economic proposals. These
stopped dealings in Stock Exchange
securities other than Consols, and,
in view of the heavy tax assessments
now being received by the investor class
(unlike the wage- and salary-earner, the
investor has no weekly credit put by
against the day the tax bill arrives), many
hurried and forced sales were made
in order to meet taxation commitments.
Not only has the investor been
slugged fiercely by the double taxa-
tion now imposed by the Federal
and . N.S.W. Governments; he has
taken heavy punishment when the time
has come to sell his assets in order
to pay the taxes. (Bank overdrafts are
denied to him.) There has been a colos-
sal fall in share prices over the past six
months. It started when McKell brought
in a Budget in N. S. Wales that was full
of tricks and humbug; it was given
further impetus when Chifley brought
down a lopsided class-conscious set of
estimates following Fadden’s defeat;
Japan’s Blitz and the Malayan retreat
accelerated the slide ; the 4 p.c. economic
regulations caused a final heavy crash
that was given weight by the fall
of Singapore. The devastation m
the sharemarket is illustrated by the
index of representative share prices
in Sydney; on February 18 it stood at
96.24, the lowest figure since 1934,
and on March 14 it was down to
95.78. From the investor’s viewpoint
the behavior of the N. S. Wales and
Federal Governments has been like that
of a bull in a china shop. The investor
is no more reserved from the calls or
war than any other person, but many of
the demands made and restrictions im-
posed on him have been senseless and
utterly unjust.
* * * *
Clothing is to be standardised in some
respects in order to release men for war
work. The Deputy-Director of the De-
partment of War Organisation and In-
dustry in N. S. Wales, who is none other
than W. H. Ifould, formerly N.S.W.
Public Librarian, is to issue a statement
when a plan is ready.
* * * *
Britain has relaxed its embargo on
Australian wine to the extent of asking
for up to 100,000 gallons.
* * * *
The national income of the United
States for 1941 was computed at $94,000
million, an increase of 22 p.c. compared
with the preceding year. War expenditure
was responsible for nearly 20 p.c. of the
increase.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: It really has become a
war and not a series of preliminary
depredations. There is no doubt that the
Japanese intend large-scale operations in
the New Guinea-North Australian area,
if not immediately in Australia. Such
operations are necessary to them. To
allow Australians and Americans to estab-
lish themselves in New Guinea or Uncle
Sam in Australia on a grand scale would
be a serious blow to Japanese ambitions,
a specific threat to all Japan’s existing and
sometimes loosely-held conquests.
North and east from the chain of
islands which run like a shield outside the
Australian east coast —Maoriland, Nor-
folk, New Caledonia, Hebrides, Solomons,
Bismarcks and New Guinea—the war
may be won or lost.
The islands provide a successive series
of jumps southward, parallel with that
part of Australia which holds most of
its population, and those jumps can be
made by air from land base to land base,
with no interval longer than 500 miles at
any point, all the way from Tokyo to
Invercargill. New Guinea itself and its
adjacent islands represent to Japan what
Bulgaria represented to Germany in the
last war—a point of approach for the
enemy to a rear on which a fatal kick
might be suffered.
Having consolidated the position in
Rabaul, where, the Japanese insist, the
Australian forces in New Britain have
surrendered, though no word on the point
has reached Canberra, the enemy is now
beginning his fight for the mainland New
Guinea aerodromes and harbors and
spreading his wings to within sight of
Australia’s actual north-eastern shores.
The Stake in New Guinea
The Bismarcks and the north New
Guinea coasts are full of fine harbors
and anchorages—Rabaul, the round vol-
canic port (so well hidden) of Vitu,
Maron, the lagoon of Ninigo, Madang,
Lae, Salamaua and a dozen more.
Great rivers, Ramu and Sepik, are
navigable for small vessels, such as
sampans, for long distances inland. There
is abundance of food, labor and timber.
Between Lae and Wewak, on the north,
before war broke out, there were three
proper aerodromes along the coast. On
the goldfields at the back of Lae there
were three closely-grouped ’dromes. A
chain of 15 landing grounds skirted the
Papuan border from the Morobe field to
just east of Lae, all marked on maps by
an unsuspecting Administration.
Inland ’dromes had been established
as far afield as Mt. Hagen, round which
there were also several landing grounds
and linkage of many more ’dromes, form-
ing a chain to join that other chain on
the Pancake-Goldfield-Lae-Buki semi-
circle nearer the coast.
Command of the inland landing
grounds and aerodromes means control
of Papua. Control of Moresby or its
elimination means control of the Gulf of
Papua. It is only a step from there to
Daru, at the mouth of the Fly River.
The broad Fly gives water access to the
Dutch border —or near enough—through
Papua, apart from controlling the Torres
Strait.
A curious blank exists in Allied
knowledge about what has happened to
the Dutch end of New Guinea. Fak Fak,
on the south, and Sorong, on the extreme
western extremity, were bombed more
than once early in the drive southward.
The Arus, old headquarters of many an
Australian pearling fleet, are occupied or
controlled by the enemy. So is Timor, So
are Amboina and the Moluccas and Java.
And if the Tanimbar islands, the
nearest of which is only 220 miles from
Cape Don, are not in Japanese hands,
they will be at any moment the enemy
cares to send a cruiser or so and a few
’planes. The attacks on New Guinea are,
therefore, an operation to build the
eastern half of the floor to the Japanese
consolidation in the Indies. It is a job
to be dealt with immediately. The avail-
able native labor in New Guinea and the
presence in that island of cool, malaria-
free highlands where troops could be
rested and recuperated, and where air
bases can be established free of the usual
disabilities of the tropics, form a very
important stake. Whoever grasps them
irrevocably has won a large fraction of
the fight for the South Pacific.
That Australian possession of these has
not been consolidated in the past should
earn a badge of ignominy for the poli-
ticians responsible—and nearly all politi-
cians, on both sides of the House, have
been responsible.
“In Two Huge Claws”
Once consolidated, the invasion “floor”
across the north from Sumatra to Rabaul
must become the setting-out place for
several new adventures. Each end would
be used as a springboard for a new in-
vasion southward. That from the New
Guinea end could seek the conquest of
the islands down to Maoriland, thus cut-
ting the lines of communication with the
U.S.A., through the swift successive
establishment of strong air bases, guarded
by military divisions, and far enough
away from the Australian coast to be
safe from air attack on a substantial
scale, except with the use of aircraft-
carriers, in which we are deficient. With
the furthest-south penetration, perhaps to
to Macquarie Island, certainly to Tahiti,
achieved, a link of Japanese land air
bases, each not more than 500 miles
from the next, would connect Saghalien
(Kurafoto) Island, north of Japan, all the
way to the environs of the Antarctic.
From the western end of the “floor”
another series of invasions could be let
down along the Westralian coast, gradu-
ally forcing their way to Fremantle and
Bun bury.
The Commonwealth would be held
in two huge claws. Outside supplies
and Allied ships to reach us would
need to pass through a hail of bombs and
run the gauntlet of übiquitous enemy
submarine and naval patrol bases.
The development of the east and west
movements would naturally be followed
by a series of expeditions let down to the
North Australian coast. With the China,
Timor, Java, Flores and Arafura seas
completely closed to the outside world
the Japanese would be free to rain
armies southward.
There are a dozen points from which
attack on Australia’s populated parts
might begin—following air blasts from
the east. But eastward the Barrier Reef
is an obstacle, though not an insuper-
able one to a people whose pearlers and
beche-de-mer men have been allowed to
wander through it for generations.
The Main Danger-point
A most promising landing base for
a swift main invasion of large forces is
in the south-eastern corner of the Gulf
of Carpentaria. Here are rivers which,
though shallow, can be penetrated for
some distance, and islands off the main-
land which could be used to base a
shield for main operations against attack
from the west.
Once in the semicircle of water be-
tween the Wellesley Islands and. Van
Diemen Inlet (Cape York Peninsula), the
invader would have ideal jumping-off
places. He would have abundant fish
diet to supplement his transported rice.
There is sheltered water for seaplanes
and much of the Gulf country is very
flat, “made” for the quick establishment
of landing grounds.
Aerodromes, established in the Burke-
town region, would have, from an enemy
viewpoint, a series of objectives from
within easy bombing range. Cloncurry
and Mt. Isa are not much more
than 200 miles away. Townsville is
480 miles; Cairns and the sugar districts,
400-odd miles. Much of the country be-
tween Burketown and the most fertile
part of the east coast is isolated: difficult
of approach from the east, easier from
the north-west, whence the foe would
come. From Burketown, too, all sea
routes up and down the east coast north
of Townsville would be under danger of
air attack both from Burketown and N.G.
It would be easy to vision a Japanese
plan of campaign in which the main
landing, made in the Gulf, coincided with
other attacks on the east coast — Thurs-
day Island, Cooktown, Cairns, Mackay,
Townsville through the Magnetic Pas-
sage ; the central district via Port Curtis.
From these points, virtually the whole of
inhabited Queensland would be in danger
of direct air attack from three different
directions at once. From Burketown, a
line of established aerodromes down
through the centre would be snatched by
the enemy and quickly linked by land
if there was not sufficient resistance.
It is only two air-hops of 700-odd
miles each to the Sydney industrial area
from Burketown ; two of fewer miles to
Adelaide.
Established in the Gulf country, the
enemy would have to be attacked at the
back door. The war might then be fought
west of the coastal defences, through the
disorganised pastoral districts, while the
foe tried to grasp all the most populated
part of the Commonwealth in a giant pair
of scissors, of which the eastern blade
would be the line of bases through the
Anzac islands, and the western line
pushed down with an air spearhead from
Burketown.
For Very Existence
The fight for Australia’s existence has
now begun.
The timing of the enemy’s effort is
a pointer which must not be neglected.
The clockwork precision of his move-
ments has brought him on the doormat of
the North at the precise moment when the
wet season is finishing and he can be
assured of several reasonably dry months
in the Australian inland. That is, of
course, if Providence is not saving up an
abnormal season of winter, autumn and
winter floods, as it has been known to do.
The R.A.A.F. Goes Tough
In his first adventures in New Guinea,
the enemy had only to fight brave lads
ill-equipped. The weakness of the forces
at Lorengau, Kavieng and Rabaul made
resistance at those points hopeless, though
the boys of the R.A.A.F. took their lives
in their hands in so-called “fighters.”
New Guinea is always on the side
of those on the ground or sea
when it comes to bombing. The sea has
a grey, flat habit, with dull visibility. It
is full of reefs and shadows.
Nevertheless, after the first attacks,
there was a turning from sullen
retirement to the kind of defence which
eats into an enemy’s vitals. Rabaul and
Gasmata, the Jap taking-off place for
Moresby and mainland invasion points,
were attacked ceaselessly. The raids ad-
mittedly had only a nuisance value, but
they were harassing. They certainly en-
feebled the Japanese air effort for some
time; for just enough time to enable
concerted defence to be arranged by the
R.A.A.F. and U.S.A.F. before the convoy
which moved along the south coast of
New Britain to take Salamaua and Lae
had pushed into the Huon Gulf.
On March 8, in the face of almost
continuous attacks by the R.A.A.F., land-
ings were made at Salamaua and Lae,
and March 10 brought landings at
Finschhaven, further east from Lae. This
is a position forming an easy linkage of
air-hops from the main base in Blanche
Bay. The enemy’s dispositions and com-
munications from his own bases are Truk
to Namaluk, 150 miles; Namaluk to
Greenwich Island—several times bombed
and the last outpost of Jap mandated ter-
ritory—-400 miles. From Greenwich to
Kavieng (New Ireland) is 400 miles;
thence to Rabaul (150 miles), whence a
finger has been flung south-east to Kieta
on Bougainville. The step west from
Rabaul to Gasmata is under 250 miles ;
from Gasmata to Finschhaven, another
200 miles; thence to Salamaua, another
70 miles. The Bismarcks and the north
coast of northern New Guinea will be
completely besieged by a chain of bases,
all within an hour or two flying distance
from each other, if Wau, Mt. Hagen and
Wewak aerodromes fall into enemy
hands.
With Wau gone, Port Moresby would
be well under 200 miles away, and the
port could be attacked from three or
four separate points at once.
Finschhaven marked the southern
coastal fringe of German mission acti-
vity. Some German missions were loyal;
others were under suspicion; and 438
missionaries out of 689 in New Guinea
were German or German-controlled.
They managed thousands of natives: the
Lutheran Mission at Finschhaven held
13,000 acres of land, of which 5000 acres
was cultivated.
The R.A.A.F. wasted no time. That
day (March 10) it made a daring low-
level raid on Hanisch Harbor, just to
the south of Finschhaven, and scored hits
or near misses on the enemy transports.
Lae and Salamaua had had their issue,
and an enemy flying-boat was peppered
with machine-gun bullets and left burn-
ing at Gasmata. A reconnaissance went
on through a rolling cloudland to Rabaul.
The R.A.A.F. men came home, edified
to notice that the sixth Jap day-
light bombing raid (the 10th alto-
gether) on Moresby had made no im-
pression except on Mother Earth and
on the vegetation. Six heavy machines
had been used in that blast, which was
the third in four days. At Buna, between
Lae and Moresby, on the northern coast,
machine-gunning ’planes had been driven
off by ground fire.
On Wednesday there was another raid
on Moresby. This time 12 bombers were
used. They came flying very high in
tight formation, leaving the civilian town
alone. Again there were no casualties
httie or no damage. It was a feeble
attack by the standards of Darwin and
Singapore.
Definite Supremacy
For once in a specific area the
R.A.A.F. appeared to have definite air
superiority. The enemy at Salamaua and
Lae was unlucky in having its ships in
very open water. A communique issued
m Canberra declared that the raids at
Salamaua on March 10 had been
heavy. They were made in daylight.
After the first, four ships were noticed
burning. Two more were sinking and
one was being beached.
TTo a S r - in the da y the R-A.A.F. and
U.S. flying men came back. They met a
fair volume of a.-a. fire, some of it from
heavy calibre guns, and attacked a
cruiser. The results were doubtful.
A third attack a few minutes later
surrounded a transport with bombs and
left it burning. Two other machines
made direct hits on a small cruiser or
flotilla leader and two more ships were
left afire.
Enemy aircraft went up but failed to
prevent the raiders from getting home.
They returned again boldly, made
further hits and surveyed the wreckage
of their earlier bombings. One ship
had been burnt out, three others were
sending up smoke and flame, two were
gradually going down, and the one seen
during the morning in process of beach-
ing was firmly on the sand. Dropping
a string of bombs across the Salamaua
runway-—one every 30 yards—sinking an-
other ship, whose position was presently
advertised only by an oil patch, the
raiders followed the sun westward. Wash-
ington reported that eight heavy U.S.
bombers took part in these raids and
dropped 18 tons of bombs.
On Wednesday Salamaua and Lae had
more attacks. The R.A.A.F. paid most
of its attention to the aerodromes, and
there was persistent raiding, combined
with wide-flung reconnaissances, else-
where.
These were the first raids by Austra-
lian forces which the Japanese have
affected to take seriously. Imperial Head-
quarters claimed that 60 ’planes took part
in Tuesday’s attack, of which four—
Tokyo Radio said one was a Flying
Fortress —were shot down. It was ad-
mitted that three transports had either
been sunk or forced aground, and that
one cruiser, three destroyers and a trans-
port had been “slightly damaged.”
In spite of these successes, it was
apparent that Japan had succeeded in
landing a large force and in establishing
air defences.
In all the week’s attacks a squadron of
heavy U.S. ’planes took part.
Widespread reconnaissances by the
R.A.A.F. on Thursday, March 12, showed
a greater Japanese penetration than had
been feared. Over the whole of the south
coast of New Britain and round the Huon
Gulf the Australians met with heavy
fighter attacks, and there was a fight
over Lae.
They came home undamaged, Gas-
mata was raided. The Japanese made
a heavy machine-gun attack on Moresby
and also at a point near Cape Yule mis-
sion, 60 miles to the west, in each case
with Navy O-type machines.
For 20 minutes an Australian bomber
played hide-and-seek with the enemy in
a remarkable chase among the clouds,
and came out of it safe. There was a
single casualty—an R.A.A.F. rating.
At Gasmata, columns of smoke rose
after the bombers had finished the work.
There were running fights in which the
R.A.A.F. ammunition was almost
exhausted, and one enemy machine was
damaged.
Honors were on Australia’s side save
for one thing: the reconnaissances had
discovered that an unestimated naval
force was in Kessa Bay, on Buka Island.
The Solomons, like most of Australia’s
fringes, seem to have become term incog-
nita about which the enemy knows more
than its rightful owners.
On Friday Moresby was again raided.
Saturday, March 14, was a historic day
in the history of Australia’s battles. For
the first time, part of one of the actual
States of the Commonwealth received its
baptism of fire. The Japanese, having
established three air bases at Rabaul,
Gasmata and Lae, extended their area
of operation to the vicinity of Thursday
Island, which is only 30 miles from Cape
York. They had during the morning
raided Moresby with a squadron of tight-
flying bombers, very high and out of
reach of a.-a. fire. It was Moresby’s
13th raid. The Japs claimed to have set
fire to 16 aircraft and destroyed im-
portant military establishments.
At the same time a squadron went to
Torres Strait, which is actually within
Queensland, and tried to bomb and
machine-gun the islands which huddle
round Thursday Island. They were driven


off by a.-a. fire and with loss of two
bombers and two fighters.
The enemy now makes no secret or
his objectives. “Asahi Shimbun ’ declare
at the end of the week that complete
occupation of New Guinea was a matter
of days or hours, and that the occupation
was basic preparation for an offensive
against Australia. . „
“After the occupation of New Guinea,
it declared, “enemy bases in North Aus-
tralia will be occupied. Cooktown,
Townsville and Thursday Island will be
entirely at Japanese mercy.”
That remains to be seen.
Burma, Philippines, Java
Though the fighting has been confined
to the air, the Australian side of the war
has loomed momentarily as the central
focus of all that is happening in the war
zones of the Pacific.
On the Burma front both sides are
consolidating their positions, expanding
their communications, bringing up rein-
forcements and stores and indulging in
heavy clawings on land and air which
are only an earnest of things to come.
There was fighting during the week on
the Prome Road round Tharrawaddy and
north of Pegu but nothing decisive. All
Burmese fronts on March 15 seemed on
the verge of heavy fighting. The R.A.F.,
with its American allies, continued a
busy policy of attack on enemy columns,
and the enemy replied more feebly.
Preparations for defence went ahead in
India and Ceylon, where there were
evacuations from the coast.
In the Philippines, Bataan seemed to
be in a condition of stalemate ; in China
movement was limited.
The full story of Java’s fate remains
to be told, but certain it is that all the
Dutch East Indies, even if there is still
resistance at some points, is to all intents
and purposes Japanese territory for the
present.
A Tokyo communique on March 9
claimed the unconditional surrender of
93,000 Dutch and 5000 British, Austra-
lian and U.S. troops at Sourabaya and
Bandoeng the previous day.
It was later declared that at Bandoeng
the prisoners had numbered 50,000 and
that on March 12 all prisoners had been
disarmed.
Whatever the facts, the Java campaign
belongs to the past. The immediate
future holds the campaigns for India
and Australia and perhaps Hawaii.
Naval Disaster Off Java.
“Nobby II”: First news of the result
of the sea fight which preceded the
lapanese landings in Java was received in
Australia on Feb. 28 and published in the
Sunday papers on March 1. Sydney 4 Sun
printed a typical account under the
page-wide heading: “Big Sea Victory Off
Java, Invasion Armada Routed.”
Allied naval and air squadrons in the Java
Sea have defeated a Japanese attempt to
invade Java, New York announced officially
last night.
It was recorded that the enemy convoy
had been “forced to turn back after a
terrific sea battle.”
Next morning the Dutch version
appeared. It appeared from this that 40
Jap ships, covered by a strong fleet,
approximately of 20 naval ships, some of
which were heavy cruisers with Sin. guns,
had been discovered moving southward
towards Java. The Dutch Admiral Hel-
frich had ordered “part of the Allied
squadron operating off Java to attack the
enemy.” In the late afternoon the en-
gagement began, with the fleets 12 miles
apart “In this phase only one Allied
cruiser received any important damage
and temporarily left the battle line, while
one of our cruisers was hit by a salvo
and sank.” A Japanese cruiser of the
Mogami class was said to have been set
afire, another was considerably damaged
and a third sunk, whilst at least three
destroyers remained behind on fire, either
burning or sinking.
During the night (the report continued)
two Netherlands cruisers made contact
with the enemy and went down fighting
—it was thought possible that during the
action they had advanced into a line of
enemy submarines. Japanese transports
retreated northward, while “their warships
were pressed westward by Allied forces
steaming up from the south-east.” The
encounter was supposed to have taken
place “off Bawean island,” which is about
100 miles north of Sourabaya, directly
above the Madura Strait.
Tokyo’s account of the battle was pub-
lished the same day. It mentioned that
in the afternoon of Feb. 27 a British
fleet had been encountered north of Java.
A cruiser of the Exeter class was hit by
a bomb which caused a large fire and put
her out of action.
A formation of naval ’planes located
Allied warships totalling 38,000 tons,
scored hits on three 3000-ton vessels and
damaged three destroyers. At dusk the
main Japanese fleet made contact with
the main Allied fleet and sank an Allied
cruiser and a destroyer.
Next day Domei declared that in the
week-end battles five Allied cruisers, one
of them Australian and one American,
and a further six destroyers had been
sunk, that the Japanese fleet was mopping
up the remnants, and that only one
Japanese destroyer was slightly damaged.
Later, Tokyo enlarged on these claims.
But A.A.P. reported (March 3) that “at
least 32 enemy warships and transports”
had been “sunk or damaged since last
Friday,” and that American and other
submarines were “hovering all round
Java day and night in the hunt for Japa-
nese warships and transports.”
The world had to wait a fortnight for
the official British versions. The first
instalment was an announcement by Mr.
Curtin on March 13 that H.M.A.S. Perth
and the 1080-ton sloop Yarra “must be
presumed lost.”
Mr. Curtin said that an enemy claim
to the destruction of Perth had been made
some days previously, but “at the time
the Naval Board had no information to
substantiate this.” Perth had fought suc-
cessfully and unharmed in the battle of
the Java Sea. She had returned to a
Javanese port after the battle, and her
captain had reported from personal
observation the severe losses inflicted on
the enemy by the Allied naval forces.
Perth and Yarra then sailed for an Aus-
tralian port. They had not arrived. There
was no news of survivors, though it was
conceivable that some, in those narrow
waters, had made their way to shore or
been picked up by other ships. For the
present the fate of 53 officers, 769 naval
men and six R.A.A.F. personnel is as
much a mystery as that of the crew of
Perth’s sister ship, H.M.A.S. Sydney.
This statement was followed by the
Admiralty’s story of the battle. It ap-
peared that an Allied formation, under
the flag of the Dutch Admiral Doorman,
flown in the modern 6800-ton De Ruyter,
which looked like a modern pocket ver-
sion of a German pocket battleship, was
cruising north of Sourabaya on Feb. 27.
It included the heavy cruiser Exeter, the
veteran flagship of the River Plate battle,
which the Graf Spee had battered badly
with her llin. guns. Exeter’s main arma-
ment was six eight-inchers. There were
also the Houston (Augusta class), an
American equivalent of the Australia and
Canberra, built 1929-30, carrying nine
eight-inchers and four Sin. a.-a. Apart
from De Ruyter, the light cruisers were
Perth and the D.E.I. ship Java, armed
with 10 5.9’5, built in 1921-25 at Flushing.
The squadron was completed by the
British destroyers Electra, Encounter and
Jupiter and the Dutch destroyer Kor-
tenaer.
While the strategy was in the hands
of the Allied Cbmmander-in-Chief,
Admiral Helfrich, tactical movements
were directed by Admiral Doorman.
Just after 4 p.m. on Feb. 27 the
squadron came upon a Japanese force
containing two of the four existing
Nachis, which are 10,000-tonners, peers
of Houston and Canberra, built about
the same time, but a trifle faster and
carrying slightly larger complements.
There were other cruisers and two
destroyer flotillas —13 small ships: obvi-
ously, a much more powerful fleet. The
two heavy cruisers had 20 eight-inch
guns against the Allies’ 15, apart from
the disparity in light-cruiser numbers.
Also an advantage in speed.
The Japanese destroyers were driven
off in a first onslaught. Then one of
their flotillas delivered a torpedo attack.
The Kortenaer was sunk and Exeter was
hit by an eight-inch shell which penetrated
her boiler-room. The three British
destroyers began a gallant counter-attack
against overwhelming odds, but the
Japanese retired behind a smokescreen.
Electra was not seen after she hurtled
behind the screen. Jupiter —a 1690-
ton Javelin, completed in 1939 —engaged
two enemy vessels.
Exeter was a lame duck unable to keep
up with the fight, so the Allies were
now completely outgunned m their heavy
batteries, with no hope save in manoeuvre.
And manoeuvre in heavy smokescreens
at dusk in contact with the enemy is a
chancy business—how chancy was shown
by the fact that Exeter disappeared from
ken altogether and neither friend nor
foe knew what happened to her till many
hours later. .
However, the Allied cruisers succeeded
in getting out of the smoke and in com-
ing up to the enemy at closer range.
Admiral Doorman’s tactics and Admiral
Helfrich’s strategy seem to have been
bull-headed, out of keeping with the
objectives of the Allied squadrons,
which were to delay land invasion.
The Dutch command’s methods were
very different from those of Cunningham
off Matapan and Somerville off Sardinia.
However, the seas were narrow, time and
air power limited and other factors un-
knowable. Criticism from an armchair
is a thankless and futile business.
As it was, the enemy did the decoying.
He sheered off to the north-east toward
Macassar Strait, leaving the Allied fleet
against the sunset. As he raced along
he put down a new smokescreen, but it
was seen that one of his eight-inch gun
cruisers was burning fiercely.
With dogged courage Admiral Door-
man pursued the superior force into the
night, losing touch after sundown.
Presently there was a burst of fire as
four of the enemy were picked up and
engaged, but it was too dark to see what
the result had been.
After the admiral had turned north to
intercept a convoy, then south, there was
an explosion under the destroyer Jupiter.
Four hours later she sank. Some survi-
vors made the land and are now in Aus-
tr At 11.30 p.m. two enemy cruisers were
sighted close to the coast off Rembang,
where one of the three original Japanese
landings was made. The Allied ships
then were only 12 miles from shoie. An
exchange of fire began. De Ruyter was
hit by a shell, and it was deduced from
her subsequent change of course that she
was being subjected to torpedo attack by
a submarine. The other cruisers changed
their courses to conform with hers. Came
sudden and simultaneous explosions m
De Ruyter and Java. Both Dutch cruisers
blew up and sank. The squadron was
thus in pieces, one of its heavy cruisers
somewhere in the void, its flagship and
admiral lost, its best destroyers at the
bottom. ,
What damage had been done to me
enemy it was impossible to estimate, but
Perth’s gallant Captain Waller believed
that one Bin.-gun cruiser had been sunk,
a second damaged, a destroyer sunk and
one of the 15 6in.-gun Mogamis set on fire,
while three destroyers on fire were sinking.
Perth herself came into Tanjong Priok,
the port of Batavia, at 7 a.m. on Feb. 28.
She and Houston and the other remains
of the squadron were in a precarious
position. They were completely out-
numbered and that by much heavier craft.
There have been suggestions that capital
ships were present behind the advanced
Japanese cruiser squadrons. An umbrella
of Japanese ’planes filled the sky. The
port already had been battered several
times. Invasion of Java was imminent.
The last message from Perth which
left that night tq brave the Sunda Strait
suggested that Ihe had encountered a
Japanese force guarding the entrance to
the strait off Pt. St. Nicholas about 11.30
p.m. Nothing afterwards was heard of
her or of U.S.S. Houston.
The Dutch destroyer Evertsen encoun-
tered two Jap cruisers in Sunda Strait
under the shadow of KraKSboa. She was
damaged and her captain put her ashore.
The destroyer Stronghold and the Yarra
were also missing. The Japanese earlier
mentioned having sunk the Stronghold
and the U.S. gunboat Asheville, for which
they possibly mistook the Yarra, in the
Indian Ocean.
Meanwhile, Exeter, her boiler-room a
tangle of wreckage, limped into Soura-
baya at half speed. She too left
under cover of night escorted by two
destroyers. Next morning she reported
that three enemy cruisers were sheering
towards her. There were no further sig-
nals from Exeter or the two destroyers.
All other Allied naval craft in the
Java seas were known on March 15 to
be safe except for some small units ; but
the losses had been bad enough: Britain,
Exeter, Jupiter, Electra, Encounter and
Stronghold ; Australia, Perth and Yarra ;
U.S.A., Houston and Pope; and the
Dutch had lost their admiral, two cruisers
and two destroyers. Two heavy cruisers,
three light cruisers and seven destroyers
and a sloop —a force approximately equal
to the whole of the Commonwealth’s
naval power —wiped out in a week-end-
a destroyer more than the Japanese had
claimed on March 1, though they had
added that four other Allied cruisers had
been damaged beyond repair.
The almost unresisted invasion of Java
followed. Admiral Helfrich was trans-
ferred to undertake a special mission.
Well he might be, since, the cruiser
Sumatra having been destroyed previ-
ously, the D.E.I. fleet virtually had ceased
to exist.
One curious fact was the departure
from Java of General Wavell, for which
he prepared on the eve of the battle. The
day before he drove to Djokjakarta,
where the island’s leading military aero-
drome was situated, and, having earlier
dined with General van der Poorten, who
was to take over the Javan Command,
he then boarded a Flying Fortress, while
his staff at 3 a.m. took ship at a southern
Javan port. On the morning of Feb. 27,
some hours before the naval engagement,
the Javan newspapers announced the
command changes.
Australian newspapers did not record
them till five days later, but in. the inter-
val, on March 3, long after he had
reached India, they published an order-
of-the-day by General Wavell —undated
in which he said:
We have the honor to be about to fight
with our Dutch and American allies in de-
fence of the last stronghold of democracy
in the south-west Pacific... .Our best chance
is to attack whenever we can. Attack,
not defence, must be our watchword.
Even the flapper press should now be
sick of the offensive complex.
If all the men and material that have
been flung away in slapdash campaigns
had been concentrated in Malaya, as
MacArthur concentrated his men on
Bataan, and Britain has concentrated her
defence forces in her island, regardless
of the appeals of writing boys to fling
them away against the Germans in the
west, Malaya and Hong Kong would
still be ours and our Far Eastern fleet
intact.
The Dutch throughout have followed
the specifications of “famous” correspon-
wents and editors. At the beginning of
the war their fleet was dissipated, their
aircraft flung to their widest range, in
a strategy based on attack. It was a
gallant policy. But when the test came—
the fight for Java, which was the Britain
of the East Indies, its heart and citadel,
there was nothing left of the military and
naval resources of an Asian Empire of
70,000,000 people to defend it with. The
defence collapsed in a few days.
Australian Casualties.
“Ek Dum”: Army Minister Forde
announced last week that the total known
casualties in Singapore were 17,031 ; but
sadly little information was available re-
garding most of them. He had previously
estimated the number at 18,130.
A few men escaped, and it was
known that 18 officers and 175 men had
been killed in early actions, that one
officer and 46 men had died of wounds
and that there were deaths from other
causes. But 1024 officers and J 5,720 men
have to be listed as “missing.”
In the Middle East, according to the
Minister, 133 officers and 2069 men have
been killed and 267 officers and 4414
men wounded in action. Adding
prisoners of war and wounded the total
is 673 officers and 12,662 men.
Thus, total casualties for the two war
areas are officially placed at 30,368.
For “security reasons,” the Minister
said, he could not give the casualties for
Timor, Ambon and the N.E.I. The
A.I.F. did its part in Java, Timor and
Ambon ; in Rabaul the forces were com-
bined A.I.F. and A.M.F.
“Ek Dum”: The Russian campaign is
in its transition stage. Spring is immi-
nent in the south. According to Russian
reports pressure on Novgorod, 140 miles
south of Leningrad, is increasing; the
army enclosed or partially enclosed at
Staraya Russa is “in despair” ; Russian
armies are flattening the sides of the
huge pocket along the Moscow-Smolensk
road, compressing the Germans inside and
threatening them with complete en-
closure ; Orel and Kharkov are sur-
rounded and a new offensive is in progress
on a front between Stalino and Tagan-
rog. It was first reported and then denied
that Sevastopol’s garrison had broken
out and joined hands with the Russians at
Theodosia. Germans paint no connected
picture. The one independent witness is
still geography, which shows that king-pin
fortress positions of the German front
in November, 1941, are still king-pin
positions of their line of March, 1942,
though the Russians have taken a great
deal of territory.
* * * •
Information about Libya is vague. Both
sides are supposed to be digging in for
the summer. Other reports suggest that
brisk fighting is imminent. The central
focus of the Mediterranean campaign is
Malta, which is under unceasing attack.
Over 70 Axis machines were destroyed
over Malta during the week.
* * * *
Immediately after the bombing of Dar-
win the Federal Government appointed
Justice Lowe, of Victoria, to inquire into
and report on all the circumstances of
the raid, including the state of military
and naval preparedness of the defence
area, whether the military and other de-
fence commands were in any way respon-
sible and what, if any, changes are neces-
sary in defence measures to meet a _ re-
currence of such attacks. One might
have imagined that the last phase was a
matter for military inquiry. Justice Lowe
has returned from Darwin, but has still
to take evidence before making his report.
* * * *
During the week Major-General Gor-
don Bennett was temporarily appointed
Inspector-General of Military Training,
with instructions to visit defence areas
and lecture officers and men on Japanese
war methods.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Within coo-ee of the Post Office clock
are the clubrooms for the women so
cruelly thrust from their pleasant homes
in Malaya and on the islands around the
Pacific. These are being furnished by
the committee which has been formed to
cheer up these rather dazed-by-circum-
stances arrivals, and to see that some of
the social amenities of life come the visi-
tors’ way. Last week the Francis Ander-
son lady, Miss M. D. Kidd, Barbara
Knox, Mrs. Penfold Hyland and other
committee members were busy furnish-
ing the rooms and gloating over the
prune-colored feltex and the splendid
Indian rug surmounting it which had
been gifts. The walls of the rooms,
which are on the sixth floor of 8a Castle-
reagh-street, are pale primrose. The cur-
tains are linen, rosy with blooms. There
are writing tables and gaily upholstered
chairs, and there’s to be a library run
by Barbara Knox and Mrs. Penfold
Hyland.
The club, which was opened yesterday
by Lady Wakehurst, has a neat canteen.
Here cups of tea and biscuits will be
obtainable all through the day (that’s if
the good little tea-leaf always answers
the roll call). An electric toaster and a
hot plate are side by side. It’s an attrac-
tive spot, and most of the furnishings
have been gifts from city firms and radio
stations. The visitors will find that their
problems will be solved for them in
expert and kindly fashion.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says she
has been studying Japanese, and claims
she has a vocabulary equal to any emer-
gency should she ever come face to face
with the foe. Her vocabulary consists of
one word: “Nippon!”
“When Lights Go Rolling Round the
Sky,” sang Harold Williams to an atten-
tive audience in St. Martin’s Church hall
at Killara one night last week. And as
he was singing the white blades of the
searchlights were slashing the darkness
of the night. The blackout at the hall
was perfect; not a glint of light showed
through chink or cranny, although the
hall carried its ordinary number of elec-
trics, and there even were footlights. The
committee of the Killara Music Club was
jubilant over the successful opening of
the season. The soft blaze of autumn lit
the stage in dahlia and tawny gladioli.
Clever young pianist Joyce Hutchinson,
in a flowing frock of almond-green,
played the singers’ programme of Handel,
Purcell, Bach and Strauss. In her own
solos she also chose Bach, and threw in
some Debussy and Ravel. Everybody
in the audience (and some had come
from Wahroonga, Pymble and Turra-
murra) carried a torch. The women wore
dinner frocks. The men, most of them
wardens, came in daytime suits, ready to
spring should an alarm sound. Midway
through the evening Mrs. Hope Gibson,
who founded the club and is organiser-
in-chief of all the concerts, was given a
great basket of flowers by the rest of the
committee. The club is just entering its
eleventh year. The flowers were to mark
a successful decade.
Redleaf, the old Mackay home at
Double Bay, which for a short while was
one of Fashion’s haunts for wedding re-
ceptions and suchlike and which housed,
among other flutters, a reception of which
Noel Coward was the central star, has
now got into its war-time job. It has
become a barracks (and a very pleasant
one) for the W.A.A.A.Fs. Eighty of
these upstanding young women will
occupy the old home, which has for added
attraction a nice stretch of harbor beach
for close neighbor. Probably one of the
glassed-in balconies will be used for a
dormitory, the ballroom will be the mess-
room and one of the former reception-
rooms will be turned into a recreation
hall.
Maoriland will be proud of the
appointment of one of its daughters,
Marguerite Webb, to the position of
assistant to the Red Cross representative,
W. D. R. Clark, on board an Australian
hospital ship. Mrs, Elink Schuurman
had previously assisted Mr. Clark in hos-
pital duties, and on her resignation Mar-
guerite was nominated. Her appointment
has the seal of approval of the Dutch
authorities, the council of the Order of
St. John and the Enzed Red Cross. In
addition to other duties Marguerite will
teach occupational therapy to the soldier
patients. Her parents are the H. R.
Webbs, of Wellington, Maoriland. One
brother is in the R.A.F.
Major Charles Moses, until the war-
gong sounded the A.B.C.’s general man-
ager, got back to Sydney and his
anxiously waiting wife last week. Major
Moses escaped from Singapore with
Major-General Gordon Bennett. He
went through the Malayan campaign,
got through the Japanese lines three
times, and then was knocked down in
Batavia by a motor-car and had three
ribs broken. However, eldest daughter
has taken up nursing as a career, so she
will be able to turn a professional eye
on father’s progress during her time off
from her own particular hospital.
The Lunch-hour Music Club got off to
a good start for 1942 last week, when
History House was filled to the utter-
most seat for its performance of “Bastien
and Bastienne.” This delicious Mozart
operetta sparkled along as blithely as a
Maoriland trout stream over its pebbly
bed. Joan Mackaness (Mrs. John Holmes
when she is not singing) as the designing
little Bastienne warbled with great fresh-
ness and an articulation that was just
about perfect. The same can be said
for the male singers. Charles Mackerras
was the youthful leader of the orchestra.
Max Dupain made this photograph of
Joan.
The audience was quite pre-Jap-era.
There was Archbishop Mowll, who had
gone without lunch to be in time for the
opening notes. There were the Conser-
vatorium Dr. Bainton couple, the Bertie
Kellys, Mrs. Hope Gibson from Killara,
Margaret Gillespie, Mrs. Gordon Henty
and the Sydney de Vrieses, beaming over
this happy beginning to their year’s work
of love. Dr. George Mackaness took
time off from his Anthology of Austra<-
lian Poetry and his job at the Teachers’
College to come and listen to daughter
Joan. Mrs. Mackaness was cool-looking
in hydrangea-blues. Singers Gladys
Verona, Gladys Prowse and Thelma
Houston (Mrs. Roland Foster) turned the
ear of attention. Mrs. Charles Moses,
whose husband was hourly expected and
who has now returned, was a listener.
The Conservatorium, like the A.8.C.,
has decided on a series of Saturday-
afternoon concerts. This change from
evening orchestral concerts is a conces-
sion to blackout conditions. The first
Con. concert of the season was given on
Saturday afternoon, and was preceded
by the gentle patter of rain. But, alas!
the rain decided that Saturday afternoon
was no time to start a job. There were
rows and rows of schoolgirls and Con.
students in the audience. In the correct-
ness of a morning suit, Dr. Bainton led
his forces through a Schumann, Beet-
hoven and Brahms programme. Kathleen
Dempsey, who was the pianist in the
Beethoven concerto No. 3 in C minor,
played with decision and clear tone. She
was also very attractive in her long and
swaying black taffeta skirt, topped by a
shell-pink blouse.
Mrs. Boyd Moriarty, whose husband,
Captain Boyd Moriarty, was killed in
action, returned last week from the
Middle East, where for two years she had
been busy working for the Australian
Comforts Fund and the Red Cross. Mrs.
Moriarty is a sister of Pamela Travers,
whose Mary Poppins is one of the
delights of the children of today. Another
who returns to Sydney with a tale to
tell is Mrs. C. Gough Howell, wife of
the Attorney-General of the Straits
Settlements. She travelled from Singa-
pore in a cattle ship. It was attacked
by ’planes on the way to Batavia.
Almost up tp the time of leaving Mrs.
Howell was an active worker for the
Medical Auxiliary Services and for the
Anzac Club. Mrs. Howell was Gretchen
Innes Noad. Her son is with the R.A.F.
From Melbourne
Although not many people re-echo the
words of the little girl who, after an
afternoon’s steady assisting at trench-
digging, remarked “Won’t I be just mad
if the Japs don’t come now!” there were
quite a few complaisant folk who before
the test for daylight raid the other morn-
ing thought that they had everything
planned for a lovely time. But the few
minutes’ incarceration with chance neigh-
bors in wardens’ shelters disclosed the
extent of bad manners in this city. Several
adolescents had to be emptied out of
seats to let old men and women sit
down, and waitresses in some shelters
seemed to think that anyone who had
ordered tea before the alert went would
not need it as soon as the cafe became
the warden’s shelter. However, a few
girls who were casually introduced to
fascinating fighting men in other shelters
thought the time not ill-spent. Some
workers who realised that they had better
hurry up were the group which is man-
ning the mobile canteens. They are call-
ing loudly for girls who can drive a heavy
vehicle, know their first aid and A.R.P.
work. Mrs. Jack Kemelfield and other
members of the Originality Group are
in this movement. They are also calling
for garages in various suburbs which
must measure 10ft. by 22ft. by 10ft. Only
about 1 p.c. of shelterers had rubber be-
tween their teeth or protection for their
ears, though they were warned about
these long ago.
Women in the suburbs, where domestic
labor is as scarce as piecrust in the
Nullarbor Plains, are searching their souls
to find the answer to the question “Am
I a good neighbor?” A League of Mercy
founded by Victorian Housewives’ Asso-
ciation has been organised to include
housewives who want help and those will-
ing to give it to them. Actually it takes
more good-neighborly feeling to receive
help than to give it, and a little urging has
been necessary before some women can
bring themselves to see another woman
doing the washing or wielding the duster
over precious vases. Everyone is watching
the experiment with lynx eyes, for should
it succeed the domestic labor millennium
will have arrived. In some suburbs the
Grey Sisters have already pioneered the
domestic way by going into any home
where Mother is ill or tired and nursing
the baby or feeding the family or spring-
cleaning the whole home. But in non-
industrial suburbs it’s a harder problem.
A busy woman who has given up busi-
ness for matrimony is Marjorie Bishop,
whose picture comes from Spencer Shier.
She is off to Perth to marry Dr. R.
Eddington Woods, of Subiaco (W.A.),
and leaves behind her pleasant memories
of a most successful career (in big busi-
ness circles) as secretary and assistant
manager. Dr. Woods has spent several
years in Melbourne as a medical student
of Newman College, and is now attached
to Perth Hospital. The wedding, like so
many others, is being hurried along with
war service in mind. Because of transport
difficulties it will take place without
benefit of bridesmaids, as the bride’s
sister cannot risk the possibility of being
stranded in far parts by reason of lack of
transport, for she, too, is one of Mel-
bourne’s busy businesswomen.
Mrs. Leo Scott Murphy last week was
able to tell her sister Returned Army
Nurses how right she and they had been,
when they found a good idea, to stick
to it. They rejoiced together over the
one-hundred-thousandth book collected
for the fighting forces, and sent it after
the 99,999 which had already been a
boon and blessing to the boys on the
seas and in the camps and battle stations.
Mrs. Scott Murphy was a nurse in the
last war when she met Leo Scott Murphy,
who persuaded her to chuck the profes-
sion for matrimony, and now their boys
are in the thick of things on one front
or another and their daughter is follow-
ing in Mother’s footsteps nursing at
Royal Melbourne. Which goes to show
that the fighting spirit persists in the
families of the first A.I.F. Mrs. Scott
Murphy has never let up on the book-
collecting from the word jump, and never
a transport sailed without at least one
box of books for the troops on board.
The Returned Army Nurses are now
linked in this work with the Australian
Comforts Fund.
The W. E. Pearceys are sighing with
relief over the latest news of daughter
Eileen Pearcey, now wife of Ramsay
Moon, of the British Ministry of Supply.
Eileen, husband and small son Felix went
through the worst of the Blitz, Eileen in
the perilous job of an A.R.P. warden. She
narrowly escaped a 20001 b. bomb while
evacuating children to Scotland. Now
she has joined the W.R.E.N.S., feeling
that she must do a full-time war job.
Painting, her earlier love, is not entirely
out of her mind, for she is exhibiting and
has already sold (rather a war-time feat!)
a picture in the International Exhibition
of the Royal Academy. She exhibited
last year also at the Academy, and has
the pleasure of knowing that half profits
from these shows goes to the Red Cross.
With husband Daryl, who is Director
of the National Gallery, Mrs. Daryl
Lindsay will have a part to play in this
community which should be much to her
liking. As a daughter of the late Mr.
Justice Weigall, she links up with that
widespread family which has distin-
guished itself in letters and art, as well
as in the law and medicine. From her
mother, a fine musician, she inherits her
taste in music, and she has lately been
very busy writing the Red Cross book,
which work was well and faithfully done.
Wherever the Daryl Lindsays live they
make a pleasant home, for home-making,
whether disguised as interior decorating
or art or just plain sense of comfort,
comes naturally to both the spouses. If
and when the Gallery trustees decide to
give Saturday-afternoon musicales and
lectures, Mrs. Daryl should be able to
help to make the functions informal and
friendly by aiding with bits and pieces
to decorate the Gallery.
Engagements and weddings between
confreres of the same profession are heard
of every day, and it is almost expected
that an appreciable part of the medical,
legal and similar professional bodies will
marry each other. This week saw a
dental marrying when Surgeon-Lieuten-
ant John Ellis Newton, R.A.N., and
Beatrice Woodcock, both ivory-snatchers,
as G.B.S. would say, made the usual
affirmations in Melbourne Grammar
chapel. They were students together at
the University and the Dental College,
and since her graduation Beatrice has
been attached to the Dental Clinic,
The election of Miss Elsa Grice, of
Macedon, as Woodend’s group president
of the C.W.A. will give still more work
of the kind she likes to an enthusiast for
the cause. One of Miss Grice’s pet pro-
jects has been the breeding of a special
dog for blind folk. This has meant
patience, for intelligence in dogs isn’t
altogether a matter of good luck and a
pedigree, but also owes much to training
in puppy days. The dogs, once trained,
make wonderful leaders of the blind, and
have a canniness which many humans
would like to think they also had in
dodging cars, bicycles and hysterical
pedestrians. The Country Women are
taking up a good share of the burden
of caring for evacuated children and
camouflage-net making, and their meet-
ings are an oasis in a desert of work
and solitude for many a farmer’s wife
whose boys are away fighting.
Women are showing an unexpectedly
businesslike sense in regard to evacuation
and a readiness to put aside romantic
notions about keeping each association
to itself which is highly commendable.
With demands for the co-ordination of
the Services running in their ears, naval
wives, headed by the brisk wife of Admiral
Royle, and members of the A.I.F.
women’s association have decided to ex-
pedite the work of evacuating service-
men’s families by combining their efforts.
They are not exactly waiting on evacua-
tion orders either, for they realised long
ago that many families would have a
much better spin in a country town than
in the big cities, and they have been able
to arrange for the transfer of dozens of
families to more or less rural surround-
ings, with electricity, schools and a few
other amenities handy. Now the two
bodies have decided to urge all women
with little children whose menfolk are
fighting to get out to the country while
it is easy and there is comparatively wide
choice of homes. Any A.I.F. or naval
wife who has the problem on her mind
could not do better than to call on Mrs.
E. F. Herring, the convenor of the Wel-
fare branch of the A.1.F., who has the
whole matter in hand, at her office at
Welfare House, 435 Collins-street, and
see what houses she has and other
advice and information.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Form reversals and demonstrations are
becoming prevalent again in Melbourne.
Velocity’s defeat of Havers and Mabson
in the St. Kilda Handicap at Flemington
on Saturday was the signal for hoots
from all sections of the course, the de-
monstrators finding it difficult to recon-
cile his success with his disappointing
displays in the Australian Cup and Flem-
ington Handicap on the preceding Satur-
days. He was backed from 12 to 1 down
to eights, hit the front just inside the last
furlong, and drew away to record his
first win since the Caulfield Cup.
• ••«••
Velocity carried 8.12, or 31b. more than
his Sydney Cup weight, but his trainer,
S. B. Ferguson, stated after the race that,
although nothing definite had been de-
cided, he thought it unlikely the horse
would visit Randwick. He ran unplaced
in the Sydney Cup last year. Primavera
and Status Quo, each of whom was on
trial for a Sydney trip, ran considerably
below expectations in the St. Kilda Han-
dicap. Primavera was to have been sent
to Sydney this week for the Cup, but the
trip is off. She showed no dash, and her
trainer concluded that she must be feel-
ing the effects of recent racing. In seventh
position, however, she did better than
Status Quo, who beat only one horse
home.
• • • • • A
Velocity was the second leg of a win-
ning double for his trainer, Ferguson
having won earlier with Grain Trader.
Latter ran true to his winning form in
the Gibson Carmichael Stakes a week
earlier, and, although excuses were pos-
sible for Bobby Pearce and Refractive,
who filled the minor places, he impresses
as likely to develop into a really good
colt. By Harinero from Marcana, Grain
Trader, has proved a bargain at his year-
ling cost of 300gns. Two wins and two
thirds have yielded £950 in stakes alone.
Sun Flash, who races in the same
interests as the Australian Cup winner
Wise Counsel, recorded a runaway win
in the first Kooyong Welter. Backed
from fours to 5 to 2, he ran to the front
soon after the start, and wound up with
five lengths to spare from Leicester
Square, with Pauline third. A recent
change of luck for Sun Flash’s trainer,
R, Cameron, contrasts with the misfor-
tune which is dogging another former
jockey, W. Duncan. Latter saddled three
horses on Saturday, and each filled
second place—Bobby Pearce, Fur Trader
and Leicester Square. Tranquil Star,
trained by Cameron, was due to leave for
Sydney this week to complete her prepa-
ration for the Cup. She will probably
have her first race in the Chipping
Norton Plate, and will run in either the
Doncaster or the Autumn Plate on the
first day of the A.J.C. meeting.
Betting suggested that Fur Trader,
runner-up in the Newmarket, had a mort-
gage on the South Yarra Handicap, but,
although he finished gamely enough, Law
Student held him to half a length. Law
Student, who held a clear lead two fur-
longs from home, is a promising three-
year-old colt by Law Maker, and more
may be heard of him. Penaton shaped
fairly jn third place, and Watchguard
(fifth) did well enough to indicate a near-
future win over a distance beyond six
furlongs.
Highland March, the most improved
fencer in training, took his record to
4Jr wins from his last six starts when he
carried 12.6 to success in a sensational
race for the Gordon Steeplechase.
Generous Gesture, equal favorite with
Highland March, fractured a shoulder
when he fell at the third fence in the
lane, and was destroyed. Stewards ques-
tioned the running of Benduli, who fin-
ished strongly in third place, but decided
to take no action. Meenan, who rode
Highland March, has hung up a remark-
able Flemington record this season. His
last 14 rides at headquarters have yielded
10 wins and a dead-heat for first.
* * * *
An attendance of 9000 at Rosehill was
satisfactory, and with large fields for
eight races visitors received full value
for their admission money. Veiled
Threat, in the Rydalmere Mile, was the
only successful favorite.
Flying Knight had the Westmead
Handicap won from the half-mile post.
John Halifax made a run in the straight,
but without the slightest chance of over-
hauling the black, who did not incur a
penalty for the Liverpool Handicap, in
which he will be a tough proposition with
8.12. Kamo’s third gave her prospects
of an early win. Rimveil looked above
himself, and Evergreen made a disappoint-
ing showing even allowing he was un-
lucky early in the race, Martheus, from
an outside position, had to be hard ridden
to get with the leading division before
reaching the home turn, and that left
him without an effort in the straight.
Nightbeam’s fourth pointed to him as
being worth backing when he next runs
in a race longer than six furlongs, and
Qui Va La is worth keeping in mind for
a minor handicap.
Taking charge after going halfway in
the Club Handicap Stylish won easily
from Metallize and Jymjon. The only
other runner that looked like troubling
Stylish was her stable-companion Mortine,
but she weakened after being second to
the turn. After making a forward move
in the straight Merrimba tired in the last
furlong, and a mile and a quarter is
seemingly beyond him. Steal On cannot
stay, and though Triggerman showed he
had not lost his pace he needs more
racing to bring him to his best. Some of
the others ran no better than their start-
ing prices suggested was likely, though,
of course, they may have been doing
their best.
Silver Crown’s race of the previous
week, a couple of subsequent sprints
and a stronger rider effected marked im-
provement in him. At Randwick he beat
few in a field of 20, but in the first divi-
sion of the Juvenile Stakes on Saturday
he scored in the manner of a really good
colt, always being in a forward position,
and staying too well for War Effort, who
led into the straight. Angel’s bad post
position was against her, and she never
looked more than a minor-place getter.
Marwin, who was a strong course tip,
ran fairly, as did Tralena. Streamford
(Midstream-Social, a sister to Talking)
was credited with being a galloper above
the average, but he did not uphold that
idea. Silver Crown, who won his division
in a half-second faster time than Main
Topic recorded in the second one, is a
brother to Rylstone and was a 550gns.
yearling.
Man o’ War appeared to have the
second division of the Juvenile Stakes
won a furlong from home, but, lugging
in, was beaten on the post by Main
Topic, who drew the extreme outside
position at the starting-post, and after
being a long way back at one stage was
lucky in getting a run on the rails in the
straight. Oriole, who ran third, was
always prominent, and Crystal (Talking-
Glass Bowl), Ayarpee (Brueghel-Susie)
and Zeta (Winooka - Rosecora) are
promising gallopers. Main Topic, who
is by Talking from Germain (Corban-
Lady Pop) cost 240gns. as a yearling.
Catch Up took charge early in the
Encourage Handicap, and won at his ease
from the Queensland colt Moondarewa,
who was again heavily backed. Alert-
ful finished well to get third, while
Brumaire, as usual, ran below his track
form. White Feather and Shogun are
improving. Catch Up’s 1.52 for nine
furlongs compared favorably with
Stylish’s 2.6 for ten in the Club Handi-
cap,
Veiled Threat, with Munro as his
rider, put in a strong finish to win the
Rydalmere Handicap. Half a furlong
from home there seemed a chance of
either Amiable or It’s Funny beating
him, but at the winning-post he was
going away from them. Brazen Lad,
in fourth place, did sufficiently well to
suggest a win for him should not be
long in coming, and Beaucaire and Monte
Cristo also ran respectably. Rylstone
dropped right out after being first round
the home turn, and Chatham’s Choice
was among the well-beaten lot. As luck
in running did not favor him It’s Funny
ran a rattling race.
The Rawson Stakes should be a most
interesting race, and though the scale of
weights as compared with most of his
probable Doncaster opponents favors
High Caste he will be set a stiff task.
His track work has been light since his
return to Sydney, but though he looks
none the worse for the racing he did in
Melbourne it cannot be overlooked that
his last couple of efforts over there were
below expectations. As compared with
the Doncaster, horses in the Rawson
Stakes will drop as follows: High Caste
131 b., Beau Vite 91b., Rimveil 71b., Beau-
livre 61b. and Yaralla 101 b. Evergreen
will have 61b. and Amiable and Whisper
Low 71b. more each than in the Don-
caster. Figures therefore say most for
High Caste and Yaralla, and, as the latter
is working brilliantly, this race, even
though the distance is a furlong further,
should give him a better chance of suc-
cess than the Doncaster with 9.0, which
is 111 b. more than he carried when he
won the Villiers.
• * * *
Veiled Threat has won at a mile and
a half at Randwick, but in neither the
Sydney Cup, Metropolitan nor Tatter-
sail’s Cup acquitted himself in a fashion
that said a great deal for him as a stayer.
As he is only four years old, there should
be a possibility of improvement in that
respect. It has appeared in print that
his future efforts may principally be con-
fined to welter races, which are gener-
ally run at a mile, but in the Warwick
Autumn Handicap he is certainly deserv-
ing of another trial as a stayer. In 8.3
he has 21b. less than he carried in the
Metropolitan, and 51b. less than when
fifth in Tattersall’s Cup. It is doubtful
whether the field for the Warwick Farm
race will be particularly strong, and £570
first money is well worth trying for,
especially as failure should tend to more
lenient treatment in subsequent races.
* * * *
Betting is particularly light on the
Doncaster and Sydney Cup double, and
on Monday the most fancied horses
were:
DONCASTER HANDICAP.
Rimveil.
The Miller, Evergreen, High Caste.
Beaulivre, Yaralla, Beau Vite.
SYDNEY CUP.
Beau Vite
Pantler.
Dashing Cavalier, Dewar, Tranquil Star.
Primavera, Veiled Threat.
« * * *
Excuses were forthcoming for Ever-
green after the Westmead Handicap, but
there is no getting away from the fact
that he did not run well. In the spring
Evergreen’s best form was at seven fur-
longs and further. On exactly Doncaster
terms —8.8 and 10.1 —he ran High Caste
to a head at six furlongs in the Chal-
lenge Stakes, but there is reason for sup-
posing that he is now better suited by
a longer distance. Never a very smart
beginner, the probabilities are against his
improving in that respect with age.
Therefore a mile might now be much
more to his liking than anything shorter.
In my opinion, his failure of Saturday
has not lessened his Doncaster chance,
and it would be as well to await his
showing in his next race or two before
condemning him.
A protest by trainers against the sweep-
stakes imposed for various races at next
Rosehill meeting was not surprising.
Assuming there had been a sweepstake
of £lO on the Westmead Handicap last
Saturday that would have meant owners
putting up £2lO against the club’s £2OO.
With the addition of entrance and accept-
ance fees and jockey’s losing fee of £2,
the cost of competing for that race would
have been unduly heavy. Sweepstakes
seem the best solution of keeping fields
within bounds, but they should not be
made so stiff as to confine racing prac-
tically to moneyed men.
* * * *
The Miller’s recent failure at Rand-
wick did not dispose of him as a possi-
bility for coming important races at
that track. He looked above himself,
and his brilliant finish with 7.12 when
he won the Carrington Stakes must be
remembered in his favor. He has 8.7
in the Liverpool Handicap, but is up to
weight. The Doncaster with 8.5 might
suit him even better. As mentioned else-
where, Flying Knight must be given a
great chance in the Liverpool Handicap,
and others entering into calculations are
Panchio and Soho. Evergreen, if started,
is also sure to find backing. He has 21b.
more than when second in the Challenge
Stakes, and Panchio, third in that race,
again has 7.12. Soho was an acceptor
for the Westmead Handicap last Satur-
day, but was one of those put out in
the ballot. He has not raced since the
Challenge Stakes, in which he was un-
placed after striking a lot of trouble.
« * * *
Trainer G. F. Gorrie, with five of the
20 starters, was strongly represented
numerically in the second division of the
Rosehill Juvenile Stakes, but he did not
supply a placegetter. At Hawera (M.L.)
last month Gome’s figures were beaten
by trainer R. Brough, who supplied five
of the 15 starters for the Juvenile Handi-
cap. He got second with Corday. Inci-
dentally, the ballot at Rosehill gave J.
McCurley three in the two-year-old divi-
sion in which Gorrie had five. Of Mc-
Curley’s acceptors one did not start, but
some improvement in a ballot system that
gave two trainers eight of 21 acceptors
for one division of a race is necessary.
* * * *
V.R.C. (Melbourne) is not introducing
any rule to deal with long programmes,
but is requesting suburban clubs to frame
their programmes so as to keep the num-
ber of their races within reasonable
limits.
* * * »
The total yearlings sold at auction in
America in 1941 was 1072, and they
averaged £A369, compared with £A36O
for 1258 the previous year.
# * * *
N.S.W. has a fair number of women
who race horses, mostly on lease-. In
the A.J.C.’s “Racing Calendar” for March
90 women figure as lessees or part-lessees.
Add to these the number who are actual
owners, and it would be safe to put the
number who race in N. S. Wales at well
over 100. Women have straightout or
partnership interests in 20 horses nomi-
nated for the next A.J.C. Derby.
* * * *
Pantler never ran better than when he
recently won a mile-and-a-quarter race
in 2.3 i at Randwick. Third in the 1939
Metropolitan and Melbourne Cup, and
third in the 1940 Metropolitan, proved
him a stayer, and as he does not look a
horse likely to be troubled by 7.10 over
a distance nothing engaged in the Syd-
ney Cup reads better at this stage. Beau
Vite is a high-class stayer, but in 9.11
he has more than has been successfully
carried since The Barb’s 10.8 in 1869.
* * * *
Yaralla is good, but in order to win
the Doncaster he will have to do
even better than in the past. He has 61b.
over weight-for-age, and 9.0 is a steadier
for a three-year-old, notwithstanding that
Valicare won at that age with 8.9. Beau-
livre ran a great race with 8.7, as did
Rimveil last year with 8.6. As a three-
year-old Mildura also ran in a Doncaster
with 7.7, and finished nowhere. Jacko,
in 1932, was the last three-year-old to
win a Doncaster, and he had only 6.10,
the lowest weight successfully carried
since Hem scored with 6.7 in 1919. In
the last 20 years there have been nine
winners with weights ranging from 8.10
to 10.4, the latter being Chatham’s im-
post,
# V » *
Some American figures: In America
last year the most successful owner was
Warren Wright with a world’s record
of 475,091 dollars (£A144,506). ; . .Hirsch
Jacobs, with 123 winners, was the leading
trainer for the eighth time in the last
nine years, but in prize-money his horses
won only about one-third the amount
credited Ben Jones, who trains for
Warren Wright The most successful
jockey was Don Meade, with 210 wins
from 1164 mounts. J. Adams was second
with 193, and J. Arcaro rode winners of
229,975 dollars The principal winning
horses were Whirlaway, £A81,970; Big
Pebble, £A48,000 ; Mioland, £A38,175 ;
and Alsab, £A33,212... .Blenheim 11,
with a little over £A 115,000, led the sires.
Australian boxing furnished two sur-
prises last week. At Leichhardt (Syd-
ney) Bill Fadden clearly outpointed Ron
McLaughlin, to whom the Stadium people
had presented the welterweight cham-
pionship ; and in Melbourne Les Fitz-
gerald got all over Mickey Miller, though
he finished with a damaged “duke.” Next
to Patrick, Fitzgerald, a Sydney lad, is
the most promising lightweight in the
business.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
(Before acceptances.)
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Carlisle Trial Hurdle: Wind-
jammer, 1 ; Belvoir, 2 ; Allanius, 3.
Kilmorey Trial: Great Peak, 1 ;
Radama, 2 ; Foxhow, 3.
Tankerville Handicap: Bobby
Pearce, 1 ; Haros, 2 ; Amazed, 3.
Eclipse Handicap: Wheat Sheaf,
1 ; Law Student, 2 ; Penaton, 3.
Belhaven Handicap: Havers, 1 ;
Hestia, 2; Heart’s Desire, 3.
Grafton Welter: Queen Baccha,
1 ; Pannade, 2; Mollie Con, 3.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Soho, 1 ; Pannett, 2 ; Wellesley
or Breezy Boy, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Man o’ War,
1 ; Main Topic, 2; Movitta or
Afloat, 3.
Rawson Stakes: Yaralla, 1 ; High
Caste, 2 ; Beau Vite, 3.
Railway Handicap: Overbold, 1;
Romero, 2 ; Panchio, 3.
Rosehill Autumn Handicap:
Metallize, I ; Pantler, 2 ; Stylish, 3.
Parramatta Handicap: Brazen
Lad, 1 ; My Friend, 2; Lord
Valentine, 3.


tyiahiina tyoteeA.
muAt c&meWi&t
w*
When you have difficulty in obtaining Gillette Blades,
please realise that men of the fighting forces must come first.
You can double the life of your Gillette Blades by treating
them gently. Make a habit of unwrapping the blade care-
fully not tearing it out of the envelope. Handle the
blade at the ends not by the cutting edge. After use,
rinse in clean water and dry gently on a smooth towel.
The fine, electrically tempered cutting edge of the Gillette
Blade will respond to such care by giving you keen shaving
twice as long.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., xBi Clarence Street, Sydney.
THE Mo. 150 DEEP-SEATED
KEMP —
IN ALL KIP LEATHER.
*
as
£9/15/3
(MOUNTED)
This saddle is
very good
value. It has
Kemp pads,
deep seat,
good long
pads and
short panel with leather
points.
N.S. W. freight on saddler
paid for cash with order.
MALTHER * STEVENSON
I 39S CEORCE ST. SYPWEV
ADVICE TO MOTHERS
Mothers—if your children are constipated
give them relief this simple, pleasant way!
To-night give them NYAL FIGSEN, the
gentle, natural laxative. No need to coax
or scold ... Figsen is easy and pleasant to
take. It won’t upset little tummies. In the
morning Figsen acts ... gently, thoroughly
and effectively. No griping pain,no nausea;
just an easy, comfortable action. NYAL
FIGSEN is just as good for adults as it is
for youngsters. Sold by chemists every-
where. l/3i a tin.
The next best thing to N nU, re . . .
My ai Figsen
FOR CONSTIPATION
SPECIAL, NOTICE.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Is not just a modified closet pan but a complete self-contained sanitary system
in itself. All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and automatically
runs off and is absorbed in the soil. No water supply required.
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OE HEALTH AND IS FULLY GUARANTEED.
Many other chemical systems have come and gone during past years, but the
sturdiness, efficiency and longevity of the Hygeia Dissolvenator are beyond dispute.
NO SMELLS. NO ELIES. NO GERMS.
No emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
Price, £l7/17/6, E.O.R. SYDNEY, includes 10% Sales Tax.
Plus 20/- war surcharge. Crating (if necessary) 10/6 extra.
WRITE OR TELEPHONE EOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd.KS2fSS I!T ’ SYBMY -
Obtainable direct from us or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers 00-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Go., Ltd., Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
Not Appropriate.
“She stoutly denied having referred to her
husband as a worm.” — Divorce item.
“I never made use of that term!”
She proceeded with vigor to state.
“He couldn’t be classed as a worm,
For a worm can be useful as bait!”
T. W. N.
»|« *|« •£•
“American blues singer Helen Morgan was
recently married sitting on a piano—the way
she warbled to fame.”— “World's News.”
Well, why make a song about that?
It’s the husband who’ll face the music.
4* 4*’ 4* 4°
“Another correspondent follows my recipe
more or less, but she soaks the rice overnight
and oils it next morning.”— Woman’s paper.
After all, there’s nothing more annoy-
ing than a rice pudding that squeaks!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The rationing of dress material will mean
shorter skirts and more leg display.”
—Sunday paper.
Who said that war is hell!
4* 4* •*> 4*
Getting a Pasting.
Grandad doesn’t know it, but he was
the first casualty bagged by the Japs in
Sydney.
He visits us periodically to tell us that
the present generation consists of a low-
down, lazy lot of hounds.
The wife insisted on having the slips
of paper with which we were shatter-
proofing our windows put on artistically.
I was all for following in the wake of
modern art: slap ’em on anyhow and
leave the public guessing.
Grandad barged into the argument,
bristling and roaring. He was going to
show us how he did things when he was
a young feller. When he cannoned into
the step-ladder I did my best to save the
large pudding bowl of paste from going
over. But had he been measured for
it it couldn’t have fitted more neatly
over his head.
And right across the bottom of that
bowl were inscribed the three reproach-
ful words “Made in Japan!”
Don McM.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Rodin was in many ways a remarkable
sculptor. Often he would cease work on an
important life-size and spend a few days on
a bust.” — Radio talk.
And, after the top of his head stopped
lifting, he’d wrap a wet towel around it
and get on with the job again.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Whether your guests are staying for a day
or a week, you should do everything possible
to make them feel at home.”— Woman’s paper.
Instead of wishing they were.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. and Mrs. have just returned from
a holiday on the southern tableland, where they
starved at a fashionable guest-house.”
—Suburban paper.
Well, do they think they’re unique?
•2* #2* oj#
The Catch.
“When the glamor of marriage goes, try to
fall in love all over again.”— Woman’s paper.
The glamor went, as glamor will. The
fires of love grew rather chill. And so
he tried, with speed and skill, to give to
Love new life. That’s where he made his
big mistake. Divorce-costs now give him
an ache. The catch is: When new love
you wake—it’s got to be your wife !
E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Some of these ash blondes have a very
burnt-up appearance,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The pelican is a natural-born fisherman.”
— “World’s News.”
An overstatement. While admitting its
ability to remain still for hours at a time,
whoever saw a pelican holding a bottle
to its mouth?
Definitions.
“She had no objection when he said he was
going to a ‘buck party.’ A couple of weeks
later he said he was going to a ‘stag party.’
He came home very drunk.”— Divorce report.
Just note the difference, all you
Who in your knowledge swagger:
Buck parties are where men buck up —
A stag is where they stagger.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Only the ‘Sunday Telegraph’ can give you
‘Time.’ ’’—Radio advt.
Gaol inmates will resent this.
it 4* 4" 4* 4*
“Those who favor planting seedlings can go
in for Iceland poppies, stocks and wallowers.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
Wallowers should be given plenty of
water.
The Art of Filling -in.
I always find filling-in forms weari-
some. Invariably, too, I find, after com-
pleting one, that I have put the birth date
in the suburb column or my occupation
as natural-born” or “two dependent
children.” So when I got the latest one
concerning my identity I decided to seek
the assistance of the department dealing
with it. Approaching a desk, I saw a
man sitting at a counter on which was
a legend; “Inquiry Clerk.”
“Are you the Inquiry Clerk?” I asked
politely.
This gave him the opening for a come-
back like “No—l’m an orchestra-leader
w'aiting for the second oboe to arrive” ;
but he didn’t take it. Instead, he went
on doodling with a pen on the blotting-
pad and grunted “Uh.”
“Well,” I said, “I want to see if I am
filling in this form the right way.”
He grunted and grabbed the form from
my hand.
“Why! You haven’t even started it
yet,” he commented.
“Well,” I said sharply. “Is there any
violent hurry? If they’ve waited two
and a half years a few more minutes
won’t”
He gave me a queer look, took a grip
on himself and his pen and interrupted
with a surly “What’s your name?”
“Montmorencie,” I replied.
“M-o-n-t-m-o-r-e-n-c-y,” he spelled
out as he wrote ; “that’s right, I sup-
pose?”
“Well,” I said, “actually it isn’t. You
see, we spell it with an ‘i-e.’ ”
He threw the form to the floor, grabbed
another, glared at me and wrote the
amended name in large block letters.
“And what’s your Christian name?” he
barked.
“That is my Christian name,” I
answered. “At least, my first one. Mont-
morencie Edgar Switherhurst-Gulbobble.”
“Why didn’t you say so at first?” he
gritted bitterly as he reached for another
form. “How do you spell ‘Gulbobble?’ ”
I spelt it out for him, and he wrote i*
down, again in large block letters “Now
let s get it straight this time,” he went on.
Your Christian names are Montmorencie
—with an i-e -Edgar Switherhurst. How
do you spell Sw”
“Switherhurst isn’t a Christian name”
I s .P surname, which
is hyphenated—Switberhurst-Gulbobble.”
•i m .i, SUI f e ii the !' e u as something wrong
with the fellow’s blood pressure, for his
neck seemed to swell and go a dark puce
as he> cashed the form to the floor and
grabbed another. There was a rather wild
look in his eye as he demanded to know
how I spelt Switherhurst.
I told him. I was just about to chide
him for his wastefulness and inefficiency
when he broke in with “Where do you
live?”
“With my wife’s mother,” I replied.
“But where ?” he gritted.
“At her place, of course—where else?”
I replied.
“But what suburb?” he shouted.
“Well,” I said, “as a matter of fact,
it’s on the border of Five Dock and
Drummoyne. It’s rather vague, as,
although it s in the Drummoyne munici-
pality, the letters go to Five Dock post
office. She shifted there from Bondi last
November because the sea air didn’t
agree”
“Yes, yes,” he said testily. “What street
does she live in?”
“Well, actually, she doesn’t live in a
street l said.
“What the hell does she live in—a pad-
dock?” he asked.
“No —a road, Lyons-road.”
He swallowed hard. “Got a number?”
he pursued.
I drew myself up. “Are you insinuat-
ing that my wife’s mother’s a convict?”
I demanded. “She has certainly not got
a number. Her name is Mrs. Snork.”
“Look,” he exploded. “To hell with
your wife’s mother! I’m talking about
the house.”
“Well,” I explained, “it has no
number. The name is ‘Emoh Ruo.’ ”
He wrote it down.
“Actually,” I said, “we have half the
house. Our half is ‘Emoh’ and the wife's
mother’s half is ‘Ruo.’ You see, we only
stop there at week-ends. During the
week, for convenience of my work, I
stop at a place at Hurstville. My wife
has a flat at Double Bay. We”
“Listen!” he interrupted, savagely bit-
ing a large piece out of his pen-handle.
“There’s a queue of sixty people waiting.
Can’t you come back again next week
if the Reception House doesn’t swallow
you up in the meantime?”
“Certainly,” I said. “It’s only a form,
after all. I’ll be back next Wednesday
to finish it.”
(And I will.)
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Women Cooks
A move, doubtless started by some
feminist body and gathering momentum
as it goes, is “Let women do the cook-
ing in the army and there won’t be so
much waste,”
Before anyone falls for that let me in
with 10 years’ experience in the humble
calling of garbage collector. Any Mon-
day morning I tipped into the municipal
cart enough food to have kept a bat-
talion rationed, even on the present
generous scale of quantity and variety.
Partly consumed joints of meat, half and
even complete loaves of bread, raw and
cooked vegetables, remnants of pudding,
custard, cake, pickles, sandwich trim-
mings, rotting fruit, badly-opened jam
and condensed-milk tins containing
enough to make a week’s banqueting for
all the flies and ants about the place.
With the exception of houses carrying
such names as “Scotia” and “Inverness,”
I’d find enough waste to provision a
frugal family. With the addition of
an occasional bag of wheat, I kept a
fair-sized flock of poultry on what I
retrieved before committing the balance
to the incinerator.
That occurred, not in an upper-ten
locality, where every household had a
hired cook, but in an industrial suburb
where the cooking was done by the wage-
earner’s wife, who bought the grub out
of her weekly allowance. Don’t tell me
those same women, wearing army over-
alls, with raw materials laid on and extras
for the asking, would be less wasteful
than men, many of whom learned their
job in a hard school —in mining camps,
shearing sheds and on tramp steamers. —
Mac (N.S.W.).
Aid to Russia
“A.P.D.” (B. 18/2/’42) finds it “diffi-
cult to understand The Bulletin’s atti-
tude towards Aid to Russia.” Most old
soldiers would find it much more diffi-
cult to understand how “one who spent
four years in the first A.1.F.” can ignore
so pointedly the fate of our lads in the
Asiatic theatre of war. About the time
that “A.P.D.” was writing “on any battle-
field the troops in one spot must hold on
while others attack and make a bid for
victory,” the impossibility of doing either
of these things was being cruelly experi-
enced by our men at Singapore, as in
Greece and Crete.
“A.P.D.” chiding The Bulletin,
claims that he sees the war “as one
gigantic whole.” What he fails to
see is that, as far as Australia
is concerned, it may soon be one
gigantic mess if our soldiers continue to
be asked to “hold on” under conditions
where holding on is impossible. The
morale of an army, as “A.P.D.” should
know, cannot be sustained indefinitely
on a basis of inevitable defeat. The
soldier, sooner or later, must be given
a fighting chance or he will lose his fight-
ing spirit, and when that happens the
loftiest ideals are useless.
All that The Bulletin has asked is
that Australian soldiers shall be given
at least as good a fighting chance as Rus-
sian soldiers. And that is justified by
military experience as well as by the
natural objection of Australians to an
Asiatic conquest of Australia or any part
of it, even though, in the words of
“A.P.D.,” “Britain and America will not
allow it longer than absolutely necessary.”
—J. W. R. (Tas.X
Churchill
Constant carping attacks on Mr.
Churchill are remarkably out of place
at a time like this. In B. 18/2/’42 there
is the absurd statement that the Churchill
Government is the greatest calamity that
Britain has had in the line of Govern-
ments since that of Lord North. What
about the Governments of Ramsay
MacDonald and Baldwin, which remained
in deep sleep while the armaments of
Germany piled up? What about the
Administration of Mr. Neville Chamber-
lain, which at long last opened one re-
luctant eye? But The Bulletin holds
it an unforgivable sin to say anything in
criticism of the late Mr. Chamberlain.
Mr. Churchill stands out as a tower
among the horde of mediocrities whom
British politics have produced over the
past 20 years. For years he was a voice
crying in the wilderness when he pointed
out the facts and dangers of German re-
armament. Today he is being blamed
for disasters the responsibility for which
should be sheeted home to previous Gov-
ernments. It has been the neglect of such
Governments that has been basically re-
sponsible for our disasters from Norway
to Singapore. Mr. Churchill’s own atti-
tude to the previous Chamberlain Gov-
ernment was “No recriminations.” Can-
not present-day critics of Mr. Churchill
be at least as generous as he was? —
E. I. S. (Q.).
A National Government
The Federal Government is apparently
taking advantage of this country’s present
peril to foist upon it a plank of the
Labor party’s platform—nationalisation
of banking, this, however, is not the
only direction in which the Government
is working. As a war measure anyone
with a spark of patriotism will not
quarrel with the steps taken to mobilise
man-power, wealth and industry, but
what is objectionable is that this was
brought about and is continued by a
purely party Government. Mr. Churchill
formed a national Government before
bringing about total mobilisation, and
President Roosevelt has several of his
political opponents in U.S. Cabinet posts,
including the Secretary of War and the
Secretary of the Navy.
Continuance of party politics while
there is total mobilisation is an affront to
the people of this continent, and the
sooner an all-party Government is placed
“Now I've explained EVERYTHING. Is there any little thing you don't
understand?”
“Yessir. How does it Work?”
in power the better for the country. This
is no time for party politics, and a con-
tinuance of present conditions is indecent
and undemocratic. We should have a
Government of the ablest men in the
land, whether in or out of Parliament,
including men who have served their
country in the services, who know what
is wanted and who are unselfish enough
to forget political ties—men who can
instil confidence in the people and who,
in turn, can be sure of the support of
the whole community.—A. J. Fell
(N.S.W.).
A Memory of 1918
In Lloyd George’s Truth About the
Peace Treaties a curious dialogue is
reported. Time, December, 1918 , place,
Downing-street; parties, members of the
War Cabinet’s Eastern Committee.
General Macdonogh: I see a good many
Zionists, and one suggested to me that it
the Jewish people did not get what they
were asking for in Palestine we should
have the whole of Jewry turning Bolshe-
vists and'* supporting Bolshevism in all the
other countries, as they have done in
Russia.
Lord Robert Cecil: Yes, I can con-
ceive the Rothschilds leading a Bolshevist
mob.
His lordship, I suppose, spoke sarcas-
tically. All the same, the attitude of the
Leftist Jew is not so very different today.
From that quarter came fervent support
for the “Russia First” policy, the results
of which we have seen in Malaya and
Singapore. Judging by his writings and
speeches, one particular hmehghter has
become more Russian than the Russians
themselves. While glorifying everything
Russian he has publicly sneered at the
British Navy and the R.A.F., though both
have securely protected his hide. — Jam-
wood (N.S.W.).
Rationing
The increasing probability of com-
modity rationing in Australia illustrates
the failure of Canberra’s pusillanimous
financial policy. Britain had to ration
food and clothing because the war made
it physically impossible to import suffi-
cient of these necessities. But our prob-
lem is due not so much to these diffi-
culties as to financial ones of our own
creating.
Since war production requires the
withdrawal of men and materials from
ordinary employment, the best method
of war finance is to take from the public
the spending power which it can no
longer usefully employ. Any other
policy implies an attempt to disguise the
need for reduced living standards. The
attempt cannot succeed, but will bring
additional troubles.
Thus, by relying on bank accommoda-
tion for part of its war expenditure, the
Government has allowed money to
become more plentiful than goods.
Accordingly, unless free spending is
stopped, prices will rise. It is for this
reason that rationing is mooted, for the
Government, having failed to drain away
surplus funds by sufficient taxation, must
immobilise them by not letting them be
spent.
Inflation-cum-rationing can thus be
made to work, but it will absorb a vast
quantity of clerical and administrative
labor which can ill be spared. As an
alternative to taxation it is dishonest, in-
efficient and a hindrance to the war effort.
—Col (N.S.W.). __
New Order
From the British Labor party’s post-
war programme:
Extension of social services to make
generous provision for workers and then
families retirement of older workers
with adequate P“™ en
dime ye a a g r e s after ’the end of the war, and
payment of a maintenance allowance to
parents whose children remained at school
... .A planned society must replace the old
competitive system.
The gigantic problems of reconstruc-
tion are thus to be solved by restricting
output. Stripped of her foreign invest-
merits—possibly even a debtor nation —
how is Britain to restore her shattered
industrial centres and regain her place
in a fiercely competitive world? Simply
by shortening at both ends the working
life of the people, by increasing the
burden of the unproductive and by sup-
pressing the system of private enterprise
which built up her industrial greatness!
Our own Mr. Ward, too, spoke his
piece about the same time. “I sincerely
believe in a new order, and I want, when
this war ends, to....give to the people
of Australia what they have never had—
social justice.” Here, again, the emphasis
is placed upon what is to be got out of
the new order. In both cases the ques-
tion ffi where the good things are to
come from is ignored or left to the magic
SK'* This is merely a fancy
name for Government control of pro-
duetton-the efficiency of which may be
judged by one of its latest examples, the
Apple and Pear Board.— Arc (N.S.W.).
The Social Column
a -
family behind her for the toati W and
willingly undertakes m 0^ t * ls | , p T
the only publicity our daily newswera
Imncement that they have arrived safely
their destination.
When Miss Rosemary Smythe de
nythe, the well-cashed daughter of a
ell-cashed family, gives a bridge tea for
ie Red Cross the social column gives
;r half a column of print complete with
icture and calls her “that well-known
ar worker.” The social column is mis-
lievous enough at any time ; in war it
often a positive insult. —D. (Q.).
eachere* Holidays
“Macßopus” (B. 25/2/’42) rightly con-
emns the N. S. Wales Government for
losing schools for an extra fortnight
fter the Christmas holiday, but why
lalign the teachers? The federation pro-
csted against the interruption in the
hildren’s tuition, but was overruled.
Judging from criticisms so often re-
lented the public is quite unaware that
luring the holidays hundreds of teachers
worked at some of the very tasks sug-
ested by “Macßopus.” Many lectured
o Air Force trainees; others marked
xamination papers of candidates for
arious war jobs; others filled sandbags
t the University and elsewhere; others
gain were engaged in preparing plans for
he evacuation of women and children.
Holidays are provided for teachers by
heir award, made by Judges who studied
ill the conditions of their employment,
md they are all the more necessary be-
:ause of the crowding of classes brought
ibout by enlistments. Even with the holi-
lays to which many uninformed persons
>bject, the percentage of nervous break-
lowns is higher in the teaching profes-
sion than in any except medicine. —
E. J. B. (N.S.W.).
Apples-Pears
I am an apple- and pear-grower in
Stanthorpe (Q.). With high operative
costs and small average yields Stanthorpe
growers produce only 2 p.c. of apples
and pears in the Commonwealth, season
lasting approximately two months.
Drought and frosts have cut our crops
by half this season.
From Jan. 27 to Feb. 7 I marketed 466
cases of apples and pears, realising £355
gross. Had these been sold independently
of the A. and P. Board, my agent would
have returned me £247. Actually, I re-
ceived from the board £l2l, or about
ss. a case, which means that the board
retained £126 of my money. Growers
selling privately under license from the
board pay a premium of 3d. a case to
the board. Having never catered for
private business, I am charged a
premium of ss. sd. a case.
What would Mr, Ward’s coalies
and wharfies do if the Govern-
ment retained half their wages?
—D. B. (Q.).
Astrology
Cannot something be done to combat
the remarkable recrudescence of this
superstition? Not only the unlettered and
the half-educated but so-called educated
men and women have allowed themselves
to be enmeshed in its mumbo-jumbo.
Children should be taught astronomy
in the primary schools from the lower
classes up. And in the higher standards
—fourth, fifth and sixth—astronomy
should be made a compulsory subject.
This would lay the groundwork for
future study, and the ordinary citizen
would be equipped with a scientific know-
ledge of the cosmos which would make
him immune from the drivel-doctors.
Unfortunately, astronomy is ignored by
the great mass of the people. Astrono-
mical lectures are always sparsely
attended. But when the last comet ap-
peared there was such a rush to one
observatory that the attendant could not
cope with the applicants who wanted to
“see” the comet. They were not scien-
tifically-minded, but were impelled by a
puerile curiosity.—H. M. (N.Z.).
Quinine in Contraceptives
Not long ago the Pharmaceutical Ad-
visory Sub-committee of the Medical
Equipment Control Committee (soriy!)
issued a memorandum on the economical
use of drugs. The committee classified
the drugs in four groups. The first con-
sists of essential drugs in which stiicl
economy must be observed, drugs in this
eroup to be used “for medicinal prepara-
tions'only.” Classified in this group arc
quinine and its derivatives.
Doubt arose as to the use of quinine
in contraceptives, and a ruling was sought.
The reply was to the effect that “unless
further notice is given, action is not con-
templated against that sell
quinine in these preparations.”
So I suppose we are to conclude that
use of quinine as a contraceptive is
reckoned as essential as its use as an
analgesic, as an antipyretic and as a
curative and prophylactic in mala rial,
enteric and other fevers! —K. D- (N.S.W.).


,
Ji
\jk :
Aianufacturers of
Wireless Appa for
THE NAVY
THE ARMY
THE AIR FORCE
GOVERNMENT DEPTS.
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CIVIL AVIATION
SHIP OWNERS
AIRLINES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALI A’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANI s” ATI O N
Buy War Savings Certificates
