

IWflft
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
VoL 63.—N0. 3266
Wednesday, September 16, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
BLENHEIM PALACE.
F the great ducal palaces of England, none drew
itself more attention during the second World
War than the noble pile, the gift of the nation to the
first Duke of Marlborough, in recognition of his
great victory at Blenheim in 1704 when “he saved
Europe” and brought to a close the war of the Spanish
Succession, caused by an ambition on the part of the
French royal house which, it was held, would have
reduced Europe, or the Western section of it, to the
position of a French Vassalage. The site of the Battle
of Blenheim was, in the Nazi thrust for world
dominion, placed again in war’s arena, as the Bavarian
village lies on the Danube, a river fateful in history. The
building, regarded as the masterpiece of the architect,
Sir John Vanburgh, and towards the erection of which
Parliament voted £500,000, stands in a park of 2750
acres which is 12 miles in circuit. The father of the
hero of Blenheim was a Sir Winston Churchill, and
the present Prime Minister is a son of the second son
of the Bth Duke, hence Blenheim may be regarded
much in the light of his ancestral home. As to the
artistic merits of the palace, opinions have everjaesn
hopelessly at variance. The style is Italo-Corinthian.
The usual approach is through a triumphal arch
whence is presented a striking view of the mansion,
in front of which stands a sculptured column, 130 ft.
high, surmounted by a statue of the duke, whose
victories and achievements are recorded on tablets
round the base. The front of the palace is 348 ft. from
wing to wing. A few words as to the magnificent
interior: The hall, supported by Corinthian pillars, is
67ft. high, the design of the painting on the ceiling,
the work of Sir James Thornhill, representing Victory
crowning the duke. The gallery and bow window
rooms abound in portraits by the most eminent
masters, foreign and British; on the tapestry of the
latter room are figured tfre battles gained by the duke,
especially that of Blenheim. The saloon, which com-
municates with the hall, occupies the entire breadth
of the centre. The lower part is lined with marble,
and six of its compartments are decorated with pic-
tures by Le Guerre, depicting the inhabitants of the
different nations of the world in appropriate costumes.
On the ceiling is a representation by the same artist
of the victorious duke arrested in his career by Peace
and Time. Other apartments greatly admired by the
visitor are the library, theatre, state drawing-room,
blue-and-green drawing-room, grand cabinet, dining-
room and dressing-room, a description of which,
including pictures, statues, grand articles of vertue
and splendid furniture, would require a volume. In
the chapel, forming one of the wings, is a fine marble
monument by Rysbrack to the great duke and his
almost equally celebrated duchess, Sarah. The gardens
are wonderful, and the plantations are said to represent
the positions of the troops on the battlefield of Blen-
heim. The following appears, with other epitaphs on
the great Duke of Marlborough, in “A Guide to Blen-
heim and Woodstock,” published at Oxford in 1757:?
(From the Latin.)
“The grateful antients him a god declar’d
Who wisely counsell’d or who bravely wan'd;
Hence Greece her Mars and Pallas deify’d,
Made him the hero, her the patriot’s guide;
Antients, within this urn a mortal lies:' —
Show me his peer among your deities.”


Learn
at HOWE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
JUNGLE WOMAN.
Somebody should write a book aboui
Taronga Park zoo. Somebody shoulc
write a book about Koala Park. Anc
then one wouldn’t have to pick up Belle
J. Benchley’s My Life in a Man Made
Jungle (Faber) with the reflection tha
here’s a delightful book about the San
Diego zoo, Louis McNeice wrote a de
lightful one*about London zoo, but Aus
tralians, when they want a holiday from
creative writing, turn out evanescent pam-
phlets about reforming the world; or
if zoos are beneath the notice of the pro-
fessional writers, that we don’t get nearly
enough lively documentary books from
Australian amateurs.
There was, of course, Elyne Mitchell’s
Australian Alps, but that was one ray ol
light in a long winter. Even lon Idriess,
for years the stalwart of Australian
documentary writing, has taken to grind-
ing sut pamphlets on guerrilla warfare.
Woe the day! The intention, no doubt,
is laudable ; but it is also patriotically
laudable to write books about Australia.
And there are such lamps as Literature
and Entertainment to be kept burning.
Except for a few necessary differences
in the animals that could be observed
(Sydney, for instance, not counting
Idriess’s new friends, has no gorilla),
My Life in a Man Made Jungle might
just as well have been written of Taronga
instead of San Diego. Anyone could
have observed and anyone with only a
moderate literary ability set down the very
natural reactions of a male chimpanzee
to the sight of its first child:
When this apparition was first glimpsed
by its father, across the area between the
two cages, Timmie’s angry amazement knew
no bounds. He raged, shook his cage, and
beat upon the floor with his bare feet.
Then fie seized a big brass cowbell and
pushed it round and round the floor with
ever-increasing speed, howling and shrieking
in frustrated temper and despair.
Animals, after all, are only human.
Belle Benchley makes her apes and
monkeys extraordinarily interesting.
There is an excellent story of a monkey
mother who kept her child tied, as it
were, to her apron strings by holding
on to his tail all day so that he should
not run away and get into trouble —
whereupon the father took a hand,
snatched the young one from her grasp,
set him running and climbing about the
cage and made a man of him. And
another good one, pathetic, but an ex-
cellent example of that monkey intelli-
gence one calls, for the sake of human
dignity, “instinct”: two or three times
in succession a monkey mother drowned
her newborn offspring ; thinking, when
they had acquitted her of mere homici-
dal mania, that the young ones must
have been sick or deformed, and that the
instinct of racial preservation was at
work to inspire the killings, the keepers
held a post-mortem; but the dead infant
was without blemish ; then it occurred to
them to examine the mother, and they
found that she could not give the young-
ster its proper milk supply; sooner than
see her young ones starve, she had merci-
fully destroyed them. There is also an
account of the two gorillas, Mbongo and
Ngagi, cowering in terror at the sight of
a tortoise that crawled past their cage,
and this description of their reaction to
the monster at close quarters:
I sat down on the jutting foundation of
the cage and, putting the tortoise on the
ground between my feet, held it there where
they could not see it. Mbongo immediately
came over and tried to see where it had
gone. Failing, he climbed up on to the
lower shelf and then to one just above my
head. When he reached this shelf, I picked
up the tortoise and held it in my lap, touch-
ing it with my finger and holding my hand
up to him. But he would not permit me to
touch him with that hand. Meanwhile Ngagi,
too, had come near us, but Mbongo was
too engrossed to notice his approach. Ngagi
reached up and touched him lightly on the
leg. With a scream of terror he leaped
backwards clear over Ngagi, landing in a
heap four or five feet from the corner of
the cage, k was the one and only time I
have ever heard such a scream or seen a
gorilla jump.
All in her “man made jungle,” Belle
Benchley has seen these jumping gorillas ;
and seals escaping in a flood to sail into
the main street of a town ; and ravens
fighting a gallant battle for the sake of
their young with great birds of prey;
and a cheetah fainting at the sight of an
ape and only just summoning up suffi-
cient courage to look upon a camel; and
a companionship that would have de-
lighted Lewis Carroll between a walrus
and a keeper:—
When the last clam was gone, she would
wipe her moustache on the skirt of her
keeper’s smock, close her eyes, drop her
head against him and go to sleep. Once
when Marie was at the lowest ebb of her
babyhood sickness, the keeper was discov-
ered far in the night sitting on a pile of
salt sacks fast asleep. Marie was stretched
close to him, his arm was over her neck,
and her whiskers were pressed against the
leg of his trousers. She, too, was fast
asleep.
"Inverted Bowdlerism."
Among much that is pleasant in Pro-
fessor Sinclaire’s essays Lend Me Your
Ears (Caxton Press, Christchurch, N.Z.)
—a note, for instance, on the pleasure of
not reading Karl Marx —there is one
critical theory of really vital importance.
I raise the banner against a pose which
has for some time now been one of the
major calamities of our literature —the pose
of inverted Bowdlerism.
“Inverted Bowdlerism” —a beautiful
phrase ! This is what Professor Sinclaire
means: Bowdlerism is the self-concious
omission from literature, on moral
grounds, of all the “facts of life” thought
unpleasant; inverted Bowdlerism is
the self-conscious inclusion, on moral
grounds, of all the facts of life which, if
not necessarily offensive to contemporary
sophistication, might still be taken for
granted in literature as they are in life.
The professor is not attacking realism,
but that overemphasised realism which
is just as false to life as writing that
shirks reality.
He would probably agree that Dickens’s
shameless pandering to Bowdlerism in
The Pickwick Papers is an affront to com-
monsense, an irritation to the reader and
an insult to art; he would agree that to
make every character, every time he finds
himself alone with a woman, run for the
lick of his life, is unpardonably Vic-
torian ; that Fielding was right when he
made Tom Jones a realistic picaresque
and Dickens wrong when he made The
Pickwick Papers a Bowdlerised picar-
esque. But he wishes to point out that
it is just as much of an affront to the
common understanding, an irritation to
learned professors and an insult to art
when the contemporary inverted Bowd-
lerism makes its super-realism into a
moral crusade.
Here one of the young lions of contem-
porary criticism elucidates my point with
a truculent roar. There is a way to do it,
he says in effect, and a way not to do it.
Supposing, for example, that the poet’s
theme is death: Baudelaire has shown us
how to do it, and Tennyson how not to do
it. The French poet describes a woman’s
dead body infested with flies and vermin ;
but in all the hundred cantos of “In
Memoriam,” as our critic puts it with some
asperity, the English dastard has not once
given us such a picture of his friend
Hallam.
With his naive pronouncement, Mr.
Eliot’s cat is out of the bag, and with it
the whole menagerie of fearful wild fowl
which drag on a shadowy subsistence in
the pages of some modern poets, like the
insubstantial ghosts in Homer’s underworld.
One had long felt of those little creatures
that their bark was worse than their bite,
that those rats and lice smelt of the lamp,
and those worms were only bookworms.
Our ingenuous young critic has as good
as told us that all such beasties are period
decorations, as indispensable to the making
of a modern poem as nymphs and turtle-
doves to an eighteenth century pastoral.
Tennyson has contravened the unwritten law.
It is no excuse to say that in his preoccupa-
tion with science and religion and a per-
sonal sorrow, he forgot the vermin. Besides,
the plea would be false. He did not forget
them. He omitted them.
One might be tempted to the quick
retort “Well, he should not have omitted
them! If that is the truth about death,
let us have it. The followers of Baude-
laire are right. Tennyson and his men
are wrong.” But are the horrors the
final and enduring truth about death?
In fact they are not. Decay is a tem-
porary phase. Baudelaire caught the tem-
porary horror, Tennyson the enduring
sorrow that makes “In Memoriam”
almost intolerably tragic to read even
today, when both Tennyson and Hallam
have long been dust.
So Professor Sinclaire is right. He
does not suggest that Baudelaire should
not have written his poem, nor that, in
itself, it is false. But he does suggest
that it is a literary falsehood to insist on
repeating Baudelaire’s poem as the ulti-
mate and only truth about death.
Searching for further illustrations of
his theory, Professor Sinclaire has hit on
the poet Auden:
A while ago, to occupy the leisure of a
sea voyage, I amused myself with a little
piece of research. I took a small represen-
tative collection of recent books, and made
for ea.ch of them a select index and glos-
sary. One of these books was a collection
of letters, in which the foremost of our
younger English poets professes to describe
a visit to Iceland. In the course of a not
very long book, the author records eleven
visits to what he calls lavatories.
The professor is not going to make the
mistake of morally reproving the poet
for mentioning such a subject. The point
is this:
Now I suppose that details of that sort
are of no interest whatever to the adult
reader, and I cannot believe that they are
of any interest to the writer. They are
merely the author’s credentials. They are
the homage which, in the ritual of inverted
Bowdlerism, gentility pays to hooliganism.
Professor Sinclaire doesn’t seem to have
struck Auden’s later journeys or surely
he would have reported, as the Red Page
did of Auden and Isherwood’s Journey
to a War, that “The progress of the poet’s
constipation through war-torn China is
faithfully recorded by the devoted Isher-
wood.”
How can this theory of Inverted Bowd-
lerism be applied to contemporary litera-
ture generally? The answer is that it
applies to all those trends and tendencies
which were described here recently as
seeking the image of virility in “the
dumb ox, the sadist, the imbecile and
the bottom dog howling at his fate” —to
all the exaggerations of realism that are
the credentials of modernity. It applies
to all those novels of early Australia
in which days that were a riot of rum
and sunlight are described as oozing with
misery and in which convicts who were
probably darned glad to be working in
the sun with a promise of eventual free-
dom in a land of opportunity are eternally
groaning under the lash. Somebody
should write one last historical novel en-
titled “Australia Felix” or “The Happy
Convict.”
Professor Sinclaire goes further. He
shows how inverted Bowdlerism has
affected the style of the contemporary
novel as well as its spirit and subject-
matter. What else is the Stein babytalk,
the Hemingwayese in which even Aus-
tralian and New Zealand tough guys
have learned to grunt, but “gentility’s
homage to hooliganism,” modernity
hastily establishing its credentials as an
author of bad prose? Professor Sinclaire’s
example is D. H. Lawrence, who, fine
artist though he was, once put into the
tnouth of Christ this dreadful improve-
ment on “Ye cannot serve God and
Mammon”:
Your name is Mammon. You are the
selfish hog that’s got hold of the world,
aren’t you? Well, look here, my boy, I’m
going to take it away from you. Mammon,
I hate it. I hate it, Mammon. I hate you,
and I am going to push you off the face of
the earth.
How sad that, after so much clear
thinking, Professor Sinclaire should have
fallen into another aspect of the very
trap which he has exposed. If fashion is
responsible for inverted Bowdlerism, is
it not also contemporary fashion that
exalts the novel and the short story over
narrative poetry?
Narrative poetry is, I believe, doomed,
because we have discovered in the last
couple of centuries that most of what it
tries to do can be done better in prose, in
the novel or the short story. Of one form
the poet is left in undisputed possession.
I mean the lyric.
Whatever fashion may say, no art form
is ever “doomed.” There is eternal
change, the great wheel turns, the
“doomed” forms reappear. Archibald
Macleish recreates the Greek drama over
the American radio, Eliot on the English
stage. The Elizabethan drama will have
its turn again when the time is ripe and
there are poets equal to the Eliza-
bethans. As for the narrative poem—
when there are poets good enough, they
will find a way to outdo the prose writers
at their own game of compression.
Masefield’s diffuse narratives will never
revive the art. But some day a poet will
discover that Browning in “Mr. Sludge
the Medium” and possibly Kipling in
“McAndrew’s Hymn” have already
pioneered the way. The only reason that
there has been no epic of war since
Homer, why Napoleon’s wars and our
own have never had the great song, is
that there has not yet been a poet equal
to the task. But the epic is not “doomed”
because contemporary fashion magnifies
difficulty into impossibility.
And, regarding Lend Me Your Ears
as a whole, there is one other pitfall into
which Professor Sinclaire has fallen
headlong. He is too amiable. Some
professor should write an essay on why
all professors write essays; and
why all professors write the same essay.
Lamb, from whom they derive, was a
strongly original personality. The pro-
fessorial essayists borrow Lamb’s fa?ade
of charm and keep their own personali-
ties in the dark. Can it be that they
suffer from a kind of spiritual Bowd-
lerism? At any rate, it must be said
that, because an original personality
emerges in his essays —cold and precise
—T. S. Eliot writes a better essay than
the professor who criticises him so in-
telligently.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Max Meldrum, J. R. Eldershaw and
Joan Rowell are not exhibiting at this
year’s Society of Artists’ show, and other
“representational” artists, such as por-
traitists Norman Carter and Dattilo-
Rubbo, flower-painter Nora Heysen,
landscapist Lloyd Rees and that maker
of large miniatures Adrian Feint, have
nothing new to say. Maude Sherwood,
Ronald Steuart, Kenneth Macqueen (his
tribute to an apple-gum goes to the N. S.
Wales Gallery) and president Sydney Ure
Smith give the water-color section a leaven
of confident competence. Frank. Medworth
and Daryl Lindsay are conspicuous. But
the show is so largely given over to
painters who claim to deal not in things
seen but their own reactions to some-
thing they may have thought they have
seen that a picture like May Gonely’s
very charming impression of Elizabeth
Bay House comes as a shock—it is drawn
in correct perspective, suggests the archi-
tectural features truthfully, and doesn’t
falsify colors. Among comparative new-
comers who show work which can be
appreciated are Lorna Nimmo (her “After
the Rain” achieves exactly the effect
aimed at), Noel Rubie, who clicks with
“Gwynneth Paul” and the landscape
“Great Southern Highway,” and Freda
Robertshaw, whose still-life (No. 137) is
an excellent piece of painting.
Gladys Moncrieff will stage an interest-
ing comeback when she appears in her
old role, Tessa of “The Maid of the
Mountains,” at Melbourne His Majesty’s
in October. Tessa was the part in which
she “soared to stardom.” Since her motor
accident, she has appeared only as a solo
singer but without failing to recapture
the admiration of her adorers. Probably
the most spectacular comeback in
theatrical history was that of Sarah Bern-
hardt after she had suffered a much worse
misfortune than Gladys and was pre-
sumed to have left the stage for ever. Re-
turning per medium of a silent picture
she gave a magnificent, agile performance
which nobody unaware of the facts would
have known was made by a one-legged
actress.
It might have been better if Pauli
Fiddian had been allowed to appear as
the Lord High Executioner instead of as
Ivan Menzies in the re-
vival of “The Mikado” at His Majesty’s.
As Mr. Menzies he was a pale copy of a
too-well-known original. As himself and
Ko-Ko, he might have been a refreshing
change from Mr. Menzies, for he has
demonstrated a neat turn for comedy in
a number of amateur productions in Mel-
bourne. But evidently a management
enslaved to tradition had threatened to
have him dipped in boiling oil or some-
thing if he deviated one skip or grimace
from his august predecessor. Neverthe-
less, he gave a good performance under
difficult conditions. He can sing, which
his exemplar can’t do—a cast-iron night-
ingale would be a treat alongside Mr.
Menzies; and good singing was badly
needed in the absence of the exquisite
tenor of John Fullard, called to naval
duties.
Melbourne Tivoli has gone all French,
even the programme being printed in that
language, while The Lovelies make their
appearance as a “galaxy of Parisienne
Beauty.” Mo breaks through his various
disguises as spontaneously as ever.
Calling themselves The Independent
Group of Artists, Edith Alsop, Madge
Freeman, Grace Gardiner, Norman Mac-
George, James Quinn, Dora Wilson, Alan
Sumner and others held a show at the
Melbourne Athemeum. In a study of
nudes called “Morning in Capri,” M. C.
Mercer shows a generous independence
from her models, if any. Dora Wilson
has abandoned her photographic street-
scapes and taken to drawing with the
brush ; the change is refreshing.
Amnesia has long been a fruity theme
for the story-teller, and it has held most
attraction when treated lightly—even
flippantly. One of the most riotous of
O. Henry’s stories concerned a fellow
who, brought to himself after suffering
wanderings for a fortnight, slyly indi-
cated to his doc. that his attack was
spurious. The theme is the subject of
two current Sydney films, each treated
from a different angle. In “Missing 10
Days” Rex Harrison uses his blacked-
out memory as a potent laugh-getter,
and the possibilities of receiving the
amorous attentions of strange women are
played for all they are worth. A spot of
espionage grafted on to the theme gives
the tang of excitement. In “Street of
Chance” Burgess Meredith finds himself,
on recovering his memory, being hunted
for murder. Having no funny situations
to rely on he has to work twice as hard
as Rex did to make a presentable job
of it. Because he can act he succeeds.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— aIways.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
A
A
*
o
O
&
s>
A
\°
CP-&
A
v*
6-
❖
&
O
0 6,
o
o
«<°
&
&
G
O'
V
Cr
<>
oc
A?
z
v
<>■
o
*5
<>
&
o
A
&
0°
V
\
a?
\0
o#
At
A
b
£
o
G
G
:
&
&
CAA
A
xp CP
&
CP
S>
CP
<9
&
☆
#
AA
AA
0°
A
A
For Men
of Taste
High Grade Work Boots
Made from first grade, stout
oil grained leather, extra stout
Butt leather soles. Black and Tan. All
sizes. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, 27/6
6 Coupons Required.
“Sturdy Oak” Combination Overalls
Men's Hordura (Regd.) Combination Overalls.
Full cut, pockets everywhere. Strong British
Drills—all guaranteed to wear. At Anthony
Horderns'.
Navy. Prices 23/6; 26/6, 29/6
Khaki. Prices 18/9, 21/-, 26/6, 28/6
White. Prices 21/9, 28/6
8 Coupons Required.
Men’s Bib and Brace Overalls
Real huskies for wear. All seams sewn as strong
as we know how. Guaranteed to wear—all
necessary man pockets. All sizes up to
10J. At Anthony Horderns'.
Navy. Prices 13/9, 17/6,. 21/-
Khaki. Prices 13/9, 16/6, 18/6, 21/-
White. Prices 8/11, 11/6
6 Coupons Required.
Men’s Cotton Underwear
White ribbed cotton athletic under-
shirts in a serviceable weight, no
sleeves. Sizes: 34in. to 42in. chest.
'At Anthony Horderns'. Price .. 2/6
7 Coupons Required.
Men’s Poplin Trunk D rawers
The garment for the coming warmer weather,
with elastic at sides of waist. Sizes: 32in. to 44im
waist. At Anthony Horderns'. Price 4/11
7 Coupons Required.
Anthony Horderns'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.Q., Sydney


“YOU’LL BE SORRY!”
By J. A. CHRISTOMAR.
VOU heard it
first as you
marched in
through the
gate: “You’ll be
sorry,” the army’s
traditional and never-failing joke. Two
youngsters who flashed their passes to
the guard as they went out on leave,
and who wor.e the light-colored pug-
garees that marked them as returned
men unconsciously but proudly, tossed
it carelessly at the straggling line
of new recruits and a moment later had
forgotten you had ever passed. Then, a
little further on, a dozen or so soldiers
who looked as though they hadn’t been
in uniform more than three or four days
themselves stood back and laughed and
chanted it happily: “You’ll be sorry.”
And then, though you grinned a nervous,
half-hearted sort of grin at the chap
alongside of you, you knew suddenly
and with a sick, empty feeling that you
were sorry already—sorry as hell.
A ND you’d been glad at first, glad and
relieved. When the doctor who had
been examining you picked up your papers
and, turning to the other doctor, said
“This chap’s all right—Al” that had
been something. The other doctor had
just glanced at you and then signed his
name, and you were through.
Up to then you’d just been a bundle
of nerves. The couple of beers you’d
had before going up to the recruiting hut
hadn’t done much good really. They’d
taken you in on a wave of confidence
and carried you through the filling-in of
the papers so that the thing you’d been
worrying about and tossing backwards
and forwards in your mind for months
now was done soon enough, but after
that when you sat down to wait their
effect wore off pretty quickly.
You’d begun worrying about whether
you’d get through, and you hadn’t wor-
ried about that at all before. You remem-
bered how everybody said the doctors
were pretty hard now, only putting abso-
lutely first-class men through and leav-
ing anybody else for the militia. You
wished it could be over one way or an-
other a lot quicker, but you supposed
you’d soon enough become used to waiting
around once you were in the army. Then
you were past the dentist and the eye test,
and you waited again for the doctors,
and shivered while you sat there in only
your trousers, and you felt warm inside
and the palms of your hands were wet
and sticky with perspiration.
The doctor had joked a bit about your
being nervous. “Army life will soon fix
that,” he’d said, “and put a bit of color
on you, too, when you get in the sun.’ ?
But it hadn’t helped you much until he’d
said “This chap’s all right—Al.” And
then you’d been glad and happy, because
you knew you were through and all but
in the army.
You’d carried that happiness with you
as you dressed and went downstairs,
and you’d noticed yourself grinning
proudly and confidently at the other
chaps you passed going in. You were
right; you were in. You’d been pretty
proud of yourself moving down through
the tables and then standing together
with a couple of other recruits holding
the worn little Testaments and repeating
the oath of attestation after the captain.
You’d done it, and everything was right
now and you didn’t have to worry any
more.
You asked for three weeks to fix
things up at the office, but the sergeant
said “Seven days; you’re in the army
now,” and marked it down in your pay-
book —“Seven days’ leave without pay.”
It didn’t worry you much. You felt
happy just to be in and getting a number
and pay book and fixing- up about allot-
ments for the wife and the youngsters,
and all that only served to make you
realise it fully for the first time. You’d
worried about it a good deal, but now
you felt pretty satisfied.
Then there was the waiting about until
there was a fair batch of recruits to go
through the inoculation and vaccination
and past the photographer and be
marched over to the barracks for uni-
forms. It was then —though you didn’t
quite understand it till you first heard
that “You’ll be sorry”—that you first
really began to feel the doubts about it
all.
You couldn’t explain how it happened
or what caused it really. There wasn’t
anything to the vaccination, so it wasn’t
that. And the rest of the chaps were
happy enough and easy to talk to, but
suddenly, waiting about there, you
wanted to be away from it all, out of
the army and free again even to keep on
getting despondent about it. That was
very likely all the trouble. You knew
you’d burnt your boats now and all those
worries you’d had before as; to what was
the right thing to do weren’t going to be
shelved as easily as all that. The doubts
came flooding in on you now stronger
than they’d been before if only fof the fact
that now there was nothing to be done
about them. You’d made your decision,
chosen to live in the army, and now there
might be two years, four years, six years
of it, just being pushed around so long
as the war lasted.
You wondered how the other chaps
felt about it all now. They didn’t seem
to be worrying. You marched off with
them at last, down towards the barracks
gates where the two guards were stand-
ing and you hoped it would be over
quickly and they’d let you get away home
for a week. That “You’ll be sorry” didn’t
help you then.
'THERE was a lot more waiting while
you were issued with uniform and
kit and changed into it, and then a long
rigmarole of what each item was and
how to wear it. You felt pretty much
like as if you’d been dumped in among a
lot of youngsters at a primary school,
and pretty glum, too. You’d had some
idea of going in to see the chaps at the
office just before knock-off time—of
breezing in in your uniform and saying
Well, I’ve done it. Let’s go and have
one.” But it was too late for
that. You were in the last batch for the
day and the Q.M. staff wanted to get
you out.
Everything was right enough except
the overcoat, and the best you could do
there was a couple of sizes too big. The
wife would have to get to work on it
somehow, but now you put it on because
you couldn’t cram it into your kitbag
and wearing it was easier than carrying
it. You reckoned you’d never felt so
miserable in all your life. Your hat was
hard and stiff and new, and the band and
badges and chinstrap were in your tunic
pocket, but you humped your kitbag on
to your shoulder and wandered miserably
out towards the gate. A soldier driving
a truck called out “You’ll be sorry.”
You half-turned to say “I’m bloody sorry
already,” then went on without bothering.
Some of the other new chaps were
talking together, and they appeared
happy enough. “No damned sense,” you
thought. One young chap you’d chummed
up with a bit over at the recruiting depot
seemed to have disappeared. You walked
on alone and miserable and swearing at
yoyrself for being all sorts of a fool.
Outside the gates you stood for a
moment wondering which way you had to
go to catch a tram back to the city, and
one of the guards called out and pointed
“That way, soldier.” It wasn’t much,
but you almost laughed at yourself the
way it bucked you up. You hitched the
kitbag a bit higher and grinned back at
him ; then, halfway up the hill, a couple
of soldiers coming down along the other
side looked across at you and called
“You’ll be sorry.”
A FTER that first day, of course, it
wasn’t as bad as all that. You fixed the
hat up, put your badges on and got some
polish into the boots. It made a lot of
difference and you didn’t feel you looked
so much like a half-drowned setter. But
you still worried about the whole busi-
ness pretty much.
You still couldn’t fix it clear in your
mind whether you’d done right in get-
ting into the business now or whether
perhaps you didn’t have a duty to the
wife and kids to wait until you got a
call-up. You’d thought you’d thrashed
it out pretty well before—that you’d only
be dodging things waiting for a call that
mightn’t ever come really—but now it
all came back at you again. And there
was something else now.
You’d felt it just about as soon as you
were back at the office. Now you were
in and reckoned you’d be getting away
to somewhere in the bush pretty soon
you wanted during this last week to talk
a bit with the chaps in the pub at night,
to stay there and yarn to them and make
the most of friends you really knew and
understood before you had to make
others. But there was a strangeness
about them somehow. You felt they’d
said good-bye to you already and put
you out of their minds ; that in some
way the fact that you were wearing a
uniform cut you off from their lives.
When you thought about it you sup-
posed that somehow, in a way you didn’t
intend, your being there embarrassed
them, made them ponder over the same
things you’d worried about. They didn’t
want to stay to talk at night and they
were glad to see you go.
You reckoned things would be pretty
much brighter once you got into camp
and into some solid sort of training. You
began to wish the week was up.
V OU went out to the barracks on Mon-
day morning and you were pretty
excited. You said good-bye to all at
home and told them you didn’t know
where you’d be by night time, but you’d
write tomorrow and give your address
and you’d probably get leave in about a
month’s or six weeks’ time.
You walked in the gate, flashing your
pass like an old hand and carrying your
kit firmly on your shoulder, and nobody
said “You’ll be sorry.” You caught up
with a couple of the other chaps who’d
gone through the same day as you, and
they all looked much more like soldiers
than they had that first day. They knew
all about things, too. You’d go on draft
this afternoon, probably to Boogoolong
or else to Wycombale. One of the two.
And you’d be hard at work by tomorrow.
They moved you pretty quickly these
days.
You got on your first parade and
moved up next to a chap you’d picked
out as a likely-looking sort of cobber,
and you tried to stand up straight like a
soldier. It was all right for the first ten
minutes or so, but you stood there for
nearly two hours, and your name was one
of the last called out. You went to
stand again in the smallest of the three
groups the parade was being split up
into, and you moved alongside your new-
found cobber again and wondered with
him and the others what it all meant.
They must have you marked down for
something special. The two large groups
would be infantry, but your lot might get
away to Armored Division or something
really good. Somebody said Commandos,
and though you smiled at that you
couldn’t help wondering if it might be
and feeling proud and pleased and happy.
It wouldn’t be long now.
The first big lot was for Boogoolong.
They’d parade at 1350 hours to get rail
warrants ready for draft at 1410 hours.
They could get pannikins and plates at
Recruit Quarters and mess early. The
second lot would go to Wycombale. Mess
at ordinary time, move off 1800 hours,
parade 1730 hours. Your lot could check
in at Recruit Quarters for the night.
You’d be held for drafting. Mess with
the camp and parade for fatigues at
1300 hours.
Armored Division. Commandos. Now
you were going to be kept hanging about
doing nothing all day and all night. Still,
you’d be on tomorrow’s draft.
You were home that night: leave till
midnight. Then you were home again
the next night and the next. It looked as
though you’d be home at the week-end,
too. Out at the camp you did nothing
much else but wait around and grumble
and smoke too many cigarettes. There
was P.T. for half an hour in the morn-
ings, and fatigues either in the mess or
picking up papers about the place, but
most of the time you were just hanging
about waiting for a draft.
There were new recruits coming in
every morning, and most of them left
the same day. You wondered if you’d
been overlooked, and you asked about
it at the orderly-room half a dozen times.
You were all right; “you’d be going
soon.”
You reckoned you were all sorts of
a mug. The army could have it for
yours. If ever you got out you’d be out
for good. You worked it out the recruit-
ing part of the business had grown too
big for itself. They just kept on crying
about the need for men, and then when
they got them in they didn’t know what
to do to keep them occupied. No matter
what else there might have been mixed
up in bringing you into the army, the
main reason was that you’d wanted to
be doing something
about the war. You’d
have been more use
anywhere else at all
than where you were
now. Two or three
times in those first few days you joined
in greeting a new batch of recruits with
You’ll be sorry.” That was pretty much
of a joke. There wasn’t anyone in the
whole bloody army more sorry than you
were.
By Thursday you almost began to get
used to it. The whole show was a mess
anyway. Now you were in it you might
as well be messed around somewhere
near home. You could see the family
anyway, even if you did have to be back
at midnight.
After three days they drafted your
cobber. You were so used to the whole
stupid business you couldn’t even become
annoyed about that. You asked him if
ever he saw an army rifle to write back
to tell you what it looked like. You’d be
there still —there for the duration.
You didn’t worry any more, that was
one thing. There was nothing to worry
about that you could help. You were
just plain fed up. You’d got out of say-
ing good-bye at home. You’d be home
tomorrow night. You’d take the kids
to the zoo on Sunday; perhaps the fol-
lowing week you’d
Just as you started to make plans you
got a draft. Wasn’t it like what they’d
do? Mess you about always. The bloke
who first thought up that “You’ll-be-
sorry” gag knew what he was dealing
with in an army.
\y OU left at midday and were travel-
_ ling in a slow, crowded train till well
after dark. Then you had to march a
couple of miles out of town to the camp.
You didn’t care. You weren’t excited or
pleased or sad about moving or about
anything. It didn’t matter. You were
sorry you were ever in the army, that
was all.
Next morning they had you up on
time. The chaps who had been in the
hut when you came in the night before
moved about getting dressed as if some-
thing might really happen here. You
wondered what all the rush was about,
then they told you there was P.T. before
breakfast. You had to hurry along to
get on the parade, and then they made
it tough—none of the lackadaisical
“Arms stretch; knees bend” stuff you'd
been doing for a week or so. They kept
you moving over breakfast and after-
wards, too, so that you didn’t get a
chance to have a look around the place
at all.
You new chaps had to be on parade
again at 0830 hours. There seemed to
be a pretty good crowd of you, and you
supposed there’d been lots coming into
the camp all the previous day. The loot
began by giving you a tongue-bashing,
telling you you were in a training camp
now and you’d have to buckle down to
things. They’d give you a fair go, but
they’d work you like niggers. He reck-
oned they’d put you through a six
months’ course in three. You didn’t take
much notice. You’d seen enough of the
army to know what it was like. It
couldn’t be efficient, no matter how hard
anybody tried. You got fed up listen-
ing to his voice going on and on, and
you were glad when he left you to the
sergeant and his couple of corporals.
They marched you out on to the bull-
ring then, and they started you off around
it. You marched steadily round and
round and round, and then turned and
went back the other way. They broke
you up into groups and marched you
off, brought you back together again and
marched you again. You turned in
column and in line. You marched, slow
march, quick march, double. You
brought your foot down sharply at the
halt, marched off again, halted, marched,
halted. It was hot and dusty and deaden-
ing in its monotony. For two hours you
marched and marched and marched, then
they broke you off for ten- minutes’
smoke-oh, and while you lay back and
sucked heavily at the cigarette you’d
been thinking of for an hour or more
they stood there and lectured you.
You were tired and aching and sore,
and the tobacco burnt on your lips where
they’d been roughened by the sun and
the wind and the dust, but suddenly it
struck you while you were lying there
you weren’t sorry any more. This meant
things. You were getting down to it. It
was work, and it’d put you right; and
somehow you thought it all brought the
end of the war more near, and you lay
on your elbow and grinned at the rasp-
ing, fading voice of the corporal, whose
throat was full of dust and who was so
much worse off than you were because
he couldn’t stop for a smoke.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3266
Wednesday, September 16. 1942.
WINTER’S COMING.
"The First snow has fallen in the Caucasus.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB: ’Phone B7971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.O.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
REDS ON THE RAMPAGE.
The industrial “policy” of the Federated
Ironworkers’ Association has been stated
by “ ‘Ernie’ Thornton, general secretary,”
in Exhibit A, a pamphlet issued by the
Federal Council of that concern and
adorned with a cut of the author against
an appropriate red background:
Our union has deliberately and in a
planned way been involved in more strikes
than other unions in the last few years.
These were not just the sporadic strikes that
are typical of the coalfields, but planned
strikes, because we made strikes our busi-
ness.
And a pretty business it is for a union
registered under the Industrial Arbitra-
tion Act! But this industrial “policy”
has, it seems, been suspended for upwards
of a year. Not because “we” have ceased
to “believe that the strike weapon is the
most important weapon that the working
class has —strikes are a continuation in
violent or non-violent forms of the class
struggle that is always with us” —but
because something happened in Europe
which took “Ernie” Thornton and his
friends by surprise.
At our previous Ironworkers’ Federal <
Council,* in 1941, we characterised the war
that was then on as an imperialist war, and
we then declared in favor of a democratic
peace. Our delegation to the 1941 A.C.T.U.
conference supported a resolution demand-
ing negotiations for a democratic peace.
In other words, a peace that would
have left Hitler monarch of all he sur-
veyed.
“Ernie” Thornton did the supporting
and some of the slangwhanging: he “bit-
terly attacked supporters of the war
effort.” And this was only a fortnight
or so before the something hap-
pened in Europe. The something having
happened, “we became supporters of the
war.” Not “because we were pacifists
—arms were used by working men in
the struggle at the Eureka Stockade, and
arms will probably be used by the workers
in this country again”—but because the
war had ceased to be “a struggle between
two capitalist nations for supremacy in
world trade,” as the last war was, and
had become a holy war against Fascism.
“Menzies,” “Ernie” Thornton explained,
“is pro-Fascist. We had the pro-Fascist
Menzies Government supposed to be
conducting an anti-Fascist war.” That
spectacle is presented no longer. A
good time is coming for all except
Fascists, abroad and in Australia —a
Second Front in Western Europe, for
which “the voice of Australia must be
raised in a demand that four million
men shall no longer remain idle in
Britain”; a guaranteed defeat of the
Nazis; “a democratic peace,” and per-
haps in Australia “a Government of a
similar character to that of the
Soviet Government.” Meanwhile, with
its membership “trebled in eight years,”
the Ironworkers has become “the
leading union in Australia,” courted
by “other unions, people outside the
union, Government officials, etc.,” but
not universally: “Gas workers, storemen
and packers, clerks, manufacturing
grocers, etc.,” are, for the time being,
“running the affairs of the trade-union
movement of this country.”
Exhibit B is the September number of
the “Ironworker,” published by “Ernest”
• Thornton and charged up to members of
the union, many of whom wouldn’t touch
it with a pair of tongs. The first article
is an attack on Australian Iron and Steel
for having “unjustifiably and arrogantly
attempted to interfere in a dispute
between the Ironworkers’ Union and
seven of its members.” That is the tale
in the first paragraph; but what the
company really did was to take a stand
against a vile exhibition of union tyranny
by way of trying to preserve control of
its own steelworks.
Actually eleven members of the union
were concerned. Their “offence” lay in
having worked —yes, worked —on Good
Friday. The Prime Minister, in a general
appeal, had asked them to work. So had
the Production Superintendent at Port
Kembla. The local union secretary him-
self had advised them to carry on. Yet
for working—yes, working—^- they were
fined the amount of the additional wages
they had earned —not, of course, by any
magistrate, but by their union bosses.
Four of these eleven unionists paid
the fines and withdrew from the proceed-
ings. The others tried to appeal to the
State Industrial Commission, but, on the
application of the union bosses, Federal
Arbitration Judge O’Mara issued an order
restraining the Commission from acting.
His Honor advised the men to pay the
fines and appeal to Caesar. They appealed
to the union’s State Council, which ruled
that the fines must stand. They then
appealed to the union’s Federal Council,
which invoked the assistance of the
Federal Management Committee.
By this time, the atmosphere must have
become rather uncomfortable. Anyway,
the Federal Management Committee,
while ruling that in “working on Good
Friday’’ the members had been guilty
of “misconduct” (!), directed the Port
Kembla branch to “suspend the fines for
a period of 12 months, at the end of
which time the Management Committee
will review the fines in the light of the
members’ union records in the mean-
time.” At the same time it “endorsed
the action of the Port Kembla secretary
in advising the men to work on Good
Friday.” So he was not guilty of mis-
conduct, being presumably of the right
color.
This Management Committee exacted
conditions aimed at compelling the
seven honest Australians to become
dumb driven cattle. One of the
conditions was that “if fined on
any future occasion, the members will
exercise their rights [!] within the union
to appeal before taking legal action.”
The “Ironworker” article transformed
this condition into a general threat:
“Members will in future risk being penal-
ised for misconduct if they take legal
action against the union before exercis-
ing their rights [!] of appeal within the
union.” In effect, freeborn Australians
invoking the protection against tyranny
which their forefathers won for them
“risk” being savagely punished by a Red
ruffian resorting to mob law disguised as
unionism.
Taken in conjunction with the Thorn-
ton pamphlet, this sample of Federated
Ironworkers’ “justice” is warrant enough
for the Commonwealth Government to
call upon the union to show cause why
it should not be deregistered. Instead,
the Commonwealth Government has
called upon Australian Iron and Steel to
submit to an “investigation” by Mr.
Arthur Blakeley, the former trade-union
official and Labor politician who con-
ducted the very long inquiry into the
affair of the machine-hand Rice; and
this chiefly at the instance of the Reds of
the Federated Ironworkers. Just as the
men in charge of the C.A.C. aircraft fac-
tory had to stop concentrating on aircraft
manufacture to justify the dismissal of
“an irresponsible, inattentive and interfer-
ing” Red with a criminal record, “the
managers, superintendents, foremen and
other representateives” of Australian Iron
and Steel are to quit their important war
work to gratify “Ernie” Thornton’s bent
for mischief-making and satisfy his thirst
for information on a host of subjects.
Among those listed, “in a document
produced and read by Mr. Thornton,”
are “justification for staff appointed,
particularly in operative jobs; effect
of staff appointments on harmony
among employees; the policy of the
company towards union membership
of staff appointees ; delay in the State
Industrial Court in dealing with staff
applications ; attitude of the company to
overtime and absenteeism,; present
method of applying gratuity bonus pay-
ments to certain employees ; and man-
power questions.” This last item was
perhaps added to give Mr. Ward a chance
to throw his weight about.
The Commonwealth Government came
badly out of the Rice affair. Before it
goes any further in the direction of plac-
ing war factories under the control, and
leaving loyal Australian unionists at the
mercy, of Red mobs, it should be chal-
lenged in Parliament to justify its pro-
ceedings in the C.A.C. and Iron and Steel
cases.
Austerity, Limited.
As substitute for itself governing, the
Government, through the Prime Minister,
puts it on the people generally to govern
themselves. That is the straightest read-
ing of the so-called “austerity campaign.”
The core of it is that the Government,
except in the trade-union field —nasty
forms of compulsion are permitted there
—still clings pathetically to the remnants
of its old faith in the “voluntary system.”
With the war situation at large still far
from satisfactory, and Australia’s con-
tinued existence still in the balance, the
Government would rather rely on appeals
than give orders and see that they are
carried out.
One result is that for the duration of
the “campaign” Australia is to resound
with “austerity” propaganda concocted
by propaganda amateurs at Canberra
and having the cumulative effect of de-
pressing the public spirit with a sense of
inferiority. The impression given by
this propaganda already is that Austra-
lians are wasters, gamblers, drunkards and
worse, too intent on clinging to a luxury
way of life to be aware that there’s a
war on, with their existence threatened.
The notion seems to be that these miser-
able sinners—the people in general; not
any stupid few of them, but the great
majority— must be wordily flogged and
flayed to get any good out of them at all.
Such is one effect, so far, of the line
of propaganda supporting the “austerity
campaign,” and, indeed, necessitated by
the nature of that “campaign.” Kept up
long enough, this propaganda must have
a drably depressing effect. Instead of
the heroic national spirit that would be
produced by a Government with the guts
to govern, risking any unlikely unpopu-
larity, the result must be the creating
of a hangdog feeling, a national in-
feriority complex, without the dash and
vigor that could do more towards achiev-
ing the main aim on hand —winning the
war—than all the sanctimonious cant that
clumsy propagandists can concoct.
If the implication that is steadily being
put abroad by the “austerity” propaganda
was anything like right, Australians would
deserve the worst that might happen to
them. They would be unworthy of one
of the finest heritages on earth, and most
unworthy to survive with it. Is the im-
plication—of loose and luxury living,
on the one hand, and, on the other, total
disregard for the country’s perilous posi-
tion and utter carelessness as to whether
it survives or not —is this implication of
“austerity” propaganda true of any but
a very small minority of Australians? Is
not the real spirit of Australians some-
thing so very different that the implica-
tion is a libel on the nation at large?
The other day the question was mildly
put to the test in Sydney. There was a
march through the streets by returned
soldiers of this war. By report, and by
appearance, some 500,000, about half
the city’s total population, lined the
streets to witness the march. They were
not very boisterous crowds of onlookers,
but propaganda against “flagwagging”
and other manifestations of high spirits
and enthusiasm could be thanked for
that. Considering the amount of that
sort of propaganda, there was enough
enthusiasm to reveal how the crowds
were feeling.
The same thing, with a rather freer
rein on enthusiasm, had happened earlier
in Melbourne. It would happen anywhere
in Australia where these new Diggers
might march. There is nothing wrong
with the spirit of Australians by this
measurement. Recently, too, there was
a general church parade for the people at
large on a Thursday. Not specially noted
at any time as the most ardent of church-
goers, even on Sundays, Australians
turned out to this weekday church-
going in such numbers that churches
were crowded, people having to line up
in queues.
In these instances a lead had been
given, and the response was a complete
answer to those who despair of the Aus-
tralian spirit. But these instances are
not advertised, either by wowsers or by
“austerity” campaigners. They would do
no good to the cause of those whose
main aim is to procure needed revenue,
or those who are successfully fostering
one of the most brazen wowseristic
swindles ever put over the country. It
suits the wowser cause to have Austra-
lians at large represented as a spineless
lot of pub-crawlers, racecourse followers,
hoarders and luxury addicts. The truth
is that for every hopeless one of these
there are at least 100 decent, hard-work-
ing, clean-living Australians, with the
right spirit, the most loyal feelings, the
most earnest desire to help towards their
country’s survival, wanting only to be
told in the right way, but thinking none
the better of a Government which, while
it has not done at all badly in some
domains, shirks the responsibility of
governing when this appears to conflict
with its last-ditch belief in a thoroughly
discredited “voluntary system” and with
its popularity with a large section of the
community. that is earning larger and
larger wages.
No doubt Mr. Curtin’s “austerity cam-
paign” is well mean/* Its worst feature
is that it has to be carried on with the
aid of the propaganda objected to. This
is all the worse because much more than
is likely to be achieved could have been
achieved quicker and better by direct
Government action. It looks none the
better when it is seen that the “austerity”
proposals would, if fully and logically
carried out, be disastrous to the objec-
tive sought.
Actually the Government is gambling
on its “austerity” proposals not being
taken too literally. The gamble—on a sure
thing is that those who smoke, who
like a pot or two of beer, or whose pref-
erence in entertainment is for an after-
noon at the races or in a theatre, rather
than for golfing or reading or fishing or
climbing up precipices, will continue to
hold to their preferences, and pay the
penalty. If these unregenerate creatures
took the “austerity” business properly to
heart, the heavily-increased indirect taxes
on them would represent so much wasted
effort; there would be a certain drop in
the Government’s revenue, and there
would have to be resort to direct taxa-
tion or to similarly heavy taxation on
sweets, cut flowers, cakes, weighing
machines, milk-bars (always crowded),
golf greens and other forms and means
of dissipation— to make it up.
Not the lightest objection that might
be raised to the “austerity” campaigning
is that it presents the spectacle of Aus-
tralia’s Prime Minister talking earnestly
and solemnly about ladders in stockings,
the sugar that tea-bibbers leave in the
bottoms of their cups, the overlooking
of the darning needle as “a weapon of
war” and other suchlike unsocial acts
and temptations. At least, a ponderous
statement on such weighty matters has
been issued from Canberra and debited
to the P.M., though bearing all the
marks of some departmental paper-
wasting foundry. A singular sight, to see
the county’s Prime Minister thus em-
ploying his energies in the midst of a
world at war! A job, surely, for some
minor Minister, preferably for one cast
more by nature for a comic role than
Mr. Curtin ever was.
The Canberra “austerity” statement put
it up to people to start now doing with-
out all manner of things. They should
give up eating in restaurants, munching
biscuits, devouring pork, buying silk and
furniture. All manner of things now dis-
played for public sale should be done
without; everything not absolutely neces-
sary. Carry this through to its logical
conclusion, and at no exaggerated esti-
mate something like 75 per cent, of the
traders (rent-payers and taxpayers) in any
given city block —if not in the land as a
whole —would go bung inside a fort-
night.
The plain fact is that, though well-
enough intended, this “austerity cam-
paign” has a lot of humbug about it. In
its general effect drably depressing, in its
sweeping implications distinctly unfair,
it is, at the very best, an evasion of Gov-
ernmental responsibility at a time when
responsible and fearless government is
vital to the country’s welfare and even to
its continued existence. The Canberra
statement declared that the effort called
for “must be achieved in as short a time
as possible,” since “the longer we take
the stronger become our enemies and the
greater the destruction of life and goods
in the meantime.” True enough, and,
because it is true, all the less admirable
the substitution for direct Government
action of a long and tediously wordy and
nationally depressing “campaign.”
Two courses were open: (1) to check
unnecessary and wasteful spending and
at the same time secure the required in-
creased revenue by the direct taxing of
a large, lightly-taxed group and the com-
pulsory conversion into Government
bonds of some part of the earnings of
all; or (2) resort to appeals that suggest
that those making them must regard the
general run of the community with a
strange mixture of contempt and awe.
Despite the representations of wowsers,
taking the present as a heaven-sent oppor-
tunity, there is no sound reason for the
contempt; and the Government has been
long enough on the job by now to know
that there is no need to fear the reaction
of Australians at large to direct Govern-
ment action, openly undertaken. Any-
thing, in fact, but whining and crawling
and shirking in the shadow of such a
dilapidated fetish as the “voluntary
system.”
The Government, though refused a
party majority in either House, claims to
have the confidence of the people. If it
really believes that it has this confidence
it should return the compliment with a
show of courage, not with a waste of
begging tracts.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Business-world Bombshell.
The board of inquiry appointed to go
into the question of Australian purchases
for canteens in the Middle East (Eric
Spooner and C. A. Morgan, Ms.H.R.,
and W. R. Dovey, K.C.) was criticised
for taking so long about it. In point of
fact it had so many charges to deal with
and so many witnesses, convincing and
unconvincing, to examine that it had to
be very patient and very careful; and
the report it presented cannot now be
objected to on the score of procrastina-
tion. No more scathing report has been
presented to Parliament for many a year.
The board found that “Toohey’s pro-
ducts” were unfairly excluded from
Middle East canteens; but this was a
matter of minor importance with no dark
and smellful features. In other trans-
actions the board found rank corrup-
tion, and came to this general conclusion:
Herbert James Allen, William Robert
Ritchie, Mervyn Macpherson Brewer, Mac-
Robertson’s, Edward George Furness,
Lucius H. Spooner [no relation or business
connection of Spooner, M.H.R.], Sidney
Brown and Co., Roland Homer Dixon and
0.T., Ltd., are all, and each of them is,
guilty of an offence against the provisions
of Section 4 of the Secret Commissions
Act.
Allen, it is set forth, was an O.T.
traveller. Ritchie was an employee of
the Canteen Service. In secret commis-
sions Allen received £l2OB from Brewer,
assistant managing director of Mac-
Robertson’s, and £75 from Furness, sec-
retary of the Sidney Brown concern ; he
shared the Brewer money with Ritchie.
Ritchie, for his part, got £450 from
Brewer and “some portion, if not all, of
certain parcels of money amounting to
£295” from Dixon, chairman of directors
of O.T.
The Deputy-Director of Canteen Ser-
vices was Colonel Gee. As partner in
Best and Gee Colonel Gee was interested
in a brand of toothpaste, “scarcely known
on the Australian market,” which was
sold in large quantities in the Middle
East. The board finds that the colonel
“did not improperly receive monetary
benefit from any transaction in the can-
teen service,” though it pronounces the
“procurement” of the toothpaste purr
chases “unethical and likely to impair
confidence in the administration of Can-
teen Services.” But it declares that Theo-
dore Franklin Best, a director of Best
and Gee (Colonel Gee held and still holds
a controlling interest), “dishonestly,”
though unsuccessfully, intrigued with
Ritchie with a view to “exploiting the
Canteen Service for personal gain.” Best
it describes as “utterly devoid of com-
mercial morality,” and the most unsatis-
factory of “many unsatisfactory wit-
nesses: we have had from him nothing
but half-truths, suppression of the truth
and downright lies.” As for Ritchie, “he
is proved to be thoroughly unscrupulous
and dishonest.”
Prosecutions are pending, so nothing
in the way of comment can be published
But nothing else is talked of in the busi-
ness world.
Leave Wool Alone 1 .
Of all Australian land industries,
ancient or modern, that of woolgrowing
has remained the most successful. It has
withstood the depression, ill-considered
trade agreements, political interference,
droughts and, so far, the war and its
general effects.
This while other land industries like
wheat- and fruitgrowing have been re-
duced by political “control” and the
effect of the war on export and home
markets to chaos and a terrific burden
on the public purse. In the war years
wool has maintained its value to the
‘nation because of two things, the wool-
growers’ own ability to carry on and the
British Government’s determination to
keep a priceless Empire asset in British
hands. And, left alone, it will be a
priceless asset to Australia after the war.
But somebody at Canberra wants to
“rationalise” the industry from paddock
to store. If somebody has his way the
only land industry not “controlled” by
politicians and their never-ending boards
and commissions will fall into their
clutches. #
If the Opposition has any fight in it,
“rationalisation” should be fought to the
limit. Great as it is, the industry could
not stand a Dedman “rationalisation”
plan.
A Safe Record.
Only one of Phar Lap’s records still
stands, and that over a distance no longer
raced. The world record in Labor
Premiership put up by just-retired
Queensland Premier Forgan Smith can
be put into the same category —never to
be beaten by a State Premier, extrava-
gances of this particular brand being
headed for the company of the dodo.
The ex-Premier denied the early attri-
buting of his retirement to ill-health. Pos-
sibly he saw the writing on the wall
when, committing one of the very few
blunders of his outstanding career, he
made one of those opposing the Com-
monwealth on uniform income taxation.
One of the shrewdest of politicians, he
could hardly have failed to see that the
defeat of the States on that issue signi-
fied the beginning of the end of their
“rights” and “powers.”
Mr. Forgan Smith had his first taste
of office under Mr. Theodore in 1920.
He’d then been in Australia for nine
years and in Queensland politics (member
for Mackay) from 1915. He became
Premier on June 6, 1932. Thus, retiring
last week, he lowers the record of John
Forrest (December 29, 1890, to February
15, 1901).
Not only in the record span of his
Premiership but in his general administra-
tion one of the best Premiers Queensland
or any other State has had the luck to
own, he recalls Andrew Fisher as an-
other striking example of the curious fact
that Labor in Australia, anything but pre-
dominantly Caledonian, has seldom
appeared to better advantage than when
under the leadership of one or other of
these two canny Scots.
o
They're Racing in England!
Horse-racing, already considerably re-
duced in Australia, is to be further
reduced. Mr. Curtin has said it, in a
tone of voice which suggests that Mr.
Curtin means to do it. And if it is inter-
fering with the country’s war effort to
the extent claimed, by all means Mr.
Curtin should do it. It should, however,
be done without an accompaniment of
humbug and an appearance of panic.
Mr. Curtin draws a picture of his table
feet deep under applications for the re-
lease of men from the army for necessary
production work, while, on the other
hand, unstated numbers are engaged in
training, feeding and transporting horses.
The number (unstated) must surely be
very small. In any case, isn’t there a
call-up in this country? If the Govern-
ment wants these men, hasn’t it the power
to take them? Isn’t it true that every
one of them fit for army service has been
taken already? If not, why? Is this a
reserved occupation?
It is an interesting comment on this
onslaught on racing that they’re still
racing in bomb-torn and semi-beleaguered
England. There has long been rationing
there compared with which Australians
still live in luxury. Men have been called
up to the extent required by the Govern-
ment, and women, too. The Battle of the
Atlantic is being fought to the one end of
ensuring that supplies of all kinds will
continue to reach Britain. But they re
still racing.
The King alone has won nine events
this year with horses he owns and races ;
his Majesty is the leading owner in prize-
money. Programmes are long—up to
eight races —and fields are big; 32
acceptors for a race is not at all un-
common. In the week June 29 to July
4 inclusive there were six meetings, one
each on Monday, Tuesday and Wednes-
day, and three on Saturday.
Yes, they’re racing in England!
Above All, for Routine.
A firm handling a certain product very
much used on important defence works
wrote a letter to the particular Govern-
ment officer in charge of a particular
aspect of the manufacture of the pro-
duct. The letter sought permission to
import from a British Dominion a cer-
tain ingredient and gave the following
reason:
Our stocks are almost exhausted, the
material is not available in Australia, and
there is no known substitute.
Permission was refused.
A representative of the firm then called
on the officer. The latter produced the
letter, which consisted of about five or six
lines, waved a contemptuous hand at it
and said “You haven’t made out a strong
case at all.” The representative remarked
that the letter seemed to him to have said
all that could be said. The officer pon-
dered. Then he said:
Look, this isn’t a strong case. Now,
you go back and write a long letter about
it. A long letter, you understand. You
have no case here at all. You write us
a good, long letter on the matter and we’ll
see what can be done.
The representative of the firm went
away, very thoughtful. At his office he
(Continued on page #4
THE AUSTERITY FROLICS.
Under the man-power regulations no girl under 45 is to be eligible for ballet work.


m
Ws&rnm
HOW TO BE HEALTHY
Constipation clogs the system and caused
many ills. Doctors say, “To be healthy
you must keep free from constipation.’*
NYAL FIGSEN, the gentle laxative, aids
Nature jin a natural way. It acts gently
and mildly to give you comfortable relief.
Easy and pleasant to take, Figsen is just
as good for youngsters as it is for grown-
ups. Get NYAL FIGSEN to-day and see
how easily this natural laxative will cor-
rect constipation and improve your health.
Sold by chemists everywhere- 1/ 3 a tin.
£he next best, thing to Nature .. #
NyaiFigsen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
tM
j£a*\ L ■ ,
-
111
MUM
Ml!
ill
ifi
■
Hi 15
Modern high-cl?ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
“Good for a Lifetime”
No. 136
“TUMBA”
CATTLE POLEY
£l3/2/-
(Complete)
Note how the
combined flap
and skirt is
sewn direct to
the seat, thus
giving the
narrowest pos-
sible grip. All
the dees are lined
with metal and
attached strongly to
the tree.
WALTHERfcSTEVEMSOMC??
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
sat down and carefully enumerated his
argument something like this:
(1) The material is necessary.
(2) It is necessary for defence work.
(3) The work cannot be done without the
material.
(4) The material cannot be made without
the ingredient.
(5) Stocks of the ingredient are exhausted.
And so on until about 45 points were
established. This was placed in a strong
envelope and delivered to the official.
Whereupon a great happiness descended
on everybody concerned.
POLITICAL POINTS
Stray efforts at economy show up in
Chifley’s Budget papers. For instance,
there is nothing on the estimates for the
so-called Australian Publicity Associa-
tion, alias the National Travel Associa-
tion, which received £15,000 in the first
war year and was promised £BOOO after-
wards. But the Commonwealth Grants
Commission is to get an advance of £2OOO
on the £5OOO it spent last year, and
£37,500 is to be squandered on the alleged
activities of the League of Nations and
the International Labor Conference. Even
the League of Nations Union is to get
£2O0 —the Lord knows why.
Forde has issued what Forde doubt-
less regards as a grim warning to de-
faulters. Stating that thousands had
failed to enrol for military service, he
said they would be prosecuted if they
didn’t make good within 10 days. De-
faulters will please note that there is no
danger of their being sent to Amboina,
Java, Manila or any nasty place like that.
Forde says “there is no need to introduce
.conscription for overseas service,” which
means “we’re leaving overseas service to
the A.1.F.”
Dunstan has always paid lip-service
to decentralisation. A spotlight was cast
on his achievement in this direction when
a house-agent advertised a house to let
at Hawthorn at 355. Before breakfast
he had booked 50 inquiries, and when he
opened his office he found 125 home-
seekers waiting and more arriving. While
he was cogitating on how he would make
a selection from this army of clients a
Defence official dropped in and claimed
the house for a workman under Com-
monwealth regs.
Trying to explain why the S.A. Gov-
ernment, which had a surplus of
£1,287,000 for the year to June 30, should
“receive a special grant in 1942-43,” the
Commonwealth Grants Commission
pleads that “it is necessary to adjust”
S.A. finances for 1940-41 to a reasonable
standard, and that the improvement in
1941-42 was “due to circumstances which
could not be foreseen.” It recommended
a present of £1,400,000 to S.A. in 1941-
42, £250,000 to be “deferred” until 1942-
43, and a present of £1,470,000 this year,
including the “deferred” £250,000; but
£670,000 is to be “deferred” till next
year, because the Adelaide Government
won’t need the money. And this when
the donor is budgeting for a deficit of
£300,000,000! The confused and blun-
dering commission should be abolished.
Though British Communists got a
dreadful setback at the Labor Confer-
ence, the brotherhood in Australia boast-
fully proclaimed that the British Trade-
Union Congress would weaken. So far
from doing so it refused by a great
majority to admit Corns, as delegates to
trade-union councils —a concession never
withdrawn in Australia —on two grounds:
(1) it is still necessary, as it has been since
1934, for trade-union councils “to pro-
tect themselves against disruptive activi-
ties” ; (2) “the Communists’ sudden con-
version last year might be reversed if
circumstances changed.” It rounded off
a good week’s work by heaving out an
Immediate Second Front resolution.
Before Canberra does anything silly
about Corns, it should note well the
British Labor and trade-union attitude
also U.S. Attorney-General Biddle's
order for the expulsion of Bridges.
It would be a bad lookout for the
Anglican church if its leaders were ail
Second-Fronters like Bishop Burgmann
and Canon Garnsey. Fortunately this is
not the case, as witness the statement of
Dr. Barnes, the Bishop of Birmingham:
Some few clergy of strong left-wing
sympathies so ardently desire the success
of Russia and the creation of Socialist
States in Western Europe that they are
advocating an immediate invasion of the
Continent. It is not for the Christian
clergy, either from patriotic or from social
motives, to advocate military enterprises.
So far, though our losses have been lament-
ably great, there has not been the whole-
sale destruction of the best of our young
men that characterised the last war. With
the so-called Second Front such destruc- -
tion could easily begin in Europe.
And it might end in Britain becoming a
second-rate Power, like Sweden, and
from the same cause, even if it won the
war.
Memories of T. E. Lawrence, who
enlisted in the R.A.F. as “Aircraftman
Shaw,” were revived when a certain
A.C.2 “appeared before a court-martial
“STONE WALLS DO NOT A PRISON MAKE.”
(But they can be a pretty good imitation.)
at# an air-training school on a charge of
using insubordinate language to a
superior officer.” A.C.2 had been “under
close arrest for three days and under
open arrest for eight days.” Having
denied the impeachment—in part —A.C.2
was returned to custody to await the
promulgation of the sentence. He is
Maxie Falstein, Canberra’s Youngest
Member and Ward’s most fervent sup-
porter. Canberra should have been
shaken to its foundations, but the foun-
dations are still standing.
There is no truth in the rumor that
State politicians, as a contribution to the
austerity campaign, have agreed not to
use . their gold passes, on the railways or
to refrain from gallivanting about the
country interviewing fishermen and .exam-
ining works camps.
“What has Labor or the trade-union
movement done for mankind so far com-
parable with what has been done by
Christianity?” asked a speaker at a reli-
gious conference at Newcastle. Well,
between them they gave mankind Eddie
Ward.
Exit W. F. Smith as Premier of Queens-
land, and enter Cooper, with Hanlon as
his Deputy and Gair promoted to the
Ministry. So far W. F. Smith has not
disclosed his intentions, but he may have
a cut at Martens for the party nomina-
tion in Federal Herbert. Theodore failed
to capture Herbert after his retirement
from the Premiership, but Foggy is not
superstitious.
Expenditure on old-age and invalids'
pensions, '£19,257*000 in 1941-42, is ex-
pected to reach £22,400,000 this year, and
will probably go higher ; Chifley is bank-
ing on merely “a normal increase of the
cost of living.” The increases in service
men’s pay are reckoned at £10,500,000.
Nobody objects to them, but something
Ought to be done for last-war pensioners,
many of whom are suffering severely.
In America last-war pensions have been
increased at the instance of the great-
hearted President himself.
“The reason why matches cannot be
purchased today is a mystery to me,”
said an officer of the Match Co-ordina-
tion Committee to an inquiring reporter.
Since the moment a commodity is “co-
ordinated” it becomes as scarce as
matches it should be no mystery to any-
body.
Five more of the 16 N.S.W. Australia-
Firsters have been “released, subject to
restrictions.” In announcing this last
Thursday Dr. Evatt sought to justify the
continued internment of the six—or
some of the six—by quoting extracts
from letters. One of these lucubrations
referred to Australians as “gutless
swine,” and another proposed “some
form of semi-secret organisation” in the
armed forces to the end of “accomplish-
ing our complete national independence,
if necessary by force of arms.” The
Attorney-General handled very adroitly
a job that, left to Forde, would have the
House roaring denunciation. All the
same, the last has by no means been
heard of the affair.
Women struck at a Richmond (Vic.)
factory to force non-members to join fhe
Federated Ironworkers’ and take the
“Ironworker.” This is the mob method
of introducing compulsory unionism.
Canberra prefers compulsion by regula-
tion.
At the instance of the Berry branch,
supported by several others, N.S.W. Old
Diggers are to be asked to abandon their
23-year-old interdict on political action.
They may not be ready for the change,
but they may as well reconcile themselves
to it, for it is sure to come. Australia
should have had a service men’s party in
1919. Had one been formed then the
army would never have been reduced to
a skeleton, nor would the politicians that
did the reducing be now in a position
to make the existence of the A.1.F., for
which they had no use in 1939, an excuse
lor boggling at conscription without a
string to it.
The year’s silliest suggestion was
knocked flat by Curtin when he coldly
refused to send himself or a Minister to
New Guinea because the Japs had made
some headway through the jungle. Who-
ever put it forward must have a news-
paper mind.
What is cheerfully called a “partial
solution ’ of the labor problem in dairy-
ing is claimed in the setting up of more
committees. But how many cows can a
committee milk an hour?
From unimpeachable sources close to
high authorities whose names must be
withheld for security purposes has come
the cheering announcement that a new
form of alternative strategy has been
decided upon. The moment it is found
that an offensive-defensive is not serv-
ing its purpose, a change will be made
to a defensive-offensive.
Admiral Bacon noted in his biography
of Jacky Fisher that in four years at the
Admiralty Churchill parted company
with four First Sea Lords, Wilson, Bridg-
man, Prince Louis of Battenberg and
Fisher, though in the previous century
no First Sea Lord had been dismissed by
or had resigned because of a disagree-
ment with his political chief. In nine
months of the present war Churchili
made four changes in the Mediterranean
command, sacking Alan Cunningham,
Ritchie and Auchinleck and sending
Andrew Cunningham to Washington. All
four are Scots. The fact has no sinister
significance, but it is singular.
For twelve months Churchill had no-
thing but praise for Auchinleck, and
when Auchinleck was relieved of his
command after his successful stand on
the El Alamein line it was thought that
he was destined for an important post in
India or on the Caspian. This impres-
sion was strengthened by the South Afri-
can P.M.’s eulogy of him: “One of the
ablest commanders I ever met.” So it
was astonishing to read Churchill’s ver-
sion, which was that before he left Eng-
land “it was clear to me that drastic-
changes were required in the High Com-
mand, and that the army must have a
new staff and a new leader” ; also that
he “fortified this conclusion” by the
advice of Sir Alan Brooke and Smuts:
I am satisfied that a combination of
Generals Alexander and Montgomery is
well adapted to our needs and is the finest
at our disposal. Sir Claude Auchinleck is
on leave at his own request. I hope that
his services will be available later in the
war.
Poor Auchinleck! When Churchill has
to get rid of politicians he sends them
on missions or “kicks them upstairs”-
i.e., into the'House of Lords.


" no m '
- C «
&***«»
awr
-<■•-■■ -
WORLD FAMOUS SHIPS
including the “Queen Elizabeth,” 85,000 tons (illustrated);
“Queen Mary,” 81,250 tons; “Mauretania,” 35,000 tons, use
Exide batteries for essential equipment. You, too, can, depend
on Exide for your car, radio or home lighting plant.
Exti>e
â
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
PERSONAL ITEMS
Frank J. Boileau, one of the best-
known sporting men in Melbourne and
a leading stock and station man, now
has a handle, the Boileau baronetcy hav-
ing come his way. The title was created
in 1838, but the family tree goes back
to 1250, when an Etienne Boileau, Baron
de Castelnau, was made Governor of
Paris and first Grand Provost of France.
The name crops up in military, naval,
literary and political history on both
sides of the Channel. Next in the line is
Major Gilbert Boileau, a medico in the
A.A.M.C. and one of Victoria’s best-
known doctors. Incidentally, when the
Nazis entered Paris that city was still
governed by the municipal code formu-
lated by the family’s founder.
Here depicted by Scorfield, Forgan
Smith once gave Frith as long a chase
as he’d ever had to sketch anybody. It
‘involved a journey to Brisbane and an-
other to Melbourne, and surviving the
hospitality of golf clubs in two States.
At the Yeerongpilly (Q.) Chief Justice
Blair sent a messenger to ask Forgan
Smith “to come up, as Frith, of The
Bulletin, wants to put him in a page
of golfers.” Back came a reply to the
effect (with emphasis) that the prospective
sitter reckoned he’d “been made a goat
too often to volunteer for anither dose.”
Later artist and Premier met at the Yarra
Yarra (Melb.), and in a couple of minutes
“Ah’m nae sick, y’ ken!”
the victim was in the chair being
sketched, with the surrender “I thocht
you’d catch up wi’ me in time! ” Forgan
Smith has denied that his surprise retire-
ment was due to ill-health, so perhaps
other State Premiers might take it as
ominous of the day when they’ll all be
tuppence a dozen. He’d put up not only
a State but an Empire record for a Labor
Premier —10 years —at times so dominat-
ing the Labor landscape that he might
have transferred to Canberra with advan-
tage. A Scot, in Queensland since 1911,
he’s now 55.
Queensland’s new Premier, Frank
Arthur Cooper, passed from his chilly
birthplace, Blayney (N.S.W.), into the
office of the Anglican Archbishop of
Sydney as a clerk. It was a lot warmer
than Blayney, but it couldn’t hold him.
After spells in Maoriland and Victoria,
he turned up at Ipswich (Q.) as president
of a workers’ political organisation,
helped run a strike in 1912, was elected
to the Bremer seat in the State Parlia-
ment in 1915 and evidently regarded it
as a constant job. For 10 years he has
been a Forgan Smith Cabineteer, first
as Minister for Education, later as
Assistant-Treasurer and Treasurer.
Politicians on the air:
A staunch Labor supporter on The Bulletin
staff was moved to say, apropos of Forgan
Smith’s retirement, that Queensland’s ex-
Premier “wasn’t much of a speaker over the
air.” Apart from the Scots accent, this critic
ruled “Foghorn” out as having very “thick”
speech. This led to a vote being taken through
the building on which leading politician was
best to listen to on the radio. The result was
remarkable. Only two names were mentioned
in the returns —McKell (N.S.W. Premier)
and Menzies —and they made a dead-heat,
though subsequent stray voters put Menzies
ahead. It wasn’t political voting, solid sup-
porters of the respective parties going right
against their politics. The Prime Minister didn’t
even get a mention in the voting, nor did Dr.
Evatt or Dr. Page (or “Tubby” SteVens or Jack
Lang, for that matter). One who had person-
ally met most of them declared that the P.M.
was the best of them all to listen to in con-
versation. McKell was held to have the most
“manly” sound about him; Menzies to be the
clearest and most direct, with the added word
in his favor that he’d dropped the patronising
air he’d adopted when P.M. Aircraft Produc-
tion Minister Cameron and Treasurer Chifley
had rather unflattering mention. Victory-suit
Dedman’s accent was rated more trying than
Forgan Smith’s “thickness,” and Minister for
Air Drakeford was held to be one of the most
promising of all as a speaker on the air. Both
Scullin (for a “cultivated” voice, but without
“frills”) and Beasley (for “strength”) were given
favorable mention, but rather as an after-
thought than a vote. The characteristic re-
marked on in regard to “Billy” Hughes was his
Australian accent. «
Rev. R. W. Macaulay, new Moderator
of the Presbyterian Church of Australia,
hailed originally from Newcastle-on-
Tyne, coming to W.A. as a boy, and
furthering his education at Hale College,
Perth, and Adelaide Uni. before return-
ing to complete it at London Uni. and
Cambridge. For a while with the Union
Bank, he studied in his spare time for
the ministry, was ordained at East Fre-
mantle in 1908, and later moved east
to Victoria. He was an A.I.F. chaplain
in the last war.
Lately back from his second issue of
stoush, Col. Fred Fitzpatrick, who was
a captain in the 1914 upheaval and sub-
sequently became chief clerk in the Vic-
torian Taxation Office. As soon as the
guns went off this time he sought permis-
sion to join up again, but was told his
services were more valuable as a tax-
gatherer. He handed in his resignation
as a civil servant to rejoin his cobbers.
First returned soldier to take a law
degree in Melbourne in this war is Ser-
geant J. A. Gerrard. Hurriedly complet-
ing his law course and sitting for the
special examinations, he enlisted in the
A.I.F. in 1940. He saw two years’ ser-
vice in Syria and Palestine and was
called back in April this year. Born at
Rochester (Vic.), he was educated at
Geelong College and distinguished him-
self in its football and rowing, as well as
in the debating club.
It can’t be said that they rushed round
to the nearest pub to celebrate it, yet
there was joy in the meeting between
Rev. H. P. Fewtrell, new Dean of St.
David’s, Hobart, and the Bishop of Tas-
mania, Dr. R. S. Hay. The Bishop came
to Australia to be rector of Laidley (Q.)
in 1897, and there the young Fewtrell
pranced about while his father was the
rector’s churchwarden. Later, when
young Fewtrell entered holy orders he
went to Hatfield College, Durham Uni-
versity, the Bishop’s old school. After
serving in England, Rev. Fewtrell was
on the N.S.W. coalfields, became chap-
lain of King’s (the old school at Parra-
matta), then headmaster of Broughton
(Newcastle), and was boss at Ballarat
C. of E. Grammar when the Deanery
turned up.
For all-round variety the soldiering
career of Sgt. J. T. McNamee, M.C., of
the Moore Park Recruiting Depot, takes
tossing. With the 2nd L.H. (his number
was '406) he was wounded at Quinn’s
Post on Gallipoli; was convalescing in
England when picked Australians were
being encouraged to go for commissions
in the British Army, and, transferring,
went to France as a lieutenant with
British Chemical Warfare Service. He
was wounded again at Mouquet Farm
and won his M.C. In 1917 he was with
the Canadians in the capture of Vimy
Ridge, and early next vear was attached.
as a captain, first to the Australians, then
to the Americans, whose now much
better-known General MacArthur was
then the youngest of divisional com-
manders. Captain McNamee was in-
structing in chemical warfare, but volun-
teered to take an American regiment into
action in the Americans’ first big scrap,
at Chateau Thierry. In this he won the
American Distinguished Service Cross,
with the Distinguished Service Medal
added later, and a personal letter from
Commander-in-Chief Pershing compli-
menting him for “working unceasingly in
developing aggressive forms of attack,
the very thing that General MacArthur
last week advocated as the right recipe
for dealing with the Japs.
Back in 1909 H. E. Trousselot lobbed
in Hobart a few days too late to see the
city’s biggest fire, which destroyed the
old city market. Last week he resigned
from the superintendency of Hobart Fire
Brigade. Major Trousselot won his rank
abroad with the First A.1.F., which he
joined as a private. He first argued with
fires in Melbourne, and later was a fire-
fighting adviser to the British Govern-
ment. Apart from war, he marks the big
Mt. Lyell fire of 1912 as his greatest
experience, and a gold medal is among
his other decorations to remind him of it.
Now doing a war job for the Army, he
was succeeded by N. A. Skinner, his
deputy, another ex-Melbourne fireman.
All-Black footballers now representing
M. on grimmer fields include J. T. Bur-
rows, who went with the team to South
Africa in 1928. Now a brigadier in the
N. he went to the fighting as cap-
tain with the South Island Battalion, so
his high promotion has been rapid. He
was mentioned in dispatches in April,
1941, for his Middle East services.
Knight Louis Bussau, Victorian Agent-
General in London all through the
Blitzes, summoned home to tell his State’s
A.R.P. how to do its job, and going
back for more experience, could tell Eng-
land something about wheat just as im-
portant at the moment. Born at War-
racknabeal, the son of a farmer, he was
Federal president of the Wheatgrowers’
Association from 1932 to 1933.
Old-time Cobb and Co. coachman
Thomas Barrett has had a 102nd birth-
day at Waikaka, Southland (M.L.). Born
at New Town (Tas.), he drove on Ballarat
and Bendigo runs in the lively days;
then, crossing to M.L., he drove for the
famous concern between Cromwell and
Queenstown and over other routes. The
gold-bug bit him hard in both Australia
and M.L.; he followed the gleam of the
yellow metal over both countries.
Chief Inspector of Army Administra-
tion Eugene Gorman, K.C., of Mel-
bourne, has the job of cutting out waste
BRIG. EUGENE GORMAN.
in camps. He was headed for Java as
official Commonwealth representative, but
the Japs got in before he could get there.
As Chief Comforts Commissioner in the
Middle East he administered the job with
his usual picturesqueness and disregard
for official viewpoints, ending up with
a spectacular escape from Greece.
Admitted to the Bar in 1914, he is a
member of the V.R.C., and, having run
his own horses, he is as much at home
among stableboys and trainers as he is
arguing legal points. He went to the last
war, won an M.C., married a French
lady and returned to write a history
of the 22nd Battalion and build up one
of the biggest practices in Melbourne.
The new president of S.A. Chamber of
Manufactures, Roland Jacobs, of the
Harrison San Miguel Co., has been
on its council for over 20 years. His
father, S. J. Jacobs, was on it for over
ROLAND JACOBS.
40; giving up as quite a young man law
practice for commerce, “Sam” was the
agreed arbitrator in every sort of sport-
ing argument, and had the unique record
of being at the same time chairman of
Adelaide Uni.’s finance committee and
also of Tattersall’s Club. Roland Jacobs
also goes in for a widte range of activity:
he’s a. member of war-time bodies (S.A.
Emergency Supply Committee and the
Advisory Committee to the Deputy
Prices Commissioner); is vice-chairman
of the R.S.P.C.A., has been president of
the Rotary Club, and is a member of the
Crippled Children’s Association Council.
His son, Capt. S. J. Jacobs, lately re-
turned from the Middle East.
Into the silence:
At Georgetown (Tas.), at 61, Thomas Henry
Davies, Tasmanian Minister of Lands and Works.
A graduate in metallurgy of Ballarat (Vic.)
School of Mines, he was in the 1914-18 war as an
expert in chemical warfare, ending as a major.
He had represented Bass since 1929.
In Adelaide, A. H. (“Bert”) Rice, known to
all southern sportsmen for 20 years as curator
at Morphettville, the headquarters of S.A.
Jockey Club. He was a Westralian originally.
In England, Conrad Noel, closely related to
the Noel Buxtons, who were formerly at Gov-
ernment House, Adelaide. He was one of the
extreme Ritualistic Socialists, and under-
graduates from Cambridge once made a sortie
to tear down the Red Flag from his church-
steeple and send it to his bishop.
In London, at 87, Algy Moreing, one of
the founders of Bewick Moreing and chairman
of Sons of Gwalia, London-Australian, General
Exploration and other mining ventures for
many years. Long ago in Westralia his firm
employed Hoover, “Hail Columbia” Hoover in
those days to The Bulletin and afterwards
President of the United States.
At Wellington (M.L.), aged 84, Joseph
Taylor, in philosophical circles the founder of
Absolutism —an attempt (like Comtism) at a
correlation of all science and philosophy.
Taylor, English-born, and in M.L. at 36, lived
40 years in Nelson province, discovered and de-
veloped the Puponga coalfield, and wrote many
scientific and philosophical treatises. He claimed
to have influenced and corrected the views
of Herbert Spencer.
In Melbourne, Dr. Constance Ellis, the
first Victorian woman to take a doctor’s degree.
A vital, energetic woman, she mixed art, litera-
ture and music with medicine and social ser-
vice. She was vice-president of the Victorian
Baby Health Centres and one of the founders
of the Lyceum Club. Two institutions which
owed her a lot were the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital and the Emily McPherson College. She
was the first woman to sit on the B.M.A.
council, and she helped to establish, with
both work and money, the University Women’s
College.
In London, William Murdoch, the Australian
pianist and composer. Born at the Mecca of
Victorian musicians, Bendigo, in 1888, he passed
through the University of Melbourne to the
Royal College of Music, London. He gave his
first London recitals in 1910, toured S. Africa,
Australia, Maoriland, Canada, U.S. and Scan-
dinavia, and then settled down to composi-
tion in England.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“A.R.P.”: After a night spent in our
local warden’s post, daring which the
two of us sought vainly to make some
sense out of the latest batch of literature
from N.E.S. headquarters, I picked up
the morning paper and read that Leslie
Hore-Belisha had returned to the Com-
mons after a period of withdrawal in a
Carmelite monastery. Said Les, “One
comes from such an experience with an
entirely new perspective.” I’ll bet one
does, which is why I’ve become a strong
advocate for the retirement of politicians,
preferably State politicians, to monas-
teries and other silent places. What a
blessed relief it must have been to the
British that Hore-Belisha was silent so
long, but, then, what a disappointment to
find him back again and with “an entirely
new perspective”! Any politician coming
from silence with such a disease is a
greater menace than before, so I’m urging
that such retirements be made permanent.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: With an eye on the future
I make a close study of the works of
reigning special correspondents and raving
—sorry, roving—reporters with the ob-
ject of knowing what may be expected
should miracles happen and myself get
“Here is an item you'll all enjoy: The Police Rhythm Boys!"
into such a job. Take, for example, this,
from a raving—damn it, roving—reporter
in Russia:
• F ie ' d - M iP hal von B l ock ’ s Caucasus army
and Polish criminals. There is one com-
plete regiment of these men.
Now, at first glance, the ordinary
reader might wonder to himself what the
blazes it matters if Von Bock has Esper-
anto-speaking can-can dancers in his
army, the important thing being that
they’re all enemies anyhow. Ah, but
there’s more to it. The message may not
have news value, it may not mean any-
thing to ordinary readers, it may not add
to Australia’s knowledge of the war, but
—and here is the big thing for all would-
be foreign correspondents to ponder—it
does show the editor that his distant hire-
ling is finding out things.
* * *
“Spokeshave”: Having be-
come affianced to a charm-
ing young woman and desir-
ing the celebration of his nup-
tials to be worthy of a great
occasion, a Melbourne bache-
lor started collecting liquid re-
freshment by those gradual
means rendered necessary by
the state of his pocket and
war-time liquor restrictions.
In the course of a few weeks
he had industriously acquired
a stock of three dozen bottles
of ale, plus two of champagne,
which he displayed with un-
sophisticated pride on his
sideboard, every evening con-
templating his hoard with the
liveliest satisfaction. On the
marriage eve, however, the
police turned up and confis-
cated the lot. There is now
at least one Melbourne citi-
zen who regards Mr. Hollins‘s
allegations of lack of zeal on
the part of the licensing police
of Melbourne as political pro-
paganda of the worst sort.
“S.T.S.”: Like “Midford” (B. 2/9/’42)
I am “sick of astrologic quacks and
Zodiac impostors.” But let us temper
justice with mercy in the case of just one
astrologer who really has pluck in (1)
talking straight prophecy and not vague
remarks that can be twisted to fit later
on ; (2) signing his name to them —Vivian
Robson, B.Sc. On May 20 he published
this in London “Queen”: “At the begin-
ning of 1940 I predicted the ending of the
war in the summer quarter of 1942. I
look upon that as a definite and unalter-
able prediction, which I fully expect to
see realised. I think the end could come
at almost any time now, but I doubt if
it does so before the summer quarter is
well advanced. This covers the period
from June 22 to Sept. 23, and I have no
doubt that before the end of that time
the German war will have ended.” As
the farmer said when his prize bull
charged the tractor head on, “I don’t
think much of his judgment, but I do
admire his pluck!”
* * *
“Cauboy”: A theatrical organisation
which approached Man-power in Sydney
for permission to engage 40 women for
ballet dancing was told that the request
could not be granted, except by the em-
ployment of women over 45, young
females being needed for munitions. It
made all Australia grin. Pavlova died at
46, and was well over 40, when she last
toured Australia, and, although her legs
looked a trifle muscular and stringy, she
hadn’t lost any of her agility or lightness.
But she started her career in the Czar s
Imperial Ballet School almost from the
cradle. You might as well train a draught-
horse for the Melbourne Cup as try to
make a woman of 40, or even 30, into a
ballet dancer.
“Uramao”: Hardly any of the com-
mentators on Bishop Selwyn’s centenary
neglected to tell how the bishop, on the
voyage to his new home, studied the
Maori language to such good purpose
that on arrival he was able to address
Brown Brother in his own tongue. True
enough, and very characteristic; but
there’s another side to it, which was told
some years ago by Hemi Matenga. Hemi,
a member of the Nelson Anglican Synod,
listened while a young parson told the
story of Selwyn’s first sermon in Maori,
then rose with a twinkle in his eye. He
said he was the last of the Maoris who
listened to the sermon and not one of
“Thinks he is still in Malaya doing a spot of jungle-fighting."
the chiefs understood a word of it. At
its conclusion they assembled and
decided, in the interest of the bishop, to
make the sermon taboo —that it should
never be mentioned lest the good bishop
and his spirit be wounded. Hemi reck-
oned that as Selwyn had been gathered
to his fathers the taboo no longer held
good. But what a tribute to the spirit
of chivalry and courtesy of the old Maori
chieftains!
sfc He ❖
“Arter”: Neville Cardus, opening a
show of “contemporary” art in Sydney,
made a new contribution to aesthetic
theory. A little dazed, perhaps, by what
he saw on the walls around him, he
remarked:
In what I have seen of this exhibition
there is much more vitality—l won’t say
originality—than there is in music in Aus-
tralia. There are bound to be countless
mistakes, because all pioneering and adven-
turing in art is usually done —I won’t say
by the second-rate artists, but not by the
great artists. Pioneers have to make the
language and the technique which greater
artists follow.
A little corroborative evidence would
have been welcome. Well over a hundred
years ago another very distinguished
English art critic, Hazlitt, remarked that,
whereas science is a matter of steady
advances and ever-widening horizons,
art arrives fully-fledged and then for long
periods ingloriously ebbs. He instanced
the world’s failure ever to replace the art
of sculpture on the it occupied
in Greece’s Golden Age, the uniqueness
of Raphael’s genius and other aesthetic
triumphs of bygone centuries never since
paralleled. Hazlitt’s seems a more easily
defended view than Mr. Cardus’s. To
shift the argument to one of Mr. Cardus’s
special spheres, would he argue that
the greatness of Beethoven consists in
what he derived from Haydn, or in what
he created in a manner entirely his own?
* * * #
“Lurl”: To Katoomba, on the
N.S.W. Blue Mountains, a lot of city
women went for the September school
holidays. The kids tramped round the
ledges, cliffs and ravines ; their mothers
tramped joyously up and down the town’s
main street, the shop-windows being un-
boarded and wares on display ranging
from absurd little hats to ancient soup
plates. My dears, it was a real relaxation!
* * * *
“F.S.”: Some of Melbourne’s archi-
tects were heard to scoff when Lud
Mayor Nettlefold told a reporter that the
night after his election he had a dream
in which he saw a new and resurgent
city expressed largely in reinforced con-
crete. There was nothing to scoff at.
It seems to be a settled belief amongst
architects in Melbourne that they
can’t build as beautiful buildings as
the Greeks did because they haven’t
the materials the Greeks had A
beautiful building can be made out
of the most prosaic materials if
adequate architectural skill is applied
and reinforced concrete offers as many
possibilities as stone and marble When
a prize was offered for a £250 000
War Memorial in Melbourne the iudges
gave it to the design which most closely
followed classic conventions The result
was a good copy of a good Greek
original, but it was only a copy, and not
very impressive at that. With the same
amount of money an architect as well-
equipped to evolve beauty out of the
materials at his disposal as the Greeks
were could have built a monument in
concrete that would have dominated the
city.
* * * «
“L. de Rideau”: The decision to
appoint State committees to keep a special
watch on broadcasting stations to safe-
guard the listening public against in-
decent and borderline jokes is (presum-
ably) based on the assumption that the
public wants to be safeguarded. The
assumption may be questioned. Having
visited innumerable vaudeville shows,
pantos., musical comedies, clubs, liners’
smokerooms and bar parlors for 30 years
all the world over, I have come to the
melancholy conclusion that the one thing
the public best appreciates, though the
public may not admit it, is a fruity story.
* * * *
“K.”: We have had three victories
in the Pacific ; and after each we have
been exhorted by politicians and news-
papermen to beware of “complacency.”
Well, what’s wrong with it? Do these
people want us to get around with faces
like undertakers when we have cause to
be joyful? Let us be “complacent” by
all means whenever we give the Nips a
bashing, and let the politicians and news-
papermen buy a dictionary and learn
what the overdone word really means.
FOUR OR FIVE.
“Unless we have families of four or five —two to
replace the parents and two to carry on the race—
there is little future for Australia.”
—Professor A. P. Elkin.
He isn’t too exacting, doesn’t limn in
His picture pleas for “children nine or ten,’’
The Kipling quota for “deep-bosomed women”
Who link their lots with “five-meal, meat-fed
men.”
He only asks —and who indeed gainsays it? —
That married couples should henceforth con-
trive, I
Pro bono publico, as one might phrase it,
A modest four or five.
This falling birthrate lays a heavy onus
On us. Dispiritedly one reflects
How poor old Andy Fisher’s baby bonus
Hadn’t the least perceptible effects.
A fiver, one admits, is still a handy
Method of lightening maternal cares,
But how deplorably it’s shrunk since Andy
Directed our affairs!
Increase and multiply! With fervid unction
Pastors and preachers, politicians too,
Warn us to heed the Biblical injunction
That Israel’s patriarchs ever kept in view.
Yet every decade shows the outlook bluer;
Unlike the Asiatic and the Slav,
Our race persists in having fewer and fewer
Kids than it used to have.
Example might perhaps be more effective
Than precept, I imagine, on the whole,
A lead in cradle-filling than invective
On the iniquity of birth control.
But are our hosts of teachers and of betters
Who’re ever urging us our ways to mend
Patterns for imitation as begetters?
Seldom, I apprehend.
Well, here’s another erudite adviser
Who’d have us keep our quivers better filled,
Yet one a bit more moderate and wiser
Than others of the academic guild.
He doesn’t raise a shout to split the welkin
For babes on Kipling’s figures to arrive;
All that he asks from matrimony, Elkin,
Is merely four or five.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
LEST WE FORGET.
“Premier McKell announced that two broadcasts
a week would be given by himself and other Labor
Ministers to direct attention to the Government’s
brilliant achievements in a single year of office.”
Self-praise is scarce a form of commendation
That cogent or convincing you would call.
In fact, an ancient maxim in relation
Thereto, a well-known copybook quotation,
Tells us it isn’t any praise at all.
No Premier his stock should hope to heighten
By loud insistence that he stands unique
Among his fellows as a sheer “all right ’un,”
A wonder man, an Admirable Crichton —
Not even if you hear it twice a Week.
No poet strengthens and no painter raises
His status among ordinary gents
If, in supremely egotistic phrases,
He frequently and rapturously, praises
His own achievements and accomplishments.
These sugared compliments, this greasy diction,
That certain persons to themselves apply
Are not the stuff to carry much conviction.
Too many will account them an infliction
And feel no gratitude to 2KY.
Mac, if encomiums you needs must utter
Upon yourself, designed to stir and stick,
I wouldn’t be so lavish with the butter,
Or lots of those who listen-in may mutter.
As did the Carpenter, “It’s spread too thick.*
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Middle Sis.”: A species of madness
swept through a N.S.W. mountain town,
famous as a tourist resort but now suf-
fering from shortage of staff, beer,
tobacco and other things. The place was
sane and holding its own well until the
sugar ration was announced, whereupon
all the guesthouse controllers, having the
rush of the school holidays on hand,
went forth and collected a B coupon
from every guest, equal to 21b. of sugar.
But the guests had but a week to go,
which meant handing them back each a
pound of sugar, and orders were sent to
the local grocers. Which is why, on a
certain morning, mad language and wav-
ing arms and the froth from lips were
thick over the mountain crests as those
grocers wrestled with the problem of put-
ting up some 20001 b. or 30001 b. of sugar
in lib. packages. And one guesthouse
controller handed out the packages and
didn’t collect payment, thinking all was
covered by the coupon. If ever a town
hated sugar that one does.
* * * *
“Nakh”: When Melbourne held its first
A.R.P. rehearsal and half the population
failed to hear the sirens, I suggested on
this page that all that was needed
was to raise the pitch of the note a trifle.
Electrically-driven sirens of a higher
pitch were used for the first time to bring
the people to a standstill for the two-
minute war anniversary silence and were
entirely successful. The shriller note
lifted the sound out of harmony with the
normal city noises. A master switch at
D 24, police control-room, now operates
100 sirens.
“R. Volt”: The intense hush which
fell on Melbourne when the sirens blew
for the two minutes’ silence on this war’s
third, anniversary showed how people
can be disciplined to an observance. One
old lady, however, turned green and
bolted down a lane screaming “Air raid!”
When the Armistice silence was insti-
tuted after the last war it took a long
time before the public accustomed itself
to it, and the cable companies had a
knotty problem. All instruments were
ordered to be stopped at the due time at
every station, but as every station around
the world observed a different time there
was stopping and starting all through the
24 hours and traffic was reduced to
chaos. A standard time was finally
fixed by the London H.Q.
* * * *
“Desperanto”: I welcome “Nulango”
(B. 2/9/’42) to the universal-tongue
family. As far back as 1629 Descartes
put out the theory of a universal lan-
guage which “uneducated people should
learn in less than six hours.” In times
more modern (1880) we were given
Volapuk, which was outmoded by
Esperanto, which has a numerous off-
spring of its own —among others, Ido,
Antido, Lingvo Kosmopolita, Esperan-
tido and Nov-Esperanto. Once upon a
time Latin was the common tongue of
the educated —which reminds me of the
story of a famous soldier in India. In
his administrative capacity he used to be
bothered by classical tags with which
pompous civil servants used to adorn
reports. So one hot day, in desperation,
General Whizzbang seized a Latinised
file that came before him, muttering “I,
too, can quote Latin.” His marginal
note was: “Nullum Sanguineum Bonum.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: There are two more good
and simple reasons, which don’t seem
to have been advanced, for listening to
music with the eyes closed, and neither
of them is in the least a sign of the
Philistine. Shut out sight and the hear-
ing does become more intensified. On
the other hand, long-continued music can
have a definitely soothing effect. I have
often gone to sleep while listening to it;
and this not from boredom, as seems to
be suggested, but while enjoying it
immensely.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Canberra Ministers
have been talking with bated breath
about a grim new era of austerity, and
they seem to think it has arrived. Only
too true. I have never seen Melbourne
so full of ascetics. . Day and night they
throng the sidewalks, a resistless tide,
bent on mortifying the flesh in the
cinemas and the cafes, chasing from one
tobacconist’s to another for incense to
burn to the holy cause to which they are
dedicated. Never have I seen such queues
as line Collins-street adjacent to those
temples of self-abnegation and repent-
ance the Regent, the Plaza and the
Metro. Never have I seen such crowds
as cram the more expensive restaurants,
the rising cost of minestrone and spa-
ghetti not deterring them for a moment.
# * # *
“Lex”: Did somebody say mugs for*
luck? I’m always reminded of that say-
ing when I recall the first criminal case
in which I appeared for the accused.
The case was pushed on to me owing to
the illness of a senior member of the firm,
and the only advice the boss had time to
give me was “Admit nothing. Make ’em
prove everything.” So when I was asked
by the prosecution to agree to the admis-
sion of a certificate by a microbiologist
as to his examination of certain articles
of apparel, I stoutly refused. The other
side immediately asked for an adjourn-
ment, which was granted. In the interim
things happened: (a) the microbiologist
died, ( b) the articles of apparel were lost.
When the case came on again the prose-
cution withdrew the charge. Had I con-
sented to admit the certificate the case
would have proceeded. And my client,
I fear, would have done a long stretch.
* * * *
“H.E.R.”: “Strict Veg.” (B. 2/9/’42)
places James Cook in a wrong category
when he classes him among “individuals
who were thought to be quacks.” Cook
had orthodox scientific qualifications as
well as being an officer of the Royal
Navy, and for this reason was chosen to
command a scientific expedition to
Hawaii to observe the transit of Venus.
Coming back he discovered our east
coast.
* * * *
“Hamer’ ? : The explanation of the
prevalence of Scott’s and Dickens’s works
in second-hand bookshops (B. 2/ 9 / ’42)
is simple enough ; in the days when no
respectable householder thought his house
was fully furnished without its book-
case, even if he never read a book him-
self* Scott and Dickens were the stock
authors for show purposes, and I dare-
say remain so. Thackeray never had a
vogue amongst the respectable.
* * * T
“Lao-dah”: “I feel a certain apprehen-
sion about speaking here today,” said
“Look what I found on the wharf , missus!”
Trevor Oldham, member for Booroon-
dara, in the Vic. Leg. Assembly. “I came
into town this morning with a friend I
hadn’t seen for a long time, and he told
me he dreamed last night that I was
speaking in Parliament when I suddenly
collapsed and had to be taken to the hos-
pital with appendicitis.” His fellow-
Parliamentarians breathed a sigh of relief
when the hon. member sat down without
manifesting any symptoms of ill-health.
They would have been less anxious had
they known that appendicitis is one of
the things denied to Mr.' Oldham —his
appendix was removed years ago.
* * * *
“T-C”: Melba may never once have
moved Cardus, his reviewer on the Red
Page and “so many of her generation,”
but there were many more not so imper-
vious. I have owned hundreds of vocal
recordings and heard hundreds more,
but have yet to hear a more poignant and
truly electric piece of singing than
Melba’s in the “Rigoletto” quartet with
McCormack, Thornton and Sammarco,
though recorded in the flawful days;
while her singing with Brownlee in the
best-known “Traviata” duet is just stark
genius. And she sang ’em in the flesh
often enough for 35 or 40 years. Criti-
cism is a matter of opinion.
* * * iH
“Curtain Raiser”: A foreign musical
celebrity now resident in Australia was
invited to dinner by one of Melbourne’s
leading magnates. The magnate’s wife
harbored the belief that musicians were
ethereal people who, as Shelley puts it,
regarded “love and thought as poet’s
food,” and had prepared a meal mainly
composed of meringues and ices, with a
delicate soup and a tiny fish to start off
with. The virtuoso crunched this ghostly
provender, but seemed to be plunged in
deep depression. “Who is your chief
musical god, Mr. X?” asked the hostess
brightly in order to relieve a situation
that was fast degenerating into horror.
“Beethoven or Chopin?”
snapped the musician briefly. “Handel! ’
“Ah, I’m glad to hear that,” said the lady,
“because he is mine, too. I think his
music is simply delightful.” “I wasn t
thinking of his music,” said the virtuoso
sadly. “I was thinking that when Handel
used to go into the eating-houses in
London he would tell the waiter to pre-
pare a good substantial British dinner for
three. The waiter would do so, and then,
somewhat surprised that nobody had
joined the jolly Teuton, would ask ‘But
where is the company, sir?’ ‘I am the com-
pany,’ Handel would say —and prove it.”
* * * *
“Spasebo”: “The Germans are using
tanks as water-carriers. The heat
is so intense that candles melt in dug-
outs. Fires sweep the steppes as bombs
and mines ignite the dry wheat stalks.
In the trenches the soldiers’ skins are
turned grey by dust and soot.” This is
a description not of the campaign in the
Libyan desert but of the campaign in
the North Caucasus, and it doesn’t
surprise me. Having occasion to
undergo the 14-days-long Siberian rail-
way journey, and having read large
quantities of Russian novels, I equipped
myself with blankets, woollen undergar-
ments, hot-water bags and so forth.. A
few days later I was sweating more than
I had ever sweated in an Australian
summer, the dust was down in my neck,
in my hair and between my teeth, and
something or other, from which the
Siberians protected themselves with veils
on their faces and nets on their hands,
was biting me profusely. On each side
of me the steppe stretched, carpeted with
the same sort of wildflowers as grow in
English lanes. A few weeks previously,
the Siberians told me, the landscape was
buried in snow in the orthodox fashion.
In winter it is their pleasing custom to
boil themselves in hot water and then
roll naked in the snow. Possibly these
terrific climatic changes, artificially pro-
duced and natural, largely account for
their tough resistance to the Germans.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The difference in spelling
of Indian proper names (B. 2/9/’42)
arises through the fact that they repre-
sent sounds that in the native tongue are
expressed by other symbols. It is the
same with Russian, Chinese, Malay and
any other language with un-European
alphabets or symbols. The Romanising
in India was done in the first place by
philologically-minded missionaries who
each developed his own system. In the
.resultant confusion the native doesn’t
know how to spell in English his own
name, but has to plump for one version
or another. A quaint example is pro-
vided by the Parsees of Penang, amongst
whom the surname Amarrican or Amur-
rican has always been a favorite. Gradu-
ally “American” was accepted as the
standardised form, and a lady tourist
from the United States whom I was
showing the sights of that lost island
paradise was charmed to discover that
half the curio shops in the place were
kept by “Mr. American.” She thought
it was a delicate tribute to her nation.
* # s= *
“Bibber”: Ben Chifley’s new Budget
put Is. 7d. a gallon excise on perry. At
least two N.S.W. papers rendered it as
“sherry.” Perhaps they hadn’t heard of
the old fermented pear-juice drink.
» * * *
“Tosser” (A.1.F.): I have to laugh
when I see amateur aeroplane connois-
seurs naming every ’plane that flies across
the sky. Even the ack-ack crews find it
hard to distinguish the “goodies” from
the “baddies” when the bombs begin to
fall and the machine-guns start to clatter.
In Greece' and Crete they used to say
that the only way to distinguish a Ger-
man from a British ’plane was that
“theirs” dropped bombs on us and
“ours” didn’t.
* * * *
“F.S.”: I have never been able to
understand why Melbourne painters invite
university professors, politicians or
actresses to open their art shows. I could
understand them inviting some wealthy
patron because he might buy their pic-
tures, but if they invite a personage they
endow him with an irrelevant import-
ance. If he is very important the public
come to see him, not the pictures. An
artist returned to Melbourne after a
sojourn in Europe invited an eminent
actress to open his show. A quarter- of
an hour before the function started the
place was packed to suffocation. Five
minutes after the lady had displayed her
beautiful white arms and said her piece,
the place was deserted except for the
regular old-stagers.
* * * *
“Haitam Tai”: When, as happens at
least twice a day, I pass through purlieus
presided over by Hartigan, tutelary deity
of N. S. Wales Railways, I am reminded
of a couplet from Omar* “O Thou, who
didst with pitfall and with gin Beset the
path that I must wander in.” For
the cold bracing air of renunciation
and asceticism has not yet swept
through Mr. Hartigan’s domains. The
walls of his railway stations are covered
with huge posters extolling the virtues
of wine, gin and ale, various sorts of
smokes, cinema and other entertainments,
and the delights of railway joy-riding.
The station that greets me on arrival in
the city also presents for my enticement
a long lane of display-windows crowded
with very expensive and (in my opinion
anyway) not at all essential goods. In
addition to these is a regular procession
of liquor bars, each with a display of
bottled booze at simply awful prices.
* * * ft
“Bohemian”: There’s a text for the
moralist who likes to emphasise the
ephemeral nature of pomp and grandeur
in this bit of German railway history.
Fifty years ago the Kaiser’s State train
was completed at a cost of £150,000. It
took three years to construct. It con-
sisted of 12 carriages, all connected by
corridors. The library was hung with
Gobelin tapestry, brought from the Palace
of Charlottenburg, the dining-room was
oak-panelled and the drawing-room
finished in white and gold. Shortly after
Hitler came to power he had the train
renovated and modernised. He used the
Kaiser’s bed to sleep in. Little did the
All-Highest ever in his wildest dreams
conceive that one day a commoner from
Austria would commandeer his empire,
his job and his bed.
* » * *
“D.E.” among the baronets:
Westralia has a native-born baronet, Sir
Thomas Cockburn-Campbell, of Gartsford,
sixth of the line. The first baronet was a Scot-
tish celebrity, born Cockburn ; his baronetcy was
the first created by George IV. The fourth
baronet, Sir Thomas Cockburn-Campbell, was
J. W. Hackett’s associate in the “West Austra-
lian” and President of the Legislative Council.
He died in 1892; his widow lived to a great age
in Cottesloe, named after Baron Cottesloe.
Next door to Cottesloe, as it were, is Fre-
mantle, derived from the family name of the
Cottesloes; Thomas Fremantle, Secretary for
War, was the second George IV baronet.
Sir Alexander Thomas Cockburn-Campbell,.
the fifth baronet, was a Westralian civil servant.
He left the service after a disagreement with
the Perth authorities, having been sent to
Wyndham, where he was Clerk of Courts.
Afterwards he had a Kimberley cattle-run, and
became known as a great bushman and a prince
of good fellows. One of his friends was
“Texas” Green, member for Kalgoorlie and
Scullin’s Minister for Defence, and I once
heard Green describe in moving terms the
circumstances of Lady Campbell-Cockburn s
death remote from medical aid. A bush-bred
girl, she had borne her husband two sons, the
present baronet in 1918; his brother, born 1921,
is his heir. He succeeded to the baronetcy in
1935; his father, prematurely old and in very
reduced circumstances, died in Perth.
Now, a Harvey (W.A.) farmer, William
Robert Clifton, has been named as successor
to a James I baronetcy. He is a first cousin,
once removed, of Robert Symmons Clifton,
who, born at Bunbury, the birthplace of For-
rest, Australia’s one home-grown peer, was
taken to England by his parents as a boy.
In 1869, on the death of Sir Robert Juckes
Clifton, the ninth baronet, he claimed the< title,
but had dropped it for 30 years before his
death, which occurred recently in a Kentish
village. A 1912 Whitaker’s Peerage in my
possession says that when Sir Robert Juckes
Clifton died “the title was considered extinct,
but is claimed as per follg.:
“Clifton Baronetcy (Eng. 1611), deemed
extinct 1869, but now assumed, as 13th Bt., •
by Robt. Symmons Clifton.”
This note disappeared from Whitaker’s after
a few issues, and a 1922 reference to the widow
of the ninth baronet ends with the statement
that her lord “d. 1869, when the title became ex-
tinct.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Percival”: Titbit from Sydney's
“Sunday Sun”: —•
Predicting that a large belt of Eastern
Australia would rise up and break off into
the ocean, an applicant wants permission
to build an inland boarding-house for the
refugees.
This recalls a humane scheme a mate of
mine cherished some years ago for erect-
ing a marquee and several small tents in
Sydney Domain in case a liner leaving
Hobart forgot to cast off and arrived with
Tasmania still alongside. The idea was
to moor Tassie in Neutral Bay, ferry the
inhabitants across to the Dom. and there
house and feed them under canvas while
they found their land legs and until a
tug or launch could be secured to take
the Speck back to its old address. An-
other project this chap contemplated was
to seek permission to lop the top off
Cape York Peninsula and wedge it into
Spencer Gulf. This, he said, would
strengthen the ties between Queens-
landers and South Australians, and give
the flora and fauna in the former region
a welcome change of climate. Nothing
came of it.
* * * *
“Lyndy Lou”: To those superior males
who give vent to a horselaugh whenever
the work of land girls is mentioned I
would recommend a winter of work on
one of the flax fields near Adelaide.
Women from all walks of life, clad in
clammy rubber boots, overalls, woollies
and waterproofs, have spent S.A.’s worst
winter for 20 years, often in driving rain
and bitter gales off the Gulf, spreading
the flax straw for retting, which means
bending from the hips, head-down, all
day long. Eight hours on end of that
would knock up many a man, but the
girls have stuck it like Britons. Even
abolition of the daily allowance of 20
minutes’ shower-time hasn’t caused
noticeable waning of enthusiasm for a
war job that is being well done.
*«* * *
“Doubting Thomas”: I’d love to
believe that explanation of “Betcha’s”
(B. 12/8/’42) regarding the origin of tin-
kettling. But did he ever ponder on this :
What did those folks of the “days of
witchcraft” have to go tin-kettling with?
They had no kerosene-tins, nor even an
old tin dish, for the process of rolling
out thin sheet iron and then tinning it is
a very modern invention. In the Middle
Ages and down to about 100 years ago
kitchen utensils were of copper, delf and
wood. Copper utensils were expected to
last through several lifetimes, and cer-
tainly were never taken out to be beaten
with a stick. So his theory fails, though
village gangs may have sought largesse
at weddings by means of catcalls and
hissings. Tin-kettling, I believe, origi-
nated in U.S.A., and was brought to this
dry continent by Californians, the idea
being that it was up to the lucky bride-
groom to shout—an opinion always en-
thusiastically applauded by thirst-stricken
Australians of yesterday.
# * , * *
“Tommy Atkins”: The “gun” shearers
who got a laugh out of the way sheep
are “shorn” in Palestine know little of
the ways of the British “shearer” with
a sheep. “Shearing” is a modern
and mostly mechanical invention. Prop-
erly speaking, sheep were “relieved” of
their wool in Britain by clipping. It was
done that way in Biblical times, and the
“shorn” lamb (to whom God tempers
the wind) was just an unfortunate
creature which had been clipped rather
too energetically. In some parts of
the world wool is still “plucked” from
the sheep. Australian merinos, which
are purely and simply woolgrowing auto-
matons, require, of course, mechanical
barbering.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: What’s “Wester” (B.
19/8/ ’42) growling about? On a visit
to Adelaide I saw a riding-club member
with his horse dressed up —for cantering
round the parklands, mind you!—in a
way that would make a bush prad, under
a stock saddle with girth and surcingle,
look almost indecently nude. The city
bloke’s hack wore a double bridle, bit,
bradoon and double reins. The saddle
was secured with girth, surcingle, breast-
“I see you’ve kept my place.”
plate and crupper, and there was also
a martingale somewhere about. I tried
to get across to sing out to him some-
thing about a breast-band and breeching,
but just then some kids collecting waste
products came up and the nag bolted.
* * # >i-
“B.A.”: Somebody has been pulling
“Cam’s” leg about the South American
bolas being extensively used for catching
rabbits on the Lower Hunter (N.S.W.)
(B. 2/9/’42). I have seen the bolas used
by experts hunting wild cattle and horses,
guanacos, avestruz (rhea), deer, puma,
yaguaraz (a kind of jackal) and fox, but
never on an animal as small as a rabbit.
“Cam’s” contraption that “consists of
about 4ft. of fine rope with weights at
each end” is not the South American
bolas, and on trial it would be found
about as effective a substitute for the
gaucho’s implement as a big stick. The
bolas consists of one length of twisted
greenhide about 6ft. long, another about
4ft. long and three round stones about
the size of a duck.egg encased in green-
hide covers. The short thong is knotted
to the middle of the long one, and when
the balls or bolas are attached to the
ends of the thongs the implement is ready
for use. The bolas is used only on
animals that are intended to be killed, as
they almost invariably suffer more or
less injury from entanglement or being
struck by ope or more of the balls.
# * * *
“Esk D.”: “The 0.D.” will play many
games of cribbage (B. 19/8/’42) before
he finds a closer finish than this. Old
Dan and partner had a surprising number
of wins in a row and were getting in
some heavy humor at our expense. Then
at last we had only a hole to go when
they needed 23. Dan refused to resign
and dealt the cards around. His Nob
turned up, and Dan pegged a couple.
The play was king, ten, seven, ace ; then
it was “go” all round to Dan, who played
another ace for two, another for six, and
dropped the last like a ton of bricks to
bring up 31 with 14 holes —and game.
W * * *
“R.M.8.” (Oregon, U.S.A.): There
has been quite an epidemic of men here
posing as Australians off warships. We
had one in Portland whose story was
too big even for an Aussie. Another
old Digger and myself were called in to
give him the third degree, and he cer-
tainly was well posted as to places and
distances; but when he said his diner’s
name was Charles Wade and didn’t
know what was on the tuckerbox five
miles from Gundagai we had him put
in the coop, and he soon owned up to
being a phony.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Gran’father Wil-
liamson was telling us of his encounter
with the bushranger Power. “I’m makin’
down frum Woods‘s P’int t’ Mansfield
with about 30 ounces o’ gold in me
swag,” said the old man, “w’en a cove
rides out o’ the scrub an’ ‘Bail up!’ he
ses, p’intin’ his gun at me brisket. ‘Who
the hell are you?’ I arsks. ‘Why, damn
y’r eyes,’ he ses, ‘l’m Harry Power, so
hand over y’r money, an’ be quick about
it if y’ don’t want a coupla slugs in y’r
nob.’ Now, I knoo that Powef wus one
o’ them soft-hearted coves wot wouldn’t
shoot nobody, ’cept it might be a trap,
so I takes a chance an’ ses ‘Not a flamin’
penny. You’ll have t’ kill me fust.’ He
stares at me fer about a minute, then he
lowers his gun an’ ses ‘Damn’ if I don’t
b’lieve you’re one of them pigheaded
coves wot would fight like hell, an’ w’en
I’d done y’ in all I’d get fer me trouble
would be a coupla bob an’ y’r miner’s
right.’ Then he gives me another look-
over, an’ ses, like he wus talkin’ t’ him-
self, ‘No! I ain’t never killed a cove
in cold blood, an’ I ain’t goin’ t’ start
now.’ Then, ‘So long!’ he ses, an’
gallops orf!”
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland is beginning to
wonder whether the horseless carriage
was such a boon to humanity as it has
been cracked up to be. Now that there
are all sorts of restrictions on the use
of motor vehicles there is a strong move
back to Dobbin, but Dobbin stands not
where he did. As late as 1911 there were
404,000 of him in the Dominion. Now
there are only 266,000. But as serious
as the horse shortage is the lack of men
“used to horses.” When I was young
there wasn’t a boy in the land who
couldn’t groom and feed a horse, for if
his dad didn’t own one the next-door
kid’s dad did, and stables are delectable
places. Now there’s a dearth not only
of blacksmiths, farriers, harness-makers,
wheelwrights and vets., but of people
who know even the rudiments of horse-
manship. M.L. has 11,278 farm tractors
(against none in 1911), but part of the
price paid has been 138,000 horses.
* * * *
“Irishtown”: The boys, great duck-
hunters, thought nothing of crawling
about the scrub in tussocks full of
for half the night. When they came
home Mum would always inquire “Now
is that gun loaded?” Then came a night
when Freddy swaggered in, dropped the
bag on the table amongst the kids’ home-
work, and in answer to the usual ques-
tion threw up the muzzle to the ceiling
and pulled the trigger. There was a
deafening explosion; the lamp went out
and a dreadful silence reigned. When,
light was restored it shone on a white-
faced family, and a star winked through
a big hole in the roof. Then Dad recov-
ered his breath.
“ Jeff”: Dad, as he pulled out in the
sulky from the house paddock, spotted
Mum swinging the axe near the kitchen.
“Poor Mum!” he muttered. “Havin’ t’
do a man’s work about the farm! I
don’t care wot she says, I’m going t’ get
some land girls while this labor-shortage
lasts.” Turning into the road he saw
a stranger of ample girth lolling with
Matilda alongside the fence. Dad drew
rein as an idea had struck him. “Say,
mate, y’ve got a poor feed there for a
big cove like you,” he remarked, nod-
ding at the simple repast spread before
the knight of the road. “See the big
house back there? Well, if y’d like t’
come f’r dinner y’ can have roast fowl,
plenty of vegetables an’ duff an’ custard
an’ blewmonge. How about it?” The big
bloke gazed lazily across the cow pad-
dock to the house, and his tired eyes lit
up. Then he spotted the big woodheap,
and his wince was almost audible. “Well,
I’d like t’, boss,” he replied, “an’ thanks ;
but y’ see I’m livin’ with the times.” He
indicated the stale bread and jam. “Y’
see, I’m loyal in these here days of
orsterity.”
*** . *
“Yokel”: A duck’s feathers are naturally
oily, quite irrespective of any water-
proofing that might be got from the oil-
can on its tail. But the main reason
why its plumage is so waterproof lies in
the layout of the feathers. With a non-
aquatic fowl the feathers don’t sprout
from the whole skin area; they grow in
irregular rows with wide, bare spaces
between. With an aquatic bird they
sprout densely all over the underside of
the body, forming a thick layer difficult
for water to penetrate. And, as I said
before, the oilcan theory doesn’t explain
why a day-old duckling, clad only in fluff
and possessing no oilcan, can float equally
well with its mother.
*c * * *
“Trombo”: It was a four-roomed sea-
side cottage let to accommodate six. But
there were already 18, including the origi-
nal tenant family of six, when Bill Gum-
bark, an in-law, arrived with his missus
and a brood of five. “But where do you
all sleep?” asked the astonished land-
lady. “Oh, that’s easy,” explained one
bright kid. “The grown-ups have all the
beds, and when night comes Dad turns
the tables upside down and us kids gets
a lot of gum leaves and fills up that
underneath part, and with a blanket and
some bags we all sleep good-oh.”
* * * *
“E.J.M.”: “Anthropo” (B. 26/8/’42)
may be interested to know that the roots
of even an abo.’s teeth are not exposed
by pushing back the gum. Teeth are in
bone, not gums, for approximately two-
thirds of their length. Also, that not all
teeth are forked; only 14 of the 32 are,
and not always these. Further, to remove
a tooth by the pulling method would tire
out two teams of bullocks. A dentist
does not pull teeth, but extracts them
with a complicated motion, different with
every tooth, but always outwards. The
abos. knew this when they applied the
pointed stick behind the two front teeth
to be removed.
* * * *
“Flight”: A gorgeous little rainbow
perched on the ’phone wire outside my
verandah. It was a kingfisher which is
also known as the sunbird. The verandah
was part-latticed. The ’fisher sprang to
sudden life as if pricked with a pin. He
darted round the lattice, stirred my hair
with his wings as he swept past me, and
without hesitation made straight for the
far corner and snavelled a spider that was
hiding there. How did he do it? He
couldn’t possibly see the corner, let alone
the spider, from his seat on the wire;
yet his actions bespoke unerring certainty.
* * * *
“Propalong”: I once went boundary-
riding “on my pat.” After a month or so
there came an undefined feeling of rest-
lessness ; then a sense of dissatisfaction,
after that a conviction that, buried in
the wilderness, a great brain was being
lost to Australia; finally, a tendency
to occupy the mind with any train of
thought that could be pursued at length
for an hour or so. At this stage a bloke
gets into great arguments with himself
over religion, love, poetry, the extent of
the universe or the best kind of oil to use
on a saddle. Some hatters become super
housewives, putting all their spare time
into cooking, cleaning up the camp, im-
provising shelves, curtains and so on.
Others develop a passion for straining-up
fences or building symmetrical piles of cut
firewood. Re-reading The Bulletin suf-
fices for some, while others build up queer
theories of their own which they live
with, constantly add to and always trot
out for exhibition when a visitor arrives.
About the most salubrious cure for the
ill is a week-end spree in town. The
best form of prevention is books—the
A.I.M. does a great job here—and a
hobby such as leather carpentry.
HALF-CASTE.
She was as dark as the dawning, who over
the sky-bound plain
Rounded the steers in the sunlight, wheeling
the wings in* the rain;
A child of the wild was Nita, who made her
home on the run
Where we herded the longhorned legions on
miles from the myalls won.
They told her tales of the mission, of bells
in the morning glow;
She shook her head in the stockyard when they
said that she must go.
She asked for a month of freedom of saddle
and rein and spur—
Oh, little they knew of Nita who rode where
the brumbies were!
We camped at the twelve-mile timber with
steers from the Yesterday,
Bound for the fenceless spaces and the valleys
gold and grey;
And in the dip of the skyline, fast hiding the
low-hung stars,
Came seething the haze of storm-wrack, the
blaze of the lightning bars.
The cattle rumbled a warning, the warning the
stockman knows,
Then straight through the fire of greenhide
they went as a torrent goes!
The hell-wind whistled around us, tearing the
tops from the trees,
And out in the lead rode Nita, her black hair
wild in the breeze.
Ahead were the river gorges and, swift in the
drift of the wind,
She spurred her colt for the cliff-tops and he
left the steers behind.
The leaders, sensing the danger, swung hard
away from the ledge,
And, spearing out in the darkness, were lost
in the rain-pall’s edge.
Next month when they came to take her we
showed them the cairn of stone;
They felt the scorn in our voices and we left
them there alone
And caught our mounts in the stockyard, and
rode to the plains far-flung,
Where never again would Nita race in the storm
when the wild lead swung.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX MCLENNAN.


AFTERWARDS.
Going home by Reedy’s Crossing I met Danny
riding down, .... , , ,
And I was tired of soldiering and the straight
grey streets of town.
The hills were blue in sunshine, white-streaked
with shining snow, .
And the river sang so softly clear on the stones
below.
And I asked him idly: “Danny, tell me, tell me
WherTthe war is over and done with will the
hills be still as blue?
Will they muster still on Karena, and West by
the old bush tracks,
Will the sheep be crying up Enderby and the
tuis in the flax?”
And Danny laughed and answered me: “King-
doms tumble down,
But we’ll still be shearing on Enderby and
muster the old West crown.
The birds will sing at Karena, I promise, true
as true,
And up by Reedy’s Crossing the hills will still
be blue.”
MAORILAND. JOYCE WEST.
* * * *
“Bald Rock”: A picnic party from
the city lit a fire and, impaling sausages
on sticks, proceeded to grill them. After
the feast they rested, then gathered the
things to go home, finding one sausage
left. This was thrown away, and down
from the high gum dropped Jim Crow.
They paused to watch him. The crow
circled the sausage, snuk toward it and
away, kept a sharp eye everywhere and
finally grabbed the delicacy and bolted
a portion. Then that bird gave a hurt and
astounded squawk, turned a half-somer-
sault, regurgitated the bit of snork and
departed in a hurry. The picnickers went
pale, then held their breath and hurried
away to get as near medical aid as they
could before anything happened. They
didn’t know that a bull-ant had taken
possession of that snagger before Mr.
Crow pounced.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: The boss turned up at the
outstation and was surprised to find that
the spare hut, wherein he had installed a
wandering pensioner as general rouse-
about, was tenantless. The camp boss
came to the door of the main building
and was greeted by inquiries. “Old
Jack?” he replied. “No ; I never hunted
him away; but he had a flamin’ accor-
dion —used t’ play it be the hour.” “Well,”
snapped the boss, “what’s wrong with
that?” “Aw, well, he used t’ play the
thing half the night, an’ you know
how this flat’s lousy with snakes.” “Yair,”
sneered the boss, “and of course the
snakes flocked into his hut till they
squeezed him out the window and he had
to leave.” “No, it wasn’t that,” said the
pannikin, looking the boss in the eye.
“ ’Course you never heard old Jack play.
But the snakes did an’ they all came
across to us. One of the blokes was goin’
to job him if he didn’t stop playin’, so he
left.”
* * * *
“Etiwanda”: So “D.R.H.” won’t be-
lieve that a man can have a few drinks
and shoot straighter than before he
had ’em (B. 9/9/’42). All right; but can
he explain how it is that old Joe, our
neighbor, isn’t game to ride the bike-pad
on the channel bank on his way into town
of a Saturday, then gets more than half-
tanked and rides home along it in the
dark ?
* * * *
“Old-timer”: That claim that the
goanna is “outstanding among snake-
killers” (B. 9/9/’42) started off all right,
and the writer was in a fair way to
proving the claim until he fell into the
old, old error of alleging that every time
the go. is bitten by Joe he hurries off for a
“nip of antidote weed” and returns to
the fray. Snake venom is a blood-poisqn,
and how the Hades a go. or anything
else can offset a blood-poison by nipping
at a weed is something any chemist or
doctor would give his ears to know.
Sorry, but weed-eating never was an anti-
“This Austerity’s putting the wind up me.”
dote to snakebite, and as a killer of
snakes the go. is far down the list in a
field headed by dogs, cats, the common
chook and man himself. The truth is that
go. and Joe aren’t enemies. I’ve seen
them pass each other on a river bank
and actually nod the time of day, and
I’ve seen a Joe boredly unwind itself and
shift from a dead sheep’s shade when
the feeding go. wanted to move round
that side. They’re likely to fight over eggs
or young birds or in the mating season,
but any go. depending on a weed anti-
dote had better get some insurance at
once.
* * * *
“Narrin” :■ Charlie Grant, our store-
keeper, has an incurably loquacious
mother-in-law who is also a wowser, and
when visiting them she likes accompany-
ing Charlie on business trips in the car.
One day they pulled up a hundred yards
from the river, in sight of a humpy of
whitewashed bags, while Charlie took an
order from Pram-boat Alec. After busi-
ness old Alec turned to pleasure. “Bought
a new pram the other day,” he confided.
“Cost me a fiver, but I alius reckon a
man should have a good ’un. I got it
done up in Morgan. Color’s a nice light
green—can’t stand them black things.
Looks real good, it does, an’ o’ course I
got plenty o’ use for it.” On the road
again ma-in-law trotted out her impres-
sions of old Alec. “I really wonder how
his wife stays in that ridiculous little hut.”
“Wife?” interrupted Charlie. “Why,
Alec’s not married.” Because of his “dis-
reputable acquaintances” Charlie now
drives alone —and thankfully.
* # * 0
“Lawmucot”: In the course of an
hour’s conversation with a farmer and
his family not far from the camp a Yank
was gravely informed that Hitler, the war,
the Government, a piece of road, the shire
council, a tractor, a motor-truck, two
storekeepers, a publican and a brindle
dog were all fair cows. Following a
commotion at the back of the house
Mum came in and complained that “That
thieving swine of Casey’s was at the
garden again.” That thieving swine was
a pure white cow.
* * * *
“Ngaduri”: Hasn’t “Milton” (B.
5/8/’42) ever heard of farmers that
keep a stallion and breeding horses
for market as a sideline? If he
had ever been to the Ninety-mile in
South Oss he would have found that
every second or third farmer does so.
And if he had ever listened to any com-
petent buyers he would have heard that
some of the best hacks for the military
come from Cooke’s Plains on the Ninety-
mile—which 4s all sand-groper country,
where the biggest farms are about 3000
acres. Sheep is the standby of these
farmers —and doesn’t it follow that where
there are sheep there are horses that
have to be ridden round the sheep?
* * * *
“E.H.S.”: “Uckle” (B. 2/9/’42) is
barking up the wrong stump. I did not
ask if it is possible to “cross bush trees.”
What I want to know is whether it is
practicable to graft one species of euca-
lypt on another. “U.” seems to be under
the impression that a “peppermint” gum
is not a eucalypt, and to be ignorant of
the fact that eucalypt is a term applied
to the species and not to the individual;
his formula for the fabrication of lead
pencils without the core of plumbago
indicates that his ingenious parent who
“was particularly interested in saps” had
a unique sample always available for
reference.
* * * *
“J.W.”: It was a big night in our Vic-
torian Mallee town. One of the locals
had won first prize in the Soil Erosion
Competition and we rolled up to the
hall for the presentation of trophies and
to get the good oil about holding on to
our farms when the summer northerlies
blow. The donor of the cup, a small
man with a big purpose, got a well-
deserved hand when he told us all about
it; but we stirred a bit uneasily during
the official speeches from the notables
present. Then we travelled a. bit per
film ; saw the Dust Bowl in U.S.A. and
how Uncle Sam was handling it. At
long last our own man of resource and
sagacity stepped up to get his little
cheque, as did two others who ran him
pretty close. But did we hear how they
did it? Not a bit of it. No doubt it
will form the basis of a lecture in the city,
where they have no erosion problems.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were supposed to
be building the new railway from
“The War news is dead crook , Ned. Beer's up tuppence a pint!
Soanso to Suchansuch, but our section
had a slack ganger and we took things
easy. One afternoon the boss got word
that the “heads” were coming and made
a hurried survey of the mob. Everybody
was on the job except three, and they
were spotted in a card game behind a
stack of sleepers. “Slip down,” said the
boss to Mat, “an’ bust up that game.”
Mat went. Shortly afterwards the
“heads” arrived, had a quick look around
and departed. About an hour later Mat
and the other three came back to the
line. “Y’ took y’r time about it,” com-
plained the boss. Mat looked injured.
“Well, gorblime,” he said, “I only had
a coupla deeners when I got there an’
them blokes held some good cards for
a while.”
# * * *
“Narriri.”: “Black-’n’-White,” a cat
created in the decorative Souter mode,
was growing old and disinclined to leave
her sunbath by day or the hearth by night
to hunt for her living as good cats should.
She had a tabby kitten and she got
pneumonia, and, through lavishing all
her strength on the kitten, was saved
with difficulty. Now the cold weather
brings out the rheumatism in Black-V-
White’s joints, and there is no pension,
widow’s allowance or whatnot for her.
But every evening a kitten rabbit is heard
squealing outside the front door, and
Black-’n’-White hitches up her skirts and
hobbles out to eat while her offspring,
duty done, sits by approvingly. There
seems to be a moral somewhere in it.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: When an animal is edible
and therefore desirable, and Nature sud-
denly brings about a considerable in-
crease, we talk gleefully of the wonder-
ful season. When the increase takes place
in forms, insect and rodent, that are un-
desirable we talk ruefully of
the pest and the plague. But
Nature treats both very much
the same; after one or more,
but never many, abundant
seasons she clamps down;
within a brief period maxi-
mum numbers will fade to the
minimum; in extreme cases
the form may seem to have
totally disappeared. Have
seen it occur in snails, ants,
prawns, crabs, fish, rats and
rabbits, just to mention a few.
How the alchemy is worked is
much of a mystery, though
we assume that excessive mul-
tiplication breeds a disease
which, taking plague form,
sweeps away the surplus, the
survivors being those who by
some means have some form
of antitoxin immunity. But
given that this theory is
correct, the virus of the plague disease
is itself a form of life, and in its sweep-
ing-away act must attain to prodigious
numbers. So Nature has a further
problem there which she in some way
solves.
* * * *
“lago”i From a corner seat of our
Victorian train the man under the weather
informed the carriage at large that he was
from “good ole New South,” and added
aggressively “Lemme out at Gardenvale.
Several stations were passed before they
wakened him sufficiently to understand
that he was on the wrong train. He
stumbled out when the train pulled into
the next station, and*weaved an unsteady
way toward the gate. “What place is
this, Digger?” he demanded of the porter.
The porter bawled out in the manner
used by porters as they wave trains on
their way: “Koo-wee-rup.” The stranger
staggered back a little. “Koo-wee-rup?
Cripes, I’m in China!”
* * * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry had just cleared
a good price for a draft of fat lambs,
and, feeling expansive, he had ordered
poultry for lunch at Murphy’s pub. Soon
after he had been served Murphy strolled
in for a yarn. “How did you like the
fowl?” he asked. “Well,” said the long
’un thoughtfully, “it must have been ah
incubator chicken.” “What do you
mean?” queried Murphy. “Well, no
chicken which ever had a mother to
guide it could have turned out so tough,”
Harry told him.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: Took a job once with a
Victorian cow-cocky. A few mornings
after I’d started he hoisted me out an
hour earlief than usual for the milking.
He explained that the “missus’d be doing
the washing” and left it at that. We had
lunch down the paddock, and when the
usual hour for rounding up the cows
came around Cocky kept on slogging
away with the fern-hook. I Was feeling
pretty much like a square meal by the
time he finally decided that it was time
to knock off. Plodding up the hill from
the creek I inquired the cause of the late
finish to such an early ( start. “Oh,” he
replied, “it’s washing day, as I told y’.”
“Well, what’s that got to do with milk-
ing the cows?” I asked. “Your missus
doesn’t do any milking anyway!” “No,
Vic,” came the answer, “but when the
old girl does her washing she uses the
separator vat for a washtub an’ the cream
cans to soak the dirty clothes in an’
keep the blue water in. Thank heaven
she only washes once a month!” If the
system had changed by the time the next
washing day came around I didn’t know
it. I wasn’t working there then.
* * * *
“Scuta”: “B.4’s” treatment for snake-
bite (B. 26/8/’42) is fairly sound.
A good plan, in addition to tightening
and relaxing ligatures (always between bite
and heart), is to cut the punctures out,
or, if lacking nerve for that, to scarify
them at any rate. The spilt blood washes
some of the poison away, and sucking
will get rid of more. Don’t trot the
victim round to keep him awake ; it only
circulates the poison faster. A small
drink of spirits is right enough ; it cheers
him up ; but don’t hog it in. Too much
kindness kills. Coffee is best —if you
can get it.


/fs'Drag Free m
’>■»,//
ft;'*
VAST/
<c
S 5 /
XlfrKi
&
W/
A
m
W
❖
w\
"v
%/j
*w
REGULAR SHELL
SPECIALISED
LUBRICATION
WILL KEEP YOUR
CAR IN FIRST
CLASS
CONDITION
j FAST Like a Hash to lubricate every Bearing or moving surface
TOUGH It outlasts all ordinary oils
protects every moving part from the
onslaught of wear
YOU CAN BE SURE OF
smit>"'oiL
It's dtafy-fut
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED tlncorporate in £ngiant*)
tO* *4
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Shearing Hints.
“Murrawong”: Owing to drought and
shortage of labor, jj was impossible to
dag sheep during the year. Try now to
clean up dirty sheep before sending them
into the shearing-shed. Losses are caused
by stained wool. Drying racks should
be looked over and repaired. Clear
weeds to allow wind and sun to get at
the stains.
Be prepared to store the clip for some
time this year because of shortage of
trucks to take the wool to store. Few
sheds can hold more than a day or two's
wool, and arrangements must be made
for other storage on the property when
railway trucks are not available. Hay
sheds or outhouses around the property
may have to be cleared and used for
storage or, if tarpaulins are available,
bales may be stacked outside, care being
taken to keep them well off the ground.
Machinery repairs cannot be done at
short notice. Before sending parts to the
city for repair write first to see if the
job can be done in the time available.
Only the very optimistic will expect to
have a full board of shearers, so allow
for the shearing lasting longer and cost-
ing more than usual.
Regulations concerning rationing as it
affects shearers should be studied before
shearing. Tobacco supplies can be
arranged through local storekeepers. It
is well to know the procedure with regard
to tea and sugar supplies.
Dipping and Management.
“E. de L.”: A sheepowner must notify
the stock inspector when his sheep carry
external parasites. The owner is then
instructed to dip and report the action
taken.
When sheep are shorn and are seen to
be free from parasites, they should not
be dipped. Fly strike is not checked by
dipping and there is no evidence that
dip benefits the wool. A suitable dip
will either kill parasites or make them
drop off sheep, when they soon die unless
they can find some wool to live in. All
wool about yards and all dead wool in
paddocks should be shedded or burnt
before dipping ticky or lousy sheep.
Don’t let travelling sheep use yards in
which you’re going to put your own
sheep, and see that the boundaries of
the property are netted to protect clean
sheep from lousy strays.
The best type of dip is one with a
walk-in approach ; the slip in from the
side is too severe on sheep. Build the
race to rise 3ft. above the top of the dip
with a bend of about 120 degrees on to
a platform a foot long, meeting the walk-
in slope. The bath for a distance of
10ft. is provided with raised walls
4ft. 6in. high, with a gap 2ft. 6in. high
on the left side to provide access to turn
any sheep which go in stern first. With
such a dip there is no waste from splash
and sheep cannot spring clear.
No biting dog should be used in the
dip yards or in musters to dip sheep. A
“Anything Wrong, Ma ?”
torn sheep is a dead sheep after dip-
ping. For the same reason get rid of
logs or stumps lying near gates or yards.
Shorn sheep scratched by such rubbish
or by wire in a yard will die after dip-
ping.
Not more than three dogs and not
more than three men are needed to work
a properly constructed dip. On small
properties running 2500 merino sheep
it takes 14 packets to dip sheep a month
off shears, and about 400 gallons have
to remain in the dip.
Sudan Grass.
“H.C.”: Good for green fodder, silage,
hay or grazing, it should be sown from
September to early October for best,
results. Use fallow and sow through
every grain run of the wheat drill, which
has proved better than widely-spaced
drills. Thus sown, it develops into a
fine-stemmed crop, there is less weed
trouble, sheep eat it more readily and
the binder will handle it more easily.
Seeding rate is 61b. to 121 b. per acre.
Use pure seed. When the soil is caked
harrow across the drills when plants are
three to four inches high.
Sorghum or millet should never be
sown close to Sudan grass as they cross-
pollinate easily, and hybrid plants will
poison animals grazed on them. Danger
of prussic-acid poisoning from Sudan
grass occurs when the crop is young.
Don’t graze it until the flowering stage
is past. Young growth made rapidly
after a dry period or frost is also dan-
gerous. Cattle are more likely to suffer
when first placed on the crop than when
they’re used to it.
Sudan is a heavy yielder and comes
back quickly after grazing. Several
grazings can be got during the growing
period. It cures well. For hay it pro-
duces two or three cuts in a season, and
is one of the best silage makers.
The Bridle-breaker.
“8.A.”: If a young horse is taught to
lead in the manner described in B.
29/7/’42 he will never develop the
bridle-breaking habit. Instead of teach-
ing the animal not to pull back, the usual
method is to take a couple of turns of
the halter rope around a stout post and
make him pull, with the result that he
sometimes slips a badly-adjusted head-
stall or breaks a weak rope, and, having
once learned that he can break away, per-
sists until he becomes a confirmed bridle-
breaker.
If the nag does pull back, blindfold
him, unbuckle the bridle reins and drop
the ends on the ground and let him
stand. He may not attempt to move for
some time, but when he does he will
tread on the trailing rein. When he feels
the resulting jerk he will try to pull back,
but finding nothing to pull against he
will make no further attempt to break
away. It will not be long before he
steps on it again, with the same result,
and this will continue until he finally
recognises that any attempt to shift his
position results in a sharp jag on his
mouth. After that the blindfold can be
dispensed with, as he will stand when-
ever the reins are dropped on the ground.
Turnips.
“Hortus”: Success depends on early
spring ploughing. Plough deeply and
leave in the “comb” for a while to
enable the soil to become thoroughly
aerated. Let what sun there is warm the
lower layers. Then harrow and cross-
harrow. Just before sowing replough,
lightly this time, and bring to a very
fine tilth with harrows or cultivator. You
cannot have the soil too friable for
turnips.
Seed is not very robust, and quick
germination is essential. The turnip is
a shallow-rooter, and good cultivation will
enable the crop to obtain its plant-food
more readily. On the tablelands
it would be safe to sow when the ground
has warmed up sufficiently, and moisture
conditions favor a rapid germination
This may be early in November or as
late as early January. Some growers on
southern highlands favor the last week
in October.
When growing turnips for sheep have
plenty of roughage handy to supplement
the ration. On about 400 acres divide
64 acres into four 16-acre blocks. Sow
them with turnips, fib. seed and 901 b.
super, to the acre, with a broadcaster
You can stock each 16-acre area with
about 2000 comeback hoggets and merino
ewes, using the remainder of the pad-
dock for rough grazing. After stocking
for four weeks, cultivate each area to
lift the remnants out of the ground. The
sheep will take another fortnight to clean
the crop up. In this way no turnips are lost.
If aphis attack, as they will if there is
too slow a growth, check by grazing
the tops without any setback to the
growth and development of the turnip.
Some growers favor sowing the seed in
drills, 2ft. 6in. apart, at the rate of fib.
to lib. to the acre. This enables inter-
tillage between the rows and allows the
constant cultivation turnips need. Try
Cha'mpion Purple Top and Purple Top
White Globe.
Early Tomatoes.
“Billy See”: Here’s how Tony got
early tomatoes in frosty Kalgoorlie
(W.A.). Behind a shed which gave shelter
from the morning sun but full glow in
the afternoon he built a
boarding 12ft. by 4ft. by
2ft. deep. This he filled
with fairly fresh horse
manure. He collected a
few hundred jam-tins,
burnt out the bottoms and
loosened the side seams.
Bound round with raffia
each tin was filled with
soil and a couple of
tomato seeds.
Placed close together
all over the dung hot-
bed, the tins were soon showing young
plants. At an inch or so high the weaker
one was pulled out. Frost protection was
provided by a sheet of thin scrim pulled
across at night on a couple of stretched
wires. The warm bed and the afternoon
sun forced growth on. For transferring
to beds each tin was set in the necessary
hole, the raffia band cut, the tin gently
opened and drawn off. Soil was then
pressed around, so the tender roots suf-
fered no disturbance. Planting seed early
in June, Tony had ripe tomatoes well
before November.
Hints for the Farm.
“G.R.M.”: On no account pull the
tick from the dog (B. 5/8/’42) unless it
is just taking hold, or the pressure will
force poison from the tick into the dog.
Cut the tick in half and then apply your
kerosene.
“B.”: Cracks, worn-out crevices or bent
corners in milk vessels can produce all
sorts of bacteria once the first hot spell
sets in. This means souring and bad
flavors. Now’s the time to resolder
seams that have opened at all and
straighten out dents. If a vessel’s beyond
repair, toss it out. No ordinary method
can dislodge bacteria from small crevices.
Tallowy and cardboard taint in milk or
cream can often be traced to coolers
with cheap tinning or to rusty utensils.
Retinning worn surfaces prevents this,
too. If you cut out abrasives and chemi-
cals and use a stiff brush to remove milk
solids the tinning should stand up to a
lot of use.
“J.J.G.”: Kerosene emulsion is good
for skin trouble in horses. Dissolve
about a pound of soap in a gallon of
water. When dissolved and boiling
remove from fire, add a pint of kero-
sene and stir thoroughly until emulsified.
Brush on a little warm emulsion daily.
Also useful is a solution of sulphur and
lime. Add two good tablespoonfuls each
of quicklime and sulphur to a gallon of
water. Boil and simmer for 20 minutes.
Allow to settle, then carefully pour off
the golden-colored liquid. Apply daily.
Also white precipitate ointment is very
good, but must be used on small surfaces
each application. Black sulphur with suf-
ficient kerosene to make a thinnish paste,
rubbed well in, is worth trying. A tea-
spoonful of yellow sulphur once daily in
the feed for a few days would be beneficial.
“Bill C.”: In dead stumps bore deep
holes at many points not less than 6in.
apart, and pour into them a solution of
*lb. of saltpetre dissolved in a pint of
water. Leave for a few days to allow
the solution to penetrate, then pour ordi-
nary paraffin into the holes and over the
stumps and ignite. The stumps will take
fire and burn away.
“Hock”: Make a trench 2ft. 6in. deep
along each side of fruit-trees which have
cropped poorly about 3ft. from the
trunk ; pack into it stones,, tins and a


A dog in
good work-
ing condi-
tion is an
asset, espe-
cially to-day when
labor is scarce. It
pays to watch his
health. If his coat
is dull, loose or
ragged, if he is
listless or oC his
food, start him now L
on a course of BAItKO Condition Powders, which
are a combination of valuable, nourishing and
restorative ingredients. BARIvO Condition
Powders arc recommended for Cattle-dogs, Sheep-
dogs and Watchdogs.
à
â
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
ã
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man*
hood. Price 10/6.
ä
WRITE
TO-DAY
T. J ONES £ CO;
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON. t
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
FULLY GUARANTEED AS TO LONGEVITY, EFFICIENCY AND MECHANISM.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF, AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilisej in the machine, and automatically runs off into
å
an underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
• NO WATER* SUPPLY REQUIRED.
THERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT JOB
Approved by the Board of Health—over 2000 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Give's same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co.Pty. Ltd . Telephone 151052.
Trice, £l7/17/6 f.o.b. SYDNEY, including 10% Sales Tax.
Plus 20/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
Obtainable direct, or from all leading stores, pastoral etc. Agents all States.
V
m
Wireless alone can meet the
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
INSTANT ★ CONSTANT * CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADIOTRON
RADIO VALVES
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC I’KOPKIETAItT, LTD.,
03 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
m
WStc
CRAVEN
>l>;
Al
ft*
are s« much smoother
01/« *«! QZ
*PU *»i OI
s
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
4005
\
ms
little sand, and then fill in the earth
again. The tree will not be harmed if
the roots are cut. The job will cure faulty
drainage and put fresh life into the tree.
“23-4”: A useful book for the farmer
is Keith C. McKeown’s A ustralian Insects,
published by the Royal Zoological
Society of N.S.W. It should find a place
among the farm books if only to settle
the endless arguments on identification
and whether a tick is an insect or simply
a blanky pest. The chapters on plague
grasshoppers and white-ants are worth
the money in themselves.
QUESTIONS’ ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.}
Any truth in the following statements: (1)
A white cow is a liability against the dairy-
man; (2) a white bullock does not make such
good beef as a red, brown or black one; (3)
a white pig makes poorer-quality bacon than
a brown or black one; (4) a white horse eats
more than does a bay or black; (5) a white
hen produces an egg of inferior quality to that
produced by a brown, black or red one ?
There is some truth in (1), (2) and (3), be-
cause white-skinned cattle and pigs are sus-
ceptible to various fyrms of skin disease rang-
ing from sunburn to a dermatitis caused by
eating St. John’s wort, and the disease would
undoubtedly reduce quality and production.
But a healthy white animal is as good as any
other color. A pure white polled Shorthorn
bull won the championship at the 1940 Sydney
Show. The sayings quoted probably arose in
years gone by because of the comparative scar-
city of white cattle and horses. Large White
and Middle White pigs have plenty of admirers,
and the White Leghorn is recognised as a top-
notch layer of high-class eggs. Among white
or grey racehorses that did well were Canteen,
Chrysolaus, Grey Abbot and Arabia.
* * * *
I have a number of lambskins which I want
to tan and make into a rug. What is the pro-
cess ?
Wash the skins with washing soda until all
the grease is out. Then nail on to a door or
some flat boards, sprinkle with baking soda
and rub with a brick or something smooth and
heavy. Keep putting soda on and rubbing until
skin is like leather. Then mix dye and keep
dipping the wool into boiling dye until it is the
shade required. It takes several days to finish
off. It takes about lib. of baking soda for a
skin.
Outback Occasions.
No. 53.
Our Brother’s Ambition.
When our brother came back from his
first shearing run he had more money
than he’d ever had before and a fixed
look in his eye. Father became interested
in the money, and suggested that he put
it in the bank.
“What for?” said our brother, still
with that fixed look in his eye.
“Well,” said Father, “it’s a good be-
ginning, y’ know. Y’ can’t beat a few
bob in the bank, an’ some day y’ll be
lookin’ for a bit of land of your own.”
“Will I!” said our brother, his voice
thick with disgust.
Father looked a bit startled. “What,”
he said ; “ain’t y’ goin’ in f’r farmin’?”
Our brother got up and went and
leaned against the verandah post and
stared across the plains with visions in his
eyes. You could see he was thinking big
thoughts and large ambitions had hold
of him. Just such a look must young
Marco Polo have had when his father
told him to roll a swag and get ready
for the track to China.
“I,” said our brother, “am going to
be a dirt-track rider.”
“A which?” gasped our father.
“A what?” almost shrieked our
mother.
“A dirt-track rider. They do it on
motor-bikes. Y’ earn big money, get
trips roun’ the world, make a name f’r
yourself.”
It was one of the rare occasions when
Father was stumped. He simply couldn't
argue about it because he had little or
no idea what it was all about. Mother
had ideas, though. She wasn’t going to
rear sons and have them breaking their
necks on stinking motor-bikes, and she
said so, forcefully and emphatically. She
added that if Father was prepared to sit
there and watch his family go to pieces
and not assert himself, well, all she could
say was —was —well, anyhow, it oughtn’t
to be allowed.
All of which led to a first-class row,
in the middle of which our brother flung
off in a huff and headed for the town
on foot This seemed to frighten both
Father and Mother, who suddenly real-
ised their elder son was almost a man,
and Father got out the car and went after
him. Sundry of our neighbors were then
treated to the spectacle of an indignant
young man tramping resolutely along the
road while an anxious father crawled
slowly beside him in the car, talking 19
to the dozen. Sometimes the young man
got into the car and rested while the
argument went on ; then he’d flare up, get
out and walk again. This went on for
about three miles, at which stage a com-
promise was reached.
Ten days later a garage lorry from
the town delivered a brand-new motor-
bike at our place as part of the compro-
mise. It appears that our brother was
satisfied to forget the dirt-tracks if he
could have a bike of his own at home.
He and I reverently unpacked the thing,
and the delivery man stood it on its stand
and started it, and showed our brother
fthe controls and tested it and everything.
Then he left for town.
You should have seen our brother ride
that motor-bike on the stand. He sat
in the saddle and revved her up until the
roof shook and the birds flew away and
blue smoke smothered everything. He
changed and unchanged gears and tooted
the horn and switched the lights on and
off. Then he let it run and got off and
lay down and watched the two cylinders
closely, feeling here and there and wear-
ing a look of automotive knowledge.
This went on until lunch.
After lunch we gathered for the big
event. Father, Mother, our sister and I
lined the verandah and watched our
brother wheel the motor-bike down on
to the ground. Our dogs, rightly sensing
something new, were mighty interested.
They walked up and smelled that bike
and circled warily round and kept their
eyes fixed on our brother. He held the
bike firmly and kicked the starter. At
the roar the dogs jumped back and then
raced round in circles. Our brother got
astride, let the clutch in and moved
slowly off. Breathlessly we watched.
Slowly he trickled down the track to
the gate; then, gaining confidence,
changed into a higher gear and gave her
more juice. That bike was 4| h.p., and
it jumped from under our brother and
spun round in a half-circle, leaving him
sitting on the ground. Mother screamed,
Father grunted. The dogs yiped. I felt
a bit sick. Our brother got up, ran at
the bike, stood it up and kicked it into
life again. Then he got astride, opened
up, shot in the gears and went roaring
across the paddock in a wide arc, leaving
a trail of dust and smoke and barking
dogs.
He roared down past the old hut,
swung wide to turn, and came shooting
straight for the verandah where we stood,
We stopped standing there, but we
needn’t have worried, for at the last
minute he veered and rode the thing
straight into the fowlhouse, probably feel-
ing that fowls didn’t matter, anyhow.
There was a flurry of wire-netting,
feathers, dust, petrol smoke, squawks,
curses and dogs—our dashed dogs never
missed a chance to work off their grudge
against our fowls—and everybody rushed
to the fowlhouse.
Our brother emerged covered with
dust and bits of fowl and feathers, but
otherwise unhurt. Somewhere under the
ruin of boards, galvanised iron and hes-
sian the bike was still snorting. I helped
him drag it forth, and he switched it off,
and he and I wheeled it away in a dead
silence until we got behind the stables,
where we agonisedly went over it for
damage, almost weeping at the sight of
cracks in the paintwork. Without a word
we set to work to clean it, and were still
at it when Father came in. Father wore
a cheery look. .
“You be a dirt-track rider!” he said.
“We’ll fence off that 100-acre paddock
and make a track there. Y’ ought t’
be safe in a hundred acres, I reckon. ’ We
let him laugh.


©
£
The Empire’s
favourite
cigarette
1953 0-8.42
s\4/</~y
)j^-wte
-- «K
PBiiMiiii:
IW“*
itii i»y
Cooker
Cook with an AGA, and the fuel,
man-power and food you save, day
by day, will keep household bills
well down and help Australia,
too. AGA Cookers use Coke, a
low-priced by-product requiring no
additional man-power, and burn
amazingly little in a whole year of
service. For instance, Model C.S.,
for city or country homes, is
guaranteed not to consume more
than £4/7/6 worth of fuel a year,
with coke at 35/- a ton, in the
city. (Freight increases price of
fuel in country, but annual con-
sumption is so low that amazing
economy is possible anywhere in
Australia.) The AGA Cooker ope-
rates on the scientific heat-storage
principle .... the most efficient
cooking method ever discovered.
LEVIN & CO.. LTD.
45 KING STREET, SYDNEY;
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ;
and at Wellington, N.Z.
South Australian Agents: Colton, Palmer
& Preston, Ltd., Adelaide. Western
Australian Agents: Malloch Bros., Ltd.,
Perth. Queensland Agents: Queensland
Primary Producers’ Co-operative Asso-
ciation, Ltd., Brisbane. Tasmanian
Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons, Hobart.
ď
Shrinkage of meat and other
foods is minimised. Nourishing
juices and appetising flavors are
retained.*
Your AGA will burn continuously;
is heavily insulated; finished with
a sparkling, easily-cleaned vit-
reous enamelled surface, and needs
only a few minutes’ attention
daily. The AGA Cooker is made
in Great Britain. Over 40,000 are
in use in the British Empire. AGA
Cookers are guaranteed against
faulty material and workmanship
for a period of ten (10) years.
We will gladly show you how
simple an AGA Cooker is for any-
one to use. Or, if you cannot
call, illustrated AGA Catalogue K 9
will be sent on request.
o
Sts*
mflmnuuflinu:auuiimuM
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy “Popular Science,” 1940-41, complete
or otherwise; “Scientific American,” 1939-41.
3305.
To buy or borrow “National Geographic
Magazine,” any 1942 issue.^-3304.
Information Sought.
(1) What mandates were attached to Aus-
tralia prior to the war with Japan ? (2) Does
Australia have any right to the Antarctic terri-
tory south of Australia?
(1) Australia has jurisdiction over the Man-
dated Territory of New Guinea, Papua (lor-
merly British New Guinea), Nauru Island,
Norfolk Island and a large section of Ant-
arctica. These are administered by the Federal
Government at Canberra. (2) Australia claims
rights to various islands and territories of Ant-
arctica. The French claim Adelie Land, which
is about half of the polar regions and of a total
area of 2,472,000 square miles. The U.S.A.,
per Lincoln Ellsworth, staked out a claim to
77,000 sq. m. surveyed from the air. Germany,
as the fruit of an expedition in 1938-39, claims
231,660 sq. m. in Princess Maerta Land, but
Norway has a prior claim to that territory.
:£ H: * *
(1) Did Parsons invent the reaction turbine ?
(2) What was the highest speed recorded by
the Cobra and Viper, the first British turbine
destroyers, and the date? (3) l.h.p. of the Aus-
tralian-built Parramatta and Yarra of the
R.A.N. ?
(1) Discovery of the principle of the “re-
action turbine” is ascribed •to Hero, a Greek,
about 200 b.c. The first “impulse turbine” was
constructed by Branca, an Italian, in 1629. In
the U.S.A. one Avery patented a reaction steam
turbine in 1848. The first cdmmercially-success-
ful steam turbine was placed on the market
by Dr. Gustaf de Laval, a Swede, in 1882. The
Parsons turbine was introduced in 1884. (2)
Thirty-seven knots; 1899. (3) Two thousand.
Sf * * *
(1) Did Canada declare war on Germany, and,
if so, the date of the declaration ? (2) Has
Germany declared war on the U.S.A. ?
(1) Yes, on September 10, 1939. (2) Both
Germany and Italy declared war on the U.S.A.
on December 11, 1941.
What is the distinction between “beside” and
“besides’'' in modern English usage?
“Beside” has lost its adverbial attributes and
uses, and is now only a preposition with the
original meaning “by the side of” (“He sat
down beside her”) and the cognate meaning
“to one side of” or “wide of” (beside the ques-
tion, the mark, the point). “Besides” is (a)
an adverb = “moreover,” “also,” “as well,
as in “It is late; besides, I am too tired to go
out”; ( b ) a preposition = “in addition to,
“other than,” “except,” as in “Besides your
cheer, you shall have sport,” “I have no friend
besides you.” Fowler comments: “The forms
[beside(s)] have been fully differentiated in
ordinary modern use, though they are often
confused again in poetry, and by those who
prefer the abnormal or are unobservant of the
normal.”
* * * *
Cure for mange in dogs?
Mange is so rare and eczema so common that
the latter is more likely to be the trouble.
Mange is denoted by the almost unendurable
odor emanating from the dog. There are two
types of mange, one follicular, and the other
sarcoptic, not determinable save by micro-
scopic examination. They are both parasitical.
Even when it is determined as mange it is in
99 per cent, sarcoptic, which is easily cured.
If follicular, an attempt to cure is heart-
breaking and seldom succeeds. Eczema is non-
parasitical and arises from an internal disturb-
ance, such as improper feeding and/or worms.
The cause must be dealt with. The dog should
be first deprived of all food for at least 24
hours. He should then be wormed by adminis-
tering a vermifuge, such as areca nut. The
correct dosage is one grain per pound weight
of dog. This to be followed in about one hour s
time with a liberal dose of castor oil. In a
further two hours some light food may be given,
such as soup, broth, egg-flip, etc. Get a small
bottle of Sulphur 30. Give three drops of this
each morning in a little water. For external appli-
cation obtain green soft soap, 8.P., oil of cade
and methylated spirit, equal parts, and apply
twice daily to the affected parts. Wash off every
few days with green soft soap and continue as
before. If there is any difficulty in procuring
the remedies they can be procured from David
Moore, 16 Bridge-street, Sydney.
* * * *
Method of tanning snakeskins with alum?
Soak the skin for a few hours in cold water
until quite soft, then scrape the back to re-
move any flesh or fat. Rub alum into the skin
and soak for eight hours in a liquor of two
ounces of powdered alum and one ounce of
common salt in one gallon of water. After-
wards wash the skin thoroughly and then soak
in a fresh solution for another eight hours. It
is necessary to press the scales down, for which
a household wringer or mangle will do. Roll
from the base of the scales to the tips. Stretch
out to dry in a cool place, using a tack e\ ery
three inches on each side.
* * * *
Method of curing smoked and spiced beef ?
Spiced beef: Boil for 10 minutes one gallon
of water to which is added \oz. each of salt-
petre, mustard seed, cloves, cinnamon, mace and
root ginger. When cool add ilb. brown sugar
and coarse salt (equal parts) till a fresh egg
will float in the mixture. Put in the meat and
see that it is covered. Turn daily; ready in
four days. If rolling meat best to smoke 12
hours first, then roll and' smoke 12 hours longer.
Silverside takes two days. Smokehouse can be
a big case 3ft. or so square, with inlet and
smaller flue. Provide fire in kerosene-tin, using
sawdust, and conveying smoke from outside
through a wet bag, and out by the flue. Main
thing is to prevent sawdust from ‘flaming.
* * * *
Could a 52-year-old clerk, healthy, who has
worn glasses when reading or working only for
seven years, hope to be able to work or read
without glasses after a course of eye-culture ?
Defective vision (presuming that you mean
that due to some refractive error) cannot be
cured by “eye-culture.” Anyway, what’s the
objection to glasses? Very few people in the
fifties can do without them.
Brief Answers.
J.L.T.: Get in touch with one of the Strom-
berg-Carlson dealers in Melbourne, such as
Brashs, Elizabeth-street, who will advise on the
correct method of pick-up alignment and the
matching of the Zephyr Crystal pick-up
J.E.G.: To remove ink stains from table,
rub with lemon juice till stains disappear, then
polish with floor wax Regular Reader: Iron
and steel can be given a copper coating by
immersion (when chemically clean) in a solu-
tion of bluestone. On this surface a deposit
of nickel can be applied by electrolysis. The
apparatus is not very elaborate, but it is no
job for an amateur D.D.: Casualty lists are
published in the daily newspapers as soon as
they are made available.. . .H.C.G.: Swain’s,
Sydney, or any big bookseller can supply a
cheap book on the construction of small
dynamos and motors T.N.: A book on the
subject should be available in the nearest public
library W.1.M.: She would be entitled to a
pension of 355. per fortnight provided neither
she nor her husband had any other income
and their combined property did not exceed
£ll9 W.M.: (1) Can’t recommend a “cure
for what appears to be eczema.” You’d
better find out from a doctor whether the
trouble is eczema. (2) Solder can be bought
ready made much cheaper than any amateur
could make it J. 8.: While most of them
are probably harmless, it is unlikely that any
of the medicines you refer to will per-
manently cure sciatica or lumbago. The
first step is to determine the exact cause of
the lumbago (or sciatica). If that is not
done no hit-or-miss remedy is likely to do
much good E.M.: This reply should satisfy
most examiners: Blood from the head and
upper limbs flows into the heart through the
superior vena cava, and from the abdominal
cavity and the lower part of the body through
the inferior vena cava. The right ventricle
narrows down into the pulmonary trunk, which
then divides into the two pulmonary arteries
one to each lung. Blood enters the left
atrium through the four pulmonary veins
two from each lung; while the cavity of the
left ventricle leads above to the aorta. The
right atrium also receives impure blood from
the substance of the heart through the opening
of the coronary sinus. Anatomically (and de-
velopmentally) these vessels are in direct com-
munication with the heart; one cannot dis-
tinguish them from one another as opening only
“into” or “out of” the heart; what really
matters is the direction of the blood flow
through the several channels, and that is
governed by special mechanisms Aramac:
The female fox, like the female dog or cat,
is a mammal, and suckles its young in pre-
cisely the same manner.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
F.S.:
Boozing seems the chief of all
Men’s hobbies, It’s a curse.
It means none else than sheer downfall,
And fills the publican’s purse.
R.C.:
So they’re putting a tax on beer again,
And they’d like to reduce the glasses!
The wowsers cheer, for they’ve beer on the brain,
But I think the Government are asses.
H.E.R.: Come again, when you’ve got some-
thing fresh to say W.E.M.: A bit too
rough... .G.L.L.: A woman’s paper might take
it A.T.R.: “A gig does easily bowl along.”
So does a pome, doesn’t it, when you allow
yourself plenty of poetic license? J.O’R.:
The theme’s there, but your rhymes are all over
the place S.O’R.: Too many inversions and
archaisms C.H.J.: Get a rhyming dictionary,
or a new ear, or chuck it... .Q.X.6022: Come
again F.C.: Not far away S.G.: You’re
young yet... .R.C.J.: Poems that end at the
Pearly Gates end in the w.p.b F. 5.8.:
Thought in it, but little art A.C.8.: Why
not say “a grand man” instead of “a human
grand”? P.W.: Too long and too loose
S.C.: “The Hitler Mo” should be removed
from this earth by fire or cold steel R.H.L.:
As poetry, it’s no worse than most other
anthems.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.M.: The tucker-box looked like an en-
larged ham sandwich that had been trodden on,
and we tipped it was meant for a dog by the
collar S.F.N.: Scratchy and out of propor-
tion Bert C.: Did you intend Dad to look
like a prickly-pear with a hat on?


——
. - • ■ . - ■ •
: v - ; ; i ’• : '■'
: :•
HbhHHMI
A:
'
\
s 8
a'
*»::•:?;•
P s '
:
ISn
:.r
Mas
:
'
:
n
ll«tf
*
arani
§§& i»»s
* ?!
iH
Australia's Biggest Guns Point Straight UP!
■ I m
Look at them . . . like huge guns belching
defiance into a troubled sky. Striking testi-
mony to the world of Australia’s new-found
strength.
Look at them ... Democracy at work. In
peace-time, building a better, happier nation.
In War, fighting for the preservation of all
we hold dear.
The big guns of Industry . . . and
Democracy.
This brief biography of one Company
suggests the power behind these our
biggest guns.
Take the young Australian industry of
Stewarts and Lloyds: “Young” because it
was only in 1934 that the plant of Stewarts
and Lloyds (Australia) Pty. Ltd. went into
production in New South Wales.
Australia was coming out of the dark years
of depression urgently needing thriving
new industries. Soon Stewarts and Lloyds
were producing everything from gas pipes to
boiler tubes for ships.
They were years of quick expansion. Many
other thriving new industries were contribut-
ing also to Australia’s prosperity.
Then, with 1939, Australia was again
heading into dark years years of War that
are the most threatening of her history.
In those pre-War months she needed, far
more than most people realised then, fore-
sight on the part of her industries, especially
in the production of iron and steel
manufactures.
Acting on their own initiative, and entirely
without subsidy, Stewarts and Lloyds in-
stalled plant necessary for the forging and
rough machining of ammunition shell bodies.
It was one phase of War production in
which Australia was off to a flying start!
The need for speed was the mother of in-
vention. Right here in Australia the Stewarts
and Lloyds process made it possible to pro-
duce shell bodies in much the same way as
weldless tubes are turned out as part of our
peace-time production.
One of the main advantages of this process
of shell making is that the inside of the
forging can be made so closely to size and
with such a smooth finish that the need for
the costly and lengthy job of boring the inside
of the forging is eliminated.
When the full story can be told you will be
amazed to hear how men worked miracles
changing over machinery never intended for
shell-making.
They couldn’t wait for weeks, or months
for special plant or equipment from overseas.
So, they tackled the “impossible”, and did it!
To-day, every month’s output of shell bodies
shoots up to a new record.
Here are the big guns of industry at work
. . . building the weapons of defence in ever-
increasing quantities.
Stewarts and Lloydi§
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.


ď
đ
Since 1858 lITDOWIcrS
have provided Australian Industry
with the finest leather belting.
★ POWER
TRANSMISSION
ENGINEERS
Ludowici's engineering work-
shop — largest of its kind in
Australia—produces a com-
plete range of Transmission
Equipment.
The quality of Pioneer Leather Belting is the result of years of con-
tinuous specialisation in tanning and belt making. Constant chemical
control of raw materials and tanning processes, routine inspection of
every stage of manufacture, ensure that uniform quality essential for
long term dependability.
Not only our Tannery and Belt-making Factories, but our Engineering Plant is the
largest of its kind in Australia producing Pivot and Torque Drives, V Belt Drives,
Pulleys, Bearings, Shaftings, a complete line of Power Transmission Equipment.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET (NEAR MARKET STREET), SYDNEY
20-26 QUEENS BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* t- * '*
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't fet up night after night because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days or
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. Wien
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, - you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, pufflness under the eyes and
excess uric acid.
Don’t delay I Neglect is dangerous. Take
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blau-
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Let
DOAN’S BACKACHE KID.NEY BILLS te-day,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 313,617 10 p.c. = 298,771 14,846 3,629,490
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,429,490
1934.. 427,588 10 p.c. = 298,771 128,817 3,558,307
1935.. 670,442 10 „ ~ 298,771 371,671 3,929,978
Share premiums, £1,597,110.. .. 5,527,083
193%. . 850,361 12* p.c.= 435,778 414,583 5,941,671
Share premiums, £374,965 .. .. 6,316,336
1937. 1,183,171 12* p.c.= 559,880 623,291 6,939,927
Share premiums, £413,923 .. .. 7,353,850
To staff fund, £40,000 .. .. 7,313,850
1938. 1,340,461 12* p.c.= 670,562 669,899 7,983,749
Share premiums, £431,609 .. .. 8,415,358
1939. 1,431,513 12* p.e.= 760,715 670,798 9,086,156
Share premiums, £139,073 .. .. 9,225,229
S'hare premiums capitalised,
£4.445,859 4,779.370
1940.. 979,139 7* p.c.= 861,827 117,312 4,896,682
1941.. 963,279 7* „ ~854,770 108,509 5,005,190
Income tax short-provided, £585,282.. 4,419,908
1942. . 687,711 6* p.e.= 821,103 • 4,286,517
In response to the call to produce the
many and varied implements of war Aus-
tralian industry has achieved something
of which the nation can be proud. B.H.P.
and its associated and subsidiary enter
prises, which are the backbone of our
heavy industries, figure prominently in
this achievement, and have enabled
Australia to travel far along the
road to self-sufficiency in armaments.
Also, the selling price of steel has been
kept steady in face of three years of
rising war costs, and is far below the
figure at which similar steel (if obtain-
able) could be landed here from any
other part of the world. It is an achieve-
ment unparalleled elsewhere, and was
made possible because large stocks of
iron ore and other raw materials had
been accumulated before the war. Thus
has Australia benefited from the board’s
long-sighted policy. Exhaustion of these
stocks, costlier transport and opening-
up of N.S.W. ore deposits have now
forced the co. to apply for a lift in sell-
ing prices. But Australian iron and steel
will still be the cheapest anywhere.
Output, not broadcast, was a record,
and all sections of the big plant at New-
castle and elsewhere worked round the
clock, thanks again to raw-material
stocks.* But for these, serious delays to
production, with attendant higher costs,
would have occurred. Also several
varieties of steel and other metals not
previously made by the co. were called
for and successfully produced. These
include bullet-proof and stainless steel,
ferro alloys, rtiagnesium and tungsten-
carbide tool tips, all of which fill highly-
important needs. Also, two more muni-
tion annexes were constructed, and exten-
sions and additions were made to the
ferro-alloy, toolroom, machine-shop and
other plants, as well as to the cold roll-
ing mill, while activities at Whyalla (S.
Aus.) increased in range, volume and
importance.
An outstanding feature was the success-
ful manufacture of tungsten carbide.
Next to diamonds, it is one of the hardest
materials known, and was originally a
jealously-guarded German Krupp patent.
Two years after setting to work, the
management was selling throughout
the Commonwealth the tungsten-car-
bide tool tips it had made for use in
munition and armament annexes, etc.,
at prices below the figure asked for the
imported article.
The ferro-alloy plant, completed dur-
ing the previous term, proved a lifesaver
for the steel industry, too. It is now
turning out ferro manganese, ferro tita-
nium, ferro zirconium and ferro molyb-
denum, all previously imported and now
practically unobtainable from overseas
except in small quantities at famine
prices. Also, the co. is now able to
assist a sister-Dominion with one alloy.
Furthermore, this ferro-alloy plant is
producing a lot of calcium carbide,
a necessary ingredient for manufacture
of magnesium. This last-named metal
is about one-third lighter than alumi-
nium and is extensively used in aircraft
production.
In South Australia the new blast fur-
nace, blown-in a couple of years ago,
worked to capacity converting ore from
near-by deposits into pig-iron. An elec-
tric melting plant and forge shop
were commenced during the year,
and the munition annexe, toolroom and
machine-shop were kept busy, of course.
And so were the new shipbuilding yards,
which have been added to. Though
shortage of tradesmen has been a diffi-
culty, all contracts for the Navy were
fulfilled, and some merchant tonnage was
launched and completed at the fitting-out
berths. Hulls for the co.’s own trade
and freighters for the Government are
now on the slips.
All the subsidiaries, especially Austra-
lian Iron and Steel, Rylands and Com-
monwealth Steel, continue to be impor-
tant contributors to the war effort, though
A. and S. hasn’t yet paid a div. on its
£4,700.000 of ord. capital, all owned by
B.
Despite bigger turnover, gross earnings
of B.H.P. and subsidiaries fell away
£637,967, owing to the higher cost of raw
materials, transport, wage lifts, etc.:
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering- both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings:— 1940. 1941. 1942.
Working profit.. £4,421,145 £5,815,816 £5,229,692
Divs., etc. . . 115,611 169,395 117,552
Total.. , . £4,536,756 £5,985,211 £5,347,244
Depreciation . . 1,601,328 2,164,905 2,404,685
TaxatioiL .. .. 1,091,755 1,963,076 1,897,423
Other exes. . . 288,407 272,882 233,997
Total exes. . . £2,981,490 £4,400,863 £4,536,105
Net profit . . 1,555,266 1,584,348 811,139
Allowance for depreciation, an item of
post-war as well as immediate import-
ance, was £239,780 heavier. The net re-
sult was £811,139, down £773,209; no
separation is made between B.H.P.’s and
outsiders’ equity.
Still, the 6i p.c. div. (down 1} p.c.) paid
by B.H.P. was not quite such a difficult
matter as its own accounts alone sug-
gested, though it was not all earned.
B.H.P.’s own figures showed a profit of
£687,711 (down £275,568), equal to 5.2
p.c. on average capital. That leaves out
of the reckoning £585,282 taken from
reserves to cover short provision for
taxation in 1941.
The next table shows how the big
undertaking is financed:
Consolidated Figures.
Outside
, B.H.P. Shareholders’ Sundry
Capital Reserves. Interests.* Creditors.
1939.. £6,671,564 £10,735,845 £2,003,958 £3,469,520
1940.. 11,396,936 6,848,610 2,039,230 3,133,970
1941.. 12,111,623 7,545,197 2,128,453 5,258,229
1942.. 13,882,889 6,818,493 2,155,696 7,094,452
Fixed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Stores, Etc. Debts. Assets.
1939.. £16,405,457 £2,889,077 £1,383,603 £2,202,750
1940.. 17,116,909 3,296,463 1,010,743 1.994,631
1941.. 18,360,574 4,024,461 2,363,980 2,294,477
1942.. 18,929,700 5,340,173 3,480,561 2,548,221
* Including proportion reserves.
During the year £1,771,266 of fresh capi-
total was gathered and £1,836,223 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. The lot went mainly into
stocks (up £1,315,712) and book debts
(up £1,116,581). Net growth in the book
value of the big volume of fixed assets
was £569,126 and in other assets (Con-
sols, shares, etc.) £253,744. Sundry
creditors include an unspecified provision
for taxation.
G. J. Coles & Co.
r —* Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1932. .80,535 12,000 10 p.c. = 48,500 20,035 74,789
Premiums on new shares, £44,U50 .. 118,839
1933.104,135 12,000 10 p.c. = 56,525 35,610 154,449
Written off, £5OO 153,949
1934.109,777 12,000 10 p.c. = 70,860 26,917 180,866
Premiums on new shares, £22,500 .. 203,366
1935.146,445 12,000 12j p.c. = 89,700 44,745 248,111
Premiums on new shares, £9630 .. 257,741
Bonus scrip issued, £72,360 (£54,000
from reserve against goodwill, not
treated as an asset herein) .. .. 185,381
1936.168,925 12,000 12$ p.c. = 99,856 57,069 242,450
Share premiums, £192,230 .. .. 434,680
1937.240,028 12,000 18f p.e.=171,224 56,804 491,484
Bonus scrip issued, £97,840 .. .. 393,644
1938.201,408 12,000 17J p.c.=188,317 61,061 454,705
1939.274,704 12,000 18f „ „ 201,800 60,904 515,609
1940.278,047 12,000 17* „ ~ 209,871 56,176 571,785
1941.230,182 12,000 17* ~ ~ 226,015 563.952
1942.241,610 12,000 12* „ „ 151,440 68,170 632,122
Coles’s sales continued on their up-
ward way until May; then clothes-
rationing—drapery used to comprise a
third of the business —clouted takings
to leg, partly because of the compulsory
restriction of purchases and additionally
through a coupon-conscious public’s
preference for higher-priced goods. And,
because war needs spare only two per-
sons in civilian industry where before
there were five, alternative varieties of
merchandise aren’t available to stock
shelves and assist turnover. Indeed, with
imports so few, the flow of commodities
which comprise the stock-in-trade of
variety chains has so diminished that
Coles’s board is giving “serious con-
sideration” to the fact that “fewer retail
outlets will be required” (War Organisa-
tion of Industry may also have a say).
With profit-margins controlled, one of
the snags in such a course is leasehold
store rents of £lOO,OOO p.a. to which the
co. is committed. Moreover, demands
on women’s labor are becoming more
inexorable ; 82 p.c. of th£ male staff has
already gone.
To help things along, this and other
managements have turned vacant coun-
ters into fruit and vegetable marts. A
year or so earlier still stock strictures
and rising prices had prompted Coles’s
to lift the self-imposed top-line- limit of
2s. 6d. which had operated from the be-
ginning in 1921. Since 1924 three Mel-
bourne shops, representing a capitalisa-
tion of £32,416, have grown into 80 or so
Austraha-w'de stores and a capital of
£1,441,515, while on the average one in
every four of the population is now
served weekly. Most of the development
there has come since 1927, £1,205,295
being added to the share-register between-
times, of which only £170,200 came from
reserves.
All things considered, including the big
and ever-growing climb of costs, thfe co
did very well last year. Depreciation
charged was £117,462 (up £13,627) In-
cluding £42,948 (up £20,083, mainly to
offset A.R.P. costs) of this apparently sent
to freehold reserves, profit was £11,428
higher at £241,610, or sufficient to meet
the 8 p.c. pref. charge and then show
17.7 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
16.9 p.c. the previous year. That allows
for adjustment in the 1941 figures by the
“Wild Cat” for £51,032 found under-
provided for taxation because of retro-
spective imposts. Ord. div. was cut from
174 p.c. to 124 P.c.; 10 p.c. may be the
limit of things in the current term.
Financial movements were connected
with further expansion of £133;674 in
stocks—now double the pre-war figure
in monetary value, though the old variety
isn’t there, while much of that which is,
like hardware and toys, is practically
irreplaceable:
1936. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Capital— £ £ £ £
Ord. . . 800,775 1,094,528 1,291,515 1,291.515
Pref. . . 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft . . 62,730 161,273 256,674
Creditors . . 106,650 116,565 139,495 177 931
Mortgages, cte. 144,130 197,000 182,000 182,000
Employees’
funds . . 23,635 37,585 40,566 35.963
Tax reserve. . 62,787 91,057 164,829 151,000
Freeholds .. 716,311 1,085,506 1,216,581 1,246,475
Leaseholds . . 174,919 252,917 294,563 264 276
Fittings, etc. 251,251 378,405 461,310 423,877
Stocks . . 484,645 532,514 854,918 988,592
Debtors . . 3,603 10,875 12,537 16,279
Cash, etc. . . 8,467 69,208 33,905 34,571
The increase in freeholds represents
A.R.P. outlay. There was an improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£386,874) of £BB4B.
With consumer spending power as it
is, turnover is conditioned only by the
quantity of merchandise available and
whatever extension of coupon-rationing
there might be. Rates of taxation remain
unaltered, though that is not to say the
fourth year of war won’t see introduction
of supplementary measures such as the
third produced. With a falling turnover,
much will depend on how heavily over-
head presses. On the clothing side, a
change in trading policy is called for.
Marchant’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £> £> £*
1932.. 2,921 6 p.c. = 4852 20,503
1933.. 3,727 6 „ „ 4352 19,878
1934.. 6,335 8„ ~ 5802 533 20,411
1935.. 6,251 8 ~ „ 5802 449 20,860
1936.. 9,938 10 „ „ 7253 2685 23,545
1937. . 13,510 10 „ ~ 7253 6257 29,802
1938.. 15,717 121 „ ~ 9067 6650 36,452
1939 . . 14,053 10 ~ ~ 7253 6800 43,252
1940.. 12,443 10 ~ „ 7253 5190 48,442
1941.. 11,639 12 „ ~ 8703 2936 51,378
1942.. 11,351 12 „ „ 8704 2647 54,025
That there is money in the soft as well
as the hard stuff that table, set up under
conditions of fierce competition, demon-
strates. On the demand side, conditions
for both brews have lately been just
about ideal. But while trade has gone
up with the thermometer and the expan-
sion of spending power the benefits to
this Sydney co.’s turnover have been more
than offset by the difficulty in corking
down unrecoverable costs, particularly
taxation. A difficulty at the moment is
to get supplies on to retailers’ shelves in
the asked-for quantities—a position
aggravated by the scattered nature and
smallness of most accounts. A shortage of


LET
r ATLAS i
CARRY THE
( BURDEN i
W
m
0. v
established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
frpm them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
(England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
Security
Economy
Service
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(.Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman);
(Vice Chairman): Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A.
Robert C. Wilson. ' Manager: J.
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G.;
G. H. Shipway.
■si
m
-
-a;,;.
Hi
m
'
1
MOBILISING SCIENCE
Well may Britain's Prime Minister say that the front line runs through
the factories.
Science has mobilized her forces and industry has heard the call of
Empire.
Ours not the clash of arms, for our weapons are the drawing board,
the furnace and the machine shop.
Ours not the scream of flying shells, but the whirring of the drills,
the humming of the lathe and the monotonous booming of the steam
hammer.
And behind the singing of the machines, stands the industrial army.
An army in overalls, harnessing the forces of industry^—directing the
machines and producing equipment equal to the world's best.
In industry's front line the men of E.T.C, are holding their position,
producing essential materials, with a fine precision and accuracy
worthy of the company's hall mark—"A tecilico Product.
And away in the field of battle, where lives hang on the thread of
accuracy, men may be content that the pb is being welt done on the
industrial front.
|ecmco
B. T. C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
C»«. ttIIHITK »». *«» »e«»U« 51.. «Ua*UK*IUE, N.S.B.
s.-334>
corks and some ingredients has also been
apparent for some time, and bottles are
becoming difficult to replace.
Last term’s £11,351 (down £288) of
profit was 15.6 p.c. on capital, and there
is nothing to fear from bad accounts,
turnover being mostly for cash ; so no-
thing was strained in maintaining the
12 p.c. div. Depreciation wasn’t neglected
either:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital . . £72,534 £72,534 £72,534 £72,934
liabilities* .. 5,283 7,634 9,859 15,902
Freeholds, buildings,
etc 28,481 28,789 28,789 28,797
Plant, etc 21,433 33,618 29,948 24,718
Stocks . . . . 15,546 17,596 22,946 10,726
Book debts, etc. .. 532 486 567 759
Consols . . .. 45,965 45,965 45,965 54,965
Cash, etc 13,463 6,507 11,358 29,305
* Includes provision for taxation.
Allocations in this respect have already
nearly recouped the solid capital outlay
of 1940. It is this sound long-range policy
which is responsible for the present
attractive position, including the fine
accumulation of liquids (in the account-
ing sense). Helped by last term’s stock
reduction, cash and Consols now exceed
paid capital by £11,736. They are move-
ments which suggest that the expansion
in liabilities is again concerned with the
tax provision grouped therewith.
The United States appears hungry for
non-ferrous metals, and its official Metals
Reserve Co. is reported to have con-
cluded a fresh agreement with Mexico
for minimum purchases of 525,000 tons
of copper (75,000 tons), lead (250,000)
and zinc (200,000). The U.S. require-
ments are expected to call for a $lOO
million programme for new Mexican
mine development and expansion, smel-
ters, mills and transport facilities. Prices,
delivered, are equal to current American
ceiling levels—64- cents a pound for lead,
or li cents above the previous contract.
Uncle Sam’s import duties are 2| cents
and 1.4 cents on refined lead and zinc
respectively, but being a Government
agency the Metals Reserve Co. can no
doubt surmount the tariffs private indus-
try would normally pay. Silver, too, is
gaining a wide industrial application as
a copper substitute in war production,
and part of this demand may be perma-
nent. After stacking portion of their war
output to date, Australia’s Barrier mines
are now drawing upon accumulated con-
centrates for dispatch to the smelter on
the seaboard.
* * * *
Uniform taxation means that Westra-
lian goldmining will not now have to pay
State taxes aggregating 3s. llid. in the £
of profits—gold Is. 4d., company 2s. 6d.
and hospital lid. Federal gold tax will
be continued, but full Cabinet says it
won’t broaden the base of Common-
wealth goldmining taxation in view of
the war-time condition of the industry.
# * * *
Review is due of the three months’
Commonwealth-State agreement which
was to leave the gold industry in the West
with 4500 men in over-35 age groups.
Since its adoption in June numerous
mines, including Triton and some of
what’s left of the De Bernales group,
have put up the shutters.
3: * * *
Golden Horse Shoe’s latest accounts
show liquid assets at December equal to
about par (3s. stg.) per share. They com-
prise U.K. war stock and bonds £50,000,
other investments at cost £25,506 (latest
market value £12,532), cash £81,633, good
debtors £11,511. Creditors figure at
£10,874. In June, “allowing for a moder-
ate curtailment of operations owing to
the scarcity of labor and other probable
factors,” it was estimated 18 months to
two years would complete the job of tail-
ings re-treatment which the co. com-
menced 11 years ago.
* * * *
Triton (W.A.) says its properties must
be kept unwatered and gangways main-
tained if it is to resume after the war,
and application has been made for assist-
ance from the Commonwealth £lOO,OOO
grant for the purpose. Only about three-
parts of the 249,000 tons (grade 6.4dwt.)
in reserve at the end of March is ex-
pected to be extractable unless further
ore is opened up, and these possibilities,
both at depth and in surrounding ground,
appear to have been largely exhausted
before the caretaker took over last month.
Only two then remaining were that ore
might develop again on the downward
continuation of the Emu North struc-
ture, or that the shoot opened up on No.
8 level in the Emu South 12 months ago
may prove to be something really big.
Here the lode had previously died out
above No. 3.
New Golconda has abandoned its
option on the Iron Duke, at Coolgardie
(W.A.). Reasons are (1) disappointing
size and value of the shoot in depth, (2)
call-up of men, and (3) practical ex-
haustion of funds. Plant has been dis-
mantled and stored.


NOW is the time
to subscribe to our new
£100,000,000
AUSTERITY LOAN
ď
THE PRIME MINISTER’S MESSAGE
In the name of this fair land, your land, my land, our land,
that we can hold only if we give our all for it, / enjoin you
to live now in Austerity for your own sake and for the sake
of your children and for the
sake of generations of Aus-
tralian children in all time to
come.
d
All you want to know about the new Loan
Q. What do Austerity Bonds cost?
A. You can buy the new Bonds at £lO each
and in multiples of £lO.
Q. How many Bonds can 1 buy?
A. There is no limit to the number any one
individual can hold. So live in Austerity,
be proud to save every shilling and buy
as many as you possibly can.
Q. What do I get for lending my money?
A. Austerity Bonds earn money for you in
the form of interest which is paid to you
half-yearly until the Bonds mature.
Considering their soundness, safety and
security, the rate of interest the Bonds
earn is definitely good.
Q. Is my money safe in Austerity Bonds?
A. No investment could be safer, being
backed by the strongest guarantee you
can possibly have the whole financial
resources of Australia.
Q. For what purpose will my money be used ?
A. For equipping our Fighting Forces with
the tanks, planes, guns and ammunition
they need for Victory.
Q. Can 1 get my money back at any time should
necessity wise?
A. You can sell your Bonds at any time be-
fore they become due for repayment.
Any bank or stockbroker would attend
to the matter for you.
Q. Where can / buy the new Austerity Bonds?
A. Advance subscriptions may be lodged at
any Bank, Savings Bank or stockbroker.
Although the new Loan will be officially
opened in November, you are urged to
subscribe to it immediately. Interest com-
mences from the day you buy your Bond*.
In addition to the new Austerity Loan Bonds here are two other ways in
which you can regularly save to invest your money in Australia s War Effort.
national savings bonds
£lO each. Can be purchased either outright
or by paying £1 down and £1 a month. Buy
them at any Bank, Savings Bank or Money
Order Post Office.
WAR SAYINGS CERTIFICATES
Cost 16/- each now and grow to £1 in 7
fears. Can be purchased at any Bank,
Savings Bank or Money Order Post
Office.
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pt Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
Businss, Rollery, Etc.
Economic Defeat for Us?
Of Australia’s war expenditure of £320
million in 1941-42 (up 88 p.c.), £47 mil-
lion was spent overseas. It was financed
out of current trading receipts and accu-
mulated balances. In the preceding year
overseas outlay was £43 million, of which
£l5 million was financed by a London
loan and the rest out of income and/or
reserves. During the current year our
expenditure abroad in respect of war has
been estimated at £5O million. Treasurer
Chifley says “it is impossible to forecast
our trade balance with any certainty, but
there is a fair prospect that we shall be
able to finance out of current receipts
about £5O million of overseas war expen-
diture for 1942-43.” Dr. Evatt arranged
with Sir Kingsley Wood that “any obli-
gations which we cannot currently meet
will be postponed for consideration after
the war.”
Here is a quick view of the entire
Budget, with comparisons:
Expenditure.
Actual, Actual, Budget,
1940-41. 1941-42. 1942-43.
£ mil. £ mil. £ mil.
War—
Australia .. 127.0 273.0 390.0
Overseas ..” 43.0 47.0 50.0
170.0 320.0 440.0
Civil .. .. 85.0 101.0 109.5
Total .. 255.0 - 421.0 549.5
Revenue and Loans.
Cash in hand .. 28.0 2.0
Taxation .. .. 130.0 186.0 224.5
Business income .. 20.0 24.0 25.5
Loans —
Australian f .. 62.0 209.0 299.5
London .. .. « 15.0
255.0 421.0 549.5
"• t Including banks.
The great and obvious weakness of the
Federal war finances is, and has been,
our sickly dependence on loans. This
year they represent 54 p.c. of the Budget
total, compared with 50 p.c. last term.
Charging all “ordinary” Government ex-
penditure to revenue, as the Treasurer
does in his accounts, no more than 32
p.c. of war waste will be charged to taxa-
tion this year. Loans are being contem-
plated that will total 68 p.c. of our war
expenditure. It is an almost incredible
situation, fraught with inflation and
administrative chaos. In its last year
Canada paid 78 p.c. of its war expendi-
ture out of revenue and gave vast help
to Britain at the same time.
The Canberra Budget envisages the
raising of £3OO million by loan during
the current term. Wishful thinking is
the essence of the Budget base. Mr.
Chifley speaking: “The amount of loans
required this year is large, but its provi-
sion is not impossible. Last year we
doubled the receipts from public loans
and got £l2O million. If we double them
again we shall get £240 million, which
will take us a long way on our journey.
It will leave £6O million to be provided
from savings bonds and savings certifi-
cates.” Did ever a company promoter
stand so blandly and hopefully while
tendering such a hopeless prospectus?
Actually, whatever Mr. Chifley’s per-
sonal hopes, the Treasury doesn’t give
the raising of £3OO million direct from
the public by way of loan a dog’s chance.
At least £lOO million will have to be
found by the purely inflationary method
of bank credit, is the general opinion.
Last year bank credit figured at £78.4
million in loans totalling £209 million.
The position is one where an unrealistic
Treasurer is asking for super-realism
from the people. It is up to his own
political adherents to do the job because,
unhonored and unsung, the traditional
investor class is just about pumped dry
by the operation of almost total taxation
and past contributions to war loans.
Since war began civil expenditure has
grown from £85.6 million for 1938-39 to
an estimate of £109.5 million for the
current term. The lift has nearly all
occurred during Labor’s period of office.
Compared with the last pre-war year the
invalid and old-age pensions bill has
gone up from £l6 million to an estimate
of £22.4 million for the current period.
As from Oct. 1 the maximum weekly
rate will be 255. 6d. In the two years
prior to the war the average rate was
19s. 3d. and the maximum 20s. Child
endowment was taken over from the
States after the end of 1940-41; it cost
£11.3 million in 1941-42, and the esti-
mate for the present term is £l2 million.
The payroll tax levied towards meeting
this charge produced £9 million last year,
and the estimate for this term is £9.7
million.
Mr. Chifley said in his Budget speech
that the aggregate debt of the Common-
wealth and States stood at £1629 million
on June 30, representing £7lB million on
behalf of the Commonwealth and £9ll
million on account of the States. In-
crease of £203 million during the year
was because of the war. State debts de-
creased during the term ; no further State
loans were raised publicly, and the sink-
ing fund operated. Grants to the States,
however, totalled £13.7 million. The
proposal to raise at least £3OO million
this year to bridge the Budget gap will
bring the national debt within sight of
£2OOO million.
Nowhere do the Budget figures show
the estimated national income for the
current year; last year the calculation
was £lOOO million. Nor is there any
split-up of aggregate personal incomes
into groups. All indications are that the
lower-income-earners are getting away
with an even greater proportion of the
national income than ever, and yet are
not being adequately taxed. There has
been an unsatisfactory withholding of
these and other figures that is in keeping
with the humbug evident elsewhere in
the Government’s financial and statistical
administration.
Two things are most essential from
Australians if we are to win our share
of this war. They are work and fight.
Without hard work on the home front
our troops are in danger of being under-
equipped when they meet the enemy, and
in addition civil rights may suffer un-
necessarily. Work at even normal pres-
sure is hampered at present by political
interference. Because the burden of war
—the shortages, the sacrifices and the
taxes —are being unfairly and unrealisti-
cally shared out by Canberra, which is
the supreme authority, a false atmosphere
prevails over our entire war effort.
“Slowing-down” among workers is en-
couraged by high rates of overtime
and low taxes, and unionism re-
ceives extraordinary concessions. The
“worker” is top dog whether he works
with his heart in the war effort or not.
There is so much easy money in his
hands that the Government has been
forced to ration most goods and services,
but it jibs at rationing money by taxation.
The administration of goods-rationing
calls for a further army of citizens to
be taken from productive work and put
on to non-productive policing. The
whole picture is fantastically wrong and
ominous. Production shortages are accom-
panying man-power deficiencies and wast-
age and increasing costs. Apart from the
grave difficulties that inflation is putting
in the way of our war effort now, there
is the post-war problem of world trade.
Whatever the military result of this war,
Australia is now in serious danger of
economic defeat.
Apparently in view of the kangarooing
nature of the sharemarket (B. 9/9/’42),
the Stock Exchange committees, after
consultation with the Treasury, have
decided to make no mid-month alteration
in the trading limits imposed on prices.
The market at this stage, especially for
8.H.P., A.C.I. and Tooth shares, was
rather easier, with an ample margin for
dealings in the three stocks mentioned.
But at the same time Bradford Cotton
(which has maintained its 10 p.c. div.
and reports healthy trade), Australasian
Paper, British Tobacco, David Jones,
Electrolytic Zinc, Kandos Cement and
Zinc Corp. were inoperative, with buyers’
quotes at the high limit and no sellers
offering scrip. The Sydney index of in-
dustrial-share prices was a little below
the year’s highest at 114.03.
* * * •
A few weeks ago a Sydney businessman
got a letter from a civil-servant friend
in Melbourne saying: “Although not on
full pension I am semi-retired. You will
gather from this that I am still working
for the same old department.” Last week
he got a further communication: “We
are still growing, and the carpenters are
in making numerous executive offices so
that we can completely attend to the
added work that a larger staff brings
about. You have no idea how much
extra work the taking-on of staff creates
in a Government department. The pro-
cess works something like this: A couple
of dozen men are ‘wanted.’ It’s one
man’s work to engage them. When you’ve
put them on you automatically want
another office-boy and a receptionist.
Then you want a further six typists so
that the 24 can communicate with each
other by inter-office memos. Then there’s
an extra filing clerk to register their
memos, and an additional man to work
out their salaries and overtime. Now
these 24 men have made work for
1 boy
1 receptionist
6 typists
1 filing clerk
1 staff man
10 altogether
These ten are working flat out, so you
have to put on another man, a specialist,
to find work of national importance for
the original 24. By this time your
‘section’ has grown to 35, which is too
big for one man, so you split it, promote
one man and start all over again. Some-
times the promotees in even such mush-
room growth break down in health
through the sudden addition of responsi-
bility without previous adminstrative ex-
perience, and, anyway, the red-tape and
futility attending the whole process is
no good to the mental well-being of a
productively-minded person.”


EXPERT CARE OF YOUR ESTATE
By a Company with 56 Years ’ Experience.
|F you have appointed Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, Executor
of your Will, your Estate, on your death, will be in safe hands. It
will be administered firmly and correctly, but with sympathy and under-
standing, and in a personal and friendly way. The Company would
not have grown in 56 years to be one of the largest Trustee Companies
in the world if its service had been mechanical or impersonal. An
interview with a Senior Officer of the Company is suggested, or, perhaps
you would prefer to write for explanatory booklet?
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C. ; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. Y. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £59,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga,
Western District Representative: 11. A. Shaw, 140 Lord's Place, Orange.
THAT
-
the
TWO BOOKS
WORTH READING
Two special books are available free of charge from Burns Philp Trust Company
Ltd. The first, entitled "The Task That Few Men Want," deals with the Company's
special service in connection with the execution of Wills and the administration
of Estates. The second book, entitled "Hand Over Your Worries," tells how
Burns Philp Trust Company Ltd. can assume responsibility for your personal
business affairs during your lifetime. It has special appeal /to those living in
retirement, and to those whose professional activities are of an arduous
character.
These publications will be forwarded immediately on request. Both are of
particular importance in current circumstances.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
B.P. 19-42
PHONE: B 7901.
VICTORY
is our
Business
is our business, it is also your
’ business and the business of every member
of every one of the 28 United Nations
engaged in this great battle for the human
virtues of freedom. Freedom of speech and
thought and action, freedom to live and to
love, freedom # to laugh and to play, freedom
to work and build so that our children, and
our children’s children can live a better,
more peaceful and happier life.
For all these things are we fighting. For all
these things must we work and produce as
we have never worked or produced before
and that is why we say that “Victory is our
business.”
All the energy and resources of General
Motors-Holden’s Limited are devoted to the
task of helping to make victory possible.
Every working hour of its 10,000 employees
is devoted to tasks that will contribute in
some way to ultimate victory, and it is our
pledge that we will continue to work at such
tasks until victory is won.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth
C 761-22
m KE YOUR MONEY HURT—BOY WAR SAYINGS CERTIFICATES
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
It is a pity, in more ways than one,
that the news from New Guinea crowded
Fadden’s criticism of the Budget off the
main news pages last week. Because
the Budget is really big news to Aus-
tralian citizens —far greater than the
majority of them realise now, though
when its results start to affect them
they’ll be asking questions. The Oppo-
sition leader dealt with Chifley’s Mistake
effectively and extensively: “The Govern-
ment is floundering up to its neck in
inflation while crying plaintively for aus-
terity.” He then recommended the in-
troduction of a post-war-credits scheme
to replace excessive borrowing arid the
use of central bank credit. The merits
of post-war credits were dealt with in
B. 12/8/’42 and on other occasions. They
formed part of the Budget on which the
Fadden Government was defeated last
year, and are in operation in Britain and
Canada.
$ * *
There is a prevailing complex, even
among Federal Opposition members, that
“you can’t shoot Santa Claus,” and that
Labor has so saturated its adherents with
excessive “benefits” at the expense of
the war effort that it would sweep the
polls at an election. It is a bad complex,
seeing that it discourages prompt action
against the dangers Labor’s administra-
tion is creating. In any case, the phrase
about Santa Claus is one that accom-
panied the most unsuccessful aspect of
Roosevelt’s Presidential career—the New
Deal that failed to cope with unemploy-
ment.
* * * *
The Australian note issue is up to
£llO million. Over £95 million of it is
in the hands of the public, whereas before
the war a third of that usually sufficed.
Some of the increase is due to the nature
of the times, including the floating char-
acter of a greater proportion of the people
than in peace-time, but a more important
amount of it is a result of currency
hoarding because of income-tax dodging
and other undesirable factors.
* * * *
Before the war the average woman’s
stocking requirements were 50 pairs a
year, according to the chairman of Beau
Monde. “Every female over 16” will re-
quire a minimum of 10.8 pairs a year
under present conditions, is his convic-
tion. The new war-time stocking meant
a saving of about 75 p.c. in man-power,
and would give satisfactory wear.
* * * *
Consumption of Australian whisky
since war started has increased substan-
tially, and so have earnings of Australian
whisky and gin cos. The United Distil-
lers group, which comprises Federal Dis-
tilleries Pty. (of old Australian origin)
and Distillers Corporation (an offshoot
of the Scotch interests), has shown a
growth in distillery earnings from £18,553
during the year to Jan. 31, 1939, to
£56,080 for the term to Jan. 31 last. The
products are Old Court and Corio Special
whisky and Vickers gin. Something more
than 80 p.c. of the capital is held in
Britain; Australians are interested
through Australian Distillery (8y p.c.
holding), Brind’s (6£ p.c.) and Breheny
Bros. (1 p.c.). The current year has now
run nearly eight months, part of which
period was subject to rationing; how
quotas among Australian producers will
be affected when the demand turns from
Scotch to Australian owing to higher
duty and excise is not clear, especially
in view of the nebulous shape of the
“Austerity” campaign. \
* * * * *
In a week in which Senator McLeay
said Mr. Dedman, Minister for War
Organisation of Industry, had “adopted a
most obstinate attitude, and when this
obstinacy is added to stupidity and in-
experience it is time to make a change
in the Cabinet,” Munitions Minister
Makin was prompted to rise and say a
word of praise for B.H.P. This co. was
supplying steel at half the cost of im-
ports, and armor-plate for a sixth the
price. He added, “I feel that these
things should be said.” Mr. Dedman
(Mr. Curtin recently said he was applying
“a first-class mind” to his Ministerial job)
used to be one of B.H.P.’s critics.
w * * *
The Australian National Debt Sinking
Fund is no mean thing. Receipts for
1941-42 were £14.6 million, and for the
current year they are estimated at £16.9
million. Of the latter figure, £9.4 million
is on account of the Commonwealth and
£7.5 million on behalf of the States.
The Commonwealth contribution comes
largely from consolidated revenue, but
it is assisted by half the profits from the
note issue, repayments on war-service
homes, investment income, etc. State
sinking-fund revenue comes mostly from
State general revenue, plus some assist-
ance from the Commonwealth. There
was a year during the depression when
additions to the combined sinking funds
actually exceeded new borrowings.
* * * *
It has been announced by the secre-
tary of the War Damage Commission
that those who have not insured their
plant and stock against war damage will
be prosecuted. Compulsion on the in-
surance of these items applies only in
respect of plant and stock where either
or each exceeds the value of £lOOO. The
premium rate is Bs. per cent, in both
cases. There have been about 600,000
insurances taken out on plant and stock
already, including some voluntary ones
of under £lOOO. Compulsion is necessary
in war-damage insurance owing to the
greatly varied risk of damage in different
places. For instance, claims from New
Guinea already total several million
pounds, while few have come in from the
more populated areas of the Australian
mainland.
* * * *
It looks as though the Federal Gov-
ernment, if it really needs all the man-
power it is asking for, will have to make
what it already possesses more produc-
tive. There is a great waste of men’s
and women’s services throughout the war
industries and so-called industries. It is
largely due to the fact that Australian
Governments on their own have proved
calamitous as employers, and with a few
Eddie Wards and the like sprinkled about
the position becomes worse. Trades-
men, specialists and artists employed on
various enterprises at the present time
complain bitterly about the number of
non-productive “bosses” they have to
contend with. An artist doing camou-
flage work says that he is regarded with
suspicion by some of the “bosses” in his
section because he knows how to do
something. The “machine” is building
up and building up, creating more and
more work that doesn’t help the war
effort. Fantastic things happen because
of inexperienced administrators tangled
up in red-tape. A consignment--
a huge one —from a country town
meant to travel to the other side
of the town has been, first of
all, sent to a capital over a hundred
miles away and then brought back to
within a mile of its place of dispatch—
all done on a railway system groaning
under burdens created by the urgency of
the hour. Until the “machine” becomes
bedded down on a base of experience
and something like efficiency, the taking
on of extra staff will in many cases create
problems instead of solving them.
* * * V *
A report that a 10 p.c. surtax was going
to be levied on the present rates of in-
come tax was promptly denied by the
Prime Minister last week. There could be
nothing worse than such a surtax. It
would simply mean that those already
paying their full share of tax would pay
more, while those escaping tax would
still escape.
*** * *
Employment in Australian factories
now exceeds ‘700,000 persons, compared
with 540,000 prior 'to the war.


THE SERVICE MAN
Threat to Moresby.
“Ek Dum”: The mopping up of the
enemy defeated at Milne Bay had scarcely
been completed when the Japanese
shifted the venue of their activity
to the Buna-Gona area. From here the
track climbs over the Owen Stanley
Range to Moresby, a matter of 200 miles
or more —it is only 120 miles by air.
The first half of the journey had been
accomplished by the invaders long ago.
The roads from Gona and Buna join 10
miles or a bit more out at Sangara,
crossing a sizable river ; then they move
up a valley between two escarpments or
minor ranges and turn slightly north-
west to reach Kokoda. Kakoda is 60
miles from the coast, and halfway to
Moresby by air, but the route must be
judged in relation to the difficulty of the
journey.
Above Kokoda are towering peaks;
some rise twice as far into the sky as
Kosciusko. A lot of nonsense has been
written about the “impassability of the
range. Warnings have been issued on
this page against sensational descriptions
of the obstacles by the inexperienced.
As usual, sensationalism has been fol-
lowed by squealing, most of the squeals
coming from a section of the press which
was sure that the Jap would be a push-
over.”
The High Command mentioned that
the “main defence line had been estab-
lished along the ranges,” a strong line,
difficult to assault.
After the severe clashes last week there
was a sudden tornado of Japanese attack
in the Kokoda area.
While it was proceeding General Mac-
Arthur addressed some wise words to
members of a United States Army unit
“on service somewhere in Australia.”
The C.-in-C. warned the men of the
enemy’s fighting quality and methods ;
of his group penetrations, his tenacity in
attack and his determination to hang on
till the death once he had put his
teeth into an adversary. But the general
also said that the enemy’s morale was
built on a policy of attack ; that when
the Japs were placed on the defensive
they were inclined to become contused
by the unusual experience. “Fight as
the Japanese do and you will ueteat
them. That was my experience in the
Philippines.”
It was soon evident that the Japs
were making advances and making them
quickly.
A new name appeared in the com-
muniques, a name with a familiar ring
to Australians in other days: Myola. It
was the name which King O’Malley had
wished to give to Canberra.
Myola lies slightly to the south-west
of Kokoda, at the beginning of the pass
across the ranges to Efogi, which is at
the other end of the Gap, and thence to
Moresby. Efogi is 100 miles by road
from Moresby—the road swings away
to the south to Sogeri in the southern
foothill edges, then south-west to the
main base. By air Efogi is less than half
the distance by road —44 miles.
From Sogeri the road to Moresby is
good by Papuan standards. The distance
is about 25 miles.
The enemy evidently was using his
customary tactics. Eschewing the main
track, he moved along remote Kanaka
tracks in small swarms, pushing among
rocks and trees and taking the defenders
on the flanks, giving no quarter in attack,
dying to the last man when cornered and
imposing an endless vigil on the Aus-
tralian troops engaged.
He outflanked the first main outpost
at Myola by the same tactics which he
used in the Philippines and Malaya and
Burma, pushing through the lawyer-vine
jungle, infiltrating everywhere like water.
Soon the Gap 6000 ft. up was in his
hands.
On September 11 his van had reached
Efogi. Then the serrated ridges of the
minor southern range and 25 or 30 miles
of coastal country remained to be nego-
tiated before he could attack Moresby
or arrive at some other spot on the
coast.
Rowell’s Men at Bay «
The Australian troops who are trying
to stem the advance had a thoroughly
seasoned nucleus; but even to the best
of them the conditions were new and the
difficulties of communication and supply
were immense. They were under the
command of Lieut.-General S. F. Rowell,
the youngest man ever to hold the rank
in the C.M.F., who had been C.O.S. to
Mackay’s Sixth Division, and afterwards
to General Blarney’s corps. A Duntroon
boy, and a Gallipoli veteran at 19, he
was long ago picked out as a future
C.O.S. After his return from the Middle
East he became Deputy C.O.S.
A long line has difficulties, doubled
by the fact that native carriers have
to be used. Their concentrations make
a mark for enemy bombers. They
have to be under constant and strong
defence ; and under heavy modern fire,
though most of them are courageous and
faithful, they are as yet an almost un-
known quantity.
There is a further advantage of fighting
on the southern side of the range—that
artillery, tanks and mortars can be
brought up. These luxuries will be denied
the enemy unless he can build a road.
Fie can have little surplus labor for road
building. His original force at Buna-
Gona was estimated at a regiment—per-
haps 2500 irffen —and his casualties have
been heavy. But he may have landed
more troops.
While the advance across the Owen
Stanleys was in progress, the enemy also
flung out a ring of troops several miles
from Salamaua and Lae. Nine miles from
the first-named town he took the village
of Mubo, which has been full of trouble
for him. He seems to be making a move
towards the foothills and the Markham
Valley, with the intention of driving into
the heart of the country.
On Friday morning Mr. Curtin made
his first statement on the position. He
said that he had been in close and fre-
quent touch for the past 48 hours with
General MacArthur. Senior officers
recently had visited New Guinea. -
, Fighting was continuing, and he could
make no further announcement until a
clear picture of events was available. He
had absolute confidence in the command:
The leaders are highly competent. The
forces they have at their disposal are forces
which the Government cannot in any way
rearrange by a Minister being in New
Guinea [a member had asked that a Minis-
ter be sent thither].
That day the enemy was trying to force
the southern slopes of the ranges, which
echoed to the chatter of tommy-guns —
ideal weapons for the close-up fighting
customary in thick forests and gorges.
He had 75 miles to go before he could
reach the roadhead at Sogeri. Every
mile he had to travel would increase the
value of every aeroplane and every con-
veyance on the Allied side. There had
been “heavy casualties on both sides” —
that is to say, “heavy” in proportion to
the forces employed, which are not
great —but on Saturday and Sunday the
enemy made no progress.
This time he is facing something he
has not met before in his offensives —
defenders with comparatively short com-
munications open to a relatively near-by
base, with increasing aerial and strong
naval support. He is also facing seasoned
troops, who know his methods and
are as determined as any of his own
troops and of better physique. And our
airmen—among them Australians in Aus-
tralian-made Beaufort bombers are
administering stiff punishment. Indeed
an impressive measure of co-operation
between ground and air forces has been
effected.
There is no real warrant for the criti-
cism published in Australian papers and
repeated, with additions which seem to
be political, in one or two American
journals. There is, on the contrary, real
warrant for confidence in our men, Aus-
tralians and Americans, and their war-
wise leaders.
In the Solomons
Activities in the Solomons continue
on an offensive basis. In three days 20
of 79 Jap machines were shot down, and
installations at Gizo (New Georgia
group) were blasted by U.S. dive-
bombers, who sank a small craft as well.
The Marines on Guadalcanal are still
chasing Jap remnants and a few landing
parties which arrived at night in small
craft. The Americans may have to con-
tend with a Japanese counter-offensive.
The position is that the enemy in the
whole New Guinea-Solomons area must
succeed now or be prepared to fight a
major war.
G.H.Q. Communiques
September 8: Aerodrome near Moresby
attacked by 26 heavy Jap bombers in the
first raid since August 1, and the heaviest since
July 26. Slight damage; no casualties. One
heavy bomber brought down by a.-a. fire.
Allied reconnaissances at Mubo (Salamaua
area), with some bombing. In a series ol
frontal attacks combined with envelopment, the
enemy made advances, forcing back our troops
in the forward areas, and came in contact with
our defence positions. His casualties are con-
servatively estimated at 1000. The Allied
air forces continue to harass him direct hits
were scored on huts, large fires were started
and troops were gunned in low-level attacks.
Ground mopping-up nears completion at Milne
Bay.
September 9: Allied aircraft attacked two
warships at dusk at Normanby Island in un-
favorable flying conditions. All our ’planes
returned. Allied medium and heavy bombers
made two attacks on enemy warships in the
Trobriands, probably damaging a destroyer.
Ground situation at Kokoda-Myola static.
Allied fighters again in action, bombing and
strafing enemy positions. At Buna, a heavy
bomber unit hit a group of beached barges,
causing destructive fires. At Mubo, clashes
occurred between forward elements. At Milne
Bay, nine enemy heavy bombers, with five type
Zero fighters as escort, attacked our installa-
tions, causing slight damage and casualties.
Our patrols found three grounded enemy dive-
bombers, Mitsubishi 99’s, probably disabled in
the raid of August 27, in the vicinity of Mullm s
Harbor. Enemy ground forces at Milne Bay
have now practically been destroyed; Iris casual-
ties, comprising the Kure No. 5 Landing Force,
are estimated at approximately 700.
September 10: The enemy launched a heavy
infiltrating attack in the Owen Stanley area,
which is making headway. He has succes-
sively outflanked our positions at Myola and
near Efogi. Fighting is now to the south along
a narrow trail which leads across the mountain-
ous divide. The Australian brigades under
Lieut.-General Rowell are fighting tenaciously
and gallantly under conditions of extraordi-
nary hardship and difficulty. Allied air attack
units bombed and strafed the enemy in co-
operation with ground forces.
September 11: Bitter fighting continues in
the Owen Stanley area, with casualties re-
ported heavy on both sides. The enemy yes-
terday made no further progress in the area.
Allied attack bombers continue to harass enemy
lines of supply. Enemy patrol activity con-
tinues south of Mubo (Lae-Salamaua).
September 12: Allied medium bombers
attacked buildings and a small vessel at Teoen
Island with unobserved results. The enemy has
made no further advances in the Owen Stanley
area. Allied air units are supporting our ground
forces. The enemy aerodrome at Buna was
subjected to two heavy raids by Allied medium
bombers and attack ’planes. All bombs hit
in the target area; three grounded aircraft
and a number of trucks were destroyed and
several fires started. Heavy anti-aircraft fire
was encountered; there was no interception.
Allied heavy bombers attacked two enemy de-
stroyers at Normanby Island, obtaining a
direct hit on one, which was observed afire and
sinking by the stern. Rafts and personnel were
seen in the water. Medium bombers scored a
very near-miss on the second warship, prob-
ably damaging it. All our ’planes returned.
September 13: Our heavy, medium and
attack bombers, escorted by fighters, executed
four heavy attacks on the enemy aerodrome
at Buna, dropping 26 tons of bombs on the
runway and dispersal areas and firing over
28,000 rounds of machine-gun and cannon fire.
An Allied heavy bomber unit led with a raid
at dawn, followed by medium bombers, fighters
and attack ’planes, in a combined and co-
ordinated attack. After dropping their bombs
Allied attack ’planes made seven strafing runs
over the field at low level, in conjunction with
fighters. At least 17 enemy ’planes were de-
stroyed on the ground, in the dispersal bays and
on the runway, and all anti-aircraft positions
were silenced. Explosions and fires in fuel
dumps and installations were visible 20 to 30
miles away. Heavy personnel casualties were
inflicted in the Owen Stanley area. There was
no interception, and only one of our planes
failed to return. Action was confined to
sporadic patrol activity. One of our forward
units is reported to have ambushed an enemy
patrol, inflicting 20 casualties, with only minor
losses to our unit. An Allied reconnaissance
unit strafed an enemy mine-laying vessel south
of Kavieng (New Ireland) with unobserved re-
sults.
September 14: Allied medium bombers
attacked two enemy cargo vessels off Seloe,
scoring a direct hit on one vessel ; the stern
was blown off and she was left sinking. Allied
heavy bombers attacked an enemy cruiser off
New Britain with unknown results. Intense
anti-aircraft fire was encountered; all our
’planes returned. Allied medium bombers twice
attacked the enemy aerodrome at Lae, de-
stroying two heavy bombers on the ground
and starting fires. Seventeen tons of bombs
were dropped on installations and in the dis-
persal area. No interception, but heavy anti-
aircraft fire was encountered. All our airciaft
returned. An Allied air unit bombed the
enemy at Salamaua. In the Owen Stanley
area the situation remains? unchanged. Fatrois
have been active on both sides.
H.M.A.S. Shropshire.
“Nobby II”: The Admiralty has made
a gift of H.M.A.S. Shropshire to the
Commonwealth to replace the gallant
H.M.A. flagship Canberra, lost in the
battle for the Solomons.
It is the kind of gesture which should
cause some silent pondering in Berlin
and Tokyo.
Here is a little island in the North
Sea which is already exporting about 80
per cent, of its munitions and the greater
half of its ’planes, and whose shipping is
the iron wall which stands between vic-
tory and defeat for the United Nations.
It is supplying Russia to the limit,
piling up mountains of armament in
Egypt, Syria, Iraq, Iran, Gibraltar, Malta
and a dozen places more.
It has lost heavily in eight-inch-
gun cruisers—Dorsetshire, Cumberland,
Exeter.
It is maintaining a heavy fleet in
the Indian Ocean apart from numer-
ous other oceans, thus being responsible
for the sea defence of the western
approaches of Australia; but it can still
part with a powerful ship to a Dominion
—a Dominion, incidentally, in which a
certain type of newspaper and a -certain
type of politician have not hesitated to
sneer at everything British.
Shropshire is almost a sister-ship to
Canberra, though the pair have had dif-
ferent overhauls. She carries eight Bin.
guns and has a speed of 31i knots.
There is no need to mention that the
Commonwealth is grateful. With Can-
berra, Sydney and Perth lost, we had left
only one Bin.-gun cruiser (Australia), one
of the 7000-ton Amphion class (Hobart)
and the reconditioned 5200-ton Adelaide.
There was never more reason to appre-
ciate a gift from the Mother Country.
And it is a pleasant thought that most of
the experienced crew of Canberra were
rescued to help man her. The King has
approved of Shropshire becoming second
Canberra.
Auchinleck and North Africa.
“Ek Dum”: The surprise of last week
was Mr. Churchill’s announcement in the
Commons that General Auchinleck was
on leave “at his own request.” It was sur-
prising in view of Mr. Churchill’s previous
praise of the general; more surprising
since he used the name of Smuts to sup-
port his view that the general should go.
Field-Marshal Smuts had praised General
Auchinleck after the Tobruk affair in
which a division of S’Africans was lost.
To onlookers, whatever happened at
Knightsbridge and Tobruk, the retire-
ment from Libya seemed a masterly job.
It seemed even more masterly since the
first maps have arrived to explain the
puzzle of the El Alamein lines.
The Germans and Italians in their
drive from the Tobruk area moved as
fast as their vehicles could travel. Yet
the bulk of the formations, even the
North of England Division in the Gazala
area, withdrew not merely in an orderly
fashion but in a condition which left
them, after about 250 miles of retreat,
both full of fight and organised to fight,
as the enemy' learned to his cost when
he met the Durhams and Lancs, at Mersa
Matruh and again at El Alamein.
The position chosen by Auchinleck for
a stand could scarcely have been bet-
tered in a land of poor choices, though
at first glance it seemed dangerous. Time
has justified it. It placed the enemy in
an angled line, the shape of a reversed
“L,” with a bad depression to the south
of him, and British points of advantage
in ridges, the main one of which is just
inside the British angle of the line. It
would be hard to think of another line
anywhere along the coastal region which
presents such a satisfactory arrange-
ment, with heights in the best place and
the rear of the flank guarded by natural
features difficult for an enemy to nego-
tiate.
The enemy, as he drove on El Alamein,
acquired considerable momentum. The
manner in which British and Dominion
troops were brought up in next to no
time even from northern Syria showed
that there was a splendid and immediately
available organisation in being in the
Middle East. The way in which the
enemy’s drive was stopped at the time
when nis leaders were actually advertis-
ing the details of their proposed trium-
phal marches in Alexandria and Cairo
exhibited courage and adventurous
refusal to accept what seemed inevitable
disaster.
In fact, El Alamein looked like a good
High Command job. But in the House
of Commons debate it received no praise,
nor was any voice raised in defence o,
Auchinleck.
And not a word was said for the skill
with which the long retreat was con-
ducted by the devoted division which
went to Norway to see the Royal family
and the gold reserve out—went almost
without ’planes and without'The adequate
local naval support which it might have
had. ,
Contact with Mr. Churchill has had
unfortunate results for British generals.
General Wavell broke the Italians in
Libya, but our Sixth Division and the
bulk of the British armored division were
then taken from the victorious arm}


HAVE THAT PHOTO
COPIED NOW!
We cannot come to you, but you can
send to us. Send your photos, to us
to be copied. We enlarge, color and
frame. We will be glad to give a
quote on any work and the greatest
care will be taken with your originals;
pack your originals in cardboard.
Our address is:—
PROGRESS PHOTOS,
MIDWAY ARCADE,
256 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO REGINALD JOHN O’BRIEN (known as
Roydon Sydney Lawrence Jones) late of Auburn
Taxi-driver.—TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE
HELLENA HICKS (falsely called Joyce
Hellena Jones) has filed a Petition No. 1903 of
1942 for a Decree of Nullity of her marriage
with you on the ground that such marriage
was bigamous. If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance on or before the First day
of December 1942 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MADDOCKS
COHEN & MAGUIRE Solicitors 38 Martin
Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN W THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BARBARA PEACE late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that FRANK BRUNELL
PEACE has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1690 of 1942 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance by the 27th November 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MERVYN FINLAY Solicitor Newlands
House 141 Elizabeth Street Sydney— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO REGINALD GORDON TRENCHARD
late of Rozelle New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MADGE ADELA TRENCH-
ARD has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 567
of 1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards.
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance by the Ist of December 1942 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from J. R.
THOMAS Solicitor 39 Martin Place Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO CHARLIE MAXWELL late of New Lamb-
ton in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARTHA MAXWELL has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1666 of 1942
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards You
may enter an appearance by the Ist day of
December 1942 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO. Solicitors 2 York Street Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
and sent to Greece, with consequences
which are felt still. Then General Wavell
was thrown into India at a time when
the British Government was warning the
Russians that Germany intended to attack
them. This though he knows the Middle
East probably better than any other
senior military officer.
He speaks Russian, and is the one
general who knows the Russian Army.
But he was sent to India. And Auchin-
leck, a man whose experience is largely
based on India, was sent to Egypt.
General Alan Cunningham’s campaign
in Abyssinia is adjudged by some mili-
tary men as the most brilliant of the war.
In Libya he was put out to make way for
a young unknown leader, who was sent
back to England after Second Tobruk.
The changes in Malaya were kaleido-
scopic.
Rommel’s Drive
It turns out that Rommel’s drive was
on a big scale. As described in the
earlier communiques, it showed none of
the symptoms of such an affair. It
seemed to be a large, sulphurously sullen
reconnaissance, unpreceded by bom-
bardment or by any of the usual features
of capital war as practised by the Ger-
man High Command —no cloud of
Stukas, for instance, blasting a way for
the tanks. It was apparently the aggres-
sive action of British tanks against the
enemy’s armor parading along the front
of the line which precipitated the fray.
General Alexander is a fine general.
His record both in France and Burma
will live in the history of the war. But
he cannot claim the whole credit for
beating off Rommel. The organisation
must have been there only as the result
of weeks and months of work and plan-
ning which could not be reorganised in
the time in which the Alexander-Mont-
gomery combination has been operat-
ing. To Auchinleck’s measures and the
fighting quality of his troops the main
credit is due.
Last week was comparatively quiet on
the El Alamein front. Bombing went
on; half a dozen Axis ships and lighter
craft were wiped out in the Mediter-
ranean. The sandstorms have blown up.
But there has been little movement on
the ground save for the continual clash-
ings of armored patrols. The Eighth
Army is being steadily reinforced, seem-
ingly at a greater rate than Rommel’s.
But appearances are sometimes deceptive.
Novorossisk and Stalingrad.
“Ek Dum”: One optimist summed up
the situation on Sept. 10 by saying that
the Germans were being held at all
points round Stalingrad ; that Von Bock’s
“undefended” north-western flank across
the Don above Stalingrad was being made
the object of violent attacks; that the
capture of Novorossisk, reported by the
Germans, was unconfirmed, but that the
position in its locality was dangerous ;
that the enemy was being held at Mosdok,
and that he “was on the defensive every-
where else along the line.”
This much was evident: the Russians
were resolutely opposing the German
advance to the Steel City and making
the enemy pay for every furlong gained.
But pauses in the advance were consistent
'-with the mechanical delays of war.
An enemy does not go raging into the
heart of a ravaged city, leaving miles of
burning suburbs behind him and heaven
knows what other dangers. Among other
things, he takes an outer suburb, puts
out its fires, cleans up the filth and
debris and disease-breeding refuse left
by the fighting, winkles out the detached
defending units which have stayed behind,
attends to the water and food supply, and
makes sure that no delayed-action mines
and booby traps remain to blow up his
new local H.Q.
Meanwhile, his artillery has been pre-
paring the way for a further advance, his
infantry keeps contact with the defenders,
and his tanks, ammunition and supplies
are being arranged in the conquered and
reordered district for the next battle.
Only when he is completely ready does
he move forward again.
This process went on before Stalin-
grad ; also on the Terek River west of
Grozny. About Stalingrad the Germans
were consolidating the jaws of their vice
on each side of the city and on the
Volga, so as to cut off supplies, both
from the beleaguered town and from the
rest of Russia.
Cutting the Volga as quickly as pos-
sible is a more urgent and vital opera-
tion, viewed in regard to its general effect
on the outcome of the war, than the
ultimate subjugation of Stalingrad, while
the Luftwaffe and long-distance guns bat-
tered its streets and fortifications to pulp
and pitilessly reduced the numbers of
the game people.
While the consolidation was being
completed on the flanks, supplies were
being carried across the Don in the cen-
tral sector to Kalach, due west of the
town.
When the flanks were secure and had
solid grip on the city and river, the
centre began to move forward across the
steppe, which is as flat as Sturt’s Stony
Desert, without tree br hummock, so that
everything above ground can be seen for
miles. The only hills of any consequence
to the south of the city were already in
German hands.
At the beginning of the present week
the enemy claimed to have “stormed
several positions on the edge of Stalin-
grad and reached the southern part of
the city.” This was denied, but Stalin-
grad seemed doomed, though the Rus-
sians, as usual, were fighting intrepidly
and were, without question, inflicting
heavy losses.
Novorossisk’s Fate
On September 10 a Red Army com-
munique reported “intense fighting in the
region of Novorossisk, particularly in the-
north-western suburbs, where the Rus-
sians repulsed ten German attacks in 24
hours. The Germans at the commence-
ment pushed the Russians back, but the
Russians counter-attacked strongly and
forced the Germans back, killing more
than 1000 of them and destroying nine
tanks, four armored cars and 14 lorries.”
A German communique claimed the
capture of further heights east of Novo-
rossisk, but mentioned no fighting in the
north-west of the town, which, accord-
ing to Berlin’s version, had been in
Hitler’s hands for over a week. It asserted
also that on the Terek River a Russian
attack had been thrown back and a
break-through made to destroy an artil-
lery position.
The nature of events in this battle
seems very much like that of those before
Stalingrad. The enemy won the Terek
River crossings after a bloody struggle.
He then went temporarily on the defen-
sive while he made his bridgeheads safe,,
cleaned up after the battle and brought
supplies across to feed his next opera-
tion.
At the week-end Moscow admitted the
loss of Novorossisk. A serious blow, for
it means, among other things, that the
Black Sea fleet has only two inferior bases
left —Tuapse, already in grave danger,
and Batoum, Its elimination must now
be regarded as a grim possibility.
Rshev and Leningrad
Fighting at Rshev in the central sector
continued without much result except
losses of men and equipment on both
sides. The Germans referred to one
attack as having been driven off with
the destruction of 77 Russian tanks.
They also claimed the inhibiting of a
Russian attempt to open an offensive on
the Leningrad front. The Russians, for
their part, report the capture of positions
on the Leningrad front, with many
prisoners, while admitting heavy counter-
attacks.
It is true that the enemy is on the
defensive all along the line except in the
Caucasus; but it seems to be strategic
rather than enforced.
Hitler made it plain in his speech deli-
vered in April that he realised that his
armies must again winter in Russia.
Along the worst part of the line for
wintering in he has been able to give
almost the whole of the summer
to bringing up cold-weather supplies,
establishing shelters and providing against
the terrible months ahead.
And if the season goes normally he
still has two months of fightable weather
to play with. His own lines of commu-
nication will be open and more intensively
served this winter. And the heroic Rus-
sians will be called on to face months of
frozen privation, such as no great popu-
lation has ever before suffered in history.
Obviously they will have to be helped
with all the foodstuffs that the United
Nations, Australia among them, can send
in the ships available.
Russian Gains and Losses
A special Russian communique states
that between May 1 and August 31 the
Red Army routed 73 German divisions,
wiping out 70 per cent, of their strength,
and destroyed 40 to 50 per cent, of 21
other divisions. At the same time, 12
Soviet rifle divisions and 25 brigades,
including 14 tank brigades, suffered
“considerable losses.” Granted that the
enemy has paid dearly for his conquests,
the disparity in the Russian favor seems
improbable.
Conditions in Russia
The well-informed Imperial Policy
Group in its June issue paints a picture
of conditions in Russia which should fix
attention and sympathy.
It said that even before the Don drive
began, despite all opinions to the con-
trary, Russia was mainly dependent upon
outside supplies which could reach if only
by three routes —through Murmansk,
across the Trans-Siberian railway and via
the Caspian. One of these is now closed.
The capacity of Russia’s remaining in-
ternal industries, the Group publication
said, represented only a small part of
former output, though almost super-
human efforts have been made to in-
crease the efficiency of the shadow indus-
tries and transfer labor and equipment
to them.
Working hours vary from 14 to 16 a
day. Absenteeism is heavily punished
and not even excused for women on the
groupds of looking after children or
household work.
In May town workers were receiving
three meals a day—black bread and hot
water for breakfast, soup with a small
amount of meat and potatoes at midday,
and bread for supper. There was “only
just enough food to keep the population
,alive and the situation was deteriorating.”
Special restaurants existed for officers
and the Ogpu departments, but to these
the public was not admitted. Then
came an assertion that an organised
force of 150,000 Ukrainians under the
Ukrainian Colonel Savtshenko is fighting
in the German ranks, apart from bands
et^iove' 4 in the hunting down of Bol-
shevik officials. Also that political super-
vision of the Red Army has been inten-
smeci —four Communist Commissars now
supervise the instruction of every 35 men.
The Germans themselves apparently
had a force of 174 divisions on the eastern
front at the beginning of the campaign,
together with 50 or 60 divisions in reserve
in Germany and not fewer than 40 in the
west.
Accounts of German atrocities (says the
Group) have strengthened Russian re-
sistance. In point of fact (it declares),
Russian prisoners have been extremely
badly treated by the Germans and mor-
tality among them is high.
There have been difficulties over the
Polish army in Russia. In 1939 the Rus-
sians took 350,000 Polish prisoners, but
only 100,000 so far have enlisted in the
new army formed in Russia.
The balance have not yet been found
or are too sick to fight after a long period
of imprisonment.
Unfortunately several thousand officers
are still missing and the chances of tracing
them are now remote, as not even the Ogpu
can say where they are.
And Russia is being further disturbed
by a strong popular demand for freedom
of religious worship.
Six V.Cs. have been won by Austra-
lians in this war, and three have gone
to Westralians —a wonderful record for
a State with less than 8 p.c. of the popu-
lation. The sixth has been awarded post-
humously to Private Arthur Stanley
Gurney for “a single-handed act of gal-
lantry in the face of enemy action, which
enabled his company to press forward to
its objective” in Egypt on July 22:
When all the officers of Private Gurney’s
company had been killed or wounded, he
without hesitation charged the nearest
enemy machine-gun post, bayoneted three
men, and silenced the post. Continuing
to the second post, he bayoneted two men
and sent a third out as prisoner. A stick
of, grenades knocked him to the ground.
He rose and charged a third post. Later
his body was found in an enemy post.
The gallant fellow was a Victoria Park
(Perth) man, a racing cyclist, aged 32.
His father, still living in Victoria Park,
was a goldfields pioneer, one of a sterling
class of men among whom there were
many heroes. Thirty-one other awards
have been issued to members of the
A.I.F. for gallantry in the Western
Desert: eight M.Cs., five D.C.Ms. and
18 M.Ms.
* * * *
A War Office communique announced
that, Japanese submarines having been
supplied from Madagascar and Japanese
scout ’planes having flown over it, it
became necessary to bombard three ports
in the southern part of the island which
was not yet under British occupation.
The thing developed into another small
campaign. Vichy alleges that the British
attack was a general one against west
coast ports, and was begun after the Free
French had failed to establish a landing.
Resistance was noticeably slight.
Fighting in Chekiang, Kiangsi and
Kwantung proceeds, and the Chinese
report successes. But there are still troop
movements of Japanese in the China
Seas, whether going north to attack the
Russians or coming south to attack the
Australians and the Americans depends
on the taste and fancy of the chronicler.
Off Fukien on August 27, it is now
reported, two enemy ships with 2000
troops were torpedoed and sunk.
sfc afc # *
Burma is being repeatedly raided from
the air—mainly by British and American
medium bombers. Large fires were
started at Bhamo during the week, and
Akyab had its usual doses of pills.
* * * *
British, American and Russian airmen
are bombing Germany from both ends.
Berlin reported “a light raid” by Soviet
’planes on Sept. 9. Budapest was
attacked by the Russians, and Moscow
reported heavy damage. The city is more
open and with wider spaces than most,
but its a.-a. defence is said to be poor.
The R.A.F. gave Dusseldorf, among
other German cities, another heavy dust-
ing, though it lost 31 aircraft; and the
U.S. Flying Fortresses have made several
daylight raids in France which seem to
be experimental. London had an alert
late in the week, but there were no night
raids over Britain.
* * * *
Mr. Churchill, reviewing the U-boat
situation, stated that Germany, having
put almost its whole shipbuilding capa-
city into submarines, has “many more
than a year ago,” but the Allies are using
new methods and “an increasing num-
ber of attacks” on the marauders have
“had good results.” Very few days have
passed “without one or more submarines
being sunk or damaged in recent
months.” U-boat crews are less efficient
than they were.
* * * *
Escorting warships saved 1600 from
a burning transport, the 24,000-ton Wake-
field—many Australians travelled on her
when she was the liner Manhattan. There
was no loss of life. The hulk was sal-
vaged and towed to a U.S. Atlantic coast
port. The fire blazed up suddenly and
spread the length of the ship in a few
minutes, but the captain and a skeleton
crew stayed aboard in an attempt to put
out the flames until all hope was lost.
Some careless passenger seems to have
been to blame. As there was a well-
stocked magazine on board, the result
was almost a miracle.
* * * *
Tommy Atkins got a rise in pay last
week —from 17s. 6d. to 21s. He needed
it, but the reason why he did not get
more advertises the ingratitude of the
muttonheads who are always preaching
that Britain is “doing nothing” while
other countries fight. The modest rise
of 3s. 6d. per week to privates will cost
John Bull £43,000,000 this year.


Legal Notices.
WILLIAM FREDERICK BENNETT, formerly
of Budgerum, in Victoria, Farmer. Son ot
WILLIAM and MARGARET MADELINE
BENNETT. Would the abovenamed (who is
entitled to share in the estate of his mother,
the abovenamed Margaret Madeline Bennett,
now deceased, if he makes claim thereunder
prior to the Third day of August, 1943), or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with MESSRS. CLARKE & GAVAN
DUFFY, Solicitors, of 52 Lydiard Street, Bal-
larat, Victpria?
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Showery weather made conditions
somewhat unpleasant at Tatt.’s meeting
at Randwick on Saturday, and for the
last half of the programme the going
was decidedly soft. There was an attend-
ance of 24,000, against 33,000 last year,
which meant a loss to war charity organ-
isations, but would probably please those
people who are bent on crippling horse-
racing. The tote turnover was £49,073.
The feature of the afternoon was the
Chelmsford Stakes. Yaralla was with-
drawn owing to the soft track. That
assured Rimveil’s favoritism, and in win-
ning he was never seen to greater advan-
tage. Sixth or seventh into the straight
he was a long way from the leaders,
Winnipeg and Gold Salute. Half a fur-
long from home a win for Dewar or
Main Topic seemed certain, but with
a brilliant run on the outside Rimveil
(Bartle) gathered them up in the last
few strides. There was little between
Dewar and Main Topic, who filled the
other places. Riverton, though fourth,
never really flattered his backers ; nor
did Veiled Threat, whose solid support
was something of a surprise. He was
never closer than seventh. Winnipeg
had a long lead after going half a mile,
but he was out of distance and tired
after reaching the straight, as did Gold
Salute, who was his nearest follower up
to that point.
Gundagai (R. Parsons), who appeared
unlucky to lose at Rosehill the previous
week, made amends in the Tramway
Handicap. Starting from near the out-
side he was third to Flying Knight and
Soho into the straight. The latter took
Flying Knight’s measure commencing the
last furlong, but could not stall off Gun-
dagai’s strong finish. Easter Time, in
running fourth, proved himself a better
sprinter than generally supposed, and
Mildura and Common Sense impressed
most of the remainder. Kingsdale and
Hydra dropped out after being prominent
at the turn, but racing will improve both.
Shining Night (Knox), a long way
back after going six furlongs in the
Spring Handicap, then started to make
up leeway. He was wide out approach-
ing the turn, where Salivant and Abspear
were ahead of him, but he got up in
time to win by a neck from Salivant,
who had a long lead along the back.
Moondarewa made a disappointing
showing and did not look a place-getter
at any part of the last half-mile. Pantler
dropped back last early in the piece and
only beat two, while Katanga’s weight
on a heavy track disposed of any chance
he may have possessed.
Running out’the mile and a quarter
much better than his previous efforts at
a mile or further led most backers to
expect, Barren joey (Duncan) lasted long
enough to win the Novice Handicap by
half a length from Royal Lancer, who
was badly placed at the turn. Gay Chal-
lenge made up a lot of ground to run
third, and Louano shaped fairly to get
fourth, after getting away badly. At the
same time .he did not do sufficiently well
in a moderate field to uphold the belief
that he was something out of the ordi-
nary.
In the Welter Handicap Ron Rico
(Whitney) outstayed Rylstone, after the
latter had taken charge in the straight.
Dick Whittington came from a long way
back to get third, and Eureka will not
lack backers when he next starts. Panurge
and Thrax were others that shaped well.
When Air Link got to the front at an
early stage his chance appeared particu-
larly bright, but though he still led at the
turn he finished last. Aralys and Pinero
were well-backed starters that gave their
backers an indifferent run.
Tea Denis (Dale) and Beau Timide
(Whitney) were the other winners, the
latter paying a tote dividend of £27
17s. 9d. for ss.
* * * *
Leahero enhanced his Victoria Derby
prospects by decisively defeating the best
of his age in the Moonee Valley Stakes,
set weights, on Saturday. He combined
brilliance and stamina to win from Chat-
field and Mating Call, and further im-
provement is probable. Skipton, winner
of the corresponding race last year, went
on to Derby and Melbourne Cup suc-
cess, and P. Burke, trainer of Leahero,
naturally hopes his colt will do likewise.
Leahero is bred to stay, being by im-
ported Hellespont from Mirambeek, the
latter a Magpie mare whose dam was a
half-sister to the Melbourne Cup winner
Kingsburgh. With three wins, Leahero
has been a bargain at his yearling cost
of 400gns.
Chatfield, although outstayed by
Leahero, is likely to improve. He looked
as if he had done a fair amount of work,
but had not raced since the autumn.
Mating Call’s third was a good trial for
the Wakeful Stakes and Oaks. Haros,
medium of heavy support, failed to begin'
as smartly as usual, and ran on strongly
in fourth position. Like the winner, he
is by Hellespont, and, on Saturday’s
form, should get a bit of distance.
True Flight advanced sharply in Caul-
field Cup favor after his clear-cut
defeat of Gusher and Lugano in the
Budgeree Handicap. Luck in running
assisted him, but he won well enough to
indicate that he is back to his good form
of two years ago, when he won the Men-*
tone Cup, Stand Handicap and Eclipse
Stakes. By The Buzzard from Even
Keel, he is a brother to Yaralla, and
closely related to the Melbourne Cup
winner Old Rowley. True Flight cannot
be rehandicapped for the Caulfield Cup
as a result of Saturday’s success.
Quixotic landed a substantial plunge
by easily defeating Fallada and Anthony
in the Corroboree Trial. He will need
to prove himself in better company
before he enters seriously into Cup cal-
culations, but owner-trainer W. Burke,
who also races the fancied Caulfield Cup
candidate David Innis, concedes him a
reasonable chance of reaching that class.
Quixotic is much stronger now than
earlier in his career, and may continue
to improve. He is a five-year-old gelded
brother to the Australian Cup and G. N.
Hurdle winner Saul, and, like most of
Burke’s horses, was schooled over hurdles
before ever he raced.
H. Badger landed a winning treble on
Quixotic, Leahero and Wheat SJieaf.
Last-named showed all her earlier dash
in defeating Phoines in the Daffodil Han-
dicap, but looked lucky to win. Phoines
probably would have justified his short-
priced favoritism had he not missed the
start slightly, and been forced wide on
the turn. Wheat Sheaf is engaged in the
Caulfield Cup, but shorter distances than
l\ mile may be more in her line. She
completed a winning double for owner
A. W. Watkins and trainer F. Hoysted,
who also won the Mt. Cotterell Steeple
with Sarthorn.
* * , * *
The soft going told against some horses
at Randwick on Saturday, but Rimveil’s
Chelmsford Stakes win with 31b. more
than his Epsom weight said a lot for his
chance in the latter, no matter what the
condition of the track. Chatham was
the last winner of two Epsoms, carrying
8.13 in one, 9.10 in the other. Rimveil
is up 61b. on his last year’s weight of 9.2.
Against Rimveil’s chance there is un-
doubtedly something in the contention
that, in order to beat a big field at a
furlong shorter distance, he will have to
be smarter than in the Chelmsford in
fairly finding his legs. When he ran third
in the Warwick Stakes he was also some
distance behind the leaders at the turn.
There was merit in Gundagai’s Tram-
way win with a pound more than his
Epsom weight. With an extra furlong to
help he reads like again beating those
which finished behind him, though on a
dry track I expect improvement on the
part of some. Mildura, for one, has never
shone in heavy going, but still ran a fair
race on Saturday, and is improving in
condition. Three weeks may also do a
lot for Hydra and Kingsdale, and per-
haps it might be as well to overlook
Grand Fils’s failure. He commenced
slowly,' and that he did not shine to a
greater extent through the race was prob-
ably due to the ground not being to his
liking.
Easter Time created something of an
impression, but he carried 71b. less than
his Epsom weight. The lower scale and
firmer going will have to do a lot for
Prince and Air Link to make them pos-
sibilities. Winnipeg will be troubled by
the distance, and considerable improve-
ment will be necessary to give either him
or Gold Salute much hope of beating
Rimveil.
Beau Timide is 71b. from the minimum
against 131 b. when he easily won on Sat-
urday, but he may not commence fast
enough for a field of Epsom class. It
is possible to pass over Tel Asur, even
though 71b. better off than in the Tram-
way ; and, while not prepared to accept
all Saturday’s form at its face value, Rim-
veil and Gundagai certainly stood out.
So far as Derby candidates were con-
cerned only Main Topic impressed. Still,
'he was meeting Rimveil and Riverton
(another Derby horse) 141 b. and Dewar
71b. better than w.f.a. terms, and his
light weight may have favored him more
than 8.10 will in the Derby. Riverton,
though fourth, did not do as well as ex-
pected, but at 71b. worse than w.f.a. he
finished well ahead of Veiled Threat and
also beat Winnipeg and Gold Salute.
Like Riverton, the last-mentioned horse
carried 71b. penalty. Panbranch, Stream-
ford and Afloat did not show anything
approaching Derby form. •
After Saturday next it may be necessary
to revise ideas, but at present Hall Stand,
Baroda, San Sebastian, Main Topic,
General Smuts and Riverton comprise
those most entitled to be Derby runners.
* * * *
Shining Night, Dewar, Main Topic, Ron
Rico and Salivant did best of the Metro-
politan horses. Veiled Threat, Pantler
and Moondarewa were disappointing, the
last-named; with 61b. more than his Metro-
politan weight, completely failing to run
up to his recent form. He will meet
Shining Night 81b. better, but the latter
beat him all that. Dewar won the Anni-
versary Handicap with 8.12. He again
has that weight, and an extra furlong
should not trouble him. Gundagai has
been placed at a mile and a half at Rand-
wick, so he may be a Metrop. possibility
if he fails in the Epsom, but he will be
meeting Dewar only a pound better than
when he ran third to the latter in the
Anniversary.
* * * •
King George, who believes that the
continuation of racing is for the good
of England, won the St. Leger last week
with his filly Sun Chariot, and heads the
list of winning owners. At the New-
market sales the Aga Khan showed his
optimism concerning the outlook for
English racing by giving 8200gns. for a
yearling colt by Hyperion at the New-
market sales, when two days’ selling
totalled 80,518gns.
* * * *
The racing deputation from Sydney
was received by the Prime Minister in
friendly spirit, and it is believed that at
a full Federal Cabinet meeting today a
concession of racing in Melbourne and
Sydney each Saturday will be made,
though there will be other restrictions.
Incidentally, a surprising announcement
on Saturday was that the Ascot (Mel-
bourne) racecourse was being taken over
immediately for national purposes. That
leaves Melbourne with only Flemington,
Moonee Valley and Mentone.
* * * *
Some enlightening figures were pre-
sented when the Prime Minister met the
racing deputation from Sydney. At one
time it was generally accepted that book-
makers’ turnover on N.S.W. courses was
about six times that of the totalisator,
but while the amount put through the
machines in this State for the 1941-42
season was £1,961,947 for a tax re-
turn of £112,600, bookmakers handled
£16,473,800 for a tax of £82,369. For
the books, however, it must be added
they also pay income tax.
* * * *
First acceptances for the Epsom Han-
dicap and the Metropolitan point to the
fields for those races being much larger
than a year ago, when 16 ran in each.
Rimveil, last year’s Epsom winner at
7 to 2, will again be at a short price.
Freckles, who so greatly disappointed
those backers who took 9 to 4 about him,
is an acceptor, and is again sprinting
smartly. The only others of last year’s
runners engaged are Merrimba (sixth),
Evergreen and Hydra. Of Metropolitan
acceptors, Dashing Cavalier (first), Veiled
Threat, Gundagai, Yours Truly, Goose
Boy (fifth) and Haridelle ran in the 1941
race. On form it would be difficult to
give some of those left in the Epsom or
Metropolitan possible chances, but, with
the future of racing still somewhat un-
settled, many owners evidently have no
intention of missing any opportunity of
competing for valuable prizes.
* * * *
If the length of programmes at race
meetings is restricted it will mean many
horses now in training will be retired.
It costs as much to train a bad horse as
a good one; and while in the past
trainers occasionally found it hard to
convince owners that it was little use
perservering with some horses it may not
be so difficult in future with opportunities
lessened in minor races. An all-round
improvement in class seems certain. It
is almost unnecessary to add that there is
insufficient profit in training fees to cause
many trainers to wish to retain horses
that are unlikely winners.
* * * *
In Victoria the Government’s share of
the tax on totalisator betting goes to
hospitals and charities. That is as it
should be, and during the recent financial
year they benefited to the extent of
£217,000, compared with £200,000 the
previous year. They will be hard hit if
racing is further reduced. Before the
tote was legalised in N.S.W. it was antici-
pated it would directly benefit hospitals,
but that idea proved wide of the mark.
* * * *
With the exception of California, racing
was never in a more flourishing condition
in most American States than at present.
Prize-money, attendances and tote turn-
over have increased during the past year.
Breeders, however, decided it would be
advisable to offer fewer yearlings at the
Saratoga (New York State) sales last
month than in previous years. Youngsters
catalogued totalled 525, against 637 a
year earlier. They sell at night at Sara-
toga, and this year there were sales on
only ten nights, against 14 a year ago.
In Sydney last April only 300 yearlings
were catalogued, against 538 in 1941,
and, unfortunately for breeders, the out-
look for the coming year does not appear
any brighter. They will probably have to
content themselves with recalling the
glories and profits of the past.
* * * *
Racing still continues in France, Long-
champ and Auteuil supplying the needs
of Parisians. The trouble for trainers
is to obtain oats. The ration for some
horses—not all —in training and brood
mares is 51b. a day. Before each race
it is shown on the number board which
horses have been receiving oats allow-
ance and those which have not. Oat-fed
horses do not invariably win.
Miscellaneous.
At Leichhardt (Sydney) on Thursday
night Bobby Clarke (list.) was adjudged
to have outpointed Maurice Dremon
(10.12) in a willing twelve-rounder. There
was so little between them that a draw
wouldn’t have been cavilled at, except
by the Clarkes.
* * * *
It’s to be Essendon and Richmond at
Carlton for the Melbourne “grand” final.
Essendon beat South Melbourne on
Saturday, clinching the business in a
flashing third quarter in which the ’Dons
scored 7.3 from 10 shots. At the end it
was 19.10 to 14.12.
m * * *
Manly v. East for the Sydney Rugby
Union “final” was hard, slogging football,
played in driving rain on the North Syd-
ney ground, transformed from flint into
mud and sheets of water. The backs
rarely saw the ball, but the forwards
“pigged” it vigorously. Manly won 9-8.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
September Encourage Handi-
cap : Easter Time, 1; Prairie King,
2 ; Barrenjoey, 3.
Theo Marks Stakes: Common
Sense, 1 ; Soho, 2; Mildura or
Romero, 3.
Rosehill Guineas: Hall Stand, 1 ;
Baroda, 2; San Sebastian or Main
Topic, 3.
Rosehill Spring Hatndicap :
Haridelle, 1; Yours Truly, 2;
Salivant, 3.
Hill Stakes: Yaralla, 1 ; River-
ton, 2 ; Evergreen, 3.
Highweight Handicap : Bona
Fide, 1; Rylstone, 2; Hydra or
Marchotti, 3.
FOR MENTONE.
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Banyan Hurdle: Whirlaway, 1 ;
Sligo, 2 ; Bluebeard, 3.
Leslie Stuart Stakes: Distinction,
1 ; Tuhitarata, 2 ; Industry, 3.
Yarraman Handicap : Gold
Hazard, 1 ; Jenny Law, 2 ; Register,
3.
Mentone Cup: Skipton, 1 ; High
Road, 2 ; Velocity, 3.
Dandenong Welter: Grandson, 1 ;
Royal Peter, 2 ; Portico, 3.
Hampton Handicap: Highway
King, 1 ; Fallada, 2 ; Anthony, 3.


Woman's Letters
From Melbourne
Hattie Leckie’s renovated hats went
off like hot doughnuts on Friday’s
Prisoners of War Day drive and gave
a lot of fun to the crowds. It was a big
improvement on the raffle-stall ideas that
make the main thoroughfares impassable
on most Friday button days, and are be-
coming a bit of a bore to the average
citizen. Hats were tried on in ground-
floor office of Newspaper House, lent
for the occasion, and street crowding
was avoided. Used hats rolled into the
Town Hall in such numbers that the
milliners who had volunteered for the
renovating job were kept, busy every
minute of their spare time, and as the
deadline drew near and hats were still
coming in the committee and assorted
volunteers, headed by Mrs. Leckie and
right-hand woman Gwen Potter, were
given lessons in the millinery art in a city
workroom, and got down on the job
themselves. As Miss Potter’s artistic hand
is well known in these parts, there were
no fears about the results. Mannequins
of all ages, from the frankly matronly
to their schoolgirl daughters, patrolled
Collins-street with aplomb.
Those women who had previously a
just cause for complaint because, being
stronger than their age suggested, they
considered they should be considered for
war jobs (which they weren’t) now have
their chance to make good their boasts.
Kitty McEwan, organiser of the Women’s
Land Army for Victoria, wants them all
for flax retting. She says that a couple
of friends who can share a room at one
of the hostels will find it a good country
holiday, and go for from two to six
months. With Ballarat, Riddell and Lake
Bolac as the places to which work will
take them, they will see much of the
pleasantest countryside in Victoria. A
coupon or so is to be given in addition
to the ordinary ones, so that the workers
may acquire a uniform overall of sorts,
and they may wear boys’ boots if they
like. The hostel at Lake Bolac boasts
all-new furniture, and complete living
there costs only 275. 6d. a week of their
£2 17s. 6d. to £3 Bs. a week salary. Girls
and women must come only from un-
essential industries.
Marie Burke did a worth-while job of
work when she opened an Austerity Cam-
paign at a Collins-street store. She spoke
to the point, and, coming from her, the
advice to make one hair-do take the place
of two will probably not fall on deaf
ears. A day or so later a few friends
gathered in Miss Burke’s dressing-room
at the Comedy to congratulate her on her
speech and also on her part in “Robert’s
Wife,” to which one of the company,
daughter of a parsonage, said she
brought the real vicarage atmosphere.
The tiny dressing-room could not hold
the guests, who thronged the passage
while they said congrats, and good-bye.
Brides are now practising real austerity.
Except for those who looked ahead and
planned weddings months back hardly a
one of them has a wedding gown made
for her. Last week when Amy Florance,
daughter of the Beilby V. Hawthorns, of
North-road, Brighton, married David
Pritchard Griffith, of the Merchant Navy,
she wore a beautiful borrowed gown and
a hand-embroidered veil, lent her by
Mrs. Ted Best. Sister Valnere was
bridesmaid, also in a borrowed gown.
Bill Martin, of the Merchant Navy, was
best man, and the wedding took place at
St. Andrew’s, Brighton’s real old church,
picturesque with its venerable grey walls
and its churchyard, where there are
many early settlers’ graves.
Lots of good wishes went to Sub.-
Lieut. Bruce Holmes and Frances,
daughter of Mrs. Graham Balfour and
the late Rev. Graham Balfour, when they
were married last week at the Kew kirk.
The two families are prominent in all
Presbyterian activities, the bridegroom’s
mother being a daughter of the Rev. Dr.
MacLaren and sister of that Dr.
MacLaren (Charlie to his friends) who
stayed in Korea long after most mis-
sionaries had withdrawn. Grandfather
Dr. MacLaren was head of P.L.C. during
the years it was educating many of Vic-
toria’s leading women citizens. Before
that he had missionary experience in
Japan. Bridegroom’s father is well known
in Melbourne’s business circles. A
feature of the wedding was that three
clergymen took part —two Presbyterians
and one Anglican, the last, the Rev.
Russell Clark, being a brother-in-law of
the bride and an R.A.A.F. padre.
Engagements of social note last week
were those of Dr. Eileen Catarinich to
Philip Harry O’Keefe and of Mary
Elmslie Picken to Captain John Perry,
A.A.M.C. Dr. Catarinich is with the
Mental Hygiene Department at Mont
Park. Her father, Director of Mental
Hygiene, is known far and wide for his
propaganda work. Lecturing in his spare
time he has done much to break down
prejudices against an extension of scien-
tific and medical treatment for the thou-
sands of afflicted people. Fiance is with
Commonwealth Transport Department.
Mary Picken is fifth daughter of the
Master of Ormond and Mrs. Picken,
and her fiance is son of Mrs. Graham
Brown, of Brisbane.
The Guild of Australian Composers
(Vic. branch) will hold a concert at the
Assembly Hall on September 28, the pro-
gramme to consist entirely of Australian
compositions, including works by Louis
Lavater (who has been very ill lately),
Linda Phillips, first woman member, who
joined the guild in 1939, Margaret Suther-
land, Vera Buck, E. C. Burchett, George
Findlay, Alan Palmer, Lorna Dannock,
Zoe McHenry and Amy Dickinson. Last-
named, here pictured, will not play her
sonata, which is in an unfamiliar idiom,
for her little son is only three months
old and demands all mother’s care, but
she will be there with her husband, P. L.
Martyn, to hear Rennie Simmons play
it for the first time in public—it was
written last year. Vera Buck will accom-
pany Arnold Matters when Jie sings her
songs, and Linda Phillips will accompany
her own songs and also take the piano
part in her trio.
As it was known early after Coun-
cillor Nettlefold’s election to the
Mayoralty of Melbourne that Mrs.
Nettlefold’s health would not permit her
to assume the usual duties of a Lord
Mayor’s consort, the question of the
choice of a substitute became of interest.
Daughter Barbara Nettlefold said that
she was tied up with Red Cross work
and felt she shouldn’t leave it, so the wife
of a senior councillor who has already
held the Mayoral office being available,
she seemed to be the best possible choice.
Mrs. Edward Campbell, the lady chosen,
has the goodwill of thousands who met
her during her husband’s term as Lord
Mayor, when she proved herself warm-
hearted, friendly, sensible and motherly,
bringing the jolly home atmosphere of her
household into the Town Hall.
Not many women can boast that when
over eighty they habitually reach a city
office at 10.30, and are able at a pinch
to make it at 10. But Mrs. John Down-
ing can and does, and scarcely a day goes
by but she is to be seen at her office at
the Housewives’ Association headquarters,
Howey Court, carrying on the business
that comes to her as its president. This
kind of thing seems to come easier in
the Downing family than in most others,
for daughter-in-law Mrs. Harold Down-
ing has just resigned from presidency of
the Baptist Women’s Union after filling
that post for some time with great credit.
A couple of medico sons show that the
John Downing tastes don’t all lie in the
one direction, and solicitor son Walter is
in his spare time a strength to the local
Yugoslavs as their Consul. Mrs. John
Downing is still one of Melbourne’s most
lucid public speakers and debaters, and
Cabinet Ministers lend an attentive ear
when she is on a deputation.
Welcome wherever she goes with vice-
royalty is Miss Ida Turner, middle-aged,
white-haired but mentally as young as
and much brighter than many “girls.”
Since the Armitage lady became president
of the Free Kindergarten Union, Miss
Turner has often stayed at G.H. and
escorted Lady Dugan to the daily official
jobs that fall to her lot. Sometimes
Mrs. Paul Henry goes on these voyages,
and occasionally Miss Dalton, secretary.
There’s quite a precedent for feminine
aides after the war.
From Sydney
During the spring rain on Saturday
afternoon 200 or more made for the
Rachel Forster Hospital. This hospital,
run by women for women and children,
is proud of its shining, modern and very
complete laboratory. This has been
equipped by the hockey girls of this
State as a memorial to their well-
loved secretary, Mrs. F. J. Davy, and on
Saturday a tablet in commemoration
was unveiled. This laboratory is what
the bright-eyed, smiling Mrs. Davy would
have liked above all else, for the Rachel
Forster was very close to her heart. In
addition there is a special link between
the hockey girls and the hospital. Dr.
Marie Hamilton, queen pathologist over
this army of stainless-steel gadgets,
against the glareless duck-egg-blue-tiled
walls, is president of the Hockey Asso-
ciation of N. S. Wales.
Nor is the remaining debt very high
on this amazing testimonial. Already
the hockey girls have handed over
£750, out of £lOOO promised, and
the £9OO mark is now in view. Consider-
ing that the amount has been raised by
this band of sports girls in less than a
year in addition to their work on behalf
of war and comforts funds, the memorial
tablet takes on added lustre. Mrs. W. H.
Read, president of R.F.’s board, unveiled
the tablet. Grouped about were many
friends and relations. F. J. Davy
was there; so was her brother,
Horton Jarvie. Dr. Mary Puckey, Dr.
Lucy Gullett, Dr. and Mrs. Cox from
Helensburgh (Mrs. Cox is Mrs. Davy's
sister), Florence Bennett, organising
secretary Nancy Wicks and Kate Ogilvie
were others who paid tribute. The hockey
girls had provided the tea and the flowers.
Margaret Viola Lawlor has many in-
terests. One of which she is very proud
is her presidency of the committee of
the Theresian Club’s Padstow Holiday
Home for Children. Miss Lawlor won
her diploma for social study at Sydney
University, and has already put in six
months of her training to quality as hos-
pital almoner. This entails working in
various hospitals, and the subject of this
Peter Pan photograph has already passed
through the Sydney and the Royal Alex-
andra for Children. She is attached as
part of her student course to the Family
Welfare Bureau of the Mayor’s Patriotic
Fund.
Mary Lee, whose parents were the
W. T. Lees, of Tenterfield, was married
last week in St. Aidan’s, Blackheath, to
Bruce Lindsey, of Cremorne. The bride-
groom has recently returned from the
Middle East. Mary is attached to
the staff of Marsden College, Bathurst,
and will continue with her job.
The Bishop of Bathurst, who regards
Marsden as his pet lamb, has written to
her to say he would be very disappointed
if she were not able to do so. Step-
mother (the step has always been given
a miss) Mrs. Jessica Lee gave a cele-
bration dinner at Usher’s, the J. A. L.
Gunns, old family friends, helping to
make the party swing. Mary’s brother
is Machine-Gunner Laurence Lee, some-
where abroad.
And O My Lovely, O My Pet,
You may not twirl nor pirouette
In this land, nor dance for fee,
Till forty-five your birthdays be.
This will probably go down in history
as the year of the Ballet of Creaking
Knees. Still, following a dinner of aus-
terity dishes, washed down by Adam’s
ale, to the strains of a mouth-organ
orchestra, who will care whether the
ballet wears Mother Flubbards or
sarongs? There is, however, one point
for which the onlooker may be thank-
ful. All seem agreed that the forties
onward will be unable to do the splits.
The splits have always appeared to at
least one theatregoer as a repulsive form
of cleverness for the sake of cleverness.
They never seem to have rhythm or
reason, so why bemoan them? Another
point to be raised is that of coupons.
Forty-five cannot ambush itself in as
little net, sequins or organdie as Eighteen,
and for every extra yard more coupons
will be required. Another headache for
E. J. Tait and his brethren.
With great clearness of vision the
Y.W.C.A. is putting its trust in the older
generation, depending on the grand-
mothers to bring the shillings rolling in.
Its grandmother competition is part of a
million-shilling drive to ensure that ser-
vice women will have a recreation-hut
roof over their heads on whatever battle
station they may be located. It is a sign
of the times that “Queens,” beach-girls
and other glamor girls weren’t even con-
sidered by the organising committee as
bait for the big money. Another point,
too, to be remarked is that, whereas in
other contests votes have been priced at
one penny, votes in this grandmother
contest cost a shilling.
At last week’s meeting in the Australia
the Alexander Gordon lady was nomi-
nated as a grandmother candidate. Mrs.
Hope Gibson, made the entry, said
that this would represent the musical
world’s interest. The Reading lady, an-
other nominee, is put forward on behalf
of the Y.W. Country grandmothers will
be the charge, as it were, of their par-
ticular shires. Organiser G. A. Wilson
reports that the hut posters have made a
great hit. These are in three colors and
are marked off in 100 squares, each
square representing one shilling. Huts
can be sold to buy “grandmother” votes.
A certain rich man has handed over a
cheque for £5OO, and silvermines are
erupting. An orchestral concert at the
Town Hall on September 25 will add to
the swag.
Born when Murrumbidgee swept away
the then small, the now large, towns of
Gundagai and Wagga, Mrs. A. M. Roche,
of Bondi, enjoyed her 90th birthday last
week. Among telegrams of congratula-
tion were messages from the school of
which she is the oldest living ex-pupil—
the Convent of Mercy at Goulburn. This
is the oldest country boarding school in
N.S.W., having had its own 83rd birth-
day. Mrs. Roche is Australian-born.
Her husband was the first man to take
up land in the Yass district under
John Robertson’s Act, and by the fruits
of his industry became owner of Nanan-
groe, Chidowla and Normanton stations
in the neighborhood. When Mrs. Roche
and her husband pioneered there weren’t
even buggies to make transport some-
what easy. She was, of course, like every
young woman of her time, an expert
horsewoman.
Part of her life she had no neighbors,
and later her nearest was four miles
away. Her seven children born
without doctor or nurse, and yet she
carries her 90 years as lightly as some
do 40. From her childhood days she
can recall memories of bushrangers.
On one never-to-be-forgotten night
Johnnie Gunn, his partner-in-arms Gil-
bert staying behind to draw the
fire of pursuers, called at her mother’s
home. Her mother served him with a
meal, the bushranger taking the pre-
caution of insisting that she first eat and
drink of the refreshment she set before
him. Nor are Mrs. Roche’s links all
with the past. In the present war, one
son who fought during 1914-18 is again
in uniform. Two grandsons, one just
returned from Greece and Syria, and a
son-in-law are also soldiers. A niece is
Mrs. Cyril Clowes, whose husband is
Major-General Clowes, of Milne Bay
renown. A daughter, Mary Roche, is a
writer of verse and stories.
Mrs. Zara Aronson, one of Sydney’s
leading newspaper women of a former
generation, held corroboree on her
eightieth birthday recently. Son Mal-
colm gave the party, which was in Mrs.
Aronson’s home at Darling Point. Nearly
70 guests drank “long life” to the after-
noon’s heroine, and a glittering Everest
of cake was cut.
Saturday was a red-letter night at Syd-
ney Royal, where the Firm staged their
brand-new musicomedy “Let’s Face It.”
Habitual first-nighters, looking chic still
even if coupons are running low, stopped
to admire the tastefully redecorated foyer
and the floral trimmings before going in
for their liberal ration of laughs ladled
out by a talented company which joy-
ously buried its collective teeth in the
meaty stuff at its disposal. Silver foxes
got what looks like their last use before
being parked among the mothballs. Taf-
etas still bloomed, but the boiled shirt
and tails of the escorts have sadly
withered and died.


KNOW THESE FAMOUS
BUILDING SHEETS
LYSAGHTS
one
BRAND
GALVANIZED IRON
Equal in strength, durability
and quality to the familiar pre-
war sheet, although the well-
known '‘spangle" finish is miss-
ing. Suitable for water catch-
ment.
LYSAGHT'S
ZINCANNEAL
A zinc protective coating makes
Zincanneal particularly useful
wherever excessive corrosion
can be expected. Eminently
suitable for all working up pur-
poses and catchment of water.
Note: The above two qualities are subject to
Departmental approval, which will only
be granted for water catchment and
storage, and for other purposes where
their use is essential.
LYSAGHTS
GLOBE
TERNE-COATED
BUILDSNG SHEETS
A lead-coated sheet of great
strength that has proved its
suitability for all general roof-
ing and walling purposes.
NOT suitable for water catch-
ment.
LYSAGHT’S
CORRUGATED
BLACK IRON
An uncoated all-purpose corru-
gated sheet for roofing and
walling that offers maximum
strength, rigidity and value.
Suitable paints are available
from the trade for use with
Black Iron.
All sheets, though obviously in
short supply during the war, are made
in all gauges, both corrugated and
plain, to the limit of manufacture.
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
ď
SXDNEY—MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
đ
ď
AH®
4 «tM l tl
Australia
expects
that every
tyre
today will
do its duty
Every Military or Civilian driver can
prolong the life of his tyres by careful
driving . . • thus eliminating excessive
tyre wear . . . and helping Australia s
Offensive.
the oivmpit
TVRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
SMOKE-OH!
“Cosmetic dealers do a poor business in the
Swiss Alps—because no rouge can match the
ruddy complexion of most of the women.”
— “World’s News.”
In Australia, women think, no com-
plexion can match the ruddy cosmetics.
•£« «i|*
“Since I recovered from a serious illness
my heir has become dry,g brittle, thin and life-
less. What is a good remedy?”
—Correspondent in Sunday paper.
Have another serious illness and don’t
recover.
-I* *l* *b -!•
Life’s mad. When a pianist works, he
plays. But the piano plays only when it
works.
•b *b *b *b
“Dog found escapee in haystack.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
The escapee couldn’t have been sharp
as a needle.
“Is there anything a modern girl can t do
that her grandmother could?” — Woman’s paper.
Yes. Blush.
•J* *s* *s* *s*
“Blaming your husband will get you no-
where.”—Dorothy Dix, woman s mag.
Wrong, Dot—it will get her as far as
Mrs. Nextdoor’s dividing fence, anyhow.
~ *
“The girl who had been standing with the
heavy suitcase heaved a sigh and put it down
on the footway to rest her tired arm.”
— “Argus.”
Why didn’t she put the suitcase down
as well?
•b -b *b *b
“One man at this camp, a former barman,
gives excellent imitations of birds and animals.”
— “D.T.”
He growls when on fatigue, but gaily
whistles
Whene’er the “pay bloke’s” sighted,
does this bar gent.;
His best performance, though, is when
he bristles,
Then barks back at one very cranky
sergeant.
K.
It Doesn’t Ring True.
“Gold is not always yellow.”
—“ World’s' News.
Thus things are not what they may
seem. A nightmare oft becomes a dream
when seen through other eyes, they say.
But Mrs. New-Bride’s wild today. Though
jeweH’ry she has often seen, on values
she is rather green. She’s green, but
what seems worse, it’s true, is that her
wedding-ring is, too.
Looby.
•J*
“They could not help joking with their visitor
about his pronounced Irish ascent.”
—Short story.
So they took a rise out of him.
4*
“Military escapee found hiding in chimney.”
— N.S.W. country paper.
Apparently he went into smoke.
•I* »J* -l- -l*
In These Times!
“Why did they despise him so? Why did
they treat him as though he was the most in-
considerate waster in the world?” — Story.
Ah, what did the poor fellow do, to
cause such a hullabaloo? By nature not
wasteful, his crime was distasteful to
anyone modem, it’s true.
He’d sat down to dinner at eight; en-
joyed it, and left rather late. But the
point he’s been downed on, the one
his host frowned on —he’d left half a
spud on his plate!
Murphy.
Fodder for Thought.
“Lucerne, noted as fodder, is to be served
to the troops in Australia.” — “Sun.”
Song, to be sung by the O.C. when,
having marched his troops five miles to
a lucerne patch, he finds a dairy herd in
control:
Oh, the cows are in the lucerne !
And the lucerne’s in the cows.
My troops are disappointed,
For they came along to browse.
Ah, dairyman, turn out your kine,
For they have time to burn.
But troops must march by sunrise, so
Please give my cows a turn !
ELM.
Submarined.
“How some alarmist reports are spread is
astonishing.”— “Sun.”
I had hardly begun to enjoy Maria’s
holiday before a noise like an earthquake
at the front told me she had returned.
“It’s all your fault,” she said, scarcely
waiting for the taximan to depart.
“Advising us to go to Dumper Bay. We
were nearly torpedoed by the Japs!
Alice and I were enjoying the sun on
the beach yesterday when she noticed
them and gave a scream. If we hadnt
hidden behind the rocks quickly I’m sure
the Japs would have fired a submarine
at us. We could almost see them on the
bridge or whatever you call it.”
“Don’t be silly. Submarines!” I said.
“Well, why did the guns begin firing?”
demanded Maria hotly. “I believe you
sent me there on purpose.”
I recalled then an item I had heard
over the wireless. “Oh, they were whales,”
I said.
“Whales! ” shrieked Maria. “Of course
you would say they were whales. But 1
know what I saw. I must ring up and
tell Mrs. Gabbett about our awful experi-
ence.”
I slipped out. I had to let Blobbs and
Foozle and the others know that the
bucks’ party we had planned was off, and
that my holiday had been submarined.
H. M.
Diet.
“When he failed in business his wife be-
came very bad-tempered.” —Evidence in divorce.
She minced no words, but in their joint
There was a stew of worry;
Because he’d made a hash of things
His missus gave him curry.
H. M.
Necessary Qualifications.
“Naval Dockyard Police. Vacancies exist.
Applicants must be physically and dentally , fit
(26 sound teeth, of which four should be
opposing molars —dentures allowed).”
— “S.M.H: ad.
To the layman It may appear strange
that the possession of four opposing
molars should be insisted on in these
cases. Yet let him stop for a minute
and ponder the awful situation that a
four-opposing-molarless cop might find
himself in.
Going around the dock, swinging his
trusty truncheon, he spots a sinister figure
lurking behind a vessel. At once he
challenges the suspect, and out leaps
a bullet-headed member of the submerged
tenth. Before the cop has formed the
first words of his question the bloke with
the sloping-back forehead snaps out
“Open your trap!” The guardian of,the
law automatically obeys and the other,
taking a quick look, says: “Blime! You’re
a bicuspid short and you’ve got an im-
pacted wisdom tooth. Bite!” As the
cop’s teeth snap together the man he
had hoped to arrest says: “H’m —a coupla
molars don’t meet even, an’ you’ve got a
grinder that ain’t got a mate—you’re a
dental dud an’ y’ can’t lumber me, see?”
And, helping himself to a gun-mounting
and a couple of propellers, he leisurely
gets over the fence.
Possibly, of course, dockyard police
have inculcated into them a rigid code
of sportsmanship that precludes their
using any weapon in retaliation other
than those which criminals may elect to
use against them. Thus, if a saboteur,
unarmed except for a magnificent set
of tombstones, should fall upon the Lor
and bite hunks out of him, his opponent
must of necessity rely on his dental out-
fit. If the cop were to get a mouthful
of the handiest part of his adversary and
try to gnaw him into submission with
a couple of back grinders that had no
opposite numbers—well, it might cost the
cop his job and us a couple of blown-up
warships!
It may also seem queer to the layman
that for the prospective dockyard J. Hop
there is no middle course —either a per-
fect set of his own teeth or a mugful of.
ersatz crockery. Yet is it so queer, after
all?
Going his day rounds, the cop may
decide to stop for an hour or so in a
place where it is nice and sunny and out
of the wind, and therefore a likely place
to keep an eye out for thieves. He will
naturally be chiacked by the workmen
and will grin back in good-natured
fashion. If he were to have front teeth
missing here and there like the picket
fence of a rented house in midwinter
the sight would so disconcert the toilers
that they might put in a howitzer instead
of a 6in. gun or swallow a few red-hot
rivets.
And wouldn’t this dialogue be appre-
ciated by the dentist:
“Yes, there’s one back tooth to come
out and a cavity here to be filled. Other-
wise your teeth are in splendid condi-
tion.”
“How many have J got, Mr. Jerkem?”
“Let’s see —you’ll’ have 25 after this
one comes out.”
“Well, pull the rest while you’re about
it!”
“Good heavens! What for?”
“Ar, it’s the only way I can get a job
I’m after. You can fix us up with a set
top an’ bottom.”
Anyway, it’s a Government job, and
the qualifications for Government jobs
are usually strange.
For instance, it is well known that you
can’t land a job as a water-conservation
draughtsman unless you’ve got a wart on
the back of your neck, take 17in. collars
and have two vertical lines running from
the bridge of your nose to your forehead..
And to be a railway refreshment-room
drink-waiter it’s necessary to have a
tickling cough, hair on the chest, a know-
ledge of Schopenhauer and a daguerreo-
type of your Aunt Myrtle in your upper
vest pocket. Even the politician mustn't
have insomnia. That would be fatal.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Hie Red-tape Labyrinth
The Commonwealth Statistician has
sent to the co. for which I work “Fac-
tory Form No. 4—Bacon-curing Estab-
lishments, Meat and Fish Preserving,
etc.,” and it falls to my lot to fill it in.
Here are a few of the questions I must
answer: —'
Wages paid to (a) males, ( b ) females;
consumption of coal—(a) black, ( b ) brown;
consumption of coke, of wood, of water
used (including water rates and carting),
of lubricating oils; value of tools replaced,
of repairs to plant and buildings (a) by
our own men, ( b ) by other than our own
men; output of bacon and ham from
carcasses (a) made on own account, (6)
made on commission; output of bacon and
ham from pork and green bacon (a) made
on own account, ( [b ) made on commission;
output of green bacon for sale as such;
value of commission charged for work
done; output of ( a ) beef casings, (6)
mutton and lamb casings, (c) pig casings,
( d) bones, horns, hoofs, etc.; output of
meat (a) extracts, ( b ) essences, (c) pastes,
( d) meal; value of non-returnable con-
tainers such as wrappers, bottles, tins, bags,
sacks, cases, casks, corks, labels and
materials used for packing.
The form is accompanied by wordy
“General Instructions” and a covering
letter explaining the General Instructions.
What possible interest (let alone value)
have the answers to these questions to
anybody but ourselves? And does the
Commonwealth Statistician imagine that
factory-owners are going to drop other
work and waste time fossicking out cor-
rect answers? No, the answers will be
guessed or invented. It follows that statis-
tics based on incorrect answers to useless
questions must be valueless, so why
collect them? For the Year-Book ? Yes,
I know: but does anybody take the trade
figures given in the Year-Book seriously,
particularly people who help to supply
them?— Tok (Tas.).
The Marshalls and Carolines
In the Sydney “Daily Mirror,” 3/9/’42,
in an article on “The Marshall and Caro-
line Islands,” it is stated, under the head
ing “Whitehall’s ‘No,’ ” that the Austra
lian Government wanted to occupy thest
islands in 1914, but Whitehall said no.
“Whitehall didn’t want to offend Japan,
so any occupation by Australian or other
British forces of territory north of the
Equator was discouraged.”
The facts are that an Australian ex-
pedition was formed in 1914 to sail to and
occupy these islands, then held by Ger-
many. Unfortunately it called at M.L.
to pick up some Maorilanders, whereby
to make it a combined command. This
delay cost us the islands, as when the
Australian-M.L. forces arrived they
found the Japanese flag hoisted ; we were
just 24 hours too late. The circumstances
in which the Japanese were promised
that no post-war objection to their per-
manent occupation would be raised by
Australia reflect very little credit upon
the foresight and wisdom of our Gov-
ernment of 1916.
I have consistently, since 1919, raised
my “voice in the wilderness” about the
real significance of these islands to Aus-
tralia, yet rarely did I meet a soul who
even knew where they are located.
No wonder so many of our people are
so confused and generally ill-informed
as to the perspective of this war, especially
as to the incomparable part played by
the greatest of our kinsmen in expiation
of their pre-war folly, of which we ex-
hibited our own woeful share. —H. W.
Crittenden (N.S.W.).
Drink and War
Convinced both from its own know-
ledge and as the result of the findings
of a committee appointed to report on
the effect of alcohol on leadership
and efficiency that drink is in the
nature of a national menace, the Society
of Returned Medical Officers of Queens-
land has begun a fight for reform.
The society is satisfied that excessive
drinking is behind much of the crime in
the country and excesses and indiscipline
among men in uniform. It insists that
drink is a lowerer of morale and a direct
cause of venereal disease. For reform it
advocates:
Reduction of the alcoholic content of
beer; rationing of spirits >; a ban on
shouting and sale of drinks on credit;
reforms in canteen administration and
the placing of officers’ messes on the
same footing as troops in regard to
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
drink ; no alcohol other than the regu-
lation issue to be allowed at battle
stations.
It suggests, in addition, more entertain-
ment for troops on leave, more private
hospitality and more education on the
effects of alcohol.
The findings and recommendations of
a society of this kind are not lightly
arrived at, and they deserve the considera-
tion of taxpayer and politician alike.—
Norther (Q.).
War Finance
Admitting that the Government would
rely on bank credit for at least £lOO
million this financial year, a “Treasury
spokesman” declared that the war could
not be financed by taxation alone. He
added that the £3po million of loan
money required could not be raised from
the public, even by compulsion, and
asserted that the advocates of compulsory
loans knew this.
They know nothing of the sort. There
is an obvious fallacy in the official’s
reasoning, for, if the public can be made
to do without the goods which the money
would buy, it can do without the
money too. The national income is the
money value of all goods and services
produced. It can therefore be divided
into two parts, respectively equal to the
value of war production and that of non-
war production. The public cannot buy
war equipment. It can use only the
money which represents the value of
remaining production. If it is left with
“Advance an' be recognised."
any more, the attempt to spend it will
raise prices ; or, to the extent that prices
are effectively controlled, there will be
an unspendable surplus.
The only truth in the Treasury man’s
statement is that it is politically difficult,
rather than impossible, to cover war ex-
penditure by taxation or compulsory
saving. The impossible task is to get all
the money from the so-called rich. The
Government is unwilling even to try to
get it from the great consuming masses.
Nevertheless, they have to go without
the goods whose production is curtailed
by the war. Their money incomes are
actually higher. That sufficient money
for any degree of war effort can be pro-
vided by the public is, therefore, a matter
of simple arithmetic. — Arc (N.S.W.).
V
This Austerity
As one of the mugs of the country,
which is another name for farmer, I’d
like to have my say about this Austerity
Campaign. We are advised to spend less,
work harder, save more, deny ourselves
all but bare necessities and a lot more to
the same effect.
So far as we chaps on the land are con-
cerned, our incomes have been reduced
so that we can’t afford more than bare
necessities. The Government took all
we had to offer for a start; our sons and
daughters joined up lively; our labor
heard the call; our older ones have done
what they could. In return our dairy,
sugar, wool, fruit and other products
have been grossly mishandled.
Even so, we mugs are prepared to
take another hole in the belt if our leaders
will show the way. There was a time
when Federal and State salaries were
£4OO and £3OO per annum respectively.
There was no dearth of applicants for the
jobs then. How about going back to that?
The balance would make a fine start for
the Austerity Loan. —H. G. L. (Q.).
A Cheer for B.H.P.
As a tonic to Australian morale let
me recommend this extract from the
latest annual report of the chairman ol
8.H.P.:
If there is one thing outstanding in Aus-
tralia’s prosecution of the war it is the
way Australian industry has responded to
the many tasks placed upon it. I am not
referring only to the-large companies, but
to the many small companies and indi-
viduals... .Without this private enterprise
this country would be so seriously handi-
capped as to be almost helpless. This is
something for the nation to recognise and
remember No task has been beyond the
capacity of the officers and men of the co.,
and their services have been given willingly
to the nation and the co. Absenteeism
has been at a minimum. The relationship
between the company and its men continues
on a most harmonious basis, and I have
no reason to think it will ever be other-
wise.
Considering the magnitude of B.H.P.
operations, that is a fine tribute to Aus-
tralian men, both those who manage and
those who serve. Let’s all be proud of it,
proud of our country, proud of our
pioneering ancestors, proud of ourselves.
And a fig for self-depreciation! — Kul-
tahna (S.A.).
The Strangling Cities
So we have sugar rationing. Last
year we had thousands of tons of cane
left standing in the paddocks. The
reason —lack of transport, resulting in
lack of storage space. That in turn was
due, as most land troubles are due, to a
policy barren of vision. Mills through-
out the entire north may produce nothing
purer than “mill-whites.” For refining,
this sugar must go south —most of it to
Sydney—after which a big percentage of
it returns to northern consumers. Why
shouldn’t each mill or group of mills
turn out refined sugar?
There has been endless talk of the drift
to the cities. While tropical crops are
dependent on Sydney factories ; while a
concern like the Charters Towers Woollen
Milling Co. is allowed to close down
because it could buy the raw material
(that was produced all around it) no
nearer than Brisbane ; in short, while the
cities, which are dependent entirely on
the land, treat the country areas as Cin-
derellas, just so long will we have ration-
ing of overproduced crops, and just as
surely will this war be followed by an
Old Man Depression.
The land, the mines and the seas are
the only source of real wealth, and a
sane policy regarding them our only hope
of a reconstruction after this war is won.
Rationing of home-produced commodi-
ties looks like a pateh-the-present-and-
blast-the-future policy. — Ossy (Q.).
In Defence of Churchill
“W.C.C.” (B. 26/8/’42) makes an un-
fair attempt to belittle a truly great man
and (to United Kingdom Britishers, any-
way) a revered and beloved leader.
So Churchill obtained what “W.C.C.”
calls “a remarkable hold” over the British
people per medium of the George
Newnes press. Bosh, sir!
Winston Churchill enjoys the backing
of his nation because of his splendid
leadership, his power to inspire and,
above all, because he has “guts.” I am
a member of the British Merchant Navy,
soon to leave Australia, so I cannot
challenge our W.A. friend to pistols for
two ; but I would certainly like to con-
tribute to his eduation by reminding him
of certain facts.
Churchill is a soldier; he passed
through Sandhurst, fought in the Spanish-
American War, saw active-service fight-
ing in India and Egypt, taking part in
the charge at Omdurman, fought in
South Africa, and in Belgium with the
6th Royal Scots.
Who shall dare say that he is not a
statesman? He has held every important
post in the British Cabinet, and now leads
us strongly and confidently in our greatest
hour as Prime Minister, with the full
backing, love and approval of the com-
mon man.
We of the Merchant Navy will never
forget the Altmark incident when
“Winnie” thrust out that square jaw of
his and sent the Cossack into the sacred
territorial waters of Norway to rescue
our mates with the message “The Navy
is here.”
After Dunkirk Churchill rose to his
greatest heights, and stiffened and sus-
tained us with the example of his own
great personal courage and determina-
tion, although at the time we had not a
feather to fly with.
We of Britain trust our grand old man ;
we have every confidence in his leader-
ship, his courage, his vigor and experi-
ence. To “W.C.C.” and other readers
of The Bulletin (which alone of the
Australian papers seems to give Britain a
fair hearing) I would say keep your own
politicians, aU due respect to them, but
leave us of Britain with our leader, Win-
ston Leonard Spencer Churchill, soldier,
statesman and author. We are satisfied
with him. — First Mate (W.A.).
Secured Debtors
As a grocer in business in a small way
in a country town in N.S.W. I have been
unlucky enough to get a few doubtful
debts on my books. On taking proceed-
ings and obtaining judgments, I was able
to garnishee the wages of the debtors
who did not have Government jobs and
secure all their pay in excess of £3
weekly (I believe until recently it was £2
per week); this within the space of a
few weeks.
In the case of a civil servant who was
one of my debtors I had to send a copy
of the judgment to his head office with
a declaration as to the amount
then owing. Apparently his
head office can deduct such
sums as may be thought neces-
sary to pay off the debt, but
at least £4 per week must be
left to the debtor.
To enforce payment of a
debt owed to me by a railway
employee I had to go through
the same procedure as in the
case of the civil servant, but
in this instance he must be left
£4 a week, or one-third of his
pay, whichever is the higher.
The Commissioner, who de-
mands commission for collect-
ing my money, informed me
that, as several other creditors
had filed certificates before I
did, I shall have to wait for
nearly two years before receiv-
ing any payment.
In all the cases cited the
costs of taking the steps to
enforce payment of the judg-
ments, unlike other costs, are
not recoverable from the
debtor.
Why this distinction between the ordi-
nary citizen and the Government em-
ployee?—Actus (N.S.W.).
Government by Regulation
More frequent sittings of Federal Par-
liament must be the rule if we are not to
live under laws framed by a few Min-
isters and proclaimed as “regulations.”
The fact that Parliament can repeal any
of these regulations, if so desired, by a
resolution reached within 15 sitting days
of their publication in the “Government
Gazette” is one of the strongest points
in favor of a democratic Government,
and constitutes an important difference
between this country and totalitarian
States.
Admittedly, the Government must
have the power to make regulations in
war-time, but when these regulations in-
volve the liberties of thousands of people
it is essential that Parliament should be
very frequently in session, and that mem-
bers should go to Parliament with a full
knowledge of how these regulations are
affecting the people concerned. —Rustic
(Q.).
Government Advertisements
I don’t mind paying taxes and con-
tributing cash to the war effort, and I
know that it is inevitable that there
should be some waste in paying for such
a big business as war. But some of the
waste can be avoided. Take Govern-
ment advertisements. Many I have seen
could have occupied much less space ;
they were cluttered up with proclama-
tions, “wherefores,” “whereases” and so
forth, the real point of the advertisement
being in a few lines at the bottom. The
average reader would have turned to
something more interesting before he got
that far. — Paul Pilgrim (N.S.W.).


MSSW
tte
r.*V>
.
NWS
m
SH3
gSWsfsgig
mm
Mimk
%sv?
mm
M&i'
gm
zm
':vi
5®
IMII
f£4f*
.«r
mm
:■
ml
■ T»
‘-• .
VJi
wmtiz
M
■JFS
.
r'.v«
sS®£
,
& *?,;4^vyiwrarv*!
*‘k£* r £
ss
ass
:K
iW®
$53
sr‘jl»
—«i
-:■
»y»s
i%s7L"ir
Ki
|4 MF?!
m
wmm
■ -
!k«*i
_ ’
fig
««
riS-Tt
:■ -
V
m¥Mi
iW'SCmM
Wrnmm
m
f>;
lk SB r&tgreESi
Vt, *Vifl-St tWZV( s if9>
«# •
HSR
:'.v
WUtiA* tsAt)H
&2s«SaH
' - : v' ;
&H»
■■-.
ITO!
BB9K
BS
IS
V:
iSEM
i-4
\ JLr-f invJw. %*v
»l? 5 »K.wiS2n5S
v’>Vi rfc*/
ss&
->*• ■ I£^7.
HiHlB
$BB
*saE»
pmi
> **
-rVi
2? *3?
ft*
Hr
N \1
' mlfl
'**\ M
m
&<&
rnLLl*
r 1 ,
' -' '«‘ -'..>, BA'k *ik \ s
4hll*>
mmmmmmm
m*
5&
ft 4M
$$
£
■rv
£»
fvjsi
Sf
vi
rtJ5
V';
Mn
:-
iGiiV
•■•4
1®
H
,*>
m
mm
Pr' -
S.!-
ang
•I'lVr)
vfi'i
■>'
:*v
• -^2Sk-
) .'.-
: V ‘■-:
W&M
e¥'Xt-h£*
Don’t misunde
fighter-pilots
this is just O'
know that y
and "Dulux” ar
war effort,
helping to
?v-
-■mt
tm
>. i
s m
i.
IK*
• "->
Imi
sm
übSln&Lf
CTIW3SR:
>£
$8
P«sl| $&&&£& S"£M?43£Mk
m
''>;-V
>i?A«
ML>.>
*t>
•Mi
/re
fiSssa
T.
*:. : c- itt,
'teXxm
;«'c
r m
'o‘§s£f,
xs&M
Wi
mm?.
S««!
£
l/? :T f VMS; :S :
i9i
w*
assas?
m
fmmm
&
m
£«ss
:c
v&
mmmmi
mm
WkM
s
kL4 fe-.jWliVK.x*
KM
iM
iwp#
:ft2J5s3S
B 3
?v;
fig
ws§a
M
v
ssi
;•;/
y*
£
r o
