

The Bulletin
fr'Ttie Bulletin,”
Vol. 63.—N0. 3258.
Wjffefesda^July 1942.
iPflce 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
ST. GEORGE'S CHAPEL, WINDSOR CASTLE.
THIS beautiful and perfect Gothic architectural gem,
1 beeun bv Edward TV H 461 1483 T and finished
, ' 8 . , rd l V (1 6114 )
by Henry VIII is the most interesting place accessible
to the visitor to the Castle. It is m such an admir-
able state of preservation and kept in such order that
one feels transported at once to the time when it was
created. It is an ideal chapel for such a palace-castle
as Windsor, and the claim made for it, that it is one
of the finest Gothic buildings in England, has never
been questioned. Externally, it suggests the neighbor-
ing chapel at Eton College and that marvel “the last
great triumph of English Gothic art, the chapel of
King’s College, Cambridge.” The exquisite Gothic
chanel at Stoneyhurst College, Lancashire, “The
Ca^ol}c Eton,” also presents many features remi-
n] * scent D f §t George’s Chapel, which is also a
mauso i eumj as j n i t are> among others, interred the
rema i ns Q f ’ Edward IV, Henry VI, Henry VIII and
Charles I. The remains of George 111, with those of
George IV, William IV and other members of his
family, lie in a vault under the Beaufort Chapel which
is attached to the east end of St. George’s Chapel,
Architects consider the structure one of the very
choicest specimens extant of the enriched style of the
fifteenth century. Reverting to royal burials, it is
recalled that in 1813 the grave of Charles I was opened
and the few who looked upon the remains of the be-
headed King were easily able to recognise the face
and form of Charles Stuart. There are several chapels
in this fabric in which are the monuments of many
illustrious persons, such as Edward, Earl of Lincoln,
a renowned naval warrior, and the famous Lord
Hastings, beheaded by Richard 111, and Charles Bran-
don, Duke of Suffolk, who married the sister of Henry
VIII. The chapel was repaired and beautified m l/yu.


d
This Book FREE to YOU!
SIOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send , without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin. ’
My ’Name
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
BACK TO THE MATRIARCH?
For the benefit of all planners of New
Orders and post-war paradises, here is
a theory based on a wide examination of
contemporary films and novels —prob-
ably, since popular fiction and the talkies
mirror the dreams of the masses, a better
guide to public opinion than either the
Gallup Poll or Mass-Observation: what
the English and American peoples really
want after the war is government by a
benevolent grandmother.
Autocratic government, at that. Abso-
lute obedience to a shrewd old, humorous
old, fierce old, domineering old she-devil,
just like the late Marie Dressier or those
reigning queens of filmdom Edna May
Oliver and May Robson. Here she is,
in Richard Church’s new novel The Sam-
pler (Dent), feeding the chickens in a
corner of the English countryside, ob-
scure, unimportant, but always to some
extent aware that within her frail hands
lie the sanity and the salvation of man-
kind :
Only eggs and an uncertain number of
boiling fowls stood between Mary and
Martha and starvation.
Such was Martha’s morning fear, coming
suddenly upon her, quite out of character
and purpose.
She banged her pails against the garden
gate and grinned.
“Empty, my love, empty!” she said to
herself. Once more the fog, like leaden
weights in her hair, dragged a strand of
grey over her eyes. She shook her head
impatiently, resolved to brave things out.
There was nothing else to be done. Mary
must be protected though the heavens fall
—as they had threatened to fall last night,
with the drone of the bombers and the
roar of the barrage.
And here she is again, in an American
novel recently reviewed here, Louis
Bromfield’s Wild Is the River :
Opposite the negro. Aunt Tam sat very'
straight, holding the parasol over the sleep-
ing Agnes to save her milk-white skin from
the ravages of the sun. The girl slept with
the dead sleep of the very young, only
stirring faintly once or twice when the boat
eased, with a faint jolt, off a mud bar. The
older woman was tired, but she was wiry
and tough and the excitement of the adven-
ture kept her awake. When their eyes
met as Cesar leaned back on the oars, the
plain horse face of Aunt Tam would soften
into a smile and Cdsar, responding, would
show his perfect double row of shining
white teeth. What they were saying to
each other—the gaunt spinster From Boston
and the great negro—was quite simple.
They were saying “What a wonderful and
beautiful world this i 5....”
Richard Church, being a novelist of
much sensitivity in characterisation and
style, does not insist on his Matriarch
having a face like a horse, but his Martha
and Bromfield’s Aunt Tam are, neverthe-
less, essentially the same person: one
protecting her invalid sister against pov-
erty and bombers, the other protecting
her niece from fever, crocodiles and men
with sinister intentions: both profoundly
wise with the experience and knowledge
of life; both sane and calm and humor-
ous ; both (as a further examination of
The Sampler will show) stronger than any
mere males with whom they come into
contact. And here, protecting her nephew
in darkest China—a Catholic missionary
—from colds in the chest and bandits at
the gates, is the same indomitable soul
in A. J. Cronin’s The Keys of the King-
dom: —
She smiled remotely, using the privilege
of her affection to disturb his privacy.
“What is it, Aunt Polly?” He composed
his features with a great effort. Perhaps
she had further news, another message
from Wai.
“Td be glad if you’d try on this com-
forter, Francis. I don’t want to get it too
large. It should keep you nice and warm in
the winter.” Under his bloodshot gaze
she produced a woollen Balaclava helmet
she was knitting him.
He scarcely knew whether to weep or to
laugh. It was so like Polly. When the
crack of doom resounded she would no
doubt pause to offer him a cup of tea
Tears started to his eyes. He had an
almost irresistible desire to put his head
on her hard shoulder and cry brokenly, out-
rageously; “Aunt Polly! I’m in such a
mess. What in God’s name am I to do?”
As it was, he gazed at her a long time.
He muttered: “Don’t you worry, Polly,
about the danger we’re all in here?”
She smiled faintly. “Worry killed the
cat.”
Worry, Mr. Cronin implies, is certainly
not going to be allowed to kill such a
tough old tomcat as Aunt Polly.
Which, precisely, is the essence of Mr.
Church’s philosophy. It is, probably, the
last thing he intended to say. Built on
somewhat similar lines to Thornton
Wilder’s The Bridge of San Luis Rey,
Mr. Church’s novel sets out to show how
a night of Blitz in London becomes a
night of testing, crisis and decision in the
personal lives of a group of characters
who endure a night of terror in the
cellar of a Bloomsbury hotel. Each of
the persons—the young man whose deci-
sion to join the R.A.F. is symbolical of
his breaking from his mother and achiev-
ing manhood; the woman who is running
away with her flashy lover from a hus-
band who has become boring; and the
disillusioned and nerve-racked veteran
of the 1914-18 war who is to regain faith
and courage when the bombs fall —is
doubtless intended to be of the same in-
terest and importance as the matriarchal
Martha. But it does not work out to
plan. Martha steals the book.
It is Martha who is chosen to express
the resentment of England at the sense-
less fury of the German bombing:
Perhaps the greatest unreality of all was
the silence. Hell had been let loose over-
night, and here was the aftermath. The
unchangeable streets, their names as settled
in the mind as those of her family, or
the places in the Bible, were roped off;
many of them buried under mounds of
rubble and smouldering beams. But this,
fantastic enough, was not so strange as
the silence of people trying to go to their
daily work. Nobody spoke, nobody
looked up. A great shyness had taken pos-
session of the people of London. It was
as though the city were their mother, and
she had been insulted and shamed in front
of them. Their shyness was the shyness of
children; close, intense, dumb. They
walked in embarrassment without looking
up.
Martha was one of them. She felt that
shyness. But she felt angry, too. Her
practical soul raged against the waste, dis-
order and senselessness. She wanted to
punish somebody.
She could do nothing about it, however,
except to slap her handbag indignantly,
to knock off the brick dust which settled on
it again and again.
It is Martha, managing, competent
Martha, who forces the little company
of strangers in the hotel to realise that
they are a community:
She sat before the tea tray, her gloves
on the table, her bag in her lap. She
smiled again at Roger, but there was a
wariness behind the smile. Her grey eyes
were watchful. He saw that she was thin
and sunburnt. She must be a country-
woman. “We ought to introduce our-
selves,” she said. “It makes conversation
easier.”
So they all did, except the fair-haired
woman. Miss Woodman persisted.
“We have been introducing ourselves,”
she said to her.
“Oh, sorry”- said the other.
It is Martha whose life-experience and
maternal kindliness begin the healing of
the emotional distresses of the young
R.A.F. recruit and the last-war veteran,
Sims:
“Was your work interesting, Mr.
Haigh?”
She was smiling secretly, as though she
had great reserves of experience which she
could offer to the young man. She even
included Christopher Sims. He was quite
willing. He wished the boy would tell her
the whole thing; the fear that was nagging
him; the conflict at home.
It is Martha who is calmest when the
raid begins: “She smiled. Nothing could
intimidate her tonight.” It is Martha
who scorns the men’s help when they
have to go down to the shelter: “ Tm
quite happy, thank you,’ said Miss Wood-
man. She looked rather fierce, deter-
mined not to be interfered with.” When
the hotel has been bombed and most of
the people are trapped in the cellar (with
Haigh and Sims trying to dig through to
them) it is Martha who “summons her
commonsense” and looks round for
“something useful to be done”; it is
Martha who calms a frightened child —
“ ‘l’m the hen-woman,’ said Martha. This
completely satisfied the child, who fell
asleep with her head on a rug which
Martha had rolled into a pillow.” It is
Martha who quietens the errant wife’s
lover when his nerve breaks:
“Don’t wake the child,” said Martha,
looking coldly at him. Her straight nose
was aggressive and her wisps of hair were
spears.
It is Martha who takes the lover’s
bottle of gin from him to relieve a man
with a broken leg. It is Martha who
dominates with her placidity when they
are all in danger of being drowned by
water leaking into the cellar: “ ‘We
could sit them above the rising water,’
said Martha. She spoke as though the
whole party were going for a little holi-
day, ‘Now Mr. Osier, please come and
help us lift this poor soul.’ ” And, at the
end when all are rescued, it is Martha
to whom Sims and Haigh confess that
they have attained integrity, Martha who
takes the erring wife back to her husband,
Martha whose indomitable little joke is
the last word of the book.
Considered merely for its own sake as
a work of fiction, The Sampler is a line
novel; ingeniously conceived, convincing
in portraiture, distinguished in style and,
because of the sensitive descriptive pas-
sages, probably the best Blitz piece yet
written.
But, regarded as a straw to show which
way the wind of thought is blowing, it
makes two extremely odd statements:
one, that the Matriarch is the heroine
of our troubled civilisation ; and the other
—since the Blitz, like the crashing of
Thornton Wilder’s bridge, is seen as an
instrument of chance or Providence
showing people the inner meaning and
highest values of their lives—that the
great achievement of one night’s bomb-
ing of London was to make a straying
wife return to her husband. The wife’s
story is certainly the dramatic crux of the
book, and her lover is assuredly the
villain.
Is there a link between these two
strange philosophical statements? Is
there some relation between the choosing
of an old woman as the heroine of a
Blitz when so much male heroism must
have been displayed by firefighters and
others, and the interpretation of the Ger-
man bombing as a moral lesson to Mrs.
Manners?
Probably there is—if the notion that
Hollywood and the novelists are yearning
for a matriarchy isn’t quite as fantastic
as it appears. It is not a young woman
who is selected as the heroine, so it can-
not be said, as the psychologists have de-
clared of the reigns of Elizabeth and, to
a lesser extent, of Victoria, that the men
are seeking to display their valor before
a queen who is, symbolically, the wife
or mistress of her devoted subjects. On
the contrary, the young, glamorous Helen
Manners, for whose sake the men might
well have performed prodigies of valor,
is sternly reproved and sent back to the
husband who bores her. The old woman
is the heroine. In its search for a symbol
of strength, the novel has turned away
from the wife to the Matriarch.
The strongest, sanest person in The
Sampler, in Wild Is the River, in The
Keys of the Kingdom, in all the talkies
in which Edna May Oliver and May
Robson have been starred, a tyrannical
old woman. What was it Mr. Church
said about Martha in London?
It was as though the city was their
mother, and she had been insulted and
shamed in front of them. Their shyness
was the shyness of children; close, in-
tense, dumb. They walked in embarrass-
ment without looking up.
But Martha wasn’t dumb; Martha
looked up ; Martha “raged against the
waste, disorder, and senselessness.”
Clearly, Martha is Mother London. And,
just as clearly, it is the strong mother-
image, the Matriarch of primitive peoples,
the mythical Sibyl in her cave, who, dis-
guised as Aunts Tam and Polly, is held
up for adoration in Wild Is the River and
The Keys of the Kingdom. Lord help
all poor weak men when the novelists’
queen-mother rules the world, for
Martha “wanted to punish somebody”!
Latest Readers’ Union books from
Robertson and Mullens are The Long
Week-end, the curious and amusing
social history of England between the two
Great Wars by Robert Graves and Alan
Hodge ; Robert Gibbing’s Sweet Thames
Run Softly, with the author’s engravings;
and A Century of Science, by Sherwood
Taylor.
Maorilanders are doing well with the
Penguin New Writing series. Frank
Sargeson (who contributes to The
Bulletin, and a book of whose stories,
A Man and His Wife, was reviewed here
about a year ago) has made several
appearances ; and in No. 10—the latest
to hand —Roderick Finlayson has his
debut with a good Maori story, “The
Totara Tree.” Other recent Penguins are
The Psychology of Fear and Courage,
a “special” by Edward Glover; No. 4
of the “Hansard” series, verbatim reports
covering the second winter of the war;
and the third vol. of Denys Kilham
Roberts’s anthology of The Centuries’
Poetry —covering “Pope to Keats.”
New Oxford Pamphlets: The Arsenal
of Democracy, by A. J. Brown; Ameri-
can Foreign Policy, by D.,W. Brogan;
China, by P. M. Roxby.
Know Your Own Trees: R. T. Patton
(Melbourne University Press). Beginning
with a formidable list of quotations
proving how difficult it is to know one
gum-tree from another, Mr. Patton, who
is senior lecturer in botany at Melbourne
University, sets out to- show, by clear
descriptions, photographs and drawings,
how easy it is to tell one from another —
provided one keeps an eye on the bark
and has a copy of Know Your Own
Trees in the knapsack. All birds, bears,
hikers, amateur botanists and people who
complain of the “sameness” of the Aus-
tralian bush should be told to read this
book.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
One of the strangest medleys in local
art history is the exhibition of Chinese
art at the Velasquez Galleries at Tye’s.
Melbourne. Cheek by jowl with lovely
examples of Chinese porcelain, jade and
china, mandarin robes exquisitely em-
broidered and landscapes innocent of per-
spective are photographs of the five
years’ war against the Japanese invader
taken by W. G. Burchett, the Australian
war correspondent who represented a
London paper in the war zone. Refugees
are fleeing before the wrath of the
aggressor, cities are tumbling to pieces,
victims of what is claimed to be gas are
being treated in European hospitals,
Chinese feminine battalions are drilling
and Chungking has hoisted the banner
of resistance. The assumption is that
the artistic side of the exhibition repre-
sents the culture which the Japanese are
destroying, but sober truth requires the
contrary judgment that China’s ancient
arts and crafts started disappearing long
before the Japanese invasion, just as they
disappeared in Japan when both coun-
tries took to imitating the industrialised
Western nations. The photographic
record of the sufferings of the helpless
population is horrible enough ; but the
inclusion of objects that can only be
found in museums now in China gives a
false impression of the situation.
A catalogue forenote to a show at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, of paint-
ings, drawings and modelling by Anne
Wienholt, a young student, says she
“obviously and frankly has reacted to
the influences of the contemporary art
world of Sydney.” If that means she
follows the local disciples of Matisse,
Picasso, Gauguin et cie, she certainly has.
But she also learned to draw, at East
Sydney Tech, art school, and there’s a
sound portrait sketch, No. 33, to prove it.
Robert Johnson’s display of N. S.
Wales landscape at the Sedon Galleries,
Melbourne, is in his usual manner. John-
son takes the man-in-the-street’s view of
Nature and the compliment is returned
by the sale of most of his pictures before
the exhibition opened.
Recent acquisitions of the Felton
Bequest on show at the National Gallery
in Melbourne are a still-life by Margaret
Preston, another by Gruner, an oil sketch
by Streeton, some pencil sketches by the
late George Lambert and an oil,
“Moody’s Pub,” by Russell Grimwade.
Mr. Grimwade has painted a pub, a Ford
car and four Australians who all look
desperately in need of a square meal.
The artist has evidently made a meal of
Cezanne.
Principal attraction of an A.B.C. Sym-
phony Orchestra concert at Sydney Town
Hall, conducted by Percy Code, was the
Rachmaninoff C Minor Pianoforte Con-
certo with Isador Goodman as soloist.
Dignity and calm confidence marked his
playing, and in the second movement
especially the pianoforte and orchestral
voices were very prettily balanced. A
little more warmth and feeling all round
would have brightened a grey afternoon.
A Harty arrangement of a Handel Con-
certo (with organ) displayed, in parts,
more noise than music. Elgar’s “Enigma”
Variations opened inauspiciously but im-
proved greatly after the first statement
of theme. Ravel’s “Daphnis and Chloe”
music, cleverly conceived and excellently
orchestrated, was given a fair reading.
“H.M.S. Pinafore” sailed into the Gil-
sullivan procession at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, histrionically a trimmer and
tauter craft than ever, though riding a
trifle light on the vocal side and lacking
a first-rate tenor amongst the ratings.
In a G. and S. production, however,
everything is forgiven, even the fearsome
make-up of Dick Deadeye. That sardonic
piece of naval architecture was in the
able hands of Bernard Manning. Max-
well Oldaker made a suitable mixture of
pathos and humor out of the rating who
aspires to the hand of Viola Wilson, a
very girlish captain’s daughter. Gregory
Stroud was appropriately stiff as the cap-
tain who is admonished by a First Sea
Lord to display a tender affection for his
crew on the lines of a recent British army
order—in fact, his creation almost makes
of Gilbert a major prophet. He was
almost as prophetic in portraying Sir
Joseph Porter as the father of the Blimps
whom sapient war commentators affect
to have recently discovered for the first
time. Ivan Menzies was at his best as
Sir Joseph, and at his best Ivan is dis-
tinctly funny. The chorus of able sea-
men more than deserved a mention in
dispatches.


TRUIH IN ADVERTISING” —the foundation of confidence.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
■ - t
And Time
Spent on Your Home is Well Repaid
m mm
m
£ -v.r
&
I
r
K i
/****!&.
/ jo^
m
X
V //
'Ml*
’1
s
£
V
>
/
w/vv :
h
r
MAiHL
mi
m
zSK
0k24
I*
a
%
«!•
e- STRUCTURAL
PAINT
*♦» *•* >«<»»•«»
' •> »t. *4»» »»».««* »*’**
m
*oi>
mra
I?
V
ft
%i
n*
1
&>
> ■
\ \
mm.
■i : i.
n :
3^
£
V:
/ /
a,
vi
?//
m-
PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TO PROTECT YOUR
ROOF AGAINST THE
RIGOURS OF WINTER
High Grade Red Roof Paint
Easy to apply, and quick drying, Red Roof
Paint will help to preserve your home from
the ravages of the weather. It's ideal for
galvanised iron roofs, gutterings, etc. At
Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes 1 Gall. i Gall Quart
Prices .... 15/6 8/3 4/9
Dulsetta Semi-Flat Enamel
For all interior Walls and Woodwork, there
is nothing superior to Dulsetta Semi-Flat
Enamel. At Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes 1 Gall, i Gall. Quart. Pint
Prices .... 33/- 17/5 9/2 4/9
Taubman’s Dgnamel
Taubman's Dynamel comes to you in
gleaming colours. Create a cheery atmo-
sphere by repainting your Bedroom and
Verandah Furniture, Kitchen Chairs,
Tables, etc. At Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes .... Quart Pint i Pint i Pint
Prices ... 10/1 5/6 3/1 1/8
“Kilrat” Raits
Certain death to Rats is assured by using
"Kilrat" Baits, made up in the form of small
baked biscuits, ready for use. Packed in
tins containing 30 baits. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price 2/-
Brush Cleaning Compound
Make dried and dirty brushes like new by
using Paint and Varnish Brush Cleaning
Compound. At Anthony Horderns'. Price,
per packet * 6dL


ROOKIE
By JOHN QUINN.
HEAT; heat that struck like a hot
iron; heat that dulled the mind
and tormented the body. Heat
from which there was no relief. It
beat from a white sun in a white sky.
It filtered through the sparse gums and
gave to their shade a mocking illusion
of coolness and turned the rough brush
shelter where the three men sat into a
sweltering sweat bath. Their bodies were
wet and shining like seals, and the sweat
trickled down, staining their shorts, pat-
terning fantastic mosaics down grimy
legs.
. Regan was flipping cards over in an
unending game of patience. He said
dully “Just one more week of this and
I’ll be nuts. Just one more week.”
“You’re always crying,” the corporal
muttered.
“Crying!” Regan laughed bitterly.
“Haven’t Ia right to cry? Back home
from the other side and straight up here.
No leave ; no nothing. And because I
want to see my wife and kid after two
years I’m crying!”
“There’s a war on,” said the corporal.
“Of course I wouldn’t know that,”
said Regan.
“All right, all right,” sighed the cor-
poral.
He stared idly at the net-covered
machine-gun huddled in its pit. The
gun, he felt, had become their sole
reason for existence. And beyond the
gun he could see right across the brown
expanse of the ’drome, pocked with the
red ulcers of bomb craters. Right across
to the shimmering wrecks of buildings
and the twisted girders of burnt-out
hangars quivering indecently in the glare
like skeletons jigging on a gibbet.
He eyed his gun detachment unhap-
pily. Regan, the veteran, lean and dark,
crooked mouthed, cynical; and the re-
inforcement, Foster, quietly smoking his
pipe, too young to inspire confidence
and very raw.
Foster turned and said “We’ve been
here a month, haven’t we?”
The corporal nodded.
Regan droned “And for a month we’ve
sat here and grilled like chops on a fire.”
Foster said “Oh, well, maybe the Nips
will come over and brighten things up.”
Regan exploded. “Listen, I was bombed
by the Eyeties in the desert, and it wasn’t
nice. And I was bombed by Jerry out
of Greece and into Crete and out of
Crete again, and that wasn’t nice. You
wait until you hear it coming down
before you go getting heroic,”
Foster grinned uncertainly. “I think
I’ll go for a bit of a stroll,” he said, and
wandered out into the shadow-splashed
sunlight.
The corporal called after him “Don’t
go too far.” He turned on Regan:
“Look here, Jack, you’ve got to lay
off him a bit. After all, we’ve got to live
together, and, anyway, he can’t help
being green.”
“Green be damned,” snapped Regan.
“He should be handing out cups of tea
at his mother’s parties, not stuck on a
gun. When the pressure’s on he won’t
stick.”
“Thafs not for us to say. All I’m tell-
ing you is to lay off him.”
Regan shrugged and went back to his
game. Two bombers droned in from the
south, circled the ’drome to land, then
unexpectedly turned and made off the
way they came. The men looked at each
other. The buzz of the field telephone
cut sharply across the still air. The cor-
poral stooped over it: “Number five gun
. . . Yeah . . . 0.K.” He straightened up.
“Enemy ’planes eighty miles out,” he
said.
Regan whistled softly and carefully
stacked his cards.
“Coming in from the north,” said the
corporal. He glanced, at his watch.
“Eleven o’clock ; they should be here at
twenty-past. Hey, Foster, at the double! ”
They put on scarred, battered helmets
and crossed over to the pit, removed the
net and ran quick, experienced fingers
over the gun and the ammunition belts.
“Wonder if they’ll come low enough
for us to have a smack at them?”
“They might,” said Regan.
Foster crashed through the bush.
“What’s on?” he panted.
“Only your bloody raid!” Regan
growled.
THE corporal and Regan lit cigarettes.
They sucked the smoke into their
lungs, deep down, and held it there for
a long time until it hurt, and then ex-
haled it, slowly and luxuriously. Foster
chewed restlessly at his pipe, spurting
furious little puffs of smoke. Regan said
“You’ll burn your tongue.”
The corporal glanced back into the
bush. “I’d feel better if that petrol dump
was a bit further away,” he said.
“Bea mess if anything hits it,” said
Regan.
e
growing louder, so loud and close that
it beat in heavy waves against him and
it was hard to breathe. Then he saw
them. “There they are! ” he cried. There
were twenty, tiny silver arrows that went
to make up three bigger arrows slanting
across the sky.
Shocking reverberations split across the
clamor of the ’planes.
“There go the heavies.” The corporal’s
voice was a whisper in the din.
A trail of white beads strung out below
the first flight. The raiders came on, but
a plume of black smoke waved behind
the leading ’plane. Abruptly it tipped
and plunged straight down, and it was no
longer a ’plane but a long tongue of
golden fire, dropping like Lucifer from
heaven. Then with a roar and a blind-
ing flash it was gone.
Foster bounced up and down. “We’ve
got one. We’ve got one,” he shouted.
The formations closed up and came
on with Zeros weaving about them.
“Why don’t the fighters go in?” called
Foster.
“And get knocked with our own guns,”
said Regan.
, “They’re making their run,” said the
corporal.
The crash of the guns and the rumble
of motors soared to a crescendo. And
the air below the bombers surprisingly
filled with glittering fingers of light.
They huddled in the bottom of the pit
and they heard the ’planes almost over-
head, and through the air came a sob-
bing sough that grew to a sounding, rush-
ing wind.
The bombs came like hail. The thr.ee
men were swept into a black vortex,
swirled through frightening depths of
terror. The air shrieked and bellowed
and the earth shuddered in agony.
Through a pressing pall of smoke and
dust whistling things screamed past, witch
lights flashed and a crazy giant pounded
the drums of death. They gagged on
the sweet, foul smell of explosives.
The madness rolled past them, died
away into snarling bursts of sound as the
fighters ripped viciously into the raiders
or the guns fired an occasional defiant
salvo. But still they crouched with dis-
torted open mouths and stunned; un-
knowing faces.
“God,” the corporal muttered, and
stood up stiffly, like an old man. The
others followed him, Regan peered
stupidly through the settling dust and
Foster leant against the parapet, hands
pressed to temples as though trying to
remember something. His face looked
old and drawn and little muscles twitched
in his jaws. Regan suddenly slipped an
arm around his shoulders. “Never mind,
kid,” he said gently; “you’ll get used
to it,” But Foster only turned and
frowned at him vaguely, as though he
were a stranger.
THE WEDDING
By T. HUNGERFORD.
THERE was eight of us in the family,
and Mart was the only girl, so I
guess when she married Herbie
Lutt we was bound to make it
something that the district would remem-
ber for a while.
Mart was the eldest, except for my
brother Jim, who was drowned in the
creek. I was only little then, but I re-
member it like it was only yesterday.
Jim was out in the long paddock fixing
the fence where the bull knocked it down
trying to get at some stray cows in the
road, and it started to rain. The rain-
birds had been around for days, and they
knew what they was whistling about.
It poured from two o’clock in the after-
noon, with great flashes of lightning that
seemed to stand up quivering in the
ground, and thunder like rolling an
empty tank down an ironstone ridge, and
the rain getting heavier every flash. The
creek came up like one thing, and before
long you could see drowned sheep
bobbing along, and Dad was swearing
out on the verandah, but Mum just
stood at the window watching the creek
and saying, like she was talking to her-
self, “I do hope he don’t try to swim
Gipsy over the creek ; I do hope! ” Dad
kept saying “He’ll be all right, Mattie;
don’t worry, he’ll be all right” ; but you
could see he was worried too, and us kids
didn’t like to play our game of asking
him if the lightning was really the angels
lighting their pipes, and the thunder was
them stamping on the matches.
Anyway, Jim never came in, and we
just went to sleep on the floor in front
of the fireplace, and I remember waking
up some time and seeing Dad come in
with the hurricane lamp, sopping vyet, and
putting his arm around Mum, and her
crying.
They buried him down the creek a
couple of days later, and I nearly hol-
lered out “No!” when the parson says
“He’s happier now where he is,” because
I know Jim was happiest with us and
Gipsy and having his egg collection and
everything than he could be just standing
around singing like in the holy pictures.
Anyway, when Martie was getting
married to Herbie Lutt, for weeks before-
hand, every night after tea, they’d spread
clean paper on the kitchen floor and
Mum’d be kneeling there with her mouth
full of pins, gathering and tucking, and
Martie suggesting this and that, and
even then she looked lovely. Herbie
used to ride over often, but he never saw
her once in that dress because they said
it was unlucky.
As the day come nearer us kids
couldn’t be held ; you’d have thought we
was getting married! Mrs. Lutt came
over two .days before the wedding and
lived* at our place, and her and Mum
cooked solid for hours, because even if
it was only the Lutts coming over for
dinner you’d need plenty, but there was
the Williamses and the Tuohys from
Balcabbin way, and the parson and his
family, and a few others who, Mum said,
would never have forgive us if they hadn’t
been invited. We killed a pig, and the
Williamses reckoned you could hear him
squealing over at their place when Dad
cut his throat.
The morning of the wedding us kids
went out in the bush and gathered aim-
fuls of Christmas bush and gumleaves
and decorated the dining-room until it was
real pretty. Only the Lutts was cornin’
to midday dinner, but that made twenty-
nine of us, leaving out Herbie, who, they
said, mustn’t see Mart until he came over
to marry her, on account of it was un-
lucky. It seems they had more ways of
whipping up bad luck than there are
days in a week.
Anyway, Herbie missed a good time.
They don’t do things that way now —it’s
a bit of ham and a bit of chicken, with a
bit of jelly and trifle to follow, and some
little sausages on toothpicks, but nothing
cooked at home. Lord, if you could
have seen that table! Dad at one end
of it carving a turkey and Mr. Lutt at
the other with a great leg of pork and
in between them almost everything. Mum
and Mrs. Lutt and two of the girls was
around the table all the time until every-
body was ready to settle down, and you
never heard such laughing and going on.
We was real happy, and I guess proud
of ourselves and the food we could set
there for the Lutts, and knowing that, if
needs be, we could do the same tomorrow
and the next day, and all grown and
taken off our own place.
HERBIE rode over late in the after-
noon after everything had been
cleared away, and the parson had arrived
with his pale wife, who came from Eng-
land and never really settled down. Old
Charlie the goose was there. He got in-
vited to all the weddings because he could
play the accordeen.
Mum came bustling out of her bed-
room after a while and whispered some-
thing to the parson, and he whispered to
old Charlie and Mick Williams, who had
his fiddle, and poor Herbie sort of half-
grinned at the best man, who was his
shearing mate, and he took a ring out of
his waistcoat pocket. Then Charlie and
Mick started playing and Martie came in,
looking so lovely that I’d never have
known her. She was all in white, with
a bunch of the honeysuckle that grows
all over our back verandah and some
pink and white everlastings. She walked
past Herbie, who took her arm, and when
they were standing in front of the parson
Charlie and Mick stopped playing. It
was so quiet you could hear a blowfly
buzzing and batting his head against the
window, and right down the paddock a
cow mooing softly, and a few birds call-
ing, sleepy-like, in the hot afternoon.
I felt a tingle run down my spine, and
when the parson started talking I snuck
a look at Mum. She was crying quietly,
and I straight away thought of the black,
wet night when Jim died, but this was a
different kind of crying somehow, just
so happy. It wasn’t long before Mrs.
Lutt had her hankie out too. And then
it seemed that the parson had said all
he wanted to, and Herbie kissed Mart
and everyone rushed up to them, the
ladies kissing Herbie and the men kissing
Mart, and I thought if ever I did marry
Lily Tuohy this is what will happen ; and
would I be glad, and would it make any
difference if I wanted to run down the
paddock or out to the swamp on hot
afternoons like this.
THEN there was the wedding break-
fast, though why they called it the
breakfast when it was nearly seven in
the evening I don’t know, and neither
did Mum when I asked her. We all sat
down, and soon they was making
speeches. Dad made one and Mr. Lutt
too, and old Charlie, who had played at
Mum and Dad’s wedding, got up and said
he’d never played for such a handsome
couple as today, and Dad said “That’s
what you said at my wedding,” and
Charlie said “Yes, Jim, but that was a
long time ago.” Mum said “Get along
with you, Charlie ; you make me out an
old woman,” and everyone laughed.
Herbie got ;ni and thanked everybody
for everything several times, and told
Mum not to worry—she was not losing
a daughter, she was gaining a son; and
old Lutt sings out “Well, where do we
come in?” Then they started singing
“For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow.”
Lord! if I close my eyes I can see
every smallest detail of it. Mum and Mrs.
Lutt in their home-made dresses and their
faces brown and sort of tired-looking,
but just shining with happiness. Dad,
a small, quick man, with a drooping
moustache and going a bit bald, and old
Lutt towering over him with one great
hand on his shoulder and the other
holdin’ a glass of red wine. Old Charlie
talking and laughing and never once stop-
ping his playing, and Mick sawing away
at his fiddle. I can even smell the droop-
ing Christmas bush and the honeysuckle
coming through the windows.
No one stayed very late. They all
had to be up early and working hard,
and everyone was tired enough to want
to be home in bed by midnight. There
was none of your hanging around just
to be polite and yawning over your
shoulder when no one was looking.
Everyone had had a good time, and we
needed no telling, and soon hurricanes
were bobbing around in the yard, and
you could hear the jingle of harness and
the men saying “Whoa back, old girl!”
as they backed the horses between the
shafts. In no time the last light bobbed
down the road and disappeared amongst
the trees, and, my, the house was quiet!
Mum said to Mrs. Lutt “We’ll clean all
this up in the morning”; and to me
“Come on now, Will, you’ve had a long
day,” and she held me a bit tighter than
usual, and came and tucked me in, which
she hadn’t done for a while. I remember
thanking God for her and everything,
and just as I went to sleep a dog howled
on a farm miles away.
It was a warm * moonlight night, and
the sound just seemed to drift across the
empty paddocks and fade away in the
dark shadows, a sad sort of sound that
made it good to be in bed and only nine,
with years to go before you had to grow;
up and get married and leave home,


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3258
Wednesday, July 22, 1942
THE PAST OF THE NATION IN BATTLE, TOO.
“Remember how our ancestors vanquished the foe.”— “Pravda” to the Russian soldier valiantly defending his homelands.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
PAGE TOUCHES THE SPOT.
The voice of Dr. Earle Page, silent for
some months —part of his sojourn in Eng-
land was spent in hospital—was heard
again last week at New York on his
homeward journey. On notable occasions
in his career Dr. Page has brought imagi-
nation and insight to bear on the problems
of Australia; and so it was in this instance.
His theme was the necessity for striking
at Japan, and he said he felt “very
strongly about it.” So do other Aus-
tralians who have given the matter any
thought, though in some cases they are
not free to speak out, as the doctor did.
“One blow in the Pacific this yeaf,”
said the man who was Australia’s'special
envoy in London, “will be three times as
effective as a blow of the same strength
next year.” He did not “urge” that it
should be delivered “at the expense of
other fronts,” but “it certainly should be
added to them.”
Japan is acquiring great resources of
things of which the Axis nations are short.
If we wait it may cost us years to catch up.
Australians are fighting on every front be-
cause we think of them as one war. Yet
the Pacific front, above all, is the place
where we want immediately to deliver a
solid blow. Moreover, the knowledge that
we are preparing to do it might deter
Japan from pushing into Siberia, and so we
would be helping the Russians in their
fight against the Nazis.
A pithy and timely statement by a
representative Australian which must
have impressed the great nation to which
it was addressed. It came when the
plight of the Russians could no longer
be concealed, and when the roar of the
Second Fronters, who miss no oppor-
tunity of exploiting the natural sympathy
of English-speaking peoples with the suf-
fering victims of Nazi invasion, was at its
height in America itself, as well as in
Britain and Australia.
Dr. Page may have conjectured that
“Australian” Communists would be split-
ting the welkin and splashing hoardings
and lampposts with Second Front de-
mands, and that they would get support
from sentimentalists who have been fed
with glozing Communist lies, such as that
Britain has a striking force of 40,000
’planes and an idle army of 4,000,000
soldiers, capable of being hurled across
the Channel. And, knowing Australian
journalism as he does, he may have
divined that Second Front imbecilities
would appear in some of the papers.
So they did; but only in Sydney.
The “Daily Telegraph,” for example,
while allowing that “Britain and
America would have to pour out men
and resources on a colossal scale to open
a second front in Europe this summer,”
declared that “any risk is worth while
that would divert a substantial portion
of Hitler’s military strength from the
eastern front.” “S. M. Herald” asserted
that “even if a Second Front failed in
itself, at least it would help Russia to
fling back the invader.” And the “Sunday
Telegraph,” alleging that “from the
west.... the British army offers no more
fight than it would were it conquered and
disarmed” (the same may be said of
bellicose writing boys), demanded “the
Second Front now.”
Melbourne newspapers are different
and have been different all along. With
a renewed expression of its contempt for
“impulsive amateurs,” the “Age” pointed
out that “to open a Second Front would
be vain unless the forces engaged were
sufficiently strong to retain their hold.”
Half a million men and reinforcements
might be involved. The concentration of
necessarily numerous ships for transport
would provide Germany’s air force with an
ideal target; lavish supplies would be essen-
tial and the vessels engaged in that service
would be the objects of submarine activity.
The “Age” reminded the “crowds of
unskilled, uninformed persons impor-
tuning a new campaign at once” of “the
Allied adventure into Greece and Crete,”
which was “prompted by reasons entirely
honorable but largely political.”
In retrospect it looms out as a grave
mistake, the adverse repercussions of which
are being felt in the Egyptian campaign.
As forthright as the “Age,” the
“Herald” said, “However perilous the
situation of our Russian allies, however
painful the present sense of frustration,
Britain cannot risk another gesture that
might amount, unless men, aeroplanes,
ships and guns are adequate, to commit-
ting suicide on the enemy’s doorstep.”
These extracts truly represent the senti-
ments' of Australians who have weighed
the chances and who are mindful of what
is due to the men of the fighting services
and the Merchant Navy, to the British
nation—and to Australia.
With the shipping situation increas-
ingly serious, with the Eighth Army still
fighting for its life 50 miles from Alex-
andria, with the whole British position
in the Mediterranean and the Middle
East in peril, and, above all, with the
Japanese in possession of all Malaya,
Burma and the Dutch East Indies, and
lodged in New Guinea, the Solomons and
the Aleutians, Australian advocacy of a
Second Front in Europe is wicked. In
this war every British landing on a
friendly coast has resulted in a bloody
defeat, which in one case went within an
ace of almost irretrievable disaster. If
an attempt to land on a hostile coast
failed, as it almost certainly would, seeing
that the enemy would in the beginning
have all the odds in his favor and could
swiftly bring up a powerful air fleet and
greatly superior ground forces, Britain,
on which so much depends, might be re-
duced to straits more desperate than
those in which the Russians find them-
selves.
For all their defeats the Russians still
have several hundred miles of Europe
and the whole width of Asia to retire
over. The defeat of another British army,
with a sacrifice of naval and merchant
ships and crews which might conceivably
exceed the losses incurred in the land-
ings in and the evacuations from Nor-
way, France, Greece and Crete, might
force the restriction of the British war
effort to a desperate defence of the home-
lands, with political and military conse-
quences which would be evil everywhere.
Taking into account not only what
happened but what it led to, the loss of
Malaya and Singapore was the worst
disaster that ever befell the British
Empire. But there could be a worse
disaster still —the loss of Australia and
New Zealand. It need not happen, it will
not happen if the democracies in the
Pacific, with or without the Russians in
East Asia, put all the force they can
muster, over and above their legitimate
commitments to Britain, into the task of
driving the Japanese back to their islands,
in the process giving Japan a full dose
of what its air force has administered
to fighting men and civilians alike in its
spectacular but deceptive career of con-
quest. That this can be done has been
indicated by the raids on Japanese cities
and by the battles of the Coral Sea and
Midway—that moving epic of American
skill and valor. But on the part of Aus-
tralia it calls for a full mobilisation and
employment of men, money and
materials, with drastic coercion of
strikers and slackers and an unflagging
campaign against waste in every form,
and for unceasing reminders to Wash-
ington and London that there can
be no future for the white race in the
South Pacific and, no security for the
United States and Canada until Japan is
knocked out.
Russia may be beaten in this war, as
it has been beaten in other wars, but it
cannot be conquered. What Russian
arms have lost or may lose the Russian
cradle can restore. But the survival of
Australia and New Zealand depends on
victory, victory so complete that it will
never be within Japan’s power to set the
Pacific ablaze again. Stalemate would be
a death sentence suspended at the caprice
of the Tokyo war lords. Defeat would
mean conquest.
"Misuse of Powers."
On the home front Australians have
lately witnessed a noisy skirmish fought
with non-lethal weapons on an appar-
ently minor issue, and yet, for several
reasons, an engagement of pretty con-
siderable importance in more than one
of its aspects.
The skirmishing began with the ques-
tioning by Security Service officials or
their agents of a couple of daily news-
paper reporters regarding an alleged leak-
age of news about a conference. The
article containing the alleged leakage was
published on June 14. Next day it was
discussed at a conference in Melbourne,
and shortly “investigations” were
launched. The nature of these “investi-
gations” was disclosed by the Attorney-
General, Dr, Evatt, in a statement made
at Canberra on July 2.
As related by Dr. Evatt, two detectives
questioned a newspaper roundsman at
Canberra about the contents of the article
and the source of his information. They
also procured the production of the
original press telegram lodged at Can-
berra on which the article, published in
Sydney, was based, it being stated that
the telegram was required “in the
interests of justice.” Subsequently detec-
tives interviewed another of the paper’s
reporters at the Sydney office. Shorthand
notes were taken by the detectives.
Dr. Evatt then did some investi-
gating, He called for and examined the
documents, and gave a finding that could
hardly have been more crushing. He
found that “the great powers vested in
security officers were used unreasonably
and capriciously.” He pointed out that
“the article objected to contained only a
mild criticism,” and added:
The incident may be of importance as
illustrating the danger of misusing legal
powers which have been granted solely to
protect the nation against dangers to inter-
nal or external security.
Subsequently it came out, in a joint
statement by Dr. Evatt and Mr. Forde,
that the proposed gathering of which the
alleged leakage and about which all the
pother occurred was an “ ‘off the record’
conference between General Blarney and
the executives of the press and broadcast-
ing services of Australia.” The statement
recorded that the incident was regretted ;
mentioned that the Secretary of the
Department of the Army, Mr. Sinclair,
has accepted full responsibility for begin-
ning the Security Service investigation ;
promised that in the future there should
be no similar cause for complaint; and
laid down that “the action of officers with
such great powers as those of the Security
Service must be confined to cases and
occasions where national security is, or
may be, adversely affected.”
There the matter rests —a small but
important victory in the long struggle
for the maintaining of a free press. Dr.
Evatt’s action amounted to a needed re-
affirmation of democracy, pure and un-
adulterated, as the Australian way of life ;
a reassurance that the autocratic and
bureaucratic departures from that way of
life are no more than temporary inflic-
tions imposed out of dire necessity by the
prevailing extraordinary circumstances.
Until the just-concluded skirmish —•
minor enough in itself —brought the issue
out into the open, the drift away from
democracy had been evident on all sides.
The first thing autocracy —of whatever
brand —does away with is the freedom of
the press. ThaJ this was already in some
danger in Australia seems now only too
clear. In two broadcasts, delivered on
June 19 and on June 26, Mr. Menzies sig-
nificantly made the liberty of the press his
main theme. He could see the shape
things were taking and hear jhe clank of
the shackles. Hence his plea, “Let us
have honest and fearless criticism of
politician by press and of press by poli-
tician, and let each be heard.”
If our diet is to become one of half-
truths and prejudices and unfounded com-
ment, either in Parliament or the press, we.
shall become slaves.
The temptation towards suppression of
thought and speech is greatest of all in
time of war, because at such a time people
say “Let us have strength,” meaning all
too frequently by “strength” suppres-
sion
After Mr, Menzies and Dr. Evatt had
been heard on the matter, Mr. Hughes
had some pertinent remarks to make,
which, with theirs, should be hung up,
as guiding principles, in all Australian
censorship offices and wherever bureau-
cracy or autocracy are likely to get en-
trenched. Mr. Hughes can be described
as an authority; he himself once held
great power of suppression, and a chapter
of the Official History of the last war
describes his use of it, not all as creditable
as it might be.
To the list of champions there can
be added the Prime Minister, Mr. Curtin,
who, as Dr. Evatt recalled when letting
the Security Service cat out of the bag,
“has laid it down over and over, again
that freedom of discussion and comment
must be permitted, and that restrictions
should be imposed only where the
national security clearly requires the im-
position of such restrictions.”
So much for what can be described as
a notable victory won in the general in-
terest of democracy and the special in-
terest of the liberty of the press. The
champions listed are all of them busy
men, so it might be asking too much to
suggest that they should now convince
themselves, individually and collectively,
that there has been no “misuse of
powers” regarding one other democratic
liberty of some importance—that is, the
liberty of the subject. Has the case of
each individual who has been deprived of
this liberty been as carefully investigated
as Dr. Evatt investigated the questioning
of the reporters? If not, will such in-
vestigation possibly show that here, too,
power has perhaps been used “unreason-
ably and capriciously”?
"A Good Customer."
Victorians have told themselves that
their liquor laws are the best in Australia
and have been taken as a model by other
States. This is true in the respect that,
over many years, building standards have
improved and many unsavory dens have
been wiped out with funds provided by
the Trade. But the boozing which is so
disgraceful a feature of a country in
peril of invasion and the ghastly case
of Private Leonski, American-born but
of alien origin and with a bad family his-
tory, who confessed to and has been sen-
tenced to death for the murder of three
women, show that a great deal more is
required than mere reduction of licenses
and improvements in pub architecture.
It came out that Leonski drank to
excess, in one pub particularly. By the
manager or late manager of this joint he
was described as “a good customer” and
“quite a good drinker.” When in his
“good” moods he “was in the habit of
walking on his hands.”
On the day on which one of the women
was murdered, the soldier was in the bar
“from midday until about ten past six.”
A barman said “he probably had about
25 beers and four or five whiskies —ordi-
nary nobblers of Scotch whisky drunk
straight.” He was with a milk driver,
who said he himself had had “about 30
large glasses of beer” that afternoon, and
the soldier “about as many beers and
about seven whiskies.” It does not
appear that any of these witnesses gave
any signs of being conscience-stricken, or
that the manager or the barman exhibited
any fear of punishment for his part in
the sickening business.
What do these boasted laws amount
to when soldiers and civilians may drink
themselves broke and blind on licensed
premises without anything happening to
those who minister to and profit by this
swinishness? Admittedly Leonski ex-
hibited a weakness for alcoh 1 in his own
country, and in the same circumstances
his fiendish crimes may have been com-
mitted there. All the same, how can we
answer to the generous American nation
if we fail to protect such of its sons as
may be led away —few among many, as
Australians can admiringly testify—from
fools who encourage them to drink and
harpies who prey on both, in licensed
and unlicensed premises?
There is more boozing in this war
among soldiers and civilians alike, the
latter especially, than there was in the
last war, when the danger to Aus-
tralia was always remote; and there
are more bad women about, either
diseased or in a condition which renders
the contraction and communication of
disease all too probable. An outraged
public is ready for instant and drastic
measures. In communities where service
men on leave are numerous a far closer
watch should be kept on the operations
of retailers of alcohol, and it should be
an offence to serve it to those who have
had as much as they can carry. A
guilty publican or grocer or keeper of a
wine bar or secretary of a go-as-you-
please club should at least be deprived of
his license and a guilty barman of his
job, and if the offence occurs in a sly-
grog den the penalty should be gaol
without the option, doubled or trebled
in any case where the beer or grog is
proved to have been bad. Moreover,
“shouting” should be banned for the
duration, and tipsy women found in cir-
cumstances suggesting promiscuous habits
should be arrested for examination and
treatment, if treatment should be
required.
Reduction of the alcoholic content of
beer has been suggested. This has the
merit of being recommended by the
former Director-General of Medical Ser-
vices and supported by other veterans of
the 1916-18 war in France ; but it would
take time, and it is necessary to strike at
the evil immediately. A more feasible
proposal is that drink should be rationed,
as clothes and tea are. But all sumptuary
measures should have as their object the
creation of a healthy public opinion
against boozing, which is so often accom-
panied by bawdry, and of the feeling that
the debauching and “lambing-down” of
service men is a foul injustice to them:
and their comrades, a menace to the
nation and a blot on its name.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Coles, Wilson and Ward.
On the situation at Canberra:
If the times were ordinary, a Government
which can count only 36 pledged supporters in
the House (35 without the excluded thpugh
still-faithful Mr. Blackburn) and 17 in the
Senate could scarcely hope to survive another
session, even if it had given less cause for dis-
satisfaction than the present Government has
done. It would be challenged straightway on
its abject failure to control coal strikes, the
serious results of which have been revealed
in the latest report of its own Commissioner,
and on the outrageous performances and insults
of Mr. Ward, and in all probability it would be
defeated. But the times are not ordinary, and
the 19 Ministers expect to remain in office (some
of them seem to have nothing more to do than
to draw their salaries and wonder where the
Canberra blowflies conceal themselves between
seasons), though at times the old hands feel
none too comfortable.
The Speaker, Mr. Nairn, is U.A.P. In the
Perth party organ he has been writing articles
critical of the wholly civilian composition of
the War Cabinet and of part of the Govern-
ment’s administrative performance. For this
alleged departure from the traditions of the
Chair, he was heavily rebuked by the Prime
Minister, and it occurred to nervous Labor
members that he might resent this treatment
by replying that Labor was welcome to get a
Speaker of its own. Their fears were allayed
by Mr. Hughes, who, as leader of the U.A.P.,
came to light with a reprimand of his own.
But sometimes they wonder uneasily whether
the party dan depend upon the continued sup-
port of the two Independents from Victoria,
Mr. Coles (Henty) and Mr. Wilson (Wimmera).
Mr. Coles’s electorate is normally a U.A.P.
stronghold. He attended some party meetings
at Canberra, but after the resignation of the
Menzies Government whirled himself away and
voted for the motion which ended Mr. Fadden’s
brief career as' P.M. In supporting the Labor
Government he has had to withstand shock
after shock, and he has yet to disclose his
attitude to the 4 p.c. limit to be set on profits,
which would strike at the Coles business more
heavily than at most other concerns.
Mr. Wilson owes allegiance to the Dunstan
C.P., but is a member without a party majority;
Dunstanites in Wimmera are merely the biggest
minority. While they were in alliance with
Victorian Labor Mr. Wilson had nothing
to fear, being sure of election on preferences;
but the alliance is no more, leaving Mr. Wilson
in the awkward position of having somehow
to satisfy the parties to the shattered arrange-
ment if he is to remain member for Wimmera.
Labor could not itself win the seat, but by
throwing its support to, say, Mr. McClelland,
from whom, with Labor assistance, Mr. Wilson
took it, Labor could unseat Mr. Wilson, and
this Mr. Wilson knows very well. Yet he
couldn’t succeed without a Dunstanite nomi-
nation.
When the Curtin Government came out with
its uniform-income-tax proposals, Mr. Wilson
was understood to have voiced cautious
approval. The Dunstan Government de-
nounced the proposals, thereby entering upon
the course which led to Victorian Labor going
into opposition. A terrible fellow for de-
nouncing the “money masters” and other
oppressors, Mr. Wilson in this dilemma found
his much-vaunted courage oozing out of hiip,
and when the House voted on the uniform-
income-tax bills —there were four —he was miss-
ing. So was Mr. Coles. Mr. Coles, it was
explained, had been “called to Melbourne on
urgent business connected with clothes ration-
ing.” Nobody troubled to “explain” Mr.
Wilson’s absence, it being taken for granted
that he was warming his poor feet at a mallee-
root fire.
The Prime Minister has three colleagues who
have made good, four or five others who are
shaping pretty well and six or seven others
who are either misplaced (Mr. Forde, as Minis-
ter for the Army, is an outstanding example)
or should never have been in the Ministry.
The country would be much better served by a
National Government, with Mr. Curtin as
leader; but the indications are that the
present lopsided craft will continue to sail on,
complete with passengers. One reason is that
it is united, in its fashion, whereas the other
side is divided into two parties, and the bigger
party is divided into three uncordial groups.
At the Children's Hour.
Gather round, children, and listen to
Mr. John Dease and his “Children’s
Newspaper of the Air”! It is 2GB, Syd-
ney, calling, and the time is 6 p.m.
Mr. Dease has a Voice and a Mannah,
Quite a young man, too, if the Voice is
any guide. And undoubtedly he has a
rare understanding of the child mind —
probably the rarest understanding in the
country.
What other radio announcer, for in-
stance, would realise that children are
interested in a rehash of the war news
from the evening newspapers, sprinkled
with comments, and not merely in tales
about children or animals or traditional
heroes? What other announcer could
have thought of giving the children his
ideas of the wrangle about the Frenct
warships in Alexandria Harbor, as Mr.
Dease did in deep accents? ;
We should be justified in taking extreme
measures if there were any danger of the
French ships at Alexandria falling into
German hands Mr. Welles displayed
towards the Axis a patience amounting to
tenderness, but his tenderness is growing
thin Mr. Welles was leader of an Ameri-
can group corresponding with the Cliveden
Set....
There followed something about poor old
Mr. Chamberlain. But now, it appears,
Mr. Welles is exonerated. He is not so
conservative, and “in that respect” Mr.
Dease compares him with Mr. Churchill,
whose attitude to Soviet Russia has also
changed.
Mr. Dease is at his best, for the child
mind, when he gets to the war in Russia.
The position there seemed rather “alarm-
ing,” but really wasn’t. Mr. Dease sug-
gested that the invaders’ progress was
part of a design to persuade them to come
on and spread out so that the Russians
could “get at them.”
Last November we were told of Timo-
shenko’s vast defence in the Don basin.
The bulk of his armies have been with-
drawn into this zone in an orderly manner
/ and have inflicted heavy casualties on the
enemy.
Mr. Dease then told his little hearers that
British Matilda tanks were “said to be”
in Russia, and that since these tanks were
the same as the Matildas used in Libya
when the British lost the battle there it
lent “point to the proposal to send young,
flexible officers from Australia to Russia”
to learn from the Russians the right way
to use them.
There was an oversight here. Mr,
Dease omitted to offer a blue certificate
for the best definition of “flexible.” Still,
he went on to remind the little folk that
“in the west” the urge to open a second
front “seems to be rising to a new high.”
He quoted reports of the C. 1.0. in
America sending out a half-million post-
cards on the matter, quoted the “Times”
and the “Daily Herald” and the “Daily
Express,” and stirred the child mind with
a resounding call that the urge for a
second front “must resound in every Aus-
tralian factory and mine,”
So if factory workers and miners hear
childish trebles echoing among the
machines and along the drives, chanting
“Second front! Second front!” they’ll
know the reason. Meantime, Australian
educational authorities should be asking
themselves why this Mr, Dease, with his
deep understanding of child psychology,
should be permitted to waste his talents
in a commercial broadcasting station.
Mr. Munro on a Winner.
A Mr. Munro having shed his military
clobber and ridden a couple of winners
at a Saturday race meeting, somebody
raised the question of the right of jockeys
and others —specifically barristers—-to
eke out their military screws by turning
to their civilian callings when on leave.
After a glowing tribute to Mr. Munro’s
devotion to his military duties, Mr. Forde,
as Minister for the Army, stated that the
question “was being examined,” and that
before making a decision he would con-
sult General Blarney. He also quoted a
Military Board instruction to all troops:
Personnel called up for full-time, duty
will not personally engage, or be actively
employed, in any business, profession,
trade, occupation or calling, other than in
connection with the duties of their office or
offices under the Commonwealth.
Mr. Forde “could not see any objec-
tion to soldiers on leave engaging in any
healthy sport, such as football, cricket
or tennis, which helped to improve their
physical condition.” He stated that “any
decision reached would apply to all men
who earned money outside their military
pay, on their days off, or when on leave.”
That was published on June 14. The
issue having been weighed and decided
on, the decision was published next day.
“The Government did not intend taking
any action against soldiers who rode
racehorses, played professional sport or
worked for their own benefit on their
leave days, unless their military duties
were interfered with.”
Thus, as easily as that, a ruling of the
Military Board is ditched. Mr. Forde
rounded the ditching off with the com-
ment: “It is far better for soldiers to en-
gage in healthy sport or other recreation
than to hang about with nothing definite
to do on leave days.” True enough ; but,
as applying to the issue in question,
palpable humbug, with a monotonously
characteristic ring.
The real case in favor of Mr. Munro
and others is that a private soldier’s pay
is so paltry compared with what he earned
in civilian life, and so unfairly meagre
compared with what thousands lucky
enough to be in protected civilian occu-
pations are earning —plus good beds,
food, and safety—that it means real and
protracted hardship to vast numbers
called up for service. While civilians —
men, women and children —with all the
advantages of personal comfort are earn-
ing comparatively munificent screws,
there can be no case at all against
soldiers of a citizen army eking out their
pay pittance on leave days and the like.
The snag is that only a select few are
stationed for their military training in
places which allow them ready resort to
their civilian callings, and, again, very
few civilian callings are such that they
can be turned to readily and profitably
on a day off. This plainly means that
leading jockeys and the like are specially
favored by the draw as made by Head
Stipendiary Forde, especially when the
places where they do their military ser-
vice happen so fortunately to be within
such handy reach of city racecourses.
When leading jockeys and suchlike go
in like plain Tom, Dick and Harry and
are sent hundreds of miles from the capi-
tal cities, merely as their luck falls out;
or, better still, when ordinary Tom, who
pulls teats for a crust, and Dick, who’s
barman at the Royal, and Harry, who
works on a newspaper, all have the mar-
vellous good luck that seems to attend
jockeys and suchlike in military service
allocation —then statements like those of
Mr. Forde, touching on “healthy sport
.and recreation,” will be read far and
wide in the army without the cynical
laughter that now greets them.
ANOTHER A.I.F. VICTORY.
“Overwhelming proof has reached me that the ‘Australia’ badges have become very dear to the men of the A.I.F.”
Minister for the Army Forde.
“Er, well, of course, gentlemen, if you insist”-


QUEENSLAND’S
’ MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS; HOT & COLO WATER,
.PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
f
mm
$
& <
nr mm
i m
%f
if
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
[Manager
W. G. Bulfin
DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, under-
stand that all such fatal diseases as
Fistula, Ulcer of the Rectum, Fis-
sure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will
learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance
of this trouble. DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is unequalled for every form
of Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Pro-
truding, and Blind Piles, and hun-
dreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective
remedy right from the start, be-
cause at such tinies a single tin
has often effected a cure, while in
the old deep-seated, chronic cases,
several tins are sometimes neces-
sary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing,
antiseptic and soothing. That is
why it is equally successful in over-
coming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get
DOAN’Si
POLITICAL POINTS
Going on results, Ward’s tour of the
N.S.W. coalfields was the worst thing
that has happened there since the Corns,
arrived. Last week production of 50,000
tons was lost because of strikes, and
Norman Mighell, the Coal Commissioner,
saying he was “sick and tired of the
reasons given for mines being idle day
after day,” warned the country that
“unless we produce more coal we shall
have the greatest difficulty in keeping
up supplies to our troops at battle sta-
tions” and in continuing the production
of arms on which “their lives and per-
haps the life of every Australian de-
pend.” Curtin undertook to have an-
other talk with the miners’ “leaders,”
who confess that the militants are now
quite beyond their control. What the
position calls for is industrial conscrip-
tion, with Mighell in charge.
A Captain Dugdale, M.P., who sends
stuff to Sydney’s “Daily Mirror,” com-
placently recorded that he had suggested
the requisitioning of Russian generals
to teach the British commanders in Egypt
how to win battles. He added, with equal
complacency, that fellow-members had
told him he ought to be ashamed of him-
self. “S. M. Herald” has gone further —
proposed that the United Nations, “in-
cluding Australia,” dispatch “fully-quali-
fied missions to Russia in order to learn
from the only army whose technique and
methods have stood the test of battle
against the full might of German arms.”
In the same issue it reported a dashing
victory for the British Commonwealth
army in Egypt and dreadful defeats of
the Russians on the Don.
Pity Gilbert isn’t here to bring up to
date those lines of his about “the idiot
who praises with enthusiastic tone Every
century but this and every country but
his own.”
“S. M. Herald,” with a “plain fact”:
Not only in the two World Wars, but
for many decades before, the British army
has lagged painfully behind other Great
Powers in the developments of military
science The average British officer
neither expected nor prepared for a World
War neither wished nor was encouraged
to scrap existing methods or weapons or
to look for new ones. He just carried on,
as did the Australian. *
A perfect example of armchair criticism.
But if the “plain fact” was known to the
“Herald” why was it so keen on Britain
fighting for Czechoslovakia? And why
did it acquiesce in the dissolution of the
citizen army based on compulsory train-
ing and supp6rt Lyons when he said he
would never, never restore it?
Having made a very good job of price-
control, Professor Copland is beginning
an attack on the black markets which
are springing up surreptitiously. He
should be armed with the powers which
the British Government has conferred
upon his congeners. In two recent
cases, a French proprietor of a West End
cafe was fined £2OOO and sentenced to
18 months’, and a “dealer” supplying
restaurants was fined £2OOO and sentenced
to four years’, imprisonment to go on till
the fine is paid. The dealer was “Sey-
mour Sydney, originally named Solomon
Skylinski.” These ghetto rats are the
despair of good British-born Jews, who
have been conducting a campaign against
them. As in Australia, when they change
their names it is generally to something
suggestive of Norman blood.
Clergymen have just discovered that
the politicians have contracted to pay
pensions to “de facto widows” and are
giving them hark from the tomb. A “de
facto widow,” said an indignant Hobart
Anglican, is “a woman who cohabited
with a man for three years prior to his
death or removal to asylum,” and to give
her a pension is “an affront to every
churchman and to every married couple.”
Not quite in the spirit of the Man who
was merciful to the woman taken in
adultery, but very orthodox. It is a fact,
however, that ninety-nine people out of
a hundred did not learn of the thing till
it had become an accomplished fact, the
measure having been whisked through
Parliament and dismissed in a scrappy
paragraph or two. And that’s no way to
deal with social legislation or report the
proceedings of the one Parliament that
matters.
According to the Queensland Minister
for Agriculture, Australians will have to
do with less butter while the war goes
on. Their present consumption is over
301 b. per head per year—the British
ration is lb. per head. Butter, jam,
honey and treacle have always been plen-
tiful on Australian meal tables, along
“Gandhi has demanded the withdrawal of British rule while stating that India does not
want Japanese rule.”
“Go, and never darken my door again. And, On your way out, stamp that
toothy fellow flat”
with tea and tomato sauce. Once a real
shortage sets in the country is likely to
wake up to this war and its implications.
It appeared in the advertisement for
one of Sydney’s “poshest” stores:
There’s no luxury spending about it, be-
cause you’re building up your strength
and morale by getting exercise and relaxa-
tion so necessary after the strain of long
hours and hard work. Alf Padgham clubs
have a moulded rubber sleeve
Yes, buy golf clubs with rubber sleeves
and rubber-cored golf balls to use with
them. It all helps to win the war and —
eh, what’s that about rubber shortage?
Rubbish! “You’re building up strength
and morale.”
Once more there have been riotous
goings-on at the Parramatta (N.S.W.)
girls’ reformatory, with the usual roof-
climbing, language, destruction of prop-
erty and other trimmings. “Officers were
rushed from town to quell the riot,” said
one paper. They ought to have rushed
Clive Evatt, the Minister for Individual-
ism, out there. Possibly he’d have issued
an order that all the hussies should be
punished by being sent to the pictures.
The Victorian “Parliament” made an-
other vital contribution to the war effort
last week. It debated for hours and
hours a grave national matter, being
anxious to get the thing right. There
were many exchanges, “jovial at first but
later a little testy” ; still, the dour legis-
lators stuck to it. Subject? Child-
endowment payments to State orphan-
ages.
The S.A, surplus of £1,287,000 (the
Commonwealth contributed £1,150,000 in
one grant) is to be applied, Playford says,
to “the writing off of past deficits and
debits in loan accounts in which we have
no assets.” So much money was furnished
by the Commonwealth in one way and
another that there was a decrease of
£589,500 in the S.A. public debt during
the financial year. That leaves the S.A.
public debt at £111,232,000, £lB6 a head
—figures that would have staggered Play-
ford’s grandfather,
Cookihg a surplus to make it look as
large as possible used to be a favorite
recreation of State Treasurers when the
operation was possible. Last financial
year, all the ingredients having been fur-
nished by the Commonwealth, the effort
w r as to boil it down. According to
Cain, the Victorian surplus was nearer
£2,000,000 than £150,000; according to
Lang, the N.S.W. surplus was nearer
£4,000,000 than £BBO,OOO. And Lang, at
least, should know.
Playford closed the betting shops which
blotted the S.A. landscape and banned
racing for the. duration. Conelan, a
Queensland Labor member, was so horri-
fied that he made a special trip to Adel-
aide “to see what could be done in the
matter.” Then Forde drifted along with
smooth words. Next came Ward, who
“promised a deputation of union leaders
that he would place his personal views
before the Prime Minister.” Playford,
who knows by personal experience
what war is and what it demands, is ex-
pected to stick to the ban and Curtin to
be unmoved by the unspeakable intrigue
against it.
Going to Adelaide, Ward made such
a provocative ass of himself (among
other things this self-extolled non-starter
m the last war alleged that universities
were becoming hideouts for slackers) that
the P.M had to send him a telegram
His reply was as usual “garbled
reports —and Curtin accepted “the assur-
ance. Ward was on his way to West-
raha, but he suddenly “postponed” that
trip to return to Melbourne “to deal with
industrial troubles that have arisen.” On
the N.S.W. coalfields they are worse than
ever since he “settled the strikes,” and
nasty “incidents” have occurred in trades
where Communists rule the roost. It is
suggested that Cabinet is getting sick of
him. Australia has been sick of him for
nine months.
Speaking at the week-end, Production
Minister Lyttelton repeated his chiefs
assertion that “more Germans have
perished in Russia than were killed on all
fronts in the whole of the last war.”
That means at least 8,500,000 German
dead ; and if it were true, or anywhere
near true, the enemy would be fighting
on the Spree instead of the Don. The
gentleman also said that Britain was
shipping tanks to Russia at the rate of
50 a week, and at the end of May had
sent 11 p.c. more aircraft than the total
promised to the end of June. Nobody
embarrassed him by asking how many
British ’planes and tanks had been for-
warded to Malaya.
Victoria’s Dunstan has been heard
from again, this time to the effect that,
though always against composite Minis-
tries, he considers a national Government
as the only solution when the enemy is
battering at the gates. What enemy and
what gates? The enemies of a system
whereby six superfluous State Govern-
ments duplicate services now being per-
formed by the national Government and
appoint quantities of boards and com-
mittees —there are 90 in Victoria and
new ones are projected—are certainly bat-
tering at Dunstan’s gates.
Port Kembla (N.S.W.), scene of the
famous scrap-iron strike “to help our
Chinese comrades” (quite forgotten nowa-
days by the “helpers” and their friends),
has had another incident of the kind.
Ironworkers downed tools because “11
members refused to pay fines imposed on
them by the union” —Comrade Thorn-
ton’s union—“for having worked on Good
Friday and Easter Saturday,” as did count-
less other good Australians, “and issued
Arbitration Court summonses.” So in
this democratic country at the most fate-
ful period of its history men who accept
their duty to it as a sacred obligation
can be fined by a union controlled by
persons like Thornton and Tannock and
threatened with expulsion for working.
A lady in the research-bureau business
has a plan:
« The Commonwealth should combine
every two electorates into one and then sub-
divide the votes of the combined electorates
by sex. Each of these electorates would
have two Parliamentary seats; men would
elect a man to their seat, and women
would elect a woman.
Apart from the probability that it would
start another war, one difficulty would
be that in all suburban electorates the
women greatly outnumber the men.
Apropos, the only lady member who has
had a steady Parliamentary job, the late
Miss Holman, was returned by a pre-
dominantly masculine electorate —Forrest
(W.A.).
“Avon”: Maoriland’s Parliament, as
in the 1914-18 war, has decided to grant
itself a lease of life till the war is over, with
a provision for reviewing the arrange-
ment once a year. It can do that sort of
thing, because Maoriland has no written
Constitution. In 1915 the Dominion s
greatest law authority laid it down that, as
the Triennial Parliaments Act was an Act
of the N.Z. Parliament, that Parliament
had ample power to suspend it or vary
it or even repeal it.


'
WUI I ■■ ■, , , , ,
.
I ■- 3 , -- -
k&«. >••-•.?■■■ vJt'm
...
THE FLEEIS of the DEMOCRACIES use
Hxlbc
é
BATTERIES
Still keep going when the rt
st have stopped
AT EEFT: American battleships in
formation with gun turrets raised.
AT RIGHT: One of Britain’s most for-
midable battleships patrolling the seas.
iCi.
m
fm
■ '
' mit '
mm
PERSONAL ITEMS
At the moment the chief preoccupation
of Frank Macfarlane Burnet, assistant
director of the Walter and Eliza Hall In-
stitute in Melbourne, is tracking down the
wog of influenza. The army is his guinea-
pig at present, thousands of soldiers hav-
ing volunteered to submit to experimental
Inoculation, but Burnet has had recruits
to scientific exploration nearer home. On
one occasion he sprayed 17 university
FOE OF ’FLU WOGS.
martyrs to science, one of whom was his
wife, and then isolated them in a cottage.
Some of them got the ’flu and some
didn’t. Burnet’s laboratory is in the huge
new Royal Melbourne, of which Ameri-
cans say they have seen none better in
U.S.A. Born 43 years ago at Traralgon
(Vic.) and educated at Geelong College
and Melbourne Uni., he was Beit Fellow
at the Lister Institute in London from
1926 to 1927. He has written a mort
of publications on biological aspects of
infectious diseases.
Two Maorilanders —A. M. Hamilton,
a Christchurch man, and G. D. White,
of Lyttelton—are responsible for a re-
markable type of bridge that is being
used in such a scattering of places as
Britain, India, Egypt, Abyssinia and
Rhodesia. Mass-produced, bridges of
the type can carry the heaviest tanks
.across long spans, and can be put up by
people possessing little engineering skill
—two wheelwrights, a blacksmith and
native labor threw a multi-span bridge
of the type, 240 ft. long, over a river in
Rhodesia. Hamilton constructed a sec-
tion of the road that opened up Iraq to
the outside world, and wrote a readable
book with the title Through Kurdistan.
Reported missing, Captain Ben Barnett,
the Victorian Test-match cricketer. He
was in the debacle at Singapore and there
is reason to believe he is a prisoner.
Captain of the State eleven when he en-
listed, Barnett made his reputation behind
the wicket in the 1938 Tests in England,
having understudied Bert Oldfield on the
1934 tour. He was on the staff of the
T. and G. in Melbourne.
The Allied Works Council has bagged
a first-rate hand to manage technical
training by taking W. J. Stack from the
A.I.F. Enlisting four months back, he
would have been on sight marked as a
certainty for a commission but for the pre-
vailing preference for having ’em straight
from the cradle, he being in his thirties.
As it was, the artillery unit he joined
wasted little time pinning a couple of
stripes on him. There he showed a gift
for handling men which will be handier
still in his new job. An inveterate reader
of practically everything in current Aus-
tralian and world publications that he
can get hold of, he knows the world at
first-hand from travelling about it, which
left with him an especially warm admira-
tion for the U.S.A. He enlisted as a gun-
ner from the post of managing director
of the motor firm of Stack and Co.,
Sydney.
F. W. Coneybeer, who was one of
S.A.’s earliest Labor men and became
Speaker, has, at 82, been re-elected
president of a Cyclists’ Rifle Club of
which he was the foundation president
away back in 1900: he claims never to
have missed its annual meeting in the
whole 42 years.
A great air ace: —
One of the countless blunders of the arm-
chair knowalls was their cocksure certainty that,
with modern war conditions and modern ’plane
developments, the day of the great individual
fighter-pilot—Mick Mannock, Bishop, Ball,
Richtofen —was gone for ever. They reckoned,
as they commonly do, without the personal ele-
ment, represented at its strongest by Wing-
Commander Brendan (“Paddy”) Finucane,
D.S.O. and bar, D.F.C. and two bars, whose
brief, heroic chapter closed when his ’plane,
hit by bullets from the ground, plunged into
the sea near the French coast. Dublin-born,
he had the same qualities that distinguished his
fellow-irishman Mannock, the same kind of
career, and a like end —to make sure of bagging
it, Mannock followed a ’plane he was fighting
too far down and was shot from the ground.
One of Finucane’s fighting mates said of him;
“Paddy passed unbeaten by the Luftwaffe. It
was the ground shot—a shot in a million—that
got him.” Like Mannock, he was not only an
inspiring but a shrewd leader, as members of
the Australian Spitfire Squadron back in Aus-
tralia have enthusiastically testified. While
he led that squadron it shot down three times
as many enemy ’planes as any other, its own
losses comparatively light. A single machine-
gun, which two Germans had set up on the
beach, was said to have brought about his
death, a lucky shot cutting into the radiator
of his ’plane. He was 21.
Labelled “Jim Grahame, Poet (J. W.
Gordon),” the caricature herewith of the
writer of many a Bulletin bush verse,
Henry Lawson’s old mate, came in from
out Leeton way (N.S.W. Irrigation Area)
as casually as Jim himself has blown
in. Early in the piece Jim and Henry
Lawson worked together house-painting
at Bourke, and then went tramping for
four or five months, doing some wool-
rolling and picking-up. In the book of
reminiscences written by Lawson’s mates
Jim stated that Henry never “shore” a
sheep in his life; “like myself, in those
days, he was always a rouseabout.” The
partnership temporarily ended when Jim
was consigned, for “colonial experience,”
to “a far-back station under a spirit-
breaking dog of a manager,” but they
were together later, when, among other
jobs, Jim was chosen by the Irrigation
Commission to go out collecting seeds
JIM GRAHAME.
for a nursery of Australian shade and
shelter trees. Settling thereabouts, he often
had Henry’s company. A topical note
in his Lawson reminiscences comes in
the account of Henry’s atterhpts to enlist
for the last war, finally offering (without
success) to go “in any capacity” with
Carmichael’s Thousand. “I think, wrote
Henry, “that I might be of some use as
a doctor’s orderly, having some experi-
ence, especially in first-aid cases of broken
noses and cracked skulls.”
A Lawson link broken:
The foregoing item on Jim Grahame was
turning into type when the death (at to)
Arthur Parker, one of Henry Lawson s °*“. .
mates, was reported. Parker worked wit
Lawson and his father at Mt. Victoria (N.S.W.)
building houses in the late ’eighties, when Lawson
commenced to write, and was with him again m
Perth (W.A.) 10 years later. It was Parker s scrap-
book that supplied some of the missing stories
when the While the Billy Boils collection was
sent to press. Lawson and life-saving were his
absorbing interests. One of the first honorary
chief instructors for the Royal Life having
Society, he wore the Distinguished Service
Medal of the society awarded from London.
For diving from the deck of a ferryboat m
Sydney harbor and saving a woman from
drowning he got the bronze medallion of tne
Royal Humane Society. Despite his 73 years he
was training a class at Walgett (N.S.W.) for the
life-saving certificate when his own life ended.
Lawson letters and an uncompleted history ot
life-saving will go to the Mitchell Library.
Parker’s grandfather, Benjamin Isaacs, arrived
in 1832, took the first printing press over the
Blue Mountains and founded the first news-
paper in Bathurst.
Alexander Edward Kelso, appointed
business adviser to the Army Department
in succession to A. D. I. Foster, is the
man who drew the high compliment
from an American world authority on
dams that his planning of the vast
£2,000,000 Yarra dam scheme couldn’t
have been done better by himself. A
Scots College product who graduated in
engineering from the University of Mel-
bourne, Kelso was an A.I.F. sapper in
the last war, returning to a job with the
Speck’s Hydro-electric Department. He
joined the Victorian Rivers and Water
Supply Commission just when great pro-
jects were in process of gestation l , and
had a lot to do with the building of the
Hume, O’Shannassy and Silvan dams. He
was chief water-supply engineer of Mel-
bourne Board of*Works when he got his
new appointment.
Cabled (27/5/’42> that a Bulgarian
military Court had sentenced to death in
absentia Norman Davis, a former British
press attache at Sofia, and 11 others.
Davis is the Maoriland 1934 Rhodes
scholar. A Dunedin boy, he was edu-
cated there and, after annexing his B.A.
at Merton College, Oxford, went to the
University of Kuana (Lithuania) as lec-
turer in English. A branch of the British
Foreign Office procured his appointment
as English lecturer at the University of
Sofia. His job was also to supervise the
teaching of English all over Bulgaria,
with the object of influencing sentiment
in the Balkans towards Great Britain.
Later he was transferred to the Press
Bureau of the British Legation at Sofia,
and was there when the Germans
marched in. With other members of the
Legation he escaped, but for a while was
a prisoner in the hands of the Italians
before successful negotiations enabled
him to reach England.
F. E. Baguley, who went to China for
the London Missionary Society in 1935,
has since had reason to picture himself
trying to convert Davy Jones or old man
Neptune. He and Mrs. Baguley had to
make tracks from Hankow when the
Japs swarmed in, and they were in
Malaya, from Chungking, having a holi-
day when the Japs turned up there.
Bombed out of Singapore, they boarded
a ship for India. That was sunk, and,
rescued by an Australian warship, they
next landed in Java. Another attempt
on India, and again the ship was sunk!
Rescued once more by a warship, they
took the hint, headed south in a Hamper,
reached W.A. safe, and then made for
Brisbane.
One of the best authenticated centen-
arians in Victoria is Edward Bennett, of
Briagolong, Gippsland. He celebrated
his 108th birthday recently with all his
relatives around him. They claim he is
Australia’s oldest living person.
Deputy-Director of Man-power C. J.
Bellemore has had previous, unforgettable
experience of dealing with fellow-humans
on a mass scale. Appointed manager of
the N.S.W. State Labor Exchange in
1923, he later saw the depression at its
worst, with about 100,000 people need-
ing sustenance, and his job to see that
they got it. In that he worked in asso-
ciation with the Rev. George Cowie,
which welded a friendship based
on common sympathy with suffering
humanity. Also, as Under-Secretary of
Labor, he has had plenty of experience
of working with unions and under various
brands of Governments; he began his
long public service career as a messenger
boy, and is now 55. For these times his
family is noteworthy—there are seven
C. J. BELLEMORE, MAN-POWER
EXPERT.
boys in it, one of whom, having been
discharged from the army on medical
grounds, is working in munitions, while
two others are completing medicine at
Sydney Uni., after which they will go into
uniform.
Into the silence;
In Sydney, at 73, George Stephenson Beeby,
until his retirement last year Chief Judge of
the Commonwealth Arbitration Court; earner
in his life schoolteacher, stenographer, account-
ant, journalist, dramatist and politician. He
was M.L.A. and then M.L.C. in the Sydney
Parliament from 1907 to 1920, when he be-
came a N.S.W. Arbitration Court Judge, went
to the Federal Arbitration Court six years later
and in 1939 became its Chief Judge and was
knighted. He wrote short stories, some for
The Bulletin, and plays.
In England, Rev. Prebendary F. A. Cardew,
known in the Queensland cattle country 40 years
ago as the “Cattlepunchers’ Padre.” From
King’s College, London, he came to Queensland
in ’94 and by 1907 had attained a new title, the
“Stage Girls’ Padre,” in Paris, where, as chap-
lain 6f St. George’s, he opened a hostel for
British chorus girls. All Saints’, Charleville,
was his Australian stamping-ground.
At Parramatta (N.S.W.), at 87, “Tom”
Luckey, whose red clerk-of-course coat was
one of the bright spots at Randwick and
Sydney suburban courses. Most of his life he
spent with horses —rider, trainer, owner, etc. —
a clean, straightforward sportsman.
In England, at 82, Margaret Graham, who
was matron at the Adelaide Hospital from
1898 to 1914, and then after the war till retire-
ment in 1922. She won the Royal Red Cross
on service in France and all possible local
nursing honors in S.A.
Parson Mugford, of Adelaide (80), was a
real patriarch of the Scriptures which he ex-
pounded so vigorously in the Silverton (N.S.W.)
district and later all about S.A. Of his children
14 survive him. A good cricketer and footballer
in his youth, he played tennis till 70, and bowls
right up to the end.
At 83, in Melbourne, Monsignor R. Collins.
From County Kerry, he served at Williamstown,
Carlton and Coburg, and then became parish
priest at Clifton Hill. Pie was specially honored
by Pope Pius after the Sydney Eucharistic Con-
gress, and his parishioners celebrated his sacer-
dotal diamond jubilee by erecting an altar at St.
Peter and St. Paul’s, South Melbourne. He
built a number of Victorian churches.
At 103, Meretana Hongi, a granddaughter
of the famous Ngapuhi chief Hongi Heka, the
first Maori chief to obtain firearms and use
them in inter-tribal warfare. Hongi went to
England in 1820, created a sensation, and col-
lected quite a swag of presents, which, calling
at Sydney on his way home, he exchanged for
guns and ammunition, used later against the
tribes of the north. On one occasion a follower
of Hongi was found by the Rev. Samuel Mars-
den getting away with a missionary pig. The
Maori, a gigantic chap, showed fight, but
Marsden, the son of a blacksmith, took him
by the throat and threw him into the river.
“Tell your master to come here and I will
treat him the same,” said Marsden. Maoris
have a profound admiration for physical
prowess and instead of Hongi’s ire being
aroused when he was told he became a warm
friend of Marsden and protected him after-
wards. Hongi’s granddaughter had 12 children,
of whom a son and three daughters survive.
It is almost impossible to trace her descendants,
who run into five generations.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Sedenter”: I’ve heard a lot of hard
words about the founders and fathers of
Sydney, at the moment mildly celebrating
the Hundredth Anniversary of the Declara-
tion of the Town as a City and the Incor-
poration of the Inhabitants thereof;
but is there a city in Australia —or
in the Empire, for the matter of that —
so bountifully blessed in the matter of
parks, domains and recreation reserves?
On a recent Sunday I followed a path
through one of these parks for five miles,
winding through picturesque gullies along
the shores of pleasant creeks and rivers.
I believe this splendid civic reserve has
a name, and somewhere around its 16
miles or so of perimeter a gate, but it
isn’t accurately defined on any maps to
which I have access, and where it comes
in contact with the streets and roads of
thickly-populated suburbs, as it does at
a dozen places, there is no' sign to indi-
cate that here is public land, intended
for the delectation of the holiday-maker.
Some distance within, as if to cater for
bold souls who take the absence of
“Trespassers Prosecuted” notices as suffi-
cient warrant for intrusion, there are
calico notices pinned on trees. To wel-
come the wayfarer? Not at all. To
warn him that he musn’t ride bicycles
or motor-bicycles, mustn’t pick flowers,
mustn’t shoot birds, mustn’t tip rubbish.
It isn’t very surprising that in the course
of an hour and a half of rambling
through this magnificent park—area, I
suppose, about 20 square miles —I saw
“They reckon I'm medically unfit!”
only three human beings. And that on
a sunny Sunday afternoon.
* * * *
“C.P.R.”: Undying friendships are
being forged between Australian and
American service men at what are termed
“undisclosed operational bases.” The
plain tale of a Texan shot down in the
sea:
I was about a mile and a half from
shore and started to swim. I could see
some Australians on a beach When it
looked as though they had given me up....
two of them were almost beside me. They
helped keep me afloat until two others
swam out, pushing a log. They got me on
the log and paddled me ashore... .They
probably saved my life and 1 don’t even
know their names.
It was typical of his rescuers that they
didn’t think names worth bothering
about. Apropos, Woodrow Wilson con-
fided to Lloyd George that the Old Dig-
gers “look just like our Westerners.” The
Diggers, Old and New, get along fam-
ously with Westerners and with lads from
the Deep South, too.
* * * *
“S.”: lam not one of those who think
that because we still go to talkies or drink
a beer, Sydney is necessarily “com-
placent” about the war. What are we
to do to look earnest? Come to work
in a gas-mask and sleep in a slit-trench?
Wherefore, when Sydney “D.T.’s” peri-
patetic reporter declares that “there is no
pessimism in as the battle
grows daily grimmer, and that crowds
still flock to the theatres, I have against
the people of Moscow no possible com-
plaint whatever. I believe that they might
as well be optimistic and might as well
get what relaxation they can. But, by
my halidom, truth, honor, justice and the
blood of my British forefathers compel
me to point out that the same type of
wandering journalist, who has nothing
but praise for Moscow’s optimism and
gaiety, had nothing but condemnation for
the British doing the same things in Singa-
pore, and howls about “complacency”
and ‘‘fatuous optimism” whenever a
Briton enjoys himself anywhere in the
world. Read Eric Baume on the London
restaurants! Turn back the files of the
dailies to a week or so ago when things
began to look black in Libya; the wicked,
complacent and fatuously optimistic
British were daring, to the outraged in-
dignation of the dailies, still to go to
theatres and still to believe that Auchin-
leck would stop the rot.
* * * *
“Oesar’s Ghost”: Melbourne didn’t
properly realise that the Horse Age had
passed till Bland Holt was seen driving
in a motor-car instead of the spanking
dogcart which made him look always as
if he was going to the races or returning
from them. The changeover meant merely
that the veteran actor felt he was grow-
ing too old to drive horses through the
tangled motor traffic of Melbourne. In
his younger days Holt was a great jehu.
To see him dash full tear along Sydney’s
narrow Pitt-street (and it had two-way
traffic then) was a lesson in neat driving.
» * * *
“S.T.S.”; An odd sideline of the war
is that S.A. has got barmaids again, after
an absence of some 30 years. By an
Act which was at the time considered
wowserish, but has since been taken as
a matter of course, they were abolished,
except as to members of a hotelkeeper’s
family or girls already employed on the
job—and the latter have in time mostly
grown out of it. However, the trade is
now busier than ever, men are scarce
and Judge Foster rules that “objections
which would in peace-time be almost un-
answerable are today overborne by the
facts of war.” The conditions are to be,
firmly: ndbody under 21, the pay same
as to men, a 44-hour week and every girl
to join the union.
* * * *
“Bo”: I support the suggestion of Dr.
F. A. Maguire, former Director-General
of Army Medical Services, that there
should be a 50 p.c. reduction in the alco-
holic content of beer. Some human hogs
soak up to 30 pints of 4 p.c. beer during an
afternoon’s swilling. That means 240 z.
of absolute alcohol, and its effect on such
a feeble brain as the swiller would have
needs little imagination. But the effect of
2 p.c. beer evaporates almost as soon as
it is drunk, and a drinker could soak up
the stuff until he was awash and his
head would still remain clear. In Paris
the favorite summer drink is bock, as
light a beer as it is possible to get. You
can drink bock till you’re blown out
like a poisoned pup and remain sober,
During three weeks’ military leave there
I didn’t see one civilian drunk—and that
in a city where drinks are available
openly for seven days a week and about
20 hours a day,
“Sign your name and state where you slept last night.”
“Zake”: So “Cauboy” (B. 15/7/’42)
would be “astonished to learn that those
ridiculous polysyllabic jingles Gilbert
wrote were the sources of Sullivan’s in-
spiration.” If “C.” had a sense of rhythm
and music he would appreciate how easy
Gilbert made his collaborator’s task. Take
such lines as these: —■
While this magnetic
Peripatetic
Lover he lived to learn
Or
In that case unprecedented
Single 1 shall live and die —
I shall have to be contented
With their heartfelt sympathy!
Such ditties almost set themselves to
music. And has “Cauboy” never dis-
covered the twinkle in the eye that lurked
behind the “trite, girlish, early-Victorian
love ditties”?
* * * *
“Pawang”: There is a report of “an
alarming outbreak of smallpox in Glas-
gow” after the arrival of a passenger
ship from Bombay. Twenty-four cases,
with four deaths in Scotland and three
in England wouldn’t be called “alarming”
in many parts of the Empire; but
there has been a rush
for vaccination, 400,000
being inoculated in
Glasgow in one day.
Smallpox is endemic in
China, where it is
called “the lucky dis-
ease,” it being consid-
ered fortunate to have
had it if you recover.
Every now and again it
flares up in some pro-
vincial walled city, and
the only precaution
taken against it is to
ring the city with troops
and shoot anybody who
tries to flee the menace.
In due course it runs
through the population,
killing possibly several
thousand. Then it dies
down, and the inference
is that the bulk of the inhabitants, having
been constantly in contact with the dis-
ease in a mild form, have been immu-
nised without knowing it; ‘ the relatively
few victims hadn’t. There is a lesson
here for Australia, which has been free
of smallpox for so long that there can
be scarcely any immunity against it.
* * * *
“K.”: The sea of guff hath its pearls.
A much-loved term of flapper journalese
that affects me like somebody scratching
damask is “exciting.” It so often adorns
rag or beauty ads. and social chit-chat:
an “exciting” new shade of lipstick, “ex-
citing” furs worn by some cocktail-
sucking nitwit, and so on. And now my
paper informs me that the Kittyhawk,
developed as a bomber, is “the most
exciting weapon the R.A.F. has known.”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”; I was with a party of
U.S. soldiers in the bush. We halted at
a country store to get tucker. The
lieutenant in command cast his eyes on
the wall above the counter and beheld
some ancient firearms powdered with the
dust of ages. Shortly afterwards the
storekeeper was richer by a fiver and the
American had the old guns. They com-
prised a musket issued to the British
army 200 years ago, a fine fowling piece
100 years old and one of the original
breech-loading Winchesters. I asked the
American what they would be worth
when he got them home. “Five hundred
bucks for the three would be cheap,” he
replied.
* =K * »
“V. Clqse”; Out in our suburb a
female wowser, doubtless stirred by boo-
boo press shrieks about the goings-on of
soldiers and girls in the cities, spotted
a couple leaving the local telephone
booth. The soldier was giving suppressed
whoops, the girl danced, they embraced,
pirouetted together and moved along the
browned-out street in a manner which,
to the wowser imagination, now fully
alive, suggested volumes of iniquity.
Then the grim crusader spirit awoke and
Mrs. Wowser touched the girl on the
arm. “Young woman,” she said, “are
you aware of”—— The girl threw her
arms around the would-be rescuer’s neck
and hugged, while the soldier thumped
her heartily on the back. Through her
daze she heard the girl saying “Isn’t it
lovely? Isn’t it lovely? Jim here’s just
rung up Dad and got his consent to our
wedding before Jim goes back to camp.”
Then they rushed the wowseress to a
picture show, bought her a ticket and
shoved her into the evil place before she
had time to protest.
A HUNDRED YEARS AGO.
“The centenary of the elevation of Sydney to the
stains of a city was celebrated by the Lord Mayor
on Monday.”
Another centenary, chaps,
To add to those we know,
Another date to keep in view.
’Twas back in eighteen-forty-two
Our forebears got their urban “blue,”
A hundred years ago.
Queen Vic. was then a matron young
And, aged six months or so,
Next in the line her Bertie stood,
Per medium of Alb. the Good,
When Sydney climbed to cityhood
A hundred years ago.
’Twas old Sir Robert Peel who ran
The House of Commons show,
And had to turn the Corn Laws down.
When Sydney ceased to be a town
And fastened on her civic crown
A hundred years ago.
Victoria still lacked a name,
It lay in embryo,
When with the minimum of fuss
Our grandads leapt aboard the bus
That carried them to mbs from ms
A hundred years ago.
A pregnant century, for sure!
Then let the grapejuice flow
And fill the goblets up again.
Here’s to our mayor and aldermen,
Guardians of all within their ken,
Just as paternal now as then,
A hundred years ago!
N.S.W.
MODFPRD.
WINTER.
“The Aussie bard is handicapped because he can't
commence his nature-eulogies with a botanical allu-
sion to the season in a country where roses never
stop flowering and snowdrops may pop up at any
time” (B. 15/7/M2).
It may be so, for all I know,
But as a verse-mechanic
Let me admit I’m not a bit
Concerned with things botanic.
Yet when his grip is on the land,
From maritime to hinter-,
I like to take a pen in hand
And tip a stave to Winter.
Let others sing the charms of Spring
And tell how they become her,
Or scatter loads of gladsome odes
Before the feet of Summer,
Or glibly stress the fruitfulness
Of Autumn, woodland-tinter;
Be it my task —’tis all I ask —
To say a word for Winter.
When, driving fast without, the blast
Sets many a nose a-tingle,
How passing sweet a cosy seat
Hard by the glowing ingle!
A fireside nook, a pipe, a book,
To make slow Night a sprinter,
Spiced with a tot of something hot —
Such are the gifts of Winter.
No more one hears the squeals or shouts
The words that rend and rankle,
As skeeters sink their questing snouts
Into a wrist or ankle.
On, poets, with your minstrelsy
And send it to the printer
In praise of other seasons three!
You're welcome to them all for me.
1 keep my vote for Winter.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Loo”: The tram was crowded when
a smart-young-thing came aboard. She
accepted a seat from a youth who was
getting out at the next stop. Did she
say “Thank you,” or even “Ta”? No,
she glared at the youth; then she sat
down and said scornfully for all the tram
to hear “Why aren’t you in uniform?
You’ve got cold feet.” Up spake the
youth as he got out of the tram: “Don’t
tell everyone ; they’ll wonder how you
found out.”
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: “Zake” says (B. 8/7/’42)
“certain races, predominantly the whites,
can rise to patriotic devotion.” Arc
there any that can’t? What about the
Mongols, Tartars, Manchus, Turks,
Arabs, Moors, Assyrians, Egyptians,
Chinese, Indo-Chinese, Hindus, Per-
sians, Aztecs, Peruvians and even
Burmans and Malays? All of these races
at one time and another established
empires, some of which were as large
and in some ways as splendid as any
established by the whites. The despised
Malays once held sway over the empire
of Modjopahit and covered the Malayan
Archipelago with temple cities that are
still the admiration of all beholders.
* * *. *
“Amateur Cook”: I have read some
derogatory references to egg-powder, par-
ticularly in regard to its taste. The egg-
powder adversely commented on assuredly
cannot be the made-in-Australia substi-
tute for whole hen-fruit that Sydney
people are getting. This looks good and
smells good, and I have yet to detect
anything wrong with the taste of it in
the cakes, puddings, omelets and other
dishes in which it serves in lieu of new-
laids. And —wonder of wonders! —a
board (yes, a board!) is responsible for
it, for the label tells us that it is “Pro-
duced by the Egg Marketing Board of
New South Wales.”
sj;
“Craiser”: When the Bourke-street
route reverted to buses Melbourne Tram
Board sold old cable cars to the public.
Now the incongruous-looking contrap-
tions are beginning to make their
appearance in the countryside round
Melbourne, marring the charm of a hill-
side or destroying the pastoral beauty of
a paddock. Goodness knows why their
owners bought them, since they never
seem to use them. The proposal to find
accommodation for one in the National
Museum alongside Phar Lap and the
rhino to illustrate various stages of trans-
port or something appears to have gone
west —thank Heaven!
* * * *
“Myrtleford”: “Three States” (B.
15/7/ ”42) might have mentioned in that
par. of his about the Coninghams that
the father died in Sydney three months
before the beginning of the war in which
his only son has distinguished himself.
Though he came to light as a cricketer
in Queensland (he made the first cen-
tury, 151, for Queensland v. N. S. Wales)
Coningham a Victorian, like Jim
Kelly, another migrant cricketer, who
passed over in Sydney about the same
time. It was a year fatal to old inter-
nationals: others given out by the Um-
pire against whose decision there is no
appeal were H. H. Massie, J. Mcllwraith,
W. H. Cooper, Hugh Trumble and Harry
Moses —the best batsman who never
played on English pitches, though he
could have gone to England in at least
three teams.
♦ * * *
“C.Q.”: I haven’t yet had experience
like “Pitt St.” (B. 8/7/’42) of shopmen
who contravene the war-time regulations.
On the contrary, whenever I go into a
shop in Melbourne and ask for a packet
of fags, a box of matches, a pinch of
coffee or the agricultural implement I
need to get on with my patriotic vege-
table growing, I get an automatic refusal
—“Haven’t got one.” But why does an
expression of positively exultant delight
spread over the countenance of the shop-
man? Is he pleased at having his firm’s
enterprise hamstrung by war-time shorts
age, or is he taking revenge on the public
for a lifetime of having to say “Sorry,
modorn, we are out of that line, but
we’ll do our best to get it for you”?
* * * *
“A.R.P.”: In N. S. Wales you have to
be armed with an elaborate certificate
before the N.E.S. will turn you loose as
a warden, though whether you’re ex-
pected to show the certificate to the
enemy, his bombs or his victims isn’t
clear. McJones, being examined for a
certificate, came upon this: “Your house
has been partly demolished and is on
fire; gas and water are escaping ; five
persons are trapped in the basement.
What would you do?” McJones thought
deeply, then wrote: “Sue the five persons
for trespass, then sell the place for what
it would bring and go up the Riverina
and start a poultry farm. The domestic
fowl is a noble and useful animal, and I’d
much prefer acting as valet to a herd of
them than sitting here like an infant-
class schoolkid answering damn’ silly
questions.” But there’s no humor in a
N.E.S. “head,” and McJones was coldly
requested to reply to the question
properly.
* * * *
“Balander”: The wife of Queensland
Director-General of Health Ciiento gave
the N.C.W. a straight talking to about
v.d. and the need for educating the young
against it. She found the usual argu
ments in opposition, such as that the iob
should be left to mothers and that “a
good home and good mother should keep
girls from wrongdoing” ; but she stuck
to her point and got the council to agree
to urge that sex hygiene lectures be given
by medical women to girls gathered in
groups for munitions making and other
services. There’s been a good deal of
talk about v.d. lately, but this is the first
practical educational move in the matter
so far reported.
♦ * * *
“S.V.”: All the war tragedies don’t
happen in the battle zone. A six-year-old
Melbourne boy had been using a bomb
fuse, brought as a souvenir by his father
from Libya, as a top. The boy spun his
top for several weeks without misadven-
ture. Then one Sunday evening he started
playing with his toy in front of the fire
indoors. Part of the detonator was
melted and exploded, blowing the child’s
hand off and making a deep wound in
his abdomen. He died in hospital,
* * * *
“Jindivick”: According to Lieut. Isador
Goodman (now of the Army Educational
Service), “A.I.F. and militia troops in
Australian camps forgo their leave to
listen to classical music, particularly the
works of Bach, Beethoven and Chopin.”
Forgo their leave to listen to classical
music! When? Where? Why? I’ve
never known of a single soldier who will-
ingly gave up his leave for anything,
much less classical music.
* * *
“Bumpkin”: Victorian charcoal
burners are interested in the experience
of a Melbourne insurance inspector who
recently returned from a motor tour of
the north-east. When he cleaned out
his gas-producer firebox he noticed a
yellow substance sticking to the clinkers.
Acting on a fantastic suspicion, he took
the stuff to a gold-buyer—and got £l2
10s. for it. Nobody can suggest how the
precious metal got into his firebox.
sp * * #
“Morimoto”: One of the difficulties
of a conqueror in occupied territory is
to maintain his prestige, and nothing is
so destructive of prestige as unfamiliarity
with the language of the occupied
country. The Japanese are already up
against this problem in occupied New
Guinea ; in fact, they are having such
difficulties that they have decreed (in Eng-
lish) that “all and every citizens are re-
quired to learn the Japanese language
in the earliest possible time.” Their army
proclamations are sometimes couched in
quite good official English, but the Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Navy has been to
a different school apparently, as his ukase
is worded in the quaint style one sees
on shop signs in Tokyo and Shimonseki:
Inhabitants - including Europeans who
serve loyally to the “Tenno Heika” His
Majesty the Emperor are stabilised their
living by Nipponese Navy.
The Japanese first employed English
professors to teach them English. Then
they sacked them, and for several genera-
tions Japanese professor has learned the
language from Japanese professor. So
it comes about that the Commander-in-
Chief of the Nipponese Navy, “proclaims
undermentioned and those come into
effect force on the Twenty-third day of
January, 2602.” “All and everyone” are
ordered “to bow their heads (making
Keirei) whenever they see Japanese
soldiers.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: “Roy Biv” avers (B. 8/7/’42)
that the Sydney Bridge is “modern” archi-
tecture. So it is in the sense that it was
built yesterday and not in the Middle
Ages. But a bridge built in the Middle
Ages might be beautiful and a bridge
built last week might be ugly. Moder-
nity can’t help but attract attention,
whether it is a girl’s latest hair-do, a
futurist picture or a 50-storey building,
because they are of our own time. But
the girl’s hair-do, the picture and the
building aren’t necessarily more beauti-
ful than their old predecessors.
* * * *
“D.E.”; One of the fashionable jockeys
called up after nearly three years of war
has been riding as usual, and there have
been complaints from people who fail to
see how important to the war effort racing
is. They found the Minister for the
Army ready with a passionate defence
of the jockey, who, he said, “received no
special leave, but rode on his weekly
day of rest from military duties.”
There have been very favorable reports
received in regard to the spirit in which
Mr. Munro has entered into his military
duties, and the very fine spirit in which he
is carrying out his part.
This suggests that Mr. Forde will appoint
Mr. Munro to a high command when
his military education, the rigors of which
are tempered by his weekly day of rest,
is sufficiently advanced. Unfortunately,
someone has recalled the case of Collins,
sometime captain of the Australian
Eleven. Collins, an Old Digger, tried to
follow his calling of bookmaker on his
weekly day of rest. Without any mush
about the very fine spirit in which he had
“entered into his military duties,” Collins
was told that he must put his bag away
for the duration.
* * * *
genius has'soWedYknotty*wa/problen!
Ever since Russia entered the war, Britons
of all classes have been eager to sing the
“Internationale," the so-called Russian
national anthem, which is really, accord-
ing to Communist party dictum, “a
rn f K ; no crma n f rphpiiinn apainst a
3l SstlpS” However!
the idea of the Royal family and the
peerage beefing out
F ° b
Arise, ye starvelings, from your slumber,
Anse, ye criminals of want.
was too much for the British sense of
humor. Granville Bantock now has made
it possible to salute M. Maisky fittingly
by altering the words to
Awake, O sleepers, from your dreaming,
Uplift, uplift your longing eyes.
Granville explains naively that “it is not
meant to be a new Russian national
anthem—just another version that English
people could sing without compunction.”
“I want to give meself plenty of room for salutin'!”
“Pitt St.”; The constable stopped the
stout little man. “What’s y’r game?” he
demanded. “I bin watchin’ you lookin’
at the girls’ legs. Y’ want t’ cut that
out, y’ know. Only lead t’ trouble. Go
on, now—get back t’ work or home or
somewhere out o’ this.” The stout little
man became indignant. “All I’ve been
trying to do,” he said, “is to spot a girl
wearing those new woollen stockings the
wimmen are going in for so I can ask
her where she got ’em. My wife asked
me to get her a pair, and I’ve tried a
dozen shops an’ drew a blank each time.”
Just then a girl went past wearing bright
green woollen socks. Policeman and citi-
zen eyed each other; then the Law said,
“Righto, go after her. I’m married meself.”
*"* * *
“Me”: Prosperous successor to the
plagiarist and literary thief is the radio
burglar—his offence the more despicable
because so much more disastrous to the
victim than thefts which get into print.
A pinched literary effort gets no further
than the first editor who spots the
piracy and blacklists the pirate. But the
comedian whose gags are misappropriated
by radio entertainers is soon plucked bare
of his stock-in-trade. Before wireless
came his witticisms might be borrowed
by a few unscrupulous rivals, but the cur-
rency was limited and not much harm
was done. A stolen gag once sent
over t jj e a j r belongs to the world, and the
unlucky comedian thereafter dare not
use own property.
* * * *
“8.L.0.”: Clairvoyance now seems to
have been added to the qualifications of
“famous correspondents.” One of them
recently produced this gem. “The Ger-
mans.... are showing signs of weariness.
Many who are taken prisoner fall asleep
without waiting to get water, food or
a smo ke One man began to say ‘We ll
he in Alexandria in a week,’ but he went
to sleep with the boast only half-
uttered.” Only half-uttered—but the
famous correspondent could report the
whole sentence!
W":
have llcen expected front the acti ities
ot the Victortan Housing Commission m
Melbourne is the growth of a certain
snobbery ,n the of new garden
suburbs, a snobbery that seems to be
shared by the commission. As a case in
Point, the Fitzroy medical officer found
» family living in slum conditions.
mother and “Sj 1 chlldre "
slept in one room m a four-roomed
horror with a lean-to for a bath-
room and a mudheap for a backyard. On
making inquiries he found that the family
had been a candidate for the commis-
sion’s attentions, but its claims had been
rejected “on the ground of mismanage-
ment in the household. The public was
under the impression that garden suburbs
were precisely for the purpose of giving
such people a chance of showing that
they would respond to improved condi-
tions, though they might need a proba-
tionary period of education. It is the
commission’s proud boast that its tenants
are more scrupulous about paying their
rent and keeping their new homes in
order than the average well-to-do citizen,
though they come from a class reputedly
careless about its obligations,
* * * *
“Alter”: “Cauboy’s” notions of art
must be rather remarkable if he considers
that the illustrators of Dickens were
“4ull, stodgy, academic artists.” Of
course in Dickens’s day there weren’t any
of that brand of artist that nowadays calls
itself “modern” or “contemporary,” and
certain conventions (imposed by the laws
of anatomy, not by academies) had to
be observed. But despite these crippling
restrictions George Cruikshank and
“Phiz” and other black-and-whiters of
their day managed to do some Dickens
illustrations which still seem to me to be
the antithesis of dullness and stodginess,
Cruikshank, like his great forerunner
Hogarth, didn’t flatter humanity—Modi-
gliani in his most bilious mood never
produced such terrible portraits as did
these two Englishmen. I remember as a
very little boy looking through a volume
of Hogarth plates, and asking granny
(who came from England) if the people
there were really so hideous. “Some of
them are even uglier,” said the old lady.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ellis D.”: The cry “To your battle
stations!” has swept all Crowtown to
dramatic action. We have a volunteer
fire brigade, roof-spotters who watch
from the top of the town hall, the school
of arts and the roof of Samson’s fowl-
house, wardens and women warriors, and
the hamlet is proud of its guerrilla men.
Only one man seems to be loafing. That’s
Hit-and-Run Morgan, noted for his speed
with both fists and feet. A venturesome
soul stopped him outside the post office
and said “Well, Morgan, there’s a war
on, you know. We’ve all got to do our
bit. What’s your battle station, eh?”
Morgan thought for a second. Then as
he peeled off his coat he drawled “My
battle station? Oh, I ain’t fussy. Any-
where I can get a fight on, of course.”
* * ♦ *
“Yank”: “M.Q.” (B. 10/6/’42) appar-
ently does not know the meaning of that
word “bush” as used in Australia. “Bush”
is not English, but an adaptation of the
Dutch bosch, meaning a woodland, and
is applied locally to uncleared country
more or less covered with trees. The
word has come to Australia from the
Dutch, who were here before the English.
The gent, who declared himself “bushed”
in a treeless township was “bushed” in
respect of his vocabulary only.
» * * *
“Old Camp”: Regarding that question
as to what happens when a rifle cartridge
dropped into a fire explodes (B. 17/6/’42)
—well, it all depends. I was at more
than one fire in the early W.A. goldfield
days when cases of rifle and revolver
ammunition were exploded by the heat.
But never a bullet emerged from the con-
flagration, though an occasional cartridge
case did. The whole question is a matter
of inertia. Should the cartridge be stand-
ing upright, or even against some im-
movable object, such as a log or a stone,
then the explosion will kick the bullet
out. But should the cartridge be in any
position as not to encounter resistance
at its base then the explosion will merely
kick the lighter case off the much heavier
bullet.
* * * ♦
“Silverdee”; Excuse me, but I wasn’t
wondering how the emerald-green sheep-
fly lived in Australia before the advent
of the white man (B. 17/6/’42); the in-
sect I had in mind was the bad old buzz-
ing blowy—as native an Australian as
the gum-tree. And those blowies did
have a hard job to exist. They hailed
the white as their saviour. Recently had
the scanning of a letter written by a
grandmamma who arrived on the Swan
River in 1830. Those pilgrims were well
supplied with heavy woollen garments
from the Cold Country. So it is re-
corded that, on blankets, flannel shirts
and worsted socks being put out to air,
they were immediately covered with the
native blowflies. In the W.A. bushlands
the old lumbering blowy is still to be
found in its millions.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Queensland borewater on the
blacksoil plains behaves similarly to the
Groper-juice described by “Tenus” (B.
24/6/’42) when applied to coax carrots
and cabbages to join the menu. During
winter veges. can be grown if a starter
be forthcoming from animal manures,
leaf mould and mulch to introduce the
fertilising bacteria without which the
potential plant food cannot be presented
in assimilative form. Usually, after a
year or two, the ground coagulates and
fresh soil must be broken out. Sulphuric
acid acts as a solvent, but the expense is
a deterrent. Bypassing the borewater
into side pools to allow evaporation and
sedimentation makes the drink more
agreeable to plants.
* * * *
“Scuta”: Nature’s methods of balanc-
ing a country’s fauna have been over-
“Wot about me duckin’ over to O’Regans paddick, Dad, an openin’
a second front there?”
assisted by man, the invention of gun-
powder and the fire-stick. Among his
less dramatic but still deadly instruments
of destruction come the overhead wire
and the galvanised-iron roof. In a good
season it is not unusual for our overland
linesmen on the Nullabor Plain to fill
the pot with brush turkeys which have
suicided by flying into the transcontinen-
tal wires. As for the galvanised iron,
I know of a publican on a saltbush plain
in W.A, who often tickles the palate of
the dusty traveller with a tasty dish of
wild duck, free of gunshot pellets and
the fear of broken molars and lead-
poisoning. The pub has a flat roof
painted white to dilute the blistering heat.
Ducks following the track of the rain
and flying south in the moonlight mis-
take the white surface for water, volplane
down, to crash on the dented roof. The
welcome change from goat and galah
made us almost forget the lukewarm beer.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The folded girth,
lubricated in the manner described (B.
8/7/’42), will also do me every time. The
old broad canvas girth wasn’t bad, but
after a time it became sweat-hardened
and caused galling, and the rolled or
plaited greenhide variety needed constant
attention, otherwise it became dry and
hard and soon caused a raw spot. The
ordinary girth or surcingle affords ampie
security on level ground, but it is not
so reliable on steep country, especially
for packers. I’ve always found the double
cinch made with folded girth is a far
better means of securing a saddle to
either riding or pack animal than our
single girth or surcingle. The double
cinch consists of a girth and surcingle
fitted with rings instead of buckles, tight-
ened and made fast by a latigo or cinch
strap. When the girth is tightened up
the surcingle is passed over the saddle
and around the animal, where it is drawn
back at a slight angle and cinched around
the belly where it begins to slope toward
the flank. Fixed in this way, the saddle
rides like a pitch plaster and the rider
needs no breastplate or crupper and the
packer neither breastplate nor breeching.
The horseman who uses the double cinch
has no cause to worry about his saddle
slipping, even on our steepest mountain
tracks.
sK * * =! ;
“Avon”; “Bohemian’s” yarn about
Sirjoe Ward and the bowyangs (B.
15/7/’42) is such a good one that it is a
pity to have to cast doubts upon it.
Ward in his maturity was so courtly and
polished a gentleman —quite the most
charming politician Maoriland produced
in four decades of my experience—that
it was easy to assume he was born with
a silver spoon in his mouth and absorbed
his manners at Eton and Cambridge.
Not so. He got as far as the sixth
standard in a State school at Bluff, and
at 13 went to work as a telegraph mes-
senger. If he didn’t know what bow-
yangs were it wasn’t for not seeing them
or for not knowing plenty of blokes who
wore them —and Joe wasn’t unobservant.
* * * *
“Y. Knott”: Trespassed upon a 150-
aperture warren recently with nets and
a commando of 15 ferrets. In the space
of a few minutes four full-sized foxes
bolted for the immediately adjacent
horizon, each one choosing a different
exit for his departure. One took a large
size in nets fully 100 yards before de-
ciding to put it into the discard. None
of the ferrets —mostly small does —was
harmed, and all came out shortly after
the brush-tailed exodus. The result in
defunct rodents was only five, although
the burrows bore evidence of slumlike
habitation.
“Betcha”: Despite the reputation it
enjoys for strategy, the fox family has
its full quota of mugs, and the only
reason the cunning ones are conspicuous
is because the other kind don’t last long.
That an escaped fox cannot be trapped
a second time is a fallacy, for three-
footed catches are common. Reynard’s
trap-sense is much like that of a dog, and
doesn’t necessarily denote especial saga-
city in other directions. For instance,
there usually follows me around a sheep-
dog of good intelligence, well bred, well
trained and a winner wherever he’s put,
yet he will blunder into every trap within
cooee. Another mong, a mistake that
owes his life to the ammunition shortage,
senses every set he comes on. Suddenly
he will stop dead, scan the spot with
horror, then, closing his eyes, will go
gingerly into reverse, thoroughly shaking
each paw in turn to assure himself of
its safety. After he has covered a dis-
tance of six yards or so without mishap
he broadcasts the news of his victory in
a triumphant burst of propaganda that
never fails to bring the other dogs to
investigate.
* * * *
“Louden”: The black snake, a cracker-
jack swimmer, sometimes takes to water
for the sheer love of the dip. I was^
sitting beside the Murrumbidgee when a
six-footer slithered past me silently,
dropped into the river and streaked to
midstream. There in the clear, fast-flow-
ing water it disported with joy. About
a minute of this, then suddenly it became
almost inert and, impelled by current and
wind, it drifted into calm water at a
bend 50 yards downstream. Reanimated,
it turned and swam leisurely back
through the placid bank-water to the
taking-off point and a violent death.
* * * *
“T.8.M.”; “Nakhoda” (B. 8/7/’42),
speaking of the extermination of the mos-
quito, reminds me of the complete re-
moval of the fly menace at an Australian
hospital in Egypt. A mile away lay a
village swarming with flies, but there
were literally no flies on us. Systematic
dealing with drains, grease-traps, etc.,
destroyed them, but still I could not
understand the miracle. However, my
veneration for the medical officer in
charge of camp hygiene was somewhat
shattered when it was gently pointed out
to me that it was no miracle but treat-
ment based on the simple fact that flies
have a very limited flying range—destroy
the eggs and the menace disappears, at
least until some eggs hatch halfway be-
tween the village and the hospital, but
this possibility was avoided by daily and
unremitting toil by the hygiene section.
* * * *
“Ngaduri”: “The 0.D.” (B. 8/ 7 / ’42)
has been singularly fortunate if all the
cockles he has worked for have coughed
up on the knocker. I broke in nine
horses for a cocky in South Oss while
waiting to be called up in the navy.
Working by myself the job took me 12
weeks. When I finished, the
boss asked me how much I
expected in my cheque. When
I told him 50 bob a week he
went green around the gills
and had to hang on to the
fence to save himself from
falling with the shock. Even-
tually, after much bellyach-
ing, he offered 40 bob.
When I stuck to my guns he
said he didn’t have any
cheque forms left, but he
would send one on to my
home at Riverton. The cheque
arrived after I had been
called up for the navy; he
had stuck to his 40 bob a
week, and added a note that
he had forgotten to mention
the cost of my keep, and he
thought that 225. 6d. a week
was pretty fair; so he had
taken the liberty of subtract-
ing that much from the total,
which meant less than £ll
for 12 weeks’ work. His
place is known for miles
around as “Pinchgut Farm.”
“Booler”: For sheer naivete this
theory, advanced by a newspaper natural-
ist in support of his argument that the
boo-book owl and not the mopoke makes
the mopoke sound, is hard to beat: “No
doubt the early settlers heard the boo-
book at night, and when they saw the
mopoke there in the morning jumped to
the conclusion that it was the bird they
had heard calling.” Now, if only he
could have added information as to what
the mopoke was doing there in the morn-
ing we’d be all set.
Jfc $ He *
“Wippegong”: If “B. A. Ker” had said
“it is Australia’s misfortune that her best
naturalists are seldom writers” (B.
8/7/’42) anywhere else it could have been
legitimate criticism, or a plea for articu-
lation, or simply proof that he knew
no better; but on the Abo. page—ye
gods! “Flight,” “Gryllus,” “Naturala”
and others, what are —ahem —we going
to do about it? The man should be
scalped! And his wail is not justified
to the extent that he thinks. One
example: In an Illawarra valley where
there are still a few great figs festooned
with ferns, orchids and “monkey ropes,”
tucked into a hillside of dank rain forest,
lives a lad who not only “refound” the
spine-tailed log-runner in its “type”
locality, but by concentration and superb
observation gained a knowledge of this
rather rare fowl’s habits and domestic
life far exceeding all that had previously
been learnt about it. A word was
dropped in the right direction, and a
bunch of Sydney’s most eminent orni-
thologists made camps in those hills till
—er —we had that bird written up in the
appropriate journals, photographed in
many positions and stripped of most of
its former mystery, all this through co-
operation between an observer on the
spot and others equally keen but without
the local man’s opportunities. Granted
that it’s good to write down what you
learn, but discoveries made are seldom
lost—they spread. “8.A.K.” himself illus-
trates that by mentioning the results of
his rouseabout’s observations.
DAY IN JULY.
The long lean hands of the, shadows, black as
burnt bread.
Go reaching and reaching greedily after the gold
Coins of sun that jingle in fragrant pockets sewn
With a needle of light and the wavering silken
thread
Of intimate wind. Here dreaming bush grasses
hold
The delicate green of aphis and, still as stone,
Rise thick and short and warm as wallaby fur.
Leaves lie in these hollows like homeless waifs
that have crept
From bleak city streets to the kind wide lap of
a park;
And, huddling together, sleep without fret or
stir.
Some of the laughter of April, that fluted or
leapt
In bird-song and water, has lived through the
foggy dark
Travail of June to conjure the earth-people
back;
The gnomes and the pointed-faced pixies to
zealously build
Their quaint tilted cromlechs of mushrooms or
greenly pack
The puff-balls with snuff again. The hawthorn
has filled
The brown gunny-sack of her boughs with
apples of haws;
And, beckoning the birds, spills never a tear
of her grief
That pear-slugs have eaten the emerald flame
of her leaf.
Day in July. The rough wombat hills move on
paws
Sunken in bracken, where old calloused roots of
each gum
Are cankered and twisted with storm. It is
cold up there;
The air is as silver and taut as the skin on a
drum;
And a loosened gum-leaf, crimsoned by frost, is
a flare
That hisses and smokes as it falls; so red it
seems
It would blister a naked foot treading it un-
aware.
The wattles tremble like blood-mares, and
shadowy streams
Of dew on their flanks are the satiny dark of
sweat;
If I smeared my finger across until it was wet
And tasted it, surely my tongue would be rimed
with salt.
These mare-trees cropped dawn’s budding before
I was born;
Their root-hooves pawed the spring earth that
was sweet as malt
With pollens and honey of flowers. The wind
blew his horn
And rode them barebacked and spurred them
with naked heels
Till the hills were rife with the rage of their
angry squeals!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


Wester”: Old Don, who knew his
sheep by their second names, found it
necessary to move about 800 dry ewes
to agistment 20 miles away. It was blaz-
ing hot and there wasn’t a skerrick of
feed on the road, so Don got them along
simply by loading his two-horse wagon
with oats and dribbling the grain over
the back. They followed him 10 miles
the first day; he gave them a bit that
night and they camped round his wagon
till dawn. Next day he got them to
within four miles of the agistment and
camped again. During the night a breeze
came from the tank in the agistment pad-
dock and the ewes promptly arose and
set out for it at the double. Old Don
turned lazily in his bunk, surveyed the
hurrying horde and then said mildly
“Look, girls, I don’t mind y’ hurryin’,
but stampin’ y’r feet keeps me awake, an’
that means I’ll sleep in in the mornin’
an’ won’t be there till late t’ open the
gate. Then y’ll be narked.” And he
snuggled down again, and the bloke who
told me this swears the ewes went past
on tiptoe.
“Betcha”: When it comes to their own
immediate families, a sheep’s sense of
proportion is much like that of a human.
We had a bunch in the yards, and
because of the crush had put about a
dozen young lambs over the fence to wait
till later. One homy old ewe put it all
over the mob for self-assertion. She
appropriated the only shade in the yard,
butted her way through the race and
claimed a lump of salt as her particular
property. When released she was first
through the gate to the lambs, and had
she felt inclined could have had her pick
of the youngsters. But, no. The first-
comer, a fine specimen of Corriedale
youth, she somersaulted into the fence,
a second sturdy applicant she bumped
viciously aside, then she selected from
the group a filthy scrap of discolored
hide and bone that would have disgraced
any compost heap. Yes, her own, and
old Horny was honestly proud of that
puny scrap of misery!
* * * *
“Munjong”: Every blackfellow in my
mustering team carried on his saddle a
koondy—a heavy stick, usually of karara
wood, sharpened at each end by charring
and scraping. Its uses varied from that
of missile thrown with astonishing
accuracy at rabbit or bird to entrenching
tool for digging out snake or goanna,
and it was an ugly weapon in their
occasional brawls. Its astonishing use as
an implement of dentistry (save the
mark!) occurred when Tazzy discovered
that a decayed tooth impaired his usual
hearty consumption of damper and jam.
The operation was a simple one —Tazzy
held the koondy in both hands with one
pointed end pressed against the offending
ivory, while Joe, steadying the other
end, hit it a tremendous clout with a flat
rock! Needless to state, the tooth was
“drawn” —while those who know the abo.
“That Labor Exchange? I be Wantin' half-dozen of them land girls
for couple o' days!”
will have no difficulty in believing that
the yell of laughter with which the rest
of the team greeted the “operation” was
joined a moment later by the patient.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: One of the worst-tem-
pered and foulest-tongued blokes you
could run across, “The Snorter” had lost
his right leg and got about on crutches,
a fact which made most of us tolerant of
him. But he only built on the tolerance
and, knowing full well that no able-
bodied man would stoush him, went on
abusing all and sundry and
sometimes giving a nasty poke
in the ribs or clout with a crutch.
In time he became a terror in
the place, so much so that his
appearance in a pub bar or a
restaurant or billiard room
meant that almost everybody
would slip out and leave him to
it. Then came a stranger, a
returned Digger, to work in the
town. “The Snorter” picked on
him, abused him roundly and
gave him a prod with the crutch.
The Digger eyed “The Snorter”
carefully, then turned and went
off. The next week-end he dis-
appeared, but returned on the
Monday with a mate. The mate
was minus a leg and walked on
crutches. Yes, that was the idea.
The Digger’s cobber made a
thorough job of “The Snorter,”
who couldn’t escape a go on
equal terms. They went at it like
medieval woodsmen with staves. After
that “The Snorter” was the mildest man
in that district.
* * * *
“Lang Lang”: In that part of
Gippsland it hadn’t rained for ten
days, and in that part of Gipps-
land that’s pretty near a drought.
“Listen,” said the cocky. Up on the hill
a cuckoo was -calling. “That’ll do me,”
said the cocky ; “get the dry cows outa
the swamp. It’ll be full in the morninV
Between then and dawn it rained over
three inches.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: I’m sure that bull-spini-
fex bunk of “B.4’s” (B. 15/7/ ’42) would
put a man to sleep, especially the kind
of man who could pull out the tussocks
as such a rate that he’d have enough of
them to form three layers of them over
an Bft. circle. My worst bunk was a
wheel-less baker’s cart, found one bitter
night when I dropped off a wheat truck
at Katoomba (N.S.W.) in the midst of a
blizzard. I blundered on the thing on
a spare allotment, folded myself inside
it, shut the tailboards and was safe from
the blast. But getting out of that bed-
room next morning was the most difficult
and painful task I’ve ever faced. It took
me a week to walk my left leg cut of
its habit of trying to curl itself round
my neck.
* * *
“Munjong”; We were cutting out year-
lings on the open “cutting-out flat,” and
Long Paddy —one of the blackfellows —
had worked a calf to the outskirts of the
mob and was galloping hard to head
it, with mamma in close attendance, about
three lengths behind. The calf jinked,
Paddy’s mare crossed her legs and came
down, and Paddy sailed over her head.
Long before that boy landed his legs were
hard at work treading air, with the result
that he landed in full stride, covered the
distance to the nearest gidya in some-
thing under even time, and was up the
tree like a startled bungarra. Laugh?
The rest of us had to dismount to do
it in comfort—you can’t do justice to an
act like that in the confines of a stock
saddle.
* * * *
“Bo”: Alf Summers leaned against
the big ironbark stump outside the harness
shed and with slow deliberation filled his
pipe. “Yairs,” he was saying, “some blokes
oughtn’t to be allowed to own property,
the way they neglect it. Take the cove
I bought this selection from, now. Y’
never saw such a dump! A big warren
o’ rabbits in the fur paddick over there,
“We'll have to hang on to this ridge. Snow!”
more burrs on the place than crops,
machinery rusting out in the open, tanks
all leakin’ and the well choked up with
old tins an’ rubbish, fences all skew-
whiff an’ half the wire off ’em, an’ I
guarantee he hadn’t splashed a brushful
o’ paint anywhere durin’ the forty years
he had the place.” “Quite so!” said the
new agent. He looked around at the
fences swaying drunkenly, the gates
swinging on bits of fencing wire, the
sheds with their rusted iron sheets.
gaps here and there, the grain of the
wood showing clearly on the paintless
barge boards, gutter and downpipe rotted
away and the mud tracks of white-ants
going up the weatherboards. Not twenty
yards away a harrow was just visible
among the fat hen which waved its
seed pods five feet above ground No
doubt, Alf wasn t exaggerating. Well
Mr. Summers, the agent said, and I
suppose having—ah—been stung, as it
were you want to unload it again as
quickly as possible. I understand. Very
wise move, too. It certainly wouldn t
pay to stop on the property and spend
money in putting it in order. You d never
get it back, anyway. It s a pity, really,
you hadn’t waited another month or so
until I came to Stumpjump. I wouldn’t
have put you on to anything like
this What the hell are y maggin
about? broke in Alf. Why, I bought
this joint over years a B°-
“n A”. j*
k ’ ? n adr i^ S S dn J °is drowned
bullock sat several bloated black goannas
while others bogged in up to the hind
? r^nd U fnv
frniv Bnml 8 nml hn'nrJd ntn
fully, and hopped in to investigate.
reShed’ tho™’ '"ofiowed' 5 by f
Nipper with a whopper clamped to his
wagger. The gorged gos. then staggered
for the trees but were chivvied nn near-
tor me trees out were chivvied up near
by fence-posts. As the dogs jumped and
nipped, the harassed lizards opened their
faces and shot the rancid icmains of
their recent banquet over the dials of
their tormentors. The disgusted tykes
were still rolling and cursing and battling
with goanna bilge as thecudgeries strolled
off without even a backward glance.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: According to their own
propaganda, the Japanese confidently
expect the natives in Java soon to be
bilingual, an intensive drive having
started to teach them Japanese as well
as their own native lingoes. If they
succeed they will be the first conquerors
of the Indies to do so. Although Malay
is the lingua franca throughout the
immense archipelago with its scores of
different races, the majority of Javanese
don’t speak it, and the number who have
been induced to learn Dutch in the three
centuries of Dutch occupation is rela-
tively tiny. Yet Dutch is an easy
language to acquire; unlike English, it
is spelt according to a logical system,
and has been taught in the dessa schools
for several generations. Japanese is one
of the most difficult languages in the
world, with no fewer than three scripts,
one of them the Chinese, which in itself is
the labor of a lifetime to acquire and
generally turns its students into queer
eccentrics. The Javanese is easygoing
and a diehard conservative as far as
foreign innovations are concerned. It is
probably hundreds of years since he first
saw a European-rigged ship perform the
miracle of beating to windward, yet he
still sets out in his outrigger fishing craft
on the land breeze and returns on the sea
breeze. It has never entered his head
to rig a vessel on the fore-and-aft model
and equip it with a keel or a centre-
board, though it would save him an
immense amount of loss and trouble if
he did^so.
* „*)_ * (tD . ' „
, - to °’ llice .r™ , ,
8/7/ 42), bent my gaze on those embel-
bshed doors of the new Public Library tn
s y dn . e y Y*!S h ,, are . massive records of
aboriginal life, and found them fat h-
- 7fpl representations, except in one thing
« was enounced that the abos. were
‘ rek - , wh ‘ ch ! s
and 1 wondered why the abo own ex-
presston walkabout wasn t used. 1m
stlll
» Betcha »- A bloke doesn’t live long
wdb a dog before he knows its particular
bark but old Steve had n mongs in
his k and claimed to know the voice
of e one of them A canine chorus
would float over the ridge> and Steve
would incline an ear . “That’s only Eddy
an> Johl1 » he ’ d explain ; “them two jus’
don . t make sense .” Then after a bit:
< There > s win an * Roosie startin’ in. Must
have some thin’ stuck up.” At night, too,
a y ap f rona outside and the old bloke’s
roar of » shut up there? Y ank! ” would
bring instant peace. But— eleven of ’em!
Seemed to me the claim should be
tested, so with this in view I took a noisy
tripehound of recent introduction and
went over to Steve’s shack just after
dark. Waiting till the old bloke had shut
the door, I crept into the yard, hitched
h - to a % ost and stro lled in for a
£ , d ex^austed the skin market,
the feed and the price of tobacco before
the new mon S began to tune in. I peeked
* rpmnvpd his nine onened
his to bellow,
f u “f’ catching ,he d ° ld blok d e
l* e that! 1 ‘o° k cover and grinned
When it was safe I emerged inspected
the cellm S nonchalantly and managed
“Which dog’s that, Steve?” Steve looked
i ”
ac ' os<J . ' , ip ' , ‘
' ch ? know your own dawg
S'* 7 An tym im up there, too!
££ , * * *
Adder : The argument was as t°
whether a snake m water would bite
anybody. All I know, contributed Bill,
“is that Ive crossed dozens of rivers
with snakes in ’em and none ever bit me.
An’ I’m willin’ t’ bet none ever will.”
“What makes y’ so sure?” demanded the
opposition. “Because I always use the
bridge, not bein’ able t’ swim,” said Bill,
* =l= * *
“Naturala”: Not only dingoes but
humans have survived scalping (B.
17/6/’42) and even lived to become
grandparents. In the “hair-lifting” days
of North America several such cases
were recorded, the victim being uncon-
scious during the operation. J. Breton,
in his Travels in the Australian Colonies,
published in London in 1833, tells of a
N.S.W. sheepman, his flocks harassed by
dogs, sallying forth with native assistants,
The dingo in question was waddied into
what seemed death. Its hide was then
removed up as far as the neck. Re-
passing the spot later in the day the
sheepman noticed that the carcass had dis-
appeared. The blacks speedily found a
trail to a near-by hollow log. Here the
naked animal still survived, and had to
be dragged out and again dispatched,
Such a thing is quite possible with such
a primitive type. I have seen a shark,
hoisted on a tackle and bereft of its
whole interior; the liver the
rest cast to the deep. Then, cut adrift,
the lawyer has gathered itself together and
swum away.


LYSASHTS
10
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
.t■ m -
" -.- oc* >*
MS-
m
m^i
W>i
: k--<.
i-'<r-
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Labor and Fly Strike.
“Bungaree”: The procedure for beat-
ing fly strike in normal times is (a)
crutching, ( b ) jetting, ( c) treatment with
fly dressings. In addition there is the
Mules operation, and emphasis has been
placed on (a) and ( b ) plus the Mules
operation for prevention rather than cure.
Shortage of labor means the pro-
gramme will have to be modified. Shear-
ing is only beginning in N.S.W., and wet
weather has already upset a programme
which relies on minimum loss of tithe for
success. Shearing runs are being dis-
located, and if winter and spring con-
tinue wet there will be severe fly attack
with the first warm weather.
The most laborious part is finding and
treating fly-blown sheep in the paddock.
Few properties have the men to do the
job thoroughly, hence the importance of
prevention. It will be harder than ever
to get crutchers and more reliance must
be placed on jetting. Where shearing has
been so delayed that full-woolled sheep
have to be carried through weeks of
warm, showery weather, jetting is the
only thing likely to hold the fly in check.
A preliminary crutching would make
a lot of difference, but it doesn’t seem
possible to get this done, and jetting will
have to be frequent where the wool is
long. The Mules operation has proved
itself, but it requires some skill and
knowledge and a fair number of able-
bodied catchers ; in the absence of men
it may have to be postponed.
When jetting before shearing use
sodium arsenite in preference to calcium
arsenite. The protection will not last as
long, but for various reasons it is better
than calcium arsenite prior to shearing.
Make preparations now. To wait until
the fly starts before ordering require-
ments might mean losing sheep before
the order is filled. Lack of transport is
increasing every day, and station sup-
plies may move down the priority list
within a short time. Plan the anti-fly
campaign and order equipment now.
Motherless Pigs.
“Hux”: It’s not difficult to rear
motherless pigs if they’re not left too
long without sufficient food. When the
sow isn’t strong a large litter should be
divided into two and each lot put with her
separately for a drink at regular intervals.
This may mean a lot of work, but it pays.
A mother of a small litter can always be
given some from another litter so long
as they’re about the same age as her own.
When small pigs are to be handfed
every precaution should be taken against
infection. A warm, dry camping ground,
handy to pasture, helps. Pasture sup-
plies vitamins and minerals. Start them
on whole cow’s milk, fed warm and fresh,
six times daily. After three weeks replace
the whole milk with separated milk and
gradually reduce the daily feeds to three.
About this time the pigs can begin on
trough food, which should be 90 p.c.
pollard, bran, maizemeal or wheatmcal,
mixed with about 10 p.c. of mealmeal.
Keep the troughs sheltered and dry.
Once on dry feed young pigs need lots
of water.
When teaching young pigs to drink cut
out the bottle and teat —a shallow dish
does just as well. The warm milk should
be placed in the dish about half an inch
deep and the pigs taken one at a time
and stood in the dish. Hold the pig
firmly and place its head in the milk—
é
“Another load'll do us. Then We'll sell the cart and send Napoleon
to the stud."
ê
stocks before, it’ll need a thorough clean-
ing out, walls, floors and ceiling. After
that get a good insecticide and spray the
place minutely, especially cracks, holes
and joints.
Grains and meals for stock should be
stored in a place separate from that used
for storage of grain and meals for human
consumption. Keep them well apart.
Insect damage won’t render stock foods
entirely useless for stock, but once the
pests get into the animal food it may be
a jumping-off place for them to the
human food. Grain spilt on floors should
be picked up to the last bit. Draw on
old stocks first, and as the spaces are
emptied clean and spray again before new
stocks are put in.
If insects are spotted on the bags, ex-
amine the whole area. Heavily-infested
stuff should be removed and either fed
to the stock or destroyed at once.
Lightly-infested stuff should be fumigated
with carbon bisulphide. Handle it with
care ; it gives off gas rapidly and is highly
inflam able and explosive.
You’ll need a tight box or bin for fumi-
gation. A square ship’s tank or a round
corrugated iron one is ideal. The fumi-
gation chamber should be fitted with a
lid to make it gastight. Stack the infested
material in the container and pour the
carbon bisulphide into a shallow tray or a
thick pad of bagging, put it on top of the
bags and promptly shut the lid tight.
After 36 hours open up and air the grain
or meal.
Judge the amount of carbon bisulphide
necessary by the size of the fumigation
ë
ē
with lime sulphur. When
planting out make a hes-
sian or other cover for
each plant against frosts.
It will mean a lot of
work but is worth it.
When setting out
plants put stakes in posi-
tion so that the roots
will not be damaged, and
instead of twine use
pieces of old tape or
cloth, and there will be
no lack of sap-flow and
no failure of flowers to
set.
Lower laterals and
flowers removed at plant-
ing-time will strengthen
the plants.
An intensive method is
the espalier system on
wire-netting. Choose a
north-east position free
from winds and set the
ĕ


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
. General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
FULLY GUARANTEED AS TO LONGEVITY, EFFICIENCY AND MECHANISM.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF. AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CEOSET PAN.
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine, and automatically runs off into
e
an underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
THERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT
Approved by the Board of Health —over 2000 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
ANY HANDYMAN UAN INSTAL IT.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co.Pty. Ltd. Telephone K 1052.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.b. SYDNEY, including 10% Sales Tax.
Plus 20/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra:
Obtainable direct, or from all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
53
i:
i
is
SCIENCE
THE
isfi
Ole
f/M
Scientists are great tube users...but they set many intricate
problems in their search for bores that were reliably true to
size. Fortunately, they took their problem to makers
of Cold Drawn Precision Seamless Steel Tubes ... and now
are regularly supplied with Capillary Tubing, Bourdon Gauge
and other tubes in which a bore of .002 of an inch is common.
English associates have passed on to BJ.M. the benefit
of their accumulated know-
ledge in precision scientific
tube making.
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
R. & Me
BTMIO
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
PRECISION
ALL WAYS
CRAVENA
are kinder . .
to the throat <
yWADE' SPECIALLY TO PRE VENT SORE THROATS V "
nmmmmmsmm
10 tor ll d 20 for 110
Also in Fifties
s ould get rid of it and plant paspalum
or some other useful grass. Giant couch
(lara grass) will give good results if the
ground is perpetually damp, smothering
of the South Johnstone.
Plane Creek”: Ideal soil for onions
a nc h, light loam, moist and well-
diamed. Raise the seedlings in a nursery
Led, transplant in drills 12in. apart, 6in.
between plants, at 3in. high, cutting off
one-third of the tops and roots and tak-
ing care not to cover anything more than
the stringy roots with earth. Keep weeds
down and water now and then with
water in which horse-manure has been
steeped for a few days—half a 501 b. bag
of horse-manure per cask of water.
Good varieties are Hunter River, Early
Brown, Early Barletta and White Spanish.
L. Cove”: A man’s boots or trousers
can spread disease from plant to plant,
ma^e tt a rule not to cultivate or walk
through French beans when they’re wet
with rain or dew. A worker who handles
a diseased crop should not be allowed
into the stud seed plot. Clean the planter
thoroughly and spray or wipe with a 5
p.c. solution of formalin before sowing
the beans for seed.
“Sailor Bill”: Stable and poultry
manures have a high nitrogen content and
are useful for land intended for grow-
ing cabbages and similar leaf crops. The
manures may either be dumped on the
paddock and ploughed in before the crop
is planted, or used as a topdressing after
the crop has been sown. They give best
results when dry and dusty.
“Jindivick”: Trees of all kinds —pome
fruits and citrus —are subject to out-of-
season cropping when the weather turns
freakish. Take the fruit off as it forms
when this happens, for the good of next
season’s crop.
Outback Occasions.
No. 45.
THE TIN-KETTLING.
Tin-kettling was a rite celebrated in
our part of the country whenever any-
body got married. No sooner would the
happy couple reach their new home and
the shades of evening fall than from
every bush would emerge males of all
ages armed with sticks and tins, prefer-
ably kerosene tins, surround the house
and belt the very devil out of the tins
and set up a clatter that scared every-
thing in hair, wool and feathers within
five miles.
The metal racket would be accom-
panied by wild yells and shouts, and the
hideous row would go on until the bride-
groom came forth and either invited the
mob in to partake of a feast or supplied
it with currency with which to entertain
itself at the nearest pub or lollyshop,
mostly lollyshop, since the majority of
the tin-kettlers was generally at the lolly
age.
Where or how this tin-kettling tradi-
tion got into the Australian bush I don't
know, nor have I ever come across any
theories about it. But in those parts no-
body could possibly hope to be married
and escape it. A close watch was kept
on couples “keeping company,” and the
moment the affair looked like being
blessed by the church there would be
mulga wires about and you’d see us
eyeing off old tins and stout sticks and
selecting likely noise-makers for the great
day—or, rather, night. And it didn’t
matter whether the night was fine, warm,
calm, windy, black or wet, the tin-kettling
would take place. We’d no more think
of abandoning it than of forgetting
Christmas.
Naturally, a good tin-kettling was ex-
pected by every newly-married couple,
and the bridegroom usually took pains
to prepare a suitable greeting. Doubtless
the rite expressed some form of con-
gratulation and fellowship. One chap,
who’d forgotten about the tin-kettling
and had arrived in his new home short
of cash and provender, almost cried as he
apologised to the performers, then left
his bride in their charge while he drove
a buggy and pair 12 miles to the town-
ship, pulled the storekeeper out of bed,
loaded up with materials for a feast and
returned. He’d been a tin-kettler himself.
Sometimes there wouldn’t be a wed-
ding for months, and some bright spirit
would remind us of the fact, and we’d
think of past tin-kettlings and good things
we’d eaten and the general hilariousness
of it and sigh and wish somebody would
hurry up and get married. Then we’d
either work off our surplus energy and
the need for gregarious expression by
holding a hare drive or going yabbying
or working up a couple of the lads into
fighting each other. We were great at
working up other people into fighting
other people, and when it rebounded, as
it sometimes did, and we had to fight
somebody else, we always thought the
idea a very poor one and not to be com-
pared with tin-kettling.
A really successful tin-kettling—where
there was a large gathering of tins and
kettlers and the tin-kettled turned on a
big shivoo and there were eating and
dancing and singing and horseplay until
dawn—was remembered for years. We’d
compare later and lesser tin-kettlings with
it, and say things were changing and
people weren’t as friendly as they used
to be. We’d be yarning, perhaps on a
Sunday afternoon at the old creek bridge
or up by the ruined house behind Jame-
son’s farm, and someone would say with-
out any preamble “Gripes, ’member the
night we tin-kettled Jim Brown?” Then
we’d say “Too right,” and fall silent and
remember it and try to think of some-
body likely to get married, and recall
with exasperation that this or that pair
had been “trackin’ f’r a fair bit now
an’ it’s about time they got spliced.”
And from that somebody would recall
a night when a big tin-kettling was let
loose on the startled bush and the bride-
groom came out in a huff and reluctantly
gave us some tea and cold-mutton sand-
wiches and didn’t ask us inside, and his
wife didn’t even open the door. We’d
mutter bitterly about that bloke and say
we’d always thought he was a decent
cove, and wasn’t it funny how you never
could tell.
There was one time when we hadn’t
had a wedding for a long period and a
stranger and his wife and little boy came
to live on The Crossing, a block that
hadn’t been occupied for several years,
because of some bother with the banks
and the will and the Government. The
little boy came to the school, but he was
very quiet, and it got about that they
were Germans and his people couldn’t
speak English. Anyhow, Jim Thornton,
who was always thinking up ideas,
reckoned it would be all right to tin-kettle
’em. He reckoned, and we found it easy
to agree, that if they came from Ger-
many they wouldn’t have been tin-kettled
and it was up to us to correct the over-
sight.
So one night we gathered round the
house at The Crossing and let her go.
Three or four dogs rushed from the
house and tried to eat us, but our own
dogs, who never missed a tin-kettling (or
anything else, for that matter) sailed into
them, and there was a frightful mix-up
in the darkness, with some trying to sepa-
rate the dogs and others trying to keep
up the tin-kettling and yelling. In the
middle of it all the house door flew open
and a double-flame shot into the night,
and there was, a roar like the Last Trump.
There was dead silence for a second, then
we took to our scrapers and bolted in all
directions.
It turned out that the cove thought
we’d come to drum him out of the dis-
trict or signify hatred or something, and
he’d shot off the gun over our heads
because he was afraid we’d burn the
place down. When the police told him
his mistake he invited the whole district
to his place and turned on one of the
biggest shivoos we’d ever had.


/ 9
( ' > 9, , -v-yy
Wmb.
• u
■
M
■
SWS
53
»XPBt s i
***•
“The secret’s in
the 333’s blend'”
4SX
NS*
<./rr
Spt
y':
jlO'
with *»*'
Co*^ cr '
Shrinkage of meat and other
S' HI
Cook with an AGA, and the fuel,
man-power and food you save, day
by day, will keep household bills
well down and help Australia,
too. AGA Cookers use Coke, a
low-priced by-product requiring' no
additional man-power, and burn
amazingly little in a whole year of
service. For instance, Model SC,
for city or country homes, is
guaranteed not to consume more
than £4/7/6 worth of fuel a year,
with coke at 35/- a ton, in the
city. (Freight increases price of
fuel in country, but annual con-
sumption is so low that amazing
economy is possible anywhere in
Australia.) The AGA Cooker ope-
rates on the scientific heat-storage
principle .... the most efficient
cooking method ever discovered.
foods is minimised. Nourishing
juices and appetising flavors are
retained.
Your AGA will burn continuously;
is heavily insulated; finished with
a sparkling, easily-cleaned vit-
reous enamelled surface, and needs
only a few minutes’ attention
dally. The AGA Cooker is made
in Great Britain. Over 40,000 are
in use in the British Empire. AGA
Cookers, are guaranteed against
faulty material and workmanship
for a period of ten (10) years.
We will gladly show you how
simple an AGA Cooker is for any-
one to use. Or, if you cannot
call, illustrated AGA Catalogue K 7
will be sent on request.
LEVIN & CO.. LTD. ( fe n
45 KING STREET, SYDNEY ;
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ;
and at Wellington, N.Z.
South Australian Agents: Colton, Palmer
& Preston, Ltd., Adelaide. Western
Australian Agents; Malloch Bros,, Ltd.,
Perth. Queensland Agents: Queensland
Primary Producers’ Co-operative Asso-
ciation, Ltd., Brisbane. ' Tasmanian
Agents; A. G. Webster & Sons, Hobart.
JhOrigmdfleatSbmm
COOKER
MA D E IN II I t*(N
N.Z.)
1852)
r
o
f
Li*
A
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy or borrow a textbook on Esperanto.
—3282.
Words of verse entitled “The Jackeroo.” —
3283.
To buy “Popular Mechanics” for April, 1919;
Stereoscopic Phenomena of Light and Sight,
by Theodore Brown; and Curiosities of Light
and Sight, by Shelford Bidwell. —3284.
To buy The Oldest Road, by Waring.—3285.
To buy Edison “Amberola” (cylinder) records.
Classics preferred—3286.
To buy Life of Matthew Flinders, by Pro-
fessor Scott. —3287.
To buy copy of Through Wildest Papua, by
J. G. Hides. Must be in good condition. —3288.
Information Sought.
What did Clement Wragge forecast in the
matter of droughts, etc. ?
It is believed that seasonal predictions of Mr.
Wragge did not extend beyond the year 1930.
A forecast up to that year was published in
the Sydney “Morning Herald” of April 25,
1915. The gist of it was: “After 1920 the
rainfall will begin to steadily fall off and the
worst of the next great under-average period
will be in 1923 and 1924 and Australians will
be justified in calling it a drought. In 1925
matters will again begin to improve and good
seasons will prevail from 1926 to 1930 inclusive.
Throughout the moon and' planetary perturba-
tions will exercise a modifying influence. The
period from the end of 1930 to 1935 has not
yet been calculated.” The Brisbane “Courier”
reprinted the statement on January 1, 1925,
about three years after Mr. Wragge’s death.
There is no record of any forecast being issued
for years subsequent to 1930. As Mr. Wragge’s
forecasts were based on an 11-year cycle, the
year 1940, according to that cycle and the fore-
going forecasts based thereon, should have
been a good one.
* * * *
Number of clothing factories in the various
Australian States in normal times?
Figures are for 1938-39. Boot and shoe fac-
tories: N.S.W. 101, Victoria 158, Queensland
23, S.A. 16, Westralia nine, Tasmania four.
Shirts, collars and underclothing: N.S.W. 127,
Victoria 99, Queensland 17, S.A. 27, Westralia
13. Tailoring and slop clothing: N.S.W. 453,
Victoria 375, Queensland 127, S.A. 119, West-
ralia 81, Tasmania 22. Dressmaking establish-
ments; N.S.W. 112, Victoria 472, Queensland
36, S.A. 46, Westralia 39, Tasmania six (includ-
ing millinery). Millinery establishments;
N.S.W. 64, Victoria 59, Queensland 15, S.A.
nine. Westralia eight.
* * * *
Is electrocution the method of carrying out
the penalty for murder throughout the U.S.A.?
No; according to The World Almanac,
electrocution is the penalty in 26 States, lethal
gas in eight, hanging in 12 and life imprison-
ment in seven. In Utah the penalty is “hang-
ing or shooting”; in Washington, life im-
prisonment or hanging, the jury to decide. In
the case of the U.S. Federal Government, the
penalty for murder is death, and, if the State
within which sentence is imposed does not have
the death penalty, the Court must designate
some other State in which sentence shall be
executed by manner prescribed in that State.
* * * •
In what matches did J. McMahon, president
of the N.R.M.A., play rep. Rugby Union foot-
ball?
James McMahon played for N.S.W. v.
Maoriland Natives, 1889; v. Maoriland, 1894;
v. Queensland, 1889, 1890, 1892, 1894 and 1896;
v. Victoria, 1889 and 1905. He was also
manager of the N.S.W. team to M.L. in l 1894.
McMahon (the finest full-back of his time)
played with Rosedale, Sydney and Randwick
clubs in Sydney premiership matches. He is a
life-member of N.S.W. Rugby Union council.
* * * *
Recipe for toilet soap?
Five pounds of mutton-fat well clarified, one
pound of caustic soda or lye, one quart of cold
water, two tablespoons of borax powder, two
tablespoons of ammonia, four ounces of gly-
cerine, half an ounce of oil of lavender or
any other perfume. Dissolve lye in water, melt
fat at a very low temperature (it must not be
hot), then beat it very slowly into the lye and
water. Add perfume, borax and ammonia in
that order, beat well and mould into shapes
or bars.
* $ * *
(1) When Gene Tunney retired after knocking
out Tom Heeney in 11 rounds at New York
City on June 6, 1928, who was the next to win
the world’s heavyweight championship which
Tunney vacated ? (2) Who held this title before
Joe Louis won it? (3) How many times has
Louis successfully defended the world’s heavy-
weight championship ?
(1) and (2) The final of an elimination tourna-
ment to decide Tunney’s successor was fought
by Jack Sharkey and Max Schmeling on June
12, 1930, Schmeling winning on a foul in the
fourth round. Sharkey outpointed Schmeling
in their return fight two years later. Primo
Camera knocked out Sharkey in six rounds and
won the championship on June 29, 1933; Max
Baer stopped Camera in 11 rounds on June
ê
Answers to Correspondents.
ë


a
□H
HwH
sa a m
••a
■■i
iiMMlif A-
ggg| iiP^
ggl l>
■ r
i»
if % pmsmlf
'
I 1 ■
K SIH ,/
y I LAMri s r W ,
- NPQat
p . * - .^Mm
PfJI Ir '
vm.. ■ y<,
,/ TH|
1I 1 i
M
Pi
•'jr
Wm. ill
«■ •■’ JBP.
% H ->-<>!.. % \;
'■ Jl
**
:: m
I
f- ■ ■■
.» * . * * I
* **;£ I
;
■■i
f
. I
I ■
vjo
; -a
m
if
■
% SS#^
k W , WSM: I
f& * W
sis
■
J J&.
-to* ? * H
Ik ’;
r
A w " ' >. -
W
iiiiiiii
I
■■
*.
p ;
ax' ’■'■
:ix * -
■
flv 4
V..
n
■xx
a
i^si
. : ': x. r
%
.«? a. W
ifli
HI
■I
i 5.j
1
li;f > ;: -' / '
K
$
- ; :k- i
i
'
BF x :ir
:.'\ jpp
■
I#
xxx;;.
:,-
i#
■
9
1
1
■
s
i
lip
jpipMpj’fv
s Wmm m
S 3
' jfef »j
is; a ■ if 3 : - kWtl';: X? V :
BKt
...-;
m
} :
■ :;
WmSmMi
x> .X V
tS
lSk^ i ''
r|
C' ,4ggSS&-
-V jJ
? '-""^
I - p
/o ‘ / V■■ ' i
Wk ' ;..-f
T I
* * £ ?* 'y
..... ■' ! |i ■
STEELS I IT
STORAGE
EQUIPMENT
is streamlining
Australia’s
War Industries
e
"Steelbilt" production lines are working at capacity pace turning out
-'..-'M ■■■;._ 1 ■■ ; • : ;,V „ ' - • i • i ‘ • .
storage equipment for Australians' defence industries and armed forces.
"Steelbilt" equipment guards costly machine tools . . . "Steelbilt" lockers keep Ordnance
Supplies ready to hand, and save priceless storage space. In almost every department
of Australia's Defence industries "Steelbilt" shelving. Storage Equipment, Lockers and
Cupboards are on duty. Already, big advantages in "Steelbilt" design and construction
have been made . . . and after the war, when civilian supplies will be available again,
you, Mr. Business Man, will get the benefit of these valuable improvements.
“SRELBILT”
STORAGE EQUIPMENT
MANUFACTURED BY
WORMALD BROS. MY. LTD. (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND
"Bangor" Door Hangers are also called up
for the duration. But as soon as conditions
permit, Wormald Bros, will be releasing
all the original "Bangor" models along
with many new improved types developed
over past months.
SBI


TRANSMISSION
ENGINEERS
Ludowiel's engineering work-
shop — largest of its kind in
Australia—produces a com-
plete range of Transmission
Equipment.
é
have provided Australian Industry
with the finest leather belting.
The quality of Pioneer Leather Belting is the result of years of con-
tinuous specialisation in tanning and belt making. Constant chemical
control of raw materials and tanning processes, routine inspection of
every stage of manufacture, ensure that uniform quality essential for
long term dependability.
Not only our Tannery and Belt-making Factories, but our Engineering Plant is the
largest of its kind in Australia producing Pivot and Torque Drives, V Belt Drives,
Pulleys, Bearings, Shaftings, a complete line of Power Transmission Equipment.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
112 YORK STREET (NEAR MARKET STREET), SYDNEY
20-26 QUEENS BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
iNVEMTUUS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * *
DAVIES A COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt
BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA
Just a Few Sips and—
Like a Flash Relief!
Sleep Sound All Night.
To-day at any chemist or store get a
bottle of BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL
(triple acting)—by far the largest-sell-
ing cough medicine in all of blizzardly
cold Canada —take a couple of doses
and sleep sound all night long.
One little sip and the ordinary cough
is “on its way”—continue for 2 or 3
days and you’ll hear no more from
that tough old hang-on cough that
nothing seems to help.
JhtMeqi
CANADIOL
MIXTURE
A SINGLE SIP PROVES IT
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
To contingency reserve, £420,000 ..1,653,371
1933 139,538 62,553 2i p.c. = 60,000 1,670,356
Reserves disappear, £20,000 .. 1,650,356
1934 258,384 62,553 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,702,187
1935 160,741 62,553 6 „ „ 144,000 1,656,375
1936 237,467 62,552 7 „ „ 168,000 1,663,292
1937 259,221 62,552 8 „ „ 192,000 1,667,961
1938 243,859 62,516 7 „ „ 168,000 1,681,304
Special tax provision, £38,000 .. 1,643,304
Surplus sale investments, £1636 .. 1,644,940
Goodwill new businesses, £21,657 .. 1,623,283
1939 178,024 62,500 44 p.c. = 108,000 1.630,807
Added goodwill, £4lOO .. ..1,626,707
1940 260,096 62,499 64 p.c. = 156,000 1,668,304
Net addition goodwill, £6OO .. 1,667,704
1941 240,007 62,349 7 p.c. = 168,000 1,677,362
Net addition goodwill, £1524 .. 1,675,838
1942 194,224 62,297 5 p.c. = 120,000 1,687,765
Second-largest of its kind in Australia,
the business spreads throughout five
States, nearly a ninth of the annual
wool clip passing through its hands.
Apart from wool- and stockbroking, pas-
toral-finance and merchandising in-
terests, etc., the co. is a large runowner
to boot, so from both directions is
affected by seasons and prices. For pas-
toralists, the rare favorable combination
of these variables usually spells striking
returns; but countless corporate and
private squatters alike have found to-
day’s profit and much of their capital
swallowed by drought and other losses
tomorrow. It is this aspect that will make
any rigid 4 p.c. profit ceiling, without
reference to average returns, grossly un-
fair to graziers and those financing them.
The influence of three record war-time
clips and recent vigorous expansion shows
up in this condensation of Goldsbrough’s
wool dealings:
r~ Bales N Austvaliac
Year to Carry Average
Mar. 31, Received. Sold, etc. Forward, per Bale, t
1934.. 295,416 318,035 8,128 £2O 4 5
1935.. 307,648 253.841 61,935 12.13 4
1936.. 306,777 358,232* 10,480 17 12 3
1937.. 301,598 292,873 19,205 20 14 2
1938.. 314,078 257,889 75,394 15 15 3
1939. . 302,563 351,791 26,166 13 4 0
1940.. 382,132 380,422 27,876 17 18 OX
1941.. 389,541 402,273 15,144 17 12 Of
1942.. 390,935 383,259 22,820 17 14 Of
* Includes 25,525 bales burnt and appraised.
t For year to June 30. f Approximate.
Though dryness influenced Australian
production of the staple, last term’s re-
ceipts into store were a bit better. But
the amount taken credit for in p. and 1.
was 19,014 bales lighter, owing to the
heavier closing carryover. Seasonal con-
ditions and disturbed mutton markets
affected not only stock-agency but station
earnings too. The latter shrank to “mod-
erate dimensions,” this partly because of
heavy increments in wage bills, to which
the man-power confusion, caused by more
war-planning enthusiasm than fore-
thought, added. Then, of course, there
have been compulsory restriction of ad-
vances and shaving down to p.c. of
the maximum interest charge for the risk
and expense thereof.
In monetary terms, all this is reflected
in a fall of £50,786 in gross earnings
(£921,269, after looking after bad debts,
etc.), while wage and salary lifts, insur-
ance and A.R.P. outlay added £33,508
net to exes. (£580,706). Depreciation
(£50,407) was £4334 higher, too, but, after
adjusting 1941 figures for £22,000 then
underprovided for taxation, there was a
rather surprising saving of £39,845 under
this head (£95,932). Chipping off deben-
ture interest, that left £45,731 less to
show to shareholders at £131,927, or 5.5
p.c. on capital, compared with 7.4 p.c.
and 8.2 p.c. for the two previous terms.
So a couple of points were knocked off
the div., bringing it back to 5 p.c.
Enforced slowing-down has occurred
in the reaching-out process ; while four
new branches were opened last term, six
were closed because of staff shortages;
1938. 1940. 1941. 1942.
£ £ £ £
Capital . . 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000
Debentures . 1.417,702 1,417,586 1,412,586 1,412,536
Creditors . . 858,692 915.152 881,960 694,173
Tax reserve . 27,829 75,337 105,413 107,441
Liquids . . 481,214 493,602 790,048 946,370
Advances . . 4,751,588 4,745,476 4,321,102 4,006,841
Stocks .. 102.067 219,468 247,553 221,484
Shares . . 43,268 43,365 44,121 45,310
Property, 41
etc. " . . 1,162,902 994,905 1,132,172 1,120.476
Plant. . . . 74,488 97,504 96,825 93,434
The reduction in advances enabled a cut
in the co.’s own debt and further accumu-
lation in the pile of liquids, which
brought in nearly a fifth of the year’s
dividend. Obviously, the management
is well equipped to restore its old services
to clients when again permitted.
For the exportable portion of the
fourth war-time clip, Britain will pay
15.4 d. a pound, 2d. up on its contract
for the three preceding ones, and the in-
crement comes when many costs had
reached embarrassing proportions. Last
season’s return to some 100,000 indi-
vidual growers was £65,846,000, of which
the final £7,887,550 (retention and equali-
sation moneys) will be paid at the end of
this month. So not only is John Bull a
prompt payer, but he assumes all war
risks, including accumulation of stocks.
American strategical and other purchases
and consumption of local mills have
kept these down to lower levels than
anticipated. Seasons have swung in
growers’ favor again, and runs have
never been better stocked. Meat plans,
however, have still to be finalised, and
labor and costs are the other chief un-
certainties.
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends , Towards
Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£, £ £/ £j &
1934.. 1,913 Nil Nil 1,913 21,397
1935.. 8,299 4741 f Nil 3,558 17,839
1936.. 20,090 73241: 4 p.c. = 6,659 6,107 11,732
8 p.c..
1937. , 23,426 2400 8 „ „ .13,821 7,205 4,529
Reserves.
1938.. 28,945 2400 8 „ ~ 16,000 10,545 6,016
Loss realisation property, £1299 .. 4,717
1939.. 28,328 2400 8 p.c. = 16,000 9,928 14,645
Profit sale property, £324 .. .. 14,969
6.97 p.c.
1940.. 15,241 2092 Nil 13,149 28,118
7 p.c.
1941.. 18,098 2100 7 p.c. = 14,000 1,998 30,116
1942. . 38,020§ 2100 7 „ „ 14,000 21,920 52,036
f 9 p.c. for 11 months to 30/9/’3l, and 6.9 p.c. for
13 months to 31/10/’32. | Includes all arrears.
§ Subject to taxation.
Because of the hit-or-miss character of
most taxation estimates, these days the
management has followed some other
traders—notably the variety chains —and
refrained from providing for the Gov-
ernment’s share of profits till the bill
comes along a practice likely to be-
come more common. For the previous
year taxes came to £11,821. So before
this charge the improvement in last term’s
earnings was from £29,919 to £38,020.
The all-round 7 p.c. distribution left
£21,920 available for the taxgatherer, and
that should be ample for his require-
ments.
Formed to take over the business of
F. Malley and Son just after the war of
1914-18, the co. normally turns out a
wide range of builders’ and plumbers’
hardware, sanitaryware, dairy uten-
sils, hotel and cafe equipment and
other lines from works at Alex-
andria, Sydney, selling its products
through four branches in that metro-
polis and one in Brisbane. After losses
aggregating £24,654 during the economic
stagnation of 1931-33, earnings made a
sharp recovery till war brought a diver-
sion of resources from all but essential
enterprise and a change in the nature of
demand.
In the resultant dislocation and change-
over of productive processes, declared
profits cut in two, but defence out-
puts are now developing in substan-
tial quantity, and, though these carry
narrow margins of profit, the more in-
tensive employment of plant in catering
for these and basic civilian needs has
headed earnings in the right direction
again. Apart from this direct contribu-
tion to war needs, D. Lyon McLarty, a
former director, has taken the post of
Director of Engineering and Shipbuild-
ing for the McKell Government.
Chief outwardly-manifest physical de-
velopment last year was the expenditure
of £8520 on property to provide more
elbow-room for defence activities:
1933. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £196,473 £230,000 £230,000 £230,000
Liabilities . . 23,833* 127,620* 112,463* 91,831
Freeholds . . 55,859 90,738 91,755 100,275
Leaseholds . . 15,680
Plant, etc. . . 40,820 49,072 46,348 43,578
Stock.. .. 50,960 106,991 111,275 123,005
Book debts . . 32,035 139,239 136,372 116,109
Cash, etc. . . 1,642 1,791 2,703 5,954
* Including’ provision for taxation.
On the other hand, after allowing for
depreciation of £4263, there was little ex-
penditure on plant, which is regularly
reported in efficient condition. The big
item is stock, etc. (up £11,730), though
the figure should be sound while things
remain as they are. Debtors dropped
£20,263, and the Government no doubt
now runs the biggest individual account
in the ledger.
After sales earlier this year at 11s.,
buyers are on the hunt for sellers of the
ords. at 14s. 6d. With a 5 p.c. div. on
the cards under profit restriction, the
yield at that figure would approach 7 p.c.
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Vic.)
Dividends. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. All Shares. serves, serves.
1936.. 9,904 8 p.c. = 3,331 6,573 19,942
1937.. 8.194 8 „ ~ 3,331 4,863 24,805
Surplus sale electrical undertaking, £7500 32,305
1938.. 12,330 11.1 p.c. = 4,626 7,704 40,009
1939.. 9.044 11.1 „ „ 4,626 4,418 44,427
1940.. 9,597 11.1 „ „ 4,626 4,971 49,398
1941.. 15,469 16.7 „ „ 9,253 6,216 55,614
1942.. 13,875 16.7 ~ „ 9,253 4,622 60,236
The fostering of rural industry was the
commendable aim of this 19-year-old,
the majority of whose 750 shareholders
are Maryborough district residents. Earn-
ings are now stepping along in good
style, and that was the case even before
war enabled a bit more to be exhibited in
p. and 1. by flogging plant to its limit.
Things were not always so, however: in
a clean-up in 1931 roughly £52,000 (11s.
on all shares) went overboard to eliminate
intangibles and write down the working
assets. So the all-round 16.7 p.c. div. of
the past two years is equal to no more
than 8 p.c. on capital actually subscribed.
The about-turn in prospects reflects the
reorganisation by the changed manage-
ment, which has repeatedly put by
more than was handed on to shareholders.
At the end of March this conservatism
had accumulated reserves of £60,236. So
the co. is in a position to restore jettisoned
capital should it so desire and be able to
maintain its position when the old textile
problem of over-capacity crops up again
at the cessation of hostilities.
Last term’s decline of £1594 in net
earnings reflects smaller margins on
manufacturing account because of wage-
lifts, etc. General outgoings (including
£3384 for depreciation and a staff con-
tribution of £1000) were a stable lot,
economies apparently affecting the
heavier inroads of taxation. On the
£55,512 of capital—£23,636 of it carries
a cumulative participating 8 p.c.—the
£13,875 of profit ran out at 25 p,c., com-
pared with 27.9, 23, 21.7 and 29.6 p.c.
for the four years before.
Compared with a decade ago, finances
are scarcely recognisable;
1930. 1937. 1941. 1942.
Capital .. £93,003 £41,630 £55,512 £55,515
Liabilities* . . 63,223 24,318 29,998 37,034
Freeholds . . 13,496 10,885 13,815 13,265
Plant, etc. . . 50,581 19,615 21,201 21,598
Debtors . . 18,823 20,793 26,023 22,825
Stock.. .. 53,845 42,304 74,555 97,833
S'hares . . 3,000 3,000
Cash, etc. . . 029 492 13,783 6,517
* Including tax provision.
The £13,876 of new capital gathered in
1941 and the extra £7036 put up by
outsiders last term went mainly into
stock. It’s now a substantial item, but
“due consideration to every material
existing circumstance” is claimed in its
valuation. Shares are the scrip in Inter-
knit Hosiery, floated by the co. in associ-
ation with Clunes locals a couple of years
back and reported “progressing satis-
factorily.” It is now turning out socks
for the army.
Automobile Fire and General (Melb.)
Bonus, Dividends
to Prefs. Nominal
Sur- Policy- 12 To Re- Re-
April, plus, holders, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
1933. 3163 300' 12p.c.= 2700 7,910 55,230
1934. . 3,144 1726 300 12 „ „ 2700 53,648
171 p.c.
1935.. 18.984 2423 437 „ 3938 12,186 65,834
20 p.c.
1936.. 20.649 2617 500 20 „ „ 4500 13,032 78,866
1937.. 18.937 2777 500 20 „ ~ 4500 11,160 90,026
1938.. 32.463 2913 500 20 „ „ 4500 24,550 114,576
1939.. 12.016 3043 500 20 „ „ 7625 848 115,424
1940.. 18.331 3389 500 20 „ „ 9500 4,942 120,366
1941.. 17,799 3524 500 20 ~ ~ 9500 4,275 124,641
Proceeds share “rights,” £149 .. 124,790
1942.. 4,914 4500 500 20 p.c.= 9500 115,204
The management of this striking little
concern doesn’t see quite eye to eye with
the “Wild Cat,” owing to difference in
treatment of the provision for unearned
premiums—premiums actually received
but the risks in respect of which were still
current when the books closed. Thus
the net surplus of £17,793 exhibited by
the co. last term is reduced to £4914 in
this column’s reckonings. After rebating
£4500 to policy-holders with clean sheets,
reserves therefore had to be drawn on
for almost the full amount of the 20 p.c.
div.; but obviously the co. will lose little
of its fat on that count.
A fall in business was only to be
expected considering the cars pushed off


LET
f ATLAS >
CARRY THE
L BURDEN j
£
■'S
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
&
-9
k,. O/
cl'**
%.
T.JONES E CO.
CHEMIST, SI9 George Street, Sydney.
Are you
watching
his health
If your dog’s
coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he Is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts—
start him now on
course of
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
eating with his old healthy appetite.
isAKtio tones up a dog’s whole system
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOD HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
iif £-:-3 sa
0
Security
Economy
Service
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE; Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ; Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K. 8.8., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
DANIEL
CRAWFORDS
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
i
ORB
BRAND
LYSAGHT
Galvanized Iron sheets lot
roofing, tankmaking, etc.
Fully approved for water
catchment and conservation.
FINISH
■m
m
m
V
M v-*-'
m.
*
m
LYSAGHT'
GLOBE
ROOFING TERNES
unsuitable
ran.
DHinkihC WATCH
GLOBE
BRAND
A lead-coated roofing and
walling sheet that is suit-
able where water conser-
vation is not » factor.
Both “War Fin-
ish” and “Terne-
Coated” Sheets
are of equal ten-
sile strength and
are ISOT dang-
erous to walk
upon, nor will
they shatter.
Because of the known unsuitability of lead-
coated sheets for water catchment and con-
servation, certain sections of the public
have confused Lysaght’s “War Finish”
Galvanized Iron with Lysaght’s Terne-
Coated Building Sheet. Gysaght’s “War
Finish” Galvanized Iron, although different
in appearance, is equal in quality to the
familiar pre-war “spangled” sheet and may
be used wherever water catchment and
storage is desired. The Terne-Coated sheet,
however, is NOT suitable for such purposes
but must be used for general roofing, wall-
ing, etc., where water catchment Is NOT
desired.
JOHN
SYDNEY
188-2860
LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY.
MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE
LTD.
FREMANTLE
the roads by petrol-rationing. More-
°ver, though third-party cover is now
compulsory in Victoria, comprehensive
Premiums were cut by 10 p.c. in June,
1941, and a further reduction in the
charge for both third-party and compre-
hensive cover followed in January:
NetPre- Loss Expense
miums. Claims. Exes. Kate. Rate.
1928.. £63,711 £41,501 £16,065 65.1 p.c. 25.2 p.c.
1930.. 51,344 29,469 18,801 57.3 „ 36.6 „
1932. . 38,989 16,182 16,394 41.5 „ 42.0 „
1934.. 44,173 23,053 20,749 52.1 „ 46.9 „
1937.. 88,049 40,203 32,315 45.7 „ 36.7 „
1938.. 134,750 59,618 48,441 44.2 „ 35.9 „
1939.. 127,579 72,502 51,059 56.8 „ 40.0 „
1940.. 135,889 71,359 56,366 52.5 „ 41.5 „
1941.. 133,252 63,436 59,853 47.6 „ 44.9 „
1942.. 110,861 46,017 68,438 41.8 „ 62.2 „
Fewer cars produced compensations in a
loss experience seldom more favorable —
the winter brownout appears to have in-
creased claims now coming forward,
however, and vehicles are becoming no
cheaper to repair. On the other hand,
the expense rate shot up to new recent
heights. Taxation was the chief culprit,
the reserve for the purpose bumping up
£9031 net. Before allowing for the no-
claims bonus, the result was a deficiency
of £3594 on underwriting account, com-
pared with the preceding term’s surplus
of £9963.
Returns from investments turned in
£B5OB (up £672). So a 12 p.c. div. is a very
reasonable expectation provided under-
writing breaks even. This will depend
partly on how heavily overhead con-
tinues to press and whether the fire and
general side of things can be economi-
cally expanded.
Finances conform to sound underwrit-
ing practice;
1934. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £25,000 £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Liabilities.. .. 21,436 ,33,182 34,111 31,278
Tax reserve .. 2,500 2,700’ 5,577 14,608
Freehold, etc. . . 43,034 53,012 52,793 54,146
Debtors . . . . 6,122 15,179 14,641 8,222
Investments and cash 58,429 146,550 155,418 160,198
There is nothing to cause either policy-
or shareholders any qualms there. The
former can see net tangibles equal to the
desired 150 p.c. of retained premiums,
while the latter’s capital is intact times
over.
“WOj” : Queensland once had a
tungsten industry. Wolfram worth over
a million sterling was produced. It died,
and the several hundred tons of annual
production will not now make up for the
cutting-off of Burmese and Chinese sup-
plies. The Larkin, at Wolfram Camp,
and the Neville, at Koorboora, in the
centre of the N.Q. tungsten province,
were once the biggest producing mines in
the world, but they are silent now after
less than 200 ft. of vertical exploitation.
The 1904 production of 1540 tons of
wolfram concentrates would be invalu-
able at present. A whole belt of mines
lies “extinguished” under a vertical depth
of 120 ft. —fairly large producers in their
time, too. There is no scientific de-
murrer against a similar volume of wol-
fram occurring in the next 120 ft,, though
it would not be so easy to get
as the top layer, of course. A field of
just as infinite possibilities as Burma, its
tungsten was extracted by the prospector,
except for two companies, the Irvine-
bank and the French Rare Metals Co.
Koorboora, Coolgarra, Bamford, Emu
Creek and Wolfram Camp, greatest of
all, were the fields. Rhodesia is now
searching for and getting new wolfram
deposits with the ultra-violet ray lamp.
Any thought of the Commonwealth
Government or its mining advisers using
this method? Not a bit of it, yet!
Meanwhile, Britain and Germany are
desperately bidding in Lisbon for the
small lots of concentrates produced in
the Iberian peninsula. Germany has bid
as high as £6O per WO 3 unit, against a
pre-war price of 14s. Germany owes
much of its engineering predominance
to the “miracle” cutting substance tung-
sten carbide, which is vital to tooling
steel in the armament industry. There is
still time for Australia to step out.
Shallow mines are open for probing
deeper, and the ray lamp is there for
searching for the more obscure surface
deposits.
* * * *
At the end of September Victoria had
74 quartz mines; it now has 28, and the
war-time future of some of these is
precarious owing to the diversion of
man-power, so that the avoidance of
losses rather than the earning of divi-
dends is the immediate concern of many
remaining. North Deborah, of Bendigo,
stands out as one which so far has been
able to maintain the bulk of millings
better than most, though grade is down
in the deeper parts of the mine. With
divs. of £265,200 on the slate, it has been
the most spectacular of Bendigo pro-
ducers since the revival in 1932 which
brought the neglected Deborah, Sheeps-
head and Nell Gwynne lines, in the
centre of the field, to the fore.
♦
New Occidental, chief public goldmine
in N.S.W. and the Commonwealth’s next
copper hope after Lyell and Morgan
before Chalmers came into prominence,
is hoping for a minimum of man-power
disturbance to its affairs. The red metal
comes mainly from its New Cobar mine,
but a little is now being got from the
Occidental, the main gold-winner—hence
present optimism. Chesney mine, which
the co, acquired in 1937, is also being
opened up with Government assistance.
Early records here indicate some 650,000
tons of 3i p.c. copper ore. That’s about
twice as rich as New Cobar stone,
though the position of the two is re-
versed as regards gold content.
* * * *
Westralia intends to go all out in the
production of essential minerals. Wiluna
and one or two' other treaters of
antimonial-gold ores are asked to do
more, and concerns whose gold deposits
contain a percentage of other wanted
metals are likewise urged to work
harder. Tin- and copper-producers are
also being encouraged to increase their
outputs. Exploitation of the State’s
notable alunite deposit at Lake Cam-
pion is steadily proceeding.
* * * *
Ore-production at Boulder Persever-
ance (W.A.) is ahead of the figure
for the first half of the last term, present
difficulties notwithstanding. Working
surplus has lost about £lO,OOO of its
bulk, however, in the same period. Its
neighboring and 65-p.c.-owned Enterprise
pup records a similar experience.
Final dividend of South Kalgurli
(W.A.) for the year ended March 31 is
due next month. Last year’s full rate
was 2s. sd. per share, against 2s. 6d. for
the previous term. Interim was at the
stable rate of 9d. Recent mining oper-
ations in the South Kalgurli holdings are
described as all to the good, with some
important ore exposures. Particulars of
Hainault development are usually stored
up for the annual meeting.
* * * *
Swan Bitter (W.A.) in several clean-
ups between the beginning of February
and the end of June extracted 4720 z. of
gold bullion .from some 1500 tons of ore
over the plates; estimated value, £4042.
Residues estimated to average 3|dwt.
gold were stacked for future treatment.
Raub Australian, whose Pahang
(F.M.S.) property has given shareholders
an anxious moment or two of recent
years because of the erratic behavior of
the ore-bodies, reckons that, when mining
ceased, the workings flooded and plant
immobilised, ore-grade was “sufficiently
high to encourage attempts to re-open
the mine.” Meanwhile a claim for,
compensation has been placed with the
Secretary of State for the Colonies, The
co. managed to transfer most of its liquid
resources to the Commonwealth before
Singapore fell, and at March 31 its realis-
able assets totalled £39,626, against which
stood known liabilities of £22,342, mostly
in respect of unclaimed dividends on the
Singapore register. Balance of £17,284 is
sd. spread over the 800,000 ss. shares.


m
m
CAN
A
TEA CUP
TELL
FORTUNE?
OUR
Perhaps! But the predictions of fortune-tellers have a habit
of being wrong.
Good fortune is largely wise planning. The only way to be
sure of financial in the years to come is to SAVE
tor it NOW, while you can. *
To restrict spending to an absolute minimum is not only a
contribution to Australia's war effort; it is plain common sense-
for money spent on non-essentials is money that could have
been, and should have been, directed to helping Australia
to Victory, 1 \
WINNING THE WAR IS THE GRAVE RESPONSIBILITY
OF THE NATION SAVING FOR THE NATION IS THE
GRAVE RESPONSIBILITY OF EVERY INDIVIDUAL.
the cammonuiEflLTti snumes brdk
Provides all facilities for saving money
m
h
£
/
/
/j
THAT
& .
<>
*
•V
rut
let Dx
I\houlder your Worries
The possession of assets brings with it many problems. Involved taxation,
war-time regulations, and the many complications which these critical times
produce, make the control and supervision of assets a constant source of
worry. Burns Philp Trust Company Limited offers a service which will relieve
you of all these responsibilities. It is prepared and equipped to administer
and safeguard your estate during your lifetime, leaving you free to enjoy
your retirement or concentrate on your professional or business affairs, free
from the burden of estate control. Ask for particulars of this service.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns PhilpTrust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, 5.P.0.. Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Importance of the Budget
Today in Australia the plans and de-
cisions of the Federal Government enter
intimately, not to say obtrusively, into
the life of everyone. A total war has to
be fought by total means, and it is an
unfortunate fact that, if the enemy sets a
standard of sacrifice by his own people,
anything less than that standard may be no
good to us. The efforts and aims of the
people have to be concentrated to a large
extent on one objective—the winning of
the war. Therefore government of a
decisive and firm kind is necessary, with
everybody doing his share. But inter-
ference with the people’s ordinary way
of life has to be to some purpose. Stirred
to action and sacrifice, and putting up
with all kinds of inconveniences, people
will not long tolerate mistakes and
muddle, waste and unfair distribution of
the war burden. And that is why the
Federal Budget and the economic control
that forms part of it are of such great im-
portance to every Australian. They
govern the extent of the people’s
economic participation in the war effort.
The Budget is the master plan to which
all other plans, individual and national,
must conform.
It has been forecast that this financial
year war will cost Australia upwards of
£4OO million. A Budget embracing such
a figure will be brought down in Parlia-
ment in August. When it is realised that
the total national income of the Common-
wealth is estimated at about £lOOO million
the magnitude of what is being asked of
the people of this country becomes more
apparent. Two-fifths of the national in-
come at least will be taken for the pur-
pose of waging war, and, irrespective of
how this money may seem to circulate
among the people when the Government
spends it, the simple fact remains that it
is all spent for the purpose of defence,
and is a heavy and definite charge against
living standards. Though by delusive
financial methods it may be possible to
deceive the eye in terms of money, in
terms of man-power and materials there
can be no deception. We are short of
both these things not only from a mili-
tary point of view but also as civilians.
The impact of war is hitting us in terms
of realities, such as living standards, not
in terms of- legal tender, such as money.
Money can be provided ad lib., but it
then retains only its face value, not
its buying power. The big problem con-
fronting us is to provide the essential
materials both for war and civil existence.
And the one thing is always competing
with the other.
Though the national income has been
spoken of as £lOOO million a year, at
present part of that income is sterilised
by reason of the fact that, though it is
produced, bought by the Government
and stored, we have really sold it only to
ourselves without being able to make
present use of it. From an Empire view-
point much of our wool falls into the
same category. Thus the national-in-
come candle is to some extent being
burnt from both ends. There is the
actual bite of war expenditure at one
end, and at the other there is the nullify-
ing effect of unsold production, rising
costs, dislocation to trade and transport
generally, and currency depreciation. In
other respects part of our war-time
national income may be proved to be
fictitious. There is an enormous amount
of non-productive work going on in Aus-
tralia at the present time, and this
amounts to nothing more than cross-
entries in the national books.
The Budget that Messrs. Curtin and
Chifley will bring down next month will
be one of the most important events of
the year from the point of view of every
Australian. It will indicate the respective
importance attached to the wants of the
fighting services and the civil population.
Although the amount of Government in-
come and expenditure does not represent
the total amount of the national income
and outgo, the defence portion of it does
amount to the extent by which war waste
will eat into the domain of the civilian.
The “waste” of war should mean no
more than the inevitable wastage involved
in fighting the enemy, for which there
can be no regrets. But incidental waste
is also present, and against it another
sort of war should be waged. Confusion
in administration adds to waste, and the
framing of the Commonwealth Budget
is therefore a matter for expert care and
attention. There will be enough con-
fusion and waste after the Budget has
made its allocations to the departments
and services concerned without there
being inherent faults in the Budget as
framed to begin with.
The Budget presented by the Labor
Government, then fresh to office, last
year was not a good one. It relied too
much on borrowed money for one thing,
and, while taxation amounted almost
to extortion in respect of companies
and higher incomes, so far as the
lower incomes were concerned it
failed entirely to cope with the growing
consuming capacity of this vast section
of the community because it did not
tax adequately. An effort to rectify the
position came with a supplementary
taxation proposal within a few weeks,
but the year finished with half the total
Government expenditure paid for out of
borrowed money, a large part of the
borrowings being from banks rather than
the people. Treasury figures showed that
two-thirds of the war expenditure alone
was paid for out of borrowings. To pay
for such a thing as war waste by creating
debt is obviously wrong and bound to
distress us later on. We should pay as
we go in money the same as we pay in
man-power and materials.
There has been a great deal of humbug
in Australian politics in recent years, so
much so that The Bulletin commented
on how refreshing it was to hear Mr.
Menzies promise the voters nothing in
the 1940 elections. He has been a cham-
pion of pay-as-you-go in war finance,
from which he endeavored to remove
the bunkum as well as the profit. The
present Government has adopted a con-
fusing attitude in the vital matter of
arranging and distributing the burden of
war. It has too many showmen and too
few solid characters in its Cabinet, and
showmen are never much good unless
someone provides them ‘With the right
goods to show, Australia’s finances in the
last financial year were the worst-managed
of all the British dominions. They were
bent too much to political considerations
and flew in the face of reality.
With the fourth and possibly vital
year of war soon to be upon us, Aus-
tralia’s effort in 1942-43 may decide its
destiny. There is not only the enemy
to be considered either; we are fighting
this war in order to live in peace after-
wards. It has been said that in the
1914-18 war certain “capitalists” were
profiteers, and that by their profiteering
the burden of war was unevenly distri-
buted. It has been added that if trade-
unionists are making hay in the form of
overtime and other wage increases now
and are not paying adequate taxation it
merely represents the swing of the
pendulum from one social extreme to
another. That is all very well if one favors
the pendulum system of life. But with the
swing of the pendulum go hectic periods
and slack periods, booms and slumps.
Only idiots can be in favor of that sort
of progress for Australia. Australia’s
policy should be a fair go for everyone
and all private fights off for the duration.
The initiative should come from Can-
berra.
The Commonwealth Government insists
that it is going to enforce the 4 p.c.
profits policy and has asked that the
necessary legal provisions be drafted. It
is astonishing that any Government
should display such pointless irresponsi-
bility with the war at its present dan-
gerous stage. There is no basis of equity,
decency or commonsense in reducing the
incomes of one class to almost nothing
while always adding to the incomes and
“conditions” of others. The 4 p.c. pro-
posal represents the exploitation of a
thrifty voting minority for political ends.
There is no hope of general national good
coming from it. As with much of the Gov-
ernment’s current financial methods, ex-
pediency, timidity, confusion and decep-
tion are its principal components.
* * * »
The N. S. Wales Chamber of Manu-
factures protests that the Prices Branch
is already acting on the assumption that
the 4 p.c. profits ceiling is law, and there
are reports from other quarters to con-
firm this. Of course it is not law. Sec-
tion 5 of Statutory Rule No. 76 says:
“Except in the case of unavoidable ex-
penditure or under process of law, a
person deriving profits from the carrying
on of a business shall not part with such
assets as will preclude his paying to the
Commissioner of Taxation (in accord-
ance with legislation to be enacted by the
Parliament} so much of those profits as
are in excess of an amount equal to 4 n c
of the capital employed in the business”'
It may be that the Prices Branch in
its ordinary manner of operating has
power to do almost what it likes in the
matter of arranging prices and profits If
so, that is something entirely separate
from the Rules which Dr. Evatt signed
on behalf of the Minister for Defence
Co-ordination. If the Prices Commis-
sioner is adjusting prices now to the 4 p. c .
policy under Government directions it
is an objectionable method of avoiding
a Parliamentary issue over what is a dis-
turbing and far-reaching experiment in
the field of war production and eco-
nomics,
* * * *
Latest predictions concerning the 4-p.c.-
profits-1 imitation proposal are that busi-
nesses with capital of less than £25,000
will be exempt where normally-taxed
profits don’t exceed £lOOO p.a., and
that above 4 p.c, companies will be
allowed to retain 4s. in the £ in order
to encourage efficiency. The last
portion of the proposal is admittedly
a concession to commonsense, but the
inequitable nature of the thing remains.
Why a fixed base of 4 p.c. to begin with?
Why not the obvious thing—average of
pre-war profits before providing for taxa-
tion, and make a genuine excess-profits
tax of the whole matter, the same as
other countries have found it wise to
do? The application of a 4 p.c. plan is
going to be full of difficulty, and, even
with any proposed concessions, it will
operate cumbrously. The last United
States decision in respect of war-time
companies’ profits was to levy a 45 p.c.
income tax and surtax and an p.c.
excess-profits tax. Canada has a 100 p.c.
excess-profits tax, with 20 p.c. of that a
post-war credit. Britain has the same,
plus the provision that earnings up to
6 p.c. are exempt from all e.-p.t.
* « * *
In Adelaide last week Minister for
Labor Ward referred to “apparently
able-bodied men” he had seen “in hotel
lounges and on golf courses during
normal business hours.” Apparently he
only looked into the lounge bars of the
pubs ; he is not reported as having men-
tioned the public bars. “No man,” said
the Minister, “should be exempt from
military service who can be spared to
visit these places. This is not the day
for a man to say he is entitled to a cer-
tain amount of leisure because he classi-
fies himself as of independent means.”
This paper disagrees ; a certain amount
of leisure is essential to the best war
effort from everyone, whether he be
classified as a factory manager, a union-
ist or a politician. But not weeks of
leisure on end, like some of our inde-
pendent coalminers have taken. Refer-
ring to limitation of profits and divi-
dends, Mr. Ward said it was essential
that big business interests should make
their contributions to the war. True;
and so should all other interests, big and
small, unionised and otherwise. But first
of all let us find out who have already
made contributions and who haven’t.
* * * *
Electrolytic Zinc, which must be ex-
ceptionally busy unless affected by ship-
ping problems, is postponing the usual
final div. until accounts (made up to June
30) are published towards the end of
September. “Circumstances and uncer-
tainties arising from war” are said by
the directors to be responsible for the
decision.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN THOMAS McATEER late of 84
Johnson Street Casino. —TAKE NOTICE that
ELSIE VIOLET McATEER has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 741 of 1942 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance on or before the
7th day of October 1942 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from W. J.
ENRIGHT & SKILTON Solicitors 467 High
Street West Maitland or their Agents TAYLOR
& KEARNEY City Mutual Building Hunter and
Bligh Streets Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HARRY ADOLPHUS LYE late of Sydney
and Brisbane.—TAKE NOTICE that OLIVE
BESSIE LYE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1020 of 1942 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance by the eleventh day of Septem-
ber One thousand nine hundred and forty-two
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from J. H. PEOPLES Solicitor 79 Eliza-
beth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
SADDLERY OF QUALITY!
No. 163,
"TUMBA"
“PRIDE OF THE ROAD.”
£ll/8/6
(COMPLETE)
A high-grade
Saddle with
narrowest
possible grip
and comfort-
ab 1 e no n-
chafing seat.
First- class
materials used
throughout.
H
N.S.W. Freight on
Saddles Paid far
Cash with Order,
ALTHER * STEVEMSOM
395 CEOBCE ST. SYDNEY
The Prudent
Citizen
Shows His
Gratitude
TN normal times the Prudent
Citizen goes on adding to
his Life Assurance as the
growth of his income permits,
but in times of War the
Nation has first call on his
new savings. Having arranged
adequate protection for his
Family (a prime duty for
every citizen) he puts all his
current savings into War
Loans, and does it gratefully,
and with both hands.
Of course, the man whose
family is not protected by Life
Assurance needs to see that
it is: when he has paid the
initial premium that assures
that protection, the rest of
what he can save should then
go into War Loans. In both
ways he helps in strengthen-
ing the Nation, for the Society
has already put £45,000,000
into Commonwealth Loans
and is adding about £500,000
a month to its holdings.
A.M.P. Society
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman;
C. H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout', M.L.C., J. O. Meeks,
Esq., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Ur. S. A. Smith.
A. W. Sneddon, P.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart and Canberra, A.C.T. District
Offices throughout all States.
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
WAR LOAN
FACTS
WAR LOAN is a means
by which the people are en-
abled to CO-OPERATE with
the Government in raising
money for Australia’s tremen-
dous war effort. For National
and Patriotic reasons it is
YOUR duty to lend as much
and as often as you can to the
nation. You are not asked to
GIVE your money, nor do you
merely lend it, you do better,
you lend and INVEST it, in
the safest possible security Aus-
tralia can offer, and at a very
sound interest rate.
V OUR subscription IS im-
portant, whether it be £lO or
£lO,OOO. Day by day the war
goes on, day by day Australia’s
part in it must be paid for,
day by day the money must be
found, and when found and put
to its task, back it comes to you
and your neighbours in the
form of wages and payment for
war materials, etc. On its re-
turn to you, it is in YOUR
power to send it forth again to
carry on the fight for Australia
and VICTORY.
Therefore, every subscrip-
tion you make to War Loans
(or National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates) is in-
vested in Australia’s security, in
your country’s preservation, and
in your own ultimate well-being.
• • *
Your money is returned IN
FULL at the end of the loan
term, and is secured at all
times, by the strongest guaran-
tee you can possibly have: The
whole financial resources of
Australia.
• • •
You CAN sell your bonds,
at any time, if the necessity
arises, before they become due
for repayment, either by private
sale or through a stockbroker.
If you don’t know how to go
about it, your own Bank will
attend to it for you. Bonds
are negotiable securities and
can be sold without restriction.
The interest rate IS a good
one, considering the soundness
and safety of the security and
certainly better than your sur-
plus money is earning now.
'• • •
Subscription to War Loans
is therefore a good investment
—safe, profitable, and conveni-
ent.
• • •
From the point of safety
alone, you should have part of
your savings invested in War
Loan Bonds. And don’t wait
for the next loan—the date of
the next War Loan has not yet
been announced, but you can
subscribe to it NOW. Subscrip-
tions of as little as £lO or any
multiple of £lO can be made in
advance, and your money will
earn interest from the day you
lodge your subscription with
any Bank, Savings Bank, of
Stockbroker.
INVEST NOW
IN THE
NEXT
WAR
LOAN
Remember, there are four ways by which you can support your
Government, with advantage to yourself — by investing NOW in . , .
6d. each (32 purchase a War Savings
Certificate)
16/- for each £1 Certificate
(Higher denominations available)
NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS—£lo(in f«n or by instalments)
NEXT LIBERTY LOAN
WAR SAVINGS STAMPS
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
£lO or any multiple of £lO
Share prices took a turn for the better
ln Australia from the middle of last
week onwards. In this respect they fol-
lowed London and New York. Whether
the improvement here had any relation-
ship with the announcement that 20 p.c.
of profits over 4 p.c. would be allowed
to stay in companies’ hands ' if the
Federal Government’s proposals become
law isn’t quite clear • though a conces-
sion thip.ro. 5 f • -i -i
t - ’ a WdS cause for jublla-
iion. Apparently the Federal Govern-
ment had set its heart on something or
other to do with 4 p.c., and rather than
n k„ nr i nn *1 . c I* .l , . .
don that figure altogether and intro-
duce a more effective and elastic excess-
profits tax it is trying to compromise.
Shares to participate in the moderate im-
provement last week were 8.H.P., Burns
Philp, Felt and Textiles, G. J. Coles and
Bradford Cotton, Averaged over the
entire market the rises were microscopic
but definite. In other days it would be
described as a stagnant market, but in
these times of shocks and snares any-
thing resembling firmness is appreciated,
Compared with the worst prices recorded
up to the end of 1941, last week’s quota-
tions were still very low.
* * * *
Since June 30 N. S. Wales accountants’
offices have been flooded with clients’
State income-tax assessment forms, obvi-
ously held over from a year of Govern-
ment affluence. Other taxpayers who deal
direct with the department have had the
same experience. Perhaps it is prudent
policy for a State Treasurer to keep some-
thing up his sleeve in a good year on the
chance of the next one not turning out
so well, but as there was a sort of under-
standing to hand over a proportion of
any surplus to the Commonwealth Gov-
eminent for the pursuit of the war some
consider that Premier McKell has carried
prudence a bit too far. However, things
like this will probably not be forgotten
at the next meeting of the Loan Council,
* * * *
Income tax last year brought £71.3
million in to the Commonwealth, com-
pared with £16.4 million in 1939-40.
Comparative figures for sales tax are
£26.8 million as against £12.2 million.
War-time company tax and super-tax
produced £6 million last term. Most
income tax last year was in respect of
incomes over £8 a week, though the lower
incomes paid more tax than hitherto
from the beginning of 1942. Payroll tax
paid by employers last year in order to
finance child endowment ran to nearly
£9 million.
* * * *
In the Melbourne “Argus” the other
da Y this paragraph appeared in an article
on the forthcoming Federal war Budget:
It is understood that at the conference
between the Prime Minister and the Trea-
surer and Commonwealth Bank officials
] ast Friday the possibility of obtaining sub-
stantially more revenue by direct taxation
on incomes below £4OO a year was dis-
mussed. Examination of British Treasury
figures showed, however, that relative to
population the yield from such class of in-
comes in Britain was only £1,000,000 more
tb an in Australia.
Something wrong somewhere. In Britain
a single man on £8 a week pays £lll a
year in taxes and post-war credits, in
Australia £57. A married man pays £Bl
in Britain, £43 in Australia, and for a
married couple with one child the figures
are £56 and £32. (Australian rates here
are based on the one-tax scale.) On £5
a week a single man pays £47 in Britain
and £l9 in the Commonwealth. If
married, the figures are £27 and £9
respectively. Canberra had better check
up on its “only £1,000,000 more.” Or
is it merely humbugging around the fact
that part of Britain’s tax is called a post-
war credit?
* * * *
Though the N. S. Wales consumption
of liquor in 1941 was up only 397,919
gallons in a total of 40,950,566 gallons,
the absence of troops overseas has to be
taken into account, and to these men
large quantities of beer were dispatched,
Of the home consumption, it was shared
about 50-50 between the metropolitan
area and the country. Drinking of
Australian wine increased by 15 p.c.
within the State,
. . * *.
Apparently there is no reduction m
quotas for wine sales compared with last
year, though beer and spirits have been
cut. It will surprise many that there has
been any control over wine sales at all,
seeing that stocks would in most cases
have been laid down some time ago, and
th at in any case the export market has
practically disappeared. Apparently the
official view is that, with other drink in
short supply, wine might be drunk like
beer, without intelligence or regard for
consequences. It is a pity that there is
not some way of avoiding this danger
while at the same time encouraging the
drinking of Australian wines—particu-
larly beverage wines—at home. Some
Australian light wines are excellent, yet
the average Australian drinker is un-
acquainted with any except port, sherry
and sparkling varieties. The grape indus-
try is an important one, and if the home
market enabled it to stand more firmly
on its legs it might be able to enter the
overseas trade more forcefully in post-
war years.
* * * *
The war-risk bonus on the Australian
coast has been made a general 33y p.c.,
with a 50 p.c. rate after an employee has
been on the one ship or in the service of
one employer for more than six months.
Where a seaman is dismissed by an em-
ployer for other than misconduct after
three months of service the bonus rate
will be 50 p.c. in his case The extra
rates do not apply to harbor or river
craft.
The chief engineer of a 9000-ton Aus-
tralian motor vessel now gets £143 a
month, including allowance for three
home ports. It works out at £1716 a
year. The master of such a vessel
receives £156 a month —£1872 a year.
Then there is 81 days’ leave a year. Sea-
men are paid in proportion. The 50 p.c.
war risk bonus operates whether a ship
is at sea or laid up in dock for months.
* * * *
The Australian note issue is up to
£lO4 million, maintaining an unbroken
rise. Government indebtedness to the
Commonwealth Bank is down to £100.7
million. It was around £llO mil-
lion a short time ago. Income-tax col-
lections and public money from the
Liberty Loan have helped to ease the
Treasury-bill position.
-• • ♦ *
The hoarding of notes, an obvious
feature of Australia’s present economic
life, means complete sterilisation of such
money. In order to get the notes the
people either draw money out of their
banking accounts or refrain from paying
fresh earnings into a bank. By not in-
vesting in war loans the notes they hoard
they fail to help the war effort in any
way except that the Commonwealth
Bank earns interest on its inflated note
issue. In some cases, too, note-hoarding
is companion to income-tax evasion.


THE SERVICE MAN
Egypt's Armageddon.
“Ek Dum”: After their introduction
to the new Egyptian front and the latest
Axis battle methods on July 11, when
they took some territory and 1400
prisoners, the “elements of the A.1.F.”
attached to the Eighth Army became the
centre of enemy attention, as the first
part of the Eighth Army on the estab-
lished El Alamein front to drive a salient
into the enemy defences.
General Auchinleck had paid them the
compliment of allotting them an im-
portant sector. They were on the north
beside the sea and in sight of the Ala-
mein lagoon, occupying a little valley
and the knoll of Tel el Eisa, with its
scraggy collection of uninspiring railway
buildings, and some other flats and ridges.
Three Italian divisions, considerably
the worse for wear, overlapped the front
which the Australians held in conjunc-
tion with the South Africans and other
units. In these formations, but parti-
cularly in the centre of the front below
them, there was plenty of movement;
plenty of evidence, too, that, though
Rommel had been brought up with a jolt
and was much harried, he was still able
to transfer his forces laterally on a large
scale.
His centre was opposite the flattened
western end of the low Ruweisat ridge
which, running roughly east and west,
forms a backbone for both armies. This
is about 10 miles from the sea. West
of it, in reserve, he had grouped the 21st
Panzer division, which had been brought
out of rustication on the edges of the
Quattara depression further south, thus
removing the immediate threat to the
southern British flank and the Cairo
road; also the 15th armored division,
bearing marks of weeks of mauling, and
the Italian Littorio armored division,
with considerably worse than a black eye.
To the south across the desert ridge,
with its charming assortment of desert
wadi, pothole, rock and small scrub, the
Maorilanders and Indians abutting on
the North of England division joined in
noisy gun choruses with the German
90th light armored division or its for-
midable remains.
A tough conjunction, these two assem-
blies from remote parts of the Empire.
In the N.Z. division —whose General
Freyberg last week cabled the Govern-
ment that his neck wound was healing
apace—are descendants of the tough
Scots and English of Southland and Well-
ington brigaded with Maoris under their
own leaders. In the Indian brigades, the
pride of Scotland, weather-beaten by two
years of solid campaigning, shares its
victories with warriors from Hindustan
who have established a just claim to
regard the bagpipe as one of their
national weapons.
Rommel seemed bent on using the cen-
tral ridge, along which the road runs,
after the habit of Australian wet-weather
tracks, as the focus of his great attack to
win Alexandria. The flanks of the ridge
obviously were dangerous or might be
for defenders. From the sides of it an
enemy might be scoured away after weak-
ness had been created by flank attacks.
Before any main assault, the German
commander engaged in steady prodding
of the British front to find weak spots,
test obviously strong ones and have an
artillery rehearsal. Perhaps, too, he was
waiting for air support. Against consis-
tent British superiority, his existing for-
mations of Stukas and fighters were at
a distinct disadvantage.
The British fighter-bombers, so success-
ful in France and now tried out thor-
oughly for the first time against battle
communications and in conjunction with
artillery, seemed to be a devastating
success.
A Hurribomber is a momentary bliz-
zard of machine-gun fire followed by an
explosive avalanche. It gets out of the
way of a barrage in the flick of an eyelid
and out of the sights of a Bofors while
the aimer draws breath. It can go down
a lorry column like a bandsaw at low
elevation and end up with a victory roll
which sucks a dust cloud round it.
On July 12 there was one fierce but
small tank engagement. A party of Ger-
man Mark IVs had a sharp test of
strength with new General Grants in the
hands of British cavalry, which charged
the approaching enemy headlong, laid
side on to their foes in the best “wooden-
walls” style of Nelson’s day, and began
blazing. The Germans drew first blood
by catching a British tank in a crossfire.
But the rest of the fray was a lesson to
them. Four of Rommel’s mastodons
were soon lying smashed and burning.
A fifth was picked off as the residue
limped westward into the dustcloud.
Rommel v. Australians
On July 13‘Rommel began to apply
himself to the testing of the Australians
and S. Africans in the coastal area. He
apparently had a fancy for their small
coastal valley as a tank nest and for the
approaches which they held as a means
of slipping across the main road in the
British territory. Moreover, if the northern
British flank could be assailed, the sea
at a foe’s back in armored combat is a
strong disadvantage, restricting his direc-
tion and scope of manoeuvre.
Six times on July 13 the enemy flung
everything he had at the A.I.F. and the
S’Africans a little further south. Tanks,
bombers, artillery fire and assorted in-
fantry were all heaved at the lines, and
as consistently heaved back, followed by
an avalanche of shells screaming in the
wake of the fighter-bombers on their way
down the Mersah Matruh road.
The artillery fire gradually grew into
a resounding barrage. At dusk it reached
its height. The Stukas, having done their
best to shut down the guns, went home.
The last waddling German tanks, having
failed to get within hundreds of yards of
the Australian positions, followed the sun
westward, though not for good.
All down the coast ahead of them, at
Mersa Matruh, where the navy had been
at work, at Tobruk, at Benghazi, among
smoking heaps along the desert tracks
which had once been lorries, fires sent
columns of smoke into the dusty sky.
All next day there were reconnaissances,
with bursts of staccato machine-gun fire
breaking across the gruff rumble and
bark of the heavier weapons and the
crump of the Stuka fruit.
At 7.30 p.m. after some waspish pre-
liminaries, German and Italian tanks in
bulk, with 500 picked German infantry,
were flung against Tel el Eisa station on
its little exposed hill. Two Victorian
companies held this bunch of shacks. The
attackers broke round on both sides of
the hill, leaving the Victorians besieged
and in danger of being overwhelmed.
The tanks ranged themselves. Mortars
were set down and began what the enemy
seemed to consider a mopping-up opera-
tion, He paid heavily and continu-
ously. Soon seven burning tanks lit up
the landscape —later it was 14—for A.I.F.
artillery had joined in to ease the posi-
tion for the Victorians, who kept radio
touch with their battalion H.Q. while
staving off the importunities of a ten-
to-one investment force.
At midnight, they advised that they in-
tended to break out. At the morning stir
they formed up silently. In a wild charge
with bayonet, fist and rifle butt they
broke out on the edge of dawn and took
up a new position along a ridge linking
with the rest of the forces.
The Germans pouring into the elevated
station position at once became a target
for the Australian 25-pounders, which
sent them bolting underground. The
tanks had been thrown back to the west
of the station by the artillery already,
except for those which had approached
the S. Australian and Victorian infantry
positions and which were never likely to
go anywhere again except on a scrap
waggon.
It was not long before a new enemy
attack was brewing. At 7 a.m. on July
15 the sky seemed full of slow and
clumsy wings as the Stuka formations
came in over the Australian positions in
waves, leaving behind a trail of bombs
which went off in a continuous roar like
that of an avalanche. They were the
heralds of 800 enemy infantry which
were launched fiercely—picked troops
from the 90th German division and
anti-aircraft units whose use suggested
that German mechanised infantry short-
age exists not only in Russia.
Other action had developed southward
down the line on Wednesday night. The
Baluchis of the Indian division crept up
to the Italian positions, while astern of
them Australian mechanised cavalry
waited to follow up.
It was pitch-dark. Only the Indian
yell, followed by the rattle and scream of
engines, told the enemy what was afoot
before the bayonets began to flash. The
Italians separated into panicking knots.
The Australian cavalry assumed the role
of musterers while Italian guns, on an
eminence aptly named The Pimple,
opened up regardless of friend or foe,
British tanks drew off the fire to allow
the Indians to complete their work.
Daylight saw a trickle of Italian
prisoners stepping eastward over their
dead, while the proud Baluchis went home
between the guardian flanks of S. African
and Maorilander which had stood by to
see fair play, and the A.I.F. vehicles
cleaned up in the rear.
A Main Battle Begins
On July 15 a major battle began all
along the line. In geographical order
from the coast, the operations were some-
what as follows: The Australians at the
extreme north were throughout the day
going through the preliminaries for the
attack with which they presently threw
the Germans off the height called Snell’s
Spur which had been occupied by the
enemy during Tuesday’s fighting.
During Wednesday night they crawled
to the approaches of this position. They
lay, belly-flat, through the slow hours
of the early-morning darkness. As the
first dawn light heralded the advent of
Thursday, July 16, they rose with a wild
yell a few hundred yards from the
German posts, and in a matter of seconds
were involved in bloody hand-to-hand
fighting—bloody for the enemy, since in
this and previous engagements (though
later operations were relatively costly)
Australian casualties are described as
“astonishingly light.”
Urged by tommy-gun, grenade and
bayonet, the Germans abandoned the
spur and retired to lick their wounds,
but with no intention of accepting the
verdict as final.
At once the preparations for their
counter-attack on the Australian positions
were in train. They began by laying
down a smokescreen with the type of
shell which, in the Crimea earlier in the
year, had led the Russians to believe
that gas shells were being used. Aus-
tralians had the same first impression.
The enemy smokescreens, walling off
positions to be attacked, soon were a
familiar phenomenon all along the line.
In the afternoon British tanks, with
Australian and S. African field-gun sup-
port, cleared El Eisa station of the Ger-
mans.
Further south three hard-hitting
columns of S. Africans operated on Wed-
nesday night. With armored cars,-Brens,
mobile artillery and mechanised infantry
they converged on the enemy in pitch-
darkness. The enemy happened to be
Italians. At one section they used their
a.-t. guns with effect; the rest was very
bad for them.
South of the Ruweisa ridge the Maori-
landers, too, went into action on Wednes-
day (July 15), following the Indian suc-
cess, and sent the German front hurtling
back some distance.
Then Rommel, through a heavy smoke-
screen, struck with great power in the
central sector, and the whole front was
aflame.
It was confused fighting, see-sawing
backwards and forwards, each side giving
blow for blow except in the south. There
Rommel was showing a tendency to with-
draw, a movement at first suspiciously
like the “weakness feint” practised against
the Red Army.
No correspondent had anything like a
picture of the whole front up to July 20,
and the melee had been so whirling that
twice in one day Brigadier Inglis, com-
manding the Maorilanders, was captured
when German armored units rounded up
N.Z.H.Q.
The first time British tanks drove off
the enemy, who abandoned his prisoners.
The brigadier and a companion then
started a heavy truck and began to round
up wounded, when they were again cap-
tured, this time by German tanks. As
they were being led off as prisoners, the
brigadier, a far-famed and wiry hooker
for the All Blacks of ’2B, slid into the
dust and got away.
The sum total of the battle to July 19
was that the centre of the Eighth Army
had advanced westward, securing tem-
porarily the Ruweisat ridge, thus divid-
ing the enemy tank front. This position
Rommel’s infantry had failed to remedy.
So with the hurling of the 15th and
21st Panzer divisions into the fray on
July 16. The Australians had advanced
a considerable distance along the coast.
On July 19 they held a salient driven
four or five miles into the enemy’s posi-
tions, and had the initiative, after having
just retaken a ridge substantially in
advance of El Eisa railway station. The
retrieving was done in the usual grim way
with a silent bayonet advance by a West-
ralian battalion, this time under a feeble
moon.
The Westralians were robbed of a stiff
fight—the enemy had decided that the
position was too tough to hold long.
A.I.F. and S.A. guns were brought up
for support.
Dawn discovered Axis troops digging
in like badgers 1000 yards away to the
west and the morning artillery duel be-
ginning. The Westralian position, when
last heard from on July 19, was well con-
solidated, the occupants in great heart,
the casualties light. And all along the
A.I.F. front under a yellow sandcloud
brought up by a duststorm little knots
of prisoners, mostly Italians, were drift-
ing rearward while heavy fighting raged.
The second salient driven into the very
heart of Rommel’s defences along the
Ruweisat ridge at the week-end had
proved itself unassailable, though great
armored weight had been used to try to
pinch it out.
And the enemy’s westward move on
the southern flank began to look as if
it might be—but not necessarily was —a
preliminary to a general falling back.
Brigadier Inglis told a correspondent
that he believed the recent night attacks
and the continuous R.A.F. bombing had
badly rattled the enemy, and that Italian
morale was particularly rocky. On
several occasions Italians had blown up
their own guns before N.Z. attacks ; and
some prisoners had complained bitterly
that they were attacked while in bed.
All the successes had to be qualified
by the certainty that the battle was only
in its first phase.
But fortune so far was on the side of
the Eighth Army, which held the initiative
on most sectors.
Crisis on the Don.
“Ek Dum”: One of the most important
industrial districts at any time in the life
of the U.S.S.R. is the chain of mineral-
ised areas which runs from the 150-mile-
long Kursk iron deposits, via Kharkov
and the Donetz valley, into the Lugansk
coal and heavy industry triangle and
thence to Rostov.
This region is between the Dnieper
and Lugansk (Voroshilovgrad). Kursk is
370-odd miles direct line n.-w. of Ros-
tov ; Kharkov about 250 miles. The
western half of the Lugansk triangle,
along the Taganrog-Kharkov railway,
was in German hands throughout the
winter; but the enemy had next to no-
thing of the loose knot of railways which
join the great cluster of industrial towns
above Stalino.
What would happen to this country
was a cardinal test of what strength re-
mained to Russia,
The conquest of 90 per cent, of the
Ukraine last year created a perilous food
situation. The breaking-down of the
Dnieperstroi dam had whittled away a
vast quota of Russia’s power resources,
making the Soviets dangerously depen-
dent on the coal of the Donetz region.
The railway which hangs down on the
map like a bit of dangling string through
Voronezh, not more than 150 miles from
the direct line between Rostov and Khar-
kov, was the main traffic link between
the central Russian defence system and
the southern, and between Moscow and
the Caucasus and Rostov armies.
Along and beyond this line lay tens of
thousands of square miles of black-earth
cornfields. If there is any fever of haste
in Hitler’s proceedings and any signifi-
cance in the curious outcurving north
and south along the Don, and north-east
along the Kursk-Voronezh-Saratov rail-
way system, it is due to anxiety to gobble
up these cornfields before the spring grain
can be. reaped.
The Black Earth forks north of Voro-
nezh, near Tambov. With the southern
Don region gone, all the Black Earth left
in the hands of its rightful owners would
be the area, comparatively small, em-
braced by the low-hill country east of the
Tambov valley. This is about 300 miles
long by 200 miles wide at the extreme
reach. Its most easterly point is at
Kuibyshev, the substitute capital of the
U.S.S.R. South of here the old German
republic of the Volga straddles that area
near the edges of the wheatlands.
A 45-mile drive south-east from Voro-
shilovgrad would cut the main railway
from Stalingrad on the Volga, thus virtu-
ally isolating Rostov from the porth and
east, except by a very roundabout route
500 miles long via Tikhoryetsk, on the
Caucasian threshold. A 150-mile drive
from Kerch Strait could cut this also,
along with Rostov’s pipeline.
The Danger to Stalingrad
The Stalingrad connection in danger
east of Voroshilovgrad was Kamenskaya.
The trend of German thoughts in the
direction had been proved before the
winter by the thrusting out to this town
of a dangerously isolated tank probe


which was hastily drawn back. The dis-
tance from Kamenskaya to Stalingrad at
the Volga bend is under 200 miles. The
railway marks the shortest route and cuts
across the centre of the big, loosely-sag-
ging bend of the Don.
The Don, a little above Stalingrad,
runs within 25 miles or so of the Volga
and almost touches the Moscow-Stalin-
grad railway. Stalingrad is one of the
biggest tank-making and agricultural-
machinery towns left to the U.S.S.R.,
apart from its value as a traffic junction.
Coal, steel, corn, the control of the last
bit of the industrial Ukraine, great water-
ways, access to the Caspian oil and to
Asia—these are the vast spoils in the
irregular quadrilateral bounded by lines
between Kursk and Rostov, Rostov and
Stalingrad, Stalingrad and Saratov, Sara-
tov and Kursk.
That the Russians realised that it was
the most important area left either in
Europe or elsewhere was evidenced by
their transfer of Timoshenko southward
before the winter. The haste with which
Von Bock followed him advertised the
German understanding of the position. It
was to be inferred that if there were a
main offensive in this south-eastern sector
it would be flung at the Russian defences
with all the power which could be mus-
tered during the winter lull, and that it
would have to be met with every Russian
man and weapon that could be spared
from other fronts.
If, as was suggested by Moscow at the
beginning of the May battle, Timoshenko
actually intended to take Kharkov and
sweep the enemy across the Dnieper, the
plan was based on a misconception of
the power of the German forces. If it
was induced by the belief that a main
German drive was about to begin at
Rostov, it is now clear that the Red
Army commander fell into the same sort
of trap as lured Budenny away from the
Kiev area and into the Dnieper bend.
Budenny’s misjudgment thinned down
Kiev’s covering arc of armies so much
that Kleist’s Panzers went through them
in a few hours.
As Budenny was lured south-eastward,
Timoshenko and large forces were led
into striking directly westward in an ill-
conceived frontal attack. The Germans
did not even attempt to break down the
Donetz bridges by which it was being
made. The Russian spearhead was pushed
to the point where it began to lose
momentum. It then certainly could not
generate swift momentum rearward in
the confined space available and with
powerful enemy brake-shoes pressing
on both flanks. The Germans struck
an axeblow on the Isyum-Barvenkova
joint, cutting off the head of Timo-
shenko’s advance, and leaving the Donetz
bridgeheads vulnerable along a denuded
neck over 100 miles long.
They now struck at Kupyansk, a rail-
way junction in the wound they had
made.
They stove in the Russian defence east
of the Donetz for 100 miles or so north
and south.
Hastily Timoshenko called on his
armies further north to come south and
reinforce the now doubtful and frontally
battered Red Army wall which stood
between the foe and the Don cornfields,
the river itself and the Volga.
At once Von Bock takes advantage of
the new weakness created in the Kursk
district with a new drive. When it is
under way he strikes at the north-western
joint of the salient his frontal drive from
Kharkov across the Donetz had created
in the Bielgorod-Volchansk area. His is
a heavy blow, and joints are always
danger-points. Timoshenko’s troops from
midway to the Don in that latitude
bunch hastily eastward to brace their
shoulders to meet it with every ounce of
muscle. Von Bock takes advantage
of the weakness in their rear which
this movement creates, pushing a burning
spear along their backs up the Oskol
River valley.
In the swirl of confusion that followed,
with many German feints and move-
ments from various directions in pro-
gress, it was certain that it would be diffi-
cult for the various retreating Russian
forces to correlate their plan and momen-
tum, hold the Don bridgeheads and avoid
being isolated in small slices along the
river. The whole countryside was seeded
with vital objectives, and the enemy
seemed to be striking at all of them.
Movement meanwhile had developed
on a powerful scale in the north of the
Moscow sector and in front of Rshev.
An encircling drive which kesselled some
troops north of the Smolensk-Moscow
road added to the sternness of the situa-
tion. Zhukov, defending Moscow with
his own head in a bag to the south-west
of the capital, between Bryansk and
Gzhatsk, could scarcely risk parting with
men or resources on any large scale.
The Fight at Voronezh
On July 6-7 two or three German divi-
sions darted eastward along the Kursk-
Voronezh line. The German High Com-
mand announced that Voronezh itself,
the city from which Timoshenko had
organised his Don and Caucasian de-
fences, had been captured. Moscow’s
denial was accepted, subject to reserva-
tion, As a rule, there is a time lag in
Russian admissions.
On July 20 Moscow reports were con-
flicting. Some admitted that the enemy
had penetrated the city; some did not-
All agreed that the Germans about Voro-
nezh were on the defensive, and spoke
of Russian recrossings of the Don.
Voronezh lies in a loop of rivers, the
Don on the west, the Voronezh on the
east, the meeting of the waters just to
the south. Its approaches are covered by
woods. Here, it was said, was being
fought the bloodiest battle of the war.
The German objective since the cross-
ing of the Don has probably been to
bar the way at Voronezh, a convenient
point, to Red Army reinforcements try-
ing to make south by river, rail and road
to help the Don armies.
Irrespective of whose hands Voronezh
was in, the enemy flung two spearheads
across the Don, and soon had control
of the Moscow-Rostov line all the way
to its crossing back to the west side of
the Don —60 miles or so below Voro-
nezh.
Below the crossing, another dart of
flame sizzled into Rokoch, and the whole
German front line as it had been estab-
lished in the early Kupyansk operation,
directly eastward from Kharkov, began
to move forward in roughly parallel
columns towards the Moscow-Rostov rail
to the east. These drives soon gathered
momentum. The northern one plunged
into the open cornfield steppe to the river
across the rail, gobbling up towns —
Boguchar and Millerevo —on the way.
At the same time, curving strokes were
delivered further south. One from Lissi-
chansk at the southern base of the Khar-
kov region curled itself southward round
the east of the Lugansk triangle to
Voroshilovgrad itself, then onward
toward the northern approaches of Ros-
tov. Moscow on July 19 admitted the
fall of Voroshilovgrad (Lugansk), a coal
and munitions city of 150,000 population.
This threatened satisfactory connection
between Rostov and Stalingrad.
Another spearhead later sent a prob-
ing arm along the Stalingrad line, threat-
ening the Russian armies between them
and the Boguchar region with encircle-
ment unless they could, in good order
and good time, negotiate the Don bend
bellying out far to the eastward. Rostov
had been heavily bombed.
Westward of it, along the Azov Sea,
lay the armies which had held a position
just eastward of the suburbs of Taganrog
—far away enough to prevent the town
being shelled by the Russians and about
25 miles from Rostov itself. These
armies, instead of being the first to strike
in the spring offensive, were the last. They
began to move against Rostov.
The Crimean operations had been in-
cluded in the diabolical German time-
table of dovetailed operations in their
rightful place. Kerch and Sevastopol
had been cleaned up before the main
operations of the Don area were in full
swing. These Crimean moves leave the
western half of Turkey’s Asia Minor vir-
tually three-parts surrounded, Turkey’s
head in an Axis salient formed by the
Italian Dodecanese, Crete and the
Aigean, Bulgaria and the Axis-held
western and northern Black Sea shores.
Man-power and Defences
The situation in the Don corn country
and along the eastern edges of the last
vestige of the industrial Ukraine under
Russian control is deadly serious. In
fact, the enemy has absorbed more terri-
tory in the last three weeks than was
absorbed in France in the most disas-
trous weeks of the campaign. The
armored spearheads have moved forward
for three or four days at a time at 20
to 40 miles a day.
Consolidation follows each movement.
Apparently, Hitler has overcome his
mechanised-infantry shortages of the last
campaign.
There are some alarming factors.
Moscow Radio and correspondents em-
phasised last week, first, that the Germans
have superior man-power and general
strength; second, that the advance had
reached the region of open cornfield
steppe, where there was no defence save
“sacrifice units” hidden in the gr^in.
Thus, for some reason, there was no
defence in depth, as would have been ex-
pected. The defence in depth along the
Donetz had broken down. Judging by
the speed with which the enemy’s heavy
armored forces made their crossings of
the Don at points where it is as wide as
the Brisbane or Sydney Harbor at the
Bridge, there was only weak defence of
the great water barrier which had been
esteemed almost impregnable till last
year showed what German engineers
could do on the Dnieper.
Possibly Timoshenko has decided to
stake everything on the defence or a
Caspian-Azov or Black Sea line. But the
manner in which the German advances
are being made does not suggest that the
Russians hold much initiative or that they
have any control over the pace of the
drive. The German attacks have been so
arranged that every week or so the main
task falls to fresh or nearly fresh troops.
Russian transport needs, because of
long haulages now called for through the
Caucasus, Murmansk and Archangel and
from Asia, must make a heavy call on
man-power. It is useless to try not to
believe that, with the Red Army’s tech-
nique of opposing massed infantry to
armor, casualties last year were not
heavy. And the winter toll cannot have
been light.
Taking available and trainable men
and women as a basis, the Axis Powers
have the advantage in numbers. Indus-
trially, with the resources of Italy,
Czechoslovakia and France at their dis-
posal, they have a great superiority in
resources for the production of muni-
tions and vehicles, though they must lack
oil for continuous expansion, if not for
present maintenance.
France, with a Difference
While, however, these facts are grim
and there is an analogy between the kind
of fight going on in the Don country and
that in France in May-June, 1940, the
same kind of war is not necessarily fatal.
France’s resources were virtually ex-
hausted after a few weeks’ battle.
Russia’s have been piled up on a Ger-
man scale for years. The Russian armies at
least have soil of their own, remote from
the front lines, on which to assemble re-
serves and marshal them for battle. More-
over, unlike the French, they have great
industries intact; a steady flow of Anglo-
American arms through Murmansk and
Iran; one of the world’s richest oil sup-
plies, and great rivers straddling the Ger-
man advance, without having a treacher-
ous Power on a flank or a sabotaging
internal organisation.
Lastly, there is the Russian tempera-
ment, which has to be reckoned with. It
is an Asiatic, not a European tempera-
ment. It has much in common with the
Chinese. It has the giant kind of
patience which constructed the Great
Wall, and the same racial charac-
teristics which afterwards proved to all
conquerors that the Great Wall had been
a surplusage of precaution. The solidity
of the Chinese and Russian people and
their stolid refusal to recognise defeat
even when it has sat heavily on their
faces have baffled every successful in-
vader for two thousand years.
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: The week’s communiques
from General MacArthur’s H.Q.:
July 14: Air activity on all sectors was
limited to reconnaissances.
July 15: An Allied air unit bombed the
Salamaua aerodrome runway. A flight attacked
wharf installations at Kalabahi on Alor Island
(Timor), starting fires and sinking a vessel.
July 16: Allied and enemy air activity was
limited to local reconnaissance.
July 17: An Allied unit lightly bombed Sala-
maua installations. An Allied reconnaissance
unit attacked a ship off Boala (Ceram) —a
Dutch island in the Aru Sea nearest to New
Guinea.
July 18: Three enemy float ’planes attacked
Allied aircraft on reconnaissance near Tulagi;
two destroyed without damage to our own air-
craft. Wharf installations and shipping at
Rabaul attacked by an Allied flight. An Allied
air unit on reconnaissance in Timor area shot
down one of two “O” fighters which attempted
reconnaissance.
July 19: An Allied unit shot down one of
two “O” fighters which tried to interfere with
a reconnaissance over Tulagi. Rabaul harbor
and wharves attacked; two interfering Jap
float ’planes were destroyed in the air over
Tulagi, and Kieta aerodrome (Mandated Solo-
mons) was bombed.
Gear and arms continue to pour into
Australian harbors. The continent’s
aerodromes, whose numbers run into five
figures or close to it, some of them
planned on a European scale, add to their
equipment and personnel weekly. New
lists of Australian brigadiers and other
senior officers testify to the filling out of
formations.
Last week the press was allowed to
publish pictures of General Grant tanks
taken “somewhere in Australia.” There
are other types here and more than half
a dozen types of U.S. bomber and fighter
operating in Australian waters, apart from
our own Beauforts and British machines.
Across the Centralian road the lorries
race in an unending stream. Every ounce
of energy is being packed into transport.
All this does not mean security, though
it would now seem that the enemy missed
his big chance. Had he disregarded
intervening territories and flung a heavy
blow at Australia itself at the end of
last year with the same technique of sur-
prise as confounded the authorities at
Pearl Harbor, he might, without fatal
loss to his sea and air formations, have
won a foothold which would have out-
weighed the advantages he has gained in
some other quarters. He lost his chance,
not because he failed to see it, but because
he underestimated this country and its
surface attitude of happy-go-lucky. A
sight of the changes which have been
wrought in defensive arrangements in six
months would stagger a lot of Japanese
who left this country a month or two
ahead of the tornado under the impres-
sion that for a year ahead they would
know or be able to deduce from exact
data everything likely to happen and the
general military condition of the Com-
monwealth. Their facts are now out of
date in almost every particular.
When sufficient trained men and
material are accumulated and ships
assembled, the advance will be made
neatly and in one piece, and might go
far beyond Australian territory. The
Philippines seem never to be out of
General MacArthur’s mind. And with
the Philippines in Allied hands again, and
equipped on the Australian scale, For-
mosa is only 400 miles away and the
Jap zone in China within sight of that.
Meantime, it must be assumed that the
Japanese will not be idle nor will their
conceptions of the position be less
realistic than those of the Allied com-
mand.
Long daily casualty lists continued to
tell the sad story of Malay J—the sadder
because, save for one batch of Queens-
landers recorded as prisoners of war,
those named could be listed only as “miss-
ing.” Lists published during the week
were: July 14, 113 N.S.W. missing;
July 15, 549 missing, including the gal-
lant Lieut-Cols. C. G. W. Anderson —
Malaya’s only V.C. —and F. G. Gal-
leghan, D. 5.0.; July 16, 25 from N.S.W.
and 546 Victorians missing; July 17,
1149 Victorians, Queenslanders and West-
ralians, all missing except a few Queens-
landers ; July 18, 225 from N.S.W.; July
20, six officers and 430 men from N.S.W.,
all missing. Total, 2469. It is reported
that full lists of British, Australian and
U.S. prisoners in Japanese hands are
being carried by the vessel on which
Allied diplomats from Japan are. travel-
ling to Mozambique for exchange.
* * * *
After last week’s secret session of the
Commons the Speaker announced that
“the shipping position was considered
and a statement was heard from the Gov-
ernment.” The fight is terrific. On it the
fate of the democratic world is far more
dependent than on the result of the battle
for the Don, and there are forces involved
as great as those in the Ukraine. On
July 14 the Americans admitted that
eight more ships had been sunk in the
Atlantic, bringing the total to 370 since
December 7. Next day the convoy system
was extended to the Caribbean. Sinkings
reported from America during the rest
of the week were —between June 15 and
July 9 —six U.S., three Norwegian, three
small Panamanian and one British. There
have been some in the St. Lawrence.
* * * *
. A large convoy for the U.K., the
Germans alleged, was attacked off
the African coast and six ships of
39.800 tons total sunk ; the Admiralty
replied that by magnificent work, through-
out an attack which lasted for 72 hours,
the convoy was brought through with
the loss of only one ship. At least two
U-boats were damaged and perhaps sunk.
* * * *
Bombers three times attacked the Ruhr
—the Germans said Duisberg—and
Liibeck last week. Stirlings blasted
Flenderwerke, U-boat plant at Liibeck,
and a second squadron went on to Flens-
burg, 80 miles off, to rake over another
plant there which had been bombed on
July 11 by Lancasters. Russian bombers
raided East Prussia —the Germans de-
clared the raiders were single machines.
R.A.F. fighter sweeps were carried out
along the French and Lowlands coasts
at low levels.
* ♦ ♦ *
The gallant Brendan Finucane, who
commanded the first Australian Spitfire
squadron in Britain with splendid success,
is no more. Like Richthofen, he fell to
machine-gun fire from the ground. He
had brought down 32 ’planes, had trained
many of the best and most daring Aus-
tralian R.A.F. pilots, some of whom are
now applying priceless fighting lore gained
under him to the defence of the Com-
monwealth, and his name had become a
household word through the world.
* * # ♦
U.S. naval casualties between Dec. 7
and June 30 amounted to 12,000. Between
June 18-30 49 U.S. naval officers and
men were killed and 212 missing.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
This city’s hundredth birthday broke
blue and shiny, laced by a crisp cold.
It was a lovely day to be 100 years young.
High above the Town Hall floated the
city’s flag, proud with Sydney’s coat of
arms, which embodies reminders of
Viscount Sydney, Phillip, Captain Cook
and the city’s first Mayor, An im-
pressive service in St. Andrew’s Cathedral
last Sunday called blessing on this spot
of loveliness. The Governor-General and
Lady Gowrie, Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst and many aldermen were in the
vast congregation. Sydney’s Mayor
Stanley Crick held reception on Monday,
to which Lord Wakehurst and Priminister
Curtin came with their congratulations.
In the afternoon the foundation stone of
the long-desired new City Library was
laid. This will cost £50,000, but will not
be built till the end of the war —just an-
other reason to put every nerve and
guinea into winning the war as speedily
as possible.
The Minerva Theatre’s representation
of an American home and American
people in “The Watch on the Rhine,”
makes a grim play, though pat-
terned with flashes of humor. It is about
a German anti-Nazi who brings his
American wife and children safely
home to America and then returns
to risk his life in Germany fighting
Nazism. The only dissatisfied patron
appeared to be the girl in the next seat,
who complained “Why don’t they un-
pack all the lovely dresses that are sup-
posed to be in those dress-boxes?”
The cartoon exhibition for the Red
Cross lifted a somewhat drooping head
last Wednesday and, as it were, burst into
full bloom. After a quiet opening on
Monday the show by midweek was
attracting full houses and getting bursts
of genuine laughter for its comedy. One
woman remarked “Well, I do war work
all day and most nights, and this is the
first good laugh I’ve had in a month.”
Arthur Mailey, Syd Miller, Jimmy
Bancks, John Frith and other clever lim-
ners were on the job on various after-
noons, ■ sketching people in the audience.
Mrs. Jimmy Bancks dashed hither and
thither answering questions. Mrs. Reg
Bettington was another very active about
the show. Sales midway through last
week were up to £5O.
Though consideration for brownout
regulations turned the Royal Art Society’s
annual smoke-oh into an afternoon tea-
drinking, there was no extinguisher on
the fun. Guests arrived early, and had
to be reminded that twilight was
approaching before the last batch took
the downward lift. New president Howard
Ashton moved about, very urbane. One
of the prettiest guests was Mrs. Erik
Langker, whose husband’s paintings, par-
ticularly his “Old Church at Baulkham
Hills,” were among the admired.
The Norman McLeods, from Chats-
wood, had with them good-looking niece
Jocelyn Targett. Artist Jerrold Nathan
was a tea-drinker. Mrs. Norman Lowe
brought daughter Noelle. Gladys Verona,
in an afternoon frock of black taffeta,
sang an aria from “The Prodigal Son”
and a modern Russian cradle song.
Arthur Stanton’s rich and flexible bari-
tone was admired, particularly in the
Handel number “Where’er You Walk.”
Gloria Noad-jyas the pianist.
Mrs. Hope Gibson (touches of red,
white and blue in her tailored outfit) and
Mrs. Walter Swinson had just time to
smuggle Lady Wakehurst to the vice-
regal place in the gallery before Dr.
Bainton led his forces into the Mozart
Symphony last Saturday. It was the
second item, but Lady Wakehurst had
been about her lawful occasions else-
where. The Red Cross Headquarters
Younger Set lunch had claimed her. Lord
Wakehurst, Ivie Price and Joan Holman
were others in the group. The concert
was something of a triumph for Phyllis
McDonald, who was soloist in the Bach
violin concerto.
A big job, smoothly finished in
a short time, has been done by
the National Defence League. A
few weeks after its decision to open
a canteen for women of the services
the auxiliary threw wide the doors of Paris
House on the accomplished fact. Last
Friday afternoon Paris House, glittering
with ivory paint, with polished floors, its
windows brightly curtained, was opened
by Lady Wakehurst as a centre for
women in uniform who are the hand-
maids of the sea, land and air war effort.
Three floors of Sydney’s old-time icn-
dezvous for gourmets have been turned
into lounges, writing-, dressing- and
dining-rooms. The dining-room is set
about with green tables and chairs. The
chairs are cushioned in a gay, striped
weave. The curtains, on their greeny-
blue ground, bloom with creamy tulips.
Prices for meals are moderate, as the
committee desires only to pay expenses.
No place could be more central. It is in
Phillip-street, around from King-street,
and is, in fact, just around the corner
from everywhere. It is not residential,
and shutters go up at half-past eight.
President of the Women’s Auxiliary
Mrs. A. W. Keighley introduced Lady
Wakehurst, and told to an absolutely
packed dining-room the story of “Alad-
din” —H. T. Armitage, of the Common-
wealth Bank —who conjured up this suit-
able spot. She revealed that the bank
was letting the committee have the place
for the duration.
Mrs. J. R. Gunning, wife of the Vice-
Consul for the Netherlands, will be a
proud woman this afternoon when the
Consul-General for her country, Mr. Van
der Mandele, declares the show of Dutch
and N.E.I. treasures of art and handicraft
open. The exhibition will benefit the
Allies Day “Queen” competition, and the
Dutch community in Sydney is solidly
behind its candidate judging' by the
family treasures that have found their
way to History House. Here the long
salon with its satin-smooth panelling and
jarrah floor is the background for the
N.E.I. and Balinese exhibits. The inner
room will be reserved for the paintings,
the blue glazes (like layers of the sky
on a summer day), the lovely terra-cotta
and black shawls of Holland herself.
There is in this collection a children’s
picture book from Bali, lent by the Carl
Gotsch family. It is not a book as we
know the term, but a collection of
narrow palm-tree shafts, somewhat
broader than the sticks of a fan. Each
stick shows a delicate design in ink or
brush work. Here are the creatures of
the jungle, elephants and monkeys and
so on. It seems to be a sort of Balinese
Alice in Wonderland or Jungle Book. All
the sticks are bound together with a cord.
An exhibit that will charm the collector
is the coconut tea-set. This is carved
from the coconut, which has been
smoothed to a silklike surface and then
painted with a glowing design.
There was a wedding in the D’Apice
family last week. The D’Apices are
widely known in law circles. Lance-Cor-
poral John, a son of the A. W. M.
D’Apices, of Point Piper, married Mary
Brodrick, of Killara, in the Sacred Heart
Church, Pymble. The bride was all
snowdrop whiteness in moire and tulle.
Reception at the Killara home of the
bride’s parents, the F. W. Brodricks.
An afternoon filming of two Charles
Chauvel pictures at the Universal
Theatrette, 499 Kent-street, will benefit
the benevolent fund of the Society of
Women Writers. The date is August 1,
the price of admission three shillings.
Mrs. Toby Browne is the organiser.
The Cross of Lorraine, in red roses,
stood against the Cenotaph last week. It
had been placed there by Free French-
men on July 14. Frenchmen in uniform
and in civilian clothes crowded around,
their eyes fixed on the Tricolor in flowers
and on the great cross, so rich in color
and perfume, its topmost bloom so pas-
sionately deep, so dark a red. Later
Andrd Brenac held a reception at the
Free French Delegation.
The Legacy Club has set out to raise
£50,000 to carry on Legacy’s work of
assisting widows and war orphans of the
war of 1914-18 and of the present war.
One of the novel features for raising
money is auction by radio. This has
never been done before in Australia.
Goods and services to the value of over
£lOOO, donated by supporters, will be
listed in catalogues. The goods to be
sold are on view in the foyer of Prince
Edward Theatre and in Hordern Bros/
window at Wynyard station. Bids may
be registered before the actual day of
the auction by ringing the Legacy Club.
’Phone BW 1273. The auction will take
place over Station 2GB from 7.45 p.m.
to 10.15 p.m. on July 27, 28 and 29.
From Melbourne
The noble art of renovation is having
its second time on earth, principally in
Victoria it would seem. Every suburb is
the scene of feverish activities of cloth-
ing gatherers, who are offering prices for
second-hand clothes that would make the
mouth water if there were any such
clothes to be had,
A dozen auxiliaries are forming to
unpick garments and remake them for the
smaller fry, and all are calling loudly
for volunteers. Meanwhile dad’s dress
suit is in peril, for the family has dis-
covered that it might make a couponless
suit for a slim daughter.
The Fighting French met in the up-
stairs blue room of the Lyceum Club
to celebrate Bastille Day. The little com-
pany sang “The Marseillaise” and drank
healths in sherry. Not one of those
present was without a consuming anxiety
about some member or other of the
family who was in parts whence nothing
now comes but colorless messages or,
what is worse, silence. Madame Crivelli
reported that her daughter, now a Car-
melite nun, was in Southern France, and
in the district where she lived maize was
the staple article of diet. The young
Perrier couple, who have reached Aus-
tralia after ‘hairbreadth escapes among
the islands, talked of their adventures in
an offhand way. M. Legrand and Miss
Frances Barkman were the host and
hostess, representing respectively the
men’s and the women’s Victorian com-
mittees.
Betty Plumb, pictured here by Broo-
thorn, is one of the lucky sporting girls
who have found that being physically fit
and good at sports have made them cap-
able of a worth-while war effort. Now in
the W.A.A.Fs., she is a motor-driver. Miss
Plumb played A-grade tennis and did a
physical-culture course, thinking she
might use the experience as a sports
mistress in a school. She is an old girl of
St. Michael’s C. of E. Grammar School,
St. Kilda. The transport-driving girls
are doing fine work, and the call is for
still more of them. They have earned the
reputation of being careful drivers and
conscientious in attending to their cars.
Students’ concerts are apt to be trying,
except to fond parents, but that essayed
last week by the University Conserva-
torium at Melba Hall was an excep-
tion, and sundry of the audience spent
a most pleasant time trying to pick win-
ners among youthful aspirants for fame
who were going through their musical
paces. Young John Haslam, who yearned
over a ’cello almost as big as himself,
got out of it those sonorous notes which
give the musical such a thrill, and Jean
Dark, a winsome lass with a sweet face
framed in black hair, sang an excerpt
from oratorio with a voice that might
have come from Clara Butt, so deep
and full it was. There were many pianists,
all of whom played with orchestra except
one, who was duo with John Haslam.
Shirley Paton, who has had training over-
seas as well as a polishing-up here since
she returned, put heaps of ginger into
the Grieg pianoforte concerto. Young
Noel Nickson conducted an orchestra
which contained all the talent war-time
had spared, and got excellent results
f rom "
All the Tivoli vaudeville-lovers and
their friends turned out for the Allies’
Appeal Day matinee and filled the old
theatre from floor to ceiling. Every turn
got a splendid hand, and most deserved
the ovation. The vaudevillians are a
jolly set, and here, over the years, they
form almost a small colony. There are
families which possess “acts” which have
not changed much in three generations.
The youngsters perhaps have a more up-
to-date line of chatter, and dress in a
smarter way, but in essentials the per-
formance is what it was when grandad
and grandma put it on. Everyone marvels
at the discipline of backstage vaudeville.
Boys and girls, oldsters and the very’
young, all work to the minute, and the
air of business first in the dressing-rooms
and corridors as the different groups
hurry to the bell call makes Tivoli back-
stage like a busy street scene.
Essie Mollison, science worker, has
turned her hand to the plough and made
a war-time effort on the educational side
of Red Cross work. The other evening
she told a meeting something of what
the education branch is doing for
prisoners of war. Textbooks, she said,
are going forward to Continental prison
camps, and soon examinations may be
conducted. These exams, will be recog-
nised by educational authorities here, so
that a soldier who left home in his first
year accountancy or arts may come back
a graduate. One of the big features of
this training, Miss Mollison said, was the
helping of the under-educated to acquire
a craft or trade of their own.
A Sydney marriage of interest to her
hosts of Victorian friends was that of
Marjorie Clarke, daughter of the W. L.
Russell Clarkes, to Captain Harry Ham-
mond. The bride has been doing war
work in N. S. Wales for some time, but
in pre-war days she was one of Mel-
bourne’s best-known hunting women and
often at the right hand of her mother,
Mrs. Russell Clarke, in efforts for charity.
This is the second recent marriage in the
family, brother John Russell Clarke hav-
ing married Iris Connolly, daughter of
Eric Connolly, of racing fame, shortly
after his return from the Middle East.
Another brother, Michael, is a prisoner
of war, so the family, whose heads, Mr.
and Mrs. Clarke, are both active war
workers, may be said to be making a
100 per cent, war effort.
Young musicians generally had a week-
end out, with the British Music Society of
Victoria giving them programme room
on Sunday afternoon and the Musical
Society of Victoria finding a place for
gifted Jean Voumard in its Saturday-
night concert. Miss Voumard should
have a future, as she has that tempera-
ment that does not desert its possessor
when she mounts the platform, and also
has a grim determination to make good.
Coming from Shepparton every week for
years for lessons needs some grit, but if
the grit is there it is almost more worth
while to be born or brought up in a
country town. In proof thereof there’s
Bernard Heinze, and in an earlier genera-
tion there was John Langstaff, both of
whom were boys in the Goulburn Valley.
Jean now lives at Brighton, and the sea-
side air may have had something to do
with the dash that she put into Bach’s
Chromatic Fantasia and Fugue.
There’s a bagful of cheeriness in the
little magazine “The Headlight,” which
the Victorian League for the Hard of
Hearing has brought out this month for
the first time. Great idea is to keep to-
gether the deaf and through helpful
hints and entertainments and club gather-
ings get rid of the feeling of inferiority
which people who suffer from this draw-
back often have. The first number con-
tains a paragraph telling how J. A. Booth,
a former actor, had entertained the club
by his appearance as a pantomime dame.
His audience, through lip reading, heard
all his patter.
Congratulations are being showered on
Jacquelyn Elliott and John Edwin Fellows,
who announced their engagement at the
week-end. Miss Elliott is a daughter
of Surgeon-Captain George Elliott,
A.A.M.C., who died in the 1914-18 war.
and a niece of Major-General “Pompey”
Elliott. Her fiance. Sergeant Fellows,
made a spectacular escape from Singa-
pore, in the course of which six of his 11
companions were killed while their ’plane,
its holes blocked up with chewing-gum,
rocked its way up and down the Indian
Ocean till it managed to land on a Dutch
ship. Even then Jap ’planes came over
and the escapees had to use their machine--
guns, which were fortunately intact. The'
Fellows family, which is English, has con-
tributed many officers to the 29th
Hussars. Jacquelyn and her mother are
both war workers, Mrs. Elliott not only
doing a regular office job but also using
her leisure to help the Herbs for the
Forces Auxiliary.
The Red Cross Society, which has
opened a mail service to prisoners of war
in Japanese hands, wishes it to be known
that before writing relatives and friends
of such prisoners should apply to the
society for Leaflet 833, which sets out the
regulations which must be observed by all
who desire to communicate with such
prisoners.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Cellini recorded his first win for 13
months when, starting at 20 to 1 after
having been laid at longer prices, he de-
feated the favorite, David Innis, by half
a head in the Ascot Thousand on Satur-
day. Aurania finished a good third after
making a game attempt to lead all the
way.
Latest form did not say a great deal
for Cellini’s chance, and his trainer, F.
Manning, had difficulty in obtaining a
rider for the gelding at 6.10. He offered
the mounts to Percival and Unkovich,
each of whom would have had to declare
overweight, but both had prior engage-
ments. Sanderson, one of Australia’s
smallest riders and an apprentice of first-
class promise, eventually received a lucky
last-minute mount. Cellini dropped in
behind the pacemaker, Aurania, early in
the race, and battled on strongly when
tackled by David Innis. Latter may have
been a shade unlucky, as, although he
received a rails-run entering the straight,
he was hampered for room at a critical
stage. A four-year-old by Ornamenta-
tion from Rondelle, Cellini is anything
but popular with backers. He had won
only twice previously, starting at 33 to 1
on each occasion! Ballycummins, who
weakened and just missed a place, will
be all the better for the race.
Aurie’s Star and Alcmena, favorites,
disappointed their backers in the divi-
sions of the Balmoral Handicap. Aurie’s
Star looked like winning the first divi-
sion when he hit the front soon after
rounding the turn, but apparently age is
telling on him, and he was outstayed by
the six-years-younger Portoreti. Burstone
finished third after attempting to lead
throughout, but, for future reference, no-
thing did better than Pannade. Latter
finished strongly in fourth position, and
will do better over a distance beyond six
furlongs. Sangallo, sold earlier in the
day to a Queensland buyer on the under-
standing that he would become the latter’s
property only after the race, came from
behind and finished truly to defeat Sun-
rocks and Prince David in the second
division. Alcmena just missed a place
after leading for home.
Burberry, one of Melbourne’s most
brilliant juveniles, followed up his Flem-
ington win by defeating Parmant and
Rain in the Murrumbidgee Handicap. He
was quickly in front, was never in danger
of defeat at any stage of the seven fur-
longs, and won by three lengths. His two
recent wins have represented a welcome
change of luck for his trainer, C. T.
Godby, and more will be heard of him.
He is by Gay Lothario from Wrapper,
and a bargain at his yearling cost of
575 guineas.
Stablemates Portsea and Liberal
Knight, both trained by G. Redden and
each well backed, fought out a stirring
finish for the second Harrowby Trial
Handicap. Portsea won by a head to
give his apprentice rider, W. Bullen, his
first winning mount. Ellison, from the
the same stable as the G.N. Steeple
winner Parentena, finished strongly to
defeat Melchett and Liege in the first
Somerset Welter. Hero, an Adelaide-
owned colt, fought on well to beat
Dapper and Manpower in the second
Somerset Welter. Proteus, a three-year-
old colt who was schooled over jumps
as a yearling, won the Loddon Trial
Hurdle well enough to indicate a bright
future in his new sphere. He has raced
over hurdles only twice and looks sure
to improve.
* * *
Canterbury had an attendance of about
17,000, and the totalisator turnover was
£23,686, against £ll,OOO on the corre-
sponding day last year.
In the Flying Handicap Common
Sense (Powell) ran up to the form he
showed when he won at Ascot and,
settling the pacemaker. Flying Knight,
after turning for home, was equal to stall-
ing off a late run by Broadcaster, who
will do better over a longer distance. The
favorite, Romero, never looked more
than a possible minor-place getter, but
the track was not hard enough for his
liking. Milanja and Happy Bay both
ran indifferently.
The Canterbury Handicap favorite,
Tragopan, fared no better than Romero.
He took the lead from Artistic at the
half-mile post, but gave place to Goose
Boy turning for home. The latter quickly
established a lead that made him look
a certainty, but he was beaten on the
post by Shining Night (O’Sullivan), whose
good showing directed attention to the
fact that he has only 6.11 in the Caulfield
Cup and 7.3 in the Melbourne Cup. He
will not be so leniently treated in the
Metropolitan. Lord Valentine made up a
lot of ground over the half-mile to run
a good third. Yours Truly was fourth
into the straight and could not improve
his position, while Abspear and Red
Pete were never dangerous.
Tuokool gave his Trial Stakes backers
a good run, but, though he led after
entering the straight, Haripur (O’Sullivan)
was too good for him over the last hun-
dred yards, and made a half-second faster
time than Bona Fide recorded in the Ash-
bury Handicap later in the day. An out-
sider in Monaro ran third, followed by
Ginger Lass, who showed her usual pace,
but again died away at the end. Tyran-
nus was the early leader, and, while King
of the Mist and Ron Rico shaped fairly.
Addition and Winnie were failures.
The Hurdle Race favorite, Rameo, fin-
ished third, but never looked like win-
ning, and though at the turn Tea Denis
had a lead that appeared to give him the
race, he blundered slightly at the last
jump, and Sobersides defeated him in
2.48*, a track record. Mab’s Boy and
The Winger previously shared the record
with 2.48*. Apart from the place-getters
only Glittering Flame showed form of
any account. Aldridge rode the winner.
In the first division of the Highweight
Handicap Radical (Munro) again proved
himself a good welter horse. Chatting
weakened after leading into the straight,
and Radical, finishing too strongly for
Duke Cullen, beat him three-quarters of
a length. Ronswalk and Parsing finished
better than the other unplaced runners.
The second division of the Highweight
Handicap went to Magi (J, Smith), who
easily beat the pacemaker, Trade Mark, in
a half-second faster time than that put
up by Radical. Imported Faerie Queen,
who was fourth, was unlucky at the start,
but even if she had fared better it is
improbable she would have beaten Magi,
whose backers got a liberal price conse-
quent on her being ridden by a little-
known jockey. Kimbell did not run up
to his previous form, and Wee Woo also
disappointed,
Pinero’s showing at Rosehill a fort-
night earlier did not warrant the 5 to 4
at which he started for the Ashbury Han-
dicap, and even if he had got a smoother
passage it is improbable he would have
done better than run third. Nemesis was
first into the straight, but Bona Fide
(Duncombe), who was prominent
throughout, eventually beat her comfort-
ably. Rhythmic, second at the half-mile
to John Dory, finished third. The latter,
Tel Asur and Lockray are all rapidly
returning to form.
The Kensington meeting at Ascot did
not prove as attractive to racegoers as
Canterbury, but an attendance of 8000
was satisfactory.
In the Kensington Handicap A. Knox
and Many Ways again proved a happy
combination. Many Ways, who is thriving
on racing, and has a partiality for Ascot,
was a winner from the time she took
charge at the home turn, though Trigger-
man, in second place, ran well and,
according to his rider, was unlucky not
to have done better. Amberspear’s fourth
suggested he may be worth following,
and Enderby is coming on again.
Thompson’s strength told at the finish
of the Flying Handicap, and he got
Cradle Song home a neck in front of
Postman, who led at the turn. Phalaran
helped to make the finish interesting, and
is not far off a win. Martheus’s running
suggested that temporarily he has had
enough, and, apart from those mentioned.
nothing had the remotest possibility of
winning.
Dark Felt’s (McKenzie) easy win from
Moondarewa and Last Bowl in the
Maiden Handicap pointed to early suc-
cess in a higher class, and in the Four-
teen-two Handicap Easy Mark (Coutts)
showed that weight does not seriously
trouble a smart two-year-old at a short
distance. It was her fifth win this season.
Easy Mark got a good run through,
while Te Rama, after being one of the
leaders from barrier-rise, went a little
wide at the turn.
In the first division of the Two-year-
old Handicap General Smuts (F. Smith)
kept going too long for Double Birthday,
who, after leading to the straight entrance,
found his 9.8 too much. Bred by his
owner, R, Wootton, General Smuts is by
Air Balloon (imp.) from Neat Rose, and
Comacho (third) is by Beau Pere. Bed-
ford (Knox), a Double Remove-Honor
Bright colt, trained and raced by W.
Kelso, completely outpaced his opponents
in the second division, and was easing
up in front of Gryphon and Probably at
the winning-post. Chateroi did best of
the remainder.
Heavily-backed Haridelle (McMena-
min) went to the front at the leger in the
Welter Handicap, and won comfortably
from the improving Dick Whittington,
who was a long way back at one stage.
Mary Lou’s third was a good effort,
while Fearless, who led most of the way,
tired into fourth position, Gigli, after
being badly placed, made up ground in
the straight. Christopher Milne had every
chance, but weakened at the finish.
* * * * %
Prize-money for the coming A.J.C.
spring meeting is £19,100. The Colin
Stephen Stakes, Craven Plate, Breeders’
Plate and Gimcrack Stakes remain at
last year’s £l3OO each, and the Derby
at £5OOO. While there is no increase in
any of the minor handicaps, the Final
Handicap has been reduced from £6OO
to £5OO. The Qibborn Stakes has been
changed from a set-weight race for three-
year-olds to a handicap for horses of
that age, with a maximum of 9.5 and a
minimum of 7.0. This should be an im-
provement, as last year it was little more
than a walkover for Yaralla at 11 to 8
on. The previous year Ensign won at
10 to 9 on.
* * * *
Most members of the A.J.C. com-
mittee were evidently in accord with the
agitation against any idea of reducing the
value of the A.J.C. Derby. It remains at
£5OOO. The A.J.C. can still reduce that
amount if the outlook for a successful
spring meeting is not bright, but even in
view of that possibility the committee
might not care to depart from last week’s
decision. It is now regrettable that Epsom
and Metropolitan cuts were so drastic.
As a race and a public attraction the
former is worth more than £2OOO and the
latter something in excess of £3500 if the
Derby—even though it is a classic —
is entitled to carry £5OOO. If this
season’s two-year-old form is a fair
criterion, the Derby field will not be par-
ticularly high-class.
V * * *
The large attendances at Sydney’s race-
courses do not mean the tremendous in-
crease in revenue to the clubs that many
people believe. Racing is popular with
our soldiers, and in the matter of admis-
sion they rightly receive liberal conces-
sions.
* * * *
Fault cannot be found with breeders
for wishing to conduct their operations
to the greatest monetary advantage, but
occasionally their ideas are amusing. The
other day a “prominent breeder” went
into print to suggest that, as mares had
not won their shares of races in Sydney
this season, the system of handicapping
should be readjusted so as to improve
their prospects of retiring to the stud
with good racing records, which he
probably reckoned would tend to higher
prices for their progeny. He did
not go so far as to say outright that, after
being handicapped on form, mares should
be given a sex allowance, but he stressed
the fact that standard weight-for-age
races made that concession. Next we
shall be told that breeders are not in the
business as a commercial venture but
principally with a philanthropic view to
the improvement of Australia’s blood-
stock.
* * * *
So few time records have been
broken in Australia this season that it is
possible to contend our horses have
nearly reached their limit in speed. In
running seven furlongs in 1.22* at Rand-
wick in January of this year, Mildura
and High Caste made a record at a short
distance, and the only other Australian
records were a mile and a quarter in 2.1*
by Beau Vite and 13 furlongs in 2.41*
by Dashing Cavalier. At Randwick as
recently as the beginning of 1930 the
best for 13 furlongs was the 2.43* put
up by Sir Andrew in the Metropolitan,
so it would seem as if the deterioration
of our stayers is more imaginary than
real. In the same period the record for
the Sydney Cup has been reduced from
3.224- to 3.20*.
* * * *
This season’s totalisator turnover at
Flemington was £1,954,601 for 27 days.
The total was made up as follows:
V.R.C., 11 days, £949,882; V.A.T.C., 13
days, £792,879; Williamstown, three days,
£211,840.
The A.J.C. lost its autumn meeting at
its own course this season, and the total
put through by all clubs on the 23 days
on which there was racing at Randwick
was £966,929. This made a daily average
of about £42,000, against Flemington s
£72,395. For the two days the A.J.C.
raced at Rosehill the turnover was
£60,805 ss. The difference in tote figures
also gives a fair idea of the margin be-
tween the two courses in attendance.
* ♦ ♦ *
Several trainers licensed in Sydney for
the current season have taken war-work
billets and others have been called up
for military service. They have trans-
ferred their horses, and have not applied
for licenses for the coming season.
* * * *
In winning the Massachusetts Handi-
cap at Suffolk Downs last week Whirl-
away deposed Sea Biscuit as America’s —
and the world’s —greatest winner. The
latter’s total is £A 136,790, and Whirl-
away’s is now £A 141,790. Whirlaway
ran the nine furlongs in 1.48*, which is a
record for the track. The best for that
distance at Randwick is Marengo’s 1.50.
The Massachusetts Handicap carries
$50,000 added money, which is con-
siderably increased by forfeits and sweep-
stakes. Last year the first five shared in
the prize-money, which was divided as
follows: First, $48,350 ; second, $lO,OOO ;
third, $5OOO ; fourth, $2500 ; fifth, $1250.
Miscellaneous
Sydney is seeing too many welterweight
performances. Sometimes the welters put
on a good show, but Bennell v. Elliott
—their fourth meeting at Leich-
hardt in a few months wasn’t.
More sparring than anything else
was seen until a short left upper-
cut floored Elliott in the sixth. It
was Elliott’s turn in the eighth, in which
Bennell was down, but indifferent boxing
by both prompted the customers to count
them out, and referee Pearson told them
to riven up. In the eleventh a left swing
shot Bennell against the ropes, and he
retaliated with a straight right which sent
Elliott to the canvas. Cuddling, dancing,
and missing marked the last round, and,
although Bennell won beyond all doubt,
hoots were heard when he was pro-
nounced the winner on points.
* * * *
Saturday’s Melbourne games left
Essendon, Richmond, Footscray and
South Melbourne on top, though South
went down to Essendon by 10.15 to 8.7.
According to Footscray custom, ’Scray
has struck mid-season form, and it had
no trouble to beat Melbourne, 19.12-
14.11. Richmond handed Hawthorn the
usual doing, 19.13 to 13.17, Carlton in a
fast game beat Collingwood by 13.14 to
11.11, and St. Kilda indulged in kicking
practice to the disgust of North Mel-
bourne, 21.8-9.8. Fifteen thousand
watched Essendon beat South. No other
match drew more than 5000.
« * * *
Western Suburbs and Manly, battling
for places in the Rugby Union semi-
finals, played sound football on Satur-
day. Western Suburbs belted East (last
year’s premiers) by 19 to nil, and Manly,
its forwards predominant, upset Parra-
matta by 9-6. University, which demol-
ished Drummoyne by 41-12 (Rutledge,
the captain, helped with two tries and
seven goals), is again in the lead. In the
other matches Randwick scrambled home
ahead of Northern Suburbs (18-16), and
Gordon trounced St. George (16-9) a
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Before Acceptances.
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Aberfeldie Hurdle; Browser, 1;
Sligo, 2; Con Devon, 3.
Cooee Handicap: Quezon, 1;
Blue Valley, 2 ; Amazed, 3.
A. V. Hiskens Steeple: Winterset,
1; Victory March, 2; Parentena. 3.
Glen Orla Handicap: Cavallo, 1;
Cellini, 2 ; Martinez, 3.
Derrimut Handicap : Queen
Baccha, 1; Naval Revue, 2; San-
gallo, 3.
Brunswick Handicap: Wallace
James, 1; Cloudy Bay, 2; Trustee, 3.
Sunset Welter: Pannade or
Florin, 1 ; Manstar, 2; Sun Valley, 3.
FOR ROSEBERY
(At Ascot).
(Before Acceptances.)
By “ PILUI."
Fourteen-two Handicap: Mit, 1 ;
Te Rama, 2.
Two-year-old Handicap: Bedford,
1 ; Easy Mark, 2; General Smuts
or Afloat, 3.
Flying Handicap: Common Sense,
1 ; Duke Cullep,, 2; Phalaran, 3.
Trial Stakes: Ronswalk, 1 ;
Moondarewa, 2; Monaro or King
of the Mist, 3,
Rosebery Handicap: Triggerman,
1 ; Plimsol, 2 ; Enderby, 3.
Welter Handicap: .Pall Mall, 1 ;
Magi, 2 ; Astounding, 3.


/I puetuUy tip ta the
QiaJitUuf, tf-OAced and all
who- ude QiUette B laded.
m
w
Whenever you use a new Gillette Blade don’t tear it out
of the envelope. Don’t touch the cutting edges. Handle the
blade only at the ends. Rinse blade carefully, shake and
dry gently on a sryooth towel. By doing this, Gillette
Blades, with their fine, electrically tempered cutting
edges, will last you twice as long.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
Missing Friends.
McDONALL. —Will any person knowing the
whereabouts of LEONARD McDONALL, the
son of Thomas William McDonall, who died at
Oueenscliff, Victoria, in 1913, please ask him
to communicate with the EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne?
STAMPS
JOO New Zealancls, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different */-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Lists —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co.. 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Ifist. 56 Years.)
NATURAL WAY TO HEALTH
If you suffer from constipation, take one
or two NYAL FIGSEN tablets before
retiring. There is no griping pain, no
stomach upsets. In the morning Figsen
acts . . . thoroughly, effectively, yet so
gently and mildly. Except for the pleasant
relief Figsen brings, you would scarcely
know you had taken a laxative. NYAL
FIGSEN is a pleasant-tasting, natural
laxative that is just as good for youngsters
as it is for grown-ups. Figsen is sold by
chemists everywhere. a tin-
The next best thing te Nature.. • *
MyaiFiffsen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
SMOKE-OH!
ë
ē
Then there’s the lady who believes the
outstanding event of the Middle Age-
was her face-lifting operation.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Beauty m brief.” — Woman’s paper.
Vaudeville patrons prefer beauty in
briefs.
4* 4*
“Defendant had come to the town two years
before and set up in business as a jeweller and
watchwaker.”— Country paper.
It seems that he relied on a good alarm
clock to arouse all the watches.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Women nowadays,’ said Aunt Maggie,
‘don’t adopt that cowed attitude to the lords of
creation like they did in mid-Victorian days;
they have learned to stand up for themselves.’ ”
— Serial.
Train- and tram-travelling in peak
hours has done it.
“ ‘Well,’ said Joan defiantly, ‘if you want
to know, I bought it on the ire-purchase sys-
tem!’ ‘What do you mean?’ demanded
Arthur.”— Short story.
Just what she said. She was merely
anticipating the feelings of the instalment
collector.
4* 4* 4*
“Mr. , the popular president of the bowl-
ing club, is feeling considerably better today
after being knocked down by a car.”
— Qld. country paper.
The townspeople, it is said, intend to
try this as anew reviver and tonic.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Bed-sitting rooms to let. Comfortably fur-
nished, nice locality. Suit two gentlemen or
otherwise.” — Suburban paper ad.
Otherwise they won’t be let?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Cinema offers free seats for aluminium pols
and pans.”
Every kid will be looking for the old
pot to treat him to the pictures.
ĕ
ė
Respite.
“One of the greatest gifts in this life is peace
after a period of stress.” — Psychologist.
Sweet calm has come to dwell within my
soul.
The gentle peace that I have sought for
years.
For once I feel beyond the fell control
Of all the wretched host of cares and
fears.
In spite of all my troubles in the past.
At least this evening I can cease to
frown
O’er life’s incessant turmoil. For at last
That next-door radio has broken down !
T. W. N.
Whoa!
“Rebuilt Horse Downs Doomben Field.”
—Sporting paper.
Reminds me of the used horse I picked
up in a junk yard out Chaff Gully way.
One lung was punctured, but a five-
minute vulcanising outfit soon fixed that.
Among other defects, including shabby
upholstery, his near-side lamp was miss-
ing and his self-starter was jammed.
However, with the help of the mechanic
at Murphy’s garage, I hammered him
into shape and quietly backed him for
the local Cup at long prices. Unfortu-
nately, barrier practice revealed a fault
in the gearbox—when his jockey tried to
slip him out of neutral into top, he went
into reverse. This seriously delayed his
preparation, and to make things worse
he developed rattles throughout his entire
chassis.
Anyway, we persevered and got him
ticking over like a clock. When the big
day arrived he needed only a new coat
of duco to resemble the latest model.
And could that moke accelerate!
When they’d settled down, he led by six
lengths. Coming round the bend he was
a street in front, but the boy explained
afterwards that he had to restrain him to
give him a breather before making the
final spurt. That settled it; he veered to
the outside, bucked badly and stopped
dead.
It was the mechanic’s fault, of course.
When he’d relined the nag’s brakes the
silly cow forgot to adjust the rods!
PERCIVAL.
Frustration.
With all life’s golden chances
I have always come a thud ;
Today the waitress passed me by
To serve her lone, last spud!
MC.
Relaxation.
“A doctor states that men who indulge in
strenuous physical exercise are often prone to
respiratory diseases.”
Reminds of a second-rate pug
Who’s out, as it were, on his own ;
He’s prone to a cold in the chest —
But, oftener still, he’s just prone.
K.
Poetic Justice.
“Carrots Declared.” —" S. M‘. Herald.”
Presumably habitual criminals. If not,
they should be and their co-partner in
crime, corned-beef, should be confined
for life in the nearest freezer, its papers
to be endorsed “never to be released.”
Carrots frequently consort with turnips
and parsnips. This alone is sufficient to
condemn them. Farmers should excoriate
carrots before throwing them to the pigs.
The pigs, thinking that they are being
punished for something they’ve never
done, would fret, lose weight and fetch
ruinous prices as bacon. In time, farmers
would go broke and be unable to buy
more carrot seed. The world would thus
become a better place to live in.
Corned-beef, found lurking nefariously
three times weekly on the tables of
boarding-houses and in homes where
wives are narked with their husbands,
is pierced with several tough sticks placed
there by conscience-stricken butchers to
hinder carving. Sentence passed by the
victims is that the stuff should be given
to a hungry dog, who will look hurt, bury
it, forget where he put it and deliberately
allow the next burglar to sack the house
to get quits.
P. M.
Rivalry.
The pastrycook put up a sign :
“Nice tarts made here.” And in a trice
The man who ran the beauty shop
Next door wrote up: “We make tarts
NICE.”
LOO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
More Leisure?
Prof. Murdoch has been prophesying
that in the brave new world labor-saving
devices are going to be used on farms so
that farmers will have the leisure educa-
tion has taught them how to use. As a
farm woman I’m very suspicious about
that.
Every device produced for farm use,
from stump-jump ploughs to separators,
from milking machines to tractors, has
been labor-saving in intention, and every
one, with the possible exception of the
milking machine, has meant increased
labor. The farmer finds (1) that his
machine is so convenient he can deal
with more cows or a bigger acreage, and
(2) that he needs a bigger income to pay
for his up-to-date and expensive machin-
ery. So he goes on, and his leisure is less
instead of more, the produce from
his increased acreage gluts the market,
and he has to grow still more to make up
for low prices.
Take tractors as an instance. A tractor
can get over more ground than horses,
and it saves the time spent on feeding
and care of the beasts; but the tractor
farmer works longer hours than a horse
farmer. He even works at night, but he
is not any better for it in regard to leisure,
and I’m dashed if his farm is any better
in regard to husbandry.
No, the professor will have to think
again. As far as farms go, if we can
get back to more comfortable ideas —a
thousand acres, cared for and husbanded,
with the necessary livestock and a. variety
of products, we will have a sufficiency of
leisure as well as a comfortable living.—
Cubberlie (S.A.).
Food Production
In N. S. Wales there are 1,000,000
fewer acres under wheat, and there is no
guarantee of an ayerage ten-bushel crop
from the area planted. And production
of pigs, dairy produce, poultry, eggs and
vegetables gives cause for concern.
It isn’t so much a matter of labor-
supply. Most important factors are fuel-
petrol and power-kerosene. Another
is the climbing costs the farmer is ex-
pected to meet without getting any more
for his product. Another is shortage of
items that the farmer must buy—it
would be tedious to give a list. This
condition is largely due to failure to
grasp that the horse needs feed and ser-
vice costing nearly the same as fuel
formerly cost. —E. N. B. (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Buying
Whatever reasons have led “Storekeeper”
(B. 1/ 7 / ’42) to compel customers to make
unnecessary additional purchases as a
condition of getting something they want
he is probably mistaken in supposing that
all retailers’ motives are as pure as his
own. During the panic-buying period it
was noted that storekeepers were only too
glad to get rid of old stocks which would
have been virtually unsaleable in normal
times.
In any case, the motives don’t matter
as much as the effect, which is to compel
unnecessary spending. In these days of
high incomes and inadequate taxation it
is not so easy to discourage hoarding by
making it expensive.
“Storekeeper” should remember, too,
that the practice which he defends means
that unwilling buyers will waste the goods
forced upon them. Recently, for example,
in order to get a tin of black boot polish
I had to buy brown polish as well,
although I have no brown shoes. This
comnulsory purchase has given a
stimulus to the further. manufacture df
brown polish or helped to make it scarce
in turn. In this way retailers contribute,
however unwittingly, to misdirection of
our limited resources. — Arc (N.S.W.).
“MX”
There was considerable consternation
mixed with anger in militia camps when
it was announced recently that militiamen
transferring to the A.I.F. would be desig-
nated by the symbol “MX” instead of
the solitary “X” which hitherto denoted
a volunteer’s willingness to serve outside
Austfciliti
For the past nine months, any militia-
man wishing to fight for his country in
a voluntary capacity could not enlist in
the A.I.F. or the R.A.A.F. without first
obtaining the written permission of his
c.o. With very few exceptions this per-
mission was not granted. The outbreak
of hostilities in the Pacific during
December last resulted in a ban on the
enlistment of militiamen, which was lifted
recently only when considerable pressure
had been brought to bear by A.I.F. and
R.A.A.F. chiefs.
Even then it needed the Coral Sea
battle, raids on Darwin, Broome and
Katherine and submarine attempts on
Sydney and Newcastle to make the mili-
tary realise that the voluntary fighting
services were in need of reinforce-
ments. That those reinforcements could
be obtained only from the ranks of the
militia seems not to have occurred to
them previously. The recent decision to
permit transfers from the A.M.F. was
not made until it was pointed out that
American forces at present in this country
could not be expected to drive back the
Japanese, not only from these shores but
beyond them, while our militia was not
permitted to operate outside Australian
territory.
Then the belated decision to permit
enlistment of militiamen was announced.
The response was heart-warming. Men
who had been trying vainly to enlist over
the past eight or nine months were over-
“Now do you believe I need more coupons?"
joyed. But some petty-minded official
with a heart the size of a dried pea
brought forward a regulation which was
designed to brand these men for the rest
of their military careers —and after.
That these men are trained to the
minute and ready for action is over-
looked. That they have repeatedly tried
to volunteer is ignored. All that is re-
membered is that, for one reason or
another —most of them good reasons
before the Japanese offensive —these men
had not enlisted earlier in the war.
Nairb (Vic.).
Control of V.D.
According to a senior police official in
Melbourne, not only the fighting effi-
ciency of soldiers is being affected by
venereal disease. The moralistic atti-
tude taken towards the matter has ham-
pered effective action. All the police can
do is to arrest suspected women under
the Vagrancy Act and charge them with
having no visible means of support as an
excuse for getting them into an ihstitution
where they can be segregated and treated.
Almost everybody in Melbourne is in
employment these days, and it would be
ridiculous to assert that only unemployed
persons were communicating the menace.
The Venereal Diseases Act is a dead
letter because persons accused under it
invariably plead that they did not know
themselves to be infected. Authority to
compel suspected individuals to submit
to medical examination and, if found in-
fected, to treatment would be useful; but
what is most essential is a change of
public opinion on the whole subject of
v.d. — Pawang (Vic.).
A Gunner at Dunkirk
Your Red Page reference to “Gun-
buster’s” Dunkirk reminds a Field Artil-
leryman of the Ist A.I.F. of his impres-
sion of it and of the spirit that actuated
“Gunbuster” and his brethren. Here was
a battery of 25-pounders (said by ord-
nance experts to be as tar ahead of
old eighteen as that was of a muzzle-
loader), with all the modern improve-
ments of motorised facilities and wire-
less telephones, thoroughly framed over
a long period —in short, an efficient an
deadly weapon, particularly suitable for
modern mobile warfare. What did the
battery achieve? It does not seem. t
have fired 50 rounds. It sought safe and
sheltered positions and not those where
it might attack the enemy; it bolted at
high speed and for considerable distances
at the approach of danger. It continue
to do these things until an inglorious
career was closed by the destruction o
guns and equipment and escape to Eng
land via rowboat and drifter. The , ver X
authenticity of the account makes it all
the more damning. In all, I think, a booK
one would sooner forget than add to one s
collection.— 2nd Diwy (N.S.W.).
Lotteries or War Loans?
It is irrational to ration so many of
the needs and amenities of existence and
still leave Government and Government-
controlled lotteries unrationed.
These lotteries constitute a channel
down which an increasing percentage of
war-time earnings and pensions is going
(now that spending in other directions
is restricted by rationing), rather than in
the acquisition of war savings certificates.
In the city in which I live lottery “invest-
ments” fell off last year owing to enhst-
ments, but have definitely recovered since
rationing came in.
If I win £lOOO in a lottery I pay no
taxation on the windfall. But if in the
course of a year I make that amount by
ability and hard work I am liable to very
heavy taxation. Let us have strict ration-
ing of all these lotteries. It will help the
Commonwealth war effort. —J. R. (Q.).
Wool That Isn’t Wool
What’s happened to the law governing
the branding of wool? If the U.S.A.
can produce wool without blending with
other fibres why is it not possible to do
so here, where wool is grown and ex-
ported to America and elsewhere?
We should be manufacturing various
varieties of woollen goods, the standard
of Jaeger and Shetland-suitable for
summer and winter wear in all countries
—in readiness for post-war reconstruc-
tion, as well as for our fighting forces at
home and abroad and the babies of Aus-
tralia.
U.S.A.’s policy of non-rationing wool,
with her markets crowded up with wool
stocks, is not only helping the war effort
now, but it also puts her in a key posi-
tion with a superior product to compete
and win markets everywhere. Australia,
wake up!—L. E. M. (N.S.W.).
Education
Agree with “Pater Unfamilias’ that
there are grave defects in our educational
system (B. 24/6/’42), but what has that
to do with disquieting statistics revealed
by army intelligence tests?
If an intelligence test is what its name
implies, it should be designed to dis-
cover the degree of brain power in those
tested. Presumably that used by the
army is of this character, otherwise of
what value is it? Good teaching will
help the intellect to be used to the best
advantage, but if the natural intelligence
is there a proper test should reveal it.
If trainees register “low average,”
“inferior” or “very inferior” they must
be deficient in mental capacity. The best
of educational systems can do little to
remedy that, — Sam (N.S.W.).
“War,” said General Wavell (article in
an early issue of “Salt”), “is a matter of
10 per cent, intense excitement and 90 per
cent, boredom.” As a soldier by neces-
sity and not from choice, I am grateful
to the authorities for providing an organi-
sation to help me struggle with the long
periods of boredom. That they have
provided education instead of circuses is
a matter for congratulation.
If our democracy is worth a fig, the
democrats should know what it is all
about. Some of them desire this under-
standing. The army publications —“Salt”
(in part) and “Current Affairs Bulletin”
—help this understanding.
“Jindivick” (B. 8/7/’42) seems to delight
in the fact that certain army education
activities have flopped in his unit. He
gives as reasons that the troops would
“sooner get to bed or home on leave or
go out for a couple of hours with their
girls.” He might have explained that, on
two-days-a-month leave, troops at battle
stations would have to go A.W.L. to
spend a couple of hours with their girls.
And what of the men in Northern Terri-
tory, New Guinea and many other out-
of-the-way places? The A.E.S. is doubt-
less providing for them, too.
The chief obstacle to progress of the
A.E.S. is apathy, pretty well distributed
through all ranks, which puts any man
who is keen on keeping his mind active
in the position of the occasional zealot
who kneels down on his palliasse to say
his prayers. The A.E.S. is striving to
do a useful job for our army, our
democracy and our cause. Give it a
chance! — Conscript (N.S.W.).
Charcoal Costs
There is going to be a big protest
one of these days against the rising cost
of charcoal. Wooded as Australia is i ;
is reasonable to assume that charcoa
would be cheap. It was not more
than £3 a ton in some States; today it
has reached £ll 10s. Like the egg and
the apple, the timber cinder is being
“boarded” and it looks like advancing in
price to surprising figures.— Bill Ding
(W.A.).
Income-tax Absurdities
While many items in the Australian
income-tax schedule appear watertight,
there are two which badly need tighten-
ing up.
Item 43—“ Gifts to Public Charitable
Institutions, Patriotic Funds, etc. (attach
receipts).” Who gets receipts and who
expects them?
Item 44 —“Medical, Hospital, etc.” As
a rule, the receipt you get from a chemist
is a narrow slip stamped illegibly on a
cash register. As anyone could pick these
receipts off the floor of a chemist’s shop
it isn’t likely the Income Tax Commis-
sioner would accept such evidence. And
many a medico, paid by cheque, doesn t
bother about receipts.
Why not take these bad jokes out of
the assessment form? —M. H. (N.S.W.).
New Order
Everybody is looking for a new social
system that will give the ordinary Aus-
tralian freedom without license and
security without slavery. No one wants
to bring back the crudities and casual
inequalities of the old Capitalism. No
one—except a few Marxist professors and
the confirmed bureaucrats —really wants
Socialism, Most people who call them-
selves “Socialist” would sum up their poli-
tical creed as “giving everyone a fair go.”
There is one way to preserve private
ownership without preserving vested in-
terests. There is one way of limiting
profiteering and exploitation without de-
stroying freedom or handing all powers
over to a Totalitarian'State. That way
is to restore ownership to the people.
If we can make it easy for the average
man to own property —his own house,
his farm, his shop, his little factory—we
shall have gone far towards creating a
nation of truly free men.
It would not be a simple task. It im-
plies a living wage that will enable a
man to-save, a system of fixing prices
and of limiting compe ition to protect
the small man. It implies joint control
of each industry by the workers and the
employers in that industry, and therefore
a new spirit of co-operation and friend-
ship among all classes. And it implies
that the State, as such, will confine itself
to deciding matters of major importance
and leave it to the people engaged in
business and agriculture to manage .their
own affairs by means ol legally consti-
tuted industrial councils.— Gllnferuie
(Vic.).


A
m
Manufacturers of
Wireless Apparatus for
THE NAVY
THE ARMY
THE AIR FORCE
MERCHANT NAVY
AIRLINES
CIVIL AVIATION
GOVERNMENT DEPTS.
PUBLIC UTILITIES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (MIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Buy War Savings Certificates
