

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
t
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3239.
Wednesday, March 11, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
YORK MINSTER.
JT is in the eternal fitness of things that the ancient and historic city of York should contain within itself the largest and finest ecclesiastical edifice
in England. As it now exists it was begun in 1171 and completed in 1472. As a church centre York is much older. In 624, Edwin, King of Northumbria,
made it an archiepiscopal see, and two centuries later it earned European fame for the diocesan school there established The stately minster has
probably an older and wider reputation than any other English cathedral. It was the centre from which Christianity spread through the country north of
the Humber. The, metropolitan church of the northern province was regarded with reverence and admiration as its stately towers and roofs were seen
rising in massive grandeur above the great plain of York The vast edifice is usually entered from the south transept, the earliest portion of the existing
church, and from this point the architectural succession of the cathedral may be easily observed. If approached by the great west door, the entire length
of the minster is best seen. The vaulted roof, 100 feet high, stretches in a noble vista 500 feet long to the east window, while the mellowed light that
streams down from the painted windows falls on the great clustered pillars on either side of the nave. The Center or Lantern Tower, 235 feet high, is said
to be the most massive in England, the top being beautifully battlemented. The choir, built in the same style as the nave, illustrates the progress of Gothic
architecture from the Decorated to the Perpendicular. The east window, 75 feet high and 32 feet broad, is declared the finest in the world. Whether
York, in many phases, is worthy of its superb sacred fane is a question upon which opinions probably differ. H. V. Morton has written that York is the
loveliest city in all England,” “her last real anchor to the Middle Ages.” Those conversant with other cities, rich too in ecclesiastical associations, may
question this view. For all of that York has few equals historically and religiously in the history of the British race.


f
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.” ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 142
The Red Page
"STRANGE NEW WORLD."
Historical and international considera-
tions compel me to point out that the
Red Page review of my book Strange
New World (B. 18/2/’42) is seriously
misleading. It is misleading because of
what it says and what it does not say. It
is basically misleading in its opening
sentence, which proclaims the book to be
‘ one long moral condemnation of the
explorer Leichhardt,” whereas in fact
that quaint “hero” is not discussed at all
in the first six chapters and appears
throughout most of the remainder of the
narrative merely as a secondary figure to
the adventurous naturalist John Gilbert,
In order to support his loose assump-
tion that “the whole thing” was “de-
signed as a devastating attack” on Leich-
hardt, the reviewer adopts a very dubious
device: he wrenches certain words and
phrases out of their context, and,
although some when in place are inno-
cent and even complimentary, he sets
them all forth in martial array and con-
trives to make a display that is, super-
ficially, quite formidable. In various in-
stances light remarks are given a sinister
significance and in other instances words
are plainly misinterpreted, as in this pas-
sage ; “ ‘Leichhardt,’ says Mr. Chisholm,
forgetting that even Nero or Dr. Crippen
is splendid material for the historian, ‘is
n . ot f 5 subject for contempla-
tion.’ ” Obviously, the reviewer has here
confused “refreshing” with “interesting.”
It is true that I did not think of either
Nero or Crippen when dealing with
Leichhardt—and I doubt if Leichhardt’s
ghost will thank the Red Page for the
analogy—but in any case those festive
gentlemen, while undoubtedly interesting,
can scarcely be regarded as refreshing.
The same point applies to Leichhardt.
It is not true, as the Red Page suggests,
that I was swayed by international feel-
ing (against a German) in discussing
Leichhardt. As a fact, I began by being
prejudiced in his favor through the
i ellowship of natural history and because
of admiration developed for the work of
German scientists whom I met when
lecturing in Berlin in 1938. Moreover,
m the course of the narrative I paid
several tributes (none of them cited by
the Red Page) to the worthy aspects of
Leichhardt’s character; I acclaimed, per-
haps more warmly than was justified, his
botanical possibilities; I described his
choice of place-names as “agreeable”; I
made excuses for his sponging and his
irresponsibility in regard to money; I
toned down the oft-repeated charge of
strong vanity; and, more important, I
rendeYed him the service of refuting a
serious suspicion, long prevalent, that he
was physically immoral. On a similar
basis of impartiality I examined all as-
pects, favorable and unfavorable, of the
character of the Englishman Gilbert. In
short, I discussed both men with much
more broadness than the Red Page exer-
cised in discussing Strange New World.
Any attitude other than the one I adopted
in each case —any easeful pandering to
sentiment in scorn of evidence—would
have amounted to falsification of history.
It was made perfectly clear in the book
that I tried resolutely to be lenient to-
wards Leichhardt but was thwarted again
and again by two major factors—his rank
disloyalty to his colleagues and his
cruelty to dogs and other animals. Have
I overemphasised these defects in Leich-
hardt’s character? If so. The Bulletin
of other years is largely responsible, since
it assisted to implant in me, as a lad in
the bush, respect for mateship and de-
cency. I protest, in this regard, that I
did not expect to see the day when
The Bulletin would use such words as
“hero,” “genius” and “magnificent char-
acter” in respect of a man who broke
every principle in the Code of the Bush.
(Nor is my wonder lessened by the fact
that the Red Page, its early conception
shaken by the mass of evidence, admits
some of the charges against Leichhardt
to be “genuine cases” that “do matter”
—and then proceeds to discount them.)
“Magnificent character” is a term used
by the Red Page in making the naive
suggestion that Leichhardt offers scope
for a novel by Ernestine Hill or Eleanor
Dark. This, perhaps, is the most dashing
sortie in the whole of the review. I take
leave to doubt, however, whether either
of the ladies so airily nominated would
discover much sympathy with a man
who, among other murky acts, stole the
food of invalids and slandered his col-
leagues of two expeditions, and who was
described by one of his associates as
“the most selfish greedy man I ever saw.”
Shades of Flinders and Phillip!
A very odd circumstance is that the
Red Page, while attacking me with
righteous fervor, avoids referring to the
fact that my criticism of Leichhardt merely
resolves into endorsement of the evidence
of at least seven of his contemporaries,
together with the view of a German
scientist and the opinions of practically
all “official” Australian historians. The
testimony of only one of the earlier
critics is examined in the review, and he
(a convict) is given short shrift. Clearly,
the Red Page statement of the case,
although replete with extravagant and
even offensive words, is not sufficiently
sweeping; to be consistent it should have
attacked the entire army of Leichhardt’s
critics and not have concentrated its
Blitz on two such modest individuals as
the convict and myself.
Aside from the omissions cited, the
extraordinary thing is that the Red
Page, while devoting the greater part of
three columns to an attempt at white-
washing Leichhardt, could find no space
whatever to refer to the remarkable
career of Gilbert, Australia’s most dis-
tinguished combination of zoologist, ex-
plorer and diarist, a more worthy figure
than Leichhardt in every way, and more-
over a figure hitherto lost to public know-
ledge and therefore having greater claim
to present notice. Further, I suggest that
an erroneous impression is apt to be
created by the lack of reference, however
brief, to any of the other features of the
book, notably the many facets of Aus-
tralian history and science uncovered by
Gilbert’s travels, the remarkable adven-
tures of the Leichhardt parties, and the
curious impacts between the white and
black men—all mattefs of greater his-
torical significance than the question of
Leichhardt’s character.
It follows in view of the foregoing
that space could not be spared by the
Red Page to say a word for the many
decent fellows who accompanied Leich-
hardt : men who shared fully all the work
and privations of the expeditions, who
had their troubles greatly increased by
the queer conduct of their leader, and
who had to suffer again afterwards
through his traducing of them. Not one
of those men, as historians have freely
remarked, ever accompanied Leichhardt
a second time, and it is to be observed
that the Australian Encyclopaedia, in
recording this fact, suggests that Leich-
hardt’s final disaster possibly was due to
his “luck” failing in the matter of com-
panions. Be that as it may, he certainly
owed more to his companions than he was
ever willing to admit. Clearly, therefore, it
is to those men, rather than Leichhardt,
that all spare sympathy should be accorded.
A query raised in the review regarding
the treatment of Gilbert’s diary—why it
was not published alone —is answered in
the book. The only other point requiring
attention is the gasp of “astonishment”
emitted by the Red Page writer upon dis-
covering that reviewers in the daily
papers “accepted without question Mr.
Chisholm’s premises and conclusions.”
In other words, he is amazed that all
members of the band save one should
be out of step! I suggest, in respect of
this phenomenon, that it is just possible
that all those other reviewers saw the
matter more clearly than did the Red
Page; and I suggest further that the Red
Page attitude on the point is quite in line
with that of Leichhardt himself, who on
returning from each of his journeys
allowed it to be known that in the many
differences of opinion that arose he was
entirely in the right and all his com-
panions were entirely in the wrong.
A. H. CHISHOLM.
T. E. Lawrence Postscript.
Lawrence of Arabia emerges from Henry
Williamson’s emotional tribute to him,
Genius of Friendship (Faber), as an Air
Force motor-cycle-speeding Hamlet, clad
in wet oilskins and with a brick-red face.
Williamson met and became a close,
though seldom meeting, friend of
Lawrence through mutual appreciation
of each other’s writing. The opening
sentences of Revolt in the Desert, when
it was appearing in London “Daily Tele-
graph” as a serial, instantly convinced
Williamson that here was a literary
affinity. Lawrence, in his turn, greatly
admired Tarka the Otter and said so in
a letter which was included in the col-
lected correspondence of Lawrence edited
by Edward Garnett, and which William-
son uses lingeringly as the main basis of
his tribute, quoting passages from it and
a little other correspondence, and eking
these out with comments, a sensitive
analysis of Lawrence’s character as he
knew it, and descriptions of his one or
two meetings with Lawrence.
Though Williamson seems to fear that
a wrong impression of Lawrence may
have been given by sensation-mongering
newspapers, the impression he himself
projects seems to correspond pretty accur-
ately with the already established popular
legend. Williamson had a more intimate
acquaintanceship with Lawrence than had
the general run of people, but, like them,
he met him late in Lawrence’s short life.
Hence the close resemblance between the
popular legend and Williamson’s intimate
portrait. Hence also (in part) a resem-
blance between this composite picture
and Hamlet —or, for that matter, any
dramatised intellectual who is known
only as a mature and completed adult
character. Like Hamlet, the legendary
(and Williamsonian) Lawrence, despite
something Puckish in his make-up, is the
antithesis of Peter Pan. Even going
back to his Arabian background he is
already grown up. He might always have
been an adult. When Williamson —and
the public, too —met and knew him, his
life was as good as over. Though none —
unless it was Lawrence himself —may
have divined it, he was in his last phase;
like Hamlet’s, a fast-moving anticlimax.
In one of his lectures Coleridge said con-
cerning Hamlet:
Shakspeare wished to impress upon us
the truth that action is the chief end of exist-
ence—that no faculties of intellect, however
brilliant, can be considered valuable, or in-
deed otherwise than as misfortunes, if they
withdraw us from, or render us repugnant
to, action, and lead us to think and think of
doing, until the time has elapsed when we
can do anything effectually.
The war, and his remarkable part in it,
gave Lawrence his outlet in action. With
that past, he was in the same boat with
Williamson —and with how many thou-
sands of other returned men —lost in an
environment that called for drastic re-
adjustment, or for the discovery of a new
outlet equal to the old. Both William-
son and Lawrence took to the pen, and
neither found it an equivalent. Both re-
mained desperately unsatisfied and un-
happy men. Williamson pictures Law-
rence when he was writing The Seven
Pillars of Wisdom, “when sometimes he
had worked all night, living in an attic
room lent by a friend and prowling
about the streets of London at all hours,
burning away present life for the re-crea-
tion of scenes and turmoils in the mental
glare of ancient Arabian sunlight.”
It was not so much the physical action
during the war that exhausted him, but the
several intensive writings and re-writings
of his book: the prolonged unnatural excit-
tation and insufficient food. For while after
the physical action in Arabia his life was
empty, after the imaginative action his
mind was empty—nothing to do, nothing to
hope for. Except to be left alone, forgotten,
his ambition to be doing happy-easy things
every day, eating and sleeping, the squirrel
cage of the brain at rest.
When Williamson was leaving on a trip
to America, Lawrence, seeing him off,
said that when he came back they’d
“swim and walk and pick nuts off the
hedges, and lie on our backs in the sand-
hills and do nothing, and think of no-
thing. It’s no good thinking any more.”
As Williamson pictures him at the time;
“He was standing, hands behind back,
patiently, against a bulkhead. He wore
overalls, splashed with wet. His face was
brick-red, his eyes cornflower-blue I
wondered why no one had remarked the
likeness of his face and head to Wagner’s.
His eyes were an intensely deep, straight
blue. Those eyes saw without illusion.
Something had gone from him ; a spring
uncoiled. Only deep sadness could have
done that.”
The sadness, that would be, of his
consciousness of having reached the end.
He had had his life of action, and he had
written himself out. His two masterpieces
—the physical and the intellectual —were
masterpieces of personal action, of ex-
perience. Neither could be repeated. He
had passed the climax, both of his physi-
cal and his literary life. As he saw him-
self now: “Thought is only good when it
precedes action. Thought without action
is frustration.” Williamson does not
note the close resemblance between this
and Coleridge’s comment on Hamlet,
though it amounts to a paraphrase. If
Lawrence did not think of himself as
another Hamlet, another Shakspeare
could have cast him for a like part-
no crowded stage cluttered with bodies
at the end, but (despite friendships such
as Williamson’s, and despite the ferret-
squealing press and the clamorous hero-
needing crowd) a lonely stage, and only
one figure on it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Art values showed no sign of a war-
time slump at the sale of the late Arthur
Wigrarn Allen s pictures in Sydney: 350
guineas for the loveliest of his G rimers
195 guineas for another and 145 guineas
for another; 160 guineas for Hans
Heysen s The Quarry”—a powerful can-
vas in the hot reds and browns of Aus-
tralian earth and rock—and 155 guineas
for a Hans Heysen still-life ; 100 guineas
for Penleigh Boyd’s lyrical “Wattle Blos-
som.” A Lambert pencil drawing brought
75 guineas, Mclnnes’s “Ginger Bill and
Snowy” 70 guineas, a Norman Lindsav
water-color 60 guineas, and a third Hans
Heysen, a Rupert Bunny and a Long-
staff ranged from 46 guineas to 35
guineas. Gruner’s 350-guineas-worth was
an amazingly simple subject—a broken
fence, a glimpse of distance, a couple
of spindly saplings, a patch of grass in
the foreground; what made it worth the
money and more was the morning light
and morning mist on it, lifting it from
the trivial particular to the most lovely
universal.
In line with war-time economies is a
show of prints at the Macquarie Galleries
Sydney, prices ranging from 1| to 34
guineas. Some are English—there’s a
little Paul Nash, “Winter Wood,” that
is very eerie. John Platt’s color print
Pilchard Boats, Cornwall,” is charming.
Best things in the show, though, are Aus-
tralian—the graceful color designs of Eth-
leen Palmer and the beautiful draughts-
manship of Thea Proctor’s offerings."
Maybe the radio will restore to the
dramatist one of his handiest weapons—
the soliloquy. Realism has long ago
taken it by the scruff of the neck and
hurled it off the stage, yet (the soliloquiser
not being seen) it didn’t sound so very
odd when young Macbeth, sitting alone
by the fire in the A.B.C. presentation of
Gordon Bottomley’s “Gruach,” addressed
himself in imitation Elizabethan blank
verse for about five minutes. The
soliloquy, after all, demands no greater
concession from the listener than that he
should allow the character to tell his
thoughts aloud, and the modern novelist
takes that concession for granted. Look
at Joyce! What else is the “stream-of-
consciousness” method but soliloquy?
Radio play-presentation is still so new
a thing that playwrights or audiences
haven’t yet had time to make up their
minds what is and what isn’t “legitimate.”
Bottomley, whose play (except as a kind
of comment on Shakspeare, escaping
censure under Shakspeare’s wing) would
be absurd on the stage, gets away with
not only the soliloquies in radio presen-
tation, but with Gruach’s conducting a
perfectly intelligent conversation in her
sleep, and with the sort of “grand style”
blank verse in which the characters do
not talk naturally but make beautiful
orations at one another.
Everybody is creeping or being forced
under the Governmental blanket these
days; the 1942 Melbourne musical pro-
gramme will be almost 100 p.c. official.
A.B.C. will hold 10 orchestral concerts
at the Town Hall, and not only the Melb.
Symphony Orchestra but the older-
established Philharmonic Society will be
under its direction. No foreign-virtuosi
will be imported, possibly because the
Commission has discovered there is ample
local talent, or possibly because there are
certain obstacles in the way, as with tea
and cigarettes,
A tour of Sydney’s talkie front re-
veals no major developments, though a
few minor observations may be made—
what a tiptop funny man of the wise-
cracking kind is Bob Hope; what a fine
actor is Walter Huston ; how like a happy
and faithful hound is Don Ameche; and
how like an air-raid siren off key is what
passes for Judy Canova’s voice. Hope
figures in “Nothing But the Truth,” at
the Prince Edward —as a reckless young
man who bets 10,000 dollars of someone
else’s money that he can tell the exact truth
for 24 hours. Decorated by Paulette
Goddard and amusing most of the way.
Huston is in “Swamp Water,” at the
Plaza, and it’s a pleasure to watch his
powerful dramatic acting. Film is not as
good as might have been expected from the
very readable novel on which it is based.
The Canova curiosity may be in-
spected in “Puddin’ Head.” According
to reports there are some pretty queer
things in the U.S.A.’s Ozark Mountains;
Miss Canova, as a “hillbilly” come to
New York to make good on the radio,
does nothing to shake those reports. The
doggy characteristics of Mr. Ameche —
his almost unshakable grin and his clumsy
restlessness —are stronger than ever in
“Confirm or Deny” (Mayfair), a news-
paper melodrama set in blitzed London.
Plenty of bombs, ruins, heroics and Joan
Bennett. A tail for Mr. Ameche to wag
would make it perfect.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
BUY QUALITY MERCER
WHILE STOCKS LAST
***** '4**
\, ~11
Mil
m *?
i:®:S
: ? , r #
>• ;
V*
ivh<&
te: VAri;-' ; V *
Men's Fancy Half Hose, 4*6
A smart accessory . . . fancy Cashmere Half
Hose of all wool, except ornament Wide range
of the latest check designs, on Greys, Navy and
Fawn grounds. Sizes, 10 to 11 2 inches. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 4/6 pair
UNILLUSTRATED.
Strongly Made Work Shirts# 10 3
Shirts that will stand up to a hard day's work
. . . strongly made with collar and pocket
attached. Serviceable colour, in a tough wear-
ing material. Sizes, 14F to 17 inch neck. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 10/3
"AKUBRA" Boomerang Quality Hats. 20'6
The ever popular "Akubra" brand . . . the choice of smart
men. High-grade fur felt Hats in smart snap brim styles,
available with low crowns and narrow bands. For the older
man we have a range of more conservative styles. New
season's tonings of Blue Grey, Greys, Fawns and Browns.
Boomerang guality. At Anthony Horderns.' Price 20/S
"High” guality, silk lined. Price 26/-
• Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phones M 2401 {Day and Night) Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
White Sports Shirts. 6*6
Cool and comfortable . . . Men's
White Sports Shirts for play and
leisure hours. Neatly finished, with
collar and pocket attached. Made
from a strong reliable British twill.
Sizes, Hi to 18 inch. At Anthony
Horderns'. . Price 6/6
"Golden Fleece" U'wear
For warmth and smooth texture,
wear "Golden Fleece" Underwear,
renowned for its serviceability.
Winter-weight quality.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38
Undershirts, short sleeves 12/6 13/9 14/11
Underpants to ankle ... 13/11 15/3 16/6
Sizes, inches 46 42 44
Undershirts, short sleeves 16/6 17/6 18/3
Underpants to ankle ... 17/6 18/3 19/9
I
m
mm
■ I*
mm
mm
mm.
m
83®
m
<2 a
Ui
p O p
mmimm
\
X
0Z
mm
%


ON PRINCIPLE
By WILL LAWSON.
THE freighter Riversdale shoved her
nose so suddenly from the darkness
of tropic night into the dawn that
she woke a firemen’s peggy, who
sprang out of his bunk and ran to the
galley. There he seized a huge kid of
breakfast for his watch and dashed back
into the forecastle, shouting “Hey! Shake
a leg! Tumble out! Here’s y’r scran!”
The watch, rubbing their eyes, won-
dered where they were till the sun
bounced up and they laughed happily,
for the Riversdale was homeward bound,
halfway across the Indian Ocean, from
two years’ tramping between strange
ports, where the crew had tasted strange
drinks and been arrested by strange cops.
Soon they would be in their home ports,
which was all very fine. But Johnny
Voss, second engineer of the Riversdale,
wasn’t happy. Johnny knew that the
speed had fallen in the last watch.
He swore bitterly as he moved in his
determined way towards the bulkhead
door separating the engine-room and
stokehold. He was short but not small,
and he had driving force. He was a
headache to the black gang, being extra-
ordinarily burly and handy with his fists.
“Who told you coves this was a holi-
day?” he shouted.
“An’ ’go’s takin’ a noliday?” a cheeky
Cockney snarled.
“The whole blasted lot o’ you,” Johnny
rapped back, “an’ specially this long slab
of Liverpool here.”
He thrust his chin forward under the
nose of a tall, raw-boned Irishman, who
swung towards him instantly with a red
glare in his eyes. There was a feud
between these two, and had been ever
since Johnny took over as deucer in the
Riversdale and had to fight for his rights
in the stokehold. O’Rourke, the tall
man, had been selected to take Johnny
down, and Johnny had knocked him out
after a hard fight. It was not so much
a feud as fistic rivalry and pride, and
O’Rourke bore no malice ; in fact, he
had been proud to be licked by the
deucer. Not many firemen would stand
up to Johnny.
“Are you talkin’ to me?” O’Rourke
demanded.
“I am ; and more than talking if you
don’t wake up. You’re letting the steam
down.”
“Ah, you” The fireman threw
down his shovel and shaped up to
Johnny. “I’ve bin waitin’ a long time
to git you.”
“Same here!” Johnny’s fists moved
like piston-rods, while he danced around
the big man, whose idea seemed to be
to fall on top of the deucer. But he
had no chance. Ten seconds after they
started Johnny’s left seemed to leave his
body, it plunged out so far. There was
a dull crack, and O’Rourke fell back-
wards and lay there, with small coal
trickling about his ears from the pile
behind him.
“Sling a bucket of water on him,”
Johnny ordered, “and shake it up. If you
don’t want to get to Fremantle I do.”
O’ROURKE, having shaken himself and
felt his jaw several times, not without
a certain amount of pride, said “The little
squirt got me by surprise,” and added
with a sneer “Him an’ his bloomin’ doll.”
“What ye gassin’ abart?” the Cockney
asked irascibly. “ ’lm an’ ’ose doll?”
“I mean that long Scotch greaser
Mclntyre. Lives in the deucer’s pocket,
he does.”
“Jealous, are ye? Well, ain’t Mac
the number one greaser, an’ don’t the
number one greaser always act as the
deucer’s right-’and man?” He laughed,
“Long Mac a doll?”
“Yes, that’s all he is, a bloomin’ doll.”
The “doll” stood six feet two inches
in his socks, and looked so powerful
and fierce no man in the ship would have
dared say “boo” to him. He looked side-
ways at Johnny when he walked past
rubbing his knuckle but said nothing,
save to mutter to himself “Got out of
the wrong side of the bed this morning.”
He was wrong. As a matter of fact
Johnny was worrying about Mclntyre and
not with any brotherly feelings either. He
had never had a greaser like Mac. So
far as work was concerned no man could
touch him. But, like ail artists, Mac had
his moods. Another thing was that he
was a stern Scot, born in Australia, but
brought up in the kirk as strictly as any
Covenanter. He lived on principle. His
work was well done on principle; he
drew his pay on principle, though often
he left it lying for weeks; he spent it on
principle, and, on principle, only in Aus-
tralian ports ; and Mac got drunk on
principle and, being drunk, he always
attacked a policeman —on principle. They
were nearing an Australian port. Mac
would go ashore, which meant that later
in the day Johnny would have to go and
bail him out.
Nobody could stop Mac when he
wanted to go ashore. His principles
were so strong he would have fought the
harbor-master himself, had that official
tried to stop him. So Johnny would say
“Ail right, Mac. How much pay do
you want?”
“Say, fifteen pounds,” Mac would
answer.
“Right! And I’ll keep five to bail
you out, eh?”
Johnny would watch Mac’s tall,
straight, herculean figure disappearing
down the wharf and sigh, knowing that
in due time the call from the police
station would come and later on a taxi
would deliver one huge Scot, very drunk,
in charge of a short, burly deucer, and
as Mac went below Johnny would say
“Promise me this’ll be the last time,
Mac.”
And Mac would draw himself to his
full height, swaying unsteadily, and say
“I canna—on preenciple'”
Next day Mac would pay a fine, on
principle.
The ship having been out of Australian
waters for so long, Mac had a large wad
of pay coming to him, and Johnny knew
that the more he drew the greater the
crash ashore.
A WEEK later the Riversdale glided
*'■ out of darkness’ into daylight without
annoying Johnny the deucer, who had
got used to the slow Australian dawns by
now. And the peggy must have slept in,
for when he brought the breakfast the
men were up already, on deck staring
ahead to see the first smoky signs of land,
and dreaming of Fremantle’s cold beer.
Mclntyre announced his intention of
going ashore, and Johnny said “All right.
How much?”
“Twenty pounds. And keep ten.”
“Whew!” thought Johnny, “this is
going to be a dazzler. Don’t go mistaking
a soldier for a cop,” he said, “or you’ll
have the troops on to you.”
“I’d never hit a soldier, on preenciple,”
Mac said ; “I admire soldiers.”
“I wish you admired cops, too,”
Johnny said fervently. “Sure you’ve got
plenty of money?”
“Sure.”
Mac’s eyes lit up when he saw his
favorite bar opening out ahead; his
course had been correct, and his revolu-
tions increased till he was alongside the
bar and ringing his engines off. Then he
opened his hatches, as it were, and
ordered a very long beer. And so, in
the old-fashioned wording in the log-
books, began this day.
It must have been after six o’clock
when Johnny Voss got into trouble out-
side a hotel, for he had come ashore,
too, contrary to his custom when
Mclntyre was on the loose. But some
engineers of an inter-State steamer came
round and got him going on whisky, so
that he agreed to come ashore —“just for
a few spots” he told himself.
He was saying good-bye, getting ready
to hurry back in case there was a call
from Mac, when a huge form loomed
up, a voice shouted insults at him, and
before he could think he got a terrific
welt on his jaw. It was O’Rourke, the
fireman, drunk as Chloe and looking
for blood. Johnny’s friends got out of
the way and the fight was on.
At that moment, by all the bad luck in
the world, Mclntyre rolled round the
corner, swaying bravely and still in the
heyday of his celebrations. So far he had
failed to connect with a policeman. And
now two of them appeared before his
fiery eyes. With a wild Highland yell he
sailed for them, throwing his arms every-
where and bruising and winding several
men in his excitement. He was like a
powerful threshing machine, throttled
down to handle humans instead of wheat.
He was making an immense impression
on the police force when he saw Johnny.
He stared. That was queer. The deucer
should be on board the ship, waiting for
his SOS when the police put him in.
Obviously Johnny must be taken back
to the ship. So he picked up Johnny
and tucked him under his arm and started
for the wharf. Then, seeing that the
ship was half a mile away, he waved to
a taxi, put Johnny in, threw out a police-
man who had got in the other side and
away they went, with two angry police-
men following in another car.
When they got to the ship Mac went
up the gangway with Johnny, asked if
he was all right and then, seeing the
police about to mount the gangway, he
let out another Highland yell and charged
down on them. Some minutes afterwards
the brawl subsided and Mac submitted
to being taken to the station, on prin-
ciple. Johnny had got himself a whisky
to soothe his nerves and he slept. He
had no further interest in Mac till the
call came, as he knew it would, to bail
him out,
IT was an hour before the police
* deigned to carry a message to Johnny,
and by that time he was feeling all right.
He determined to teach Mac a lesson
this time. He’d leave him there till the
morning and see the magistrate then.
Johnny did talk to the magistrate.
When the police prosecutor read out
the charge and stated the case for the
Crown, the magistrate frowned. “A dan-
gerous man,” he commented, while Mac
stood in the dock with a wooden expres-
sion on his face. “Has he any evidence
to offer?” He looked at Johnny Voss,
“Are you his officer?”
“Yes, sir. I’m the second engineer.
This man is a fine worker and a staunch
Australian. He never spends money out-
side of this country, never goes ashore
nor causes any trouble —till he’s back in
Australian waters. I don’t understand
him, sir. But I don’t want to lose him.
As a greaser he’s an artist.”
“As a trouble-maker, too, apparently,”
the magistrate said. To Mac he said
“Why did you attack these policemen?”
“On preenciple,” Mac said.
“On principle?”
“Yes, y’r Honor! It’s the way the
cops look at me, measurin’ me up, as
much as to say T could take him on, I
could! ’ An’ then, y’r Honor, I just have
to resent that look. It’s the police who
start all my fights—lookin’ at me the wav
they do.”
“Indeed!” the magistrate’s tone was
icy. “Mr. Voss, when does your ship
sail again and where to?”
“She sails in January—that’s about
three months from now—for Valparaiso,
Buenos Aires, Dakar, Madagascar and
the Mediterranean, then London. Maybe
she’ll be away a year, maybe more.”
“All right. Well, I find this man guilty
of assaulting police, damaging their uni-
forms and general riotous behavior. And
I will inflict a fine of £loo—and no time
to pay—with the alternative of three
months in gaol. Well,” he snapped at
Mac, who still wore his wooden expres-
sion, “have you anything to say?”
“Yes, if your Honor pleases? When
will I get out? Will that sentence carry
me over the New Year?”
“Yes. You’ll be safe till January 12,
when you’ll be released. Now what will
you do?”
“I’ll pay,” Mac said, “on preenciple!
Nae Scot could meet the New Year in
chains o’ slavery.”
OLD BILL’S LAST STAND
By “OLD COURT.”
DAD ought to have been an engineer
instead of a battler on the land,
where, however, he made good
with the help of Mother and us
kids—five of us. His masterpiece was a
double-furrow plough made of wagon
tyres for beams and any old scraps of
iron that could be worked in at all,
mouldboards of broken crosscut saw
painstakingly riveted together—the only
new parts were the shares which he had
picked up somewhere. As he had only
. .A,, f e j u n i
kitchen bellows for a forge and a bullock-
dray axle for an anvil, the miracle was
that he got it together at all. But he did,
“ d U *? rk f we \ to0 ’ tm ,i‘. struck , a
root or big stone when something would
get out of plumb and take some time
rea justing.
At a time when we lads were old
enough to relieve Dad of the harder
work he got word there was an eight-
horsepower portable steam engine aban-
doned in the bush about twenty miles
away. It had been used for cutting
timber and the owner evidently thought
it not worth pulling out. Taking a couple
of horses, Dad set forth to salvage the
derelict. He found that his two neddies
had no hope of budging it, so prevailed
on Jock Anderson to take his bullock
team over. The first time the bullocks
straightened out away came the port-
able’s , forecarriage, but that’s a minor
mishap to bushmen, and soon, with much
creaking and cracking, out the engine
came. It required some skill to get her
out of the bush, but eventually the con-
traption arrived at the farm, with one
tyre, a felloe and two spokes missing
from one of the wheels, giving the turn-
out—still with funnel standing—a ludi-
crous limp, very suggestive of a char-
acter in the neighborhood known as Old
Bill; so Dad’s salvaged wreck was
promptly named “Old Bill.”
For the next fortnight Dad was the
happiest man in the district, cleaning,
polishing and screwing up o( trying to
loosen nuts and taps He had worked
with threshing and chaff-cutting gangs
at odd times and picked up an expert-
sounding jargon about valves and gov-
ernors and |auges, but what he didn’t
know about iteam would have stocked a
library-and we knew less than Dad did.
, , . , ,
After much hammering and filing, Dad
got the pm out that held the funnel m
place, and letting it down started to fill
the boiler through the opening thus dis-
closed, but the water poured out of the
boiler tubes.
Dad, noticing that some of the tubes
were plugged, was toying with the idea
of plugging the rest of them, when an
agent happened to call who knew some-
thing about portables and showed Dad
the proper way of filling the boiler. The
manhole cover being a permanent fixture
as far as our efforts to loosen it went, we
had to fill the boiler with the feed pump,
and of course filled it too full. The
glass of both steam and water gauges
was broken, and we didn’t know what
they were for anyway.
With the air of a priest performing
a sacrifice, Dad lighted the fire, and the
smother from the smokebox revealed the
purpose of the long funnel, which we
promptly hoisted, A long wait ensued
with no sign of steam while the fire was
roaring up the tubes, till with a pop and
hiss the safety valve came into action—
and probably saved all our lives.
Dad now sought to start the engine
a nd turned on all the taps available,
while a shower from the broken water
g au S e nearly scalded all of us; but as
tbe sta itmg lever was missing there was
n 0 ° r 01d B‘ lk . 11
was perhaps just as well. Puzzled and a
bjt ££, d J jn ite of his optilnism ..
Dad reluctantly i eft old Bill to simmer
down
But' our luck was in, for in a few days
a chap ' , looking f ’ r
a J job s who p knew a bit about Seam
engines. He improvised a starting lever
anc j fitted a good belt to the governor,
and with sixty pound of steam Old Bill
regained some of the strength of his
youth, and to our joy actually cut some
chaff. We could have cut more chaff
by hand in the time it took us to cut
Old Bill’s firewood, draw water, etc., but
we , all liked the idea of working a real
engine.
When the novelty began to wear off
Dad started on an invention for shelling
corn. He had used the “Irish Combine”
(fl a il) in his young days, and conceived
the idea of belting out corncobs with a
machine embodying that principle. At
a sale he had picked up an old feedmill
fitted with flywheel and pulley, and he
festened four flails to the rim of the
wheel. On the strength of Old Bill’s
good behavior, he also bought a new
driving belt—a bit of optimism with
a lmost fatal consequences. Bags of corn
in the cob were arranged in front of the
revolving flail, and Old Bill was con-
nected up. Dad was always in a hurry
1° finish, no matter how patient he might
be on a job, and the flail apparatus was
not secured in position properly. Alter
a whirling banging and missing had been
going on for a few minutes the flailing
contraption sl £ w , ed ™ u ” d % b ‘‘
belt slipped off the inside of the pulley,
on a projecting key and started
™ dln B. U J the flail to wards Old BiU.
Dad Picked up an axe wnth the idea of
, hls . P et f. but “ «“LJf
! he whack,, wh ch sent Dad spraw^-
mg, and then literally walked over him.
In a few seconds there was a rattle of
blows on old Bill> an unear thly screech
f rom the whistle, steam blowing off and
generally hell t o pay, the flail leaning
Qn Qld m like an exhausted prize-
fighter
We carried Dad in feebly cursing, and
while Ted galloped for the doctor Mother
cleaned the blood and dust off her spouse,
her face struggling between tears and
laughter. Dad was pretty bad for some
weeks, but thanks to an iron constitu-
fion and Mother’s devotion he pulled
through. His first walk out was to Old
Bill, now a hopeless cripple, and he
chuckled at the memory of that last
scrap.
We have an oil engine now to do chaff-
cutting and the like. Dad comes sniffing
round—“damn’ smelly things, these rattle-
traps; Old Bill was worth ten of ’em,”
is his mildest comment.


TOO MUCH ON THE SLATE.
“Waal, John, I guess we’d better do sumpin’ about this guy before he drinks us outa house and home.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
THE CLOSING THREAT.
Events of last week should have finally
shattered the dreams of those still cling-
ing to dreams. Before the week was half
through the impetus of their continuing
offensive had taken the Japs deep into
Java—the old grim story: “Advancing
continually” . , . “numerically superior”
. . . “definite air superiority.” General
Sir Archibald Wavell, so recently ap-
pointed to the high-sounding position
of Allied Commander-in-Chief in the
south-west Pacific, had gone back to
resume his post as C.-in-C. in India.
Japanese ’planes had made bombing or
machine-gunning raids on Wyndham and
Broome, Darwin and Port Moresby.
Through Burma the threat to Britain’s
Asiatic empire had been seriously ad-
vanced ; with it the threat to Australia’s
Indian Ocean supply lines. Major-General
Bennett had returned to Australia and re-
ported on the worst single catastrophe in
Australian history. The rest of the week
saw the Near North position seriously
worsen.
The official word on the Wavell episode
was that, “the loss of Malaya and the
entry of the Japanese into Sumatra” hav-
ing “separated Burma from the Dutch
Indies,” the command of United Nations
forces in the Dutch Indies had been given
over to the Dutch. The “Times” fatu-
ously remarked that the news “would
cause no surprise.” Whatever history may
say of it, at least it had the effect of forc-
ing on all but the incurably dull and wil-
fully blind a more realistic appreciation
of the thinning away of the bastions that
were to have kept the war from Australia,
and the increasing direct threat to Aus-
tralia’s existence.
Even after the loss of the Australian
force at Singapore, the war remained re-
mote to a great many people in Aus-
tralia. Mr. Churchill had expressed
doubts about its coming directly here,
and those drowning in their dreams clung
to the straw. The first two bombings of
Darwin made only a nine-days’ wonder.
The war to large numbers was still some-
thing that did not touch or concern them
personally, except in the pocket: fighting
in it was something that somebody else did.
It now came home to Australians that
the direct threat to their country was no
longer over the horizon. With new and
startling clarity it was realised by all cap-
able of realising anything that, while,
Britain, Russia, China and other countries
with a weight of population might conceiv-
ably suffer defeat in war and yet survive as
nationalities and in time revive as nations, -
Australia as a nation could well be totally
and for ever obliterated.
To drive home the message, the Japs
on March 2 attacked Broome and Wynd-
ham, on March 4 machine-gunned Dar-
win, and on March 5 bombed Port
Moresby. The official announcement on
the W.A. bombing admitted “some dam-
age” caused at “both towns,” Mr. Curtin
took the opportunity to try to open the
eyes of any who might still be asleep,
kidding themselves that the attacks on
the North were a continuation of the old
distant war:
I have long been impressed with the
menace to the populations in our larger
capitals that this part of Australia would
constitute if the enemy” were able to use
it as a base. Established in the north, his
hitting power at the larger centres of popu-
lation and economic activity would become
all the more inimical.
It was given out as Commonwealth Gov-
ernment opinion that
Japanese raids on Broome and Wyndham
were designed to test out the ground de-
fences as a preliminary to securing bases m
Northern Australia as jumping-off places
for an attack on the nation’s vital defences
on the industrialised eastern coast.
Mr. Curtin further commented:
The enemy comes ever nearer. Darwin,
Wyndham and Broome are three important
strategical points vital to the security of
Australia as a whole The enemy knows
that failure on our part to hold Australia
would mean that the ultimate offensive
against him would become more difficult.
Hence his haste to get in quickly. Hence
the double urge on us to prevent this hap-
pening. Australia is vital to the United
Nations in the war against the Axis. To
hold it is imperative, and holding it
demands a degree of concentration of
energy and totality such as we have not yet
displayed.
Reporting that and the bombings which
occasioned it, the “S. M. Herald” achieved
a striking effect by publishing in the same
column a statement made by Mr. Bad-
deley, of the Sydney “Government”—on
the very day that Wyndham and Broome
were being attacked—that bank holidays
were to be observed as usual in N. S.
Wales. Over the page there was criticism
of an official poster showing a menacing
Jap with his hand grasping on to the very
parts of W.A. that had been bombed.
This poster, it appeared, was likely to set
up a “fear complex”—a revealing com-
ment on the critics’ opinion of Australian
morale, and a sorry lookout if there were
any truth whatever in the implication.
Elsewhere in the columns a sickeningly
over-publicised Mr. Falstein had occupied
a room at the Commonwealth Bank and
was defending it against all-comers, in-
cluding other members of the Common-
wealth Parliament with just as little rea-
son to be proud of their part in the cheap
farce. As well, Mr. Justice Drake-
Brockman having found that “indications
were that national necessity would compel
the winning of coal from the different
mines in Australia on Saturdays,” Mr.
Wells, the president of the Miners’ Feder-
ation, was impelled by considerations at
the distant opposite remove from the be-
ginnings of realism to lay down that
“very careful consideration would have
to be given to the matter before Saturday
work was introduced.”
All this —and more in the same tragi-
cally smug, incredibly uncomprehending
vein—was reported in the same columns
with the air attacks on Wyndham and
Broome. Clearly on such people the old
lessons of France and everywhere else
where the waking came too late were
utterly lost, and the new lessons of Singa-
pore, of Java, Wyndham and Broome,
Darwin and Port Moresby find their
dreams still shatterproof. With some it
would seem that nothing short of actual
personal injury will ever wake them up.
On how many of these there are will
depend the realisation or the destruction
of Mr. Curtin’s hopes.
Mr. Curtin declared that to hold Aus-
tralia “is imperative” ; but it will not be
held by words. It will be held only by
maximum contributions made by every-
body—by the Government Mr. Curtin
leads giving the orders and seeing that they
are carried out; by everybody else plac-
ing the only too real seriousness of the
position above self, and doing towards
the survival of all that Australia may
mean to him or her what his or her con-
science dictates and physical or other
qualifications permit.
At this long last it must be dawning
on all —even vaguely on those who will
cling desperately to their shreds of dreams
till the shreds are shot away from them
—that this is no longer a remote war,
open to academic discussion, open to any
arguing at all; no more a distant foreign
disturbance to be viewed through a
smoked telescope, preferably held to a
blind eye.
Failing a full response to a call that
should be an order; failing, that is, to
accomplish what Mr. Curtin has described
as “imperative,” what happened at
Broome and Wyndham and Darwin will
happen anywhere. The Jap offensive on
Australia has begun.
This will be more than a poster test of
courage. It calls for nothing less than a
violent upsurge of the national will, with
the national and military leaders as the
focal point. Back after his escape from
Singapore, Major-General Gordon Ben-
nett last week had his say on it: “If we
can wake up now, we can ensure that
Australia will never be defeated.”
The Japanese are not super-soldiers.
Australians beat them wherever they met.
Unfortunately, there were not enough Aus-
tralians in Malaya.
The old story of superior numbers, to
which all through too little attention has
been given. General Blarney told it after
Greece; it has been told of Java-
numbers, equipment and fighting quality
of men ; there is no substitute. In a broad-
cast after the northern Australian bomb-
ings, Sir Stafford Cripps declared: “We
can and will come to your aid.” Very
good, indeed, though it has a familiar
ring. In the U.S.A. Mr. Casey—also after
the Japs had made their Australian inten-
tions clearer —was reported as saying:
Big things are moving, in regard to
which, for reasons of security, I cannot at
present speak, but I feel that I have had
a very satisfactory day indeed for Aus-
tralia.
Also very good; but the wisest course is
that advocated by the Prime Minister on
the spot —to be there to fight and hold
Australia as “imperative.” If the promises
can be kept, splendid. With equally good
intentions, similar promises have been
made which it has not been possible to
keep. If the latest can be kept, it is cer-
tain that they will be; but if all
the signs—the planned onslaught on
northern Australia in particular—by a
miracle turn out to be wrong, full instant
national preparation now might be what
brings the miracle about. As Mr. Hughes
sees it:
One thing is certain —sooner or later the
enemy will attempt to invade Australia.
We must prepare to fight him as becomes a
free people—to repel him wherever and
whenever he seeks to land —sternly resolved
to defend our lives and our liberties with
unshatterable confidence in final victory.
At the foot of the column in which that
appeared was the report of a vessel
“loaded with vital war requirements” held
up because the crew refused to sail “un-
less refrigerators were installed”!
Only those who know the Japanese
strategical plans know what are their
schemes regarding Australia. One man’s
guess is as good as another’s, except that
the guess based on the only too plain and
pressing facts should be a great deal
nearer the mark than one based on what
the guesser wants to believe. Certainly it
would be the height of wishful folly to
discount by a fraction the very worst ex-
pectations of informed national leaders,
or of such an experienced military leader
as General Bennett, who gave it out as
his considered opinion:
The times are urgent and pressing. The
Japanese never rest. Almost before they
have finished one job they are on with the
next. Sooner or later Australia’s turn will
come. At least, it is wise that we should
look at it that way and plan accordingly.
Jap Service to Hitler.
If such a virtue as gratitude could be
credited to Hitler, he could be written
down as extremely grateful for the ser-
vice the Japs rendered him when they
broke into the war. Going by a report
of the always well-informed Imperial
Policy Group, that service was vital, not
on account of needed aid in the fighting,
but because of the worsening position at
the time on the German home front.
How Hitler may be disliking Jap suc-
cesses beyond his expectations is another
matter.
The Group’s report accepted it as cer-
tain that when the Germans plunged into
their Russian war they believed that after
the first big military success had been
won the Soviets would cave in. How
far they were out in their calculations
can be measured by the present military
position as against the fact that German
civilian officials were ordered to stand
by for duty in Moscow at a date in last
July. The latest Group report to reach
Australia states:
One thing seems certain —it was never
Hitler’s intention to abandon the offensive
for the winter before a decision was reached.
His speeches and propaganda all poured
scorn upon the suggestion that if Russia
was not completely defeated before the
cold weather operations must cease. The
plan was to launch one offensive after
another without stopping until victory was
won. The absolute and forced abandon-
ment of this for a totally different theme
and policy came as a great shock to the
German Army and people Such a clear
failure after Hitler’s personal guarantee was
indeed a development of first importance.
At the time the Japs came in the
Group’s information was that a serious
European and domestic position had
arisen for Germany as a result of
Russia’s continuing resistance. Ger-
many’s military prospects were still by
no means unhealthy, but the political situ-
ation was everywhere becoming difficult.
At home Hitler was faced with a dis-
appointed public. The Nazi party was be-
coming more and more unpopular. Many
leaders, especially Goring, were being criti-
cised for lack of attention to the war.
Even before the Russians started to
force the invaders back “public depres-
sion and pessimism were widespread.”
Many “were saying privately that they
no longer thought of complete general
victory, but only of avoiding defeat.”
The German nation was undergoing re-
action. Long privation followed by a
series of incredible victories had created an
intense, almost overmastering desire for
peace All the unpleasantnesses of war
continued, despite tremendous victories....
Then came fresh action. The hope and
belief grew that a quick, decisive, smash-
ing victory in Eastern Europe would bring
about a new situation with the real pros-
pect of peace. It is not hard to imagine the
kind of reaction which set in when this
hope died away. Not only was the pros-
pect of early peace shattered, but doubts
began to grow about the Russian cam-
paign itself.
If nothing else had happened, those
doubts would since have become con-
firmed. Though this was all to the good,
the Group, with its usual sound sense,
gave reasons for not indulging in over-
wishful thinking. At the time it expected
that Hitler would turn on Spain (as oart
of his African campaign) and on Por-
tugal (as part of the Battle of the
Atlantic). It also pointed out that, con-
trary to wishful reports, “the Prussian
military party showed the greatest loyalty
to Hitler and supported him most
staunchly.” Then there was the fanatic-
ism of Hitler’s supporters at large:
“They seem possessed by a madness.”
We are striving with no second-rate poli-
tician, nor a clever gangster, but a kind of
mad Mahdi the leader of a fanatical sect
a SWord ® one hand
and a book of black doctrine in the other
There is more in this business than mere
reaction to the defeats of the last war-
more in it than good organisation and mili-
tary preparedness.... These terrible forces
can only be overcome by superior organisa-
P on m every material sphere, and by a
true—not nominal—devotion to a superior
creed in the spiritual realm-a creed and a
faith against which the evil can never pre-
yAd’ have not yet fully awoken to
this—and consequently we are still flounder-
ing along in a half-asleep walk.
Despite all this, the position as the
Group’s observer then saw it before the
Japs came m was that the German
domestic situation was severely troubling
the German leaders. Apart from the
damage they have done on their own ac-
count, the Japs rendered the leaders they
ape the inestimable service of sharply
correcting that position.
This opens up one of the most impor-
tant aspects of the war in the Pacific.
While the Japs’ successes continue they
offset the Russian successes. Hence it
can be taken that the position in Ger-
many certainly has not deteriorated
since the Group’s report was written. It
has probably considerably improved,
despite setbacks in Russia. One purpose
of the German threats of great spring
offensives is to bolster German morale
still higher, with the extra hope that the
Japs will be able to help still further
when the threatened spring offensives are
launched.
Stopping and holding the Japs is there-
fore of vital importance in the general
strategy of, in time, winning the war.
This is not, as some people overseas have
been inclined to regard it, a mere side-
show to the greater war elsewhere. In
fact, because of the indirect effects else-
where, the war can be either totally won
or lost in the Pacific.
“Pleaded.... And Was Not
Heard.”
This is a tribute to the memory of
Charles Allan Seymour Hawker, M.H.R.
Member of a distinguished South Aus-
tralian family, Hawker served in the war
that was to end war, and was wounded
so badly that afterwards he was rarely
free from pain. But nothing could im-
pair his dauntless spirit or his zeal for
public service. And no fellow-member
saw more clearly that evil times were
coming, and that in preparing to take them
Australia should count every day precious.
On October 7, 1938, the then Treasurer,
Mr. Casey, intimated in the House that
the Government proposed to take
£5,423,000 from Consolidated Revenue
for expenditure on public works other
than defence works. They would run to
£1,618,000, though more would be found
from “trust funds and the loan fund.”
“The biggest individual item in the
schedule,” Mr. Casey said, “is an amount
of £3,938,000 for new works for the
P.M.G.’s Department”—without which
the s.p. industry could not exist.
Mr. Curtin criticised the proposals, say-
ing “the Commonwealth Parliament ought
to authorise the expenditure of very much
more money on works as a means of
providing work for the people.” He
made it plain that he meant civil, not
defence, works ; and, objecting to “pro-
vision made in the schedule for £BB,OOO
for armament annexes,” he quoted with
approval a resolution of the League of
Nations Union in which that body
“viewed” with “great concern the decision
of the Government to inaugurate a system
of private munitions manufacture in Aus-
tralia, such system being diametrically
opposed to the spirit of the Covenant.”
Mr. Holloway, now one of Mr, Curtin’s
Ministers, also quoted the resolution with
approval, and asserted that “private
manufacture of arms and munitions in
Australia can only lead to the develop-
ment of a huge armament trust.”
The debate was adjourned, and on
October 12 Mr. Hawker took part in it.
He denounced “these estimates” as “the
weakest feature of a very poor Budget.”
It is utterly grotesque to ask Parliament
to devote an increased expenditure from
revenue of approximately £1,750,000 for
postal works while, in a time of very
serious emergency, the defence vote for
new works from the same source is to be
only £1,618,000 In regard to defence
expenditure, these estimates display luke-
warm procrastination. The Government
could with a clear conscience ask the people
to pay additional taxes for works which
would really secure their homes, their farms
and their jobs from the danger which any-
one who has commonsense realises.
A great deal more might be done to pro-
vide landing-grounds for the air force, and
proper accommodation at those grounds.
There is a glaring deficiency of air bases
in North Queensland. Another very urgent
need on the mainland is a dock capable of
docking a capital ship
If the country is to be secure from the
interruption of coastal traffic and the dis-
ruption of its internal economy, we must
have adequate naval protection. If we are
too slow or too stingy to provide it our-
selves, then it must be provided for us
by capital ships. No naval protection can


be very effective unless there is in Aus-
tralia a dock in which the ships can be re-
fitted One of the things that are de-
laying the training of a sufficient number of
men for our adequate protection is the ex-
pense I hope that some of these matters
will be rectified before the end of this
financial year and that we shall not have to
carry the shame of this kind of finance
before our constituents.
That humiliation Mr. Hawker was
spared. Thirteen days later he was
dead in an airliner which crashed in the
Dandenongs. Mr. Lyons and Mr. Curtin
were among the mourners. “His great
ability and untiring energy in the ser-
vice of the country,” they wrote in a
joint message, “were an inspiration to
those who were associated with him as
friend, Cabinet Minister and member.”
Hawker would have appreciated that, but
action placed at the service of the “in-
spiration” he would have valued a great
deal more. And how much better the
situation of Australia and the Empire
would be if his last words as a member
had been heeded before the war that he
foresaw and dreaded came!
PLAIN ENGLISH
Bennett Reports.
Given out near the end of last week,
Major-General Bennett’s report on the
Malayan tragedy made bitter reading.
Over and over in it the A.I.F. leader re-
turned to the sad and saddening theme of
Diggers holding out and beating superior
numbers until forced by withdrawals else-
where to take up a new line.
In the Diggers’ first clash with the
laps “it was important that our soldiers
should establish the fact that they were
better soldiers than their enemies. They
did it.” In this fighting the 30th Bat-
talion, which had inflicted heavy casual-
ties, was due for some rest. It was just
decided to replace it with the 29th “when
the situation at Muar on the west coast
became critical.”
The 45th Indian Brigade could not stop
the Japanese, who crossed the Muar River
and forced them back. As a consequence
the 29th Battalion, instead of relieving the
30th, was hustled into lorries and driven to
the Muar front. It arrived just in time to
stop the Japanese advance.
The fighting at Batu Pahat exposed the
disastrous folly of apparent last-minute
makeshift arrangements for meeting and
fighting an enemy thoroughly trained for
the job on hand. Major-General Bennett
reported:
Troops who had just arrived from Eng-
land and were quite unused to Malayan
conditions had the sector here, and they
were unsuccessful in their attempt to deny
the enemy a landing. This meant that our
main force at Gemas was almost cut off
by the Japanese force about 60 miles south
of them.
As a result, defences which the Diggers
had carefully prepared had to be aban-
doned.
The men up there had resolved not to
give any ground, and they had succeeded,
but circumstances forced their withdrawal
after they had so thoroughly proved their
superiority over the Japs.
This story of troops put to a tough job in
strange conditions without proper prepa-
ration is so close a parallel to the affair
of the Prince of Wales and Repulse, sent
to the same locality without air protec-
tion, that it no doubt belongs to the same
design of high strategy.
Back to Singapore Island, the depleted
Diggers were brought to full strength
again by reinforcements, including, how-
ever, “new troops just arrived from Aus-
tralia and only partly trained.”
On the island the absence of air sup-
port was tragically felt; it had not been
so important in the fighting down the
peninsula. Also (again):
Our units received inadequate support
from other units now holding parts of the
line. It must be remembered that many
of these troops were completely exhausted
after the long fighting in Malaya, and the
new formations were only partly trained
and were quite unused to Malayan con-
ditions.
From other reports, Indians and High-
landers brigaded with them put up a hard
fight in the grim going down through
Malaya. The Diggers, as usual, put up
a grand show. They did their job mag-
nificently.
With Privilege!
Major - General Gordon Bennett’s
escape from Singapore after the decision
to surrender stirred the world. He
brought with him priceless information,
and the Prime Minister was moved to
state that his “conduct deserved the
highest praise.” As a result of his reports
Australia’s entire war strategy has been
altered.
Mr. Curtin also said:
His leadership and conduct were in com-
plete conformity with his duty to the men
under his command and to his country. He
remained with his men to the end then
took the opportunity, and risk, of escaping.
Earlier, the Singapore correspondent
of London “Times,” in one of the most
vivid and impressive revelations of the
war, had remarked:
Only one thing could have transformed
this state of affairs—dynamic, able leader-
ship. The general showing the greatest
qualities of leadership was the G.O.C. Aus-
tralians in Malaya, Major-General Gordon
Bennett. Though hard, bitter, sarcastic
and difficult, he was a fighter through and
through.
London “Evening News” called him
“the only good that’s come out of Singa-
pore.”
In his own country’s Parliament, when
the Prime Minister announced that the
A.I.F. leader would get a job “consistent
with his ability,” the “Honorable” Fred
Hurtle Stacey (U.A.P., Adelaide) inter-
jected, “ ‘Consistent with his ability’ to
select running shoes.”
The Scullin landslide of 1931 swept
Stacey into Canberra. It was forecast
of him then, “He will be another good
fisherman at Canberra. And he plays
bowls.” He has done nothing to add to
that since.
He spoke, of course, under that refuge
Parliamentary privilege.
Drink and the Law.
Newspaper outbursts against drinking,
both during and after lawful hours, could
lead the unthinking to believe that prac-
tically every service man on leave is
either getting drunk, drunk or recovering
from being drunk. Yet comparatively
few men in uniform are seen drunk in
the streets by day, and by night offenders
have to be sought in parks, sly-groggeries
and suchlike places.
It was time, however, that attention
was directed to the mounting sly-grog
business. The “joints” have rapidly mul-
tiplied, and there are persistent reports of
service men being robbed by thugs and
street women after being got into a con-
dition that eliminates any chance of re-
sistence. _ .
Prohibitionists, naturally, have seized
on all this to demand anything from beer
rationing to closing of breweries. Vic-
tona s Premier Dunstan called for a re-
port from his Chief of Police and got it;
Behavior of the majority of Australian
and visiting troops has been of a stand-
ard seldom equalled in war-time anywhere
in the world. Admittedly, soldiers in
various stages of drunkenness are to be
seen but m a city of 1,000,000 and thou-
sands of troops it would be surprising if
this were not so.
Sydney’s Mr. McKell, having lately be-
come his own Police Chief, announced
that he would close night clubs and other
sly-grog shops.
Everybody seems to have missed the
point that the trouble exists in six-o’clock-
closing States. Only South Australia of
the others shuts its pubs at that hour. In
browned-out cities, where many of the
me n on leave are far from home and
without friends, the gregarious instinct
w ill take them to sly-groggeries just as
much as thirst. And these places are
patronised just as strongly by civilians.
As f or tbe ocean of beer, it must be
flowing from breweries and they ought
t 0 know where it is going. Both they and
tbe u.L.V.A. must do their case harm
by any i mp ii c i t connivance in the sly-
grog trade.
Minis ter' for War Organisation of In-
dustry Dedman is considering “restriction
of [liquor] production, more rigid en-
forcement 0 f State liquor laws and pro-
hibition of loun ge licences.” That is as
weak as the McKell idea . Australians
want their beer Put s i y . gro g down in
str ee t , it springs up in another and
. J, F f c L. . „ . .
cost of enforcement of the law mounts,
A universal trading time for hotels that
w d wit h the six o’clock
~ , \ ~ -• •
scramble, and drastic penalties foi in-
fringement by hotels, breweries and any
others, is the sort of remedy that’s
needed.
THE ARCH CRIMINAL.
“The Miners’ Federation Northern Board fined six pit-boys [?]5 each for having caused an unauthorised stoppage.”


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
Leather Portfolios
For those bulky papers in Black
and Brown Seal Grain Cowhide:—
• Ideal for Military Requirements.
Klin. x llin. —with 3 divisions.
Price: 57/6
Others: 84/-, 100/-, 105/-.
PTY.,
LTD.,
C. E. KUCHING
“For Everything in Leather.”
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(near Wynyard Stn.). ’Phone: 8W7133
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; P. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.; E. E. D. White, Esq. ; H. C. Morrow, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
w.
FISmNG TACKLE FOR EVERY NEED
As practical anglers, with complete stocks of tackle, we can supply everything
needed for beach, rock, deep-sea, harbour and river fishing. Call or write
for full particulars ... or for advice about specialised tackle. Prices are
moderate .. . and all goods are GIIAKANTKED by us.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
%
mm?:
m
END CONSTIPATION
THIS NATURAL WAY
[You can end constipation naturally,
promptly, effectively with NYAL FIG-
SEN. Figsen is a pleasant-tasting laxative.
Chew one or two tablets before retiring.
Figsen acts overnight without disturbing
your sleep. No stomach upsets, no griping
pain. In the morning Figsen acts —mildly,
gently, but thoroughly. Figsen is equally
good for young and old. Sold by chemists
everywhere. l/3a a tin.
The next best thing to Nature , • •
NyaiFkjsen
FOR CONSTIPATION
POLITICAL POINTS
ln the House on September 8, 1937
(“Hansard,” pp. 766-8), a Labor member
derided “the fears of hon. gentlemen
opposite that Australia is in danger of
attack from a foreign Power.” The
Government, he added, was in a great
hurry “to arm Australia to the teeth in
order that it might fight an imaginary
foe.” He also made a personal revela-
tion, obviously glorying in it:
I did not volunteer for service in the last
war because I did not believe in it. It
was a war waged by imperialists for the pur-
pose of destroying a trade competitor and
extending territory and spheres of influence
in the interests of capitalism.
The speaker was Ward from East Syd-
ney. As a Commonwealth Minister,
Ward is now mobilising man-power, in
his charmingly provocative fashion, to
meet a foe that is desperately real and
realistic.
A newspaper which should know better
allowed a correspondent to say that “the
makers of our Constitution inserted a
clause which forbids the sending of con-
script troops overseas.” They did no-
thing of the sort. Conscription is not
mentioned in the Constitution. By virtue
of Section 51, Parliament is empowered
to make laws with respect to “the naval
and military defence of the Common-
wealth and of the several States” (Sub-
section vi), and no limit is set to this
power.
“Direct action” by the coalies was
hinted at by Rowley James, a coalfields
M.H.R., in the Federal House. He held
that Judge Drake-Brockman’s attitude re-
garding hours of work was the cause;
If you don’t take immediate action
nothing on earth will stop what will happen.
The newspaper reporting this carried a
headline underneath it: “Coal stocks fall
at Bunnerong.” The enemy must find
Australian papers great reading.
On Monday of this week (March 9)
appeared the news that silence had fallen
over Java since about midday two days
earlier. Side by side appeared a state-
ment by Major-General Bennett even
more urgent than his earlier statements:
I must emphasise that Australia is in
very great danger of being attacked by the
Japanese, not merely being bombed on the
outskirts, but being attacked in force. Let
us not delude ourselves by wishful thinking
otherwise.
And beside that and the Java news was
the statement by Commonwealth Coal
Commissioner Mighell:
Australian coal production during the
past eight weeks has fallen below the rate
of consumption. Undoubtedly the compul-
sory retirement of 2000 men who reached
the retiring age under the New South Wales
miners’ insurance scheme was the greatest
contributing cause. Lost production from
this cause is estimated at about 30,000 tons
a fortnight—about 750,000 tons a year. I
think it tragic that a State law should be
permitted to force into idleness experienced
men from an industry on which perhaps the
very safety of this Commonwealth depends.
A deserved criticism as well of failure to
govern by Canberra, which two months
ago brought in regulations for ensuring
coal production and has been too weak
to enforce them.
Candidates for the Labor nomination
in Port Melbourne have set free and en-
lightened Assembly electors a neat prob-
lem. It is a soft snap for Labor and
the incumbent for 25 years was Murphy.
Those who aspire to succeed Murphy are
Brennan, Burke, Corrigan, Cousland,
Dobbin, Hanlon, Quirk and Katz. What
are the odds against Katz?
The P.M. “lashed” out at women en-
gaged in an “orgy of spending” and con-
demned them heartily, a fact which gave
the luxury press a fit of black headlines.
It’s just another expression of the dread-
ful appealism of the Government. The
prompt and proper thing to do is close
the luxury shops. It’s no good chiding.
A hint of “astounding revelations” in
the report of the Broadcasting Inquiry
was given by its chairman, Charles Marr,
at Canberra. The public has had the
“astounding revelation” of “A.B.C.
Weekly” losses before it for months, but
the Government has done nothing about
it, though crying to every Australian to
dredge his pockets for the last shilling.
N. S. Wales Trades and Labor Council
decided last week to help the war effort
by asking the State Government to see
"An employer who wishes to dismiss an employee tor serious misconduct must notify
the Director of Man-power of the facts. If either party is dissatisfied with the D. of M.’s
decision, provision is made for an appeal to the local Appeal Board.”
— Mr. Ward, announcing amendments to the man-power regulations.
“Wants to sack y‘ for being drunk, abusive and refusing to work, does he? Well,
we’ll show him where he gets off. Meantime, carry on!”
that all roof spotters are paid 3s, an hour.
What about handing the whole job over
to the Commonwealth, with pay fixed at
militia rates!
MacArthur, locked up in Bataan, with
fresh enemies landing in hordes on his
front, was reported to have cabled the
Q.S. War Department after the Los
Angeles raid panic last week: “If you can
hold out for 30 days, will send reinforce-
ments.” Wrongly addressed ; it should
have been directed to Sydney.
“Ben Cubbin”: At writing Canberra
was still “considering” wheat-sowing
restriction. Why should there be any
cutting down? The country is going to
need all the flour it can get, and if, as
everybody expects, there is to be an influx
of allied service men they’ll come with
hearty appetites. Flour to the white man
is almost what rice is to the yellow.
There is also the fact that, though Aus-
tralia has a fair amount of superphos-
phate for this year’s seeding, it may be
a different story next year, unless a
miracle occurs in the Pacific. Wheat, both
as grain and flour, can be stored. A
Government with any vision at all would
not be talking about restricting seeding
at this stage of the game,
A lot of people are running about
comforting themselves with the belief
that an impassable desert lies between
south-east Australia and possible Jap in-
vasion points in the north-west. A lot
of people comforted themselves that the
Malayan jungles lay between exactly the
same thing and Singapore. Deserts never
stopped determined armies, but a people
determinedly fighting for their homes
have done it times out of number.
Earnestly as local volunteer wardens
try to fit themselves, willingly as they
spend their own money on equipment,
agreeable as residents are to co-operate
with them, A.R.P. in Australia is a farce.
A lot could be said about it, all pointing
to one urgent need —that it become a
Commonwealth matter and that it be
removed from the paralysing grip of the
departmental mind.
Badly, McKell’s Minister for Mines,
had hardly got off his chest some ab-
surdity about record coal production and
“I will open more mines and get more
men if necessary” when Mighell, the
Coal Commissioner, was at him: “The
mines will have to be fully manned, as
they were before the pensions scheme
operated, if the necessary output is to be
reached. Production is far below
demand.” The “pensions scheme” is
Badly’s own, but he wishes he could dis-
own it.
The Queensland Premier has issued a
regulation guaranteeing union secretaries
and other union-elected officials their jobs
for a year. Federal man-power regula-
tions notwithstanding?
The Sydney “Parliament” has had two
sittings in four months. One lasted from
4.35 p.m. to 6.16 p.m. (Council) and from
2.35 p.m. to 6.20 p.m. (Assembly); the
other from 2.35 p.m. to 3.48 p.m. (Coun-
cil) and 2.45 p.m. to 8,17 p.m. (Assem-
£ , A 1 were ad J°urned before night
fell because the Government had
neglected to carry out its own blackout
regulations. On the second occasion the
House, which awarded itself £875 p.a.
apiece, plus' railway and tramway passes
and othei concessions,” was so empty
of members round six o’clock that a
quorum had to be called for.
The debates at Canberra are censored,
but State members—or some State mem-
bers seem to be able to get into print
with anything that comes into their heads,
however silly. In a recent case, with the
talking shop open to the public and
Hansard” reporters taking down every-
thing, several speakers blurted out war
information—or what passed for infor-
mation which would not have appeared
in Commonwealth “Hansard” or any
responsible newspaper. One more count
in the indictment against useless “Parlia-
ments.”
Queer that the Government should
have gone to the “Argus” for its Chief
Publicity Censor. In the last war the
Melbourne paper printed a photograph
of men embarking on troopships which
led to export of all newspapers being for-
bidden for a fortnight. The Government
must have been under the impression,
possibly fallacious, that the “Argus”
would never, never do anything like it
again.
Great Dailies have discovered with in-
dignation that there are far too many
drunks in uniform staggering about their
cities with sozzled female companions.
In their indignation they have not stopped
to inquire whether six o’clock closing
may not have something to do with the
nasty business: when the bars close
Private Bill and his tipsy tart can get all
the bad liquor they can pay for in sly-
grog joints and “clubs” which are, if
anything, worse. There are no particular
protests from cities with rational bar-
closing hours.
Report of the Imperial Policy Group
on an aspect of the war in Russia that
gets scant consideration from “scorched-
earth” whoopers and other Fireside
Fusiliers:
The Russian civil population has suf-
fered terrible calamities, and the German
occupying authorities on the one hand and
the Soviet Government on the other are
faced with the almost insoluble problem of
how to deal with a great mass of homeless,
foodless men, women and children, who
are threatened with extinction this winter.
Indeed, the tragedy is hardly under-
stood by those who have seen nothing of it.
The magnitude of this catastrophe is per-
haps unparalleled in history. We should
do well to remember all this, for its immedi-
ate and future influence will be great.
Unlike the whoopers, the Group bases its
findings on the facts, not on press sen-
sation stunts that go down well with the
public till something more spectacular-
looking replaces them.
According to N.S.W. Chief Secretary
Badly, “holidays in N.S.W. now provided
for under the Banks and Bank Holiday
Act would be observed,” unless special
action was taken by the Commonwealth
Government. Canberra, curtailing though
not abolishing holidays, let him off the
necessity of advising N. S. Welshmen who
may be fighting the Japs up north; it
would have been dreadful if they'd
worked on a holiday purely in ignorance
of the law of Badly.
For three years it was “popular” to
praise Churchill, and a parcel of news-
papermen who think always of circula-
tion wrote of him as if he were Welling-
ton, Nelson and Disraeli rolled into one.
Now it is “popular” to attack him, and
the same newspapermen are deluging him
with ink and vinegar. They are a pigeon-
livered lot.


Smoy. j YWSAAkoSi "JjCooouA/ a/yid ojy
* BARDINET LIQUEURS *
Obtainable at hotels and spirit stores where QUALITY counts. If you have difficulty in getting supplies in your district, write
or ’phone SWIFT & COMPANY PTY., LTD., 26-30 Clarence Street, Sydney. ’Phone, 87377.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Towards the end of 1940 there sailed
into an English port a mass of flames
and smoke with a tanker in the middle
of it; the ship, which carried four un-
exploded depth charges, had been aban-
doned and left running on its course
when it was boarded and taken over by
Commander F. N. Cook and another
officer, who brought it safe to port. That’s
a pretty fair sample of the adventures
accumulated by Cook in the present scrap.
A Goulburn Valley (Vic.) man, now 36,
he joined the Naval College at Jervis
Bay in 1919, exchanged to the R.N. in
1938, escaped from the Royal Oak when
it was torpedoed at Scapa Flow in 1939,
had two years in the Mediterranean in
the Australian destroyer Waterhen
(sunk), escaped unhurt from a railway
collision in England, was on the anti-
aircraft cruiser Curlew when it was sunk
off Norway in 1940, and was at Dun-
kirk. Now, still looking for fight, he has
just figured in charge of special naval
action in the landing of paratroops at
Bruneval (France). Twice mentioned for
gallantry and presented to the King, he
has a brother following in his footsteps
who took part in the ferrying of 150
nurses and other evacuees from Greece
and Crete.
“El V.”; Horace Mansell, newly ap-
pointed State Censor in N. S. Wales, is
a journalist of the old, thoroughly trained
H. MANSELL.
type which flourished in the vintage of
the last war and before it. He was in
his day one of the best political rounds-
men Sydney knew, was a whale for work
and showed himself no less at home in
ths news editor’s chair of the old “Daily
Telegraph” than as an actual seeker of
news. In the last decade he had given
most of his time to the publicity of Gov-
ernments, but the increase of years, which
sit lightly on him, and the dry-as-dust
contacts with great men and the circum-
locution offices have not dimmed the
twinkle in his eye nor placed bonds upon
his bounding energy. Horace removing
himself from a tram reminds the onlooker
of the charge of the Light Brigade, and
he reads manuscript with the vim of a
guerrilla leader.
Standing out like a beacon above the
storm of criticism that blew up after the
escape of the German warships through
the Channel was the heroism of the air-
men who went in to attack them. Typi-
cal were the 18 naval airmen who flew
to almost certain death in six Swordfish
to deliver their torpedoes (each was “men-
tioned,” their leader posthumously
awarded the V.C., and four survivors the
D. 5.0.). Australians figured prominently
against the ships, and one, Pilot-Officer
Norman Richardson, of Queensland, won
a D.F.C, on the job. He was wounded
while preparing to attack the Gneisenau
off the Belgian coast, but dived down to
400 feet in an inferno of a.-a. fire to re-
lease his bombs. Then, although his
’plane was twice hit, he flew it back to
his base.
New Chancellor of Adelaide Univer-
sity—and lifelong friend and colleague
of the former one, George Murray—is
William Mitchell, who came from Edin-
burgh in 1894—he still shows it—and
was Professor of Philosophy and Litera-
ture for 30 years. He wrote several
heavy volumes on his subject and was
recalled more than once to Britain to
give Gifford lectures. He was already
Vice-Chancellor of Adelaide before he
retired from teaching, and since then
has been perhaps the most active figure
in all university business —he personally
endowed the Chair of Bio-chemistry,
and gave the great Mitchell Gate of the
University Oval. Carries his 80 years
like 60.
When Roland Green in 1937 lost the
Richmond (N.S.W.) seat (C.P. man
Anthony beat him on the third count) he
was 52 and had already run a pretty good
race—a grazier, enlisted 1914, wounded
on Gallipoli, back to Aussie, re-
embarked, home again minus a leg, took
Richmond off Massy Greene in 1922 and
held it until Anthony pushed him out.
Then he found his second wind and joined
the Commonwealth Public Service, lis-
tened to Sydney Law School lectures and
swotted at nights. Now he is associate
to Justice Halse Rogers and can add his
name to the limited list of those who have
qualified for the Bar after passing the
50th milestone.
The challenge issued by that garrison
unit (B. 25/2/’42) for any other to equal
its percentage (60 p.c.) of business execu-
tives serving in the ranks has been eagerly
accepted:
A. Colless, manager, Noyes Bros. (Syd-
ney), Newcastle. Cpl. Colless.
D. A. Day, secretary, Dunkerly Hats.
L.-Cpl. Day.
N. Porteous, manager, Loan on Mort-
gage department, A.M.P., Sydney. Pte.
Porteous.
W. A. Ball, managing director, B. J.
Ball Pty., paper merchants. Pte. Ball.
N. J. Murray, secretary, same concern.
Pte. Murray.
W. B. Walker, manager, Roseville branch
of Commonwealth Bank. Pte. Walker.
J. R. Jenkin, paper department manager,
Gordon and Gotch. Pte. Jenkin.
R. A. Bishop, N. S. Wales manager for
Spicers and Detmold, paper merchants.
Pte. Bishop.
As the strength of the section is 10, that
makes 80 p.c. business executives all serv-
ing in the ranks. Next, please.
Angas Parsons, 70 in May, doesn’t
want the vacant Chief Justiceship in
S.A., although he is senior Judge and
was acting C.J. for nearly a year in 1935-
36. He is not setting any precedent—
J. H. Gordon made the same renuncia-
tion before Murray was appointed to
succeed Way in 1915. The honor now
goes to Mellis Napier, 60, and a Judge
since 1924, before which his 21-year
legal career had been punctuated by
many notable cases. A Scot, he came to
Australia as a boy, was articled to C. C.
Kingston and later (1906) became the
second half of A. J. McLachlan and
Napier, the first half of which now sits
in the Senate. As a Judge, he was picked
for Chairman of the Commonwealth’s
Banking Commission.
The Diggers’ Official Year-Book records
of Australian nurses in the 1914-18 war
that
Frequently under shellfire, they carried
out their mission of mercy with a total
disiegard of all danger and discomfort —
in Siberia, East Africa, Palestine, Meso-
potamia, New Guinea, France, India, Egypt,
Italy and Salonika, and in troopships and
hospital ships liable to be torpedoed at
any moment.
Six received the Military Medal, 98 were
mentioned and 74 received the Royal Red
Cross; 21 died on war service. In this
war one nurse from N. S. Wales has died 1
of illness abroad, another was acciden-
tally killed on active service and another,
Sister de Mestre, was killed in action
when the Japs bombed Darwin harbor.
Now two more, Sisters Anderson and
Tourney, have, for courage under fire,
been recommeded to the authorities by
the crew of an Australian freighter—
intended to carry 25 passengers but packed
with 2500 troops and civilians —which
ran an infernal gauntlet of bombing out
of Singapore.
It seems that Queensland’s Forgan
Smith can’t offer Opposition-leader
George Nicklin enough scrap to satisfy
him, so Nicklin is off into camp to take
a short course of instruction for leaders
of V.D.C. units and members of the
A.M.F. He won his commission and the
Military Medal in 1914-18, and in the
last few months has been busy drilling
a fairly large contingent of the old and
the new in his home town, Palmwoods
(S.Q.).
Australian inventors should rest assured
that their brain-children will have the
attention of a very agile mind in
Dr. Richard van der Riet Woolley.
Mathematician, physicist and astronomer,
he has been appointed chief executive
officer and director of the Army Inven-
tions Board. He was born in England,
educated there and at Capetown, was
chief assistant to Astronomer Royal at
Greenwich from 1933-37, John Couch
Adams astronomer at Cambridge Uni-
versity for the next two years, Director
of the Commonwealth Solar Observatory
at Mt. Stromlo, Canberra, since then,
and a member of the Optical Munitions
Panel in the Defence Department since
1940. No, he doesn’t sport a beard and
isn’t bald. He’s 35.
Uncle Sam has paid M.L. a compli-
ment by sending Patrick J. Hurley as
the U.S.’s first Minister to the Dominion.
Now in his fifties, he was a barrister at
25, admitted to the Bar of the U.S.
Supreme Court at 29 (1912) and was
national attorney for the Choctaw Nation
from 1912-17. He was with the A.E.F.
in France as major and, later, lieut.-
colonei, and brought back a D.S.M.
Hoover had him as Secretary of War in
1929-33, during which time he trotted
out to inspect the Philippines.
When a copy of “Through,” official
journal of the Sigs., Bth Aus. Div., turned
up at The Bulletin office the name of
the editor was given as Cpl. G. C. Bing-
ham. It was a natural assumption that
he was the Cpl. G. Bingham of the Sigs.
Bth who figured in the particularly tough
bit of scrapping at Parit Sulong bridge
on the Muar River. Since revealed that,
by an extra-long stretch of coincidence,
there were two Cpl. G. Binghams in the
same unit —the editor of “Through” and
G. J. Bingham, of Petersham (N.S.W.).
G.J. was the man at Parit Sulong bridge,
and he has just been awarded the D.C.M.
Dr. J. E. van Hoogstraten is Director
of Dutch East Indian Economic Affairs,
and has come to Australia to organise
DR. J. E. VAN HOOGSTRATEN.
Dutch financial and shipping arrange-
ments here. He is the typical cultivated
Dutch commercial civil servant, urbane,
well-informed, speaking English perfectly.
He brings to the Commonwealth a type
of mind which can be well used here.
T. L. Macnamara, one of the most
qualified accountants in Australia, calls
himself the fidus Achates to Director of
Finance E. V. Nixon. His career is
straightforward—a Board of Works job
for 10 years, then Broken Hill for prac-
tical experience with the Umberumberka-
B.H. Water Supply, and from there to
the Junction North. His figuring climbed
T. L. MACNAMARA.
astronomical heights in the 1914-18 war,
when he was chief accountant and secre-
tary to the Colonial Ammunition Co.,
whose sole contract was for the supply
of lethal missiles to the Commonwealth.
When the Government took over the
company he became a Government ser-
vant. Since 1938 he has started the cost
section of the flood of munitions to the
Government from private munitioneers.
A well-known St. Kilda footballer, he
collected a broken nose in the legendary
days of Cumberland and Joe Hogan ; a
pennant cricketer as well, he once kept
wickets for North Melbourne.
In 50 years Adam A. Boyd has prob-
ably penetrated more shafts, drives,
slopes, etc., than any other man in Aus-
tralia. Now, for his underground mining
methods at Broken Hill, on the N. S.
Wales coalfields, among the gold and
copper shafts of Mt. Morgan—he is re-
tiring g.m. of that concern—and for his
general contributions to mining he has
collected the 1941 medal of the Austra-
lian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy
—the highest award the Institute can
make.
Into the silence;
At Mooloolaba (Q.), at 50, Robert Wight,
acting-manager in Q’land for A.B.C. and a
pioneer radio-announcer. t Scots-born, he
reached Maoriland as a child and moved on to
Queensland in 1912. In three years’ service with
the A.I.F. he was badly wounded twice and re-
turned as a captain. Extensive experience on the
land and in rural affairs enabled him to organ-
ise special broadcasts for country dwellers and
made him known throughout the State as
“Market Reports.”
At Darwin, at 56, victim of the Jap bombing
attack. Captain William Michie, one of the
best-known shipping men in near-Australian
waters and the Pacific Islands trade. With Burns,
Philp since 1917, he was master of various
vessels, among them the Montoro and Marsina.
In Adelaide, at 75, English-born and Mel-
bourne-educated Robert William Chapman,
who was lecturer in mathematics at Adelaide
University at 23. For 40 years he was that
university’s main authority on engineering,
and lately succeeded Langdon Bonython as
chairman of the School of Mines. He won
the Kernot and Russell medals, a knighthood,
and was president of the Institute of Engineers
and of the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
In Brisbane, at 73, John Morris, principal of
the Queensland Teachers’ Training College for
15 years. Welsh-born, he joined Queensland
Education Department in 1885, passed through
various schools to become head of Gympie
High and the State High in Brisbane. Original
president of St. David’s Society, he was a strong
influence on northern education.
William Finbar O’Carroll, at 83, at Glen-
huntly (Vic.), whose passing removes a link with
the dawn days of Australian journalism. From
County Cork, he sniffed ink when his father
was editor of the infant Brisbane “Courier,”
then flowered into editorship of the Toowoomba
“Chronicle.” Then followed a quarter of a
century writing down the lucubrations of poli-
ticians on Queensland and Federal “Hansards.”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
"Stop, George, I think I will have the trench over in the corner after all."
“A.R.P.”: A new kind of snobbery
has developed in our suburb, which has
plenty of the older kinds. Calling on a
lady while taking a census of our
warden’s patrol I’d no sooner begun talk-
ing about “preparedness,” “shelter” and
so forth when she assured me, super-
ciliously, that “I’m not afraid. I’m Eng-
lish!” I took it well, assured her there
was no question of her courage and
moved on. Ten doors away was a new-
comer who eyed me with some surprise,
expressed relief that I hadn’t come to sell
anything and then gaily announced “Oh,
but don’t think I’m frightened. I’m Eng-
lish. But lam sorry for those who are
fTightened. Really sorry.” This second
example made me curious, and I asked
whether she had experienced any bomb-
ing in England. “Oh, dear no,” she said,
“It's over 25 years since I left England.”
Since she couldn’t possibly have been
more than a child when she left, her
smugness was far more astonishing than
that of the first woman. I’m just a be-
nighted Aussie, but I don’t mind admit-
ting I’m dead scared of air raids.
*###
“Qwert Yuiop”: Amongst A.B.C.’s
brighter recent efforts was the mention
of a “descendant of Florence Nightin-
gale,” alleged to have attended an open-
ing ceremony at St. Thomas Hospital in
London. Even a radio-announcer might
be expected to know that the Lady of
the Lamp never married.
* * * *
“D.E.”: The Japs, I see, have been
using elephant transport in Burma, But
not, of course,
Elephants a-pilin’ teak
In the sludgy, squdgy creek
"fr' a 7d loTeak" 8 eaVy y ° U
On the road to Mandalay.
In a way I am glad Kipling never lived
to see Burma invaded and the Burmese
turn on the English, and Jap soldiers
thronging into the old Moulmein pagoda
and getting the glad eye from grand-
daughters of the brown girls who haunted
poor Tommy. But readers of the finest
poem Rudyard wrote in the language of
Cockaigne will still hear the temple bells
and the chunkin’ paddles and the wind
sighing in the palm-trees, and to them
the dawn will still “come up like thunder
outa China ’crost the bay.” “There ain’t
no buses running from the Bank to
Mandalay” ; but there always will be in
his enchanting verses.
* * * *
“F.G.G.”; “Clooter” (B. 25/2/’42)
wastes his sympathy. In the first place,
the charge against the 17-year-old
“on the track” was not “sacrilege” but
“breaking and entering a church and
stealing therein certain articles.” The
evidence disclosed that a horse had been
stabled in the church, hay and straw
strewn around the floor, a window
broken, portion of a carpet cut and
taken away to make a saddle-cloth, and
church fittings and other articles stolen.
And the “poor and outcast” had just
deserted a good home and a widowed
mother, and walked off a £4 15s. a week
job where his services were badly needed.
Moreover, the minister of religion con-
cerned was in no way responsible for
the prosecution of the youth. Let “C.”
champion dinkum swaggies.
* * * *
“Zake”: Suggestion that the British
War Cabinet should decree both flogging
and the death sentence for food-racketeer-
ing will inevitably draw protests from
old women of both sexes. But of the
efficacy of flogging there is no doubt,
as grateful police who some years ago
were harried in Liverpool (Eng.) can
testify. That city was being terrorised
by a gang which was using the bottle
and the razor-blade as adjuncts to rob-
bery. The gangsters when convicted
would casually wait for the usual
“stretch” of from 18 months to five years,
confident that remissions would substan-
tially cut their sentences. Then one day
a sloping-browed gent, who had per-
formed some particularly revolting work
with a broken beer-bottle winked at his
pal sitting brazenly in the back of the
court as the Judge pronounced the sen-
tence of seven years. Then came the
biting addendum: “With a flogging of
50 lashes! ” The prisoner slumped to the
dock floor in a faint. It was the last
bit of bottle-wielding in the city for years.
* * * *
“D.A.”: Sydney “Herald” appears to
be holding the Japanese in exaggerated
awe, in contrast with pre-war estimates.
The paper’s Port Moresby correspondent
seems to share in the awe. He reports
that “pilots of Japanese aircraft were
ordered to crash their machines and kill
themselves if there was any risk of cap-
ture, according to the Japanese pilot of
the O-fighter who was taken prisoner
after a raid on Port Moresby. But when
his machine was set on fire he could not
bring himself to face death in this way
and baled out. He asked that his name
be not revealed.” Who’s pulling whose
honorable leg? Is it the Jap doing it
or someone at the hospital to which he
was taken? Apart from the fact that the
identity of the captured flier must be
known to the Japs, he was equipped with
a parachute.
» * * «
“Clooter”: In the midst of war’s
alarms my afternoon paper published
this—l quote in full for purposes of
clarity:
New York.—Flower Coogan, wife of
Jackie Coogan, who previously denied re-
ports that she was to be a mother, has
now admitted a “forthcoming event.”
Jackie, who is an army private at a Cali-
fornian camp, confirmed the report. He
married Flower, a former showgirl, aged
19, last August, after eloping with her.
It was in bold type, framed with wavy
borders and had a picture of the Coogan
person. What I want to know is: Who
the hell is he? The thing has all the
appearance of importance, but until I
receive assurances of the importance to
the world of the “forthcoming event”
I’m afraid I must conclude the n£ws
editor of that paper needs an alienist’s
attentions.
♦ * * *
“Gooser”: To those, like myself,
addicted to the sartorial interpretation of
history, recent developments in Britain
and the U.S.A. are of the utmost signi-
ficance. From London the fiat has gone
forth banishing the trouser-cuff, the
double-breasted coat and the buttons on
the coat-sleeves. Washington has abol-
ished all cuffs, frills and pleats on men’s
attire, and has forbidden the extra pair
of pants. ’Twas ever thus, so history
teaches, when great • events have shaken
the minds of men. The sans-culotte
movement in Revolutionary France was
especially interesting since it was not a
material-economy measure, the knee-
breeches of the aristocrat being replaced
by the baggy pantaloons of the mob. But
there was financial economy, since the
price of six pairs of slop pantaloons
wouldn’t pay for one nicely-tailored pair
of breeches, though political prejudice
mainly affected the matter. In all dis-
turbed times, of course, zealots for reform
try to push their barrows —in Australia
the no-hattists and no-collar-or-tieists
have recently been heard. They are not
likely to prevail, but more liberal-minded
men scattered among A.I.F. commands
are to be congratulated upon the
revolution they have made in Digger
attire since this war started. The
Australian soldier in shorts is a dashing,
picturesque, confidence-inspiring figure, in
my opinion a good three centuries ahead,
sartorially, of the chin-to-toe-clad war-
rior evolved by tailors for the A.I.F. of
1939.
* * * *
“W.M.”: The belief common among
schoolteachers and poetasters that “morn”
and “dawn” are atrocious rhymes finds
its echo in “Answers to Correspondents”
(B. 25/2/’42), where it is stated that
“those who rhyme ‘morning’ and ‘dawn-
ing’ will not be forgiven.” In Poetic
Values, by E. Greening Lamborne, an
admirable book in most respects, the
same belief finds expression and the poor
“offenders” against poetic taste are most
severely scourged. But, in spite of this,
“dawn” and “morn” (consequently
“dawning” and “morning”) are, from the
prosodic viewpoint, perfect rhymes, that
is for those who speak standard Eng-
lish, which is the English commonly
spoken in s.-e. England. Apart from the
initial consonant the sounds are identical,
and so the rhyme is perfect. Those
speaking a North Country or Irish dialect
will find it difficult to agree, but the fact
remains. Objections to these two words
as rhymes arise because people are either
guided by the eye—which is no arbiter
of sound in English, and it is sound,
after all, 1 that decides the issue—or speak
a dialect which is not standard English.
* * * »
“C.H.S.”: I am assured by “Time,”
which some Australian papers using its
stuff consider the godhead of journalism,
that President Roosevelt’s four sons are
serving their country. Not only this, but
“Time” tells me the particular arm in
which each serves and, probably so that
I will know them if I ever run across
them, begins the story of each thus:
“Cadaverous James; Chunky Capt. Elliott;
Rangy Franklin Delano; Tall, stringy
John Aspinall.” I never had much time
for cadaverous, rangy or tall and stringy
blokes, so the one I want to meet is
Chunk. Chunks are the happy warriors,
though whether this one retained his
equableness of temper when reading
“Time’s” adjectives is another matter.
* * * *
“Cook’s Mate” discourses on the his-
tory of Java;
Batavia has had long connection with Aus-
tralia, even before Captain Cook called there in
H.M.S. Endeavour in October, 1770. Pelsart
and other Dutchmen had been on the n.-w. coast
years before that time. Batavia spelled disaster
to Cook’s expedition. When his little ship
arrived there the crew were, thanks to their
commander’s anti-scorbutic measures, in the
pink of condition, without a sick man aboard.
Everybody fell ill —mostly malaria —with the
exception of the sailmaker, an old man of 70
or 80, whom Cook describes as “generally
more or less drunk every day.” When the ship
sailed in December seven of the crew had died,
40 or more were sick, and the rest feeble con-
valescents. Cook reckoned the Dutch E.I.
capital the sickliest place in the world. “We
came in here with as healthy a ship’s crew as
need go to sea,” he says, “and, after a stay of
not quite three months, left it in the condition
of a hospital ship; and yet all the Dutch cap-
tains said we have been very lucky.”
“COME IN!"
EVEN HE.
“This is the worst, cion of iniquity in Sydney, a
place so notorious that even I have heard of it.”
•—Crown Prosecutor in slij-yrog appeal case.
Gone are the days when gents in legal dress
Were able to assume and to profess
A blank and comprehensive ignorance
Of any person, place or circumstance,
Howe’er well known to others such might be,
They’re not acquainted with officially.
An English Judge is still recalled because
He mildly asked who Connie Gilchrist was.
No modern Judge could keep a solemn phiz
If he inquired who Greta Garbo is.
So, year by year, it’s cheering to suppose,
The scope of counsel’s knowledge wider grows.
No longer circumscribed, to all intents,
By dusty books and musty precedents,
Released from courts where they were wigged
and gowned.
They cast a rolling eye the world around,
And lend an ear to many an honest bloke
Who never heard of Blackstone or of Coke,
Thereby accumulating useful points
On evil dens and insalubrious joints.
Next I shall hope to see our jurists seize
A firmer hold on the humanities,
Forsake the role, desert the pedestal
That’s so profoundly, academical;
N ° spam!’ " Sn ° r ‘ " afe
Upon them in the proletarian tongue,
Or feign to fail to grasp the meaning in
What everybody else finds clear as gin.
Such frankness needn t give the Bench a jar
Or lower our estimation of the Bar.
m.s.w.
IFORD.
BOARDS.
“To the appointing of boards and committees
there is no end” (B. 4/3/’42).
Select committees, commissions, boards,
Courts for determining just awards,
Bunches of blokes forgathering
To ponder any- and everything
That bears, in however remote degree,
On the strength of beer or the worth of tea,
On milk and butter, on apples and wheat,
And nearly all that we drink or eat—
Be sure that, whatever else affords
Room for retrenchment, it won’t be boards.
Juntas with “avenues to explore”
(Where have we heard that phrase before?),
To straighten tangles and plug the cracks
In ways of levying income tax;
Pundits deputed fresh modes to find
How coal in plenty can best be mined;
Consultants trusted to lull the scares
Of those who traffic in stocks and shares—
Whatever problem one looks towards
Can only be solved, it seems, by boards.
Bodies that smooth-tongued Ministers find
Uncommon useful to hide behind;
Groups that come handy to stay or stem
A jab at those who appointed them;
Boards, when the public makes a noise,
To fill the functions of whipping-boys,
Such as the Sydney coterie
Who’ve got us praying incessantly
For precious rain from the heavens’ store —
Themselves being reckoned past praying for.
Boards in the country and boards in town.
Wearing our patience and getting us down,
Mostly excrescences cumbersome,
Trials to be suffered —yet still they come!
Most of ’em drawing their whacks of brass,
Will no one give them the coup de grace?
To pests of rabbits and mice in hordes
Must there be added the Plague of Boards?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“McN.”: A skimming through classi-
fied advts. of the dailies discovers odd
changes wrought by war. F’rinstance, you
can have a “cottage, 30m. city, sm. sta-
tion, very isolated” ; or “air-raid shelter,
built by experts, cheapest quotes.” A
“gas respirator (military) lost, Manly
boat” appears in a column where almost
everything lost is a “soldier’s keepsake.”
In spaces formerly entirely given to city
dwellings, houses are to let in places from
Tenterfield to Barellan and somebody
wants a “cottage in country, safe area.”
A “motor-driver, 21, exempt, good know-
ledge suburbs,” wants work. There is a
job waiting for a “first-class commercial
pilot with at least 1000 hours,” and
12s. 6d. a cwt. is offered for old news-
papers. And, owing to weather, not war,
a water-diviner and a water-borer con-
sider it worth while to advertise that they
are available “anywhere in city.”
« * * *
“Colbun”: Results of a test by the
Australian Association of Scientific
Workers should help sock “astrology.”
Investigators framed 92 questions relating
to events due to happen between July 1
and December 30, 1941, including such
widely-assorted matters as the death of
Hitler, loss of power by Stalin, whether
the basic wage would increase by more
than ss. 6d. in the £, and whether im-
portant political moves would occur in
Tibet. Written answers had to be in
by June 30. Astrologers were particu-
larly and pressingly invited to take part,
but only one accepted the offer. He
scored twenty-third place in a field of
30. An industrial chemist gained top
place with 74 correct guesses; a house-
wife was second with 70 and a laboratory
assistant came third with 68.
* * * •
“K.S.K.”: The flappers which dis-
appointed “M.H.M.” 25 years ago (B.
4/2/’42) are wrongly ascribed to Mrs.
Burton. They were invented by Mrs.
Ayrton, wife of an eminent British
scientist and herself a scientist of
some repute, the idea being that every
soldier was to be provided with the
flapper to fan the gas clouds away from
our trenches. The British Army inven-
tions committee rejected it, but powerful
political pressure was brought to bear
and a trial was held. A number of men
were trained to use it, Mrs. Ayrton’s
scientific assistant being among the party.
The demonstration wasn’t very convinc-
ing, but so powerful was the influence
Mrs. Ayrton could command that one
hundred thousand flappers were supplied
to the British Army. Expert gas officers
late in 1918 were emphatic that the con-
traption was valueless as a protection
against gas, but the troops soon found a
use for the handles as emergency fuel.
* * * *
“Cauboy”; “8.P.” (B. 25/2/’42) says
that I completely evade the issue, which
was his contention that a Biblical play
could gain nothing from being reduced
from the beautiful language of the New
Testament to modern English-cnm-
American lingo, and invites me to express
a great thought in the English the Sayers
woman uses. Well, why didn’t he write
his par. in Biblical language, since the
Bible was his subject? He might have
started off by remarking: “Though thou
shouldest bray a fool like ‘Cauboy’
in a mortar among wheat, with a pestle,
yet will not his foolishness depart from
him.” The reason he didn’t do it is
because it would seem ridiculous and
pedantic to do so. The important thing
is what is expressed, not how he
expresses it. He uses phrases like
“later vintage,” but a literary pro-
fessor would call them journalistic.
The language of the Bible is hallowed by
tradition. Hence a parson may feel a
thrill of pleasure when he quotes some
phrase from the Gospels the meaning of
which may quite escape him. But when
he delivers his sermon he does not use
Biblical language but the language of
Oxford, Cambridge or the University of
Melbourne to describe the life of Jesus.
“8.P.” reacts for the language of the
Bible and against the language of Miss
Sayers, but in each case he is only react-
ing for and against his inherited preju-
dices. Miss Sayers’s play may be a goat
of a play for aught I know —I have never
read it —but the important thing is what
she says, not how she says it.
* * * *
“Faber”: Medical examination of
recruits called up for military service has
its unexpected moments. “Read the
bottom line,” said the doc. “I can’t,” said
a youth. Line by line the doctor took him
up the chart, with the same result each
time. When the recruit declared his in-
ability to read a line in letters two inches
high the doctor didn’t know whether he
had a malingerer or a blind man. “Don’t
tell me you can’t see that, man,” he
bellowed. “Aw, I can see it all right,”
drawled the victim, “but I can’t read it.
I don’t know how to pronounce it.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: The burial of “Happy”
Malone at Brooklyn (U.S.A.) was in the
best traditions of the movies. “Happy”
was a leading gangster who wiped out
a stool pigeon with an icepick. He was
tried and electrocuted at Sing Sing amidst
the lamentations of the underworld and
its admirers, and was carried from his
home in Brooklyn in a 3000-dollar bronze
casket to the church where a thousand
mourners gathered. Thirty-four detec-
tives stood by to deal with any unsym-
pathetic demonstrations. Five cars piled
high with forget-me-nots and lilies fol-
lowed the car bearing Malone’s mother
and his two brothers. When the door
of the hearse was opened chimes burst
forth from a concealed musical instru-
ment. This peculiar turn of sentiment
reminds me of the story told me by a
Melbourne journalist who attended the
incineration of a fellow-toiler of the pen
at Chicago. When the coffin slid down
into the furnace an artificial grave mound
with real daisies poking up through
real sod on top automatically replaced
it. Somewhat staggered, he turned to his
next-door neighbor and found him sob-
bing into a handkerchief overcome by
the touching spectacle.
* * * *
“Colbun”: England’s weightiest citi-
zen —34 stone 61b. after two years of
war rationing and still too massively
buxom to fit into the police court dock—
has been in a spot of trouble. A certain
amount of sympathy was felt in court
when the charge was stated —theft of
104 cases of corned beef —but on
consideration it was evidently decided
that he had been greedier than even his
tonnage justified. So the appropriately
named Mr. Heaviside will have to do his
best with gaol tucker for several months.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Melbourne dailies are
full of protests against the nightly scenes
of intoxicated lads in uniform being
forced into trucks and transported to the
lockup. The usual remedy is offered, that
if the authorities cannot or will not en-
force the licensing laws the Legislature
ought to shut up the hotels for the dura-
tion. Nobody seems to recognise that the
spectacle is the natural result of our dis-
mal drinking habits. Round about six
o’clock and as long thereafter as pub-
licans dare to keep open, bars in Mel-
bourne are beset by drinkers striving
to get a skinful. Then the most reso-
lute ones spend the rest of the evening
wandering round the town begging to be
let in to the more latitudinous hostels.
Where are they to go to? Melbourne
was the City of Dreadful Night even be-
fore the brownout. A party of jolly
individuals dining and - discussing art,
literature or politics under the trees
doesn’t attract attention in Paris, but in
Melbourne the inference would be that
the members of the party were immoral,
and if there was a bottle of wine on the
table the Cold Tea cohorts would fill the
air with protest.
m * * *
“A.C.”: “Visitor” (B. 18/2/ ’42) need
have no qualms regarding the punctuality
of the ray of sunshine which is said to
fall through the roof on the Rock of
Remembrance at 11 a.m. on November
11. It is true that the length of
the year is not exactly 365 days,
but about six hours longer, and
that on November 11, 1942, the
sun will move across the sky in
a slightly different path from that
which it took on November 11,
1941. But the variation is very
small and cannot be cumulative,
for each leap year the addition of
one day to the calendar approxi-
mately restores the position. A
further correction is applied
once a century. Consequently the
track of the sun’s image as it moves
across the Rock cannot vary appreciably
for many centuries. Certainly the error
is not sufficient to prevent the sunlight
falling on the Rock at the appointed
time each year.
* * * •
“R. Volt”; One of the inducements
advanced to reconcile the public to day-
light saving was economy of electric
current. It hasn’t turned out that way
in Victoria. The State Electricity Com-
mission reports that no reduction in
consumption can be detected in accounts.
Why this is nobody seems to know.
* * * *
“El V.”: The “Australian Clipsheet”
describes itself as issued by the Australian
Press Bureau of Los Angeles, “a com-
munity organisation designed to create
interest in Australia, supported by the
Australian Commonwealth Government,
the State Railways and Tourist Bureaux
and Business Interests, Australian News-
papers and Government Departments.”
One of its latest attempts to create in-
terest is an article on what it calls “one
of Australia’s oldest songs” —“Waltzing
Matilda,” which must be a generation
and a half old at most. It appears that
this gem was written by “the celebrated
Australian verse-writer Banjo Peterson”
(the name is twice repeated), and “the
musical setting is by Marie Cowan.”
Australians took “Banjo’s” word for it
that his name was not Peterson and also
that the music was composed by a Miss
MacPherson.
» * * *
“Kat”: She weighs seven stone six and
a half ounces. The half-ounce is the
brain, which accounts for her remark
when she gazed at Sydney’s strongly-
barricaded G.P.0., which (by looks, any-
way) could almost withstand the shock
of a dozen direct hits* “Well,” said her
companion, pointing to the woodwork,
“that’s how to keep the Japs out, eh?”
The. flapper responded tartly, “How ridi-
culous! Look at all these little openings
that have been left! The Japs could
walk in through them just as easily as
I’m doing now!” To demonstrate her
point she miriced straight in and bought
a stamp. Being particularly bright that
day she licked the right side of the stamp
and managed to put the stamp on the
letter without help.
* * ♦ •
“Clooter”: A Sydney psychologist has
claimed that a defeatist attitude is dis-
played in war-loan advertising. “Draw-
ings depicting death and destruction,”
says he, “should not be used to advertise
such a loan.” Another aspect is that
whenever a woman is shown in such
posters she is always young and
“glamorous,” and wears a costume that
throws up boldly the more prominent
features of her architecture. Probably the
advertising artists have got so used to
exploiting sex that they can’t help it.
* * * »
“Craiser”: One of the most energetic
air wardens in Melbourne has his resi-
dence at No. 101 X-street, in the suburb
of Y. He has a wife who doesn’t share
his enthusiasm, complains that the work
keeps him out o’ nights, so that she
doesn’t know what he is doing. During
a recent blackout trial he made his house
his headquarters, had a posse of runners
racing in all directions and returning with
information, and spent much of the time
on his house roof with his binoculars
watching for offenders, while down below
his telephone ran hot with messages from
outposts. At the height of the obscura-
tion he received a report that a parti-
cularly glaring light was blazing some-
where in the vicinity of his dwelling. He
scampered to the rooftop and conned the
neighborhood without being able to detect
the miscreant. He was just ringing up
the local police station for fuller details
when a thunderous knock came at the
front door. “We have been sent to tell
you,” said a group of workers, “that that
light is at No. 101 X-street.” “But that’s
my house,” expostulated the warden.
“Yes,” said the messenger, “and the light’s
on in your bathroom!”
* * * *
“Notaden”: It is just a century since
two Englishmen, W. S, Henson and John
Stringfellow, took out a patent for
“Certain Improvements in Locomotive
Apparatus and Machinery for Conveying
Letters, Goods and Passengers from Place
to Place Through the Air”; their
“Aerial Steam Carriage” was a mono-
plane, anticipating modern design in
several respects, with two six-bladed pro-
pellers driven by a 27-h.p. steam engine.
In 1848 Stringfellow completed a 10ft.
model which was the first heavier-than-
air machine ever flown under its own
power. Had the petrol engine been
known then the Wright brothers’ first
man-carrying flight in a h.-t.-a. powered
machine would have been antedated by
more than half a century. Stringfellow
came very close to providing a suitable
motor with a 1-h.p. steam engine which
weighed only 151 b,, boiler and all.
* * » •
“Mark IV”: A letter in the “S.M.H.”
deplored the “slaughtering in cold blood
by the military authorities” of rifle-club
organisation in Australia, and there was a
suggestion that this implies some change
of policy or of heart. But does it? I’ve
never yet met a military commander who
was fond of rifle clubs. The prevailing
military attitude towards them was ex-
pressed by General Homer Lea in his
Valor of Ignorance : —
Rifle, pistol and all other similar civilian
associations are not only negatively but
positively harmful to the nation, inasmuch
as they produce an erroneous conception
of the knowledge and duties necessary to a
modern soldier... .To believe that the
scatter-gun marksmanship of civil life is a
factor in warfare is not other than a
yellow-flamed ignis fatuus, starting up out
of the Dismal Swamp of ignorance and
national vanity.
Elsewhere General Lea laid it down that
To shoot is less important than to march;
to shoot accurately is less important than
to obey implicitly; to kill less important
than to survive.
It is the fashion to say that Lea’s argu-
ments are all vitiated by the new factor
of air-power. But I can’t help remem-
bering that 33 years ago he prophesied
that the Japs would require only a few
weeks to capture Manila, and that he
indicated their landing-place and main
line of attack in the Philippines on a
detailed map.
“Cmon, y cow! Let's see 'ow y' go without air support."


ABORIGINALITIES
“Aratta”: The new hand on the farm
confided to Joe, the other toiler there,
that he didn’t think he’d stick it for long,
the boss growling too much for his
liking. “Y’ don’t wanter take any notice
of him,” counselled Joe; “he’s the same
with me, an’ I’ve been here near two
year. Just do the same as me —when he
starts rousin’ on y’ tell him t’ go t’
blazes an’ chase himself.” One afternoon
a few days later Joe, entering the room
the hands shared, came on the new chap
packing up. “Hullo! ” cried Joe. “What’s
doin’?” “I’m leavin’,” replied the other.
“Got the bullet, an’ you’re t’ blame fer
it” “Me!’cried Joe. “Whatcher mean?”
“Well,” answered the fired one, “I took
your flamin’ advice, an’ when the boss
started roarin’ me up this afternoon I
ups an’ tells him t’ go t’ blazes an’ chase
himself.” “Gripes!” said Joe. “Serves
y’ right f’r bein’ such a fool. Whatcher
want t’ let him hear you say it for?”
• * * m
“Nor’-west”: Every Aboliar knows of
that solemn bush rite of placing crossed
sticks on top of the billy to prevent the
tea being smoky, but old Blue put a
newy over me out or i the Oakover River
(nor’-west W.A.). Ti icker was short, the
only game available a tough-feeling
crane. I had eaten crane before with no
very gratifying results. “Boil him,” Blue
suggested, and into the kero, tin went the
poultry. Then Blue, searching along the
dry river bed, found an ironstone cobble
about the size of a fist. “This’ll make it
tender. Over Queensland way we never
thought of boiling a brolga or any of
that sort without dropping a stone in.”
The poultry, well boiled, certainly might
have been tougher—Blue reckoned it
would have been uneatable only for the
stone. Also, once, with old Jimmy, I
was boiling a feed of prawns on a south-
west W.A. river. When the crustaceans
were about done Jimmy insisted on drop-
ping in a lump of red-hot iron. “Im-
proves the flavor wonderful.” It did.
And I once worked with an old black-
smith who in winter always put the red-
hot forge poker in his beer; he reckoned
iron improved the flavor of that.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Dynamite is queer
stuff, all right; but in “S. Bill’s” case
(B. 11/2/’42) it was the fuse that put
over that slow-motion stunt. In my
mining days all fuse carried not only a
constant lead of fine gunpowder but also
two threads of guncotton. These, very
fine, ran right down the centre of the
whole coil without a break, the idea
being that, should it be short of powder
in any place, as quite often happened,
the ignited guncotton would carry the
spark along, thus lessening the chance of
a misfire. Evidently “5.8.” was using a
fuse short on powder and one that had
at some time been exposed to damp. The
guncotton thus burned very slowly, but
in time it got there. Have known more
than one mining accident from the same
cause, though never have known fuse
to take quite so long to carry the spark
to its destination.
* * * *
“Narrin”: The bush pussy is not a
pest (B. 18/2/’42), because he’s of an
industrious and retiring disposition. But
he’s plentiful, all right, as people who
camp out in one place can testify. Sooner
or later a boundary-rider at a new camp
becomes suddenly aware of two green
eyes reflecting the lantern light from the
dark corner near the meatbag. He then
writes to The Bulletin about the things
which frighten good bushmen. But the
man who sees most cats is the chap who
goes out with a pea-rifle of an evening
on a round of the rabbit burrows and
feeding grounds. In two miles along
this Murray reach there are three black-
and-whites, a grey half-Persian, two
yellow blokes and three assorted tabbies,
each with its own hunting-ground. You
see ’em only at night, patiently squatting
at the mouth of a burrow.
• ♦ ♦ «
“Wang”: “I blow into Ryan’s pub one
afternoon,” said Dan, “an’ find Ryan
behind the bar lookin’ rather worried.
The on’y other bloke there is a tough-
lookin’ fifteen-stoner bangin’ over the
bar with a bottle of whisky in front of
him. He gives me a sour look an’ pours
himself out a stiff nobbier. As Ryan
pushes me drink over he presses me hand
an’ tips me a wink. I tumble at once
he wants me t’ play up t’ him fer some-
thing, an’ I wait fer his lead. Presently
he ses in a loud voice ‘Well, Dan, how
are things goin’ at the camp?’ ‘Goodo,’
I reply, wonderin’ what’s cornin’ next.
‘How’s the boy shapin’?’ continyers
“ Well, anyhow , if the Japs come it'll solve the servant problem."
Ryan. ‘Never better,’ I ses, still foggy,
‘Well, see that y’ keep him up to his
trainin’,’ ses Ryan, earnest like ; ‘l’m
standin’ t’ drop a wad if he loses the
fight, an’ so are a lotta other people
round here. An’,’ he continyers, chiack-
in’-like, ‘it won’t pay you if he does;
the mob here will eat y’ alive. We
feel real bucked in these parts t’ think
we’ve got the next heavyweight cham-
peen of Australia trainin’ up here.’ I
begin t’ get the drift of things now, an’
play up t’ Ryan prompt. ‘Him an’ his
three sparrin’ partners is over at the rail-
way sidin’ now helpin’ load a truck of
wheat, chuckin’ bags about as if they wus
feathers—good trainin’ stuff that.’ The
burly bloke makes fer the door. ‘Hi! ’
cried Ryan, ‘what about settlin’ up? It’s
seventeen an’ six y’ owe!’ The bloke
looks savage, hesitates a second an’ then
with a snarl he parts up an’ goes out.
‘Thanks, Dan,’ ses Ryan. ‘That big cow
has been in here an hour guzzlin’ whisky
an’ refusin’ t’ pay, an’ skitin’ how good
“Trouble with you , Fanny , is you're always Uttering up the place.”
he is with his dooks. Have one at his
expense; he really owed only fifteen
bob.”
* # * ♦
“Nils Comer”: The reference in “K.’s”
welcome to rain, “Send her down,
Hughie” (B. 18/2/’42), is to a more
ancient and exalted personage than a
Narrandera manager—none other than
the chief of the old Roman gods, Jupiter
Pluvius himself. In the intervals between
philandering with his numerous lady
friends, both divine and human, J.P.
was boss of the thunder, lightning and
rain, I’ve heard “K.’s” expression often,
sometimes addressed to “Hughie” and
sometimes to “Jewy.” The change from
J to H —or, more properly, the sound
of Y —is a common colloquialism, and
a philologist will give you a page of scien-
tific reasons for it. You find it in Spanish,
where “Jose” is pronounced “Hose” and
Juan becomes “Huan” or “Yuan,” and
the same thing is illustrated when the
novelist makes his Swedish character say
“Yumping Yiminy.”
« * * 1 *
“The 0.D.”: I envy “B. A. Ker” (B.
4/3/’42), who has been able by “a close
watch” to observe a bunny digging a bur-
row. For years I’ve waited to meet a
bloke who’s actually seen rabbits begin
a warren; for years I’ve tried to catch
’em at it myself, but in vain. Yet, times
out of number, warrens have suddenly
appeared where none was before, obvi-
ously the work of many paws. I’d like
to read a description of the excavation
plan, how the gang works, who supplies
the afternoon tea and whether union or
civil service hours are followed.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: One of thfese days, when
wars are past and the tax-gatherer
troubles us no more, I’d like to take a
few weeks off and have a look at that
Upper Blackbutt district (B. 4/3 / ’42)
where Ned Ragtag hangs out. Ned’s
“150-acre selection” suggests dairy coun-
try, though his neighbor is down the
“Grong Grong Road,” which is in the
red heart of the Riverina wheatbelt. Giv-
ing directions, Ned mentions a dead
messmate, a burnt log against an out-
crop, some ti-tree, a big ironbark and a
leaning wilga—evidently the cunning old
skunk has located in a combination of
South Gippsland, Riverina, the Dorrigo
and the western plains, and probably
that’s what makes the wilga lean. It only
needs some brigalow and a ylang-ylang
or two to make the place perfect.
* * * •
“Esk D”: Assisted by the eminent
Pitt-street bushman Septimus Goof, I
have been investigating “Rook’s” theory
that the duck enters its nesting tree by
underwater hollows (B. 11/2/’42). Using
Prof. Goof’s latest invention, the duck-
tracker, we were able to follow the move-
ments of the ducks on and below the
surface, and found that, while most ducks
fly to their nests, there are rare cases
where they brave the water-rats and climb
up inside the hollows. These cases are
easily recognised, however, as the ducks
invariably take the added precaution of
rolling the spouts up after them as they
go. Prof. Goof is now investigating the
reason why the wood-duck always lays
its eggs upside down,
*„* * *
“Archbell”; Met a mate who started a
garage business in a Victorian farming
district and asked how he was doing,
“Well,” he said, “there are plenty of
customers, but they are all I.W.Ws.—you
know: Information, Wind and Water.”
* * * *
“Ocki Pog”: There was no better
sleeper-squarer in the district than little
Micky Ragan, but as he took fits his
boss, as a measure of protection, sent
the Brown brothers to work and camp
with Micky. The little man gave scant
welcome to the pair, whom he regarded
as raw galoots from a far gully. But
he knew why they had come, and showed
them the smooth small piece of hard-
wood which they were to jam between
his teeth to stop him biting his tongue.
After tea and a desultory yarn on the
first night out, Micky suggested bunk,
and, sinking to his knees, treated Joe and
Bill to their first view of a man about
to pray. Joe yelled “Fasten to him!”
and reached for the bit of wood while
Bill hurled Micky fioorwards in a clumsy
neckhold. Michael put up a good go
against the 12-stone messenger of mercy
busily trying to strangle him, and was’
on the point of reversing positions when
Joe, yelling “ ’Struth, ’e’s bad! ” flung his
weight into the fray. That decided it.
In another 30 seconds Micky lay on his
back, wriggling and making queer,
sharply-gasping sounds ; while Joe had
a firm hold of the other end of the
smooth bit of wood, waiting for the
spasm to cease.
* # * *
“Dickie Beech”; “The 0.D.” (B.
25/2/’42) clearly considers himself
superior to the laws of refraction when
he’s wasting powder on underwater
marks, but a simple experiment will
show him that his defective aim is not
due to “cushioning of the water by the
bullet.” Water can’t be “cushioned,”
anyhow, because it is incompressible, but
that is by the way. Here’s the experi-
ment. Put a bob piece in the centre of
the bottom of a china mug or similar
opaque-sided receptacle, then step back
until the coin just cannot be seen. Then,
keeping your eye on the same point, get
someone to fill the mug with water. The
coin will come into view as it fills.
* * * *
“Propalong”; After years “in the
silence of the herder’s hut alone,” I’m
wondering if the banjo was ever as uni-
versal as Kipling made it out to be.
And, if it was, why isn’t it now? Per-
haps an instrument whose very name is
a negro corruption never took on in
White Australia. The old accordion,
with its strident young brother the piano-
accordion, seems still to be king in the
bush, reigning as it does from cattle camp
to shearers’ quarters. I’ve struck a couple
of fiddles, both in the possession of
station pensioners, one flute and, lately,
three banjo-mandolins and a ukulele. And
I heard one ingenuous youth in a mus-
tering camp out Innamincka way, on the
strength of a passion for red shirts and a
new way of gargling which he called
yodelling, threaten to buy “one o’ them
guitars.” He didn’t. But wherever Ive
been “the war-drum of the white man”
has been conspicuous by its absence.
THIS IS MY SONG
Tonight the hut grows menacing, the walls
Move inward stealthily as though to hold
And crush my heart. The once-familiar gold
Of fire-flung shadow is a shape that sprawls
With red-curved fangs that hunger for my throat
Till hurriedly I throw the rough door wide
And step into the friendly dark outside.
Here I am alone. My pulse leaps to the note
Of little voices calling, brave and gay
As spurts of pixie color —brittle jade
Of crickets’ clamor; and the primrose spray
Of tree-frogs singing down in sandy dunes
Among grey ti-tree; deep warm crimsons made
By purring moths; and poignant azure tunes
Of winged earth-children fluting in the grass.
These are my own folk talking in my tongue,
Giving me greeting as I slowly pass.
I feel my flesh dissolving till I stand
Silver as gusts of air that move among
The kangaroo trails. Never human hand
Could touch these dewdrops without splintering
up
Their magic crystals, but tranced hands like
mine
That cast no shadow in the clear starshine
Can hold the drops like pearls within the cup
Of curving palms, and scatter them again
Unbroken. See, my feet no longer walk
Heavily, bruising beauty as they go.
No bud lies dark behind me, no frail stalk
Bows in meek loveliness beneath the flow
Of my light passing. I can cause no pain!
This is my song, for now I know the grief
The earth feels when no rain falls, and my heart
Savors the sorrow of a hurtling leaf
Wrenched from its birthplace on the mother
bough.
The anguish of trapped wild things torn apart
By human cruelty; I know the shattering shock
A bullet brings; and stagger through a slough
Of growing darkness while my poor life drips
As red as wild-pea blossoms on the tips
Of shuddering ferns. But there is gladness, too.
I revel in the swift breath-taking rush
Of shy scrub pigeons beating through the brush;
And, lip to lip, lean with fay harebells blue
As summer distance. I run with the brown
quail
Silent as water ’neath an upflung shield
Of seeding grass. I don the dark thorned mail
Echidnas wear, and quest among the peeled
Bark of white gums, or thrust in glee behind
Old logs that mildew like a rotting rind,
Crunching with joy the spicy ants I find.
This is my song. I sing it without fear!
Mine is the profit, mine, all mine, the gain.
A thousand years hence spring shall find me here
Laughing in sun or weeping in the rain!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Old-timer”: I’ve heard a lot of argu-
ments about whether a horse is more in-
telligent than a dog, and with a pretty
wide experience of both I’m still un-
decided. A lot depends on the trainer.
Either animal can easily be taught routine
tasks, such as are taught cow- and sheep-
dogs, vine-hoe horses and camp-drafting
horses; but their real standard of intelli-
gence is tested when they’re thrown on
their own resources. Which recalls
Tunga, our old packhorse. After several
years carting gear round the landscape,
Tunga was retired and used as a mail
horse to and from the town. After a while
a rider was dispensed with, it being suffi-
cient to put the big leather bag on him,
put him out the gate and head him for
town. He’d amble in to the post office,
where the staff, also trained in the matter,
put the mail aboard and turned him
round, whereupon Tunga would amble
home. One day some smarty or other
met Tunga halfway home and relieved
him of the mail as a joke. An hour later
the mounted trooper heard something
outside the station, went out and found
Tunga standing there, the empty mailbag
mute testimony of the reason for his call.
It cost the smarty many drinks and a
bag of oats for old enterprise.
* # * •
“Simon Slater”: There are two pos-
sible explanations why a horse can always
recognise his rider, no matter what clothes
he wears and how often he changes
them. The horse isn’t too strong on in-
telligence as compared with the dog or
the monkey, but is great on memory.
He will remember his absent, or even
onetime, owner long after the dog has
forgotten. Also, there is little proof that
the horse possesses a selective sense of
color. Certainly he will shy at a white
object on the road, but takes little notice
of other colors. So he may be oblivious
of his master’s change of clothes. And,
having a good memory, he may recall
features, particularly the eyes. Then
there’s the old argument that the horse’s
own eye possesses high magnifying
power. If so this would make the
owner’s features stand out even more
prominently. Certainly he doesn’t iden-
tify by smell, since it is a wise precau-
tion to speak to a horse when entering
its stall in the dark.
* * $ *
“A. Non”: One warm afternoon the
postmistress was gossiping away on her
six-line switchboard when she became
aware of a fair-sized tiger snake mean-
dering down the passage from the direc-
tion of the front bedroom. Joe slithered
along the lino, and inspected most of
the rooms, followed at a respectable dis-
tance by the p.m. armed with broom,
unable to screw up the required courage
to attack; finally he made his exit down
a mousehole. No more was heard of
him till some days later, when the boys
decided to burn off the dry grass round
the shrubs in the backyard. At the height
of the conflagration out raced Joe, and,
cut off from the house by a dancing form
with a hoe, he spotted the abandoned
underground tank roofed over with
planks. Like a flash he shot under
them, to dive 12ft. or so into the drop
of dirty water in the bottom, where he
lapped furiously round under a rain of
missiles till dispatched with the shotgun.
« * * *
“Gryllus”: A peculiar feature of Aus-
tralian bird-life is the large number of
species which build underground. The
immense nursery-cities of the mutton-,
birds are composed of slanting holes up
to 4ft. or more dug by birds who spend
four-fifths of their lives at sea. Other
shearwaters and prions also dig burrows.
Of shoregoing fowls, rainbow birds do
remarkable tunnelling jobs, often
through six feet or more of firm earth
which makes hard going for pick and
shovel. Those cheery sprites the
diamond birds are even better miners.
Although their actual tunnels are shorter,
they make a spacious nursery at the end
and furnish it with a big soft nest. White-
backed swallows, the Australian equiva-
lent of the European sand-martin, dig
3ft. tunnels, and some kingfishers do
better still, although they don’t worry
about furnishing the nursery. Even a few
parrots prefer dugouts to tree-spouts or
hollows.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Jim and Tom were
bachelor brothers running a farm. They
gave Mat a job. For four or five weeks
the trio would work furiously, then Jim
and Tom would get out a chessboard
and begin to play. The games often
lasted up to three days. During these
periods Mat was expected to do the
chores, feed the players, dispose of tele-
phone calls and visitors and maintain
silence. Then there’d be more weeks of
furious effort, followed by the lull while
the chess fiends got into holts. This had
gone on for about a year when one
morning, just after the game had begun,
Mat ran in and cried “Hey, there’s a
fire cornin’ over the back through the
night paddock!” Tom looked up,
frowned, said reprovingly “All right,”
and went back to the game. Mat went
out and battled the fire, several helpers
arriving. As the fire crept closer to the
house Mat mustered his helpers, and in
a body they removed players, table and
board to the dam bank. Then they belted
that fire again and got it out. Mat went
to the brothers. “She’s out,” he an-
nounced, swaying with exhaustion. Jim
looked up, frowned, said reprovingly
“Y’ made a ruddy lot o’ noise about it”
and went back to the game.
» * * *
“Summit”: Long Tom, in town on
market day, went into a cafe and asked
for dinner. “Try our special—wild duck
and green peas,” advised the waitress.
Long Tom gave a choked cry. When
he recovered he roared, “Strike me!
Here’s me been cultivatin’ and irrigatin’
a patch of green peas, coddlin’ and fuss-
in’ over ’em so they’d come in while
“As there may be a blackout any moment We shall take up the
collection now.”
“Yes, I know —but they're our new shatterproof lenses!"
the price is good ; then just when the pods
are fillin’ good-oh the blasted wild ducks
start cornin’ over every night in hundreds
and clean up the lot. Give us some corn
beef and spuds.”
* * * *
“Bughouse”: Animals will get drunk
on alcohol, and like the experience, from
just the same reasons as humans. Alcohol
is a liquid fuel, absorbed into the blood-
stream readily, where it stokes up the
fires to such an extent that a too-rich
mixture rushes to the brain and produces
that overstimulation known as intoxica-
tion. The same liquid fuel, even when
taken iced on a hot day, will cause the
normal human to break into a sweat.
Beer, a dilute beverage, warms the
drinker even in midwinter. Animals can
become alcohol addicts. Pigs fed on
grains from a brewery get a certain
amount of alcohol —watch them lie down
and sleep with the snore of drunkeness
after a good bellyful. Alcohol introduced
into water will even make fish drunk.
Take a glass of sea-water on a night
when phosphorescence is high ; in a little
while the lights will fade. Add a few
drops of alcohol and all the animalculas
will blaze again with renewed and even
more brilliant light; practically burn
themselves away, since no further doses
will revive them. Honey-sucking birds
will get drunk on nectar after a summer
shower, the addition of water to the
nectar bringing about a fermentation
which the feathered boozers much appre-
ciate.
* * * *
“Yours, etc,”: Tom was proud of his
old mate Bill. Whenever he got a few
in he liked to tell strangers what a won-
derful bloke Bill was. “You wouldn’t
find a tougher man anywhere,” he told a
mob outside the pub. “One day, openin’
a gate to let some bullocks out, he
stumbled and fell and 3000 head ran over
him.” “Gripes,” murmured one of the
listeners, turning to Bill, “is that right?”
Bill shook his head. “Well,” he answered
modestly, “he’s exaggeratin’ a bit—
there was only 2500.”
* * * •
“Dungeness”; The Japanese bombs at
Darwin have impelled sundry scribes to
refer to them as the first enemy projectiles
that have ever fallen on Australian soil.
Our northern shores received plenty of
enemy projectiles centuries before ’planes
and air-raids were dreamed of. They were
mostly 4ft. arrows shot from the power-
ful bows used by sea-raiders from the
eastern islands of Torres Strait when they
felt inclined for a bit of Binghi skull-
hunting. That precious rascal Prado, who
was with Torres in 1606, was much im-
pressed by the strength of the bows, and
186 years later Bligh was forced to use
his big guns to beat off an attack by
canoes from Tute —Warrior Island, he
named it—in which the arrows outranged
his musketry fire. Also, cannon balls of
stone and iron have been found at Bowen
Strait and other places on the N.T. coast,
evidently fired from the small cannons
carried by the Macassar prahus which
visited those shores yearly up to well
within living memory.
* * He *
“Sur Cingle”: “Birdie” Duck held the
unenviable title of mug rider in our mus-
tering camp. A quiet sort of cove and
an inconspicuous teetotaller, he had no
relatives in South Oss, and it was con-
sidered rather a mystery that at Christ-
mas each year he rode into Innamincka,
caught the mail to the line and went
down south for a fortnight. He made
his usual expedition this year, returned
and settled cheerfully to his old
business of falling off horses. Then
someone sent the head stockman a
copy of a little cocky-country newspaper
and a query. There were headlines on
the second page. It appeared that, for
the third successive year, the noted bush
horseman and buckjump rider Mr. Duck
had won outright the championship at
the Dustyville Rodeo. There was a lot
of personal stuff about Mr. Duck that
turned our rising young tight-legs green.
We confronted Birdie with the evidence
of his duplicity. He was a bit bashful,
but he explained: “Y* see, a man gets
sorta disheartened when he’s always
failin’ off horses. He needs a bit of re-
assurin’ like. If I go down an’ ride a
lot o’ cockies’ outlaws an’ get patted on
the back a bit once in a while I don’t
mind the busters f’ the rest o’ the year.
* * * *
“Charn”: With all respect to Alec
Chisholm, he errs slightly in attributing
the founding of Port Essington to fear of
French occupation (B. 11/2/ ’42). That
certainly led to the settlement of the
Swan River and may have had something
to do with the origin of Forts Dundas
and Wellington, on Melville Island and
Raffles Bay respectively, but Port Essing-
ton arose out of a grim marine tragedy
known in the thirties of last century as
the “Charles Eaton affair.” With 29
people, including crew, this ship struck
in the Torres Strait. Five seamen seized
the only serviceable boat and went off,
saying that assistance from Timor was
their objective. The 24 left managed to
construct two rafts and get free from the
doomed vessel. Next day natives attacked
and all on the rafts were killed, with
the exception of the ship’s boy, John Ire-
land, aged 12, and a passenger’s child,
William D’Oyley, five years. Taken ulti-
mately to the Island of Mer these two,
being fairly well treated, settled down to
a native life. In the meantime the five
deserters reached Batavia, six months on
the way. Their story then oozed back
to Sydney, taking about 18 months to do
it. A warship set out and soon found
the two boys, complete natives, burned
almost black and speaking only the island
dialect. Some horrors were also found,
including the dried head of Mrs. D’Oyley.
The need of a military station on the
north coast became obvious, and, despite
previous failures. Port Essington was
brought into being in 1838.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: How poorly proud man’s
attempts to be destructive compare with
Nature’s! In Sunda Strait, between
Sumatra and Java, is the site of
Krakatoa, an island which is practi-
cally all volcano. Fifty years ago,
with a roar which brought British
troops out in Calcutta, thinking an
attack was impending, it blew its
head off. The resultant ripples on the
ocean are said to have travelled round
the world five times, the dust cast up
into the air to have colored the world’s
sunsets for 30 years afterwards, and the
black sand churned up in the sea to have
changed the appearance of the beaches
of the whole East Indian Archipelago.
A resultant tidal wave swept Java, drown-
ing 120,000 people, picked up a gunboat
and deposited it in the jungle 10 miles
inland, and altered the configuration of
places scores of miles distant. Only a
fourth of the island survived the spasm,
but this has gradually risen above the
surface, and latest reports are that Kra-
katoa is preparing for another outburst
of indignation. A Dutch seismologist
who has an observation station on the
island and his Javanese assistant have
devoted their lives to doing sentry-go on
the monster.
OLD HOSPITALITY.
Upon a city’s surging way
Where people crowd and pusn,
I met a swagman yesterday,
A veteran of the Bush.
And as the crowd sped to and fro,
Stern-faced, with scarce a smile,
Remembering the Long-Ago,
I talked to him a while.
“And how is now the Bush,” I said,
“And how your old-time friends
Who took what way their fancy led
From dawn till daylight ends?
“Still do they find, as far they stray,
Kind helpmates in their need,
And folk to word them on their way
With ‘Welcome’ or ‘God-speed’?
“And how are now the tracks they tramped,
The roads they trudged of old;
And do they now, by red fires camped,
Tell still the tales they told?”
This did he say—this only said—
Heart-weary and footsore —
“Old Hospitality is dead
And rules the Bush no more.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLES
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
NOW IS THE TIME TO FEED
BONE FLOUR
to keep stock in good all-round condition for maxi-
mum production . . . Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is a pure
bone product without admixture of any other sub-
stance, It contains a guaranteed minimum of 33%
phosphoric acid and 40% lime and is specially pro-
cessed to ensure maximum digestibility. Stock take to
it readily.
Obtain all particulars about Tri-cal-os from—
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne;
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
New Pasture Plans.
R.N.”: Unless you’ve got more super-
phosphate on the place than you should
have don’t rush into schemes to sow big
areas of pasture this year. Super, is not
only hard to get but future supplies are
doubtful, and to sow a pasture this year
and have no super, for it next year is
asking for trouble. It may even be hard
to save existing stands.
As the super, position worsens there
must be a steady fall in carrying capacity,
though old-established pastures will per-
sist—clovers almost indefinitely—if given
a chance to re-seed and good use is made
of animal manure, together with careful
grazing.
But super, is essential to new pastures.
Anyone thinking of them this autumn
should first assess the amount of super,
he is likely to get this year. Then sow-
ing should be restricted to areas for
which super, will be available this year
and next —the second year can make
or break a pasture, especially with the
clovers. The only area where a risk can
be taken is one of very high fertility.
Pastures sown last year should be
treated to adequate topdressing with
super, this year to make them permanent.
Older pastures will have built up a good
deal of their own fertility and, though
they may decline to some extent, if care-
fully grazed and allowed to re-seed them-
selves will weather a year or two.
On wheat farms where the practice was
to sow Wimmera rye, clover and lucerne
with the last wheat crop to get a pasture
rotation, lack of super, means leaving out
the clover. The lucerne can be depended
on to make fair growth without super.,
provided it gets the right weather.
Stubble paddocks can be turned into
pastures with a mixture of Wimmera rye
and sub. or other clovers, each sown at
the rate of 21b. an acre. If you want
quick and early feed, a 151b. to 201b.
sowing of oats will help, though it will
hold back the rye and clover. You’ll need
a seed-bed, and a sundercut will do it on
light stubble. Cut shallow and sow to
one inch deep with a combine, using
trailer harrows. On a heavy stubble —a
10-bag or more crop —a burn will be
necessary before the sundercut.
Remember, no super, means no clover,
but you can get a fair lot of grazing from
Wimmera rye and oats. If a pasture is
wanted for 1943 sow it with this year’s
wheat and let the pasture plants seed to
make self-sown patches. Double the
normal rate of seeding when sowing with
cereals.
If there is a self-seeded pasture lying
in the stubble now leave it alone, except
to get lewt. of super, an acre on if pos-
sible. The stubble cover, heavy seeding
and soil drift will make germination
almost a certainty. Don’t add oats unless
the self-seeding of the pasture has been
light and don’t sow pats without making
a seed-bed.
Test with Potatoes.
“Ex-C.G.”: On the southern slopes of
Tower Hill, an ancient extinct volcano
near Koroit (Vic.), J. K. Sheen worked a
trial with potatoes and fertilisers on his
Illowa farm in conjunction with the Vic.
Agricultural Department. The soil is
red volcanic stuff, very friable, and the
plot was planted in August, 1940, on
seven-eight-year-old grassland. Common
practice there is to put the seed under
the sod, and this was done.
The growing season was fairly dry and
response to the various manures was
slight and rather erratic, reports G. H.
Mattingley, the Vic. potato expert. Still,
it was proved that payable yield increases
can be got in that country from fertilisers,
though it doesn’t matter much what form
of the heavier dressings is used. It
seems certain that sulphate of ammonia
doesn’t improve the yield enough to meet
the extra cost.
The test plot, with no manure, yielded
4 tons 15cwt. an acre. Against that, 2cwt.
of superphosphate gave 5 tons 7cwt. ;
3cwt. of super., 5 tons lOcwt. ; 4cwt. gave
4 tons 15cwt.; 3cwt. of super, and lewt.
of amm. sulph. gave 5 tons 15cwt., and
“Fetch it, Ma; it might have a message in it.
Bcwt. super, and 2cwt. amm. sulph. gave
6 tons 17cwt.
Average results on Sheen’s place,
worked out over a period of eight years,
showed that 2cwt. of super, gave 5 tons
6cwt. of spuds, an increase of lOcwt.
over the no-manure plot, cost 10s. an
acre to apply and gave a yield increase
worth £2 10s. on a basis of £5 a ton, or
a net profit of £2 on manure cost, A
3cwt. application cost 15s. an acre and
gave a net of £3 10s.; 4cwt, cost £1 for
the same net, and when lewt. of sulphate
was added to 3cwt. of super, it cost
£1 14s. for a net return of £3 16s, With
2cwt. of sulphate the cost jumped to
£2 11s. 6d. and the extra yield was worth
£6, but a net of £3 Bs. 6d. cast doubts
on the sulphate aspect.
Net figures given are purely the net
over cost of manures. There would have
to be some slight allowance for varia-
tions, since the cost was calculated to
the nearest sixpence from prices ruling
in January, 1941. Costs of freight and
spreading aren’t allowed, and, since
manures aren’t always bought ready
mixed, per hundredweight was
allowed for mixing cost.
Green Manure Crops.
“Mackay”: The Bureau of Sugar Ex-
periment Stations is testing green manure
crops from abroad as well as those grown
in Australia. Two, the Gambia pea and
the New Zealand blue lupin, both hold
prospects for sugarcane soil. Another is
the Giru bean, superior to the Poona pea
in that it has a prolonged growing period.
Seeds sown in mid-November don’t
begin to flower until early May.
Many canegrowers find the rapid
maturing habit of the Poona pea trouble-
some, as it forms mature pods in Feb-
ruary, the middle of the wet season, when
ploughing under is impossible. If the
Giru bean fulfils promises it will be
valuable in wet and dry areas.
Under trial is Dolichos bifiorus, of
South Africa, a vine which some botan-
ists believe is native to northern Queens-
land under the aboriginal name of
malkan. It’s a fine-stemmed, creeping
plant, and South Africans grow it with a
nurse crop like sorghum, up which the
plant climbs. In areas where moisture is
plentiful and maize-growing possible,
maize is grown for grain and Dolichos
as a green manure crop.
Short Supplies.
“Bungaree”: The rapid shortening of
certain essential supplies should not be
ignored by men on the land. The sheep-
owner should obtain all shearing require-
ments now. Woolpacks, bale-fasteners,
stencil ink, emery, glue, spare parts and
fuel and oil for the engine are important.
When a man is hand-feeding sheep in
drought he will think of rain bringing
green feed and may forget the worm
parasites and flies that will come with
the new feed. Not a day should be
lost in making preparations for both
arrivals. Chief ingredients of drenches
are practically all imported, and for some
time now no supplies have arrived; we
have to get along as best we can on local
stocks. Many drench manufacturers are
rationing supplies, and before long several
necessary drenches may be unprocurable.
Fly dressings which depend on imported
ingredients will fade out. It is unlikely
that there will be any shortage of fly
dressing and jetting materials of some
sort or another, but don’t wait until the
flies are blowing your sheep before
ordering. Transport difficulties are in-
creasing.
Though it may seem a long time to
shearing and further still to dipping,
order requirements now. Probably some
items won’t be supplied, so give yourself
time to look around for substitutes.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: Cull sterile, very old and
tubercular cows. They eat feed, time and
money, often to the neglect of the good
producers. 5
“Canbelego”: Pumpkins make an ex-
cellent supplement to a dry ration fed
to dairy cattle. Chop the pumpkins into
easily-eaten pieces and feed raw A ton
of pumpkins, including seeds, has about
the same feed value as one-third of a ton
of maize silage.
Hux ; New pigs in a pen often cause
fighting. Smear sweet oil on the pigs’
backs. The pigs are soon too busy to
fight.
“Mullengah”: The American way of
feeding corn to pigs: Grow a supple-
mentary crop of rape or peas between
the rows of corn and then turn the pigs
in to harvest the lot. Tests showed that
pigs fed this way gained more rapidly
than those fed on cobs in yards. There
is little waste of grain.
Ninety-nine”; During summer over-
heating and heatstroke cause more than
50 p.c. of horse casualties. An over-
heated horse is never of much use in a
hot climate, and there is no cure. Have
veils made of hessian and fixed to fore-
head band and cheek straps of winkers
or bridle. This reduces the effect of the
hot sun shining through the eye and
affecting that part of the nerve centre
regulating the body heat. Heatstroke is
usually fatal within a few hours, and if
the horse recovers it is not of much use.
Drenching with cold water is
fatal. Smelling salts often
prove effective. Best treatment
is shelter in the cool and spray-
ing • the body, especially the
spine, with cold water.
“Goulburn”: Give the har-
ness a thorough oiling and
cleaning at least twice a year.
Wipe it clean and rub it with
an oily rag at frequent inter-
vals, but don’t use mineral or
petroleum oils, likely to cause
burning and cracking. Good
harness oil can be made from
equal parts of neatsfoot oil and
tallow. A little lampblack will
give color,
“Bundalinga”: Let some
native grass seed each year.
The pasture will show a re-
markable difference. Constant
grazing weakens and may kill
out native herbage. Frequent
seeding retains the better
species and maintains a body
of growth.
“H.C.”: Intermediate, Man-
chester Table and Chatenay are good
carrots for N.S.W. but are liable to cross-
pollinate if sown together. To raise
carrot seed, transplant the roots, avoid-
ing those with branching habits and un-
even surfaces. Choose those with small
cores. When seed is 95 p.c. mature, cut
the seed-heads and remove the seed by
rubbing over a sieve.
“P. D. Terre”: Dark, water-soaked
spots on leaves and stems, leaves rotting,
with a whitish mould on the water-soaked
spots, mean Irish blight in the spuds.
It’ll generally appear in the lower parts
of the paddock, and heavy rain encour-
ages it. To be safe, a Bordeaux spray—
41b. bluestone, 41b. lime, 40gal. water —
should be applied when plants are about
Sin. high, then at fortnightly intervals
or closer if the autumn is wet. About
80 gallons of spray covers an acre.
“W.G.”; The Indian pumpkin is worth
growing anywhere. Perennial in a mild
climate, it is a heavy-cropper even where
it only grows for a few months. Dig
round depressions 2ft. deep large enough
for three seeds. Dump 12in. of old horse
manure into each pit and top off with
6in. of soil. The saucers will enable the
vines to benefit from every shower.
“Goulburn”: Although gears on a
mower or binder may operate in an oil-
bath, wear occurs. Drain the oil as


Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Aus-
tralasia, weekly: 12 months £1 45.;
6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
change must be added to Country and
inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas
(British Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 165.; 3 months, Bs. To
members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any Address Overseas
(Foreign): 12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6
months, £1 25.; 3 months, I Is.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua,
Fiji, New Hebrides and other places
within the British Empire, lid. per copy.
United Kingdom, 2£d. per copy. To all
other places, 4jd.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE:.A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAQGA, HENTY, HAY, MORES, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLB, BUE&OS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
A FACTOR OF VITAL IMPORTANCE
EFFICIENT COMMUNICATION
BETWEEN SEA, LAND AND AIR.
AUSTRALIAN MADE
RADIOTRON
Valves . . . Always Available
STANDARD TO AIR FORCE TRANSMITTERS AND RECEIVERS
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney.
IJSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
“BILLABONG” Centrifugals
PUMP
WATER
BY/THE ACRE
BY// /HA
-A fj
C=s
=3
f <=s*. S>
O Tk
<2.
V
WRITE
TO
THE MAKERS
JOHN BANKS 8 SON Pty. Ltd
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
*
I ifci afsl
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
room only
Single Rooms from 5/ 6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date
Telephone: 8W1531
Dining Room —All Meals a la Carte.
(7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney.
G. C.
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
C. McKAY, Manager.
recommended, and flush out with kero-
sene to remove small metal particles an
other abrasives. Then replace the oil.
“Clyde”: War conditions have forced
N.S.W. Agricultural Department to sus-
pend for a year examinations of stallions,
and for that period breeding restrictions
are lifted. Owners of entires must stilt
notify the fact and apply for registra-
tion; transfers, deaths and geldings ot
horses must also be notified.
“C. Punch”: There’s to be an exhibi-
tion and sale of stud beef cattle at the
Commonwealth Wool and Produce Store
at Pyrmont (Sydney) on March 30, 31
and April 1. Rules are the same as for
a Sydney Royal Show, and novice classes
are out. Steer classes are; For slaughter,
single led-in beasts, grassfed pens of
three, age limit 31 years. Transport
arrangements for stock are the same as
those for a Royal Show.
“B.”; Pigs of similar weight offered
at the same sale sometimes show a price
difference of 10s. per head. It’s no use
blaming the auctioneer; quality is the
cause. Irrespective of weight, prime pigs
are well-fleshed and carry just enough
fat to make them more desirable in ap-
pearance. Long-bodied pigs get first
preference. Clean, smooth skins are .more
attractive than wrinkled, mangy,
scratched skins. There is always some-
thing to learn about breeding, feeding,
housing or management, and it’s easy to
make mistakes as to when pigs are fit for
slaughter.
“T. Top”: The call is for vegetables—
carrots, red and silver beets, tomatoes,
beans, peas, onions, parsnips, potatoes,
cucumbers, lettuce, leeks, cabbages, swede
and table turnips—and the authorities
want all they can get. Anybody who can
grow them, from large areas to house-
hold plots, should do so.
Outback Occasions.
No. 26.
SAGO AND PLUMS.
On one occasion Father, who liked to
skite that he never missed a bargain,
went to a clearing-out sale in the town
and came home with a load of sago.
When he unloaded the stuff our mother
looked at it and at him and said that
she wasn’t going to have her house
turned into a museum of trophies
gathered by the best bargain-hunter in
the west. Father said there was no need
for sarcasm, and he ordered us boys to
lump the bags over to the shed, where
we stacked them in the half of a galvan-
ised-iron tank.
Whenever Father displayed his bar-
gaining ability in the form of foodstuffs
or kitchen gear or anything which
Mother considered as her special part of
the farm economy, she always took it
as a reflection on her own thriftiness. We
knew by the look on her face that she
felt that way about the sago, and we
became uneasy, because Mother came of
Irish-Scotch extraction and did unpre-
dictable things. . .
We found out that night. Lining up
for tea each of us found a large bowl
full of boiled sago in front of him ; there
was sugar and milk, but nothing else.
Father protested that this was _gomg to
extremes and showed nothing but
wounded feminine vanity, and he hadn t
meant any harm in buying the sago.
Mother, laughing lightly—-and youd
have to hear our mother laughing lightly
to appreciate it —said, “Don t be foolish.
Of course you were merely trying to save
money. Obviously you knew that few
members of this family actually dote on
sago, but since there was so much of it
and at such a price it would have been
criminal not to buy it.” She paused.
We’d never heard Mother make a speech
like that, and our brother looked at me
and winked one eye, but I could see
that he was dazzled by our mother’s
science just the same. Then Mother
leaned forward, fastened her bright grey
eyes on Father and said, “Telj me, how
many other masculine economists at that
sale bought sago?”
Father ignored this. He thumped the
table and shouted, “But sago’s a sweet,
not a meal! How can men work on the
stuff?” ttxr „
Mother smiled triumphantly. Yes,
she said, “a sweet. But why not eat sago
and save on meat and bread and”
But at that stage Father stood up and
glared at us and shouted, “You kids, go
and play or somethin’! What are y’
hangin’ round here for?” We went,
though we’d had nothing to eat.
A little later Father came out and got
in the car and drove away. Mother
called us in, and in a secret sort of way
brought out some cold meat and salad.
Next morning she served hot lemon
sago for breakfast. Father ate his with-
out a word, and we kids weren’t game to
say anything because both Father and
Mother had “that look” on their faces.
Father got up and went to the door to
speak to a man, and we heard them talk-
ing, and Father laughed once and came
back and sat down, very happy and grin-
ning at everybody. About ten minutes
later we heard noises on the back ver-
andah, and Mother gave Father a look
of suspicion and went out. Then she
rushed back in, but before we could
speak Father said, “Yes, plums. Six cases.
Two bob a case. Another bargain. We
can have stewed plums with the sago,
m’ dear; it’ll be a change.” Mother ran
into her room and we kids went and
looked at the plums with some joy.
But we soon got sick of eating them
raw, and we got sicker of eating them
stewed. Mother’s face had set itself in
a fixed mould, and day after day she
served plums and sago and day after day
Father would eat his share and smack
his lips and pretend to be enjoying them.
Our brother and I protested, but Bather
said we’d eat ’em or starve, and by
heavens he was going to be boss in his
own house, come what may. Our mother
looked out of the window in a calm sort
of way that made us want to cry.
Our brother and I took to sneaking
down along the creek after tea to Mil-
son’s place. Young Bill Milson used to
get cold meat and bread and cheese and
things and bring them to us, and we'd
swap him things for them. That s how I
lost my pocketknife with the splicing tool
and our brother his rolled-gold tiepin.
Sometimes we’d trap a rabbit and roast
it down on the creek.
One night, after everybody was asleep,
our brother woke me up and we sneaked
out and carried a lot of bags of sago
and some plums over to the pigs, but
Father found out next morning and
threatened to tan the hide off us, and
said he would dock the worth of the stuff
from our pocket-money. It was all right
for him, because any time he felt hungry
he could get in the car and go to town
and have a good feed at the Greek’s.
One day a lorry arrived at
our place and unloaded about a ton of
bricks. Father nearly fell off his horse
when he came down from the lambing
paddock and saw them. He called
Mother out and wanted to know what the
so-and-so and why the such-and-such,
and Mother said airily, “Oh, those. I
saw them going cheap in the paper and
bought them. They might be handy, you
know. You’re not the only one who can
see a bargain and”
“But we don’t want the flamin bricks.
Father shouted.
“We didn’t want sago or plums.
“That’s different. It” ——
“How is it different?”
Silence. Then Father got off his horse
and sat on the bricks and put his head
in his hands. Mother looked uncertain,
and then she went and sat beside him.
We sneaked away, feeling uncomfortable.
Next day we all racked up and went
away for a week of holiday.


m
m
9
A
m
m
%
TOUGH & TENACIOUS
J VACUUM
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Australia) M 27 XS“ llIm0l, “S>
101
ngles
hies
ROOD'S
pow
*
taww
M
ttOW*
THE
VICTOBIA
PALACE
/10/Ul&fJl
M«vt Town Hall - Little Collins Street
Position Vacant.
SOLWAY GIRLS’ COLLEGE,
MASTERTON, NEW ZEALAND.
Applications from University Graduates,
men or women, are invited for the position of
Principal of the above school.
Established in 1916, Solway College, all the
pupils of which are boarders, is one of the
leading schools in the Dominion. It comprises
Primary and Secondary departments. Fully
equipped, it is beautifully situated in spacious
grounds that provide facilities for all sports.
Living-in accommodation is provided.
The school is under the control of the
Wairarapa Presbytery and the successful appli-
cant must be an active communicant member
of the Presbyterian Church.
Salary according to qualifications and experi-
ence. Applications, accompanied by testi-
monials, will be received up to 31st March, 1942,
and should be addressed to—
The Secretary, P.O. Box 63,
Masterton, New Zealand.
Our Service Department
Wants.
,md Ta '° "■ by Henry G-
„ gCt In ouc 1 1 ) wd h George Carthew Wright,
Rrkh Cr ’ Who ljved in Stephens-road, South
Brisbane, some years ago.—3251.
Information Supplied.
What was the text of King George Vi’s
speech to the Accession Council, and where
u-'as it published ?
It was contained in a supplement to “London
on December 12, 1936, and was as fol-
*°ws: '*1 meet you today in circumstances
which are without parallel in the history of our
country. Now that the duties of Sovereignty
have fallen to me, I declare to you my adher-
ence to the strict principles of Constitutional
Government, and my resolve to work before
all else for the welfare of the British Common-
wealth of Nations. With my wife as helpmeet
by my side, I take up the heavy task which
r S ,. e ore me - In it I look for the support
of all my peoples. Furthermore, my first act
on succeeding my brother will be to confer on
rum a Dukedom, and he will henceforth be
known as His Royal Highness the Duke of
Windsor.
* * * *
I have seen advertised in an English magazine
an automatic water and oil finder.” Do'ss
the instrument do what is claimed for it?
A considerable amount of investigation has
been made in various countries, including Aus-
tralia, into the efficacy of the divining rod. In
general it would seem that scientific authorities
r ° . n .°t favor the method, although apparently
individual designers have a number of successes
to their credit, and manufacturers make claims
tor certain instruments manufactured by them.
* * * *
(1) My son, attending a college in the U.S.A.,
where he is taking a course in entomology, has
to collect specimens of insects, and I want to
send him a few from Queensland. What is the
best method of dry preservation? (2) Are there
restrictions as to the sending of insects over-
seas ? (3) Any suggestions for the mounting of
the insects ? (4) Would a light coating of clear
shellac or varnish help to preserve them?
(1) Pack the insects in small tins (tobacco
tins) in cotton wool, adding a few flakes of
naphthalene and sufficient cotton wool to stop
them from shaking about in the tin. (2) No
restrictions known, provided the package is
labelled “Dead insect specimens of no commer-
cral value.” (3) Too big a subject to be dealt
with here. The recipient should be able to
mount any specimens sent if they are packed as
described. (4) No such treatment is advisable.
* * * *
Could an ordinary metal-surface road, now
carrying very heavy lorries (13 tons upwards)
be converted to a tar-surface or bitumen-surface
road, and at what cost per mile ? 1 have heard
that country roads in N. S. Wales have been
converted to tar-macadam at a very cheap rate
per mile, width of road so surfaced being
20 feet.
Cost of bituminous road construction varies
considerably according to the class of work
and the traffic to be carried. Under the con-
ditions described a light bituminous or tar
seal, the cheapest form of bitumen construction,
would be used. The initial cost of the bitumi-
nous work only would be from £6OO to £BOO
per mile, 20ft. wide, depending on the availa-
bility of local material and the climate, and a
re-treatment would be required every few years,
costing about £4OO to £6OO per mile. The time
between treatments will depend on the inten-
sity of traffic, the climate and the nature of the
bituminous material and aggregate. This treat-
ment can be applied only to a sound pavement
of gravel or waterbound macadam, etc.
* # * ft
How to preserve an extensive paling fence
along which 1 intend growing climbing beans
and sweet-peas for market?
Drive in and fasten iron stays at posts,
cementing them in where there’s a fall in the
ground. Remove soil and paint wood which
contacts the soil with creosote or sump oil in
which is mixed a little kerosene. Repeat the
treatment after two days. A week later throw
in at least 3in. layer of lime, then fill in soil.
This application will be good for 12 months.
Do not nail the netting to the fence: attached
to supports it will make the job easier when
renewals may be necessary.
* * * *
Recipe for (1) dried figs and (2) crystallised
figs ?
(1) Write to the N. S. Wales Department of
Agriculture for leaflet. Briefly the process be-
gins by dipping ripe fruit for 30 seconds in
boiling brine (three ounces of salt to one gallon
of water), spreading on wooden trays for six
days, turning figs daily, then boxing and leaving
for two weeks to sweat. (2) Make a syrup by
bringing to boil three cups of water, three table-
spoons of vinegar and six cups of water. Put
six pounds of figs into simmering syrup and
boil lor three hours, take out and drain on a
wire tray for 24 hours, then roll in castor sugar,
return to trays and leave outdoors in shade for
three and a half days. Roll again in castor
sugar and pack into box lined with greased
paper.
* * * *
Correct feed for a H-months-old foal ?
From the N. S. Wales Department of Agri-
culturei Feeds which may be used are lucerne
and oaten chaff, bran, oats, maize and linseed
meal, and licks of ground limestone and salt.
Examples of suitable rations are (1) lucerne
chaff 101 b., maize 31b., bran lib., linseed meal
Tib.; (2) oaten chaff 51b., lucerne chaff 51b.,
oats 31b., bran 11b., linseed meal ilb. A lick
of salt (one part) and ground limestone (three
parts) could be provided and rock salt made
available.
* * * *
How should delphinium plants be treated to
remove mildew ?
Mildew is caused by faulty drainage and over-
moisture. Dig over a fresh piece of land and
lime it heavily; a fortnight later lift the plants,
dip them in a weak solution of permanganate
of potash, then, after cutting away the foliage,
reset the crowns. When new growth appears
dust with sulphur or spray with Bordeaux mix-
ture once a week. Four or five treatments
should clean up the trouble. Plants that do
not show growth quickly should be pulled
out and burnt.
Brief Answers.
TF.: The technical name for a person who
studies place-names is “toponymist.” Can’t
say whether anyone actually condemned the
name Canberra; the Professor of Latin at
Sydney University criticised the motto selected.
.. ..L.H.G.: Closing times of hairdressers’
shops, as such, have not been affected by the
National Security Regulations, and these
premises will continue to observe the trading
hours determined under the Factories and Shops
Act (N.5.W.)... .F.G.M.: You might get ss.
for the two of them... .L.T.; Directions for
tanning greenhide have been posted to y0u....
8.L.: “Crossing the B’ar,” by Tennyson; should
be available at any public library G.F.:
Baronets are addressed as Sir (Christian name)
and in writing as Sir William Jones, Bt
T.S.P.: They were the House of Stuart (James
I, Charles I, Charles 11, James 11, William 111
and Mary 11, and Anne), House of Hanover
(George I, George 11, George HI, George IV,
William IV and Victoria), House of Saxe-
Coburg (Edward VII), and House of Windsor
(George V, Edward VIII and George VI)
8.G.: Whitaker’s Almanack gives the Caspian
Sea as the world’s largest lake, with an area
of 170,000 sq. m.; Lake Eyre (3700 sq. m.) is
20 names down the list G.M.K.: It is pos-
sible to enlist, but at present the four children
may be a bar unless you have some special tech-
nical qualifications. Suggest you get in touch
with the recruiting officer at the Moore Park re-
cruiting depot... .M.L.: (1) Giver of unstamped
receipt risks a penalty. There is no penalty
attached to the receiver in Victoria, but the
value of the receipt as evidence is impaired.
(2) The giver of an insufficiently stamped re-
ceipt is regarded the same as in (1). (3) and
(4) Colors of and numbers in various units
are not now publishable... .8.R.: Write to the
Lands Department, Brisbane D.R.: See a
solicitor... .D. 8.5.: Highest temperature re-
corded ot air in the shade was 134 deg. F. at
Greenland Ranch, California, on July 10, 1913.
Cherra Poonjee, in Assam, is generally recog-
msed as the wettest place in the world; it has
an official annual average of 424 inches....
GJT: Syria was a former province of the
old lurkish Empire, but was made an inde-
pendent State by the Treaty of Sevres (August
10, 19/0) and administered under a mandate
g , lven . „ to , France by the Supreme Council of
the Allied Powers.... T.L.W.: Lady Jane Grey
reigned for only 10 days. She and her hus-
band were executed six months later, in 1554,
.. ..8.G.: The Addled Parliament was James
I s second Parliament; it was called together
in, 1614 and dissolved without legislating.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
From MJ.T.’s “Ode to Winston Churchill”:
Hail, valiant son of a gallant race,
Of Homeric speech and bulldog face;
Red knight of the fragrant long cigar,
Tell us what we are!
Thou art sprung from the purple stock indeed,
Of semi-American English breed.
Love—soaring across the Atlantic span—
Got the perfect man.
From Emelar’s ode on another celebrity:
When F. E. Baume
Wires out from home,
I take my All
Of every thrill.
He should be high,
High as the sky.
In some huge job,
So help me bob.
Of matters large
He’d take full charge.
His voice would roar.
He’d win the war!
....W.8.A.: Tennyson said that his “s’s”
hissed at him like snakes. Your “slithery
sloughs of slush” would have killed him....
O.H. and M.F.: Try elsewhere... J.P.: Only
a flicker....J.A.B.: The rhyming of “claw”
with “more” is as delightful to the ear as* the
scraping of a rusty nail along a corrugated-
iron fence... .L. 8.: Your economics may be
sound, but your verse is about as inspiring as
an adding-machine... .C.N.: Each of the two
versions of “The Evacuees” was, if possible,
worse than the other E.B J.: A glimmer,
until the bathos of the last stanza... ,1.M.:
The equivalent these days of a “minstrel’s
flatt’ring lay” would be a headline on the front
page. Why not say so? G.R.T.: Not this
t> me J.H.H.: If it’s true, make a par. of it.
.... J.C.S.: Terribly dull, even if it is topical....
W.L.E.: Might suit a flapper’s weekly
W.A.M.: Sad tale of a pumpkin on its way
back... .S.F.: Battle pieces need the authentic
touch... .G.J.W.: Amusingly told, but not
enough point in it H.C.8.: Market for that
sort of snappy-action melodrama is in the radio
field... .WJ.S.: It fades to nothing... .8.H.;
Begins well enough, but it gets nowhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M-H.: The lady appears to have been
punched in places by a steam-hammer
... ..PC.R.: Went over the paddock of wavy
lines with a microscope but failed to locate the
swaggies—or were they just “noises off”?
GX.G.: Just as well you labelled him
‘Churchill” across his chest or we might have
mistaken him for Gandhi after he’d received
reinforcements for his tooth L.F.: Surprised
you hadn’t labelled it “The Toymaker’s Dream”
after packing it with so many wooden soldiers.
. ...D.J.M.: Too ornamental, and the humor
is feeble... .A.M.: The lines are vigorous, but
too few of them are in the right place.


w
H
1
I
Ml
£•'•7 ,•
>■■ ' !;•'
■PpP/.;
ill
■iL
Hi
■
I mm
m
pWM
,-R p
t'P
mm
m
Wm
Hi
w
*
lliplil
*-~r-
m
f
4*
■
iilli
tss-i
»/
For many years Meggitt’s Pure Linseed Sheep Nuts and Meggitt’s
Linseed Oil Meal have found first place in the rations of leading
Stockowners because of the uniformly satisfactory and economical
results obtained from their use. They are rich in digestible
protein, and they contain 6% of Medicinal Linseed Oil, the
laxative effect of which is supplemented by their content of vege-
table mucilage.
In the feeding of sheep Meggitt’s Linseed' Sheep- Nuts combine
to a degree possessed by no other feed the qualities necessary in
a supplement to dry fibrous pastures, etc. A relatively light
ration of “Meggitt’s” will keep the digestive system in good
order, minimising losses from troubles such as impaction, and
enabling sheep to make the maximum use of the natural feed.
For ewes with lamb at foot on dry feed about 4oz. of ‘ Meggitt
per day is adequate to reduce mortalities at lambing and make it
possible for the ewe to produce sufficient milk to rear a healthy
AMPLE SUPPLIES !
Ample supplies of Meggitt’s Pure
Linseed Sheep Nuts and Linseed
Oil Meal are available through
Produce Merchants, General
Stores, Stock and Station Agents,
Butter Factories, or direct through
Meggitt, Limited.
lamb For dry sheep a lighter ration is usually sufficient to
maintain the flock in stronger, healthier condition and to produce
a sounder and heavier fleece.
In the feeding of dairy cows, calves, pigs, beef slock, etc.,
Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal is equally as valuable and gives equally
as outstanding results. When preparing stock for show or sale it
is used by the majority of leading breeders, as is shown by the
fact that at the last five R.A.S. Shows (Sydney) over 96% of
the prize-winning Beef and Dairy Stock were fed this product.
All classes of Stockowners throughout Australia feed “Meggitt s
to give better and more profitable results, whether those results
be in the form of increased milk yields or of a quicker grown,
better finished carcass.
Stockowners requiring information on feeding can obtain free
literature and ration advice by writing to Meggitt, Limited
(address below).
MEGGITTS
PURE LINSEED OIL MEAL and PURE LINSEED SHEEP NUTS
Manufactured from Pure Linseed, from which portion of the oil has been extracted by hydraulic pressure only.
MEGGITT LTD. Head Office 67 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. Box 1555 E, G.P.0., Sydney. Work,: Parramatta, Melbourne, Adela.de.
BRANCHES OR AGENTS IN ALL STATES.


IP What qualifications =
should your trustee |
possess? “
He should be thoroughly trustworthy, possess
sound business experience and have know-
ledge of the law relating to trusts. He should
be able and willing to undertake the some-
times very heavy and continuous duties
involved. An individual possessing such
qualifications is hard to find. Moreover, he
must eventually age and his powers decline.
Neither is he immune from misfortune, and
he may die long before,the trust is completed.
To vest a trusteeship in an individual is to
leave the consequences mainly to chance and
it is a mistaken compliment to ask a friend
or relative so to act.
It is for these reasons that business men well
versed in affairs have for more than 63 years
appointed The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited to manage their estates.
The company’s services are devoted solely to
the care and management of the property of
its clients. Its Directors have wide experi-
ence and proved capacity and the duties
involved are not vested in one individual—
the company’s service “goes on for ever”.
Consult your solicitor or call or write for
further information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
) BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, 5958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman);
D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce; ;
Sir Claude Reading. K.C.M.G.;
- Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS: j
- Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman);
—. W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hllder.
-- N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
E Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hugh*’
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
The Federal Mutual Insurance Comnany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
'Phone (three lines) ; 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* to Funds.
1930.. 4,983,877 2,559,111 450,974 1,973,792
Added to Investment Reserve, £8299.
1931.. 4,755,450 3,317,599 400,804 1.037,047
Added to Investment Reserve, £7OOB.
1932.. 4,477,015 3,030,862 393,708 )
Tians. Invest. Res., £429,451 )
Added to Investment Reserve, £16,091.
1933.. 4,662,815 3,043,709 404,215 ) , 7ifi
Trans. Invest. Res., £163,145 1 L uol >'-*o
Added to Investment Reserve, £14,615.
1934.. 4,902,114 2,857,242 437,039 1,607,833
Added to Investment Reserve, £15,161.
1935.. 5,018,296 2,924,349 474,689 1,619,258
Added to Investment Reserve, £8446.
1936.. 5,237,786 2,995,222 520,563 1,722,001
Added to Investment Reserve, £6981.
1937.. 5,605,733 3,126,050 568,675 1,911,008
To staff fund, £15,000 .. ] i cca ra"
1938.. 5,740,376 3,589,587 567,186 ] l> sbB > bu,J
Written off properties, £lOO,OOO.
1939.. 5,931,144 3,448,244 550,359 1,932,541
1940.. 6,076,026 3,626,703 529,996 1,919,328
Unexplained addition invest, reserve, £13,958.
To staff fund, £20,000 ..)
1941.. 6,339,456 3,610,362 523,701 ]
* Excluding income tax and rates.
Claims due to war have been far lighter
than might have been expected, consider-
ing the proportion of risks written in
Britain and the fighting in Libya, Greece
and Crete. And because they were mostly
under policies against which substantial
reserves had had time to accumulate, the
death-strain has been practically insig-
nificant. But Japan’s southward expan-
sion, involving the extension of hostili-
ties to Australian territory, has created
unknown new contingencies, to provide
against which the National’s board con-
siders it prudent not to anticipate the
next triennial valuation but to suspend
annual interim bonuses, except on such
policies as may become claims.
This provision against war losses is
something to which all life offices have
had to face up and which have been
provided against, almost without excep-
tion, at the expense of bonuses —actually
the only source possible. So the con-
servative National’s move doesn’t be-
token anything amiss. On the contrary,
the position of the Commonwealth’s
second life office has never been stronger.
Assurance funds, which exceed actuary
Campbell’s calculation of normal liabili-
ties under contracts, amount to
£49,586,365, to support which there is a
reserve against investments of £1,863,958.
If, as is to be hoped, war losses aren’t
as heavy as provided for, the sums now
set aside will be available for distribu-
tion later on or to strengthen future
bonus-earning capacity.
War has reduced the aggregate amount
of new business—confined to Ordinary
assurance—to pre-1934 dimensions. But
the downtrend was arrested last year,
when policies on the average were larger.
Annual mean premium p.c. was £3 17s.
10d., against £3 12s. 5d,, presumably as a
result of the loading on new lives pro-
ceeding to overseas theatres of war:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Policies .. 28,382 23,750 23,248
Amount ..£10,158,497 £8,596,926 £8,575,711
Av. per policy 357 362 368
First premiums 332,922 277,108 312,563
Net renewals .. 3,657,380 3,768,518 3,835,488
Single premiums 30,622 49,467 42,984
Annuities .. 86,853 106,468 233,299
Net interest, etc. 1,830,367 1,874,470 1,915,123
Net premium income (£4,424,334) grew
£222,778. The return from interest and
rents —deducting rates and taxes thereon
of £214,462 (up £29,299)—was £40,653
stronger, too, leaving net income from
all sources a record £6,339,456 (£263,430
higher). Genuine savings reduced con-
trollable outgoings to a figure not bettered
since 1936, and, after meeting claims and
earmarking £20,000 for the staff fund,
£2,185,393 remained, of which £94,222
was set aside against falls in investment
values. In addition, £13,958 was slipped
from somewhere into the same reserve.
While death claims were heavier, these
were offset by a lighter crop of endow-
ments and encouraging thing sur-
renders.
The office is doing its bit to ease
budgetary worries, £2,273,052 finding its
way into public securities in Australia
and elsewhere last year:
, 1949 1941
p.c. p.c.
Freeholds .. ..£1,702,446 3.4 £1,650,281 3.1
Public securities .. 25,999,453 51.7 28,272,505 53.9
Mortgages .. .. 10,751,127 21.4 10,971,170 20.9
Foreclosures .. 294,821 0.6 222,739 0.4
Loans on policies. . 5,343,609’ 10.6 5,195,471 9.9
Other assets . . 6,166,630 12.3 6,159,513 11.8
The investment portfolio now tots up to
£52,471,679, the earning power of which
has been reduced by taxation and paring
of interest rates from £4 2s. 2d. to £3
19s. 9d, p.c. on mean assurance funds.
As the office banks on raking in only
£3 p.c., however, there is still a substan-
tial margin for untoward happenings.
This and improvement in the expense rate
—12.2 p.c. of premium income, against
12.7 p.c,, after allowing 5 p.c. and 3 p.c.
respectively for the cost of writing fully-
paid policies and annuities respectively—
are comforting aspects of an unpredict-
able future.
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
t Dividends N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 58,018 24,000 40,000 328,955
16 p.c.
1933.. 140,820 24,000 80,000 36,820 365,775
Reserves capitalised. £250,000 .. 115,776
12 p.c.
1934.. 223,001 24,000 60,000 139,001 254,776
8 p.c.
1935.. 66,751 24,000 60,000 237,527
4 p.c.
1936.. 190,421 24,000 30,000 136,421 373,948
16 p.c.
1937.. 157,543 24,000 120,000 13.543 387,491
26 p.c.
1938.. 243,251 24,000 195,000 24,251 411,742
Additional taxation, £31,000 .. 380,742
16 p.c.
1939.. 146,303 24,000 120,000 2,303 383,045
Tax reserve brought back, £13,150.. 396,195
24 p.c.
1940.. 114,082 24,000 180,000 306,277
12 p.c.
1941.. 134,112 24,000 90,000 20,112 326,389
Japan’s southward sweep has taken in
70 p.c, of the world’s rubber-producing
territories. Most of the other 30 p.c.
comes from Ceylon, India and Burma.
This successful Sydney offshoot of Good-
year Tyre and Rubber, U.S., which owns
all the ord. capital and had large plan-
tations in Sumatra, hasn’t been caught
short, however. Apart from £98,858 of
security stocks stored on Government
account, at its own expense it was carry-
ing inventories of rubber and other im-
ported materials, in the manufactured or
raw state, a half-million longer than at
the commencement of hostilities —fore-
sight which will stand the co. and the
nation in good stead with replacements
so doubtful.
Over the past two years demand, and
therefore production, has undergone
transformation. “Department of Supply”
now figures as the most prominent name
in the co.’s order-book for a snowballing
quantity and variety of vehicle tyres and
other rubber articles for the equipment
of both men and machines —demands so
urgent that the civilian market has had
to be rationed, depleted though it already
had been by petrol rationing and chassis-
importing restrictions. Also, Goodyear
belting and industrial products are in-
directly enabling Australian industry
generally to make their own specialised
contributions to the national effort.
The board found it necessary to set
aside a further £35,000 for the taxgatherer
after presentation of the ’4O accounts.
Allowing for this, last term’s net showing
advanced £20,030 an improvement
more illusory than actual because of
lighter allocations for both deprecia-
tion (£66,522, down £16,368) and,
peculiarly, taxation (£lll,OOO, against
£114,550). After meeting the pref. charge,
the £134,112 surplus ran out at 14.6 p.c.
on ord. capital, as against the adjusted
’4O figure of 12 p.c.
A rush of Government billings is re-
flected in the abnormal level of debtors
at the end of December, and £353,592
of outside finance had to be arranged to
grant the credit and strengthen the stock-
holding by £290,124:
1938. 1940. 1941.
Pref. capital .. .. £300,00-0 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital .. .. 750,000 750,000 750,000
Goodyear, U.S.A. .. 54,800
Other liabilities .. 146,583* 205,164 558,756
Tax provision .. .. - 162,018 245,867
Freeholds, plant, etc. .. 407,063 338,136 347,667
Stock 683,857 1,023,398 1,313,522
Book debts .. .. 298,008 330,408 474,643
Cash, etc 80,501 72,889 51,151
Java subsidiary.. .. 197,300 —•—
* Including taxation, etc.
Expenditure on plant amounted to £9531
more than was written off. The working
assets now appear at 27 p.c. of cost, a
conspicuous example of conservative
valuation. In determining any arbitrary
profit percentage on shareholders’ funds,
the question arises whether Australian
cos. are to be given credit for un-
doubted inner reserves provided by ex-
cessive writings-down from already-taxed
profits, or whether shareholders are to be
penalised for progressive managements’
safety-first methods of bookkeeping.
N.Z. Refrigerating Co., Ltd.
To Rc
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1933.. 79,995 5 p.c. = 31,815 93^l*
!934.. 90.95 3 5| „ 34,997 55,956 149i174
Written off fixed assets, £20,000.. 129 171
1935.. 75,670 5i p.c. = 34,9971
Written off fixed assets, 1 20,673 149 847
£20,000 .. ~J ’ '
Written off fixed assets, £18,650 .. 131 197
1936.. 68,055 54 p.c. = 34,997 33,058 164’,255
1937 « 6d aSS6 H’ £6891 •• 157 > 3W
1937.. 67 928 61 p.c. = 34,997 32,931 190,295
Written off fixed assets, £29,830 .. 160 465
!938. . 48,!9! 5l p.c. = 34,997 13,194 173,’659
Written off fixed assets, £5171 .. 168 488
!939.. 50 056 51 p.c. = 34,997 15,059 iB3 547
Written off fixed assets, £15,908 .. 167 635
1940.. 52,039 5i p.c. = 34,997 17,042 184’677
Written off fixed assets, £23,609 .. 161’068
1941.. 49,505 5J p.c. = 34,997 14,508 175’,576
This is one of Maoriland’s largest
freezers. In pre-war days they bought
in crowded local markets and sold at
Smithfield (Eng.). Now time and selling
price have been eliminated from the risk
factors by war contracts with the British
Government, which has taken three-
quarters or more of Maoriland’s export-
able meat kill since war began, and this
at prices satisfactory to growers and
freezers. For the first war year the deal
was for 300,000 tons of meat, for the
second 248,000 tons and for the third
275,000 tons, which was 80 p.c, of the
exportable kill for 1941-42 and 100,000
tons more than it was expected, in June
last, that Britain would lift. Also tallow
fetched a bit more, but there was little
change in the aggregate return from
sheepskins. On the other hand, costs,
including wages, a surtax of 15 p.c. on
income tax, an additional 5 p.c. on sales
tax and increased customs duties and
postal charges, etc., gobbled a bigger slice
of takings.
After unspecified allowances for
repairs, renewals, taxes, etc., the net result
was £2534 lighter at 7.7 p.c. on capital as
against 8.2, 7.8, 7.5, 10.6, 10.6, 11.2 and
14.2 p.c. back to 1934. That leaves out
of the reckoning £23,609 spent on re-
newals, etc., which was written off from
reserves. This expenditure (£140,059 over
the last eight years) was in addition to
ordinary allowances for the purpose from
the year’s earnings. The div. was kept at
5|- p.c.
The financial position improved:
1935. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £636,310 £636,310 £636,310 £636,310
Debentures ~ 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Sundry creditors,
etc 456,778 439,338 784,107 1,070,849
Premises and
plant .. 708,762 618,399 562,251 552,274
Stocks, etc. .. 318,239 313,415 354,692 521,680
Debtors .. 118,840 214,736 318,419 310,470
Cash and
investments 202,090 187,754 454,731 623,310
Pukeuri deben-
tures .. 100,000 100,000 100,000 60,000
Of the year’s net growth of £286,742 in
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc., £166,988 was in respect of
stocks. The Pukeuri debentures were
reduced by £40,000 and cash and invest-
ments strengthened by £168,579. The
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£234,611) was £40,876.
A heavy lambing promises a record
kill for the current season. Surplus pro-
duction, however, will be the responsi-
bility of the Government, and shortage
of shipping space will tax local storage
accommodation. As for the war in the
Pacific, the Dominion appears to have
less to fear than the Commonwealth at
the moment.
Southern Portland Cement, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
, Dividends. Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1931.. 1,530 Nil Nil Nil 1,530 21,996
1932.. 1,065 Nil Nil Nil 1,065 23,061
1933.. 9,296 Nil Nil Nil 9,296 32,357
1934.. 25.131 Nil Nil Nil 25,131 57,488
1935.. 38.413 4.0 p.c. Nil 8,399 30,014 87,502
1936.. 43,233 11.8 „ Nil 24,879 18,354 105,856
1937.. 52.402 37.2 „ Nil 78,353 79,905
1938.. 53.040 6.2 „ 2.5 p.c. 29,082 24,558 104,463
1939.. 54.097 6.2 „ 6.2 „ 52,758 1,339 105,802
1940.. 52.883 6.2 „ 6.2 „ 52,768 125 105,927
1941.-44,572 7.1 „ 5.6 „ 50,818 99,681
* Subject to unspecified rights.
Only a few stray shares used to figure
among vestibule dealings. But there is
large indirect interest in this New
South Wales producer through Howard
Smith and Australian Iron and Steel,
owners of roughly £250,000- and £330,000-
worth of ords. respectively and £96,600 of
pref. capital apiece. Production began at
the anxious end of the ’twenties, and it
was not till 1936 that the sales indicator
attained passable dimensions, despite
the co.’s connections and favored situa-
tion as regards transport and markets.
“Paid” was put to the prefs.’ account in
1937; they have had their statutorily-
reduced rate since, and the ords. have
also managed something.
The big 160,000-ton plant, however,
hasn’t ever had the chance to show what


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated ny
A W DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks, ADVT.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
offers all facilities for the transaction of every class
of Banking business. Since 1854 *-> over a century
ago the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
has maintained the confidence of its depositors and
the community alike.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
1670-12.41
m mm,
/</ ra/Aer Aare a
Red Capstan/
m
m
m?v
mm***
m
mm
'C&nded'Ce&eb /
A. cA "
*
Capstan Special Mild . . Red Packs * Capstan Modlum . . Blue Packs ★ Capstan Full Strength . . Brown Packs
it can do, aggregate N.S.W.
never having exceeded by very much
half this and the State’s four other pro-
ducers’ potential. Kilns genera y were
busiest in 1938. Activity has been some-
what lower since, contraction in civil de-
mand not being compensated for, as m
Victoria, by defence needs, though these
are quickening. Meantime, selling prices
had been pared, costs had made oft m
the opposite direction, and so had the
legitimate taxation requirements of the
Commonwealth and also the questionable
ones of the State. Hence the recent dip
in Southern’s earnings.
Consider, though, the transformation
in finances compared with four years ago
and again with four years before that:
1933. 1937. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £849,889 £850,940 £850,940 £850,940
Creditors !! 80,556 95,038 118,204*
Fixed assets, A
rights, etc. 1 1 ioa nnc S 916,926 740,463 727,648
Stocks j mao, ooB | 39 ; 476 35)793 70 ,778
Book debts .. 27,564 85,653 96,241 59,970
Cash .. H 9 2,060 199,243 226,425
* Including taxation.
Sturdy depreciation allowances have pro-
duced the happier feeling in the board-
room those figures must now impel.
Last term’s £46,582 brought the tally over
the last half-dozen years to £338,000,
most of which has been given employ-
ment outside the business. The main
asset, further improved upon last year,
now stands at the more conservative
valuation of £4 10s. per ton of produc-
tive capacity.
Westralian State Government, Chamber
of Mines and Perth and Kalgoorlie news-
papers are loud in protest against inclu-
sion of the goldmining industry in the
Commonwealth scheme for limitation of
profits. It is claimed that there is no
possible analogy between goldmining and
industrial enterprises of a permanent
nature, because the life of a mine is strictly
limited, and in scores of instances in
Australia exhaustion of gold-bearing
deposits is a matter of a few years at
best; that a 4 p.c. rate of profit from
such speculative enterprises would con-
demn many to speedy extinction ; that it
would mean at best confiscation of capital
and at worst immediate closure ; that no
special provisions for amortisation and
extra depreciation of assets and plant
could do adequate justice or remove the
basic inequity of the proposals; that on
Westralian goldfields there are no other
industries to take the place of that de-
stroyed—to extinguish a mine is to kill
a town. Goldmining already contributes
handsomely to the war chest, and the
present scheme would undoubtedly tend
to dismember the industry limb by limb.
Consider the effect of the proposed
profit limitation on some Westralian
cos. Take Lake View and North Kal-
gurli, for example. For years the former
has paid dividends aggregating 50 p.c.
annually on its 2,800,000 issued 4s. shares.
North Kalgurli was paying 100 p.c. a
year on its £llO,OOO capital (2s. shares)
until recently, when it reduced the rate
to 87£ p.c. If Lake View and North Kal-
gurli shares, because of the annual re-
turn from them, were valued by the mar*
ket at around £l, what must they be
appraised at “after full provision has
been made for depreciation, taxation,
amortisation of wasting assets, etc., on
a 4 p.c. basis? No wonder the quota-
tions for these shares tumbled. Great
Boulder Proprietary, Boulder Persever-
ance, Paringa, South Kalgurli and
Sons of Gwalia are other cases where
unmerited injustice would be imposed.
Wiluna, with 1,559,000 £1 issued shares
quoted at about 75 p.c, below par, and
with more than its present market value
in hand, should suffer very little under
a 4 p.c. edict in comparison with the
other ventures mentioned.
* * * *
Westralia wants all the Federal Gov-
ernment money it can get for production
of war minerals. It says that, after an out-
put worth nearly £2,000,000, there is still
copper to be mined at Whim Well, Phil-
lips River and other centres, and that
lead (taken mostly from the Northamp-
ton mines, near Geraldton) and tin (pro-
duced principally at Greenbushes), each
valued around a million and three-
quarters, have by no means emptied the
cupboard. Other available minerals men-
tioned are asbestos and tantalite (of which
quite a good output has been obtained),
antimony (already produced in bulk at
Wiluna), mica, alunite, bauxite, wolfram,
scheelite, molybdenite, bismuth, arsenic
and gypsum.
• • * ■ •
Meekatharra Central (W.A.) reports
another annual loss —£274. War has
adversely affected the co., and if tributors,
the only source of revenue for some time,
are not available, the mine will close
down till peace. The co. formed in Mel-
bourne to work the Lady Central at
Meekatharra. Some time ago it talked of
selling its plant, and mentioned an interest
in a Hampton Plains property.


WEAPONS 0! VICTORY
ARE MADE IN
Australia
Indispensable to the fighting power of the man in the front line are the
materials and munitions of war. The greater the production, the faster
the output of these essential elements of success in the field, the quicker
the armies of democracy will humble and destroy the enemies of freedom.
In the great industrial works of Australia, men labour unceasingly at the
task of arming our fighting forces . . . doing their essential part for
eventual victory.
tv
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS
S' * ’,'
'a. (j 4 4 U "
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
KEMBLA ROAD, PORT KEMBLA
THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION
MANUFACTURERS OF STEEL SHEETS
&
011.
ll.
W
\
ft
I
I mt
&
I
r
V
m.
il
1
o -
-111
f-
:
iiiiiiiia
_ >S£S
Cv>
%
T. J ONES E CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, etc.
Canberra’s Economic “Organisation”
Last week the Prime Minister said he
would welcome “suggestions for dealing
with some of the complicated problems
arising from the 4 p.c. profits policy.”
that seems to be putting it mildly.
However, “the Government will not
entertain any proposals for whittling
down the basic features of the an-
nounced policy of the Government.”
And though the regulations do not legally
limit profits, “they provide that industry
must retain sufficient liquid assets to meet
additional taxation when Parliament ap-
proves the Government’s tax proposals.”
As regards the taxation, “these proposals
will not operate until the financial year
commencing July 1, 1942, and they will
be put into force on exactly the same
principles as ordinary amendments to
company taxes. In the meantime, how-
ever, prices of commodities will be
pegged, and no increases in prices will
be permitted by the Prices Commissioner
that would bring profits on capital, after
paying taxation at the current rates, above
4 p.c.”
Company dividends are being deferred
in dozens of cases at present because of
the uncertainty. The actual regulation.
No. 5 of what are ironically described
as the “Economic Organisation Regula-
tions,” reads as follows:
5. Except in the case of unavoidable
expenditure or under process of law, a
person deriving profits from the carrying-
on of a business shall not part with such
assets as will preclude his paying to the
Commissioner of Taxation (in accordance
with legislation to be enacted by the Par-
liament) so much of those profits as are in
excess of an amount equal to four per
centum per annum of the capital employed
in the business.
It may almost be assumed that under the
National Security Act, 1939-40, “person”
also covers “company.” But that point
is a mere trifle compared with the fun-
damental issues involved, such as the
rights of preference shareholders in rela-
tion to the ords., the difficulty of keeping
a year’s profit in liquid form so that the
Taxation Commissioner and shareholders
can all be paid, and the many complica-
tions that arise from the introduction of
rigid red-tape and percentages to an
economy previously based on efficiency
and competition, though since the war
subject to price control and direction as
to what should be produced in the
national interest.
A joint Parliamentary committee, com-
prising Treasurer Chifley, Dr. Evatt,
Ms.H.R. Spender and Anthony, and
Senators Spicer and Armstrong, has
examined the “economic” regulations,
and its report has been tabled. The
clause limiting profits was a matter for
disagreement among the members, and
its operation is to be deferred to a date
fixed by both Houses of the Federal
Parliament, but not earlier than July 1.
What lies behind all this is not quite
clear. It may have greater possibilities
than would at first appear. Canberra
should announce promptly whether
clause 5 is to have any application what-
soever to the profits of 1941-42, as
taxation amendments affecting the 1942-
43 Budget would ordinarily apply to the
previous year’s profits.
As regards the prohibition on the sale
of land, the committee recommends that
dealings in country lands be permitted
where the selling price is not more than
10 p.c. above “a fair and reasonable
price as at February 10, 1942.” In the
case of other lands, the same applies,
with the additional provision that the
vendor must have owned the land for at
least 12 months.
With regard to dealing in shares, it is
advised that gifts of stocks be permitted,
and that the sale of shares be allowed
where they have been held by the vendor
for more than five months. Maximum
and minimum prices to be fixed, all sales
to be recorded and the lending of money
to finance purchases to be prohibited.
’Changes reopen on this basis today (the
11th).
Property other than land and shares is
not to be affected by the regulations, and
it is recommended that the provisions in
this regard be repealed. The industrial
provisions should not be altered, it is
suggested.
In the Upper House, prior to the com-
mittee’s report, Senator McLeay had
attacked the Government for its vacillat-
ing policy over the man-power question,
especially in regard to coalminers, “and
for the muddled thinking which pro-
duced the economic regulations resulting
in the complete disorganisation of indus-
try with little benefit to the war effort.”
There was a great deal of utter foolish-
ness and palpable weakness in the “plan”
behind the regulations as first submitted.
Effective war finance requires the diver-
sion of men, labor and materials to the
nation. The taking of money to achieve
this end is only the setting-up of the
machinery for the real job. If the money
is not taken in taxes and loans from the
right people it won’t achieve the right
purpose.
However heavy taxation rates have to
be, there should be no rigid limit to
profits. Taxation should be spread over
all at a rate related to the earnings of
the individual, with a 75 p.c. rate on
“excess” profits.
Minister for Labor Ward, who would
seem to talk even in his sleep, is reported
to have said in Sydney that “we should
not be asked to pay for war afterwards
by paying interest on any loans that are
raised now.” That was while the £35
million loan was afloat. Mr. Ward, under
fire in the House last week, said he had
not been correctly reported. Mr Men-
zies pointed out that Mr. Ward hadn’t
corrected the newspaper. “Someone should
curb the garrulity of Mr. Ward before
national damage is done,” commented
Fadden, leader of the Opposition. Later
the Queensland Country-National party
telegraphed to Prime Minister Curtin say-
ing that “nothing less than Mr. Ward’s
expulsion from office will repair the
damage to the nation’s credit caused by
his expressed policy of repudiation,” and
the long-suffering P.M. had to state “in
the most positive and decisive terms’’
that interest and principal of Govern-
ment obligations would be met.
♦ * * *
Senator Cameron, Minister for Air-
craft Production, has gone floundering to
the aid of his pal Eddie Ward. People
attacking Mr. Ward, he said, expected
that “doves of peace could be thrown into
the air and come down service aircraft
laden with large profits.” A little off the
mark. What happens is that people
throwing themselves into the war job find
their efforts laden down with Wards and
Senator Camerons.
* * * *
The trading banks have accepted the
Federal Government’s proposal to close
unessential branches and to reduce essen-
tial services in order to “release resources
from unnecessary work.” Advertising
by banks is to be abandoned for the rest
of the war at the Government’s request.
A statement by Mr. Dedman claiming
that exceptionally favorable treatment
had been given to banks in respect
of man-power was answered by knight
Alfred Davidson, of the ’Wales. Though
nominally the regulations gave protec-
tion to bank officers doing responsible
work, actually, in the case of the ’Wales,
52 p.c. of the normal male staff had en-
listed or had been called up for service.
Though the ’Wales man did not claim it,
this is probably a very favorable per-
centage when set alongside many of the
non-essential civil services so carefully
looked after by the man-power and wage-
pegging regulations. Man-power is in
charge of Labor Minister Ward, who
recently suggested that members of the
Federal Opposition were serving no use-
ful purpose and should be dealt with
under the regulations,
* * * *
Bradford Cotton, in spite of the heavy
drain on its funds caused by extensive
participation in defence work calling for
big outlay on new plant, would have paid
its usual interim div. but for the 4 p.c.
economic blanket. The declaration has
been deferred. The Victorian end of
the business is now in production on a
big scale, and shareholders might have
been justified in looking forward to a
more secure div. on the enlarged capital.
* * * *
Confidence is a national asset; lack of
it a national weakness. In the week
to February 23 the Australian note
issue expanded by £2.5 million to
£85.6 million. This was the week in
which Prime Minister Curtin found it
necessary to announce, among other
things, that the Government was not
going to interfere with savings-bank
deposits. In the following week there
was a further £1.5 million rise. The
note issue is up nearly £25 million com-
pared with a year ago. It has been rising
fast lately, especially since Labor took
office.
* * * *
Revenue from Customs and the Post
Office continues to advance beyond
Budget estimates. The excess of the two
departments up to the end of February
had mounted to nearly £5.5 million. This
is only a small contribution to the £BO
million or so by which war expenditure
may exceed the Budget figure of £221.5
million. New taxation has been intro-
duced which may bring in more than £2O
million this year, but the proposed limi-
tation of profits to 4 p.c, on capital and
reserves will not in any case become effec-
tive before July 1, and even if this extra-
ordinary principle is enforced it may soon
be offset by rising costs and inflating
prices.


Divorce Notices,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO HAZEL EVELYN MATTERSON late ot
Casino in the State of New South‘Wales.—
TAKE NOTICE that ARTHUR GLENNIE
MATTERSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 284 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
without reasonable cause or excuse tor tniee
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance on or before the 19th
May 1942 and obtain acopy- of the PgjK®
without charge from WILLIAM ARTHUR
MAYNE Solicitor for the Petitioner 28 Martin
Place Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce. ___
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED PETER BOWLING late of
Smithfield.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY
BOWLING has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 328 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance on or before the 22nd May 1942
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MADDOCKS COHEN AND
MAGUIRE Solicitors 38 Martin Place Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
TO JOHN DORAN LYNCH formerly of
Ancrum Street Waverton—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife LUCY MURIEL LYNCH has
filed a Petition No. 391 of 1942 in the Supreme
Court of New South Wales praying for a
divorce on the ground of your desertion lor
three years and upwards Your wife confesses
adultery with one PATRICK ELMORE and
asks that in exercise of its discretion the Court
will grant a divorce notwithstanding such
adultery You may enter an appearance on
or before the 15th April next and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. UTHER & UTOER Solicitors 350
George Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND JOHN GOODMAN late of
Aero Club Archerfield Brisbane Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that ALISON DAWN GOOD-
MAN has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2144
of 1941 on the ground of desertion without
reasonable cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may entei
an appearance on or before the 16th May
1942 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from PHILIP N. ROACH Solicitor 160
Castlereagh Street Sydney. DATED the 27th
day of February 1942.—C. K. BODY, Registrar.
In THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LIZETTE EMELIE ELLIS late of Merry-
lands and of Annandale. —TAKE NOTICE
that CLEMENT ALBERT ELLIS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 386 of 1942 on the
ground of desertion without reasonable cause or
excuse for three years and upwards. You may
enter an appearance before the 2nd day of June
1942 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from H. M. SYMONDS Solicitor for
Petitioner 16 George Street Parramatta— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar. __
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALAN KELVIN HILL late of 19 Princes
Street North Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARCA HILL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1466 of 1941 on the ground of desertion
without reasonable cause or excuse for three
years and upwards You may enter an appear-
ance before the Third of June 1942 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from T. T.
HENERY & CO. Solicitors 19 Bligh Street
Sydney— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN EDWARD HURST late of French’s
Forest.—TAKE NOTICE that ALMIRA
MURIEL MAY HURST has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2211 of 1941 on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards You may enter
an appearance before the 22nd May 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from DICK L. McINTYRE Solicitor 2
O’Connell Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
d
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessaiy
for possible improvement or recovery. Made t
suit each individual case and costs htj. 16 -
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you in e.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney^
TIME WORKS CHANGES IN FAMILIES.
"“TIME works changes in family circumstances. It creates problems that only the
"*■ experienced may be able to foresee. For that reason it is wise to appoint in your
Will an experienced and level-headed Executor and Trustee, one upon whose integrity,
mental vigour and good judgment you can rely ; one who will never die.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, offers you the permanence of a Company, the
collective judgment of many trained minds, and an understanding of family financial
and business problems born' of 56 years’ experience with thousands of Estates.
That you may understand the Company’s service, ask that we send you a copy of a book
“Your Executor and Trustee.” It explains the service in detail and tells what it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Brigadier the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.0.;
E R. Knox; H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H V Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £59,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
iwm
POWELL OX THE JOB
;
i - ;
ip
THE CHOICE OF FLEET OWNERS
Proved efficiency on the job . . . that’s the BIG reason why Australian
Business is standardising on POWELL Engineered Gas Producers to
secure unfailing operation of motor fleets. The following excerpt from
Croft’s Stores report demonstrates why POWELL has won favour as the
outstanding unit with progressive Australian organizations:—
M ... as you know we are operating a substantial number of these units.
The performance of our heavy duty Ford Semi-trailer (pictured above) is
indicative of the results we have secured from ‘Powell.’ This truck was
hauling gross loads of 13 tons, 700 miles a week with negligible petrol.
After 25,000 miles, the condition of the engine is quite satisfactory.”
(Signed) L. C. LAN YON, Secretary,
Croft’s Stores Pty. Ltd.
HIGHLIGHTS.—Heavy duty construction throughout . . . Famous Beresinsky
Cleaner reducing engine wear to less than with petrol ... A model for
every truck purpose . . . Recommended by the Ford Motor Co. (Aust.)
Pty., Ltd. . . . Only Producer Gas Units with Government approval. Models
up to 40 horse-power.
KEEP AUSTRALIA
FREE !
Subscribe now to the
'"9SSr
Powell
GAS PRODUCER TRUCK UNITS
Immediate delivery from H. C. SEEIGH, Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, or Powell Dealers throughout Aus-
tralia.
I
VJ
m
C.'vO^
»**«»
CRAVENA
are so much smoother
iillilililli^liiiiSliiSilßlilll®WliS®liiiilliiliililißH
;.. s - &: -/; ? "■&
■!
111 for lid.
20 for 110
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS >OO5
m
!
v . - 4•% **l
-;v . I
• Wyf'*!
1 i- • - . • ■ vH; ?■•:• ■ M
J /ipvntina far more to
fhan to the needs of
civil Hfife ” said Minister for “Informa-
lion” Ashley lasi week. A typical present-
day Canberra inaccuracy. The national
income is about £lOOO million a year and
the Budget war-expenditure figure £221.5
million. If it rises to £3OO million, as
suggested by Treasurer Chifley, it will
still represent no more than 30 p.c. of
the national income. The other 70 p.c.
is devoted to civil life and the civil ser-
vice. So don’t let us kid ourselves.
* * » *
In the House last week Mr. Fadden,
referring to “a dangerous drift in Aus-
tralia’s finances,” said that between July
and the end of January the Common-
wealth short-term debt had increased by
m Treasurer Chifleywas; ask-
ing for authority to raise £75 million oi
loan money for war expenditure it is a
cer tainty that the Government will not oc
as ki n g the public for that amount of loan
raone y before the end of this financial
yeai% so the inference is that more
joUs will be discounted with the Cont-
monwealth Bank and trading banks,
This method of finance is inflationary m-
asmuch as it does not remove purchasing
power from the hands of bank depositor,
even though deposits may be the base on
which this bank credit is raised. War
waste is no basis for credit expansion.
* * * *
During the week to March 2 there was
a reduction of £6 million in the Common-
wealth Bank’s holding of Government
securities. This fall to £95.6 million was
probably due to the application of a good
portion of the initial subscription to the
£35 million loan to the purpose of retiring
Treasury bills, as was suggested here in
recent weeks. However, there is a limit
to which the war loan can be used in this
way, as the demands of war continue to
make voracious calls on the Treasury,
and should all the proceeds of the loan
be used for the purpose of repaying pre-
vious temporary borrowings, then the
excess of current war expenditure over
taxation revenue will have to be financed
out of the discounting of IOUs, as has
been the practice since the last public
loan was floated.
* * * *
On Thursday Mr. Ward created some
astonishment by making the sensible
statement that “he believed that finance
could be raised by taxation, with all sec-
tions of the community making an equal
sacrifice.” Mr. Ward must by now have
said nearly all there is to be said about
finance, having completely boxed the
compass in his time.


THE SERVICE MAN
War at the Door.
Ek Dum”: The most depressing
leature about Japanese operations is the
neatness with which the Imperial High
( ~' < y^9 an d dovetails its operations.
While Java was being subdued, pre-
parations were being made in another
sphere. A series of gusty raids blasted
towns and stations over 2000 miles from
hroome to Salamaua.
® roorne and Wyndham were attacked
the same day Broome by fighters
and bombers, which machine-gunned
and dropped bombs which did some
damage and caused some casualties,
Wyndham was machine-gunned only.
Navy O-type fighters were used. Prob-
ably both towns were raided from
the same carrier—they are 425 miles
apart while bombers came from Koe-
Pang.
Darwin was attacked by six Navy
D-type fighters on March 4. The visitors
gunned a street, did more damage and
caused a few more casualties.
Moresby was frequently raided during
the week, though never heavily or with
material damage. The R.A.A.F., on
° , r an d> kept a regular eye on
Kabaul and Gasmata and paid particular
attention to the bombing of the latter,
Sln if ft the closer ’drome to Moresby.
The R.A.A.F. was not in enough force
to stop raids either on Moresby or on
the inland goldfields air centres of
Bulolo and Wau, which were attacked
more than once.
Towards the week-end, a large convoy
was seen by reconnaissance ’planes mak-
ing its way out of Blanche Bay and head-
ing along the New Britain south coast.
It was well escorted by four cruisers and
several destroyers and covered by air.
The next move came the very day after
Java’s fate was decided. At 2 a.m. on
March 8 Japanese troops were landed
at Salamaua, which lies on a sandy little
peninsula jutting out into Huon Gulf.
Main commercial port of the goldfields, it
has a workable landing field planted
among the swamplands at its rear.
Simultaneously, enemy warships began
to shell and bombers to blast already-
battered Lae, the capital, 30 miles or so
across the Huon Gulf. Lae is the head-
quarters of Guinea Airways.
Next came news that strong landing
parties were coming ashore in small
boats. After that, silence.
If the enemy establishes himself
strongly at these points, Australia can
kiss the goldfields good-bye. It can also
say its farewells to 40-odd fine landing-
grounds which dot interior New Guinea,
and which are just what the Japanese
Command needs as a preliminary to
attacking the Australian mainland,
Salamaua is under 200 miles from Port
Moresby by air, but nearer jumping-off
places can be found in the Morobe dis-
trict to the south-east. Salamaua is closer
to Thursday Island than Rabaul is to
Moresby. Cairns and Innisfail are within
comfortable raiding distance for machines
of the type used in the Darwin raid. If
Moresby were to fall, as it must not be
allowed to do at any cost, Townsville
would come just within the limit of
operation.
War has ceased merely to be on Aus-
tralia’s doorstep. It is on the mat reach-
ing for the knocker.
Another Empire Falls.
“Ek Dum”: The first week of March
was mainly dedicated to the martyrdom
of Java and the reorientation of the
fronts of the Far East.
All the signs were ominous from the
moment Java was attacked at three
points. Naval attempts to stave off the
attack failed. The Japanese brought a
strong cruiser force; one of the strong-
est used in a single operation anywhere
since the outbreak of the war with Ger-
many—2s ships in all, according to some
accounts. The Dutch lost their only
two remaining cruisers in a submarine
trap—a sad blow despite heavy losses
inflicted on the enemy.
Then came the landings, made horrible
with all the paraphernalia of German-
type war—with endless machine- and
tommy-guns and with flame-throwers.
The flower of the Netherland Indian
armies were concentrated in Java, which
is one of the most thickly-populated
spots on earth. About the size of Eng-
land and Wales, Java and its tiny
neighbor Madura hold nearly 50,000,000
people, mostly living in flimsy dwellings
and in eternal damp.
There were as well a limited number of
Allied troops, including A.I.F. —some
authorities said three battalions of these.
It was early reported by Reuter
that the lack of aircraft was “piti-
able.” What ’planes they had had
the Dutch had largely dissipated in
encounters further afield. Much of
the aircraft ordered from abroad had not
been delivered, thanks to the sea war and
the reorganisation of shipping needed to
get Uncle Sam into his stride. So “vir-
tually nothing was available to direct
artillery” and “virtually no assistance can
be given the ground troops.”
The Japanese by the midweek had built
what was seemingly an iron ring in the
sky. By the time the first landings took
place on Feb. 28, the last ship carrying
refugees had sailed. The last two ’planes
which made their way to Australia did so
at great risk. The enemy advertised his
presence with continuous “boundary-
riding raids” on every port of access
north and south, particularly Tjilatjap.
Five days after the landings, Tokyo
announced that its naval units were
operating in the Indian Ocean and had
sunk the British gunboat Stronghold (905
tons) and the U.S. gunboat Asheville
(1270 tons).
Batavia Falls
By the night of March 5, less than a
week after the invasion began, the situa-
tion had become confused. The Gover-
nor-General of the islands had trans-
ferred his command of the forces to
Lieutenant-General van der Poorten and
Rear-Admiral J. J. A. van Staveren, Vice-
Admiral Helfrich having “been entrusted
with a special mission,” after the battle
of the straits.
Tanjong Priok, the port of Batavia, had
been blasted in pieces. The Japanese
claimed to be in command of the whole
of the west end of the island, including
Buitenzorg, with its huge park, its deer,
its palace, its kenari-tree avenue and lotus
lake and famous gardens, and Batavia,
which they claimed to have entered at
9.30 p.m. on March 5.
The Dutch High Command was now
seated at Bandoeng, about 100 miles from
Batavia, and over the 4000 ft. high Pun-
tiak along Daendals’s magnificent road.
Travellers reported no disorder, little
dislocation. Dutch women and children,
as with the women and children
of the Anak Batawi, remained in
their ordinary avenues of life —washed
the dishes, went to school, did their shop-
ping. The prophylactics against the New
East Asia prosperity system were übiqui-
tous —the slit trench, the air-raid siren
and the little bit of red rubber on a piece
of string which looks like a crude teeth-
ing pad and which every Javan carried
to bite on while the bombs burst.
Partly because of the switchback nature
of the country and the infiltration
methods of the enemy, the Dutch High
Command reported on March 5, there
could be no regular front; therefore no
possibility of a clear view of the situa-
tion :
On the whole, however, the Japanese
have numerical superiority and are advanc-
ing continually. Thus they have succeeded,
in spite of the heroic and courageous re-
sistance of our troops, in occupying several
places. Definite air superiority has con-
tributed to the enemy successes.
The Japs’ eastern drive had pushed
down into the centre of the island to Soera-
karta (Solo), about eight hours by train
from Batavia and 42 miles from the other
great sultanate of Djokjakarta, last
stronghold of resistance to the Dutch in
the island in bygone days. Hereabouts
the countryside is dominated by 10,000 ft.
mountains, but mainly by the thunderous
volcano of Merapi,
The Indramajoe landing parties had
penetrated inland fully halfway to Ban-
doeng.
Bandoeng Falls
Next day, after the first Japanese
stepped ashore, the fate of Java and of
the Indies appeared to have been sealed.
The central command of the south-
western Pacific zone had been dissolved
earlier in the week. General Wavell had
returned to resume his position as Com-
mander-in-Chief in India, taking with him
Major-General Brereton, air commander
of the s.-w. Pacific forces.
“Last messages” already had been sent
by the local commands and by the
D.E.I. newsagencies. Correspondents had
taken it for granted that Java was
doomed and had been in flight even
before the enemy had attacked Javan
soil.
On March 7 the military Government
of Java advised the Dutch Government
in London that Sourabaya was sur-
rounded, The Dutch East Indies News
Service issued a final dispatch in which
it declared that the lines of Bandoeng,
within which it had been hoped to make
a stand in the centre of the island, had
been broken through on the slopes of
Tangkuban Prahu volcano. At 10.45
p.m., Bandoeng Radio sang its swan-
song :
We are closing down. Long live our
Queen. Good-bye until better times.
Yarious radio stations friendly to the
Axis said on Saturday night that the
Dutch had asked for a “cease fire” and
for an armistice, but that the request had
been ignored by the Japanese. This the
Dutch denied.
Though on March 9 Dutch head-
quarters in London expressed a deter-
mination to fight on, the fate of the Indies
was temporarily decided. The features
of the campaign had been summed up
by the D.E.I. newsagency;
Immediately on the outbreak of war we
employed risky aggressive tactics, relying
on agreements with the Allies that reinforce-
ments would be sent to us. But those re-
inforcements haven’t arrived. The number
of Allied troops fighting in Java is very
small. But they are fighting spiritedly
alongside the Dutch and Indonesian troops.
A large number of U.S. heavy bombers
came, but their value continually decreased
because we had no fighter ’planes to pro-
tect landing fields. Many of the big
bombers, therefore, were destroyed on the
ground. The Allied fleet was also hope-
lessly outnumbered, and, despite the heroic
attempts in the Java Sea battle, the Dutch
lost all the ships available in the East
Indies, except some small ineffective units.
Consequently the Japanese, practically un-
opposed, could land about 150,000 men, at
least five times the numbers of our de-
fenders.
One of the richest empires in the world
fell in a final conflict which lasted
only a few days. It was an empire
which had begun to grow 350 years ago.
It contained 70,000,000 people, including
several stern fighting races. It was the
world’s second greatest sugar producer;
it had more oil than the British Empire;
next to Malaya, it had the greatest output
in the world of tin and rubber. It pro-
duced 14 p.c. of the world’s tea, 80 p.c.
of its kapok, 75 p.c. of its pepper, 80 p.c.
of its cocaine, 95 p.c. of its cinchona. It
had iron and other metals.
It had the misfortune to be governed
by a peaceful, highly civilised people who
loathed war and, like ourselves, dwelt in
a false security of remoteness. And when
the end came it could —according to the
D.E.I. newsagency—muster only 30,000
men to give battle for its existence.
The D.E.I. should have been strong
enough to defend itself, having regard to
its immense resources.
The Dutch themselves do not officially
subscribe to the idea that they were
abandoned by their friends. Dr. van
Mook said at the last meeting of the
People’s Council, on March 6, when the
doom of Java was sealed:
On no account allow yourselves to be
dominated by the thought that we have
been left to fight on our own. We have
not been deserted. This war is indivisible.
Our victory can be won in the vast Pacific
waters, but also in the Russian plains.
Every day we stand firmly brings the vic-
tory closer.
Japan has only mopping up operations
to do in the Indies ; but after that it must
keep in being the naval and mercantile
marine forces to hold them. As British
and U.S. ships come off the stocks this
task will grow until it becomes impos-
sible. By that time other tasks will have
developed which will have the whole of
the Nipponese command reaching for
aspirin.
It is a fault of the democratic system
that any gabbler is able to gabble to
his heart’s content and that all gabblers
live for the moment and are panic-mon-
gers. There is no cause for panic. Only
the opening shots have been fired,
MacArthur’s Surprise
Nowhere has Japan so far faced equal
numbers, save in China and Bataan. On
the Bataan Peninsula, General Mac-
Arthur is providing the lesson of land
concentration as a waster of enemy
resources.
He is tucked into a small peninsula. The
enemy holds a harbor on the left of his
front and Clark Field aerodrome, only
10 miles from the sea, on his right flank.
But MacArthur has sufficient men to put
up a wall of bayonets, sufficient artillery
to put up an adequate barrage.
His terrain is such that he can work in
secret and keep it clear of spies, and the
enemy is even now wondering how it
came about that he was able last week
to make a sudden raid by air with appar-
ently reconditioned captured ’planes and
send 30,000 tons of shipping and large
numbers of Nippon troops to the bottom
in Subig Bay, besides starting fires along
the shore and blowing up a few dumps. °
Several points of resistance like Bataan
a few thousand miles from Japan, would
2“! a strain on Japanese mercantile
marine and naval air forces
The general picture of the Pacific posi-
tion is more heartening in distant per-
spectwe when seen as a whole than when
all the comparatively minor victories over
inadequate or ill-conceived or ill-
balanced forces are viewed piecemeal.
The Pacific Lucky Bag
The western Pacific area now has the
a vas t “lucky” bag full to
the brim with Japanese captured posses-
sions. The only goods which have not
been grabbed in it are Australia and New
Zealand, at the bottom.
They are not likely to prove as easy
as Malaya, in which the governing
rulers consisted of only a few thou-
sand alien whites, or as the Indies, where,
to the majority of the outland people, one
conqueror has been as good as another
throughout the ages.
Here the enemy will have to face a
million determined men got together
from the finest fighting material in the
world. To the Indonesians conquest
means a change of rulers; to Australia
and New Zealand, national destruction.
The east side of the bag is made up
of the still-building defences of the great
Anzac defence area. The main wall is
the U.S. Navy and Air Force. There
has been a tendency to ask where this still
great and very rapidly growing force is.
The enemy has noted this curiosity and
has fanned it into flame with fabulous
tales. Last week the world was told
that 114 Allied ships had been sunk, in-
cluding eight battleships, and 53 seriously
damaged.
Actually, the U.S. Navy is where it
should be—at its bases and stations and
patrolling communications against the
time when its full force can be used to
the greatest advantage.
Meanwhile from time to time it
makes its presence known. There have
been at least three heavy fights in the
island region. The first was the smashing
one of the Marshalls some weeks ago.
It accounted for 18 Japanese ships and
38 aircraft, apart from devastating dam-
age to shore bases.
In the second the initiative was Japa-
nese. A U.S. aircraft-carrier and other
ships were attacked by enemy aircraft
to the west of the Gilberts. One pilot
even attempted to dash himself on the
carrier’s deck. He was shot down 100
yards away. In two attacks the Japanese
lost 16 out of 18 heavy bombers.
Late in the week a raid was made on
Marcus Island, a Japanese outpost 1100
miles from Japan proper. Tokyo Radio,
which seemed agitated, mentioned that
seven raiders had been shot down. Later
there were mentions of a naval action in
progress south of Marcus, but no details
came out of the void. Nevertheless, the
raid showed that Japan far from com-
mands the sea in the north.
Retaliation took the form of harm-
less bomb-dropping by three ’planes on
Honolulu’s outskirts.
Resistance in Burma
The western side of the Pacific bag is,
of course, contained by Chiang Kai-
shek’s forces and India and Ceylon.
This may be the immediately vital
front. Here is the best point for a land
stand ; the best jumping-off place, eventu-
ally, for a drive to strip Japan of its cap-
tured possessions in China.
The Japanese seem to have been
brought up suddenly along the Sittang
front. It is the first front in the Eastern
war in which British troops have had
both ’planes and tanks. The enemy has
had the assistance of numbers of traitor-
ous Burmese in establishing road blocks
of the type he used in Malaya.
A battle for Pegu, 58 miles from Ran-
goon, was in fierce progress on March 8,
It had not reached its decisive phase.
Rangoon was still in British hands, and
the port functioning.
In parts of the line further north than
Pegu there had been Japanese penetra-
tions. The British, however, seem to be
using aggressive tactics, but the fighting
was confused and it was hard to sum it
up.
General Wavell was touring the front
at the week-end. The R.A.F. seems to
be active and incessantly bombed
Japanese bases and land convoys through-
out the week.
The Indian Army has numbers.
Whether it has equipment remains to be
seen; but, if it has, Wavell’s side of the
bag should hold. The greatest danger is
to Ceylon, in view of the access which
the enemy now possesses to the Indian
Ocean. Loss of Ceylon would give the
enemy command of the sea to Aden,
which would be disastrous.


Postscripts to Malaya.
“Ek Dum”: Reports from Indian
sources bring the story of Malaya down
to the time when in Johore the A.I.F.
linked up. Major-General Gordon Ben-
nett last week took up the tale from there.
The Indians and their blood brothers
the Highland regiments, always brigaded
with them, evidently put up a grand show.
They had been lined thinly along the
north. Contrary to the oft-repeated tale
that the British armies had not antici-
pated infiltration tactics and totally
unprepared for them, Calcutta “States-
man,” the second day after the war broke
out and before the enemy had given an
exhibition of his technique, detailed the
methods of training which the Indians
had evolved in their months in North
Malaya. They were a development of
Indian North-west Frontier tactics —vir-
tually the same which were used by the
Japanese. Whatever maybe the truth about
some of the raw reinforcements, the
Indian Army was years ahead of the rest
in dress and bush types of fighting.
Six weeks after the fight began (Jan.
17) the reasons why the Indian brigades
had been overcome were stated by the
“Times” correspondent:
First, our troops are heavily outnum-
bered in an increasingly unfavorable ratio.
Secondly, they are very tired after being
in action pretty continuously for over six
weeks. It would not matter if they were
outnumbered if only they were fresh, for
engagement after engagement has shown
that, where numbers are more or less equal,
the Japanese are no match for the British
and Indian troops. It is primarily the lack
of aerial support that has prevented our
troops from holding the Japanese drive
down the west coast.
The correspondent said that this lack
of aerial support had been a grave handi-
cap. The command was rarely able to
know what troops the enemy was bringing
up and where he was planning his major
thrusts. Because of the nature of the
terrain, though it had done amazingly
good work, the artillery was seldom able
to use ground observation posts, and had
to work blind, while the enemy used his
aerial eyes to the full without hindrance.
Although the campaign has been largely a
delaying action against an enemy superior
both in numbers and in equipment, the
British forces had taken part in offensive
operations against the enemy chiefly by
using guerrilla tactics behind his lines.
Almost immediately after the war
began commando units were organised.
These mainly were 25 per cent. British
and 75 per cent. Indian, although there
were “also some mobile Australian units
participating.”
Gurkhas at Work
As a pendant to the “Times” story, the
Indian Army observer with the Malayan
forces went into some detail about these
operations on Jan. 17. Three Indian bat-
talions, he said, had particularly distin-
guished themselves. The Gurkhas had
entered on the work of harassing patrols
—’“generally known as gangs”—with in-
finite relish and “seldom came back from
their nightly expeditions without bloody
kukris.” A battalion of the Hyderabad
Regiment fought gloriously on the Slim
River after the tanks had overrun for-
ward troops.
At Kuantan aerodrome, when an Indian
battalion was climbing into its vehicles
after having destroyed buildings and run-
ways, an enemy attack broke over the
screen troops in a wave and there was a
close-quarters fight. The colonel of the
Indian regiment was bayoneted twice in
the body, but killed six of the enemy with
his revolver. He then organised a counter-
attack, mounted an armored-carrier,
dashed into the centre of the fray and
reorganised and extricated two outnum-
bered platoons which were in difficulty.
Though wounded twice more with gren-
ades, he went in a second time and pulled
out a third platoon, but collapsed on the
way out and was brought home only by
the courage of his driver.
Troops were then fighting with little
or no rest, because the Japanese landings
on the west coast had called into action
all reserves.
It was at a point about 150 miles from
Singapore that the A.I.F. had its first
action in force, beginning on Jan. 14.
The weary Highlanders and Indians of
the 9th Indian Brigade had fought their
way down the east and centre from Khota
Baru to Kuantan; from Kuantan down
the centre of the peninsula to Batu Anam,
which lies off the main road and rail-
way eight miles east of Gemas and north-
east of Malacca. It was decided to rest
them here, said Major-General Gordon
Bennett, beginning his tale.
Enter the A.I.F.
Two Australian brigades had been for
some months building up a strong de-
fence line in the Mersing area, 60 to 70
miles to the s.-e. The 27th Brigade, under
Brigadier Duncan Maxwell —a doctor who
after the surrender gave up his command
to take over a hospital—was withdrawn
from this position and thrown as a screen
northward of the resting Indians to take
the weight of the enemy advance. They
were flung into hilly and fairly open
ground covered with young rubber trees
four or five feet high, but the 30th
(N.S.W.) Battalion was sent forward to
ambush the enemy and leave the import-
ant impression on his mind that they were
superior troops. This they did.
The Japanese, coming on holding hats
in their hands and shouting that they
were Indians, had a warm reception. In
the two days’ dogfighting which followed,
while the enemy was eased gently back
to the main defence positions, Lieutenant-
Colonel Galleghan, leading his men in
person, won a D.S.O. With strong flank
patrols to prevent infiltration, and with
the Indians dug in, the tired 30th were
preparing to leave the next part of the
job to Robertson’s 29th, when the news
came of trouble in the west.
Here the 45th Indian Brigade, with its
long retreat and weeks of ceaseless fight-
ing behind it, its dead heaped along the
Slim many miles to the north, had come
to the end of its resources and had lost
its grip on the Japanese, who had forced
a way across the Muar River.
This was a move too dangerous to be
left unchecked. The enemy was well
down the flank of the Indians and Aus-
tralians in the centre, threatening the main
road and railway to Singapore and their
rear and communications.
So the 30th had to carry on. The 29th
were hustled into lorries and raced on a
40-mile run to the Muar front, where the
battalion arrived in time to bring the
sanguine Nipponese up with a solid jolt.
Meanwhile, the 19th —Anderson’s N. S.
Welshmen —were roaring across the whole
width of the peninsula. The A.l.F.’s two
brigades were thus divided into three
equal lots —two at Mersing, where the de-
fences were made to fit six, two in the
centre, one of them mauled in its worry-
ing of the enemy, and two facing the
main advance along the west coast on the
Muar, where the enemy was piling up in
a flood which could not be stemmed for
long. At one time 1800 Australians were
facing 15,000 Japanese, including the
Imperial Guards,
Not long after their arrival, the 19th
found themselves assailed by tanks. They
indulged in some very thorough tank
stopping and destruction —a.-t. guns and
Molotov cocktails.
The Stand on the Muar
By the time they had been joined by
the 19th, the 29th were in tatters. But
their gallant remnants stuck like glue with
the fresh unit for several days across the
road at Bakri, some miles on the wrong
side of the Muar. Jap infiltration had
been in progress along the west coast.
Road blocks had been established behind
them, and through these the Australians
fought their way back another dozen
miles to Parit Sulong bridge on the road
to Batu Pahat. The Japanese must have
had a great advantage here. Batu Pahat
had been a port of shipment of iron ore
to Japan before the war. They had had
ample opportunity, as at Mersing on the
other side of the peninsula, to make their
preparations in full.
The Parit Sulong bridge position was
so strong that it could not be forced.
The invaders again came in with tanks.
The fighting was bitter. In the end the
exhausted A.I.F. were compelled to
destroy their equipment and, under
orders from their divisional commander,
who was unable to send them help,
sought to make their way back to their
own lines as best they could. Many of
them succeeded after amazing adven-
tures. The colonel of the 29th, Robert-
son, was dead. Anderson, of the 19th,
had won the V.C.
The Japanese went on to Batu Pahat,
landing men from stolen sampans. The
troops here were fresh from England, in-
tended to be reserves. Without training
in Malayan fighting, out of condition
after a long voyage and not inured to
the blighting climate, they could not
stop the landings. From Batu Pahat
a main road runs across the peninsula to
Jemalaung and Mersing. The enemy
was 60 miles behind the Gemas front
lines, threatening main communications a
dozen miles away and the last aerodrome
on the mainland at Kluang. Gordon
Bennett said:
Our withdrawal from the Gemas area,
which our men had held so long and so skil-
fully defended, was one of the saddest
events of the campaign from our Australian
point of view.
The Mersing positions, prepared at the
cost of months of labor, were now aban-
doned by the 18th and 20th battalions
without a trial of strength. (The tale
of the clash of the 18th with the enemy
near Jemalaung —it began on Australia’s
Foundation Day—has been told on this
page in B. 11 /,2//42 ; the fighting on the
Muar was fully described in the two pre-
ceding issues.)
By the time the remains of the A.I.F.
had reached the island all reinforcements
had been absorbed. The battalions were
brought up to full strength, and fresh
troops, only partly trained, which had
just arrived from Australia, were thrown
into the defences, with the very welcome
4th (W.A.) machine-gun battalion.
The Last Stand
The seven Australian battalions were
joined with the 44th Indian brigade in
the defence of the western part of the
Johore Strait. The 3rd Indian Corps,
with a newly-arrived English division,
held the north-east.
The sector held by the A.I.F. was
mostly plantation and swamp. The n.-e.
sector held by the British and Indians
embraced the Naval Base, Seletar and
Changi. There were, therefore, about
60,000 troops, the bulk of whom were
concentrated east of the Causeway, where
the front was much longer than on the
west. , . , , „
It seems to have been a thinly-held
line —about a battalion to a mile at most
all along. It was the thinner because
the weary troops —some of them straight
from two months’ solid and bloody fight-
ing—had first to turn to and dig their
own defences out of the dank and rain-
soaked island soil, with the enemy war
’planes incessantly overhead. They had
not previously felt their weakness in the
air so bitterly. They had been out of
reach to some extent in the jungle, but
as they built their beach posts the
bombers strafed them and machine-
gunned them, with only a.-a. fire to hold
the attacking ’planes off. Maps captured
afterwards showed that the foe had
plotted every one of the mortars,
machine-guns, searchlights and field
guns along the defence lines.
Exhausted as they were, augmented
only by raw, green troops, the A.I.F.
formed a strong perimeter, though the
first aerial and land artillery attacks
smashed all their guns and beach lights.
Attacking in the dark the Japanese
penetrated the thin lines by concentrating
at given points. Then their artillery
and bomb-carriers opened up properly.
Singapore was reduced to rubble, civilian
casualties were heavy, the water supply
was cut off. A.I.F. numbers were so
depleted in the end that signallers, A.S.C.
and Ordnance had to be brought into the
line. They, says General Bennett, did
fine work.
The General’s narrative concludes:
Everyone had his tail up at the end.
We occupied a perimeter from which we
refused to budge, and it was in this posi-
tion we stood when the decision to sur-
render was made.
Every day brings a new critic of the
surrender of Singapore, The latest
authority brought forward by a flapper
press which vows a contempt for old
generals of the last war is the veteran
General Gough, who wants General
Wavell and General Percival “brought to
account” for their defensive strategy.
With troops which were outnumbered
at times ten to one —as on the Muar —
and with the possibility of landings on
Singapore Island, there does not seem
to have been much choice, especially
since so many of the troops were half-
trained, uninured to the tropics and
ignorant of the terrain and jungle con-
ditions.
Continuance of the fight in Singapore
would have meant the death of thousands
more innocent civilians. It would have
meant that thousands more Australian,
British and Indian homes would have
been in mourning for no result, since
loss of command of the air and sea
and of the water supply meant that cap-
ture was inevitable.
General Gough’s criticism should be
read with the official A.I.F. history of
the horrible disasters which he brought
on the 4th Div., A.1.F., at First Bulle-
court in April, 1917—“ an experiment of
extreme rashness... .persisted in with
almost boyish eagerness to deliver a death
blow after repeated warnings” and
resulting in failure with “shocking losses.”
One thing was not clear about General
Bennett’s story —the discrepancy between
his numbers (seven battalions and some
ancillaries) and the estimate of Mr.
Forde, Minister for the Army, that there
were approximately 18,130 Australians in
Singapore.
On the Eve in Russia?
. There remains still sreat
makes actualities .be
ba iMva° recorded las, week that 96,000
force' surrounded at “seven divisions,”
which would be about accurate. In the
same dispatch it was stated that “The
German 16th Army, which the Russians
are destroying at Staraya Russa, consists
of 19 divisions, of which 16 are infantry,”
No single army has ever been constituted
in this strength, which amounts, in fact,
to that of three normal armies.
It was also told that the seven divi-
sions surrounded consisted of three
armored divisions—which are the most
difficult type of formation to surround —
one motorised division and three of
Hitler’s p.b.i. And these are not now
described as “completely surrounded,” as
they were at first, but “almost sur-
rounded .... connected with the re-
mainder of the army by a narrow,
heavily-shelled line of communication.”
The day before this message was pub-
lished Moscow Radio announced that
“the 56th German Regiment, one of the
two regiments sent to relieve the be-
leaguered German garrison at Staraya
Russa, has been smashed.” The idea of
sending two regiments —say 6000 men
with ancillaries —to relieve 66,000 men
forming a seven-division group held in
bondage by overwhelming force and re-
ported to have lost 40 per cent, of its
strength in the last fortnight and 30,000
men in the last week seems a novel
move even for Hitler, who does some
queer things.
It should be emphasised that the stolid
Red Army communiques are not respon-
sible for the propagation of much of the
confused rubbish which is printed and
shouted. The R.A.’s claims are put for-
ward conservatively.
The general movements on the front
are summed up from several sources dur-
ing the week —the basic source seems to
be in Stockholm. In all, the Russians
have the initiative.
Movements consist of an east-west
thrust across the Leningrad area ; the ad-
vance through the Valdai Hills, n.-w. of
Moscow; a drive at the great iron town
of Kursk ; a move to surround Kharkov ;
a frontal attack aimed at Dnepropetrovsk
hung on some point near Poltava as a
pendulum ; a heavy offensive from Kerch
in the Crimea, and a movement to burst
out of Sevastapol.
The Germans officially make only bare
mentions of operations on most fronts,
though they admit that fighting is fierce
at some points. They admit that the
garrison of Sevastopol has made vigorous
efforts to break out, and that there has
been some penetration of the siege lines.
They mentioned on March 6 a heavy
Russian assault on a single divisional
front east of Kursk, where they said eight
successive attacks had been beaten off
over several weeks.
Also they claimed to have heavily
raided Moscow for the first time since
winter, and “in spite of heavy a.-a. fire”
to have “done heavy damage in the centre
of the city.”
The Russians’ leading Commissar with
the Red Army declares that Britain and
U.S. are fulfilling their supply obligations
—a large British supply convoy was
thawed out on the Arctic Russian coast
during the week, having made its perilous
voyage without losing a ship or a gun.
He adds that the Red Army is “com-
pletely mobilised” and ready for any-
thing.
All the signs are that Germany is pre-
paring to attack on a large scale in the
south within the next few weeks —if the
Red Army does not attack first. There
are also menacing moves towards the
Bosphorus. The chance of an attempt
to take the Russians in the rear through
Turkey cannot be ruled out.
“Aileron”: For the first time the
R.A.F. on March 3 raided the outskirts
of Paris. The target area covered about
1-1- sq. mile in the western suburbs. The
weather was perfect—bright moonlight
and a clear sky. The raid lasted two
hours, and its main objective was the
Renault motor works, believed to be pro-
ducing for the German Army. Heavy
and light ’planes were used —the new,
huge Manchester and Halifaxes, Well-
ingtons, Whitleys and Hampdens. The
French Minister of State, M. Moys-
sett, said that the Renault, Salmson
car and ’plane factories and the Farman
’plane factory had all been seriously
damaged, and next day more than
100 fires were still burning. The Diesel
and petrol-engine annexes of the Renault
plant, covering several acres, were left
in ruins. Water and gas supplies were
cut off.
* * * *
Most of the activity ( in Libya during
the week was in the air, though there was
the usual tentative shelling in the desert
and sporadic patrol actions. Tripoli had
one bad pasting and a ship was blown up
at Benghazi. The Germans claimed to
have sunk a cargo boat and lighters at
Tobruk and to have severed the west
Egyptian railway. Malta had its 1700th
raid. It was attacked nine times on
March 7 and continuously throughout the
day on March 8.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACOB MICHAEL HEIM ANN late of
Wagga Wagga.—TAKE NOTICE that FLOR-
ENCE GLADYS HEIMANN has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 234 of # 194- on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards It you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
on or before the nineteenth day of May W-
and obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from JOHN BARNETT GREAVES Solicitor
92 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BUur,
Registrar in Divorce.
Women’s Letters
Prom Melbourne
Sydney’s Gimme Girls were the centre
of much curiosity when they arrived last
week to help make a success of the
Churchill Scroll and Churchill Flag drive
lor Red Cross. After a few questions
Melbourne’s most high-powered money-
gougers decided that, though they were
undoubtedly glamorous, Sydney’s Gim-
mes had no new ideas on cash extraction
to pass on. A cause for amazement was
the ban they placed on smoking when
on cash-extraction duty. Melbourne girls
have not yet so disciplined themselves.
Ffowever, Major Yelland and Captain
Lian Ash had a great succes d’estime,
for they won over the women by their
undoubted charm. The Edwardian hair-
do of Captain Ash appealed to the
women and the flowing locks of Major
Yelland had a positively Delilah-like fas-
cination for the men when the two took
the hat round on Friday, In spite of
the heavy leeway that the name of the
drive gave them to make up, they scored
high as money-raisers.
Something unusual in the way of
auxiliary services is that which the chate-
laine of Victoria’s State Government
House has claimed for her very own. It
will have two tiny rooms in the Vic-
toria League’s Collins-street premises as
its offices and will concern itself with
the strangers within our gates who have
come from the Near East evacuated
areas. As the matter is one which re-
quires close co-operation and the com-
plete trust of Ministers of the Crown it
is fitting that the Governor’s wife should
make it her own special care. With the
experience of the Red Cross of this and
the last war behind her its founder should
know what to do in nearly any case,
although the problems that beset women
who have left homes thousands of miles
away at a quarter-hour’s notice are
frequently baffling. Still, this auxiliary
starts off with all the odds in its favor.
While some of the clever boys of the
University Conservatorium are on service
the girls are trying to keep the flag flying
by combining war-time work with their
music. The acting dean of the Faculty,
Sutton Crow, gave the new year’s work
a nice push-off by inviting the students,
old and new and former, to morning tea
and chat on Monday. While a slight
degree of formality was introduced by
the presence of special guests such as the
Lady Mayoress and the Vice-Chancellor,
there were enough young musical geniuses
to make the gathering informal, and even
a bit Bohemian, as musical folks like it
to be. Pauli Fiddian, who is up to his
eyes in the secretary’s job as well as his
work in other musical spheres, bustled
about saying a cheery “hello” to new stu-
dents.
The H. S. Woottons’ home is a quiet
place these days when daughter Mar-
jorie, in her trim new uniform, is with
the W.A.A.A.Fs. The Town Clerk of
Melbourne and his well-liked wife, how-
ever, smile through, knowing that
daughter is just the sort of girl who will
take the rough with the smooth and
whistle her way through the strangest
jobs. With a career that began with the
school hockey team when she was at
Merton Hall, as most of the girls still
call Church of England Girls’ Grammar
School, and later also included golf,
swimming and tennis, Marjorie has no
need to go to her bunk after a day’s
work with every muscle aching. Father
H.S.W. is also standing up to some job
these days, for, with the management of
this huge city and lots of staff off over-
seas, his tasks include nearly everything
in the way of advice, organisation and
entertainment as the Lord Mayor’s right
hand.
For those who work the clock round
every now and again, and always have
an eight-hours day, what would be the
ideal holiday? Peace by the river and
rest by the sea? That somehow escaped
the notice of Freda Irving, Red Cross
Publicity Secretary, when she was mak-
ing up her mind where to spend a well-
earned three weeks. Fruit-picking in the
March sunshine has claimed her. The
idea apparently is that if your brain has
had its quota of work there’s nothing
like making the body tired too. This
theory, strange as it sounds, has been
followed with complete satisfaction by a
number of secondary-school teachers, who
came back from Shepparton, Mildura and
Renmark with arms and faces beautifully
brown and a new outlook on life to
face the year 1942, So far most of them
say the idea is swell.
Her many friends in musical and
dramatic circles will be at Xavier chapel
to see Lorna Moriarty become Mrs.
H. A. Byrne. Friend and fellow-student
°f Conservatorium days Kathleen Fitz-
gerald will give moral support as brides-
aid The bride spent four year s at the
c onser vatorium studying piano and
theory, and then went on to radio work
and dramatic studies with the late
Qregan McMahon. A Parisian note in
the bridal decor is the long pink gloves
worn by the bride with her blue and
sdver gown. The bridegroom, Lieutenant
H A Byrne is in the Army service
c and they plan to live wher ever
military duties take him.
.... J , , , , , ,
the best . man had be f. n cb f?, e r d
three times owmg to ex.genc.es of ser-
™e, c ° ndl . ,lo " s ' the weddmg of L ent
Noel Cednc Carroll and Dorothy Ehza-
betb ' = ld f. dau B h, « ° f Mr. and Mrs.
I M , c& Abercrombie, proceeded accord-
| n S to schedule at Trinity College chapel
last Thursday. The teaching profession
rc P resented a * ‘ he dbapa1 ’
*W** Grammar a. the time the
strack ihem.The bridegroom, now an
intelligence officer, was a Geelong
Grammar boy, and did a good Moderns
cours e a t the University, winding up with
a thesis which gained him his M.A. The
br i de specialised in kindergarten work,
_. A ,, , _ . T
, Pictured here by Broothorn is Jacque-
yn Elliott a Melbourne girl who might
be described with justice as the complete
warworker. As soon as war broke out
she took up a strenuous whole-time job,
and in spare time included A.R.P. and
First Aid in her day. Both Jacquelyn
and her mother, Mrs. George Elliott, are
A.R.P. wardens, and they entertain troops
in transit and others for the Victoria
League, on whose roster they figure as
hostesses. At the moment Jacquelyn is
seeing that the commissariat is sufficient
to deal with the hunger and thirst of
trench diggers in Fawkner Park. She is
a niece of the late General “Pompey”
Elliott, and has a range of modern lan-
guages as part of her educational equip-
ment for work.
Miss Minnie H. Crabb, who has
watched the fortunes of the Braille
Library since its early days and is now
librarian, is finding that she needs a few
more Braille writers to make the books
that the blind folk can read. Already
there are 16,000 volumes in the Braille
Library, valued for insurance at 15s. each.
The library stands in a memory garden
every tree in which has on it the name of
the donor. Miss Crabb says that the
beautiful lawns are now to become
vegetable plots. One of Miss Crabb’s
present needs is as many crooked walk-
ing-sticks as she can obtain. These she
paints white so that the blind folk can
use them in the blackout. Any reader
who has one now knows of a better
spot for it than just standing in the hall-
stand or back of the odds and ends cup-
board. The Braillie Library’s address is
Commercial-road, Prahran.
The still, sad music of humanity that
the war has brought all round us has
been for the blind girls transposed to a
brighter melody in which the songs of
birds who have never known captivity,
the wind sweeping through giant gums
and the muted sounds of the wild bush
are blended. For excited whispers of
their new home in the country are being
sent round the St. Kilda-road home while
the inmates keep busy with their war-
time knitting, their cooking lessons, and
their Braille. They seem a happy little
lot, these blind girls. They know the
world minutely from sounds, and every
footfall of a boy or girl from the home
has its own identification sound for them.
A walking race in which blind boys take
part against each other always finds
plenty of barrackers among the girls, who
call each boy by name as he hurries past
at a quick trot.
From Sydney
A curious visitor to Government House
last week was intrigued to see that some
digging had been going on near the
entrance. “Trenches” flashed her brain,
and she stepped briskly to the right to
have a look. But it was only drains.
At the party were many Sydney
professionals and University professors,
as well as what the city once knew as
the leisured class (now all as busy
as bees with war jobs), to greet
more arrivals from Malaya and many
guests from the Philippines. A group of
these were doctors and nurses from a
hospital ship. This ship was once a small
passenger steamer journeying pleasantly
between Manila and the islands, of which
there are many.
Of Manila, with its stately buildings of
Spanish style, there was talk, pride and
sadness mingled in it. Talk, too, of the
Morros from the south, who are proving
themselves such relentless fighters. Some
of the doctor visitors are graduates of
the University of Manila.
There were a few children at the party
—not so many as on the previous occa-
sions probably because of the hot
day. Mrs. Aubrey and other helpers
at the American Centre were there. Syd-
ney’s Mayoress was one of the few
who looked unwilted by a tempera-
ture up near the hundred. Lady Wake-
hurst, too, looked crisp and cool in her
white frock. She was proud of the
frangipanni pinned at her shoulder. It
was a posy from the American Centre,
and was in recognition of her friendly
interest in Uncle Sam’s storm-tossed
sojourners in Sydney. Very alert, her
charming voice 100 per cent, attraction
in itself, was the wife of America’s
Consul-General Ely Palmer.
This is a recent photograph of Mrs.
Marcus Hall, who was Noeline Heath,
daughter of Australia’s former Agent-
General in London. Mrs. Hall’s home
is at Brockham Green, Surrey (Eng.).
Her husband is Captain Marcus W. Hall,
of the Anti-aircraft Gunners, Gibraltar,
A Catherine Bell (London) photograph.
Molly Brearley made a pretty bride in
her ivory satins and ivory-toned lace
and tulle veil. She married Lieutenant
Douglas Lingen Lamb in St, Mark’s at
Darling Point, and of a piece with the
mellow lace of her Limerick lace veil,
which is a family heirloom, over 200
years old, was the ivory-backed prayer-
book she carried. Both veil and prayer-
book had been part of her mother’s wed-
ding raiment. Jean Kennedy was the
only bridesmaid. Her tulle toque and
her frock were of delicate blues. Her
flowers, like the bride’s, were Talisman
roses. Flight-Lieut. David Campbell,
R.A.A.F., was best man. Molly’s father
is overseas with the A.1.F., so she was
given away by family friend Stuart
Osborne, Later, there were toasts at
the home of Molly’s parents,
Riti Van Staveren, the teen-old
daughter of the just-appointed N.E.I.
Navy Commander-in-Chief, is well
known to Town Hall concert audiences.
Riti is one of Miss Jobson’s students at
Hopewood House, and with the other
girls from the Darling Point finishing
school is a frequenter of the symphony
concerts. Her brother Jim is one of the
boys of The King’s School, Parramatta.
Riti is fair, slim and good looking.
Lady Wakehurst was at the preview of
the exhibition of design for theatre and
ballet. This crowded the galleries of the
Education Department on that occasion
and at the following day’s opening. Lady
Wakehurst was pleased to find one prob-
ably of her clan in secretary Melanie
Price Jones. That is the family name of
the Governor’s wife. The family was
Welsh, and Melanie’s husband came
from Wales, too. Cool-looking in her
blue and white silks—decorated with
purple orchids by the committee of the
American Centre—the guest of honor did
the rounds with Mrs. Ely Palmer, wife
of America’s Consul-General, Mrs. Ran-
dolph Kidder and organiser Tatlock
Miller. Minister for Education Clive
Evatt mooched about at the preview, and
on the following day opened the show
with glowing words.
Full of the breath of romance and
young love are the designs for “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” and “Romeo
and Juliet” by those two attrac-
tive Melbourne sisters Kathleen and
Florence Martin. Loudon Sainthill,
almost reduced by our heat-wave to the
condition of the wax of the wings of
Icarus, was among the pointed-outs. Sets
for Serge Lifar’s “Icare” ballet are shown
by both Loudon and Sydney Nolan.
Attracting attention were Ann Weinholt’s
sets for “Liliom,” the Sam Hughes pro-
duction at Bryant’s Playhouse. On each
day since the opening shoals of school-
girls and -boys have drifted in and out of
the Education Department’s lifts, going
up evidently with appetite, and coming
down replete with art knowledge from
the daily lectures by Tatlock Miller.
Mrs. Arthur Scrivener sends greetings
to Sydney friends from Ellenbank, via
Warragul. This is on the borders of
Gippsland, just below the Baw Baw Hills.
Good news of her son in India has been
a bright spot in days filled with anxiety
for her people in England. He is now
Lieut.-Col., is well and working very
hard. Mrs. Scrivener is giving travel
talks to aid the Prisoners of War Fund
and the C.W.A. Comforts Fund.
The first C.U.S.A. mobile canteen was
handed over to Monsignor Clark by
Josephine Loneragan, secretary of the
canteen fund, midway through last week.
The presentation was made at the
C.U.S.A. city welfare hut, and the can-
teen was then driven off to a military
camp, where cups of tea and scones and
such were served to the soldiers. The
canteen will be used to serve refresh-
ments to soldiers and civilians in dis-
tressed areas should there be necessity
such as there was in London. Otherwise
the canteen will bring the cheering cup
of tea to soldiers at points where there
are no welfare huts. Pam Parsons, the
president of the fund, Pat Murray, Pat
Fitz Gerald and Mary Woods were
among the smiling dispensers. The
C.W.A. gave £l5O to the fund, and the
president, Mrs, J. Garry, was at the
presentation.
The most vivid speaker at the Allied
Women’s Day meeting was Mrs. K. C.
Cheng, wife of the second secretary of
the Chinese Legation. She spoke clearly
and distinctly, and her word-pictures of
things “I have seen with my own eyes”
gripped ear and imagination. She spoke
of the work done by China’s women
through the five long years of war. Mrs.
Jessie Street, whose subject was the
women of Soviet Russia, told of jobs
taken on by the enterprising women of
that vast and mysterious land. It is a
woman, for instance, who holds the job
of secretary of the Central Council of
Trade Unions, U.S.S.R. Mrs. How-
Martin stirred the rows of women list-
eners in the vestibule of the Town Hall
when she told of England’s army of
Amazons, and when she reminded them
that it was a woman who had captured
the first German parachutist in England.
Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia, though
no speaker was listed for them, each
found one to raise a paean to the glory
of her indomitable women. The
daughters of Greece, too, came in for
praise. Then, of course, the girls of
this smiling land who are so gladly
serving in munitions, in Red Cross, in
W.A.A.A.F., in R.A.A.F., and all the
other combinations of the alphabet, were
among the honored. Blood transfusion,
schemes for the evacuation of children,
what girls are doing in industry were
spoken of by those expert in their sub-
ject. Mrs. Bertie Kelly was there and
told what was being done for the Free
French movement in Australia by its
women supporters. Lady Wakehurst, her
frock of brave red and white, opened
the meeting. The Francis Anderson lady
was the chairman.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Wise Counsel, a “trial” horse from
South Australia and winner of only one
race previously, won a muddling-run Aus-
tralian Cup from Togo and Mercury Bay
at Flemington on Saturday. He stalled
off a strong challenge by Togo, but the
latter’s rider declared his mount would
have won had he not broken down in
the last furlong. Togo was dismounted
and limped back to the enclosure.
Former Brisbane jockey W. Beresford
received a chance mount on the winner.
He was engaged only on the day of the
race, declared 81b. over Wise Counsel’s
handicap weight of 6.7, and contributed
largely to the gelding’s success by allow-
ing him to run along while other riders
were fighting with their mounts. Not
since Macadam won in 1920 has the Cup
been run in slower time than Wise Coun-
sel’s 3.56, but that fact does not detract
from the staying powers of the winner.
“It was a great mistake not entering him
for the Sydney Cup,” T. S. Ryder, who
owns Wise Counsel in partnership with
A. Varcoej said after the race.
Wise Counsel is a six-year-old by
Stand By from Zaire, and was bred by
Ryder, in whose colors Stand By finished
an unlucky second to Backwood in a
Melbourne Cup. Wise Counsel was de-
feated in maiden company when previ-
ously trained in Melbourne, but, accord-
ing to Ryder, was a delicate horse and
did not begin to thrive properly until last
year. Ryder’s perseverance was rewarded
by a first prize of £2250, plus a £lOO
trophy.
- • • * • '*
Mercury Bay did well to finish third
considering that he lost a length or so
because of a squeeze on the turn, but
Similar, favorite at 9 to 2, was beaten
some distance from home. Primavera,
who was deposed of favoritism on the
course, had to be checked near the seven
furlongs, and, being only a small filly,
was unable to recover from that and sub-
sequent interference. She finished a
moderate fifth, behind England’s Glory.
Wise Counsel’s success, following
Tranquil Star’s defeat of High Road and
Beaulivre in the C. M. Lloyd Stakes, gave
trainer Ron Cameron a welcome change
of fortune. Tranquil Star is engaged in
the Sydney Cup, and she will be sent to
Randwick if transport is available.
Bold tactics adopted by D. Munro,
combined with waiting methods employed
by other riders, enabled him to “steal”
the C. M. Lloyd Stakes on Tranquil Star.
The mare had failed to finish when re-
strained in front in previous races, but
on Saturday Cameron instructed Munro
to let her bowl along freely if the early
pace looked like being slow. Munro took
Tranquil Star to a lead of five lengths
at the end of three furlongs, and, after
giving her a “breather” on the bend, shot
away again at the top of the straight. It
was no race subsequently, and Tranquil
Star won by five lengths in the good time
of 2.32 for H mile at weight-for-age. Her
price shortened from eights to fives, and
she won well enough to indicate that she
has returned to her good form of last
autumn.
»•••••
High Road outstayed Beaulivre for
second money, and, although he had no
chance with the winner as the race was
run, he confirmed his St. Leger defeat
of Skipton. Latter ran considerably
below expectations. Seemingly knocked
out by his Leger race, he showed no
dash at any stage, and finished a very
poor fourth of five runners. Connections
of the colt expressed keen disappointment
with his form, and it was suggested after
the race that plans for a Sydney trip
were likely to be scrapped.
Hesione rehabilitated herself somewhat
by winning the Ascot Vale Stakes, but
she had to be ridden out with the whip
to defeat another filly. East End, by half
a head. East End probably would have
won in a few more strides. Hesione was
penalised 101 b. and East End unpenal-
ised, but, while Hesione undoubtedly is
good, her form this autumn does not
stamp her an outstanding champion. She
has had three hard races, but will have
time to freshen-up for the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce and Champagne Stakes.
Hesione’s record now stands at seven
starts for five wins, two seconds and
£4650 in stakes. Chatfield, backed from
eights to 9 to 2, ran a poor third, but did
better than Regency and Blue Valley,
■who had finished first and third respec-
tively in the Sires’ Produce Stakes. On
Saturday they were the last two to finish.
# * * *
An attendance of 16,750 at Randwick
on Saturday was about a thousand less
than the corresponding day last year, but
a tote turnover of £31,566 for seven races
against £27,679 for eight was further
proof that there is now much more money
for course betting than for some time
past.
Freedman had to bring Romero away
from the rails inside the last furlong in
the Flying Handicap, but he landed the
Queenslander a length winner from Miss
Pentheus, who deprived Melrose of the
lead entering the straight. My Friend,
in third place, ran on well, but was very
little ahead of Tuhitarata and Overbold.
The last-named again commenced slowly,
and just after passing the five furlongs
was ahead of only three others.
The Miller, though favorite, looked
burly, and it was the same with Dashing
Cavalier, Dewar, Katanga, Beau Son and
Hydra. Forward and John Halifax found
the company too strong, and Martheus
died away after showing his customary
dash fox nearly half a mile.
Consistent Jymjon looked the winner
of the Warwick March Handicap when
he settled Merrimba a furlong from
home, but had no chance when Pantler
came along. Cook rode Pantler a quiet
race, having him among the tail-enders
up to the straight entrance. It appears
as if Pantler is on the way back to the
form that enabled him to run third in
the 1939 Metropolitan and Melbourne
Cup. The time, 2.3 i, was fast, thanks to
the pace set by Stylish and Comet to
the home turn, where Haridelle was a
close third. The last-named weakened
at the finish, as did Merrimba, and, even
allowing for interference. Broadcaster’s
effort did not suggest that he is likely to
shine at middle distances.
The owner of Minnamurra was hope-
ful she might prove another Hesione,
but her showing in the March Juvenile
did not go towards upholding that possi-
bility. She displayed lots of pace, lead-
ing into the straight from Miss Hua, but
quickly stopped when tackled by the
950gns. Niagara (half-brother, by Mid-
stream, to Feminist), who went on to win
from the fast-finishing Main Topic (Talk-
ing-Germain), who is likely to prove as
good as he looks. Davinia, who was
always fairly prominent, hung on gamely
to finish third, and Angel, who was No.
23 at the barrier, did well to run fourth.
Oriole also ran respectably, but Strood
did not give his backers a look-in.^
Pannett was the popular fancy for the
Encourage Handicap, and, fourth to
Guild Hall, Belle Doree and Sylveroni
after entering the straight, she led a fur-
long from home. Royal Land struggled
into second place, but never looked like
overhauling Pannett. Queensland filly
Pearl Bay was a good third. She is an-
other of C. McLoughlin’s team, and is
likely to win in Sydney. Royal Laddie
shaped promisingly, but, despite good
track work, Lambeth was not sighted,
and it was the same with Winnie, Miss
Leonard and Dundalk.
Moondarewa, second in the last
Queensland Derby, headed the Farm
Novice Handicap quotations, but, strik-
ing trouble, gave his supporters a poor
run. Sir Tennyson won by a length
from Addition, who was a long way back
half a mile from home. Panabil had
every chance, but was not good enough.
The Gambler found the distance a trifle
far, and the form of any of the others
did not count.
«••••*
In the Sunnybrook Welter Lo Dokes
again demonstrated that Randwick suits
him better than any other Sydney track.
Outpaced from the start in a six and a
half furlongs race, and third-last to finish
in a field of 13 at Ascot the previous
week, he led from the first furlong on
Saturday, and won easily from a fairly
strong field. The favorites, Lord Valen-
tine and Steal On, were never dangerous,
but only for missing the jump-out, and
being among the rear .division after
going a furlong, Alluring would at least
have gained a place, instead of running
fourth. Among those further back Fear-
less Fox made a sufficiently good show-
ing to make him worth following. Prince
again failed to show any form.
* * * *
It is improbable that the success of
Kelos and Wise Counsel in the New-
market and Australian Cup caused any
bookmaker who bet on those races to
shed a tear —the only regret was on the
part of those who refrained from doing
business on the double. The Cup was
run at an unusually slow pace, the time
being 3.56, against Marauder’s record of
3.47 i. Similar was a rank disappoint-
ment for a sound favorite, finishing
eleventh ; and while England’s Glory and
Primavera, who shared second favoritism,
were fourth and fifth respectively they
were well beaten by the place-getters.
* * * *
Hesione is good, but does not stand
out as a “wonder” filly. In the V.R.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes she was outstayed
by Regency at seven furlongs, and it was
by only a half-head she won the Ascot
Vale Stakes from East End, to whom she
was conceding 101 b. Regency and East
End are in the A.J.C. Sires; Produce
and Champagne Stakes, and it may be
thought good enough to send them over.
Great Britain was a runner for the Ascot
Vale Stakes, but, notwithstanding he was
fourth, his form suggested he has a long
way to go in order to fulfil his owner’s
expectations of what he is likely to do
as a three-year-old.
Sydney colts Riverton and Baroda
were discredited at the meeting, and
Hesione now stands out in a marked
degree from Sydney youngsters of her
own age. Of Sydney two-year-olds that
did not go to Melbourne Hall Stand
and Bangster may be best, but on De-
cember Stakes form they are a long way
behind Riverton, whose Melbourne run-
ning did not suggest he was up to
Hesione’s standard. There is, of course,
the chance of Riverton being better
suited by Randwick than Flemington, but,
unless there is strong support for one
of the Melbourne division, Hesione is
likely to start at odds on for the Sires’
Produce Stakes in a small field.
* * * *
In future when the acceptors for any
race at Randwick exceed a certain
number those at the bottom of the list
will be withdrawn. In the event of there
being more of these on the minimum or
near it than is necessary to reduce the
total to the required number, there will
be a ballot to decide those to go out.
Such a happening is improbable, but,
after issuing a seven-race programme (the
maximum), it would be awkward for the
A.J.C. if acceptances for a Doncaster,
Epsom or some other ante-post betting
races were so numerous that the com-
pulsory withdrawals included a strongly-
fancied lightweight.
* * * *
Presumably Tranquil Star’s C. M.
Lloyd Stakes win assured her a Sydney
trip. Even if the A.J.C. has to reduce
its programme to two days there will be
at least one race to suit her—the Autumn
Stakes. She won at Flemington on Satur-
day in the same fashion that she ac-
counted for the Cumberland Stakes,
going to the front early and running
away from her opponents after entering
the straight. Subsequent to her Cumber-
land Stakes win she ran last in the
A.J.C. Plate, a position she also filled in
the A.J.C. St. Leger.
The result of the C. M. Lloyd Stakes
must have unpleasantly surprised G.
Price. It proved that though Beaulivre
was equal to running a good third in
the Newmarket he had not returned to
the distance form that enabled him to
win a Caulfield Cup. The probabilities,
though, are that, benefited by his southern
trio, he will be seen to greater advan-
tage at Randwick. Mildura’s failure in
Melbourne must have been an un-
pleasant setback for his trainer. He
must have suddenly gone off or turned
sour, his form in his races being com-
pletely at variance with that shown by
him when, at a difference of only 51b.
in his favor, he dead-heated High Caste
at Randwick on Anniversary Day.
m * * *
Beau Vite upset calculations last year
when he won the Rawson Stakes, beat-
ing the 10-to-9-on favorite, High Caste.
He is doing as well as could be wished
in his work, but success in that race
again this year will be by no means easy.
In addition to High Caste those behind
him a year ago were Gold Salute,
Mosaic, Reading, Dashing Cavalier and
Feminist. The field on the coming occa-
sion promises to be stronger, and, as a
result of recent racing, most of Beau
Vite’s probable opponents will be
thoroughly fit. A pull in condition
means a lot.
* * * *
A return to sweepstakes for starters
seems the best method of keeping entries
for Sydney meetings within bounds.
Many horses are merely entered for edu-
cational purposes, as a race will occa-
sionally do more for them than two or
three track gallops. Sweepstakes would
tend to fewer horses being trained in
public, and owners of those supposed to
have any chance would, as a rule, get a
better price to two or three pounds
—putting the general sweepstakes at those
sums —than they would from the books.
Owners who can afford to have their
horses trained in public should pay for
that luxury, and, though a sweepstakes
would be hard on some “battlers,” it
would lessen the occasions on which they
started horses possessing not the slightest
chance of success. Rosehill has adopted
sweepstakes, but is making them too
heavy.
* ♦ * *
“I see they are weighing racehorses to
see how their efforts affect them,” re-
marked a Randwick trainer the other day.
“I’d like to see their owners weighed,
too,” he added, “just to see how they
were standing up to it. On the way
some of them sweat and fret after a beat-
ing there must be a big difference in
their weight between Saturday and Mon-
day.”
* * ♦ •
Beau Vite’s owner, R. Stewart, has
had his smart two-year-olds Dominate
and Indian Sign gelded. They were in
the coming A.J.C. Derby.
* * * ♦
At last week’s sales in Melbourne 112
yearlings were sold at an average of
Highest prices paid were 700gns.
each for the colts by Enfield from
Andromeda and Mons Star. Both go
into M. Crossey’s stable.
* * * *
At the close of each flat-racing season
in England the Jockey Club handicapper
weights the best-performed two- and
three-year-olds. Each race is called a
Free Handicap Sweepstakes, that for the
younger horses (now three-year-olds) be-
ing at seven furlongs, and for the older
division the distance is a mile and a
quarter. King George’s filly Sun
Chariot heads the list of the two-year-
olds that did best, her weight being 9.7,
and she is a pound above a colt, Big
Game, who is followed 21b. away by
Watling. In the race for last season’s
three-year-olds Owen Tudor is on top
with 9.7, Sun Castle following with 9.3.
* * * *
While any doubt as to the continuance
of racing obtains, non-triers are unlikely
to be as numerous as some racegoers be-
lieve. There are non-triers, of course
—some from most respectable stables —
but the number has never been nearly so
great as many disappointed backers
imagine. Runners for most races gener-
ally include some that could not be
accorded a chance, but of those with
chances comparatively few are not on
their best behavior. Still, when some
paper infers a horse did not do its best, it
pleases a backer to be able to say :
“There you are. My judgment was all
right. I’d have been on a winner if I
had got a ‘go.’ ”
st: % * *
Breeders are reminded that if their re-
turns are not sent in to the keeper of the
Stud Book, A. Loddon Yuille, by March
31 they are liable for the payment of
a late fee.
* * * *
Some Sydney riders are not as happy
on Melbourne courses as on their own.
Crack apprentice J. Thompson would
appear to be of the number, his 35 mounts
in Melbourne having returned one win.
Bartle is a rider who is as much at home
on Melbourne courses as those of Syd-
ney. The same cannot be said of all
Sydney’s older division; but, for that
matter, some of Melbourne’s best riders,
when in their heyday, never shone to the
same extent in Sydney as in their own
city.
FOR CAULFIELD.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances.)
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Narong Hurdle: Harley, 1 ; Lord
Jevington, 2 ; Dominex, 3.
Orrong Two-year-old: Buchanan,
1 ; Alterio, 2 ; Reply Paid, 3.
St. Kilda Handicap: Rosmanne,
1 ; Mercury Bay, 2; England’s
Glory, 3.
Gordon Steeplechase: Giant
Killer, 1 ; Generous Gesture, 2;
Highland March, 3.
South Yarra Handicap: Zonda,
1 ; Fur Trader, 2 ; Tea Cake, 3.
Kooyong Welter; Sunflash, 1;
Big Warwick, 2 ; Damalis, 3.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Encourage Handicap: Lambeth,
1 ; The Gambler, 2 ; Brumaire or
Dundalk, 3. ...
Juvenile Stakes: Main Topic, 1 ;
Angel, 2 ; Jonathan Jo or Man o’
War, 3.
Westmead Handicap: Soho, 1 ;
Overbold, 2 ; Lagoon, 3.
Club Handicap: Climax, 1 ;
Mortine, 2 ; Haridelle or Jymjon, 3.
Maiden Welter Handicap:
Puchong, 1 ; Royal Laddie, 2;
Bragger, 3.
Rydalmere Mile: Merrimba, 1 ;
Stylish, 2 ; Bel Oiseau, 3.


RUBBER-
vVMWW
VV\
wwvwu
'\ \ *\\\
v% ’)
\
m
Bm A
w wuW,
d A 1
i ? \
in
\\V
m
'■■• \ \
. . . helps to
LET THEM DOWN LIGHTLY
Parachute cords are only one of a very wide
range of rubber articles which Dunlop are pro-
ducing for the Air Force. There are heavy rubber
buoys for flying boats, tyres and wheel equip-
ment, and numerous internal fittings for every
fighting plane. Here, as in every other fighting
service. Dunlop products are proving their worth.
DVNLOP
MAKERS OF DUNLOP SILENT ‘9o’ TYRES
r /'4
W'
w
1
Rubber buoys for flying boafs.
Tyres and wheel equipment
for aeroplanes
SERVING ON ALL FRONTS
H. 8.531.
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney lutes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles
of kidney tubes and filters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger Of acid
poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
finess under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of Intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters.
Don’t delay 1 Ask your chemist or storal
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS .. .
used successfully the world over by
of people. They give quick relief and will
help to flush out the 15 MILES of kidney
tubes. GET DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS at you? chemist or store,
Tough Old Cough
Yields To New
Canadiol Mixture
His relief almost overnight from Bron-
chitis of thirty years’ standing is re-
garded as nothing short of a miracle
by his friends and neighbours. Read
what Mr. Gull says:
“Prom the time I was a small boy until
the age of thirty-two, I was never free
from a hacking cough night and day.
Doctors told me I was suffering from
chronic bronchitis —that there was
no permanent relief. One day I saw
an advertisement for BUCKLEY’S
CANADIOL Mixture. The word bron-
chitis arrested my attention. I pur-
chased a bottle. It gave me relief. I
bought two more, and my cough left
me completely. That happened six years
ago, and the cough has never returned.”
BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL Mixture will
give you the same instant relief from
the strangling torture of Bronchitis. It
acts like a flash on coughs and colds.
Why not get a bottle to-day? Buckley’s
—by far the largest-selling cough medi-
cine in all of blizzardly cold Canada-
sold by chemists and stores everywhere.
SMOKE-OH!
The Diff.
I eyed his bandaged arms and head.
“A motor accident,” he said.
“Driving too fast ?” I then supposed ;
“Walking too slowly!” he disclosed.
Homby.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Canberra Grammar School. —Wanted, use-
ful to cut wood and attend coke boiler; also
pantrymaid and woman to cook.”
—Canberra “Times.”
Must be young and tender.
>j»
“Comfortable Ijome offered single man. Select
suburb, 20 minutes city. Meals. Bed.” — Advt.
In?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“From Mount Everest the world could be
surveyed from the height of 27,000 miles.”
— “World’s News.”
Isn’t that the dizzy limit!
“A young wife should have no difficulty in
getting money from her husband —there are so
many ways to go about it.” — Woman’s paper.
One is to threaten to go home to
mother and then keep the railway fare
he eagerly gives her.
“you blokes better duck back to your engine now—We must be gettin
near a station .”
If the present trend continues we may
soon be deducting our income from our
income tax.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Actresses display a touch of sentiment.”
— Woman’s paper.
Actors, on the other hand, merely dis-
play a touch.
•j* *l*
“There are many instances of men having
arrived in this country with only a few shillings
in their pockets and within a few years they
have made a hundred thousand.” — “D.T.”
And to the devil with the anti-counter-
feiting laws!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Women and War.
“Women wardens.” — “Sun.”
Another way of introducing variety to
blackouts. Scene, a well-blacked build-
ing. Trouble enters with a yellow arm-
band and Elsie Yapalot, warden, shrieks:
“Miss Youracow, in flat 13, your lights
are wrong.”
The questioned lady stamps out indig-
nantly. “Nonsense,” she snaps, “there’s
not a light showing.”
The lady warden snaps back: “That’s
just it. Put all lights on, not off! ”
Puzzled, the other tabby obeys. Elsie
Yapalot gives a quick look around the
flat, then withdraws, muttering “All right,
put them out. I could have sworn you
had my boy-friend in here.”
Eve.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The baby was born a month after the air
battle that won him the V.C.” — “Advertiser.”
This is expected to be a record.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Although her own eyes were swimming,
Martha still had a thought for little John.
She patted him reassuringly.”— Short story.
This would be the backstroke.
Gratitude.
“After the massage your skin will thank you
gratefully.”— Woman’s paper.
The trouble is that some of the more
emotional types of skin can be far too
effusive in their expressions of gratitude.
Take my own case. On my first visit to
a 17-stone masseur my skin plainly re-
sented the pummelling, and by the time
I left it was red with anger. The double-
headers I was subsequently obliged to
pour into it to placate its feelings cost
me plenty.
But the treatment worked, and when I
finally reached the street my volatile en-
velope had undergone a change of feel-
ing. Realising that, after all, the mas-
sage was intended for its own good, and
already feeling well, it shouted excitedly,
leapt and capered with delight and rolled
about in pure excess of high spirits. Un-
fortunately, just when its expressions of
gratitude had reached their highest peak,
a tall, bulky man in a blue suit walked
between me and it, rudely jostling both
of us. Immediately incensed, my loyal
epidermis clenched its fists and launched
a furious attack.
When I appeared I told the S.M. that
it would be grossly unjust to convict me
just because of the highly emotional
character of my skin. He replied that
skins like mine were all the better for
periodic cooling down, and gave it 14
days —adding as an afterthought that
whether I accompanied it or not was a
matter for me. That’s justice for you!
P. S. C.
Burning Question.
With scorched earth as a policy, I most
devoutly hope
That all this burning oil might yet in-
clude within its scope
That dreadful stuff which brings to me
such anguish and remorse —
The dinkurn oil that leads me on to back
the slo west horse !
D. McM.
A Matter of Emergency.
“Concern has been expressed as to how many
newspapers will carry on now that journalism
has been removed from the list of reserved
occupations.”
The editor-in-chief of the “Daily
Howler” punched a button and leaned
back. In response to his summons his
news-editor appeared.
“I see these cackling old hens in the
Shoppers and Wives’ League are having
their meeting tonight. It’s usually good
for a stickful of light stuff. Who have
you got to cover it?”
“Well, McGillicuddy’s been called up
and Thompson has had to go to police
rounds. There’s the cub, but he’s too
lean on the adjectives yet. He’s hopeless.
It really calls for a feature man, but 1
haven’t got one. There’s the social
editress”
“What! D’you want Mrs. Tim Boodle
of Point Piper ringing us up and roaring
because she’s been muscled out of all
the descriptions of the boucles, shot taf-
fetas and Russian sables? Ain’t there
anyone else you can dig up?”
“Only old Fluter —he hasn’t so much
to do these days.”
“Dammit, but he’s written nothing but
turf and boxing for 40 years! Oh, well,
I don’t suppose there’s anything else for
it. Shoot him along to write it up.”
In due course the galley-proof was
handed to the great man. It read:
Vocal Speedsters Smash Records!
Fast Platform Work.
At the meeting run last night by the
Shoppers and Wives’ League the highlight
was a ding-dong struggle from barrier-
rise between the well-known performer
Mrs. Beefer and a previously unknown
filly. The former, topweight* and aged
(imp.), had the floor and got off to a good
start. But no sooner was she into her
stride than she struck interference. The
filly, who carried a clean pair of hocks
and a nice mane and who would have
weighed in at about 7.12, obviously
pleased her many backers by lashing out
as soon as her rival slung a dirty left
about the filly’s efforts to undermine the
vice-president’s position.
From then on the pace was terrific, and
the pacemakers gradually dropped out,
leaving the two to dominate the field.
Once it looked as if the topweight would
stumble over a word, but she recovered
to come with a remarkable burst.
At the 7000-word post it was obvious
that the crackajack pace would cause one
or the other to tire. As they came into
the straight griffin the topweight was lead-
ing by three insults, but the filly, display-
ing gameness, quickly closed the gap and
shot to the front with a brace of telling
adjectives. It was a blanket finish, with
the chairman-judge shouting among the
uproar for order.
Good judges averred that they couldn’t
be separated, but when the numbers went
up and the filly, who had the crowd with
her, could only fill second place, the
doings switched from the course to the
squared circle.
Dissatisfied with the decision, the filly
rushed in and, with a lovely open back-
hand, got her opponent on the frontis-
piece paintwork. The heavyweight came
back with a wild haymaker, but her light
opponent stepped back out of range and,
adopting ducking and weaving tactics,
scored occasionally by shooting out a
long fingernail. Suddenly her unexpect-
edly telescopic left shot out, and she
got a grip on her vis-a-vis’s toque, which
was badly mauled. Trumpeting with
rage, the cady’s owner tried to get to
close quarters so as to use her superior
weight, but the younger contestant wisely
declined to infight and was content to
rip an occasional corsage or hammer
away at a handbag-strap.
A period of dull sparring followed,
and then, as the filly stepped back, her
stilt heel caught in a loose board, and
she saved herself from hitting the canvas
only by going into a clinch. There was
no referee to break them, and things
were looking ugly amid angry shouts
from the bleachers when the police
arrived and stopped what must be reck-
oned one of the most willing all-in toe-to-
toe goes seen outside the Stadium in years.
Bo.


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4id. per line; all others 2 id. per line.
Conchies First
With the enemy at our back door, the
Federal Government has found time to
issue regulations setting up
Courts to which persons who claim exemp-
tions from military service on the ground
that they are conscientious objectors may
apply for exemption;
and
empowering Courts of summary jurisdic-
tion, police magistrates, stipendiary and
special magistrates to hear applications for
exemptions from military service on the
ground of hardship. Applications must be
on the prescribed form and must be served
on the Director of Man-power or his repre-
sentative in a State.
Necessary, no doubt, in the complex
society in which we live, but if the Gov-
ernment has time to set up Courts to in-
vestigate the claims of conscientious ob-
jectors and exemption seekers, why not
also set up authorities to find suitable
positions in the forces for the thousands
of men who are anxious to enlist and are
refused for minor defects.
Those men are at least entitled to the
same justice as conchies. — Junius, Jr.
(Q-).
S.P. Betting
The Government —or Governments —
could easily stop s.p. betting without
hindering the business of registered book-
makers or anyone depending on racing
for his living. But the obvious solution
would find every daily newspaper and
radio protesting against it, for the simple
reason that they —and they alone —would
be the sufferers.
Prohibit the publication of race pro-
grammes, entries or possible runners
prior to any meeting, and confine sales
of racebooks to courses. Prohibit news-
papers and the radio from forecasting
likely runners or giving tips.
That would not deprive anyone inter-
ested in racing, even as a punter, from
enjoying his Saturday afternoon’s sport.
Race clubs should benefit, course attend-
ances should increase, the Government
should gain through increased entertain-
ment and tote taxes; everyone legiti-
mately concerned with racing should
benefit —but it would effectually kill s.p.
betting.—T.W.M. (N.S.W.).
An Untimely Step
The maritime unions have been
granted a reduction of working hours to
44 a week by Security Regula-
tions just gazetted. This will be made
possible by granting all seamen seven
days’ leave of absence from their ships
each month.
The Seamen’s Union and others have
pressed for this reduction for the last two
years, but the Arbitration Court Judges,
in their wisdom, have refused. Judge
Beeby, in delivering his award to the
officers’ and engineers’ unions on the
day of his retirement from the Bench in
July last, said, “I am still of the opinion
that the time is inopportune for material
alterations of the general conditions of
employment.”
If the time were inopportune when the
Pacific was still a comparatively peaceful
zone, how much more so is it now. The
Government is frequently stressing the
fact that all must do their utmost towards
winning the war, that all must work twice
as hard. It is therefore amazing that it
should have taken this ill-advised step.
With shipping hard pressed and a
shortage of trained seamen, it will be
manifestly impossible for shipowners to
observe the regulations and still keep
ships moving with the least possible
delay.— Steamship (N.S.W.).
Moratorium Regulations
The Commonwealth Government
seems to be so busy turning Out new
regulations that it has no time to police
those which have been in force for
some time. ....
Some investors and public institutions
can sidetrack moratorium regulations by
inserting in their mortgages a clause to
the effect that no Commonwealth or State
moratorium enacted or likely to be
enacted shall affect the provisions of the
mortgage. A mortgagor protesting against
such an escape clause is met with a shrug
of the shoulders and told to get his
money elsewhere. It should be made
an offence for any solicitor, or other
persons connected with the preparation
of documents, to insert a condition or
stipulation which sidetracks Government
regulations designed to protect people in
an emergency. — Inko (S.A.).
Mortgage and Insurance
A point worth consideration in com-
pulsory insurance of property against war
damage is whose security is being pro-
tected in mortgaged houses, and, there-
fore who should pay the premium.
One of the conditions of mortgage is
that the mortgagor shall insure the prop-
erty against fire, which is reasonable
enough, since such a mishap would be
most likely to result from his own care-
lessness or neglect, and, having used the
property as security, it is his duty to keep
it in the condition it was in when offered
as security. .
But the new insurance is concerned
with a contingency which is not brought
about by the mortgagor any more than
by the mortgagee. Yet it is still insur-
ance, and, according to the mortgage
terms, insurance must be borne by the
mortgagor.
This arrangement, if allowed to con-
tinue, has the effect of giving mortgages,
already the safest form of investment, a
further privilege over all other forms in
that a mortgagee’s investment is pro-
tected for him against external dangers
at somebody else’s expense.
The just and logical arrangement
would be for the mortgagor and mort-
“Hey! Can't youse blokes read ?”
gagee to share the cost of insurance in
proportion to the equity of each in the
property. — Array (N.S.W.).
Fortnight of Compromise
Feb. 15: Brains and brawn are better than
beer and bets. — Curtin. , •
Feb. 17: Australia put on total war basis.
Feb. 20: Drastic regulations to give ettect to
the Government’s decision to mobilise au
national and personal resources were approved
tonight. They forbid the sale of freehold,
leaseholds of more than three years, shares,
stock and debentures. _ ~
Feb. 24; Miners on strike defy law. Follow-
ing stoppages in six N.S.W. mines, the Federal
Government is contemplating drastic action
against the strikers. . . . .
Feb. 24: New rules for service objectors.
I Applications for exemptions from military ser-
ice on the ground of conscientious objection
low go to Courts set up by regulations made
oday. If refused, applicants may appeal to a
ion applications. Police, stipendiary and
ipecial magistrates are empowered to grant
:ertificates of exemption from military service
m the ground of hardship by regulations issued
°Feb'. 26: The ban on the sale of property was
•elaxed by an order issued in Canberra last
light permitting the sale of farms and pastoral
properties on certain conditions.
Feb. 27: First amendment to the Govem-
nent’s economic regulations, announced today
by the Treasurer, permits the sale of house
properties under certain conditions.
Feb 27: The Minister for the Army stated
today that no man indispensable to coal pro-
duction would be called up for military service.
Those not indispensable, however, would be ex
pected to do their duty like other members of
the community. . . , „ . _ F
Feb. 28: Compromise expected on sale of
shares. It is expected that the Government will
accept the Opposition’s compromise to permit
the sale of shares held for six months.
Feb. 29: No Federal action on racing likely.
It is believed that the onus of controlling sport
will be left to the State Governments.
A fortnight has seen the Prime Minis-
ter’s regulations for the mobilisation of
the country whittled away and made a
mockery of his brave words. When will
the Government cease to compromise
and begin to govern ?-—Smilax (Q.).
Compulsory Saving
The war-savings certificates campaign
has not been as successful as many advo-
cates of voluntary systems expected.
From total sales of £3O million 25 p.c.
must be deducted to allow for the dis-
count of 4s. in the pound and a further
15 p.c. at least to cover redemptions. Thus
the net sum subscribed is about £lB mil-
lion in over two years. The certificates
have therefore tapped only 1 p.c. of the
national income.
Surely the small saver can do better
than that. Even now many of the moder-
ate and lower incomes are still increas-
ing. Despite the “pegging” of wages,
normal promotions and overtime will
continue. Income from these sources
clearly represents an increase over pre-
war standards, and should be made avail-
able to the nation.
This could be effected by treating it
as deferred pay, to be withheld until after
the war, except in cases of proved hard-
ship. It need not be tax-free; the
sums could be paid into a blocked
banking account, with interest credited
and taxation debited. Unlike the
Fadden plan, which the present Gov-
ernment rejected, this scheme applies
compulsion only to those receiving in-
come in excess of what they managed to
live on before the war. — Arc (N.S.W.).
Functional Representation
“Arc” (B. 18/2/’42) is wrong in think-
ing the object of functional representation
to be. primarily the advancement of
economic interests. Rather the aim is
the securing of a Parliament that will be
a true mirror of the national life through
Inclusion of every important activity of
he community. .
The diversity of occupational interests
,nd the fact that their spokesmen would
ie counterbalanced by those of cultural
.nd social-service organisations and ot
ocal-government bodies should be an
:ffective curb to any attempts by
iconomic elements to grasp special pnvi-
edges by unscrupulous combinations.
Organised minorities, either by political
pressure or by subscription to various
larty funds, wield far more influence
mder the territorial system than would
je possible under a functional franchise.
Whether it be a good or a bad thing,
surely political problems are no longer
3 f major consequence. The issues of
primary moment today and they are
certain to continue so in the future —are
social and economic. For a Parliament
o be able to cope adequately with them
it is necessary that it be representative
af the principal activities of a modern
society. Functional representation would
ensure this. The territorial franchise
doesn’t—certain callings predominate
excessively, while others are unrepre-
sented. Thus there are lawyers aplenty
in Australia’s seven Parliaments, but how
many financial experts?
If the placing of emphasis on the per-
son should be the basis-of representation
then the territorial system no more ful-
fils this than does the functional method.
Under the former the member repre-
sents a purely artificial constituency,
created for electoral purposes, and the
very boundaries of which change. In
a functional Chamber each member
speaks for a segment in the life of the
community.
Better-quality membership should be
assured by the functional form, because
sections that could hardly fail to return
any but representatives of distinction
would have quotas, and because many
of account in various circles who will not
now seek election would not mind soli-
citing voters of the same vocation, to
not a few of whom they would be known
personally and to mpst by repute.
There is no reason to expect that wider
national problems like defence would be
more neglected under a functional fran-
chise. On such matters members would
vote according to their individual con-
victions. This should be an advantage, as
party manoeuvring would be absent. —
Lyle (N.S.W.).
“Dr. Dunstan”
Victorian Premier Dunstan persists in
futile defence of horseracing and twilight
trots in his State. In his latest outburst
he expressed concern for the workers
who, working long hours, are suffering
from mental and physical strain and
therefore need some recreation.
For this distressing condition Dr. Dun-
stan prescribes a dash out to Flemington
on an empty stomach and in an over-
full train or tram. On reaching the
playground the fagged brain is whipped
up to concert pitch to meet the chal-
lenge of bookmaker or tote over the
matter of the winners of anything from
eight to a dozen races. If still a bit
under the weather and if the purse is
still good you can then slip across to
Ascot to watch and gamble on a bunch
of trotters, triers and turn-ups. Then
you can go home and clean up a square
meal —if you can afford it,
S.A. Premier Playford denies his over-
worked this wonderful opportunity to
repair their spent energies. Doubting
Mr. Dunstan suggests that the recent
prohibition of broadcasting of Victorian
races has probably had a substantial in-
fluence on the decision! That ban, he
said, would affect some 300 betting shops
which did about half their betting on
Victorian races. Then he went on to
declare that in Victoria these undesirable
betting shops are not permitted and that
s.p. in his State had been severely
checked, if not entirely eliminated. Tut,
tut! S.A.’s betting shops are at least con-
trolled ; in Victoria today there is more
uncontrolled than controlled betting.—
O’Wen (Vic.).
Juvenile Delinquents
N. S. Wales Education Minister Evatt’s
ideas about juvenile delinquents are right
and should not be judged by odd out-
breaks of misbehavior at some reforma-
tories (B. 18/2/’42). Success or failure
in working out this new idea of freedom
for ' delinquents depends largely on the
personality and previous training of the
people in charge.
My son took an interest in delinquency
and worked for some time at a church
lome for delinquent youths. This place
was run on strict lines with continuous
supervision by the staff. The lads were
constantly trying to escape from the
home. My son was quite convinced that
breaking out at night was mainly for
the fun of eluding the man on night duty.
Added to this was also the excitement of
robbing orchards by moonlight and the
thrill of dodging the searching party.
The boys had no holidays to look for-
ward to, and they probably suffered from
extreme boredom and lack of excitement.
Even being in the country is irksome to
a slum-bred lad.
A Children’s Court magistrate advised
my son to see methods used in England
and America. He got to England and
was able to get in touch with the Home
Office. He was allowed to spend a long
time at a Borstal camp run on modern
lines with complete freedom for the boys.
This camp was the second one organised
by a Mr. Llewellyn. The first was flour-
ishing, so he left it in good hands and
started the second. My son saw both
and was amazed at the wonderful effect
on the boys. , . , ,
The camp was constructed by the boys
and their leaders, with a tradesman to
instruct in each trade. The staff lived
like the boys —slept under the same con-
ditions, had the same food, did the same
work. Recreation huts had been built
and games were played. My son was
assured that these were some of the worst
Borstal boys, yet a few men kept order
with no bolts or bars. The camp was as
free and open as a family holiday camp.
—M. T. (N.S.W.).


jT ODAY, The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. is
selling steel products to our Australian Government
at lower prices than those paid in the great steel-
making countries of Great Britain and America.
This has been made possible by the foresight and
careful planning of The B.H.P. management throughout
many years and by the loyal co-operation of all the
employees of the Company.
We take this occasion of assuring Australia that the
management and the employees of The B.H.P. are
playing and will continue to play a constantly increasing
part in Australia’s effort towards the winning of the war.
Prices British Australian
£ s. d. £ s. d.
PIG IRON .. 8 7 6 .. 410 0
MERCHANT BARS ..21 211 .. 10 2 8
STRUCTURAL STEEL 18 7 9.. 10 2 8
PLATES .. 19 6 7 .. 10 12 4
Prices in America are slightly higher than in Great Britain
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
Head Office: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Iron & Steel Works: Newcastle, N.S.W., and Whyal’a, S.A.
Iron Ore Deposits: Iron Knob, S.A.
