

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
/ftfhtt'Mm V mellctimeU and bouq/uel
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3247.
Wednesday, May 6, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ROYAL SCHOOL OF NEEDLEWORK, LONDON.
This is an institution, the product of the revival of fine needlecraft in England, which has exerted a deep and beneficial effect on the
1 artistic life of the nation. It was not until the beginning of the present century that the horrors of the Berlin wool period, in which our
mothers and grandmothers had so long been immersed, were completely cast aside. Mid-Victorian needlework, it.is true, exceUedl m
natural effects, but to the total exclusion of delicate suggestions brought about by diverse materials, or of the production of fo m ben
to the uses of ornament. The result was the reproduction of Nature as seen in nightmares. It was not considered a waste of time an
energy to reproduce badly, line for line, a full-sized picture of a mid-Victorian artist, the art of the needle being misdirected m copying
the art of the brush, instead of being employed with a full realisation of its limitations, and an intelligent determination to attempt n
details beyond the acipe of materials at command. France has never witnessed a revival of needlecraft, because decadence had neverltaken
place there. The purity and refinement of French taste proved the saving factor. Needlecraft is an important handmaidl of the_ a .
How the Royal School has fostered and encouraged art and refinement m that work in which it is engaged docsi noi 'W
enlarged upon. All who have visited the institution in Exhibition Road, South Kensington, are farm lar wi q _ centurv
work performed by the students. A factor to bear in mind in noting the success of the Royal School is the reve st
of those outward and visible symbols of beauty in divine worship which were for generations absent from as
are held from time to time of “the products of the Royal School,’' and the work displayed in ban
vestments, altar cloths, is not alone of superlative merit, but the highest art, guided, or perhaps p , Y


Learn
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney ''Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 142
The Red Page
LETTER TO SHAKSPEARE.
Mr. William Shakspeare,
Top Floor,
Parnassus.
Sir, —You are no doubt aware, through
your contacts with Tom Collins, Henry
Lawson and “Banjo” Paterson, that there
has been some attempt at the making of
literature in this country ; that in Collins
we had a rare, humorous and fantastic
personality, in Lawson genius, in Pater-
son a song of manliness and sunlight:
and you are doubtless aware that out of
the combination of these three—odd men
out of the earth that conceived the platy-
pus and the kangaroo, good mates and
men whom the bush filled with courage
or sardonic humor or a loneliness of the
spirit like that of the deaf genius in Syd-
ney, and men who rode horses with a
laugh—an Australian Image has arisen,
as distinct, as vigorous and as indestruct-
ible as that Image of England which you
alone, by the unity of spirit underlying
the incredible variety of your output,
gave to the world four centuries ago.
Then, Bill, knowing all about the im-
portance of the Image, and taking (as
doubtless you do, because in our earthy
originality and vigor we have something
in common with your Elizabethans) not
a “serious” but a happy interest in Aus-
tralian literature, you had better ask
Angus and Robertson to send you that
new “novel” which is at once a unique
refreshment of our literature and a re-
markable clarification of the Australian
Image.
The Peapickers, Sir. Peapickers.
If you were a lesser man, one would
have considerable diffidence in inviting
you to read any Australian book. With
infinite care and patience, we have all
built up a truly colossal inferiority com-
plex about our literature. And, nine
times out of ten, with reason. Such and
such a book we know is “pretty good
for Australia”; but we would blush to
send it overseas ; or, from time to happy
time, more and more frequently of re-
cent years, there is a novel good enough
to jostle with the others in the great
stream of competent, well-written near-
masterpieces rushing from the presses of
England and America to their short life
and their long doom.
Yet we do not offer Henry Lawson
apologetically to anyone; nor, within his
limitations as a balladist, “Banjo.” Cer-
tainly we do not suggest that Lawson’s
stories can for one moment compare with
your mighty dramas: but he had genius,
he had something of your astonishing
“universality,” he differed from you much
in degree but not very much in kind.
Can we offer you an unknown writer’s
first “novel” with the same assurance
with which one offers the established
Australian classics? Can we say that Eve
Langley, though she differs from you
and from Lawson in stature (no writer is
a giant on one book, only on the mass
of a lifetime’s work), does not differ
in kind?
Critically, it would be a dangerous
assertion ; but it is also dangerous criti-
cally, and also damnable, to be afraid
to assert that Australian literature has
qualities of greatness ; to hesitate to be-
lieve the plain evidence of one’s own
eyes, which report on The Peapickers:
“Here is the most original contribution to
Australian literature since Tom Collins
wrote Such Is Life ; here is a book which
is certainly, as A. G. Stephens said
cautiously of Such Is Life, ‘an Australian
classic’; here, further, is a book which
has the qualities of permanent literature
and which could take its place beside,
say, Keats’s letters, in Everyman’s
Library.”
In paying such a high tribute to The
Peapickers we are not, Sir, bemused and
befuddled by the pleasant smoke of a
book still hot from the press. The Pea-
pickers was first read in manuscript after
Frank Dalby Davison, H. M. Green and
Beatrice Davis had awarded it a first-
equal place in the 1940 Prior Prize com-
petition ; and a meticulous second read-
mg after Angus and Robertson have at
last completed their pleasant job of print-
ing and presentation reinforces the con-
viction that Frank Davison was right
when he said on the Red Page “It has
the dew on it. It contributes something
fresh to Australian literature. I think it
will be cherished.”
“It is going to be cherished?” you say
doubtfully. “Then it must have humor.
Has it Falstaff? Has it Caliban? I do not
care to read the greatest book under the
sun unless it has humor. 1 know Milton
had none, and Wordworth none, but I
crave the gusto and comedy of life. I
must have my books readable.”
Sir, the most astonishing thing about
this book is its simple, genuine, irresis-
tible humorousness. We quote you in
full the great comedy of the horse named
Seldom-fed, so that, multiplying this inci-
dent by a hundred, you may realise just
how much humor, and what good
humor, there is in The Peapickers : —
The days passed and the oranges down
in Sullivan’s orchard grew riper with the
winter sun. We spread the news to Pricie-
oie-man. A night was arranged. He was
to come down from Porepunkah on his
mare Seldom-fed, and meet us outside on
the road.
On that night a thunderstorm of light
and fury boomed and flashed above the
stony fortress of the granite mountain far
above. Ah, how tragic it was to look
out on to that ancient moonlight and see
the black rain sweeping over the grey stone,
to be followed by the white grandeur of
lightning which threw its twisted limbs
over everything. The granite roared with
thunder, and showers as terrible as the hour
of death fled over us.
On the road outside the camp sat Pricie-
ole-man on his mare Seldom-fed. Long
and spare was she, as her name indicated,
and a velvet winter coat covered her, but
could not soften the sharp bones that
stuck out everywhere from her frame.
Whenever the lightning flashed, Seldom-fed
pigrooted with a powerful upthrust of her
bony legs.
We [“Steve” and “Blue,” the girl pea-
pickers whose adventures make the
“novel”] were dressed in long coats and
trousers and carried a sugarbag in which
to put the oranges. Pricie-ole-man held
Seldom-fed against the fence while Starv-
ing Steve and Breadless Blue mounted to
go on a raid again. He flung himself on,
in front of us; then away, pigrooting and
puffing, we trod a noble measure down the
white road as the whistling rain fell in
the moonlight.
As we passed the railway crossing, we
saw a figure leaning against the cattle-pit,
chewing walnuts and tossing a restless hat
from side to side on an unkempt head.
“Who’s that?” said Pricie-ole-man, peer-
ing through the lightning and moonlight.
“It’s the ghost of the cow that got
dragged along by the train last week,” I
replied. “Poor beast, it was in full milk,
too ”
“Gee with! ” exclaimed Chari. “Gor
blarmie! What do you take me for?
Did you really think 1 was the ghost of
that cow? 1 bet you didn’t!”
Chari was a shrewd fellow sometimes.
“You go one better than us, Chari. We
give in.”
“Where you going thith hour er night?”
Chari cracked another walnut on the cattle-
pit and laughed. “After more of Black-
moor’th appleth?”
“No, Sullivan’s oranges this time. Hop
on! ”
“Bring her over to the potht, then.
Way, now! Wee...there! Gee with,
jpst let me get me foot on her boneth and
I’ll get on. Come over, yer cow! Hey,
wait on!” Chari-missed and sat down on
the muddy road. “Come over ’ere. Edge
’er over to the fence, Pricie-ole-man!”
“Get off for a moment,” said Pricie-
ole-man, in that bluffing way of his, “and
I’ll give it to her. I’ll take it out of her.”
Dismounting, we squatted on the side
of the road in the moonlight and lightning,
while Pricie-ole-man gave it to her.
Seldom-fed solemnly pigrooted up and
down the road for ten minutes, and Charlie
.stood by, his various rags flying in the
wind. What a ballet! The thunder
drummed in the ranges, the lightning
flashed blue and green and gold in the
black sky, and on the green grass the
bony old marc pirouetted with thin up-
stretched throat and feet raised to the
heavens as though carrying on her hooves
a tray of whisky and soda to Olympus.
At last, she stopped, and was drawn
over to the fence. In order, we mounted.
Blue behind Pricie-ole-man, Steve behind
Blue and Chari behind Steve, cracking
walnuts on Seklom-fed's thigh-bones and
handing them around.
“ ’Ere you are, Thteve. Gee with, wait
a moment, Theldom-fed! ” The steed rose
in another slow and solemn pigroot, and
we rose with it. “Wait till 1 crack me
nut, Theldom.” Clonk! “’Ere you are,
Blue, give one to Pricie-ole-man.”
Slowly, with a reverend grandeur, we
moved along the road under the tragic
battle of the night. And often Chari cried
frantically and painfully, “Move forward!
Move forward! I’m thitting on the bone!”
It was the banshee wail that accompanied
us on our march.
So you see. Sit and you will see again
and again when “Steve” polishes her gold
tooth with brasso before going to tea
with the Seventh Day Adventist, or when
Rusty Organ is found reading the paper
in the bath, or when Jim’s socks are
nailed to a tree under the legend “Hum-
ming-birds, small, rare, Avismella Peter-
senia, Gippsland, Victoria,” or when the
farmer makes Steve and Blue throw their
clothes in the kerosene-tin to boil with
(he stolen pumpkin—you will see many
times in comic incidents and many more
limes in the. smile of a fantastic phrase
that even in modern times the good
books are not written for highbrows
alone ; that they can have something of
your own great “common touch,” and so
something of your own universality.
Should you think, Sir, that this author
has sent her two heroines a-peapicking
to mock at the hundreds of good Aus-
tralian peapickers they encounter in
Gippsland or in the mountains of New
South Wales, yod would do her a grave
injustice. This is the charitable laughter
of the gods, to whom mankind, besides
being inexpressibly comic, is also inex-
pressibly dear. Have a look at some of
the portraits in this enormous gallery of
Australians, and observe how the author
loves as she laughs:
Mia, our mother, was a Gippslander,
first generation. She was a short, rugged
little woman, as swarthy as a gipsy, with
a crooked nose which she had broken into
the grotesque soon after it was given to
her, by crawling under a house and hitting
it on a block there. Her eyebrows were
enormous and her laugh was windy,
coming from somewhere down a chimney.
And one more (we would like to give
you twenty, especially Dave having his
fifth helping of pudding ; and the enor-
mous, passionate woman whose life was
like the sarsaparilla, purple and sensuous
out of the bare Australian earth) —one
more to show you that there is tragedy
as well as comedy among the portraits:
Mrs. Wallaby greeted me like a daughter
with a sly, kind smile.
“What the devil made you do all this
crochet work?” I said disgustedly. “Fancy
spending hours making this stuff!”
“Ah, well, Steve,” she droned in her
rich, deep, stuffy voice, “when my husband
lay dying, yes, on the very night he died,
I just sat here, minding him and crochet-
ing. And for twelve months after he died
I did nothing but crochet, crochet, crochet.
Night and day. The girls looked after the
house. I just sat and did crochet. If I
hadn’t, I’d have gone mad.”
As we hastened to assure you that the
laughter was leavened with understand-
ing, so do we now beg you, Sir, not to
misunderstand the quality of this pity.
For sentimental pity, bred out of an
absurd political perfectionism, has been
the curse of Australian writing in recent
years, and one of the most important
things about The Peapickers, regarded as
a possible influence on Australian litera-
ture, is that this author’s “pity” is the
tragic awareness of the true artist, free
from political rancor, unperverted by
ideologies, full of understanding for the
troubles of humanity, but, in the last
analysis, seeing all things as pure spec-
tacle, actors and acts in the magnificent
tragi-comedy of man upon earth.
Its humor and its generous detachment
provide two means by which this book
can exert a wholly beneficial influence on
Australian writing. There is yet another
quality, the most appealing of them all,
which may influence future books. That
is, its passionate love of Australia. Eve
Langley loves her Australian characters
for what they are, and she loves Aus-
tralia, too, with a burning, mystical pas-
sion, not because it reminds her of some
other country, not because she feels it
ought to be loved, not for what it might
become if this or that political panacea
were put into operation, but simply and
wholeheartedly for what it is.
“Banjo” and, of course, many others
have loved this country just as easily
and strongly as “Steve” does: but
no one yet has expressed that love with
more fire or more beauty than in
“Steve’s” passionate apostrophes:
I trod the hill of yellow grass; the land
was veiled in the blue smoke of the still-
burning bushtire that was wallowing in red
seas from some desolate shore to the end
of its journey. Above the dry grass the
blue smoke wandered, and in the mystical
twilight I cried, “O Patria Mia! Patria
Mia!” and my naked brown feet kissed
the dear earth of my Australia and my soul
was pure with Jove of her .. . Divine was
my love then, and with an uplifted heart
I strode into the empty paddock and,
alone there, crouched in the twilight on
the earth I loved, began to work.
That was the way, was it not, you felt
about England, “This precious stone, set
in the silver sea”? It was to this passion-
ate love of the Australian earth, asso-
ciated with the people of that earth, that
we referred when we said this book was
“a remarkable clarification of the Aus-
tralian Image.” If any Australian wants
to know what he is now fighting for,
what earth and what people, the answer
is “The earth and the people in Lawson,
in Tom Collins, in ‘Banjo’ Paterson or
between the covers of The Peapickers.”
The particular bit of earth you loved,
Sir, was England ; and generations of
English patriots have been grateful to
you; yet you passed beyond patriotism
into the pure light of poetry, where there
are no nations, only the gods. This book,
too, blends the local and the universal.
It: is a pantheistic mysticism expressed
in terms of the Australian earth, so that
the black cockatoos “like flying abo-
rigines” are at once intensely Australian
and a flash of pure magic in the uni-
verse of poetry. Likewise the fox:
Sometimes, as wc lay awake, listening
to that hissing drip on the roof, to the
solitary pattering among the yellow leaves,
a fox laughed with a wild silvery note out
in the bush, and we caught at each other
and cried out at the primitive cry:
“Steve . . . the fox! ”
“Ah, Blue! What wildness ... what
mirth and desolation in that laugh of his!”
We thought we saw him leaping the
damp, rotten logs and roaming, full of
blood-hunger, from tree to tree. The
echoes of his cry awoke in us a desire, half-
animal, half-spiritual, to be of the fox and
the night.
This earth-worship, this homing of the
spirit to the core of spirit in physical,
even inanimate matter, is of such inten-
sity that there is no thing on earth, how-
ever insignificant, in which it cannot per-
ceive or kindle the fire of poetry: an old
pack of cards, odds and ends of rubbish
found in a deserted hut, old boots (“They
are the flowers of the Australian forest.
In some places you won’t find a blade
of grass, but you’ll always pick up an
old boot, as hard as a stone, its little
round tin-metal-edged eyes gleaming
malignantly at their bad treatment”) and
even, fantastically, “the clean mossiness”
on a peapicker’s teeth and the foot-
warmers in a railway carriage: “The
footwarmers felt like discarded hotwater
bottles, a trifle indecent, from someone
else’s bed.” Sir, it is something to have
made a footwarmer immortal!
Even at this distance, Bill, we have
heard your opinion of proletarian prose.
The short sentence, the flat statement,
the nursery rhythm ... we have heard
thunder from heaven when Stein and
Hemingway and their worse imitators
cut their sentences to the bone and the
Muse to the heart. Already you will
have seen that The Peapickers is magnifi-
cently written.
Terse and rich in dialogue, smoothly
beautiful in landscape, the prose soars
in those amazing apostrophes where
Steve is raging at Time or crying out to
the heavens “When shall my two great
desires, to be loved and to be famous,
be satisfied?” into the “grand style.” Sir,
we are a sceptical, sardonic people and,
like your audiences, would not accept the
poet without the clown. This author,
you will be glad to hear, is as passion-
ately sardonic as she is, in high moods,
ecstatic. When Steve is apart from her
lover Macca, and sometimes when she
is with him, she can think of him as
Juliet thought of Romeo ; but when, after
bitter absence, she sought him again in
Gippsland, she records with wry
honesty: —
“And you haven’t seen Macca since we
left, Eb?”
“No. Oh, yes, once. He came down
here to a dance in the hall, and got
drunk. He slept out all night and lost his
false teeth. Next morning he was comb-
ing the bush everywhere looking for them.”
Eb roared at the memory.
Sir, this is a book about two girls pea-
picking in Gippsland and New South
Wales. What love of words and skill
with words, what love of Australian
earth and Australian people and skill in
painting them, what rich humor and what
spiritual power have gone into it to make
Literature of so slight a theme! And
what living truth is there in its depiction
of the agony and delight of young love
that the story of “Steve” and Macca
should give unity and drama to the long,
rambling picaresque narrative. And what
deeper truth in the conception of man-
kind in the grip of Time, youth’s struggle
through disillusion to integrity, that this
should be the real, most compelling “con-
flict” of the book and the last sentence,
when Steve is left to face Time with her
memories, dramatic as the clanging of a
gong: “I opened the door and walked
in. 1 was alone.”
The Peapickers, Sir—this is its final
and greatest importance—aims high. At
nothing less, indeed, than the creation of
an immortal Image of Australia: —
The railway crossing lay stark and bare
across the road that led to the old home-
stead, and two great poplars, the poets
of the land, shook their bare autumn
branches, black and fine across the sky.
Post-and-rail fences, as frail as Chinese
writing, lay on each side of the trees
against a reddening sky. We lived for
things like that.
Over Evan’s Range burnt the Dog-star,
Sirius, with a scorching red, blue and green
fire.
“That is my star,” 1 said to Blue.
There, walking slowly, with my eyes raised
to it, I prophesied:
“Some day I shall write fully our life
together, with its tragedy and comedy.
But better than that. I shall write of Aus-
tralia and bring lovers to her so that they
shall fill the land with visionaries. For
‘where there is no vision, the people
perish.’ ”
As you know better than anyone, Sir,
who put your whole heart into the terri-
fying adventure of genius, a, book that
flies so high is either a complete failure
or a triumphant success. Nothing in be-
tween ; Sydney or the Bush. We think
The Peapickers is a success. Please read
it. And tell Matthew Arnold that the
purpose of high art is not “to see life
steadily and to see it whole,” but to see
life passionately and to see it whole.
Red Page.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
BUILT TO STAND THE STRAIN
i r 9
1
S )j,
V-
y a
i
7
T
;
r u :
=■
LA
f \
M
1
rtf.
\
"rtf
>
U*— x l//^
i
i/J
K-
'
. C I
v -H 0,, •
HIND'S PATENT POST HOLE BORERS, 27'6
Hind's Patent Post Hole Borers, a great time and labour
saver, bores holes quickly and cleanly. At Anthony
Horderns'.
Sizes Bin. 9in. lOiin. 12in.
Prices 27/6 32/6 41/6 46/6
GRINDSTONE ON STAND, 61'9
Grindstones on Stand. Stand made of
selected hardwood, strongly constructed,
complete with fittings, handle and treadle.
At Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes 16in. 18in. 20in. 22in.
Prices .... 61/9 64/9 75/6 77/6
rndmnni
AMERICAN PATTERN PLOUGH. £B'lo'-
M.C.D. American Pattern Plough, suitable for one horse,
has channel steel beam, forged steel share and mould
board, 9-inch cut, weight 901bs. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price £B/10/-
Hand Wheel. Price, extra 12/6
Knife Coulter. Price, extra 15/-
"Invincible" Corn Sheller, £9' ls'-
"Invincible" pattern Corn Shelter, hand
driven, approx, capacity 20 bushels per
hour, shaker sieve. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price £9/15/*
ANTHONY
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night) FAMOUS
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


DESTINATION UNKNOWN
By WILLARD CARL HAHN.
THERE was a particular clarity to
the air above Manhattan that morn-
ing. Those towers of commerce
lumped together above the Battery
stood in sharp outline against a grey sky.
The streets lay quiet under the sombre
dawn; snow, frozen into an icy powder,
wandered into cellarways and about the
fronts of darkened shops, driven by fitful
gusts of wind. Yet, it was like any
winter’s morning in Manhattan. Those
vast, aloof ramparts, seen in such detail,
were no more close, no more friendly
than usual. The change was in us. On
this morning we saw them for the first
time as something other than halls of
trade ; we saw them as symbols of our
faith, of our heritage and of ourselves.
“What ship? Oh—she’s lying at 59,
straight through.” The watchman puffed
out his cheeks and stamped loudly.
Within the cavernous warehouse piles of
boxes, bales and bulging sacks, dimly
seen, littered the cold floor. An electric
tractor snarled past with a great clatter
of hand-trucks rocking under a moun-
tain of crates. I picked up my suitcase
and followed, A dark, looming shape
bulked beside the pier; beyond lay the
river, wrinkled and dark over by the
Jersey shore, flowing past without a
murmur toward the sea.
The ship, too, was quiet; a wisp of
smoke curled over the lip of her funnel
and was at once swallowed up by the
grey murk above. Her decks were untidy
with all manner of gear, blanketed here
and there with mounds of snow. I
mounted a gangway slippery with ice
and entered a steel door whose grey-
painted port stared at me blindly. There
was a wave of heat, blended with smells
of paint, of oil, of hot grease and sim-
mering coffee. A figure muffled in jacket
and cap lurched past, peering at me over
a tumed-up collar; an aroma of strong
spirits floated in his wake. The sound
of voices raised in dispute led me along
into the gloom ; overhead dim blue bulbs
struggled feebly with the darkness, but
a crack of light beckoned, and I pushed
open a door at the end of the passage.
“I tell you, these lousy Japs won’t last
a month! We’ll put ’em in their place
damned quick!” The speaker pounded
his fist on the bare mess table until his
spoon rattled. He was a heavy man ; his
cap lay before him and a bristle of hair
started from his head like a brown wire
brush. His thick red face and bulbous
nose were hardly less shiny than the un-
pressed blue serge coat that strained
perilously at its seams when he shook
his massive paws.
The little man opposite him hic-
cuped expressively and shoved back
his hat. His back was facing the door,
and from where I stood he resembled
nothing so much as a hunchbacked
scarecrow. His suit was shabby, his hat
badly dented, and his head wobbled
from side to side as he fumbled for cigar-
ettes. “Yeah? An’ what about the
Heinies, eh? What about ’em?” His
voice ended in a squeak of triumph.
I cleared my throat loudly.
“Who the devil are you?” growled the
big man.
That was my introduction to my ship.
T' HE sea, too, was different. The long
1 oily swells hissing along our steel plates
in endless ranks, sweeping away toward
the horizon under a moody sky, held a
meaning that we had not known before.
The old ship lurched down the foaming
crests, protesting with a clatter of gear
and creak of bulkheads, and the
monotony of life afloat, with its endless
repetition of dull tasks, was unchanged ;
but though we laughed at ourselves for
an overaqxious glance at a plume of
smoke against the blue, we were more
silent than is wont with men of the sea
when the day had passed and the sun,
slipping below the rim of our lonely
world, left us in darkness.
There was the usual sailor talk —of the
last ship, a brawl in New Orleans, a girl
half remembered, the cost of gin in
Montevideo—but beneath it all lay the
thoughts of home, carefully concealed,
and thirty-nine men looked furtively
aloft at our streaming banner of smoke,
and then at the horizon, where hostile
eyes might be alert for prey. The days
slipped past, but the danger followed, a
haunting spectre. With darkness, we
crept onward beneath the winking stars,
dispelling the night with a solitary oil
lamp, or cupping a hand over a for-
bidden cigarette as we paced the silent
decks.
Now and then, to remind us, if
memory lapsed, that war was about us,
just below or over there beyond that
fleecy cloud riding close to the sea, the
alarm shattered the peace of our days
and we tumbled out, cursing our tin hats,
the boats, the guns, the gas-masks, the
Old Man and the powers that cause such
things to be. And one day, when the
sea was calm under a blazing sky, we
rowed for hours around the ship as she
rolled in the greasy swell while the mate
bawled at us through his megaphone,
our hands blistered and our eyes stung
from the sweat that streamed down our
faces. Yet it was a comfort to clamber
back aboard that rust-streaked hull, to
know that the three mournful blasts,
“Abandon ship!” were but a gentle re-
minder, after all, and that we needs must
practise.
Sometimes the wireless crackled, and
Sparks, with one eye cocked toward the
bridge, gave us scraps of news. We pre-
tended that it was of no import; but
from the galley, where weazened Charley
steamed, fretted and hazed his minions
unmercifully, toward the engine-room,
where fat Otto scowled over leaky glands
and worn bearings, there were long faces
when Sparks shook his bald head over
the boat-deck rail in answer to our
cautious whistle.
Manila fell, Singapore sept doubtful
word. Some hundred miles astern of us
there was a cry for help ; men like our-
selves were back there, waiting for their
ship to sink beneath them. There was
nothing for us to do ; we were slow, and
ill-equipped for an encounter with sea-
wolves. Besides, our orders were to hold
our course. We thought of them. There
was speculation as to who she might be,
whether she was following us, or if we
had passed in the darkness, but we would
never know.
A T Panama there were destroyers,
sleek grey shapes, ominous in the
dawn, gliding out toward the horizon on
mysterious errands; bombers roaring in
the tropic sky; the smell of fetid earth ;
a vulture wheeling slowly above the
jungle. And a sense of relief aboard one
rusty old tramp whose anchor chain shat-
tered the calm waters within the harbor
mole. Another day would see her push-
ing her blunt snout into the broad
Pacific.
“The First says we’ll bunker at San
Pedro.”
“Naw; Honolulu's the place. That’s
where all the trouble is, ain’t it?”
“Hell, man. we don’t even know what
the cargo is; ten to one we hit Rangoon
first.”
“Yeah. Maybe we’ll call at Adelaide ;
I knew a gal there once.”
We were a hive of rumors, but the
Old Man looked grim, the Chief pon-
dered over his wheezy engines and Bos’n
scratched his tow head as for the hun-
dredth time he overhauled the life rafts
and inspected the boats.
ONE morning when the sea was like an
undulating pane of glass and the still-
ness was that of a world at peace, the
anti-aircraft gun chattered harshly. Before
there was time to curse the inconsiderate
gunner for such early-morning amuse-
ment the alarm clanged up and down the
alleyways. Battle stations!
On deck, strapping on lifebelts and ad-
justing the chin straps of those detestable
helmets, and in the sky, coming up fast,
a ’plane. We had read of bombers, and
their work; we had laughed, too, at how
neatly we would send one hurtling into
the sea, but somehow that dark speck
roaring at us out of the blue held a dif-
ferent significance now that we were face
to face with it.
- Heads were raised, eyes strained to-
ward that swelling shape. Then suddenly
it was upon us, overhead and away. Two
white stars gleamed beneath the wings,
Someone laughed nervously. The ’plane
circled once, twice, dipped its wings and
was gone. A faint rumble of motors lin-
gered behind as it faded into the sky.
No one cheered. By that I knew I was
not alone in my thoughts. The siren dis-
missed us hoarsely, and we trudged
b e l° w -
The days became weeks. Sparks re-
mained glued to his receiver, but the
news was scant. The war became a phan-
tom which drifted in our wake and
floated in the air about us, an unreality
born of our detachment. But, like un-
pleasant sounds in the dark, the re-
minders were ever with us. An SOS
again, several hundred miles off our
course. We wondered where her boats
would make for. And wished them luck,
“This voyage ain’t never gonna
end!”
“Aw, quit the grousing, Joe; what
you need is a drink. Hell, I could do
with one myself.”
Speculation and rumor again. The war
would be over before we saw land. May-
be it would be Auckland, after all. Or
Capetown. Ridiculous bickerings over
spoiled potatoes became senseless quar-
rels. A brief diversion when the top-
masts of four ships crept over the
horizon and sent us scudding in the
opposite direction. We saw no more of
them.
Then one night, when we felt that all
the earth must have sunk beneath the
sea, and we should steam on for ever
across the wastes, a friendly light winked
at us out of the darkness. Like a woman’s
smile, that light, beckoning to safety,
And a few hours later, while sleep and
petty feuds were forgotten, another light,
closer this time, rising and falling on a
gentle ground swell, followed by a cheery
hail. Voices! The call of a world which
had come to seem unattainable. And
then, no more rumors ; they were Austra-
lian, those voices.
S. H. PRIOR PRIZE
For reasons already stated, there
will be no competition inviting sub-
mitting of MSS. for the duration of
the war at least.
The Prize this year (£100) will
be awarded to the author or authors
of the book which the trustees con-
sider the most valuable contribution
to Australian literature published in
Australia between June 6, 1941, and
June 6, 1942. (“Australia” and
“Australian” for the purposes of this
award include New Zealand.)
No work that has already won a
monetary prize will be eligible.
OUT OF THE PAST
By J. H. M. ABBOTT
The Whale
ONE of the queerest fatalities that
have ever occurred in Sydney
Harbor—a tragedy so strange and
unusual as to make it probably
the most remarkable thing that has hap-
pened in Port Jackson between Phillip’s
arrival and the present day—took place
between Bradley’s Head and Shark
Island on the morning of Friday, July 23,
1790. Though there is no newspaper record
of the event —for the very good reason
that Sydney hadn’t a newspaper for an-
other 13 years—an account of it has
come down to us from a chronicler alto-
gether trustworthy and reliable.
Mr. Midshipman Daniel Southwell, of
H.M.S. Sirius, had been detached from
duty aboard, before his ship sailed in March
on her fatal voyage to Norfolk Island, to
take charge of the signal station at South
Head. He had with him another mid-
shipman named Ferguson and a party
of marines and seamen. In a letter
written to an uncle in England, the Rev.
Weedon Butler, dated July 27, he relates
how his brother-officer, with a marine
named John Bates, set out in a boat to
Sydney from what later became known
as Watson’s Bay in order to bring back
provisions.
“It was Friday, the 23rd, when, having
breakfasted here, these two and two
marines who had been trying their luck
all night fishing got into a little flat-
bottom’d boat. They had not got above
one 3rd of the way, being a short
mile below Pt. Bradley, and nearly in
the mid-stream, when a great whale appd.
(for the first time since we have been
here) in the harbor, spouting and darting
about in their usual manner. This mon-
strous creature, either thro’ being mis-
chievous or playful, no sooner espied the
boat than he pursued and never left her
till he had overturned and sent her to
the bottom. For more than ten minutes
were these unfortunates a prey to in-
expressible anguish and horror.
“At first, in rising, he half fill’d the b’,
and with their hands against the whale did
they bear the boat off. In vain they thro’
out their hats, the bags for our provis’s
and the fish they had caught in hopes to
satisfy him or turn his attention. It seem’d
bent on their destruction, and with one
sudden and tremendous gamboll con-
signed three of their number to their
hapless fate and an endless eternity.
Neither of those I’ve ment’d by name
cou’d swim; the survivor’s comrade
cou’d, even the best, but thro’ being
heavily clad went down, after having
sev’ral times complain’d of his inability
to hold up, the other affect’y encour’ing
him, but in vain ; they were friends, and
greatly attach’d.
“One gain’d the rocks a small dist.
below Rose Bay, with much diff’y, and
returning to the Lookout related their
afflicting circumstance. The poor fellow
was sadly affected, and indeed disorder’d,
but by next morning was able to return
to camp in a boat which came down with
two officers, the masters of these unlucky
soldiers, uneasy by their unusual stay.
“Some boats were in chase of
the whale higher up., and frequently
wounded him with harpoons all the same
day, but were ignorant as yet (so were
all the persons in Syd. Cove) of his fatal
instrumentality in this sad accident; and,
strange as it may seem, these gent’n have
carried the first account of this extra-
ordinary and heart-rending catastrophe,
near thirty hours after it happened. I
myself had been in town, and knew it
not till by their appris’g on returning
hither, and had been long looking at
Whabro [? Brother Whale], little imagin-
ing that he had deprived us of a friend
and messmate, [and] two as worthy
veterans the battalion could boast.”
Myall Creek
IT is just 103 years since one
of the worst crimes ever committed
by the white invaders of Australia
against the people they found in pos-
session was drastically punished by the
ablest Governor of early New South
Wales, Sir George Gipps.
Myall Creek run, in northern N. S.
Wales, was at that time a pastoral hold-
ing managed by a certain Hobbs. During
the latter’s absence in June, 1839, the
massacre took place. It had been
planned by a number of stockmen and
shepherds, all assigned servants on neigh-
boring stations, as a bloody sort of
“frightfulness” calculated to terrorise the
natives of the district into letting the
stock in their charge alone. Camped
near the homestead were about 90 black-
fellows, of both sexes and all ages, and
they were ruthlessly herded into a stock-
yard, roped together and there slaugh-
tered without mercy by a number of men
who had ridden up to the place in the
late afternoon.
Myall Creek was far beyond the limits
of the Nineteen Counties, outside of which
people who settled on the land were
warned that they could not look for Gov-
ernment protection. Nevertheless, the
young Queen’s writ ran beyond these
bounds —when it could. So an exception-
ally energetic police magistrate from
Maitland, Major Denny Day, having
heard rumors of the outrage that had
drifted down the Hunter Valley from
Liverpool Plains, went over the ranges to
investigate. He arrested nearly a dozen
suspects, and sent them to Sydney to
stand their trial for murder. This was
the same Denny Day who captured the
Jewboy Gang of bushrangers near Mur-
rurundi a couple of years later.
The accused men were tried twice, the
jury having failed to agree at the first
trial and the Governor being deter-
mined to make an example of them. At
the second trial they were found guilty,
and seven of them were hanged outside
the old gaol in Lower George-street at
the end of the year. The verdict and
execution were very unpopular, and a
strong agitation for the men’s reprieve
was set going, but it found Gipps
implacable.
Many years ago a great-uncle of the
writer told him that the very first thing
he saw on landing in Sydney in Decem-
ber, 1839, was the spectacle of the seven
stockmen hanging on a big gallows at the
foot of Essex-street.


THE CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTOR.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
FALL IN LINE!
In the “phony-war” period the Canadian
Government gave its people an election
pledge that it would not send conscripts
overseas. Last week it asked the people
to place this power in its hands, and they
did so most emphatically; indeed this
Canadian plebiscite will go on the records
as a defeat for the embattled enemies of
democracy and a triumph for popular
sovereignty in the sternest period of its
history. When 4,211,424 votes had been
counted there were 2,724,653 Ayes and
1,486,771 Nays. With service men’s votes
included—Australian experience suggests
that they will be predominantly Aye—
the Yes majority should be nearly 2 to 1.
The population of Canada at the 1941
census was 11,419,896. Ontario led with
3,756,632, and Ontario polled not only
the greatest Yes vote, but the greatest
percentage—B4 p.c. Seven of the other
eight provinces also registered command-
ing Yes majorities, ranging from 83 p.c.
m Prince Edward Island (93,918 people)
72 P-c. in Alberta (788,393 people).
The exception was Quebec (3,319,460
people), which was 72 p.c. No ; indeed
many of the No votes in other provinces
came from French-speaking communi-
ties. But French-speaking communities
accepted conscription when it was im-
posed in the last war, and there is no
reason to expect concerted resistance this
time.
In effect, the Canadian Government
will now have powers which have been
vested in and enforced by the Govern-
ments of Britain, Maoriland and the
United States, and by the Union Govern-
ment in respect of military service in any
part of Africa, as witness the fine South
African campaigns in Abyssinia and
Cyrenaica. South African troops now
form the garrison of historic Tobruk,
which is about 5500 miles from Cape-
town by airline—upwards of 1000 miles
more than the sea route from Sydney to
Yokohama. The Smuts Government
could doubtless, if it chose, send com-
pulsorily enlisted men to Europe or
Asia, but it has undertaken to refer any
such decision to Parliament.
What are the Australian Government’s
powers and how does it propose to exer-
cise them? Melbourne “Herald” has
stated the position correctly:
A legal barrier in the Defence Act still
prevents Australia implementing its pledge
to its Allies, because it forbids the use of
our militia forces, now an army in all other
respects on the same footing as the A.1.F.,
from being sent outside Australian terri-
tory. It cannot be imagined that any Aus-
tralian Government or any considerable
portion of the Australian people contem-
plates the application of such a restriction.
But the restriction exists in legal reality and
will continue to exist until the Defence
Act has been amended.
In the first month of the German war
the Labor party, now in office, tried to
get New Guinea and Papua placed out
of bounds, as it were, for soldiers called
up within the continent and Tasmania ;
and with the connivance of a complaisant
Government, whose leader himself an-
nounced in the following month that it
would not introduce conscription for
overseas service, it succeeded in having
the conscientious objector placed on a
pedestal. In a bill of which Mr. Curtin
gave notice and then handed over to
Mr. Ward, now his Minister for Labor
and National Service, conscientious
objection was so defined as to admit of
Communists (then campaigning against
the imperialist war”) claiming exemption
pounds “not of a religious character,”
and the conchy was given the “right” to
“fifu' rorn a magisterial decision to
ri?- e fr 1 ® u £ ourt or Supreme Court.”
i , .fight” was summarily removed last
week by an Opposition Senator’s motion
disallowing National Security (Con-
scientious Objectors) regulations, which
was agreed to without discussion.”
But the legal barrier” to compulsory
service beyond Australia and its terri-
tories remains. It is of such a nature that
a conscript ordered to serve beyond those
territories could take out a writ of
habeas corpus, and eminent counsel are
of opinion that an objection so made
would succeed.
Mr. Curtin was tackled on this ques-
tion in Parliament last week by members
of his own party as well as by the Oppo-
sition. Replying to Mr. Brennan, he
said that he had given no authority for
an A.B.C. broadcast statement that tne
present law relating to conscription for
overseas service would in no circumstances
be departed from, and he made the same
reply to Mr. Calwell, who had quoted an-
other A.B.C. broadcast statement that the
Government might, if necessary, use mili-
tary forces outside Australia, adding in
this case that the use of troops outside
Australia was a matter of Government
policy “for the future.” And, replying to
Mr. Duncan-Hughes, he denied responsi-
bility for a newspaper statement that
the militia could be sent outside Aus-
tralia without an amendment of the
Defence Act, saying that he did not care
what newspapers said. Here he also
went a little further:
It is the practice for the Supreme Com-
mand to decide what forces it requires and
then submit recommendations to the Gov-
ernment. The Government decides whether
the requirements are to be fulfilled. No
request has been made by General Mac-
Arthur that has not been carried out by
the Government Nothing that General
MacArthur would like to have which is
within the power of the Australian Gov-
ernment to give him shall be refused.
It is possible that General MacArthur is
satisfied with these assurances. He may
be convinced that a Government that
set aside Section 68 of the Constitution
(“the command in chief of the naval
and military forces of the Common-
wealth is vested in the Governor-
General”) and placed him “in supreme
command” of our “navy, army and air
force,” at the same time directing “the
commanders of the Australian forces” to
“consider all his orders and instructions
as emanating from the Commonwealth
Government,” would have small respect
for the “legal barrier” when the time comes
for. the general to ask for Australian
militia to be sent to New Zealand, New
Caledonia, the Dutch East Indies or the
Philippines. But it doesn’t follow that
the President or the American people will
be equally satisfied.
Australians have never had a national
hero. They had opportunities enough for
hero-worship in the last war, and hero-
worship there was, but it was merely local
and ephemeral, even in the case of
V.Cs. His casual countrymen took
Monash himself for granted, so it is diffi-
cult for them to understand what Wash-
ington and Grant meant to the Ameri-
cans and what MacArthur means to them
today. If the war is over before the next
Presidential election and the general is
back in the great Republic crowned with
victory, he will in all probability be sent
to the White House, as Grant was. His
nation has sent him and his gallant men
to Australia, not only to defend this
country—and for that Australians,
“through all their history to the last,”
can never be too grateful—but to expel
the Japanese from the south-west Pacific
and smash them so thoroughly that there
will never be another Pearl Harbor. In
the name of this nation they have been
promised “support to the limit,” and they
will expect and accept nothing less.
The nation is ready for any sacrifice.
It needs only leadership, government—
government without grovelling to those
whom Mr. Curtin called “traitors” and
without unspeakable exhibitions of party
brawling. In God’s name let us have it!
Abram and Julius.
In the N.S.W. “Parliament” on October
16 it was asserted by a Mr. Abram Landa
that “certain members of the [University]
Senate whose names I shall want to know
before long have adopted the Nazi and
Fascist tactics of trying to get rid of a
man for the simple reason that he
happens to be a Jew.”
This Government contributes £150,000 a
year to the University This Parliament
cannot allow any display of Nazism or
Fascism in the seat of learning in this
country.
According to Abram, “the man in ques-
tion, who is young and brilliant, was
born in New Zealand” (he was not) and
“occupies the position of professor of
law in New Zealand.”
It is now proposed that he be deprived
of a position for which the professorial
staff of the University of Sydney thought
he was eligible because of his ability and
legal attainments. Perhaps the professor’s
crime is that he has been associated with
the Labor party in New Zealand. On the
other hand, it may be that he belongs to
the Jewish faith, but the fact is known that
he is a brilliant man whose academic quali-
fications have been recognised by those
persons in the University of Sydney who are
best qualified to judge—the professorial staff.
The sequel to this outburst would have
disconcerted anyone but a mudslinging
Labor politician. Among the “names I
shall want to know before long” were, it
transpired, those of men honored in the
community, and one. Justice Halse
Rogers, made a published statement
which was supported and supplemented
by Justice Davidson.
These gentlemen explained that there
were two vacant chairs at the Law School
and that the professorial board had
recommended two 34-year-old Maori-
landers, Mr. Julius Stone (Abram’s
protege) and Mr. Williams. Mr. Stone
and Mr. Williams “came before the board
and apparently made a great impression.”
But there were two young Australians,
Mr. Brown and Mr. Latham, bracketed
with the Maorilanders as “four outstand-
ing candidates,” who had been denied
this privilege, being on war service in
Britain, and “it was mot possible to judge
of the capabilities of the candidates as
teachers merely from published writings.”
Therefore, the board’s claim that it
“selected the best men” was “open to
doubt.”
Justices Halse Rogers and Davidson,
and with them former Attorney-General
Manning and Professor Peden, President
of the Legislative Council and head of
the Law School for many years, opposed
the Maoriland appointments, giving other
reasons. For one thing, it was “necessary
for the Senate to have regard to war con-
ditions.” Then there was no lawyer on
the professorial board or its committee,
nor had any lawyer been present at the
board’s deliberations, though “in the selec-
tion of candidates for chairs in other
faculties representatives of those facul-
ties were present.” Again, there was no
necessity for immediate appointments,
which would necessarily be for life, since
“satisfactory arrangements could be made
for carrying on the work of the Law
School in 1942.” Postponement would
not mean the exclusion of Mr. Williams
or Mr. Stone. It would mean only that
they would have their chance with other
applicants when War service ceased to
be a bar to full and impartial review of
all applications. These views, Justice
Halse Rogers proceeded, were “accepted
by every legal member of the Senate at
that time.”
But after Abram let himself go, sup-
port for Mr. Stone and Mr. Williams was
whipped up. Mr. Martin, the Attorney-
General, got himself appointed to the
Senate. The Council of the Teachers’
Federation asked for the positions to be
filled forthwith, overruling a representa-
tive who had argued that “it is up to
us to safeguard the interests of men who
have voluntarily undertaken to serve their
country, disregarding their own personal
advancement and safety.” “Honi Soit,”
an undergraduates’ publication, was active
in the same cause, bringing out “a
special two-page edition” and publishing
a petition signed by 141 law students,
whereupon some sarcastic brute ques-
tioned whether there could be “anything
like that number” of law students “who
are of non-military age, physically unfit
or unavailable for active service on other
sound grounds.” And though “every legal
member of the Senate” had been for post-
ponement till the Labor Government in-
tervened, first burying soldier-preference,
the final vote went in favor of the two
young gentlemen from Maoriland. Jus-
tice Halse Rogers and Davidson, Pro-
fessor Peden and former Attorney-
General Manning forthwith resigned
from the Senate as a protest.
Events have justified them. “War con-
ditions” have had such an effect on the
Law School roll that the number of
students, which reached 265 in 1940 and
230 in 1941 (it was round 210 when the
famous petition was signed), has slumped
to about 70 ; and the 70 comprise boys,
girls, rejected volunteers, young men in
reserved occupations which may not
remain reserved and a few gifted young-
sters who were sent to the University
under the Army nomination scheme.
Most of the October petitioners have
heard the call to sterner studies than
that of law. It has been the same with
other universities ; in Melbourne, for in-
stance, faculty-of-law figures show attend-
ances of 256 in 1941 and 92 in 1942 ;
and the Perth Law School has shut up
shop, the professor, a veteran of 1914-18,
being in khaki again. And it is now
indisputable that “satisfactory arrange-
ments” could have been made for keep-
ing the Sydney school going until the
claims of all candidates for professor-
ships, civilians and service men, could be
put forward by them in person.
The immigrant backed by Abram and
the McKell Government now figures in
the “A.B.C. Weakly” as Professor Julius
Stone, Challis Professor of Jurisprudence
and International Law, University of
Sydney. But let it not be supposed that,
as an effect of those “war conditions,”
time hangs heavy on his hands. In its
Anzac Day issue the “Weakly” made
him the subject of a blurb (with por-
trait) on one of its expensive pages,
which cost listeners, who willy-nilly
finance the publication, anything up to
£lOOO an issue. For, having presumably
satisfied itself that his sentiments are of
the right (not Right) color and, unlike
those of Mr. Kurt Offenburg, of Second-
Front-in-Europe notoriety, won’t need to
be put over the air by some person free
from the accent of Frankfort-on-the-
Main, A.B.C. snapped him up for “an
important new series of talks entitled
‘Free Nations in Arms.’ ” Two of these
talks have been assigned to Professor
Hancock, three to Mr. Black and four
to Dr. Duncan. The others—well, here
is the remainder of the syllabus:
No. 1: The Common Cause. Professor
Stone.
No. 2: American Democracy’s New Deal.
Professor Stone.
No. 3: A Government of Laws and Not
of Men. Professor Stone.
No. 6: America at Qur Side. Professor
Stone.
No. 8: Constitution and Liberty in Soviet
Russia. Professor Stone.
No. 11: Russia at Our Side. Professor
Stone.
No. 12: China in the Vanguard: Japanese
Aggression to 1941. Mr. Kurt
Offenburg (By Script).
No. 13: Social Forces Behind China’s
Nationalism. Mr. Kurt Offenburg
(By Script).
No. 15: China at Our Side. Professor
Stone.
No. 16; A Heritage That Lives. Professor
Stone.
No. 17: Appeasement’s Defeat. Professor
Stone.
No. 21: These Peoples Will Prevail. Pro-
fessor Stone.
So, like Mr. Lauda, who himself came
from a distant land, and Mr. Offenburg,
Professor Stone is doing well in this
country. Congratulations, professor!
PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr. Ward and Mr. Curtin.
Events continue to make Mr. Ward look
ridiculous, as well as offensive. Proclaim-
ing Government ownership a sovereign
remedy for coal strikes, he arrived at
Lithgow (N.S.W.) to find that all the
men and boys in the Government coal-
mine there had gone, on strike for the
day. They were out again last Friday,
650 of them, together with nearly the
same number of miners in “capitalistic”
pits; and Saturday is always a no-work
day—though not at Collie (W.A.).
So much for “the success of my mis-
sion to the coalfields.”
Still contradicting the P.M., Mr. Ward
shouted last week that “It is not the
miner, who strikes in desperation, who
is responsible for the loss of coal; it is
the fault of unscrupulous owners.” The
“unscrupulous owners,” he “explained,”
not only drive miners to “strike in
desperation,” but “keep large sections of
pits idle because they are less profitable,”
with the result that “many trained and
practical miners cannot find employ-
ment.”
Until he went on his recent pilgrim-
age, Mr. Ward had never been down a
mine. All his knowledge of coalmines
is derived from union bosses, miners and
workstoppers. Mr. Norman Mighell, the
N.S.W. Coal Commissioner, is naturally
better informed. Said Mr. Mighell, an
Old Digger with a dry humor:
I find it difficult to believe that the
Minister has not been misinformed. Nearly
every mine in the western district is look-
ing for “trained and practical miners.” The
State mine has been looking for them for
some considerable time. I estimate that
there is room for at least 300 men in the
mines now operating in N. S. Wales. How-
ever, I shall get in touch with Mr. Ward’s
department immediately, and try to locate
those “trained and practical miners” who
are now out of employment.
Thereupon Mr. Ward began bluster-
ingly, as usual, but he soon found it
expedient to drop the subject. The
Miners’ Federation was aware that Mr.
Mighell carried too many guns for him.
In another part of the paper which
reported Mr. Mighell’s remarks, it was
stated that a general one-day stoppage
of N.S.W. coalmining was threatened
because of “an inter-union dispute.” The
Federated Enginedrivers and Firemen
objected to the Miners’ Federation in-
cluding enginedrivers and pumpers in its
claim for a 10 p.c. increase in pay and
“classifying” them at less than they are
getting under the enginedrivers’ award.
The president of the Miners’ Federation
said his concern would not be dictated to
by the Federated Enginedrivers and Fire-
men. No mention of “unscrupulous
owners,” but those persons would be
involved if the enginedrivers held stop-
work meetings as they proposed to do.
Mr. Curtin met Parliament with Mr.
Ward still his Minister for Labor and
National Service, though Mr. Ward had
not only repudiated Mr. Curtin’s state-
ment as to the causes of coal stoppages,
in effect giving him the lie, but had
publicly refused to adopt the policy of
the Cabinet regarding Statutory Rule 77.
Mr. Curtin should have dismissed him
there and then. At the instance of Mr.
Blackburn Statutory Rule 77 was put
to the vote, and Mr. Ward voted for it.
So he is a squib as well as a public
calamity.


Privileged—Perhaps !
Almost every week some N. S. Wales
citizen is slandered by a mudslinging poli-
tician under cover of privilege. Innuendo
is the method preferred, and a recent
example was put in the form of a ques-
tion : —•
Mr. W. Davies: I ask the Deputy
Premier whether it is a fact that Albert,
of music fame, and Captain Patrick, of
Von Luckner fame, are still allowed to use
their launches in Sydney Harbor.
A neighbor replied in “S. M. Herald’
that “Mr, Albert’s yacht is moored
directly in front of my home in Elizabeth
Bay, and I can say quite definitely that it
has not left its moorings once since petrol
for boats was discontinued.” Captain
Patrick replied on his own account. He
could have said that the craft re-
ferred to by his assailant is a tiny dinghy
with paddles. What he did say was this:
I have never owned a motor-boat or
cruiser. Neither has my company. The
only cruiser that I have had anything to
do with is one in which I served during the
last war, and my son is in command of a
corvette in this war, risking his life in such
places as Singapore or Java so that mem-
bers of Parliament will have the freedom
to say what they like in Parliament.
A case of slander direct was that of
Mr. Carlton, the Sydney Government’s
Whip. In the Budget debate on Septem-
ber 25 Mr. Carlton alleged that the
Director of Gun Ammunition, a party
to a Supreme Court case, had packed a
jury of four from a panel of 16, all
“actively associated” with him “in busi-
ness ventures,” had secured a secret docu-
ment from the Department of Informa-
tion, had been concerned with his soli-
citor in “deliberately robbing thousands
of people” who “put their money” in a
goldmining company, and had, also in
concert with the solicitor, manipulated
registered documents with a view to
defrauding the Taxation Department.
These charges and others having been
denied, the Labor Attorney-General
undertook to have immediate inquiries
made. He has not published the result,
and Mr. Carlton remains Government
Whip.
The Bulletin, for its part, is used to
being venomously attacked by N.S.W.
politicians and by Communists in the
poisonous sheets which continue to come
out somehow; and it has now been
traduced by a Tasmanian Senator, Mr.
Lamp, in these terms;
Will the Minister issue instructions for
all the Fascist houses in Australia to be
searched for a secret Japanese wireless
transmitting set? If so, will he commence
with the premises at 44 Bradley’s Head-
road, Mosman, and The Bulletin office
at 252 George-street, Sydney.
Senator Lamp is a returned soldier. So
is the occupant of 44 Bradley’s Head-
road, Mosman. He was a Fifth Division
major of artillery in the last war and
he is a member of the V.D.C. Two
of his sons are soldiers. Two floors of
his building are given over to war
workers rent-free. Every service man
from his staff has his salary made up—
in one case, the office finds £lO a week.
Said the President of the Senate, Mr.
Cunningham, “I rule the question out of
order, because it is not in the best in-
terests of the nation.” The Minister,
Senator Ashley, had previously asked
that the question be placed on the notice
paper. On Senator Lamp repeating it,
the President, for the reason previously
given, ruled it out of order again.
Thereupon Senator Lamp seems to
have taken a Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
reporter into his confidence:
Senator Ashley has promised me that he
will send my question and facts I dis-
closed to him to the Acting Attorney-
General (Mr. Beasley) immediately. As
this indicates to- me that the facts I possess
will be investigated by the Attorney-
General’s department, I have decided not
to carry the matter further in the Senate
for the present.
On the face of it, this was a repetition
of the slander without protection of privi-
lege. Before the matter is taken further
it might be advisable for Senator Lamp
to consult a friendly lawyer.
Sam, the Tent maker.
“0.T.”: When the military called for
tents I offered mine, having read some-
where that tents and tenting mateiial
were as scarce as hen’s teeth. About
a month after the military collected the
tent I got this from S’Sam Walder’s Syd-
ney tent-making concern:
For the present the requirements of
defence canvas equipment have been satis-
fied, and we hope to be able to let you
have a quotation for any motor tents or
camping equipment which you may desire
in the near future.
“Gripes! ” I said. A few days later one
paper informed me that Minister Beasley
had received a report on the matter, also
that S’Sam called it “sheer coincidence
.... at the time the circular was sent out
the firm had no canvas and still has
o Continued at foot of page 8.)
Honorable Boss Arrives.
Honorable “Ek Dum” with Secret Radio.
Honorable Lindsay Engaged on
Not-so-honorable Cartoon.
Social Editress
O - Nora - San
Brings in the
Tea.
“A Wandering Minstrel I.’*
—“T. the R,”
Honorable Cashier Pays Honorable
Artists in Yen,
Honorable Editor Writes Honorable
Ward Leader.
Honorable “Pilot” Leams They’re
NOT Racing.
STAFF STUDIES, BY LAMP-LIGHT.


E I
HOW TO BE HEALTHY
Constipation clogs the system and causes'
many ills. Doctors say, “To be healthy
you must keep free from constipation.*'
EYAL FIGSEN, the gentle laxative, aids
Nature in a natural way. It acts gently
and mildly to give you comfortable relief.
Easy and pleasant to take, Figsen is just
as good for youngsters as it is for grown-
ups. Get NYAL FIGSEN to-day and see
how easily this natural laxative will cor-
rect constipation and improve your health.
Sold by chemists everywhere—l/3i a tin,
jY he next best thing to Nature ...
Nya I Figsen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
BRANDAUERS
G*
t*'*
:
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRAHDADKE * 00, LU, BIEUISOUAM. EHO
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 WAYS’ TKIALi OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone ...
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
l
Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
none,” but it had “a limited supply of
calico.”
In another paper S’Sam intimated that
thousands of the circulars which were
distributed were addressed to old clients,
and that tents for civilians could be made
from “light-quality material.”
I never was an old client of S’Sam’s,
and I am wondering who gave him my
name. And, reading the circular again, I
see canvas is the only material men-
tioned, and that set me recalling that
S’Sam was the knight who said the Royal
Show could be held by quartering troops
from the Showground under canvas in
Centennial Park. These things be full
of mystery.
POLITICAL POINTS
At Canberra last week the uncompro-
misingly war-minded Cameron group of
S.A. members took charge of the two
Opposition parties and their several fac-
tions and tried to get the Defence Act
remoulded into a real 1942 war measure
i»stead of a half-and-half leftover from
the last war. The two Independents, who
seem to have formed a no-election party,
supported the Government, and McCall
found once more that urgent business
of an unspecified nature had summoned
him to Sydney. The amendment was
defeated by 31 to 27. There now seem
to be three Opposition parties and two
Ministerial parties.
At present, militiamen are required to
serve only in Australia and its territories.
In September, 1939, Labor tried to get
this obligation restricted to service on the
mainland and in Tasmania. His hand
forced by the South Australians, Fadden
moved for the striking out of “all terri-
torial limitations upon the power of the
Commonwealth Government to employ
Australian military forces.” He spoke
with obvious reluctance, and Hughes did
not speak at all, except to call Ward a
liar.
In the Defence Act debate Ward was
given the lie five times in a few minutes.
He was invited by Holt to “come out-
side.” At that stage it looked as if there
would be three or four fist fights, one
“outside” and the rest inside ; but nothing
more than mouth fighting occurred.
Forde protests that his Government
has done everything General MacArthui
has asked for. The point is whether it
will do everything the general asks for
when the time comes to attack the enemy
in territory he now holds.
One of the troubles at Canberra is that
so much squibbing goes on there. Two
unspeakable exhibitions of squibbing
were given on consecutive days —first, by
Ward, who voted for the retention of
Statutory Rule 77, which he swore he
would never enforce; and, second, by
McCall, who dodged the division on the
Defence Act amendment. Alleged that
McCall is to be chairman of some com-
mittee or other the Rat Committee
perhaps.
In Friday’s debate Curtin was as un-
easy as Fadden. He declared that the
amendment was prompted by political
motives ; that when the Menzies Gov-
ernment administered the Defence Act
it retained “the specific clause keeping
the militia in Australian territories” ; that
the Act in its present form had stood the
shock of two wars (“it was upheld by
two referendums,” interposed Scullin,
whose Government killed compulsory
training), and that there were now
in Australia “land forces, unaffected
by the legal limitation, as large as the
previous Government sent away.” In
any case, “in the absence of sea and air
superiority, talk of an offensive is mean-
ingless.” Here Cameron tartly reminded
him that in a broadcast to the Britons
he had said “The United Nations will
drive the Japanese back to their island
home ; faced with the threat of an in-
vasion our armies are preparing to take
the offensive.”
What might have been offered as com-
ments on the ghastly proceedings at Can-
berra on Friday appeared in the week-
end papers. General Blarney said: “We
shall prepare to move forward, carrying
the fight into enemy territory as soon as
possible; that is the chief aim of our
effort.” Currey, the V.C., asked whether
it was true that 34 A.I.F. men now in
militia units had been fined £2 each for
having refused to take off their color
badges fairly earned on overseas service.
And the recall of General MacArthur
was demanded for the third time by the
New York “Daily News.” This agitation
began before the general left the Philip-
pines, and Wendell Willkie supported it.
There are races as usual at Albion
Park, Brisbane, and more races than
usual at Ascot, Melbourne; and a
Federal Labor man from another State has
taken the unusual course of asking S.A.
Premier Playford to lift his ban on racing
and betting shops. What bird is behind
this?
Though the Government has refused
to make the radio license fee £1 Is., as
Anzac Day Celebrations — Banned. May Day Celebrations — Permitted.
recommended by the Parliamentary com-
mittee, the Broadcasting Bill gives
A.B.C. another Is. —11s. altogether—from
the 20s. collected. Why this should be
thought necessary isn’t clearly explained,
but the increase will mean about £66,200
a year, which should cover losses on
the “Weakly.” Apart from this and one
or two other aspects, such as the decision
to charge an extra 10s. for every addi-
tional set used by a householder —the
10s. for car radios seems fair enough—
Ashley’s bill looks a pretty good one,
especially since it is open to improving
amendments. Restrictions on political
use of radio, encouragement of local
talent, a check on certain forms of radio
advertising and recruitment of A.B.C.
staff on a competitive basis have long
been needed.
J. T. Lang took the shape of a willy-
willy the other day and whirled in
amongst the N.S.W. McKnells and their
Motor Vehicles (Third Party Insurance)
Bill. There was “uproar,” there were
cries of “liar” and “Dago,” but the willy-
willy Whirled the faster, though it “shrank
with dismay” when it heard the bill
called a “Labor bill.” Finally, on the
question of whether he had been allowed
to express an opinion in Caucus, Lang
was “repudiated” and his statements de-
clared “untrue and contrary to Labor
principles.
Seven more committees, one Federal
and six State, have been set up, this time
to “control” potatoes. Aims and objects
are as usual. If achievement is as usual,
one potato will grow where two grew
before.
The six Australian Premiers are to
meet the P.M. more frequently. The 48
U.S. State Governors have been sum-
moned to Washington “with a view to
the elimination of State boundaries and
other barriers hampering the U.S. war
effort.” These Americans do lots of
things better.
Cooper, of Queensland, should get
a vote of sympathy from every other
State Treasurer. A week or so ago he was
heard defending his dreadful wages tax
—he calls it “development tax” —with the
statement that 12,000 Queenslanders were
registered as unemployed. Just before
that fellow-Minister Bulcock was com-
plaining that there was no labor for land
production. Now fellow-Minister Foley
says the number receiving ration-relief
assistance is 5747. Foley seemed proud
of his figures. Cooper may not be so
proud of Foley.
The Canadian people have released
their Government from its pledge not to
conscript men for overseas service. There
were overwhelming Yes votes in eight
of the nine provinces, Ontario, the most
populous, leading with 84 p.c,; French
Quebec was 72 p.c. No, Generous
Canadians have been campaigning for
the sending of Canadian troops to Aus-
tralia, and the people have, in effect, given
their consent. The Australian Govern-
ment’s attitude as stated in the Senate by
Fraser, the Assistant Army Minister, is
that “if it becomes necessary to send
militiamen outside the Australian terri-
tories it is not anticipated that there will
be any difficulty in getting personnel to
go.”
S.A. Crown Solicitor Hannan to the
Adelaide Legacy Club:
Are we going to scrap our present system
just because there is a war on and the
Federal Government wants more money?
No ; merely because it is no dashed good!
On March 25, the day on which
national-register cards were due, Ward
announced that “the heavy penalties pro-
vided under the regulations — his —“for
people who failed to register would be
fully applied.’* During ensuing weeks he
admitted with obvious reluctance that 10
p.c. of the cards issued had been re-
turned incomplete or “informal,” as
electoral officers say, and that 150,000
people had not returned cards at all. Last
week he admitted disingenuously that
the number of backsliders was still
100,000 or so ; but “the heavy penalties
are not to be fully applied immediately.”
Oh no.
Prosecutions for not registering will not
be lodged for some time, as electoral rolls
have to be re-checked. A check is being
made on electoral rolls first and then on
fighting-service rolls.
And then perhaps it will occur to some-
one to check trade-union rolls. It would
be dreadful to impose “heavy penalties”
on coalminers.
Last month the Grantham by-election
in England was won by an Independent.
Last week, in by-elections for Wallasey
and Rugby, Government speakers said a
vote against Government candidates
would be a vote against Churchill. Inde-
pendents won again.
Said the new Independent member for
Rugby: “My election is a call to the
Government to achieve unity of
strategy in command, to open a second
front and win victory this year.” He
says the people are set on a second front
and their instinct is sounder than the
knowledge of the war leaders. If the
British have really become a race of
amateur strategists, God help the
Tommies, seamen and airmen!
The Anzac Dawn Service and the
Anzac marches of old (and new) soldiers
in Sydney were banned on April 25 on
the ground that the authorities didn’t
want crowds collecting in the streets. By
May 3 the international position must
have improved out of sight—though the
cutting of the Burma Road and the fall
of Mandalay scarcely suggested it; any-
way, no objection was made to 5000
“May Day” marchers in the streets nor
a 25,000 “May Day” crowd in Sydney
Domain. There was a “Bulletin float”
in the “May Day” march, showing copies
of the paper covered with swastikas. It
may possibly have been dragged in as
an “argument” for a Second Front in
Western Europe, the subject of much of
the “oratory.” But didn’t the Red mob
support a Second Front in Eastern
Europe in September, 1939?
Interrupting their war effort early last
week, the N.S.W. coalies worked three
full days without a strike. But normalcy
quickly returned, and Sydney papers were
able to announce before the week ended
that 700-odd men were out and 5450 tons
of coal had been lost. It may be cheer-
ing to know that the morale of the miners
is so high that little things like the trouble
in Burma can’t put them out of their
stride.
Replying to a critic in the “Age” Dun-
stan said that from the very outbreak of
the war his State Government had offered
to make the existing State machinery
available to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to avoid costly and unnecessary
duplication. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment had elected to appoint its own
overriding committees and departments,
and people were now finding it difficult
to work their way through the maze of
boards and commissions operating in
Victoria. So the State Government is
superfluous!


MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
BACKACHES
This Old' Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
It is surprising how quickly many
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
3 pints a day and so get rid of 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If your kidneys don't work well, this waste
fetays In the body and may become poisonous
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Fre-
quent or scanty passages with smarting and
burning are further evidence that something
Is wrong with the kidneys or bladder.
Don't wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . .
■used successfully the world over by millions
of people suffering with backache and other
kidney disorders. They give quick relief and
will help flush out the 15 miles of kidney
tubes. So bo sure you get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PIUS.
STOP™* Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® LocaHan
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST.. SYMKEV.
2o
WUI
ao
*
ftU £ .?■
%
%
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
319 George Street, Sydney.
BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA
Sleep Sound All Night.
The largest selling medicine for bron-
chitis and asthma in all of blizzardly
cold Canada is Buckley’s Canadiol
Mixture (triple acting)—sold in Aus-
tralia—a blessing to thousands.
There’s nothing so safe and sure in
the world —2 or 3 doses in sweetened
hot water just before bedtime and
many a sufferer from strangling, chok-
ing Asthma has found relief and a
good night’s rest—and that bad, old.
persistent, bronchial cough has left
you. Get a bottle at any chemist or
store. You can depend on it. Buckley’s
Canadiol gives definite quick relief from
that choking,gasping struggle for breath.
Sluckleifi
CANADIOL
MIXTURE
A SINGLE SIP PROVES IT
PERSONAL ITEMS
There are still 14 members of the first
Federal Parliament in the land of the
living. They are Robert Best, J. S.
Clemons, R. A. Crouch, Hume-Cook, Joe
Cook, W. G. Higgs, Isaac Isaacs, J. W.
Kirwan, Hugh de Largie, the imperishable
v; n „ rviv/r Tt t Vv v f r-
n irJ- O Keefe. George
Pearce Henry Wilhs and of course Billy.
It is 41 years since they faced each other
across the benches for the first time, and
most of them have clung around the poll-
tical arena in some form or other. A
revival meeting is to be held at Parlia-
ment House, Melbourne, on Friday. The
only absentee will be Clemons’ who
lives in England. There will be dis-
tinguished guests who will be put under
a restriction never imposed on Federal
members themselves—they will be per-
mitted to make only three - minute
speeches.
Here denicted bv Coventrv is Maior-
rpnpr , . id D y ‘ . J
General Samuel Roy Burston, lately
returned to Australia from his job of
MAJOR-GENERAL S. R. BURSTON.
Director of A.I.F. Medical Services in the
Middle East to succeed Major-General
Maguire as Director-General. He had
a distinguished career in the 1914-18 war
on Gallipoli (his father commanded an
infantry brigade at The Landing) and in
Egypt and France, and went off to the
Middle East in this war as a brigadier.
Born in Melbourne, he is 54.
The Old Diggers’ affectionate com-
plaint that
The infantry are in the line,
The artillery just behind them;
But when you want the A.S.C.
I’m blanked if you can find them.
is unlikely to be heard in the north,
where Lieut.-Colonel A, P. O. White is
Assistant Director of Supplies and Trans-
port. White has been in Ally Sloper’s
Cavalry long enough to regard it with
affection. He went from Duntroon to
the 1914-18 disturbance, then attended
Camberley (Eng.) and special A.S.C.
courses for four years. He came home
in 1935 as Chief Instructor of the A.S.C.
training school in Victoria, and was
seconded to the A.I.F, in 1940.
No Australian has yet been made an
archbishop in Victoria, but there have
been plenty of bishops. The latest
is the Bishop of Gippsland, Arch-
deacon Donald Burns Blackwood. For-
merly Archdeacon of Hobart, he was
born in the Apple Island and educated in
State schools there, at Queen’s College,
Hobart, and the University. His only
service outside the Speck has been of a
military nature —he was chaplain in the
Great War with the 13th Brigade, A.1.F.,
and later senior chaplain of the 4th Divi-
sion. The bravery he displayed at Vil-
lers Bret, in 1918 earned him the M.C.
Married, with two sons and two
daughters, he is 57.
The D.F.C. has been granted to Flight-
Lieutenant Bruce Frederick Rose, who
lost a leg last April when baling out from
a ’plane that had been shot down. An
artificial leg was fitted a couple of months
later, and Rose resumed operations in
October with a fighter squadron. Since
then he has been engaged in numerous
fights and brought down a long tale of
Luftwaffe. He comes from Ivanhoe
(Vic.).
Whenever padres get together after the
war to talk about whatever padres talk
about. Father Kevin McMahon will be
able to claim “I was the first Australian
reverend attached to the U.S. Army in
this country.” His appointment has
been announced by the Chief Chaplain
of the U.S. Army. The padre was born
at Middle Park (Melb.), educated by the
Christian Brothers and studied for the
Carmelite Order at Kew and Doncaster.
He served at Alberton (S.A.) before
returning to Melbourne to enlist. He
is 35.
Two R.A.A.F. men, Flying-Officer N.
W. Webster and Sergeant L. M. Van
Praag, have received the George Medal
for courage of a high order. Shot down
by two Jap fighters, their ’plane made a
forced landing on the open sea, sank and
left the crew of four floundering in the
water. Webster handed over his life-
jacket to one of the crew who could not
swim, and with Van Praag supported the
other semi-conscious member of the crew
and helped the non-swimmer to
shore. They were in the water for
30 hours and had to beat off shark
attacks. Dirt - track enthusiasts
know Van Praag as the rider who
won the world’s championship in
1936.
Frank Langstone, Maoriland’s
High Commissioner to Canada, is
one of the most colorful of M.L.’s
colorful Labor party. He had a
tough spin as a youth, with little
opportunity for education, and
emerged in the tail of the Labor
party when it was a negligible
quantity. He won the Waimarino
seat in 1922, lost it in 1925, but
won it again in 1928, and has held
it since then. Like most of Maori-
land’s Labor Ministers, he is a
hard worker, and the latest (1941)
New Zealand Official Year-Book
lists him “as Minister of Lands,
Commissioner of State Forests,
Minister of External Affairs,
Native Minister, Minister for the
Cook Islands and Minister in
Charge of Native Trust and Valua-
tion Departments, Land for Settle-
ments, Scenery Preservation and
Tourist and Health Resorts,”
Langstone was chosen to go with
ex-Premier Coates on a commer-
cial mission to the U.S., and by
the originality of his public utterances
soon attracted the attention of American
newspapers.
“Galloping Jack” Royston, C.M.G.,
D.S.O. and brigadier-general, dead in
Natal (S. Africa) at 82, earned his nick-
name in 1916, when he used 13 horses
in a day riding up and down the lines
at Romani. He commanded Australian
mounted infantry in two wars, and was
an honored visitor to Melbourne during
the centenary shivoo. Royston was a
trooper in the Zulu War of 1879.
Another Australian type that
won’t be kept down is Lieut.-
Colonel I. J. Hooker, a Clayfield
(Brisbane) man. Hooker was a
militia captain when the war
started, but went straight into the
A.I.F. and left in command of a
signals unit, the first active-service
unit to leave Brisbane for foreign
parts. First Libya and Greece
entertained him, and he was left
in Crete when that resort was
abandoned. A few weeks later
he bobbed up in Alexandria
without a word of apology, be-
came a major and is now back in
Australia attached to corps signals.
J. H. Lienhop, the Bendigo
M.L.C. who has been made an
honorary Minister in the Dun-
stan Government —vice the late
H. Pye—took his seat in the
Council in 1937. A U.C.P. man.
he is a stock and station agent
in his spare time, and holds a few
thousand acres in Riverina, north
Victoria and Gippsland. Racing
is his chief diversion—he is presi-
dent of Bendigo Jockey Club.
Julian Ashton, dead at 91, had been
for half a century Australia’s leading
teacher of painting and one of its
leading artists. He was the preceptor
of Lambert, Hilder, Gruner, Streeton,
Conder, Long, Mahony and many other
well-known painters. Born in Cornwall,
son of an English father and an Italian
mother, Ashton had his early art training
in London and at Julien’s in Paris. He
came to Australia at 27 and soon found
employment for his clever pencil with the
“Illustrated Australian News.” Later he
joined the staff of the “Picturesque
Atlas” (where he was a colleague
of The Bulletin’s William Mac-
leod) and travelled all over Aus-
tralia sketching the scenery. In the
middle ’eighties he transferred his resi-
dence from Melbourne to Sydney. He
was a trustee of the N, S. Wales National
Gallery for ten years, and served as presi-
dent of the Royal Art Society and Society
of Artists. His early experiences, parti-
cularly on the commercial side, made him
a very well-equipped, versatile painter,
and Australian galleries are proud to en-
shrine his landscapes, portraits, figure
JULIAN ASHTON.
(Modelled by Frith.)
studies and still-life pieces. The National
Portrait Gallery, London, has one of his
pictures. He painted less (but still taught
actively) as his years grew heavy upon
him, but even in recent times he did some
beautifully mellow, suave water-colors.
He had great charm of manner, and not
only inspired his pupils but won their
sincere affection. And he cherished and
served his ideals to the end.
It is not carelessness on the part of
Frith or Flight-Lieut. Frank Coker that
the top button of the airman’s coat has
been left undone; that small sartorial
SPITFIRE PILOT.
detail is the traditional privilege of fighter
pilots, and Coker has a pretty good claim
to it. His flying time adds up to 500
hours, of which 200 have been flown in
Spitfires. He went in after the German
warships when they slipped through the
Channel; figured in the raid on Brune-
val; has many times gone looking for
Nazis over the Channel and France, and
has downed two of them. He looks a
fighter— neat and springy build, good jaw,
firm mouth and plenty of bottom lip —
and tops it off with a good Australian
grin. A Sydney man, Coker joined up
at the outbreak of the war, trained in
Canada and Scotland, and until his return
to Australia was flying with Finucane’s
Spitfire squadron. The only defeat it
has suffered so far was in a football
match against the W.A.A.Fs.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 56, Father C. F. James,
preacher, lecturer and orator. Educated at
Christian Brothers’ and St. Patrick’s, Manly
(N.S.W.), he had some years in the U.S.A.
before settling in Adelaide about 1927.
At Fairlie (M.L.), at 69, Charles John Talbot,
farmer and public man. He was M.P. for
Temuka 1914-19, and his municipal services
covered a span of 45 years.
E. W. Ackland, electrical engineer, Welling-
ton (M.L.), dead at 67, was born in Christ-
church but had all his early experience on
Australian tramway installations. He was the
founder of the National Electric and Engineer-
ing Co., now one of the largest concerns of its
kind in the Dominion.
At 86, R. E. Williams, of Auckland (M.L.),
one of the Dominion's best-known mining engi-
neers. He was born in Cornwall, got his first
mining experience in Nevada, on the Comstock
Lode, had a spell at Broken Hill and wound
up as underground manager at Waihi, retiring
in 1913.
Suddenly, at 59, Rev. Percy Paris, of Well-
ington (M.L.), one of Fernland’s outstanding
Methodist ministers. He was chairman of his
district, and had had many years' service as
editor of the “Methodist Times.”
Dead at 86, Jacob Ziman, one of Maori-
land’s best-known Hebrews. Years ago, during
a war scare, he offered £lOO,OOO towards a
battle-cruiser if other citizens would contribute
a similar amount. The offer was not accepted
and, to prove his part of it was genuine, Ziman
gave the £lOO,OOO to Reefton, a small mining
centre in which he was interested, and it was
used to provide a library and other public
buildings. Born in Russian Poland, Ziman
lived in Auckland and was a spearhead of the
local synagogue.
In Adelaide, at close on 79, George Jeffrey,
a director of New Guinea Airways, New
Guinea Gold and Onkaparinga (S.A.) Woollen
Mills. A lightweight Scot of unbounded energy,
he was the man who over 40 years ago induced
the S.A. School of Mines to take up wool-
classing and became its first instructor. His
Australian Woolclassing and Practical Hand-
book on Sheep are classics in that field.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”: Beyond the head of Kogarah
Bay, an arm of Sydney’s George’s River,
was a large tract of swampy land to
which “king” tides penetrated. The land
sloping upwards from it was cultivated
by Chinese market gardeners. Someone
got the idea of reclaiming it with silt
pumped from the headwaters. To a
Government singularly irresponsive to
calls to action the suggestion was at first
unpalatable, but it began to look like
a good vote-catcher, so the reclamation
was made a Depression dole-job. The
golf links which now occupy a portion
of that once-swampy area are rapidly be-
coming a delight to the eye with their
border of young trees. Passing along a
new road which dissects an area of vacant
land outside the links gates on a recent
day, I was struck by two notices —
“Stevens Park” and “Spooner Park” —
twin monuments to those who® had
authorised the work. But, while Spooner
was comparatively well-kept, Stevens was
a tangled mass of paspalum and old tins,
dotted with a few dead trees. Which
shows the difference between an extinct
or quiescent politician and one still in
full eruption.
* * * *
“Lang Lang”: I was more than
“rocked back on my heels” (B. 29/4/’42)
in a south Gippsland dining-room one
morning. An obviously Scotch family
trooped into breakfast and ordered por-
ridge. When the plates came, parents
and two youngsters surveyed the mess
in them thoughtfully and disappointedly
for a moment or two, then Father arose,
went to the bar and, returning with a
flask of whisky, proceeded to pour a
goodly libation into each plate. There-
after breakfast proceeded with obvious
enjoyment. Neither youngster was above
10 years.
* * 4; *
“A.R.P.”: May I call the attention of
Bulletin artists to an important fact
which must be observed when drawing
wardens’ posts? To make the picture
familiar and completely beyond doubt,
it is necessary to have at least one entire
wall covered with N.E.S. notices, not
one lone notice, as Percy Lindsay depicts
(B. 29/4/’42). No warden could possibly
feel at home in a post so denuded.
“V. Cluse”: The warden-instructor in
one of our suburb’s A.R.P. posts had re-
ceived several sheets of new instructions
on both gas and incendiary bombs, which
he proceeded to read to the assembled
wardens. As his voice droned on interest
waned somewhat —most of his hearers
had heard the information innumerable
times and most were convinced that no
Japanese would waste petrol to carry
gas bombs when h.e. would serve a
better purpose—until one warden, hav-
ing lit a cigarette, regarded it with dis-
taste and murmured bitterly “Why any-
body should be afraid of gas after the
kind of tobacco we get these days is
beyond me! ” Then the end of the smoke
crackled and bits of red tobacco stung
his neck. “Or incendiaries, either,” he
yelled, beating himself frantically.
* H* afe *
“Pawang”: Brisbane’s Medical Officer
of Health recently gave details of the
extraordinary success of diphtheria im-
munisation in that city. There has been
a similar success in Melbourne. In 1939-
40 sufficient material for 13,700 immu-
nisations was issued, and in 1940-41 the
issue was more than doubled. In 1940
no immunised child was attacked by
diphtheria, and only seven mild cases
were reported amongst children partly
immunised. It has been the same in the
country. There are approximately 30,000
new babies annually in Victoria.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Zake”: I see that a Melbourne tailor-
ing firm, stressing the possibility of moths
ruining husbands’ civvy clothes, invites
wives to bring them along and have them
altered. With the high cost of materials
the scheme has its points for the
soldier’s wife, with whom the prob-
lem of clothing the youngsters on a
reduced income is*an acute one. But I
recall the sad case of George. George
joined the A.I.F. Two months after-
wards he was still in camp and the war
looked like being long. Moreover, George
had put on a couple of stone in weight.
He would probably not need for a good
while the evening suit hanging up in his
“ It's the last time YOU’LL be secretary of our tea club.”
loughboy, and if he did it wouldn’t fit
him. So his wife cut the strides down
for young Billy, unpicked the coat and
fashioned a smaller coat to go with it.
A couple of weeks later George was dis-
charged from the A.I.F. for a physical
defect, and since then he has dropped
the extra weight he had put on. What
George said about the suit-cutting would
provide material for an excellent die-
tionary of pure Australianese.
* * * *
“Jachris”: It was suggested vaguely
that taxi-drivers in Sydney were over-
charging American soldiers, and that
city’s flip-flap morning daily, true to its
best traditions, hastened to interview
drivers. Its reporter discovered that
drivers found the visitors so generous
with tips that there was no particular
incentive to overcharge them. But over-
charging (on occasion) was freely ad-
mitted. Anybody considered “unsuspect-
ing enough to pay” was likely to be
bilked, irrespective of whence he came.
A Jehu whose dealings with American
service men had evidently made him
c ... ... i u-
familiar with the language, gave his
methods clearly: “When a simple guy
gets in I say to myself ‘Here’s a bunny,’
and I sock him.” After that it should be
interesting to know what the investigator
claimed as expenses for his travels.
* * * *
“Virgule”: “S.T.S.” (B. 22/4/’42)
makes out a not unreasonable case for
“ Ready . Charlie?”
the acceptance, in certain usages, of
“alright.” But the authorities on Eng-
lish seem to be of one mind in their
disapproval and rejection of the one-
word form of “all right.” They will have
none of it. Says Fowler: “The words
should always be written separate ; there
are no such forms as all-right, allright or
alright. .. .This rule holds not only when
the two words are completely indepen-
dent, as in The three answers, though
different, are all right, but also where
they may be regarded as forming a more
or less fixed phrase.” For another
example, here are the forthright views
of “John o’ London”: “I regard ‘alright’
as the most fusty, invalidish, picture-
postcard misconcoction that has aspired
to a place in the language. It unites
two words, only to weaken both, and it
impoverishes the idea to be conveyed.
‘All right’ is really a contraction of ‘All’s
right,’ but wise contraction will go no
farther. Each word increases the other’s
value.” I leave it at that.
* * * *
“Clooter”: The credulous reporter
again, this time the Colombo correspon-
dent of London “Daily Mail.” He inter-
viewed a “young Japanese pilot” taken
prisoner: —■
The Japanese prisoner answered most
questions readily. He said that as he was
now dead to Japan, he was willing to work
for Britain. He thought he could be most
useful in the assembly shop of an aircraft
factory. It might have been a sabotage
ruse, but I doubt it. He seemed so dis-
interested and so utterly emotionless.
Well, well. All we have to do is cap-
ture a few thousand Japs and we’ll have
no more man-power problems.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Vic. Nat. Gallery is a depress-
ing spectacle at present because A.R.P.
has necessitated a weeding out of the
good pictures from the bad. The good
pictures, with few exceptions, have been
transported to places of concealment.
Wandering round the denuded halls gaz-
ing at the array of commonplace, stereo-
typed pictures, I fell to wondering why
it was that the official mind apparently
works better in a crisis than in more
normal times. If the officials had used
the same judgment in buying their pic-
tures as they have in stowing them away
the public would have been saved thou-
sands of pounds and have a gallery it
could be proud of.
4c * * *
“Frosty”: Now that petrol is so
severely rationed a lot of people are re-
discovering the fact that the best way to
see the countryside is to walk through it.
Tried it myself on a sunny Sunday after-
noon and went re-exploring the bush-
lands that lie between Sydney’s North
Shore line and the Lane Cove River,
There used to be a lovely walk out that
way 15 years ago, through a valley car-
peted in grass and inhabited by a hun-
dred varieties of wildflowers. I had
difficulty in recognising it now —it is
traversed by motor roads. I suppose the
valley is still public land—the map
describes it as part of “Lane Cove
National Park,” but nobody walks there
now _ we ’re all so drilled into the notion
that roads are merely the boundaries of
private property. I blame the motor-car
f or that. But its dominion is being
shaken. Throughout a ramble that took
j n eight miles of road I was continually
passing parties of young girls on bicycles,
Only very occasionally was there a young
m an among them—the war is making
young men scarce for such amenities. The
g i r i s looked so bright and happy I was
reconciled to the loss of my wildflowers.
* * * «
« o xmead”: A Sydney paper, in the
f n ... '
course of an article on the sixteenth birtn-
Prin Elizabeth refers to
ot the , *7 I T llzabeth ’ reters
the young lady as the heir apparent. But
13 s l* e> I always thought that the ei
apparent to a throne (or anything e se)
was P erson who, supposing he (or
she) lived long enough, was bound to
succeed the present occupant. But if
Elizabeth’s royal parents should give her
a little brother she would no longer stand
at the head of the line of succession.
Surely, until such a contingency is dis-
missed, she can be no more than the heir
presumptive.
t * * *
“K.”: Germany has long laid claim to
Shakspeare, and apparently the belief
has its supporters outside the Reich.
“Refugee effects” mentioned in an
auctioneer’s ad. in “S. M. Herald” in-
cluded “German classics by Schiller,
Heine, Grillparzer, Shakspeare, Uhland,
Lessing and Stifter.”
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Radio commentators
and others used to take it as axiomatic
that the natives of Malaya were four-
square behind their white masters. Now
they take it as certain that no native
population can see any reason why they
should run risks in the service of foreign
leaders, but regard a change of control
as merely the substitution of one over-
lordship for another. This is just as far
from the truth as the other. People wffl
always follow the individual, whatever
his race or color, who is capable of in-
spiring them with devotion.
CUT IT OUT.
“The habit of raising your eyebrows in con-
versation gives you a lined forehead. Cut it out.”
— Woman’s paper.
When told of something that you deem amazing,
Be careful not to register surprise
Or feature incredulity by raising
Those little arches up above your eyes.
Although an age-old habit, ’twould be horrid —•
A danger to be shunned with care devout —
To have a permanently furrowed forehead.
So cut it out!
From Eden it may date, the voiceless token
Which Eve to Adam gave, or he to Eve,
That something either of the pair had spoken
The other was reluctant to believe.
But progress ever brings us bars to beauty,
Unheard of then, no modern miss may flout,
And, when they’re indicated, it’s her duty
To cut them out.
When Paris gave Idalian Aphrodite
An apple on a certain fateful day,
Pallas and Hera both sustained a mighty
Shock at his choice, it’s pretty safe to say.
Their eyes went up—much as their lack of
vesture
Might have occasioned yours to do, no doubt.
But for mere mortals it’s a risky gesture,
So cut it out.
When piquant scandal’s chattered, keep your
eyebrows,
However much you’re tempted, well in hand;
Forbear to lift them at the yap of highbrows
On topics that you fail to understand,
Or else such evidence of past reactions
In lines indelible some day will shout.
In fairness to your feminine attractions
Best cut it out!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
MUSTARD.
“Good master Mustard, that same cowardly, giant-
like ox-beef has devoured many a gentleman of your
house.”— Hhakspeare.
“Here, Asmodeus, a slice of that beef—now the
mustard!”— lngoldsby. t
Condiment smooth and hot,
Fresh from the gleaming pot,
I miss you quite a lot
Now that 1 far am
From meals you used to crown
For bards of high renown,
From William Shakspeare down
To Richard Barham.
Your charm the ancients knew
(Wherever ’twas you grew),
And of your virtues, too,
Something they taught us.
Athenians set you high
As meat’s accessory;
Also you’re mentioned by
Pliny and Plautus.
The debt I owe toward
You I have e’er ignored
Till from my modest board
Your aid was taken,
Firm friend who never ceased
To make my beef a feast
And helped me munch the least
Attractive bacon.
Ah, well. There’s no excuse
For growls till Hitler’s goose
Is cooked —and little use
In getting flustered.
Till Fate’s resounding bell
Shall ring the Nazis’ knell,
Farewell, a fond farewell,
Good master Mustard!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Boy, oh, boy, am I mighty glad to meet you, Prendergast? And where's
that admiral guy ?”
“Percy Pawnticket”: Anyone who has
to buy propitiatory offerings of flowers or
stockings or pay millinery bills milst have
noticed the change that has come in the
pally use of Christian cognomens as trade
names. The florist’s shop is now Jane
Ann’s ; Betty runs the little library ; Sue,
(Mary and Helen are in “hats” and so forth.
It is realised, no doubt, that too many
Eulalies, Gweneths and Gwladyses have
broken dishes and spoiled dinners in
urban and suburban homes for such
monikers to retain any tony associa-
tions today ; and too many Shirleys (how
time passes!) have already proved unsatis-
factory and cheeky nursemaids. Still
when, having made my purchase, I
addressed Eliza (being in a friendly
mood) as “Liz” she iced perceptibly. Her
highly-delighted assistant told me later
that her real Christian name is Andrietta.
* * * *
“C.R.”: A bell that had rung pas-
sengers into trains on the Ballarat station
for generations disappeared in October,
1940. It turned up again the other day,
having accompanied the Seventh Division
Supply Column, A.1.F., to Egypt, been
through the first Libyan campaign and
successfully withstood the siege of
Tobruk. It is to have its military record
engraved upon it, after which it will be
returned to the stationmaster.
* * * *
From London: At last an astrologer
has said something definite, instead of
generalities which can be explained later
as having meant what really has come to
pass. Vivian Robson, B.Sc., one of the
very few to put their real names to a
forecast, was bold on January 14 last:
“During the four months from the begin-
ning of February to the end of May, a
tremendously powerful group of forces
will be focused on the earth, and by the
end of that period the European war will
be 0ver....1 have no doubt whatever
that the military might of Germany will
disappear with the passing of Uranus out
of Taurus in May.” I trust Mr. Robson
didn’t back his prophecy with real
money.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Complaints about shop-
keepers profiteering may be justi-
fied ; but I have found, on the
other hand,' a courtesy on the part
of little tradespeople which was not
noticed before. A call at one of the
shops for fresh rabbits, coffee, cigs., salts
of lemon, potatoes, mustard —once sold
everywhere—may produce a shake of the
head ; but the shopkeeper is quite likely
to add that Mrs. Snags, a few doors up,
may be able to supply the rabbits,* a
little shop round the corner had some
cigarettes last night and “the mixed”
over the road has plenty of coffee. This
advertising of other people’s businesses
is a new development. It indicates, I
think, a feeling that in these times of
trouble for all it is just as well to be as
helpful as possible to everybody.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: A Melbourne air warden
of uncommon frankness says that, hav-
ing occasion to demonstrate anti-
incendiary bomb methods before a class,
he took along the standard equipment
of a rake, a bucket of sand, a wooden
shovel and a stirrup pump, plus a 21b.
magnesium bomb. At the finish a young
girl hastened up and congratulated him
on giving such a delightful entertain-
ment. “Why do you regard it as an enter-
tainment?” asked the offended warden.
“Because,” she said, “you were so irre-
sistibly funny.” Then she explained that
she had been reading about the latest
Japanese bomb, a 501 b. affair with anti-
personnel additions, and in the light of
that his equipment seemed as antiquated
as her great-grandmother’s candle snuffer.
* * * *
“Fitz”: Thomas William Cambridge,
who died at Windsor (N.S.W.) recently
at the age of 82, bore a name that is
historic on the Hawkesbury. Tom was
postman in Windsor for the best part
of his lifetime. His grandfather—also
Thomas Cambridge—was the first letter-
carrier in the district. Grandfather com-
menced his career as a postman in the
’forties ; he got a penny a letter and had
to carry newspapers free. A cobbler
by trade, he had a penchant for col-
lecting old iron, and as he trotted
along on foot, wearing an old-fashioned
belltopper and a swallow-tail coat, he
would pick up horseshoes, nails and
other bits of metal and pop them into
his mailbag. The old chap died at 80
and was succeeded as postman by his
son, father of the Tom Cambridge who
died last month. The second Cambridge
was a salaried postal employee.
$ * r
“Adelaide”: It has been decided by the
Supreme Court of S.A., to which a Judge
had referred the point, that what the
Law calls an assault by a husband on a
girl of about 14, two years ago, is suffi-
cient ground in the wife’s action for
divorce.
* % *
“Cauboy”: The war has done one
good thing—spared Melbourne another
centenary celebration. The City Council’s
hundredth birthday falls in August. Plans
were afoot for flooding the venerable
Town Hall with limelight and rivers of
oratory were to have flowed. A com-
memoration guzzle, the ceremonious un-
veiling of a centenary plaque—if the
material to make it with hasn’t been
“frozen” —and a display of those his-
torical documents which haven’t been
hidden away from air raids are probably
all that will remain, and the compila-
tion of a centenary history of the city
will have to wait until the war is over.
But the current history of Melbourne is
so stirring that the happenings of the
previous 100 years will, to most people,
seem hardly worth recording. f
* * * *
“Cross Jack” joins issue with “Cook’s
Mate” (B. 22/4/’42) anent the color of
ensigns:
In 1625 the Fleet was divided into three
squadrons, Red, Blue and White, distinctions
which denoted the Centre, Van and Rear Divi-
sions. In 1653 the precedence was altered to
Red, White and Blue, and those were then the
colors of the ensigns worn by the ships in the
three separate squadrons up to 1864. Admirals,
vice-admirals and rear-admirals were designated
as being of the Red, White or Blue, their
status being recognised by the position of the
flag; thus an admiral would hoist his flag on
the mainmast, a vice-admiral on the foremast
and a rear-admiral on the mizzen. Lord Nelson
was a Vice-Admiral of the White, and carried
the white St. George’s flag at the foremast
head and the white ensign at the peak. Before
the battle of Trafalgar he issued orders that in
the presence of the enemy all his ships were to
bear white ensigns. The Union Jack did not
come into being until 1801. Prior to that
the flag flown at the staff on the bowsprit was
the Union Flag.
# * * *
“Pawang”: Experts working for the
Department of War Organisation of In-
dustry are reported to have “discovered”
that the patent medicines on the market
are all manufactured from about 30
recipes, and it is proposed to reduce the
varieties considerably. The fact has been
known for generations. It has been re-
ported in innumerable medical publica-
tions, in books and at scientific con-
gresses. Yet State Governments, year
after year, have wasted time and legisla-
tion in “regularising” something that was
a pure illusion. A debate which lasted
days was held in the Victorian talk-shop
on the subject. One member, with several
academic degrees, solemnly announced
that he had been despaired of by the
doctors and had been saved by a prepara-
tion costing ten shillings a bottle. The
ingredients of this remedy, it turned out,
were known to every general practitioner
and are prescribed by the medical pro-
fession daily.
* n *
Steamship : A Townsville newspaper
still advertises Regular Flying-boat Ser-
vices depart from Sydney to Durban via
Singapore. That the advertisers bear a
name from a nation renowned for its
frugality makes it all the more remark-
a kl e * m
<<A . „ c
Arter : Most Sydney people will
agree with artist Frank Medworth who
wrote to S.M. H suggesting that the
boarded shop windows have a depressing
appearance and that painters and sign-
writers might well be commissioned to
brighten up the scene. The tip has been
c^ el ]-i in i. a B ° od , nKl , n - instances, and it
should be good for business But
architects don t approve S.M.H. in-
terviewed them and ascertained that
The general opinion among them is that
3S are ?
cally, to the city’s architecture. They say
that where owners have not tried to be
“artistic” and have thought only of
function a unity has been achieved which
commercial competition refuses to allow
in peace-time. The efforts of signwriters
and advertising experts would almost cer-
tainly destroy the pleasing simplicity of the
plain, unadorned fronts.
That seems to explain why so many
modern buildings suggest egg-boxes per-
forated by square slots. As an aesthetic
principle it certainly must save designers
a lot of trouble. But I still refuse to be-
lieve that a log cabin is superior archi-
tecturally to Cologne Cathedral, and I
hope that Sydney business folk will do
their best to demonstrate that though
their windows are barricaded they are
not downhearted.
* * * *
“F.S.”: I see that the Sydney student
who has been awarded the N.S.W. travel-
ling art scholarship has been recom-
mended by the judges to pursue his
studies in U.S.A. if the man-power
authorities are agreeable. Students used
to be sent to Paris, but the change won’t
make any difference. In fact, it might be
a decided advantage. America has no
art tradition. Its best-known artist was
Whistler, a West Point cadet who learnt
soldiering in his native country and
taught himself painting in London and
Paris. It is a dangerous thing to inherit
a great tradition, and far more artists
have been destroyed by Paris than have
been made by it.
* * * •
“Eyes Right”: Let me tell how “Nel-
son” Horner turned his glass eye to
money when waiting for a boat to Aus-
sie in TB. Stony-broke and with a much-
discredited paybook, he went into Horse-
ferry-road to raise the wind. To the
corporal’s stock inquiry, “What do you
“Beg to report, sir, the enemy has retired to a prepared position."
want the money for?” Nelson removed
his eyeshade and said, “I broke me glass
eye this morning, sarge. They won’t give
me another —I’ll have to buy one.” Not
even a hard-bitten pay-office clerk could
resist that one, so he asked “What do
they cost?” “’Bout four quid, I think;
better give me five in case.” Result:
debit balance further ruined by a fiver.
“Thanks, sar’-major—it’s pretty crook
getting round with this eyeshade on.” The
temporarily-raised sar’-major followed
“Nelson” far enough outside to see the
trick exposed. Carefully unfolding a
dirty handkerchief “Nelson” took out the
optic reported to be a casualty and re-
placed it in the socket, then wiped his
cheek, pocketed the shade (doubtless for
future reference) and strode off to the
bar of the Bull and Battleship,
* * * *
“Chev.”; Despite Dunstan’s appeals to
people to keep out of the city, Mel-
bourne’s night-time population appears
in the last few months to have practically
doubled, and on Saturday nights the
Flinders . st reet intersection (“busiest in
the workr) is a pictU re. And the tally
of death and damage increases. The
same sort of thi happened in
England at the beginning of the war. At
that period magistrates and Judges
tended to side with the public against the
authorities when compensation was de-
d d f p £ ke d out against a
, ard or a f e g *broken on a street
benc | which unde b r norma| conditjons
wou , d have been u hted . As the com .
, murk deep ° ned it was feU , hat
uthor j ties could F ot £airly be penalised
for omit(ing to do what law £orbad e
and j n j ured citizens were told to be more
care£ul At thc sarne time trafflc rules
were altersd t 0 suit the new conditions .
Melbourne is endeavoring to carry on
w i t h the old rules made when the city
“ b "B btly bghted that citizens could
walk from one end of it to another as
safely as in noonday.
« * * •
“rVakpr”* It has rnmp to it at last
erdlB< r r • « has come to it at last,
The smokers, male and female, starving
for their pet indulgence, had filed into
t he Collins-street shop, received the usual
answer and drifted out again> discour .
aged. A well-dressed man, with murder
j n his eye, came in and put the inevit-
able question. “Sorry,” said the weary
shopman, “no tobacco of any sort to-
day.” “Is that so?” hissed the well-
dressed man. “Then I’ll get you within
three days.” Out came a packet of
Capstans.
* * * ♦
“Hamer”: Some people are born
lucky. “Bo” is apparently one of them,
for it seems that when he met the people
who said the last winter, the last storm,
the last heat-wave and so on was the
worst ever known (B. 22/4/’42), he did
not meet the superior old inhabitant who
remarked that, pooh, the disturbance
under discussion was nothin’ to the one
that occurred in 1886 or some other
date so far off that nobody present could
contradict him. I have encountered that
pest in every part of the earth where
my wanderings have taken me and always
found him a tough-hided liar. One occa-
sion was in a Lachlan River township
when the rain was falling in sheets, the
gale was tearing tall trees out by their
roots and tossing them about like pieces
of straw, the floodwaters were seeping
under the doors even in the high-built
pub ; and we all kidded ourselves that
we were experiencing the greatest flood
effort in history of the river. “Pooh,
this ain’t ’arf as bad as the big flood of
1904 just after the big drought broke,”
said the Ancient Nark scornfully. “Why,
that flood swep’ the entire township
away.” There was a chorus of derision ;
we felt we had him there, and pointed
out the reason. The foundation stone of
the courthouse was dated 1856, and
there were several buildings with dates
nearly as old. The Ancient Nark fixed
us with a cold, firm eye. “I say the ’ole
town was swep’ away,” he repeated
steadily. “The town useter be 30 miles
further up the river before that flood.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Somebody told Mayne
that the best way to get to the station
per bike was to ride out to the mailbox
and then follow the pad in from there.
Mayne turned off at the mailbox and had
gone about a mile through the scrub
when he rounded a clump of wait-a-bit.
Next thing he knew he was lying on the
other side of a sheep-proof fence with
his knees and hands barked and the bike
resting across him. He limped in the
remaining four miles, leading the dam-
aged grid. “Gripes,” they said, “we
thought y’d ha’ bin here long ago when
they said y’ was cornin’ by the pad.”
“So I would have,” said Mayne, “only
when I got t’ the place where y’ take
t’ the air I didn’t have me wings un-
folded an’ I crashed.”
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: A special chromium-
plated mansion with crystal floors and
self-playing harps laid on should be
the celestial hangout of the bloke that
invented the campsheet. Old and dust-
reddened, wire- and mulga-torn as it
may be, decorated with the scorches of
good-night cigarettes and studded with
broken-off bindi-eyes, it’s the best home
a wandering sort of bloke can wish for.
A man can be a hundred miles from
the nearest goat, in the middle of a
shelterless gibber plain, but let the rain
lash down like the shower that put the
wind up Noah or the wind blow the hair
off a mule, the chap in bed under the
sheet is cosier than he could be in a
house with all mod. cons. In the rowdiest
camp it provides a private room for its
owner. Spread on the flat outside that
loneliest place on God’s earth —a strange
town —it’s a self-contained and com-
panionable home. And I’m coming back
to haunt the cow who neglects to bury
me in mine: till he found a mate a
bloke’d feel lonely and lost amongst the
cherubim without the friendly shelter
and sturdy privacy of the old campsheet.
* » • •
“Narrin”: Last time I met Blue he
was horsetailer in a big droving plant,
so, meeting him in khaki, I was surprised
to see that he looked down in the
mouth. “Aw, we been campin’ f’r the
last two months in flamin’ tents,” he
explained. “Yair?” I said. “An’ I sup-
pose y’re missin’ plate-glass dressin’-
tables an’ yT bedside telephone.” Blue
looked sourer than ever. “Y’ lurid fool,”
he replied; “it’s all right campin’ out
where the bull feeds. A man’s swag’ll
stick to him through dust or rain or
flamin’ frost. But you try campin’ in a
stuffy tent with a mob of other blokes
an’ see how y’ blanky well like it.” I
wonder how many of the bush mob
have found the same grievance.
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat usually avoided
jobs that he considered fit to be done only
by children, women and the ignorant, but
sometimes he accepted them as the lesser
of two evils when broke and forced to
contemplate humbling his soul for hand-
outs. Which is largely why he was pea-
picking out of Bathurst (N.S.W.) one
year. “Stoopin’ an’ bobbin’ along like
a blasted emu lookin’ f’r quandongs,” as
he put it, he suddenly sat down, cupped
his face in one great hand and stared out
across the plains with a faraway look.
“Seeing visions, mister?” asked the youth
next to him. “No,” said Mat slowly;
“I was just thinkin’ that somewhere down
in the city there’s most likely a woman
sittin’ somewhere shellin’ a pound o’
peas f’r dinner, and complainin’ that of
all the rotten jobs in a house shellin’ peas
is the worst.” He picked up his buckets,
carefully straightened the kinks from his
back and roared, “By cripes, she ought
t’ try pickin’ the flamin’ things!”
* * * *
“Kiam King”: Dad was showing the
neighbor our concrete green manure pit,
12ft. square and 4ft. deep and full of
green, slimy plant-fodder. The neighbor
leaned over and his pipe fell into the
muck ; at the same instant Dad lost his
balance and went in, too. He arose,
having accidentally grasped the pipe and,
covered with muck and with an indescrib-
ably comic expression, said “Here’s your
pipe, Ben.” Ever since Ben has been
assuring the district that Dad is the sort
“ Careful , sir; he always wakes in a bad temper."
of bloke who’ll never hesitate to extend
the full courtesies of a host.
H= * * *
“Taniwha”: The trout of Maoriland’s
fresh-water Lake Taupo have been
famous in trout-fishing circles through-
out the world for 50 years, and have been
known to a still wider circle since film
comedian William Powell, in one of his
funniest roles, discoursed of the glories
of what he called Lake Taw-hoo-poo
(Tow-po to Maorilanders, the “ow” as in
owl). Now comes the sad news that the
Taupo trout are not what they were—
far from it. They used to be stout
fellows of a fight-to-the-bitter-end tem-
perament —regular Tobrukkers, so to
speak. This year’s whippers of Taupo
waters report that 70 p.c. of the fish
caught were small, skinny and spiritless.
The Dominion’s trout-lore sages attribute
this dire result to the march of progress
—the level of the lake has been raised to
supply hydro-electric power, the inshore
spawning beds of smelts and bullies have
been destroyed and the feeding grounds
disorganised. There is alarm over this.
Maorilanders have been taught for years
to regard the Taupo fishing as a price-
less national asset” because it attracts
tourists with money to spend.
* * * *
“T.P.”: The English Ministry for Food
and Health has issued to housewives a
table showing the maximum length of
time various tinned foods will keep. It
lists “fish, most meat, tongues, sausages,
soups” at five years. Over 40 years
ago a rabbit-canning factory at Colac
(Vic.) was burnt out. Not long ago a
singed and dilapidated tin was discovered
in the old ruins and sent on to Mel-
bourne Uni. for analysis of contents.
Verdict: “Perfectly sound and edible. As
proof we had it for lunch!” I’m won-
dering if bunny cans better than other
meats or whether it was exemplary pack-
ing that caused it to last so long.
«: * * *
“Looby”: Mum was smiling broadly
to herself as Dad walked into the kitchen.
“What’s the joke, Emma?” he asked.
“Oh, it’s that girl they sent up from the
city to help us,” she said. “Mind you,
she’s a nice girl, but she must have the
funniest ideas about a farm. I think
she’s got an idea it is very hard to get
a hen to go broody. I was in her room
when she was unpacking this morning,
and what d’you think? She’s brought
up a tonic or something for the hens!”
“For the hens ?” exclaimed Dad. “Yair,
Dad; I saw it with my own eyes. It’s
a bottle branded real plain: Setting
Lotion.’ ”
* * * *
“Sedent”: My dog Nathaniel (breed
indeterminate, with strong Scottie and
bull-terrier indications) has been using
his nut. In his universe my function is
to be a person who walks abroad, to be
a companion to Nathaniel and a witness
and applauder of his various striking
deeds of derring-do. Nathaniel has
noticed that as soon as I get home I dis-
card my stout shoes and don either sand-
shoes or carpet-slippers. With sandshoes
there is hope for Nathaniel. It means
at the least some operations in the
garden ; at best a stroll to the village
(Nathaniel and I are Sydney North
Shorers) for baccy or a paper. But
carpet-slippers dull the edge of husbandry
and definitely rob Nathaniel of a roving
friend. For the last day or two I have
not worn my carpet-slippers. I cannot
find them. Nathaniel, I am sure, knows
where they are, but for reasons of policy
will not divulge their whereabouts. What
foolish fellow was it who once talked
of owning a dog?
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Henare’s wahine was
brought before the Court for a breach
of the blackout regulations. Evidence
showed that she had carried a brightly-
lit kerosene lamp up and down in front
of her residence for a few minutes each
evening. She had repeated the offence
after being warned. The Bench held that
the breach was the result of ignorance,
and without convicting Maggie warned
her of the penalty if she repeated the
offence. The Bench allowed Henare, who
was present, to make an explanation.
Said he: “My wife she te ’telgent wahine.
She have te good blackout. But she
know that if no light inside te blackout
no matter. So she carry te lamp to show
she have te big light inside, and when
she close te door no light show, an’ every-
t’ing kapai.”
* * * *
“B. A, Ker”: Wasting itself in the
bush there is talent that would pack city
variety shows to the doors. A bush
ventriloquist I met could have shaded
any vaudeville topliner. And absolutely
the best juggler I’ve ever watched was
a brawny timber-cutter. Knives, forks,
cups, eggs—anything at hand he could do
amazing tricks with, but his masterpiece
was a performance with a pair of razor-
edged axes. Indian-club fashion the Kellys
were swung, twirled and flashed in un-
believable patterns; while every few
seconds one would go somersaulting sky-
wards to drop handle first into the ready
palm without interrupting the other's
gyrations. Or both would be circled
backwards under the arms, past the ears
and back to the hands. As a conclu-
sion to an exhibition in the little bush
hall the juggler invited a boy up on to
the stage, placed a potato on the kid’s
outstretched hand and announced his in-
tention of slicing the spud without hurt-
ing the assistant. The lad’s eyes followed
the flourishing blade, watched it poise,
begin the descent and —he was back in
his seat before the vegetable had struck
the floor! Nobody volunteering to fill
the vacancy, the axeman put one potato
on the table, balanced another on top,
then sliced one without marking the other.
* * * *
“M. U. Ray”: Jack always believed
in granting his animals little privileges,
so when his hack made for the black-
box-tree and began a hearty rubbing of
an itchy spot Jack sat there and waited.
Then the jumper ants dislodged by the
rubbing vented their wrath on both Jack
and his mount, and a fine display of pig-
rooting and language followed. No
horse can rub itself on a tree now if
Jack is on its back.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Poor old King Billy, drift-
ing round the environs of Swan Hill and
Echuca with his missus, would be sur-
prised to hear of the transfiguration he
has undergone at the hands of Los
Angeles “Daily News.” Commenting on
the report that many experienced bush-
men from Victoria were amongst the
defending force at Rabaul, thus the jour-
nal: “Drawn from the country districts
inland from Melbourne, these aborigines,
regarde’d as the most savage people of
the Antipodes, have been specially trained
in jungle warfare.” Before some Holly-
wood producer incorporates
our bushmen into his next
super feature he ought to be
informed that the full-
blooded abos. left in Victoria
don’t exceed two dozen.
When Percy Leason set out
to paint their portraits six or
seven years ago he combed
the whole State and found
fewer than 30. A few hun-
dred half-castes complete the
total. Some of these are in
the A.I.F. and some at Lake
Tyers or other settlements.
Leason found them neither
savage nor trained in jungle
warfare, but much more
gentle creatures on the whole
than the white man. Their
knowledge of the jungle they
got from listening-in to
A.B.C. talks, just like their
white brothers.
* * *
“Propalong”: The new
manager came up from Adel-
aide and brought his dignity
with him. A long, thin,
Scotch-looking pairson, he
was a real sheepman, but
the hands got fidgety talking
to a boss who threatened to
address ’em as “mister” any
minute, and the mustering camp went
cranky. Then one day we were
drafting out hogget wethers at the
old Sandy yards. The boss was counting
one lot in the check pen and, despite their
rushing and high-jumping, making a good
job of it. Suddenly a burly young jum-
buck broke, dodged behind us and buck-
jumped across the yard. His third jump
hit the boss fair behind the knees. We
saw him suspended right-angled in the
air for a long moment and then —thud!
The boss got up looking silly, glanced
round at the convulsed camp, wriggled
his eyebrows, grinned and then: “C’mon,
y’ blankers, race y’ down t’ smoke-oh.”
And he did, taking every fence clean as a
steeplechaser, which is more than I did.
But a decent boss is worth a skinned
nose.
« • • •
“Archbell”: When an Indian hawker
died at Wangaratta (Vic.) about a 4 dozen
of his compatriots arrived from various
outlying districts in response to radio
calls! A big crowd of townspeople
gathered around the funeral pyre, and
the body was well garnished with butter
before being set alight. Two or three of
us were standing yarning after the fire
had burned almost out, when a grey-
bearded old patriarch came up to us
and said “Go on, mizzle off, you bloke ;
all finish,”
* * * *
“Uramao”: Since petrol restriction
came in all its severity all sorts of odd
farm vehicles have been hauled out of
cobwebby corners. But no-license Inver-
cargill (M.L.) rubbed its eyes when it
beheld two elderly ladies who run a
mixed farm in an outlying district trund-
ling a perambulator through the town.
Squatting complacently in the vehicle was
a 1001 b. porker on its way to the sale-
yards.
OLD EARTH.
I met him in the little pub, his fist around a
beer;
He saw me coming in the door and put his
pewter down.
Bill Chambers from the River Bend (I’d missed
him for a year),
“The toughest cove for fifty miles,” they
called him in the town.
From throwing steers to fights with men and
handling horses wild,
The madness of his escapades left other
chaps aghast;
His eye was grey and steady with an aspect
almost mild,
But folk would lock their daughters up when
Bill came riding past.
Just one more man in uniform, perhaps not
very strange.
I took the drink he bought for me and
spoke a word of thanks,
And yet in some astonishment I pondered on
the change—
Bill Chambers from the River Bend, a soldier
in the ranks!
“Well, best of luck, old man,” I said, “and
tell me now one thing:
What led you into giving up the stock-
whip for the, gun?
The call of Empire, I suppose, and service
for the King,
The rights of smaller nations being trampled
by the Hun?”
“Come ’ere! ” He took me to the door and
• out upon the road,
And waved a brown and bony hand towards
the setting sun.
I saw a sleepy countryside, with rolling hills
that glowed
With golden fire as though a torch had lit
them one by one.
Bill Chambers from the River Bend had nothing
else to say;
He took his pipe and filled it up and silence
fell once more.
We saw the burning sun ring down the curtain
on the day—
But in that dusk there glowed a light 1 d
never known before.
n.s.w.
FRANK LOUAT


“Bo”; “Ding-Dong” Bell, the meanest
cow-cocky in Flywire, employed “Slim 1 ’
Joe, a nine-stoner, who jumped around
like a flea all day and tore through an
amazing amount of work for 15s. a week
“and found.” One day the mailman
gave “Slim” a cert, for the races, and
persuaded him to put half a note on it.
“Ding-Dong” came upon Joe later as he
was cursing his luck, having learned of
the noddy’s failure to get a place. “Ding-
Dong” looked at the punter. “That’s you
coves all over,” he said. “ ‘Easy come,
easy go! ’ ”
“Solitude”: Since the rationing of the
bushman’s beverage down to pastel
shades old Sandy has experimented in
finding a substitute. While his own
sense of taste stood the strain his enter-
prising didn’t matter much, but soon his
trusting neighbors became victims in the
cause of ersatz tea. I passed judgment
on a nauseous infusion of horehound and
ti-tree, grimaced through a mouthful of
sarsaparilla brew and congratulated him
on a familiar flavor when he added a
handful of wattle bark. Still Sandy
wasn’t satisfied. The mixture, he decided,
needed just one more ingredient to make
it indistinguishable from the genuine Java
product. Three days he wandered
through the bush with a billy and panni-
kin, lighting innumerable little fires and
stewing everything from fern roots to
fungus, while I concentrated on mouth-
wash and peppermints. Just as 1 was
congratulating myself that he had aban-
doned his mission I ran bang into the
bushmen’s savior ambling triumphantly
homeward with a pack of stinkwort and
nightshade. I’m shiftin’ camp.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: The reason why artists
“delight in picturing the Australian land-
scape as utterly barren, soil-parched and
grassless, trees dead things on a lifeless
horizon” (B. 29/4/’42), is probably
that few of them have seen the real
bush, and those who have saw it from a
train window. Since most of the eastern
railway lines run through the wheat coun-
try the picture of empty landscape and
an odd dead tree is fairly representative
in fallow time, especially in the black-
soil country, where you can travel all
day by train and almost count all the
green trees you’ll see. It’s the same in
the Mallee; acres of empty paddocks
with odd patches of scrub. Yet, strangely
enough, a few miles back from the line
on each side you’ll find plenty of stand-
ing timber or, in the Mallee, scrub. Except
close around the cities the layers of rail-
ways in south-east Australia seem to have
deliberately run their rails through the
most unattractive parts, probably to avoid
costs of bridging, tunnelling, etc., though
they never seem to worry about costs of
running. Often a picture needs a dead
landscape to give it point, but another
point is that strangers do get the impres-
sion that all Australia is a barren land,
an impression further scored by a lot of
so-called bush poets and writers.
"No, I can't guess — who IS speakin'?”
“Flight”; No one has ever previously
accused the peewee of having a sense of
humor like that of his cousin Willie
Wagtail, but one I saw recently has
ambitions. A dozen or more black ducks
were paddling about in water not more
than six inches deep. A peewee came
and charged one of the swimmers. That
bloke tried to dive: his stern went up
and his head went down. That gave the
black-and-white fellow a better target;
he dropped on to that till the head came
up with a jerk. The fun was so good
he continued at it. He assailed each of
those ducks in turn ; he laughed at their
vain attempts to dive to get away from
him, and when it was all over he flew
over me, shrieked his joy and disclosed
by his white throat that he wasn’t a “he”
at all, but only a weak female.
* * * *
“Aratta”: Dave was addicted to the
use of grandiloquent expressions, the
meaning of which he rarely grasped.
They were mostly used by the heroes in
the sensational fiction he occasionally
read, though now and then he would get
hold of one he had heard at some public
meeting. Attending a war rally, he caught
a phrase that took his fancy. So when
Dad, angry at some neglect of duty on
Dave’s part, started berating him at
breakfast Dave waited till the old man’s
tirade had eased a trifle, then he said,
with an assumption of dignity, “I’d have
you know I’m the captain of my soul!”
“Y’ can be the flamin’ admiral of it for
all I care,” rapped out Dad angrily. Then
he paused and eyed Dave speculatively.
“Y’re not thinkin’ of peggin’ out, are y’?”
he asked with exaggerated solicitude.
“No,” answered Dave, somewhat taken
back. “Why?” “’Cos,” replied Dad
very seriously, “I’ve alwus unnerstood
“Money, my foot! She's marrying him for his tea ration."
souls wus something y’ have after y’re
dead.” “ ’Struth! ” ejaculated Dave in
disgusted alarm, “I must’ve got it wrong
somehow. The bloke who said it last
night looked as healthy as either of us.”
*** * *
“Esk. D.”: Padding leisurely along the
dusty bush road the old dog appeared
to be more than half asleep, for rabbits
were about and he paid them no atten-
tion. Suddenly he became alert, his
bristles rising. A few feet off the track
lay a brown snake, basking. The dog
circled it once or twice, but the only
signs of life were beady eyes and a
tongue that flicked out and back. He
stepped into close range and uttered
one short bark. The effect was electric ;
the small head with flattened neck rose
up on a spiral from the coils and speedily
struck sideways ; but the dog had moved
unhurriedly, a bare inch out of range.
The snake went into offensive-defensive
action, protecting its coils with darting
head, now and then lunging forward to
strike at the circling dog, always a mad-
dening inch or two out of range. Each
strike became slower as the reptile tired,
until finally it tensed for a supreme effort,
head swaying as it gathered itself up to
swing forward. The coils straightened
out as it lunged, but it missed once more,
gliding off. That was the moment the
old dog had waited for. Darting in, he
snapped firmly to the snake’s middle,
shaking his head fiercely as he whipped
the writhing mass back and forth. Then
he dropped it to take a fresh grip near
the head, repeating the battering until the
snake was dead. The dog stood off a
little and wagged his tail. But some day
there will be a snake that will catch up
that fraction in judgment, and, though
it will lose its life to inject its venom,
my old dog will end his days in the
manner of all snake-killing dogs.
* * * *
“Flop”: Hakhim, the Hindu hawker,
always gave us his correspondence to
answer when he was on a visit. One trip
he was in a tearing rage over a crook
deal that he alleged a city Asian firm had
given him. He dictated a fair scorcher
to send them, cursing both their goods
and their ancestors. When he paused for
a breather I asked “That the lot,
Hakhim?” “Yes, you write and send
him,” he grunted. “And put ‘Good-bye,
good luck’!”
» * * *
“Ah Me”: Can any of these Murray
experts tell me the farthest from the
river they have seen a shrimp moving
under its own power? At Renmark
(S.A.) I saw a lively young specimen
about four miles from the river, in the
middle of a ploughed field. Yes, it was
under water. The furrows ran between
rows of vines, and were carrying water
for the March irrigation. The shrimp had
travelled through me pump pipes, then
along four miles of main channel, 300
yards of head ditch and 100 yards of
muddy furrow. It was still full of kick.
I know large fish sometimes get into the
main channels; last irrigation a nine-
pound cod was caught with a net near
the main road. But the shrimps seem
to be getting farther afield.
* * * 9
“Charn”: I like that picture of Macas-
sar prahus of yesterday hurling cannon-
balls of stone and iron on to Northern
Australia’s shores (B. 11/3/’42). Those
prahus were incapable of hurling any-
thing larger than a hand-thrown missile.
Once seven proas and 30 canoes arrived in
Camden Harbor, East Kimberley. In duty
bound Robert Shell, the Government
Resident, interviewed the commodore,
but lack of an interpreter prevented his
obtaining the reason for this strange in-
trusion, though he suspected slave-raid-
ing. Sholl found few lethal weapons
apart from the universal creese on the
flimsy craft, though he knew the Malays
had guns, having heard them the previ-
ous day carrying on a skirmish with the
natives of near-by Augustus Island, those
true Australians successfully repelling
the attempted invasion. The Malays kept
these guns hidden, and a few days later
sailed northwards. Evidently accustomed
to working the Kimberley coast, they
were surprised to find white men in occu-
pation. So deficient were they in metal
that Sholl described then as having
anchors of wood weighted with a big
stone.
* * ♦ *
“Narrin”: Bit o’ String is a long,
rangy, double-jointed tomcat whose
apparent aim in life is conservation of
effort. He makes this so apparent that
strangers are rather startled when he
oozes aimlessly along the river bank and,
without even looking, drifts 12ft. or 15ft.
through the air up on to the grating of
his houseboat domicile, thence to the bul-
warks without seeming to touch wood.
When there are kittens on board he
brings home live rabbits the same way.
He asserts his right to be called a
domestic cat by sleeping all day on the
divan. At night he goes for a bunny
or a black duck. Incidentally, his
grandmother was a black-and-white wild
cat, and his father was caught in a spring
trap.
* * * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry bought a watch
which was guaranteed for 12 months.
Nine months later he took it back and
complained that the timepiece had
stopped six months before. The watch-
maker was doubtful about the guarantee,
as the long ’un had been so dilatory
about making the complaint. “Why
didn’t you bring it back before?” he
asked. “I couldn’t,” was the reply, “it
fell in the pig trough, and I only killed
the pig yesterday.”
* * ♦ *
“Wang”: “I’m makin’ me way along a
road orf the beaten track on the lookout
for a job,” related Dan, “when I hears
a man’s voice raised in angry argyment
cornin’ from amongst a thick clump of
dogwood. I dump me swag an’ creep
up t’ see what’s doin’. The langwidge is
pretty sultry, an’ seems t’ be addressed
t’ a woman. She ain’t doin’ any back-
answerin’, though, which I thought un-
natural. But the mystery’s cleared up
when I see there ain’t no woman there,
on’y a thin, lanky cove with scraggy
whiskers who’s caperin’ about and punch-
in’ at the air as he does the vocal stuff.
When he spots me he stops his antics
an’ grins sheepish. ‘I s’pose y’ think I’ve
gorn a bit batty,’ he ses, sorta apoler-
getic. ‘Well, I ain’t; I’m jist lettin’ orf
steam. Y’ see, mate, it’s this way. Me
an’ me missus don’t hit it orf too well
at times, an’ I gotter get clear away from
the house fer fear of what I’ll do to her
durin’ a row. I’m frightened of meself,
see? Me strength an’ temper’s terrible
when I’m roused. So I have it out here
on the quiet, a sorta safety-valve, see?’
An’ with that he shuffles orf. I camp
there fer the night, an’ next day strike
a farm a coupla miles on. I make fer
the house, an’ jist as I reach the back
verandah a bloke comes tearin’ out
squealin’ like a stuck pig, with a big red-
faced woman bangin’ at him with a chair.
It’s me hero of the day before. The
female’s got no hope o’ catching him, an’
presently she comes back puffin’. Seein’
me she grins. ‘That’s the treatment
handed to him when he gives me any of
his backchat,’ she ses. ‘But I wish 1 was
a bit faster on me pins! ’ ”
THE VISITORS.
To a farmhouse in a valley,
Knocking softly at its door,
With a gift for those who dwelt there
Came an early visitor.
As he stepped across the threshold
On a golden April morn,
Welcomed was he by the housefolk —
And John Addison was born.
Down the valley ran a river
Flanked by pine and willow tree,
Flowing ever, pausing never,
Bearing flotsam to the sea.
As through sunny days, and sunless,
Watched by him its waters ran, —"■*
Time, that journeys like a river,
Made John Addison a man.
Then as, shedding shine and shadow,
April walked the land once more,
To that farmhouse in the valley
Came a second visitor.
Hands outstretched in gracious giving
While his presence radiant shone,
Love, more bright than April beauty,
Was his gift to Addison.
Through the valley wound the river
Flanked by willow tree and pine,
Halting never, knowing ever
On its, travels shade and shine.
Born in marshlands, green and hilly,
Sped its waters on their quest,
Useless trifles willy-nilly
Bearing seaward on its breast.
Many Aprils having perished.
Reft of all the gold they wore,
To the farmhouse for a third time
Came a knocking visitor.
As he entered, bending over
One that lay there, worn and wan,
Last of all good gifts, and surest,
Gave he to John Addison.
Drifting down the valley-river
Flanked by pine and tressy tree,
Flowing ever, pausing never,
One more leaf had reached the sea.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


Autumn Grass Poor in Minerals.
Tri-cal: Now is the time to guard against
the effect of frost-bitten pasture —any
parched, withered or scorched grass will
be poor in the essential minerals calcium
and phosphorus. These minerals control
life processes, so unless you make good
the deficiency in some way the health
and productivity of your stock must suffer.
The best source of calcium and phos-
phorus that I have used is Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour—it’s a pure bone product, has a
guaranteed minimum content of 33%
phosphoric acid and 40% lime. Feed it
regularly—you will be surprised how
Tri-cal-os enables stock to keep condition
on poor pasture.
Sffi,
as
m
Get Davis Gelatine to send particulars and folders about Tri-cal-os
G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O.
Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 7i2F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Write to
Box 758 K,
Old Farmer.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY HAY. MOREL, To\\ NS VILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO,. I
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Shearing by Zones.
“Murrawong”: For all its faults the
zone system (B. 29/4/’42) is the only
alternative to complete chaos. Its chief
weakness is the delay in evolving it. A
shearing start is affected by things like
immediate weather conditions, the general
season, blowfly periods, grass-seed and,
most important of all, lambing. In dis-
tricts where lambing usually occurs in
May and June the regulations insist on
shearing being completed early in July.
To shear while lambing is in progiess
would be fatal, particularly as feed is
short in many early-shearing districts. The
only alternative is to shear immediately
before lambing, and for that notice is
pretty short. Though there won’t be the
full twelve months’ wool, growers stand
to lose by waiting until after the “close
season.” Even if men should be avail-
able then the fly will have got to work
on the heavily-woolled sheep long before.
Shortage of shearing labor is going to
be more serious than anticipated. If wet
weather comes there will be a general
mix-up and some loss. Except for those
with early sheds no grazier can expect
to get a full board. Shearers have either
enlisted —they’re the enlisting type—or
gone into steady, remunerative work in
munitions. There are even fewer shed
hands. The Army has taken a large
number.
Certain work on the clip in the shed
will have to be cut out. Piece-picking
might have to go. To keep the wool
away it may be better to concentrate on
wool-rolling. The wool-rollers could be
instructed to remove dags and stains
from the skirted fleece and to keep them
apart from the skirtings. Heavy necks
could be skirted into baskets and tipped
into a neck bin without further treat-
ment. If dags and stains are thrown to one
side for drying before packing all other
skirtings, with the exception of the neck,
can be pressed and branded “first pieces.”
It may be possible to appraise oddments
in this way, and it would be much better
to stick to such a simple method rather
than to try to do everything and snarl
things up.
To get through the season there must
be a lot of give-and-take by employer
and employee.
Keeping Sheep Healthy.
“R. Ney”: Shortage of drugs and
labor makes it hard to keep down inter-
nal parasites. Carbon tetrachloride, nico-
tine sulphate and phenothiazine must be
conserved to the last ounce, which means
using them only when absolutely neces-
sary and taking measures to obviate the
necessity where possible.
For large stomach worm bluestone or
bluestone and arsenic will serve in most
cases. Keep your nicotine sulphate to
use with bluestone when young sheep get
bad with black scour worms. If they
don’t respond to that get them into a
hospital paddock, feed them well and
dose with phenothiazine. Use it only on
those which won’t respond to the other
treatment and for nodule worm.
You can beat large stomach worm by
treating the sheep in spring, summer or
early autumn about three weeks after
rain of 25 points or more followed by
dull, humid weather. If this sort of
weather keeps on, dose them every three
weeks until dry or cold weather sets in.
Black-scour worms will be trouble-
some if a dry winter follows a wet
autumn or a dry spring a wet winter.
Dose the lambs with bluestone and nico-
tine sulphate at weaning—particularly
spring lambs weaned in autumn. Young
sheep need drenching every four or five
weeks from autumn until the spring feed
gets going, especially in a very wet or
very dry winter. If ewes are treated
two months and again a month before
lambing infestation of the lambs will be
reduced.
Carb. tet. is necessary for fluke. A 5 c.c.
dose of single-strength mixture is ample.
On heavily-infested paddocks drench at
end of April, mid-June and end of July ,
on moderate paddocks, at mid-May and
end of July ; slightly-infested, mid-June.
Bluestone the water in June and early
"To think that WE, who have sacrificed millions of lives to make Digger
hats, should be classed as conchies in a cartoon!”
November. If the weather is dry watch
sheep grazing on swamps. Vaccinate for
black disease in October.
Don’t overstock: it leads to worm eggs
on the pastures. Places where the sheep
are apt to congregate should be watched.
Rotational grazing will reduce infesta-
tion.
Udder Trouble in Ewes.
“Graz”: Young ewes with weak lambs
in a properly-fed mob should be
examined for teat trouble. The tips of
their teats are very tender, and vigorous
sucking by lambs often causes them to
become inflamed and scabs to form.
Scabs block the outlet and provide an
invasion base for mastitis germs. Either
quarter or both may be affected. In
non-gangrenous mastitis the udder be-
comes swollen and hard with clotted
milk, and a large suppurating abscess
may break out on the side.
Gangrenous mastitis is more serious.
Affected quarters swell, become very hot
and turn a dark, purplish-black color.
The skin weeps. A couple of days later
the infection spreads along the belly.
When the inflammation disappears the
diseased part becomes cold, dead and
putrid. Weeks later, if absorbed poisons
meantime have not killed the animal, the
gangrenous parts slough off. The wound
is vile and ugly. Light syringings with
a mild antiseptic will help it to heal.
In early stages hot foments will reduce
inflammation and the danger of poison-
ing, but no remedy will save affected
quarters. Preventive measures are; Keep
the milk duct open, milk out udders with
sore teats and treat sores with tincture
of iodine or zinc ointment.
Oats for Feed.
“H.C.”: Oats give winter grazing, chaff,
hay, straw, ensilage and grain. The grain
in oaten hay places it well ahead of all
cereal chaffs, and it has fair percentages
of protein, lime and phosphorus.
For cattle, oaten is the best non-legume
chaff. When fed to dairy cows a protein
supplement such as linseed or bran should
be added. Oaten straw is more palatable
and contains less fibre than other cereal
straws. Dampened with molasses and
water it is a useful drought standby.
Young oats give good winter feed at
a time when pastures generally are poor.
It is high in protein, and its nutriment is
similar to legumes, making it valuable
for in-lamb ewes. Overgrazing dangers
can be avoided by alternative grazing on
grass paddocks or feeding oaten chaff.
All kinds of stock, pigs excepted, thrive
well on oaten silage. It is easily assimi-
lated and succulent. This makes some
dry roughage—lucerne hay or straw —
necessary. Sheep should have grain
with it.
Working horses should have oat grain
in the feed. Crushed oats are good for
foals at weaning time. Two to three
pounds daily for yearlings and 41b. to 51b.
up to two years are about right.
The ordinary sheep ration is 4oz. of
grain per head per day, with plenty of
roughage ; up to Boz. when roughage is
scarce. Crushed oats can be fed to work-
ing stud rams at the rate of 4oz. daily.
Feeding in troughs instead of trailing
reduces wastage, and sheep then con-
sume less foreign matter with the grain.
For dairy cows, crushed oats, plus a
good leguminous hay or chaff. For pigs,
the grain is suitable only for sows suck-
ling litters, fed with skim-milk or meat-
meal.
Chance for Onions.
“Bill the Spaniard”: Onions are easy
to grow, and there is a fixed price of £ll
a ton waiting for them from the Defence
Food Control Directorate. Contracts can
be arranged with State Departments of
Agriculture.
Around Sydney, Camden and Gosford
at present, Hunter River Brown, H. R.
White, Prizetaker, Golden Emperor and
Sweet Spanish Valencia can be planted.
Long-keeping Brown Spanish and White
Imperial can be grown in colder parts.
They need a friable sandy loam with a
high humus content, and in clean plots
free from weeds the seed can be put in
with a drill a half-inch deep and with
rows 12in. to 24in. apart. It takes about
31b. of seed to the acre. Drill-sown
onions will need thinning when the seed-
lings show up. Heavy soil, likely to cake,
may stop the plants pushing through.
If the seed is to be sown in beds and
then transplanted—the best way for
heavy soil —l|lb. to 21b. of seed an acre
is enough. Transplant when the seed-
lings are 4in. to 6in. high and space them
4in. to 6in. apart. Cut the tops back to
within an inch of the crown and the
roots to about a half-inch long when
transplanting. Weeds must be kept down
as young onions cannot compete with
them.
Tomato-seed Beds.
“B,”: Making the seedbed in virgin
soil usually forestalls disease. If this isn’t
possible sterilise the earth by fire or for-
malin. For firing, place brushwood and
branches evenly over the bed and sur-
rounding margin till there’s a solid layer
about Sin. deep. The soil should be well
moistened, but not saturated, at the time
of firing.
Seed cannot be planted for 12 or 14
days after the formalin treatment. Get
the bed ready for planting and make it
moist. If the soil is dry, apply a 1 p.c.
solution of formalin —Igal, in every
lOOgal, of water —at the rate of lOgal. to
the square yard. In moist soil increase
the formalin to 2 p.c. and use only sgal.
water. Treated beds should be covered
with sacking for two or three days to keep
in the fumes. Then remove sacking and
air the beds for 10 days or until the
fumes have disappeared.
Seed treatment isn’t necessary when
the seed comes from healthy crop. But
where the source is doubtful the seed
may carry one or more diseases. Place
it in a piece of mosquito-netting and sus-
pend it in a solution of one part of cor-
rosive sublimate (mercuric chloride) to
3000 parts of water for five minutes.
Then wash thoroughly in four or five
changes of water and sow as soon as it
is dry.
Planting in rows about 6in. apart
allows penetration of sprays and dusts to
the stems. Once the seedlings appear
regular dustings or sprayings are neces-
sary. For a wet spray Bordeaux (2-3-40)
should be applied lightly. Copper dusts
should not be used when any moisture
is present.
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: For sows that will breed
baconers mate pure Tamworths and
Berkshires and select the best types from
the progeny. Mate these with pure-bred
Tamworth, Berkshire or Large White
boars. The offspring will cut up into
tender, lean, juicy bacon. Under normal
conditions, dressed weight of carcasses
will reach 1301 b. when the pigs are six
months old. Don’t breed from the second-
cross sows ; it is generally impossible to
get evenness in type.
“Mullengah”: Home-grown green
forage can be fed as a third of the ration
for growing pigs, and two-thirds for dry
sows. Fodder crops save grain, meal and
milk. For autumn and winter sowing
rape, field peas and oats are suitable.
Rape grows quickly and is ready for
grazing in eight to ten weeks. Take the


Wireless alone can meet the
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
INSTANT * CONSTANT ★ CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN-MADE* * i
RADIOTRON
RADIO VALVES
| *JC '
STANDARD TO ARMY TRANSMITTERS & RECEIVERS j
Al S'fKALIAX GENERAL. ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated AVireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
BILLABONG”
WINDMILLS
HAVE
i
AUTOMATIC
OILING AND
ENCLOSED
GEARS
THE BASIS FOR
EFFICIENCY IN PUMPING
flOjkNKSfc
<*ID
fD-TY. L.~ro.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MAKERS OF PUMPING EQUIPMENT FOR OVER 70 YEARS.
m
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11/-
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carle. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney. Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
pigs off the crop when most of the leaves
have been eaten and it will make fresh
growth, providing three or more graz-
ings. Turn the pigs on to peas when the
pods are well formed and the plants still
green. Graze oats when they are about
lOin. high. Grazing is better than
cutting. Cultivate and crop the regular
pig-pens for feeding off, and soil fertility
will be improved, labor and food saved
and sanitation will benefit.
“Canbelego”: Black spot on the udder
can often be prevented by immersing the
teats daily for a fortnight before calving
in a solution of loz. of sodium hypo-
chlorite and 4gal. of water. When the
ulcers appear, wash the teats with a warm
antiseptic solution. Gently remove the
scabs, dry the part thoroughly, and dress
the ulcers with an ointment containing
one part of finely-powdered bluestone
thoroughly mixed in nine parts of
vaseline. Milk from an affected cow is
not fit for human consumption.
“H.C.”: The drying effect of gales can
be reduced by windbreaks. In Queens-
land crop yields are higher close to tree
belts. In N.S.W. wheat crops protected by
windbreaks have shown a substantial
increase over open crops. In good years
sheltered lucerne has yielded 20 p.c. to
30 p.c. bigger cuts, 100 p.c. to 150 p.c.
in dry years and 200 p.c. to 300 p.c. in
droughts.
“Butcher’s Offsider”: Veal is not beef ;
it is milk-flesh, whereas beef is grass-
flesh. If cows cannot produce abundant
milk they may rear steers, but they won’t
give you vealers. Use dairy breeds —
A.I.S. for preference—with a good thick-
fleshed beef bull and you’ll get vealers.
Don’t experiment with cast-for-age cows
—they are usually cast for their inability
to produce a satisfactory number of
calves.
“Ninety - nine”: “Rom Ney” (B.
1/4/’42) forgets the value of lime for
correcting acidity in the stomach. It also
renders the curd portion of the milk
readily digestible, particularly by young
calves. Limewater in the milk often
prevents stomach trouble in calves and
is comparatively easy to make. There
is no fear of making it too strong,
as water can absorb only a certain
amount of lime. Mix about 21b. of quick-
lime to a kero.-tin of water, stir well and
allow to settle. The clear liquid resulting
can be used, and water added and stirred
daily until all the soluble portion of the
lime has dissolved. Lack of alkaline
flavor will indicate when this point has
been reached, and a fresh supply of lime
can then be added.
“Barolin”: Sore backs on horses are
often caused by faulty-fitting of the
saddle. Follow these rules: The withers
must not be pinched or pressed upon, the
central line of the back must have no
pressure imposed upon it, the bladebones
must have free and uncontrolled move-
ment, the loins are not intended to carry
weight, the weight must be imposed
upon the ribs through the medium of
the muscles covering them, the weight
must be evenly distributed over a surface
which extends from the play of the
shoulders to the last ribs.
“Graz”: With a good demand for pigs
assured there should be no more old
sheep sold for less than 2s. 6d. Skins
of cracker ewes fetch from Is. to Is. 6d.
and the carcasses boiled are worth as
much again for pig feed. Pollard, wheat
or maize should be given with the meat.
Outback Occupations.
No. 34.
IN GATE COUNTRY (2).
It is night. You had set out for
Mitchell’s place early that afternoon and,
because you had been anxious to get
there and back before dark, had accepted
the advice of one in the town to “go by
Tom’s Tank and out through Wantama-
gudgeon” as a short cut. Your informant
hadn’t mentioned the gates, and now,
having fought your way desperately
through five of them, you were pushing
on, hoping that you still might reach
Mitchell’s and get back before morning.
The headlights reveal the sixth gate.
It is stout and straight. Thirty feet on
each side of it stands a pole. From the
one near you hangs a cord and tacked
to the pole is a notice: “Pull the cord
to open gate. When through, pull cord
on other side to close gate.”
With a silent cheer for the inventive
owner of the gate you drive alongside
the cord, reach out the driving .window
and pull. The gate swings slowly open.
You decide to buy the owner of that gate
a drink when and if you meet him, let in
the clutch and move forward. Then you
shove on the brakes and curse as the
gate begins to swing shut again. You
get out, pull the cord, the gate opens,
you let go the cord, get back in the car
and the gate shuts. By close peering in
the darkness and feeling where you can’t
see, you discover that somebody has bor-
rowed the counterweight that kept the
gate open till the opposite cord was
pulled. In a sort of dumb despair you
tie the confounded thing open till you
get through, then get out and untie it
again.
Two miles farther on is another gate.
It is a double one, originally made of
sawn timber, but has been so frequently
repaired with green timber that it’s a
toss-up which is gate and which repairs.
The two wings are held together by a
sliding plank through a slot in the middle.
After a lot of effort you find that the
locking plank moves easily when struck
several hard blows with the ball-faced
hammer from your tool kit. You also
discover that both wings are so swung
that neither will stay open unless held,
so you have to make a search in the
darkness for a bit of wood or stone or
something to wedge the wings open. It
is a bare bit of plain and there isn’t any-
thing wooden or stone to be found. You
return from the vain search, fuming and
with your trousers and socks full of grass
seeds, and cursefully drag the seats from
the car and prop the blasted thing open
till you get through.
After travelling about a mile a sudden
thought strikes you and you pull up.
You try to estimate how far you’ve come
and reckon on 12 miles. You reckon it
was 30 from the town to Mitchell’s and,
realising that you have at least 18 or 20
to go, you gaze along the beams of the
headlights seeing visions of the gates
ahead and yourself wrestling with them.
Worn and harried, you sit, while the
engine purrs gently, and peer into a night
full of uncompromisingly hostile gates.
You see yourself unbending wire, going
down into the dust with collapsing gates,
scraping the bark from hands and shins
on protruding shards of wood or being
impaled on ends of wire, rising wearily
and climbing into the car and going on
to battle with more gates, while the in-
curious stars wheel in their courses
and the heedless world sleeps on. And
there comes a vision of the dawn and
yourself far on some lonely hillside,
weakly struggling against yet another
stubborn barrier, while your torn and
bleeding limbs cry for rest and your
stomach craves food.
And it comes to you that perhaps it
were better to turn back while you are
still alive and make for the town, leaving
Mitchell and his accursed business for the
light of day. But through your memory
stalk the visions of the gates you’ve
passed, and you know that sooner than
face them again you will not go back,
though it be your fate to fade gently
away and be not known in the haunts
of man again. So, with tightened lips
and nerves strained to a high pitch, you
set forth into the darkness.
The track is better and the car hums
merrily along, its twin searchlights light-
ing up the bush. Rodents scurry across
the track or sit dazzled in the light;
somewhere far off you hear dogs barking.
Still on, and you feel your nerves slacken,
and a slow gladness begins to mount as
you travel along and no gate raises its
baleful head to contest the passage. Then
the track mounts a ridge and, as you top
it, you see down in a shallow valley what
must be the lights of Mitchell’s home,
and a great sigh is mingled with the
engine’s song. Next moment the inevit-
able gate looms up.
This is the acme, the perfection, the
daddy of all bush gates! Piled between
two strainer posts are a set of harrows
stood on end, a tipdray minus one wheel,
numerous long and short, thick and thin
sapling rails, a piece of galvanised sheet
iron and a tea-chest full of rags and
papers. And through and around and
in between all this is wound wire, yards
and yards of it, barbed and plain. You
lean, dumb, on one of the strainers and
glare feverishly down the dark slope at
Mitchell’s lights, so near and yet so far.
Mitchell’s dogs are hurling insults across
the void at you and, momentarily yielding
to natural weakness, you hurl insults
back at them. Then you slowly take off
your coat and begin on the assorted
ironmongery of the last barrier.
As you warm to the work a sort of
madness possesses you and in a frenzy
you manhandle the harrows, drag the
dray aside, fall on the sheet iron and the
tea-chest. Wet with sweat, ignoring your
hurts, muttering, you begin on the sap-
lings, but stop as a couple of dogs surge
round you and a voice from behind a
swinging hurricane-lamp speaks, “Hey,
what you doin’?”
“Are you Mitchell?”
“Yair.”
“Help me with this blasted rubbish-
heap.”
“No need ; if you’d kept y’r eyes open
y ’d have seen where the track branches
a hundred yards back to the ramp-gate
I put in last week. Had t’ block this like
this so people could see it in the dark.”
A humorous fellow, this Mitchell,
While he helps you restack the assort-
ment in the gap, he keeps up a running
fire of funny remarks, chuckles and
cackles of laughter. But you’re past
caring.


m
m
i
0
m
igm
m
m
m.
m
mm
m
M
ss- W
■I I ■ • ■
Mobiloil
Our Service Department
Information Sought.
Particulars of the American National Anthem,
and how should it be saluted?
By Act of Congress, approved by the Presi-
dent on March 3, 1931, words and music of
“The Star Spangled Banner” were designated
as the National Anthem. Words were written
in 1814 by Francis Scott Key, of Washington.
Whenever the National Anthem is played at
any place where persons belonging to the naval
service are present, all officers and enlisted
men not in formation shall stand at attention,
facing towards the music (except at colors,
when they shall face towards the colors). If
in uniform, covered, they shall salute at the
first note of the Anthem, retaining the position ,
of salute until the last note of the Anthem.
If not in uniform and covered, they shall
uncover at the first note of the Anthem.
» * * *
Particulars of the following bushrangers: (1)
Bold Jack Donahue, (2) the Clarke gang, (3)
Morgan, (4) Gilbert, (5) O’Meally, (6) Dunn,
(7) Ben Hall, (8) “Moonlite," and (9) the Kelly
g anr j?
(i) Bold Jack Donahue, a particularly cruel
and murderous specimen, was transported to
N. S. Wales in 1825, and, with a gang con-
sisting of Walmsley, Webber, Underwood and
others, ranged the Upper Hawkesbury district.
He was shot by a soldier near the Nepean River
on September I, 1830. (2) The Clarke brothers
—Thomas, James and John—infested the
Monaro (N.S.W.) district. James was captured
and sentenced to seven years’ penal servitude in
January, 1865, thus, probably, escaping the
gallows. In January. 1867, Thomas and John,
with others, murdered four special constables
near Jinden station in the Jingera Ranges
(N.S.W.). They were captured a few months
later, tried and convicted in Sydney and hanged
at Darlinghurst on June 25, 1867. (3) Daniel
Morgan, probably the most brutal of all the
mid-Victorian bushrangers, was shot at
Peechelba station (Vic.) on April 9, 1865, after
committing many wanton murders. (4), (5), (6)
and (7). Of Ben Hall’s gang—consisting of
Hall, O’Meally, Dunn, Gilbert, Burke and
Vane—Hall, O’Meally, Gilbert and Burke were
shot, Dunn hanged, and Vane sentenced to a
long term of imprisonment. (8) “Captain
Moonlite” (George Scott), after bushranging
for about nine months, mainly in Victoria,
was captured near Wantabadgery station
(N.S.W.) on November 16, 1879, and was
hanged at Darlinghurst in January, 1880. In
the first issue of The Bulletin there is an
account of his career and execution, written by
J. F. Archibald. (9) The Kelly gang—Ned,
Dan, Steve Hart and Joe Byrne—ranged in
Victoria and southern N. S. Wales for between
three and four years. Dan, Hart and Byrne
were shot at Glenrowan (Vic.) on June 29,
1880, when Ned was wounded and captured.
He was hanged in Melbourne on November 11,
1880. Two good books on the subject are
Charles White’s Australian Bushranging and
G. E. Boxall’s Australian Bushrangers.
» * * m
Who were the commanders, their nationalities
and the years when explorations were made
to the Antarctic? ,
Captain James Cook (Great Britain), 1774;
Captain Nathaniel Brown Palmer (United
States), 1820; James Weddell (G. 8.), 1823 ;
Admiral Charles Wilkes Expedition (U.S.),
1839; Captain James Clark Ross (G. 8.), 1842;
Carstens E. Borchgrevink (G. 8.), 1900; Cap-
tain Robert F. Scott (G. 8.), 1902; Sir Ernest
Shackleton (G. 8.), 1909; Roald Amundsen
(Norway), 1911: Captain Robert F. Scott
(G. 8.), 19,12; Rear-Admiral R. E. Byrcf (U.S.),
by airplane, 1929; Lincoln Ellsworth (U.S.),
by airplane, 1935.
* * * *
Latest figures available regarding illiteracy,
p.c. of population, of India, U.S.S.R., Italy,
Egypt, Turkey, Greece, Spain and Brazil?
India (1931), 84 p.c.; U.S.S.R. (1937), 13
p.c.; Italy (1935), 19 p.c.; Egypt (1927),
85.7 p.c.; Turkey (1934), 55.1 p.c.; Greece
(1935), 32 p.c.; Spain (1935), 31 p.c.;
Brazil (1920), 67 p.c. The figures are calcu-
lated on all persons over 10 years of age.
* * * $
Details of the Russo-Japanese Treaty of
1905 ?
It was signed at Portsmouth (U.S.A.) on
August 20, 1905, and Russia received surpris-
ingly favorable terms, the most unexpected
feature of the treaty being the clause setting
forth that there was to be no indemnity to
Japan in any shape or form. The island of
Sakhalin was divided between the two coun-
tries ; the rights acquired by Russia, in accord-
ance with her lease over Port Arthur and
Dalney, passed in their entirety to Japan; and
the defeated Power yielded up the Manchurian
railway as far as Japan’s army had occupied
it— to Kwang-chan-tse. Japan obtained
Russia’s promise that in Korea her interests,
from all points of view, would preponderate,
and that Russia would not oppose measures
put forward there by Japan. Both armies
simultaneously evacuated Manchuria and
allowed China to resume her legitimate control
of the country. In addition to acquisition of
the southern half of Sakhalin, Japan received
valuable fishing and navigation rignts extending
along the coast of the Bering Sea.
* * * *
By what name is hybrid maize known, and
where is it obtainable?
“Hybrid” is the name, the maize being the
product of several crosses of varieties, fixed
after testing and used for its qualifications in
such matters as yield, food-quality, etc. It is
difficult to obtain seed in Australia, as experi-
ments are still in the early stage. For further
information, write to W. D. Kerle, N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, Farrer-place,
Sydney.
* IF * *
Method of preserving mushrooms?
Choose large undamaged mushrooms, peel
them (being careful not to break the surface)
and cut off stalks. Place the mushrooms in
a saucepan, sprinkle lightly with salt and stew
them in their own liquor for 15 minutes; then
drain through a sieve. Place mushrooms on a
metal plate in a slow oven until quite dry.
Stored in shallow containers or threaded on
strings and hung in a dry room, they will keep
indefinitely.
Brief Answers.
W.P.V.: The “Plimsoll mark” is named after
Samuel Plimsoll (1824-98), a Bristol man who,
while M.P. for Derby, succeeded in having
passed the Merchant Shipping Act of 1876,
which, by defining a line beyond which no ship
must sink in the water when loaded, has ever
since made the overloading of ships illegal....
H.T N.: Leapi year was fixed by Julius Caesar,
the addition of one day in every four years
bringing the measure of the calendar year even
with the astronomical year, with three minutes
per year over. This again is levelled up by
dropping a leap year at stated intervals —
1700, 1800 and 1900 were not leap years....
R.B.: Senator J. S. Codings was appointed
to the Queensland Legislative Council on
February 19, 1920, and held his seat until the
abolition of the Council in 1922. In the
general elections of 1931 and 1937 he was
elected to the Senate for Queensland....
J.H.N.: N. S. Wales produces about one-half
of the Australian wool production; Queens-
land and Victoria together produce about one-
third, with Queensland slightly ahead of Vic-
toria. Queensland first supplanted Victoria
as second wool-producing State in the ’nineties,
and has since retained the lead except for
the first five years of this century and from
1917-20... .W.F.D.: Burma was separated
from India on April 1, 1937 R.V.G.: He
succeeded Pope Pius XI on March 2, 1939.
. ...R.F.H.: After the death of Lord B'aden-
Powell on January 8, 1941, Lord Somers
became Chief Scout R.8.F.: There is,
according to The World Almanac, a device
used in New York by which weather reports
are recorded on a steel tape and attached to a
machine which gives the reports over the
’phone to anyone who asks. Four reports are
compiled each day... .F.L.T.: The Ku Klux
Klan was an American secret society founded
in the Southern States after the Civil War
with a view to keeping down emancipated
negroes. It was dissolved in 1869. A new
Ku Klux Klan was formed in Georgia in
1915 and became a nation-wide organisation
until a series of scandals followed the convic-
tion for murder in 1925 of one of the leaders.
Its present membership is set in the vicinity of
20,000... .T.8.A.: The “Popular Front” was
a suggestion for the political collaboration of
Communists, Socialists and other democratic
parties against Fascism, put forward by the
Communist International in 1935. “Popular
Front” Governments were formed in Spain and
in France; the one in Spain was ended by
Franco, and the one in France ended at the
beginning of 1938 R.F.: The latest Writers’
and Artists’ Year Book (1941) gives the address
of the “Tatler” as Illustrated House, 32-34 St.
Bride-street, London, E.C.4....W.R.8.: Wil-
liam Dampier, in 1688, was the first English-
man to land in Australia F.8.L.: W. M.
Hughes was Attorney-General and Minister for
the Navy in the second Menzies Government;
Fadden was Treasurer, Harrison Minister for
Customs, and Page Minister for Commerce.
....R.V.C.: China became a republic on
February 12, 1912 D.F.C.; According to
Law No. 50 of 1938, the Egyptian king’s civil
list is fixed at £E 100,000, and the royal
family’s allowances at £EIOO,OOO R.F.C.:
Fowler’s Dictionary of Modern English Usage
gives the plural as “kidneys” N.T.H.: The
last section of the Bagdad railway connecting
Turkey with Iraq was completed on July 16,
1940 T.E.8.: T. E. Shaw died on May 19,
1935 V.T.: The “Java man” (Pithecan-
thropus erectus ) —the remains of a skull and a
thighbone found in 1891 and 1892 by Professor
Dubois at Trinil, Java, and held to be a
creature of Pleistocene times... .R.C.G.:
Winners of the Sydney “Head of the River”
races were: 1935, S.C.E.G.S.; 1936, St.
Joseph’s; 1937-38-39, S.C.E.G.S.; 1940, Gram-
mar; 1941-42, S.C.E.G.S W.G.: The two
Perth daily papers are the “West Australian,”
Newspaper House, St. George’s-terrace, and
the “Daily News,” 75-77 St. George’s-terrace.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused;
D.J.S.:
There’s a blackened nightly silence,
Quite suggestive of a trap.
As Australia waits the violence
Of the fell, marauding Jap.
But her pulse rate’s only normal,
And her temperature just right;
She’s cool and calm —informal;
Unafraid of Yellow Might.
K.J.8.;
We’ve done with talk,
We’re facing north,
We’re done with all palaver.
Hut led by Doug the Jap we’ll plug
And get our tea in Java.
Read “The Express,” by Stephen
Spender, and you’ll see what you have to do
to make a good poem about a train at night.
. ...Z.F.: Eloquence insufficient... .LJ.D.:
“Pig’s Trotters” only smallgoods.... W.R.C.;
Well may you apologise to Alfred, Lord
Tennyson... .R.S.: “Army” the best; but it’s
an old idea... .0.D.: Pluck out the mushroom
from thy lady’s eye... .J.R.L.: Both far away.
N.A.C.: “Swans” is the only one with
anything like a wing... .G. 8.: Tut....W.J.:
Sentimentalised landscape G.W.H.; “When
upon our deathbed lying,” we shall recall some
of the verse we’ve seen, and be glad to go.
G.A.C.: Elementary... .0.H.; The theme’s
too big for you... .K.L.K.: “A splash of gold
On the deep, blue sea, A wealth untold And
the people free”; A couple of bumps Don’t
make a pome, Down in the dumps It’s coming
home... .T.J.1.: Hackneyed... .G.N.: “Tapes-
try” frayed in places... .J. 8.8.: Milton did
better with Lucifer... .N.S.: Didn’t it occur
to you that it was the wealthy rather than
the “workfolk” he “deplored”? H.E.W.S.:
Come again... .L.G.: Board it up, t 00....
J.H.A.: Idea’s got whiskers down to its
ankles G.R.McC.: Opens promisingly, then
flops... .N.C.: You’re young yet A.W.T.:
Religious Editor keenly interested in your
rhyme for “mastered”... .J.W.McC.: It needs
more punch, more humor, and might be better
tied to some incident... .M.H.: “Yaussies”!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.L.S.: You got only a knock-back with that
confusion of swirling lines; we got eyestrain.
B.M.H.; A niggling style and a gruesome
line of humor... .E.L.: Seeing that you live
400 miles inland, you are forgiven for the
deep-sea diver “joke” and drawing... .F.B.N. :
If you have tried to show that half-filled chaff-
bags can be made to look faintly like humans,
you have succeeded... .T.S.R.: A splendid
example of what we don’t want... .N.C.P.;
“I have tried to make this drawing of
a nudist party comical.” You failed;
its faults were many and were mostly
anatomical... .H.D.: Drawing style a
debilitated shadow of B. E. Minns’s; gag
barnacle-encrusted... .Bert C.: In what dread
nightmare did you see elliptical tiles on a bath-
room wall? W.L.C.: You’ll never do any
good with such a heavily-grained surface; try
a smoother board and watch your perspective
more closely Barry N.: You might gradu-
ate to become a signwriter’s mixer or some-
thing M.McC.: Tree-feller is far more
wooden than the vegetable he is operating on.


■v—
At an ufac in revs of
Wireless Apparatus for
THE WAVY
THE ARMY
THE AIR FORCE
MERCHANT NAVY
AIRLINES
CIVIL AVIATION
GOVERNMENT DEPTS.
PIIRLIC UTILITIES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (MIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Buy War Savings Certificates


Yon
cannot bequeath
your Judgment
or experience
The judgment and experience a man accumu-
lates in his lifetime cannot be passed on to
his dependents. For this reason it is doubly
important that he should take the necessary
steps to ensure that his estate is managed with
competence and fidelity.
For more than 63 years The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited has
provided the impartial advice and assistance
of a permanent corporation as Executor,
Trustee, Attorney, Agent, and in other capaci-
ties of a fiduciary nature. .
The appointment of the company ensures
continuity in the execution of a trust, which
cannot be provided by a single individual.
Charges are fixed and moderate and ample
security is provided. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for full information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserve « and
Undivided Profits, £ 958,760 .
BOARD OP DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman);
D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman,
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman);
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hllder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
The Federal Mutual Insurance Comnany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361, Branches in All States. 139 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
/ Dividends
Pref., To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £, £ £ £
1930.. 18,801 15,000 Nil 3,801 304,075
1931.. 15,172 15,000 Nil 172 304,247
1932.. 17,415 15,000 Nil 2,415 306,662
li p.c.
1933.. 47,168 15,000 30,000 2,168 308,830
2i p.c.
1934.. 73,979 15,000 50,000 8,979 317,809
1935.. 84,570 15,000 50,000 19,570 337.379
3} p.c.
1936.. 97,649 15,000 75,000 7,649 345,028
Fr»m contingency reserve, £10,000.. 355,028
5 p.c.
1937.. 146,073 15,000 100,000 31,073 386,101
1938.. 141,821 15,000 100,000 26,821 412,922
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
, H.S. Divs. To Re-
Dec. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1939.. 181,160 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 66,160 1,228,546
1940.. 132,554 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 115,000 17,554 1,246,100
Taxation written back, £9OOO .. 1,255,100
1941.. 106,073 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 95,000 11,073 1,266,173
* Deducting outsiders’ equity in profits and reserves.
Howard Smith shareholders are inves-
tors in an assorted array of Australian
industry, both in nature and earning
power. Chief interests of the parent,
which derives its income both from divi-
dends and, in some cases, commissions
as agent and manager, so far as they are
known take this pattern:
Howard
Subscribed Smith’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships. £1,850,002 £1,849,997
Australian Sugar .. 207,915 155,704
Caledonian Collieries.. 1 1 pref. 325,034 pref.
( 1,023,599 ord. 869,539 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 104,000 65,791
B.H.P. .. . . 13,862,054 200,000*
Southern Port. Cement. I Ho’car ofa’nn? pr !?'
( 639,885 ord. 248,001 ord.
Southern Blue Metal.. 248,000 50,000
* See letterpress.
The share interest shown in B.H.P. is
speculation, and may be either more or
less. It arose mainly out of the exchange
of 700,000 A.I. and S. ords. for 194,444
B.H.P. shares in 1935. Though not short
of finance, Howard Smith doesn’t appear
to have exercised its right to cash issues
since by the steel co., and how it dealt
with a 64-for-100 gift issue from the same
source in Jan., 1940, also isn’t evident.
The surprise of the latest figures is an
admitted loss of £9840 by Australian
Steamships Pty., for long the backbone
of things; other steam cos. produced
good showings, despite rigid control. But
the remaining members of the fleet, or 14
of them, have been under requisition to
the Shipping Control Board since July on
daily charter, so a recurrence of the
deficit would be equally surprising. In its
effect upon group earnings, the reversal
was partly smothered by nipping £48,458
off the aggregate depreciation charge
(£71,666), Howard Smith’s equity in the
net result being £26,481 lighter at
£106,073, or sufficient to meet its own
pref. charge and then show 4.5 p.c. on
the £2,000,000 of ord. capital, against
5.8 p.c. the year before. A point was
chipped off the div., making it 4 p.c. Tax
provision was £51,969 (down £3779).
Sugar was less remunerative, too, be-
cause of compulsory restriction of output
owing to marketing problems, and
Southern Portland Cement reduced its
ord. payment from 6.2 p.c. to 5.6 p.c.
But steel earnings were constant, and coal
paid better, frequent strikes notwithstand-
ing. Supply, distribution and consump-
tion of the black mineral throughout the
Commonwealth are now in the hands of
a commission, which acquires all inter-
state shipments from the northern N. S.
Wales fields on a fixed f.o.b, basis. The
blue-metal venture remains inoperative.
A handy pile of liquids is accumulat-
ing in the consolidated accounts:
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1940. 1941.
Pref. capital . . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital . . 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Outside capital*.. 450,451 449,047 449,042
Deposits .. . . 42,355 26,610 21,808
Other liabilities .. 187,366 195,159 266,900
Workers’ compensation 39,435 40,107 40,507
Tax provision .. 74,676 87,637 70,332
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 468,320 471,358 468,929
Steamers, collieries,
plant, etc. . . 2,062,926 1,999,309 1,971,441
Shares other cos.. . 1,026,319 1,026,586 1,010,489
Stocks, etc. . . 140,672 165,648 204,103
Debtors .. . . 168,746 214,185 251,751
Public securities
and cash, etc... 469,496 485,982 517,036
* Including proportion of reserves.
Low-earning colliery interests account
for over a million and a half of the fixed
assets; the balance, covering sugar,
steam and the parent’s own property,
etc., looks a conservative figure. On all
funds belonging to H.S. shareholders last
term’s net showing was 2.8 p.c., so if
ord. divs. are further affected it may be
because of unrecovered cost and tax
increases rather than profit-limitation.
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
/ Dividends .
A B
Prefs. Prefs. To Re-
l>ec., Loss. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1931.. 38,550 Nil Nil Nil 32.067
Profit.
1932.. 10,784 5204 Nil Nil 5580 26,487
1933.. 8,649 2082 2500 Nil 4067 22,420
1934.. 3,669 2082 1500 Nil 87 22,333
1935.. 10,126 2082 4500 Nil 3544 18,789
1936.. 15,201 2082 7250 Nil 5809 12,920
1937.. 16,591 2082 9000 Nil 5509 7,411
1938.. 17,090 2082 9000 Nil 6008 1,403
3 p.c. Reserves.
1939.. 21,042 2081 9000 4,950 5011 3,608
1940.. 20,780 2081 4500 8,250 5949 9,557
1941.. 21,140 2081 4500 8,250 6309 15,866
The early 1930’s slump ushered in a run
of bad luck for Pelaco, which turns out
shirts, collars, pyjamas and other men’s-
wear—the ords. went without for nine
years to the end of 1938. Then, just
when the dead horse of accumulated
pref. divs. had been worked off, war
arrived, and in its wake have followed
economic controls and trade and other
troubles, the full effects of which have
yet to be felt. Thus are shareholders
denied the full fruits of the board’s long-
range policy, which was developing nicely.
Still, the co. has put up a very satis-
factory performance. The management
had built up substantial stocks of
imported raw materials at the end of
1940, thus side-stepping many troubles
associated with shipping difficulties and
exchange and import control. But wage
and tax lifts and general price increases
bumped up manufacturing and other
costs, most of which the co. had to bear,'
Also, defence contracts, which now
account for a large slice of turnover,
carry narrower profit margins than the
co.’s ordinary commercial lines.
Larger turnover put a spring of £6664
in last year’s gross earnings (£116,157).
Savings were made in selling and distri-
buting costs, but bigger provision for
taxation lifted exes. (£95,017) by £6304,
leaving a net gain of only £360. The
£21,140 of profit claimed was enough to
pay the prefs. their full contract rates
(together £6581) and show 8.8 p.c. on
ord. capital, as against 8.6 p.c. and 8.7
p.c, for the two preceding years. The
div. was kept at 5 p.c., and £6309 was
put on the shelf, making reserves £15,866
—goodwill (£10,000) is not treated as an
asset herein.
Here are balance-sheet figures;
1936. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Capital .. £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities .. 133,714 70,073 131,897 41,937
Tax provision 3,016 8,983 14,503 30,165
Premises ~ 109,767 102,890 103,571 102,723
Plant, etc. . . 52,005 48,050 46,883 44,902
Book debts . . 95,313 118,685 114,551 78,343
Stock. . . . 104,129 68,588 143,966 95,339
Cash, etc. . . 16,665 6,221 6,556 26,230
The year’s contraction of £48,627 in stocks
and £36,208 in debtors’ balances was
used mainly to reduce the amount
coming to outsiders by £89,960 and
strengthen the cash holding by £19,674.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£157,975) was £24,799.
Since the close of accounts Britain has
imposed a quota on export of cotton
textiles, materials containing cotton and
cotton yarn. After defence needs have
been met, only a small part of this quota
is expected to remain for civil consump-
tion. The Contracts Board, Department
of Supply, Melbourne, will deal with
orders for direct war purposes, while an-
other Government body, the Division of
Import Procurement, Sydney, will appor-
tion the smaller part of the quota avail-
able for civilian needs. This can be ex-
pected to affect both turnover and net
earnings of Pelaco.
Hydraulic Power and Lifts (Syd.)
To Rg - Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 6,253 51 p.c. = 6600 57,162
1932.. 6,942 5 „ „ 6000 942 58,104
1933.. 7,469 6 ~ „ 7200 269 58,373
1934.. 8,559 7 „ „ 8400 159 58,532
1935.. 7,920 6J „ „ 7800 120 58,652
1936.. 7,855 6| „ „ 7800 55 58,707
1937.. 7,459 6 „ „ 7200 259 58,966
1938.. 8,135 7 „ „ 8400 58,701
1939.. 7,652 6i „ „ 7800 58.553
1940.. 8,765 7 „ „ 8400 365 58,918
Removal exes., £Bl7 58,101
1941.. 7,925 6 p.c. = 7200 725 58,826
Nothing startling has ever come the way
of those on this Sydney co.’s register ;
still, the average distribution over the past
decade has been 6.3 p.c., which isn’t bad,
and at the present 13s. 6d. market for the
fully-paids the current 6 p.c. is worth 8.9
p.c. In the period mentioned the board
has never failed to earn less than 5 p.c.
for shareholders. Ramifications have been
strengthened since then by acquisition
of the business of Major, Coates and
Stevens and the Commonwealth electric-
lift agency for the Express Co., London,
which placed the co. in a position to
supply the latest types of high-speed
electric lifts and moving stairways.
The moderate earning power is a re-
flection of the large proportion of the
co.’s funds still tied up in hydraulic
mains and plant;
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Capital . . £120,000 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities . . 18,904 18,923 14,679' 23,277
Mains & plant 135,918 134,880 133,856 133,537
Freeholds . . 35,231 35,231 32,806 39,397
Leaseholds . . 1,149 1,149 500 500
Stock.. .. 13,177 17,061 17,609 15,902
Debtors . . 14,103 12,734 13,607 15,747
Cash, etc. . . 2,290 20 20 620
Not that they aren’t efficient; but electric
elevators have shouldered aside the old
hydraulic lift. Last term the co. moved
from Glebe to Waterloo; £5591 was
added to freeholds in the process, the
board going outside for the money.
Restrictions on city building and altera-
tions appear to have confined activities
last year to smaller dimensions than at
any time since 1934, gross earnings dip-
ping £17,256;
Ex— Ex-
Revenue. penses. Revenue, penses.
1930. . £47,875 £42,598 1937. . £73,019 £65,560
1932.. 39,025 32,083 1938.. 105,577 97,442
1934.. 46,261 37,702 1939'.. 83,223 75,572
1935.. 88,054 80,134 1940.. 86,358 77,593
1936.. 88,507 80,652 1941.. 69,102 62,177
Outgoings proved very accommodating,
however, and the net result, disregarding
removal exes, of £Bl7, was only £B4O
lighter at 6.6 p.c. on capital. Maintenance
and servicing work is obviously still a
reliable old standby; indeed, though
there is generally a little extra available
in times of brisk constructional activity,
competition appears to keep the margin
on new installations within slender limits.
Permewan, Wright, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Jan., Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933 .. 366 Nil 81,407
To staff fund, £B3l .. .. 80,576
Written off, £9OOO 71,576
Profit.
1934 . . 6.097 4 p.c. = 5,000 1097 72,673
To staff fund. £843 .. .. 71,830
1935 .. 9,053 6 p.c. = 6,250 2803 74,633
To staff fund, £933 .. .. 73,700
1936 .. 13,542 6 p.c. = 7,500 6042 79,742
To staff fund, £9Bl .. .. 78,761
1937 .. 18,064 8 p.c. = 10,000 8064 86,825
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. 96,825
1938 .. 22,380 10 p.c. = 15,000 7380 104,205
Share premiums, £5OOO .. .. 109,205
1939 .. 24,719 10 p.c. = 19,438 5281 114,486
Permewan, Weight and Subsidiary.
1940 . . 2,734 2 p.c. = 4,000 113,208
1941 .. 22,717 8 „ „ 16,000 6717 119,925
To staff fund, £1403 .. .. 118,522
1942 .. 16,252 7 p.c. = 14,000 2252 120,774
The Beulah (Vic.) branch was closed
during the year, but a new one at
Pilliga (N.S.W.) left 21 stores through-
out N.S.W. and 20 in Victoria. Prices
of most land products being fixed either
by contract or Government regulation,
seasons are now the chief gamble of the
co., which is heading towards its diamond
jubilee in the produce, station-supply,
carrying and agency business in the back
country. Eleven new trading posts have
been set up since 1934 ; but there is nearly
£lOO,OOO invested in property these days,
and earning power over the past decade
hasn’t exhibited the robustness of its pre-
decessor.
“War conditions” were the only items
of abnormal character to affect last
year’s trading, say the directors, without
being further illuminating. The drift city-
wards and acute petrol-rationing were no
doubt among the most trying factors, and
even where fuel substitutes are available
tyre needs may soon add to transport
difficulties. Seasonally the year opened
satisfactorily enough; a shortage of feed
showed up in the latter half, but there
is nothing “abnormal” in this to philo-
sophic country men.
In the result there was a fall of £6786
in gross earnings (£171,629) of the co.
and its trading subsidiary, P.W. Pty.; the
unruly nature of costs prevented savings,
leaving the slip in the net result £6465, de-
spite provision of £1575 less for taxation
(£15,600). On the £200,000 of capital,
the £16,252 of profit was 8.1 p.c., against
11.3 p.c. for the term before. So a point
was clipped off the div., making it 7 p.c. ;
6 p.c. is more like the rate that can be
expected if the “4 p.c. profits” proposals
see the light of day.
The extent the board has gone outside
to finance clients and carry substantial


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice.
MR. ALFRED GOULDING, motion-picture
director, announces that he has commenced
production of an Australian picture entitled
A YANK IN AUSTRALIA. Distribution has
already been arranged.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
a scrap
of paper
. , . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE,
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD. A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
K. V PERKINS, General Manager
in
sp
time
tcSS
uucb©* 1
m
when you
cook with an
AGA
Everywhere women are giving their
time, their energies, their enthusi-
asm to war work. Often unexpected
demands are made on hospitality.
In homes where there’s an AG A
Cooker delicious meals can be pre-
pared, at any hour, with a minimum
of attention.
The AGA Cooker burns continu-
ously; cooks fast or slow as desired;
conserves food flavours; saves shrink-
age of meats; and is almost un-
believably economical. Model C, for
instance, suitable for city or country
houses, cannot burn more than £3
worth of fuel in a whole year, with
coke at 30/- per ton in the city.
(Freight increases price in the
country, but annual consumption is
so low that amazing economy is
possible anywhere in Australia.)
The AGA Cooker is finished in
sparkling, easily-cleaned vitreous
enamel. Its insulation keeps
kitchens cool. It operates scientifi-
cally by STORED heat. You can
leave a whole dinner to cook 'itself,
while you devote extra time to your
war effort.
You will find it most interesting to
have an AGA Cooker demonstrated.
Or, if you cannot call, write for
Illustrated AGA Catalogue 85.
7At0rijimJ ikatStome
COOKER
MIDI IN »
LEVIN & CO.. LTD..
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
433 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and at Wellington, JLZ.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. C. Webster & S'ons, Ltd., Hobart.
Agent for Western Australia: Malloch Bros., Ltd., Perth.
Agent for Queensland; Queensland Primary Producers’
Co-operative Association, Ltd., Brisbane.
»iJ m
.■■v:k€
ElB6B
CRAVEN A
..die SO
10 for lid.
20 for 110
7 U
mm*
m
MADE SPECIALLY
stocks is evident from the comparison of
eight years’ growth:
r- Perm. r~? •'W. & '
1934. 1940. 1941. 1942 ‘
Paid capital.. £125,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 38,025 215,719 223,830 184,628
Property & plant 66,093 137,183 136,665 130,177
Book debts". . 103,646 230,671 231,919 230,443
Merchandise .. 58,490 141,479 182,608 108,217
Shares other cos. 6,900 11,899 £BOO
Cash, etc. .. 6,528 13,755 14,747 17,500
Depreciation of £11,014 was written off
last year. With the reduction in the stock-
holding, it enabled a sizable impression
to be made on the debt. Shares represent
face value of the holding in moribund
Murray Shipping. Obviously, the position
largely depends on the soundness of
debtors, which are indicated to have been
well cared for.
At 18s. 6d. the market prices the scrip
12s. 6d. a share below break-up book
values. The small attention to organi-
sation of primary industry in war-
planners’ minds is one of the things
clouding the future.
To meet contingencies that might arise
from the war-time shortage of man-
power in Westralian goldmining, one-
group administration of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile mines has been suggested.
Such a system of control, it is argued,
would enable the industry to do with
fewer men, lead to greater economy and
efficiency, and put management and
policy in the hands of one powerful cor-
poration with one front to fight on or
defend. Group administration has
worked with highly successful results on
the Rand field (S. Africa).
* * * *
Lake Views, along with other Westra-
lian issues, have been active in London,
where the 45.-paids have gone from
around Bs. to 12s. in a fortnight, bringing
the scrip into line with equivalent Aus-
tralian quotes, where, by contrast, maxi-
mum-minimum limits have just been ad-
justed downwards. A steady interim of
12? p.c. goes out on June 24, and to
determine the recipients transfer books
close from May 11 to May 13. Two such
interims a year are the usual thing, sup-
plemented by a 25 p.c. final.
* =s= * *
Wiluna, Westralia’s lowest-grade deep-
level producer, wound up its March year
with 550,000 tons on the production
sheet, or 4 p.c. less than in 1941, and a
contraction from 2.Bdwt. to 2.sdwt. in
grade further bit into the slender margin
on which the co. operates. Costs rose
Is. 4d. a ton, too. Though roughly
£125,000 less, working surplus of £163,400
was still something of an achievement.
The mine’s refractory ore below 1800 ft.
bulks only three ’weights, and chairman
Hamilton has warned that continuous
production on a large scale is necessary
to carry on, and that the bulk of the
million tons of ore in reserve would be
rendered unpayable by any appreciable
rise in costs. The management has not
yet broadcast at length on its Mt.
Charlotte working option, where possi-
bilities of a 30,000-ton-monthly treatment
plant have been spoken of.
* * * *
Paringa’s new enrichment on the east
lode channel at the 520 ft. level has been
driven on for a total of 248 ft. —134 ft.
south, assaying 16.6dwt.; 114 ft. north,
averaging 28.5dwt.; mean width for the
whole distance, 54in. The shoot has also
been dug up over a considerable dis-
tance at the 640 ft. horizon, where its
downward persistence, carrying 7.Bdwt.
values over an undiminished width, is
indicated in a winze 56ft. below the level
at a point 430 ft. north. The Greenhill
shoot, which has yielded 33,000 tons of
lldwt. milling ore, is showing no signs
of fading at depth either, and a series of
borings are to be put down to test its
behavior between 8000ft.-10,000ft. A
special programme to explore the prin-
cipal lode channels in an area about a
quarter-mile wide north of the Paringa
sections looks as if it may have to be
stood over till arrival of more propitious
times.
* * * «
First Hit, one of Westralia’s midget
goldmining div.-payers Ora Banda
Amalgamated is another, and Central
Gold was a third until its wealth-carrier
passed away—is distributing another 3d.
a share this month. First Hit hasn’t a
bulky shoot, but what it has taken out
has gladdened shareholders, and what is
left is stated to give them confidence re-
garding the future,
« w * •
The Mararoa (Central Norseman) mine
of Western Mining Corp. and Phoenix
Gold put through 12,000 more tons of
ore (115,400 tons) in the year to March,
and an improvement from 7.3dwt. to
B.7dwt. in recoveries should have well
taken care of any cost-increases. Subject
to the year’s capital expenditure, it should
have enabled a substantial hole to have
been made in the £236,500 owing Gold
Exploration and Finance a year ago,
which stands in the way of dividends.
sfc Hs •
To a vertical extent of 695 ft., grade
at Big Bell, near Cue (W.A.), is 3.64dwt.,
average width 80ft. Diamond-drilling
below has indicated 3.7dwt. values over
72ift.
* * * *
Government and mining representa-
tives are putting heads together to discuss
the wisest application of such man-power
as may be left the gold industry in Vic-
toria, where output (28,0530 z.) for the
first quarter of the current year has
fallen nearly 25 p.c. compared with the
corresponding period of 1941. All fields
have been affected, though here and
there stand out individual exceptions.
Because of its favored reserve-ore posi-
tion, Wattle Gully, for example, has been
able to maintain dividends by concen-
trating development labor on production
and raising milling grade, while the
Morning Star, at Wood’s Point, is still
able to keep at least part of the 10-head
addition to its battery employed. In its
latest year the co. raised its crushings
over 20 p.c. at a loss in grade from
10.2dwt. to 9.4dwt.
* * * *
Wellington Alluvials, on the Macquarie
near Wellington (N.S.W.), will show earn-
ings something below last term’s net
£43,599 in the year to April. Dredge
turnover was 450,000 c.y. down, and at'
1.7 gr., comparing with 1.9 gr., recoveries
haven’t averaged less since the plant got
into full swing. Current term has opened
with an acute water shortage.
* * * *
From Jo’burg:
Rand gold production in 1941 set new records
in ore crushed and money value, but further
slight lowering of grade and the upward trend
of costs brought profits (before tax) down by
£5tg1,680,144 to £5tg45,845,943. For 1940
dividends aggregated an unprecedented
£20,359,500. For 1941, because of a lift in the
special war tax from 11 p.c. to 16 p.c., they
just exceeded £18,000,000. Two new producers
-—Blyvour (West Rand) and Vlakfontein (Far
East Rand)—kick off this year.
* * * *
From London:
Highlights of the past year’s mining,
remarks the “Financial Times,” have been the
brilliance of diamond shares and the general
firmness of Kaffir stocks; low lights, the partial
blackout of Malayan, other Asian and Aus-
tralian descriptions. Difficulties as regards
imported supplies, as well as the crippling hand
of taxation, have contributed to handicap
severely operations on a number of mining fields,
notably West Africa and Westralia. Kingsley
Wood’s measures to relieve the pressure of a
100 p.c. excess-profits tax upon British-domiciled
Empire producers of metals were so hedged
about by limitations that they appear to
have afforded no real relief. Both leading West
African goldmines and Northern Rhodesian
copper-producers have cut dividends, and so
have some London-Australian gold-winners.


It's better to
INSURE
than be sorry!
TO '^ SV)RE
ow » s IHE ov3R
-OUR f uRN ' TUR g
Xi^° ußßAD '°
ROTHES I OTHER
a hd a LL x
£R
The Commonwealth War In-
surance Scheme is designed
specially to cover your private
belongings against War risks.
No commercial policy does this.
The premium is only 8/- per
cent. Although it is voluntary,
remember that, if you are un-
fortunate enough to lose your
belongings by air raid or other
enemy action, you will have no
claim for compensation what-
ever without this insurance.
NOTE. Buildings and fixed
property are separately and
compulsorily protected. Owners
need take no action at present
—Local Governing Authorities
will shortly call for valuations.
Go to any Insurance Office
and take out a
War Damage Certificate now
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Taxes and Vital Metals
One of those smaller but essential
metal-mining concerns, King Island
Scheelite treats scheelite ore for what is
known as wolfram or tungsten. Tung-
sten is wanted urgently in the steel and
machine-tools industry and is in demand
for electric-light filaments.
The co.’s operations at the moment
are made paradoxical by the fact that if
it produces 6i tons of concentrates a
week instead of the usual 5% tons it will
pay out 225. 9d. in income tax for every
20s. of extra net profit! Such is the
effect—widespread, too —of Australia’s
barbarous taxation laws. Recent in-
creases in the price of tungsten —increases
allowed because of the acute necessity for
getting the stuff —make the position more
ridiculous still.
Though full production was reached
at the end of 1939, in the past term
millings fell away because of treatment
difficulties. Great variations in the quality
of the ore are now being met with. Much
more overburden had to be removed
(78,114 c.y., against 44,527 c.y.), and a
drilling programme is being pushed ahead.
Staff has been difficult to get—and keep.
Lower throughput and higher costs cut
profits by two-thirds last year. The
main (primary) mill handled 29,190 tons
of crude ore (against 35,600 tons) for
205 tons scheelite concentrates (228 tons).
Average return was 30s. 4d. per ton
milled, compared with 305., and costs
(excluding depreciation, £2174, and taxa-
tion) were 225. Bd., against 16s. Net
profit was £6374, against £22,124. In
the smaller profit taxation was almost
as high (at £5224) as in the preceding
year. Only one 3d. div, (£3125) was
handed to shareholders, whereas in the
earlier period Is. 6d, went out. Out of
the profits of the latest term £2500 was
set aside for extra plant depreciation.
The co. was formed towards the end
of 1937 to work a property in Bass
Strait. There are 250,000 ss. shares
issued, 200,000 of them being still sub-
ject to a call of Is. To date 2s. has been
handed back on all shares. At the begin-
ning there was 50,000 tons of proved ore
on the property going 0.85 p.c. tungstic
acid. Hartwell Conder advised opencut
operations, and production was in full
swing in the 1940 term. Proved ore at
the end of that term was still 50,000 tons,
with 25,000 tons more probable and
100,000 tons possible. At the end of
the latest term it was announced that no
definite estimates had been compiled
during the year because the boring pro-
gramme was in progress. But progress
results of the boring “indicate that present
ore reserves exceed any previous esti-
mate.”
The co. has contracted to sell its con-
centrates to B.H.P. for the duration and
six months. Average return per unit last
term was 625. 4d., compared with 665. Id.
in the preceding period. Some time
ago it was announced that the price had
since been lifted by the British Ministry
of Supply by 10s. a unit, making the
standard price for 65 p.c. WO3 725. Bd.
a unit. More recently arrangements were
completed between Australia and Britain
for a price of 100 s. sterling a unit, with
90s. sterling at the place of production.
This should be equal to nearly 110 s.
Australian. With taxation as it is,
the increase isn’t much help to this
mining co. B.H.P. is asking for 10 tons
a week, but treatment difficulties and
non-arrival of plant are hampering efforts.
The tailings treatment was carried on
at the rate of three shifts daily until the
end of September, “when the yields were
such that it was decided to suspend
operations,” In the period, 18,870 tons
of tailings returned 17 tons Bcwt. of
scheelite concentrates. In the preceding
period the yield was 34 tons 14cwt. from
22,390 tons.
The co. has a comfortable financial
position. It has £lO,OOO in Consols and
deposits, plus £8147 in semi-liquids.
Liabilities and tax provision aggregate
£9767. Though metal recoveries, on the
average, were maintained last year, much
will depend during the current term on
whether throughput can be restored to
former proportions. Mining apparently
isn’t as easy as it was, and there are
likely to be increases in milling costs.
Apropos of “small metals” generally,
Canberra has decided to increase the
price of tin to encourage output. Pro-
fessor Copland has sanctioned a lift of
£5l a ton, making £371 a ton, to operate
from May 1, Included in the price is a
margin of £lO a ton to be pooled for the
purpose of developing less profitable
ores. Though the price-rise may en-
courage production by small producers,
it is no use to the bigger mines, since
taxation will take nearly all the increased
profit and the mine properties will be
exhausted without benefiting share-
holders. Briseis (Tas.) and one or two
shows out Ardlethan (N.S.W.) way are
cases in particular, and Tableland Tin
(Mt. Garnet, N.Q.) may be no better off
by the lift when its big dredge begins
operations. The metal-mining industry
in Australia is an object lesson in the
effect of sweeping taxation measures on
essential war production. From the
point of view of ordinary trading con-
cerns it may overemphasise the wasting-
asset aspect, but it does illustrate the
need for taxation to be levied with con-
sideration for other things besides mere
revenue-gathering.
Because of the squeeze caused by rising
costs, pointed out in B. 8/4/’42, the Com-
monwealth Government is going to ask
Britain to review the wool agreement.
Minister Scully says that, “if the U.K.
Government consents, officers of the
Commerce Department will prepare a
case for increased prices for woolgrowers
based on rising production costs and
other factors.” He is of the opinion that
“growers feel that representations will
result in an increase of from |d. to Id. a
pound on the present price of 13s. 4d.”
The agreement makes provision for re-
view this month, and living costs in Aus-
tralia have risen 15 p.c. since war broke
out. Some of the rise has been Australia’s
own fault, some of it unavoidable.
* * * *
The N. S. Wales District Court has
given a decision on the liability of lessees
of neon signs under brownout conditions.
A claim by Consolidated Neon (Philips
System) Pty, against Toohey’s, Ltd., under
contracts for hire of “over-awning” signs
was refused, Judge Hill ruling that “the
doctrine of frustration” applied because
illumination of the signs had been pro-
hibited by law. Toohey’s pointed out
that the prohibition was a National
Security Regulation, Neon sign cos.
throughout the Commonwealth will be
affected by the decision. But the “under-
awning” type of neon sign is still allowed
to be illuminated during daylight. It is
the more numerous.
* * ♦ *
The Department of War Organisation
of Industry, which is Mr. Dedman’s baby,
is thoroughly absorbed in the experiment
of “rationalising” patent medicines and
the like. “Hundreds” of lines of patent
medicines, we are told, are made from
“only 30 substantially different recipes,”
and it “is possible” that the department
will restrict manufacture to these 30 lines.
It is all very interesting, and the cutting-
out of duplicated lines would be a good
thing where possible, but there is the
suggestion of the experimentalist about
to work miracles surrounding the an-
nouncement. It may be that a dandruff
lotion can also be used as an eyewash
and a cure for tinea, but even “telescop-
ing” thus drastically it would seem diffi-
cult to put all patent medicines into 30
different bottles. It would hardly allow
for one independent cough mixture or
one sovereign remedy in the shape of
headache powders. Surely standardisa-
tion of packages and the sale of the
medicines on formula only would be
the best start possible towards rationali-
sation. The elimination of brands may
be necessary, but the public can assure
the Government that the pooling of all
stocks and the sale of one grade of petrol
has been followed by horribly bad petrol
being marketed.
While on the job of patent medicines
the department is going to reduce the 358
lines of confectionery to 10. It doesn’t
say which 10. But 10 varieties would be
exhausted if chocolate (dark), chocolate
(milk), barley sugar, peppermints, butter-
scotch, chewing gum, jubes, liquorice,
caramels and boiled lollies were allowed
to remain.
* * * *
Wilson, the M.H.R. from Wimmera
who has had limelight thrust upon him
through the mathematical principle of
division by two (he is the one left over),
has said that he will support the one-
income-tax scheme and, furthermore,
that he is in favor of increased taxation
as opposed to borrowing. This attitude
is entirely intelligent provided Mr. Wilson
appreciates the fact that taxation is a
people’s problem and not something to
be borne by an apocryphal wealthy class
alone. This war is too big a thing for
the “wealthy” to handle. That is proved
by the fact that rationing, the real test
of war’s burden, has had to be applied
to all classes, especially the wage-earner.
With minor allowances rationing of the
substance should be accompanied by
taxation of the shadow. Money is the
shadow that should retain its relation-
ship to production on the one hand and
war waste on the other.
* * * •
From May 1 sales tax on general com-
modities has gone up from 10 p.c. to
12} p.c. On non-essentials the rate has
been lifted from 20 p.c. to 25 p.c. Goods
previously subject to 5 p.c. tax will now
be exempt, but the overall effect of the in-
creases will be to bring in an extra £6.3
million a year.
* * * ♦
The restriction on the trading hours
of cheque-paying banks, which will
mean closing at 2 p.m., is one result of
the shortage of man-power in the indus-
try. The new closing time starts from
May 18. Savings banks keep to their
old schedule, and in country towns on
market day (other than Saturday) 3 p.m.
will still be closing time.
* * * *
Discussions are continuing in London
around the vexed question of “telescop-
ing” the activities of branches of Aus-
tralian banks. The poor old trading
banks look like having their activities
centred in the office of the Common-
wealth Bank, the aim being to make man-
power and other things available for
the war effort. The trading banks see
the possibility of their London connec-
tions disappearing altogether into the
portals of the Australian central bank
and the British banks. The Australian
trading banks have suffered already from
the concentration of exchange business
in the hands of the Commonwealth Bank.
* * * *
The Taxation Advisory Committee has
recommended that such part of A.R.P.
expenditure as does not result in endur-
ing benefit to the taxpayer, apart from
protective war purposes, should be
allowed as a deduction for income-tax
purposes. Up to the present it is no
more than a recommendation, and is
entirely a Federal suggestion in any case.
* * * •
Woolworths’ chairman raised several
taxation points at the co.’s annual
meeting. He criticised the non-allowance
of A.R.P. expenditure as a deduction
for income-tax purposes, and mentioned
the dead loss which shelters, etc., would
represent to his co. in particular. The
taxation of such expenditure is in fact
no anomaly but a representative example
of the total disregard by taxation authori-
ties of any national interest except that
of scraping out of people, businesses and
employers in particular, every penny of
revenue that can be got. Another prob-
lem that arises with company taxation up
to almost anything in the pound is that
touching gifts to charity. The limit
of deductions allowed here is £lOO. Mr.
Scott Waine claims that there has already
been a sharp drop in donations to hos-
pitals, etc., from the limited funds re-
maining after paying all kinds of com-
pany taxes, adding that there seems to be
a growing tendency to tax companies
without regard to the fact that all their
distributed profits are eventually taxed in
the hands of shareholders. This Govern-
mentally unacknowledged double taxa-
tion has been the reason for a dozen
Bulletin criticisms. The hollow hum-
bug of McKell in N. S. Wales was a
bright example of an attempt to per-
suade the people that double black was
single white.


Situation Vacant.
WANTED Manager for “Elcho” (Geelong)
Corriedale Sheep Stud. Personality and Sales-
manship desirable. Attractive home and good
salary. Previous Manager has joined A.I.F.
Apply
J. F. GUTHRIE (Corriedale) PTY. LTD.,
Geelong, Vic.
PRICE OF GAS.
The Australian Gas Light Company and
The North Shore Gas Co., Ltd., announce
that, consequent upon conditions imposed by
the present war, and acting under authority
given by the Commonwealth Prices Commis-
sioner (approval Nos. 803 and 804), the price
of gas will be increased by both Companies
on and after the 11th May, 1942, by 0.012 d.
per gas unit.
This increase is required solely for the pur-
pose of meeting expenditure incurred in the
inter-connecting of mains and the transfer of
certain essential units of plant to selected sites,
THE WORK INVOLVED HAVING BEEN
CONSIDERED NECESSARY BY THE
STATE WAR EFFORT CO-ORDINATION
COMMITTEE TO SAFEGUARD THE
SUPPLY OF GAS IN THE EVENT OF
DAMAGE BY ENEMY ACTION IN THE
AREAS SERVED BY THE TWO COM-
PANIES.
W. A. TAYLOR, Secretary,
The Australian Gas Light Company.
H. F. JONES, Secretary,
The North Shore Gas Company, Limited.
85,000 NEW HAIRS
GROWN!
gm 4
III:; % Ill^
THE ageing effect of baldness
upon one’s appearance could
not be more strikingly depicted
than in these pictures.
WHAT MURCHISON
DISCOVERED ABOUT HAIR
IT does not matter if your hair is fall-
ing out, if your are fast going bald —or
what you have tried. You have not used
the RIGHT method. Hundreds of people
who have tried all kinds of “tonics”
found their hair falling out in handfuls,
and were fast going bald. But now their
hair is thick and lustrous —thanks to the
important discovery that —
TONICS WILL NEVER
GROW HAIR
THEY never have —because it is impossible while
the scalp remains in a choked condition. There
is one underlying principle that stimulates New Hair
Growth —that principle is involved in the New
Murchison Treatment. It’s a new way—entirely
different and successful. It approaches baldness,
falling hair, &c., from a new angle. With it you
can stop your hair troubles overnight, or it won’t
cost you one penny! POST COUPON AT ONCE!
THE FIRST SIGNS OF
HAIR DISORDER
SEE IF THESE CONDITIONS
APPUY TO YOU!
DOBS your hair fall out considerably? Do you,
for instance, get a lot of combings? Is your
hair split and broken? Does it hurt to pull it
gently? Have you much dandruff on your scalp?
Is the scalp itchy or painful in patches? Is your
hair very dry or too oily? Is your hair
changing * colour? Are the roots falling when
you comb? What state is your hair at the crown?
The answers to these simple questions will tell you
if you have the first signs of hair disorders, and, if
so, take the warning that is given you by Nature.
1500
TRIAL
FOR
TREATMENTS
DISTRIBUTION
Test It Yourself!
\TOW you can test it yourself—try this
’ famous treatment in your own home
■ —under any conditions you like, and if it
doesn’t grow new hair, rid you of dandruff
or any other hair troubles you suffer from
within 30 days, it COSTS YOU NOTHING!
—not one penny! But you must hurry ;
this offer may never be repeated. It places
you under no obligation ; all you have to
do is to post that coupon NOW!
£lOOO GUARANTEE
I guarantee that all testimonials pub-
lished in this announcement are genuine
extracts from reports received and are
open for inspection at any time.
■ (Signed) J. K. MURCHIS’ON.
“Hair Growing Like
Wildfire”
“T COULD have told you after one
* application that your treatment would
certainly grow hair. It has completely
changed the colour of my hair; it has
turned it from its dry, dead, straw-
looking colour back to its original shade
of brown, and now, after about three
weeks’ use, I have a lot of new hair
growing all over my head. It’s growing
like wildfire. I mention that I never
gave your treatment a very fair go,
either.”—E. J. Reynolds, M., N.S.W.
Wonderful Difference
in Hair!
“1 have been using your hair treat-
ment for 30 days, and have noticed a
wonderful difference in my hair; new
hair is growing all over my head.” —
V. H. Zibell, M., S.A.
In Only Two Weeks!
"I have a light downy growth of hair
appearing on the thin patch. The dan-
druff has been completely cured.” —
•1. D. Blackwell, N.. Ylc.
SEND NO MONEY
J. KELSO MURCHISON, DEPT. 94,
WAYNE HOUSE, CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Enclose 3d. in stamps.)
6/5/’42.
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
mu
Hi
m
■I
.WflßMßaftflKlKW^Kfli:
R & K* * a K <1 R A K « K fl RJIK «
»KSRL<I»::<aKJeB.Jafei«K«K«K«K
r ,!•*;€»:«: «r, miKtK«K«K a
»Ki«KaK:4K«KnefIK»K'«KaK
»KL<fIKL4K!«^«K r
Kaßgßiais-wsr
2IK*RJ«K»I!2V
taKIHiIKIK
aKftKftKflKt
RAKSIKMKVK
dmaiK«K«Ka
aR»:;«K«kT<i
KMK»K»eij;
«K<ißnKflK;a
RiSKARSKIB
;iKlK«ft.tKI
K»KIK»K«K
.tK«MK«KI
». r «K>ilK'4l«ifltf
z4khv.w:m*»
KMKIVIIR fl?
KMKaKWBaTC
vraiKiHiaiKfl*
•T 4K r «K«Bf«i!Sa
Kwmvmnm*
WM?w*y:4
vwmwiaiß*!’
WWIfiVIRM
sußWNiasaaa
Kwws&nn
SUPSflgaißßkM
mwmw&'A*
vKa^siaan
VSV'dXWAt
'AVAMVAXi
&.miTAvmnmy.
ajwaraaa
sasißasannaß.
lURiK«M9ra»ttN s
MK»«iKW»Wa!«KOaai»!W:iJ<R:ii!iSSSKiSR^Ktf»«<K^BIJ<KSr^KB!KMKiSRM»S»JB£K£ISEKgSgSgS£S£gg£22S
SSSgsgS^SsiSSs^g^gg«SgsSg^gsgsgsgSgs«s^gSs|SsisiigS^gs|SSS|g
V»Ki!llSia»aß«lSBlslSßKafllQli<Sail!filS<llßaißaiSSlßflßolEißlßoßail!ißßSßß«fießgSgSgSggggggSgSS'
Capstan Medium . . Blue Packs Capstan Special Mild . . Red Packs Capstan Full Strength . . Brown Packs
1793 C-4-42
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
favourite
cigarette
_ R » R « f *I? <• M ft 4 to..
*3&vSKSfIK(SSSeafe
..jmBHA
mnawdy/AWA Basasißaßawa
_ £ paßaKa^ftßaßttJSKeanaKaxaaiaß
*«««««»
‘•^IMJISKSa'iJKRiiiR
«B*B£!Q£Ri!IS
SKJBISRiKRiJRI*
2l!S*R*ISiaR£R
'HttlSttKaßttß
SfIUWKaRaRiJI
jBWMEBRaR
SBSRiSRi?IRMK
sausa*»R*Jß a
!RaRaRMK.IR
sisaßaßiißii
BKMSJBaKaR
mmbisikiJlßM
teg£®S
msssm
IPSaRiSKaRaR
KaisaaiKßjßa
?B*RSEfiE*R
U4MRI!Rfi!RO
Saßap.iaßaßS
!PAIR»»»R3S
MR»»:iRaKa
aRfIBSRiaRB*
BflßiSßggaßg
9RBRiaRSi9R9IR
S«BiSR£BgR«
MSBiS BgßgE
.4nOK3K£MR£Kg
BSEiSBiSBaBgR
Maoriland is finding a drop in Customs
and other revenue coinciding with the
proximity of Japanese war operations.
The bigger war bill and falling revenue
are being countered by supplementary
taxation measures. The national security
tax of Is. in the £ on all incomes is being
raised to Is. 6d., and the super-tax is to
be lifted from 15 p.c. to 33| p.c. Ordi-
nary company tax goes up from a maxi-
mum of 12s. Id. to 14s. Bd. in the £.
Sales tax on luxury goods is being
doubled. Excise on beer is to rise an-
other Is. a gallon, and the alcoholic con-
tent is to be dropped 25 p.c. The rate
of duty goes up 2d. on a packet of 10
cigarettes, and sd. an ounce on tobacco.
In view of the recent increase of 5 p.c.
in wages the Government is going to
allow a similar lift in pensions, also in
allowances to wives of service men. The
Government is approaching the M.L.
market for £l5 million of loan money
this month, offering from 2\ p.c. to 3 p.c.
according to term. It has already
received large accommodation from the
British Government for overseas expen-
diture. The Dominion is not nearly so
self-sufficient industrially as Australia,
hence the necessity for overseas borrow-
ing.
* * * *
In the Senate Customs Minister Keane
last week said Myers, of Melbourne, had
overcharged the public £250,000 before
the firm was “declared.” Prices were now
being adjusted so as to refund the over-
charge to the public ; it could not, be-
cause of “some grave defect in legisla-
tion,” be passed to the Treasury. Myers
later described Senator Keane’s statement
as “misleading and unfair,” as on January
13 he had said the “principal diffi-
culty” was “not so much a calculated
attempt on the part of the co. to ignore
the principles of price control, but its
failure to reconcile its normal trading
practices with principles embodied in the
prices regulations.”
» * * •
The Federal Arbitration Court had to
spare the time last week to turn down an
application by the Builders’ Laborers’
Union for the introduction of a 40-hour
week.
♦ * * *
Grafton (N.S.W.) reports that a match
factory is to be established there.
Machines and machinists will be brought
from Melbourne by the Federal Match
Co. The first plant installed will be de-
voted to boxmaking, and the second
section will be a stick-cutting outfit.
Clarence-river timbers will be used.
* * * *
Companies and private individuals
may not now borrow more than £lOOO
in a year in the form of a mortgage.
Overdrafts are also under strict control,
a bank not being permitted to lend
money for the purpose of paying income
tax or distributing a dividend, among
other limitations. Pastoral cos. may not
borrow on deposit (except from a bank)
at more than 1 p.c. p.a.
* * * *
Australian bonds in New York con-
tinue to firm. Queensland 6 p.cs. rose to
73 on April 29, up five points in a week
and 13 points in a fortnight.
* * * *
Commodity prices have risen 2.3 p.c.,
on the average, throughout Australian
capital cities during the quarter ended
March 31. The increase was greatest in
Melbourne.
* * * *
War-damage premiums have already
passed £2,250,000. Though insurance
cos. have collected much of this money
they do so only as agents of the Com-
monwealth. It represents a handy war
fund for the Government.
* * *
Canada is now the world’s greatest
producer of aluminium. Output has been
increased fivefold since war started.
Water-power from the Saguenay district
has been a great factor in this expansion.
Nickel production has been multiplied
three times since 1929, while most of the
Empire’s mercury requirements are now
coming from British Columbia.
* * * *
Cunarders of the air are visualised by
Sir Percy Bates, the steamship co.’s chair-
man, in the post-war period. He thinks
that the war-time development of the
bombing ’plane will bring rapid produc-
tion of good passenger aircraft when the
fight finishes. “This may promise com-
petition from a new element. I think the
Cunard company will need to enter this
element. We shall have to take to the
air or at least maintain direct association
with it.” The shipping man’s interest
seems to be justified. In Australia some
inter-State shippers have already entered
the air-transport business per medium of
associated cos., one of the first to do so
being Adelaide Steam. But ships aren’t
going to be obsolete. The transcon-
tinental railway didn’t make shipping
between the Eastern States and Westralia
obsolete. And the sea trip has a fas-
cination and value all its own.
Australian Paper Manufacturers, from
which Australasian Paper and Cumber-
land derive their income, is working to
capacity. Prices are controlled by the
commissioner, and this fact, combined
with higher taxation and other costs, was
responsible for the fall in the interim div.
paid to the two holding cos.
« * * W
Dunlop Rubber has reduced its interim
div. from 3\ p.c. to p.c. Turnover is
being kept up in spite of the changeover
from civil to defence needs, but profit
margins are lower. Rubber for civilian use
is being strictly rationed, and the future
of cos. like Dunlop is obscure owing to
the loss of Malayan rubber sources.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: In the last week in April
the weather improved along the North
Australian coast and over New Guinea,
and raiding increased. By the end of
the week there were signs that some
move either for direct invasion of the
Commonwealth or for some major pre-
lude to invasion was in course of pre-
paration.
The enemy has begun to use stronger
fighter formations with his bombers, a
result which seems to have been brought
about by the outcome of his 14th raid
on Darwin on April 25. The 15th raid
on April 27 was made with 17 bombers,
escorted by nine O-type fighters. The
party left minus three bombers and four
fighters, and with the. Allied airmen
hanging on till the last moment, forcing
the Zeros to waste so much petrol that
there was a chance that the balance
would not reach home. Thus, two raids
had cost the invaders 18 ’planes out of
The day marked an expansion of the
attack area of the R.A.A.F. and its U.S.
Allies. Kavieng, on the north of New
Ireland, had a visit, and a transport was
sunk there. Faisi, in the Solomons, 400
miles away, had its transport facilities
bombed. These two raids look like pros-
pecting expeditions, especially since the
ranging of the patrols near the New
Guinea mainland was wider than it had
been.
The peep at Lae that day bore fruit.
On April 29 an Allied force destroyed
or damaged 20 grounded aircraft there,
and started large fires. Three flying-
boats were burned on the water. Attacks
on Koepang and on Tanimbar, only 300
miles from Darwin, and possibly the
source of some of the attacks on that
town, were only incidental to reconnais-
sances.
The Japanese contribution to offensive
war was three attacks on Moresby
’dromes, with little hurt to anything save
Mother Earth.
On May Day Lae was raided for the
fourth time in a week. General Mac-
Arthur’s communique described the
attack as “brilliant.” It was the first
attack by U.S. fighter pilots. It wheeled
across the bay from Salamaua landing-
ground, where ground installations were
peppered, picked out a line of 30
grounded ’planes and soon had most of
them burning. The gunners played hide-
and-seek with antlike Nipponese on the
ground below. Over Salamaua four Jap
fighters were shot down. A radio station
was hit.
Meanwhile, over 300 miles away, eight
bombers and a fighter or so had turned
up over Horn Island, between Thursday
Island and Cape York and in sight of
both. No damage was done there or at
Tulagi.
The patrol sent a formation of five Jap
fighters home one short on Friday from
Moresby. Gasmata (New Britain) had
a plastering. ’Planes were reported over
Horn and Thursday Islands again. The
most ominous news was of the presence
of two unidentified machines on which
the guns opened fire over Townsville.
On May 2 Rabaul was raided ; one
transport received a direct hit, another
was damaged and a tender was upset.
Of eight Jap interceptors two were
destroyed and four damaged. And
Moresby defenders destroyed four and
damaged two out of 15 O-type fighters
which attacked the ’drome there. The
enemy continued to attack Tulagi, in the
Solomons, but evidently does not feel
himself strong enough in that region to
attempt to take over the place.
Reports from New Guinea suggest that
the weather has cleared sufficiently to
allow the enemy to push inland up the
Markham Valley and towards the gold-
fields and the main plateau. He is likely
to try to take full command of this before
he attempts any actual invasion of Aus-
tralia.
It was known nearly two months ago
that the Japanese Navy’s crack landing
division was in the Marshall Islands, and
American sources report increased arri-
vals of ships and materials there; but
whether they will attack this country or
how they will strike if they do and by
what route is purely a matter of infer-
ence.
General Blarney said during the week
that northern and north-eastern positions
had been strengthened. Supplies and
equipment were coming in readily and
rapidly. The general added;
We can now take on a very considerable
strain and it would take a very serious
expedition indeed to make any impression
on this continent as a base for future
operations. We shall prepare to move
forward, carrying the fight into enemy
territory as soon as possible. That is the
chief aim of our effort now.
The general seemed to have little doubt
of the danger of attack. He described
Darwin and Moresby as “posts facing
the Japanese drive,” and stressed the im-
portance of holding Moresby as the
jumping-olf place for future offensive
operations.
He declared that he could not attempt
to forecast that a Japanese attack would
be made in one place or another. The
enemy might try to seize Australian out-
posts. He might try to cut supply lines
to America. All that was definite was
that there was increased activity north
of Australia, indicating that “some plan
was developing.” Australia had done
much, he said, in the last few weeks to
give its army greater mobility, and a base
for strategic plans was now fully estab-
lished.
He mentioned, too, the “second front,”
talk about which, he said, was wrongly
based:
All the Allied leaders are determined
to establish this front when they are quite
certain the effort will not be wasted. They
are then prepared to do it thoroughly and
make a job of it.
Part of the front will of course be
devoted to whaling into Japan.
On the Philippine fronts, General Mac-
Arthur reported at the week-end: “No
change.” Japanese operations in all parts
of the islands have been desultory.
China Locked In.
“Ek Dum”: The Burma position has
developed swiftly and disastrously. All
the fears expressed on this page (B.
29/4/’42) are being realised, and, what is
worse, the Japanese have shown an effi-
ciency in driving through rough, high
country and a rapidity in road construc-
tion under very bad conditions which
stress the danger to India to the limit.
The drive across the Shan States, from
the Menam headwaters at Chiengmai
to the Salween headwaters and Lashio,
is without parallel in the history of
Asiatic war.
The Chinese defences on the east seem
to have been shattered everywhere. The
usual cry has gone up that the position
could have been saved by aircraft sup-
port, but each new experience of this
type of war seems to prove that air sup-
port is only an incidental factor, nullified
in some parts of the terrain by the dis-
persed nature of the advance. The only
things that can hold an enemy and
exhaust him are strong fortified posts,
well protected from the air and serving
as the issuing points of heavy mechanised
forces backed by strong, modernly armed
infantry in sufficient numbers. This is
much the method employed by the Ger-
mans defending themselves in Russia
during the winter, and in Libya—the
depot defences of the Halfaya-Sollum-
Bardia sector, of the Tobruk enclosure
perimeter lines and of the El Agheila
Wadi.
There appear to have been no real
fortress posts in Burma. The same mis-
take was made there as at Singapore in
Underrating the ability of the enemy to
penetrate except from the sea ; but here
the fault was less, since Burma defences
undoubtedly must have been considered
basically dependent on Singapore, the
argument being that Singapore would
hold, the Indian Ocean and the Bay of
Bengal remain in British hands. The
Irrawaddy, the Salween and the parallel
railways, of course, were considered as
being communications so safe and cer-
tain that there was no need to waste
time building difficult major roads into
India. It also seemed that Britain’s fuel
supply in Burma would be safe. But all
these presumptions proved to be sheer
delusion*
The enemy is on the plains of central
Burma. Where on April 26 he was
struggling for a foothold at Taunggyi,
100 miles s.-e, of Mandalay, and the
Chinese were jubilating at the recapture
of the town, by the next week-end the
Chinese defence in that region had been
smashed.
The enemy’s onrush had taken him
to the Burma Road railhead, 150 miles
to the north. Lashio —in flames—was
occupied. The British had been com-
pelled to leave the summer capital at
Maymyo, 75 miles or so east of Man-
dalay.
The British forces south of Mandalay
on the west —Irrawaddy—side had been
keepers of the last remnants of the
southern oilfields and of the Meiktila end
of the Taunggyi line a week before. They
now had gone back rapidly toward Man-
dalay. The Irrawaddy curves north-west
and then due west from the point where
the Chindwin runs northwards out of it
near Myingyan. Across the westing part
of the river the British forces, weary but
in good spirits, were retiring behind a
stout screen of armor. Their retirement
was hastened by the steady building up
of Japanese weight on the eastern flank,
where the invasion had flowed over
Kyaukse, on the Rangoon railway, and
on the evening of May 1 was less than
20 miles from the centre of Mandalay.
Mandalay, in flames, was taken. By May 3
the British forces were 60 miles west of
Mandalay, striving to stave off encircle-
ment. The Chinese were fighting hope-
lessly to save the approaches of the
northern railhead.
There seemed no hope of holding the
Japanese off the northern Irrawaddy
Plain. Bhamo, head of deep water on
the Irrawaddy, 900 miles from the Bay
of Bengal, is as good as theirs, and with
it control of all the routes or prospective
routes into Yunnan.
If Mandalay could not be held, neither
could the railway which runs almost up
into “The Triangle,” in the far north,
where it ends at Myitkyina near the
Chinese border, close to Fort Harrison.
And from the Schwebo country, 150
miles or so above the Chindwin-
Irrawaddy junction, approach is compara-
tively easy to the Sittaung-Imphal-
Kohima-Manipur “road access” to the
Indian border, which an ultra-polite goat
would only dignify by the name of track
—that is, unless there has been very
recent building.
From Lashio to Sittaung, on the Assam
border, is only a matter of 220-odd miles
by crow fly. From Mandalay to Chitta-
gong is about the same. Another enemy
advance of 100 miles or so north-west
above Mandalay will bring Bengal and
Calcutta within all too easy bombing
distance. An Imperial Japanese spokes-
man said on Dec. 30 that Calcutta or any
other city which was used as a supply
base for Burma or China would be
bombed.
India is now directly threatened, with
a month or five weeks to go before the
blistering heat of May gives place to
the sodden downpour of middle June.
But General Wavell has adopted modern
principles. He has his strong points, and
he has his concentrated mobile striking
forces ; and the terrain in his favor, as
well as communications. In an attack
on India the Japanese will for the first
time have to pit themselves against a
country with well-knit rail, road and
canal systems.
It remains, however, to be seen what
use the enemy can make of the sea to
offset land forces, how far British sea
communications are threatened and what
Britain’s supply and air strength in India
may be. The fact that Air Chief Marshal
Richard Peirse, head of the British
bomber command throughout the main
“Battle for Britain,” was sent to India
early in the campaign suggests that Dr.
Azad, the voluble Congress leader, may
have been wrong when he said that India
would not welcome the Japanese. The
welcome may be warm.
The most immediate effect of the
Japanese advance has been to cut Chinese
communications with the outside world.
The isolation of China, while regrettable,
will not have a very great effect on the
war at large, except that it will inhibit
any plans which the Allies may have
had —they would have been only prob-
lematically feasible —to establish long-
distance bases for the bombing of Japan.
In land fighting, it is doubtful whether
the Chinese war has been more than an
occasional fierce flare-up since Japan and
Russia signed their non-aggression pact
in April last year ; Japan, having by that
time established control of the China
coast and the approaches to the British
possessions in the south, contented itself
with regular bombing of Chungking and
occasional tidal warfare around Changsha
and Ichang. It is doubtful whether Japan
has for months had more than 200,000
troops operating actively in South China.
Even Chungking recently placed the
number at only 450,000, including those
in the ports and Canton.
The attitude of Russia remains enig-
matic, Moscow’s was the first voice to
raise the cry “Hands Off China” —14
years or so ago. Moscow founded the
Pan-Pacific Union in 1929 and urged
all the Pacific nations to rush to China’s
aid against the “Imperialist Japanese
aggression.” In 1929 the voice of JLosov-
sky was heard in Vladivostok urging
Australia to fight for China, and the
same plea has been repeated insistently
since by Communists throughout the
world. Russia at any time was the only
country which could have given Chiang
Kai-shek decisive help—for Britain and
the U.S.A. to give real aid along the 1500-
mile Burma Road, with armaments car-
ried 10,000 to 13,000 miles before land-
ing in Asia, was not possible,
But it is now clear that Russia will
have no part in the mutual partnership
of assistance which involves the giving
of a helping hand the world over wher-
ever help is needed, and which is being
implemented slowly and sacrificingly by
the other major combatants. Russia’s
policy is “Save Russia.” The war in the
Pacific will have to be fought without
the Soviets, unless Japan attacks them.
That is always a possibility.
General George Killed
“Ek Bum”; The Allied Forces suf-
fered a severe loss through the death of
Brigadier Harold H. George, U.S. Air
Force, one of the most experienced men
in the technique of American fighter
’planes in the world. He was killed on
the ground in Australia with Mr. Mel-
ville Jacoby, a young and able corre-
spondent, who had come with him from
Bataan, and who had married there in
the midst of the battle only a few weeks
before,
General George was an adventurous
spirit and a firm personal friend of
General MacArthur. He had carried on
gaily with his battered crates on Bataan
until ordered off with General Mac-
Arthur’s party. Most of the time his
“force” consisted of five very much shop-
soiled P4o’s, In the end he had only
one.
When the enemy broke up all his
machines, he built some more out of the
ruins and appeared over the unprepared
enemy base at Subig Bay under the
noses of the fighters of Clark Field, send-
ing bits of transport and warehouse flying
all over the harbor,
On their three trips, his four patch-
work Tomahawks, which did this job,
made so much fuss that Tokyo Radio
reported next day that 15 heavy US
bombers had attacked the bay and that
three had been gallantly shot down,
The expedition’s bombs had been tied
to the Tomahawks with wire and what-
not and when they had been decanted
the expedition had weighed in with its
guns. The most spectacular moment was
when they succeeded in blowing up a
large ammunition ship.
General George himself was the most
kindhearted of men, though he main-
tained an outer semblance of grimness
which deceived a good many people. He
had won a D.S.C. in the last war, but
did not wear the ribbon, and few even
among his friends knew of it.
He had an enlisted son of 21 in the
U.S. cavalry, and his talk among his
friends was often about his eagerness to
see the lad again. He can leave his
widow and his son only a proud memory
of a soldier whose loss was as much
Australia’s as that of his own country,
Australia will remember him as it remem-
bers General Bridges.
The Fronts of Europe.
“Ek D,”: Information from the Rus-
sian front is as contradictory as usual.
The propaganda departments are work-
ing overtime.
Moscow reports that 58,000 Germans
were killed and 248 ’planes brought down
in the Leningrad sector during April, and
that strong new attacks by the Russians
have been in progress near Murmansk
and against Taganrog and the enemy
forces before Sevastopol. Also that Mar-
shal Timoshenko has driven a deep
wedge into the German front south of
Kharkov. Major-General Grendal, of the
Red Air Force, says the Germans have
lost 1018 ’planes in a month against 391
Russian. On May 3 there was a report
of another Russian advance north of
Rshev.
Continuous reconnaissance and experi-
ment go on all along the lines. Both
sides report large troop and supply move-
ments. There are strong signs that simul-
taneous blows will be struck by the Ger-
mans in the north and south, with the
main emphasis on the south.
At Moscow’s May Day celebrations
Stalin issued an Order of the Day. He
did not plead for a second front —not
even a second air front against the fac-
tories of eastern Germany and Czechia,
which his bombing force should be able
to encompass to complete the devastation
being wrought by the R.A.F. The east
German factories are difficult for the
R.A.F. to reach with heavy loads. They
are within easy reach of the U.S.S.R.


They are the main supply centres for the
German armies in Russia. But they are
operating unmolested.
Stalin compared the weakening of Ger-
many with the strengthening of Russia.
He said that “Fascist Germany, particu-
larly its army,” was weaker than in June,
while the Russian people had grown
stronger and more united behind the
Government than ever before. It was
no concidence that the Russian defensive
had turned into an offensive. “The his-
toric task of driving the Hitlerite vermin
from the Soviet territory” had been “im-
peded by a severe winter,” but neverthe-
less great successes had been achieved
in addition to forcing the enemy to use
his reserves intended for the spring and
summer operations.
It is admitted that the thaw led to
Leningrad being “completely besieged.”
R.A.F. v. Luftwaffe
The most important centre of Euro-
pean fighting last week was in the air in
the north-west and centre of Germany.
Up to May 3 the R.A.F.’s attacks had
been in progress for 19 days solidly,
though night raiding was once or twice
held up by unfavorable weather.
The main raiding has divided itself
into two categories. One has been
against Baltic ports and naval bases and
Trondhjem, Norway, which, along with
Kiel, was heavily blasted on April 28.
The conjunction of these ports with
Liibeck and Rostock may have had more
significance than appeared on the surface.
Not only do Liibeck, Kiel and Rostock
serve the Russian front. They are all
vital supply bases for Norway—the ones
least liable to attack by British surface
and aircraft, since they are in the Baltic,
The other consisted of fierce sweeps over
France and Bulgaria.
The raids on Trondhjem were on the
enemy’s main battleship base in the north,
and die blasting which the town got must
have interfered at least to some extent
with the German patrols against Mur-
mansk- and Archangel-bound convoys.
A cruiser was said to have been driven
aground.
Rostock has apparently been reduced
to a desert. Over 4000 of its inhabitants
were killed in one raid, Hcinkel factories
were Mown to bits and the commercial
town was turned to dust.
In Trondhjem, population and Ger-
man army alike took to the woods.
Rhinelanders, furious but impotent, have
been watching Cologne disintegrate
under their eyes around the almost-
undamaged loftiness of its two cathedral
spires.
Berlin Radio, for the first time in the
history of the war, has harped on
defeats. Nothing that happened in
Russia during the winter produced in
Berlin either anger or threats equal to
those provoked by the Battle for Western
Germany and the steady attrition along
the French coast. Press and official
radio pretend to be deeply shocked by
the “barbaric savagery” which moves the
R.A.F. to destroy “historic monuments
and innocent civilians.” “It is well
known,” said Berlin Radio, “and
admitted by the British themselves, that
only military objectives were attacked by
the Luftwaffe even at Coventry.”
But horror of “British barbarity” seem-
ingly did not prevent the Germans from
adopting a policy of savage reprisals
against ancient and beautiful English
towns of admittedly no military signi-
ficance whatever.
Ancient York, within the grey walls
of which a Roman Emperor was born;
Norwich, with its spires and sequestered
old buildings; incomparable Bath and
Exeter, which the Germans themselves
admit to be a “gem” all these were
devastated or partly devastated. Bath
and Exeter, according to the enemy, were
“now only historic memories.” In some
degree it is true. Bath’s lovely crescents
are mostly rubble heaps. Nevertheless,
the raids were on nothing like the scale
of 1940-41 nor of the R.A.F. raids.
Later in the week Sunderland was
bombed.
The R.A.F. Hurricane bombers, with
their dual-purpose armament, on April
28 joined with the U.S. Eagle squadron
in a first all-in battle with the new Focke
Wulf 190’s, said to be one of the fastest
of Germany’s latest light machines. The
result was all in favor of the British and
Americans in an alkin fight; nine F.Ws.
were shot down. Dawn-to-dusk opera-
tions that day, which spread over
country 600 miles wide and 200 miles
deep, against heavily-defended objectives
and swarming fighter formations, cost the
R.A.F. two bombers and 16 fighters, and
the enemy 11 fighters.
One of the objectives at the mid-
week was the Gnome-Rhone aero-engine
factory and a rubber works near Paris.
But the salient fact about the general
attacks was the attention paid to docks,
ports, works and landing-grounds along
the French part of the Channel and the
coasts of the Lowlands.
On April 29 and 30 and May 1 the
sweeps were on a 400-mile front from
Flushing to Brittany. They went on
all through daylight with a core of
Hurricane bombers, Beau fighters and
Douglas Bostons, backed up by Spitfires.
■ The Germans claimed to have de-
stroyed 209 British ’planes over Europe
and the Mediterranean in the week to
April 28, against a loss of 41 of their
own, but the figures were greatly
distorted.
Bombs—llo Tons a Day
During April 3500 tons of bombs were
dropped by the R.A.F. on Germany and
industrial France, 2000 tons in the last
eight days, during which the Germans
dropped 300 tons.
But the most heartening fact was in
the altered results of defence against
night raiders. With the advent of
machines like the Beau and of radio
location, the time has evidently passed
when night attackers can come over with
impunity. On the night of April 30
the enemy lost ten bombers, probably
lost another two and had two damaged
out of 38. The Germans admit the loss
of 46 machines in raids over Britain last
week —double the British estimate.
Over the month, British losses of
bombers were round 50 —about one for
every 70 tons of bombs dropped. The
Germans lost one for every ten tons.
One noticeable feature of German
activity early in the week was the move-
ments of the Germans along the Franco-
Belgian border. Along the Sambre-
Meuse farms were taken over. The dis-
trict up to the Belgian coast was a hive
of military activity.
This was followed during the week-
end with a heavy and concentrated
bombing of south of England ports near
the neck of the Channel.
In some quarters these movements are
interpreted as being due to German fear
of invasion. But, on the basis of the
principles enunciated by Dr. Schiidde-
kopf in his textbook for the German
General Staff before the war, they are
more consistent with a prospective attack
on Britain.
Among the "Stalag-mites."
“Ek Dum”: The Australian Prisoners
of War Relatives’ Association, whose
address is Cricket House, 254 George-
street, Sydney, now issues a regular news-
letter which can be commended to all
relatives of prisoners of war. It can also
be commended to flapper reporters and
radio uncles.
All prisoners of war who write seem
to be in characteristic A.I.F. or R.A.A.F.
spirits.
Captain Mott, of Albury, who was re-
moved from a haunt near Blitzed Liibeck
early in the winter to Stalag 68, one of
the Rhine camps, became a prisoner of
war on May 30 last year at Retimo in
Crete. He writes:
I am in good health and spirits, and
always brimming with hope for a speedy
end to the war You may have heard
that in our sector we hung on till all the
other posts were captured. We spent a
week in a prison camp near Canea, were
flown to Athens, went by train and foot
to Salonika. We left there in train and
trucks on July 29 and reached camp in
seven days. We were not at all harshly
treated, and when the Red Cross parcels
begin to arrive (not one here by Oct. 2)
we’ll have more to eat. We’re anticipating
tinned meat, milk, oatmeal, steak and
kidney pudding, tea, cocoa, cigarettes,
chocolate. Ten of our officers are here, but
not Fitzhardinge, Macartney or Moorish.
We overlook pretty country, which
makes one long for life on the land. I
get 32 marks every 10 days, and it all
goes on the canteen, where goods are ex-
pensive. It sells needles, etc., mustard,
knives, cutlery, clocks, salad-dressing, a
certain amount of food which must be
divided equally—ltalian tinned tomatoes,
biscuits, several kinds of fish, chestnut
meal, pickled vegetables. These purchases
supplement the very meagre ration, which
consists of soup and potatoes at 11 a.m. to
noon, bread, lard sausage, jam or cheese
at 1.30 p.m., mint or juniper tea at 7 a.m.
and 1.30 p.m. Clothing is being issued
gradually. I have received a French sol-
dier’s jacket and a funny little blue cap.
Classes have been organised in agriculture,
German, French, Italian, Spanish, Greek,
accountancy, mathematics, law, English,
arts and crafts, commercial art and many
other subjects All the officer prisoners
who are instructors are most competent,
and time goes very rapidly. I generally
walk five miles a day....and am healthy
and in good spirits. The Germans are very
keen on health, and we have been inocu-
lated on the chest against t.b. and vac-
cinated We keep our own rooms clean,
but batmen do the corridors —Tommy lads
of a good type taken at Dunkirk. We
have a library of 400-500 volumes and a
N.Z. dental lad attends to our teeth.
Basketball and Soccer are in full swing
and indoor games are being arranged. Our
day begins about 7 a.m. Lights out, after
a second check parade, at 10 p.m.
Latterly, there must have been other
fun. Stalag 68, by the map, seems to
be extremely handy to the routes which
British bombers take back and forth to
western Germany.
Then a letter from a Bexley (N.S.W.)
lad, who says he is “wearing glasses
now and looking like a real school-
marm.” He was in Greece still at the
end of October:
I believe you have been hearing all about
the wonderful work the sth A.G.H. have
been doing since we were captured....
There have been English, N.Z. and Aus-
tralian hospitals, ambulances, C.C.S.—m
fact, every type of A.M.C. unit working
here, and they all deserve as much credit
as, if not more than, we d 0... .They get all
the mucky jobs to do, and if our papers
want to praise anyone let it be the
A.M.C. in general lam in good health
and doing as well as can be expected.
A philosopher in Offlag IV C —Hess
would like to be there; it’s between his
home town and Dresden, and not far
from Goethe’s Weimar —describes life
as “quite pleasant and comfortable,
though, of course, slightly dull”:
A friend of mine had a sudden dramatic
midnight removal to hospital. He was
operated on and back here entirely re-
covered in 10 days, so you see our health
is well cared f0r....T0 go into the French
quarters for a French lesson is just like
going into a French inn.... The best thing
about this camp is that we get two hours
exercise in a pleasant park per day.
The personnel at Sulmona, Italy, were
a lively lot and not long in showing
some Australian characteristics:
This morning to our surprise we were
kept on parade for some time, then were
marched to the compound.... It was clear
what had happened—all our kits had been
examined and contraband, such as money,
knives, compasses and the like removed.
Also they had unearthed a tunnel but
I must say the Italians were very pleasant
about it all. It must have given them
quite a lot of quiet amusement, as they
had apparently known of and watched this
tunnel for some days. The officer re-
marked that he didn’t particularly mind
prisoners trying to escape, as it was their
duty to try to. do so, but the tunnel was
dangerous, as it was about to go under a ,
road over which lorries passed and which
might have caved in!
The Gruppiniana-Udine camp is in
sight of Vesuvius, “in a hollow of the
hills,” and a youngster there—his father
is fighting as well—writes:
The Italians are very honest. I still have
my ring, watch and wallet....We don’t
work—just keep our camp clean, write
two letters a week and can receive as much
as you like to send... .We had a Christmas
greeting by radio.
From Stalag 58, in Germany:
We have Dr. Singer here, one of the
few survivors from the Gloucester. We
often play housey-housey with the troops
in the evening.
Stalag VII A has its usual humorist:
I’m seated in our barrack room; a record
of the “Desert Song” is being played on
the gramophone the Red Cross so kindly
donated. Last week some Frenchmen gave
us a wonderful concert. I’m going on
leave to Berlin tonight (oh, yeah!), so I’d
better close down....We had tea tonight,
potato and cabbage soup, beetroot and
sausages. We have a hot shower every
day.
On another day:
I’m in a rather gay mood. I’ve been
to the pictures. Yes, it’s true. “Tales of
Vienna,” very good; also, newsreels of
parts of Germany. We received a Red
Cross parcel today, so I was able to eat
chocolate in the pictures, bringing back
fond memories and making me feel very
close to you all. A small church service
was held last Sunday, and we all finished
up singing “Son of My Soul.” I was
thinking of the way we all used to sing
round the piano, and what a day that will
be when we all meet again!
In the same camp —it must have heard
the Lancasters’ bombs dropping on
Augsburg the other afternoon and is on
the direct bomber route for Berchtes-
gaden—they don’t always sing hymns.
No sooner had the irrepressible inmates
arrived than they introduced the
neighborhood of Munich and Messer-
schmitt to “Roll out the Barrel.” And
they organised a mouth-organ band. By
the end of October there it was “very
cold, but our rooms are heated and we
have hot water to wash and shower with
and three hot meals a day.” Sometimes
there was community singing, sometimes
an amateur night with prizes.
A correspondent from Stalag VIII B—
to the east of Dresden, past which the
waters go on the Spree to Berlin —
describes the camp as “well laid out with
lawns and gardens; the beds of asters,
dahlias and zinnias are beautiful. Loud-
speakers are arranged throughout the
camp, playing delightful German waltz
tunes and orchestral music. There is a
large library at our disposal, and we
receive a Red Cross parcel every week
we have a military band, symphony
orchestra and choir....We have been
fitted out with woollen underclothing,
new English battle dress, but I preferred
to keep my Aussie tunic. We also have
new boots and clogs. I changed my old
topcoat for a new English double-
breasted one.”
In vStalag IX C, where 400 Poles,
French and British are being nursed by
R.A.M.C. men, the inmates are far from
despondent:
The spirit of these fellows, who now
hop round on their single legs, wrestle with
their one arm, or lay prostrate or blind,
often makes me ashamed of my own in-
consistency, but I am doing my best.
Stalag X B claims to have “a band
which would make Romano’s look sick.
It comes from a big passenger liner and
is hot stuff.” An R.A.N.R. lad in that
place rejoices in Red Cross parcels and
his tea “of bacon, beans and chips” and
at a camp fancy-dress dance he got him-
self up in his sailor’s rig, which he had
managed to save. Fellow-captives turned
up as glamor girls.
A few mention that they are working
on the roads and on farms. One says
the snow is 10 feet deep, but he is “get-
ting plenty of milk and cream now, so
should be putting on weight.” Stalag
XVIII D says it is “having a real old-
fashioned Christmas; plenty of snow,
though I can’t guarantee the turkey and
duck.”
On Saturday nights Berlin Radio gives
out news, then a concert to British and
Anzac troops wherever they may be —
“from the enemy to the enemy.”
It sounds cheerful, but behind the
dozens of letters can be read the heart-
break and the longing for home. And
there is a chronic and general interest in
Red Cross parcels and food which tells
its own tale.
A Maoriland squadron leader piloting
a Hudson set a tanker on fire off Aale-
sund (Norway) on the night of May 2.
A freighter was set on fire by other
’planes of the squadron. H.M. submarine
Trident sank a large supply ship off
Norway.
* ♦ ♦ •
The arrival of modern ’planes in Aus-
tralia has made it possible for members
of the R.A.A.F. to complete their com-
bat training within the Commonwealth
instead of going overseas. They now
have some of the world’s largest bombers
and fastest fighters to practise on.
$ * * *
Hitler and Mussolini had another meet-
ing last week. It is only wishful thinking
to suggest that it was arranged because
of internal dissension or quarrels. The
obvious purpose was that to which pre-
vious meetings have been devoted. They
were staff conferences at which Hitler
and his C.O.S. explained to Mussolini
what Germany intended should be done
in a campaign to begin in earnest in a
few days, and what would be expected
of unhappy Italy.
* • ♦ •
The Luftwaffe has put the new Dornier
217-E into operation ; several specimens
have been shot down round British coasts.
They have a speed of 290 m.p.h. full
load, 320 m.p.h. without load. Their
bomb racks, 20ft. long, can carry four
10001 b. bombs or two 2000-pounders
inside the machine and two outside. They
have two 14-cylinder fan-cooled radials
(1480 h.p. at 14,700 ft, 1600 h.p. at take-
off). The thing can dive at steep angle
with the help of under-tail braking. It
has a movable gun-turret, a 15mm. gun
which fires forward through the cockpit
decking and four lateral 7.9mm5., with
provision for another weapon in its trans-
parent nose. There is no armor.
* * * m
There has been little movement on the
Libyan front save in the air. The R.A.F.
Western Desert force strafed enemy posi-
tions all round the Libyan coast, includ-
ing those at Benghazi, machine-gunned
a transport column near Jedabya and
pushed right across the Mediterranean to
the Dodecanese with a force of Welling-
tons carrying \\ tons of bombs each.
The main target was Leros Island/ a sub-
marine repair base close to the Turkish
coast, where the biggest party of the year,
on April 30, was held under a full moon,
with six Wellington squadrons operating.
There will be a lot more repair work
needed on Leros this week. The raid
was part of a large operation which the
R.N. is carrying on against German sup-
ply routes and U-boats. Port Said was
raided on April 29. A bomber was shot
down by a British night fighter and an-
other damaged.
« * * •
The impressions of one of Singapore’s
principal air wardens, now in Australia;
Much A.R.P. training in Singapore was
wasted. The Japs failed to use the expected
21b. thermite bombs. Their version was a kind
of canned fruit—solb. tins which burst in the
air and decanted small incendiary biscuits all
over the place. Water puts them out, but there
are so many of them that they call for more
intensive roof watching. This type, however,
might have been designed specially for the
bamboo and palm dwellings of Malaya. Aus-
tralian cities might get something more solid.
Even old brick buildings stood up to this
sort of sprinkling. Wood was the most terrible
menace. As they dissolved into smithereens,
fragments usually impaled some occupants.
Few victims were walking wounded. Even
slight injuries were usually accompanied by
severe shock. Hot saline baths were found to
be the best shock treatment method.
The amount of glass in Australian cities was
“frightening.” Paper strips and netting are
useless according to Singapore experience. They
would be even more futile if heavier bombs
were used. The only safe method is to take
out the glass and put fine mesh wire in
its place.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Victory Belles are now an established
order here. Overnight Liberty Belles, the
name by which the American girl host-
esses and dance partners for the troops
were called, was partially adopted, so
that our girls use a name which, so far
as the promotors of the scheme here
know, is new. How will this plan of
bringing together in the ballroom young
people strictly chosen work out? No
one knows, but the chances seem much
in its favor. There will be less inclina-
tion to waste time in sitting out, and
many a nice but shy girl who now meets
hardly any service men can send in her
name as a dance partner. Dances at
many industrial suburbs are, and have
been, conducted for years on this basis,
and the average social hostess would rub
her eyes were she to see the good man-
ners of unspoilt young men and the extra-
ordinary high standard of the dancing
of both men and girls. The Victory
Belles have to produce a reference, and
then are chosen in groups of ten under
the control of a chaperon.
The enthroning of Archbishop Booth
provided a spot of pageantry, and shop-
pers who were catching the early worms
were treated to the chiming of St. Paul’s
bells and the sight of the red-robed
Archbishop giving the great western door
some very hearty ceremonial knocks.
The archdeacon and chapter contributed
dramatic suspense by taking a nice long
time to get the door unbarred. The cere-
mony was inspiring, the music perfectly
appropriate. Were the clerical mind
given to sartorial jealousy there might
have been some envious pangs under
some cassocks —heartburnings about the
gorgeousness of the Archimandrites of
the Greek and Syrian Orthodox Churches,
who certainly bore off the honors in the
procession of church dignitaries. Their
robes were superb ; cloth-of-gold surplices
and headdresses of archaic beauty and
splendor.
Melbourne’s tram conductresses have
accepted the challenge of women in the
fighting services and are giving them a
neck-to-neck race to see which body is
the smarter in dress and conduct. And
the trammies are hard to beat. Their
earth-brown suits are on the whole better
tailored than the ones worn by the forces,
and the style of them is well placed on
trim and mostly slender figures. The
peaked caps are worn at a saucy angle,
and money and ticket bags look just
right slung from the shoulder and over
the hip. The conductresses keep their
hair and hands well groomed, and they
all seem to have nice teeth. They are
for the most part wives of tram conduc-
tors and drivers on service, which shows
what good taste these men must have.
The only time a woman trammie wears
a frown is when some dumbwit presents
her with a £1 note to pay a fare.
Then her frozen politeness has to be seen
to be appreciated.
Last week reference was made to the
arrival in Australia of an American press
correspondent, Mrs. Melville Jacoby,
with her husband, also a correspondent.
Deep sympathy is felt for this attractive
young bride, for her husband died in the
aeroplane accident that also killed Briga-
dier-General H. H. George, of the U.S.
Army Air Corps. The Jacobys had
known each other only a few months and
were married in Bataan. Mr. Jacoby’s
ashes will be conveyed back to America,
and Mrs. Jacoby is debating whether she
will return to her native land or continue
her duties as a correspondent in Aus-
tralia.
Last week saw a recital by Una Bourne,
perhaps the most distinguished pianist
Victoria has produced. She has decided
to give the benefit of her experience and
training to a “master-pianist” class, the
kind of class that most of the leading
Continental pianists of the past have con-
ducted when not touring. There will be
performing and non-performing members
of this class, and evidently Miss Bourne
plans to hold a post-mortem at the end
of each lesson! Everyone is wishing her
lutk in the venture, for it should help to
raise still higher the standard of pianists
in our midst and also prove a pleasant
meeting-place for visiting and older-
generation musicians and the younger
ones still aspiring to reach the concert
platform.
Seeing lights in the Town Hall kitchen
the other night led to exploration and
the discovery of ten toiling but happy
members of the Women’s Air Training
Corps beating eggs, whipping cream and
performing the other rites associated with
the making of cakes like Mother used
to bake. These lasses are business girls
who have been spending their Thursday
evenings on the job of supplying hostels
in the city with ihe toothsome delicacies
that the R-A.A.F. boys crave. The Town
Hall boasts good kitchens, situated just
U f° PS b <*ind the downstairs room used for the
spedal Mayoral supper parties and big
XH. functions. What is astonishing in
the story of the W.A.T.C.’s cooking isn’t
that they did it or even that they kept on
re „„i ar iv r or n months hut that husi-
ne S ss ducks
f ess girls sno . ul ,7 .f 6 t 0 CO i?+P g clucks
‘° * ater ’ and do !* s ° waU . that ! he
a“„.v td thfcakt taste
damties are dai nty, and the cakes taste
hom e-niade and in these times thats
sorn cthmg to gloat over,
Whether or not people buy more or
fewer pictures in war-time remains un-
proven, but Victorian Art Society’s
autumn exhibition was definitely a buy-
ing show. Pictures were pleasant and
not too obviously provocative, in the
main, the sort to be enjoyed even when
liverish or in love. So many of Mel-
bourne’s shows have had too much of
the stuff that nobody but the perpetrator
f an understand. The war-time strain on
the " erv f dr f"? P eo P le the morepa-
''optional paintings and particularly to
landscapes Those tar, peaceful hills are
a rehef and inspiration to the mind run-
"n the month s output of tanks and
suchlike. Women are always well repre-
sented at Vic artists shows, and this
V ear s Spring Flowers
and . Iren f °? lhnss O meo ’ an uausual
evedln S landscape study, Aileen Dents
P°? rait °J J f an Burn, the parachutist,
and study by Dora Wilson
£ aUgh <U h f e/e- Grace Gardiner with
Wet Sands tied with Percy
W^ B^ 118 Green Hat for the piece
blcb . caused most conversation among
be viewers, the former as the most
pu f ! ng , try-to-guess-what-it-is picture
? nd the i atter as P erha P s the best P° rtrait
m ae Sa °w.
Brides who wished to have the wedding
knot tied in Melbourne Grammar chapel
fe s * ened *° ~m ala date . be£ore tins
Wednesday, though in most cases haste
was as . mucb result of war-time
and the sudden call-up tor ser-
vlce far a ™ y £r ° m > own of the bride-
-Broom s,, chapel was the scene of
the nuptials of Captain Joseph Paxton
R° bms o n > A,,1.R, and Joy, daughter ot
r ‘ a k nd rs ‘ £ames ’ :ts ' wccb ,
and the P retty weddln g was followed by
a tea-drinking at No. 9. In this case the
date was hurriedly fixed to chime in with
military preparations, and invitations had
to be given by ’phone. Nevertheless, the
bride managed to make a lovely appear-
ance in her bridal robes of white mar-
quisette over taffetas, and the dark-red
roses she carried were a perfect foil for
her dark good looks. Joy will now prob-
ably fold up her graduate’s parchment,
and forget all about modern foreign lan-
guages and other topics of her university
days in favor of the welfare association
of whatever battalion her husband joins.
Jack Cato made this picture of Mrs.
J. P. Robinson a month or so ago.
Allie Robson, teacher of dramatic art
to hundreds, was on Saturday guest of
honor at Clyde Old Girls’ Association
annual meeting. With Carrie Haase,
Eileen O’Keefe and a few others Allie
helped to keep Melbourne girls faithful
to the English pure and undefiled from
which the young are so often tempted to
turn. Miss Robson was dramatic art
teacher at Clyde Woodend for many
years before her retirement, and her
popularity never waned. She met the
association members in town, for meet-
ings at the school in these days of trans-
port difficulties are impossible.
From Sydney
The A.B.C.’s symphony concert start-
ing not more than five minutes after
the advertised time, a flutter of those
“just too lates” was allowed to percolate
through the doors, but not allowed to
advance boldly or by stealth to reserved
seats. Just as well the dragon on the
door was kindly, for the Elgar Symphony
went its stately and noble way up to the
interval. The audience was of such
gratifying size that programmes were
sold out. Even Dr. Barry, of the A.8.C.,
had to do without. But, of course, that’s
no drawback to him, as he knows all
symphonies and concertos as well as the
Harborsider knows his ferry timetable.
Percy Code did a neat job of conduct-
ing, and Eunice Gardiner, pianist in the
Delius concerto, looked graceful in her
parchment-lace frock. It was long and
becoming and had been created for her
wedding frock. Eunice’s husband, Cap-
tain Curtin, was one of the applauders.
The wife of Commander Urquhart, a
consistent concert-goer, was attractive in
her dusty-pink frock. She is an ardent
worker for the cause of Free France,
and has a smart uniform to prove it.
Mrs. Charles Moses was there ; her hus-
band, Major Moses, is now on the road
to recovery. Miss Kate Egan, her suit
the shade of Russian violets, just reached
the door in time. The Dennis Glennies
were being congratulated on their recent
marriage. Dr. and Mrs. Bainton and the
Harold Williams couple were others.
Elisabeth Maclntyre is just another ex-
ample of the Australian girl who pushes
all her own inclinations aside to get on
with a war job. Elisabeth has decided
talent in the making of wooden and other
toys for children. Her sketches, too, are
full of delight. She recently held an ex-
hibition in the Macquarie Galleries of
her toys and nursery furniture and pic-
tures, all the money from which went to
the British Children’s League. She has
now written and illustrated a book, called
Little Ambrose, published in Australia
and America. Elisabeth has decided the
toys and the art must wait. She is now a
warrior of the hoe in W.A.N.S. Land
Army. Photograph from Norton Tre-
vaire.
The new Mrs, Dennis Glennie was
Patricia Curran. She was just four days
through her training as a nurse in the
Royal North Shore when she decided on
matrimony as a career. Patricia is small
and slim, with fair curly hair. Her wed-
ding dress was also her travelling dress,
and in color it was green. St. Luke’s at
Mosman was the church chosen for the
event. Dennis, who made a special study
of dramatic art and production in
London, is now a corporal in the A.I.F.
Veteran artist Julian Ashton is by now
on the other side of the sunrises and sun-
sets, maybe with Turner, certainly with
Gruner and Hilder, discussing celestial
effects. For Julian died last week after
giving most of his 91 years to the service
of art in this country. Where he stood
as a teacher needs no telling. There is
the work of such as Gruner, Lambert,
Hilder, Syd Long as a constant reminder.
As an artist Julian can be proved
in any gallery of the Commonwealth.
He was short of stature, but his slim build
made him seem taller than his inches.
Mentally he was very tall, indeed. He
had a quiet humor, and his Cornish blue
eyes (now, no doubt as clear as a cherub’s)
could sparkle with impish delight.
There is the story of a young girl who
joined Julian’s art school. At the end
of her first day her mother asked her
what had impressed her most. “Mr.
Ashton,” was the reply. “He talked
to me about truth in life and in art.”
On his ninetieth birthday the trus-
tees of the National Gallery gave a
lunch in his honor. It was held in the
Gallery. Jimmy McGregor gave the
wines. The Minister for Education was
there. It was quite an occasion. Julian, it
was agreed, made the best speech of the
day. A small group of his pictures are
on view in the gallery. Most of his
works, however, are packed away for
the duration.
The Parents and Friends' Association
of Scots College has taken the Prisoners
of War appeal under its wing. It hopes
to hatch a golden egg worth £5OO thereby.
The first function for the cause will be
a lunch at the Wentworth today.
This is named the A.B.C.D.A. because
there will be among the guests a repre-
sentative of each nation of the Pacific
Allies. Lady Wakehurst will be the guest
of honor, and Colin Sinclair, newly-
elected president of the association, will
be in the chair. Jane Bernays, untiring
secretary of the women’s committee, is
in her element, and there’s a glint in
her eye that says “£5OO is the objective,
but the sky’s the limit.”
Old families of South Australia and
Tasmania were linked by the wedding of
Heather Livingston Meynink, of Pymble,
and Signalman David Trevor Giblin, of
Double Bay. Heather’s grandfather,
John Livingston, of Mt. Gambier (S.A.),
was M.H.R. for Barker (S.A.) for 16
years; before that he was a member of
the S.A. House of Assembly. The
Giblin family is an old Hobart one.
Another fact that made this wedding
“different” was that the ’groom had just
returned from service in Syria. Arch-
deacon Wade bestowed the blessing. The
bride and her ’maids (sisters Betty and
Leith) were in wedding raiment, although
there had been only a few days for
preparation. Dr. Ted Giblin, A.1.F., was
his brother’s best man. Signalman
Ronald Crawley, A.1.F., was the grooms-
man. Reception was at the home of
the bride’s parents, the H. R. Meynink
couple.
Between now and Friday a book or
two might well be dropped into the
Theatre Royal in response to “Claudia’s”
appeal for Camp Libraries. Over 300
volumes have already been garnered in
the popular little actress’s name. (She
is Terry Walker.) Still the shelves at the
camps have yawning cavities almost as
large as bomb craters. Soldiers need
entertainment, and there is a call to all
to send along the book they’ve enjoyed
most in the last few weeks.
The Lunch Time Music Club enter-
tained a party of the U.S. forces at its
concert last Monday. This is an invi-
tation which includes six, and which will
hold good for the duration. President
Margaret Gillespie and vice-president
Mrs. Gordon Henty are seeing that the
programme for each coming concert is
sent to the U.S. Hospitality Headquarters.
The combination of lunch and concert is
very popular in U.S.A. Mayoress S. S.
Crick was the guest of honor last Mon-
day. Raymond Beatty and Constance
Burt were the singers. Dulcie Hutton
was the accompanist.
The Town Hall will shed its air of
being a banquet hall deserted next Satur-
day night when, whirled into gaiety by
the Mascot Beaufort Social Club, it will
house the Beaufort Bomber cabaret
dance. This is to aid the R.A.A.F. Air
Training Corps and Allied Comforts
Fund. Nine o’clock is the hour for step-
ping out. Ring B 6861 for reservations.
In the old days when boiling the billy
and making pots of tea were practically
national occupations, nobody would have
thought of offering a pound of tea as a
prize for a lucky-number competition.
A bottle of whisky was then the thing
to bring the silver rolling in. But now
let the whisper get abroad that there’s
a prize of even half a pound of Ceylon
for the holder of a lucky-number pro 4 -
gramme or suchlike, and there’s some-
thing like a stampede of women competi-
tors. In fact, one woman who won a
31b. packet of pekoe at an afternoon
binge recently took it down to her hus-
band’s office and made him lock it in
the strongroom overnight. She said
she was too nervous to carry it home in
the brownout.
Recently-arrived London papers dis-
play a front-page photograph of the
bride of the Belgian king. She was Mary
Lilian Baels, and her father, Hendric
Baels, was a former Belgian Minister of
Agriculture and Governor of West Flan-
ders, Leopold Third’s new wife will bear
the title of Princess de Rethy, and is
declared to have renounced the title and
rank of queen. The king used to take
the title of Count de Rethy when he
wished to travel incognito in the days
before the present upheaval. The prin-
cess has a serene expression, dark hair
and strong features. She and King
Leopold were married at Lacken Castle.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Ascot on Saturday provided one of
Melbourne’s most amazing racing situa-
tions for years. Seven horses completed
the course after a false start for the
second division of the Montrose Handi-
cap, and the decision of the stewards in
ordering all to be saddled again for a
re-race in semi-darkness about 2f hours
later caused considerable controversy.
The principle of forcing two-year-olds to
race twice at seven furlongs in one day
was criticised no less than another official
decision that all bets must stand,
• • • • 4
Stewards, however, acted within the
rules of racing. The rules stipulate that
in the event of a false start no
horse shall be permitted to be with-
drawn without the permission of the
stewards, and that, even if permission is
granted on the ground of distress, the
horse in question shall be considered as
having been in the starter’s hands. Bets
on Saturday’s race, therefore, were on
an “all-in” basis.
• ••••*
Mystery, surrounds the release of the
barrier. The starter (Norman Wood)
informed the stewards at a subsequent in-
quiry that all the horses were not in line,
and he was certain the lever had not
been pressed by him. As soon as the
barrier rose he shouted “Come back” to
the riders who had got away. Several
jockeys, however, failed to hear him, and
the unofficial race ended in a “win” for
Gold Hazard from William the Con-
queror and Coacian. Others to finish
were Ortolan, Carruca, Hilton Boy and
Redruth, Great Britain and Lord Raglan
having been pulled up shortly after
barrier-rise.
*••••*
Gold Hazard’s trainer, F. G. Doran,
says he applied for permission to scratch
for the re-race, contending that another
hard run over seven furlongs might preju-
dice his colt’s future. His application
was rejected. It was pointed out to him
that, officially, the colt had not raced.
Nor was it any consolation to Doran
to know that Gold Hazard may have
won the race proper but for his earlier
exertions. He looked all over a winner
100 yards from home, but weakened right
at the finish, and was headed by Great
Britain in the last stride, William the
Conqueror (third) and Ortolan (fourth)
also saddled up well, but only time can
tell whether they will suffer any ill-effects
from their strenuous day. Betting, of
course, underwent some pronounced
changes, horses which had completed the
course from the false start easing con-
siderably. Gold Hazard eased from an
original 4 to 1 to eights, and Ortolan
from fours to twelves, but Great Britain
firmed from sixes to threes.
Watchguard followed up his Ascot suc-
cess of three weeks earlier by decisively
defeating Damalis and Sun Belle in the
first division of the Ascot Autumn Cup.
The country-owned gelding moved up
third to Tranquil Star and Sun Belle
rounding the turn, and went on to prove
himself one of Melbourne’s most im-
proved handicappers. There is not a
great deal of Watchguard, however, and
increased weight might trouble him.
Tranquil Star weakened out of a place,
and the Sydney Cup runner-up Velocity,
who started favorite, was not suited by
the track. He came from a hopeless
position to finish fifth.
Similar justified heavy support for the
second division of the Ascot Autumn
Cup. His prospects looked anything but
bright on the turn, but he finished bril-
liantly once he got clear, and won nar-
rowly from Great Eastern, with Art
Union third. Although he started favorite
for the Australian Cup and finished a
close second in the Easter Cup, Similar
had not won previously in open com-
pany. He is raced by his trainer, M.
Crossey, on lease from Sol Green.
Reception and the Doncaster winner
Tuhitarata recorded impressive wins in
the divisions of the Imperial Handicap.
Each started favorite, and each was ridden
by H, Badger, who also won on Lilette.
Reception, who has been a splendid bar-
gain at the 500gns. he cost his present
owner, led practically throughout the
first division to win at his ease from
Sunixa and Chatasan. Tuhitarata, now
trained by M. T. McGrath, was ridden
'with great judgment by Badger, who
switched him to the inside entering the
straight, and gained a run which con-
tributed to his defeat of Contact and
Orcadian.
* * * *
Canterbury added £3OO to the prize-
money originally announced for lastweek,
and a further addition for two divisions
brought the total to £1712 for the day.
There was again a very large attendance,
which, with entrance and acceptance fees
and the percentage from a tote turnover
of a little over £54,000 for the two days,
must have given the club a highly profit-
able autumn meeting
In the *Flying Handicap Winnipeg
proved that he was back to his best.
Always nicely placed, he was not far
from the leaders, Martheus, Milanja and
Astrid, entering the straight, and, dis-
posing of them, he squeezed home a
head in front of Valve, who put in good
work over the last furlong. Soho hung
on well to get third. Of the unplaced
runners, Martheus, Milanja and Hench-
man did best, Astrid tiring in the straight.
There was genuine backing for Radical,
but, though he had done well in his work,
he did not show up. As it was his first
race for some time it might be advisable
to overlook his showing.
In the Canterbury Handicap Early
Bird ran up to her form of the previous
week. Getting to the front a furlong
from home she was able to hold off
Triggerman, who would have made a
closer finish of it but for striking trouble
and being disappointed in attempting to
get through in the straight. He then had
to come round horses ahead of him.
Pantler, too, was unlucky, being con-
cerned in the mix-up which put Katanga
out of the race near the three furlongs,
but though the latter had no chance of
making up his leeway his opportunity
should come in the Newcastle Cup with
71b. less weight. Tough Jymjon, who was
having his seventeenth run in about five
and a half months, was nearest the place-
getters. The others were a long way out
of it, though Artistic, the pacemaker
from the start to the straight, did suffi-
ciently well to make him a winning possi-
bility at a shorter distance than eleven
furlongs.
High Flight and Minnamurra made a
match of the first division of the Nursery
Handicap. The former always appeared
to be doing slightly better than the filly,
but it was by a head only he defeated
her. Mannawonga finished strongly to get
third, and of the remainder Flying Shuttle
did best, though Bedford was always
prominent. Sandman did not do as well
as at his two previous outings. High
Flight is a half-brother, by Melfort, to
Prince Ariel and Milanja.
In winning the second division of the
Nursery Grand Vision recorded a quarter-
second faster time than High Flight. She
first of all outpaced Tralina, and though
Battle King was with her turning for
home she stayed too well for him.
Temerity, in third place, made a good
showing, but Afloat, who ran fourth,
was much too far back after going three
furlongs for his chance subsequently to
be a winning one. Sir Neith was dis-
appointing, as was Brughelier. Grand
Vision is by Beau Pere from Grand
Warbler, by Grand Joy.
• • • • • •
S. Cracknell does little riding nowa-
days, but he handled Happy Bay to such
advantage in the first division of the
Highweight Handicap that, after many
defeats, she left the maiden ranks. Second
to Chrisman to the turn she ran past him
immediately after entering the straight
and won easily. Tyrannus was third, and
only for being nasty at the barrier, and
getting away indifferently in consequence,
he would have made the winner’s task
harder. Beau Port, Canvasser and Chris-
topher Milne headed the unplaced run-
ners, but Chrisman and Happy Bay were
the only two really in it from the first
furlong.
Fermanagh and Metallic —on whom
McCarten was having his last ride before
retirement —had a great tussle in the
second division of the Highweight Han-
dicap. A few strides from home the
odds favored Metallic, but a game final
effort landed Fermanagh a half-head
winner. McCarten could have ridden
Fermanagh but preferred Metallic. Irish
Sea had every chance, but could only
dead-heat Silverelda for third. Kestrel’s
fifth gives him a winning chance over a
longer distance.
Fearless Fox attempted an all-the-way
win in the Campsie Handicap, but Happy
Lass had him beaten a hundred yards
from home. The latter then looked a
sure winner, but Chatham’s Choice, get-
ting a clear run through, beat her in the
last few strides. Rameo and Fearless
Fox were next, and the latter may not be
long in returning to the winning list.
His Lordship weakened after being
second into the straight, while Goose Boy
was plugging along at the end.
F. Dalton, who recently did the
books a good turn with Guild Hall, gave
them another double-figure winner in the
Trial Stakes. His representative, Danny
Boy, came from a long way back at the
half-mile to score from Real Gem. Scar-
let Ranger did not run nearly as well as
expected, and Breezy Boy was bleeding
when he pulled up. Danny Boy is a
three-year-old by Excitement from that
good mare Pavilion, a Villiers Stakes and
Carrington Stakes winner.
* * * *
Next Saturday’s meeting at Newcastle
will attract many of the best horses now
in training and a strong contingent of
Sydney visitors.. It is improbable many
of the topweights will run in the Cameron
Handicap, and Valve may not need to
improve upon last week’s Canterbury
form to win. He has 21b. less than when
Winnipeg beat him, and, a winner at
seven furlongs, he should not find the
extra furlong beyond him. Catch Up,
Soho, Fearless Fox and Connette are
others that must be given chances, but
for places I shall take: Valve, 1 ; Fear-
less Fox, 2 ; Catch Up, 3.
Saturday’s form at Newcastle and Can-
terbury may make the selection of the
Newcastle Cup easier than at present,
but Katanga, Triggerman and Pantler
impress me as having excellent prospects.
* * * *
Racing was a great loser by the death
last week of E. I. Watt, breeder, owner
and A.J.C. committeeman. He was
first associated with racing in Maoriland,
then transferring to Australia. In Syd-
ney of recent years G. Price and G. P.
Nailon have been his principal trainers,
the former’s latest notable winners in
the blue and white colors being Gold
Rod, Mildura and Riverton. Pronounced
in his opinions on matters appertaining to
racing, E. J. Watt was a just and generous
employer.
« * * *
The Kentucky Derby, which carried
$75,000 added money, was run at
Churchill Downs (Louisville) on Satur-
day, and was won by Mrs. Payne Whit-
ney’s Equipoise colt Shut Out, a 9-to-5
chance. Alsab was second, Valdina
Orphan third, and first money was
$65,225 (a little over £A19,800).
* » * •
Two racing retirements of note were
recorded last week —that of M. McCarten
as a jockey and of J. T. Jamieson as a
trainer under A.J.C. rules. It was
generally anticipated that McCarten
would not apply for a trainer’s license
until the end of this season, but he has
been granted one, and goes into the
stables vacated by Jamieson. Both men
are too well known for it to be
necessary to dwell on their deeds.
McCarten has proved himself capable and
exceptionally fair in races, and he im-
presses as being a man likely to be a
success as a trainer. He will start with a
big team and an imposing list of patrons.
His many friends wish him early luck
and its continuance.
* t • * * 1
Jamieson is going to farm properties he
owns near Auckland, but may still nnd
time for training a few horses. Some
trainers have built up a reputation on
one or two horses, but, while High Caste
has done a lot for Jamieson during the
past three seasons, he has won good
races with many others, and has demon-
strated his ability to get the best out of
horses at all distances. He will be a dis-
tinct loss to Sydney’s ranks of trainers.
» # * *
This year the A.J.C. customary two
days’ meeting in June will be confined
to one —probably at Rosehill —with prize-
money of £1650. That amount sounds
on the light side, but, though a prominent
breeder is alleged to have found fault
with the A.J.C. for not building up re-
serves in the past, he probably did not
disagree with the A.J.C.’s policy when
its prize-money was on a liberal scale,
and helped to boost yearling prices.
You cannot eat your cake and have it,
and no A.J.C. committee of a few years
ago could possibly foresee the effect a
world war would have on racing.
» * * *
The three-year-old Theio filly Saluta-
tion, winner of the Thompson Handicap
at the recent Wellington (M.L.) meeting,
was a profitable yearling purchase at
230gns. She has won £3075 in 18 months,
her wins this season being the Dunedin
Guineas, Wellington Guineas, N.Z. Oaks,
Auckland Glasgow Handicap and Wel-
lington Anniversary and Thompson Han-
dicaps. Salutation’s dam, Queen Salute,
is by Chief Ruler, a son of The
Tetrarch. Subsequent to her Thompson
Handicap win Salutation was favorite
for the Great Northern Oaks at the
Auckland meeting, but was a poor third,
Premature (Posterity-Impetuous) winning
in 2.31.
« * * *
The V.R.C. committee decided against
the readmission of geldings to Derbies
and St. Legers, principally on the score
that, with the war temporarily disposing
of the importation of stallions from Eng-
land, the stud opportunities of winners
of those races would be increased and
their value enhanced. There was never
a period at which shortage of labor
made geldings more desirable to breeders
and trainers, but the many are to suffer
for the possible benefit of the few. Better
in my opinion that a gelding should
occasionally win a Derby or St. Leger
than that procedure which greatly adds
to the number of our inferior stallions
should continue.
.
Few owners will have a colt gelded
while it has a possible chance of winning
a classic, and when it is not up to that
standard it is likely to be left entire
because it may, at auction, bring a little
more than if it were a gelding with poor
performances. There is, or course, the
possibility of some inferior racehorse
proving valuable at the stud, but that
rarely happens.
With lots of new faces in all teams, and
with the probability that sides will be
chopped and changed about all through
the season, the Union Rugby competition
started in Sydney. East, on top last year,
began well with a 14-6 win over Rand-
wick—largely due to the work of the
hooker. University gave St. George a
horrible drubbing, 46 to nil, and will be
dangerous this year. Manly beat North
29-11, Parramatta put Gordon through
18-11, and West defeated Drummoyne
20-11.’
* ♦ •
Hockey Bennell, who claims the Aus-
tralian welterweight championship—the
claim is disputed —has shown more in-
and-out form than any other boxer seen
hereabouts for years. Weighing 10.3 i, he
fought another unsatisfactory fight
against Bill Fadden (10.5) at Leichhardt
After both had finessed for a couple of
rounds, Fadden attacked continuously
for seven rounds. Henceforward, until
hostilities ceased, Bennell delivered, in-
stead of receiving, punishment, and his
fast finish gained him a draw, but a big
number of the approximately 5000 spec-
tators thought Fadden had won.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Adelaide’s Football League
(Australian Rules) has decided, after
much argument, to carry on for this
winter, but in a form heavily modified.
It is thought that, by using juniors with
soldiers on leave, an eighteen can be
formed from each two clubs. The eight
districts will pair off among the nearest
neighbors, making Port-Torrens, Nor-
wood-North, Sturt-South and Glenelg-
West, to provide two matches each
Saturday, one of them always at the
Adelaide Oval for the benefit of the thou-
sands of soldiers about. Lacrosse has
closed down altogether ; so have the few
Rugby clubs. Hockey and baseball and
Soccer keep going.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
Belinda Hurdle: Great Treat, 1 ;
St. David, 2 ; Indignity, 3.
Warroona Handicap; Altona, 1 ;
Lamiere, 2 ; Nalong, 3.
Kinross Handicap: Audacity, 1 ;
Portsmouth, 2 ; Haros, 3.
Moreland Steeplechase: Bright-
ello, 1 ; Giant Killer, 2 ; Grantley,
3.
Glen Elgin Handicap: Apos-
trophe, 1 ; Similar, 2 ; Velocity, 3.
Bulla Handicap: Spearmain, 1 ;
Lilette, 2 ; Art Union, 3.
Magdala Welter: Mollie Con, 1 ;
Prince Ronald, 2 ; Grandson, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(At Canterbury Park.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Brush Hurdle Race: Rameo, 1 ;
Blackie Miller, 2 ; Gold Pan, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Kama, 1; Happy Bay, 2;
Milanja, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Battle King,
1 ; Flying Shuttle, 2 ; Minnamurra
or Oriole, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Pantler,
1 ; Stylish, 2 ; Scarlet Ranger, 3.
Flying Welter Handicap: Tyran-
nus, 1 ; Metallic, 2; Elson, 3.


■
flaiiiH
k
;POWELL
ON THE JOB
Urgent foods. Vital fuels and timbers.
Important civil transport services.
Paramount army supplies. Wherever
there are priority loads to handle,
you’ll find “Powell on the Job” —get-
ting things done quickly and efficiently
with lower operating costs. Powell’s
heavy-duty construction keeps trucks
out of the repair shop and on the
road. Powell’s famous Beresinsky
Cleaner reduces engine wear to “less
than with petrol.”
There’s a model for every purpose,
and Powell are the only units with
Government approved models up to
40 horse-power.
Immediate delivery of
POWELL GAS UNITS
from H. C. SLEIGH, Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, or Powell Dealers throughout Australia.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARY CATHERINE HARRISON late
of 103 Newland Street Bondi Junction and
to ABE WOLINSKI late of 162 Birrell Street
Waverley.—TAKE NOTICE that JAMES
ROGER HARRISON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 641 of 1942 on the ground of
your adultery with one another If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance on or
before the 17th July 1942 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from F. W.
REILLY Solicitor of 2b Castlereagh Street
Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEORGE ALFRED PILE late of Grafton.
—TAKE NOTICE that RUTH ANNIE PILE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 549 of 1942
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
on your behalf on or before 30th June 1942
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from E. A. CLEARY & CO. Solicitors
56 Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JAMES JACKSON.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARJORIE JACKSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 662 of 1942 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance on
or before the 21st day of July 1942 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
C. JOLLIE SMITH & CO. Solicitors 185 Eliza-
beth Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER ROBERTSON late of 139
Beaconsfield Street Auburn. —TAKE NOTICE
that KATHLEEN ROBERTSON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2299 of 1941 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance on or
before the twentieth day of July 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from P. W. GRAHAM STARLING Solicitor
Hardy’s Chambers rear of 5 Hunter Street
Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
Public Notices.
KRUSCHWITZ.— Anyone knowing where-
abouts of John Kruschwitz, son of Mary Jane
Kruschwitz, please communicate Equity
Trustees, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
HORTON.— Anyone knowing whereabouts of
following persons please communicate Equity
Trustees, 472 Bourke Street: Robert E. Horton,
formerly of Goombungee, Queensland; Alfred
H Horton, formerly of Dromana; William H.
Horton, formerly of Amphitheatre; John A. E.
Horton.
SMOKE-OH!
“Women should club together and go to
the responsible Minister.”— Woman’s paper.
A better method would be to go to
the responsible Minister and all club
together.
-!- -I- -I- -I*
“He was convinced that many of these
events would shortly take place, but not one
of his expectations was realised.”
—Biographical item.
That’s what comes of believing in
astrological forecasts.
*l* >!• -I* 4*
“One of Melbourne’s oldest hotels in Bourke-
street has run out of draught, and the licensee
of a busy Flinders-street hotel said that he
would not have any kind of beef after next
Saturday.”
So that’s why those Bungs always
claimed there was a good kick in the
stuff they sold!
•S* 4*
“In sandwich-making, combination is every-
thing. Now, what would be ideal to put
into a sandwich with carrot?” — Woman’s paper.
A slice of donkey.
*1- -I- -h -I-
“Diggers do the housework.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Bringing the war right into the kitchen.
•J* ■£«
“WTNTED, Experienced Nurse.”
—“Great Northern.”
And when they get her she’ll be dyna-
mite.
•J* •J*
“On entering the private office, we found my
husband with a typist on his knee.”
—Divorce Court report.
He was nursing her grievance.
Digs and Twigs.
When a woman tells you that she has
turned a certain age you don't have to
be a Solomon to know in which direc-
tion she has turned it.
People who live in glass houses now
must have a job shatterproofing them.
Some people make a success of social
climbing by scaling their creditors.
We discover so many sticks and
brambles in our tobacco now that we’re
beginning to think it grows on trees.
Don McM.
4* *1* *1* *!«
Balance Sheet.
“She jilted Bill, the accountant, and married
Ray, a mere clerk.” — Woman’s paper.
However, the accountant consoled
himself with the reflection that there is
no accounting for tastes, and he soon
recovered his balance. He credited himself
with more sense, too, than to grieve about
the loss of a woman who would prob-
ably have been a bad debt anyway.
After all, Miss Gotlotts was a much
better investment. He was a Bill receiv-
able at her home, and his next entry will
be into the holy state of matrimony, which
will be all on the assets side.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* . 4*
Exit Lane.
“Women lorry-drivers wanted.”—' “Sun.”
Just HOW they’re wanted varies with
The person and the episode.
But lorry-driving men all say
Of women drivers every day :
“We want ’em off the road.”
E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Girl Pilot Wed Her Instructor.”
—‘‘Daily Telegraph.”
Now she’ll take over the controls.
f* 4* 4* 4’’
“It is generally believed that an explosive
is an unusually rich store of energy.”
— “World’s News.”
Though not particularly interested in
the health of dynamite, we’d hate to hear
of its energy going off.
Ratiocination.
Spiders lay eggs, but surely ’twere absurd
To ever class a spider as a bird.
Nor are we birds. Yet some have hairy
legs
Like spiders; why, then, cannot we lay
eggs ?
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4*
“This delta area of Rumania is new land,
made by mud deposited by the Danube. The
coastline advances into the sea by a hundred
yards every year. Think of it—one day there
will be a causeway across the Black Sea.”
—Travel book.
So much for the theory that time is on
our side! Hitler has only to wait and
he’ll be able to march straight across to
the Caucasus.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Bany householders who were formerly
getting bread at cut prices are now
“getting it in ntnhen nenncnknnnnn “getting
it in the neck.” —‘‘Daily Mirror.”
That’s nothing. Newspaper readers are
getting it right between the eyes.
Discrimination.
As soon as baby can hold a book, give it
one.”— “W oman;”
When baby wakes and bellows for
A hook, don’t be imprudent;
Don’t silence with a comic or
A tract so keen a student.
If you’re a doctor, let him have your
case-book;
A punter, then what better than a race-
book ?
P. O. M. C.
The Art of Wardening.
111.
Will Shakspeare, when inviting a
winter wind to blow, mentioned something
about its not being so unkind as man’s
ingratitude. The reaction to my reappear-
ance at Mrs. McGoogan’s by those very
people whom I had sought to benefit by
giving them valuable practice just went
to show how well the bard knew his
world.
“There’s the goat that caused all
this how-de-do!” came in a hysterical
crescendo from Mrs. McGoogan as she
pointed an accusing finger at me. I might
perhaps have been a little hurt by this
had I not been strengthened by the con-
viction that I had done a really good
job of work.
A massive figure loomed up in front
of my face and visibility was immediately
reduced to a mass of dark-blue material
and a row of brass buttons running some-
where up into the stratosphere. At the
same time a basso profundo rumbled
somewhere above me: “What’s the mean-
ing of all this?”
I stepped back a pace or two to see
who my interlocutor was. Through the
gloom I could faintly discern a peaked
cap and a few stripes on an arm.
“Keep that tone for miscreants, felons,
ruffians and rogues,” I said with asperity.
“A warden in the legitimate execution of
his duty is not to be spoken to so! ”
“Ar, why don’t y’ lumber the alick,
sarge?” said an impatient voice near by.
“Look at all this trouble you’ve caused
everyone!” bellowed the policeman. “You
must have wasted a tenner’s worth of
petrol bringing all these wagons here ;
you’ve dragged men away from their
stations and homes, and this woman’s
garden has been trampled to pieces. If
this is your idea of a practical jo”
His voice was drowned in the shriek-
ing of brakes as another two fire engines
skidded to a stop outside.
I held up my hand. “If some people,”
I said meaningly, “wore boots instead
of violin cases it wouldn’t be necessary
to trample the garden down. And I’d
have you remember that the person of a
warden is as sacrosanct as that of an
ambassador. As one who has merely
done his duty according to his lights”
“A man ought to boot y’r blanky lights
out!” came from some coarse fellow in
the background.
I ignored him. “Moreover,” I went
on, “it seems that duty is a word the
full meaning of which doesn’t appear to
be grasped hereabouts. What do I find
as the aftermath of my own self-sacrific-
ing efforts? A police lance-corporal or
someone” —I blasted him with a look—
“who can only ask asinine questions,
firemen trailing hoses aimlessly about,
turncocks twiddling with their wrenches,
not a single stretcher case attended to
nor a bandage tied, linesmen and
mechanics getting in each other’s road —
just a bunch of twerps dithering around
like a lot of King’s Cross girls at a chris-
tening. It is a pointer to how you’d all
fall down on your jobs if it had been a
real air raid. I shall certainly send in a
stiff report to each of your headquarters
on your flagrant dereliction of duty!”
I gathered up my umbrella, stirrup-
pump, torch, rattle, etc. “However, I’ve
no time now to argue with nincompoops.
I’ve to complete my work. Perhaps you’d
like me to send along a sorter —you
appear to need one!” —and with that
thrust I brushed past the open-mouthed
limb of the law and left.
I had, I modestly admit, performed
wonders. But my hardest task—the writ-
ing-out of my report —was yet to come.
Bracing my shoulders, I strode purpose-
fully to the work.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others per line.
Transport Idiocy
As a result of a regulation prohibiting
the carrying of stock by road, 95 pigs
arrived dead at Adelaide abattoirs ; loss,
£4OO. The new transport regulation for-
bids anyone living beyond a radius of 25
miles from the city from carrying any-
thing into or out of Adelaide by road
transport.
Farmers are wondering what will
happen when the lamb traffic starts.
Formerly, there were 300 to 400 trucks
delivering lambs to the abattoirs’ Wednes-
day markets, and there were always com-
plaints about the balance of the traffic
handled by the railways. With the ban
on road transport the railways will have
to handle the lot, and the record set up
for pig fatalities should easily be eclipsed
when they get going on the lambs.
This stupid regulation, which is not
even relaxed for vehicles fitted with gas
producers, has the blessing of knight
Richard Butler, one-time Premier and
once a farmer. He is the State transport
controller at £lOOO a year. Premier Play-
ford, also a farmer, approves the regula-
tion. What all real farmers think about
it wouldn’t pass the censor.—J. L. C.
| (S.A.).
“Reserved” and' “Exempted”
One would suppose from the hurried
re-examination of army medical rejects,
and from Senator Cameron’s complaint
that key men are being called up from
aeroplane factories, that all fit men were
either in the army or in some really essen-
tial industry.
The other morning I passed a burly
young acquaintance of mine chipping
grass in front of a suburban council
chambers. I believe he is on the reserved-
occupation list and could not enlist if he
wanted to. The two fellows who empty
my garbage tins each week are young,
strong and unmarried, but they also, 1
believe, are “reserved.” Another man,
a young six-footer, who spends most of
his time shying newspapers over garden
fences, owns a newsagency, so is
“reserved.”
We all realise that these services must
go on in some degree, but surely, if men
for the army are so badly needed that
the medical rejects have to be combed
over and men taken from aero factories,
we could let the grass grow on the parks,
bury our garbage in the backyard and
buy our newspapers over the counter. —
Fisho (N.S.W.).
The stupidity of the man-power regu-
lations is evidenced every day in area
offices in each State. One example: Two
youths of 20 were called for medical
examination. One was a Government
clerk ; the other, with his family, ran a
dairy which their dead father had left.
Both passed as medically fit. The youth
from the dairy applied for exemption on
the ground of hardship, but his request
was refused and, with the dearth of labor
available, he was forced to curtail the
milk run.
The youth in the public service was
automatically exempted from serving in
the army in view of his occupation, so
he went back to his routine job of record-
ing statistical returns which are of no
importance whatsoever in war-time. —
A. W. R. (Q.).
Paradox and Muddle
Publication of Queensland' Bureau of
Industry figures showing unemployment
as 2.3 p.c. of working population brought
demands for the abolition of the relief
tax of depression years. The Treasurer
(Mr. Cooper) defended the tax as neces-
sary because “the latest total of regis-
tered unemployed throughout Queensland
is 12,000, many of whom are seasonal
workers who live in the north and don’t
follow work around the State.”
On the heels of this sorry admission,
which reveals haphazard method in
organising man-power, the Minister for
Home Affairs announced that “abori-
gines from native settlements, Malays and
half-castes will be used to overcome the
acute shortage of man-power in rural
industries. Colored labor,” he said, “is
only being used where white labor is not
available.” Another official statement
intimated that “Malays and aborigines
are harvesting the South Burnett pea-
nut crop” under the same conditions of
work as applied to white labor.
Colored labor —a percentage foreign—
is engaged while an unstated number of
seasonal workers, registered as unem-
ployed, are issued with ration tickets and
are presented with cash each week in
order that they may await the commence-
ment of a job at their front gates.
While these announcements were being
made the Forgan Smith Parliamentary
Labor Caucus chewed the uniform-tax
proposal and prepared “the case for the
State.” Caucus opposed the plan, con-
tending that “the scheme would take
away from all State Parliaments their
basic function of controlling finance.”
And, of course, Mr. Forgan Smith per-
formed similarly at the Premiers’ Con-
ference.—X. Y. Z. (Q.).
Different!
New South Wales coalminers showed
Mr. Curtin what they thought of his
regulations, and now the regulation ban-
ning the Communist party has had a hole
blown through it. At the Port Mel-
bourne by-election on April 18, John
Blake, a private in the militia, stood
openly as a Communist candidate. Criti-
cism of his status produced a Federal
ruling that, although the Communist
party was a prohibited organisation,
there was nothing to prevent any indi-
vidual declaring himself a Communist,
provided he didn’t organise himself into
a party.
So there’s nothing to stop all the sub-
merged Reds from coming up for air,
and, instead of a Communist party with
so many thousand members, we’ll have
“ 'All! 'Oo went there?"
so many thousand separate Communists.
Which is a very different matter accord-
ing to the Government. — Forgeron
(Vic.).
Taxing the Fighters
An Old Digger discusses the general
question of taxation as it applies to
members of the fighting services and
states his own case (name and Stale
necessarily omitted):
Can you tell me why an A.I.F. man should
be worse off because he has been brought back
to face in Australia exactly the same risks of
maiming or death as he faced in Syria, Libya
and other places? In other words, why he
should become liable to income-tax when he
has been three months in his own country?
As dependants’ allowances and deferred pay
don’t count fqr the purpose of assessing taxable
income, and as there is a statutory exemption
of the first £2OO, I suppose the only A.I.F.
personnel to pay taxation will be officers and
w.os. But why pick on them? Their pay is
not high, and if it was good enough to exempt
them entirely when they were out of Aus-
tralia where is the rhyme and reason in taxing
them when they are brought back to give a hand
here in Australia’s defence?
It has been stated that they will be put on the
same footing as the militia, whose members
have always been in the taxpaying class. But
two wrongs don’t make a right; and it has been
palpably wrong to differentiate against the militia
(or rather against its w.o. and officer members),
as has been done.
Militia officers and w.os. largely fall into two
classes; men who served in peace-time and who
since war came have been persistently refused
permission to enlist in the A.I.F. or other arms,
and men who came in after the war but weren’t
acceptable for the A.I.F. because of their age
or their inability to measure up to the more
rigorous physical standard of the A.I.F.
A lot of these men earned far more in civil
life than they now do or are likely to do as
officers or w.os.; but they are expected to pay
tax on their civil incomes out of a greatly re-
duced military pay. My own case is fairly
typical. For many years past my income has
rarely been less than £llOO per annum; but
for ten months I have been continuously in a
militia camp. (Incidentally I served in the last
war from April, 1915, onwards, and I could
have kept out this time, being in a reserved
category—but I had my own views as to
which job was the more urgent.)
My pay, including dependants’ is
less than half ot my normal earnings; but I’ve
had a peremptory warning from the Taxa-
tion Commissioner that if 1 don’t pay all my
taxes by June 30 he will fine me 10 per cent.
—and no arguments. A.I.F. personnel who are
in the same boat don’t get these threats; they
don’t have to take on the herculean task of
paying tax on their (past) civil earnings until
after the war. Not so the militia. (Incidentally,
the militiaman has to pay tax on the value
of the rations and quarters provided for him
by the army, unless he waited to be conscripted;
the volunteer is hit by this additional impost,
which he could have- avoided by waiting to be
called up or by sheltering in his category funk-
hole.) If it had been easy for militia officers and
w.os. to get into the A.1.F., they would have
no kick because it would have been their own
fault for not volunteering; but in my State,
at any rate, it was always much simpler for the
camel to get tnrough the proverbial needle’s
eye than for the militiaman to transfer into ihe
A.I.F.
Most of us in this unhappy position have been
paying tax instalments much larger than re-
quired of our present income class; but there
are obvious limits, and the new deferred-pay
scheme' is no unmixed blessing for us. It
gives increased benefits, without any qualifica-
tions, to everyone below the rank of captain;
the rest of us are to get less pay at present
in return for just a little more at some future
date—if we are alive to get it.
I have a wife and two children. They get
most of my pay; but as I am to lose 3s. 6d. a
day I shall be drawing (after buying as many tax
stamps as I can afford) just oyer £1 a week. My
wife is paying rent and meeting living expenses,
gas and electricity charges and the cost of
clothing herself and two growing children out
of an allowance roughly the same as she used
to get for housekeeping and her personal needs;
so when you bear in mind how all living costs
have gone up you can see that we have made
a genuine attempt to adjust our living standards
to a lower income level. But I can’t ask my
wife to pay medical expenses, insurance, etc.,
out of her share; that’s where my £1 a week
comes in.
Everyone with any sense realises that money
has to be found to pay the cost of running a
war; we are all prepared to do our best to pay
heavier and heavier taxes. The financial diffi-
culties in which many members of the A.I.F.
would have found themselves were recognised
when they were completely exempted from taxa-
tion while overseas apd also allowed to let their
pre-enhstment liabilities stand over until peace
comes again. It isn’t their fault that the enemy
is at our gates; we all know how well they
fought at Singapore and other places to keep
him away; but our grateful Government tells
them that, no matter how well they fight--
as they will do—in Australia itself, they won’t
get any consideration from the taxgatherer. And
that person will go on socking the militia.
There’s still far too much discrimination,
officia! and private between A.I.F. and militia,
though there won t be any when the fighting
starts. And that’s about our only consolation,
that the Jap won’t put the boots into us any
more savagely because we aren’t allowed to wear
“Australia” on our shoulder straps or because
wc carry income-tax assessments in our pockets.
The Other De Gaulle Movement
T , , ........
haV J- en , ff ir^ Ct j^ K to x^ ari D U r
the publicity afforded by The Bulletin.
Tt has had good effect. We wish you
pod fortune in reducing he taxing use-
De GTuLLE^Svdnev) m &§ & J H
y y '
Sign the petition for the dissolution
of “the useless Parliament of New South
Wales” (B. 15/4/’42)? Our colonial oath!
F A Dodd (Taralea) C P Dodd
(Taralga), D. L Roberts (Taraiga); Arthur
Dodd (Bexley), S. N. Dodd (Bexley).
. ’
Ranke”l
Hands Off the Banks .
The Ministry for War Organisation of
Industry thought fit to quote the trading
banks as the only example of an industry
from which valuable man-power could
be spared.
A very liberal estimate would not place
the total number of men of all ages em-
ployed by the trading banks in normal
times at more than p O,OOO. Some banks,
however, have already voluntarily released
over 50 p.c. of their total male staff for
enlistment, and if the whole of the male
staff remaining were released the services
or industry would not derive much bene-
fit.
Why cite the trading banks as the big
bad wolf that is wastefully using man-
power? Why not insurance companies,
retail stores or, better still, the huge
staffs employed by redundant State Gov-
ernments?
Trading banks form an integral part of
our economic system. In the policing of
various National Security Regulations
alone they are rendering valuable assis-
tance to the Government, and individually
the officers of various banks are willingly
working long hours (often without any
extra pay) in an effort to continue an
essential service.
Trading banks are the constant target
for much adverse and unwarranted criti-
cism. From Leftist politicians and sundry
gentlemen with freakish and faulty
economic theories this is not surprising,
but many other people, through muddled
thinking or lack of knowledge of
economics and finance, add their voices
to the chorus of criticism.
It is high time an active “Hands off
the Banks” propaganda was initiated be-
fore the trading banks are wiped out
and we are left with one politically con-
trolled Government bank. —L. A. M.
(N.S.W.).
Land Girls
A rush for land girls is unlikely when
farmers study the conditions of employ-
ment. Accommodation and food must
be provided for a minimum of 20 girls
and a matron. Stations with large
shearers’ quarters might be able to house
such a bevy of females, but what could
20 slacked lasses do on one station but
get in each other’s way? And since, like
all hens, they would have to come home
to roost, it would take a flood of petrol
to transport portion of them daily to
adjoining stations.
In closely-settled areas around dairy -
and poultry-farms, where the right type
of girl would be useful, accommodation
for 20 would be difficult to find. But it’s
the screw that will make the cockies
whistle —Is. 3d. an hour for the first two
weeks and thereafter Is. 6d. an hour.
Could anyone imagine a drought-stricken
cow-cocky paying a chum milkmaid 18
bob plus keep for a 12-hour dqy?—
K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Case Stated
The case for the abolition of the
Queensland State Parliament:
Lands, Agriculture and Mines: Local
authorities know more about these
matters in the various districts adminis-
tered by them. They could do the various
jobs more quickly and efficiently with
less red-tape and expense.
Justice; Too many anomalies in the
various State laws. Under Federal direc-
tion one set of laws would cover the
whole Commonwealth and the anomalies
would disappear.
Transport: Far too costly. Privately-
owned railways in competition with pri-
vately-owned road transport would give
far better results, both as regards cheap-
ness and efficiency. During a crisis like
this, Federal authorities, under military
direction, to take charge of all transport
facilities.
Education: No doubt Queensland’s
system is excellent, but the whole system
could be controlled by one head just as
well with considerable saving.
The other departments are mostly
duplicates.—J. S. L. (Q.).
Shipping Space
A Sydney wool broker made a sugges-
tion the other day that should be con-
sidered by the Australian, British and
United States Governments. He said that
the idle machinery in British woollen mills
should be shipped to Australia, where it
could be used to convert the abundance
of raw materal into the uniforms and
other clothing needed by the Allied forces
in the Pacific.
Australian mills, already working at high
pressure to cope with Government orders,
will have to meet increased demands.
They could do with more machinery,
and the plant they need could be brought
from Britain, across the Atlantic and
through America, if necessary. It does
seem farcical that greasy wool should be
shipped to America, manufactured into
uniforms, and then be sent back to Aus-
tralia, especially as greasy wool takes up
much more valuable shipping space than
manufactured goods do.
The idea could be extended. Actu-
ally, shipping space would be saved if
the plant and workers needed to convert
Australian raw materials into munitions
and equipment were brought here and set
to work. It would, of course, need a
good deal of shipping to make the trans-
fer, but less shipping would be needed
afterwards. —Two Strand (N.S.W.).


mm
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond conv-
putation can be se-
cured by all who will
follow the directions
given in the Pelman
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak too
highly of it,”
We give extracts from a jew
letters from many thousands
received by the Institute in Mel-
bourne. It will be noted that
some, also selected from a
large number, are from men in
H.M. Forces: —-
DOCTOR: “Pelmanism hap
shown me how to observe instead
of merely seeing. That alone is
worth the price of the course.”
TEACHER; “Increase in my
powers of Concentration and
Memory. Increase in Self-Con-
fidence. Greater interest in
people and in my surroundings.”
CLERK: “I have just received
my Diploma in Economics at
the Sydney University and I
am grateful to the Institute for
showing me how to use my
mind.”
PRINTER; “I have attained a
standard of efficiency which has
enabled me to secure an execu-
tive position. The obscure and
complex are now clear and
simple.”
SOLDIER: “I was one of
three to be promoted out of a
class of thirty selected for
special training.”
BANK OFFICER: “I was a
bit sceptical of all the claims
you made for it, but 1 know
now that they were not exag-
gerated one iota.”
SHEEP-FARMER: “I have
kept an account of the time
spent on the Course. It amounted
to a shade under three months
and the average time per day
—4O minutes.”
AIRCRAFTMAN; “My
memory is improved, my con-
centration developed and" I am
a better observer.”
STAFF CAPTAIN: “I want
to thank you for your attention
and express the hope that I may
keep in touch with the Institute
in the future as the occasion
offers. 1 am a confirmed Pel—"
rnanist.”
PRIVATE: “I have developed
Will Power, Observation and
Memory. 1 feel that I can
step into the future with both
feet firmly planted on the path
to success. 1 am better off in
every possible way.”
SOLDIER (Engineer): “The
Course has done me an amazing
amount of good and I have no
hesitation in saying that I have
tremendous faith in it and also
in myself since taking it. Yes-
terday I learned that promotion,
and to a higher rank than that
which I had expected, is coming
my way in the near future. 1
attribute ray promised advance-
ment to Pelmanism.”
SECRETARY: “I am forming
good habits and choking bad
habits. I have more self-control
and self-reliance. I enjoy life
more. 1 feel better physically
and mentally. I am easier to
live with. I do not brood.”
Pelmamsm is the accepted scientific
method of draining hiind, Aiemorv
and Personality
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so that we
are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us. We see
more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence, there
is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire exact knowledge,
remember it and recall it as required. We learn to trust our sense
perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then open
and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and woman. The
more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
The Exercises are pleasant, each has its special purpose and each starts
a good habit immediately. The Pelman Course is a real training, its
primary object being to create good habits of mind and memory in place
of careless and slovenly ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious
so that every faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making
a good performance of anything that has to be done.
Pelmanism is a scientific training. Because it substitutes good and faithful
habits of mind and memory for slovenly and fearful ones, it promotes
steadfastness, definiteness and continuity of effort.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
Dp. F. W. Norwood, D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind-training. d
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the key
to his own career.”
mm.
i
Canon IJannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“PelmanUm i s valu-
able to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind axe formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
“Pelmtmism gives a
mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportunities
and uses them rightly.”
Pelmanisra is endorsed publicly b>
more than 100 Prominent People.
Pelmanists are found in practically
every calling.
Pelmanism is permanent in its effect
on the Mind, Memory and Person-
ality.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
Please send me, free and post-free, u copy of
"The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
148.
There are over half a million
PelmanistSj of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Pclman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established
in Melbourne for over 33 years.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Peltnan Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Peltnan
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Peltnan Institute, Mel-
bourne.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
Titles of Chapters.
1. Groups.
2. Personality.
3. Body, Mind and
Spirit.
4. Speaking Easily.
5. Introductions and
Functions.
6. The Material of
Conversation.
7. Story Telling.
8. The Attitude of Mind.
9. Bad Practices.
10. Misunderstandings.
11. Furniture and Physi-
cal Conditions.
12. Meetings and Part-
ings.
13. Freedom and Action.
Public Speaking.
The Elements of
Command.
Temperament.
The Art of Meeting People
with chapters on
Public Speaking and the Elements
of Command
i
By E. H. WELFORD, Director, Pelma-n Institute (O/seas).
This book has been written primarily to meet an increasing demand
by students of the Pelman Course for exact information on the
principles governing our relations with other people. It is the fruit
of personal experience supplemented by acquaintance with the needs
of thousands of pupils, and it covers all the ground honestly.
Each chapter is followed by an “Application” to the reader’s own
life and circumstances of the principles discussed in the chapter.
Advance orders are being accepted from the public at 5/- per copy posted.
Publication is on May 11. The opportunity of using this page of “The Bulletin”
today makes this announcement possible.
51-
per copy posted.
Use the order form below or write to The
Telman Institute. 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
To The Telman Institute,
39(1 Flinders Fane, Melbourne, C.I.
Please send me a copy of “The Art of Meeting
People,” with chapters on Public Speaking and The
Elements of Command. I enclose the advance sub-
scription of 5/- per copy posted.
Name
Address
