

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
/fffclt of Kite meilmmeUmdIcuqiud
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin," Vol. 63. No. 3250.
Wednesday, May 27, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
PULTENEY BRIDGE, BATH.
RATH, the chief town of Somersetshire, on the River Avon,
B and some 107 miles from London, enjoys an almost unique
reputation. Readers of “Pickwick Papers” will recall the use
Dickens made of (he mythical legend attributing its foundation
to “a certain King Bladud.” Its claim to high antiquity is
definitely established, however, and it first appears in history
during the first century of the Christian era, under the name
“Aqua Solis,” and many remains demonstrate the Romans
were perfectly acquainted with its mineral springs. Ecclesiasti-
cally and politically it has figured somewhat prominently in
national records. Offa, King of Mercia, a tract of territory
comprising the borderland of the purer Anglian and Saxon
settlements and embracing what are now known as the “Mid-
land Counties,” founded an Abbey here in 775, and the Saxon
King Edgar was crowned in’the Abbey in 973. Surnamed the
“Peaceable,” one of his earliest acts was to promote St.
Dunstan, then their Abbot, to the Archbishopric of Canter-
bury. Pew records of the first five years of his reign have come
down, save those which refer to his active co-operation in
ecclesiastical reforms then in progress. He restored the monks
to the Abbey, displaced and degraded the secular clergy and
actively supported the scheme for dispossessing the secular
capons of all the great churches. Edgar was a great man, and
those who live in twentieth-century days,, which witness the
“brutal destruction policy of Hitlerism, view ,Wn ? “One
his declaration in the assembled Witan (Parliament). On
thing I would have common to all my subjects English. Danes
and Britons, in every part of my dominions that both rich and
poor possess without molestation what they .have.
acquired, and that no thief find refuge for securing his stolen
property.” Edgar’s reign forms an epoch in English history
and aided much in the growth of monastic institutions, destined
to “keep the fires of learning and cultural progress alive in
later centuries, Oxford being perhaps the most outstanding ex-
ample. The first charter was granted to the Borough or nain
by Richard I (1189-1199), and it sent a member toi Parhamen
in 1297. Centuries elapsed; it was not until the eighteenth that
jts chalybeate waters began to be appreciated so highly tor
gouty rheumatic and hepatic disorders and the patronage or
, and aristocratic sufferers made the town a resort of
■ ct reets Q f fine houses, built of the local freestone,
1 _ t -wise on the hill to the right of the river, spanned
,-V Tbe A sse mbly Rooms were completed in
2 io „ a ble throng mt tor years to dance,
1771, and here the i ailments Many writers have
flirt, gamble and get rid ot their aumems. y
described When the more^acces-
rS t P nS infp “mineral w) ters” trade hr Britain went to places
residence. The mmeral wat _ „ , “Vichy ” Nazi
bearing s uch names as A Pf ° linar f Bath waters ”It
ambition has m a measure restored bottled Bath u
1S curious to note that Bath played a no• uni F* P Tj
tbe ear j y fi a y S D f rapid transit. The stage coa - , f
b w fi b London were known by a phrase strangely £
today, “flying-machines.” In what may be termed ou
‘‘domestic and business economy” Bath gives its name to
var j o us articles, thus: Bath bricks, used for cleaning knives ,
g atb buns, larger and richer than the ordinary bun ; i»atri
chops, the cheek or “chop” of the pig, cured or, smoked ,
g atb chairs, small wheeled and hooded carriages used by in-
vab(js an d others, usually drawn by a man, sometimes by a
pony ; and Bath metal, an alloy of copper and zinc, usu y
55 parts of the former and 45 of the latter. Ihe once laminar
expletive phrase “Go to Bath requires no euicidatiom l
comparatively late years Bath has witnessed the development
of certain engineering and other industrial activities, wh c
possibly explains the visas it received, with unhappy results,
in April, 1942, from the German air aim.


JLJmJLI
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.''
My Name
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
OUR WAR HISTORY.
[When The Bulletin learned a few weeks
ago that Dr. C. E. W. Bean, Commonwealth
Official War Historian, had practically cipm-
pleted the task that began in 1919, it invited
Dr. Bean to write for the Red Page a survey of
the whole great achievement. Here is his
article.]
In October, 1919, when my staff and
I began work on the Australian War
History at Tuggranong homestead —away
between the hills and the Murrumbidgee,
an ideal place for hard, healthy work and
concentration —I believed that the task
might be finished in five years. That
would have allowed eight months for each
of the six volumes that I had to write on
the campaigns in France and Gallipoli
and a year for editing the work of my
five colleagues, each of whom was taking
a single subject—Harry Gullett, Pales-
tine ; Fred Cutlack, the Australian Flying
Corps; Arthur Jose (who was a sort of
godfather to me since the days when my
father found him chopping wood in Tas-
mania and made this roving scholar his
classical assistant master at All Saints’
College), the Royal Australian Navy;
Tom Heney (my own old chief at the “Syd-
ney Morning Herald”), Australia during
the war; and Seaforth Mackenzie, Ger-
man New Guinea (of which he had just
relinquished the Acting Administrator-
ship). The twelfth volume would con-
tain the war photographs.
But I had long before adopted a policy
which, though I didn’t yet realise this,
placed out of question any chance of
early completion. We knew that —be-
cause of the opportunities given to us
during the war of seeing what really
happened at the cutting-edge of battle a
well as at headquarters—Harry- Gullett
Cutlack and I had material for a new
kind of war history. This could tell how
plans, made on the flagged maps in the
General Staff office, or perhaps even
around polished tables at Downing-street
worked out in actual experience where
Billjim and his beloved Lewis gun lay in
the mud of a French crater blazing at
German helmets bobbing along a broken-
down trench. We knew we had the
material to show how the Cabinet’s plan
for, say, “securing adequate support from
our Ally,” or the local staff’s decision
to “thrust along the high ground anc
ignore the depressions,” really worker
out at some badly-fitting joint in the
line ; and what really had happened when
the evening communique announced that
“Owing to infiltration of advanced enemy
forces, it was considered advisable to
refuse the flank.”
We knew that this was probably a
perfectly honest communique. The report
would have dribbled through five succes-
sive headquarters to the able staff officer
who compiled communiques ; but even
the company commander who scribbled
by torchlight the message on which the
bulletin was founded possibly did not
know what Billjim had seen, done or suf-
fered. Billjim might be dead or in a
dressing station or on the way to Ger-
many or in another shellhole, still seeing
helmets (probably, by then, imaginary
ones, in every tuft of grass or every speck
floating across his retina).
Harry Gullett and Cutlack and I felt
that, though jargon was completely un-
avoidable in generals’ dispatches and,
often, in histories based on them, be-
cause, as in the kind of case just referred
to, the details simply could not then be
known, we had the opportunity of find-
ing out and preserving enough of such
details to make clear some valuable
truths, and also of storing in our mem-
ories and notebooks many of the reasons
that led the generals and even sometimes
political leaders to their decisions.
If you didn’t know the details, of
course, you had to write the familiar jar-
gon—blanket terms that would cover
wide gaps in the content; “Penetration
by elements of our centre allowed the
right to be swung up, but progress was
stopped by the enemy artillery,” What
a wealth of men’s endeavor and suffering,
of anxiety, excitement, disillusionment,
stupidity and wisdom those words could
hide! But often they only hide it
because generals, and even captains,
subalterns and sergeants, necessarily have
not even the time to inquire what actu-
ally happened.
But we official war correspondents did
have the time. We were free to go any-
where in our own lines —certainly more
so than any other correspondents in that
war; and we knew that we could write a
war history that would take the events
of the front line and relate them straight
back to generals and War Cabinet; and,
on the other hand, take decisions of
Cabinet or of beribboned leaders in con-
ference, and show how they worked out
where Sid or Jim —not without a fair
idea of what he was doing and fighting
for —lay in the Gallipoli scrub with
machine-gun bullets sending the holly
leaves in prickly showers down his neck.
We were determined that, if possible,
an Australian History should do this.
There were many reasons: one, and one
of the most important, was our know-
ledge that the praise for many achieve-
ments that mankind regards as praise-
worthy sometimes went not to the men
whd did those things but to the men
who recorded them—this again being less
often the fault of the recorders than of
their quite unavoidable lack of time and
knowledge. But if you ask Australians
to write history you must expect that they
will be very jealous in trying to attribute
responsibility to the persons really
responsible.
None of these objects can be attained
without writing in detail. If we were
content to record, for example, that “the
subterranean operations at Hill 60 de-
veloped into an unexampled contest of
mining and countermining” this can
be stated in a line or two; but if you
describe how, say, John Smith from
Broken Hill South, listening in the
cramped blackness of an advanced gal-
lery, heard footsteps coming from the
German direction and growing so loud
and close that, after blowing out his
candle, he squeezed against the tunnel
side to let the German pass; and how,
while he held his breath and prepared
to strike, the footsteps suddenly passed
six feet above him, evidently along some
old German working unknown to the
Australians—this takes space and time;
but it is worth doing, provided you can
keep clear the meaning and direction of
the whole narrative and prevent the
details from obscuring the main story.
When we set out to write we found an-
other reason that would have forced us
into detail, even if we had tried to avoid
it, which we did not. Of many episodes
the facts were disputed.
Take, for example, the story of the
Anzac Landing. Nothing approaching a
true account of it existed before Volume
I was printed, and I found that the only
true record of much of it was contained
in the narratives —perhaps 100 in number
—that I had collected on various oppor-
tunities during the war from men who
took part in the incidents described (we
very soon learnt not to rely upon others).
Many of these survivors were afterwards
killed, and the official and unofficial nar-
ratives, based on what reports were avail-
able, had set up the impression that the
Landing was a wild rush (which it was)
pushed far beyond the proper objectives
(which it was not). This story had gone
into history, and it could only be cor-
rected by discovering and recording the
positions that the survivors of different
parties had actually attained. Many
of these men confessedly did not know
where they had got to, but we were
usually able to ascertain it by their refer-
ences to other persons and parties whom
they saw, and by the traces that were still
left on the ridges when Zeki Bey and I
searched carefully over them four years
later.
But merely stating the conclusions at
which we arrived would not have changed
the accepted narrative. Future historians
would have repeated the error and simply
footnoted: “In the Australian Official
History these facts are disputed ; they
are based, however, on official sources.”
To establish, itself as a “source book” —
a book that other historians could accept
as a basic source for their information —
our History had to be so written as to
carry its proof on its face.
We did this —Harry Gullett as regards
Palestine, and I in dealing with Gallipoli
and France —by telling the story in
detail and showing how the known facts
fitted into it and could not fit into any
other framework. That, for example,
was the only possible way of telling, so
as''to carry conviction, the story of the
tanks at Bullecourt or of our fight to-
gether with the Americans at the Hinden-
burg Line, in both of which cases there
was an established story, fast growing into
legend and widely different from the
truth. The Australian account of Bulle-
court is now completely accepted; and
the story of the Americans, which is much
more poignant than the legend, will, I
think, catch up the untruth when Volume
VI is published next month.
Of course, the whole History—though
we found it as interesting as a novel to
write —is much more than a mere story;
it should, if adequately told, be a drama
showing a tenible phase in the life of a
.young democracy. Its theme may be
stated as the answer to a question: How
did this nation, bred in complete peace,
largely undisciplined except for a strongly
British tradition and the self-discipline
necessary for men who grapple with
nature —how did this nation react to
what still has to be recognised as the
supreme test for fitness to exist?
The Australian soldier, sailor, airman
and nurses were a fair cross-section of
our people—that fact is intentionally kept
before the reader’s mind all through by
the personal footnotes showing that the
company commander was a young
lawyer and his second in command and
most trusted mate a young enginedriver
and so on. The gradual working-out for
good or ill of the results of the Austra-
lian social outlook and individualism (the
principle “that every chap shall have a
fair go”) in methods of promotion and
leadership, ending in the astonishing
revelations and climaxes of Palestine and
France in 1918, caused the writers’ task
to be of absorbing interest to the very
end. I always felt that if a historian,
privileged to watch the reaction of a
people through a crisis like that of 1914-
18, could not grasp and display that in-
tense drama by methods that neither
added nor subtracted, the fault would
be with him and not with his subject.
Of course, the gem, and the only gem,
of the whole' work is Gullett’s history of
the Light Horse: with his quick grasp
and wit and his lifelong love of what-
ever was good, wholesome, clean,
healthy and straight, went a deep know-
ledge of the Australian countryman, born
in the days when he and the other young-
sters used to glean horsehair from the
tails of their uncles’ horses (while their
owners were chatting in the farmhouse)
to the limit of respectability and make
pocket-money out of the proceeds. His
volume on the Light Horse campaign in
Palestine and Egypt forms a rounded
character-study of the Australian country-
man and his horse unrivalled, so far as is
known to me, in the literature of that war.
Arthur lose wrote one of the purple
patches of the series when he summar-
ised the work of the R.A.N. (Vol. IX,
pp. 334-5). Ernest Scott (who had to
take up Heney’s task from the beginning
when the latter’s health broke down)
managed to bring his light touch
even into that difficult subject. In my
own work, the theme that moved me
most was, I think, the situation of the
6th Brigade at Bullecourt in the closing
dusk of May 3, 1917, when its remnant
was left alone facing whatever was to
come. Next to that, perhaps, the charge
at the Nek in Gallipoli, in the dawn of
August 7, 1915; or the fight of young
Arblaster and his men on the exposed
flank at Fromelles through the night of
July 19, 1916 ; or the marvellous story
of Mont St. Quentin and the last fight
of all (told in the volume to be pub-
lished in a few weeks’ time) at Mont-
brehain; and, of course, the records of
the Anzac Landing and the frightful
experiences of Pozieres teem with matter
that could not help stirring their his-
torian. Indeed, with material so rich as
we had to draw upon, every phase of
the work brought its strong emotions.
One element of extraordinary interest
to me was the glimpses that we were able
to get of our opponents’ side of the hill.
These came mostly from their regimental
histories and from contacts with the Ger-
man Archive Department and with our
good friend Zeki Bey—one of Mustafa
Kemal’s right-hand men who commanded
at German Officers’ Trench or Hill 60
throughout the Gallipoli campaign. But,
in order to grip the reader with the hopes,
anxieties and problems that racked us
at the time of the events, we usually, in
telling the story of each venture, dis-
closed only what was known to our
people at that time, leaving the enemy’s
side to be revealed when the story
reached the time at which our actors
began to see that side.
The question most frequently put to
us writers by ex-soldiers was “Don’t you
find extraordinary difficulty in reconciling
the conflicting accounts —one never hears
two alike?” Our experience (and that
of Sir James Edmonds, our good friend
and helper, the British official historian),
is precisely the contrary—that, when one
gets down to the narratives of officers
and men describing what they personally
saw, the accounts fit into one another
like pieces in a jigsaw puzzle. For
example, “Pompey” Elliott in 1915, per-
spiring and coatless, told me how he
blazed with his revolver along our mine
tunnel near German Officers’ Trench
when the Turks broke into it. Zeki Bey
four years afterwards tells me how he
picked up two of those bullets and gave
one to Enver Pasha.
Again, I hear from the raiding party
how, when they were driven back after
rushing the crater blown into German
Officers’ Trench; Lieut. Grieg, their
leader, stayed there to hold off the
enemy; and Zeki Bey asks me four years
later: “I wonder, did you know a young
officer—when I heard the uproar of shots
and ran to the crater-mouth he was there
alone, facing our soldiers, a beautiful
young man, with his back to the earth
and his revolver in hand. I said ‘Don’t
shoot that man —take him prisoner.’ They
said ‘He will not be captured.’ A bomb
killed him and I had him buried with
special honor in the green valley behind
our trenches.”
Well there it is, finished; twelve
volumes (not counting the three of the
Medical History on which Graham Butler
has spent nearly half his life of devoted
service to his country, and, I fear, has
wrecked much of his health as well as
his eyesight in producing what is cer-
tainly a work of genius—the last two
volumes being just as much a “thing
apart” as our twelve volumes of the
official history are sometimes claimed
to be). There stand our twelve,
roughly 10,000 pages, four million words,
2250 maps and sketches, 1500 illustra-
tions ; the actions and names of prob-
ably 8000 men and women, perhaps more,
cited, and footnoted with particulars of
practically every one of these persons.
It is impossible, of course, to attain com-
plete accuracy in such a task; but I can
say that the staff mainly responsible—
John Balfour, Arthur Bazley and the
draughtsmen, W. S. Perry, Peter Wight-
man and Alan S. Murray (with J. L.
Treloar, T. H. E. Heyes and A. J.
Withers largely supplying the records) —
has achieved the nearest thing humanly
attainable to it. The index, and more,
was initiated by the, alas, largely self-
thwarted genius of Erskine Crawford and
carried on by Balfour and Ida Mac-
Aulay (and for the Medical History by
Mary Ordish). I would that I could
mention all others that deserve it.
The record has been set up. Events
that would quickly have faded into obli-
vion have been captured and cemented
fast. Its architect was left completely free
to build that monument. He refused to
take up the work until it stood in black
and white in his contract that the his-
tory (including the political volume)
would be uncensored. By the help at
various times of Senator Pearce, W. M.
Hughes and W. A. Watt, this was agreed
to, and was made known as a pledge
to returned soldiers and to the public.
I always sent the Minister the proofs
before the final printing was authorised,
and I made a practice of drawing his
attention to any part to which I thought
he might object. If he raised this or any
other point we discussed it by letter or
at an interview, but in the whole work
this only happened three times, and then
the points at issue were settled without
the least difficulty to the satisfaction of
both sides. The Australian Governments
seemed to show real bigness in dealing
with this project, though one Auditor-
General —long ago—did condemn its
detailed style as expensive and useless.
However, there it stands. Time may
knock off a comer or dint a feature here
or there; but at least, in the main, it
and what it delineates can now not be
lost until its pages disintegrate. And the
final hope of its main architect is that,
before it is too late (and it is fast becom-
ing so), there may be definitely selected,
with eyes only on capacity and char-
acter, the architect who will be respon-
sible for itfs perhaps greater sequel.
C. E. W. BEAN.
Australian Art Society’s sixteenth
annual show at Farmer’s Blaxland Gal-
leries (Sydney) is as cheerful as ever.
Highlights are Jerrold Nathan’s por-
traits and flower studies, Garrett Kings-
ley’s nudes, W. M. Whitney’s water-
color landscapes and a spirited sea piece
by John Allcot. Jos. Holloway marks a
lot of progress with his most recent still-
lifes, and Daysi M. Brookes shows one
of the best portraits in the show —the
young man of No. 105. A sound land-
scape by Jack Salvana and a clever bit
of genre painting by Clif Pier also catch
the eye.
Shaw’s “Getting Married,” currently
on tap on Saturday evenings at the Inde-
pendent Theatre, North Sydney, is a
severe test of a repertory organisation—
entirely a conversation piece and in-
habited by characters who are expected
to express their convictions with the
utmost vivacity for as long as three
minutes at a stretch. Doris Fitton’s
players stand up well to the strain, and
get all the laughs the play is capable of
producing. Harvey Ross - Buchanan
(Father Anthony), Clive Coppard (Regi-
nald) and Charles Tasman (the Bishop)
are particularly well cast.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Your guarantee of satisfaction.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
mu
rri-r^^^rfr
m
m *
.y^xX:
<gfß
S)7^
“ ['/ "M
a
w \
\\ A*
Mi.
Av£
?s r :v i
lO
M
stVx \\
-^i
\Srr-
-7 / IS#
f/f/iF 1
Anthony Horderns' craftsmen enjoy
creating something beautiful, especi-
ally fine furniture that is "worthy of
exhibition"—the kind of furniture that
grows more precious as the years roll
by. Every piece of furniture that finds
a place on the floors of our show-
rooms is of verified quality and will
give the utmost in comfort and use-
fulness, as well as being consistently
pleasing to the eye.
Soundly Constructed Oak Lowboy
Polished a medium oak colour, featuring framed and
panelled doors, fitted with 4 sliding trays, 2 shelves,
mirror and tie rack behind right-hand door, trouser rail
behind left-hand door, and having ample hanging
space. Height of Lowboy, sft. 4in.; width, 4ft.; depth,
20in. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, each ... £B/5/-
EASY TERMS; Deposit, 33/-; 6 monthly payments of 22/7
r i
mt >
I / i A II
I i i
-
m
9
H
/ ...x
'
* ♦
X -
5\
•?
Attractive Four-Piece Dark Figured Walnut Bedroom Suite
Made in our own factory, semi-gloss finish, and a dark brown walnut colour. Suite consists oi a
full size Wardrobe with two-thirds hanging space, right-hand side fitted with shelf and
drawers with silky oak fronts. A Dressing Table fitted with linen drawers, a fitted Lowboy an
a 4ft. 6in. Bedstead complete the suite. At Anthony Horderns . Price, suite Mi/iu/
EASY TERMS; Deposit, £B/6/-; 18 monthly payments of £l/19/8,
• Furniture —Third and Fourth Floors.
Anthony Horderns'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


SNOWY MAKES PLANS
By A. C. HEADLEY.
IT all came about
in a very simple
kind of way, but
actually the sarge
had been building
up for it for a long
time. There was hardly a day passed
but he had a few things to say about the
way Snowy Gilligan was trying to be-
come a soldier. But Snowy reckons the
real start of it was from the day when
the sarge discovered the unbuttoned
tunic.
I knew something was on as soon
as the sarge spotted Snowy’s tunic gaping
open at the throat. For three weeks I’d
been developing a slow but steady hatred
of the sarge and I tried to give Snowy a
nudge. I just about sent my elbow three
parts of the way into his body, but all he
did was reach up, scratch the place and
go on looking at a Bren gun carrier
moving in the circle of his vision. The
sarge had almost reached us, and there
was a smile on his face that spread his
mouth so wide that he almost lost the
thing he called a moustache. He reached
Snowy, and for about thirty seconds he
stood with his hands on his hips and
looked at him. It was then that Snowy
happened to turn his head. He gave a
start and glanced down the line to see
what everyone else was doing. They were
all looking at him. Snowy gave an apolo-
getic cough and grinned sheepishly.
“ ’UIIo, Surge,” he said.
“Hullo, Snowy,” the sarge said pleas-
antly. “I suppose you find it much cooler
that way.”
And then it came. The sarge said things
that even Snowy’s best friends wouldn’t
have thought of. At the end of five
minutes a slightly dazed Snowy with his
tunic once more united at the throat was
still trying to analyse a few of the things
the sarge had told him.
He was still talking about it when we
went into town that night. “Per two
pins,” he said, “I’d knock ’is flamin’ ’ead
orf.”
An hour later Snowy was all for going
back to the camp and throwing the sarge
into the river, and it was with the greatest
difficulty I kept him from it. Another
hour and he solemnly announced: “Wot
’e needs is a woman’s refining ’and.
Emily, that’s wot ’e needs.”
“Emily?” I echoed.
“Sure,” said Snowy, “she’s gonner be
the softenin’ influence in the surge’s life.
She’s a friend of mine ; she’s a barmaid
and refined. I’m gonner write an’ tell ’er
to write to the sarge and tell him that she
saw ’im marchin’ once, and fell in love
with ’im and would ’e meet ’er.”
The beer was beginning to cloud aiy
brain a little. “Snowy,” I said, “I thought
your first idea was to toss the sarge in
the river. What changed you? All you
seem to want to do now is provide him
with entertainment.”
Snowy frowned. “I got plans,” he said
simply.
j HAD an idea that it was just the beer
A talking, so I left it at that. By the next
day I’d forgotten all about it. But a week
later Snowy came up to me and said
“She’s ’ei'e.”
I just stared at him.
“Emily,” he said, “the girl wot I told
you was gonner bring joy inter the surge’s
'eart. I’ve seen ’er. She’s stayin’ at the
town pub. She writ to the sarge and ’e’s
goin’ to see ’er tonight.”
Snowy spat delicately on the toe of
each boot and polished them on the back
of his trouser legs. “Y’ know,” he said,
“this boot polishin’s a big mistake. S’pose
a bloke goes into action, wot ’appens?
A sniper sees the shine of ’is boots an’
’e cops one. The trouble with this army’s
they don’t think o’ things.”
“Listen, Snowy,” I said, “you don’t
mean to tell me that you’ve got that
woman down here?”
Snowy grinned. “O’ course she’s ’ere,”
he said. “She’s got it all settled to meet
the sarge in an hour’s time, an’ we’re
goin’ to pay ’em a little surprise visit.”
“Maybe,” I said, “this army isn’t giving
me enough mental exercise. I’m having a
little trouble to follow the conversation.”
“The trouble with you,” said Snowy,
“is intelligence. And I ain’t got no time
to waste; I gotter ’ave a talk with young
Osborne.”
Before I could stop him he was moving
towards the steps of the hut where
Private Osborne was sitting. There was
nothing else for it, so I followed.
“ ’Ow’s the wife these days?” he asked.
Private Osborne spent ten minutes tell-
ing him that she was fine. As he finished
Snowy gave a sigh. “I wish I’d got
married,” he said sadly. “I’m an’ orphan
an’ I got no one to care for me. I once
’ad a girl too. Bessie was ’er name. Wot’s
your wife’s name?”
“Epzibah,” said Private Osborne.
The confidences were beginning to get
on my nerves. I was thinking of the sarge
and Emily. “Listen, Snowy,” I said,
“wasn’t there something important we ’ad
to do tonight?”
Snowy rubbed a hand across his chin.
“Yeah,” he said, “I s’spose we’d better
get goin’ if we’re gonner ’ave a couple of
drinks first.”
“ ’Arf y’r luck,” said Private Osborne.
“I’d be with you only the sarge has got
me confined to barracks.”
I WAS still trying to discover Snowy’s
I plans for the sarge, but apparently
he had decided to keep them to him-
self. He was still keeping them to himself
even after half a dozen beers. I felt
much better, but I had an idea that
another half-dozen were necessary before
I faced up to the prospect of the sarge.
Snowy put an end to that. “It’s about
time we were moving,” he said. “Emily’s
stayin’ at the Royal.”
Ten minutes later we were at the
Royal. Snowy went up the stairs
to the first floor and I followed
him, with my knees beginning to
feel very weak. We got to the room
and Snowy knocked on the door. A
feminine voice told him to come in.
Snowy opened the door and the first thing
we saw was the sarge. Snowy blinked,
passed a hand over his eyes and stepped
into the room. I took a look at Emily.
She was standing looking at Snowy in
much the same way as he was looking at
her. The sarge cleared his throat, but be-
fore he could speak Snowy got to work.
There was almost a touch of horror in
his voice as he began.
“Mrs. Osborne,” he said, “for the sake
of your husband I demand to know wot
is the meanin’ of me findin’ a man in
your room.”
I took a look at the sarge. At the
sound of the “Mrs.” his mouth had shut
like a trap, and already he was beginning
to go white in the face. Then 1 took a
look at the woman. As soon as Snowy
had started she had bowed her head.
Snowy went on relentlessly. “I dunno
wot I’m gonner tell your poor husband.
All day ’e talks about you and ’alf the
night. It’s gonner break ’is ’eart.”
The woman found her voice. “How
did you know I was here?” she said.
“I thought I seen you a bit earlier
cornin’ in to this ’otel an’ I made in-
quiries,” said Snowy. “I thought I’d
give you a surprise and we could ’ave a
nice long talk about your ’usband.”
The sarge found his voice, but it was
a different kind of one to the one he
usually used. “Listen,” he said, “I didn’t
know she was married.”
Snowy looked him up and down. “I’ve
’card that tale before,” he said. “1 dunno
wot Bert’s gonner do when I tell ’im. I’ll
probably ’ave a job to stop ’im from
shootin’ y’.”
The way the sarge was looking was
making me feel better.
“You can see the reason. Snowy” I
said, “why Bert was confined to bar-
racks.”
“Yeah,” said Snowy, “there’s a story
like that in the Bible.”
The sarge was begin-
ning to look sicker
and sicker. “Listen,”
he said, “it’s all a
mistake. It’s all per-
fectly innocent.”
Snowy looked at me. “if I wasn’t so
sad for Bert’s sake,” he said, “it’d make
me laugh.”
As he said that the woman began to
sob. She pulled out a handkerchief,
buried her nose in it and started to *hrow
her shoulders around.
“This,” said Snowy, “is gonner bring
untold sufferin’ to your ’usband. I
wouldn’t be surprised if he didn’t want t’
shoot both of youse. He’s ’ad a lot of
sufferin’ in the army lately and ’is mind
is likely to come unhinged.”
The sarge was very pale by this time.
“Listen,” he said, “there isn’t any sense
in makin’ trouble. Why don’t you just
forget it? You wouldn’t want to make
Bert unhappy, would you?”
“It’s a sacred duty,” said Snowy. “Of
course,” he added, “it might ’a’ been
diff’rent if you’d been decent to us like
some sergeants, but for you I ain’t got
no feelin’.”
The sarge winced. “Maybe,” he said,
“it’s because I didn’t understand you. As
a matter of fact I was thinking along
those very lines today, wondering
whether I wasn’t a bit too hard.”
‘"Blokes,” said Snowy, “can go to
other sergeants and borrow a few bob
when they’re broke.”
The sarge swallowed hard, and I
watched him come to the big decision.
“The trouble,” he said, “is that none of
you coves ever come to me.” He pulled
a wallet from his pocket. “Look,” he
said, “if you need a few bob just say so,”
I watched Snowy lick his lips. “As a
matter of fact,” he said, “at the present
moment I’m in a bit of bother and I could
do with a fiver pretty urgent.”
Once again the sarge winced, then very
slowly he counted out five one-pound
notes. “There you are, Snowy,” he said,
“and if you need any more just let me
know.”
“Y’ know,” said Snowy, “Tm beginning
to wonder whether I oughter bring un-
happiness into Bert’s life.” He paused.
“I’ll tell you wot I’ll do. I’ll think it
over; and now you’d better go because
I’m goin’ to ’ave a serious talk with Mrs.
Osborne arid show her the error of her
ways.”
“Sure,” said the sarge, and he was
through the door in about two ticks.
The next moment Snowy was holding
his sides. At the end of five minutes his
mirth subsided sufficiently for him to in-
troduce me to the woman. “It’s Emily
Redstone,” he said. “Didn’t she do a
beautiful job?”
“Snowy,” I said, “you’re a genius.”
Snowy grinped. “That’s where you’re
wrong,” he said. “Geniuses don’t have
no money, but I’ve got five beautiful
quids and the sarge has given us the office
to bite him whenever we like. Ain’t it
beautiful?”
AS a matter of fact, it was the
beginning of a new life. Snowy
regularly came on parade with his tunic
open at the throat, and when any easy
jobs were going the sarge saw to it that
we got them. Even Private Osborne was
coming in for his share of the good
things. Snowy’s idea was that the sarge
was trying to soften him up in case we
ever told him about his “wife.” As
Private Osborne said on one occasion,
“I can’t understand the sarge. He’s
changed all at once.”
“Some blokes are like that,” said
Snowy. “They get a down on y’ for a
while an’ then they get sorry an’ try to
make up for it.”
“It beats me,” said Private Osborne.
But all good things come to an end. I
was sitting on the steps of the hut one
day when I saw the end in view. My mouth
went dry and I had a funny feeling in
my stomach. Snowy was inside the hut
and in about two seconds I was with him.
“Listen, Snowy,” I said, “will you break
my leg for me?”
Snowy opened his eyes and blinked.
“What for?” he asked.
I licked my lips. “Snowy,” I said,
“do you realise that this is the day they
let visitors into the camp?”
Snowy nodded.
“Do you remember the picture Osborne
once showed us of his wife?”
Snowy nodded again.
“All right,” I said, “the original of that
photo, has just come in the gates and is
talking to two people. Guess who they
are?”
Snowy gave a groan. “Something
seems to tell me,” he said, with anguish
in his eyes, “that we wouldn’t even be
safe In hospital.”
SYRIAN AFTERNOON
By G. J. WATSON.
OFFICIALLY, we were on road
reconnaissance. Actually, we were
having a pretty good time. The
bikes were running well, the roads
were uniformly good, and we liked the
warm Syrian weather. The armistice had
been signed a month before, and life had
slowed down to a nice quiet tempo.
There were three of us. We sat on
the bikes just off the side of the road
where it came out from a narrow defile
and sloped away down to the coast road,
It was fairly late in the afternoon, and
the sun had thrown a thin pathway of
red fire across the blue of the Mediter-
ranean in a way we hadn’t seen before,
and we had stopped to watch it and
talk for a while before heading back for
camp. It was the last time we’d ever
be able to talk to Happy, but we didn’t
know it then.
After a while Happy started up and
led the way down. We followed at inter-
vals of about a hundred yards, hitting the
coast road a few minutes after five
o’clock. Where we joined it, the road
goes straight for about a hundred yards,
then curves out to get around a narrow
headland. It’s right over the sea there,
and there is only a flimsy fence to stop
you going over. In parts, even this is
missing. In front of Happy, travelling at
just about the same speed, was a Wog
truck loaded up with the kind of stones
these people break up with infinite
patience and transform into roads.
The truck turned the headland about
fifty yards ahead of Happy, travelling
on the centre of the road. Happy dis-
appeared after it, and I came round the
turn just as he was honking his horn to
get it to move over so that he could
pass. It’s right-hand traffic in the M.E.,
but the native sons have a strange per-
versity in matters of that kind, and are
never consistent. The truck moved to the
right and then moved back to the left just
as Happy came level. He didn’t have a
chance. The mudguard took him, and
both he and the bike went crashing down
on to the sharp rocks. The truck went
on, travelling a lot faster.
Scoot had come round the corner just
in time to see it all. He came up with
me, and together we chased the truck,
I took a look at Scoot’s face and won-
dered if mine wore the same expression,
I think it must have. Scoot had drawn
his revolver, and, as we came within
range of the truck, he let go at the rear
tyres. The truck had gained a straight
stretch of road running between orange
groves and banana plantations. It
skidded, pulling up beside the centre of
a plantation.
Scoot had emptied his revolver, but
he took mine and motioned to the two in
the cabin to get out. They were Lebanese,
fairly dark, unshaven, dressed in dirty
grey, with the greasy skin of a people
who garnish everything with olive oil.
The elder of the two had a black, strag-
gling moustache which he played with
nervously as they got out and stood in
front of us. Scoot didn’t say anything,
He and Happy had been friends before
they joined up, and I guessed how he
must have felt about them. He just held
the revolver steady and looked at them,
The man with the moustache said, halt-
ingly, with quick glances at his com-
panion: “It was ... accident, Monsieur.
The road ... very difficult back there,
The truck... it is very old truck, Mon-
sieur ; not easy to handle” He
stopped, because Scoot was still looking
at him and didn’t really hear a word that
he said. He held the gun there and
moved forward just a little, and they
backed toward the banana plantation,
The fence pulled them up. Scoot
motioned to them to get through,
I don’t think either of us was normal
just then. If I had been in my normal
senses 1 don’t think I would have simply
stood, leaning a little on the mudguard,
staring after the three figures moving in
among the wide green leaves of the plan-
tation. If I had been normal I would
have moved when I heard the two shots
and not just gone on staring. Scoot
came back to the road like a man only
half-awake, and we started up the bikes,
\\/E managed to get down to where
VV Happy was lying. Somehow—the
memory of it still hurts—we got him
back to camp and took him to the R.A.P.
They laid him on a stretcher, and the
M.O. looked at him and looked at us,
and the orderly drew the blanket up over
his face.
We didn’t feel like eating. Scoot had
a tin of coffee-and-milk, and wc lit a
fire and had a mug each. We rubbed
the mosquito cream into our faces and
arms without saying anything, and
changed from our shorts to khaki longs,
Scoot looked at Happy’s bed-roll once,
but looked away quickly. We sat on
Scoot’s bed under the old knotted olive-
tree that had sheltered the three of us
and smoked. I remembered, suddenly,
that it was Happy’s turn to buy the beer
that night, but we didn’t feel like beer.
We felt that we just wanted to sit there
and think about things we didn’t usually
think about. Just before we went to bed
I lit another cigarette and threw the old
one away.
“They ran him off the road deliber-
ately,” I said,
“I know,” said Scoot,
A full moon had come up out of the
sea. I turned the other way so that it
wouldn’t keep me awake. The camp was
very quiet, and the only sound was the
rustling of the small purple olives that
dropped on to our mosquito nets and
ran off into the short, dry grass.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63. —No. 3250.
Wednesday, May 27, 1942.
"TIME, GENTLEMEN, PLEASE!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
RUSSIA OR AUSTRALIA?
Mr. Attlee, the Deputy-deputy-deputy-
Prime Minister, was put up to open a
debate on the war situation, and Sir
Stafford Cripps replied for the Govern-
ment. Mr. Churchill was not present.
Sustained by a popular idolatry which
seems to increase after every lost cam-
paign, he evidently feels that he can
ignore the House of Commons. And,
judging by an exuberant remark of Sir
Stafford Cripps (“Britain intends to in-
vade the Continent as soon as possible”),
he has surrendered to a popular demand,
worked up by Communists and their
dupes, which he resisted for many
months. Invasion of the Continent at
the worst possible time for the Royal
Navy and the Merchant Navy, and
planned by the Man of Antwerp, Gal-
lipoli, Second Libya, Greece, Crete,
Malaya, Singapore and Burma! God
help us all!
In a speech broadcast on May 11 Mr.
Churchill gave only a few sentences to
the war in the Pacific —as an after-
thought, as it were —and said nothing to
show that he is at all conscious of the
peril that hangs over this country. Aus-
tralia, indeed, he dismissed in a few words,
charged with that easy optimism of which
Australians have had more than enough:
In the Coral Sea... .a most vigorous and
successful battle has been fought by the
Australian and American forces. The
Japanese cannot be indifferent to the
’plane losses inflicted on them at so many
points, particularly off the northern coasts
of Australia.
I am not one to make predictions [“all
German ships in the Skagerrak and Kattegat
will be sunk”], but I do not doubt that
Anglo-American sea-power will grip and
hold the Japanese, and that overwhelming
air power, supported by covering military
operations, will lay them low.
Mr. Attlee showed more concern for the
Commonwealth. He, too, expressed the
opinion, which is not widely shared in
Australia or the U.S.A., that the Coral
Sea fight “inflicted a severe check on the
Japanese,” but he allowed that “the
threat to Australia remains,” and inti-
mated that Australia has his Govern-
ment’s sympathy:
We have the utmost sympathy with the
people of Australia, who are now facing
the possibility of invasion. Our natural
impulse is to send every possible help to
Australia. These are our own people, and
we are ready, when the need arises, to run
any risks in other areas for the defence
of Australia.
“When the need arises”! For Australians
to whom Australia as a British Com-
monwealth stands for everything they
hold dear, the need arose months ago. It
arose during those weeks of February
and March —how dreadful, yet how few!
—in which the enemy in the Pacific,
already possessed of Borneo, New
Britain, Malaya and most of the Philip-
pines, captured Celebes, Sumatra, the
Moluccas, Timor, Singapore, Bali, Lom-
bok, Java and parts of New Guinea and
Burma, with all their tremendous re-
sources—save those which dynamite and
the firestick had temporarily denied them
in the process making an end of several
armies (among them 22,000 Australian
soldiers), destroying a powerful squad-
ron of Allied warships (among them
H.M.A.S. Perth and Yarra) and many
Allied ’planes and merchantmen, and
meanwhile bringing the havoc of war to
Darwin, Wyndham and Broome. “When
the need arises”! Will it take actual in-
vasion of this continent to compel the
Deputy-deputy-deputy-Prime Minister to
recognise the need?
In effect, Mr. Attlee gave no uncondi-
V° nal P rom jse of British aid to Australia.
Everyone,’ he pleaded, “realises the
immense strain that the mercantile
marine has been under in recent
months (the realisation doesn’t worry
the Russia-Firsters, with whom are
incorporated the Second-Fronters), “and
with the best will in the world we
cannot get all the forces we want to
the places we desire in the time we wish.”
lhat is true, though awkwardly ex-
pressed, and no Australian worthy of the
name wants to see any unnecessary
weight added to the burdens which the
Merchant Navy, in common with the
Royal Navy and the R.A.N., has been
carrying since September 3, 1939, with
frightful losses of men and ships. But
“we,” it seems, can get “all the forces
that we want to the places we desire”
when the places are Russian:
We are keeping up to programme in sup-
plies to Russia, despite seasonal difficulties
and great risks on the supply route to Mur-
mansk. We will continue to do our utmost
to supply Russia.
So there is an unconditional promise of
aid to Russia, which was out of the Ger-
man war to June 22, 1941, and has been
out of the war in the Pacific since
December 7, 1941, but no unconditional
promise of aid to Australia, which has
been in both wars from the beginning.
Speaking at Bristol two days before
Mr. Attlee, Sir Stafford Cripps, who may
be called the Deputy-deputy Prime Min-
ister, uttered kind but vague words about
Australia on his own account. The Lord
Privy Seal saw the Australian people
“under great stress in the face of a pos-
sible attempt by the Japanese at inva-
sion” ; but the distant prospect had a
touch of green, “the color of hope”:
We hope that the splendid results of the
battle of the Coral Sea will discourage any
such attempt on the part of the Japanese,
but we must do our utmost to help our
Australian brother-nation for its tre-
mendous work in helping us in many
theatres of war when we were hard pressed.
After these pious and useless observa-
tions, Sir Stafford turned with enthusiasm
to his darling theme —Russia. On Janu-
ary 24 he had certified that Russia had
“9,000,000 men under arms,” and that
the front-line troops were “splendidly
endowed with everything they need”
and those further back “adequately
equipped” ; indeed, Russia was “turning
out more war materials than when Ger-
many invaded the country.” Nevertheless
a call had come to Britain and Britain
had answered it; and this, to Sir Stafford,
was how the position stood on May 17;
Britain has done its utmost, often at
great cost, to help the U.S.S.R. with sup-
plies and armaments, and that help is con-
tinuing in full measure. Nothing we can
do to help Russia can repay the people of
the Soviet for the sacrifice they have made
against our common enemy.
“Our common enemy”? No ; merely
one of our common enemies. This
fact was emphasised at the Air-
training Conference in Canada, to
which 14 United Nations Britain,
the U.S.A., Canada, Australia, Maori-
land, South Africa, Norway, the
Netherlands, China, Poland, Czechoslo-
vakia, Greece, Belgium and Free France
—sent representatives. It was opened by
the Prime Minister of Canada, who
pointedly “regretted the absence of
Russia.” Tokyo Radio had asserted three
days before that the Russians and the
Japanese had settled their long-standing
Manchukuo - Mongolia - frontier dispute
which on at least one occasion led to a
pitched battle. It announced a day after
that the Japanese Government had
approved of The appointment of M.
Malik as Russian Ambassador to Japan.
In the same week it was asserted by the
New York “Daily News” that Russia has
vetoed the delivery of Lease-Lend ’planes
to Siberia by way of Alaska.
Into the atmosphere of dreaming
League pedantry in which British Minis-
ters (or some British Ministers) bask
broke a strong voice from Australia. It
was that of Dr. Evatt, and it was up-
lifted after a day with Mr. Churchill,
during which that gentleman had exer-
cised all his arts on the visitor (who
seems to have been overwhelmed, but
only temporarily) and on a cheering
crowd at Leeds. The Minister for Exter-
nal Affairs had previously spoken with
contempt of the Second Front agitation
as conducted in Britain (in this country
the impudent pretence is that a Second
Front in Western Europe would some-
how “help Australia”), and his speech,
which was addressed to Britons and
broadcast to the Empire, was in substance
a powerful, impassioned and logical state-
ment of the case for a Second Front —
in Australia.
Dr. Evatt has shed illusions since he
has left the Commonwealth. He said he
had been “amazed in many places I have
visited at the ignorance about the
danger confronting us, not only in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, but throughout
the Pacific.” And the danger arose, “not
only from the great strength of Japan,
but from the illusion of distance and from
reluctance to face up to past mistakes:
It is impossible to believe that, if the
danger from Japan had been fully appreci-
ated, so little aid could have been sent
and sent so slowly to crucial points.
Australia, recognising its responsibilities
as a member of the British Common-
wealth of Nations, had “sent consider-
able land, sea and air forces into the
thick of the fighting everywhere.” The
heavy cost Australia had not counted. It
had followed with admiration and grati-
tude the Battle of Britain, knowing that
its own fate and the fate of the other
Dominions were involved, and the debt
then contracted it would never forget.
But what the Battle of Britain meant to
you, the Battle of Australia means to us.
lhat battle has already begun, and although
the position has improved and we have re-
ceiyed vital help from the United States,
still, in the opinion of those on the spot,
certain aid is urgently required to defeat
the enemy.
That enemy had been underrated all
along. Because of his great power,
especially at sea and in the air, he had in
less than five months acquired “a new
empire,” with control of enormous
quantities of tin, iron ore, petroleum and
other war resources. His forward bases
were not now in Japan, but “in Singa-
pore and beyond.” He was in possession
of vital strategic points in and near New
Guinea, “as much the gateway to Aus-
tralia as Calais, Dunkirk and Bologne
were to Britain”:
The danger of a Japanese invasion is
rea J- A move was made by Japanese naval
and air units covering many transports. It
was repulsed, but it is certain to be re-
newed in greater strength.
Need I tell you the terrors and horrors
which must result from a Japanese landing?
Even temporary occupation would be little
short °f death. That is how you felt in
1940; that is how we feel today.
I am not speaking of a country in which
you are faintly and distantly interested, but
of a British Dominion, owing the same
allegiance to the King as you; blood of
your blood, flesh of your flesh. I know
that Britain will see that this evil thing
shall not come to pass.
A fine utterance, and it seems to have
made a deep impression on some Britons.
The same has been said of the Prime
Minister’s speech delivered on the fol-
lowing day at a Royal Empire Society
luncheon in Sydney. It contained excel-
lent passages, but there were others which
may have weakened the effect of Dr.
Evatt’s appeal:
Australia may find itself one day in the
same position as France and Denmark
found themselves —with the war taking place
on its own soil. I have no fear for the
result. We are stronger than we were.
The help we ask for has come to us, and
more is coming. We are getting all that
can be allocated to us, having regard to
the bitter nature of the struggle.
Mr. Curtin was referring to the help
that has come and is coming from the
United States, but this may not be under-
stood in Britain. And there was a refer-
ence to Russia which must have been
read with complacency by Mr. Attlee
and Sir Stafford Cripps:
Russia is Australia’s ally. What comes to
Australia has to be withheld from Russia;
the same applies tq China and the Middle
East. Armies fighting in Russia, China and
the Middle East are fighting for the same
cause as Australia. Australia does not seek
to make itself safe at the risk of some other
part of the United Nations being lost.
This is too chivalrous altogether.
American aid to Australia has been great
and generous. We accept it thankfully,
relying on the good judgment of the
American Government and not question-
ing its right to distribute its support as
it chooses. But Australia stands in a
different relation with Britain. Its claims
on the British Government are greater
than those of Russia, and its peril, if
the enemy invades the continent, will
be infinitely greater.
Russia may be defeated, but cannot be
conquered. Even in defeat it would keep
the Germans—already holding down the
rest of Europe—so occupied that it would
be impossible for them to mount a suc-
cessful invasion of the British Isles ; and
sooner or later Russia’s inexhaustible
man-power would restore the situation.
But a Japanese conquest of 7,000,000
Australians would be a real and horrible
thing. It would almost certainly be fol-
lowed by a swift introduction of Asiatics
—not only Japanese—on so vast a scale
that even if the conquerors, after a hide-
ous war of color, were expelled from the
mainland, White Australia would have be-
come only a memory. And if the conquest
were made good, the white race would
have suffered a disaster comparable to
the taking of Constantinople in 1453.
So, as between Australia and Russia,
Australia should come first. Yet R.A.F.
squadrons have been sent to Russia —
and to China —but not to this country.
It may be assumed that all cargo bound
for Russia in British bottoms, whether
unshipped at an Arctic or a Persian Gulf
port (in the latter case the land and sea
journey takes longer than a voyage to
Australia), consists of war weapons and
war supplies. British merchantmen
have come to Australia loaded with
finery. These things are known and
talked about by people, friendly and un-
friendly, to whom the arguments for this
traffic—which are that Britain must get
the sinews of war and maintain its export
trade against the post-war period—do
not appeal. Some of these people do
not know, and others do not care, what
Britain has done and is doing in the way
of diverting British-bought war weapons
and supplies from the U.S.A. to the Com-
monwealth. All would be impressed by
the return of the Australian airmen serv-
ing in Europe and the sending of even a
token British force.
To Australians and New Zealanders
Japan has become the main enemy, and
a far more terrible enemy than Germany
could ever be. With predominant sea-
and air-power, the Germans could be
contained (and exhausted) in Europe, if
the United Nations in the Pacific and
Britain —to the extent of its capacity to
help— set about the task, which is well
within their compass, of knocking Japan
out of the war. Australia cannot be saved
on the steppes of Russia. It may be lost
irrecoverably, whatever the outcome of
the war in Europe, if, for lack of a con-
centration of superior forces, the Japa-
nese are allowed to consolidate their con-
quests and extend them.
If it is possible for Mr. Churchill and
his Ministers to look beyond Europe
for any length of time they should do so
and, with as much imagination as they can
mobilise, ponder on what has happened,
and what may still happen, in lands
washed by the Pacific and Indian Oceans.
At Dunkirk and in the Blitz, the English
showed the grandest qualities of their
race. They should never let it be written
that they lost their Empire because they
and their rulers ceased to be Empire-
minded.
One Income tax!
Many Australians, after contemplating
the state of the larder, the petrol tank
and the bank balance, while keeping an
ear cocked for the sound of enemy
bombs at the front gate and cursing all
hands and the cook at the conditions
in which they find themselves through
years of overgovernment and excessive
taxation, have been casting menacing eyes
at their State Parliaments. Since the
Premiers are each the head and front of
these deplorable institutions the eyes have
been on them with a concentrated glare.
The gentlemen themselves, when mak-
ing public statements about the war and
the “part my Government is playing,”
doubtless assure themselves that their
messages are received with respect and
sympathy, if not admiration. Nothing
could be further from the truth.
Before the Six went to Canberra to “con-
sider” the uniform-tax proposals, each of
them got rid of a statement. The state-
ments ranged from Mr. Willcock’s lamen-
tation in Perth, “The States never ex-
pected the Commonwealth to develop
into a Frankenstein monster,” to Mr.
Dunstan’s parrot-cry in Melbourne, “At
a time when unity is essential I am sur-
prised that anyone should bring up such
a contentious matter,”
These and similar plaints fell on
unsympathetic ears. The people had
been told by their Prime Minister that a
uniform tax was to be instituted, they
were convinced that it was an urgent
necessity, they expected their Prime Min-
ister to institute it. They regarded the
antics of the Premiers at Melbourne with
a sardonic contempt. When the Premiers
left for home, still mumbling about State
Rights—which taxpayers have learnt to
interpret as meaning State politicians'
jobs the people noted their going,
hoping that no more would be heard
from them on a subject which should
be above brawling controversy, since uni-
form income taxation, removing all the
maddening waste and injustice— amount-
ing in many cases to legalised swindling
—of which taxpayers have hitherto been
the victims, is as necessary to Australia
as it is to Australia’s partners in the
British Commonwealth.
But the people have been hearing from
the Premiers ever since. Seeing in uni-
form income taxation a grim threat to
their useless positions and Parliaments,
the Premiers are denouncing it in the
paltriest provincial spirit and invoking
the support of all provincialists in what
they are pleased to call their “fight.”
Leadership of this ignoble agitation is
disputed by Mr. Forgan Smith (Queens-
land, Labor) and Mr. Dunstan (Country
party, Victoria). Mr. Forgan Smith, who
came from the United Kingdom, which
has had one income tax ever since
income tax was invented, has had the
face to declare that “1 know of no uni-
form taxation in any country in the
world.” Mr. Dunstan threatens the Com-
monwealth Government with a lawsuit to
prevent it doing what the people desire
and what the situation requires. The
threat is dangerous only to Mr. Dunstan.
The last Premier to involve the Common-
wealth in a lawsuit was Mr. Lang. Fie
lost it, and was himself lost soon after.
Various forms of provincial pressure
have been brought to bear on Common-
wealth members who, it is supposed, may
be “influenced” into voting against the
uniform-tax measures. A U.C.P. organi-
sation gun was pointed at Mr. Wilson of
Wimmera. The president and secretary of
the Q.C.E. turned up at Canberra to
remind Queensland Labor members, by
their presence if nothing else, that their
nominations could be refused. And it
was conveyed to Mr. Curtin that 60 mem-
bers of the Westralian Parliament, who


do nothing in particular and do it indif-
ferently well —for £6OO a year, with a lot
more for Ministers and officers of both
Houses, and free travelling for everyone
—had declared against uniform taxation,
and that opposition to it had been
worked up in his own electorate of Fre-
mantle.
To all threats and manoeuvres the
Prime Minister gave a reply that was
worthy of the John Curtin (not the Idsser
John Curtin) whom everyone admires.
He announced that the Government
would stand or fall by the uniform-tax
measures, holding them to be “vital.
This does not mean —or should not mean
—that the Government will resist reason-
able amendments designed to make in-
come tax simple, intelligible and equit-
able, But it means that a great and essen-
tial reform will be effected for the nation
unless weakness or treachery dominated
by provincialism prevails over the
national interest.
PLAIN ENGLISH
"State War Effort."
City people have heard a lot about it,
especially from Mr. McKnell. Dubbo
Assembly electors heard a lot more about
it from Mr. McKnell when he “opened
the campaign for the Labor candidate,”
and they are hearing a great deal more
from a large number of N.S.W. Labor
politicians who have invaded the elec-
torate, and whose individual war efforts,
if any, don’t seem to occupy much of
their time. But it is at meetings of shire
and municipal councils that really inti-
mate knowledge of the “State war effort”
is being gained.
There are 158 municipalities, 139 shires
and eight county councils in Mr.
McKnell’s State. Terania Shire, far up
the north coast, is a fair example. At
a recent meeting the clerk, reading at
“90 words a minute,” took an hour and
a quarter to go through circulars and
letters received in a fortnight from State
“war organisations” and departments;
and he confessed to leaving out a “lot
of detail.”
It was too much for one councillor:
Some protest should be made to the
Federal Government about the way the
State Government is butting into the war
organisation. It is sending out reams and
reams of circulars and following them up
by visits from “experts” in one thing and
another, alarming people. We have just
settled dowrf after the cattle evacuation
scare and now they’re bringing “scorched
earth” among us.
Acidly remarking that the only person
likely to suffer from “scorched earth”
would be the scorcher, the council agreed
to send a protest to the P.M., and “not
to take a census for evacuation purposes
as desired by the Department of Labor
and Industry and Social Services.”
It is safe to assume that everyone of
the other 304 local governing bodies in
McKnell’s State got a copy of the
“reams and reams of circulars” and will,
in time, suffer the attentions of the
“experts.” The mind reels before the
problem of trying to work out what all
this costs in paper, salaries, postage and
time. What it achieves is no problem,
since the common fate of the lot is to
be “received” by the councils concerned.
But it does prove that Mr. McKnell’s
Government is sparing nothing, from
tax-money to shire clerks’ time, to
“implement” the “State war effort” as
the McKnell conceives it. Terania's
experience is a perfect commentary on his
boast that “there is nothing that the
Commonwealth has asked this State to
do that it has not done —and done effi-
ciently and speedily.”
"They're Racing!"
From “Suffolk Punch”:
Mr. John Wren has always been interested in
fighting men—he tried to become one himself
in the last war —and his gift of £lOOO to those
fine lads Truscott and Finucane was only one
of many such examples of an agreeable form of
patronage. It may be a source of regret to ex-
Private Wren that racecourses in which he is
or was interested, benevolently or otherwise,
have been pronounced unsuitable for the
accommodation of fighting men. While more
famous and better-appointed courses have been
taken over, and leading amateur clubs have
perforce cut or abandoned programmes, “they’re
racing” still at Albion Park (Brisbane), Good-
wood and Belmont Park (Perth) and Ascot
(Melbourne).
Mr. Wren’s passion for racing is shared by
Mr. Conelan, one of the Queensland Labor
Ms.H.R., but not by Mr. Playford, the South
Australian Premier. Mr. Playford put all
forms of racing under a State ban. Appalled
at the effects on the sport and industry, Mr.
Conelan made a special trip to Adelaide to
reason with Mr. Playford, but found that stub-
born Old Digger immovable.
Devoted as he is to the sport and industry,
it must be a source of satisfaction to Mr.
Conelan, as well as Mr. Wren (though in his
case perhaps tempered with regret), that the
importance of Ascot (Melbourne) has been recog-
nised. On long, long summer afternoons Ascot
(Melbourne) was permitted to stage races for
trotters and pacers after the gallopers had
done their stuff on a neighboring course. As
it happened, this interesting experiment was a
failure, punters who followed the gallopers
being too dejected after the defeat of their
fancies to round off the day at the trots. Then
Ascot (Melbourne) hit upon the bright notion
of packing two programmes for gallopers into
one. The V.R.C., which has hitherto been
supposed to control racing in Victoria, sub-
ject to State Ministerial veto (Mr. Bailey is the
Minister), frowned on this innovation; never-
theless, the record shows that “15 races were
crammed between 1 p.m. and 5.55 p.m. at
Ascot on Saturday, March 21, and the tote
officials handled £34,588 —an all-time record
for the course.”
It became necessary to determine the racing
calendar for the twelvemonth beginning on
August 1. The V.R.C. committee, as it has
announced, “submitted a proposal which, in
its opinion, did justice to the various clubs
and patriotic funds and at the same time paid
proper regard to the claims of compensation,
charity and benevolent funds.” This was re-
jected in favor of a proposal submitted by Ascot
(Melbourne). In the result “the Ascot proprie-
tary course,” which “has the poorest facilities,
from tire public point of view, of any of the
metropolitan courses” (“Age”), and is a
stamping-ground for an inferior class of horses,
is to have as many dates (10) as were granted to
the V.R.C. (Derby, Melbourne Cup, Maribyr-
nong Plate, Cantata Stakes, Newmarket, Aus-
tralian Cup, St. Leger, and so on); but since
the first Tuesday in November will not be a
holiday Ascot (Melbourne) will have one Satur-
day more than the V.R.C. And it will have
one more than the V.A.T.C. (Caulfield Guineas,
Caulfield Cup, Oakleigh Plate, Futurity Stakes,
and so on), two more than Moonee Valley, five
more than Williamstown, seven more than Men-
tone and seven more than Epsom. This will
mean, among other things, a loss of tax-revenue,
for many people who go to Flemington
wouldn’t be seen dead at Ascot.
Supporters of the amateur clubs are furious,
and the discussion has taken a bitter ornitho-
logical turn. But it is one-sided. Ascot (Mel-
bourne) and its friends and admirers realise
that in these cases
The noblest answer unto such
Is perfect silence when they bawl.
The lines are from Tennyson, who wrote so
charmingly about wrens.
The American Way.
Last December Congress passed an Act
to “protect the national defence and in-
ternal security of the United States.” It
required persons (“including but not
limited to the Communist party of the
U.S., the German-American Bund and
the Kyffhauserbund”) engaging in propa-
ganda or other activities for foreign
Governments or foreign political parties
to file detailed statements of ownership,
purposes, finances and employees with
the U.S. Attorney-General.
This was done at the instance of the
Dies Committee, which has lately been
active in getting undesirables removed
from war jobs. Recommending the
measure to the House, Mr. Dies men-
tioned that in Philadelphia, when C.P.
records were seized, it was found that
many citizens were listed in the private
records of the party as “fellow-trave -
lers” who could be depended on to co-
operate with the organisation: ■
We discovered that every officer in the
League of Worsen Shoppers was a secre
member of the Communist party.
Rowdy persons who so recently de-
nounced the national register, compulsoty
training, conscription and participation
in “the imperialist war,” and who now
whoop for a Second Front in Europe to
help Australia,” must be glad there is no
Martin Dies in Australia.
A One-man Rebellion.
John Anderson, fruitgrower, of Orange
(N.S.W.), was born too late. In another
age he may have attained a place in his-
tory equal to that awarded to Hampden
or Peter Lalor. All the same, a country
like Australia, with its multitude of Par-
liaments, departments, boards, commis-
sions, rules, regulations and officials,
should cherish John Anderson.
John Anderson refused to register as
a fruitgrower with the Apple and Pear
Board. He was fined £lO. He refused
to pay, and went to gaol.
But rebels, like ordinary people, suffer
from the ministrations of their friends.
A friend turned up and paid the fine.
The police, perforce, had to accept the
money and order the rebel to leave their
gaol. He did so, under protest:
I am ruined socially. Fruitgrowers whom
I advised not to pay fines for failure to
register will now believe I wasn’t game to
stay in prison. I was determined to do so
because of my principles. I maintain that
the Government has no right to take my
fruit.
But John Anderson was born too late.
His countrymen have become so inured
to government by regulation, so inured
to the taking of powers over their liber-
ties by little bosses set up by Parliaments
that won’t, or can’t, do their own work,
that John Anderson, instead of being a
flame to burn away shackles, is merely
a bit of a crank. Yet but for one thing
his rebellion had succeeded.
Ironically enough, that one thing was
part and parcel of the system John
Anderson objected to. An order for the
suspension of the warrant against him
reached Orange from the Federal
Attorney-General’s Department a half-
hour after his arrest. The police could
not suspend it, because John Anderson
was arrested under State law.
“You would be surprised,” said the
British Minister for Labor recently “at
the capabilities of a man of 72.” John
Anderson is 72. Yes, his overregulated,
overgoverned country should cherish him.
THE NEW RECRUIT.
“Charlie Chaplin is the latest to demand the opening of a Second Front in Europe."
“Reporting for duty, sir!”


QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
■■III
imiBIEHSHS
I
B
#*s
-A
SC
ta
£
Manager W. G. Bulfin
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
“Every Winter had
Terrible Colds”
Nurse's Grateful Letter
“I want to thank you for the wonderful
cough and cold medicine, BUCKLEY’S
CANADIOL Mixture. I bought the first
bottle last winter, for the old gentle-
man whom I am taking care of, for he
has had terrible colds every winter.
The first dose helped, and after the
third dose cold was gone—it does such
quick work.” Mrs. C. Davis.
Don’t take chances. For even the most
stubborn, racking cough swiftly yields
to the powerful influence of BUCKLEY’S
CANADIOL (triple acting), the largest-
selling medicine for coughs, colds and
bronchitis in blizzardly cold Canada.
Get a bottle at any chemist or store.
POLITICAL POINTS
Dunslan is still offering to “co-operate
with other State Governments in taking
the Federal Government to law over the
uniform tax.” With a by-election on
the notice-paper, Mr. McKell is not en-
thusiastic, nor does the prospect appeal
to other Premiers. Dunstan won’t
like going to law on his own.
Maoriland Returned Soldiers’ Associa-
tion is urging a National War Cabinet,
to include in its personnel men from
outside Parliament. Prime Minister
Fraser sees a lot in the idea, Opposition
Leader Holland doesn’t. Mr. Fraser’s
eyesight is the better in this matter ; but
what sort of a reception would the same
idea get in Canberra?
Wheat is still a Federal headache. The
Government’s decision to pay 3s. 6.1 d.
a bushel, on the ground that it guaran-
teed to pay 3s. lOd. for 140,000,000
bushels whereas 153,000,000 bushels were
stripped and the price was therefore
spread, doesn’t please some growers.
Their view, distressingly logical, is
that the Government, having guaran-
teed 3s. lOd. for 140,000,000 bushels,
should pay 3s. lOd. for 140,000,000, leav-
ing the extra 13,000,000 to wait a market.
Meantime, Commerce Minister Scully is
dabbling with a plan to pay 4s. a bushel
for the first 3000 bushels of every
grower’s crop next year. This has been
hailed with joyful noises in some parts
of Australia and with deafening protests
in others, particularly Westralia.
Poetical justice! In the depression the
unemployed citizen, when asked what he
was doing, could answer only “I’m on
the dole.” That was the sorry expedient
of State Premiers. As soon as the Com-
monwealth uniform-tax plan gets going,
State Premiers will be able to answer
questioners with “I’m on the dole.”
“Lord Beaverbrook,” remarks an
admiring pressman, “although out of the
Cabinet, is still a potent force in British
politics.” How? By virtue of his news-
papers, “Express” and “Evening Stand-
ard.” “Express” is where the “famous”
John Gordon roosts, a garrulous bird
who croaks “Second front, second front”
with the monotonous idiocy of Long
John Silver’s bird and its “pieces of
eight.”
William Munday, who has done the
Burma campaign—very ably—for “S. M.
Herald,” has been allowed to write what
the dogs have been barking for months:
Two Australian divisions embarked from
the Middle East in a plan to save Burma.
They never reached Rangoon, being diverted
to Australia at the request of the Federal
Government.
It wifi probably be Curtin’s fate to be
undone by some of his colleagues. But
for that “diversion” this generation
should never forget him. A seat in Par-
liament should be his for the rest of his
working life.
Possibly released from arduous war
duties, a swarm of N.S.W. Labor mem-
bers, the least of whom gets £875 p.a.
and a railway pass, has descended on
Dubbo for the Assembly by-election. It
is reckoned that, as a wounded Digger
with a heart of gold, the late George
Wilson polled a personal vote which
neither ex-Minister Yeo nor ex-
Minister Thorby (now “non-party”) can
hope to get. Be that as it may, Wilson led
the field of three last May in Cumnock,
Narromine, Wellington and Wongarbon,
coming second only in the Dubbo sub-
division. At the Federal election Thorby
led the field of six in Cumnock, Wongar-
bon and Wellington, subdivisions of
Calare, though Labor member Clark was
ahead in Dubbo and Narromine, sub-
divisions of Darling. And country people
have had many disappointments since the
stampede to the McKnells.
The Dubbo by-election should give the
locals a great chance to gather up all
the State politicians who invade the dis-
trict, put them in a truck and give them
a ride over the Sandy Hollow-Maryvale
railway, the electorate’s monument to the
waste and futility of State politics.
Dr. Evatt’s election-campaign enthusi-
asm for the British P.M., expressed in
references to his leader as an Australian
Churchill, evaporated rapidly after Dec.
7, but personal communion seems to
have revived it —briefly. Anyway a
London correspondent testifies that “Mr.
Churchill gets on extraordinarily well
with Dr. Evatt,” and “showed the greatest
consideration towards the envoy on their
“Australia is back in the Empire, after an emotional spree of pro-Americanism."
—The latest from Mr. Harsch. of the “Christian Science Monitor."
"Come now, doctor; give mummy a big kiss and say you're sorry."
visit to Leeds.” But “officialdom” did
not.
Officialdom ignored Dr. Evatt’s presence
until inferentially rebuked by Mr. Churchill.
... .Mr. Churchill gave a lesson to officials
responsible for arranging the tour. He has
the magic touch with crowds. He is a show-
man par excellence.
Showman, . statesman, strategist (of a
kind) and what every writing boy wants
to be.
Sydney’s McKnell, who is so fond of
publishing weekly articles on the way to
run the war, can’t even clear up confusion
in the pub trade. Some people obviously
believe that they have the right to a
drink, or to serve a drink, after hours,
declaring indeed that instructions permit-
ting after-hours trading in certain parts
were issued. McKnell denies it. Mean-
while, after-hours drinking goes on.
Canada has ordered all males between
16 and 70, “not now usefully employed
on war work,” to register, Canadians
have no Ward, so it is likely that the order
will be obeyed. Ward has forgotten to
remember the 100,000 persons who failed
to weigh in with his register cards and
the '‘heavy penalties” he threatened to
enforce.
McKnell told Dubbo electors that his
Government intended to introduce im-
mediately a “graduated land tax” to force
subdivision of large estates. That is what
the Commonwealth land tax was for.
McKnell must have meant his statement
for Dubbo electors who are without land.
Ward blotted his copybook again last
week ; but perhaps the idea is that there
are so many blots on it already that more
don’t matter. Tackled over the placing
of a unionist lady on the Women’s Em-
ployment Board as “a special represen-
tative” of the wagepayers, Ward pulled
a document out of his pocket and started
reading it. It turned out to be a minute
prepared for the Menzies Cabinet by
Holt, then a Minister. This isn’t done,
even in Australian Parliaments, and the
Opposition didn’t let up until Curtin said
“I regret the unfortunate episode.” He
will have more regrets to utter until he
gets rid of Ward.
The outcry about wharf thefts at Syd-
ney led to Comrade Healy wagging his
tongue again. It was suggested that pilla-
gers should be expelled from the wharves,
but Comrade Healy protested:
Pillaging is a civil crime, for which
society exacts a penalty The union does
not condone pillaging and refuses to accept
any blame for complicity, but in no circum-
stances would it be a party to punishing
a man twice by taking away his means of
livelihood [i.e., barring him from the union]
after the law has punished him.
Who is Comrade Healy? General secre-
tary of the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion, and a hero to Reds and Pinks.
Challenges and insults were exchanged
last week by Falstein and Calwell,
Ms.H.R., and Penton, editor of the Syd-
ney “D.T.” Penton, it seems, has been
invited to lecture in the U.S.A., and this
prompted the two members to attack him
in a series of questions, to which he
replied furiously. Whether a man of
37 should be allowed to leave when the
country is in danger and whether a
“D.T ” man should be authorised to put
the case for Australia in the U.S.A. are
arguable matters. What is certain is that
the Commonwealth Parliament lowers
itself to the level of the N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly when it permits members to
traduce private citizens under cover of
privilege.
Sydney’s Leg. Council made a wreck
of the McKnell workers’ compensation
measure, the one in which, as “S. M.
Herald” puts it, free insurance was pro-
vided for unionists going to and coming
home from work. The McKnells mutter
that a Time Will Come: So it will —for
both their Houses.
Conferences at Canberra—one with
union leaders, another with raineowners
and a third with both—form the latest
substitute for Ministerial action on the
still-disturbed N.S.W. coalmining front.
The union leaders want “an inquiry into
the industry,” mentioning nine (9) points,
and they have produced “a detailed plan
to increase production.” The “plan” has
twenty-two (22) “details.”
Jewish professors, writing boys and
politicians—nowadays they all seem to
be Second-Fronters or Russia-Firsters or
both. Latest among the Second-Fronters
is Shinwell, M.P. for the Seaham divi-
sion of Durham, and perhaps the
smartest Labor politician of his race. It
may be charitably supposed that it is
because the race has always stuck to the
land that these clever gentlemen fail to
realise what sea-power has meant to Eng-
land all its days and what it means to
the Empire now. But, as an authority on
shipping from the marine workers’ point
of view, Shinwell should know how seri-
ous the shipping position is and how im-
possible it would be to land a great army
on a hostile coast without assurance of
ports and port facilities in going order.
“Day after day, night after night, week
after week, the war-worker must stick to
his job.” Thus a Sydney paper, calling
for the same Sunday and after-hours’
drinking privileges for the war-worker as
are proposed to be given the fighting man
on leave. Nobody seems to consider the
poor old civilian who works long hours
because his staff has been depleted by en-
listments and call-ups and drafting of
men —and women —to munition factories.
There are thousands of ordinary blokes
doing this without concessions of any
kind, and many of them, after their long
hours, take on voluntary and thankless
A.R.P. duties. Nobody denies the im-
portance of the war-worker, but the other
fellow carrying on in the background is
worthy of notice, too.
The Sydney Premier has been recalling
a time when, as Minister for Justice, he
appeared in a four-round boxing contest
in aid of charity. He wore magenta
trunks in the ring, and claims that this,
rather than the fact of a Minister box-
ing, shocked the then Speaker, Dan Levy.
Nothing the Premier can do now shocks
anybody, the public being bored with
him, not as an individual but as the
leader of an unwanted and costly poli-
tical fungus miscalled the State Parlia-
ment.
Mr. F. Ehrenfried Baume has been
enlightening the Britons about Curtin and
his war speeches in a “Fortnightly”
article. In Britain, it seems, the speeches
“have produced a violent political urti-
caria,” and “asperity expressed” there
“must have been welcomed rnit grossem
vergneugen by Dr. Dietrich’s press bureau
in Berlin” —which shows what Ehrenfried
can do when he chooses to be erudite.
The closing paragraph shows that he is
capable of making himself understood by
the common herd:
The Australian Labor party today is in
all respects identical with Australia’s first
Government, the Watson Labor Govern-
ment, which laid the foundations of the
Commonwealth after the federation of the
States.
He is wrong all the way. There was no
federation “of the States,” and in racial
origins and policy—especially military
policy—-Watson’s Government (it was the
third) was utterly unlike the present Labor
party. Nor could it possibly have “laid
the foundations of the Commonwealth”
in 112 days—its whole term of office.


»a
5P
<; .-H f 5
o:
. ~ r :
■
m.
UJ
NAVY, THE ARMY,
THE AIR FORGE use
♦
B ATT E R I E S
JTILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
PERSONAL ITEMS
A. M. Blain, M.H.R. for the N.T., who
was last heard from in a note from Malaya
dated January 29, has been “posted as
missing.” Prime Minister Curtin said:
“It is my fervent hope that he will come
through all right,” a feeling shared by
Blain’s friends everywhere. Equally at
home whether gnawing at a half-cooked
rib of beef with a mate on the track in
N.T. or dining in Sydney, poking about
in the mine of one of his Tennant Creek
constituents or speaking up in the House
at Canberra, Blain impressed everyone as
a prince of good fellows.
JUSTICE NAPIER, S.A.’s Chief Justice
and Lieut.-Governor.
“Old ’Un” remembers:
In Perth 25 years ago Labor, then a lost
cause in Westralia, was championed on the
platform by two fluent speakers, John Curtin
and Adela Pankhurst. Both had come from
the effete East, the lady on a political tour
and the gentleman to edit the “Worker” ; and
both denounced W. M. Hughes’s conscription
plan and his War Precautions Act. In Sydney
last week, the lady, now Mrs. Walsh, asked
the Full Court to order her release from the de-
tention camp to which she was consigned by
the gentleman’s Government in an exercise of
power conferred upon it by the National
Security Act. Dismissing the application on
legal grounds, the State Chief Justice said, in
effect, that the National Security Act and Regu-
lations were far more stringent than Hughes’s
War Precautions Act, since they gave “a Minis-
ter arbitrary powers over the life and liberty
of every Australian citizen, members of the
Commonwealth Parliament included.” I sup-
pose Curtin even 25 years ago dreamed of be-
coming P.M.; the aspiration was far more
common among promising young men then than
it is today. He could not possibly have
imagined that time would effect such a change
in his relations with his 1917 platform partner.
It must be a perfectly unique example of the
ironies of politics.
Commonwealth film censor Cresswell
O’Reilly has reached the retiring age (64).
His job goes to J. O. Alexander, a Vic-
torian, who does not “intend to observe
the moral standards of the Victorian era.”
Alexander has been in Government ser-
vice since 1912, when he joined the Navy
Department; he was transferred to the
Attorney-General’s Department in 1933
and has been Bankruptcy Registrar in
Brisbane for the last seven years. He
reckons that experience of a wide variety
of humanity in the last job will com-
pensate for “no particular technical
qualifications” for the new one.
Two youngsters who have been
admitted to the Air Training Corps have
names to live up to. They are C. Fair-
bairn and J. H. Fysh. Fairbairn is a
nephew of the late Jimmy Fairbairn, one
of the Australians who, in 1914-18, “dis-
tinguished themselves in the British air
services.” Young Fysh’s father is Squad-
ron-Leader W. Hudson Fysh, D.F.C., of
Qantas, who flew with No. 1 Squadron
of the A.F.C. and whose exploits are
recorded a dozen times in F. M. Cutlack’s
Australian Flying Corps volume of the
Official History.
Commander F. N. Cook, who figured
in charge of special naval action in the
landing of paratroops at Bruneval
(France), has been awarded the D.F.C.
for his part in that affair. If Cook keeps
a diary, there should be recorded in it
the fact that he escaped from the Royal
Oak when it was torpedoed at Scapa
Flow in 1939, had a couple of years in
the Mediterranean in H.M.A.S. Water-
hen (sunk), was on the anti-aircraft
cruiser Curlew when it went down off Nor-
way, was at Dunkirk, and, with another
officer, boarded a blazing and abandoned
tanker —which carried four unexploded
depth charges—and brought it safe to
port. A Goulburn Valley (Vic.) man, he
joined the Naval College at Jervis Bay
in 1919.
Lieut.-General Leslie James Morshead
is now G.O.C. of the A.I.F. in the
Middle East. Before he turned soldier
Morshead taught young ’uns at Armidale
College (N.S.W.) and Melbourne Gram-
mar. During the 1914-18 war he
rose rapidly from private to lieut.-
colonel the youngest in the A.I.F.
—and, back in civvies, became Common-
wealth manager of the Orient shipping
line. He was in command of the sth
Infantry Brigade when this war started,
was promoted to major-general and left
for the Old Dart in command of the 1940
contingent. The first Libyan push took
him to Tobruk, and there he stayed.
The original of Norman Lindsay's
tribute to the defenders of Malta
(B. 20/5/’42) went to Howard Hinton,
patron and good friend of Australian
artists. He said:
It appealed to me strongly on account of
* his [Lindsay’s] magnificent draughtsmanship,
and also because my nephew, Lieut.-Colonel
Fielden Briggs, R.A.M.C., has been in
charge of the 15th Field Ambulance at
Malta for the last 10 months. In spite
of their daily Blitzes, he writes most cheery
letters—l received one this morning dated
January 20.
The voyage to Malta is perilous, so the
original Lindsay drawing will be added
to the 540-odd pictures that Hinton has
already presented to the Teachers’ Col-
lege at Armidale (N.S.W.). Copies, how-
ever, will be posted to Lieut.-Colonel
Briggs—in peace-time he was a doctor
and surgeon at Banbury, Oxfordshire ;
in 1914-18 he served with the Royal Field
Artillery.
Another link between Ma l ta and Aus-
tralia is the award of the D.F.M. f rr
“gallantry in air action over Malta” to
Sergeant-Pilot P. A. Goldsmith, an Aus-
tralian flying with an R.A.F. Spitfire
squadron. Goldsmith, who hails from
Artarmon (N.S.W.), cut down through a
screen of enemy fighters, destroyed a
bomber and shot down one of the Messer-
schmitts which attacked him.
Edmund Yule has moved over from
Hobart to manage the Commonwealth
Bank in Adelaide, from which L. D.
Dixon retires after nearly half a cen-
tury of banking experience. Dixon
learned his job with the Bank of Aus-
tralasia, but in 1914 started with the
Commonwealth by opening its new Too-
woomba (Q.) branch. He has been in
Adelaide since 1930.
C. J. W. Briggs (54) succeeds the late
F. L. King as secretary of Melbourne’s
Board of Works at £1250 a year. Briggs
joined the big concern in 1901 and rose
to assistant secretary in 1935. He is a
councillor of the Institute of Incorporated
Secretaries.
The warmest moments of his life for
Archibald Crofts, dead after a long ill-
ness, were his weekly upheavals in his box
at the Princess, Melbourne, to receive the
wild plaudits— not unmixed with friendly
banter—of the members of the fighting
forces who attended his free vaudeville
shows and contest for prizes. If any-
body knew how to entertain the troops
Crofts did. In addition, he owned a
chain of grocery stores; represented
Monash Province for seven years in the
Victorian Leg. Council; won 8000
guineas with his racehorse Valiant Chief,
and the Newmarket Handicap and many
other races with El Golea ; was presi-
dent of the S. Melbourne F.C., and once
Mayor of the city. Secunderabad, India,
was his birthplace and his educational
nurse Adelaide.
Back in Melbourne from the Middle
East, Colonel Harold Cohen, the Vic-
torian M.L.A. who has been following
the troops in Libya, Egypt, Palestine,
Syria, Greece and Eritrea for two years
as Red Cross Commissioner. In the 1914-
18 war he was in command of the 6th
Artillery Brigade, A.I.F. The Bulletin's
John Dailey was one of his officers, and
they were friends and mutual admirers
till Dailey’s death. Cohen has done
a good job in the Middle East; he is the
sort of a man who would do a good job
at anything, however strange he found it
at first.
New Chief of M.L.’s Naval Staff is
51-years-old Commodore Sir Atwell
Lake, Bt. He’s the ninth baronet and
comes of a family with a long naval
tradition —father was Admiral A. P. M.
Lake. Commodore Lake was in the
Lion, under Beatty, at Jutland, and for
the last three years has been Chief of
Staff to Admiral Sir William James, Com-
mander-in-Chief at Portsmouth.
Three more Tobrukians have been pre-
sented with M.Ms. for gallantry—Lance-
Sergeant F. G. Rodda, Lance-Corporal C.
T. Stanford and Private H. Ferres. In
less busy wars, some of them would have
earned V.Cs. Private Ferres, for instance.
In November, during an attack on El
Dudda, he advanced boldly towards Ger-
man positions with three mates, firing his
Bren from the hip. The intrepid four
rushed their objective and brought back
25 Germans. Ferres’s action “undoubt-
edly saved our forces many casualties and
allowed the momentum of the attack to
be maintained.” Lieut.-Colonel F. A.
Burrows —from N. S. Wales —who led his
battalion in a successful counter-attack
on the El Dudda position, has received
the D.S.O. ; and Sergeant J. E. Searle —
also from N. S. Wales—who, with five of
his men, captured 12 Germans at
bayonet-point, gets the D.C.M.
Squadron-Leader Johnny Broadbent,
C.O. of South Australia’s largest school
for R.A.A.F. ground staff trainees, took
over after six months as an adminis-
trative officer with the R.A.A.F. in
Malaya, Singapore, Sumatra and Java. A
Burwood (N.S.W.) man and a 1914-18
Digger, Broadbent has troops of friends
in Sydney. He did a fine job as secretary
of the Imperial Servicemen’s Club, set-
ting it on its feet. Later he came to
The Bulletin’s advertising staff, and he
Squadron-Leader J. BROADBENT.
was secretary of the Elanora Golf Club
before he got into uniform again. He
is stepfather to young Jimmy Broadbent.
Few people know more about local
and world conditions in the ether than
Group-Captain Cam Scarlet Wiggins,
Director of Communications, Allied Air
Staff. His career began in 1916 at Dun-
troon ; then he served with the Austra-
lian Staff Corps as a specialist in sparks
and flashes. Transferred to the R.A.A.F.
Wiggins became a flying instructor, but
signals were his meat, and he became
COMMUNICATIONS EXPERT.
Director of Signals in 1931. Civil Avia-
tion borrowed him and sent him on a
world tour, and at the outbreak he was
recalled to the R.A.A.F. to organise
signals in war-time,
“J.J.H.”: Few Australians have packed
more incident into their lives than
Lieutenant-Commander A. B. Palmer,
D.S.C. Born in Sydney 42 years ago,
he went to sea at an early age,
and he has served in everything from
schooners to luxury liners. In the 1914-
18 war, despite his youth, he saw service
in the mercantile marine and the Navy,
now and then in ships that were vari-
ously sunk by shellfire, mines and
other lethal devices. On his way
back to Australia his ship was wrecked
and he was stranded on an island in the
Pacific. Back in Australia he sold
cars in Sydney till the depression hit it,
then drove the old bus that used to
wobble out to Pt, Piper. Then to
Shanghai, where, as a member of the
Shanghai Volunteer Corps, he saw the
Japanese invasion at first hand. When
this war broke out Palmer joined H.M.S.
Cockchafer as lieutenant, and he has seen
much of the dirty work in the Mediter-
ranean ; part of the time in command of a
captured Italian vessel running ammuni-
tion to Tobruk. He ultimately fell into
the hands of the Italians, who paid him
an unusual tribute on their radio.
Into the silence:
There was a five minutes’ pause in the bid-
ding at Melbourne Stock Exchange last week.
It was a mark of respect for the memory of
Herbert Perry Ham, doyen of the city’s brokers.
He was elected a member in 1901.
In Adelaide, at 78, Dr. E. W. Morris, naval
M.O. at Port Adelaide for many years in the
past. At Gallipoli he had the rank of surgeon-
commander, and, later, was for about seven
years Commonwealth M.O. at Australia House
in London. His two sons —one a surgeon—
are both abroad on active service.
John Dempster, of Adelaide, son of an
Anglican canon, gave his whole life to music,
starting as cathedral choir-boy at seven. He
was choirmaster at various churches, city organ-
ist for a time, judge at competitions and a
notable critic and writer on his subject.
Accidentally killed in Melbourne, Captain
John Kingsmill Phillips, of Intelligence, Eastern
Command. A Sydney barrister with a B.A. and
LL.B. from Sydney University, he dropped his
profession a couple of years ago to join the
army. He leaves a widow.
In Sydney, Captain A. E. Lundgren, born in
Sweden in 1878 and known in Sydney since
1920. He was Australian representative of the
Swedish Transatlantic Shipping Company and,
since 1921, president of the Swedish Chamber
of Commerce. A daughter married Alexis
Albert, son of Frank Albert, the sheet-music
man.
Old Diggers lost a good friend when Sid
Carroll was killed in a car accident in Sydney.
Roller-skating (he ran the Sydney Palladium)
and real estate were Carroll’s business, but re-
turned men knew him better as a Digger whose
generous hand was always ready to help old
comrades. He came out of the 1914-18 war as
a captain and with the M.C., and was a lieu-
tenant in the V.D.C. when the end came.
In Sydney, at 71, W. A. Flynn, sometime
clerk of petty sessions, magistrate and president
of the N.S.W. Public Service Association, and
in that capacity a thorn in the side of Gov-
ernments. He came to N.S.W. from Galway.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“K.”; Since the mosquito that wears a
striped football jersey and signs his name
.Rdes cegypti started out on his southward
expansion drive, Sydney suburbia has
been urged to be on its toes to combat
the carrier of dengue fever. Good results
have followed appeals by municipal coun-
cils, but occasionally a real tragedy
occurs, such as that which overtook
Blinker, in our suburb. There is a tacit
understanding in their household that
Mrs. Blinker sticks to her domain, while
Blinker exclusively runs the garden. But
after an earnest talk with a council official
Mrs. B. went on a tour of the back
garden in search of possible breeding-
places. Under the figtree by the back
fence she poked her nose over a 40-gallon
drum and nearly passed out. Heavens!
that stagnant stuff must have been there
for months ! With Mrs. Nextdoor’s aid
she heaved it on its side, and, to admin-
ister the coup de grace to any /Egypti
offspring, sprinkled a quart of kerosene
over the whole area. What Blinker said
when he got home and found that the
beautiful rich liquid fowl manure that
he’d been brewing for weeks to feed to
his cauliflowers, just then beginning to
heart up, must have created new records
in lyric frenzy.
* * * *
“Carltonian”: The Bulletin must
have been going to press (B. 20/5/’42)
with that par. about the Melbourne brown-
"You are suspected of having a secret radio on the premises.”
out murders of women when the third
victim in 15 days was being done to
death, this time out at Royal Park—the
others were at Albert Park and in Spring-
street, city and in a way that suggested
the same hand. Like her unfor-
tunate predecessors she was a woman
past the first flush of youth, though a
spinster ; the others were married.
The police are using blacktrackers,
and there was a check-up of all
soldiers leave passes on the night of the
murder. The poor thing was a Westra-
lienne who had been connected with
two universities, had toured Europe and
—like one of the other victims —took an
active interest in theatricals and ballet.
She was secretary and librarian to the
chemistry department of Melbourne Uni-
versity. An American soldier was taken
to the watchhouse and handed over to the
U.S. military authorities. No civil charge
was laid.
“X.S.”: The Vic. C.1.D., always up to
date, evolved a new method of crime
detection in the case of the woman found
strangled in Spring-street, Melbourne.
Desiring to hear from any persons who
may have seen or spoken to the victim
before the murder they took a photo-
graph of a dressmaker’s dummy on which
had been hung the clothes she had been
wearing and superimposed on it the face
from a studio portrait of deceased taken
eight years previously. The result, pub-
lished in the dailies, doesn’t seem likely
to further investigations, as the police
picture doesn’t look like a representation
of any human being.
* * * *
“Valleyite”: The Brisbane press is
waxing critical of what it calls “public
apathy to A.R.P. practices,” claiming
that few people outside the A.R.P. per-
sonnel take any interest in the demonstra-
tions. But you can’t maintain enthusi-
asm by presenting the same old show
ad nauseam, and Brisbane people are no
different from other Australians if they’re
getting a bit sick of tin-hatted elderly
gents letting off hungers and risking
apoplexy by running to wardens’ posts,
while other elderly gents —and ladies —-
rush round with stirrup pumps and band-
ages and sand mats and gallantly fight
imaginary fires. It may have been funny
to some people when it was new, now it’s
merely boring. Still, the need for A.R.P.
is as strong as ever. The mistake seems
to be in expecting the public to gather
round and cheer or something. The
public, told repeatedly that the city's
A.R.P. is just the glassy marble, lets it
go at that. If the A.R.P. really wants
public manifestations of approval, it
should stage a bathing beauty parade—■
that always draws attention from public,
press and pulpit.
“Spokeshave”; Melbourne, at first
much interested in its brownout, has be-
come bored with the thing, and nothing
but an air raid would restore its atten-
tion. But criticism is abundant. Prob-
ably the most ingenious argument contra
is that of an eye specialist who says that
leaving one street alight in four is worse
than a total blackout, since the existence
of the isolated bit of illumination makes
it impossible for the eye to adapt itself
to the surrounding pools of blackness.
The answer to that is, of, course, that if
the brownout achieves its purpose of mis-
leading raiders a few sprained ankles
won’t matter. But would it?
* :|; * *
“Mac Hoots”: When a person named
Mair was sitting on about £2OOO a year
as Premier of New South Wales, a person
named MacFloots was sitting on a chaff-
in the lounge of one of Sydney’s big
hotels foully drinking a glass, not of
alcohol, but of mineral water, before
dinner. And as the person named Mair
had ordered the police to tighten up on
the big hotels, the person named Mac-
Hoots was pestered by a large policeman
and fined a sum of money. Therefore
when a new Premier named McKell re-
proaches the person named Mair for not
raving made a nuisance of himself in the
big hotels, my laughter comes low and
bloodcurdling. But when the person
ii r r re Pr° ac . hes the person named
McKeli tor not having relaxed the licens-
mg when be him se lf in office was,
as McKeli is now, too scared of the
wowser vote to do a thing about it, my
laughter has the horrible ring of insanity,
Mair! McKeli! Bring me a glass of
mineral water, for I think I am going to
•k S anC * uught as well make a
job of it.
\ • • • •
“Strict Veg.”: The Moderator of
the Presbyterian Assembly, Rev. Dr.
Button, has been telling Melbourne of
the horrors of its night life, especially
with regard to the liquor traffic. He got
a retort from Police Commissioner Dun-
can, who asked him to name hotel-
keepers who were making a welter of it.
But the naivest retort came from a muni-
tions worker signing himself “Inquisi-
five” •
As a night worker who comes oft doty
<it midnight sometimes, and in the e&rly
hours, I ask Dr. Button to direct me to a
“It was the only flaming thing they had left!"
hotel where I can get badly-needed refresh-
ment. I write with feeling. At one minute
past six on Monday night I endeavored to
get into a city hotel and my finger was
jammed in the door!
❖ * * *
“T. McN.”: I am informed by my
morning paper that “association with
high U.S. military men” is affecting the
language of Federal Ministers. One, says
the paper, answers the ’phone with
“Yup?” ; others, giving non-publishable
information, preface it with “this is off the
rekkud.” They’re alleged to call their
press statements “think pieces,” and, as
a sort of final blow, one Minister is
alleged to have summed up the Coral
Sea fight with “We caught the Japs with
their pants down.” But perhaps these
Australian Ministers have been libelled
—and the “high U.S. military men” too.
'k H*
“S.”: “Conductor,” I said, retrieving
my left leg, which had been left down
the road, “why do you never
on this run from Sydney to
Woolloomooloo give the passen-
gers a chance to climb aboard?
Why is it that, evening after
evening on my blameless way
home from work, I have to take
a running jump at you as you
go by? Why is it that, if I do
get aboard, you lurch away that
very instant, and to climb to
your top deck is like running
up the foremast of a wind-
jammer in a typhoon?” “Sir,”
he said, “we have to keep to the
timetable.” “But,” I countered,
“if you don’t give people time
to get aboard, what’s the use of running
your (beautiful) bus?” “If we stopped to
give everybody time to get aboard, the
(beautiful) bus could never keep to the
(beautiful) timetable.” And there we left
it. It is my considered opinion that, in
the interests of what it imagines is “effi-
ciency” or “speeding-up the war effort,”
Sydney has gone off its blooming rocker.
How does it help the war effort if I
break my valuable neck taking running
jumps at bus conductors?
sp * * *
“Scuta”: It is still true that an army
marches on its stomachbut today it is
not so much the quantity and quality of
food but the digestive mechanism that
counts. Australian troops have an excel-
lent diet —not a vitamin is lacking—yet
the amount of invalidism from digestive
disorder is considerable. The “war to end
war” left its pension-expensive legacy of
the nervous heart. The present dust-up
has shifted the nerve-strafe a step lower
to the breadbasket. Duodenal ulcer is the
culprit. Ever since 1918 this complaint
has become increasingly prevalent, hence
the spate of advertisements for antacid
powders. Nowadays meals are merely
interludes in the frantic pursuit of cash
or pleasure ; the nerve-control of the
digestive organs is thrown out of gear
and the normal balance of acid and ant-
acid in the digestive juices is upset. The
result is chronic indigestion or, at worst,
actual ulceration. In Victorian times,
when the gals were trussed like fowls
a ud took little or no exercise, ulcer was
the prerogative of the gentler sex. Now
it is the lord of creation who suffers. Is
it wild prophecy to suggest that, if we
continue to rush through our mortal span
with one foot on the accelerator and the
other off the brake, the nation that can
secure a monopoly of alkaline powders
will dominate the world?
* * * *
“ D »>i e , an .^.,“ Believ . e » or Not” Ripley
S3.ys triclt Inc woi d tennis does not
mean anything ; no one has ever found
out why the game is so called.” An
extract from Ernest Weekley’s uncom-
mon book The Romance of Words gives
a measure of refutation to Ripley:
“Tennis, says Minsheu, is so called from
Fr. tenez, hold, ‘which word the French-
men, the onely tennis-players, use to
speake when they strike the ball.’ This
etymology, for a long time regarded as
a wild guess, has been shown by
recent research to be correct. The game
was played by French knights in Italy
a century before we find record of it
in English.... and as French was cer-
tainly the language of the earliest tennis-
players, we may infer that the spectators
named the game from the foreign word
with which each service began.” On
the same point Chambers’s Encyclopcedia
says: “The etymology of the word is
uncertain, and many suggestions as to
its origin have been offered ; perhaps the
most acceptable is that the name comes
from a presumed cry of tenez (‘hold’ or
‘take’) uttered by a player as a warning
before putting the ball into play.”
TONGUE-TWISTERS.
‘The word ‘dengue’ is pronounced according to
preference—‘dengay,’ ‘denge’ or ‘dengew.’ ”
• —Medical authority in “S. M. Herald.’’
“D’you spell it with a ‘w’ or a V?”
A Judge demanded of the younger Weller.
Depends, my lord,” Sam told him thoughtfully,
Upon the taste and fancy of the speller.”
And the same latitude is claimed, one sees,
By doctors diagnosing this disease.
Three ways of sounding it —or four, maybe,
For “denge” is patently a trifle hazy.
Should it be “denj”? Or is the final “e”
A letter teachers designate as “lazy,”
As in the instance (worth remembering)
Of that renowned ecclesiastic Inge?
“Dengay” or “dengew”? Either one will do,
Roll them upon your tongue or pick at
random,
Murmuring softly “Chacun a son gout”
Or else “De gustibus non disputandum.’
When no alternative is wrong, it’s quite
Useless to wrangle about which is right.
With all its variants it’s scarce a word
For easy yoking into rhyme and metre,
The pest that’s spread, the malady transferred
To suffering humans by the tiger ’skeeter.
The scientific label for the breed is
Another tongue-twister —dEgypti redes.
Life would be easier for all and each,
Whene’er contentious issues are disputed,
If everyone could give a part of speech
7 he sound that in his humble judgment suited
Without the frequent hazards that exist
Of being faulted by some dogmatist.
So dengue at least may serve some useful ends,
To set against the days it renders bleaker,
Now that we know its utterance depends
Upon the taste and fancy of the speaker
Or, in a slightly less colloquial sense,
Rests upon individual preference.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
OUR LANGUAGE FACTORIES.
‘‘A language is a living, growing thing, and it de-
velops, not in universities or textbooks, but in pubs,
on sheep stations and in the streets.”
— -“F.S.” (B. 20/5/’42).
Tis not in Learning’s cloistered premises,
Where erudite professors drone and prose,
Where zealous students struggle for degrees
And stodgy textbooks line the shelves in rows,
Tis not in academic haunts like these
Our good old mother-tongue expands and
grows,
But where gregarious man his shoulders rubs
With brother-man —especially in pubs.
Some few exceptions there may be, no doubt,
’Mong those to whom we mastery assign
In wizardry of words, the carvers-out
Of marvels in the literary line.
Tis hard to picture Milton doing a shout
Or Wordsworth interjecting “These are mine.”
But, oh! how readily one’s mind discerns
Shakspeare in such a role —or Robbie Burns.
Who is it brings our English up to date
And keeps it from becoming flat and stale?
Teachers who’re found where tankards circulate.
Why even Masefield’s self —so runs the talc —
Long ere becoming Poet Laureate
Served in a bar, dispensing wine and ale.
What lecture-room can match a tavern for
Enlarging any writer’s repertoire?
Where is our language day by day enriched
With pungent idiom that sticks and stirs?
Where are new phrases coined and worn ones
ditched?
Ah, not by musty lexicographers,
But where chaps congregate and yarns are
pitched
In any homely setting one prefers.
Where station sheds ring to the click of shears,
Or over beers —imprimis over beers!
xN.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“South Coast”: Brisbane* “Courier-
Mail” stated recently that O. Callaghan,
of Montville, had five sons in the fight-
ing services. It was corrected by the
justly-proud father, who said the paper
had omitted Jack —Bombardier John
Callaghan, of the A.I.F. Then he gave
the stirring facts: “George, Stanley, John
and Morris have just returned from serv-
ing overseas. Edward has joined William
in the R.A.A.F.” What a theme for an
Essex Evans!
O. Callaghan, of Montville,
Has six strong fighting sons.
Queensland could do with an Essex Evans
these days. It has an abundance —per-
haps a superabundance—of “modern”
poets, but it is short of bards capable of
writing war verses that stir the blood
“like the sound of a trumpet.”
* * * *
“Frosty”: “Alma-road’s” reference (B.
20/5/’42) to the pictures of racehorses
that used to decorate barbers’ shops
reminded me that it was the barbers’
saloons in the Maoriland city of my
youth that first made me aware of the
existence of the U.S.A. In the eighties
of last century Fernland barbers im-
ported their chairs and other fittings
from the U.S.A., and more often than
not the pictures on the walls came from
the same source. Thus I was informed
at a very early age concerning John L.
Sullivan, per medium of colored prints
depicting that great man shaping up to
Charlie Mitchell or Jake Kilrain. So,
too, I became acquainted with the linea-
ments of such statesmen as Garfield,
Cleveland and the second Harrison. To
round out the conception of American
society thus conveyed were joyous colored
prints illustrating the adventures of the
Darktown Fire Brigade. Doubtless there
were also pictures of gallopers, but all
I can remember in that line are spirited
representations of trotting races, also of
American origin, and colored drawings of
Maud S.
* * * «
“Sing 9”; Heaven forgive me, I’ve
become an accomplice in one of the most
barefaced forms of legal robbery prac-
tised in this fair land. Last February,
in response to Minister Beasley’s appeal
to car-owners to keep their vehicles in
running order —to do that you must have
petrol, and to get petrol you must have
a consumer’s license, and to get a con-
sumer’s license you must produce your
car-registration certificate —I registered
my bus for three months. It cost me £1
registration tee, plus the tax. Now that
registration fee is for a year. Behold me,
three months later, registering for an-
other quarter and being compelled to
part up ss. registration fee. I asked for
the wherefore. Said the officer-in-charge,
N.S.W. traffic registration office, “If you
register by quarterly terms it costs you
35s. —£1 for the first quarter and ss. for
the three remaining quarters.” “Hell,” I
remarked, “what would be said of a
private firm that came at that?” He
smiled appealingly. “The best thing,”
he said, “is to regard the first quid as
an initiation fee.” Then he ducked back
through a door and vanished.
“Taurus”: “Ex-C.G.” (B. 13/5/’42)
asks what is a graduand. One who is
neither an undergraduate nor a graduate
but in the transition. It is usually applied
to people who have qualified for a
degree and are awaiting the formal con-
ferring.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Touching the disallowance
of National Security Regulation 50, lift-
ing the Victorian Government’s ban on
the sale of Werribee Farm beef (B.
20/5/’42), Werribee cattle feed on pas-
tures fertilised by the Board of Works
sewage system, and there has always been
a hullabaloo about it. A few years ago
a local suburban council charged the
board with polluting the foreshore, and a
board engineer offered to drink a glass
of the effluent if a councillor would do
likewise. The challenge having been
accepted, the engineer tossed a glass
down with every symptom of enjoy-
ment and proceeded to draw another
bumper of the same vintage. But the
councillor was being sick behind a tree.
Ban or no ban, some 40 of the Werribee
beasts have already passed a stiff inspec-
tion, been pronounced perfect and are
probably now sitting on Melbourne’s
dinner tables.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; An interesting lawsuit has
been brought in S.A. against the Bank
of Adelaide. Ais a leading sharebroker
in Sydney ; B is another in Adelaide. A’s
draft on B comes across to the head
office on Saturday morning. A clerk in
B’s office says “We don’t usually settle
on Saturdays; will do so on Monday,”
and this was done ; but meanwhile the
bank had telegraphed to its Sydney
branch, which wrote to A, “Draft dis-
honored, and is to be presented again.”
Result, a breach between A and B, and
the latter claims to have been “injured in
his business, credit and reputation.” The
bank says that the draft was not paid on
presentation, which means legally that it
was dishonored; that it was bound to
give notice of this to A forthwith, and
that the letter was privileged, without
malice, and not a libel. And the Court
said so, too ; but suggested that (as the
trouble was due just to B’s clerk taking
the no-Saturday-settlements habit of the
office for a binding custom) the bank
should not claim costs.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Who says the voluntary
system is a failure? Within a few days
of Lud Mayor Beaurepaire’s clarion call
to Melbourne to alleviate boredom on
Sundays, organisations had enrolled 6000
Victory Belles who will sacrifice them-
selves every Sunday on the dance-floors
of the city and the suburbs. In addition,
commercial entrepreneurs have recruited
private armies of terpsichoreans and a
composer has already written “The Mar-
seillaise” of the movement. It is entitled
“Victory Belle, I Love You.”
* * * ♦
“Eve”: You’re a liar, “Hackshaw” (B.
13/5/’42), to say we girls don’t get the
inspiration for our make-up from
Nature. Take my eyebrows. They gave
up the struggle when they were only half
grown. What do I do? I don’t paint
them red, just to attract attention. I
“ Sorry, sir, but the missus smokes all my quota."
“Cripes, it won't be Stinker's fault if they don't get it."
draw inspiration from what I reckon
Nature should have done for me and drag
a dark pencil over the scraggy brows,
thereby adding “balance” to my optics
and ceasing to look like a wild-eyed
rabbit. Powder? According to you, I’d
wear blue-tinted powder because I once
read that Joan Crawford did. Well, you
ought to see my freckles! I want to look
like a girl, not a comic-strip. So I’ve no
option but to stick to sun-tan, and to
blazes with what Joan does! As for
your yelp that an artist would collapse
rather than paint anything so hideous as
girls today make themselves, I’ll bet if
an artist painted a girl’s face in exactly
the colors Nature gave her (this means
pale lips and dull cheeks, faint or much-
too-thick eyebrows and insignificant
lashes) the critics would want to know
why he went to hospitals for incurables
for his models.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Apropos of the
A.B.C.’s dictum (B. 13/5/’42) that,
even if 700 of an audience walked
out of its concerts, the fact that
more than 1500 remained would be
the Commission’s justification, it is
always probable that the 1500 may
have remained out of politeness. Aus-
tralian audiences are the politest in the
world. European audiences are different.
In pre-war days I attended an opera
season in Naples. If the prima donna
pleased them the Neapolitans were rap-
turously appreciative. If she didn’t she
was hissed and booed. It was a cus-
tom for managements every now and
then to put on some poor old singer to
gratify the crowd’s desire to have a target
for their feelings. The worst example of
bad manners I have seen in Australia was
when the Tiv. management in Melbourne
placed Little Tich before its public. The
quaint little mime sang the songs he had
always sung and did the stuff he had
done all his lifetime. To his aston-
ishment the crowd threw pennies at him.
Local and imported comedians having
pinched Tich’s stuff for generations, the
Tiv.’s crowds thought he was purvey-
ing stolen chestnuts.
* * * *
“Charn” remembers a duel:
Most Australian duels seem to have smacked
of the farcical, but the Swan River in August,
1832, saw the real thing. William Nairne
Clark was a Scotch lawyer; George F. John-
ston a merchant of Fremantle. Just what they
quarrelled over isn’t quite clear; there is evi-
dence that a lady was involved. Also Clark in
a letter to Lieut.-Governor Irwin accused
Johnson of aiding another merchant in dis-
posing of his property in such a manner as to
prevent Clark collecting damages granted in a
lawsuit. Anyway, Johnson called Clark out.
The affair took place at seven in the morning
of August 18 in a grassy glade just to the west
of where the new Fremantle traffic bridge now
stands. Johnson missed ; Clark fired low,
wounding his man in the abdomen. Johnson
died 12 hours later, refusing to the last to make
any statement against his opponent. Clark,
Yule (his second) and a Captain Graham were
tried for manslaughter, but a jury composed
mostly of Peninsular and Waterloo veterans
acquitted them. Later Clark became such a
fire-eater that several of the jury heartily wished
they had hanged him.
* t * *
“S.T.S.”; Of all war-time scares —and
they are many—the oddest is the idea
that the savings of a lifetime will be
safer at home than in a bank. A woman
lately reported to the Adelaide police
the theft of over £5OO from “a box in
my bedroom,” but a search found it in
the bed itself. A man of 80 took £7OO
out of the bank and shortly had the lot
stolen from the usual “bedroom box.”
The police have issued a warning, or
rather a plea for commonsense.
* * ♦ *
“Graiser”: Apropos Sydney architects’
dictum that boarded-in shopfronts are
an architectural improvement, “Arter”
(B. 6/5/’42) refuses to believe that
a log cabin is better architecture than
Cologne Cathedral. But it may be
architecturally superior to the latest
skyscraper. The fashionable architecture
of the moment is all for straight lines, geo-
metrical patterns and lack of adornment.
There is no merit in absence of adorn-
ment if the reason for it is that there is
a paucity of imagination in the designers
or a lack of craftsmen. There used to
be any number of good stone-carvers in
Australia. The use of machines has made
them as extinct as the dodo.
* * * *
“Morimoto”; How did Victorian Drys
get it into their heads that the explana-
tion of the Japanese conquests is that the
Japs are t.t? The value of the sake Nippon
pours down its collective throat annually
exceeds the value of the export trade in
cotton, silk goods and raw silk. Sake-
drinking parties are as much a part of
male social life in Nippon as is the tea
ceremony amongst the women. Vast
quantities of beer are absorbed in addi-
tion. So whatever the reasons for the Japa-
nese successes to date, stone-cold sobri-
ety isn’t one of them. If Vic. prohibition-
ists want to stop wet canteens in the Aus-
tralian army they will have to think up
a better argument than that one.
“C.Q.”: Victorian Drys, who are using
the country’s extremity to push forward
prohibition—this time in officers’ messes
in the army —and call having a drink the
sign of a decadent nation, might ask
themselves where the decadent U.S.A. got
the fine troops it is sending over. Bar-
rooms and saloons in the States are open
from six in the morning to three the next
morning, except on Sundays, when they
don’t open till midday. An American
signaller told me that he had seen more
drunks in his four months in early-clos-
in Melbourne than he had seen in his
own country since it abolished prohibi-
tion.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: The heirs of the author
of “Advance, Australia Fair” will not be
the first Australians to enjoy, after many
barren years, a harvest of performing-
rights cash. George Musgrove, who spent
fortunes on lavish stage productions still
remembered with delight by old-timers,
died leaving little, but his estate be-
came worth having after the talkies
arrived. The film people made an exten-
sive search amongst old successes of the
stage for the material they required, and
this led to the discovery that the long-
dead Australian manager had held the
world rights to several old favorites and
the Australasian rights (also of importance
to filmdom) of others. The people who
made the discovery were honest enough
to make it known, with very profitable
results to George’s heirs and assigns. ,
* * * *
“Bo”: Sydney pedestrians and motor-
ists have perhaps had some doubts as to
the good effect of that period when, at
the recommendation of the Boss Cop
(now transferred to other duties), official
courtesy was in fashion ; but there were
abiding results from even that brief burst.
In an outer suburb lately a woman wanted
a taxi. The job was not regarded as suf-
ficiently profitable, and the driver de-
clined it without thanks; so the dis-
appointed passenger had a word with the
local cop. That worthy strolled up to
the rank, politely apologised for inter-
rupting the taxi-driver’s meditations and
engaged him in conversation. There was
no bullying, no dragging out of notebook
and pencil —just a friendly chat. The
policeman kept on talking while four
trains came in and disgorged passengers
who took the other available taxis, after
which he apologised for taking up so
much of a busy owner’s time and drifted
off. Probably the taxi-driver by now
has connected cause and effect.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; I wish these dashed
prisoners of war in Australia wouldn’t
keep on escaping and spending days along
the roads and rivers before giving them-
selves up or being captured. Ever since
me whiskers were black I’ve been afraid
some silly cow would reveal to official-
dom just how easy it is, or was, to knock
about this happy land, never asked to
explain who you were or whence you
came, never bothering to tell your des-
tination other than that you’re “headin’
Cobar way” or “makin’ for the Con-
damine.” It is doubtful if any other
country was as free to the nomad as this
or if nomads ever got over the distances
they get over here. It wasn’t until the
depression of a decade ago pushed out
on to the roads a new type, alien both
to the bush and its ways, that the
“traveller” began to feel the eye of sus-
picion. The war and the work it has made
have taken that crowd off again, and,
though concrete and the motor altered
things, a man could still find plenty of
by-tracks and good towns and camps,
could still up and away when the spirit
moved him or camp for days when the
impetus paused. Now, what with escaped
aliens, national-register cards and sentries
at all sorts of unexpected spots, you
never know when some official is going to
spring out and demand to see whether
the knot hides a secret radio or a
magnetic mine. Me? I’m makin’ right
into the heart of some browned-out city,
where a man can pass unquestioned.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”; The windmill alongside the
pigsty was working overtime in the stiff
breeze. “Things are certainly up-to-date
on this farm,” the new hand remarked
to the cocky. “Y’ve got machines to milk
the cows, machines to separate the cream
and even machinery for cutting the feed,
but don’t you reckon this air-condition-
ing for the pigsty is carrying the thing a
bit too far?”
s>! * * H=
“Sur Cingle”: I’ve just read, for about
the 700th time of the cowboy who sleeps
“with I .is saddle for a pillow.” Anyone
whom 1 caught treating one of my saddles
like that —spreading the waist, weakening
the gullet and endangering the tightly-
stretched leather on kneepads and cantle
—would be immediately an ex-stockman.
The only sensible bush bolster is a calico
valise, as wide as an ordinary pillow and
twice as long, with a slit opening across
the middle. Stuffed loosely with spare
clobber it is rolled up in the swag by
d**y and at night is simply folded in
halves to make a double pillow.
# * * *
“Louden”: “Arajoel” Alf and Dick
the Doobite, with crutching cheques in
their pockets and corrosive coatings on
their throats from a month’s drinking
of bore-water, were slogging across open
country in eastern Riverina, the trough
in a one-trough town their destination,
when they met the owner of the grazing
property through which they were travel-
ling. After a short conversation Alf,
with a thought for the time when he and
his mate would be broke again, pointed
to a solitary patch of dead grey-box on
a contiguous rise, called it an eyesore
and asked the grazier for a contract to
clear it. Corriedale shook his head and
said he was reserving it for firewood.
After a pause he added, “Fuel will be
mighty scarce in these parts 50 years
hence.” Waking as from a trance, the
Doobite took a quick look at the broken-
mouthed Corriedale and croaked,
“There’ll be no shortage of fuel where
you’ll be in 50 years’ time! ”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Underground water is' a
lottery (B. 20/5/’42). West of Balranald
(N.S.W.) we sank a shaft. At 12ft. the
water flow was heavy enough, but salty.
About a chain away we put down an-
other. At 14ft. the water stopped further
digging. The stuff was all right, but with
a metallic taste and a physical effect that
weakened the entire camp for a fortnight.
We concluded it was magnesia. A third
hole, put down to make the apex of a
triangle with the other two, hit beautiful,
crystal, lyrical liquid at 20ft. We and
the birds and dogs drank that, rabbits and
sheep drank the magnesia stuff and the
cattle literally boozed themselves on 'the
brine.
“Solitude”: “That yarn about terbacca
rottin’ the teeth,” sniffed old Seventyfiver,
“is all out t’ blazes. Look at me! Not a
false tooth in me head. Still eatin’ on
the molars Nature gimme, an’ I reckon
it ain’t nuthin’ but chewin’ terbacca
"No, sir, they are not ours —I can tell by their hats."
what’s preserved ’em.” It was a new one
on me, and, the veteran’s champion, I
plumped for the theory in the pub that
day. Several fights started, and drinks
were won and lost on every tobacco-
chewing old-timer who came along. 1
had myself believing the thing properly,
and would probably have gone on that
way if I hadn’t met up with the old in-
cendiary at feed time and learned the
extent of his preserves. He had, I dis-
covered, one worn old relic on the upper
right and another on the lower about an
inch away. The old fraud was tearing
into a hunk of 10-year-old mutton, a pic-
ture of horizontal motion gone indescrib-
ably wrong.
* # * «
“E.H.S.”: Joe Smith was clearing land
to plant potatoes, but when he had
grubbed and crosscut the timber he
found that the job of stacking the logs
for the burn-off was too much for him,
so he arranged with Paddy Hogan for a
few days’ help to complete the job, on
the understanding that Joe would render
him a like service when required. A
couple of months later, Paddy claimed
fulfilment of Joe’s part of the contract.
“Orright!” said Joe. “I’ll take me boys
orf hoein’ an’ hillin’ the spuds an’ send
’em over t’ give y’ a hand.” “Y’r
boys, eh?” snapped Paddy. “Now listen
t’ me, Joe. When I give a man’s work, I
expect a man’s work in return ; an’,
moreover, it’s damn’ well you know that
if a man has a boy workin’ on a job
where he can’t be watchin’ him, then he
has on’y half a boy, an’ if he has two
boys on that same job, devil a boy at
all he’ll have.” Then, tapping Joe on the
chest with a forefinger, he continued:
“Now, me little man, y’il drop y’r polin’
tricks an’ be over ready t’ start at sunrise
t’morrer, leavin’ y’r boys t’ their hoein’,
or be the great goanna of Gulga-
wobba” Joe was there on time.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Those suffocating fish
in the muddied Goulburn River (B.
20/5/’42) wouldn’t have been a novelty
to “Scuta” if he’d been a boy in the bush.
We always got out fish in summer by
puddling up the mud in the holes and
taking our pick of what came to the
surface. Down below St. Arnaud (Vic.)
some enthusiastic anglers stocked one of
the little streams with trout. A few years
later my particular band of explorers dis-
covered that stream and immediately
began to puddle. My youth is long past,
but I still start awake at night when the
memory of those anglers comes back as
they chased us over hills and gullies.
Only our speed and elusiveness in the
gum clumps saved Victoria from a mass
murder of children that day.
* * * *
“Solitude”: A beast’s tractableness is
due mainly to custom, but let it meet
with anything new and that fear of the
unknown soon upsets its behavior.
Mountain-bred cattle are scared and rest-
less when brought down to the plains for
the first time, while beasts from cleared
areas need almost shoving along when
they encounter their first bush stretch.
I remember taking a newchum to help
bring in a mob from one of the near
runs. Without more than the usual
amount of trouble we collected the docile-
looking mob of Herefords, and I rode
quietly among them, poking one here
and there with my whip handle before
starting them for home. Then Choom
dismounted to pick wildflowers or some-
thing, and that dopey mob suddenly be-
came a desperate, fright-maddened army
charging in full retreat to the four points
of the run. They’d never seen a bloke
on foot before.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Take a specialist away
from the particular job at which he ex-
cels and often he will behave like a mug.
There was a slim, vivacious little fighter-
pilot on our station whose tactics were
a joy to watch. At take-off, at climbing,
at dizzy aerobatics there was nobody to
touch him ; he would pounce upon any-
body who came his way, or set off and
tackle someone for practice, and in any
combat or whatever the odds he always
called the tune. Then one day he decided
he could be bomber and freight-carrier
rolled into one, and, hitching a ludi-
crously large load beneath his slender
fuselage, set out to lift it. Over the gravel
he ran, gathering speed ; then, instead of
rising, he stopped. A moment’s pause ;
then he wheeled round and sped the
other way. Same result. Still tuned up,
he released, then refitted his load and
tried again ; but after sundry futile at-
tempts to lift it he savagely dumped the
lot, took off, dived twice over the ex-
asperating cargo, then disappeared into
the blue. He is still No. 1 solo flier in
these parts, but it’s unlikely that that
wasp will ever again bother to dope any
caterpillar, however succulent, which is
too heavy to lift from the roadway to
his hole in the edge of the parade ground,
eight inches above.
* * * *
“lago”: Met old Jack again after an
interval of years, and time had not dealt
kindly with him. His clothes were
shabby, he stooped a little and his feet
seemed reluctant to leave the ground as
he walked. His eyes peered, red-rimmed
and weak, from beneath the down-turned
brim of a battered felt hat. He clasped
the lapels of his thin overcoat about his
chest with one hand and steadied his pipe
between empty gums with the other as
we walked along slowly and talked of
old times. After a short silence he looked
up at me. “Haven’t heard anything from
those military blokes yet. Wonder when
I’ll get a call-up.” A laugh stuck in my
throat as I saw his face. He was dead
serious.
Hs % % *
“Wang”; Dad watched with specu-
lative eye the swaggie approaching from
the roadway a quarter of a mile away.
“Looks a bit shickered to me,” he
remarked to Dave. Presently the visitor
reached them. “G’day,” he said to Dad.
“By cripes I’m dry. S’pose y’ ain’t got
a bottle of beer y’ cud give a bloke?”
“No, I ain’t,” replied Dad. “Oh, well,”
said the other equably as he swayed
slightly, “could y’ give a bloke a job
then?” “No, I couldn’t,” barked Dad.
“An’ if I could I wouldn’t give it t’ you.”
“Gosh, y’re pretty tight,” said the other
cheekily. “Is there anythin’ at all on
this hungry joint y’ can give me?”
“Yaks,” replied Dad. “ ’Zactly three
minutes t’ git out that there gate, an’
y’d better get while the goin’s good.” The
traveller gave one beery glance towards
the big-mouthed mong eyeing him
avidly, and hurried off down the track.
Some minutes later Dad appeared at the
road gate. “Hi!” he bellowed to the
swagman sitting on the other side of the
road smoking. “Why the hell didn’t y’
shut that flamin’ gate after y’?” “Simply
becos of a slight miscalculation on your
part, mister,” replied the other, grinning.
“Y’ gave me ’zackly three minutes, no
more, t’ get out. Well, I just made it
be a split second. If y’d given me three
minutes an’ a quarter I’d have had time
t shut the gate. Y’ shouldn’t be so
damned lousy with y’r givin’!”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An old sporting item is the
shooting season for shag, opened on
the Torrens Lake in the middle of Adel-
aide. Only it is not sport so much as
plain annihilation by the water police of
a pest. With the sea only six miles away
and no picnics now on the beaches, sea-
gulls by the thousand come up to the
city to join in the daily river-bank lunches
of soldiers and others. They are wel-
come visitors, but with them come a few
shag, and these try hard to kill the
cygnets in the black-swan broods hatch-
ing out on the lake at this season.
* * * *
“Bo”: The potency of the shotgun as
a persuader of reluctant ’grooms to the
nuptials has long been renowned in our
outback, but the old 12-bore had better
look to its laurels. Wilkinson, who ran
a small selection at Bluegrass Bend, was
a middle-aged bachelor and reputedly the
shyest man between the Mac Donnell
Ranges and Gippsland when a skirt was
in the offing. Then to the block next to
him came the widow Gardiner and her
four sons, two of them only schoolboys.
The widow, fortyish and with solid
charms, soon had occasion to seek Wil-
kinson’s advice as to whether Greenfeasts
did well there, and the upshot was an
invitation for him to take afternoon tea.
Wilkinson shot a wild look like the
Clydesdale when he sees the bridle
behind your back, hedged, stalled and
finally mumbled something about “cornin'
over some day.” He duly came, juggled
a cup of tea in agony on one knee as
he kept a fascinated eye on Mrs. G., but
as soon as the boys left the room he
edged out after them. As the months
went by he came oftener, mostly tongue-
tied and still exhibiting tendencies to bolt
when left alone with his hostess. Then
came the war, and the elder boys en-
listed. The widow was obviously in need
of comfort and help, and Wilkinson tried
to supply both in his clumsy way, but
ready to bolt like a frightened schoolgirl
at the first sign of danger. A month or
two later the boys came home on final
leave in battle dress. They had a long
talk with their mother. Then the pair,
their service rifles at the slope, marched
smartly over to Wilkinson’s. The inter-
view was brief. The aftermath was the
sight of Wilkinson, between his guards,
on the way to Mrs. G.’s. Ten minutes
later the four of them were bound for
the township in Wilkinson’s old utility.
Then the boys said good-bye to their
mother and stepfather and departed.
“GALLOPING JACK."
[“Galloping Jack’’ was Brigadier—General Jolm
Royston, who commanded Australians in the Boer
War and in the 1914-18 war.]
Grand old “Galloping Jack” has died,
“Galloping Jack” that we knew so well.
Somewhere over the Great Divide
Jack has galloped to heaven —or hell!
But wherever he goes on his headlong course.
With his foam-flecked steed and his bridle
slack,
He will gather a troop of Royston’s Horse —
Daring, dashing old “Galloping Jack.”
But we who followed where Royston led
(We were soldiers then, in our youthful prime)
Will mourn for the grand old warrior dead
As we dream again of the olden time
When over the desolate dreary dunes
We rode on a bitter and barren track
In long night rides under waning moons—
Led by gallant old “Galloping Jack.”
At red Romani when night was near,
Through a storm of shrapnel and five-point-
nines,
Giving the troopers, a word of cheer,
Royston galloped along the lines.
A bloodstained bandage around his knee,
He led us on to the flank attack—
Never was leader more loved than he,
Daring, dashing old “Galloping Jack.”
Again at Rafa he pulled us through:
It was Christmas Day but we had no spread;
In lieu of whisky a hell-wind blew,
And the Moslems sent us a gust of lead;
We were held in check at the last redoubt,
Night was falling and things looked black,
But we stormed their trenches and drove them
out —
Led by brave old “Galloping Jack.”
Now Time the tyrant has checked his course.
He has joined the ranks of the noble shades,
And the grand old leader of Royston’s Horse
Will ride no more with the bush brigades;
Never again at the close of day
Will he muster his men for the last attack;
But his dauntless spirit will live for aye—
Daring, dashing old “Galloping Jack.”
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


"I wish to put these on the lay-by."
“Mat’s Mate”: “I met one o’ them
Parliament blokes once,” said Mat. “It
was on the Mildura train. I’m holdin’
well an’ shouts meself a first-class ticket
just t’ see if travellin’ that way’s any
better than our way. His nibs gets in at
Birchip, half fills the joint with rugs an’
bags, flashes a gold pass at the conductor
and, strike me! the blasted conductor
nilly give him the train. He rushes roun’,
gets a special foot-warmer, brings along
a cuppa tea, asks his nibs if he wants
some papers or books an’ keeps bobbin’
in and out like a old woman with a sick
cat. I thought the bloke must ’a’ bin a
railway commissioner or somethin’, an’
I asks him, sorta polite, where he’s makin’
f’r. ‘l’m Bullswool, M.H.R. f’r this
distric’,’ he says, wavin’ a hand out the
winder. Well, that got me ruddy wild,
an’ when that conductor comes along I
says ‘Here, mate, get me a cuppa tea.’
The conductor looks me over an’ snaps
‘Where’s y’r ticket?’ So I gets up an’
roars ‘Why, you pip-squeak, I’m a payin’
passenger —one of the poor, misguided
blankers that pays your screw an* his’ —
pointin’ t’ Bullswool. ‘Both of y’,’ I howls,
‘is my servants, that’s what y’ are. Him
t’ guard me health an’ livin’ conditions
an’ you t’ keep me trains runnin’. Now
get me the tea before I lose me temper!’
That conductor turns round and goes
away and comes back with a John and
I’m removed t’ another compartment.
Yair, I met one o’ them Parliament
blokes once.”
“Murlonga”: Reginald, a full-blooded
abo., had been added to the stock camp.
He was a product of a northern mission
station, and with his gorgeous tie, har-
poon spurs, creased leggings and scent
he was a sight and a nuisance. But we
trusted in the abo. ability to track. In
mulga country, where a child could
follow the tracks, the boss put Regi-
nald on the job after a horse that was
missing. The boss explained fully: he
could follow the tracks in the mulga so
he’d be in training by the time he reached
the gibber country. Reginald rolled a
cigarette and spat in disgust. “Think
I’m a dashed blackpfeller?” quoth he,
and turned his horse for the camp.
* * * *
“Flight”: For no apparent reason
other than impishness, I saw a magpie
play the fool with a crow. Kelly was
flying low and Maggie set out after
him." She caught the tail feathers in her
bill and breasted up. That sudden brake
steadied the black fellow. He staggered
in the air, lost balance and pace and
started to drop. As Maggie let go Kelly
went for the lick of his life. Maggie did
a repeat. That game continued, with
Kelly crying for help. Though there
were plenty of crows within hearing, none
answered the SOS. The game con-
tinued for half a mile or more, till both
birds disappeared in the coolibah on the
creek, with the magpie continuing its
fool tricks and the crow calling and fall-
ing alternately.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: To read a country’s past
history, give me the bare bones of the
desert. The thing that puzzled early
prospectors most around such places as
Coolgardie was the wide areas sprinkled
with rock fragments all twisted and
charred by fire, and long banks of a peculiar
blue clay, hard in summer but dissolving
to the stickiest of mud in the wet. De-
composed lava this clay, matching the
igneous rock. But where were the hills
that once might have been volcanoes?
Far out towards the Warburton Ranges,
east of Laverton, we came on an eroded
bank with a 15ft. stratum of boulders
showing, all sizes from a couple of tons
to a cricket ball. Rooting a few of these
out. Long Ned, a bit of a geologist,
pointed to deep cuts and scratches.
“Glacier boulders, these,” he said. Where
the bank now was had once been the bed
of a sea. From long-vanished mountains
glaciers had crept down, bringing diorite
boulders with them. In the sea the
glacier bergs had melted, dropping their
boulders to the bottom. But how long
had it taken for that 15ft. bed to form?
Fifty miles to the south we came on a
fringe of water-worn stones miles long.
Perhaps a farther shore of that ancient
sea. In another place a watercourse
that had cut through an ancient stream
bed, with white quartz pebbles, none
larger than a goose egg. Might have been
gold there. But it was so dry, and so
dry were we, that we left it to its primeval
solitude.
* * * *
“Loo”; Finnegan leaned against the
pig-pen and looked Williams straight in
the eye. “I tell you the flood came in
1936,” he said again. Williams glanced
angrily in at the wallowing pig as he
snapped, “Finnegan, your livestock’s gone
to your head. You’re the most pig-
headed man I know. My memory’s
better than yours, and I’m telling you
the flood came in ’37. Why do you keep
saying ’36?” “On account of I’ve got
proof,” said Finnegan. “And it’s this.
I saved me own life by hookin’ me toe-
nails on to the top branch of that tree
arid, supported by them, I hung face-
down so’s I wouldn’t get blown away.
And that must have been ’36, because
I’ve got it chalked on the kitchen wall
that in 1937 I cut me toenails.”
« * * #
“Strawb’s Valet”: I’m not interested
in the question of whether that bloke
could milk 20 cows in an hour (B.
20/5/’42), but in his mentality. Fancy
a man advertising that he could even
milk, let alone the number per hour!
There must be something wrong with a
fellow who advertises his ability at one
of the worst, lousiest and most thankless
of all jobs. God help me, I allowed
myself to be taught how to milk, but
never, never do I let on about it.
“Avon”: Maoriland’s isola-
tion from overseas sources of
supply is stimulating self-help to
a degree that would have de-
lighted Samuel Smiles. It be-
came apparent some months
ago that supplies of agar, which
is used in meat-preserving, were
going to run mighty short, so
avenues of local production were
explored. It was found that
Pterocladia lucida, the seaweed
from which agar is principally
derived, abounds on the rocky
coasts of North Auckland. So
a factory is being built and col-
lectors, white and Maori, are
finding that at 9d. a pound,
1 dried, the seaweed pays
good wages. Maoriland’s agar
used to come from Japan —
£7OOO worth a year. Another
exploitation of home resources,
due to the cutting off of sup-
plies from Germany, concerns
montan wax, used in many
manufacturing processes. It has
been discovered that the wax
, (normally obtained from lignite)
can be extracted from Chatham
Island peat. There are vast dry
peat deposits that require no
mining, and the wax content is
far higher than in lignite—lo
p.c. as against 4 p.c. to 8 p.c. Austra-
lasian consumption of the stuff runs into
many thousands of tons a year.
“N. Sylvester”: If old Sundercut was
able to yard that serpent into a tobacco
tin after it had bitten his daughter (B.
15/4/’42), the doctor was right in de-
claring that the infant hadn’t been in any
danger. When I was taught the ABC
of such matters in a Victorian State
school 50 years ago we learned that any
snake not thicker than the victim’s little
finger was incapable of inflicting a fatal
bite.
*_* * *
“Bunny”: The boss was up on the
platform with us as we were repairing
the mill and around one o’clock he
roared out to the new jackeroo to go and
boil the quartpot. A few minutes later
there was a howl of laughter from one
of the blokes and he gasped “Hey, boys,
take a screw at this!” We looked, to see
the boss’s new quartpot, leather cover
and all, parked on the fire. The boss let
out a wild sort of howl and scrambled
down to save his precious pot, but by
“And don't worry — they're keeping your lion-taming job for you."
the time he got there the once-shining
leather cover was just a few cinders.
* * * *
“Texas”: Has “Sur Cingle” (B.
15/4/’42) ever tried taking two to three
thousand weaner lambs out of the yards
to their paddock, or muster wethers out
of scrub? Old sheep often take no
notice of man and horse, but are always
scared of dogs. You can often tell a bad
drover by sorefooted dogs and poor
sheep. The average day’s trip on the
road is six miles ; on a station that dis-
tance is travelled in from two to three
hours without losing any sheep from over-
heat, even when it’s over 100 in the shade,
and they may be wormy sheep at that.
It is all a matter of proper handling and
control of the dog. A good dog will
keep sheep on the right track and at the
right gait, which saves much galloping
and abuse. Perhaps “S.C.” hasn’t seen
the much-abused kelpie yarding and
handling long-tailed lambs, the bane of
the station-hand’s life. A sheep on the
wheel will leave the best camp-drafter
standing. And as for holding a flock
while the flyblown sheep are being
cleaned up, so as to save driving them
some miles to the yards—well, the kelpie
is on his own,
**. * *
“K.1.N.”; If a man wants to ruin a
good horse he can follow the advice
freely given by the pundits: to stop him
kicking, hang a bag of rocks in the stall
with him, the idea being that every time
he kicks them they’ll come back and give
him a harder welt. That treatment won't
cure a real horse of kicking, but will
merely turn an otherwise normal horse
into a vicious brute. I’ve seen fellows
try it, and in every instance the horse
thereafter would kick at anything that
moved behind him.
!>! * * *
“Naturala”: Who can doubt, after
subjecting them to study, that gregarious
creatures communicate by telepathy?
Watch a school of fish swimming for-
ward in a compact body. Suddenly some-
thing causes an alarm and the school
turns back, not as a mass of humans
would turn —the leaders turning, while
the rear ranks press on, only beginning
to ask what the trouble was —but as one
fish, the rear ranks turning simultaneously
with the leaders. Clearly the alarm was
transmitted instantly to every fish brain.
A school of fish, of course, has great
affinity, for all are born from the one
raft of eggs deposited by the one mother.
Thus the whole school is practically a
a twin; and even between human twins
there is considerable affinity in mental
processes. I once rigged a powerful mag-
nifying glass over an ant hole, and noticed
that scores of ants casually foraging far
afield would suddenly turn and hurry
home. Such movements were invariably
preceded by a single ant appearing at the
top of the hole with no more than its
antennae above the level of the surface.
These waved in a peculiar manner and
apparently transmitted a call to the field-
foragers that they were needed down in
the nest.
* * * *
“Billy See”: It is doubtful if any other
creature of the sea is possessed of the
same capacity for play and the sheer joy
of being alive as the porpoise. Who
hasn’t seen these sea greyhounds flying
through the water racing a ship or a
boat, apparently just for fun? And
watch them breech on a fine day. Have
seen schools of a dozen or more flinging
themselves clean out of the water to a
height of three or four feet, falling with
a splash. Watched a school the other
day on a Westralian estuary. Gorged
to repletion, they were playing with their
catch just as a cat does a mouse, flinging
the fish out of the water, then shooting
forward and catching it before it had
time to land. And the fish they were
playing with were cobbler, armed with
three poison spikes the merest stab of
which could make the toughest human
wonder if he ever before had realised the
meaning of agony
CHANT.
Tarpaulins of cloud sag down to the purple
shoulders
Of hills that cluster like swollen wme-skms
thrown
In a shadowy chaos of gum-trees and earth and
boulders. . , , ..
Opal orchids of mist spring delicately trom the
stone- ,
Strewn ridges, uncurling tremulous petals blown
In tranced glass of air and dew. The call of
Rings lost and forlorn in the amethyst halls
of dusk; . , , . „
And the bark of a dog is an iron-shod hoot
striking fire
From the faint blue metals of gloaming. Gaunt
boughs rattle
With talk as their rusty tongues stumble with
magic stories
Of bushcraft, learned when the gully was more
than a husk
Of twisted old warrior trees reliving old glories.
The wind moves down the dark hillside, passing
through briar
And echidna-spined heath clump, crushing grey
tussocks aside
To lap at the creek like an animal goaded by
thirst.
Platypus break through the chaste icy surface
to ride
So silently that the spring waters might be oil
And they a handful of uprooted grasses. The
first
Harsh bittern wakes and his clangor goes rock-
ing under
White arches of saplings, where smudges of
gum-grubs coil
Close-ringed to the wood, well hidden from
beaks that plunder
And strike with flint sharpness. The evening
star is a shallow
Nebulous glimmer, a dove-colored misty light
Set high in some hollowed niche in the western
steeple.
Darkness comes out of the bush and stands in
the paddocks
Like a man who sorrows over the graves of his
people;
And a plover cries from the broken lip of the
fallow—
“Ti-lrez ti-tree-ee, ti-tree ti-tree-ee," and it is
night.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


ms
LYS
K
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
h
m
:S»=t
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Heavier Bales.
“Murrawong”: Although the position
as regarding woolpacks is fairly satisfac-
tory at present, Calcutta is now uncom-
fortably close to the war zone and Aus-
tralian growers are warned to conserve
supplies. It has been suggested that bales
should be pressed as heavy as possible.
That will depend on fleece condition.
It is almost impossible to press poorly-
nourished, dry and wasty wool heavily.
With two-man presses a fair weight may
be put into the bales. Each is usually
well tramped, and two men on the lever
take the additional strain of the last few
strokes. In a one-man press, however,
the bale is seldom well tramped, and the
last few notches may not be taken. Light
steel presses require a lot of manipulation
to get the necessary weight into the bale.
Labor shortage and a light clip may use
more bales unless the wool is well
tramped and the press made to do its
utmost.
Use as few bale fasteners as possible.
Four are sufficient to hold the average
bale —one in the centre of the inner flaps
and three to hold the outer flaps. Some
pressers use fasteners with the abandon
of a bridesmaid scattering confetti.
Saving Time at Shearing.
“K.Mc.”: Machinery, press, pens,
yards and gates should be put in thorough
order before shearing begins.
A good mob leader fed and kept in
the shed will save a lot of time in pen-
ning up. Get him used to the noise by
feeding him in the catching pen nearest
the engine while the machinery is being
given its trial runs.
Brand some packs before shearing
starts.
Fleeces should be thoroughly skirted,
classed and pressed, but I dislike the idea
of unpicked pieces (B. 6/5/’42). Owing
to drought conditions most clips will be
lighter and growers will need every penny
they can get. If there is no time for
piece-picking remove the dags and stained
wool and put the skirtings into a spare
corner, or put them into packs and store
them in a sheep pen. Piece-picking can
then be done by the permanent hands
after cut-out.
If shed space is cramped load pressed
woo! on to a wagon and keep it covered
with a tarpaulin, or, if neither wagon nor
platform is available, put the skirtings
into packs and place them in a barn until
shearing is over.
The Cattle Tick.
“C. Punch”: It spends by far the
greater part of its life on the ground.
Mature ticks lay eggs in thousands and
the hatchings lie in wait on the grass
till a beast comes along. Dipping or
spraying the beast, properly and regu-
larly done, should dispose of every tick
it carries and thus cut off the life
cycle. A properly-managed dipping pro-
gramme, with a careful eye on incoming
beasts and a good quarantine system,
must result ultimately in clean pastures.
Fortnightly dippings are recommended.
The solution is an arsenical one and
achieves its end by first killing all ticks
on the beast; then when the beast picks
up more they are allowed to mature just
in time for the next dipping. An imma-
ture tick dropped from a beast is incap-
able of laying eggs.
This method has been a winner in the
U.S.A. Out of 985 counties originally
quarantined there for cattle tick, 973 had
been released by June, 1940, as a result
of the dipping programme. As in N. S.
Wales, the American authorities struck
a lot of opposition from cattlemen when
the campaign was begun, but as it went
on and they saw both the tick and tick
fever being reduced year by year their
opposition faded away. I’m no defender
of Government departments, but a lot of
eyewash has been put out about the N. S.
Wales Department of Agriculture’s at-
tempts to beat the tick in the north: it
must be remembered that tick has been
on the Northern Rivers for 40 years or
“Would you believe it, Mum? Strawberry didn't recognise me!”
so. Had it been left to the cattlemen
themselves to combat it heaven knows
where it would have spread by this time.
Victorian Wheats.
“Ben Cubbin”: Victorian Agricultural
Department tests have shown that Quad-
rat, a wheat bred by the department, is
likely to do well on both red and black
Wimmera soil.
The tests were conducted in a nor-
mally good season, except that rust was
prominent. Over a six-year period at
Longerenong (black soil) Quadrat out-
yielded standard varieties, beating its
parent, Ghurka, by an average of 3.1
bushels an acre. The variety has all
Ghurka’s good qualities and is slightly
taller. Baldmin and Magnet did well,
the former being a fairly early-maturer
suited for limited Wimmera sowing, the
latter a long-strawed late-maturer, heavy
yielding and good for hay. On the black
soil early-maturers like Bencubbin, Pindar
and Regalia didn’t do so well, though
they showed up better on red and mixed
soils. Wannon x Ghurka and Ghurka x
White Fife crosses showed promise, but
will have to be further tested.
On E. W. Dahlenburg’s black country
near Nhill, Quadrat again beat its parent,
and both it and Ghurka proved their
ability to resist rust in a year when the
disease was prevalent. Magnet did well
at Nhill, but Baldmin made a poor show-
ing. At Crouch Bros., Kaniva, the test
was only for a year ; but Quadrat was
on top again, though the unproved
Ghurka x White Fife cross outyielded it.
There was another black-soil test at H. O.
S. Hancock’s Donald property, over a
two-year period, and this time Ranee
4H and a Major x Ranee cross led,
although several standard varieties were
close up. There is evidence that Quadrat
and Ghurka, being later-maturers, will
prove best for the Donald country.
Red soils were chosen for tests at War-
racknabeal, Nhill and Charlton. Eleven
standards and five new crossbreds were
tried. At Warracknabeal and Charlton
the season was good; at Nhill a dry
August and rust knocked crops about.
The Ghurka x C.M.G. 5537 cross led
the field. It’s a brown-chaffed mid-season
type, its breeding and general character-
istics in the field very similar to those
of Quadrat, which, with Baldmin and
Bencubbin, led the named wheats.
Bushel averages for the two years at
Warracknabeal, Nhill and Charlton re-
spectively: Ghurka x C.M.G. 5537, 21.7,
—, 25.2 ; Quadrat, 20.6, 20.4, 25.3 ; Bald-
min, 20.3, 19.7, 26.2 ; Bencubbin, 19.2,
19.8, 25.4.
On the strength of the tests, the recom-
mendations for Wimmera black land are:
General sowing, Ghurka, Quadrat;
limited sowing. Magnet, Baldmin. Wim-
mera red land: General, Ghurka;
limited, Ranee 4H, Quadrat, Magnet,
Dundee, Baldmin and Bencubbin.
Money from Rabbits.
“Chock-and-Log”: Rabbit-skins are
worth good money, and labor shortage
may easily lead to big increases in rabbit
population, two facts worth remember-
ing. In Victoria last year some farmers
were making up to £3O a month out of
skins as a sideline.
The trade classifies the skins into about
a dozen different grades, ranging from
second kittens up to first pelts. A skin
may not be of very best quality from
a fur point of view, but if properly pre-
sented will get into top-price class, just
as a high-quality fur, badly handled, will
drop into a lower class.
Use a sharp-pointed knife for skin-
ning. Cut down inside both hind legs to
just under the tail. Then use the fingers
and ease it off the hind legs as far to
the toes as possible—long legs make it
easy to tie the skin on the bow —then
sleeve it off the carcass, turning it inside
out as you go. Pull the front legs out
and cut just behind the ears. Look out
for rips at the navel and front legs. Don’t
skin heads or ears.
No. 8 wire is best for bows, galvanised
if it can be had. Make sure the wire is
straight. Cut it in 3ft. lengths and bend
as though to double it, leaving the ends
about a foot apart. A full-grown skin,
well stretched, should be about 16in. long
and 6iin. wide. You’ll need smaller bows
for half-grown and kitten skins. The
old way was to tie the hind legs across
the spread of the wire ; the new is to
stretch with the middle of the back on
one leg of the wire and the middle of the
belly on the other leg, then tie the hind
legs at one end of the wire.
Dry the skins in the shade where they 'll
be safe from damp, cats, dogs, mice, etc.
When they’re thoroughly dry, store them
in a dry and safe place. To stop weevils
mix lib. of sodium arsenate in 4gal. of
water and spray or paint on the exposed
surface. Keep the dope safe from animals
or children ; it’s poisonous. If weevils
happen to get into a pack, put it in an
airtight container with an open bottle
of carbon disulphide. One of the best
ways to beat weevils is to sell the skins
as soon as possible. Frequent selling
means good prices because long-stored
skins get a stale look and buyers don't
like them. Pick a reputable agent.
Don’t forget, either, the carcasses make
good feed for pigs and poultry.
Cottonseed-meal.
“Mackay”: In early winter young
stock need more protein. If the natural
feed lacks it, wheatmeal or barley-meal
—both of which are low in protein and
high in carbohydrates—will not give best
results no matter how cheap they be.
Queensland farmers will find cotton-
seed-meal —the 30 p.c. protein grade —
good for most animals, especially dairy
cattle. The protein content is of good
quality, easily digested and palat-
able. Cottonseed meal goes well
with pollard, wheat, maize, barley
and other meals lower in protein
content.
Pigs and sheep have been shown
to do well on cottonseed, but try it
on a small scale first.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”: Molasses mixed with stock
licks gives them an appetising flavor. It
also renders certain kinds of fodder
attractive. It may be bought in solid
form for use as a stock lick. Sprinkled
on green herbage like cowpeas, it will
destroy poisonous acids. Very thick
molasses is difficult to handle; dilute it
by adding clean water gradually while
stirring. Keep it in a strong vessel.
“Goulburn”: Cows with short teats
take longer to milk and usually need an
expert. If not stripped out properly there
is danger of mammitis. Extra effort is
required, and similar risks exist when
the udder is pendulous and close to the
ground and when the muscles surround-
ing the teats are firm. Concentrate on
cows with teats of good length and udders
high enough that the top rim of the
bucket, between the knees of the milker,
is lower than the teats.
“Ninety-Nine”: Feeding is often the
cause of failure of an otherwise healthy
cow to conceive. Cows should not be
too fat; if on rich pasture change to
poorer. Dissolve 2oz. of iodide of potash
in a quart of water and give a table-
spoonful of the solution in a little
damped feed twice daily. Repeat if neces-
sary. If a thorough examination by a
qualified vet. fails to discover the cause
try douching a few hours before service


WAtneve* fAe fauvees
m.
m.
...kike NAVY
...inlL ARMY
m me
THERE IS AN
AIR FORCE
Olympic
W PRODUC I
The Olympic Tyre & Rubber Co. Ltd.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, lIENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
FULLY GUARANTEED AS TO LONGEVITY, EFFICIENCY AND MECHANISM.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF. AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN,
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine, and automatically runs off into
w
an underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
THERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT
Approved by the Board of Health—over 3000 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co.Pty. Ltd . Telephone 81032.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.b. SYDNEY, including 10% Sales Tax.
Plus 20/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
Obtainable direct, or from all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States,
w
CRAVEN A
tmei varied- ikeyri,,
always smctiffarif!
10 for lid. 20 for I'lo
m
m
w
4*
E 1867
MADE SPECIA LLY TO P R E V E N.T SORE, T H R
with a warm solution of bicarbonate of
soda, a tablespoon to a pint of water.
A pink solution of permanganate of
potash is sometimes useful.
“Barolin”: Swine pneumonia is very
prevalent among young pigs, is contagious
and spreads rapidly under bad hygienic
conditions. There is no serum and medi-
cine has little effect. Good hygienic con-
ditions and clean, dry sties are the best
preventives. Pigs over two months old
do not usually contract the disease.
“Sailor Bill”: In moist spots along
stream banks elephant grass grows 12ft.
to 14ft. high and provides excellent
growth for chaff-making. Plant cuttings
or roots 4ft. apart. It will grow for years.
Cowcane and Para grass mix well with
the elephant.
“Plane Creek”: Rock- and water-
melons thrive best in light sandy loams,
but do well in any fair, well-watered soil.
Bring the soil to a fine tilth, then dig
saucer-shaped depressions at intervals.
Six seeds are sufficient per hill, and only
the four best seedlings should be left.
About 31b. of rockmelon seed will sow
an acre. Well-tried varieties are Netted
Gem, Fordhook, Hales Best and Benders
Surprise. Of watermelons, Kleckley
Sweet, Ice Cream, Tom Watson and Irish
Grey are best; use four and a half
pounds of seed to the acre.
“B.”; The sweet potato is easily
grown. From planting to harvesting is
about three months and the crop should
mature before the frosts. Mulch a bed
of good friable soil. Planted with about
50 selected tubers it will provide thou-
sands of cuttings. Then work the crop
area and set up ridges 3ft. apart. Ter-
minal cuttings give best results. Cut
them 12in. to 15in. long and plant about
6in. deep and 24in. apart. A good crop
will yield 20 tons to the acre.
“Sailor Bill”: Make sure there aren’t
any common guava trees near the citrus
orchard. Around Mackay and Sarina
(Q.) millions of half-grown citrus fruits
have fallen this season, all bearing signs
of fruit-fly attack. Between two and
three months ago a splendid crop of
guavas ripened, and it is noticeable that
whenever there’s a big crop of guavas the
citrus crop that matures shortly after-
wards is practically wiped out by fruit-
fly. The useless guava will thrive almost
anywhere, and its fruit provides an excel-
lent breeding place for fruit-flies, while
the tree itself overruns good land.
Outback Occasions.
No. 37.
SEEDING TIME (2).
One of the most important things
about seeding is to get the wheat
in as quickly as possible. This is
because you have worked the seed-
bed into the right state, with the
right amount of moisture in it and
the mulch lying, warm and shallow, on
the top. If -you take too long over the
seeding the seedbed may dry out, or rain
may come and swamp the paddock, or
there might be some hot sunny days and
then a strong wind to blow the fine soil
away. Obviously, once seeding begins it
should go with a rush.
This necessity to rush has some strange
sequels or results or effects or whatever
you choose to call ’em. The year we
set out to put the big crop in Father got
the idea that it would save time if we
pulled the wire out of the subdivision
fences and just went straight through the
paddocks with the drills from one end
to the other, cutting out headlands except
on the boundaries. After the seeding we
ran the wires back in, strained ’em up
and waited for the big crop. It came,
fence-high, and because the headlands
were more or less virgin soil the crop was
a foot higher along the fences than any-
where else. We couldn’t get at it with
the binder and the header wouldn’t look
at it, so we had to pull all the wires out
again and cut along the fence lines with
scythes.
Harvesting is like seeding, you can’t
waste time over it; so we had to get the
main crop off first and then tackle the
jungle along the fences afterwards. By
that time, of course, most of the heads
had shattered and we found ourselves
cutting straw. We got rid of it, and when
Father counted the time and trouble he
decided never to do such a thing again.
But the following year all the self-sown
wheat came up along the fences as high
as ever, and we had to go through the
same performance. Next time you strike
Father you want to suggest cutting out
headlands to him as a time-saver. It'll
show you how wild a man can get.
There was the first time Father ever
used a tractor. He’d driven a car, of
course, and he believed it ought to be
just as easy to drive a tractor. So it is,
but you have to keep remembering that
you are driving a tractor.
You see, he’d always driven the drill
team with old Kitch in the furrow.
Kitch was the sort of farm horse that
knew almost as much about farm work
as the farmer. Father had reins, but sel-
dom used them when Kitch was in the
furrow, merely announcing to Kitch, in
a conversational sort of way, what ought
to be done and Kitch would do it.
Well, Father started off with the trac-
tor, standing on the drill board and work-
ing the controls with extension levers.
He got along all right, with only minor
mishaps here and there, until about four
o’clock that afternoon. He was going
down the long slope in the big wheat
paddock when the drill tynes hit an old
stump that had worked its way to the
surface or had had the surface worked
down to it? As soon as the drill jerked
Father said “Whoa, Kitch,” and from
force of habit jumped off the drill and
made for the offside float.
But when he got there the drill wasn’t
there. He’d heard something snap and
seen a duck-foot fly in the air, but it
wasn’t till he jumped round in surprise
that he realised Kitch hadn’t stopped.
Then he recollected himself and made
after that tractor, which had snorted on
down the slope and was beginning to
veer since Father’s hand had left the
wheel control. Father flew after the
outfit, took a running jump at the drill
footboard, missed with his feet but landed
on it with his nose.
Through blood and tears he saw the
tractor go merrily on, got up and raced
after it again. He was so upset and his
face so sore and his natural excitement
so high that he twisted the throttle lever
the wrong way and the tractor gave an
astonished leap, breaking the drawbar and
leaving Father with the drill while it
rolled on at a fast pace. Father left
the drill and set off in pursuit.
He was fifty yards behind when it hit
the fence. He passed through what was
left of the fence twenty-seven yards
behind, but dropped back in the race
down the creek bank and lost ground
again when the tractor surged through
the water and gravel and up the other
bank. He was making up ground but
blowing hard when the thing hit a log,
careened, all but fell on its side, righted
itself and charged down the bank again
straight at Father. Father let out a yell
and side-stepped, then took after it again,
but it gained on the down slope, again
threw mud and water everywhere and
was well up the bank and on the way back
to the drill before Father got out of the
hole in the creek into which he’d stepped.
By this time the roaring of the engine
and Father’s yells had attracted our atten-
tion, and Mother and we boys and all
our seven dogs went racing up the pad-
dock. Mother danced and held out her
arms and said “Shoo!” at the tractor,
which ignored her and snorted up the
fallow. We boys overtook it, but we
were very young then, and though we
ran beside it and one of us got into the
seat and all the dogs barked and tried
to bite the wheels, we didn’t know how
to stop the thing.
But our brother got hold of the wheel
and steered it round in circles and yelled,
a Ji i on back and yelled, and
all the dogs yelled, and Mother yelled
and Father came up and tried to yell
but was out of breath and sat down, ail
blood irom his nose and water and mud
from the creek. Then he got his breath
and ran beside the tractor and switched
it off. so that it stopped dead and threw
our brother off the seat on to the hot
bonnet and burnt his hands and I, still
running, crashed into the shackle-bolt
and barked my shins. After that we all
went home and got bandaged, while
Mother made some tea and Father called
the horses up.


0
Clear Road
for
Transport
UNNECESSARY breaks in
the flow of essential traffic
hinder your contribution to
the war effort.
Vehicles spare parts
time labour are too
precious to be w’asted in put-
ting things right that should
not have gone tvrong.
You, if you are a transport
man, can do much to keep a
clear road for every consign-
ment passing through your
hands. Your foresight can
prevent waste of time and
labour and spare parts.
At regular intervals, put your
car or truck in your General
Motor Dealer’s hands for free
inspection and report, which
may save you much.
In peacetime, the 600 Gene-
ral Motors Dealers equipped
themselves with inspection,
servicing and repair plant and
methods of the most modern
kind in the world. Let their
facilities serve you and,
through you, serve the nation.
If you are changing to gas
producer operation, see your
General Motors Dealer about
a “ Nasco ” unit.
MAKE EVERY PAY-DAY A WAR SAVINGS DAY.
General Motors
Dealer
BEDFORD — BVICK —CADILLAC
CM.C.—OLDS-
MOBILE—PONTIAC - VAVXHALL
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN'S L
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide
MITED
- Perth
GMHS-15
85,000 NEW HAIRS
GROWN!
THE ageing effect of baldness
upon one’s appearance could
not be more strikingly depicted
than in these x>ictures.
1500 TRIAL
TREATMENTS
for
Distribution
Test It Yourself
NOW you can test it your-
self try this famous
treatment in your own home
—under any conditions you
like, and if it doesn’t grow
new hair, rid you of dan-
druff or any other hair
troubles you suffer from
within 30 days, it COSTS
YOU NOTHING!—not one
penny! But you must
hurry: this offer may never
be repeated. It places you
under no obligation; all
you have to do is to post
that coupon NOW!
WHAT MURCHISON
DISCOVERED ABOUT
HAIR
fT does not matter if your hair is falling
H out, if you are fast going bald —or
what you have tried. You have not used
the RIGHT method. Hundreds of people
who had tried all kinds of “tonics” found
their hair falling out in handfuls, and
were fast going bald. But now their hair
is thick and lustrous —thanks to the im-
portant discovery that —
TONICS WILL NEVER
GROW HAIR
THEY never have —because it is impos-
sible while the scalp remains in a
choked condition. There is one under-
lying principle that stimulates New Hair
Growth —that principle is involved in the
New Murchison Treatment. It’s a new
way entirely different and successful.
It approaches baldness, falling hair, etc.,
from a new angle. With it you can stop
vour hair troubles overnight, or it won’t
cost you one penny! POST COUPON
AT ONCE!
w “HAIR GROWING LIKE
WILDFIRE”
“f CODED have told you after one appli-
_ cation that your treatment would cer-
tainly grow hair. It has completely changed
the color of my hair; it has turned it from
its dr>% dead, straw-looking color back to
its original shade of brown, and now, after
about three weeks’ use, I have a lot of
new hair growing all over my head. It’s
growing like wildfire. I mention that I
never gave your treatment a very fair go
either.”—E. J. REYNOLDS, M.
(END NO MONEY
J. KELSO MURCHISON,
DEPT. 94, WAYNE HOUSE,
CLARENCE ST„ SYDNEY,
NAME
ADDRESS
(Enclose 3d. in stamps.) 27/5/’42
Our Service Department
Want.
ŵ
badge is a red St. George’s cross in a white
circle; in the centre of the cross a lion passant
gardant, gold, and at the end of each limb of
the cross an eight-pointed gold star. Victoria:
On the upper part of a blue circular field an
imperial crown proper; below this the Southern
Cross, consisting of two stars of seven points
each, one of six, one of five and one of eight.
Queensland: A white circle containing a blue
Maltese cross, bearing in its centre an imperial
crown proper. S.A.: The rising sun or (golden),
with thereon an Australian piping shrike dis-
played proper (represented in its natural color),
and standing on a staff of gum-tree raguly
gules (red) and vert (green). Westralia: A
golden circle with a swan naiant (swimming) to
the sinister (left), sable (black). Tasmania: A
red lion passant (walking) in a white circle.
* * * *
When was the German National-Socialist
movement founded ?
It dates back as far as 1912, when an organisa-
tion called the National-Socialist Labor party
was set up at Carlsbad by a group of nationalist
Sudeten-Germans. It founded a branch in
Vienna but gained no importance. No connec-
tion between this first National-Socialist party
and Hitler has been traced. Hitler’s party was
founded by a German worker named Drexler
at Munich in 1919, under the name of German
Labor party, out of a “Workers’ Committee”
put up during the war by the German Father-
land party of Admiral Tirpitz. The party re-
mained a small affair, assembling in the back
room of a Munich inn, until Hitler joined it as
member No. 7 and assumed leadership. He
renamed it the National-Socialist German Labor
party and quickly enlarged it by efficient propa-
ganda.
* * * *
What are the tonnage and dimensions of
the Normandie, Queen Mary, Bremen, Rex,
Europa and Aquitania?
These figures are from The World Almanac,
1940:
Reg. Length, Breadth, Depth,
Tonnage, ft. in. ft. in. ft. in.
Normandie ..83,423 981 4 117 9 57 "6
Queen Mary .. 81,235 975 2 118 6 68 5
Bremen .. 51,731 898 7 101 9 48 2
Rex .. ..51,062 879 9 97 0 30 7
Europa .. 49,746 890 2 102 1 48 0
Aquitania .. 44,786 868 7 97 0 49 7
* ❖
Method of making fine-kindlers from sawdust ?
Melt one pound of resin, add two ounces of
tallow and blend while hot (do not boil). Stir
in enough sawdust to thicken. While the mix-
ture is still hot spread in one-inch layer on
boards strewn with dry sawdust, mark deeply
into squares and leave to set. Break into lumps
and store in tins in a dry place.
Whence comes the word ‘'zing," so glibly
used nowadays? I cannot find any mention
of it in the latest dictionaries.
In 1938 Hollywood picture-magazines be-
?h^‘v™ P ™ Americaii.mbUe, and since
. must l iave Zl . n g has become a
s ‘°| a n;- I , see “ s to be a mixtu f of ‘ pep’’ Jt
Ztt -p F ° r exa^Ple ’. lf downhearted you
? g „\£ y ° U rCSt lt . g f f VeS yoU Z : ng li yOU
with r, JrJf' VeS u ng V l . you T eat PE.hchokes
vi P /£ y fu A b f Utter , (actress Jo * n Crawford
s for this) it packs you with zing.
.... * *
When did Alexander the Great invade India ?
Particulars ?
He crossed the Hindu Kush in 325 b.c. and cap-
tured Aornos on the Upper Indus. In the spring
of 326 he crossed the river at Ohind, received
the submission of the King of Taxila and
marched against Porus, who ruled the fertile
country between the rivers Hydaspes (Jhelum)
and Akesines (Chenab). He carried all be-
fore him, defeating Porus at the battle of the
Hydaspes and crossing the Chenab and Ravi.
But at the River Hyphasis (Bias) his weary
troops mutinied and Alexander was forced to
turn back. He stayed 19 months in India and left
behind him officers to carry on the government
ot the kingdoms he had conquered, but his
pu a } babylon , m 323 destroyed the frujts
ot what has to be regarded as nothing but a
brilliant raid Within two years his successors
were obliged to leave the Indian provinces,
heavily scarred by war but not Hellenised.”
* * * *
A few personal details about Inigo Jones,
Queensland weather prophet?
Inigo Jones, son of Owen Jones, civil engineer,
born Croydon (Eng.), Dec. 1, 1872; arrived
Australia in 1874. Educated Brisbane Grammar
School and Brisbane Technical College; entered
Queensland Weather Bureau under late Clement
Wragge; has been president of many historical
and astronomical societies; opened Bureau of
Seasonal Forecasting under Q’land Council of
Agriculture. At present Director Cromanhurst
saS-TUSa frtoSTciidrss-s
n’lmri npiutmnprfV ° rtS ; laclude stones m
1932; Observatory Papers No. 1-10.
* * * *
I have a lot of chrysanthemum plants from
which the blooms have just been picked and the
plots are required for vegetable growing. What
is the best way to keep the chrysanthemum
roots ?
Cut off stems to 6in. from the ground, label
each stump with variety and color, then trans-
plant the old stools to a corner and cover them
lightly with soil. In July plant the strongest
rooted suckers in rows 6in. apart (again label-
ling them) against a fence with a northerly
aspect. These will grow sturdy and be ready
for lifting to open beds in October. An occa-
sional watering will assist new growth and pro-
duce strong plants. Make regular inspection
for rust (controlled by spraying with lime-
sulphur) and dust occasionally with lime to
check pests. Any plots where chrysanthemums
were grown should be well limed before being
used for vegetables.
* * * *
Recipe for making a good mild soap?
A good soap can be made by following the
instructions on any lib. tin of caustic soda,
The main requisite is pure fat, clarified by boil-
ing. Here is another good recipe: Boil together
for two hours four gallons (one kero .-tin) of
water, six pounds of washing soda and three
pounds of lime. Leave till cold and strain. To
the residue add three tablespoons of borax,
Hlb. resin and s|lb. of clarified fat. Stir well
and boil for two hours, stirring constantly,
Pour into boxes lined with clean rag or hessian
and cut into bars or cakes when cold.
* * * *
Diet for a Scots terrier pup from two months
old ?
At two months the pup should have four
meals daily at regular intervals—say 8 a.m.,
noon, 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. The first and third
meals may consist of yolk of egg and crushed
wholemeal dog biscuit; the noon meal may be
Letter received from the Pharmacy
Board of Victoria:—
The attention of the board has been
directed to a “Recipe for a rat poison
that is not dangerous to leave around.”
Barium carbonate, which is recommended
for the preparation of the rat bait, is a
poisonous substance, asid baits prepared
in the manner described would, in the
opinion of the board, be poisonous
and highly dangerous in the hands of
children.
ẁ


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
Missing Friends.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of
JAMES THOMAS SHATWELL, formerly of
Bunbury and Fremantle, Western Australia,
or who has seen him or any person answering
his description, which appears hereunder, since
August, 1940, please communicate with the
undermentioned Company?
Description: Age 60 (but looks older), height
sft. 9in., weight about 12 stone, well built,
broad-shouldered, grey hair, bald on top, grey,
thick eyebrows, high forehead, blue eyes, thin
lips, full set of false teeth, short lingers, round
chin, long face, fair complexion, clean-shaven,
war wounds on left side of stomach and middle
of back, formerly a railway guard, and last
seen in railway guard’s uniform, suffered from
neurasthenia.—The PERPETUAL EXECU-
TORS, TRUSTEES & AGENCY COMPANY,
LIMITED, corner St. George’s Terrace and
Howard Street, Perth, Western Australia.
ANYONE knowing whereabouts of following
children of HELEN McDONALD, who died
1921, please communicate EQUITY TRUSTEES,
472 Bourke Street —MRS. DOROTHEA BAS-
SETT GRIFFITHS, HELEN, ALICE, ALEX-
ANDER, david McDonald.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY JAMES MOATE late of Rand-
wick—TAKE NOTICE that SELMA MOATE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 872 of
1942 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards.
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance before the Fourteenth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and forty-two and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
WALKER GIBBS & COOK Solicitors for Peti-
tioner 17 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
STAMPS
100 New Zeal amis, all different */-
100 Australians, all different 4/'-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. .Retail and
Air lists—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. <Bst. 56 Years.)
SADDLERY OF QUALITY!
No. 163,
"TUMBA"
“PRIDE OF THE ROAD.”
£ll/8/6
(COMPLETE)
A high-grade
Saddle with
narrowest
possible grip
and comfort-
ab 1 e no n-
chafing seat.
First- class
materials used
throughout.
☆
N.S. W. Freight on
Saddles Paid for
Cash with Order.
WALTHER <t STEVENSON C?
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
ADVICE TO MOTHERS
Mothers—if your children are constipated
give them relief this simple, pleasant way!
To-night give them NYAL FIGSEN, the
gentle, natural laxative; No need to coax
or scold ... Figsen is easy and pleasant to
take. It won’t upset little tummies. In the
morning Figsen acts... gently, thoroughly
and effectively. No griping pain,no nausea;
just an easy, comfortable action. NYAL
FIGSEN is just as good for adults as it is
for youngsters. Sold by chemists every-
where. _ l/3i a tin.
The next best thing to Nature . . .
NyesSFigsen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
n
Si
I
'HoU S
n
0
o*
r e%
t© s
o© s
Y©
d\"
WN
Y©®
Cl*
t©
c©*'
Y©©^
\\Y®
e'**
f*?s
Yn
Y© ct
Y©®''
d© s
Ml©
V©
\>©y
Y©
Y©©'
Y©
* C V©*
Y®
d%
cd*
d©V
Mi© v
tv<*®
©Y'
«v 3
©©
ss®
©®
\o<
©Y©
sY
op
f©®
v©©
©©i
M®'
t® s .
c©
©t
©® S
©©
t©©
a© c
c©
Ml©
c©'
o*
Ml©'
t©°
\o©
te©
o©*
©Y*
©'V
C Y\©®
d®**
M<>*'
t©®
a©*
t© c
©Vf®
d©
Vt©
©Y
Yv©©
*Yt©
M»°'
t©
t-CH
t© e
Y©©'
Y© c
Y©®
c<Y
©Y©
\c*
©\s°
Vo©
\M®
o\
Y' c
M® S
o'*
©©' C
©t
t® s
Y©
t«
t©°
Y©°!i
Y«©
e<\®'
d© c ®
tv©®
©©«
t® s
\©
©n
r©
Y©©'
Y©t'
c©3©
vY*
o©
d© c ®YotS
fft c
t©f
M©t
YtN
c©©
f©
c©
©C
©©Y®
d© s
Y©°
sY
d Y°
Y©
\©
t©©
Y©®
©A
ic©
©t®
Ml'
W©"
c®
©Y
c©
©©
G®
VYN
v®
Yt©
Y®
Yt©
Y®^ v
c©
s
©'
©\t®
c©
Y©©'
©
Yt'
t©<\
t©
cY
d©*
t©©
tY
d©
*Y
Y©®
v©
t©
©c
©©
Y©®
Y©®
s©®
s©'
©©H
M®'
©©'
t©f
©© s
oj©©'®
Y©®
c©
Y®t
\©
Y©®
©t©
r‘\® s
Yd*'"}!
\© c ®
cY©
Y®t
Y©T
Y©
t© c
re©
O t
ft'
Y©®
cY
Ml
©<3r
e®
d©
Y©'
Y©'©
Of©
Y©t°
\©© s
vt®
©t'
fct©V
*©© 5
©*
Y©®
Y©«
fot
\\© c
*S£&
Y©'
©Y
Yt©
d©
t©
%
©Y
*©
©'
ecmco
E. T. C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. AND REN WICK ST., MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
published. You may be able to get a copy from
the Secretary, Department of Commerce, or the
secretary, Central Wool Committee, Melbourne.
... . M.McL.: (1) Sorry, no record of the place;
a few more details might facilitate a search. (2)
Born in Sydney and is the son of J. K. A.
Bracken, of Kilmallock, Eire... .J.N.S.: Eczema
is caused by improper feeding and/or worms.
External signs are only symptoms, not the com-
plaint, and to effect a proper cure the cause
must be found and eradicated. External treat-
ment is only suppressive. Get in touch with
David Moore, 16 Bridge-street, Sydney.,...
T.C.: For dog biscuits stew some steak until it
can be shredded and mix with wholemeal flour,
using the liquor to blend. Shape and bake.
Break small for puppies... .E.T.P.: For cork
supports for fallen arches, write to the manager,
Farleigh Nettheim, Kippax-street, Sydney
W.D.C.: Th t Commonwealth Year-Book records
that “the collapse in the price of wheat which
occurred between 1928 and 1931 was chiefly
due to the accumulation of stocks .in exporting
countries”... .D.H.N.: Archer (9.7) won the
Melbourne Cup in 1861 and again (10.2) in 1862.
. ...T.8.: Write to the Department of the In-
terior, Canberra R.F.: I.W.W. stands for
“Industrial Workers of the World”- —a radical
movement in American labor... .R.D.; N. S.
Wales Railways Commissioner Hartigan was
born at Sydney on December 8, 1877, and joined
the railways as a junior clerk in January, 1892.
. ...RF.L.: The Council for Scientific and In-
dustrial Research, Melbourne, may be able to
help you... .8.F.J.: For information regarding
the use of “Cyanogas,” write to the S.A.
Farmers’ Co-op. Union, 36 Franklin-street,
Adelaide... .G.P.T.; It is a method of illumi-
nating lighthouses by a central lamp which
transmits light through a series of refracting
lenses... .G. 8.; No, the Amazons were sup-
posed to have lived in Asia Minor.. . .R.8.D.:
The Mines Department in your State is the
best place to apply J. 8.; On information
given you are eligible only for the British War
Medal (General Service Medal). Suggest you
apply direct to Officer-in-Charge, Base Records,
Canberra, A.C.T.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will he
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should he addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
A.S.;
“Lest we forget.”
And we did not forget
For twenty-seven long years.
Then the representatives of the people
Saw fit to forget in a dastardly way,
Which angered the nation.
By their infamous procession on May Day.
J.D.:
“The Fiihrer is here!” be haughtily cried;
And at that Satan’s wrath erupted.
“Get back to your gutter, you bloodstained dog,
I will not have Hell corrupted.”
Goodwill:
Ye world of ours with all your powers
What might we not have been?
We have grovelled in dust and cankerous rust
Till we’re due for a great spring-clean,
.., .M.C.: “Jarred vocal discords, rpugh-hurled
words”... .L.H.; Your Muse, too, is a “fickle
jade” M.A.K.: If it were all as good as
the last line G.S.P.: Try it on the lady
R.8.H.: Waaafs will probably love you for
it, but it’s a frightful bit of doggerel E.C.:
Turgid P.F.D.: If that’s what blackout
trains do to you, take a bus, walk, or don’t
travel L.H.P.: Room for one devastating
couplet:
A farmer’s loud voice is heard but faintly.
What he calls to his team is not saintly.
... ..C.J.: Swings along pleasantly, but says
nothing new....5.M.: Mild... .H.H.H.; You
don’t work on them hard enough D.W.M.:
First part’s promising, but the race is too far
from possibility C.R.H.: Better had you
bided in peace D.J.S.: “I’ll have a vet. to
tend their galls.” Get him as soon as possible.
. ...M.H.: Might score elsewhere... .R.P.:
“Return, my love; return, return!” Don’t
worry; she’s coming J.P.W.; Very nearly.
. ...W.S.H.; Try something a little less lurid.
R.C.: Too much capital about The Big
Business Man... .H.E.T.: Futile D.D.S.:
Not up G.P.; “His Pigeon” isn’t ours
M.E.E.; Only our sincerest sympathy for
“Ruth”... .M.R.T.: Fantastic.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.C.D.: It will haunt us for months....
P.L.: Did you pose your models behind an arti-
ficial fog? ... .L.D.N.: “Could you point out
where 1 have gone wrong?” Sorry. Rationing!
. ...S.L.M.: A couple of full-moon faces in a
swirling sea of lines and a tattered jest....
H.8.G.: Child in pigtails has bust like an old-
time grand-opera soprano’s and is leaning
against nothing at an angle of 30deg
S.J.M.: Your linework? Well, you are a
born tennis-court-marker... .Winnie M.: Cheers
for the first unicorn to have been bridled and
saddled! R.F.: Most distinguished part of
drawing is coat-cuffs with clothespegs stuck out
from them D.T.E.: Decorative, but they
lack the sparkle and humor... .V.M.: Flour-
bag looks like a Solomon Islander and talks
like a half-shot Tibetan E.H.C.; The letter-
ing was quite neat... .M.0.C.: The bullocky
curses fluently enough, but they aren’t bullocks
he is punching along Horace: It would be
as well, Horace, to keep your eye on the paper
occasionally while you splash the ink around.
... .W.M.D.: You might find Indian ink better
than molasses; try it. But don’t use the file-
handle tied with rag again.


m
n i
Since 1858IFDOWICIS
have provided Australian Industry
with the finest leather belting.
★ power
TRANSMISSION
ENGINEERS
Ludowiei’s engineering work-
shop — largest of its kind in
Australia—produces a com-
plete range of Transmission
Equipment.
tiatt&wtiaiiid
The quality of Pioneer Leather Belting is the result of years of con-
tinuous specialisation in tanning and belt making. Constant chemical
control of raw materials and tanning processes, routine inspection of
every stage of manufacture, ensure that uniform quality essential for
long term dependability.
Not only our Tannery and Belt-making Factories, but our Engineering Plant is the
largest of its kind in Australia producing Pivot and Torque Drives, V Belt Drives,
Pulleys, Bearings, Shaftings, a complete line of Power Transmission Equipment.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET (NEAR MARKET STREET), SYDNEY
20-26 QUEENS BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, under-
stand that all such fatal diseases as
Fistula, Ulcer of the Rectum, Fis-
sure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will
learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance
of this trouble. DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is unequalled for every form
of Piles—Bleeding, Itching, Pro-
truding, and Blind Piles, and hun-
dreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective
remedy right from the start, be-
cause at such times a single tin
has often effected a cure, while in
the old deep-seated, chronic cases,
several tins are sometimes neces-
sary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing,
antiseptic and soothing. That is
why it is equally successful in over-
coming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get
DOAN’S,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
' Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.f
£,£,£,£ £
1935.. 124,100 49,359 25,162 49,579 764,497
Reserves drawn upon, £530 .. 763,967
1936.. 131,213 50,138 25,210 55,865 819,832
Profit sale assets, £3589 . . 823,421
1937. . 140,468 48,753 24,729 66,986 890,407
Reserves drawn upon, £262 . . 890,145
1938.. 149,312 51,214 22,599 75,499 965,644
1939.. 160,077 62,299 21,540 76,238 1,041,882
1940. . 152,653 73,520 22,533 1 „ flnn .. , fio
To tax reserve, £lOOO j 55,600 1,097,482
1941.. 155,876 79,197 22,442 54.237 1,151,719
* Includes divs. to shareholders : 1934-35, £5OOO ;
1936, £5500; 1937, £5000'; 1938-39, £2708 ;
1940-41, £2917.
t Apart from capital and tax reserve.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.f
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 185,054 55,484 80,974 48,596 690,779
Reserves drawn upon, £470 .. 690,309
1936.. 197,045 57,571 83,841 55,633 745,942
Profit sale assets, £3201 .. .. 749,143
1937.. 212,338 60,719 87,834 63,785 812,928
Reserves drawn upon, £238 .. 812,690
1938.. 227,462 65,096 86,381 75,985 888,675
1939.. 238,067 76,590 84,343 77,134 965,809
1940.. 253,750 88,130 86,631 1 , QO - OQa
To tax reserve, £2500 J 76,489 1,042,298
1941.. 262,563 94,016 86,161 82,386 1,124,684
* Includes divs. to shareholders: 1926-35, £7500 ;
1936, £7OOO ; 1937-38, £7500; 1939-41, £5OOO.
f Apart from capital and tax reserve.
The position has been greatly stiffened
since war brought its uncertain problems,
the expectation of future interest-earning
having been placed on a 2\ p.c. basis in
the Ordinary branch and on a 3 p.c. one
in the Industrial section, and the
provision for contingencies reinforced in
other ways. Partly because of this, O.D.
bonuses were affected last year, while
shareholders also had their div. reduced
from 3s. 2d. to 2s. per share. Another
cause has been the falling interest return
common to all offices following the dis-
appearance of a free investment market
and the enormous war-time financial
needs of the Commonwealth. Surpluses
from this source will continue to con-
tract, too, and so may the difference be-
tween the co.’s actual experience and
valuation allowances for future mortality
and exes., the two other main avenues of
bonuses. O.D. profits belong 10 p.c. to
shareholders and 90 p.c. to policy-
holders, whose interests are placed well
in the foreground.
Whatever lies ahead, the Metropolitan,
thanks to solid underpinning during the
last decade, is well equipped to face it.
Along with other Australian offices, the
management continues to issue war-risk
cover in Australia at the normal rates of
premium, though how long this generosity
can continue circumstance alone will de-
termine. Altogether, new business put
on the books last year reached £748,887
(up £13,567) —£234,751 (unchanged) in the
O.D. and £514,136 in the 1.D., where the
average amount of policy was 6 p.c.
higher.
In both departments combined income
expanded from £406,402 to £418,439 —
£325,741 (up £8540) in respect of pre-
miums, etc., and £92,698 net (up £3497)
from investments. After meeting the
year’s exes, and claims —those by death
were £8223 heavier —the addition to
funds was £136,623, or 32.6 p.c. of re-
ceipts. The life funds now run to
£2,182,111, supporting which there is
£100,290 of other reserves and the
£50,000 of share capital.
Not the least encouraging feature is
the close watch being kept on outgoings.
Leaving divs. and taxes out of account,
and reckoning annuities cost 3 p.c.,
they swallowed 16.9 p.c. of O.D. pre-
miums and 37 p.c. in the 1.D., as
against 16.7 p.c, and 38.3 p.c. respec-
tively for 1940.
Assets are of the right stuff:
1940. p.c. 1941. p.c.
Freeholds, etc. ..£268,803 12.1 £268,649 11.4
Govt, securities .. 1,399,737 63.2 1,531,846 65.1
Shares other cos. .. 35,381 1.6 37,663 1.6
Mortgages . . . . 298,695 13.5 302,891 12.9
Loans on policies .. 140,774 6.4 145,439 6.2
Book debts .. . . 55,083 2.5 54,834 2.3
Cash .. .. 15,129 0.7 12,212 0.5
Deducting taxes, the lot earned a healthy
4.37 p.c. on the mean assurance funds
for the term just passed, against 4.45 p.c.
and 4.63 p.c. for the two years before.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
r- Dividends N Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931 .. 25,911 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 25,028 883 125,043
1932 .. 18,037 7.6„ 7 „ 17,717 320 125,363
1933 .. 25,354 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 327 125,690
Plate-glass reserve taken in, £458 .. 126,148
1934 .. 25,515 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 25,027 488 126,636
1935 . . 30,193 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 5,166 131,802
Share premiums, £12,556 .. .. 144,358
1936 .. 34,276 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 26,082 8,194 152,552
1937 .. 34,940 8 „ 10 „ 30,000 4,940 157,492
1938 .. 42,265 8 „ 10 „ 30,072 12,193 169,685
1939 .. 53,104 8 „ 12^-„ 37,390 15,714 185,399
1940 .. 53,788 8 „ 121 „ 37,391 16,397 201,796
1941 .. 58,286 8 „ 15 ~ 44,70913,577 215,373
Staff fund inaugurated, £lO,OOO.
1942 . . 41,423 8 p.c. 121 p.c. 37,390 4,033 219,406
Minister for War Organisation Dedman’s
announcement of the Government’s in-
tention to extend rationing to clothes,
this to be preceded by a 25 p.c. cut in
clothing sales, was a plain invitation to
indulge in the anti-social practice of
hoarding that was readily accepted. Thus
ration-dodgers with time and money to
spare benefited at the expense of workers
whose hours of toil prevented them get-
ting a fair share of whatever the shops
had to offer, and the Minister partly de-
feated the Government’s object, which
could have been better achieved by
adopting procedure similar to that which
ushers in tariff changes.
With the big increases in war demands
that have taken place, consumption is no
longer a matter of individual choice, and
Governments all over the world have
taken steps, of which rationing is one,
to direct resources to war purposes
and/or to assure equitable distribution of
consumers’ goods. The need for clothing
rationing locally arose from rapidly ex-
panding requirements of the fighting and
auxiliary services and the fact that, de-
spite fewer people wearing civvies, sales
of clothing had become higher than ever.
Further, the rationing of clothes pre-
sents special problems arising from widely
differing individual needs according to
age, sex, occupation, social position, etc.
To overcome these difficulties the system
favored in Britain and other countries is
the issue of a card or book covering a
year’s permitted purchases—different
articles of clothing are allotted a differ-
ent number of points, no restriction being
placed on value.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, McDowells, whose man-
agement seems to have a flair for the
medium-priced drapery goods, etc., in
which the co. specialises, got its full share
of the increased business available. But
allowance of an extra £52,000 for taxa-
tion (£82,000) left the declared net result
£16,863 lighter at £41,423. This was
enough to pay the small pref. div. (£800)
and show 13.8 p.c. on ord. capital, against
19.6, 18.1, 17.8, 14.1 and 11.6 p.c. for the
five preceding terms. The div. was kept
at 10 p.c., but the special bonus was cut
in half, reducing it to 2\ p.c. and making
\l\ p.c. for the year, the average over
the last decade being 11.2 p.c. A staff
provident fund was started off with a
contribution of £lo,ooo—whether from
earnings or inner reserves isn’t apparent.
Movements in finances are mainly
connected with the addition of £71,537
to stocks and £30,937 net to the book
value of premises and investments —the
latter are mainly Government securities:
1938. 1,940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £302,726 £302,726 £302,726 £302,726
Mortgages .. 75,000 75,000 50,000
Overdraft . . 21,206 54,670 48,537 19,667
Sundry creditors 28,500 37,109 44,712 75,498
Tax reserve .. 18,224 41,614 55,055 111,496
Freeholds, fit-
tings, invest-
ments, etc. 383,572 390,945 375,448 406,385
Stocks. . . . 107,317 165,154 139,724 211,261
Book debts . . 44,178 81,490 82,346 83,544
Gash, etc. .. 4,408 6,777 7,654 9,052
Shares subsid. 90,903 90,903 90,903 90,903
The shareholding represents scrip in the
cash-order subsidiary, whose earnings
aren’t taken up in the parent’s accounts,
so the position is even better than it
looks. On visible capital and reserves
combined, 4 p.c. would be equal to 6.8
p.c. on capital alone.
Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.)
T , To Re- Nominal
liec.. Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 73,925 8 p.c. = 65,359 8,566 235,534
1932.. 70,900 8 „ „ 65,359 5,541 241,075
1933.. 78,798 8 „ „ 65,359 8,439 249,514
1934.. 75,314 9 „ „ 73,530 1,784 251/,298
1935.. 87,880 10 „ „ 81,699 6,181 257,479
1986.. 106,787 12 „ „ 98,038 8,749 266,228
1937.. 135,090 15 „ ~ 122.549 12.541 278,769
1938.. 136,180 15 „ „ 122,549 13,631 292,400
Added reserves, £498.957 .. .. 791,357
1939.. 137,933 15 p.c. = 122,548 15,385 806,742
1940.. 129,425 15 „ ~ 122,548 6,877 813,619
1941.. 125,358 14| „ ~ 118,463 6,895 820,514
It’s mainly a holding co., owning with its
Victoria subsidiary £928,395, or 32 p.c.,
of the issued capital of Melbourne’s
C.U.B. group of breweries, which slake
most of the southern State’s growing
thirst and are one of the most important
factors in the inter-State beer trade as
well. Taking cognisance of the undis-
tributed earnings of C.U.8., Carlton’s
equity in which ran to 1\ p.c, on its own
capital last year, the position is even
more attractive than it seems.
A steady p.c., worth £116,037 to
the Carlton and Victoria cos., has been
passed on by the operating concern since
1936. The recent slip in Carlton earnings
mainly reflects the effects of taxation on
its independent income from rents, inter-
est, etc., which has more than halved
(from £21,896 to £9321 net) over the past
two years. Still, the £125,358 exhibited
last term was 15.4 p.c. on Carlton capi-
tal ; so the nibble of a half-point off the
div. (14i p.c.) appears a parsimonious
performance, seeing the manner in which
reserves were first looked after by C.U.B.
The war-time lift of Is. 3d. a gallon
in excise has had no adverse effect on
Victorian beer consumption, which has
behaved this way under the stimulus of
the most-industrialised State’s defence
effort;
VoQr Gallons Gallons
t r r , n P er Year per
H £ a f- June > CMlons. Head,
{n!!-- il’nnHno I'l 1937 " 20,750,800 11.2
•• 7,8 1938 -- 23,099,800 12.4
lofT- ifi’n? 9 ’ 399 B ' B 1939.. 23,555,700 12.5
iqqfi” io rSi’inn J' 3 1940.. 24,524,500 13.0
1936.. 19,038,800 10.6 1941.. 26,364,500 13.9
Assisted by overseas troop requirements,
the C.U.B. organisation earned 19.1 p.c.
on its £2,925,000 capital in the year to
June. Loss of Island connections and the
third cut in deliveries to hotels operative
since March won’t help current earnings,
however, and proposed Federal profit re-
strictions may limit distributable earn-
ings to little more than 7 p.c. next year.
Analysis of finances shows the follow-
ing disposal of Carlton funds:
_ ~ . , 1935. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £816,992 £816,992 £816,992 £Bl6 992
Creditors* .. 15,787 24,866 35,960 43 527
Suspense a/c.. 15,374 _L
Hotels ~ 119,062 157,202 159,787 159 711
Breweries .. 150,060 150,000 150,000 150 000
Furniture .. 137 8 1 92 74
Shares C.U.B. 631,704 1,115,757 1,115,757 1 115,757
Mortgages, etc. 237,881 265,375 271,993 250 852
Cash, etc. .. 7,698 21,549 30,215 61,828
* Including taxation.
Despite the writing-up of a couple of
years back, the holding in C.U.B. still
appears at 7s. Bd. a share less than net
tangible value in the working co.’s books.
With other income as it is, a 7 p.c. div.
from this source in future may not require
a reduction in Carlton’s own distribution
below 9 p.c.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
/ Dividends ,To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit.* Pref. Ord. Total, serves.
1932.. 4,002 Nil Nil 4002 17 650
1933.. 3,748 Nil Nil _ 3748 13,902
Transferred to specific reserves, £5000.. 18*902
1934.. 5,194 10 p.c. Nil 4,000 1194 17 708
1935.. 7,386 6.2 „ 2.5 p.c. 5,153 2233 i5’,475
1936.. 7,186 6.2,, 3 „ 5,748 1438 14,037
Doss resumption property, etc., £3500.. 17,537
Written off shareholdings, £1500.. 19,037
1937.. 9,264 6.2 p.c. 4 p.c. 6,890 2374 16,663
1938.. 5,583 6.2 „ Nil 2,775 1 ’ r -
Vintage adjustment a/c, £3OOO j lb,Bn;j
Added intangibles, £2050 .. ..18,905
1939.. 2,609 Nil Nil 2609 16*296
1940.. 4,212 Nil Nil 4212 12,084
Written off subsidiary, £5OOO .. 17,084
1941. . 6,115 12.4 p.c. Nil 6,550 665 16,519
* After charging previous year’s taxation,
t Goodwill, etc. (now £27,050), not treated as an
asset.
Wine, unlike the other grape product
brandy, hasn’t been included in the
liquor-consumption cut; sales instead
have been “stabilised” on a 1941 quota
basis and so business effectively tethered
with each producer guaranteed a share
of the market.
Slow to recover from the low level of
the ‘thirties, consumption has lately main-
tained a gentle upward trend, but not
sufficient to yield Caldwells and others
returns commensurate with invested capi-
tal:—
N.S.W. Wine Consumption.
Year, p er Year, Per
Dec., Gallons. Head. Dee., Gallons. Head.
1929.. 1,540,463 0.62 1937.. 1,663,971 0.62
1932.. 1,271,318 0.49 1938.. 1,622,560 0.60
1934.. 1,559,573 0.59 1939.. 1,640.351 0.60
1936.. 1,641,827 0.62 1940.. 1,765,267 0.64
As for the industry as a whole, reduction in
production from 20,000,000 to 15,000,000
gallons has done little more than offset
loss of Australia’s 4,000,000-gallon ex-
port trade with Britain and elsewhere,
and with the breadth of the domestic
market only 4,000,000 gallons, and large
stocks in bond, there is still embarrassing
overproduction. South Aus., responsible
for 75 p.c. of Commonwealth output,


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of ad Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M4383. 86371.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE..
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
S M
wrjrr
Security
Economy
Service
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. Heath, C.M.G. ;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway,
V \\\
\
- MsM'SI
UftjlTtO
/
KEEPS THE
AMMUNITION DRY I
Giant R.I.L. Multiple
Press stamping steel
casing for ammunition
boxes.
Cromwell's maxim—" Trust
in God and keep your
powder dry" holds good
to-day. Ammunition in
exposed dumps would become use-
less but for tough weather-resisting
R.I.L. sealed containers. R.I.L.
workers know the vital importance
of their handiwork . . . and every
man gives the maximum of his skill
and energy to supply his comrades
in the field with ever-increasing
quantities of better equipment,
better arms and better ammunition.
a a i i mi i i
snusnoNi
SOUVH3IU
has the toughest nut, particularly in view
of the growing stringency of internal
transport for anything but essentials.
Caldwells has never dabbled much in
the export business, and, though the go-
ing continued heavy in Brisbane, N.S.W.
trade saw “considerable expansion” last
year, mainly over the counter in the co. s
own saloons. But the fifth successive
dry term in the Rutherglen-Corowa dis-
trict again spoilt the vintage, and with in-
creases in working awards, which added
25 p.c. to many costs, kept the improve-
ment in the net result (£6115) down to
£1903. That was after charging a
nominal £797 for depreciation and pay-
ing £165 (down £990) in taxes, but before
providing for the assessment on the past
year’s earnings. Two of the three years’
pay coming to pref.-holders was wiped
out, three-quarters in new prefs.—an
immediate financial help, but creating an
additional div. claim on the future.
Control of bank accommodation and
other borrowings made the financing of
heavier stocks a problem:
1936. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £146,073 £148,155 £148,155 £152,326
Deposits . . 23,174 14,694 13,068 8,100
Mortgages, etc. 18,530 7,180' 6,680 6,180
Overdraft . . 36,892 43,365 39,430 39,963
Other liabilities 14,626 23,785 19,017 27,955
Properties, plant,
etc 144,303 139,881 142.497 142,203
Book debts . . 28,854 24,547 22.797 22,125
Stocks . . 45.795 47,054 39,353 48,851
Cash, etc. . . 2,527 2,990 3,208 3,426
Shares . . 8,204 6,410 6,410 1,400
The wherewithal was eventually found
through Buchanan and Co., the Brisbane
offshoot controlling certain licensed
premises. Another £5OOO has been struck
off the book value (cost £17,900) of the
parent’s shareholding here, raising the
provision for anticipated loss to £16,500.
Howard Smith discloses its B.H.P.
holding, about which the “Wild Cat”
was in doubt in B. 6/5/’42, at 354,180
shares, 70,180 forming part of the Prop.’s
last issue, which appears to have been
the only cash offer H.S. has taken up—
or, at any rate, held on to —since swap-
ping its Australian Iron and Steel ords.
for 194,444 B.H.P. shares in 1935. Sub-
sidiary and associated shareholdings now
chiefly comprise:
Howard
Subscribed Smith’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships ..£1,850,002 £1,849,997
Australian Sugar . . . . 207,915 155,704
Caledonian Collieries—Pref. . . 464,295 325,034
Old. . . 1,023,599 869,539
Invincible Colliery . . . . 104,000 67,821
B.H.P. 13,862,054 354,180
Southern Port. Cement —Pref. 210,004 138,299
Ord. 639,885 250,001
A. Coninan and Co. . . . . 179,262 35,559
Southern Blue Metal. . . . 248,000 50,000
The holding in Goninans, the northern
steel-processing concern in which the
Prop, also has a financial stake, is an-
other relatively small but interesting dis-
closure.
* * t- *
To further stimulate production, some
50 p.c. short of the Commonwealth’s
expanding requirements, local selling
price of electrolytic copper has been
further let out, raising the war-time
increment in the cost of the red mineral
to £4l 2s. 6d. a ton. The £lO5 now fixed
compares with the London equivalent of
£77 10s. Successive step-ups since Sept.,
1939, have been:
September, 1939 .. .. .. £63 17s. 6d.
February, 1940 . . .. . . .. 76 os. Od.
February, 1941 . . . . . . .. 78 10s. Od.
May, 1941 86 10s. od.
May, 1942 105 os. Od.
Returns to producers like Lyell and
Morgan haven’t kept quite in line. Now,
for example, the price for “normal”
outputs is fixed at £lOO a ton ; produc-
tion in excess of “normal” fetches a £5
bonus, as does also the output of gougers,
while special rates are to apply to low-
grade deposits. But production isn’t a
matter of price only, and there is a strong
impression that, because of unsympathetic
wasting-asset taxation, all higher prices
have done in some cases has been to
bring forth an all-round lowering of
grade rather than increases in quantities.
To achieve maximum results, either
mining taxation must be modified or the
Government itself undertake financial
responsibility for expanding production,
calling in, say, private enterprise in a
managerial capacity along lines that have
been successful with munition annexes.
* * * 4=
Both Houses of the Westralian Par-
liament carried motions of protest the
other day against the Federal Govern-
ment’s attitude towards goldmining. In
the Assembly two goldfields Labor mem-
bers urged that motions were not enough,
and that a delegation should be sent to
Canberra in battle array to tell the
Federal Government to “take its hands
off the gold industry.” Later the State
Government decided to send one such,
headed by Premier Willcock and Minister
for Mines Panton, and including two gold-
fields Labor members and representatives
of the Chamber of Mines, miners’ unions
and Perth Chamber of Commerce. The
Chamber of Mines says in a published
statement that “it is up to the Federal
Government to obtain accurate figures of
just how many men will be available by
the closing of the gold industry, and to
weigh the value of this potential man-
power against the irreparable harm it
proposes inflicting upon Westralia.”
♦ * * *
Sons of Gwalia’s decision to defer
payment of dividends pending clarifica-
tion of the Federal Government’s pro-
posal to limit co. profits and because of
the possibility of more labor being with-
drawn from Westralian goldmines didn’t
surprise local shareholders. Nor would
it surprise investors in other London-con-
trolled Westralian ventures if they re-
ceived the same news. The Gwalia mine
records improved values in the south end
of No. 31 level (about 5000 ft. on the
underlay and 3000 ft. vertical) and also in
the crosscut at that point. The north
drive is still poor.
* * * *
Argument has been going on in the
Westralian Arbitration Court in respect
to the basic-wage determination which
it must issue before the middle of June.
At present the Court is waiting for the
workers’ advocate to recover from the
shock of a new theory advanced by em-
p oyers that, though the Court is bound
iu/io ‘~ e , aw . to declare a basic wage for
c ~ -f’ tj ,S a - k° by National
Security Regulation neither to increase
noi dectease (except to adjust for cost-of-
living) the wage rate applying on Feb. 10
last. Foi the second time this year the
same Court declined to grant a cost-of-
living rise indicated by figures submitted
by the Government Statistician. It justi-
lied its action by the need to avoid in-
flationary tendencies and the fact that,
relative to the cost of living, the West-
ralian basic wage was still one of the
highest in Australia. Trades Hall, how-
ever, is not impressed, and intends appeal-
ing to Canberra for a ruling as to its
intentions on wage-pegging.


WmnP
•BACK
IttrKOHf
ACM*!
•• To
ms
His back is as strong as a lion's now !—-yet not so long ago
backache was weighing him down, he was weak . . . tired . . .
depressed. Then Gin Pills made him a new man . . . brought
glorious relief to his overtaxed Kidneys.
Weak backs, aching muscles, rheumatic joints can all come about
when you neglect your Kidneys. For when the Kidneys get weak, their
work is not done properly . . . dangerous poisons are permitted to escape
and collect in the system . . , Backache and other Kidney Troubles
develop. Your Kidneys must be made strong again! and Gin Pills
will do this for you quickly, safely, economically.
If you’re troubled with
Backache, then commence
a course of Gin Pills right
aicay they’ll do you
worlds of good.
Dr. S H E L D O M'S
GIN PILLS
make Daddy's
back better
©ass mm
JL..O a T ML E , gZLJLJB
TAXATION OF
MILITARY FORCES
In view of the many difficulties arising in the assessment of
income tax on military pay and allowances, the Taxpayers’
Association of N.S.W. has extended a special service to members
of the Military, Naval and Air Forces whereby free advice and
assistance will be given on matters relating to taxation.
Members of the Forces should submit their difficulties in writing
or personal interviews may be arranged by appointment.
The Taxpayers’ Association is non-political and is not con-
ducted for profit.
“TAXATION OF MILITARY FORCES.” This handbook,
published by the Taxpayers’ Association, gives a practical
explanation of the basis of taxing members of the Military, Naval
and Air Forces serving at home or abroad . . . the concessions
and reliefs available, etc. Price 2/6 (posted).
THE TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION OF N.S.W. (Inc.),
“Cathcart House,” 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Tel.: 82439, B 1648,
Business. Rollery. Etc.
The Danger of Rising Costs
Even the calm and collected can hardly
escape being concerned about the near-
future of this country if they know
anything at all about the principles on
which a* modern society of human beings
carries on. A great strain has been
placed on our resources and organisa-
tion by the threat of a Japanese invasion,
and we cannot, with sense, overlook the
fact that even before the Empire became
embroiled in the present war at all the
organisation of our resources was not the
best. Australia had for long been at a
trading disadvantage with the rest of the
world because it had not the population
to enable production as a whole to be
carried on on the cheapest basis, while
at the same time it had elevated ideas
about living standards that often as not
defeated their purpose by turning into
high living costs. The most vital factors
in the welfare of the people of the world
prior to the outbreak of the war were of
an economic nature, and we know that
when the war is over they will again be
of paramount concern. But what many
people are unaware of is their import-
ance during a war as well.
Money matters, especially when, as at
present, they are removed from the
gambling and the speculative, largely
represent social organisation. Through
the money system we have dealings with
thousands of people we never see. Wages,
costs and prices largely resolve the ques-
tion of whether a job can be done and
whether the people will do it. It is so
in war as well as in peace. Equality of
sacrifice, the aimed-at economic basis of
a war effort, depends a great deal for
its workability on the “money set-up”
—on wages, costs, prices and taxation.
Monetary organisation, from banking
and Parliamentary budgeting to wage-
and price-fixing, should be based on
accurate knowledge, and is a science, not
as exact as, say, mathematics because of
the multitude of human and other factors
that arise in it. Skill and knowledge of
the world are required in attending to a
nation’s monetary and economic affairs,
Trade dislocation, frustration of produc-
tion and public discontent can all arise
from improperly handled national
finances. National finance doesn’t mean
only Government finance. Private money
matters are really national when aggre-
gated. They are the most important.
Recently in Australia graziers’ repre-
sentatives were concerned about the rise
of costs in relation to the fixed price at
which wool is sold to the British Govern-
ment and Australian manufacturers. Later
Mr. Scully announced that “if the United
Kingdom Government consents, officers
of the Commerce Department will pre-
pare a case for increased prices for
woolgrowers based on rising production
'-osts and other factors. A lift of f 10m
4<L to Id. in the agreed price of L-4d.
P o . unc * was anticipated. La er s i
Wmchcombe, Carson, the wool peof) ,
contended that the original contrac pri
no l° n g er yielded the intended mo e
P r °nt to growers.
The suggested lift of up to Id. a pound
would have represented only about p.c.
on the present price of the staple, whereas
the cost of living generally has gone up
15 p.c. And it is on this basis that the
British Government last week announced
its intention to lift the price it will pay.
Next season’s clip will be sold to Britain
at 15 p.c. up on the contract price of
13.4 d.
It is beyond doubt that the position
had become no longer as sound as it was,
and that the marginal producer would
be in difficulties unless seasons or other
factors conducive to improved yields or
lower costs helped him out. This position
in its entirety illustrates the danger of
rising costs in an essential industry like
that of woolgrowing, and how it might
apply to many others. Not all indus-
tries in Australia, it should be remem-
bered as well, are as strongly situated as
that of woolgrowing, though those essen-
tially internal have compensating factors
at present. The entire war production of
Australia may be hindered by rising costs,
What causes costs thus to rise? To
begin with, all imports have risen in
price because of losses in transit and
other transport and overseas production
difficulties. This has been a moderate
influence. Another factor in rising costs
has been the inevitable waste of war, and
then there have been pay-increases. Sea-
men are among those who have had their
“living standard” improved since the war
began. Another force in the growth of
costs has been the transfer of expert
workmen, etc., to the fighting forces and
the resultant less-expert work done by
substitute labor. Such increased costs
have been greatly added to by the pay-
ment of overtime penalties where reduced
man-power and the accelerated demands
of war have brought about a shortage of
suitable labor. In some cases overtime
has developed into an excuse for spinning-
out work and almost making a “racket”
of it. The cost-plus system has been
another factor in inflating costs.
Other cost-boosters are largely Govern-
mental. Where a Government resorts to
borrowing and bank-credit finance in
order to pay for war waste it brings an
excess of credit into play that price-fixing
cannot entirely control. Full taxation,
on the other hand, tends to keep price-
inflation in check. But unnecessary taxa-
tion by State Governments, accompanied
by unnecessary expenditure, is wasteful
and, like all waste, inflationary. In-
creased social services—old-age pensions
and such—in time of war also put an
out-of-place burden on the economic
structure that increases costs.
It can be seen that politics are one of
the biggest factors where costs are con-
cerned. Government interference in-
trudes so much into the affairs of every-
one at the present time by virtue of
national security and other legislation
that almost everything depends on the
quality of the Government. The present
Government has shown itself to lack a full
understanding of the difficult situation
in hand —it started off with some idea of
being able to fight a war without reduc-
ing living standards, and increased old-
age pensions—and it is not always
advised by its hired experts to the best
advantage.
The loud-mouthed nonsense heard
from ponderous Labor officials and poli-
ticians concerning “what will have to be
done” nearly always ignores items like
production costs. Yet on costs depends
whether we are to have any production
at all. Concessions to Capital (in the
way of increasing interest and dividend
returns) and to Labor (by way of higher
wages) nearly always mean increased
costs, except where the dividends or
wages are the result of greater produc-
tion or efficiency. Australians will have
to learn that returns for their effort can
be reasonably based only on results—on
what they earn. Payment for more than
is earned means swollen costs, and the
same thing applies to waste by Govern-
ments. Inflated costs mean discourage-
ment of trade until trade breaks down,
unemployment, danger of Government
default and adjustment of the exchange
rate. They lead, in short, to industrial
collapse and economic revolution.
From a N. S. Wales doctor:
My income comes solely from N. S. Wales.
In 1940-41 I earned £687 from property and
£2281 from personal exertion, total £2968. On
this I have been assessed tax of £1495 for
Federal purposes and £4Ol for State, total £1896.
Out of my £2968 I therefore have £1072 left
to live on and pay all my other commitments.
The really unsatisfactory feature, however,
arises after studying the recently published
tables of combined incomes and appropriate
taxes. Had I thrown my property income down
the sink and ceased practice for five weeks
my income would have been £2OOO, tax £BlO,
with £ll9O left for me, instead of the £1072
in the case of the higher income on which I
actually was assessed. Candidly, I don’t think
the Government’s practice of making mugs of
the thrifty and harder workers is in any way
conducive to a greater war effort. If varying
rates of State taxation on different income levels
is responsible for this state of affairs, then by
all means let us have one income tax immedi-
ately !
* * * *
Tooth and Co., Sydney’s biggest
brewery, has maintained its interim div.
at the rate of 12 p.c. p.a., paid now for
four years. Beer appears to have the
property of stability as well as instability.
* * * *
Australia’s third war loan of this
financial year will enter the market on
June 2. It will be of £35 million, the
same as the last operation, and will
carry the same rates of interest — 2\ p.c.
on a five-year issue and 3} p.c. on a
16-year series. Subscriptions to the
loan may be made before the opening
date, and bonds may be paid for by in-
stalments. Support for the loan on any-
thing like the scale recorded on the last
occasion will be doubly welcome in view
of the growing size of our war effort
and the recourse that has lately been
made to bank credit to make up the
gap between war expenditure and tax-
ation plus loan revenue,
* * *
Loan expenditure on war during the 10
months to April 30 has grown to £167.2
million. This is £26 million in excess
of budgeted loan expenditure for the
whole year. Except for the flat-rate tax
imposed at the beginning of 1942, excess
revenue from the Customs, etc., and the
additional sales-tax collections lately, all
the £7O million or so by which war outgo
is exceeding Budget estimates is being
found by borrowing—and the Budget at
its introduction had a predisposition to
borrowing. Total expenditure on war,
including £65.5 million from taxes, for
the 10 months was £233 million, against
a Budget forecast of £221.5 million for
the complete year. The unprovided-for
leap in expenditure has been partly
brought about by Japan’s threat in the
Pacific, partly by inflation and partly by
waste. A war organisation grows at
mushroom speed, and waste is always
present. In the present instance there
has been more than usual encouragement
of waste.
* H= * *
Figures taken out by the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce dealing with 73
companies of assorted varieties, the ord.
capital of which totals £62.3 million,
show that the average ord. shareholding
amounts to 472 shares. Pref. capital totals
£6.2 million, average holding being 434
shares. Shareholders represent twice the
number of employees, and, even allowing
for the fact that some shareholders are
interested in more than one co., halving
the shareholders still gives a bigger
number than the employees. Taking the
average div. at 6 p.c., the average in-
come of each ord. shareholder from these
sources is only about 10s. a week. The
Chamber also points out that on June
30, 1940, savings-bank deposits totalled
£237 million, on which interest of £4.8
million was allotted for the year. Ten
years earlier interest of £8.5 million was
paid on deposits of £217.5 million. In
other words, over the decade deposits
increased by £19.5 million, while the
interest bill fell by £3.7 million, or 43.5
p.c. The figures clearly show the sacri-
fice of income incurred by depositors
in the interest of peace-time and war-
time financial stability. Wage-earners
and pensioners have improved their
position during this period and are still
clamoring for better conditions. The
more they get the more they want with-
out regard for consequences.
* * #
Though declared profits have fallen
from 13.5 p.c. on capital to 9.7 p.c., and
at that have been relieved of some war
losses by reason of provisions of previous
years. Burns Philp is paying the 10 p.c.
div. that has been a feature of the pre-
ceding 22 years. Trading with New
Guinea and the Netherlands Indies has
“ceased indefinitely.” Capital of the co.
is £2,000,000, and it has more than this
invested in Government securities and
shares in subsidiary and other cos. Hence
the steady div. at a time when Pacific
Islands trade is in utter disorder.


Are you
watching
his health ?
If your dog's
coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —
start him now on
w
a course of
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
lively and eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole system.
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
Doctors soy your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract.' Will definitely re|yve*
note you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY.
GLAND
TO MIC
f. J O H IS E CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Stree;
Sydney.
LET
CARRY THE
BURDEN j
7
\
4 T
'S
Established 3808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLA
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS. 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PBTTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
THAT
the
All MY AFFAIRS
ARE IN ORDER”
In the present atmosphere of uncertainty and apprehension, the man is fortunate
(and wise) who can say: "All my affairs are in order. It's a weight off my mind."
It is the business of this Company to enable you to say that, whether in regard
to your estate during your lifetime, or afterwards. The organisation of Burns Philp
Trust Company Ltd. is such that it can assure its clients of uninterrupted, faithful
and efficient service despite accident or mishap to any of its officers.
It is suggested, as a matter of some urgency, that you permit this Company to
explain the service it can render to those anxious to attain greater peace of mind
in regard to the administration of their affairs or estate. Two special books will
be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 B, 5.P.0., Sydney.
B.P. 18-42
TEntjlaut)
The above pic-
ture is a fine
example of Old
English architec-
ture taken on
SELO Products.
Illustrated is Morton Old Hall, in Cheshire,
an unspoilt, moated manor house, built be-
tween 1559 and 1589. Perhaps the finest
example of black-and-white architecture in
England. Its carved gables, oak panelling and
plaster ceilings are perfect specimens of six-
teenth-century craftsmanship. Queen Eliza-
beth is said to have held a dance in the old
Wainscoted Gallery, which runs the whole
length of the top floor.
Made by
ILFORD, LTD., LONDON.
Obtainable from Chemists
and Photographic Dealers.
• Pictures
Ben®*
Foi
tide
ROLL FILM
Distributors: HERBERT SMALL PTY., LTD., SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE.
Wool Price up 15 p.c.
Britain has responded promptly to Aus-
tralia’s suggestion that the wool price
should be reviewed in view of the war-
time inflation that has taken place in pro-
duction costs. An increase of 15 p.c.
over the average of 13.4 d. a pound origi-
nally agreed on will be paid for the
new clip, and this rise is in keeping with
the increase in living costs since war
started. Revision of the contract comes
at a particularly welcome time. Shipping
and all other facilities between Britain
and this country are far worse than when
the contract was first signed, and Aus-
tralia doesn’t have to deliver the product
in order to get paid.
Britain itself probably realises fully the
difficulties which beset those who are
catering for an export trade at a time
when internal costs are rising. The U.K.'s
own costs have inflated considerably
since war broke out.
Record wool clips have been the usual
thing since Australia entered the war,
With an assured sale and price,
this has been of great help at a time
when other land produce has been hard
to sell.
Up to the present more than 3,281,000
bales of an estimated total of 3,531,262
have been appraised for the third
year of the wool agreement; value is
£53,693,252, of which growers have
received £49,789,263. Averages were:
N.S.W., 12.08 d.; Vic., 13.58 d.; Q., 12d.;
S.A., 10.99 d.; W.A., 11.9 d.; Tas. 14.86 d.
per lb. greasy. Commonwealth average
was 12.38 d., ,16'd. higher than for the
same period last year.
In the United States President Roose-
velt has given an outline of the shape he
considers the national war economic
policy should take. He has stressed the
need for stable costs and the inevitability
of reduced living standards where essen-
tials are concerned. In order to prevent
the familiar spiralling of costs under war
conditions he makes the following
points:
(1) Tax heavily, and, in the process, keep
personal and corporate profits at a reason-
able rate, the word “reasonable” being
defined as at a low level.
(2) Fix “ceilings” of prices, and also ceil-
ings of rents for dwellings in areas affected
by war industries.
(3) Stabilise the remuneration received by
individuals for their work.
(4) Stabilise the prices received by growers
for the products of their lands.
(5) Encourage all citizens to contribute
to the cost of winning the war by buy-
ing war bonds with their earnings,
instead of using their earnings to buy
non-essential articles.
(6) Ration all essential commodities of
which there is a scarcity, so that they may
be distributed fairly.
(7) Discourage credit and instalment buy-
ing, and encourage the paying off of debts,
mortgages and other obligations, for this
promotes savings and retards excessive buy-
ing, and adds to the amount available to
creditors for the purchase of war bonds.
Roosevelt believes that economic suffer-
ing of the type that accompanied the
1914-18 war and persisted after the Arm-
istice can be avoided this time. “Living
costs have risen about 15 p.c. in the
U.S.A. since Sept. 3, 1939,” said the
President, “and we must, therefore, adopt
as one of the principal domestic objec-
tives stabilisation of the cost of living,
for that is the essential to fortification of
the whole economic structure.” Profits,
he added, should be taxed to the utmost
limit consistent with continued produc-
tion. No citizen should have a net in-
come of more than $25,000. He was in
favor of voluntary war savings, and be-
lieved in paying time and a half for over-
time above 40 hours a week.
# . $ $ $
President Roosevelt has announced that
lend-lease aid during April amounted to
$677 million, and that the total since the
scheme began to operate has reached
$3825 million. These figures apply to all
countries, but naturally they are not dis-
sected.
*<•
Australians aren’t likely to pull together
harmoniously while ignorance about the
contributions to the war effort by various
classes continues to exist. Wild talk based
on lack of knowledge or the need for
soothing-syrup for unruly workers often
comes from Parliament itself. A matter
which seems to be deliberately over-
looked is the great contribution made to
the war effort in the shape of income tax
on the higher incomes. In theory a
N.S.W. married man earning £5OOO may,
after paying taxes, get 6s. 6d. out of each £
for the purpose of supporting himself and
his wife and keeping up all the commit-
ments he incurred in previous years. In
practice he will probably get less, and on
higher incomes taxes have been known
to exceed 20s. in the £. A married man
on £4OO a year in the same State has
more than 17s. 6d. in the £ to spend
after paying taxes. No one expects the
lower incomes to pay taxes at as high a
rate as the bigger incomes, but so far
during this war the only class to have
really suffered monetarily have been those
on the higher incomes. So let us acknow-
ledge the truth, and give credit where
credit is due. The “wealthy” in Australia
have contributed to war costs as no
citizen of any other Empire country have
contributed. But lower incomes here
have escaped lightly.
* # # #
The army authorities have been requisi-
tioning or impressing a number of things
since war began, field-glasses, rifles,
pistols and tents, among other essentials,
and there have been complaints on the
point of compensation paid where the
item hasn’t been handed over as a gift.
In one, instance a .22 rifle was taken to
a sports store and valued at £9 15s. The
army credited the owner with £5 10s.,
payable some time. In view of the pos-
sibility of further requisitioning of articles
and billeting of troops, the matter of
compensation should be reviewed. Non-
combatant Australians should make their
contributions to the war in taxation and
service. Where other calls are made on
them they should be sufficiently com-
pensated.
* * $ *
Douglas Creditors are now in the habit
of pointing to the recent prosperity of
Alberta, Canada, as proof of the efficacy
of their methods, though at one stage
Major Douglas and his adherents were
disposed to wash their hands of Premier
Aberhart and his experiment. Actually
the salvation of Alberta has come from
under the ground. In 1941 oil produc-
tion in the province was seven times as
much as in 1936, reaching almost 10 mil-
lion barrels, and “results of recent drill-
ing have been decidedly impressive.”
Perhaps Douglas Credit put the oil there
too.
* * * *
In Britain it is claimed by automatic
lire sprinkler authorities that 82 p.c. of
the fires started by incendiary bombs in
sprinklered premises were dealt with suc-
cessfully. In the other 18 p.c. of “inci-
dents” failure to cope with fires was due
to complete breakdown of water supply
or to inadequate supply owing to the
drain caused by numerous fires in one
vicinity.
* * * *
A small man can run a small business
quite successfully on occasions, especially
if he has no big men competing with
him. But put him in charge of a large
show and either he has to learn a lot
more than he previously knew or he’ll
fail quickly. This is illustrated by some
of the Federal Ministers. The more they
show themselves to be incapable of deal-
ing with the job in hand the more they
bluster and blame “the bosses.” Their
brains are still of the familiar size that
tries to bluff by squealing “I didn’t do
it; Jimmy did it.” Australia is not a
small business ; with seven million white
people it is a big and important business,
and even if we are small alongside other
countries the fact remains that we are
competing against a world doing things
in a big and efficient way. Labor’s stupid
and clumsy interference with many essen-
tial Australian industries, customs and
services hasn’t got us far in the war
effort. Mention of “heel-tips” in the army-
boot trade since Government officials
started to parcel them out is enough to
make manufacturers bristle. They can t
make the boots without the heel-tips.
They can get the heel-tips—sometimes.
They could get them any old time before
the Government surrounded the things
with officers, inspectors, requisitions and
red-tape.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”; There has been a lull in
the north—in fighting, not in prepara-
tion. Obviously the Japanese do not
intend to take chances with their next
attempt at invasion, which may be made
from more than one point. It is idle
to represent them as “being on the
defensive.”
There is room for satisfaction at the
improvement of the defence position
inside the Commonwealth. It is an open
secret that last December the door was
virtually wide open. Now the strategic
defences of the north are highly organ-
ised. Military observers from outside
the Commonwealth express delighted
astonishment at the clearness of concep-
tion, incisiveness and ingenuity which
Australian staff officers have shown in
planning. Their work will probably rate
among the best of the war, and energy
goes with it.
All this does not say that protective
measures have reached their zenith.
Much more is needed. The ’planes,
armored vehicles and guns and ammuni-
tion which are pouring in are sufficient
for the present as a strong fender. Britain
has released a substantial amount of
material, as well as the most modern
tanks, to Maoriland. Releases to Australia
from U.S.A. and Canada are swelling,
but cannot be called sufficient.
Canadian help will probably increase
substantially. Hitherto the output of
factories erected in Canada under British
guarantee has been mainly directed to
other fronts. In February, value of
shipments was: —-
To Russia £1,300,000, India £2,250,000,
Egypt £5,600,000, Iraq £1,100,000, Britain
£20,000,000, Australia £300,000.
The United Navies have been active
in the Pacific. On May 23 the S.-w.
Pacific High Command reported the sink-
ing by submarines of two cargo vessels,
9000 tons and 6000 tons, and of a cruiser
of the Furutaka class —useful vessels,
built in 1926-27, to which H.M.A.S.
Australia and Canberra were an answer.
Cruisers of the Furutaka class are the
most heavily gunned ships of their size
(7100 tons) in the world and some of
the fastest —six eight-inchers, four 4.7’s
and 12 21-inch tubes ; 33 knots. Their
raked masts, peculiar fore funnels and
strangely elevated bows and sheer sterns
made them unmistakable. And they
carry two aircraft. A great catch for
the bold submarine commander.
Outside this action there was nothing
to report, save the methodical inter-
mittent blasting of enemy bases and the
rarer attacks on Australian outposts,
Moresby on May 18 suffered its big-
gest attack —by 34 heavy bombers and 15
fighters. The first wave consisted of 16
heavy Mitsubishi twin-engined army
bombers of the latest type flying in close
formation ; then came 18 mixed types.
Our fighters attacked. One heavy
bomber crashed ; three others were prob-
ably unable to get home across the moun-
tain range which separated them from the
Bismarcks. The wreckage amounted to
two damaged huts; the casualties from
200 bombs, mostly scythe-action, one
wounded.
This was Moresby’s 52nd raid since
February 2.
On May 20 Allied raiders destroyed
three enemy aircraft on the ground,
damaged three more and a runway and
started large fires at Koepang. They also
bombed harbor facilities at Dilli. At
Moresby, four out of 12 marauding “O”
fighters were heavily damaged by our
fighters.
On May 22 the Allies swooped on Lae
with some of the newest Bl7’s. These,
letting go at a low altitude, smashed up
two bombers and a fighter on the ground,
damaged two more bombers and shot
down five out of eight “O’s” which went
up in an attempt to intercept. There were
no Allied losses. The bomb-bay doors
of one U.S. bomber refused to close and
two gallant youngsters were lowered with
ropes to shut them —a difficult and dan-
gerous feat in the air when travelling at
over 200 miles an hour. They gripped
the doors as they hung head downwards
2000 feet from the ground and gradually
pulled them shut. They were, of course,
unable to wear parachutes.
A second force was busy the same day
at Rabaul, where six grounded bombers
and a large transport were put out of
action, Vunakunau aerodrome was badly
dusted and a tanker blasted across the
bows. The raid was made from high
altitude.
Saturday saw Lae in travail again.
This time the damage in the harbor was
heavy, and another tanker was plastered
from mast level. Eight “O’s” went up
and managed to bring down an Allied
machine —a rare event during that week.
Two large bombers were damaged and
buildings were demolished.
Over Amboina, attacked for the first
time since May 13, three enemy and one
Allied machines were shot down. The
Allied bag for the week was 16 bombers
and 11 fighters definitely destroyed and
23 other aircraft probably destroyed or
damaged.
On May 22 some of the fighting was
vigorous and prolonged. One “O”
fighter remained in holts with a bomber
for 100 miles during the return flight from
Rabaul. Reconnaissances prove that the
enemy strength is not much weakened.
One sky-snooper ran into a formation of
17 “O” fighters ; Hudsons on the same
duty bagged the two submarines reported
destroyed last week. They were travelling
on the surface confident that the low
cloud would keep them hidden from
the air.
In one of their heaviest attacks on
Vunakunau at Rabaul, the Allies on May
24 bombed 20 ’planes on the ground and
did considerable damage.
One piece of news which called for a
sigh of relief was released on May 24
the Americans were well established in
New Caledonia, The danger of the
seizure of the island as a base for assault
on our east coast and shipping lanes less
than 1000 miles away has been removed.
Timoshenko v. Bock.
“It is a great mistake to overstate things. The
press could help to correct this tendency.”
—President Roosevelt, 23/51’42.
“Ek Dum”; Quentin Reynolds, author
of Britain Can Take It, visited Russia late
last year. He acted as press liaison officer
to the Beaverbrook-Harriman mission—
and, incidentally, he attended Stalin’s
“fantastic dinner of 23 courses, at which
there were 36 toasts, wine, vodka and
finally champagne” being served.
But this did not help him as a reporter.
He wrote —after he had left Russia:
Losovsky had four assistants The
wall of polite evasion they built round
themselves completely blocked all our pro-
tests. Not one of us was able to write
a decent, complete story from Russia. We
could only take the daily communique and
comment on it along the lines laid down
by the morning “Pravda” (organ of the
Communist party) or “Izvestia” (mouthpiece
of the Government) or the “Red Star”
(representing the Red Army). Pravda means
“Truth” and Izvestia means “News.” The
correspondents jest: “In ‘Pravda’ there is
no izvestia and in ‘lzvestia’ there is no
pravda-.
Reynolds found that “but for an un-
accountable hesitancy the Germans would
have been in Moscow on Oct. 15.” They
paused long enough to allow Voroshilov
—not Timoshenko, who last week was
hailed as the “victor of the Moscow
front,” though he left it over five weeks
before the tide turned from east to west
—to organise a new defence.
When Reynolds left Kuibyshev he
declared:
I hated to leave Russia, but, forbidden
to go near the front and completely stymied
by the censorship, I decided to go along.
Other reporters, it would seem, do not
find themselves stymied. They may, like
Reynolds, find that their trouble is that
“news as defined by the Soviet is one
thing” and their own definition “quite
another.” But they are willing to pay
any price for the privilege of sitting in
a Moscow hotel bedroom hundreds of
miles out of sound of the firing and relay-
ing propaganda as if it were the product
of their own first-hand observation from
a front-line tank. “Fantastic” stories of
the Kharkov battle are the product of
this sort of “reporting.”
Marshal von Bock, German C.-in-C.
on the southern front, which covers the
Ukraine and Crimea, on May 10 had
the face of his line of armies which were
standing on the Black Sea shore pushed
well forward into the glue of Russian
resistance on the Upper Donetz, of which
the Kharkov area enclosed the brain
of his force. The Donetz formed
the inner skin of his facial formation,
and his whiskery screen positions were
thrown across the river to its east bank.
Some time before —early in January —
Marshal Timoshenko had made a long-
ing gesture towards Von Bock’s defensive
face. He shoved one hand towards its
forehead n.-e. of Kharkov in the Byel-
gorod region, along the narrow fringe
of high ground in which the Kursk hills
end. The other hand he pushed unde 1-
the enemy’s chin along the Barvenkova-
Losovaya railway line which runs on to
Poltava and Kiev.
On May 8 Von Bock suddenly
stamped on Timoshenko’s big toe in the
Crimea, and ground so much of it off
that by May 21 nothing was left to his
victim but the end of his toenail at
Yenikale. Von Bock professed to measure
his success in terms of three destroyed
Russian armies, 149,254 prisoners, 1133
guns, 372 trench mortars, 256 tanks,
3814 motor vehicles and several thou-
sand horses, captured with the defences
of Kerch and command of the Kerch
Strait into the Azov Sea.
Timoshenko, after a couple of days
trying to get his toe loose, essayed the
age-old riposte of attempting to push his
opponent’s face in. The push was applied
between two points 50 miles apart on
that part of the Donetz front-in-depth
which formed the jutting proboscis of
Von Bock’s defence line.
Distant reporters reacted to this man-
oeuvre in the approved manner. They
adjured Timoshenko to shove the enemy’s
head off, and their enthusiasm rather than
their judgment assessed the weight behind
the push. Even pessimists believed it
to be at least 1,500,000 men and 3000
tanks, covered by a ceiling of ’planes 70
feet from the ground, which were pull-
ing out the Hun’s last remaining hair.
Optimists plumped for a Russian Army
of 2,500,000 men and 20,000 tanks
“secretly assembled” around Kharkov.
The tanks alone, their own space apart,
would fill an area 17 miles long by 20
miles deep, without their 150,000 ancil-
lary vehicles, so secret assembly in open
country must have been easy.
Von Bock, like many another heavy
wrestler attacked in the same way,
blinked momentarily. His proboscis flat-
tened as Timo. leaned on it, until it had
been pushed right back over the Donetz
among the main Kharkov defences.
There, because of fortress strength north
and south, his assailant was unable to
shift his grip—a highly important factor
in mobile warfare. Slipping forces later-
ally is an exceedingly difficult manoeuvre
under the best conditions.
To the onlookers it seemed as if Von
Bock’s force was becoming permanently
concave, but the damage was only super-
ficial, as was shown by the low casualty
lists advertised by the Russians —24,000
Germans killed and 447 tanks destroyed
or captured in 10 days. Small compared
with the lists of immolations claimed in
battles last year.
Von Bock suddenly woke up and
brought both arms into action against
the giant hand which was damaging his
army’s countenance. With the right, or
southern one, he twisted Timo.’s face-
flattening mauler at the wrist between
Barvenkova and Isyum along the Kiev-
Rostov railway, and the Donetz, 75 miles
s.-e. of Kharkov. With his left, north
of Kharkov, he went for Timo.’s finger-
tips in approved Tom Lurich style. And
all the time he kept on grinding his heel
on his adversary’s fast dissipating
Crimean mundowie.
By May 21 the Red Army obviously
had to fight hard to keep its grip on Von
Bock’s physiognomy, although he had
obligingly refrained from destroying the
bridges which passed the Russian com-
munications across the Donetz.
According to the boo-boo boys, Von
Bock’s armies round Kharkov and south
and north of it were still “fleeing in
disorder,” but as they were supposed
to have been driven back into the in-
terior defences of Kharkov itself nearly
a week before they seemed to be fleeing
day after day without moving.
About the middle of the week honors
looked about even. The battle appeared
to be swaying backward and forward,
quietening down at some points, flaring
up at fresh ones. Suddenly Timoshenko
tried to create a diversion by hacking at
his enemy’s ankle down on the Azov
shore at Taganrog. The results of his
effort in the first three days of this on-
slaught could only be gauged by the
fact that there was still no news that he
had pushed the German lines between
Taganrog and Rostov back far enough
to allow shells to fall in the former town.
Newspaper reports and conjectures are
mainly rubbish. The standard of know-
ledge of the press which claims to know
facts and to be able to forecast the situa-
tion may be judged by the maps pub-
lished in Australian dailies during the
week to illustrate the campaign. Mel-
bourne “Herald” and one or two others
were accurate. Others contained glaring
blunders —some showed Leningrad as not
being encircled; some showed Stalino
and the head of the Caucasus pipeline in
the S. Donetz as held by the Russians —
the Germans have had it since October;
one credited the Germans with holding
Mojaisk, which they lost in January, in
the biggest victory of the winter.
Berne (Switzerland) and the Wilhelm-
strasse pulled one set of legs for the Ger-
mans ; Stockholm held manfully on to
another set in Stalin’s interest.
On May 22 the German Radio char-
acterised the world reporting of the con-
test as “almost pathetic” in its futility;
and a warning was put out over the
8.8. C. that neither side had made avail-
able sufficient facts on which to judge
the situation.
The only certainties were that the
Kharkov fighting was heavy and shift-
ing ; that it was indecisive in the first few
days ; and that the overrunning of the
Kerch peninsula was a blow to the Rus-
sians. For Kerch is the doormat of the
Caucasus, control of which also decides
who shall lock or open the entrance of
the Azov Sea.
Official Stories
The official communiques had not
much to tell.
May 19, Russian:
Our forces continue to advance on Khar-
kov. Stubborn fighting is going on in and
around Kerch. In all other sectors of the
western front there was no material change,
Moscow Radio reported the destruction of
339 German and 112 Russian aircraft be-
tween May 10 and 16 ; also that in one
action the Red Army killed 1600 of the
enemy and destroyed 28 tanks. In an-
other 800 Germans were killed and 11
tanks destroyed, and “a number of
prisoners taken as well as valuable stores
of war materials.”
The Germans, the same day:
The destruction of the remnants of the
enemy on the Kerch Peninsula is about to
be completed. We repelled further mass
attacks in the Kharkov area. We destroyed
yesterday 80 tanks, and the Luftwaffe put
out of action 31 more and 550 lorries. The
total of Russian tanks destroyed since the be-
ginning of the fighting before Kharkov is
447.
May 20, Moscow;
During the night our troops engaged in
offensive operations in the direction of
Kharkov. Intense fighting continued in
the town area of Kerch. There were no
important changes in the sectors. During
yesterday our troops repulsed an enemy
counter-attack in the Kharkov area and
made a further advance. Battles occurred
in the direction of Isyum and Barvenkova,
where the enemy launched two offensives.
On May 18 43 German and 17 Russian
aircraft were destroyed. On the previous
day 73 enemy aircraft were shot down.
A late issue reported severe air fighting,
with the Germans throwing in 60 to 70
machines at a time. In one sector the
enemy hurled into the fray 90 tanks, of
which 46 were destroyed.
The enemy. May 20:
German and Rumanian troops have
reached the coast of the Kerch Peninsula
along the entire length. The last fortified
bridgeheads on both sides of the town were
taken by assault yesterday after stubborn
resistance. The battle now ended resulted
in the destruction of three Russian armies.
Only remnants reached the coast opposite
the isthmus.
We captured 149,254 prisoners, 1133 guns,
372 trench mortars, 258 tanks, 3814 motor
vehicles and several thousand horses. We
destroyed 323 aircraft in combat.
In the waters round the peninsula 16
ships, one minesweeper and 21 small
coastal craft were sunk. Ten more ships
were damaged by bombs, causing the
enemy further losses while crossing the
straits.
On May 21, the Soviet stated:
Our troops waged offensive battles today
in the direction of Kharkov, repulsed
enemy armored attacks and advanced. In
the direction of Isyum and Barvenkova our
troops repulsed several enemy attacks.
Fighting on the Kerch Peninsula continued.
Aircraft losses on May 19: German 27,
U.S.S.R. 12, and German transports total-
ling 26,000 tons sunk in the Barents Sea.
Berlin’s version;
The battle continues in the Kharkov area.
We repelled strong Russian attacks sup-
ported by tanks. Strong Luftwaffe forma-
tions successfully supported the troops.
Russian attacks s.-e. of Lake Ilmen were
beaten off with heavy losses.
At the week-end the German High
Command declared that the Russian
thrust had been stopped on the Kharkov
front, and that the initiative was in Ger-
man hands. On Kerch, it was announced,
the last Russian had either been driven
out or killed or was among the prisoners,
who now numbered over 170,000. The
Russians, through Moscow Radio,
admitted that there was a lull in the
Kharkov fighting “because ten days was
the longest that troops could sustain a
combat of such terrific intensity.”
Hitler to the Front
At this stage, Hitler went to the front
for conferences with generals. For the
benefit of the London “Sunday Express”
the details were let out in Stockholm. It
appeared that Timoshenko had “opened
such gaps in the German ranks that the
enemy had been forced to throw in re-
serves intended for use in summer,”
and that shortage of tanks was compel-
ling him to use masses of infantry. Some


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO VERA RUSSELL late of Crow’s Nest and
Dubbo.— TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY
MAY McCROW has a petition No. 785 of
1942 in this Court praying for a divorce from
STANLEY ERIC CADBY McCROW on the
ground of his adultery with you You may
apply to the Court for leave to defend the
charge if you so desire A copy of the peti-
tion "may be obtained without charge from
JOHN W. BINNEY Solicitor 79 Elizabeth
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
generals were advising Hitler to hold back
his forces “pending reorganisation of the
armies mangled at Kharkov,” with a view
to striking a blow along the whole front;
others were urging him to remain on the
defensive on the central front and strike
as soon as possible at Leningrad and the
Caucasus.
Moscow Radio said that 150 tanks
which had attacked on the Kharkov front
had “been reduced to a shapeless mass
of metal.” Stockholm, which early in
the week had given the Russians com-
plete air superiority under a ceiling of
’planes flying 70 feet from the ground,
was convinced that “the Nazis, if still
able to maintain a tremendous air force,
haven’t enough ’planes to maintain along
the whole front the same pressure which
they exerted in last year’s campaign.”
There was a lot more rubbish of the
kind. The Red Army High Command
(May 24) gave no support to it:
Russians in the Kharkov area consoli-
dated their positions and repelled enemy
infantry and tank counter-attacks, and in
some sectors fought offensive engagements.
There has been stubborn fighting on the
Isyum front and at Barvenkova in which
the Red Army repelled counter-attacks,
dealt counter-blows to the enemy and in-
flicted heavy losses. The Russians, under
order of the High Command, have left
Kerch Peninsula. Troops and equipment
were evacuated in full order. In other
sectors nothing of importance occurred.
The German communique, same day:
■Hie Russian mass attacks round Kharkov
which began on May 12 with 20 infantry
divisions, three cavalry divisions and 15
tank brigades have completely collapsed,
with heavy losses in material and men. The
German counter-attack which began on
May 17 drove to the rear of the strongest
Russian army and cut its supply lines. In
the past two days, German, Rumanian
and Hungarian troops, with strong forma-
tions of the Luftwaffe, have been counter-
attacking along the whole of the hitherto
defensive battle zone. German counter-
attacks south of Kharkov caused the en-
circlement of strong enemy forces. Russian
attempts to break through failed, as did
attempted relieving attacks from outside.
All Russian attacks yesterday south-east of
Lake Ilmen [Staraya Russa area] failed.
Berlin Radio declared that not more
than 500,000 men were engaged on both
sides—instead of Stockholm’s four or
five million. The 20,000 tanks which
Ankara discovered kicking up the Donetz
dust resolved themselves into mere hun-
dreds in the light of sober analysis.
It is too early to estimate the results
or to make forecasts. So far, all that is
clear is that, despite the heroic efforts
of Timoshenko’s men, Kharkov has not
been taken. The seven-mile-a-day ad-
vance which was supposed to be going
on at the week-end was of a piece
with the “titanic” engagement fought by
the Stockholm and Berne correspondents
in mid-March, in which they “completely
broke down” the defences of the city and
announced that “complete control of
Kharkov by the Russians was only a
matter of hours” —after which they
forgot all about it.
Timoshenko’s lines of retreat, if he has
to retreat, are bad. The get-out from
the Donetz is difficult, and if the in-
vaders succeed in blasting down the
bridges behind him he will have to exer-
cise all his generalship in making a re-
tirement. In the circumstances, lateral
withdrawal is almost impossible.
The only choice for the Russians is
to reinforce and fight it out to a finish
on the existing battlegrounds. As always,
they have shown great gallantry in de-
fence of their own land, and to stubborn
soldiers animated by such a spirit almost
anything is possible.
Meanwhile, Von Bock, having demol-
ished resistance at Kerch, has begun to
try to kick his heel in at Sevastopol.
Burma and China.
“Ek Dum”: The conquest of Burma,
may be reckoned complete. This is in a
measure acknowledged by the departure
of the hard-fighting American commander
of the Chinese forces, Lieutenant-
General Stilwell. At the week-end
General Alexander’s forces had reached
the Assam border, where they are being
quickly reinforced, re-equipped and dis-
posed as part of the barrier against the
invasion of India.
Air operations in Burma continued all
through the week. Recent air fight-
ing has mainly taken the form
of a protective movement along the
Chindwin, on the exposed flank of
the retiring British army. Some Aus-
tralians are among the Blenheim crews
which have carried out this brave and
salutary work—one manned by officers
and men from Wiluna (W.A.) and Mel-
bourne (Vic.) fought off three enemy
’planes and sent one down in flames near
Magwe. Akyab also was bombed,
As the result of the skill with which
the British retirement was carried out
and effective air protection, it is reported
that, though large equipment was lost —
only a single tank was brought across the
Chindwin —losses in men were remarkably
small. The last contact with the enemy
was made at Shwegyin, just south of
Kalewa, 40 miles or so from the Assam
border and 70 miles from Sittaung. The
enemy had a great raking over and lost
heavily.
China’s position is now precarious.
Japanese and Russian reports suggest dis-
sension between Communists and Chian-
gists at Chungking, and the formation of
a new political party is mentioned. The
unfortunate Chinese are cut off from all
help except what might come from the
Russians ; but chances of Russian help
seem to be nil.
The enemy had barely concluded his
Burmese operations and pushed his way
along the Burma Road for 150 miles
before he began to mass fresh troqps at
Hankow for a drive up the Yangtze.
Hankow lies 700 miles inland, where the
Peiping-Canton railway crosses the great
river. It seemed like a prelude to a
further attempt to fully occupy Changsha
and the southern part of the railway—it
is about 700 miles from Hankow to Can-
ton ; about 600 by air to Chungking.
This appearance was heightened by the
landing of troops at the mouth of the
Min-kiang, opposite Formosa and half-
way between the Yangtze-kiang mouth
and Canton. They were brought ashore
from barges under warship cover in the
face of entrenched Chinese resistance.
The Chinese reported that their fire was
so intense that the warships were com-
pelled to leave and the enemy troops to
re-embark, but this the Japanese deny.
Another Japanese force in Chekiang pro-
vince was advancing at the week-end
towards the Hangchow railway. It
threatens Ken-hoa, the capital, and the
adjacent tea districts of Bohea.
The R.A.F. has sent a wing to
strengthen Chinese air defences. It is
more than a gesture, and will make the
path of the Japanese bomber harder and
more expensive.
The U.S. volunteer army destroyed 55
Japanese ’planes last month. The Japa-
nese announced last week that more than
100 raids had been carried out by their
air force in Fukien and Kiangsi pro-
vinces, and that these had “utterly
crippled Sino-American plans to bomb
Japan from Chinese bases.”
"Jimmy" Doolittle Visits
Tokyo.
“Ek Dum”: Brigadier-Gen. “Jimmy”
Doolittle, who now wears on his tunic
the light blue and silver stars of the
Congressional Medal of Honor, had an
exciting tale to tell when he —and the
whole of his crews apparently —arrived
home in the United States after the
bombing raid on Japan on April 18.
Some things which Japan would like to
know were not included in “Jimmy’s”
tale —where, for instance, the raid origi-
nated. And there was nothing about the
landing of one of the ’planes on Soviet
soil, reported by Khabarovsk Radio.
The ’planes used were 824’s —Libera-
tors. It was mainly an experimental raid
designed to see what could be done with
h.e. and incendiaries over inflammable
Japan. There were 80 airmen, including
the commander —all now decorated with
the D.F.C. So only a full squadrpn was
used —in European raids dozens of
machines take paft.
The attacks were carefully planned to
cover a strip of densely populated and
industrialised Japan, 40 miles long and
five to 20 miles wide, right through the
heart of the Tokyo-Nagoya districts and
down to Kobe. Each machine had its
special objectives.
Each followed the new R.A.F. method
of “going in low,” a far more dangerous
proceeding than the normal high-level
bombing practised elsewhere in the
Pacific by both sides, but less conducive
to waste of destructive power.
The time was midday. It was Tokyo
weather at its best. Over the narrow oval
of Tokyo Bay the sky was clear. The
Japanese mind was apparently also clear
of any thought of danger. Mt. Fuji
shone in the south. Crowds were seen
round baseball ovals. Crowds thronged
round the Marunouchi quarter before
Tokyo’s curiously imperfect railway
station. Hammers clanked at the naval
base of Yokosuka, which lies on a neck
of land that half closes the entrance
to the bay, much as South Head half closes
Sydney Harbor. All Japan seemed to be
about its business except the sky defence,
which was pleasantly absent. During the
whole raid only 30 fighters were seen,
and the pilots were reported as hesitant
and apparently inexperienced and also
ineffective.
The ’planes went in at 1500 ft. with a
whoop and a howl very much in char-
acter with “Jimmy” Doolittle himself —
he was, in a slightly younger day, the
kind of stunt flier who gave old ladies
palpitation and small boys stiff necks.
One went over the navy yard at Yoko-
suka and left behind a stream of high
explosive and incendiaries. Bits of a
new large cruiser or battleship were
noticed spouting upwards and a fire
sprang up like magic. Over a tank
“farm” somewhere further south-east an-
other 824 swooped down until its crew
could almost see the whites of Japanese
eyes, but what happened to the “farm”
none knew save from the satisfying glare
over the tail fins.
Fireworks started at Mitsubishi’s 70-
acre aircraft factory near Nagoya,
whence come the big 82ft.-wide 96’s
which have been wreaking havoc in our
North. The course of the visitor was
marked by a quarter-mile of blazes
springing up right across the vitals of
the works.
Industrial plants, docks, shipyards, fuel
storage and ammunition dumps, not
merely round Tokyo and Yokohama but
down in Osaka and Kobe, were plotted in
fire and dust.
The squadron went home intact and
almost unmolested. And “Jimmy” Doo-
little says that he did not leave a single
’plane behind for display, nor was any
of his gallant crews so much as short of
a fingernail.
The blare of Tokyo Radio about the
burning heaps of tangled ’plane which
were displayed in front of Nippon’s
national shrines for the edification of the
frightened populace were so much fiction,
unless the tangled heaps were Japanese.
Machines and Men.
An estimate of ’plane monthly output
figures for the warring nations, made by
J. C. Ward, of Fairchild’s: Germany
2900, Italy 700, Japan 500—4100 per
month. U.S.A. 3300, Britain 2400, Russia
2900—8600 per month, and that without
Canada, whose production is between
300 and 400 per month. This shows an
increase against T. P. Wright’s estimate
in November, 1941, of 1000 in U.S.A.,
500 in Britain and 600 in Germany.
But the figures are dangerous to play
with. Without knowledge of types, they
mean nothing. The fact seems to be that
all belligerents except Italy and Japan
have more machines than they can use,
and Germany’s new leeway in produc-
tion is offset by accumulations before
Britain began to catch up to her. The
Russian front has absorbed a few
months’ output, but has not destroyed
reserves.
The crucial factor in the extent to
which ’planes can be used is ground
crews. Even the little one-man Spitfire
needs half a dozen nurses, apart from
workshop ground men and supporting
staffs ; and Spitfire nurses must be per-
fect tradesmen who cannot be turned
out in a hurry like Spitfires and pilots.
It was admitted in Washington last
week that the U.S. mercantile marine
had suffered more shipping losses in five
months of this war than in 20 months of
the last, and Berlin Radio has been mak-
ing great play with barbarous successes off
the American coast. One day during the
week it claimed the sinking of 134,000
tons, largely in the Gulf of Mexico and
the estuary of the St. Lawrence. The
main effect of the operations seems to
have been to bring Mexico directly into
the war. And Mexico, with her abun-
dant oil and key communications, in-
valuable to the defence of Panama, is a
useful ally.
* * * *
Another powerful American force has
been landed in Northern Ireland, and
other troops have been sent to Gibraltar.
With the 150,000 or so Canadians, the
North American continent has provided
a substantial military force for Europe
already. A few Americans are serving
with mechanised forces in Libya—they
were there before Uncle Sam entered
the war. All will be needed. Germany
and its European allies have at least 384
fully-equipped divisions, of which at least
35 and perhaps more are in occupied
France and a dozen or so more in Nor-
way, apart from those established in the
Siegfried defence area and the Lowlands.
* * * *
More records have been made in the
heroic story of the R.A.N. It transpires
that H.M.A.S. Vampire, since lost in the
Bay of Bengal, was present when
Prince of Wales and Repulse were sunk,
and rescued 223 officers and men from
Repulse and two from Prince of Wales.
At Singapore H.M.A.S. Yarra, which was
sunk in convoy after a gallant fight
against overwhelming odds early in
March, went alongside the burning
Empress of Asia and took over 1800
troops. By assisting to delay the flow
of the enemy from the north, the little
ships of the R.A.N, have been in no small
measure responsible for the Common-
wealth’s immunity from direct sea attack.
The R.A.N. in this work used cruisers,
destroyers, sloops and anti-submarine
and mine-sweeping ships.
* * * *
Fighting has livened a little in Libya,
where S. African troops have been visited
by Field-Marshal Smuts, and air fighting
has become more intense. British troops
and materials have been pouring in.
* JJt
The British air offensives against occu-
pied France and the Lowlands have con-
tinued day and night. Mannheim was the
chief target last week. It was given a
bigger pasting by heavy bombers than
any British town has known outside Ply-
mouth and Bristol.
TV**
Malta suffered the impact of 6000 tons
of bombs in April—6o tons-odd to the
square mile, but it is still there, even
though Valetta can no longer look like
the “city built by gentlemen for gentle-
men” which its cardinal founder. La
Valette, intended it to be. Living in
Malta, however, must have compensa-
tions. There will be no irritating howls
for a “second front” there.
H* %
The 40 Me 109’s protected the
German 10,000-ton cruiser Prinz Eugen
against destruction by British ’planes
off Norway exhibited the interdepen-
dence of ship and ’plane in naval war-
fare, and illustrated how little would
have been needed to save Prince of Wales
and Repulse. The R.A.F. torpedo-
carriers were slow compared with the
German land-based fighters, having to
lug along 18in. tinfish. They were 300
miles from their bases. Two pilot-officers
primarily trained with the R.A.A.F. —
G. L. Duffield, Hawthorn (Vic.), and
E. M. McKern, Cremorne (Sydney)—flew
through the barrage and scored a pos-
sible hit.
* * * *
H.M. submarine Ursula has a record
hard to beat. On Dec. 14, 1939, she came
up with a German cruiser of the Koln
class, screened by six destroyers, off the
mouth of the Elbe. Exit the cruiser. On
March 21, 1940, she sank the German
s.s. Hedderheim off Denmark. Since
then ship after ship, including 50,000
tons —and an Italian railway bridge!
in recent patrols have fallen to her. She
is about the last survivor of the gallant
band which used to haunt the Elbe
entrances in 1939. Salmon, Spearfish and
Swordfish are all gone below.
* * * *
Admiral Sir Andrew Cunningham is
the last of the Old Guard of the Middle
Eastern High Command to leave the
Mediterranean. He has stood the strain
for two and a half battered years.
Generals can rest behind the lines and
direct battles from afar, but the fighting
admiral is well in the van ; Cunningham
was himself in the forefront of most
of the leading engagements of those peril-
ous years. Now he goes to Washington
to occupy a central position in the design
of world sea strategy. He is as good a
staff man as he is a fighting admiral. He
was Deputy C.O.S. at the Admiralty
when war broke out. Harwood, of River
Plate, succeeds him in the Mediterranean
Command.
* * * *
One of the historic sideshows of the
R.A.Fs. was the swansong of the defence
of Palembang. At that great oil centre
in Sumatra, during the last hours of flame
and explosion, a band of R.A.A.F. and
R.A.F. men steadily smashed enemy
landing attempts, leaving the river full of
sunken barges and bodies. They sank
20 barges—each carries about 60 men —
and made direct hits on several ships.
They actually halted the invasion for a
time, but their last bomb had been used.
They did the damage with a force which
at its strongest was only 35 aircraft.
« * * *
Canberra has taken a belated decision
to give Australian military commanders
expenditure powers which British and
U.S. commanders have possessed in war
areas from time immemorial. They may
now actually spend fairly large sums of
money for urgent purposes without
reference to some jack-in-office in Mel-
bourne.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
After a few months of forced absten-
tion from her charms, the punters simply
gobbled up Randwick last Saturday. The
weather was just right for a winter meet-
ing—cool but not harsh. Everybody
present felt that for once pleasure was a
virtue because Tattersall’s was handing
over the moneybags to the Red Cross.
Suits, lightweight woollens and the plain
little skirt topped by the check or tweed
jacket clothed most of the women who
brisked about from ring to stand. U.S.
Army nurses in their blue, our own
A.I.F. girls in their grey uniforms were
as smart as any.
Mrs. Jim Lowry came direct from Red
Cross duties —blood-bank work. Lieut.
Robert Noss and his wife were among
the greeted; so was Mrs. John Woods,
just returned from a tour of the State's
country towns. With her black ensemble
she wore a dusty-pink felt hat. Of
tweeds, none were nicer than Mrs. A.
W. Reynell’s—all soft pink and grey
checks. A white hat and brown shoes
were the right finish. June Roberts, in
brown, Joan Allen and Patricia Coen
added attraction to the day. Mrs. E.
Salenger (her first Randwick in two
years), her small brown hat soft with
ostrich feathers, was with daughter
Margaret.
The well-knowns who weren’t at Rand-
wick last Saturday were at the
N.S.W.L.T.A. grounds (White City) at
Rushcutter Bay. Saturday’s matches
saw the rounding-off of the association’s
drive for Red Cross funds. The grounds
had quite a picnic air. Everybody was
in good mood, and gave cheerfully to
the groups of V.As., girl tennis-players
and N.E.S. girls who just as cheerfully
extracted the price for tickets, lucky
holders of which can for ever carry
General MacArthur’s signature about
with them. One prize is a silver flapjack,
the other a silver cigarette case, each
autographed by the U.S. general. Busiest
woman of the afternoon was prob-
ably Mrs. Roland Conway, who is presi-
dent of the Women Delegates’ Committee,
All the color and movement of the
city seemed to be at the boilover in the
Glaciarium last Thursday afternoon.
Whole platoons of children invaded the
rink, their brightly-hued costumes and
pullovers suggesting a rainbow jigsaw in
process of disembodiment. This was
decidedly an entertainment for the young.
A whole programme of ice games and
exhibitions had been arranged for them
by Mrs. Tom Kelly. There was keen
competition, too, for the prizes, agile
and graceful skaters being loudly
acclaimed by friends and relations.
Mrs. Carleton Kelly was busy raffling
dolls. She and Mrs, Tom Kelly, with
smiling mother-in-law Mrs. Bertie, took
tea with other members of the com-
mittee in the little chalet that overlooks
the rink. The R.A.A.F. Central Area
Comforts Fund benefits. Towards the
close of the afternoon grown-ups were
allowed on the ice. Men in the uniforms
of all the services were soon in full sail.
But everybody’s eyes were riveted on the
American service man whose footwork
was worthy of an ice champion from
any part of the world. Two young visi-
tors were Lady Bective’s daughters.
Mother and they were in the Hugh
Poynters’ party.
Women in uniform will soon be em-
barrassed by the number of clubs and
canteens catering for their special needs.
Up till the last month or so everybody
had been busy organising for the lads,
and the lasses hadn’t even given a thought
to themselves. But with more and more
women being enrolled in their country’s
service the need for canteens and clubs
becomes more insistent. C.E.N.E.F.
(Church of England National Emergency
Fund) will mix the sexes at its canteen
at King's Cross. The National Defence
League’s canteen and rest-room for
women will be in Phillip-street, C.U.S.A.
rooms will be in Harrington-street (Glou-
cester-street entrance) and the C.W.A.
Service Women’s Club promises to be a
place of grace and good cheer in Bays-
water-road.
Over 300 were on the spot ready for
the opening of the Australian Art
Society’s show. All the little green chairs
in the Blaxland Galleries were taken up
and surplus enthusiasts stood around
doorway and walls. This year, vice-
president Jerrold-Nathan said, had been
a record for entries. Of these 132 had
gained the accolade. Minister for Educa-
tion Clive Evatt opened the exhibition,
and his remarks drew a nice distinction
between those who do and those who
criticise. He had been speaking of the
necessity, even in time of war, of the
musician not altogether forgetting his in-
strument, the painter not neglecting his
palette. Many criticise “Advance, Aus-
tralia Fair,” he said, but they do not set
about creating a national anthem them-
selves. “What a good job, too,” says the
girl in the flat opposite. “If it is foolish
to change horses in midstream, how more
than foolish in the thick of war to change
an anthem with such an up-and-coming
refrain?”
Gunner J. A. Magrath, of the A.1.F., is
evidently one after the Minister’s way of
thinking. He has two paintings on view,
“Headlands” and “Chinese Philosopher,”
the latter showing a Chinese hawker with
a face serene as Time, sitting among his
gaily-colored feather-dusters. Gunner
John’s pretty girl wife was among the
noted at the show. Salvana’s “Tumut
River” is a real bit of Australia. Jerrold-
Nathan’s portraits and flower pieces were
among the admired ; so were president
Whitney’s “Thirroul Headlands” and
Clif. Peir’s “Chokos.”
Teen-old Marie Flannery, of the lyric
soprano, has just gone into St. Vincent’s
as a probationer, leaving for the moment
all thoughts of a singing career behind
her. Marie, no doubt, feels that in the
world of tomorrow the nursing pro-
fession will take a very high place
in helping a very sick, war-scarred
world. A daughter of Martin Flannery,
Labor member for Murrumbidgee for
twelve years, and for some of the time
Minister for Works and Railways, Marie
was a pupil of the late Madame Christian,
and after that famous teacher’s death
studied with Gertrude Concannon. Her
voice is known to radio listeners, and
next Sunday, at the F.A.W. rooms, she
will be a star turn at the afternoon en-
tertainment for the forces, which is one
of a series arranged by playwright Mrs.
M. Dale. Photograph by Falk.
Banker Alfred Davidson’s flat in the
T. and G. was very animated one after-
noon last week. The knight’s lady and
some musical friends were holding a
meeting with the intention of doing the
Mayor’s Patriotic Fund a good turn. The
result of the planning will be a concert
in the vestibule of the Town Hall on
June 27. Beatrice Tange and Elsie Find-
lay will be the artists. Mayoress Crick
is the patroness, and Lady Wakehurst
has promised to be there. Mrs. Hope
Gibson and Margaret Gillespie are secre-
tary and treasurer respectively. Alfred
Davidson is perhaps the one banker in
Sydney who is a regular concertgoer.
He and his wife have been the fairy god-
parents of the Lunchtime Music Club
concerts in History House.
Writer Ivy Moore, whose official title
is representative of the association of the
Friends of the Free French Volunteers,
was again active in her good work
last Saturday. Her home at Mosman was
thronged with friends of Free France. A
visitor who attracted a large circle all the
afternoon was the sparkling young niece
of the wife of General Collet, who has a
distinguished record in Syria. Mrs. Collet
has written a book, Road to Deliver-
ance, and her niece brought the first copy
to the party.
A letter from Kenneth Neate in U.S.A.
to his sick father in Australia arrived
just two days before the father died. It
was a message sparkling with the promise
of success. The Sydney tenor has been
engaged for 12 operas and 20 concerts
and a very prideful event, the singing of
Dvorak’s “Stabat Mater” under the direc-
tion of Sir Thomas Beecham. Kenneth
met Sir Thomas after Beecham’s conceit
at the Carnegie Hall. The baronet recog-
nised the Sydneyite. “How is my singing
policeman?” was his greeting. Later,
without audition, he engaged him to
sing in the “Stabat Mater.”
Fictional spies are having their day.
Most popular of spy novels amongst
women seems to be Agatha Christie’s
N. or M. Of all places the hunting
ground is a boarding-house by the sea.
Agatha reintroduces Tommy and Tup-
pence Beresford. Tommy fought in and
Tuppence drove a general during the
Great War, with a bit of spy-sleuthing
on the side.
If mothers and fathers sought for weeks
they could not find a spot more charm-
ing than Boree Cottage, Borenore. This
is not far from Orange. It is surrounded
by gardens planted long ago. Here are
tall trees, and here the lilac (in season)
blooms in profusion. The kindly Mac.
Smiths have lent the cottage to the Kin-
dergarten Union, and 25 young pupils of
the Maybank Kindergarten will soon be
having a holiday there. Director of May-
bank Hazel Woods will be in control.
From Melbourne
What a mind-reader was he who wrote
“revenge is sweet, especially to woman”!
The whispering campaign against the
hoarders and greedy buyers-up of cloth-
ing has now reached a roar, all done by
women with a contempt for the buyers.
Whenever a woman in a tram or train
wipes her brow or passes her tongue over
dry lips, distraught-like, it can be safely
wagered that she’s a buyer who has heard
the worst about her hoard. Now the
men are taking up the tale, and, being
super-gossips once they start, they have
embroidered it. Their stories concern
stock which dates back to the Great Exhi-
bition.
The Red Cross Variety Shop in Collins-
street celebrated its second birthday last
Friday by producing a record of £7500,
raised for the good cause in two years,
including £lOOO as a special birthday
gift. The urge to buy up things has done
this bit of the war effort some good. The
beautiful things given to the shop now
sell like hot cakes, and realise relatively
handsome prices. People rush in to buy
Minton tea sets and diamond rings. The
shop gives the buyer the fun of hunting
for antiques and the equally jolly feeling
of dipping in the bran pie. Home-made
jams of unusual varieties jostle on its
shelves bulbs given by Melbourne’s lead-
ing flower-growers and tea kettles on
spirit stands that must have come from
great-grandmothers who kept tea hot in
them during the long voyage from Eng-
land. Toby jugs are there, too, on which
the head of General Gordon looks a bit
like Stalin’s. An Irish Dragoon Guards-
man’s helmet might make a good prize
for an active air-raid warden.
Very welcome back in what she must
have come by now to call her old home
town was Christine Heinig, one of the
best imports from America we have had.
Her help has been invaluable in past
times when new projects for the training
of pre-school-children were afoot, and,
now that this city and its surrounding
cities have a plan each for the caring
of children of mothers working on
munitions, her calm judgment is like
manna to the hungry. Christine has ideas
of her own on the training of the young
and believes that the wealthy people’s
child (quite often an only one) wants as
much training as the rest of humanity, if
not more. She also has original ideas
on interior decoration of nurseries and
infants’ schools. Eve Ray made this pic-
ture of the lady. Latterly Canberra has
seen more of her than Melbourne has.
Unusual Red Cross workers are the
members of the Victorian League for the
Hard of Hearing, which specialises in
teaching lip-reading to its completely- or
partially-deaf members, and giving them
the companionship which is so often and
so tragically lacking in the lives of the
deaf. The Leaguers have had to give up
their permanent clubrooms on account of
the needs of the military, and now meet
every Wednesday in the Lecture Hall in
Russell-street. The meeting is a continu-
ous affair and members pop in any time
they like from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Red
Cross work goes on from 11 till 5. The
League has been of tremendous help to
young soldiers discharged from the army
totally deaf. They come back to civil
life feeling that the world has ended,
and find that in the Young People’s
Group they can join in social activities —
skating, tennis and the like —with com-
panions who, because they are similarly
handicapped, give them a feeling of
equality. At the same time they are
taught lip-reading, lessons in which may
be taken by all members free of charge.
Lip-reading, the technique of which has
been perfected in recent years, is such
a boon to the deaf that it should be
widely advertised. The League for the
Hard of Hearing is troubled about the
people it might help so much who haven’t
heard about it. Leaguers, and particularly
that most active member Mrs. Anketell
Henderson, are especially interested in
bringing help to partially-deaf children
in schools, whose plight is frequently un-
noticed by parents and teachers and its
effects often put down to stupidity. A
scheme of deafness tests, similar to dental
tests, is urged for Government schools.
A reminder of the success of lip-reading
was recently the cause of some embarrass-
ment to a party of Melbourne men who
were swapping smoke-room stories on
a well-known fairway some yards away
from the only lady in sight. A hearty
laugh from the distant one brought home
to them the efficiency of the lip-reading
system.
Celebrated in the Angel Chapel of St.
John’s, Toorak, the Kimpton-Laidlaw
wedding brought sheaves of congratula-
tions, as the parties are very popular. The
bride, Elfwyn, is the daughter of Mr.
“Hally” Laidlaw, and the family is one
of Vic.’s best-known Western District
ones. Bridegroom David is son of the
C. L. Kimptons. He left Trinity College
soon after the outbreak of war to join
the A.I.F. and has been in the Middle
East till recently. Dr. Jim Guest, one of
Melbourne’s young medicoes and an old
Trinity friend of the bridegroom, was best
man. As both bride and bridegroom
love a country life, the Western District
may expect to see more of them when
times grow quieter.
Chief Justice Frederick Mann’s lady is
doing a good job helping over their dark
days wives, mothers and sweethearts of
prisoners of war. Each of her auxiliary’s
meetings is crowded out with women
eager to hear news. At last week’s meet-
ing she spoke on the necessity for dis-
regarding rumor, and many women bore
witness to the havoc the rumor-spreading
capacity of some newspapers has wrought
among women whose longing to hear
from their menfolk makes them listen to
any story. The Prisoners of War
Auxiliary heard the first publicly-read
letter from New Guinea at its last meet-
ing, and women looked at it and even
touched it as some rich, rare find. Per-
haps hardest hit of all women with
prisoners-of-war menfolk are those whose
men were in Java.
It would be nice to think that there
is a possibility that clothes rationing may
sound the deathknell of the uniform
type of dressing that somehow persists
in orphanages and other institutions for
children. How wonderful if, after all
these years, each orphan girl and boy
were to be dressed as an individual!
There has hitherto been the practical
difficulty that, even with the best inten-
tions in the world, institutions must buy
in bulk, as was explained the other day
at a meeting of an orphanage committee
which thought that coupons would not
suit it. With the war likely to bring
many more children to the orphanage
door the matter of encouraging individu-
,ality might receive consideration. Per-
haps a few of the committees which can't
sew any more for the heathen because
the heathen now does his own sewing
will take up the idea.
The return of the Gilsullivan co. to
this city was marked by a performance
of “The Gondoliers” which was so good
that conversation in the foyer afterwards,
among real vintage G. and S. fans, con-
cerned nothing else. The absence of
John Fullard and Peggy Shea with heavy
colds made the first-class performance
all the more remarkable. The switching
round occasioned by their bad luck
brought two local additions to the cast,
Elva Blair and Ruby Riddell, into the
roles of Gianetta and Tessa, with Max
Oldaker stepping into John’s vacant
place. The two girls kept up the
Savoy tradition that every word must
be distinct to the farthest corners of the
house. They also joined with a will in
the fooling of Max and Gregory Stroud
as the two gondoliers. The audience was
not a dressy one, and a few white shirt
fronts in the stalls stood out like white
elephants.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
An attendance of 34,000 at Randwick
on Saturday exceeded the most sanguine
anticipations of secretary T. Manning
and the committee of Tatt.’s Club. The
totalisator turnover was £56,423 ss,
against £37,760 10s. on the correspond-
ing day last year. Good horses and a
good course were never more attractive
to Sydneyites.
In winning the Flying Handicap Kings-
dale (McMenamin) beat a field of sprin-
ters above the average. Martheus and
Trimmer led into the straight, and the
latter was in charge inside the last fur-
long. Then Kingsdale, with a fast finish-
ing run, disposed of him, and stalled off
Winnipeg, who, though he looked dan-
gerous less than a hundred yards from
home, was not gaining ground at the win-
ning-post. Astrid’s fourth, after getting
away badly, will assure her backing at
her next start. Milanja and Valve ran
well, but Sir Andrea was disappointing,
being one of the beaten division at the
home turn. It was Trimmer’s first race
for three months, and even with a little
extra weight he will be hard to beat at
his next appearance.
Katanga (Munro), who kept up with the
field better than usual, led commencing
the last furlong in the James Barnes
Plate, but was all out to win by a head
from the rank outsider Cable Boy. It
seemed to me that Fearless Fox was a
little unlucky not to have won. Checked
just as he was making a forward move
at the five-furlongs he dropped back third-
last. In the straight he looked to have a
winning chance, but the effort of making
up so much leeway left him without a
kick in the last hundred yards. In finish-
ing fourth Jymjon ran his usual honest
race, coming home better than Trigger-
man, who was second into the straight.
Chatham’s Choice tried to win all the
way, but though first to turn for home
tired badly over the last furlong. Dashing
Cavalier, though backed, never got in it,
nor did Pantler. Katanga’s four wins
at Randwick this season carried a total
of £1640.
Bangster (Bartle) had the colts and
geldings’ division of the Two-year-old
Handicap won from the time the field
settled down. High Flight was nearest
him from the first furlong, and hung on
long enough to beat the Valiant Chief
colt Boor Chief by a head for second.
Battle King looked a place possibility a
hundred yards from home, but, weaken-
ing, finished alongside Savannah, just be-
hind Boor Chief. Though backed, neither
Double Birthday nor General Smuts gave
any trouble. Bangster equalled the Rand-
wick record of 1.5£ for five and a half
furlongs. Winner at three of his six
starts, and his earnings totalling £1940,
Bangster, at 70gns., is one of the most
profitable purchases ever made at Sydney
yearling sales.
*•••»•
In the fillies’ division of the Two-year-
old Handicap Temerity (Cook) also re-
corded an “all the way” win, in time
half a second slower than that made by
Bangster. Turning for home Rubble
(by Plymouth Sound), Hauteur, Kerry
Anne and Ayarpee were prominent, but
Temerity had no trouble in holding them
off. Flying Shuttle, who was third, never
looked like doing better, and Minna-
murra and Ayarpee headed the remain-
der. The winner, who was bred at Kia-
Ora by her owner, A. W. Riddle, is by
Double Remove from Derring Do, a
sister to Nuffield (Heroic-Bel Gallante).
It is not unusual for D. Lewis to give
the books a turn-up, and he did so with
Nemesis in the Novice Handicap. Qui
Va La was the early leader, but Silver
Princess kept him moving, with the result
that he was beaten before reaching the
straight. Nemesis showed out immedi-
ately after turning for home, and kept
on to win from Shining Night, who did
pot have the best of luck. Winnie plugged
on to get third, and Royal Laddie’s fourth
was an improvement upon what he had
shown recently. Mutineer, who was again
slow in finding his legs, made up a lot
of ground from the half-mile to finish
fifth. E. T. Ross, who was on Nemesis,
rode in Sydney a few seasons ago, but
for some time past has been in Brisbane.
Not one of the best-backed horses took
part in the Welter Handicap finish. Soho
and Duke Cullen (Freedman) settled
down in front soon after the start, with
Kimbell, Fearless and Tyrannus nearest
them, and Duke Cullen was not in dan-
ger of defeat after he drew away from
Soho at the top of the straight. Fearless’s
second was suggestive of an early win,
£nd Tyrannus stayed better than usual.
Two’s Company made up a lot of ground
in the straight, but some of the others
must have got boxed up early or they
would have done better, Duke Cullen
was an outsider, but his tote dividend
did not approach the £23 14s. 6d. re-
turned by him in the Kensington Handi-
cap at Randwick last spring.
* * * *
Centenary, a three-year-old brother to
the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes winner
Regency, and raced in the same interests,
improved considerably on his form of
two weeks earlier to defeat Dawlish and
Martinez in the Charity Handicap at
Moonee Valley on Saturday. The field
was weak, Dawlish and Martinez being
still eligible for restricted races, but,
whereas Centenary had finished only fif-
teenth to Colonus at his previous start,
he finished many lengths ahead of that
colt on Saturday. Dawlish looked all
over a winner rounding the bend, but
was outstayed by Centenary, who is by
The Buzzard, and should develop into a
really useful distance performer. His
trainer, H. Hilton, stated he had only
a very small each-way wager on the
winner, who started at 15 to 1.
••••**
Nalong and Denis survived protests
after recording half-head wins in their
respective races. Nalong was always at
odds-on for the first Nurses’ Handicap,
and would have been unlucky not to have
completed a winning hat-trick. Twice in
the straight Walker had to stop riding
her momentarily to prevent her running
in, but interference did occur, and
Modern, sandwiched between Nalong
(outside) and Jenny Law, was squeezed
out. Had Modern finished second she
may have had a better protest chance
than the runner-up, Jenny Law.
Denis upset a plunge on Contact,
backed from sixes to favoritism at 7 to
2 for the Sisters’ Welter. Contact looked
like winning when he challenged Denis
at the top of the straight, but the latter,
who had made most of the pace, battled
on gamely under punishment. Breasley,
rider of Contact, stated in evidence that
his mount had been struck over the head
by Heather’s whip, but Heather denied
any such interference. Contact contri-
buted to any interference by lugging in,
and the protest was dismissed. Rising
eight, Denis retains his form remarkably
well. Chatsbury did well enough in third
place to indicate that there is still hope
for a recovery of his best form, and
Wallace James (fourth) and Lugano
(sixth) may repay following over dis-
tances beyond six furlongs.
After Balcrest’s 50-to-l success in the
Patients’ Handicap the stewards took the
unusual step of questioning apprentice
rider T. McKenzie concerning his hand-
ling of the colt. The lad was advised
to put more vigor into his riding in
future. McKenzie had not previously
ridden a winner, and, although he got
Balcrest home by half a head from Par-
mant, did not appear to do his mount full
justice over the concluding stages. Bal-
crest showed good promise earlier in
the season when raced by bookmaker E.
O’Brien, but was sold by auction to R.
Gosling for 210gns. when the V.R.C. book-
maker-owner ban came into operation.
He is trained by S. Murphy, another
member of whose team, Victory V, was
fairly well supported for Saturday’s race.
Victory V, however, finished only fifth.
Indignity and Brightello probably
earned a few extra pounds for the
Nationals as a result of their respective
wins in the Hospital Hurdle and Austin
Steeplechase. Indignity, runner-up to
Methuen in the G.N. Hurdle last year,
carried list. 81b. to a decisive win from
Manaaki and Jack Farr, while Brightello,
also making light of his 11.10 in
the heavy going, won well from Tempus
Fugit and Finality. Brightello was placed
in the last two G.N. Steeplechases, and
apparently is as good as ever. Indignity’s
success on Saturday was a nice wedding
present for his rider, L. Meenan, who
had married earlier in the day.
* * * *
Last week the A.J.C. committee decided
that entries for the Epsom and Metro-
politan should close on August 10. No
announcement was made as to the prize-
money for those races, so that will evi-
dently depend upon circumstances.
Nominations for the Breeders’ Plate and
Gimcrack Stakes close on the day of
general entry for the spring meeting, and,
apart from those already made, entries
for such races as the Derby, Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes, Champagne Stakes and other
important “young” races will, for the
duration of the war, remain open until
the day of general entry for the meetings
at which they are to be run. After the
war it is hoped there will be continuance
of that procedure, or something akin to
it, in connection with Derbies and St.
Legers. It is preferable to adherence to
the out-of-date English custom of calling
for entries for those races from sixteen
to twenty-two months before they are
run. In Australia they are races on which
there is practically no ante-post betting.
* * * *
As the A.J.C. is taking future Derby
entries much later than in the past it is
of interest that for the recent Kentucky
Derby, won by Shut Out, nominations
closed about two months before the run-
ning of the race, and they totalled 150.
These included 25 geldings. L. B. Mayer
had six entrants, one being the Austra-
lian-sired colt Family Tree, who is by
Beau Pere from English-bred Nepean, by
Le Voleur from Quitch. Entry fee for
the Derby was $25, and it cost an addi-
tional $5OO (a little over £AISO) to start.
* * * *
In the election for the vacancy on the
V.R.C. committee Wing-Commander
Fairbairn polled 789 votes against R.
McLeish’s 434. R. J. Bartley and F. W.
Duesbury will contest the vacancy on the
A.J.C. committee, and the former’s friends
are hopeful that, as he is a man of bright
ideas in connection with racing, he will
come out on top. Still, as many members
of the A.J.C, are conservative, it might
he unwise to lay odds on him. The
election takes place on June 12.
* * * *
Secretary A. V. Kewney says the
Federal Government’s ban on holiday
racing did not surprise the V.R.C. com-
mittee. That possibility entered into cal-
culations when the Cqp prize-money was
under consideration. The position at
present is that the Derby will have to be
run op October 31, and the Cup on the
following Saturday, November 7. This
will reduce the V.R.C. season’s racing
days to nine, one less than Ascot. The
last time the Melbourne Cup was run
on a Saturday was in 1916, when Sasanof
won. Owing to very heavy rain having
flooded Flemington postponement from
the customary Tuesday was unavoidable.
* * * *
The fact of being put on a level with
Ascot (Melbourne) in number of fixtures
must have been a tremendous shock for
the V.R.C. It savored of the tail wag-
ging the dog. The Chief Secretary has
since pointed out that the allocation of
dates still remains with the V.R.C., and
some Saturdays are not equal to others.
One can imagine the fuss that would be
made op behalf of Ascot if that course
was allotted more than its share of “not
so good” Saturdays.
* * * *
If Reading should strike his Australian
form he will have several opportunities
of returning what he cost L. B. Mayer.
There are few w.f.a. races in America,
but there are many rich handicaps, and
success in even one of these would give
his owner profit on what he paid for
Reading in Australia and subsequent ex-
penditure. It is, however, a first-class
two- or three-year-old that gives much
the greatest return in America. Three-
year-old Alsab, who recently won the
Preakness at Pimlico (Baltimore), and
subsequently the Withers Stakes at Bel-
mont Park, earned about £A33,640 as a
two-year-old, and his recent wins brought
his total to $198,000 (about £A60,700).
Alsab was a $7OO (£A2I2) yearling.
* * * *
Many people unassociated with racing
have an erroneous idea that it is a busi-
ness in which owners, trainers, book-
makers and jockeys must not have
scruples of any kind if they wish to make
it pay. Admittedly there is a certain
amount of nastiness. Crooked dealing,
however, does not approach the dimen-
sions believed even by men who follow
the game, and should know better, but
are always ready to make ill-founded
allegations when they lose. It is too well
supervised to permit of a great deal*in
that direction. Concerning racing and
commercial honesty, I recently listened
to the following comment by a woman
who, ip addition to owning horses, has
big business interests.: “When it comes
to showing points,” she said, “the alleged
‘cleverest’ of racing men are children by
comparison with some ‘honorable’ busi-
nessmen with whom I have come in con-
tact.” Caustic criticism, but that was her
experience.
* * * *
Australian Cup winners in Indignity
and Saul are engaged in the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdles, and if either should
win it will not be the first time that
double has been brought off. Malua won
the Australian Cup in 1886 and the
National in 1888. Subsequent winners
of the double were Marmont and Realm.
In addition to those two races Malua won
the Melbourne Cup, and Realm the Syd-
ney Cup in 1907. National winners in
Jackstaff and Pooley Bridge ran second
in the Australian Cup. Indignity, who
won at Moonee Valley on Saturday, was
second in last year’s Grand National
Hurdles with lOst. 131 b. In the coming
one he has list. 31b.
* ♦ * *
The best horse in Italy is the four-
year-old Nicolo del Arco, a half-brother,
by Coronach (now in Maoriland), to
Nearco, who was a great racehorse.
Last year he won the Italian Derby, at
Rome, by twenty lengths ; and the Grand
Prix, 1 mile 7 furlongs, at Milan,
making a time record for the race.
Taken to Germany for the Reichs-
haustaldt, a mile and a half race for
three-year-olds and upwards, he easily
beat most of that country’s best horses.
Nicolo del Arco’s form should assure
strong demand for Coronach’s services
in Maoriland next season. Coronach’s
first lot of foals in M.L. are up to ex-
pectations. Special mention is made of a
colt from Oratory and a filly from La
Poupee.
Miscellaneous
The League of Nations or the
R.S.P.C.A. or the police or somebody
ought to be called in to stop the cruelty
of Melbourne football, Melbourne, on
top for the last three years, hasn’t won a
game this season. It was belted 20.13 to
11.11 by Fitzroy. Richmond v. Colling-
wood drew Saturday’s biggest crowd,
12,000-odd, to Saturday’s biggest fiasco.
The Tigers booted 25.25 to ’Wood’s 5.7
after ’Wood had led 4.3 to 2.3 in the
first quarter. On the sea-front, “Sowth”
assaulted St. Kilda to the tune of
22.24 to 11.16. Footscray, 17.15,
added to the long saga of Hawthorn’s
woes, 5.11, and out at Essendon a mere
10,000 or so watched the “Same Old”
beat Carlton, 11.9-11.4 —really good
shooting.
* * * *
Saturday’s Rugby Union matches left
University on top. The Students de-
feated Western Suburbs 12-6 (they scored
only one try and that just before the
finish). Parramatta was beaten for the
first time after a ragged forward tussle
with East—6-nil. Randwick scored its
first win at the expense of Gordon, 20-3 ;
North just held its nose in front of Drum-
moyne, 11-9; and St. George battled
valiantly against Manly, but, though it
had two tries to none, went down—l B-14.
* * * *
Hockey Bennell fights like a real wel-
terweight champion on some occasions
and like a third-rater on others. Against
Jimmy Dundee (lOst.) at Leichhardt (it
was their sixth meeting) Bennell (10.4)
boxed brilliantly and won the most popu-
lar points decision he has ever received.
After a very fast first round, Dundee’s
right to the chin staggered Bennell in the
second, and when a left to the same spot
floored him he did not look like rising in
10 seconds. The bell rescued him at
“three.” After that, though another left
dropped him to his knees in the seventh,
Hockey handed out plenty of punish-
ment. Nicely timed rights floored Dun-
dee for “eight” in the ninth and tenth,
and he was a well-beaten pug when the
final bell banged.
FOR ROSEBERY
(At Ascot).
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT."
Encourage Stakes: Dyne, 1 ;
Shining Night, 2 ; Pall Mall or Cape
Hero, 3.
Flying Handicap: Guild Hall, 1 ;
Kama, 2 ; Milanja, 3.
Fourteen-two Handicap; Easy
Mark, 1; Te Rama, 2; Vanity
Fair, 3,
Rosebery Handicap; Stylish, 1 ;
Fearless, 2; Happy Lass, 3.
Trial Stakes: Response, 1 ;
Tyrannus, 2; Okawa, 3.
Welter Handicap: Overjoyed, 1 ;
Roxford, 2 ; Skerries or Christopher
Milne, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Federal Hurdle: St. David, 1 ;
Bluebeard, 2 ; Isambard, 3.
Piccaninny Nursery: Lamiere, 1 ;
Busybody, 2 ; Mandoric, 3.
Mia Mia Nursery: Balcrest, 1 ;
Parida, 2 ; Portsmouth, 3.
Commonw eall h Steeplechase:
Brightello, 1 ; Tempus Fugit, 2;
Finality, 3.
Mt. Alexander Handicap; Saul,
1 ; Similar, 2 ; Centenary, 3.
Keilor Handicap: Aurie’s Star,
1 ; Reception, 2 ; Chatsbury, 3.
Empire Handicap: Prince Ronald,
1 ; Contact, 2 ; Sun Belle, 3.


Public Notice.
1, WILLIAM LUNDFEND, of Russian nation-
ality, born at Riga and resident for 27 years
in Australia, now residing 86 Erskineville Road,
Erskineville, Sydney, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
Personal and Missing Friends.
HANCOCK, Frederick. —Mr. Frederick Han-
cock, husband of Margaret Ethel Hancock, who
died in Perth in 1905, or their son, Frederick
Richard Charles Hancock, or any person having
knowledge of Frederick Hancock’s present
address, is requested to communicate without
delay with THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED, 401
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notices.
TO CECIL ERNEST GRAY formerly of Ger-
trude Street Fitzroy in the State of Victoria
but now of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife IRENE MAY GRAY has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for a dissolution
of marriage on the ground of desertion UN-
LESS you enter an appearance in the Office of
the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court Mel-
bourne on or before the Eighteenth day of June
One thousand nine hundred and forty-two the
case may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs AND FURTHER if
you intend to defend the said suit you must
cause an answer to be filed in the said office
on or before the Twenty-ninth day of June One
thousand nine hundred and forty-two.—This
advertisement is inserted by C. M. S. POWER,
of 283 Queen Street, Melbourne, Public Solici-
tor, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO WILLIAM JAMES WHITE formerly of
King Street Prahran in the State of Victoria
Builder but now of parts unknown.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife DOROTHY WHITE
has instituted proceedings against you for
divorce on the ground of desertion Unless
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office Law Courts William Street Melbourne
in the said State on or before the 18th day
of June 1942 the said suit will proceed in your
absence and a decree for dissolution of marriage
may be granted and you may be ordered to pay
costs If you intend to defend this suit you
must also file an answer in the said office on
or before the 29th day of June 1942.. —ALAN
WAINWRIGHT LL.B. 397 Little Collins Street
Melbourne' Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CECIL FREDERICK HIBBERD late of
Wickham New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that MILDRED MARJORIE HIBBERD has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 318 of 1941 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards You may
enter an appearance before the Fourteenth day
of July 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition
from JOHN CORCORAN & CO. Solicitors
Assembly Hall 2 York Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE MAXWELL EVEREST late of
Musswellbrook. —TAKE NOTICE that VERA
ELAINE EVEREST has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 420 of 1942 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause of excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance on your behalf on
or before the 7th August 1942 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
MERVYN A. DOYLE Solicitor 133 Pitt Street
Sydney Agent for ADRIAN D. HICKEY Solici-
tor Gosford.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
tO SIDNEY BOATWRIGHT formerly of
Dandenong but now of parts unknown.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife Eileen Boatwright has
instituted proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Victoria for divorce on the
ground of desertion Unless you enter an
appearance in the office of the Prothonotary of
the Supreme Court of Victoria on or before the
18th day of June 1942 the case may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs If you intend to defend this suit you
must also file an answer in the said office on
or before the 29th day of June 1942. —COY
AND ENGLAND of 352 Collins Street Mel-
bourne Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
TO ALLAN GEORGE STEWART formerly of
Coleraine and Melbourne but now of parts un-
known—TAKE NOTICE that your wife LILY
MAY STEWART has instituted proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of Victoria
for divorce on the ground of desertion Unless
you enter an appearance in the office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of Victoria
on or before the 18th day of June 1942 the case
may proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs If you intend to defend
this suit you must also file an answer in the
said office on or before the 29th day of June
1942—C0Y & ENGLAND of 352 Collins
Street Melbourne Solicitors for the above-
named Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOSEPH AHERN late of Syd-
ncy.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY AGNES
AHERN has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 35
of 1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance on or before the Thirteenth of August
next and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from FREDERICK McGUREN Solicitor
of 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME - COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALLAN BRUCE FITZSIMMONS late of
Wattle Flat New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that LORN A MURIEL FITZ-
SIMMONS has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2049 of 1941 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance before the 12th August 1942
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from PRITCHARD MARSLAND & CO.
Solicitors 12 O’Connell Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SMOKE-OH!
w
“ ‘The Silent Woman’ (not for general exhibi-
tion).” — Talkie advt.
Then she should be.
* * * *
“The metal obtained from the recent house-
hold aluminium drive will be used to build
Australian tanks.”
The Potsanpanzer Division.
•b *b q* q*
“Things have changed in Hollywood. Only
a few months ago a producer would spend a
quarter of a million dollars on a film and think
nothing of it.” — Film mag.
His view was very often shared by the
audiences.
q. q- q. q.
’Some poultry-farmers prefer to sock their
wheat overnight rather than give it dry.”
—Trade paper.
In the ear, presumably.
“ ‘Don’t be stingy with the old wassail,’ said
Denis. ‘After that torrid interview I could sink
a dogshead of the stuff.’ ” —Short story.
Denis obviously likes a drink with a
real bite in it.
“Don’t stop, silly — they've GOT to give way to smaller craft!"
ŵ
ẁ
morning! I promised that there’d be
cream for the hot chocolate at morning
srr.oke-oh, free cigars for the afternoon
spell and that we’d get rid of that paste-
roller who whistled while he worked.”
“Ar-r, but this is anew strike, ye ken.
The gristle-mixer’s new boy’s got a
tur-rned-up nose, and us guid Orstreelian
unionists couldna stand for that. It puts
us off oor wor-rk.”
“Well, I’ll see about it . . . Yes, what
is it you want, Lundgren?”
“Dutch” Lundgren, shop steward of the
Pie-Fillers’ Union, looked surly. “Ay
ban godt von gomblaint,” he said, “and
der men vill valk off if idt ain’t veexed
oop. Von off der lid-openers hass a dia-
mond ring on his leedle vinger and it —
vodt you say? —affronts der members off
my union—dey zee idt vlashing as he
voiks and dey go grook at dis exsample
of der glass-gonschiousness.”
“Well, why don’t you see O’Murphy,
the shop steward of the Pie-Lid-Openers’
Union? He could persuade the fellow
to take it off, I’m sure.”
“Vodt! Talk to that bletty Irisher!”
“Oh, all right. Well, I’ll see him.”
After negotiations which took most of
the day the matter was settled and
work recommenced. Ten minutes later
O’Murphy came in to the manager’s
office. “The b’ys hiv knocked orf for the
day,” he announced.
The manager threw down his pencil.
“What’s the trouble this time?” he de-
manded.
“Thompson was caught awpenin’ six
an’ a half pois a minute instid o’
the six allowed be the darg,” O’Murphy
explained.
Next morning members of all three
unions turned up and held separate meet-
ings, followed by a joint one, and at
10.30 decided to go home again after a
cook had pointed out that work was
impossible owing to their caps not hav-
ing been sufficiently starched.
Next day, a journeyman lid-opener
pointed out to the shop steward that one
of the apprentices hadn’t had a haircut
for three weeks. Work ceased while a
deputation from the three unions went to
interview the executive of the Hair-
dressers’ Union, and at the subsequent
mass meeting back at the factory it was
resolved to strike until the
offender had had his hair
cut. The cooks came out in
sympathy.
Next morning, the lad’s
hair having been duly shorn,
work was resumed, but at
8.15 it ceased. One of the
lid-openers had the hiccups,
which unnerved the pie-
fillers. Their consequent
spilling of gravy over the
edges was strongly resented
by the shop steward of the
Pie-Lid-Closers’ Union, whose
members were getting it on
their fingers, and he called a
strike. The lid-openers, fillers
and cooks walked out in
sympathy.
ẃ
Baulked.
“It is stated that on one occasion two Labor
M.L.Cs. were playing billiards and would not
stop their games to vote.” — “Daily Mirror.”
Let frightened party hacks obey the calls
Of bells in urgent tintinnabulation !
This pair of rebels went on potting balls,
A far more fascinating recreation.
For cracking whips they cared no single
jot;
They scorned the application of the
screws
By managers who’d put them on the spot.
And — paradox—they wouldn’t take
their cues.
K.
Disputed.
“If both are similar to the same thing they
are similar to one another. That is axiomatic.”
— “D.T.”
Not so. To reason you must bow
As here I run it off:
Although a cough may be a cow
A cow is not a cough.
H. M.
Goose and Gander.
With her arms full of parcels, Mrs.
Blinker sank into the chair with a great
sigh of relief.
“Panic buying!” snorted Blinker. “It’s
not only disgraceful but it’s greedy! With
the enemy pounding at our doors you
lose your self-control! Hang it all,
woman, this is a time when we should
all remain calm, resolute; everyone
should be prepared to make sac”— —
“Oh, shut up! ” protested Mrs. Blinker.
“I just saw Mr. Williams, and he told
me that a new supply of bottled beer has
arrived at the pub and it’s going like hot
cakes.”
“What! Why didn’t y’ say so at first?
Where’s my bag—where’s two bags! Get
me that old port of Granpa’s! Look
out! Don’t stand there grinning like an
idiot! Out of my way!”
“I hate telling lies,” chuckled Mrs.
Blinker as she watched the bag-laden
Mr. Blinker galloping up the street, “but
that settles his lectures on panic buying.”
DON Mc.
Distinction with a Difference.
“Women have forsaken much to achieve the
dignity of service in Women’s Army organisa-
tions.”—Woman’s paper.
Light of my life, need we pretend
Our love is what it used to be ?
Can’t we be frank and put an end
To hedging and duplicity ?
That love its erstwhile feeling lacks
Is obvious whene’er we meet,
Now you’re a colonel of the I Vaacs
And I am but a warden, sweet !
P. O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
News
I’d like to see all our newspapers
divided into “news” and “paper.”
The “news” part would consist of, say,
two columns of authentic news, soberly
presented. It would contain no flaring
headlines, no news doctored up to give
it popular appeal, no rhetoric from poli-
ticians —famous or otherwise —no reports
from “reliable” sources, no articles by
“famous” correspondents, no impertinent
comments from armchair strategists and
no propaganda. All that would be re-
served for the “paper” part, together with
the society twaddle, the comic strips and
the astrology notes.
The “news” would be compiled by a
special staff of the good old-fashioned
type of journalists who consider it their
job to present news and not to compete
with Flash Gordon one minute and run
the war the next. They would be
appointed for the duration by a com-
mittee representative of both political
parties; they would have access to all
sources of news and, like Supreme Court
Judges, they would be entirely free from
political control.
The reader who likes his news served
up with all the trimmings could turn to
the “paper” part, just as he does now, but
we lazy blighters would be able to get
ours without having to seek it amid a
forest of propaganda, gush, half-truths,
distortions and plain downright lies. —
Roy Biv (S.A.).
Strange
Suddenly the Australian public has
heard of a man called Mr. Dedman, all
because he made a terrific blunder by
making a premature announcement on
clothes rationing, thus causing unprece-
dented havoc in the retail clothing trade.
Isn’t it lucky for the newspapers that
they can use Mr. Dedman as a scape-
goat in the matter? Even if he did make
a big mistake, I notice that it didn’t
dawn on the dailies to refrain from print-
ing the news. Surely they could have
taken the matter in hand before the story
got to print.
I understand that we have news cen-
sorship. Strange it was not exercised on
this occasion.—C. Child (Q.).
New Order?
The mad scramble to lay in a stock
of unnecessary clothing is an illuminat-
ing view of the real spirit of patriotism
and self-sacrifice that lies just under the
skin of the “crowd.” Perhaps the most
salutary lesson to be gained from the
exhibition is that we cannot hope to get
any Utopia on earth simply by making
a few political changes and calling them
some “new order” or “ism.” The spec-
tacle of women tearing and screeching at
each other to procure unwanted goods —-
which really means valuable man-power—
is proof enough that it is human nature
more than any political needs
cleaning up. We need a “new order” of
men and women.
Many people agree that that is so, but
when we get down to the method of
changing humanity the heartburnings
begin. Education, religion, culture,
science—all of these and more are at
times expounded as the salvation of
humanity. And they again are divided
into a hundred different methods, sects,
schools and theories. The clue to an
orderly world is probably here some-
where, but who is going to find it? —
V. C. (N.S.W.).
War Pensioners
When is something going to be done
for old war pensioners? Seven months
ago Mr. Fadden hinted that something
might be done, and now, according to
the A.8.C., Mr. Curtin is considering the
matter. But there is nothing definite, and
Old Diggers are left struggling against
the tide of soaring living costs.
Old-age pensioners have had their pen-
sions increased —good luck to them! —
but Diggers who are faced with the same
difficulties are still plugging away at the
same rate. Don’t they command a suffi-
cient number of votes or do the gasbags
know that the Digger will always put
country before party when going to the
poll?
The old war pensioner is classed at so
much incapacity, which, I take it, means
his incapacity to earn a living wage. But
actually a man classed at, say, 60 p.c.
incapacity receives a pension equal to
only 20 p.c. In other words, he has to
earn not 40 p.c. but 80 p.c. of his income
to receive something approximating the
present living wage. Except for a few
lucky exceptions, he cannot do it,
especially as, in most cases, he was classi-
fied anything up to 20 or more years
ago and the effects of age, hastened by
wounds, sickness and financial worry,
have further reduced his earning capacity.
-Seven-eighths (Vic.).
Experts
When “H. 0.” (B. 13/5/’42) wrote “It
is obvious that a man can’t obtain first-
hand experience of all kinds of warfare
in one lifetime any more than a doctor
or scientist can acquire his necessary
groundwork first hand,” he neglected to
consider the tremendous potentialities of
that species of genius we have been
entertaining unawares in this country.
The close study and subsequent sys-
tematic application of the theories in
strategy of certain departed experts may
be essential for such lesser men as Foch,
and even for our modern military
leaders. Our political leaders, however,
appear to have acquired this knowledge
intuitively without requiring to graduate
through the unremunerative and highly-
dangerous rough-and-tumble school of
actual warfare and the study of text-
books. Perhaps the knowledge comes
automatically with an appointment as
trade-union secretary or, at any rate,
with election to Parliament.
Army Minister Forde, for instance,
after his first interview with General
Mac Arthur, remarked to the press that
the General “is undoubtedly a master of
strategy,” which, of course, implies also
a masterful comprehension of the subject
by the Minister himself. Even Mr. Cur-
"But surely you don't have to stick to army regulations when you're
home on leave!"
tin announced (according to the A.8.C.)
that General MacArthur’s views on stra-
tegy and his own were identical. That
was amended next morning by “S. M.
Herald” to Gen. MacArthur’s views and
those of the War Cabinet were identical.
So why should anyone worry about Axis
threats when we have available this
hitherto untouched field of experts rolled
into one small War Cabinet? — Aitch-
Jay (N.S.W.).
A Service-man’s Party
Your leader on Anzac Day-May Day
expresses our feelings adequately. Anzac
Day celebrations have become increas-
ingly important to us, and most of us
agreed to forgo the Day with bitter dis-
appointment, The subsequent dingo
celebrations filled us with savage resent-
ment. We admit that, with the conni-
vance of both Federal and State Govern-
ments, they put it over us.
At a recruiting meeting in Martin-
place some months ago, a returned New
Digger stated that, after the war, they
who had fought and bled intended to
run this country. Please God, they won’t
weaken, nor repeat the fatal mistake we
old ones made when we adopted the
non-political plank in the League’s con-
stitution. If they don’t want to
have the experience too many of
us have had, let them be a straight-
out political organisation and run
their own candidates for Parliament.
The snide political crooks, talking loyalty
and patriotism and denying it with their
every action, have had an easy living
at our expense for far too long.— 2nd
Divvy (N.S.W.).
Can We Take It?
When London was being bombed every
night it carried on with the slogan “We
can take it,” to which Australians
assented with freely-expressed admiration.
When the war crossed the Equator it
became our turn to prophesy that we
could take it.
But can we? Every day the news-
papers have columns of protests about
things incidental to approaching war —
tea and tobacco quotas, travel restric-
tions, overcrowded transport services,
brownouts, ban on sport, clothes ration-
ing, evacuation bungling, shatterproofing,
zoning of food deliveries. These loud
wails certainly suggest that Australians
can’t take it if “it” means the restric-
tions inevitable when we are at war. Yet,
wearing last year’s hat, smoking fewer
cigarettes and drinking weaker tea are
far easier to “take” than having one's
home destroyed and relations killed or
maimed.
I will not descant on the State
Premiers’ inability to take it when the
Prime Minister dropped the one-tax
bombshell.—Me. (N.S.W.).
“Men Wanted”
I know a corporal employed in the
home forces on clerical duties. In
private life he is an orchardist. He
had a successful season and nearly 100
tons of sultana grapes, an asset to the
nation’s food supply, awaiting picking
and drying. After much pleading he
obtained several weeks’ leave, without
pay, to direct the picking of his crop.
With shortage of labor, however, he had
a hopeless race against time and, with
the job half-completed, had to report
back to his headquarters. There, to his
disgust, he had practically no work to
do for over a fortnight, and while he
pleaded in vain for further leave a heavy
downpour of rain halved the value of the
crop that had been laid out for drying.
And that is not an isolated case. —
J. F. W. (Vic.).
Fibre Plants
A shortage of twine is hampering the
work of voluntary organisations making
camouflage nets for the Army. It should
be easy for Australian ingenuity to over-
come the difficulty with some native
plants of a fibrous nature. A study of
dilly bags, lines and similar articles used
by Binghi in his wild state would yield
valuable data if undertaken by experts in
fibres.
One N.S.W. woman showed fellow-
members of her C.W.A. branch some
ropes and twines she had made from
stringybark. Her work is worth following
up. Bushmen know many trees and plants
which yield long-stapled fibres of a type
that would need little treatment to con-
vert them into twine for camouflage nets.
“Paddy’s lucerne,” a low-growing shrub
pest of coastal areas, was introduced from
India many years ago because of its
fibre. Some experiments were made with
it in recent years, and results were good,
although nothing on a commercial basis
was accpmplished. There is no reason
why further trials should not be made.—
Two Strand (N.S.(W.).
Overdoing It
An immense amount has been spent
on technical education in Victoria, but
results, when the needs of the war effort
became urgent, were disappointing.
A new boy in my office, just turned
16 and particularly bright, told me he
had had a very good four-years’ technical
education at one of the big State insti-
“What did you learn?” I asked
him. “Plumbing, woodwork, architec-
ture, model drawing, patterns and designs,
commercial art, pattern-making, black-
smithing, physics and chemistry, sheet-
metal work, pottery, mechanical drawing,
mathematics, geography, history and Eng-
lish literature.”
And what of all you have learnt do
you use in your present occupation?”
Nothing.” “What does your father
do?” “He’s a plumber.” “What do you
think he would say if anybody suggested
that a person could learn plumbing as
well as all those other subjects in four
years?” “He’d laugh, sir.”—L. L. (Vic.).
Boots
“R.H.G.” (B. 29/4/’42) is wrong about
timber workers’ boots. There is nothing
in the Westralian Workers’ Compensation
Insurance regulations to compel timber
workers to wear special boots for their
work. If a man cuts his feet while wear-
ing any sort of boots or shoes at work
he gets his compensation—one big saw-
milling company paid compensation to
a fellow who injured three toes with his
axe while wearing dancing shoes.
Oddly enough, the Sawmillers’ Asso-
ciation has just discussed the rather pre-
valent habit of axemen of being ill-shod
for their work with a view to getting
some sort of a regulation to prevent it,
but nothing has been done. The trouble
for years past has been that compensa-
tion is rather an easy thing to get under
Westralian law, and as long as Labor
Governments of the Westralian type pre-
vail it is not going to be made hard
Bill Ding (W.A.).
Defenders
My colonial oath you’ll be coming out
when the mudslingers are among the lost
and forgotten things!
I’ve just finished reading your classic
headed “Abram and Carlo Camillo” (B.
13/5/’42). More hair on your chest,
Bulletin! —A. S.W., Ex-First A.I.F.
(N.S.W.).
Recent outbursts against The Bulletin
in the Federal and Sydney Parliaments
show how sensitive some of these “saviors
of the people” are to criticism. The
trouble with such oafish critics is
that the pens of Bulletin writers
are too rapierlike, their satire too keen
for poor, heavy-brained, vote-created poli-
ticians to answer in kind ; so, like their
kind as far back as mankind can remem-
ber, they call for the only instrument
their mentalities can understand —repres-
C. C. (W.A.).
I, like all other A.I.F. man, am grate-
ful to The Bulletin for taking up the
cudgels on our behalf in matters directly
concerning us. Your cartoons on con-
chies, Commos. and striking coalminers
were greatly appreciated by the A.I.F. We
were astounded on returning home, after
two years’ service in the Middle East, to
find that the Government had broken the
first promise made to the A.I.F. when we
left Australia, namely, that our army
pay be tax-free. This Government when
in Opposition always accused the
other side of ill-treatment of returned
soldiers. But the A.I.F. won’t forget.
We believe that our country’s destiny
should be in the hands of men who know
what war is and what soldiers in the front
line have to endure. — Tobruk Rat.
The Bulletin holds and expresses cer-
tain political views, openly and within the
law of the Commonwealth, as it is
entitled to do. But political comment is
only a part of the make-up of The Bul-
letin. The major part consists of literary,
artistic, social, financial, rural, sporting
and humorous matter of an excellence
unique in the Southern Hemisphere and
without parallel in the overseas British
Dominions. Those who are attacking
The Bulletin, however, care for none
of these things: their obsession with poli-
tics to the exclusion of literary or artistic
interest is such that they would destroy
any work of art that seemed at variance
with the party. They would suppress and
pull down all that stands above the
dreary level of political dialectics. -
J. W. R. (Tas.).
As an Australian who served in the last
war, I read with interest and sympathy
your reply to Mr. Abram Landa’s re-
marks. Former service men are poorly
represented in Cabinets; it is a sorry
position that so much political support
is given to the “voluntary”— i.e., “Save
your own skin and let the other fellow
do the dirty work”—system.
I appreciate your paper’s attitude to
those Sydney Law School appointments
and to the deplorable abuse of Parlia-
mentary privilege so frequently evidenced.
-D. E. J. (N.S.W.).


w
PORT KEMBLA - N.S.W.
MAKERS OFs-
oF Non Ferrous
Metals and Alloys
GENERAL VIEW OF PAPER LAPPING SECTION, j
For the manufacture of
local and trunk type
paper-insulated lead-
covered telephone cables
for the Postmaster-Gen-
eral’s Department, special
lapping and quadding
machinery is installed.
CABLES
TUBES
T
A HE story of the Company is
broadly one of steady progress, and
it has made a substantial contribution
to the development of Australia. Com-
mencing with the assistance of rela-
tively high protective duties, it has
brought itself into a position where it
is able to carry on with a considerably
less degree of protection. The reputa-
tion of its products has always been
carefully guarded, and its trade-mark
“Kembla” is an asset of which it may
be justifiably proud.
A FLYER ON A TELEPHONE CABLE LAYING-UP
MACHINE SHOWING LAY-PLATE AND CLOSING DIE.
INTERESTING FACTS ABOUT
TELEPHONES
There are about 39 million telephones
in use throughout the world, using
about 168 2 million miles of telephone
wire.
Australia has about three million miles
of telephone wire in use, and about
nine telephones per 100 of population,
occupying seventh place in this respect
amongst the nations of the world.
In the large cities of the world, Wash*
ington, with nearly 39 telephones per
100 of population, heads the list. The
numbers per 100 people in the Aus-
tralian capitals are: Melbourne 12.45,
Sydney 11.73, Adelaide 10.75, Hobart
10.67, and Brisbane 10.49.
