

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 63.—N0. 3260.
Wednefclay, August 5, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
TATTERSHALL CASTLE, NEAR WOODHALL SPA.
HP HE County of Lincolnshire was
famed in pre-Reformation times for
the number of its monasteries, and among
the Fens rose some of the finest Abbeys
held by the Benedictines, not the least
being the Mitred Abbey of Crowland,
founded 71 6 y reformed 948. Feudal
castles were numerous, too, one of the best
preserved being at the little market town
bearing its name on the river Bain. The
present structure replaced a much older
one and was erected in the fifteenth cen-
tury by a great county family bearing the
name Cromwell. The new castle was
constructed, as all such were, with an eye
to “defence and offence,” and at the time
was regarded as a fine example of “archi-
tectural work” applied to military science
as then understood. That it was “sturdily
built” its condition today provides ample
proof. In the Civil War it was the centre
of considerable action by the rival parties
and suffered to some extent, not sufficient,
however, to inflict such damage as to
jeopardise its existence. This was for-
tunate in that was preserved one of the
most perfect specimens of days when con-
ditions of life, socially at least, were vastly
different to those of the twentieth century.
Tattershall Castle has for many years been
a Mecca for visitors, home and overseas,
who take a delight in the outward and
visible symbols of life as lived five hundred
years past.


Storu Writing
vJ W l M at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Xew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin. ’
My Same
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
LEON GELLERT'S POETRY.
RONALD McCUAIG.
We are right to hold Leon Gellert’s
Songs of a Campaign in high regard
among the poems of the last war ; and
I am told that this book, published in
1917, was the first of the 1914-18 crop
of authentic war poetry.
But Gellert’s war poems are not his
finest poems.
It is a wonder, in the hurly-burly of
war, that poetry can be written at all, A
poem is not merely words ; it is form ;
and the interruptions of sergeants and
enemies do not help the concentrated
meditations necessary to the perfection
of forms. So, when Gellert’s poems are
made from direct impressions of war, we
find him grasping desperately at any
form that will cut them into shapes or
give them emotional direction.
He tightens his most direct statement
into a sonnet:
Be still. The bleeding night is in suspense
Of watchful agony and colored thought,
And every beating vein and trembling sense,
Long tired with time, is pitched and over-
wrought.
And for the eye, the darkness holds. strange
forms,
Soft movements in the leaves, and wicked glows
That wait and peer. The whole black land-
scape swarms
With shapes of white and grey that no one
knows;
And for the ear, a sound, a pause, a breath,
A distant hurried footstep moving fast.
The hand has touched the slimy face of death.
The mind is raking at the ragged past.
... A sound of rifles rattles from the south,
And startled orders move from mouth to mouth.
He shows us:
Men, moving in a trench, in the clear noon,
Whetting their steel within the crumbling earth;
Men, moving in a trench ’neath a new moon
That smiles with a slit mouth and has no mirth;
Men moving in a trench in the grey morn,
Lifting bodies on their clotted frames;
Men with narrow mouths thin-carved in scorn
That twist and fumble strangely at dead names.
And he binds this into form with a re-
flection ;
These men know life —know death a little more.
These men see paths and ends, and see
Beyond some swinging open door
Into eternity.
And he huddles death into the form of
an epigram:
“That just reminds me of a yarn,” he said,
And everybody turned to hear his tale.
He had a thousand yarns within his head.
They waited for him, ready with their mirth
And creeping smiles —then suddenly turned pale,
Grew still, and gazed upon the earth.
They heard no tale. No further word was said.
And with his untold fun,
Half leaning on his gun,
They left him —dead.
I would divide such direct impressions
from the rhetorical pieces, many of which
seem to have been written later, such as
the sonnet added to the third edition;
The black revolving depths have moved and
stirred
With news. Their Lord has cried, “Send
these, and these.”
Swift feet awake. Shapes speed. The dreadful
word
Resounds along the tunnels of the seas.
Sly Falsehood cofnes, with Sin and Flattery,
And long-toothed Fear runs shrieking by the
wa11....
These sonnets have the elevated style
of an oration or a leading article. They
are not personal poetry.
But if we take the first poems quoted,
and add the lovely night scene, “Through
a Porthole”;
You’d say the world was not unkind, but just
a sleeping child,
You’d say the world had gone to sleep,
And while it slept
It smiled;
and such pieces of half articulate passion
as;
Place that bayonet in my hand
And fill this pouch with lead;
Show me that blood, > and let me stand
With my dead;
we have a booklet (the section, “Songs
of the Expedition”) of some twenty or
more pieces of poetry so painful as to
be almost unreadable—one is reminded
of the proud father who at last persuaded
his son to talk about, the war; and never
asked again.
The quality of the best of these poems
is their incompleteness: a few lines
roughly forced together; a sudden flash
or explosion—you remember mouths
twisting and fumbling at dead names, the
mind raking at the ragged past. The
quality of the most complete of the poems
is their thinness ; the lines of the sonnets
clank and stretch to reach their rhymes.
We should see this clearly if we are to
realise how suddenly Gellert found per-
fection, two years later, in 1919, in The
Isle of Sail.
It is something of an exciting experi-
ence to see the studies of a young poet
(Gellert was 23 in 1915, 27 in 1919) come
to life;
When I have known you thoroughly through
the years,
And found each secret atom and piece of you,
And all your laughter has grown stale, and tears
100 regular—and there is nothing new;
What hope will God come offering us then....?
The line that had previously been stiff
and angular has grown full and fluid, and
the verse rings with assurance.
One finds it hard to believe that so
much new poetry, in such a different
style, could have been produced in two
years ; yet if some of it had been written
before the war, how are we to explain
the improvement in technique over the
war-poems ; the ease with which the lines
that used to stop and start flood through
the poems and make them sing?
But the remarkable thing about The
Isle of San is not so much its place in
the author’s life as its place in poetry.
In 1919 T. S. Eliot and Ezra Pound
had no influence. The main body of
English poetry obeyed" a convention
which forced the poet into a sympathetic
role. The subject-matter was a conven-
tion: the beautiful, the good, the splen-
did. The poet, also, was to appear beauti-
ful, good and splendid; or he had the
alternative role of the wide-eyed innocent,
the wayward but charming child, ,D. H.
Lawrence was an exception ; but gener-
ally there were no half-lights. To suggest
that a beautiful woman might be a bit
of a bore in her spare time was not
Poetry, but Satire. Or you had a Great
Sorrow in your life.
This is merely to say that a convention
which defines The Poetic as something
apart from life will not produce poets,
but versifiers. And The Isle of San is re-
markable because, in 1919, it put the
poet in an unsympathetic role, or, more
correctly, because in 1919 an Australian
poet referred his poetry to life.
The long poem, divided into six dreams,
with a prologue and an epilogue, which
gives the book its name is a parable of
life and love. In an easy, ambling metre,
the poet tells of the arrival of six men,
probably six personalities of the same
man, on the Isle of San, an island of
women:
For never had it known distress;
It knew but woman’s loveliness,
It knew her kiss and her caress....
The dreams that follow witness a
Dance of Innocence ; a vision of a Grey-
Eyed Girl; an orgy in The Valley of
Desire which, disgusts the poet; a visit
to the Plateau of Denial, where he is
even more disgusted by puritans and
anchorites ; a sojourn in the Village of
Decency, whose shames and skeletons-in-
closets the poet reviles; and finally
Acceptance, where, having experienced all
the positive and negative attitudes of
love, he arrives with the Grey-Eyed Girl
on William Blake’s doorstep:
And so throughout all Eternity
1 forgive you, you forgive me
It is not a tremendous performance,
the verse is adequate, but without heights
or depths—the excellence of The Isle of
San is in the 40 or 50 songs and sonnets
which are used as interludes between the
dreams.
One imagines that many of these
piecej, although they are in the first per-
son, do not represent personal experience,
but are created in character to illustrate
the dream to which they are interludes.
One is always at liberty to doubt how
much personal experience love-poems
represent; what one cannot doubt about
these poems is their essential truth.
Women are notoriously distrustful of
compliments or of being idealised; these
songs make no effort at vague praises.
They search every phase of passion to
its uttermost; they demand fiercely, they
reproach bitterly, they taunt viciously,
they triumph disgracefully:
Item: they demand fiercelyc
Your body gives consent. Your lips say “No,”
I wait the dread decision of your eyes—
Those eyes half-closed. But having watched
me so
Under the still skies,
They cannot bid me go.
The stars are whispering, whispering at their
play.
They hear the wretched booming of my
blood;
Your eyes are wide—tearful and half at bay
Item: they reproach bitterly:
Here, by the fearful Marriage Gate,
I hear the frenzy of (he dance.
Who thinks himself a lion with Fate
Is but the pup of Circumstance
She does not see my eyes are old;
She does not see the path we’ve trod;
Nor see dead Love —inert and cold,
Stabbed at the altar of her God.
Item: they taunt viciously;
Do you remember how you came
And took my name to be your name?
Do you remember how my money
Taught you I was not so funny?
Do you remember how you learned
To love me till your young heart burned.
And how you loved me —years long after
All my love had turned to laughter?
or, with less pose and more poetry:
Just now I thought I saw you in the street,
The girl I loved ten thousand years ago!
You had not changed. Your white clothes,
palely neat,
Shook in the wind and lifted to and fro.
I saw a sickly creature of today
Slop in his path and turn to speak with you.
1 saw you both go walking far away
Till you were lost to view.
Item: they triumph disgracefully: —?
- Molly of the powdered shoulder,
Is your heart still growing colder,
Do you feel a little older
Than you felt four years ago
When these researches extend into
marriage, they tend to turn and take the
woman’s point of view:
She hated him! His fat ways made her mad!
She ached to break his flabby face with stones,
And hurt his great wet lips....
Oh, how she hated him and wished him dead! —
And yet—somehow she loved his clumsy form,
She loved the way he held her in their bed,
Keeping her warm.
This has a companion piece:
Because his soup was cold, he needs must sulk
From dusk till dark, and never speak to her;
And all the time she heard his heavy bulk
Blunder about the house, making a stir
In this room and in that. She heard him mutter
His foolish, breathless noises, snarling and
thick.
She knew the very words he first would utter;
He always said them, and they made her
sick....
One can imagine women, being shown
these pieces, saying “Oh, no, no!” and
retiring to study them in secret.
In 1928 Leon Gellert published some
of the finest of the Isle of San poems in
a booklet entitled Desperate Measures.
Among these 18 poems the pantoum
“Bluebeard’s First Wife” made its first
appearance. From her tomb, half-
drowned in falling camellias, the un-
fortunate woman sings of the discovery
for which her husband with the beautiful
blue beard had cut off her head:
For the vile revenge of the vain
I suffered the knife at my skin,
And the price of his hidden stain
Was two-and-eleven a tin!
I suffered the knife at my skin;
, I knew the dye that he used
Was two-and-eleven a tin.
I confess I was somewhat amused.
I knew the dye that he used.
I heard the stitch of my shroud.
I confess I was somewhat amused
Over and over, the circling form of the
pantoum repeats its warning to wives
against delving into husbands’ secrets, a
monotonous rocking bell on a dangerous
strip of coast, one of the most perfect
uses of the form imaginable.
What wife could heed Mr. Gellert’s
warning and remain a woman?
But what respect and gratitude wives
owe him, who has uncovered this final
secret and with consolatory understand-
ing has transmuted their most deadly sin
into so dark, rich and lonely a joke!
é
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Belshazzar’s Feast” had evidently been
well cooked by chef Professor Heinze at
the 1 own Hall, Melbourne. The howl-
mgs and breast-beatings of the Israelites
bewailing their captivity were very ade-
quately rendered by the ladies and gentle-
men of the Philharmonics and the A.B.C.
Wireless Chorus, but they were as nothing
to the tumult and riot of the brass and
strings and percussion and rattles of the
Symphony Orchestra when it set out to
paint the tumult and riot of the Great
King’s guzzle with its blasphemous impli-
cations. Nothing was left out except
perhaps the eight trumpeters unortho-
doxly placed in the balconies and then
apparently forgotten by the composer.
The yell of exultation when the Great
King fell and the kingdom was divided
nearly lifted the roof off.
As to whether “Belshazzar’s Feast” is
music is an as yet undecided question,
but it was certainly exciting ; and equally
exciting and musically more easily com-
prehended was baritone Raymond Beatty
with his fierce declamatory description of
Babylon the wicked. But the haggis was
really brought in, metaphorically speak-
ing, in the extraordinary finale. The
screeching triumph of the chorus like an
air-raid siren and the bomblike orchestral
thumpings and Frederick Earle at the
organ making sounds like buildings falling
are said to have brought out the more
alert of the air wardens in places as far
apart as East Kew and Footscray.
S.A. Society of Arts still keeps the flag
well flying. H. S. Power’s show has his
usual versatility. Adelaide National Gal-
lery, which claims to have given him his
very first commission long ago, already
has a lot of his work, and bought yet an-
other this time. McNally, the painter-critic-
journalist, now an Adelaide resident, was
highly successful in his sales. He mingles
echoes of Blamire Young with another
marked style all his own. The latest
Combined show is “modern” to the
highest degree.
At the Notanda Galleries, Sydney, is a
show of drawings by “moderns” and
“contemporaries.” Rah Fizelle’s nudes
are graceful. Most of the other sketches
combine the rude technique of the Swiss
lake-dwellers of a million years ago with
an obscurity of purpose that palaeolithic
man was never able to achieve.
Grace Cossington Smith (oils) and Enid
Cambridge (water-colors) are co-exhibi-
tors at the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney.
The water-color sketches follow the cur-
rently fashionable “restrained” style in
which Nature’s exuberance in form and
line is severely reproved. The oils seem
to sacrifice almost every other considera-
tion to the Wakelin technique, but “Bush
Rock Lily Growing” is pleasantly decora-
tive and “Reinforcements” is as effective
as it is original in conception.
Ernest Buckmaster, up for inspection
once more at the Athenaeum, Melbourne,
shows himself .to be a terrific worker.
Square miles of Victorian mountain,
river, lake and ocean alternate with
yards of garden stuff, and only in the
portrait division is there any sign of war-
time shortage. Buckmaster is one of
those rare individuals whose whole energy
seems to be given to painting, and one
can admire his singleness of purpose.
No American film gangster may ever
bat an eyelid in the face of cold steel,
hot lead or fiery fathers of trusting
maidens. Not an eyelid, consequently,
is batted by Robert Taylor in “Johnny
Eager” (Sydney St. James) as he pursues
his life of turpitude until, doing the Syd-
ney Carton act in a modern setting, he
immures himself in a swirl of bullets to
buy happiness for the woman whose life
he had brought almost to wrecking point.
The film hangs close to life in many
touches of character. Taylor turns in a
first-rate performance ; Edward Arnold is
a sheer delight and Lana Turner has the
easy job of just looking nifty.
Chief interest in “Ships with Wings”
at Sydney Lyceum centres in the Ark
Royal. There are many fine shots of
the ship at sea and of the fighting brood
that used her as a perch. There are also
glimpses—all too few—of how such a
ship is handled in action. But too much
of the film was made on the set, and sorne
of the fakes —especially those of the
Italian stronghold of “Pantaria”—are eye-
hitters. Admirals, too, who order ack-ack
to cease while an enemy bomber is still
overhead in the clouds must be unique
in the Silent Service. The film averages
about 20 improbabilities and 10 impossi-
bilities per 1000 ft. of celluloid. Leslie
Banks droops a languid eyelid and speaks
beautiful English, and a vague impression
is created that there are a female or two
in the cast.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Really Good Clothes for Men at
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Men’s Raglan Overcoat
In winter an overcoat is a necessity
. and one of these new style
Raglan overcoats in button-to-neck
design in all wool tweed is excellent
return for coupons. Warm, service-
able and smart, they are good for
several seasons' wear. In Grey,
Fawn, Brown or Lovat shades, fully
lined art silk. Price, each .... 84/-
40 Coupons required.
ALL-WOOL TWEED
LUMBER JACKETS
A snug, serviceable jacket intro-
duced and popularised by our
American Allies . . . has knitted
cuffs and edges, designed in smart
Lumber Checks in shades of Fawn
and Brown. Sizes; M. and O.S. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, each, 18/6
12 Coupons required.
AKUBRA HATS
Akubra Hats in high-grade fur felt styled
with smart snap brim (2 inch and 2k inch).
Available in Dark, Medium and Light
Grey and in Fawn. Boomerang quality.
Price 20/6
High quality satin lined. Price 26/-
Superfine quality satin lined. Price, 35/-
6 Coupons required.
MEN’S STANDARD UNDERWEAR
Men's Standard Underwear in medium weight wool
and cotton. At Anthony Horderns'.
Undershirts with closed neck —
5 Coupons required for each.
Tailored Silk
Dressing Gowns
In art silk patterned in fancy-
designs and smartly tailored.
Silk cord girdle to tone.
Colours: Blue, Green, Grey
and Marone grounds. Sizes,
36 inch to 42 inch chest.
Price, each 29/6
15 Coupons required.
“Tree” Brand
WORK BOOTS
We have sold thousands of
these in the past and they
have given satisfaction al-
ways. They are the same
to-day. Made of oiled grain-
ed leather with stout sewn
standard screwed soles. In
all sizes 5 to 11. Price, 23/6
6 Coupons required.
Anthony
famous
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


CAREW’S PLACE
By JOHN K. EWERS.
Behind the
stables you
could stand
looking over at
Carew’s paddocks ris-
ing on the other side of the valley.
Fallow and stubble and crop blended
. in a patchwork of ever-changing color,
and when young Alan was fed up
with the family and the farm and
everything and everybody round about
that pattern of greens and reds, shading
to yellows and pale ochres, could heal
some of the soreness that was eating him
inside.
When he was a kid at high school
he used to shut his eyes sometimes and
see the valley as plainly as if he were
leaning against the horseyard rails. Very
often he’d try to picture the grey, stone
bungalow where he’d lived ever since he
was born —and find he couldn’t see it.
But he could always see the valley. Each
time he came home on holidays he used
to look through the trees for that stretch
of rising slope as the car snaked along
the twisting track through the manna-
gums. And the next morning he’d be
off straight after breakfast to the bit of
sandy creek-bed in the lowest part of
the depression. The lower you went
towards the creek the more you lost sight
of Carew’s paddocks, until at last you
couldn’t see them at all, and there were
only the plovers screeching down at you,
and groundlarks running from hidden
nests, and quail whirring away in startled
flight, and at last, when you were right
at the creek side, white tails of rabbits
hurrying down burrows. After a while
he’d tire of feeling shut away from
everything down there, and then he would
climb up the gentle hill towards his own
place and feel glad when he could turn
and look back over the valley once
again.
There wasn’t anywhere on their own
place quite as good to look at as Carew’s
paddocks. But it was only from their
own place that you could get that parti-
cular view of them, and, somehow, that
almost made them seem as if they were
their own.
Carew wasn’t there any longer. He
had taken the count during the depres-
sion, and his farm was worked now by
Bastions, from across the road into
Bidanning. That was the queer part of
it. There was old Carew with the best
bit of ground for miles around and yet
he couldn’t make a do of it when the
crash came. There wasn’t a corner of
their own place to touch his, yet Alan’s
dad kept on and kept cheerful. It would
take more than depressions to shift old
Frank Pascoe, or to wipe the grin off
his face, either, for that matter.
It wasn’t till young Alan had gone
away to school that he realised how much
his dad and mum and all of them got a
laugh out of life. His mum and dad
were both like barrels to look at, and he
was sure it was because they found so
much to laugh at. And the family had
caught their laughing habits. They’d sit
through dinner and tea in a simmer of
laughter, and when the joke was against
themselves they only laughed the harder.
When his dad fell in the sheep-dip, for
instance, or when his mum slipped off
her milking-stool and came up to the
house covered with muck.
But when Alan came back after three
years at high school their laughter got
on his nerves. He was to have stayed
five years and taken up a city job, but
the depression knocked that, too. He
wasn’t happy at having to come back,
and things irritated him. He’d got ideas
down there at school, and they were no
good to him on the farm. There was
no one he could share them with. And
it was this laughter that seemed to get
in the way of everything he wanted to
think and do. They didn’t want to think.
They just laughed at themselves and
everybody in the district.
They had names for everyone. There
was old Boomer Bastion. He looked
something like an old man kangaroo,
with his long legs and thin bony head.
His three girls were the Flying Does.
That’s what they’d been called in dinner-
time conversation as long as Alan could
remember. A couple of miles away lived
Monkey Woods and his wife, Filthy
Kate. When he was younger, Alan
could never make out why she was called
Filthy Kate. She always looked clean
enough to him, and it wasn’t until he
grew up a bit that he realised her tongue
was a sewer-vent that poured out all the
accumulated dirt of the district. There
was Ted Jennings, who was Old
Whiskers, and Ben Johnson, who was the
Summer Lamb. He was a sawn-off little
bloke, and they reckoned there couldn’t
have been much grass about when he was
born. Everything was in terms of sheep
and grass and the price of wheat, and
Alan could hardly stick it that first year
after he came back.
RADUALLY he got back to the old
ways. He was part of the place at
sixteen, driving the harvester While his
dad and his older brother, Ron, rushed
in and out to Bidanning with the truck,
and he was part of the family again by
the time he was eighteen. His dad gave
him a motor-bike out of his wages—it
was about all of his wages he ever saw
and he and Ron tore in on Saturdays
to dances in the Memorial Hall and
came blurting home in the early hours of
Sunday.
He’d just about forgotten everything
he’d ever learnt at school, and didn’t
want to remember it particularly, by the
time he began to take an interest in old
Boomer Bastion’s youngest girl, Hilda.
He’d hardly noticed her for the three or
four years after he came back. But she
floated past him one night at a dance
and he couldn’t take his eyes off her
after that. The fact that she was going
with Monkey Woods’s eldest boy, Brian,
made her seem all the more desirable. He
set off after Hilda and literally danced
young Monkey out of the race.
His dad and mum were pleased. It
seemed they could say all sorts of things
about old Boomer, and they reckoned
Mrs. Boomer had a tongue that could
cut a man’s throat, but they had no ob-
jections to one of the Flying Does com-
ing into the family circle.
Alan got a pillion on the back of his
bike, and he and Hilda whizzed all over
the countryside to dances and picnics
and parties. But he used to sit on the
plough sometimes and think things over.
He knew where it was all leading. He
knew damned well that everybody in the
district was betting on it leading there
sooner than it had any right to. Filthy
Kite was in the forefront of gossip,
pointing out with knowing nods that her
Brian had had a lucky escape. “That
Hilda Bastion! ” she used to say, and
leave it at that. But everyone knew
what she meant to imply. It made Alan
mad every time each fresh item of gossip
was retailed to him. He reckoned they’d
all been like that themselves and they
expected everyone else to be the same.
He wondered if he could defy them all
and get married and get out. His younger
sister, Joan, had done that. She’d mar-
ried a chap from the city and gone off
to live in comfort. No more cows and
oil lamps and wood stoves for her, she
reckoned.
He put it up to Hilda one night. He
spoke eloquently of life in the city as he
remembered it. Hilda knew it, too. She’d
been down for holidays but she’d always
been glad to get back home. Still she
gave him a fair hearing before she said:
“But, Alan, what could you do down
there? You haven’t trained for any-
thing. It isn’t as if you’d even finished
your schooling.”
He sailed into a prospectus of his
abilities. There was nothing he couldn’t
do if he set his mind to it and got a fair
go. But while he spoke his own words
sounded hollow to him, although, funnily
enough, Hilda seemed impressed.
“1 believe you could,” she said. “I’m
sure you could.”
He squeezed her waist. It was good
to know she had faith in him. But after
that she became silent and thoughtful,
and just before he left she said: “1 know
you could do it, Alan. But I’m different.
I don’t think I could be happy away from
all this.”
J—J E rode home in a fury. The cold
* * night air stung tears out of his eyes.
He spurted mercilessly over the road,
grinding it angrily beneath the wheels of
his bike. Next morning he was gloomy
and desperate. He lashed the whip under
the horses’ bellies. All that day he fought
with himself and with Hilda, hating both.
He knew now that he had to choose, that
there was a dreadful finality about all
this, and all that he’d put away when he
came back home from school returned to
taunt him and mock him and challenge
him to be a man.
He stabled the horses at sundown, and
when the last rail was shot home behind
their noisy, contented munching he
leaned back gazing over the valley at
Carew’s paddocks. The rays of the late
sun lay aslant the distant rise. They
warmed the fallow, lit last year’s stubble
till it was fired with almost a harvest gold.
They touched the green of the young
crop and gave it an unearthly richness,
so that it shone like the soft plush of
green velvet, and he knew that Carew’s
paddocks were on Hilda’s side against
him.
In the house the mantle-lamp shone
brightly on the soiled tablecloth. The
others were laughing their way through
another meal. Between chuckles, his dad
had a story to tell: “Whiskers came over
today. He tells me Filthy Kate bogged her
car down at the seven-mile last Saturday
and walked two mile over to his place to
get him to pull her out. Old Whiskers
was in the bath when she turned up. And
didn’t she go off! He reckons the crop
in the home paddock hasn’t looked the
same since! Anyhow, he got dressed
and took a couple o’ horses over and got
her out. But what narked Whiskers more
than anything else was that by the time
he got back he was so dirty he had to
have another bath!”
Roars of laughter round the table.
“Two in a year’s a bit above the aver-
age, I reckon,” said Ron. That set them
off again. But Alan didn’t laugh with
them. He pushed his plate back and his
mum said “What’s the matter? Aren’t
you hungry?”
“It’s luv,” said Ron, and they tittered
again.
Alan flushed, but said nothing. He
went to bed earlier than usual to try to
sleep off the ugly mood that was on him,
but next morning wasn’t any better, and
the days dragged on with an anger
mounting inside him, anger at the farm,
the family, the district—everything,
except Hilda and the paddocks that lay
so softly beautiful across the valley on
the other side of the creek.
He could hate the clods that his own
ploughshares turned over. He could
loathe their red, smooth curves and the
shush of the plough cutting into the earth.
In Carew’s paddocks the fallow was of
the same stuff, he knew, but it healed
him, soothed him to look at it from the
stables after he had fed up each night.
But best of all was when he rode over
to Hilda. Each night he went now. His
mum and dad looked at each other.
Boomer and Mrs. Boomer looked at each
other. The district nodded its head
and chattered expectantly.
When he bought the ring they all
reckoned it wouldn’t be long now. And
when old Boomer told him a few nights
afterwards that he could take over
Carew’s place Alan didn’t care whether
their reasons for thinking the engage-
ment would be a short one were the right
reasons or not. In all the years he had loved
the valley it had never occurred to him
that one day it would be his own, to do
what he liked with.
"V/ET when Hilda and he went over
1 there, as they often did now, it didn’t
ever look the same somehow. From the
front verandah of the old house you
looked down the slope towards the creek,
and only the immediate fallow was
visible, clean and richly red where
Boomer had run the cultivator over it
to kill the winter weeds. Beyond lay the
creek, fretted deeper now than when he
had played in its sandy bed as a kid. On
the other side, the slope of his dad’s
eighty-acre paddock rose towards his own
home, a thin tracery of york-gums screen-
ing the house and outbuildings from full
view. But it wasn’t anything like the
picture you got when you looked down
in the opposite direction from their own
stableyards.
It was strange how the beauty of
Carew’s paddocks kept slipping away the
nearer you got to them. Alan wondered
if beauty was always like that, if wanting
beautiful things wasn’t better than get-
ting them. He wanted Hilda. Each time
they went over to the old dusty house
that echoed hollowly to their tread he
wanted her more and more. He won-
dered whether Hilda would be like the
paddocks when he’d got her, whether
she’d turn out different from what she
appeared to be.
He would have called the whole thing
off if he could. He felt he wanted to
clear out, never to see Hilda or the valley
any more. But he knew he couldn’t. The
wheels were turning slowly, surely, in-
evitably. And as the day grew nearer
they began to speed up, until the week
before the wedding they were whirling
madly, excitedly. There was no stopping
them. The whole district was in it. The
excitement and the hustle only touched
him personally when he went over to
Hilda’s, but he was aware of it all day
and every day. ’Phone calls coming
through ; his mum rushing over to Bas-
tions’. Everyone had a share in it. Mrs.
Whiskers makine scones: even HI thy
Kate enlisted to turn
out lamingtons by
the score, because
they were her spe-
cialty.
The night before the wedding Alan
stabled and fed the horses, and for the
last time leant against the rails looking
over the valley. He felt a little resentful
of all the fuss. He wondered at the
changing yet changeless land that could
endure while everybody stampeded
around, rang frantically on telephones
and worked in frenzied anxiety.
Next morning he realised clearly for
the first time how he was in the centre
of all this. His mum fussed about him. His
dad preserved a grim sort of a grin for
him each time they met. Ron didn’t go out
into the paddocks, but did the milking
and separating instead. The car rushed
off to town early on the first of several
trips with eats and decorations.
Presently it was time for him to go.
He wondered if he were really himself,
sitting in the car with these well-dressed
strangers. In the church he waited for
Hilda, and shot a curious sidelong glance
at her when she walked down the aisle,
arm-in-arm with old Boomer. Then the
parson became suddenly alive and human,
and the folk that packed the little wooden
church ceased to exist. Alan was aware
only of Hilda beside him, more beautiful
than he had ever thought she could be.
But it wasn’t till afterwards, at the
breakfast, that he woke up to what was
really happening. There was his dad next
to Mrs. Boomer, and old Boomer going
on like a schoolkid with his mum. Whis-
kers Jennings was being the perfect
gentleman to Filthy Kate, and the
Summer Lamb was oozing self-impor-
tance and politeness as he helped the
parson’s wife to the salad. All of them
there, all of them forgetting what they
said about one another round their own
grimy tablecloths, all of them joining
hands to welcome Hilda and him into the
community, happy to know they would
grow as they had all grown, one with the
soil and of the soil.
He glanced at Hilda the same moment
as she glanced up at him. Her eyes were
bright and shiny. Her lips were red as
sandalwood berries when she smiled. He
found her hand beneath the table and
squeezed it. Then he looked quickly,
self-consciously, away. It was Carew’s
place he saw, a patchwork of ever-chang-
ing colors, pale yellow stubbie, soft green
of young crop glistening in the sunlight
when the wind swept over it, and fallow,
clean and richly red.
Change to Snow.
Overnight the hills became
Enemies, hooded, tall
With a new authority, bleak
From the conspiratorial midnight, having shed
The green of amity and drawn
The hostile cape over the contours of kindness.
Our sleep, mattressed upon content,
Dreams not of change, not of a revelation
That, sheering up like a wave.
Makes of the idol’s court a desolation.
We, waking, expect to find
The amiable architecture, the clear event:
Not the craftsman, tomorrow, and the un-
sparing line.
What shall we do with our piled opinions
When, facing another day,
We see that change has made a sloven
Of beauty we have proven?
Is it better to watch, see light grow less,
See time make up the face that drifted
Through dreams, the face that was
Each day’s redemptive rose? Shall we refuse
No rigors of recasting, laugh to lose?
This snow is the face of change whose frown
Invalidates the morning hope, wears down
The private boast, reduces to a refugee
The feted certainty.
Therefore, waking,
Expect the morning treachery, the defaced
images,
The passing bell.
For life marches with change, the infidel —
Life links not with any man’s desire,
Life that is hammer and fire.
MAORILAND.
J. R. HERVEY.
An Honor Bestowed.
Wear it in wisdom, for the days
Are few and swiftly grassed—
Tumbled to earth that fed their bays,
Chained to a planet’s past.
No resolute, far-clanging stars,
Ranging the dark, can mate
Love’s brevities, nor greed's long wars
Parry the thrust of fate;
And though they honor space with light,
One cloud can dowse them all,
And all the vast and pomp of night
Be hid in a raindrop’s fall.
That opal fire caged in stone —
Your beauty in its praise—
Gem-hard, earth-centred and alone,
Bear it about your ways;
Already horses pale for death
At life’s defences ride,
And hate’s chill javelins stick the breath,
Quiet the stir of pride.
■VICTORIA*
MARY FINNIN.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3260
Wednesday, August 5, 1942
PROBLEM PICTURE - WHICH IS THE GOAT?
“The Japanese claim to have sunk five ships in Australian waters in sixteen days and made nineteen aerial attacks on Australian territory in a week."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane ,
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
NON-STARTERS' FRONT.
This clamor for a Second Front in
Western Europe is something new in the
history of the British Lion and his cubs.
There was nothing even remotely resem-
bling it in the last war or the Boer War
or the Crimean War or in the wars against
the first French Republic and Empire.
In all these struggles the British public
had to put up with severe disappoint-
ments, but in none of them was there any
popular agitation for the removal of a
luckless commander, let alone the under-
taking of a particular military adventure.
The notion that civilians organised in
pressure groups are competent to shape
military strategy and have a right to
force their particular conception or aber-
ration on the men charged with the duty
of preserving the Empire is entirely a
product of this queer age.
The same is true of the—er—altruism
which impels civilians to demand that
some foreign country shall be “saved,”
whatever happens in the process to
British imperial fighting men and mer-
chant seamen, and whatever the conse-
quences to the Empire or any part of it.
In all our previous wars the safety of
the Empire was the first considera-
tion. “England,” said the second Pitt
in the course of a war in which all Eng-
land’s allies, Russia among them, were
worsted, “has saved itself by its exer-
tions, and will, as I trust, save Europe
by its example.” The hope was ful-
filled, though not in Pitt’s time ; by Eng-
land’s example Europe was saved.
Nowadays, it seems, England’s example,
though as grand—especially since June,
1940 —as anything in history, is not
enough. New perils and sacrifices are
required of the heroic nation. It must
abandon its historic role of protecting
the outlying parts of the Empire. It must
erase bitter memories of the expeditions
to Norway, France, Dakar, Greece and
Crete. It must shut its eyes to the devil-
ish power of the Luftwaffe and to the
havoc wrought by bombers, U-boats and
surface craft among its seamen and its
ships, and somehow assemble a huge
armada in the narrow seas for a neces-
sarily slow attack on a coast held by an
enemy who could achieve superiority in
ground forces and equipment in a day.
It is to risk, not only the loss of another
army and countless ships and crews, but
the speedy loss of the war and the perma-
nent loss of its place among the Great
Powers. And all to go to the help of a
country more than half a continent away
and with more than four times the popu-
lation of the United Kingdom.
And who are the people who present
these monstrous demands to the British
Government for instant acceptance and
action? Non-combatants all. Communists
for the most part. American Communists,
British Communists, Australian Commu-
nists and “fellow-travellers.” The Ameri-
cans litter the White House with post-
cards ; the Australians circulate petitions,
advertise in newspapers and make street-
scapes hideous with ’’stickers” and
posters; the whole tribe issues forests
of pamphlets and leaflets and holds
public meetings at which politicians,
editors, radio spouters and other persons
not in uniform bellow for other men
to be hurled into a hell of fire which
they themselves have no intention of
experiencing.
• Did any of these non-starters call for a
Second Front in Europe when Britain
stood in the awful shadow of invasion,
with only one armed division in the line
if the enemy made the Channel passage?
Did any of them raise a Second-Front
cry during the horrors of the Blitz, when
for three months no Briton could lie
down at night with the certainty that his
house would be standing or his family
breathing next morning? Not one did.
On the contrary, ruffians among the
British Communists muttered treason in
air-raid shelters, and other base creep-
ing cieatures whispered that the war was
lost. Australians of the same kidney
worked up strikes in war industries and
engaged in seditious propaganda, in which
the war was described as a struggle be-
tween rival imperialisms and young men
were urged to enlist not in the Australian
army to defend “capitalism” but in the
Communist party to overthrow it. And
venomous opposition to support for the
embattled democracies, coast-to-coast
propaganda against “the imperialist war”
and strikes designed to thwart the Gov-
ernment s efforts to put the nation in a
state of preparedness were American
Communist contributions to the infamous
campaign. It has all been forgotten or
forgiven in Britain and Australia, but
not in the United States. Decidedly not
there. Witness the order for the expul-
sion of Bridges and the chorus of
approval which came from the American
Legion and the non-Communist press.
Setting aside the war records of the
worst of the Second-Fronters, what claims
have they or any of their non-combatant
coadjutors to the slightest consideration
even as amateur strategists? Their state-
ments of fact, as well as their theories,
have been regularly falsified by events.
Their accounts of the war in Russia,
whether the outcome of ignorance,
credulity or deliberate intent to deceive,
have been wildly and injuriously untrue.
Six months ago the vainest and most
notorious Second-Fronter in journalism
wrote in his Beaverbrook paper that
“Hitler’s armies in Russia are about to
be completely destroyed ; Hitler is on
the edge of the greatest military disaster
in world history.” This fustian was
cabled to Australia and presented as a
precise statement of the position by “the
greatest journalistic discovery of the war.”
One of the papers that published it
turned savagely on Canada’s High Com-
missioner for having, it alleged, “told
Federal Ministers that he suspects the
Russian advance is ‘phony’; the Germans
are just letting the Russians take some
ground while they consolidate them-
selves.” Major-General Odium, a hero
of one of the great episodes of the last
war, the Canadian resistance to the first
German gas attack in Flanders, was stig-
matised as “a Hollywood soldier.”
The Canadian veteran’s experience was
not peculiar. In Britain, as well as Aus-
tralia, to reject or even question the
current serial story about the winter
campaign in Russia was to court venom-
ous insults and roaring demands for
punishment. For expressing doubts
whether the winter campaign would really
be the end of Hitler, Kenneth de Courcy,
who edits the Imperial Policy Group’s
monthly, was threatened— not, of course,
by the Government—with the suppres-
sion of his masterly war surveys, and
with detention in an internment camp.
And the Communist campaign against
The Bulletin, expressed in vicious vocal
denunciations and threats and in publi-
cations with bogus imprints which have
reached a new low in Communist lying,
was started because the paper’s true pic-
tures of the war in Russia were held to
be spoiling the Second-Front market.
There are no Second-Front editors in
Melbourne, and if there are any in other
capitals their sentiments have been con-
cealed ; but there are some in Sydney.
They are the same editors who, as engag-
ingly related after the fall of Singapore
by Mr. Joe Harsch, of the “Christian
Science Monitor,” requested that gentle-
man to impress on America the supreme
importance of inducing the Australian
Government to throw every available
Australian soldier and gun into the
Netherlands Indies.” The “argument” of
these “editors of leading newspapers”
was that “a few divisions of Australians
might make all the difference in Java but
amount to nothing in the vast expanses
of this continent: they urge that Aus-
tralia can save itself only by saving the
Netherlands Indies.” The identity of
one of these editors was revealed when
his paper came out with a front-page
article headed “Fight for Australia in
Java!” Had “a few divisions” been
sent to Java,” as he demanded, they
must have shared the fate of the other
Australians in that island and in
Amboina. So much for the claims of
this editor and the others mentioned by
Mr. Harsch—one, at least, has published
Second-Front articles —to be accepted as
authorities on what should be done in
Western Europe.
“Australia,” it was here written on
May 27, “cannot be saved on the steppes
of Russia” ; nor can Russia be saved on
the sands or flats of Flanders. As always
in the past, Russia must save itself by
its exertions; plus in this case what
Britain and the United States can do for
it without neglecting their paramount
job of fighting the Axis in the Atlantic*
the Mediterranean, the Indian Ocean and
the Pacific, in which the Russians are
not fighting. In the last war Russia kept a
front going for three years, and it should
be able to do the same this time, even if
it loses all its oil—which is not at all
likely to happen before the next
European summer at the earliest. In
the meantime the United States and the
British Commonwealth will be capable
of developing their sea-power, air-power
and land-power to the extent required to
expel the Axis army from North Africa,
drive the Japanese back to their home-
lands and punish Germany terribly—so
terribly as to loosen the German hold on
the occupied territories and sicken the
German masses of war. Though it may
take two years or longer, it can be done.
But Australia and New Zealand may
be lost beyond hope of redemption if
Britain exhausts itself uselessly and
North American striking power is seri-
ously weakened in a European slogging
match. Though Russia has suffered
military disasters, and worse may be in
store, it is in no danger of extinction.
Its population and territories are so vast
that it can come back, and will. There
will always be a Russia. But Australia
and New Zealand, so small in numbers
and so remote from their Allies, are in
real danger of extinction as self-govern-
ing white democracies. And no man,
native-born or immigrant, who, having
seen the terrible power of the Japanese
manifest itself, swells the cry for a Second
Front in Western Europe is a genuine
Australian.
Boloney Reporting.
From time to time, when things have
gone surprisingly and disastrously wrong,
Australian newspapers have fallen back on
the now stock excuse that they had been
misled by official “handouts,” especially
in regard to the war in the Pacific.
Official “handouts” have been blamed
for spreading the false notion that the
Jap air force was tenth-rate, Jap ’planes
obsolete, Jap pilots the world’s worst and
the Japs as a whole a pushover.
Official “handouts” were to blame for
the widespread idea that Singapore was
impregnable; that the Malayans, Bur-
mese and others in the way of Japanese
conquest were all staunchly anti-Jap;
that the Japs were “bogged” in China,
and had there suffered such losses that
their army was crippled ; and that, in-
ternally, Japan had been reduced to such
a state that no fighting would be needed
—an economic embargo would utterly
ruin the place in a matter of months.
Australian newspapers that have regu-
larly fallen back on the stock excuse as
each of those wishful notions was
proved fallacious might have done them-
selves and Australia a service by examin-
ing their own part in the spreading, and
taking a pledge to be done with boloney
reporting, official or otherwise, so long as
the threat to Australia lasts. As it is,
rubbish of the old familiar brand still
finds space, with the old familiar excuse
handy to fall back on if necessary.
Some of the reporting of the Jap mid-
night air raids on Townsville and Dar-
win and the invading of Papua had the
only too familiarly airy ring. At Towns-
ville “the Japs lived up to their reputation
for poor sighting by dropping their
bombs wide of the mark.” This was
made to look the worst sort of timeworn
rubbish by an account of the sinking of
the inter-island steamer Macdhui, 4561
tons gross, and thus no vast target.
On June 17 enemy bombers came over at
an extreme height. A heavy bomb fell
right through the bridge and penetrated
to the dining saloon before exploding.
Other bombs were falling all around. Next
day four bombs hit the ship.
Whatever Townsville’s raid may have
proved to the satisfaction of any re-
porter’s intelligence, in the bombing of
the Macdhui the enemy airmen do not
appear to have “lived up to their reputa-
tion for poor sighting.” The Townsville
raid reporting further stated;
There was no fighter interception. The
small size of the raiding force made night-
fighter interception almost unnecessary.
There were four Jap flying-boats in the
raid; possibly fighter interception is
“almost unnecessary” unless they come
in hundreds.
The distance raiding bombers are obliged
to cover prevents them carrying a heavy
bomb load.
Therefore they can be disregarded;
dismissed as trifles! To help this notion
along, there was the witty comment in
the reporting of the second successive
night raid on Darwin that these raids
could be described not so much as
“nuisance raids but as nonsense raids.”
T*? 6 , a * ter Townsville raid the
inhabitants were represented as
inclined to treat the matter more as a
joke than as a threat to their lives and
property. To add to their amusement...
When the enemy failed to turn un
again the following night,
.. One section that was rather disappointed
that he did not was the ack-ack units.
Painfully reminiscent, the lot of it of
the reporting of the early air raids’on
Britain, when Huns dropped tons of
bombs, bagging one rabbit or, for variety
in the local menu, one hare or one sheep!
The Japanese landing in Papua had,
to begin with, the benefit of much the
same sort of reporting. The Jap troops
who landed at Buna were from “a small
Japanese convoy.” Next, the Jap convoy
had been attacked and “forced to put to
sea without completely unloading,”
Three transports (one of between 8000
and 10,000 tons) had been sunk or
crippled; the remainder (number un-
stated) were steaming north, “protected
by naval forces.”
So much for the “small” convoy. The
Jap forces landed were also “small”;
“estimated at between 1500 and 2500.”
Where the Japs had landed was “con-
nected with Port Moresby by a rough
track, over which infantry could cross
the Owen Stanley Range, but not good
enough for vehicles.” The ink was
scarcely dry on this when the paper that
had come out with the comforting port-
manteau headline “Jap Convoy Forced
to Flee from Fury of Allies’ Air Blitz on
Buna” came out with the scare head-
lines “Japs 40 Miles in from Papuan
Coast. Troops Clash with Patrols.” The
paper which had emphasised the small-
ness of the Jap force and the roughness
of the going reported next day;
It appears that the Japanese, after land-
ing at the Gona Mission, lost no time in
fanning out and advancing south-west in
the direction of the pass to Port Moresby.
Their landing was interrupted, and some of
their supply ships were forced to leave
without unloading, but the numbers that
reached the cover of the bush were suffi-
cient to enable parties to carry on towards
Port Moresby.
Explanation? This:
Although the road from Buna to Awala,
and, in fact, as far as Kokoda, is primi-
tive, it is, reasonably level and easy to
cover. It Is the precipitous country from
the foothills of the Owen Stanley Range
which is difficult to penetrate. Practised
native runners take days to beat their way
through stretches of this dense, rain-soaked
forest....
If it were not that all this was pub-
lished last week it would read like
extracts from reports of the fighting
down through Malaya.
.There is a deadly danger in all such
reporting. It leaves a false impression
of the seriousness of the menace to
Australia’s existence. Its inspiration, con-
scious or unconscious, is no doubt the
laudable enough one of helping to keep
public morale at a high level, but it
utterly defeats its purpose when the
promises it implies are quickly belied.
The time to be cocky about beating an
enemy is when he is being beaten, if
even then. Public morale in Australia
will no doubt be equal to any test that
it may yet be put to, but it will stand
the testing all the better if it is based on
solid realism.
The realism in Australia’s present
position is that the Japs have an enor-
mous force that has yet to be broken.
The huge job of breaking it must
henceforth be the one great preoccupa-
tion of both Australia and New Zealand,
with the knowledge that not merely a
defeat in war that might in time be
remedied but their actual existence is
what is in the balance. The Japanese
Premier, General Tojo, repeated last
week the familiar threat to this country:
If Australia persists in its useless resis-
tance there is no need to reiterate that
Japan will show no mercy in crushing it.
No need whatever. This is the nature
of the Jap, and the size of the contract.
Wishful reporting and silly belittlement
will not alter either. The only course for
Australia and New Zealand is that stated
by Mr: Nash on the same day:
I think it would be a huge mistake for
anybody to imagine that Japan was finished,
and, therefore, the wisest procedure at
present is to do nothing. We must find
a way of doing something that will be most
harmful to Japan.
With this programme; Australia and
New Zealand are concerned above all
others. It leaves no room for anything
much more than sympathetic fellow-
feeling for other parts of the world. Here
the very existence of the Australian and
New Zealand people is at stake. The full
realising of this is what is now called for,
and eyewash reporting or anything else
that obscures the nature, the pressing
urgency and the magnitude of the job is
a dangerous disservice to the people of
both these threatened countries.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Message to Australia.
To guard their country in her hour of
need
And see her through the dangers of
today.
They left their mates. We wished them
all “God-speed,”
The lucky ones, those men who
steamed away.
And now the die is cast we “soldier on,”
A little sad at heart, homesick, forlorn ;
All longing for the chance to play our
part
In fighting for the land where we were
born.
But don’t we guard her ? In the desert
sand.
As in the jungle or upon the sea,
We are Australia’s sons, and ours the
right
To battle for the cause that keeps her
free.
So steadfastly we stand, whate’er may
come.
To do our job where lies the greatest
need.
We don’t decide; we answer to the
drum —
God grant that He may steel us for
the deed!
Tip Kelaher.
[These lines came to The Bulletin
with the footnote “Written at the request
of A.I.F. men who have been left, as
the writer is, in the Middle East.” “Tip”
Kelaher will not return from the Middle
East; he fell in the Battle of Egypt.]
Soldiers' Pay and Taxes.
Some queer figures, having to do with the
pay of soldiers and others and taxation
charges, have been given an airing. They
make strange reading in a country which
exists today only by virtue of what fight-
ing men and merchant seamen have done
for it, and which depends for its future
existence wholly on what they will still
be able to do.
Ex-Sydney Premier Mair pointed out
some taxation anomalies. Though almost
incredible, they have not been explicitly
denied, albeit Mr. Chifley has declared
that “soldiers in all States except New
South Wales will be far better off under
the uniform-income-taxation scheme than
they were formerly.”
According to Mr. Mair, a corporal,
without dependants, receiving £3 10s. a
week is taxed 4s. Bd. a week ; a civilian
in the same position is taxed 3s. A
lieutenant, without dependants, receiving
£5 12s. a week is taxed 225. 9d. a week ;
a civilian in the same position, 13s. a
week. Each having one dependant, the
respective taxes are 15s. 9d. and Bs.
Pay figures for men called up for labor
and men called up for fighting are even
queerer. Men called up for the Civil Con-
struction Corps “are paid full award rates
while working, and at a minimum rate
of £4 16s. a week when not working.”
They get overtime pay, double rates on
Sundays and holidays; their fares are
paid, and they are paid for their travel-
ling time, too, if they live away from the
job ; free food and quarters if they live
on the job ; special allowances if they
have to go to distant parts of the country,.
Ordinary laborers make as much as £9
a week.
Beside that, the pay of the called-up
soldier reads like a bad joke.
The explanation, of course, is that old
custom dies hard. A carryover from the
not-so-remote times when it was the
actual position, the notion still hangs
about that men in uniform are mer-
cenaries, professionally soldiering from
choice. Total war, in all its implications,
is something too new to be fully grasped
as yet. When its full implications are at
last grasped, the service man —the one who
does the fighting, risking his life, often
losing it, and in any case undergoing
often damaging hardship—will be the
one to receive the advantages in pay and
in everything else into which any advan-
tages can enter.
The Macquarie-street Battle.
The old poser as to what happens when
an irresistible force meets an immovable
object has been solved in the great Mac-
quarie-street battle between Generals
Clive Evatt and John Tully.
Hostilities broke out over some terri-
tory evacuated by the Public Library stall.
General Evatt swiftly sent in a force under
his commanding officer, Gordon Young,
imported from Canada at a high salary
to conduct a “National” Fitness Cam-
paign. But General Tully was no slouch.
His forces had already infiltrated the
position and were entrenching themselves.
Then, while the forces glared at each
other, a furious bombardment was deli-
vered by both leaders. The explosions
reverberated around the forces holding
the positions ; but neither budged an inch.
General Evatt may have thought of send-
ing to the Parramatta girls’ reformatory
for reinforcements —there are some good
shots out there —but didn’t do so.
Plainly the irresistible force had met
the immovable object at last. Then a
Mr. Cahill, a Minister for Works who
had some claim on the lost territory,
stepped in with a solution. He instructed
his architects to draw up plans to divide
the area between the claimants.
This seemed to satisfy everybody—
except the N.S.W. taxpayers, who have
good reason to fear that the breaking-
off of the “National” Fitness branch from
the Education Department and the break-
ing-off of the Western Lands Board from
the Lands Department and the setting up
of both in separate Quarters means that
before long N. S. Wales will have two
more departments, fitted out with every-
thing from Ministers to office-boys.
Second Front Finance.
“Frothblower’s” study:
Macquarie-street, Sydney, headquarters of the
State War Effort, of which so much has been
heard, was rocked to its foundations by the in-
sidious attack delivered by Mr. H. R. Miller.
Mr. H. R. Miller is secretary of the Rugby
League, which holds a club license and a winter
monopoly of the Cricket Ground and the
Sports Ground, and vice-president of the N.S.W.
Aid Russia Committee. The Rugby League
had always hitherto been supposed to be on
friendly terms with the Labor party. Breaking
violently with the tradition, Mr. Miller said,
among other things, that he was “disgusted
at Cabinet’s disregard for everyone doing some-
thing for the war effort.”
Mr. Miller had arranged a Grand Sunday
Sports Carnival for the A.R.C. The Govern-
ment’s permission was required, and when the
arrangements were “well advanced” it was re-
fused. Hence Mr. Miller’s fury. Admirers and
students of the Rugby League and the Aid
Russia Committee and members of the Leagues’
Club sat back prepared to enjoy a controversy,
their appetite whetted by a “Sun” report with a
mysterious headline, “Money Not Sent to the
Soviet” —mysterious in that the report was
barren of information as to whether money had
or had not been sent to the Soviet.
But Mr. Tannock, M.L.C., and a Miss Wilson,
described as “joint secretaries of the N.S.W. Aid
Russia Committee” (not joint hon. secre-
taries), issued a statement in which they said
they had “no criticism to offer” of the cancella-
tion of the Grand Sports Carnival, and “no dis-
agreement with the State Government,” whose
action was “not in any way aimed at the com-
mittee.” Indeed “Mr. Baddeley” had “praised
the work of both the Aid Russia and Russian
Medical Aid Committees.” The “joint secre-
taries” (not joint hon. secretaries) explained
that while the Medical Aid Committee “worked
exclusively to send medical comforts to Russia,
our activities are much broader.”
Very much broader. In April the “joint
secretaries” (not joint hon. secretaries) issued
a circular notifying all “miners’ lodges and
shop committees” of a conference of shop
stewards and committees to enable those worthies
to put forward “concrete proposals for immediate
action on two vitally urgent matters,” No. 1
being the opening up of a Second Front in
(Continued on page 8.)
WURTH’S CIRCUS.
"Canberra reports dissension between Minister Ward and the Director of Man-power, Mr. Wurth."
“This fellow and his strong-man act’ll break the show.”


ADVICE TO MOTHERS
Mothers—if your children are constipated
give them relief this simple, pleasant way 1
To-night give them NYAL FIGSEN, the
gentle, natural laxative. No need to coax
or scold ... Figsen is easy and pleasant to
take. It won’t upset little tummies. In the
morning Figsen acts ... gently, thoroughly
and effectively. No griping pain, no nausea;
just an easy, comfortable action. NYAL
FIGSEN is just as good for adults as it is
for youngsters. Sold by chemists every-
where. _ 1/ 3 a tin-
The next best thing to Nature . . s
NyaEFigsen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
DANIEL
CRAWFORD'S
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
THE
“BOULIA”
810 HIP STOCK. SADDLE
MHR
y.s.w.
Freight
Saddles
Paid for
Cash with
Order .
■/SI/Sl3
(COMPLETE)
Has plenty of
dip in the seat
and the pads are
high. It has the
popular short
pan e 1 with
leather facings at
back. Built on a best
“Fouright” Tree, the
materials are first-class
throughout.
Come and inspect our
range of Genuine True-
t o-Label Wieneke Saddles.
WALTHER «t STEVEHSOM £rS:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
Europe by Britain and our Allies. To the
“secretaries of all shop committees, trade-unions
and miners’ lodges” they issued bushels of
Second-Front-in-Europe petitions to the Com-
monwealth Government. The same bodies,
together with A.L.P. branches, were informed
that “copies of the pamphlet ‘lnvade Europe,’
by Mr. R. Lockwood,” designed to “play an
important role in our campaign for the Second
Front in Europe,” were “ready for free dis-
tribution” ; and 100,000 copies were struck oft.
So there is no paper shortage where the
N.S.W. Aid Russia Committee is concerned,
and it has obviously been kept well supplied
with funds. It is not clear who furnishes this
money, or whether contributors have been fully
informed of the purpose for which it has been
sought or the way in which it has been spent.
Something was said by Mr. Miller about the
Chief Secretary’s Department having asked to
see “the committee’s books of accounts again.”
They had, it seems, been inspected in April,
and “the committee was eulogised for the way in
which they were kept.” “Our books,” Mr.
Miller concluded defiantly, “are open for in-
spection at any time.”
This drew a plain statement from Mr. Tully,
after a week presumably devoted to deep thought.
The Aid Russia Committee, Mr. Tully said,
was refused the use of the Sports Ground because
it had “on a previous occasion” violated “the
conditions governing the use of the ground for
patriotic functions,” which were that “a
balance sheet must be submitted to the Gov-
ernment within 14 days.” “I am not opposed
to Sunday sport,” Mr. Tully proceeded, “but
I am opposed to any commercialisation of
sport. If sports gatherings are held for patriotic
purposes on land under Government control the
Government must be sure the proceeds are
properly applied.”
There is another N.S.W. organisation in the
Second-Front-in-Europe business, the so-called
Legal Rights Association. The Legal Rights
Association specialises in expensive posters and
newspaper advertisements. If the Government
thinks it consistent with the State War Effort to
authorise the collection of money for a vamped-
up agitation which, if successful, would bring
death to myriads of British merchant seamen
and Tommies and probably do immeasurable
harm to Australia it should at least insist on the
publication of full and precise balance sheets.
POLITICAL POINTS
An impression that the Federal Oppo-
sition was dead has been corrected by
Fadden. That gentleman hit out quite
spiritedly at the Government’s sins of
commission and omission, mentioning in
particular the 4 p.c. limit on profits (aban-
doned), the taxes on soldiers (to be
“reviewed”) and Dedman’s clumsy
attempts to bring about socialisation of
industry under the guise of “rationalisa-
tion” ; and these signs of animation are
vyelcome though belated. With Ministers
like Ward, Dedman and Forde about,
and with business becoming the sport of
persons who couldn’t run pie-cans at a
profit if they had a racecourse monopoly,
a live Opposition is a national necessity.
Naturally the introduction of “the new
coal strike penalty regulations” was fol-
lowed by another strike. Were “the new
coal strike penalty regulations” enforced
immediately? Not a bit of it; the strike
was called a safety stoppage, and safety
stoppages are legal. Indeed, safety stop-
pages are anything that the Miners’
Federation chooses to regard as such.
Taken to task for authorising the
Miners’ Federation to declare coal strikes
legal, Curtin protested that “the right to
stl 'ike, is held by every union in Aus-
tralia.” Not every union. In the great-
est unions of all, the R.A.N., the
R.A.A.F., the A.1.F., the A.M.F. and
the V.D.C., striking is called mutiny, and
the punishment for mutiny is severe.
Jesting wi’ deeficulty, Forgan Smith
declared that the Fligh Court judgment
which blew up his two income taxes was
“distinctly favorable to the States.”
Playford, who has no use for bad jokes,
admits that the judgment places it on
record that the Commonwealth has “un-
limited power to impose taxes, even to
the extent of controlling the States ; it
can have first call upon all taxation.”
Right ; and national control of all other
taxes should be taken, beginning with
land tax and going on to death duties.
As with income tax until it was other-
wise decided for all time, the Common-
wealth taxes dead men’s property only
after the States have had their cut.
Curtin could not have been pleased with
the voting in Westralia’s met.-suburban
province by-election. A big part of his
own electorate is included in the prov-
ince, and the franchise is so easy that
any householder can vote, but two Labor
candidates polled only 1052 primary votes
out of 7538. One of them was William
Somerville, regarded for 30 years as one
of the intellectuals of “the movement”:
representative of the wage-earners on the
Arbitration Court, and called Dr. Somer-
ville since Perth University granted him
a degree. Somerville’s share of the 1052
was only 388, and he lost his deposit.
Last week newspapermen who had
been held in Japan since December 7
reached Marques with precise
and detailed accounts of fiendish treat-
ment of captives. In the same week the
Japs claimed the sinking of five ships off
the Australian coast, carried out 19 air
raids on Australian territory and added
the consolidation of air bases in the
Solomons to their land threat to
Moresby. In Melbourne and Adelaide
drastic expedients necessitated by the
coal position were discussed and in part
enforced. In Sydney the screeching of
the Second-Fronters was louder than ever,
and Private Munro, whose devotion to
his military duties was extolled by the
Minister for the Army, rode another
winner—though in this case the crowd
was not so appreciative as Forde.
State railway departments seem to
have started the rumpus over wives of
Commonwealth members and Ministers
getting “priority permits.” They object
to Clapp being Director-General of
Land Transport. The position is that
“No. 1 priorities” are granted to wives
of Ministers setting up temporary
“homes in Canberra or any capital city,”
and that seems fair enough ; but “No. 2
priorities” are issued to wives of mem-
bers attending meetings of Parliament,
and that is worse than ridiculous. But
it should be remembered that before
Commonwealth control was instituted
State politicians were careering about
Australia on their passes. That war-time
deadheadism was vetoed.
Sydney “D.T.,” whooping for a Second
Front in Europe regardless of its own
country’s peril, asserted that “Britain
has upwards of 5,000,000 regular troops
and Home Guards under arms.” Lord
Halifax’s version is that there are in
Britain 1,500,000 regulars and 2,000,000
Home Guardsmen, “part-time soldiers
whose full-time work is mostly in war
industries,” to protect a coastline, of 3000
RATS OF TOHOOK.
“A huge organised pillage ring is believed to be operating on the waterfront. Much of the
stuff stolen is intended for use by the troops.”
miles —roughly three times the length of
the Russian front. In U.S.A., with three
times the population of Britain, there are,
according to the President, “4,000,000
men under arms.”
The placing of trade-union presidents,
secretaries and other paid officials on the
reserved-occupation list has been the sub-
ject of a brief argument between Men-
zies and Curtin. But why shouldn’t they
be on the reserved-occupation list? Aren’t
they our rulers?
“At a time when the people of the
United Nations are impatient for a
second front in Europe,” is how “S.M.H.”
misreads the agitation begun by Corns,
and taken up by writing boys. Granny
used the phrase on the morning the Jap
subs, were put on exhibition in Sydney.
Australians need only to think about that
to know where their second front lies.
Exit, for 12 months’ hard, an unsuc-
cessful N.S.W. strike leader. It was
shown that he had “harangued men load-
ing trucks on Sydney wharves in the rain,”
saying if they were “any sort of men at
all” they would follow him off the job.
They didn’t follow him, but officers did,
and to the officers the captive confided
that his one idea was to have a crack at
the Japs. Member of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation? Member of the
Miners’ Federation, transferred to wharf
work by virtue of one of the nine-and-
ninety regulations against coal strikes?
No ; merely a full private, aged 43, who
had “joined the army to learn to shoot
and fight.”
A visitor to Sydney complains that he
can find no provision of drinking places
for horses, dogs and birds. He needn’t
worry about hogs—they’re provided for
by the State liquor laws.
Thonemann, M.L.A. for Toorak (Vic.),
asked Chief Secretary Bailey to state
the number of convictions of publicans
for selling liquor to drunks and the
number of licenses suspended or can-
celled in three years. The answer to both
was nil. This goes to show —well, it goes
to show.
Herbert Morrison, the Home Security
man, “disclosed” to the Commoners,
some of whom were very critical, that
529 British citizens are held in detention
camps under Regulation 188, which dis-
poses of the irksome necessity for charges
and public trials. One of them is a
retired admiral, another a retired
admiral’s wife. Commander Bower, that
pertinacious critic of Churchill, said
“Himmler would be green with envy
at the power of the Minister to arrest
and detain on suspicion anybody from
the Archbishop of Canterbury to the
humblest in the land.” With Archbishop
Le Fanu substituted for Dr. Temple, pre-
cisely the same power is held and has
been exercised by our Mr. Forde.
The Port Kembla (N.S.W.) wharfies
who staged the great scrap-iron strike to
knock Japan out of time have been heard
from again. Their branch passed a reso-
lution “congratulating the heroic Chinese
people on their magnificent courage
shown against the Japanese Fascist mili-
tary invaders of their country.” Con-
gratulations cost nothing, and, set against
a Sydney “Sun” report from Washington
that Japan is still getting oil from the
Russian wells in Saghalien, they look
cheaper than dirt. If the Chinese have
ever heard of Port Kembla and its scrap-
iron strike, they would prefer branch
support for a Second Front in Saghalien.
Some stickler for economy, if the breed
is not extinct at Canberra, should inquire
how many defeated Labor politicians are
on the Government payroll. Lang, who
thinks no end of Ward (Arcades ambo —
i.e., ripsnorters both), noted that “Ward’s
first appointment was former Labor-
member Jack Donovan as his private
secretary.” His second, or perhaps his
seventh, was Garden, of “Lang-is-greater-
than-Lenin” notoriety. But a full list
would be instructive, if not entertaining.
A nice, thick smokescreen of words
had been built up to explain the shortage
of coal in S.A. It was due to “lack of
transport,” “shortage of ships” and other
things, according to the makers of the
smokescreen. Then Playford puffed the
whole thing away:
South Australia’s predicament arises
directly out of the coal strikes. Reserves
have been wasted through irresponsible sec-
tions of miners in New South Wales.
After which there was a deathly silence.
To A. E. Monk, of the A.C.T.U., it is
“utterly ridiculous” to say, as Menzies
does, that compulsory unionism is
Fascism. All right; let’s call it Com-
munism. What’s the difference, anyhow?
Sydney is being plastered with stickers,
stuck by mysterious hands, urging all and
sundry to “Lift the ban on the Commu-
nist party.” Nobody seems to be
worrying about that other peculiar sect
Jehovah’s Witnesses, who’ve been banned
since 1941. The Witnesses should try the
sticker system or form an Aid-Russia
movement or a Legal Rights Association
or something,
Adelaide “Advertiser” is unhappy
because war prevents the State Govern-
ments from taking the uniform-tax judg-
ment to the Privy Council and fears that
the enemy might obtain cause for satis-
faction out of the fact that there was
a High Court case.
Our immediate aim must be to demon-
strate to the enemy that Australia has
not been one whit deflected from her pur-
pose, nor weakened for the maintenance
of war, by the virtual collapse of her
Federal system of government.
The enemy, if he knows anything of
Australian domestic politics, will realise
that, far from being weakened, the
country has taken an immeasurable for-
ward step towards national unity under
a national Parliament.


'■ % :
ML.
m is-sh
m: y<
.
r,
Xi
<:fll
Kf
IP
£
llWlif
1
*
J
CO
UUI
■■
UJ
UJ
Exiie
B ATT ERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
PERSONAL ITEMS
R. B. Orchard, founder of the jewel-
lery firm (his death was recorded B.
29/7/’42), lived long enough to see a
prophetic ad. of his justified. The ad.
included a map of Australia , and a
menacing Jap visage, with a punqjng con-
nection in the letterpress between “Watch
Australia” and “Orchard Watches.” The
Japs coming into the then World War on
the British side, the ad. ceased to appear
—it was said at the time, by direction of
Authority.
The man behind the peculiar pipe,
Lieut.-Col. Erickson Snowden Nicholls,
one of General Brett’s men and a mem-
ber of the Allied Air Staff', confesses to
being known in the American Army by
the peculiar name of the “Windmill Sales-
“WINDMILL SALESMAN,” U.S.
LIEUT.-COL. NICHOLLS.
man,” the wifidmill being the rotary wing
aircraft, the peculiar gadget that can rise
and settle almost perpendicularly and
hover like a monster insect over its objec-
tive. He was the first American Air
Corps pilot to fly one, and his faith in
the autogyro’s war value remains un-
shaken, despite the fact that one once
fell to bits in the air with him inside
it, gaining him membership of the Cater-
pillar Club. Born in New York in 1905,
he graduated B.A. from Princeton, joined
Uncle Sam’s cavalry and then passed into
the winged division, graduating from
Kelly Field in 1932. A stockbroker by
profession, his hobbies are polo, steeple-
chasing and —what sounds odd ror an
American —fox-hunting.
A Soldier Poet;
Elsewhere in this Bulletin appears “A Mes-
sage to Australia,” written by James Andrew
(“Tip”) Kelaher, killed in action, July 14; one
of the soldier poets whose verses, sent from
distant battle fronts, have been published in
The Bulletin from time to time. He was 27 ;
born in Sydney with writing in his blood —his
mother, Mary Kelaher, has had two novels pub-
lished, as well as serials, verse and short stories,
and has had radio plays produced. “Tip,” how-
ever, wrote only some fragments of verse be-
fore going to the Middle East. His comrades
recognised him as “the battalion poet"; he was
commissioned to write verse for their paper and
their concerts and on any subject close to their
hearts. The “A.I.F. News” published a lot of
his verse, and he won an army literary competi-
tion with his lines “Wounded from Tobruk,”
published in The Bulletin. A man of action,
too, he represented Sydney High at both cricket
and football, and, overseas, was one of the four
Australians in the 9th Army football team which
beat the Navy team. When he joined up he
was offered the chance of going to an officers'
school and becoming a physical culture in-
structor, but preferred to sail with his mates.
Kelly Kelaher, who has also begun contributing
verses to The Bulletin, is “Tip’s” younger
brother. Kelly joined the A.I.F. wheiy he was
18 so that he could sail with “Tip” in 1940.
They were in the same unit: “Tip” a machine-
gunner, Kelly a signaller.
Roped in by Priminister Fraser to fill
one of the jobs in the M.L. War Adminis-
tration, A. McLagan (51) is a Mid-
lothian Scot who was toiling as a coal-
miner on his native heath when he was
14 and was prompted by health reasons
to emigrate to M.L. There he recovered
his strength, took to the mines again
and steadily went to the top of the Labor
ladder, being returned unopposed for
1937-39 as president of the N.Z. Federa-
tion of Labor. At first Mac baulked at
accepting a seat in the Legislative Coun-
cil, but it was the only way he could be
included in the War Cabinet.
To be added to the prophets having
honor anywhere but in their own country,
the Queensland nurse Sister Kenny, who
claimed to have found a new method of
curing infantile paralysis. Coming to the
forefront during the epidemic (though
she had worked for years before on her
method), she was bitterly criticised by
sections of the medical profession, but
a hospital was established for her, at
which exceptional results were said to have
been effected. Officialdom, however, made
a contrary diagnosis, and Miss Kenny
left for the U.S.A., where she has seen
her system adopted and highly com-
mended in some of the biggest sickbays.
One of her patients was Marjorie Law-
rence. United Artists have signed up
Rosalind Russell to play the leading role
in a movie dramatisation of Elizabeth
Kenny’s life —the first case of its kind
in Australian history and rare in the
history of any country.
Chief of the “Age”:
As managing editor of Melbourne “Age”
Geoffrey Syme, who has passed on at 69,
proved himself a worthy descendant of the
great David. He was the fourth son, and, like
the others, fought a stout fight to keep his
father’s paper out of the rut of sensational
journalism and flapper-pressdom. He suc-
ceeded to the extent that the “Age” remains
outstanding as a newspaper with a literary
section above the mental age of twelve, war
commentaries from overseas that aren’t satu-
rated with wish-fulfilment, and its Liberal
principles much as its founder left them —also
its Australianism. Geoffrey Syme was educated
at Kew High School and Melbourne University,
then Was sent overseas to get experience of
newspaper production. He returned to the job
of a reporter and then assisted his father on
the “Age” literary side. He became managing
editor when the old man died in 1908, and one
of his assets in that position was his know-
ledge of and interest in pastoral and agricultural
matters. When the British Government invited
the Dominions Press Delegation to England in
1918 he went with it. A keen sportsman, he
was a member of the V.R.C. and the V.A.T.C.
and a vigorous golfer. He was knighted in 1941.
-Taken over from General Sturdee the
high Army post of Chief of the General
Staff, General J. D. Northcott has made
soldiering his main life interest. In the
“permanents” in 1912, he was an infantry
officer on Gallip., and afterwards studied
the soldier’s job with the British Army,
at the War Office and with the
Imperial Defence Committee. Early in
this war he was an observer in France
and in the Middle East, and from that
experience of modern war requirements
formed and commanded the Australian
Armored Division. General Sturdee goes
to Washington as head of the Aus. Mili-
tary Mission there, replacing General
Smart, who goes to a similar job in
London.
Mrs. Tom Bateman, daughter of former
N.S.W. Motherhood Minister Greg Mc-
Girr, has been admitted to the N.S.W.
Bar, but won’t take up her legal career
because “my baby’s birthday six months
hence means more to me than any degree.
When a woman has a family she is doing
a much better job in the home than in
having a career.”
Listed missing in Java, Lieutenant-
Colonel W. S. Kent Hughes, M.L.A.,
former U.A.P. leader in the Victorian
Leg. Assembly, has since gained touch
by a message to his wife. M.V.0.,M.C.,
B.A. (Oxon.), Kent Hughes has had a
distinguished scholastic, political and
military record. Victorian Rhodes scholar
in 1914, he was in England when the
Germans erupted in the last war and,
in order to serve with the Australian
forces, interrupted an academic career
during which he had become head of
Christ Church, got his lacrosse half-blue
and captained the Oxford Ski Club.
Mentioned four times in dispatches and
with an M.C., he ended up a major in
the Bth Light Horse. In 1920 he repre-
sented Australia at the Olympic Games.
Plunging into politics, he was secretary
to the McPherson Cabinet in 1929 and
president of the Young Nats, in 1932.
He managed the Australian team in the
Empire Games of 1938, wrote a book
called Modern Crusaders and directed
the Ramsay Publicity Publishing, Mel-
bourne, In short, he was much like his
distinguished father, who ran second in
the half-mile world’s championship m
1888, was Surgeon-in-Chief to the Anglo-
Russian Hospitals in Russia in the last,
war, wrote a shelf of brilliant works on
surgical matters, was honorary surgeon
to half the hospitals in Melbourne, ran
a large egg farm, and was noted for his
picturesque vocabulary.
A. E. Cupitt, new Sydney County
Council treasurer, gives the impression of
a powerfully-built human dynamo
which, complete with horn-rimmed specs,
stroijgly resembles the popular conception
of an American efficiency expert. For
30 years—less 1915-19, when he served
in Egypt and France as a stretcher-bearer
and earned a “mention” —he has been at
accountancy, starting as a junior clerk in
the Sydney Municipal Council. He’s an
associate or fellow of a fistful of secre-
tarial or accountancy institutes, a keen
R.S.L. worker, and given to a spot of
fishing and gardening around his holiday
cottage on the Hawkesbury.
Melbourne’s new Deputy Air Warden,
Allah Maxwell Brown, born at Dunolly,
at 18 entered the Presbyterian Home
Mission, thus beginning a career of
30 years of preaching. In the 1914
shindy he left Australia as Lieutenant
Brown, attached to the 3rd Brigade under
General Bennett, to organise Y.M.C.A.
overseas. He saw the four years out,
was gassed and returned to combine
farming with preaching at Rochester
(Vic.). With the latest outbreak he
dropped the plough, but not the pulpit,
which he transferred as a mobile unit to
wherever two or more Australians could
be found gathered together in the Middle
East. He was Y.M.C.A. Commissioner
for two years, then back again. He
counts as highlights of his second World-
War experiences, firstly, preaching at the
historic St. Andrew’s at Jerusalem, and,
secondly, conducting the dawn service
at the Australian war cemetery at the
ALLAN MAXWELL BROWN.
Mount of Olives, 1940, which was broad-
cast to Australia. Having survived 50
EomhincK! abroad he oueht to be well
bombings abroad ne ougni to DC wei
equipped for his new post.
uth ,/ us l. ralia ’ s fi lblicit m °H nsor
Gilbert Mant has seen the world adven-
turously and extensively since the not-so-
distant day when he first dropped in at
The Bulletin. Sydney-born, educated
at Sydney Grammar, he was then getting
experience the hard way, writing fiction
from the bush, while showing himself
game to tackle wheat-lumping or any
other hard toil he came across. A string
of his entertaining light serial yarns
appeared in the “Woman’s Mirror,”
PUBLICITY CENSOR GILBERT
MANT.
stories and some verse in The Bulletin.
Then he took a job on the old “D.T.,’
hit out for London and freelanced in
Fleet-street, and from that joined Reuter,
for which firm he was news editor in
Canada and also representative covering
two English Test team tours of Australia.
He saw some more of the world as an
A.I.F. private in Malaya, and next as a
war correspondent there; his recently
published Grim Glory is the first account
in book form of the Malayan campaign.
Another product of his pen—Glamor
Brat, a skit on Hollywood—has sold well.
Into the silence:
At 95, John McCauley, one of the Mc-
Cauley pioneers of the N.S.W. Central West
McCauleys have been farming round about
Blayney for just on a century. John McCauley
was born at Wattle Flat, near Bathurst; his
father had been a digger on the Turon field.
Today one of the best farms near Blayney is run
by W. H. McCauley, son of John.
In Jerusalem, at 89, Sir William Matthew
Flinders Petrie, whose mother was a daughter
of the great Matthew Flinders. Sir Wil-
liam explored a very old world. Born at
Charlton (Eng.), he first surveyed Stonehenge
and ancient British earthworks. The methods
he had there perfected he took to Egypt and
systematically excavated the pyramids of
Gizeh, taking 40 years to do it. He was made
Edwards Professor of Egyptology at University
College, London, in 1892 and subsequently
wrote a mort of books about Egyptian and
world history.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 78, Robert Noble
Jones, ex-Chief Judge of the Native Land
Court. Appointed a Judge in that court in
1903, he became Chief Judge in 1918 and held
the position for 21 years, a record span. Judge
Jones also filled the post of Under-Secretary
of the Native Department from 1921 till 1931.
Belfast-born, he arrived in M.L. in his infancy.
Sidney Smith, of Adelaide, who toured the
U.S.A. with the only Australian baseball team
that went there.
In Queensland, at 80, Rev. Dr. James Gibson,
a Lanarkshire man who carried the Presbyterian
banner in Queensland for 54 years. He was
Moderator-General for Australia and Modera-
tor for the State. M.A. and D.D. of Edin-
burgh, he was the best-known Presbyterian
figure from Bowen to the border.
Killed in action on July 11 at El Alamein,
Captain Peter Spencer Hayman, of Bendigo
(Vic.). Twenty-five, he was through the Tobruk
siege. He was twice sent out of action with
wounds, but returned to the Western Desert,
served in Syria and got his M.C. for distin-
guished conduct in a long series of engagements.
At 87, James Allen, associated with public
life in Maoriland from 1887, when he entered
Parliament, till 1920, when he resigned Minis-
terial portfolios to become High Commissioner
in London, a post he held for six years. A
mining engineer by profession, he took a keen
interest in soldiering, was Minister of Defence
in the post-war Massey Administration, and held
rank in the volunteer defence forces as lieut-
colonel. He was knighted in 1917.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Bo”: “After my wife had spat at me,
sworn at me, hit me, scratched me down
the face, thrown things at me and broken
crockery over my head 1 told her not to
go too far, or I would lose my temper!”
Were any mournful-eyed comedian, clad in
fantastic raiment, to toss that across the
footlights he could be sure of knocking
’em in the aisles. But last week, as if to
prove that truth is funnier than vaude-
ville, a plaintiff said those words in a
Sydney Divorce Court and {hey were
absorbed in that dignified atmosphere
with scarcely a ripple of merriment. His
story of his spouse’s shrewiness was obvi-
ously sincere, arid he got his decree.
* * * *
“C.Q.”; It was an audience of approxi-
mately 3000 people. The locale was the
Melbourne Town Hall. The subject of
debate was post-war world construction.
There was a succession of impassioned
speakers, all of whom expressed inten-
tions that nobody would disagree with.
Then a speaker arose who asked the citi-
zens assembled to name the chief cause
of the misery of mankind and answered
his own question by saying “Worrying
over money.” Warming to his theme he
turned to the women. “What stands be-
tween you and having all the clothes you
want?” he asked them. “Coupons!” was
the shrill rejoinder.
“A.R.P.”; Our suburban warden’s post
is blessed with a leader who is not only
receptive of ideas but has the incisive
mind that can quickly sort the practic-
able from the uriworkable. Quickly sens-
ing that the post was not only an A.R.P.
unit but also a sort of club —men have
become good cobbers who would not
otherwise have met —and that something
more than the continual boring gas lec-
tures was necessary, he searched among
the wardens for volunteers to talk
at the weekly meetings on a variety
of subjects apart from warden duties
and air-raid work. He also keeps
a lookout for anybody outside the
post ready to talk on any subject
under the sun, and there may be a crib-
bage tournament any time. Needless to
say, the N.E.S. “heads” have begun sniff-
ing about, for to N.E.S. in N.S.W. gas
has become something of a mania and
red-tape a creed, and the man who
doesn’t worship both stands a good
chance of being burnt for heresy or
something. But that doesn’t worry us,
because we’re cunning enough to keep
up our training as well as keep our club
alive. Other posts might get a hint out
of this.
* * * *
“Sevener”: I see where a couple of
Father Divine’s “rosebuds” (B. 29/7/’42)
have been spilling some beans to a “D.T.”
reporter in Sydney. One said the Father
had “come to him” while he was fishing •
and “I went off my block,” a confession
which I for one see no reason to doubt.
Of especial interest to me w„as the “rose-
bud’s” statement that when lie’s playing
tennis and a ball looks like going wrong
all he has to do is pray “Thank you,
Father,” and it goes right. I’m a golfer
and I feel like giving it a go next time
the ball looks like curving into a bunker
or bouncing through the green into the
rough. If it works, every golfer in Aus-
tralia will soon be murmuring “Peace,
it’s wonderful.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The mention (B. 15/7/’42)
of Arthur Coningham, father and name-
sake of the present air-marshal, recalls
two stories. (Most remarks do ; it is one
ol the few advantages of growing old.)
First, of the 1893 Aust. XI being given
a send-off in Adelaide, and George Giffen
singing an encore verse to what had
already been adopted as its chorus-song:
In every cricket team
There is a funny man;
We’ve just discovered ours—
His name is Con-ing-ham
(and chorus “Toujours, Toujours,” etc.).
The other story was told in The Bulletin
at the time. With Coningham and
Howell making acquaintance, “I’m a bee-
farmer,” Bill explained. The Queefls-
lander, not aware that he really was a
honey-merchant, was struck by his new
friend’s delicacy of language, and decided
to copy it. “I’m a poor b- chemist
myself,” he said.
* * * *
“L. de Rideau”; Press clamor for an
Australian national anthem reminds me
of an experience Aldous Huxley relates
of pre-war travels in Italy. Crossing the
frontier by rail from Switzerland he was
astounded at the first station to see Mus-
solini step into his compartment, porten-
tous frown, iron jaw, folded arms and
all. He was more astounded to observe
that the Duce made no impression what-
ever on his fellow-passengers. A few
stops further Musso. left the train, but
“Bring them clothes in before dark, Ernest, or they'll be pinched !”
a little further down the line he rejoined
it. By the time he reached Rome the
English novelist had been a fellow-
traveller with the dictator several dozen
times and had begun to realise that it
was a case of imitative flattery. National
anthems come in some such way as that;
never from conscious attempts to pro-
duce them. A Melbourne newspaper
correspondent suggests that if some
eccentric composer set the melody of
“Waltzing Matilda” to a more majestic
rhythm it might become our national
song. “The Marseillaise,” the Horst
Wessel song and the “Internationale”
owe their significance more to their asso-
ciations than to their musical or literary
merit. “Giovanezza” is fashionable in
modern Italy for the same reason that
impels suburbanites of Rome or Milan to
imitate II Duce.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Mention of a duel at Swan
River (B. 27/6/’42) reminds me of a
Maoriland legend anent the old-fashioned
custom. In the ’sixties in an Auckland
theatre a fiery colonel of militia was
struck all of a heap on finding his re-
served seat occupied by a demned apothe-
cary. A demand to vacate being met by
a refusal, the military man sent the man
of pills a challenge. A meeting was
arranged, the chemist was there on time,
and as the challenged party obtained the
right to prescribe weapons. He then pro-
duced two pills—one filled with deadly
poison, the other harmless. The colonel
could take his pick ; then each would
swallow his pill. The officer, a quick-
witted Irishman, thereupon blew the
whole business away on gales of laughter.
“Virgule”; In my experience as a
worker who is given the status-raising
designation of “corrector of the press”
in England but for whom the common
or garden term is “proofreader,” I have
noted various words the spelling of which
seems specially to trick many newspaper
contributors, linotype operators and
typists ; other words in which errors are
made in not differentiating between the
nounal and adjectival forms ; and still
other words in which, of two or more
variants, the one with the most authori-
tative backing is least used. The Ameri-
can word “highfalutin” is in the last
class; “strait-jacket” (not “straight-
jacket”) is in the first. Consider a few
others (in all classes). “Callus” is the noun,,
“callous” the adjective ; “mucus” is the
noun, “mucous” the adjective; “phos-
phorus” is the noun, “phosphorous” the
adjective ; “under way” (not “weigh”) is
the right phrase for in motion ; “hiccup”
is correct, not “hiccough,” which spelling,
says the Oxford English Dictionary,
“should be abandoned as a mere error” ;
“ordinance” is a law, rule or rite, “ord-
nance” is artillery, military stores or sup-
plies ; “accommodate” and “millennium”
are more often spelt with one “m” and
one “n” than not; the possessive pro-
nouns “its,” “yours,” “theirs,” etc., do
not take an apostrophe—“it’s” with an
apostrophe stands for “it is.” Stocks are
not exhausted, but that lot is an adequate
ration.
* =i= * *
“Cine Ma”: According to Hollywood
magnates, no high art is coming from
their studios, and all the suffering United
Nations are likely to see will be musi-
cales and light stuff, because that is what
soldiers like. Hooey! I harbor the
suspicion that the producers’ concern for
the allegedly low taste of soldiers is the
excuse for, not the cause of, the bad pic-
tures. A few short months ago most of the
American soldiers were civilians, and why
are we to suppose that their tastes have
suffered a miraculous sea change? If the
Hollywood producers had consistently
maintained a high standard in peae£-time
there would be some ground for believ-
ing they are now the victims of condi-
tions, but their attempts to elevate the
standards of the public have been con-
spicuous by their rarity. No matter —
they have made a lot of money.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Surely “F.S.” goes a bit too
far in saying (B. 24/6/’42) that “the
literary language is never made in the
universities.” New expressions may and
do work up “from the pubs and the
gutters” ; but there are many that have
worked down. Never, for example, has
the man in the street talked so much
Greek as at present flowers, diseases,
scientific terms that have become com-
monplace : bicycle, arithmetic, gym-
nasium, rheumatism, physics, telephone,
photograph, dynamite, electric, aerial and
so on —all from the universities. Within
my own time “rag” (for a mild riot) has
passed from undergraduate slang into
common use, much as did “row” (in the
same sense) a century earlier. But the
oddest case is that of “Soccer,” a word
hardly known in England outside Oxford,
which loves the “er” ending (as
“brekker” for breakfast,” “ekker” for
exercise, etc.). That football code is in
England called “Association”; but the
word has in Australia a quite different
meaning, and “British Association” is an
awful mouthful. So all Australia is
quietly and unconsciously adopting an
undergraduate slang word from Oxford.
“El V.” considers the war-time “Thun-
derer” ;
As a constant reader of the London “Times”
I do not wonder that the foreign world stands
puzzled before the spectacle of the English
conducting their war. Save that it is a bit
thinner and that the obituary columns have be-
come an important daily feature, the old sheet
needs more than a second glance to persuade its
readers that it is being published in a building
which a few months ago swallowed a bomb
that burst in its lower regions, wrecking most
of its internals. Its columns seem to reflect the
sentiment that the prime fact of life is the con-
tinued, solid existence of eternal England. It
conceded the existence of a terrible and men-
acing war, but to the “Times” and to the other
solid British press—that part which has not
been pepped up by immigrants—and to the
British public, the disturbance is only a bad
attack of fever. Old Britannia’s temperature,
they admit, is running a bit high, and the
Axis has to be fought, but family life is
kept going as a matter of course. One of the
last issues of the “Times” to reach Sydney has,
on the back page, among the advertisements!
photographs of the very real and widespread
damage done to Rostock by the R.A.F., while
the main two-column article opposite the
leaders deals with the 174th Royal Academy
Show with “every picture on the line.” You
can’t beat a people which behaves like that in
the third year of Armageddon.
*.* * *
“Adelaide”: Maitland (S.A.) has had
an, accident possibly unique. A ’plane
was heard circling above the town in
heavy rain at night. By the hospitable
modern custom, motor-cars were rushed
out to light up a landing-place, and the
’plane, in alighting, crashed into two of
them. The occupants of one had got
out in time, but a man and two girls in
the other were badly hurt.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Vic. Premier Dunstan’s
reply to a deputation that demanded
liquor reform was to promise further
tightening of the State laws and the rais-
ing of the age at which persons can be
served with the stuff from 16 to 21. Mr.
Dunstan’s main remedy for Melbourne’s
sickness is more policing, but it is polic-
ing that has produced the sickness. Mel-
bourne people drink liquor like hogs
at a trough, not like human be-
ings enjoying one of the good
things of this world. Then time
is called and they are flung out
on the pavement. Some pub-
licans postpone the throwing-out
process for periods varying in
duration in direct ratio with
their love of lucre, their lack of
sympathy for the law or the
slackness of the Licensing
Branch’s supervision—there are
only 12 licensing men to police
the pubs of Melbourne. 1
once travelled from Vladivostok
,to Petrograd, thence through
Finland, Sweden, Germany, Bel-
gium, France and Italy, and saw
only one drunken man —a Tar-
tar tribesman at Chelyabinsk, in
Siberia. Yet in every country 1
passed through the hotels and
cafes were open for anything
from 16 to 24 hours daily, and
the drinking done was largely
done in public. The wine was
light and the beer was lighter,
not because the authorities feared
that people would wallow in the
trough, but because liquor is a
beverage in Europe, not a sin or
a means of defying Authority.
Mr. Dunstan’s method has been tried for
50 years and proved a failure. Why
doesn’t he try something different?
BARRED OUT.
“State Governments have been driven out of their
income-tax paradise (8. 1^29/7/’42).”
No flaming sword, prohibiting re-entry
To a lost Eden, as in Adam’s case,
They vision, as a grim though voiceless sentry
To guard what now is a forbidden place
To half a dozen enterprising gentry
Incontinently outed from their base,
Ejected from the spot which erst they found
A veritable Tommy Tiddler’s ground.
They scan no threatening notice to restrict ’em
From fields where gaily they were wont to
scout.
No sort of cave canem to convict ’em
That trespassers will get it in the snout;
Their warning comes in a judicial dictum
Which (come to think of it) is much about
The same as when, as penalty for sin,
Poor Adam had to toil and Eve to spin.
Driven from Eden, in a manner of speakin’!
Yet for analogy I’d rather choose
That memorable phrase employed by Deakin,
The plight wherein he pictured Billy Hughes
Dragged from the tart-shop, petulantly shriekin’
At all he’d hoped to hold but had to lose —
A metaphor that’s still as apropos
As all of eight-and-thirty years ago.
Remember Heap, you Premiers, and be humble!
No use to simulate dismay or wrath,
No use about your sovereign rights to grumble
Or of your vanished dignities to froth.
It’s time, my sons, for you to take a tumble
And cut your coats according to your cloth,
Same as those Victory suits our tailors build,
No longer richly buttoned, cuffed and frilled!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
A GREAT DISCOVERY.
“A State official, whose position has enabled him to
observe the liquor traffic over many years, told me
he was convinced that thousands drank intoxicants
not to quench their thirst but because they got a
‘kick’ out of alcohol.”
— “S. M. Herald’s” police reporter.
It shows you what an eagle eye he has
And what a store of qualities judicial.
It’s like some great musician playing jazz
To think such talents must be wasted as
A State official!
Among detectives he should take the bun
Who on a secret such as this has stolen.
In the unknown we've obviously one
Uniting Sherlock Holmes with Solomon,
Poirot with Solon.
Watching for years, he's kenned the reason why
In pots and schooners fellows dip their
muzzles.
He’s hit it —easier than you and I
Get a solution when our hands we try
At crossword puzzles.
He’s put his finger on what makes men breeze
Into a pub. No longer need we seek a
Key to the witching lure of hostelries.
I feature him, like old Archimedes,
Shouting “Eureka!”
A name unknown, that yet may be renowned.
How else shall be discharged the debt that
we owe
To him—as to that other sage who found
The earth, so long accounted flat, was round,
Cute Galileo?
Yet I suspect that they already know, '
The Bungs who sit among their bins and
bottles,
Their dash would soon be done, their cake be
dough,
If patrons only lined their bars arow
To damp their throttles!
N.S.W.
IFDRD.


“Mac Hoots”: I am aware that I beat
my wings in vain—the Federal Govern-
ment, I have found, wantonly ignores my
advice on all possible occasions; and on
this occasion all married men will turn
away from me to contemplate with bitter
smiles their young. But, by cripes, and
on behalf of all good bachelors, 1 am fed
up with this penal taxation of the single.
Under the new scheme, as under the old,
we are taxed at a far fouler rate than
the married ; now as always the fiends
of the department ignore the plain fact
that, to live in ordinary bourgeois com-
fort, it costs the single man not less but
far more than the married. If we ask
no more than a roof, a bed and reason-
ably good meals we go to a boarding-
house, and even those abominations cost
money. If we ask for the privacy any
married man gets in his home, we> pay for
a flat; if we ask that the flat be cleaned
and tidied as a home is, we pay for a
maid ; if we want moderately good cook-
ing, we pay through the nose in the res-
taurants. As we are already regarded as
undesirable citizens, I shall not stress the
fact that it is rather more expensive to
maintain a harem than a family; but are
not the half-witted among us all virtu-
ously trying to save up enough to wed?
Let justice be done in this matter, for
if I am found untimely married in my
bed one of these bleak mornings, it will
all be the fault of the Taxation Depart-
ment.
*i’
“D.E.”; Though the only pacifists I
care for are Quakers, I liked that remark
of the Duke of Bedford, delivered during
the debate in which the Oldest Peer
moved that the duke be no longer heard
—“there is nothing heroic in talking
about fighting to the last ditch if you do
not intend to occupy that most unpleasant
cavity.” Similarly, though the utterances
of union secretaries generally give me
a pain in the neck, I enjoyed Peter Fal-
lon’s comment on Mr. Dedman’s Victory
apparel—“ Whoever gave the Minister
advice about cutting suits would be better
employed cutting sleepers.” The art of
spicing controversy with wit has so few
practitioners in these grim days.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: An even odder side-
line of the war than the resurrection of
the Adelaide barmaid (B. 22/7/’42) is the
apparition in Melbourne of girl porters
on the Flinders-street station. Whole-
heartedly following male fashion, they
even staged a strike soon after they
started work. When they finally got
going they caused acute embarrassment
to the suburban males, unaccustomed to
seeing women, unless they happened to
be their wives, humping baggage. Add
to which the problem of tipping. Is it
proper to tip a lady? Should one lift
one’s hat at parting? Should one bawl
for a “porteress” or a “portress” or just
say “Here, miss!”? It seems a pity that
just as we were getting nicely concen-
trated on the war effort the authorities
should introduce this distraction.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A quite new and successful
line of defence to a woman’s action for
damages for dogbite was used in a S.A.
court. She fell down on the verandah
while visiting the dog’s home and hurt
her head badly ; this alarmed the dog,
which was not fierce, but just bit her •
“out of the instinctive retaliation one
would expect from a guardian animal.”
This argument was found sound by the
Court; in fact, the words quoted were
those of the Bench, and judgment was
given for the owner of the temperamental
hound.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The argument was that,
because of artificial lighting and other
circumstances of civilisation, the human
eye is steadily and universally deteriorat-
ing. This proposition was stoutly
maintained by a Collins-street oculist,
who asserted that if he had his way
the entire Australian Army would be
equipped with bifocals. An old lady
piped up. “Fifty years ago,” she said,
“my father sent me to an optician and he
examined my eyes and prescribed spec-
tacles. I refused his specs., and went along
to Cole’s Book Arcade, where there used to
be a tray of all sorts of glasses. I selected
a pair that magnified things considerably,
and everybody said my eyesight would
be ruined. AH the same, 1 have lived to
95, and I can still read all this nonsense
in the papers!”
* * *
“J.S.L.”: Above the door of the Q.M.
store in a country camp may be seen this
notice: “If you’re entitled to it, it’s not
here. If it’s here, you’re not entitled
to it.”
* * * *
“Talbot”: I hope Australians won't
(but expect that as usual they will) adopt
that utterly meaningless phrase “all-time
record” which America has invented.
Unless it should refer to something that
never can be beaten, it is precisely the
same thing as “record,’ As a really
“In case you're interested, gents, the order's been given to abandon ship."
comical instance, it was cabled the other
day that Whirlaway, if-he won the Massa-
chusetts Handicap, would “surpass Sea-
biscuit’s all-time money-winning record” ;
and he did it —so what did the “all-time”
mean? All previous time? That is pre-
cisely what “record” means alone. By the
way, how many know that Australia gave
to the word “record” its present sporting
meaning? Mark Twain, in his book
written after visiting these parts about
1896, noted with surprise that Aussies
had cut down the former (and of course
correct) phrase “best on record” to the
single word always since used.
ifc sfc ♦
“Ek Dum”: Quite unobtrusively a
golden age of swelling profits is being
ushered in for the newspaper trade, and
the day seems now to be in sight when,
save to set advertisements, lino-operators
will become obsolete. All that is needed is
for some bright entrepreneur to compile a
list of stock phrases on stock subjects and
begin to retail them in bulk. “Mr. Forde
said that the situation called for a tough,
offensive spirit,” “Mr. Cameron made
another of his erratic speeches” and a
few more pithy sentences of the kind
would serve all the needs of the standard-
ised official and Parliamentary recording
which our delightful press is pleased to
describe as news. Any daily could report
the whole war with half a dozen slugs of
standard type, fitted .with blank spaces
for the names of towns and generals—
“ Hitler is hurling in a million men in a
desperate attempt to capture ” ; “the
“Give us a smoke till I get my quota."
battle for is fiercer than Verdun ;
the enemy’s losses are horrible”; “Russian
guerrillas yesterday hurled —— whole
Panzer divisions into the river” ; “it
is now acknowledged by military authori-
ties in that a second front in Europe
is an absolute and immediate necessity’’;
“the retreat in is another example
of crass British incompetence”; ‘‘the
retreat of our gallant allies from
is a strategic movement, the product of
the genius of .” These and a few
more would serve all present purposes,
and a compositors’ corps could be added
to the A.M.F., except for an ancient or
two retained to set the names.
* * * *
“O’Fagan”: In a southern Australian
court a citizen was charged with “having
had in his possession 12,000 razor blades
suspected of having been stolen or unlaw-
fully obtained.” He brought his spouse
to court, and she swore that she paid
the rent of the premises where those
razor-blades were stored and had daily
access to the room containing them.
Therefore, argued the defence, defendant
could not be said to be “in possession”
of the goods. Point upheld. Information
dismissed.
* * * *
“Osciller”: An A.B.C. announcer,
about to inform Australia that in future
baby carriages would be standardised to
three types, opened heavily to the effect
that from now on finicky infants would
not be listened to when they complained
of the shape, size, color or comfort of
their prams. It fell dead flat. No Aus-
tralian of pram age gives two hoots what
sort of conveyance it is pushed about
in. One of the happiest-looking infants
I ever saw was bumping down a country
street in an old and battered wheel-
barrow.
* Sc * *
“Pawang”: “I met Leonski at one of
the church canteens where he spent the
evening,” writes “A Mother” in Mel-
bourne “Herald” in the course of a
demand for heavy fines and imprison-
ment as a deterrent to liquor licensing
offences. “He was charming and interest-
ing. I am horrified by his crimes while
under the influence of liquor. One sees
the lives of many other young soldiers
and girls being ruined by such overindul-
gence.” One can sympathise with the
lady’s feelings without appreciating her
reasoning. What has drink to do with
homicide? The cafes and hotels are
open all day and all night long in Europe
and America, and millions of people who
frequent them don’t go round strangling
women. Leonski’s case is a complex
psychological problem, and there are
probably not half a dozen people in the
world competent to pass an opinion on it.
•** * *
“Etiwanda”: Jack de Garis ought to
be thought of “regretfully” (B. 29 /7 / ’42)
by Australian composers, playwrights and
authors. At the height of his success in
Mildura, when “Sunraysia” had been
made to echo all over Australia and to
lesser countries overseas, he had notions
of helping native culture. There was a
novel competition, won by Ashes of
Achievement (the author’s name I forget),
and De Garis offered prizes for songs,
poems and plays. He backed a musical
comedy in Melbourne and gave his em-
ployees a free trip to the city to see it.
I still recall his “Murray Moon,” a fair
enough bit of work. Jack was responsible
for launching “Sunraysia Daily” in Mil-
dura, and thus gave western Riverina a
daily newspaper that was a model to the
country press. “Ahead of his time” is
right. Let anyone who remembers him
imagine what he’d have done with radio.
* * *
“Left Chop”; The adventures of my
old pal Joe Palooka are still to me the
bright spot of my morning daily. Joe
(for the benefit of those who know him
not) is a heavyweight boxing champion
with a boyish heart, a cowlick of hair
and a mind innocent of guile. His mis-
sion in life seems to be to get himself
into positions where, after a lot of
trouble, he finally cleans up foreign pugs
of note who have become his and my
enemies. About a year ago Joe, despite
the bonds of neutrality, beat up a big
Italian —whether it was Two-ton Tony
or Prime Camera wasn’t quite clear.
Then came Pearl Harbor, and war
was declared on Joe by Germany. He
joined the U.S. Army and located Schmel-
ing, thinly disguised as Schmeller.
Schmeling, alias Schmeller, did well for
a while, but good old Palooka settled his
hash. lam anxiously waiting to see
what sort of a champion the Japs will
send against our hero. I’ll bet on Joe,
whether it’s jiu-jitsu, hari-kiri, banzai,
catch-as-catch-can or just plain stoush.
* * * *
“A Major”: “Cauboy’s” explanation
(B. 29/7/’42) that people close their eyes
at matinee concerts because they asso-
ciate the afternoon with snoozing may
be quite valid, but there are people who
always listen to music with their eyes
closed. I myself find it helps, 'when an
orchestra is making sounds that are not
in the score and it is a little dubious
where the fault lies, to listen without
looking. And as one much exposed to
opera, performed mostly by Italian com-
panies populated by four-ton prima
donnas, globular tenors and fantastic-
looking bassos, I early learned that if
you shut your eyes you can listen to the
dying lament of a consumptive Violetta
or a 17-year-old Madam Butterfly with-
out reflecting that the ravages of disease
have left Violetta remarkably fat and
healthy or that a few months of domestic
happiness have added 40 years to Butter-
fly’s span.
“Silverfish”: “Bo’s” reference to
treasure-digging in second-hand
bookshops (B. 29 /7 / ”42) moves me
to remark that the job is more like
gold-dredging, the assay being sel-
dom more than a pennyweight to
the ton. Run your eye over the
titles on a second-hand bookseller’s
shelves and you’ll wonder, not why
anyone sold the books, but what
could have induced any intelligent
being to buy 99 out of 100 of them
in the first place. Of course, we all
look for different sorts of gold. My
dream —a vain one, as I have long
since realised —is to renew acquaint-
ance with the most exciting, the
most cleverly-devised and the most
delectable works of fiction I ever
encountered. I refer, of course, to
those magnificent publications
known to a generation of 50 years
ago under the collective title of the
Aldine Library. Paper-covered (but
with a picture on the back that
promised superlative entertainment with-
in) they were within reach even of the
modest purse of an eight-year-old —four-
pence new, tuppence second-hand. They
comprised not only the adventures of
Deadwood Dick (I discovered just the
other day that there really was such a
place in the U.S.A. as Deadwood) in
volume after volume, but romances of
all ages and climes that were Rider Hag-
gardly, Guy Boothbyan and H. G. Well-
sian in their imaginativeness. Parents
used to growl, parsons used to prophesy
hellfire, magistrates used to thunder in
opposition to “penny dreadfuls,” but no
youngster of spirit was likely to pay
much heed to people who didn’t know
how many pennies made four. As I say,
I’m hoping some day to come upon a
rich deposit of Aldine thrillers in a
second-hand shop. If I do, I’ll save them
for my second childhood.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Munjong”: Sydney, beating its un-
bathed breast and gnashing its unwashed
teeth, might have picked up a hint from
Westralials East Murchison, where a well-
established climatic cycle allows the
parched land a real rain every five years
—no more and no less. During one such
dry spell the laird of Tardal observed,
with what feelings may be imagined,
that the occasional thunderstorms of
January were filling the waterholes of
Yanmoola, the property adjoining his
southern boundary, while completely dis-
regarding his own scorched paddocks.
Day after day the big clouds climbed out
of the north, sailed over him and spilled
their blessing on his neighbor. One
stifling evening we were sitting on the
verandah at Tardal homestead watching
a fat black storm in transit when the laird
with a strangled yell leaped to his feet,
seized a stick and on the bare red earth
scratched the name Yanmoola in letters
a yard high. Rain? He was wet to the
skin before he got back to the verandah.
V * * *
“E.H.S.”: Practically every bushman
knows that our non-perching birds rest
or sleep standing on one foot or both ;
but how many can tell from actual ex-
perience how the curlew takes his rest?
In many years’ bush experience I never
got close enough to one of these birds
to observe what position he took up
when resting, until one day I happened
to call at an old “hatter’s” camp on the
Wakool. While yarning with the old
chap over his mutton and damper, I
noticed a tame curlew stalking around
the camp and making occasional short
rushes after something to fill his craw.
After a time he tired of this diversion
and squatted just as a kangaroo does,
with his legs, from the feet to the first
joint, flat on the ground. When I ex-
pressed surprise at the grotesque attitude
adopted by his pet my hospitable friend
explained that, sleeping or waking, the
bird always rested in' that manner.
« * * «
“Wippegong”: Happy Jack jogged
down from the hills, tossed the rein over
a post and, clattering into the store, called
for a shirt. “Size? Aw, sixteen, seven-
teen or eighteen,” he shouted ; then scat-
tered the pile placed before him, grabbed
a violent “green one, said “She’ll do!”
and slammed down a note. The local
Hordern carefully counted the change,
then asked: “What about the coupons,
Jack?” “Aw! t’ hell with them things!”
yelled the man from the mountains.
“Give ’em to anybody who saves ’em!”
* * *
“B. A. Ker”; If I wounded “Wippe-
gong’s” susceptibilities by expressing
regret that Australia’s “best naturalists
are seldom writers” (B. 22/7/’42), I duly
apologise ,* but his own par. corroborates
it. Did the lad he credits with “refinding”
the spine-tailed log-runner write his
observations? No. “A word was passed
in the right direction,” and “a bunch of
Sydney’s most eminent ornithologists”
did the writing! Suppose he’d witnessed
some unusual incident —say a snake try-
ing to swallow a live frill-necked lizard —
would the reptiles have repeated the per-
formance for the benefit of visiting
naturalists? Of course not. The episode
would have been merely verbally pre-
served, and by the time it reached a
writer probably distorted beyond recog-
nition. To say that the best naturalists
rarely write is no reflection on Abo.-
columnists—past or present—since the
majority of the latter will agree that the
men who grow farthest away from civil-
ised mankind get closest to Nature. (One
of the most illustrious Abo.-ists, lon
Idriess, confirms it in his book Men of
the Jungle.) But hatters don’t write!
Finally, could “Wippegong” profess a
greater knowledge of the haunts and
habits of Australian fauna than those
men whose ancestors have depended for
sustenance on that knowledge over count-
less generations? And I’ve never heard
of an abo. writing nature lore.
* * * *
“Solitude”: There’s no such thing as
a calendar among Seventyfiver’s posses-
sions ; but apparently the old bloke can’t
manage without some form of note-keep-
ing, because when I dropped into his
shack the other day with a few old news-
papers I noticed some ingenious memo-
randa charcoaled down the side of the
fireplace. “Collected me tea rashun two
days after new moon,” .1 deciphered
“This country hasn't been scratched yet!
laboriously. “Owe "young Joe a pup outa
necks litter,” and so on. Then an under-
lined “Last Tuesday week” above the
shelf caught my eye. I asked him what
it represented. Seventyfiver squinted at
his jottings. “That? Aw, that’s the day
ole Mick put his calves in me paddock.
Ten calves there is, at 9d. a week.” “Yes,
but when did you write it down?”
“When? Oh, I dunno ersac’ly—a good
bit ago, I reckon. Put it down so’s y’
can make out the bill f’r me sometime.
An’, anyway, y’ve gotter keep an eye on
Mick. The flamin’ ole cow’d do y’ for a
week’s grass soon as look at y’!”
« * » |!
“Yair”: Len had listened quietly while
the visiting botanist leaned against the
horse-trough in the main street and deli-
vered an impromptu address on the won-
ders of nature. “Most wonderful of
all,” he was saying, “is the Venus flytrap
which is found in the Carolinas growing
on bog moss. Its leaves are more than
an inch long, and each has on the outer
edges some sharp bristles. If an insect
touches one of the bristles the leaf claps
shut in less than a second and the insect
is captured.” His circle of listeners mur-
mured their surprise, but Len just said
“Aw, we’ve got a plant right here in
Dudtown that’s got the same idea.” The
lecturer nearly fell back into the trough
in delight. “Oh!” he cried. “Lead me
to it! ” So Len led the way briskly down
to his own back paddock and pointed
sourly to his drought-ruined wheat.
“There it is,” he drawled. “It’s a
trap right enough. In three months it’s
swallowed ten years’ savings!”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; Maybe there is some sort
of warning service among bush denizens
when man erects death traps such as the
stringing of electric wires across country
(B. 29/7/’42). When wire-netting first
hit our part of the plains and was put
up round ths boundary fences there was
great destruction of frill-necked lizards.
The poor little blankards would put their
heads through the mesh ; then when they
found their shoulders couldn’t follow
they’d try to draw back and their frills
would block them. Anchored like that,
they died in hundreds along the new
fences, but after a time it became rare
to find one so trapped ; they’d learned to
make for the posts and climb over. Our
old boss’s theory was that lizards were
like men —anything new tricked the fool-
ish and headlong, but the more thought-
ful absorbed the lesson and so survived.
* * * *
“R.H.G.”: “Herbert Dawson” (B.
10/ 6/ ’42) hits the nail square on the head
when he differentiates between station
cattle, just mustered, which move round
restlessly on night camp and cattle that
have been on the track for weeks. Used
to being camped, these latter bed down,
with a few “sentinel” beasts standing. In
some queer way, these “sentinels” are re-
lieved, and another beast lumbers softly
to its feet as soon as one lies down. The
danger with this sort of camp is that it
has the quiet of an unexploded bomb.
The old fallacy of night-riders on watch
“singing” to the cattle has its foundation
in the necessity for making some sort of
noise while moving round the mob. To
sneak around a drover’s herd spells dis-
aster. In the quiet of the bush night the
unshod horse makes but a feeble “plip-
plop,” and the unheralded appearance of
the watchman suddenly impinging on the
vision of a “sentinel” bullock means a
convulsive start, the treading on the tail
of a near-by sleeper—and in a few
seconds they are all up and off. It has
to be seen (and heard) to be believed.
And there is no hope of stopping them
once they get going. I have seen a swath
cut through the mulga 100 yards wide,
with carcasses jammed against trees.
That particular rush was 900 head, a big
mob from Anna Plains way that camped
on Berengara station out, from Cue
(W.A.).
* : 1 ; $ *
“0.0.5.”: I’d like to see banned by law
that sweat-producing abomination the
kersey or blanketlike saddle cloth—with
or without dye. A parallel would be
furnished if you were to stitch a foot
width of red flannel round your midriff
at 1 lOdeg. in the shade. My choice from
experience is a square yard of bearer
moleskin, doubled back at the front end
and shaped slightly over the wither.
When soiled, soak overnight and wash
weekly. It is sweat-resisting and cool ;
and saves the counterlining from becom-
ing harsh. In short, what is best between
my hide and the pigskin should be good
enough between the horse’s hide and the
counterlining.
* * * *
“Yagan”: That the abo. should have
bolted from bombs at Darwin (B. 1/7/ ’42)
is a singular reversal of the stoic indiffer-
ence he has shown ever since the white
man arrived. When the first ships came
to this land its inhabitants met them with
the utmost calmness. It is recorded that
on one occasion when a landing was
made the boat’s crew was met by a single
native, who came fearlessly to the beach.
Felicitations were exchanged, then the
boat put off again. Turning away, the
abo. strode back to the forest, never
casting one backward .glance at what
must have been a most surprising appari-
tion. When towns were built, when rail-
ways came, the abo. still showed no sur-
prise. Nor did the advent of the bicycle,
the electric light, the gramophone, the
motor-car, the radio ruffle his calm
acceptance of such things as though they
had always been part of the world he
knew. Nothing surprised him, not even
the eclipse of the sun, the juggling with
false teeth, the bringing of sardines from
an apparently solid block of metal, all
stock astonishers of the novelist dealing
with savages. So we still have to wonder
whether the primitive abo. was just plain
dumb, or did really feel surprise and
interest yet felt that to show such was a
betrayal of his manhood. That he could
take interest was shown by his quick
mastery of the white man’s horse and
gun.
“Anthropo”: From a recent book by
an eminent lady novelist (Australian) I
learn that the Port Jackson abos. of the
First Fleet days used fishing lines, and
also possessed canoes in which dusky
ladies circled the fleet as it lay at anchor.
Now in all my delvings into abo. lore I
had never been able to uncover any
other methods of fishing than by use of
the spear, the boomerang and various
types of traps, from the hollow log to
the weir. The authoress, too, failed to
inform me whether her abo. anglers used
a hook or merely a gorge. I’m not
pressing the trifle whether the hook was
barbed. Canoes? When the east coast
abo. wanted a canoe he selected a large
stringybark or kindred bark yielder,
tapped lightly with his stone axe over
the required area —and the sheet came
off in one piece. But he knew nothing
of sewing up the ends, like the Canadian
birch bark canoe. The bark, of course,
retained its curvature as when
on the tree ; with drying it had
a still greater tendency to curl,
so to fill the ends the primitive
craftsman used only clay
strengthened with twigs. In
such a craft a family or even a
tribe could be ferried across a
wide stream, but the first assault
of an ocean wave would have
burst in the ends, with disas-
trous results, though it is pos-
sible that on a dead calm day
such a canoe may have ventured
out on Sydney Cove.
* * *
“Yokel”: Can any Aboliar
enlighten me as to the purpose
of that yellow exudate which
issues from the gland on a duck’s
tail? Both sexes and every
species have it. The popular
idea is that the bird uses it as
an oil which waterproofs its
feathers. And certainly when
one watches a duck at its toilet
weight is lent to the idea. With
its bill the duck nips at the
gland and seems to obtain some-
thing, for it immediately runs its
bill along the feather it is
grooming. Yet the substance is
not oily in the general accept-
ance of the term, while the quan-
tity must be minute, since the
feather shows no sign of yellow, though
the small feathers around the gland may
be heavily stained with a sort of overflow.
The real hole in the waterproofing idea
is that immature birds have only a scanty
supply while adults, especially drakes,
are most liberally endowed, yet immature
ducks endure the water equally well.
One might expect, too, that the large
'active glands of an adult drake would
taint the meat in cooking, yet, having
eaten a few hundreds of such poultry,
both wild and domesticated, I have never
detected any taint.
* * * *
“Narrin”: Old Crossbred’s boy was
going to his first job out bush whence his
daddy originally came. Going up to the
house the other day I was surprised to
find the old bloke and the youngster spar-
ring furiously under the pepper-tree.
Crossbred was evidently glad of the
chance of a spell, so he answered my
inquiries. “Yair, I’m teachin’ him t’ use
his mitts. Y’ see, I made him promise
that when they put him on some ole jig-
joggin’ prad he’ll punch the nose o’ the
first bloke who says to him ‘Make the
flamin’ horse walk, can’t y’?”’
* * * *
“Milton”: Any cocky would go green
about the gills when asked £3O (B.
22/7 1 ’42) for breaking-in nine horses, after
“Ngaduri” had taken 12 weeks on the
job. Presumably being for the farm, they
were either light or heavy draughts, the
easiest of all horses to handle, for after
being caught, taught to lead, mouthed
and driven a bit, each horse could be
finished off in the farm team after two
days. And any station-owner would have
passed away with the shock, being used
to paying a contract price of about £1 a
head.
TEAMWORK
I watched them bring the harvest in across the
paddock ways,
The burnished chestnuts eager-eyed, the sleek
rose-dappled greys;
Below the wagon piled with grain the horses
seemed mere things
Of pigmy size, that crawled among the stubble’s
severed strings.
They passed me by, two in the shafts and two
before, and one,
A massive bay, to lead the way, his neck proud
in the sun —
Each to his task —how steadfastly and easily
they strode!
While as they went the red wheels sang “It's
the team that pulls the load!
I heard the ring of axes in among blue-timbered
hills;
And glimpsed the gleaming dog-toothed saw
that anguishes and shrills
For ever in wood-hunger, while the sawdust
from its jaws
Springs up in fragrant cones of crumbs be-
tween its rough forepaws.
While lumbering under mighty gums, yoked two
and two, they came—
The reds, the roans, the heavy whites, red-
rimmed of eye but tame —
The patient bullocks hauling tons of logs down
track and road,
Vast boles of trees that rolled behind the team
that pulls the load.
I heard a roar and groan of wheels, and saw
the coal-dust rise
Dark as a flock of starlings flung across the
August skies;
The pulleys whined and whimpered to the eerie
things that laughed
And sang in reedy whispers down the grim
throat of the shaft;
And men came tramping steadily, and lot by
lot went down
Through fathoms lashed by foam of jet, where
thoughts like insects drown.
In tunnels sinister with wet, where sea-salt
rimed the coal,
They moved like gods, these men who held high
courage as their goal.
Arms dripped black sweat as picks bit deep,
the little headlamps glowed,
While echoes shouted down the dark “It’s the
team that works the lode!”
TASMANIA
NORMA L. DAVOS.


“ Now, remember , Bert—this load is C.O.D."
ë
he slip te rope an’ lose just to spite me.
But 1 have te fiver on te other team.
Kaipai te spite!”
# * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was 3 a.m. when
Mat got on the train with a first-class
ticket, being flush at the time. He
dug up the conductor and said “Look,
I bin travellin’ all day an’ 1 want some
rest. Got a sleeper?” Silver passed from
him to the conductor. “Well, all the
sleepers is gone,” said the official, “but
there’s a compartment up here I can get
y’ in. Wait here.” A few minutes later
Mat had a seat to himself and stretched
out. An hour later he was awakened
and ordered to make room for more
passengers. Anew conductor faced him.
“Hey,” roared Mat, “where’s the bloke
what.was on when I got in?” “He
leaves the train here,” was the answer.
Mat shot up and galloped along the cor-
ridor and on to the platform, where he
grabbed the first conductor. “Here,” he
roared, “that dollar was for all the way,
not just a bit of it. Come on, cough up
four bob or I’ll” —— He got his rebate
and resumed his seat.
“Bo”: Old Dinny the hatter, incredibly
thin and with the skin on face and hands
like a kangaroo pelt that’s been hanging
over a wire fence for several months,
had built a hut for himself on the bend
of the river. It was a slab-and-bark
affair about 10ft. by 12ft. and about 6ft.
2in. high. Dinny went 6ft. lyin., and he
reckoned yin. was ample clearance. For
his fireplace he used a battered old 400-
gallon tank, the small outlet pipe doing
service as the flue. Whenever he put the
billy on the hut would be smoked out
and Dinny, red-eyed and coughing, would
grope his way outside, take a few deep
breaths and then dive back into the
smoke. I asked him one day why he
didn’t build a fire outside. Dinny looked
at me pityingly. “Gripes, y’re dull,” was
his comment. “How the hell would I
get a draught out in the open?”
* * * *
“Munjong”: There thrived for years
in the mulga round Wiluna (W.A.) a
once-trapped dingo whose track led the
trappers to christen him Bullock-foot. As
his depredations increased one sheepman
after another added to the Vermin
Board’s bonus until at last the scalp was
worth £7O. Many tried for him, of
course, but he was too goodfor the lot
of them, until at last Scrubby George
came down from a year’s trapping round
Lake Nabberoo and put his knowledge of
dog psychology to work. Waiting until
Bullock-foot had settled down to steady
killing on one property, George sought
and found the pad along which the dog
was accustomed to travel nightly to a
waterhole, and hung a chaffbag in a tree
close by. The following day an inspec-
tion of the tracks proved that, as he had
expected, the dog had stopped dead as
his eye caught the unfamiliar object and
had then fetched a wide circuit round it,
rejoining the pad 50 yards further on.
For a week George bided his time, and
then buried a trap where the new pad
branched off from the old. That night
old Bullock-foot came along as usual,
lifted his head to have a look at the
suspicious object in the tree, and—stepped
into the trap.
# * H= *
“Arev”; “My word!” said Mrs. Jupp,
“that butcher’s hot. He charged me five
and sixpence for this leg of lamb.” Bill
stared. “Five and six! That’s robbery,
Mum. We’ll have no more of that. Those
older fowls are only eating their heads
off. We’ll have them instead of butcher’s
meat.” The next day, boiled fowl
appeared. Bill enjoyed it. The follow-
ing day boiled fowl again. On the fifth
day of bloodless meat Bill began to wish
he had not vetoed buying at the butcher’s,
and there were still several elderly hens
in the run. Then one day, after he had
struggled with the stringy tendons of an
ancient matron, Bill took advantage of
his wife’s being in town to present the rest
of the hens to some fellows camped near
the creek. Bill was glad to have settled
the question so easily. Before he could
broach the subject on her return, how-
ever, his wife said “I suppose you’re tired
of boiled fowl, Dad. I know I am.” Bill
nodded: it was going to be easy. “Well,”
went on Mrs. Jupp, “tomorrow the
butcher’s calling again. I've arranged to
take butcher’s meat every day in
exchange for one of the hens.”
* * *
“Flight”; That cyclic pheno-
menon the pest plague is rarely
noted for a parallel plague of
its antidote •; but I saw it happen
once. It was during the big rat
invasion in Western Queensland
in 1919. Usually on the Barkly
there isn’t one owl to a thou-
sand square miles. But as the
rodents swarmed the birds
materialised from nowhere by
the hundred. One cook at Aus-
tral Downs slung his job, as owls slither-
ing down the roof caused him sleep-
less nights. I have one unforgettable
memory of a drive one moonlit night
from Austral to the ’Dangie—los miles.
The road for the whole way was one vast
living network —the shadows of the owls
as they paced it with the car to grab
the rats flushed by the wheels from the
side of the road.
“K.1.N.”: As one who’s tried them all,
I claim there’s little difference in the
difficulty of riding a bad horse, steer
and mule, though the two last are the
more awkward, owing not so much to the
fact that they have no withers (B.
15/7/’42) as that their skin doesn’t fit —
it rolls around the steed’s chassis and the
rider perforce goes with it. The stability
of the horse’s epiderfnis allows it to buck
and pigroot. The looseness of its hide
permits no mule or steer to go through
the ring pf the bit or turn a back somer-
sault.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: “Narrin” (B. 1/7/’42) is
right regarding the general inutility of
the neck waterbag when doing an eques-
trian promenade through dry country.
But if the country is very dry any sort of
waterbag should be ruled out. The only
excuse for carrying a bag is that it keeps
its contents cool. But that coolness is
only obtained at considerable expense,
by the constant evaporation of the con-
tained water. More, a cool bag leads to
excessive drinking. When one is parched
it is hard to get the bag nozzle away
from the mouth before a long guzzle has
been indulged in;. a guzzle, too, that
more often than not is injurious, since
it tends to chill the stomach. Have seen
parched wayfarers go right out to it
through overdrinking when offered a
swallow from a bag. The real desert
traveller therefore uses metal canteens.
These after a hot day’s travel will reach
well up towards boiling-point, and so there
is little temptation to guzzle when taking
a drink. Not satisfying to many men,
but they really suffer no harm from such
restriction, for after all thirst is really a
matter in which the whole body partici-
pates ; and warm water, although it may
fail to exhilarate the gullet, still does its
work in supplying necessary fluid to the
glands and other organs. So the tough
bushman, travelling on a stint of water
carried in tin cans, keeps going where
more indulgent men turn back.
“M. U. Ray”; One of the greatest
slaughters of wild things due to man’s
interference (B. 29/7/’42) occurred on
the Murray in 1917, partly due to man
and partly to nature. That year the river
had the biggest flood in white-man his-
tory and spread out over paddocks up
to six feet deep for miles. With the
Water went a lot of tortoises and fish.
When the river began to fall, hundreds
of the tortoises were cut off by the sheep-
proof fences, and their carapaces still
provide the wondering boundary-rider
with food for speculation when he comes
across one miles back from the river.
The fish knew better ; they headed for
the main stream at the first sign of a fall
in the level.
* * # #
“Gip”: For fighting qualities the
N.Q. tiger cat is in a class of its own.
It can knock out a couple of dogs, and
the largest domestic cat tackling it com-
mits suicide. This spotted marsupial,
which sometimes grows nearly as big as
a fox, won’t hesitate to attack a man
when cornered. It stalks and kills small
wallabies, usually hunting alone, though
there is generally a mate within catcall.
» ■ * % *
“Sur Cingle”: Did I hear “Jumbucfc”
(B. 24/6/’42) mention “Victorian” and
“mallee” and “ station” in conjunction?
Well, I’m ashamed to own it, but once,
long years ago, I worked on such a run
myself. It was a big station. When the
boss started up the buckboard at the
homestead all the outback boundary-
riders heard it, got off their bunks and
started boundary-riding. But that was in
real mallee country. They’d tried to
work dogs there once: there were still
a few canine skeletons jammed in forks
and speared on stakes in my time. But
owing to the nature of the country and
the serious inroads on profits made by
the constant necessity for buying more
dogs a more practical scheme was initi-
ated. At lamb-marking a caustic solu-
tion was used to kill the hair over an
area the size of a shilling just above each
jumbuck’s hind fetlocks. For mustering
we used greenhead ants. These agile and
well-trained creatures were admirably
suited for slipping between the native
vegetables, locating the sheep and, by
nipping them on the appropriate leg,
steering them to where we sat loafing in
the sun and lying about the great dogs
we’d worked in sparser country.
M: :f: % £
“R.M.8.”: An “Outback Occasions”
article on gates recalls the main road
from Kalgoorlie to Wiluna, with its 47
gates, and the commercial gent, who
tricked ’em. To change down into first
gear 20 yards from the gate, set the
hand-throttle to a crawl, sprint on ahead
to open the gate and let the ruts take
the car through—it was too easy, it saved
the best part of an hour in the aggre-
gate, it took the stiffness out of a man's
back, old boy. The pubs of Leonora,
Lawlers and Kathleen Valley resounded
with it. The patentee broke the existing
Kalgoorlie-Wiluna record with it. And
it may well have been some earnest but
inept disciple who smashed the double
Oregon gates near Lake Way, subse-
quently closing them, “not wisely but too
well,” with a treble twist of No. 8 wire.
That much is surmise ; what Leonora,
Lawlers and Kathleen Valley know for
certain is that the next car along con-
tained the patentee, that he failed to
observe the • blue-pencilled, adjectival
wire and that he was still in holts with
it when the big tourer rolled quietly up
behind and pushed him, freely decorated
with portions of gate, up the road
towards Wiluna.
“ Well, gentlemen, shall I be Mother?”


LYSAGHTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
a
m
4ar
-
:.i
9JLI ./A Suiouaj
SJ.HOVSAI
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents. •
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd,
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING.
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Branding Cattle
“C. Punch”: Three first essentials are
a good iron with clear-cut design, the
correct heat and the proper touch. Don’t
use a forge for heating, as the iron is
likely to get too hot, which will make
the branding face rough and pitted. An
underheated iron means loss of time,
unnecessary pa’in to the beast and often
a blotched brand. It should be hot
enough to impress the brand clearly on
the hide in less than a second.
The iron must be applied neatly,
quickly and firmly and without pres-
sure. Correct touch is vital to
avoid deep branding and burning of
the flesh. Against that, too light a touch
means an indistinct brand. Hesitation is
bad. The beast will feel the heat of the
iron and struggle ; the brander may find
it necessary to brand again.
It saves time and trouble to have the
entire brand on one iron, one of the
several good reasons for avoiding com-
plicated designs and more than two letters
or numerals. The best brands I ever saw
came from the tail-end of the alphabet
and the low numbers, like XI, Y3, Z2
and so on ; the worst was a large attempt
to depict forked lightning striking a wind-
mill —at least, that’s what it looked like.
Don’t brand when skin and hair are
wet with rain or sweat, nor while the
skin is twitching. Clip the hair off the
spot and smear very thinly with fat
beforehand ; after each branding rub the
iron on the ground to get rid of burnt
hair, etc. Fat or raw linseed oil does
good on the wound after the iron.
Most people brand high on the rump
because it’s easily seen there from horse-
back or a stockyard fence. But the
tanner sees it as loss of the best part of
the hide, which occurs also when the
brand is on back or loins. Avoiding
those places leaves plenty of bullock area
on which to brand.
Beating the Botfly.
“Plane Creek”: It will be very active
during early spring. The female deposits
her eggs upon the neck or forequarters
of horses feeding or being worked in the
full sunlight. The nags bite at the parts
and so swallow the tiny orange eggs. In
the horse’s stomach the eggs hatch and
the young bots take up residence. If
they are present in large numbers the
digestive processes are impeded and the
horse falls away.
A horse on good grazing that does not
put on condition should have his teeth
examined. If they are in good order he
is probably infested with bots or worms.
Carbon bisulphide will destroy both
worms and bots. The dose for a heavy
draught is from a teaspoon to a teaspoon
and a half every two hours, given as a
drench with two tablespoons of raw lin-
seed oil in three-quarters of a cup of milk
or thinned molasses. A saddle horse
should get a small teaspoon of carbon
bisulphide at a dose. Six doses at inter-
vals of two hours are generally enough.
During the 14 hours prior to treatment
the patient should be given no feed but
sufficient water. Feeding can be resumed
about two hours after treatment is com-
plete. Light feed is best —damped lucerne
chaff or bran mashes —and the amount
should be brought to normal gradually.
Carbon bisulphide is explosive and should
be kept away from naked lights.
If there are botflies on your property
try rubbing the coats of horses that graze
e
“Please y ' rself , Ma; it's YOUR birthaay."
from “carriers,” where the germs have
remained inside the hoof until wet con-
ditions have softened it and allowed the
germs to escape and spread to other
sheep. If these “carriers” can be got rid
of a property can be kept free.
A type of foot lameness which has been
confused with true footrot is foot abscess.
Treatment of both forms is similar, but
they differ in certain aspects. True foot-
rot can affect all sheep, and it spreads
very quickly. The horny part of the hoof
is chiefly affected and breaks away, show-
ing the inner tissues dark in color and
with an offensive smell. Foot abscess
seldom attacks lambs, though weaners
may be affected. Usually only one foot
is attacked, and the disease is not so con-
tagious as true footrot. Often there are
no outward signs of disease, and the hoof
of a lame sheep may appear perfectly
sound. When opened with a knife, how-
ever, the hoof will contain a lot of green-
ish pus and be hot to the touch. If the
hoof is not opened the abscess may break
ė
any good deep soil. Better soils, of
course, give higher returns, and that is
one reason why in the fertile Tumbar-
umba (N.S.W.) highlands sub. clover has
become almost synonymous with pas-
turage.
Grasses thrive there as well —the ryes,
cocksfoots and even Phalaris —but it is
to sub. clover that this favored hilly land
looks for its bulk in stored fodder as
well as grazing.
Tumbarumba has high rainfall in
winter and midsummer in good seasons,
and the climate is mild to cold. The
soil is mostly rich volcanic, and it is in
this that the clover romps. Lower down,
on the Tumut plains and adjacent valleys,
sub, can be established without much
trouble. After sowing the seed with
1001 b. to 1121 b. of super, to the acre,
there must be annual dressings of 1001 b.
for three years, when an occasional miss
in good seasons like the present seems to
matter little. It is a grand feed and must
vie with lucerne for a place on the
priority list.
e
è
bages may be planted in unmanured land
and helped along with topdressings of
horse manure. Topdressing with manure
tends to keep the ground loose and moist,
and the plants get an issue of liquid
manure every time it rains. But cabbage
planting from now on is not advised for
people in the tropics unless they have irri-
gation or can let the hose run when it
gets hot and dry.
Shove the young plants out of the bed
into the open in the early evening, put-
ting a sprinkle of meatworks manure in
each hoe hole. If they’ve long roots and
thick foliage trim them up a bit first. A
21b. preserved fruit can of water given
each plant will help it get set. Use lead
arsenate as a dust to kill insect pests, but
discontinue when the plants start to heart.
Non-poisonous sprays or dusts must be
used instead, or, if these are unprocur-
able, try dusting the hearts of the plants
with slaked lime or any artificial fer-
tiliser that does not burn the leaves.
Soap-and-water sprays are worth try-
ing. If plenty of lettuces are handy, try
boiling a few in water and spraying the
plants with it when the water has cooled.
In fact, the leaves of any vegetable or
harmless plant that the cabbage pests
don’t like may be used in making this
concoction, the idea being that the pests
won’t like the flavor. The cabbage-grub


Are you
watching
his health
If your clog’s
coat Is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or Is
out of sorts —
Start him now on
course of
BABKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
lively and eating with his old healthy appetite.
BABKO tones up a dog’s whole system
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
m
F reedom
To be free to think, to act, to worship as we
will ... to voice our opinions openly . . .
to elect our parliaments ... to frame the
very laws which govern this great land. That
is the measure of an Australian ... a birth-
right worth defending to the last man and
the last shilling.
Inserted in the National Interest by
the Manufacturers of
FELTEX
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
F1.24.f6
,
f?'
sN
10 for ll d - 20 for 110
Also in Fifties
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
mm?'-.,
' 5 - s v N V i
'•'A.Y -
M
*
2817
jggssrc
Far greater
smoking en
CRAVENA
é
Outback Occasions.
No. 47.
THE INVENTOR.
Father gave him a job largely out of
goodness of heart. He was a little, fair-
haired bloke with pale-blue eyes and a
watery look about him, and he said “I
ain’t askin’ big wages, Mister. Just a
bit of a camp and a bit o’ tucker an a
few bob now an’ then.” “What can y’
do?” Father asked. The little bloke
gave a humble sort of grin and answered
“Well, I ain’t much good at big things ;
it’s in the little things I shine.” A bit
mystified, Father gave him a go.
He cleaned out the old hut behind the
stables and we boys watched him move
in and took note of what came out of
his swag. The things that struck us were
a lot of old magazines of a gaudy type,
with pictures of weird and wonderful
machines and with names on them like
“Modern Mekanix,” “Wonders of the
Age” and so on. We Plight have known
then what we’d struck, but we didn’t.
He’d been with us about a week, doing
odd jobs about the place during the day
and retiring to his cubby after tea at
night. We assumed he wanted privacy
and didn’t pry, though we often won-
dered at his light burning late at night
and at the fact that he was always up
before the crows in the morning. Mother
complained to Father about the copper
flue in the laundry. It smoked, she said,
in any sort of a high wind. Ted, that
was our new hand’s name, pricked his
ears and asked could he look it over.
Three hours later he’d fixed up a
queer-looking pyramid out of boards and
some bits of tin, with slots underneath
and in the sides, mounted it on top of
the flue on a sort of axle that allowed
it to swing about in the wind and said
“There y’ are, Missus.” It worked and
we made noises of praise. “Yair,” he said,
grinning shyly, “I’m a inventor, y’ know.”
“Too right, you are,” said Father en-
thusiastically, for he could see a long
vista of happy laundry days ahead.
Well, that stirred Ted. He went straight
away and invented a cooling device for
Father’s pipe, which pleased Father enor-
mously, though he’d never known that
his pipe needed a cooler. After that Ted
used to bring his magazines and bundles
of plans over of a night and dazzle us
boys with figures and dreams and night-
mares. One of his great troubles was
that he’d get an invention up to a certain
point and there he’d stick. One of these
days, he assured us, he’d drop on to a
“key” and thenceforward he’d “revol-
valise” farming in Australia.
“Y’ mean revolutionist,” said our
brother.
“Yair, that’s what I said. Revolvalise.
It’s what farmin’ needs.”
Our windmill bothered him. He
moaned about all the power it wasted,
pointing out that it was sheer waste to
have the mill tied down when the tank
was full and all the wind blowing to
waste past our farm. “It can blow down
forests, sweep up waves mountings high,
an’ we let all that strength go to waste,”
he said.
He compromised with a plan to make
an automatic cut-out for the mill to save
us racing out every time there was a
gale and tying the lever down. Father
was not enthusiastic when Ted asked to be
allowed to work on the mill, but after being
shown the plan he somehow was per-
suaded to give consent. Ted’s idea was
to cut the wheel vertically into three seg-
ments, the right and left arcs to be fixed
to the inner segment by spring hinges.
Thus, when the gale got up and the tail
swung the wheel into the wind, its force
would drive the two outer arcs and their
vanes back at right angles and the wheel
would stop or slow.
By adjusting the strength of the spring
hinges he would so have it that as soon
as the wind eased off the arcs would
swing back and the wheel would begin
turning again. Our brother couldn’t see
what advantage it had, even if it worked,
but by this time Father had got inter-
ested and put our brother in his place.
Well, Ted first made a model of card-
board and wood and string, and worked
out a lot of calculations over which he
spent days. Then he told Father he was
set and got to work on the mill.
After about three weeks he finished.
It cost Father a few bob for hinges and
things, but by now Father was having
bets with our neighbors and was deter-
mined to see it through. Three days
after it was finished a big westerly came
up and we gathered to watch the mill.
It spun madly for a while, then as the
wind freshened we saw the two outer
arcs begin to fold back, there was a
terrific crashing and rending, bits of mill
flew everywhere, and in no time all that
remained was a tangled blob and the tail.
The inventor hadn’t allowed for the fact
that the arcs, when folded back, would
hit the tower and the gear.
Father, of course, went hopping mad.
He called heaven to witness what utter
fools were loose on the face of the earth,
he asked of the skies why, of all the
people in Australia, he should be chosen
as the victim, and to anybody else who
would listen he howled Look at me mill,
Just look at it! .Then he 100 e ,
Ted. That unassuming little person
as one stricken, staring at the wrecKage
of his dreams. For long moments ne
gazed, then he turned slowly and lookea
at Father and his watery smile spread
over his face.
“Never mind, he said. Ive got plenty
more ideas.”
It took four cups of tea to restore
Father to sufficient coherence to make it
clear to Ted that the only thing that saved
him from the sack was the worth of a
new wheel for the mill, which he would
work off as a dead horse m the coming
harvest.


THAT TELL A WAR STORY
JLhere is an interesting story —a story told
largely in figures in the transition of General
Motors-Holden’s Ltd, from its normal function
of producing motor vehicles, refrigerators and
similar products to the manufacture of war
supplies.
Today no new G.M.H. motor vehicles are being built for
civilian use. The G.M.H. factories, their man-power
m
and machines have swung
over to essential war pro-
duction. Figures of cat sales
have vanished figures of
weapon production are
mounting
Included in the vital statistics of an organisation are its
turnover and its profit and loss account. Illustration of
<839
1941
the company's unselfish sup-
port for the war effort can
be found in a comparison of
these figures for peace-time
1939 and for 1941. In 1939
turnover was £8,962,000, in
1941 it was £8,523,000 but the
1941 profit was only one-third
of peace-time 1939.
Purchases by G.M.H. from Australian sources during
1941 totalled £41998,000. During this period, too, the
hi
f
employees of G.M.H. in-
creased from 5,865 to 9,300;
last year’s payroll was
£2,282,000. These men and
women at G.M.H. factories
have done splendid work.
In an incredibly short time,
they have learned entirely
new and intricate jobs.
The enthusiastic co-opetation of these people who actu-
ally are and of many hundreds of independent
manufacturers who have col-
1
m
laborated with has
produced an ever-increasing
flow of war materials includ-
ing aeroplone assemblies and
parts, guns, boats, shells,
bombs, and many types of
Army vehicles.
Who Develops Industry Serves Australia
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth
Lend to Defend
Buy War Savings Certificates,
C 759- 21
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Our Service Department
Wants.
Words of the recitations “When Father
Carves the Duck,” “Continued in Our Next,”
“The Baldheaded Man” and “Murphy’s Brindle
Cow,” or information where words can be
obtained.—3295.
To buy or borrow book on telescopic rifle
sights, by Townend Whelen.—3296.
To buy an engraving titled “For He Spoke
Light of a Woman’s Name,” or something like
that. Subject is a duel.—3297.
To buy (in N. S. Wales) young ducklings or
ducks; also Barred Plymouth Rock fowls. —
3298.
To buy or borrow “Saturday Evening Post”
from May, 1940, onwards. —3299.
Information Sought.
Is compensation due to fully attested mem-
bers of the V.D.C. for injuries suffered during
course of training or journeys to or from
parades, or, in case of death, to dependants ?
The matter has not been legally tested, but it is
officially considered that the V.D.C. is portion of
the Citizen Military Forces and would there-
fore be entitled to the same privileges—that is
to say, compensation would be payable.
* * * *
(1) What was the result of voting by A.I.F. in
the on conscription during the
1914-18 war? (2) How did the States vote?
(1) According to the official History of Aus-
tralia in the War, the soldiers’ vote in the 1916
referendum was 72,399 for conscription, 58,894
against; in the 1917 referendum, 103,789 for,
93,910 against. (2) In the 1916 referendum Vic.,
W.A., Tas. and Federal Territories had major-
ities in favor of conscription. N. S. Wales,
Queensland and S.A. rejected the proposal. In
the 1917 referendum W.A., Tasmania and
Federal Territories were for; N.S.W., Victoria,
Queensland and S.A. against.
* * * *
What was the annual production of wheat in
Australia for the years 1936 to 1940 inclusive?
According to the Commonwealth Year-Book
the figures are:
Bushels. Bushels.
1929- 126,884,000 I 1935-36.. 144,217,769
1930- 213,594,000 J 1936-37.. 150,468,321
1931- 190,612,188 j 1937-38.. 187,256,000
1932- J 1938-39.. 155,369,000
1933- 177,337,803 J 1939-40.-210,487,000
1934- 133,393,232 |
* -i* *
Know any way of treating bullock hides for
leather —methods that can be used in the bush ?
Also treatment of kangaroo and possum hides ?
Soak the bullock hide 48 hours in clear, cold
water. For fleshing and dehairing make up 41b.
ê
feated by General Andrew Jackson, afterwards
President, at a battle near New Orleans....
G.H.T.: He certainly could read and write
K.M.: No record H.M.H.: Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, are publishers 8.W.: (1)
It is mentioned in Revelations xvi, 16. (2)
No record. (3) Sorry, can’t undertake to search
for back numbers J.W.S.: No supplies in
Sydney now P.O’R.: Write to the Dept, of
Labor and Industry, Sydney E.C.D.K.:
Write to the Department of Agriculture, Perth.
R.A.W.: Don’t think you could obtain
any of those materials in these times L.K.:
Question too vague—you don’t even mention
what kind of business R.J.8.W.: No record.
. ...T.J.G.; Write to the Commonwealth
Statistician, Canberra, A.C.T H.G.S.: Write
to the C.5.1.R., Melbourne L.T.E.: Write to
the Forestry Commission, 44 Margaret-street,
Sydney... .G.F.: Write to the Mines Depart-
ment, Perth V.H.G.N. and R.F.; Write to
the Department of Stock and Agriculture, Bris-
bane... .R.W.: Write to the Liquid Fuel
Control Board, 99 Macquarie-street, Sydney.
.... A.T.G.: Write to the Department of Com-
merce, Canberra C.E.D.: Write to the
Customs Department, Canberra R.A.F.,
M.H.8., Anxious, R.M., H.8.R., F.J.W.,
G.F.D. and A.D.8.: Write to the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Sydney X.Y.Z.: Have
made many inquiries, all without result. Here
is the reply of the Chief Botanist, National
Herbarium, Botanic Gardens, Sydney: “We do
not know of any method of preserving the
cone of the burrawang ( Macrozamia ) in its fresh
moist condition or natural colors. It can
be kept indefinitely by drying, but of course it
then turns a more or less uniform brown and
loses its distinctive red and green coloring. As
it dries the seed-bearing scales are liable to
drop off the central stem, and to prevent this
it is necessary to secure it with a wire bound
round the cone to form an open network. It
should then be kept in a warm dry place until
it has lost as much moisture as possible. In
this condition it is still of value to the student,
but has little decorative value.”... .L. 8.5.: Out
of print L.Q.: Mathematics, physics and
chemistry are the most important subjects for
an engineering course. Write Registrar, Sydney
University, and Principal, Sydney Technical
College, Ultimo, and ask for full details....
E.R.0.: The N. S. Wales Department of Agri-
culture issues a free pamphlet on hydroponics;
there is also a book in the Penguin series on
the subject N.H.S.; Impossible to advance
any theory—best wri& to the paint manu-
facturers... .P.H.: Know of no way of re-
pairing the leak without emptying the tank.
....A.S.H.: A glass hone for Gillette-type
safety blades is obtainable from Jno. Baker,
Hunter-street, Sydney; price 2s. 6d A.G.C.:
Britain declared war on Germany on Septem-
ber 3, 1939; France declared on the same day.
Germany invaded Austria on March 12, 1938,
Czechoslovakia on March 15, 1939, and Poland
on September 1, 1939. Germany declared war
on the U.S.S.R. on June 22, 1941 A.8.N.:
No record here; try the Mitchell Library.
Answers to Correspondents.
ëe


è
Your Gas Pipe..
a weapon of Democracy!
»Si
e
boiler tubes. Australian Democracy was at
work. But in Europe, it was “Guns instead
of Butter.”
In 1939 it was obvious to this country that
the War we had tried to hold back was not
only inevitable, but ready to start at any hour.
We saw that unless we changed our produc-
tion from gas pipes to shells we wouldn’t
be making Australian gas pipes for long.
Without subsidy we installed the plant neces-
sary for the forging and rough machining of
ammunition shell bodies. Speed was vital.
So we evolved a shell-making process faster
than any other and one which eliminated one
of the most lengthy and costly operations —
that of boring the inside. We were able to
make a forging so true to size, arid so smooth
on the inside, that boring was unnecessary.
Engineers worked miracles in adapting tube
making plants, also to the manufacture of
shells. We couldn’t wait for weeks or months
for special plant or equipment from overseas.
As a result, we had shifts at work at one end
of a new extension before the roof was com-
pleted at the other end.
Remember, that was in 1939 before the
War.
Now, every month our output of shell bodies
shoots up to a new record. Those gas pipes
have become a weapon of Democracy.
Gas pipes into shells. Soon, we hope —shells
back into gas pipes. When that happens, and
the plumber joins your pipes with a neat
elbow, remember Stewarts and Lloyds. Re-
member the men who were ready for produc-
tion on the day that War was declared . . .
remember the men who piled up the shells so
that victorious peace could become a reality.
Stewarts and Lloyds
(Australia) Pty. Ltd*


Correct belt tension, the all important factor
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Office: 20 Queen's Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States
***** :; rr
X
%
L
iliili I
BELTING • PULLEYS • BEARINGS • SHAFTINGS • COUPLINGS • ALL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT
■' Rii
Vj
m
///
i
km
H 434*
mm
■
\n yci
. k smmt <*
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
** * ,
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
BRONCHIAL
COUGH!!
Just a Few Sips and—
Like a Flash Relief!
Get to-day at any chemist or store
a bottle of BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL
Mixture (triple acting)—take a couple
of sips and sleep sound all night long
—your irritating cough or bronchitis
is under control. Buckley’s is by far
the largest-selling cough medicine in
all blizzardly cold Canada —one little
sip and your cough is quieted. Use 2
or 3 days and you’ll hear no more from
that tough old hang-on cough that
nothing seemed to help.
Stuekle*ft
CANADIOL
MIXTURE
SINGLE SIP PROVES IT
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£/ £. £ £ £
1932. . 27,750 10 p.c. = 25,000 1,954 796 257,506
1933.. 23,416 8 „ ~ 20,000 1,754 1,662 259,168
1934.. 27,070 8 „ ~20,000 2,913 4,157 263,325
1935.. 31,338 8 „ ~ 20,000 1,759 9,579 272,904
1936.. 31,802 8 „ ~20,000 1,957 9,845 282,749
1937.. 33,068 8 „ ~20,000 2,992 10,076 292,825
1938.. 35,645 8 ~ ~ 20,000 2,955 12,690 305,515
1939.. 34,117 8 ~ ~20,000 3,135 10,982 316,497
1940.. 36,634 8 „ ..20,000 4,993 11,641 328,138
1941.. 30,721 8 .. ~20,000 4,140 6,581 334,719
1942.. 26,072 8 „ ~ 20,000 14,930 325,861
Roots of the business are embedded in
Queensland’s early pioneering days, and
the growth since has been largely that of
the development of the pastoral and
mining industries in the central and
central-west of the State, with which a
large merchandising and agency business
is done, from Rockhampton head-
quarters. Operations also spread to Bris-
bane and Sydney through branches, both
of which in 1937 entered the drygoods
sphere, a trade from which war has
caused the Harbor City end to withdraw.
Of the £250,000 of capital, £145,000
represents transfers from reserves, the last
back in 1918. At the close of last accounts
there was £325,861 of these still on view,
or £75,861 more than the share-register
total and all invested outside the busi-
ness. Thus the co. could return the whole
of its capital without impairment to its
trading position, which obviously doesn’t
have to earn much to pay the 8 p.c. div.
—a nice comforter in these uncertain
times.
Put in the crucible, the “Wild Cat” has
no doubts these investments and the rest
of the assets would assay more than book
values, too. It therefore shows depre-
ciation as an appropriation from, instead
of a charge against, profits. Ignoring
this item, aggregate p. and 1. .figures look
as follows:
Gross Gross
Profit. Exes. Profit. Exes.
1929. . £128,432 £81,456 1 1938.. £101,091 £65,443
1931.. 92,044 74.472 1939.. 100,851 66,734
1933.. 81,298 57,882 | 1940.. 106,144 09,510
1936.. 87,592 55,789 1 1941.. 105,030 74,309
1937.. 95,208 62,140] 1942.. 105,184 79,112
The “strenuous” nature of the latest year
is most apparent in the rising tide of
expenses. Gross was maintained: while
the position of much coastal primary in-
dustry deteriorated, pastoralists continued
to experience favorable seasons and
prices. On capital, the £26,072 (down
£4649) of profit ran out at 10.4 p.c. The
8 p.c. div. thus left £6072 to spare, the
whole of which and £BB5B besides (nomi-
nally written off for depreciation) went
to strengthen the internal position. Taxa-
tion isn’t disclosed, but it wasn’t any less
burdensome.
Sales volume and profit-margins are
reported feeling the pinch of restrictive
legislation, and the difficulty of war-time
trading is beginning to show up in the
stock position:
1936. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 33,068 49,110 42,627 51,442
Tax provn. . . 21,362 24,262 28,289 29,417
Stock.. . . 135,930 161,962 176,604 154,318
Book debts . . 38,364 59,468 43,512 56,683
Cash .. .. 47,122 39,225 37,631 44,670
Freeholds and
plant . . 66,292 62,102 59,701 57,906
Investments .. 309,471 338,753 348,189 353,144
Stock, however, still appears of com-
fortable dimensions. There was a slight
contraction in the more or less liquid
surplus (£557,373), which at 445. 6d. per
share is 10s. 6d. above the present de-
pressed market valuation of the scrip.
Investments are mainly of the gilt-edged
variety.
John McGrath, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 8.3 p.c. Ord. serves.
£> £, £, £>
1932.. 15,438 4156 6 p.c. = 9,000 81,849
1933.. 11,921 6 „ ~ 9,000 84,770
1934.. 12,607 7 „ „ 10,500 86,877
1935.. 16,001 8 „ „ 12,000 90,878
1936.. 16,611 10* „ ~ 15,000 92,489
Bad debt reserve disappears, £7500.. 84,989
1937.. 19,659 12 p.c. = 18,000 80,648
1938.. 25,831 12 „ „ 24,854 87,625
1939.. 26,042 12 „ „ 26,724 87,543
1940.. 22,548 10 „ ~ 22,500 87,591
Profit on sale of assets, £3120 .. 90,711
1941.. 15,780 7 p.c = 15,750 90,747
1942.. 21,405 91 „ „ 21,375 90,837
No time has been wasted in adjusting
the business —it grew up on the Chevrolet
agency before taking over the Hillman
and Humber franchises in N.S.W. and
Queensland —to war-time conditions. In-
deed, the whole nature of operations has
completely changed. From a motor-
trader, the co. has now become little
more than a holding concern deriving
most of its income from an investment
of £213,213 (book value) in a string of
subsidiaries now profitably engaged on
war work —all this with surprisingly small
impairment of earning power.
Steps in that development were the
disposal of the assembly and bodyworks
section at a book profit of £3120 and
closing of the Newcastle and Townsville
(N.Q.) branches in the ’4l term. Then
last year the main Sydney premises were
taken over at short 4 notice for Common-
wealth purposes, and there was little else
for it but to close the Brisbane branch
and dispose of various rented premises
also. In the process, car stocks and
debtor balances, together valued at
£277,364 at June 30, 1939, have been
worked down to £18,130 combined, and
in conservative fashion a surplus of
£22,787 therefrom has been written off
subsidiary holdings as an offset to the
high capital cost of much of the recent
expansion there.
This expansion has been mostly in
respect of the forging section of
Commercial Steel and Forge Co. (Aust.)
Pty., a sub-contractor to Commonwealth
Aircraft Corp. and a bouncing infant
that appears to have peace- as well as
war-time prospects. Neither operating
results nor financial set-up of the sub-
sidiaries have to be divulged under N.S.W.
company law, however, and the manage-
ment is as close as a clam. All that can
be definitely said is that, though divs. of
the pups are only two-thirds their pre-
war rate, not all their earnings is being
passed on, while the p.c. bonus sent
out by the parent last term suggests that
finances of the group generally are com-
fortable. The full 9\ p.c. distribution
took all but £9O of disclosed earnings
(£21,465), the year’s improvement of
£5679 in which came mainly from savings
in overhead on the parent’s own trading
account.
So much for earning power; here is
the war-time transformation as seen by
the ledger-keeper:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Capital . . £225,000 £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgage .. 11,000 20,000
Overdraft .. 40,497 18,327 •
Other liabilities 45,580 45,604 34,066 12,384
Freeholds, etc. 41,222 63,144 70,396 68,787
Fittings . . 7,921 7,842 5,598 1,000
Stocks.. .. 136,091 132,595 76,725 10,095
Debtors . . 141,273 90,636 32,204 8,035
Cash .. .. 235 238 2,241 11,716
Shares.. .. 87,550 104,316 191,650 243,213
Altogether, £90,799 became available
from the liquidation of stocks and
debtors in the year just closed, enabling
a reduction of £41,682 in the parent’s
own debt and investment of another
£51,563 net in the pups, lumped with
£30,000 of other investments in the table.
The balance of stocks now represents re-
placement parts and a few new and
second-hand cars that should be no load
to carry.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 17,051 6 p.c. = 9,000 8,051 176,840
1933.. 13,840 7 „ „ 10,500 3,340 180,180
1934.. 28,071 8 „ „ 12,000 16,071 196,251
Reserves disappear, £107,077 .. 88,574
1935.. 13,533 9 p.c. = 13,500 33 88,607
1936.. 18,196 9 „ „ 13,500 4,696 93,303
June.
1937*. 7,660 10 „ „ 7,500 160 93,463
1938.. 15,037 12if, „ 18,750 89,750
1939.. 15,023 10 „ ~15,000 23 89,773
1940.. 15,109 10 „ „ 15,000 109 , 89,882
1941.. 14,289 10 ~ „ 15,000 89,171
Insurance recoveries, £18,596 . . 107,767
1942.. 18,430 10 p.c. = 15,000 3,430 111,197
* Six months,
t Including 2| p.c. sesquicentenary bonus.
Fifty years old in December last,
the co. -is still a freelance, plying intra-
state, and is not so completely tied up
by Government control as the inter-State
shippers. In respect of last term it is
reported that “operations were consider-
ably restricted by war conditions, but the
company was able to provide a satisfac-
tory service by which cargo traffic was
well maintained. Passenger traffic fell
right away after the entry of Japan into
the war.” Not operating on a charter
basis, the co. was more interested in costs
than other shippers ; it reports: “Operat-
ing costs, taxation and other necessary
expenditure increased considerably, with
consequent reduction in net earnings.” A
ship was lost by collision during the term.
The interim div. was at the reduced
rate of 9 p.c. p.a., but the final re-estab-
lished the accustomed 10 p.c. Insurance
recoveries from the lost vessel resulted
in a surplus of £18,596, which was added
to reserves. The board thinks fit to men-
tion that “in view of more than adequate
depreciation having been provided in
previous years, no further provision has
been made.” (In the preceding term the
visible allowance was £10,166, down
£1194.) In these circumstances of mixed
"comparisons and confused trading condi-
tions, the board wrote the year’s net
profit at £18,430, up £4141. It was equal
to 12.3 p.c. on capital, compared with
9.5 p.c. the year before and 10 p.c. in
the three preceding periods. But had
ordinary depreciation been charged pro-
fits would have been no more than £B5OO
—5.7 p.c. on capital.
The loss of the vessel mentioned was
followed by a fall of £31,404 in ship
property, and apparently none of this was
due to depreciation allowances. The in-
surance surplus added to reserves was
equal to more than half the fall in the
book value of the assets insured, which
confirms the “more - than - adequate”
nature of past depreciation provisions:
Dec., —June
1936. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Capital . . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 19,673 16,907 29,738 20,815
Ship property 99,577 122,869 197,751 166,347
Freeholds, etc. 1,650 3,963 2,032 2,033
Plant, stores, etc. 5,209 8,587 11,717 11,427
Book debts .. 20,591 16,414 31,505 57,482
Consols, cash,
etc 142,700 112,347 33,405 52,974
The sum paid or payable by the co.’s
underwriters has been the principal con-
tributor to the £54,332 increase in the
liquid surplus (£96,015).
The co. is trying to replace its lost
vessel. Until it does so the trading posi-
tion may continue weak, in spite of the
great demand for cargo space, and much
will depend on how far the Prices Branch
will co-operate with the co. in meeting
increasing costs.
Carrier Air Conditioning, Ltd.
Net To Re- Nominal
Dec., Loss. Dividend. serves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1937.. 24,487 Nil 40,202
Written off, £26,519 . . .. 13,683
1938.. 5,646 Nil 8,037
Added share premiums, £195 .. 8,232
Profit.
1939.. 8,694 5 p.c. = 6,301 2,393 10,625
1940.. 6,393 5 „ „ 6,300 93 10,718
1941.. 4,601 4„ ~ 5,040 10,277
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £15,971 at Dec. 31, ’4l.
“Normal trade of the company has under-
gone many changes,” says the board,
“consequent upon the diversion of the
bulk of its activities into channels cater-
ing either directly or indirectly for war
needs. Hitherto trade centred largely on
comfort and commercial air conditioning
(avenues now virtualy closed), and whilst
the new conditions and requirements
necessarily presented difficulties... .largely
as a result of recent visits by our •general
manager and production manager to our
American affiliates, these difficulties were
successfully dealt with, and, moreover, a
solid foundation would appear to have
been laid for future expansion into
spheres of manufacture not previously
entered.”
Meantime, though reorganisation has
caulked up losses following misjudged
initial expansion as a public venture,
earning-power is nothing glamorous, and
the management is liberal in its distribu-
tion of such profits as are exhibited.
Those for the latest year had to bear the
unrecurring charge of £2623 for damages
in an action brought by N. P. Hunt,
former managing director, for wrong-
ful dismissal. After reducing “deferred”
assets by £1023 and increasing the reserve
for servicing completed contracts by
£l3OO, net thus slipped £1792 to 3.6 p.c.
on capital, or £441 less than the 4 p.c.
div. called for. Depreciation charged


m
ike
y
YES
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
. AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD A
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
THE ELECTROLYTIC - COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and In
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
ISi
sm
m-
The Symbol of
Security I
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY “ASir
(Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street. SYDNEY.
W ;J D . IRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.0. ; James Kidd: A. E. Heath, C.M.G.:
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
W
th^r.
»>
2W
tfisi®
fftconna*
of tY*® s
,\ssa n S ew X|Vvate ««*
SIX REASONS WHY THERE IS A SHORTAGE OF CIVILIAN RUBBER ARTICLES
2, (6.00 x 16) Dunlop Motor Tyres = i Inflatable Reconnaissance boat
18 prs. Dunlop Knee Boots = 1 Tyre and Tube for 25 pndr. gutb
510 Dunlop Hot Water Bags = 1 Mooring Buoy
75 prs. Dunlop Tennis Shoes = I Tyre and Tube—Beaufort Bomber
11 Dunlop ‘6s’ Golf Balls = Rubber for Gas Mask
1 Dunlop Garden Hose (60 ft.) = Rubber for 1 Tank Wheel
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
WORN-OUT RUBBER ARTICLES
URGENTLY WANTED FOR RECLAIM.
Tyres and tubes, hot water bags, bath mats, rubber gloves,
milking machine rubberware ANY rubber article, except
flooring can be reclaimed. So don’t waste an ounce of this
precious commodity —■ save it for reclaiming.
H 8554
rmi
The rubber for these
portable rubber reconn-
aissance boats might
have been used for a new
set of Dunlop Tyres for
your car. But the acute
rubber shortage and the
need for defence articles
has made it necessary to
curtail the manufacture
of pratically all rubber
articles for civilian use.
was £1839 ; no taxation was chalked up,
owing to offsets for past losses.
Finances show this disposition of
funds:
Carrier Air Conditioning and Subsidiaries.
1937. 1938. 1940. 1942.
„ ~ . & £■ £■ £>
laid capital .. 125,465 126,007 126,007 126,007
Sundry creditors . . 23,942 24,028 11,886 26,113
Service provision.. 3,253 6,219 1,700 3,000
Suspense account. . 26 12
Freehold, plant, etc. 20,665 37,192 33,301 32,692
Stocks . . . . 54,038 46,753 37,296 85,726
Debtors . . . . 88,738 59,654 66,118 76,812
•• •• 12,674 652 2,929 9,270
Deferred ’ assets.. 1,621 1,887 1,994 971
Suspense account.. 125 3,152
Subject to the credit standing of the
growing debtors, the position looks com-
tortable enough. Though outsiders were
leant upon for an extra £14,227 last year,
half of it was held in cash when the
books closed, the surplus of more or less
liquids (£95,695) improving £1238.
War-time prospects depend mainly on
the volume of defence contracts coming
to hand. The report doesn’t indicate
whether the “expansion” mentioned is
contemplated in the immediate or more
distant future, or what, if any, capital
outlay may be entailed. One difficulty
at the moment is the paucity of skilled
labor.
New Occidental (N.S.W.) now appears
in position to augment its copper output,
somewhat upset pending deep develop-
ment of New Cobar’s western ore-body
following the shortening of the lode
material and pinching of its copper con-
tent to 0.95 p.c. on and above No. 7.
Ore-treatment here in the past eight weeks
has lifted from 2100 to 3550 tons a
month, while haulage of Occidental gold
ore, on which surplus milling capacity
has been temporarily employed, has gone
back to its old level of 7900 tons or so.
Long-idle Chesney mine, whose big
western vein was worked to 925 ft. in the
heyday of Cobar, is also being rushed to
production for its estimated 3j p.c.
copper ore (with a little gold to help in
the matter of costs). Mainly in this direc-
tion, £ 16,000-odd has been expended in
the past three months.
But if Kruttschnitt and Blanchard were
asked, they would probably describe New
Occidental’s copper strings as minnows
compared with the triton at Mt. Isa (Q.).
There’s a clear million tons in view of 3
p.c. to 4 p.c. ore in the Black Star. It’s
kept Blanchard busy as a bluebottle, and
will be producing before many moons.
If expectations of development do not
gang agley,” it may challenge the sum-
mits of Lyell and Morgan before war has
ended.
* * * *
Black Jack, Charters Towers (N.Q.), is
struggling with depleted man-power just
when its lode is near maximum size. The
southern shoot has made a width of 10ft.
in the stopes around No. 4 level. It’s
certainly not all prill ore ; neither is there
much granite in it. Between Nos. 2 and
3 levels, by contrast, the reef is small
but full of mineral up to a width of 15in.
The run of mine stone is cleaning up
on the tables for about 15dwt. gold.
Values in the concentrates (10 p.c. of
weight) make the tally well over the
ounce. As it has no copper, it may go
along with Golden Plateau for the dura-
tion. The Duffer, at Kelsey Creek, one
of the biggest gold-producers in the
North, looks safe as a coppen nine, its
ore containing 3 p.c. or 4 p.c. of the red
metal.
♦ * * *
A lot of speculation has been wrung
out of the market for Wellington Allu-
vials’ 2s. shares. Up to 4s. Bd. last year,
they are now obtainable under par. Four
and a bit years’ digging has produced
only one 4d. div., though with £83,596 at
credit of p. and 1. the board may be con-
strained to loosen its purse-strings at
Friday’s meeting. There is £64,500 in
cash available for the purpose, of which
£30,772 arose last year from sale of the
co.’s Orange-Apsley transmission line to
the railways at neither visible gain nor
loss. After charging depreciation (£14,235)
at the previous term’s rate and earmark-
ing another £5863 net for renewals, etc.,
profit for the latest period slipped from
£43,599 to £15,525. “Exceptionally
heavy” digging conditions and shortage
of water —the Macquarie ceased to flow
in December —affected yardage (10 p.c.
lower at 2,808,000 c.y.), while recoveries
fell from I.BBgr. to 1.71 gr. Dredge turn-
over is now getting back to norm again,
®but the values to come out of the sluice-
boxes for the first 12 weeks of the new
term have been under Igr. How, if at all,
man-power diversion may affect things
the report doesn’t say.
* * * *
Potash from Lake Campion alunite
(W.A.), where early production of 5000
tons p.a. is mooted, is expected to render
the Commonwealth practically self-reliant
in the matter of that aid to agriculture.
The deposit is also being investigated as
a supplementary source of aluminium.
Alumina content of the Campion de-
posits is rather lower than that of good
bauxite, which Australia is deficient
in, but there is a wide scope for
selective mining. The technical problem
of conversion has been satisfactorily
overcome in America on similar-grade
alUmte * ores '
Rai * which nil A A I .
Rams which filled the dams have at
the same time put Bnseis Tin, sluicing at
Derby (Tas.), temporarily off the run of
rich virgin drift. July’s oxide yield was an
unprofitable 0.61 b. per cv comnared
with fln 1 u Vu •Ti
itn an average 1.61 b. for the expired
seven months of the year. Altogether,
t.o. output is some 70 tons behind the
figure at this stage of 1941, but its effects
on the working profit have all but been
absorbed by the better price the white
meta l now commands.
. BRIEF ANSWERS,
W.M. : Little further information is avail-
f ble ,tocaUy than that contained in the corpora-
tlon s own re P° rts > obtainable by your English
friend from its office, Finsbury House, Bloom-
field-street, London, E.C.2.


WINDSOR MAGAZINE
NOV.. 1906
3E
Write at once for Particulars of this marvellous
Instrument. Which Will play you the most perfect
dance music. No home should be Without one of
the neW Gramophones—the one Melba sings for.
Leaders in 1906! Leaders to-day!
And when peace conies 44 His Master’s Voice
will still be pre-eminent in the world of
home entertainment.
“HIS MASTER'S VOICE"
RADIO
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD. ( Inc . in England). HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
THAT
Isn't it
too much to ask?
To ask an individual to act as your Trustee or Executor in these days of stra
and uncertainty is, in most cases, to take an unfair advantage oHnendsWp. un y
those who are endeavouring to cope with the problems, wornes, and d ualities
of trusteeship in time of war can realise the exacting nature and
fairness to your friends and family, and in the interests of your estate a.
beneficiaries, it is suggested that you investigate the special service by
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited before regarding your Action.
Comoanv is a permanent institution under experienced and capable airecxi
S has the combSSl knowledge of finance, taxation, and investments which
no Sdividual executor could be expected to possess. » J
explanatory booklet, which gives full particulars of the Company s
DIRECTORS Jamas Burn. - ' J ° Wh
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
bridge street
PHONE: B 7901.
SYDNEY
Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
Business, Rollery, etc.
Post-mortem on 4 p.c.
Canberra has now described its 4 p.c.
profits proposal as “administratively im-
possible.” It was a preposterous idea
right from the start, mainly for the fol-
lowing reasons, all emphasised in this
paper within a week or two of the
Government’s announcement;
(1) Limitation of earnings of anyone
without regard to effort is unjustifiable
in equity and liable to cause great
damage to industrial morale and rate of
output.
(2) Ordinary taxation of personal
incomes and excess-profits tax and un-
distributed-profits tax of companies is
the fairest and most effective means of
(a) ensuring a fair distribution of the war
burden, and ( b ) providing the Govern-
ment with a maximum of war revenue.
(3) The elimination of the incentive of
reward —“profit” is sometimes the wrong
word —would be liable to encourage in-
flation of costs, and, consequently, prices,
rather than prevent these things. Over-
time rates of pay have been found neces-
sary to speed up work by unionists,
whereas company proprietors have in the
majority of cases had their incomes re-
duced since war began, and that is with-
out taking increased living costs into
consideration.
(4) The people who would suffer most
from the limitation of profits would be
the smaller folk whose income-tax rate,
though already on the heavy property
scale, is under in the £. Persons pay-
ing from 10s. to 18s. in the £ would find
their loss by the 4 p.c. provision substan-
tially offset by a reduced taxation rate.
On the other hand, an unmarried person
earning £2OO a year in 8 p.c. dividends
at present is liable for less than £lO in
taxes, but if the 4 p.c. provision reduced
his divs. to 5 p.c. he would be taxed, in
effect, £75, an increase of over 750 p.c.
(5) The discriminatory, inflexible and
utterly unjust nature of the 4 p.c. pro-
vision is again apparent when speculative
enterprises and well-established concerns
are contrasted. It is well known that
people generally have always been satis-
fied with a smaller income from stocks
considered to be secure than from new
concerns or older cos. interested in a
trade or business which fluctuates sensi-
tively according to seasonal or economic
conditions. To put all varieties on a
flat-rate profits footing would be very
harsh treatment for shareholders in
speculative but essential industries, such
as engineering and building.
(6) The problem of administering a
4 p.c. profits limit is altogether a mon-
strous one, and certain to break down
under the weight of detail, qualifications,
exceptions and anomalies that would
inevitably arise.
(7) The proposal in its entirety would
certainly damage the war effort and
create discontent and confusion. Its
entire basis seemed to be one of politics.
It has not been necessary at any time
for industries to plead self-interest in
their condemnation of the 4 p.c. profits
limit. The thing is a national danger.
The Bulletin foresees Australia forced
to introduce a genuine excess-profits tax,
as almost every other belligerent has
found it necessary to do, in spite of the
opposition of the bureaucrats. Up to the
present our war-time taxation has been
based on humbug and expediency, and
its incidence has been lopsided and
unfair.
Sometimes essential war work in Aus-
tralia cannot be carried out strictly to
specifications because of a shortage of
a brand or type of essential parts, though
adequate substitute material may be avail-
able. In one such case the manufacturer
pointed out to the authorities that to
tool up and produce certain specified
parts in Australia would involve a delay
of several months and multiply costs,
whereas effective substitutes could be
used immediately, with no increase in
costs. The officials consulted agreed at
once; use substitutes—it was the only
commonsense thing to do, they said. But
could a written authority be obtained?
Not on your life. No one would accept
responsibility, and in the fluid state of
the civil service today the manufacturer
didn’t feel disposed to depart one jot
from his contract unless he had permis-
sion in writing. He went higher and higher,
from one department to another. Higher-
up said Lower-down should put an end
to the preposterous situation at once by
giving the authority; Lower-down said
no, Higher-up would have to do it. And
that is just about where much essential
war work stands at present —slowed down
to the point of stagnation because of a
system where fear and uncertainty make
it inconvenient to accept responsibility
on any matter except signing the pay-
book. Initiative and enterprise are
strangled at birth, and frequently the
doing of the decent thing is discouraged.
* * * *
It is possible, not to say probable, that
as time goes on the Commonwealth will
be commandeering more and more per-
sonal property in the way of motor-cars
and similar things that are no longer
readily importable. It is essential that
the owners be adequately compensated.
Hitherto the Government’s practice of
undervaluing tents, etc., that it has con-
fiscated has been in the nature of a special
discriminatory tax because the owner
happened to have a £2O tent that was
useful to the war effort instead of, say,
a £2O wireless set that was not. It is
quite wrong that such a person should
be penalised. Far too little was paid to
tent-owners as a whole. It should not be
necessary for the owner of commandeered
property to kick up a fuss in order to get
a fair value for the thing taken from him.
Taxation spread over all, including the
man who sells to the Government, should
be the means by which the nation’s war-
time requirements are paid for.
* * * *
Mt. Isa, Queensland’s silver-lead show
that has never done any good for its
shareholders, may figure helpfully in
Australia’s war-time shortage of copper.
In the Black Star section a high-grade
copper lode was encountered by diamond-
drilling some time ago, and work of
exploiting it is in hand.
* * * *
Partly because of the war-time short-
age of tin, a “war-finish” galvanised-iron
sheet for roofing and tank-making has
been introduced in Australia. The simul-
taneous marketing of terne-coated (lead-
finish) roofing sheet, which is not suitable
for the catchment or storage of water,
has led to some confusion. “War-finish”
galvanised iron, although less tin is used
than pre-war, has the usual coating of
zinc, and is definitely suitable for water
catchment and storage. But owing to the
shortage of zinc the use of galvanised
corrugated sheets is not permitted where
water catchment is not a factor, and to
overcome the difficulty the terne-coated
sheet was manufactured. With lead and
tin instead of zinc in its coating, it is
suitable for general roofing and walling,
but must not be used where it may come
in contact with drinking water.
* * * •
A week before the Japanese made their
first treacherous attacks in the Pacific
sellers were offering Adelaide Steam
shares at 30s. 6d. Last week buyers were
tendering 30s. 9d., with no sellers appean-
ing. What other stock can show such j\
solid market history these days? All
that the buyer at 31s. gets immediately is
a yield of under 4 p.c., so that the market
support appears to be of a farsighted
nature. The co. has 3717 shareholders,
56 p.c. of whom are women. Except for
the Gulf trade, the co.’s activities at
present are mostly a matter of Govern-
ment charter.
* * * *
The faults in the Australian Govern-
ment departmental system have multi-
plied many times since war-time inflation
has taken place in the number of em-
ployees involved. There is plenty of evi-
dence that man-power is being squan-
dered in some directions, and the system
of paying a departmental head according
to the number of civil servants he con-
trols is an incentive to this. Recently in
Sydney a typist was telephoned by a busi-
ness college about three in the afternoon
and asked to see a departmental official
about a job. He stressed the urgency for
a quick appointment, and next day the
girl started. It all seemed to be high-
pressure salesmanship on the official’s
part; there was almost nothing for the
girl to do, and several others were in the
same state of suspended activity. A part
of the Customs, the Division of Im-
port Procurement, has an overloaded
payroll, and this was so even before
additions to the staff were made
from the regiment of unfortunates
who came to this country about the
time Singapore fell. The Department
of the Interior is another section of “the
service” that could provide a body
of surplus man-power if the Government
really wants it. A Sydney man received
a letter from a friend in Melbourne the
other day saying; “Although not on a
full pension, I am semi-retired. You will
gather from this that I am still working
for the same old department.” Harassed
men in war and associated industries,
as well as in the more active Government
offices, short of man-power and threatened
with the loss of more, feel beaten and
disgusted when they find they cannot get
decisions or satisfaction from Govern-
«ient departments in spite of the plethora
of staff. The whole question of
man-power should be kept to a strictly
non-political basis. It is of enormous
importance. Just because it happens to
be in Australia and hasn’t to be im-
ported from overseas doesn’t lessen its
value. Man-power and materials repre-
sent the essence of our war-production
effort. And we are becoming dependent
on ourselves more every day.
* * * *
Last week Professor Copland, the
Prices Commissioner, mentioned “com-
pensation to producers and traders whose
industries are restricted or closed down.”
He added:
I have already fixed prices to enable
traders to convert losses, or low profits,
into reasonable profits. In the days to
come, if we are to make a robust and
noble contribution to the war, we will be
seeking ways of guaranteeing many indus-
tries reasonable profit-earning capacity dur-
ing the long winter of restriction, in the
interests of the war effort.
During the first two years of war, the
prices man said, Australia enjoyed an
economic honeymoon as a result of accel-
erated income. Now we were entering
a “period of austerity,” and ‘no one
can offer any comfort to people who
wish to retain their old standards.’
Which is all very much to the point.
The trouble is that We haven’t yet evolved
the best methods of achieving the greatest
war effort without really uncalled-for
sacrifices. But improvement can be ex-
pected when the issue becomes clearer
It is less than eight months since Japan’s
attack changed the Commonwealth s
position in the war overnight.
* * * *
Woolworths, the parent chain-store co.
in Sydney, says 98 p.c. of its shareholders
own under 8000 ss. shares, and that of
these there are 5168 owning an average
of 509 ord. shares. Average div. is under
£l6 a year.
* * * *
In other circumstances the uniform in-
come-tax confirmation would have been
a tonic to share prices. As it was, there
was a small decline in the market gener-
ally, which can be attributed to the un-
certainty of conditions as a whole. The
probability of the dropping of the
4 p.c. profits limit didn’t bring much
stimulation of interest. Possibly the
imminence of the Budget cast doubts on
the future of market values. But so far
as economic and political conditions
within Australia are concerned, the out-
look is a great deal more stable. Queens-
land and N. S. Wales stocks in particular
should benefit from one income tax m
comparison with concerns in other States.
* * * *
British old-age pensions are to be
raised 2s. 6d. a week, plus other allow-
ances. At present men get 10s. a week
for themselves at 65 and for their wives
at 60. Certain supplementary allowances
are obtainable upon proving need.


BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE . . .
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
CITE MIST, sis George Street, Sydney,
é
"pIE managing director and acting chairman of
Prestige Ltd. (Mr. 0. 0. Foletta), who presided
at the annual meeting on July 22 in the absence
through ill-health of the chairman (Mr. G. Peacock),
quoted facts to illustrate this.
Speaking of the erroneous view that is in the minds
of a large section of the public regarding high nomi-
nal dividends, Mr. Foletta said: There is in the
minds of many people a complete ignorance of the
term “nominal dividend.’’ Tq illustrate our own com-
pany, Prestige Limited —this year your directors
propose a dividend of 1/ per 10/- ordinary share,
a nominal dividend of 10 p.c. To be precise, the true
position of the dividend received by Prestige original
shareholders is as under; —
The original shareholders paid 20/- per share.
Through the tribulations of the pioneering stage of
a new industry they not only went without dividends,
but lost half their capital, the original capital being
reduced from 20/- to 10/- per share. Therefore, the
pioneer shareholders, after going without dividends
for a considerable period, now only receive 5 p.c. on
their original capital.
Subsequent purchasers of new ordinary shares paid
a 5/- premium, or a total of 15/- per 10/- share, so
that the nominal dividend of 10 p.c. represents to
these people only 63 p.c. of their original investment ;
but over a period of approximately 20 years reserves
have gradually increased until today the Prestige
nominal dividend of 10 p.c. represents less than 4 p.c.
of the ordinary shareholders’ funds.
The nominal or declared rate of ordinary dividends
today is seldom in any company relative to the capi-
tal employed. In Prestige Limited, the declared 10
p.c. dividend is less than 4 p.c. of the ordinary share-
holders’ funds employed to produce that dividend.
this brings me to another vexed question—the
Government proposal to limit profits to 4 p.c. Should
this legislation be allowed to pass, it is extremely
doubtful whether your company can continue to pay
4 p.c on shareholders’ funds ; for whilst on the sur-
tace it would appear that it could do so, the amount
01 depreciation allowed by the income tax authori-
ties is anything but adequate in a fashion trade such
as
as ours.
To keep plant modern is the only method of con-
tmumg sueee&sfully a fashion manufacturing trade :
and whilst existing; allowable depreciation may cover
ordinary wear and tear on machinery, it certainly
UOes not; Crvvpr J
PLEA FOR FAIR PLAY.
HARSH as this legislation strikes us, from reasons
as outlined above, shareholders would not complain
if its incidence were equitable and they had an
assurance that it was strictly a necessitous war-time
measure definitely imposed only for the duration. Un-
fortunately it is the most inequitable form of com-
pany taxation ever conceived by a Government, and
prompts the belief that its imposition has been de-
cided more to give effect to socialistic desires than
solely for the prosecution of the war.
When drastic and heavy taxation, almost to the
elimination of income, was imposed on what are called
the “moneyed-class” there was certainly, as is natural,
some criticism and complaint.' But, really, even
within that class, 1 ask —did the prestige of the Gov-
ernment which imposed that taxation suffer ? 1 say
No! because, generally speaking, that class realised
the grave dangers which face Australia, and, though
hit, they felt proud to be able to play their
part in this gigantic struggle for freedom.
With the ever—increasing tenor of the struggle and
the huge drain on Australia’s financial resources, we
have now reached a stage at which a far greater pro-
portion of our population must bear the direct sacri-
fices. It would be wrong to say that they are not iust
as prepared and willing as those who have already
so greatly contributed.
It would be equally wrong to say that the imposi-
tion of higher taxes or compulsory savings on lower
incomes would not be met with severe growls and
criticism ; nevertheless, when this criticism had sub-
sided, there would be a pride and realisation by all
classes chat they had been called upon to make real
sacrifices and the prestige of the Government that
called for this sacrifice would be enhanced.
The Government knows Australia cannot allow Aus-
tralians even their pre-war standard of living, still
less the level of February, 1942, if Australia is going
I * s rightful part in this gigantic struggle,
therefore, why let it “beat about the bush” by
scraping a little bit here and a little bit there, whilst
at the same time, by subterfuge and cajolery, trying
to hide from the great mass of people the necessity
for the sacrifice it knows the masses must make.
CAJOLERY WRONG.
This would obviate the present expensive methods
of imploring people to put their surplus earnings into
war loans. These methods are not the methods of
equity and should not be tolerated in a democracy,
“f i®,. 0011 '™ 0 " knowledge, it is this lack of equity
that discourages the public in whole-hearted response.
Australians are a sport-loving people with a ereat
sense of British fair play. Let sacrificed be equitable
and the Australian public will respond to a man.
Neither companies nor shareholders are opposed to
taxation to the limit of economical endurance in these
times of national stress. They are opposed, however,
if ! h li meqUlty /’ f , the foreshadowed legislation, which
is surely one of the most inequitable taxes ever put
forward by any democratic Government.
To the wealthy shareholder, it means little, for his
dividends from companies are already taxed up to
18/- in the £l. Does the public realise that, from
every £lOO of dividend received by such a share-
holder, he is only left by the Government approxi-
mately £10? The balance is his contribution to the
war effort, so that if the Government by the imposi-
tion of the 4 p.c. profits tax finally reduces that £lOO
dividend to £5O he is only the loser of about £5.
SMALL HOLDERS.
Now tako the case of the far more numerous small
shareholder. Out of his primary dividend of £lOO
the Government would be taking perhaps somewhere
in the vicinity of £lO, leaving him £9O; but bv
the imposition of the 4 p.c. profit limit and a likely
reduction thereby of his dividend to £5O, the Gov-
ernment is virtually taking from such a shareholder
the sum of £45.
As the above illustration will
show, the imposition of this tax does
not further very seriously affect the
wealthy, but is directly levelled at
the best section of our community;
those frugal working and saving
people who, striving for security in
their old age, have invested the
results of their life’s hard work in
public companies.
I could criticise the inequity of this legislation from
a dozen different standpoints, such as devaluation of
capital, its effect on the incentive towards efficiency
and its detrimental effect on the progress of industry.
But to me the unequal and unjust penalising of
thousands of small investors is in itself more than
enough to condemn it. Is it the cunning artifice of
a minority group of legislators to cripple industry,
and all the best that goes to make up industry, as
the first step towards socialisation ?
BACKDOOR PLAN.
If the Government wants a socialistic State, let it
go before the electors and get the country’s answer.
A straightforward and direct appeal will not bring
socialism. I am sure that the majority of the present
Government wants neither communism nor socialism,
but 1 sometimes feel equally sure that the type of
much of our present legislation is directed by an
astute minority who hope thereby to ruin our eco-
nomy, and so pave the way to a similar state of
unority dictatorship to that against which democracy
is at present fighting.
kolotta said that, following pre—determined
policy. Prestige Limited had now been transformed
Irom a company whose business heretofore was almost
solely connected with the manufacture of clothing
ft n l. ad ° rnm f, ts for womenfolk *0 one in which those
a '® swond place to the manufacture of
Forces a, < many co-related articles for the Defence
ê
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER—34th April, ’43 : “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER—33mI May, ’43: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year s Inspection.”
SOLDIER—I4th May, ’43; “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK—7th April, ’43: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency 1 have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER—I7th May, ’43: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pclrnan principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’43:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE—XBth May, ’43: “I took the
I elman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly—wise decision on my
part....l have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years.... l have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’43: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
a pplicd for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development, ,,
SOLDIER— I St May, '43: “I undertool
the I elman Course to overcome a bac
memory, and I am making good progress
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code
and I made astonishing progress. To-dai
there are only two letters of which I am noi
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are In London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction
for over 34 years.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
Speed and Accruacy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In conse-
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it as required. We learn
to trust our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and
woman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The Exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly
ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when callled upon, contribute its share in making a
good*performance of anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 44 000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, cost free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
~, PI? 18 ® send me ’ Post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.
Name
Address
151
Female labor must now be recruited
through the Man-power Office in much
the same way as with men. Women over
45, women employed for not more than
14 days and voluntary workers, and
nurses and midwives are exempt from the
provisions.
* * * *
The matter of women’s pay in com-
parison with men’s has come into
prominence now that so many women
are employed and are to be employed
in taking the place of males in the ser-
vices. The Women’s Employment Board
has delivered its report on the question,
and, though it considers that women
generally are not as productive workers
as men, in some cases they are more effi-
cient and skilful. But absenteeism among
women is far greater than among men,
and this has a serious effect on mass-
production methods. Where women
take the day off to go shopping the
flow through the various processes of
manufacture may be broken, and the
whole production line held up. The board
decided that women war workers should
receive 90 p.c. of the rates of pay pre-
viously received by males, with a pro-
bationary period of two weeks at 60 p.c.
of the male rate. The judgment was
retrospective to March 2. If a 90 p.c.
female wage rate becomes general
throughout the Commonwealth there is
bound to be controversy on the matter.
A higher wage base for women intro-
duced now would come at a very bad
time. The usual argument for equal
pay for men and women is founded on
the theory that both sexes would auto-
matically find their place in the jobs best
suited to them, and that men would not
be kept out of work for which they are
essentially suited for no other reason than
that women were cheaper to employ.
Considerable social issues are involved,
and during the depression the problem
was debated at length. But at the present
time there is a definite scarcity of all
kinds of labor, and, unless women do
prove themselves to be within 10 p.c. of
the working capacity of men, then the
90 p.c. wage rate will do little more than
inflate the cost of our war effort unneces-
sarily, *
Women employed by Australian Paper
Manufacturers are to receive 85 p.c. of
the male rate for similar work, except
that those in the waste-paper section will
be paid 100 p.c. There is to be a pro-
bationary period of eight weeks. The
Melbourne Towel Supply Co. must pay
its female staff 80 p.c. of the male rate
during a probationary period of one
month, and thereafter 100 p.c.
♦ * ♦ ♦
Munitions Minister Makin has said
that arrangements have been made for
the Women’s Employment Board to con-
sider giving women pay equal to men’s.
One large N. S. Wales war factory was
paying full male wages to women. The
work they did justified the payment. A
claim for equal pay for the sexes in all
war industries would probably be sub-
mitted within a few months.
♦ * * *
Opposition-Leader Fadden has been
criticising the manner in which industry
is being rationalised as a war measure.
He said that the policy of Minister Ded-
man was a blatant one of socialisation.
The department was being administered
by theorists without practical knowledge,
and the Minister himself was of the
‘‘doctrinaire type,” totally inexperienced
in industry. There was a complete
absence of definite policy, and the depart-
ment, to escape criticism, had adopted
back-door methods in dealing with many
industries, using “infiltration tactics.”
“Slowly but surely controls are being
introduced into industries in order to
pave the way for the adoption of the
socialistic plan so strongly favored by
certain Ministers.” Mr. Fadden appealed
to the Prime Minister to “initiate an im-
mediate and searching review of the work
of the Department of War Organisation
of Industry. The Opposition will use
all its power to resist attempts by a min-
ority Cabinet group to use the necessi-
ties of war in an endeavor to implement
a policy of socialisation.” To which may
be added, in the interests of the war
effort, more power to Artie!


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: Gist of communiques
issued from General MacArthur’s H.Q.:
July 28: Two night attacks on Koepang aero-
drome and barracks; fires started. Three to
five ’planes raided Darwin after dark; no
casualties or .damage. A.-a. fire drove off a
flying boat which jettisoned bombs at Towns-
ville. Dive-bombers blew up an ammunition
dump at Gona, Papuan north coast.
July 29: Bombers scored hits on Koepang
aerodrome; enemy fighters failed to intercept
the raiders. A single flying boat approaching
Townsville was intercepted by fighters and hit
repeatedly; jettisoned its bombs into the sea and
when last seen was losing height—believed de-
stroyed. A single enemy ’plane dropped bombs
near Moresby after dark; no damage. Three
attacks at Gona scored numerous hits on Jap
installations. Allied patrols drove back the
enemy from advanced positions near Kokoda,
60-odd miles from Buna.
July 30: Raids by two small enemy forma-
tions during early morning on Darwin; no
casualties' and only minor damage. Three sepa-
rate flights, each of three heavy bombers, made
light, ineffective raids on Moresby; ground
batteries attacked the enemy. No damage or
casualties. Direct hit scored on enemy destroyer
off Gona —warship last seen smoking and head-
ing for shore. Night raid on enemy ’planes and
positions; one enemy fighter shot down. Skir-
mishing in Kokoda area.
July 31: Nine enemy raiders attacked Port
Hedland (W.A.) from a great height; slight
damage, one casualty. At Darwin, light early-
morning raid; no damage or casualties. In
the afternoon 27 bombers, escorted by 22
fighters, came over Darwin; they were brilliantly
intercepted by fighters, their formations broken
up and two bombers and seven fighters shot
down for the loss of one Allied ’plane. Attack
on Jap transport—a medium-size cargo ship,
with escort, 100 miles off n.-e. coast of New
Guinea. Fire on ship visible for 30 miles; de-
stroyer escort machine-gunned into silence from
low altitude. Reconnaissance unit shot down
one enemy fighter and probably a second one.
From all operations in New Guinea three Allied
’planes missing. Light and ineffective night
raid on Moresby by three bombers; enemy
driven off by a.-a. fire before interceptors could
take the air. No ground combat in Gona-
Buna-Kokoda area.
August J: Allied air unit attacked and prob-
ably hit an enemy cruiser in the 500-mile stretch
of sea between Ambon and Arnhem Land.
Bombers heavily hit enemy installations at Gona
village; two large fires started. Situation at
Kokoda “static.” Bombers heavily attacked
enemy installations near Kukum, Guadalcanal,
in the Solomons, hitting a supply dump and a
large ship offshore. On the Australian main-
land a single bomber at night jettisoned a bomb
about nine miles from Mossman —250 miles up
the coast from Townsville —with minor damage
and one casualty, the child of an Italian settler
injured.
August 2: Kai (Ewab) islands in the Ara-
fura Sea, 390 miles from Cape Don on the
Arnhem coast, raided by Allied aircraft for the
first time; wharf and harbor installations
bombed. A Jap cruiser—possibly the one men-
tioned the previous day—bombed in Banda Sea.
Gona bombed and strafed; ground situation at
Kokoda unchanged; air fighters attacked enemy
positions. Another raid on dumps and instal-
lations on Guadalcanal. Single Jap ’planes
raided Moresby and southern part of Horn
Island (Torres Strait).
Though the defeat of the afternoon
raid on Darwin was inspiriting, the sum
total of the news was not as encourag-
ing as it might be. Despite the Coral Sea
battle, it was found impossible to stop
the enemy landing a force within 120
miles of Moresby at a harbor known for
its excellence, and with 60 miles of flat
back country which is suitable for
turning into aerodrome accommodation
for hundreds of ’planes. No attempt had
been made to occupy this area with an
Australian or Allied force —it was wide
open for the invader. When he landed
there was only one Allied bomber present,
and it was not till next morning, when
the landing was well advanced, that any-
thing serious was done about it. The
nearest Allied ground force consisted of
patrols based on Kokoda, 60 miles away.
Nor has the enemy been prevented from
establishing “air installations” in Guada-
canal, in the Solomons.
Koepang, Ambon and other enemy
ant-nests have been bombed again and
again. But at the end of eight months
of war the enemy is still able to assemble
large forces of heavy bombers in the
areas. Allied formations have repeat-
edly to make long-distance raids to reach
major objectives, meeting opposition only
on arrival.
There is ground for muzzling cheery
optimists at Canberra, but not for criti-
cism of the Allied Command or its
strategy. It might be following any one
of half a dozen deliberate courses, all
sound and all ultimately likely to produce
disaster for the enemy. At the same time
the grim position needs to be ever in all
Australian minds that the enemy so far
has not been prevented from conducting
any operation which he seems bent on
carrying out, save in the cases of the
Coral Sea and Midway battles.
He has come closer in Papua ; has now
Kokoda aerodrome, only 60 miles from
Moresby ; has consolidated and extended
his position in the Solomons. In all these
areas stopping him, especially with air
bombardment, is not easy. He has plenty
of cover in the bush, can command native
labor by force, and can spread out his
dumps and installations so that they can
be destroyed only piecemeal and at the
cost of heavy expenditure of petrol and
explosives.
Once his force sets foot on shore, it
can be spread out in tiny sections, .well
equipped. No large body of troops can
be caught for annihilation. And if he
should land in the much vaster and
emptier Australian far north his effort
or efforts will have to be nipped in the
bud with great prompitude.
One of the most serious recent pene-
trations, apart from that at Gona, is into
Guadalcanal. In each case the landing
has been ajmed at securing positions for
large-scale aerodromes. The enemy
apparently is determined to menace the
whole of the seas and coasts of the Anzac
area. The New Hebrides, 400 miles
away, are now in peril. Next would
come New Caledonia, 700 miles away,
capture of which would bring the
southern Queensland coast within reach
of nuisance raids. But New Caledonia
is reported to be powerfully defended.
There is far too great a tendency to
overrate enemy difficulties. Moresby is
being held up in a film sponsored by the
Information Department as “the Tobruk
of the Pacific.” Though the quality and
mettle of the defenders of Moresby are
beyond question, this description is ridi-
culous.
The supply route by which Kokoda
is reached from Moresby is labelled as
“one of the most difficult supply routes
in the world.” It is very difficult; but
even in its present condition it can be
crossed at the rate of 10 miles a day by
agile men on foot. Much country to
the north and south of it in the ranges
is penetrable by individual groups of
rovers, white or brown. And there is
no reason to believe an opinion, as re-
layed from U.S. by the “S. M. Herald,”
that Japanese moves in New Guinea are
“of secondary importance and designed
to divert attention from Japan’s real
aim, which is to attack Siberia soon.”
New Guinea is by no means secondary.
If the’ enemy were flung ignominiously
out of it, the moral effect of the victory
would resound throughout the whole of
the East. The effect on India alone
would be worth 20 divisions of British
troops; the effect on any other move
which the enemy may have in mind on
the Asian continent more than salutary.
He cannot attack Siberia without the
strongest kind of naval and air backing.
The sudden knowledge that he has an
enemy in the south capable of beating
back his outposts would compel him at
once to strengthen his defences in the
Caroline, Marshall and Marianne Islands.
He would have to look to the Philip-
pines. He would have to watch lest all
the arms of his South Sea octopus were
not snipped off. He would, in fact, be on
the defensive, with his command of his
own seas menaced, and Asiatic peoples
would know it and be heartened accord-
ingly. _ ,
The fighting in New Guinea, though
more widespread and with the air full
of reconnaissances, was in itself negli-
gible. The patrol actions in the
Kokoda area were of such a nature as
to make it clear that the enemy had
come well prepared. His attack on the
patrol was preceded by heavy mortar
bombardment. The Allied defenders
were forced at first to withdraw, though
they seem to have regained ground.
Their gallant commander, Lieut.-Col.
W. T. Owen, a Victorian, was mortally
wounded. He was awarded by General
MacArthur the first U.S. decoration to
come the way of an Australian soldier
in the Anzac area fighting.
The subsequent lull did not mean that
the enemy found himself defeated. It
is unlikely that he would attempt the
passage of the Owen Stanley Range with-
out first perfecting a base organisation
in the northern foothills and equipping
the Kokoda ’drome on a large scale to
blast Allied transport on the Moresby
side. But he will attempt it, possibly in
conjunction with an advance to the gold-
fields from Lae and Salamaua.
The raid at Port Hedland (W.A.) was
the first in the north-west since March.
Nine bombers arrived about 7.15 a.m.
and dropped 30 bombs, some as heavy as
5001 b daisy-cutters and
h.e. Private J. Adams, 20, was killed by
a bomb splinter —the only casualty.
Darwin’s attack on Thursday was the
first daylight sally against the battered
northern capital for six weeks. It fol-
lowed five nights of dribbling attacks —
eight raids by two and three bombers
each. The 27 raiders, with their escort
of 22 “O” fighters, came over very high
—26,000 to 27,000 feet, an altitude acces-
sible but difficult for P4O interceptors.
The bombers arrayed in a straight line
of threes in “V” formation. The sky was
cloudless. Roadworkers and troops re-
tired to slit trenches, to which bombs in
one or two cases came so close as to
cover inmates with dust. The War
Damage Commission now operating in
Darwin had a grandstand view of how
war damage is produced.
Dogfights developed so soon as the
Kittyhawks could reach their targets.
One flight of four got four out of eight
“O” fighters. The bag of two bombers
and seven fighters in half an hour was
cheering and a great tribute to the quality
of Allied airmen.
The height at which the bombers
attacked does not prevent their being for-
midable when they have a specific target.
Anybody who doubts their accuracy is
referred to the moving pictures now
showing of how the little B.P. steamer
Macdhui was smothered in bombs from
tight, high-flying formations of bombers
off Moresby.
In the North Pacific
In China, Japanese forces made new
landings on the coast 30 miles south of
the much-fought-for treaty port of Wen-
chow, and began to drive inland. The
fighting otherwise was confused.
The U.S. Air Force was active in
southern China. It shot doxm nine “O”
fighters out of 29 over Henyang aero-
drome without damage to its own forma-
tions. Its bombers attacked the naval
dockyards at Hong Kong, badly damaged
ships in the harbor and raked over the
main aerodrome at Kai-Tak, to the east
of Kowloon on the mainland.
In the Aleutians, the position seems to
be that Japanese ships have been
shuttling backwards and forwards to
islands within sight of the Siberian coast,
taking punishment but without spoiling
the enemy’s plan. Last week one
authority placed the number of Japanese
troops on the Aleutians at 10,000. Reports
of a new landing on the seal grounds of
the Pribilov Islands were denied.
On Ruin Ridge.
“Ek Dum”: On July 26 (B. 29/7/’42)
it looked as if Rommel had made up his
mind to try another fall with the A.I.F.
on the northern sector of El Alamein.
The Australians decided to try it first.
They chose for their main objective Ruin
Ridge, 2j miles from the positions cap-
tured on the previous Thursday and Si-
miles south of the main coastal road,
seven miles from the sea.
As a striking spearhead, they chose the
seasoned Westralians, whom Berlin de-
scribes as “big, grim, lantern-jawed,
savage-eyed farmers and shepherds.”
The Westralians went over the top in
the moonlight just after midnight struck
on the night of Sunday, July 26. They
held Ruin Ridge from 2 a.m. all through
the dawn hours, enduring stinging casual-
ties. With daylight they sent back
samples from the German 90th Light
Armored Division. Other A.1.F., British
and S. African troops in the northern
septor also had moved forward.
By this time Rommel’s artillery was
awake and in full blast, and his tanks
were rallying.
After eight hours in their new posts,
the Westralians sent back a message:
Our numbers are greatly reduced. We
are in danger of being overrun.
H.Q. replied promptly: “Hang on. The
tanks are coming.” The Westralians held
on, while British tanks helped to wrestle
with an ever-growing swarm of enemy
armor and a.-t. artillery, which plastered
not only Ruin Ridge but round the A.l.F.’s
commanding brigadier at a frontal post.
The whole landscape became hung with
a solid dust cloud, lit with savage gun
flashes. The fighters joined in presently
and carried on their own war with
Rommel’s Messerschmitts overhead. The
Westralians were still on Ruin Ridge.
The British-Australian Waterloo was a
strong enemy Panzer force. Every
British, S. African and Australian gun
was mustered to cover a retirement.
Maorilanders and Tommies sallied out
with their usual comradely gameness,
moving singly along a path cleared by
S. African engineers through a minefield
to distract the enemy artillery.
Actually, no ground was lost. On
July 29 the A.I.F. held the whole of its
previous week’s gains, but the attack on
Ruin Ridge had been tragic for the West-
ralians. Not till the week-end did it come
out that the whole of a gallant West-
ralian battalion which had occupied it
was either dead, wounded or in enemy
hands.
On Monday at sundown the Germans
reported that earlier in the afternoon two
Australian m.-g. posts had been still hold-
ing out. They claimed that among the
Westralians 17 officers and 320 men had
been captured or were casualties, but
admitted the seriousness of their own
losses. On Tuesday morning an Australian
officer who had lain through the night
adjacent to the W.A. positions, and who
groped his way home in the dawn fog,
said that he thought he heard Bren fire
early that morning, but it may have come
from anywhere. Patrols searching for
Australian wounded found none.
The facts, according to the official
A.I.F. war correspondent, seemed to be
that the enemy expected the attack on
Ruin Ridge, but with stronger tank sup-
port. He was, therefore, in wait with
bristling a.-t. posts and the Kiel and
Briehl picked fighting groups and Panzer
support.
The Westralians, according to a
rescued wounded participant, made a
savage charge, their battalion commander
in front with fixed bayonet yelling “Come
on, you so-and-sos! My men will deal
with you.” But the enemy’s tank strength
and defence seem to have been under-
estimated. British tanks moved in on
the Westralians’ urgent call, but too late.
The last message received from the West-
ralians was that they intended to hold
on, although the enemy’s tank strength
seemed to have overwhelmed them.
The Germans claimed more than 1000
prisoners, “mostly Australians,” with 60
tanks destroyed and nine ’planes shot
down. But it was admitted by the enemy
that he himself had suffered “unavoid-
able Ipsses.”
On Tuesday, July 28, there had been no
incident on the Australian front save the
capture of 17 lost German and Italian
minelayers, bushed in the dark in front
of their positions. Patrols found the
enemy digging in and laying down mine-
fields slightly in advance of the position
which the Westralians had assaulted.
And this was symptomatic of what was
happening all along the whole of Rom-
mel’s line. In some cases, he was laying
captured British mines.
For 30 miles southward from the sea,
the enemy was creating a defensive front
of mine-and-anti-tank-gun salients, inter-
rupted somewhat in the central sector by
storms of artillery fire.
A.I.F. cavalry patrols, proud in the
new light tanks which are replacing their
Bren carriers, frequently probed the
front, as did the holders of the southern
lines, but the main activity has been in
the air, though even air operations have
been hampered day after day by a series
of gusty duststorms. Enemy raiders
were over Cairo on July 30, but there
was only one fatal casualty and little
damage to property. Suez also had alerts.
In the week-end there were heavy air
attacks all along Rommel s communica-
tion lines.
The War in the Air.
•‘Ek Dum”; To Air Marshal Arthur
Harris, of the British Bomber Command,
belongs the credit for one of the S 1 " 1 ? 1 '
mest radio broadcasts of the war. It the
action which follows is as grim, Germany
will be sorry.
Just as four of Uncle Sam’s senior
operative air commanders arrived m
Britain, Air Marshal Harris uttered a
warning that Allied aircraft now intended
to “scourge Germany from end to end.
All that has happened so far will seem
very little compared with what will happen
- when our production of bombers comes to
its flood. Soon we will come eveiy day,
every night, rain, blow or snow—we and
the Americans. This is not revenge, thougn
we do not forget Warsaw, Belgrade, Rotter-
dam, London, Plymouth, Coventry. We
are bombing Germany city by city, eyei
more terribly, to make it impossible tor
you to go on with the war. You haven l
a chance.
There followed some of the heaviest
raids so far flung against German cities.
Fewer bombers were used than at
Cologne and Essen, but from the raiding
fleets much of the light material had
been weeded out. Lancasters, Stn lings,
Manchesters, Halifaxes, with their huge
wingspreads, high speeds, powerful load


Missing Friends.
MISSING.—LIEUT. S. A. HALL, R.A., in
Malaya from fall of Singapore. Any informa-
tion would be gratefully received by his mother,
MRS. M. T. HALL, Seamen’s Lodge, Min-
stead, New Forest, England.
capacity and firepower and heavy protec-
tion, are becoming the staple ingredients
of the Air Ministry’s demolition parties.
Hamburg had on Monday week its
second night of hell in three days. It
was produced by between 500 and 600
machine.s, which sprinkled the industrial
sections of the city and the port with
175,000 lire bombs of the new phosphorus
type and 700 tons of h.e. It was one of
the biggest fire raids of the war.
Hamburg is intensively defended.
Searchlights patterned the whole sky as
the raiders came in in weather not nearly
so good as that on the previous Sunday’s
clear evening. It was clear enough to
see the ground, with a moderate moon-
light shaded by some cloud.
The big Stirlings and versatile Welling-
tons dived in low among shoals of fleet-
ing tracer bullets, decanted their cargoes
in a few minutes and climbed steeply
out of flak reach. The raid was over in
35 minutes. The homing crews saw fewer
searchlights as they looked back. Ham-
burg was enveloped in a vast mushroom
of flame-shot black smoke growing out
of an eerie glow at ground level.
Berlin spoke with something like awe
of the new British fire bombs.
On Wednesday Saarbriicken, in the
Saar valley, was the main target. It is a
horrible enclosed trap in which to be
caught by fire or high explosive, and
many died there. The people of the
Saar must have longed for the peaceful
days when Australia’s Ronald Knox was
its mild-mannered Fiihrer. Many build-
ings, including the principal theatre in the
heart of the town, were destroyed. On
Friday Diisseldorf, a few miles north of
Cologne and the first city raided by the
British in the last war, was turned into
a sea of fire. Australians and Maori-
landers shared in the raid.
The two raids on Hamburg cost the
R.A.F. 61 aircraft. Substantial, but
within the regular safety margin. At
Saarbriicken nine were lost; at Diissel-
dorf 30 bombers and a fighter. Germany
was raided again in daylight, and another
heavy raid was made on the Calais-
Boulogne-Gris Nez region in France.
The North Sea coast and France gener-
ally suffered the normal fighter and
fighter-bomber sweeps, interspersed with
dogfights. There were fierce dogfights,
especially over Biscay, for the control of
the air over U-boat and steamer routes.
During one of these a Short Sunderland,
of the Australian squadron, commanded
by Flight-Lieut. R. E. Marks, of Nor-
wood (S.A.), shot down an Me 109.
German aircraft have begun to appear
in greater, but not great, numbers over
Britain. On July 29 from 50 to 70
roamed the Midlands and eastern coun-
ties in small groups, and caused casual-
ties and damage. They left seven
wrecked machines behind. Berlin claimed
that raiders had attacked an armament
plant near London, a ball-bearing plant
at Luton in Bedfordshire), where the
straw hats used to come from when there
were straw hats, and a motor works at
Lincoln. There were further small but
savage raids on the north-east at the
week-end. Berlin said Hull suffered.
The new defences have earned great
apparent respect in Berlin, and much Ger-
man objurgation is levelled at the new
a.-a. shells, which one visiting operator
described as “a terrible kind of aerial
shrapnel which goes on exploding as it
falls.”
On July 30, the new Focke-Wulf 190
fighters tried their strength again in foice
against Spitfires during an escorted British
raid. Hurricanes, carrying bombs, fought
their way through to their objectives
against a cloud of the F.Ws., and had
enough ammunition left to attack enemy
ports and gun positions on the way
home, while the Spitfires fought off the
Focke Wulfs and shot down five in a
single engagement. One R.A.F. squad-
ron bagged four. The relative losses in
the day’s fighting over France were nine
F.Ws. and 13 British ’planes, which was
not an unfavorable ratio on a bombing
mission.
The same day Birmingham was raided
by 50 German machines, but the
raid was light by R.A.F. standards.
Explosives and incendiary bombs were
dropped on seven other Midland towns
and some fires and casualties were re-
ported. Nine raiders were shot down.
In the Channel, Hurricanes left one
tanker sinking, another on fire.
During July the Axis, excluding Japan,
lost 424 aircraft, the R.A.F. 432. In the
Middle East Axis losses were 307, of
which Malta destroyed 149.
Russia's Red July.
Ek Dum”: Russia is now in a mili-
tary situation so bad that a great effort
is called for—a supreme exhibition of
those powers of resistance which served
the nation so well in the past. It has
been called for by Stalin, and the Rus-
sian soldier is responding with dogged
fidelity.
From Kharkov, before which the first
drives of the 1942 German advances were
made on June 24, to Kalach, 40 miles
from Stalingrad, where the enemy on July
28 apparently had crossed the Don in the
face of cliff fortifications, is 340 miles
airline; from Kursk, where the present
battle started, to Kalach is 365 miles.
It is 80 miles more to the furthest point
of penetration across the southern Don
on August I—Tikhoretsh, on the Novo-
rossisk-Stalingrad railway. The Stalingrad-
Novorossisk lines were afterwards cut.
There had been in a month 16 separate
German major operations, each one dove-
tailing into the last and all completed
without one halt, in the great fanning-
out of armies from the Kursk-Kharkov
front.
By July 30 the whole of the Don basin
west of the river had been absorbed —
apparently by five separate drives.
The London “Times,” whose Stock-
holm and Moscow correspondents have
done as much as anybody to persuade
the world that Hitler was beaten and
bled white in Russia, now agreed that
the cutting of Volga communications
seemed probable, and that if not pre-
vented it would deprive Russia of nine-
tenths of its oil supply, cripple the Red
Army’s striking power and render its
recovery of the initiative from the enemy
impossible.
The facility and speed with which the
enemy crossed the southern Don in three
or four places where the stream was
from one and a half to two miles wide,
and the rate at which he subsequently
drove on for 80 to 90 miles in two or
three days, conveyed an impression of
Russian inferiority in numbers and equip-
ment —generalship may be left out of the
argument till a decision is reached —
along the whole 300-miie front from
Kalach to Rostov.
Study of the various drives produced
an impression of insufficiently-reinforced
Red Armies, compelled to race continu-
ously to the rear in independent pockets
to escape encirclement.
Even the Russians’ own version did not
lead to the conviction that their resis-
tance was in any way effective.
South of the Don
Indeed Moscow references to fighting
in the Bataisk area, 10 miles south of
Rostov, and subsequent events proved
either that there was a grave time-
lag in the issue of Soviet war news or
that the Germans were moving at a ter-
rible speed.
By July 31 Germans claimed to have
taken Azov, at the mouth of the Don, 20
miles or so from Rostov ; to have pushed
south-east towards the Cis-Caucasian-
Volga railway, between the Sal and the
Manych rivers, 50 miles s.-e. of Rostov
and south of the Don, and to have
stormed Proletarsky—it is 100 miles s.-e.
of Rostov, and only 20 miles from Salysk,
the junction of a railway from Rostov
and the Novarossisk-Stalingrad railway.
Almost at the same moment Vichy
News Agency declared that German
forces, including tanks, had at dawn on
July 30 crossed the narrow Kerch Strait
joining the Black and Azov seas, and
established several bridgeheads after
fierce fighting. It was certain that this
operation would be attempted, but at
time of writing there had been no con-
firmation of the Vichy report.
The whole Caucasian and Caspian
regions watched July die under threat of
being completely cut off from the rest of
Russia and of seeing three large Russian
groups being taken in the rear or on
the flank, either inside the Don bend or
in the northward Caucasus, where forces
at the Azov coast, and pinned down at
Tsymlyanskaya were in especial danger.
The Germans obviously were bent
upon gobbling up the whole of the re-
sources of the rich Kuban and Manych
rivers along the Azov coast, and of link-
ing with forces from Kerch to pounce
on the Cis-Caucasian oilfields of Kras-
nodar and Maikop before the Russians
could destroy them.
They claimed on August 1 to be “pur-
suing the beaten enemy” beyond the
Stalingrad-Krasnodar railway on a broad
front, to have captured Salysk—Moscow
admitted it —and to have placed the Rus-
sian forces in the Kuban region in danger
of “encirclement and annihilation” (a
pet word of theirs), after having broken
the stubborn resistance of Russian rear-
guards.
Their furthest point of penetration was
said by Berlin Radio to be Peschadkop-
skaya, 30 miles n.-e. of Tikhoretsk, where
the Black Sea rail to Stalingrad crosses
the main oil pipeline from the Black
Sea region.
If this is true the railway had been
crossed along a 50-mile front, and the
enemy spearheads had travelled over 120
miles from Rostov and were within 100
miles of the oilfields. The whole Cau-
casian flank was threatened.
The Battle of Kletskaya
A sentence in a “Red Star” descrip-
tion of the fight at Kletskaya, at the ex-
treme north-east of the Don bend, 75
miles from Stalingrad, gave new ground
for uneasiness. The Red Army’s official
organ recounted that “thousands of
guns, tanks, ’planes, motorised forces,
cavalry and infantry” were here locked
in one of the greatest battles of the Rus-
sian war, which had been raging day and
night for seven days. Then came the
ominous words:
Von Bock arranged his main tank forces
in a six-mile square. The Germans
reached the west bank of the Don in one
sector but were flung back.
There seemed to be no doubt about
this statement, verified in several versions.
So that the enemy must have attacked
from the Volga side of the river. A few
days after the entry of the Germans into
Voronezh early in the month, Vichy had
reported that a German spearhead had
penetrated 100 miles west of that key city
to the vicinity of the Khoper River,
which flows southward to join the Don
40 miles west of Kletskaya. If one of
Von Bock’s forces came southward, it
must have been in the wake of this spear-
head, and the enemy must have control of
the whole of the east bank of the Don
as well as the west bank, with all land
out to the Khoper. The Moscow-Stalin-
grad railway must have been cut or in
serious jeopardy for 200 miles. If this
was so, the desperate attempts of the
Red Army to oust the enemy from
Voronezh, the key to its north-eastern
communications and to a Russian threat
to the rear of the invaders beyond the
Don, were easy to understand. Round
Voronezh the Russians have fought
splendidly.
There seemed to be no chance that
any diversion on the northern fronts could
affect German operations in the Volga-
Caucasus regions. It was unlikely that
any single one of the five interlocking
operations in progress in the south in
the last week in the month would involve
more than a couple of armies. Such for-
mations, working in parallel for en-
circling purposes, about 100,000 men in
each, are the largest operable bodies.
Von Bock’s Methods
Von Bock is operating along roughly
350 miles of front. The greatest Ger-
man concentration in the 1941 campaign
was Von Bock’s before Moscow, where
the front was 360 miles long and where,
with 34 infantry divisions, 14 Panzer
divisions and four motorised divisions,
he came within an ace of investing Mos-
cow. In the force he is now using there
must be both more fast-moving mechan-
ised units and greater concentration of
fast general transport.
Berlin claims that his most successful
type of attack group on the treeless plains
on the southern Don country is a swift-
moving rectangular artillery formation a
mile to li mile wide, in which 100 to 150
guns are placed as on a chequerboard,
so that all could be brought to bear on
the target. These were for flank use.
Against them, according to Berlin, frontal
attack by tanks meant suicide in the
conditions of terrain prevailing in the
open steppe.
On fortresses the enemy has used huge
24-inch mortars —not guns, as reported in
connection with the siege of Sevastopol
—at field-gun range. And everywhere
he has had close tank formations as usual.
Fourteen tank divisions would mean
round about 6000 tanks.
Berlin last week alleged that during
the winter on the Rumanian fields special
units had been trained for the swift re-
habilitation of blown-up or damaged oil-
wells and that these were with the army
to retrieve the ruin of the Cis-Caucasian
fields should the Russians try to destroy
them.
A Grim Month
So August opened on a bleak outlook
for Russia and for continental Europe.
The last of European Russia’s mineral
resources, save some coal and iron north
of Kursk, were gone. Only a little
of the wheatland remained, too little
to satisfy millions of hungry mouths. In
time of peace the power of the Rus-
sians to feed themselves fully centres
entirely in the Ukraine. When the
Ukraine crop is poor there is shortage
and for the whole country sometimes
famine. Eighty per cent, of European
Russia’s grainland is in enemy hands,
and so is the bulk of its stock. All its
great river arteries and Canals have been
cut or threatened, save in the central east.
Yes, a supreme Russian effort is neces-
sary. The Russian soldier, as game
and stubborn and tough as in any period
of his history, can be depended upon
to make it.
The saddening lists of Malayan casual-
ties continue to fill columns in the morn-
ing papers. They affect all States, and
continue to be nearly all “missing.”
* * * *
Australian tanks are now being turned
out in bulk. They are an all-welded job
—more up to date than 80 per cent, of
the leviathans in use in Europe, and far
ahead of anything which the Japanese
have exhibited in Far Eastern fighting.
They can take care of anything they are
likely to encounter for a good many
seasons.
#
The Admiralty on July 29 stated that
since September, 1939, 6,178,681 tons of
enemy shipping had been sunk, outside
sinkings of 750,000 tons reported by the
Russians. Jap losses also are not included.
Axis losses in the past six months were
953,681 tons, compared with 1,841,000
tons in the previous six months. None
of the lists included full mine sinkings,
which often are unreported. Berlin
claimed that 623,000 tons of British and
Allied ships were sunk by U-boats in
July and Allied losses to July 31
19,000,000 tons. Berlin, as usual, allows
a good margin in its own favor.
♦ ♦ * *
North Sea mosquito flotillas have had
more lively dawn combats during the
week. In one ten-minute action German
armed trawlers were hit repeatedly, one
was set on fire ; but the R.N. flotilla
broke off the unequal action when one
of its own vessels was disabled. Fifty
minutes later another patrol picked up
the same enemy force and finished off
the vessel damaged in the earlier action.
The Luftwaffe and German shore bat-
teries joined in, and daylight made the
R.N. units too good a target. Another
patrol, without damage or casualties, hit
and damaged an E-boat escort convoy of
minesweepers near the French coast. On
Saturday, in a third engagement in which
two E-boats were set on fire and two
others damaged, two German torpedo-
boats and the German shore batteries
fired on their own craft.
* • * *
A tiny plot of British earth where the
dictum that Russia is doing all the fight-
ing would be received coldly is Malta,
which has had almost every historic
building wrecked, wholly or partially.
Most of the Inns of the Knights of Malta
are hollow shells. The Military Hospital
of the Knights, which has a 520 ft.-long
ward, is badly mangled. The Malta
Club and the Opera House are gone.
Floriana, the most intimate of Valetta’s
suburbs, has scarcely a house standing.
Every church has been hit. Musta
Church, which has the third-largest
dome on earth, collected a dead bomb
through its roof. The tunnels made by
the Knights in the rock of Malta 300
years or so ago are now an underground
shelter town, with street names and rows
of private cubicles numbered like houses,
to which postmen deliver mail as a matter
of course. Babies are born underground
and are baptised, marriages are per-
formed, confessions heard, masses said.
And Malta hasn’t even thought of squeal-
ing for a second front yet.
* * * #
“Nobby II”: Relics and remains of the
Japanese submarines raised from the bed
of Sydney Harbor were prepared for ex-
hibition in the Navy’s usual shipshape
fashion for the benefit of the relatives of
bereaved R.A.N. families. They proved
something of a surprise. The one on show
is about 75ft. long—almost twice the
length of the midgets taken in Pearl Har-
bor. Instead of being merely an iron
suicide box, it was built with meticulous
care, fitted regardless of cost or time with
the best naval workmanship, both for
fighting and for navigation. There are
attachments to hold it to a mother-ship and
to release it, and a gyroscopic compass.
The periscope equipment is of splendid
quality. There was (said Rear-Admiral
Muirhead-Gould, who opened the exhibi-
tion) provision to allow the crew to at-
tempt to escape, and food, reading matter
and signal gear to enable them to identify
themselves should they succeed in escap-
ing after firing their torpedoes. The
rear-admiral made a chivalrous reference
to the bravery of men who risked their
lives in the tiny conning tower and doll’s-
house catwalk of the explosive-laden
craft. It was not ill-timed. The more
the daring of the enemy and his fighting
quality are realised, the fewer chances
are likely to be taken with him.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Chopin, played by Isador Goodman,
and the daffodils at Admiralty House
last Saturday were one with the sunlit
afternoon that could be glimpsed from
the reception-room windows. The con-
cert was to further Y.W.C.A. work to
make the off-duty hours of women of
the services more cheerful, and the
response was handsome. Tickets at a
guinea had been sold till there wasn't
room for another chair. Lord and Lady
Gowrie not only lent Admiralty House
for the occasion, but gave a tea party
for all present. The girl who liked her
tea hot and liked it strong (as the girl
in the “Coffee” Cantata desired her brew)
had her wish fulfilled. Many felt, these
tea-couponed days, that the caddy at
A.H. deserved a wreath of laurel.
The John Butters lady, president of
Sydney Y.W.C.A., made a speech of
thanks in the interval, and told that 500
or so service women had dined or slept
or both at the Liverpool-street address.
Lady Gowrie wore a black afternoon
frock and the friendly smile for which
she is noted. Crowds had come from
the North Shore line, probably a large
contingent of Mrs. Hope Gibson’s friends
among them. Mrs. Gibson, who was one
of the organisers, sported a spray of
purple hyacinths on her black frock. One
of the daintiest hats came on the head
of Dame Constance D’Arcy, who was
accompanied by her sister. Mrs. John
Collins, Lute Drummond, the Bertie
Kellys, Mrs. Muscio, the Rupert Scam-
mells, Peter Lubbock, Mrs. Harold Bott,
Mrs. Macartney, Phyllis Arnott, Mrs.
Salenger with a pretty daughter, Miss
Mary Fairfax, Phyllis Parkinson and
Margaret Gillespie were among the many.
The afternoon’s singers were Dorothy
Helmrich and Harold Williams. Accom-
panists were Ramsay Pennycuick and
Joyce Hutchinson.
Mrs. Tom Bateman, who was Beatrice
McGirr, was admitted to the Bar of
N.S.W. last week. Mrs. Bateman is the
first mother and the first woman who
has an M.A. degree to be admitted. The
ceremony at the Supreme Court in King-
street started on the tick of ten, and
Beatrice, in her wig and gown, made a
bow to the Court when she was presented
which Portia herself could not have bet-
tered for dignity. While in town Mrs.
Bateman stayed with her parents, the
Greg McGirrs, of North Sydney. Now
she is back in Leura, where she has been
staying with her baby son Edmund. Dr.
Bateman is on the staff of the King
George V Memorial Hospital, and is
waiting his call-up into the R.A.A.F.
A wind like ice slapped the cabbage-
tree palms in Benelong Park (which
adjoins Fort Macquarie) last week when
Rear-Admiral Muirhead-Gould made his
speech opening the display of the Japanese
submarines which raided Sydney on
a never-to-be-forgotten Sunday night.
“Opening” is a misleading word applied to
this show. Never was anything more wide
open to wind and weather than Benelong
Park. Women, befurred to the ears, con-
trived to look as cold as the original
Benelong, who, report has it, nearly
froze when Governor Phillip took him
to London. There was a non-stop wind
off Fort Macquarie, and, believe it or
not, even the seals in Ross Sea would
have called it no balmy zephyr.
Crowds handed in their shillings
(children sixpence) to the galvanised-iron
box-office. Mr., Mrs., Master and Miss
Sydney were determined to have a look
at the damage R.A.N. depth charges had
wrought in the small but deadly craft.
One look into the interior of the control-
room gave an impression of the tangled-
up innards of a disembowelled chook. A
spokesman said the captain and his crew
of one could have been only four feet
two inches high, so small are the mos-
quito ships. For a price many entered
the conning tower of one of the subs,
and viewed Sydney Harbor through its
periscope. Small boys and a boy not so
small, Sydney’s Mayor Crick, were en-
thralled with a revolver belonging to one
of the sub. captains. A bottle that had
contained whisky was on view—truly a
dead marine.
Scraps of metal from the destroyed
raiders were sold. On the opening day
Mrs. Pope and Mrs. Clifton Penny did
brisk trade. With the smallest bit of
metal went a tag signed by Rear-Admiral
Muirhead-Gould, guaranteeing its origin.
A small son of the Navy, well wrapped
against the weather, proved a good
salesman. The wife of America’s
Consul-General Ely Palmer paid £5 for
a cartridge from the Japanese captain’s
revolver. Knight Tom Gordon paid £2
for the indicator from the torpedo-firing
board. All in all, there was a sort of
smiling good humor among the on-
lookers. Deep in the hearts of everyone
was something of the feeling of St.
George when he knocked out his first
dragon: “Well, thank goodness, there’s
something will never bother me again!”
Almost all the ground around St.
Andrew’s Cathedral on the George-street
front is taken up with huts given over to
men of the services. On a day last week
when soldiers were crowding St. Andrew s
canteen, the Chapter House, standing
back in the grounds, was setting out a
Chinese lunch. This was being eaten by
friends of that ancient land, now in its
fifth year of war. The money raised went
towards the two thousand shillings which
the C.E.N.E.F. workers intend to send to
help China’s war orphans.
Really, China’s Consul-General Tuan
was handed £l9O by Archbishop Mowll.
Dr. Mowll, in his eulogy of China’s mag-
nificent spirit, said he hoped that one day
our students would learn to speak Chinese
as now they learned French or other lan-
guages. At the luncheon there were four
courses, of which the dim sims (a sort
of miniature meat dumpling) were highly
extolled. Among the closely-placed tables
amahs from Malaya and Hong Hong
carried their trays with expert ease. Mrs.
Tuan was with her husband.
Herewith pianist Eileen Ralph, now
being starred with husband violinist
Thomas Matthews by the A.B.C. Mrs.
Matthews has a string of successes to her
name, beginning with the plucking of the
Macfarren gold medal at the Royal
Academy, London, when as a scholarship
student from Perth she studied there with
Eric Grant. Matthay and Solomon were
two other of her teachers. She has been
soloist with the London Philharmonic
Orchestra directed by Sargent. The
Queen’s Hall and the Wigmore have both
echoed to her music, and Sir Henry Wood
is another famous conductor with whom
she has played. With her husband she
has more recently played the Mozart
violin sonatas at National Gallery con-
certs. 8.8. C. audiences appreciate her
equally well as a soloist or with orches-
tral background.
The performance of “Don Giovanni”
by the Con. Opera Class, season of which
opened at the Con. on Saturday after-
noon, was a happy occasion for con-
ductor, soloists, chorus and orchestra, and
also for the big audience, which yielded
ovations for the Donna Elvira of Lily
Kolos, the Donna Anna of Isolde Hill
and the Don Juan of Sydney de Vries.
Old Sydneyites still remember the lovely
Gumming sisters. Rose Gumming and
sister Mrs. Russell Cecil, who have been
living in New York these many years,
were behind the organisation of the suc-
cessful Anzac dinner at the Waldorf-
Astoria. About 1300 were there, and
Gracie Fields flew from California to
entertain the guests, who included Lord
Halifax, Field-Marshal Sir John Dill,
Wendell Willkie, Baron de Rothschild
and Australia’s Dr. Evatt. The Australian
Comforts Fund benefited by 20,000
dollars, with 5000 dollars for the Maori-
land Patriotic Fund.
When the Lunchtime Music Club put
on Bach’s “Coffee” cantata Lady Cowrie
was an amused and pleased listener.
Later she wrote a note of appreciation
to the committee saying she would like
to become a member of the club. Mar-
garet Gillespie, Mrs. G. Henty and Syd-
ney de Vries have put in a great deal of
work to make the club a successful ven-
ture. These midday concerts give Sydney
musicians a chance to shine.
From Melbourne
When first the coupons and then the
dress regulations came in, Melbourne
girls asked one another how they would
manage a wedding gown, let alone the
bridesmaids’ frocks. The rumor that
Sydney girls were hiring theirs was
received as a possible solution of the
trouble, but without enthusiasm. Now
a regular roster has been prepared of
girls who have made their in the
last few years. Some of these have
responded to pressure and agreed to lend
their gowns to girls whose figures permit
of the garments being worn without much
alteration. A surprising fact has emerged.
Dozens of girls have either a wedding
frock in cool storage against “the day,’
and others, during the pre-coupon rush,
bought up rolls of suitable material and
are now getting dressmaker friends to
make up this for them in wedding style.
Where there’s a will there’s a way.
Melbourne women did some thinking
when gas restrictions were first imposed.
This involved meetings at depots where
electrical cooking appliances are sold in
South Yarra and Toorak. The situation
was serious. People who had planned
quiet little dinners were caught off
guard, and in one instance the hostess
took her guests to a near-by hot-dog
stall; each bought what he or she fancied,
and all went back to the home carrying
paper parcels. Brighton residents (out-
side the restricted area) were surprised to
find how popular they were. Friends
they hadn’t heard of for months rang
them up and offered to “drop down,
and did. Heidelberg, too, was in the
boom, and little restaurants there which
used to serve pies to a few customers
each day have had to increase their
orders by dozens. People wouldn’t mind
so much if the weather weren’t so cold.
As it still freezes, much sympathy is felt
for the woman caught by the gas co.
inspectors with her feet in the lighted
oven.
Beryl Batten, a Tasmanian girl now
pursuing her studies in Melbourne (pic-
tured here by Beattie, Hobart), is inspir-
ing in those who have heard her sing the
hope that here may be an Australian
songstress on whom, although a mezzo-
soprano, the mantle of Melba may fall.
Lately Miss Batten was heard at Mel-
bourne Music Club in a foursome which
sang madrigals and glees, and then in
duets with Queenslander Sybil Willey,
who also has a voice (and a brain) which
may land her among the singing stars of
our time. Both girls hold scholarships
at Melbourne Conservatorium, Miss
Willey the Melba and Miss Batten the
Mary Campbell, a reminder that in the
sunset days at Coombe Cottage Melba
loved no one’s company more than Mary
Campbell’s. The diva’s friend had a tiny
voice, but it was perfectly trained, and
her keen intelligence made her singing
the last word in artistry, though her
physique forbade a concert career.
Melba’s advice to all girls who came to
her for advice was “talk to Mary.”
Government House is proud to be
called a factory, so Lady Dugan told the
annual meeting on Friday of the Presi-
dent’s Branch of Red Cross, which has,
since the fateful days of early war, met
at “Government House workrooms,” as
the ballroom has been rechristened. The
branch gets its name from the fact that
its head is also head of the whole Vic-
torian section of Red Cross, Almost in-
credible feats of sewing and machining
have been done by the branch, which
seems to show that skill with needle and
sewing machine may be speedily ac-
quired, many of the branch s workers
being among the so-called leisured
women, though Lady Dugan eagerly wel-
comes girls from city dressmaking work-
rooms. Trained nurses have done thou-
sands of bandages, and there is a “rush
order” of 3000 sheets of which the vice-
regal “factory” head is very proud indeed.
Home from the Middle East is Major
Mary Thornton, who has worked with
the Army as a radiologist, being one of
the early women to rank as major in the
British Army. She hopes that she will
be permitted to work for the Army in
Australia, though she went overseas be-
cause her services were not apparently
wanted here. In private life Major
Thornton is Mrs. Kent Hughes, widow of
Dr. Kent Hughes, who was one of a set
of brothers (among them Canon Hughes
and General Hughes, who served in the
1914-18 war) who made their mark as
good Australians. Major Thornton was
for years associated with the Austin Hos-
pital, where nurses and patients were her
friends to a man and woman.
Dr. Greta Hort took Melbourne's
breath away with her show of photo-
graphs displayed at a city store to swell
the Allies’ Day Fund, and opened by
Vice-Chancellor Medley, of the Univer-
sity. This college head has patience and
has evidently been ready to wait for hours
to get just the effect of sky, clouds and
trees she has set her heart upon. The
craze for amateur photography attacks
all the intellectuals here, among Dr.
Hort’s rivals in the art being the well-
known lawyer Ted Mulvaney and Dr.
Julian Smith. Dr. Tuckfield did so well
with his color-cinekodak in America that
he has often entertained his own and his
wife’s friends with a home picture show.
At the American Red Cross Club a dark-
room and other accessories of he camera-
minded are being set up so that buddies
on leave may develop their own negatives.
Squadron-Officer M. F. Miller, new
Deputy-Director of W.A.A.A.F., has been
receiving congratulations from Melbourne
friends who made her acquaintance dur-
ing her training days here, or when she
used to come over from Hobart, where
for some tirhe in pre-war days she made
her home. Red-haired and freckled, she
has a mercurial personality, and is not
to be overlooked wherever she may be.
She’s a University graduate, an LL.B. of
Adelaide.
One by one Melbourne’s best-known
bachelors become Benedicts. At the
week-end Ken Skues, who has “ushed” at
dozens of weddings, and seen many flus-
tered bridegrooms go quaking up the
aisle, played the part for which he has
had such excellent rehearsal. His bride
was Miss Turner Shaw. From England
comes the news that Lieut. Alan Edmond-
son Bainbridge, now of the Royal Horse
Artillery, and son of the J. P. Bain-
bridges, has married a niece of Admiral
Lionel Halsey. Bride’s father is a baronet,
and has a pleasant home in Herts called
Gaddesden Place. The Bainbridges are
a big clan, with brothers, cousins, etc.,
taking their place in Melbourne’s civic
life. J.P., father of the bridegroom, was
for years Registrar of the University.
Vivacious Jeanne Gautier introduced
something new in ways of taking applause
at Saturday afternoon’s orchestral con-
cert, at which she was heartily recalled
again and again for her playing in the
Stravinsky violin concerto. Instead of
the advance to the platform and long
handclasp with the conductor, Mdlle.
Gautier came at her quick trot along
the second violins and towards the
’cellos, clapping her hands in their direc-
tion. It was a generous and graceful
gesture.
A new and most enthusiastic member
of the A.W.A.S. is the widow of Admiral
Hyde, who did so much to prepare the
Australian Navy for war. For some time
Lady Hyde was an interior decorator,
and when she joined up she went straight
into training, standing up manfully to
the early and late drills. She was one of
those working at the last full-dress parade
at the week-end, when lots of sturdy
lassies went through their paces with
credit to themselves and their trainers,
mostly the A.W.A.S. officers.
Those little sick people who now re-
gard themselves as old residents of Mace-
don and the hill country behind Belgraye
were the subject of much animated dis-
cussion lately when the South Yarra
Auxiliary to the Children’s Hospital, one
of the largest and hardest-working in the
city, met at the pleasant home of Mrs.
Douglas Stephens on the South Yarra
hill, and over tea and scones swapped
the latest from the two hospital fronts.
Nurses and masseuses, who have come
down for week-ends have already told
much the same tale —that the children
have settled in marvellously, and. except
for some homesickness for their parents,
are well content to live in the country
However, the move entails considerable
work on the part of the staff, and the day
is a long one for them. The system ot
allowing long week-ends away from the
country hospital centres compensates in
great measure for this, and there is some
talk of after-war plans for more country-
centred hospitals for children and people
suffering from long illnesses.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
David Spear gave bookmakers a 25-to-l
result when he improved on his Moonee
Valley form of a week earlier to defeat
Isambard and Lord Jevington in the Aus-
tralian Hurdle at Flemington on Satur-
day. Saul, favorite at 5 to 4, revealed
none of the dash that had taken him to a
runaway win in the National. His lead
was never more than four lengths, he
blundered and lost ground at the jump
near the 10 furlongs, was beaten some
distance from home, and finished a poor
fifth. He has been up a long time, and is
to be spelled.
Lord Jevington, first to pass Saul,
veered away from the rails after leading
over the last hurdle, and David Spear
and Isambard made for the opening.
Momentarily there was sufficient room
for both to get through. Lord Jevington,
however, was straightened for a few
strides, and Isambard was squeezed out
while Lord Jevington got the inside run.
It probably made all the difference to the
result, as Isambard was beaten only a
neck. David Spear’s stamina contrasted
with his lack of dash at the finish of two
miles in the Aberfeldie Hurdle at the
Valley. He finished only fourth to Lord
Jevington in that race, but, according to
his trainer, made a couple of faulty
jumps, and went down on his nose at one.
David Spear, who adds to the noted
jumping winners sired by David, is owned
by Mrs. D. W. Reddan. Although fourth
in Rivette’s Caulfield Cup, he was a
moderate on the flat.
Watch Guard, who has already been
supported for the Caulfield Cup, defeated
David Innis in a desperate finish for the
Balaclava Stakes. Diminutive C. Sander-
son, one of Australia’s smallest and most
promising riders, got every ounce out of
the winner, and held his own with the
stronger and more experienced H. Bad-
ger, leading Melbourne jockey for four
successive seasons. Watch Guard, an aged
gelding by The Night Patrol, is much
better thin he looks, and, even if the
Caulfield Cup be beyond him with 7.12,
he should continue to pay his way. He
has won three of his last four races.
Defeat of Aurie’s Star at Ascot sug-
gested that this great sprinter was on the
toboggan, but he gave the lie to that con-
tention by a remarkable win from Prairie-
dale and Koorenbeen in the Moondah
Plate. The ten-year-old led all the way,
but veered from one side of the track to
the other, and finished under the judge’s
box. He has won over £13,000. Prairie-
dale, also 10 years, finished well, but re-
quires a longer distance than six furlongs.
He should win more races, but does not
appeal as a Cup proposition at his age.
Koorenbeen, on the other hand, might
develop into a Caulfield Cup possibility.
He has been backed straightout at long
odds for the Cup, and has already proved,
his ability to win over \\ mile at Fleming-
ton.
Royal Decree, generally considered to
have been let in about a stone and a half
light, made the most of his opportunity
in the first Crimea Trial. Always a hot
favorite, he ran home an easy winner
from Choke and Edmonton. Royal
Decree would have been one of the
favorites had he been saddled with a 71b.
penalty in the second Mornington Welter
later in the day, but was scratched.
Highland March’s Australian Steeple
stocks slumped following his inglorious
display in the Godfrey Watson Steeple.
He showed no dash at any stage, and
beat only three runners home. The form
was too bad to be true, however, and it
might be unwise to dismiss him next
Saturday. Warwickshire, engaged in the
same race, ran out a very easy winner
from Henry Tudor and Sachem. Last-
named, a stable-mate of the winner, also
is engaged in the Australian Steeple, and
might make a good attempt to improve
on his second to Laveur in the corre-
sponding race last year.
* * '* *
■■ A,scot (Sydney) was again uncomfort-
ably crowded on Saturday, and it seems
as if even the weighing-yard will have to
be enlarged to accommodate the number
who now patronise that enclosure.
Milanja (A. Gollogly), who was second
to Mannerheim from the time the field
settled down in the Flying Handicap, dis-
posed of him in the straight, and then
galled off Triad after the latter looked
like defeating him. The race should do
a lot for Triad. Winnipeg and Phalaran
were almost on terms behind the first
two, and were well ahead of the re-
mainder. Winnipeg ran up to his best
form, but the going was just soft enough
to bother him under his big weight. Post-
man could not get closer than fifth at
any stage, and finished a long way back.
Abspear (Munro) finished up the
straight in the Rosebery Handicap won
by Yours Truly the previous week, but,
meeting the latter only 71b. better, ran
away from him over the last furlong of
the Victoria Park Handicap. His Lord-
ship was first into the straight from
Many Ways and Yours Truly, but nothing
had a chance after Abspear put in his
claim. * Cable Boy struggled on well to
get fourth, and as Tel Asur did a little
better than a week earlier he should
shortly be in line for a win. Two’s Com-
pany was backed so solidly as to suggest
she was back to her best, but she did not
give her backers a look-in.
Moondarewa (J. Thompson), who gave
promise as a stayer when racing in
Queensland, outclassed his Encourage
Handicap opponents. Always one of the
leading division, he settled the pace-
maker, Monaro, immediately after enter-
ing the straight,- and won at his ease.
He is by Spearfelt from Barrimoon,
White Feather, in third place, had a clear
run, but is seemingly not so good as
supposed. Winnie and Henrietta, who
followed the place-getters, were never
winning possibilities, but the latter will
improve.
Santa Cruz (R. Donnelly), who started
from near the outside in the Three-year-
old Handicap, was about sixth at the
half-mile, third to Ohaewai and Deneith
entering the straight and then, though she
ran wide, won nicely from Jennybrook,
who put in good work over the last fur-
long. Marwin, Bedford and Deneith
were bunched behind the first two,
and of the trio the first-named may be
best worth following. Deneith was the
early leader, but, though he showed a
deal of pace, could not get the seven fur-
longs. Santa Cruz, who cost 200gns. as
a yearling, and is raced on lease by J.
Normoyle, is by Constant Son from
Valaisanne, by Valais from Elton.
Kuttabul and Mary Lou in turn led in
the Welter Handicap, with Brethren and
Gipsy Way also prominent to the turn.
Widden, who was squeezed back at one
sta ge, got to the front halfway down the
straight, but was eventually beaten a
short head by Brazen Boy (McMenamin),
who was a long way back turning for
home. There was so little in it that the
hoisting of a dead-heat would not have
surprised. Gallop, Nemesis and Bucolic
were close together behind the place-
getters. One of the tailenders early in
the piece, Bucolic did well to finish so
far forward, and it may be worth remem-
bering that he won a Queensland Cup
last November. Gallop met Brazen Lad
only a pound worse than when he fin-
ished ahead of him the previous week,
and his failure to do better was attributed
by the stewards to losing ground through
getting on the heels of another horse.
* * * *
Despite the war jumpers are well
catered for in Maoriland. At the recent
Wellington meeting there were two
steeplechases of £lOOO and £BOO respec-
tively and a hurdle race of £BOO. At the
Canterbury J.C. (Christchurch) meeting
this month the N.Z. Grand National
Steeplechase carries £l5OO, G.N. Hurdles
£lOOO, Lincolnshire Steeplechase £BOO,
and Sydenham Hurdles £6OO. It is un-
necessary to touch upon what the tote
has done for M.L. owners in the way of
prize-money.
* * * *
In Melbourne recently it was 'suggested
there was a possibility of the Caulfield
Cup being decided at Caulfield, but last
week V.A.T.C. officials said there was no
hope of racing being resumed at their
course in the near future. With the Caul-
field Cup run at Caulfield some horses
would have had a much better chance
than at Flemington.
Non-proprietary racing in Sydney ceases
at the end of this year—at least Deputy
Premier Baddeley says so. Five racing
clubs are affected. It is rumored that one
may drop out, and presumably the others
will adopt the debenture lines of the
Canterbury Park and Rosehill clubs.
Owners /and trainers are hopeful that the
new order of things will tend to an all-
round increase in prize-money. It has been
suggested that the Government should
exercise some control in the distribution
of prize-money, but whether racing would
eventually benefit from a political finger
in the pie is open to strong doubt.
* * * *
For the current season the AJ.C. has
licensed 43 trainers for Randwick, 107
for other Sydney courses and an addi-
tional 75 have received training permits.
Of those 27 are restricted to their own
horses. That leaves a total of 198
trainers who can accept horses, and it
gives owners plenty of room for choice.
Of the 88 licensed jockeys only two can
go to scale under 7st.—A. Podmore 6.9
and J. Duncan 6.13. Only one other gets
as low as 7.2. Many apprentices can
do less than 6.7, and one youngster’s
weight is only 5.7.
* * * *
We have heard that Sydney book-
makers have recently experienced a bad
time, but evidently they are still prepared
to go on sacrificing themselves for the
benefit of the public. The list for this
season shows that, apart from Melbourne
men, few, if any, have dropped out of
the saddling paddock at Randwick, and it
is the same in the leger. There are 100
licensed for the former and 130 for the
latter.
* * * *
When the next Australian Stud Book
is issued it would be fair to owners of
mares to insert the names of stallions to
which mares had missed, and not merely
use the word “missed.” This might often
save a small breeder from sending a mare
or two to an indifferent foal-getter.
Though a free return may be conceded if
the mare misses, the same thing may hap-
pen again, and a mare’s owner is at the
loss of a couple of seasons. In the Eng-
lish Stud Book the name of the stallion
to which a mare has missed is given,
and, though such procedure might not
appeal to some Australian studmasters,
it has a lot to commend it.
* * * *
Some Melbourne figures for 1941-42
season: Winning owner, Mrs. J. Kitson,
£10,293; leading trainer, J. Fryer,
£13,310; jockey, H. Badger, 57 wins and
two dead-heats ; sire, Manitoba, £15,280 ;
totalisator turnover by 10 clubs,
£3,486,234. Previous season the clubs in-
cluded in the stated total raced 128 days
for £3,091,124, and this year only 93.
Those figures give an idea of the advance
of tote betting in popularity in the
southern capital.
* * * *
Sydney sporting pressmen have had
their binoculars called up, but some offi-
cers who attend the races are equipped
with them. This caused a pressman to
remark to one: “What are you doing
with those glasses? You are not on
active service now.” “You bet I am,”
was the reply; “I’m keeping my eye on
the enemy—the bookmakers, the tote and
the horses.”
Patience is a virtue, and owners of
various horses that have started at recent
meetings in Sydney will need plenty of
it in looking forward to a financial
return. While it may be unwise to con-
demn any horse it would seem too much
to expect some of those now racing to
win in any class for which they are
eligible. Hope tells a flattering tale to
many owners—and so do some trainers.
* * ♦ *
Beau Vite looks bigger than on any
previous occasion after a spell, but, as he
is now six, development in him is only
to be expected. He is commencing to
move along smartly, and presumably his
first appearance in public this season will
be in the Warwick Stakes. Last season
his first run was in the Canterbury Stakes,
but the distance was too short for him,
and he beat only one of six, Reading
winning from the odds-on favorite, High
Caste. However, that race and subse-
quent work did so much for Beau Vite
that a week later he won the Chelmsford
Stakes from High Caste. The double
books are not taking any risk with him
in this year’s Cups, having him in the
second line for the Caulfield Cup and
the first for the Melbourne Cup. He is
good, but if he should win the former it
is probable he will be sufficiently penal-
ised to dispose of him for the latter.
* * * *
Sydney owners of jumpers who have
an idea that they should be more liberally
treated would not appreciate racing in
England. During the recent jumping
season in that country there were 18
meetings, at which 112 races were run.
Prize-money totalled £20,710, of which
owners contributed £11,535 in entrance
and acceptance fees, and the Betting Con-
trol Board £2450. The figures are re-
markable, but the London “Sporting
Life” vouches for their correctness. The
actual cost to England’s leading jumping
club, Cheltenham, for 51 races was £2339
—an average of slightly less than £46.
* * * *
Kingsdale has recently shown such
good form that many Sydney followers
of racing were inclined to place him in
the same class as Yaralla as a sprinter.
The V.R.C. handicapper does not share
that opinion. In the Cantala Stakes
Yaralla has 9.5 and Kingsdale 8.11. If
Yaralla could be relied on to run a mile
and a half he would not read badly in
the Caulfield Cup with 8.9, but, though
he is by The Buzzard, his A.J.C. Derby
and St. Leger efforts did not give much
hope for him as a stayer. At four years
Manfred won the Caulfield Cup with
9.6, and Gaine Carrington with 8.13.
With a seven-furlong w.f.a. race at Rand-
wick, and one of six furlongs at Canter-
bury Park, Yaralla has the opportunity
of starting off as a good winner this
season.
Miscellaneous.
The leaders in the V.F.L. competition
are beginning to gather their cohorts
around them. Instead of one game draw-
ing most of the crowd on Saturday, as
has been usual this season, grounds where
the four leaders played were about evenly
filled. Except in the first quarter at
Essendon, Footscray never got within
range of their old rivals and went down
by 10.8 to Essendon’s 15.12. At Rich-
mond the local Tigers booted seven goals
against Melbourne in the second spasm
and clinched the matter, 15.21-12.14.
South Melbourne went to Carlton and
was licked by five points, 12.17-10.24.
Fitzroy had a joyful outing against North
Melbourne, 20.14 to 10.8, and St. Kilda
contented itself with a moderate 10.15 to
Hawthorn’s 8.9. Essendon and Rich-
mond are in front, with “Sowth,” Foots-
cray, Carlton and Fitzroy on the same
mark.
* * * *
Bidding strongly for a place in the
Rugby Union “four,” Manly is now
second, having won its last eight games.
„ On Saturday the Villagers put Drummoyne
through 29-5 ; Hodgson, the international,
was their best forward. University, still
on top, beat Parramatta in every depart-
ment of the game, scoring 12 to 3.
“Parra” is now third; East (17-3 against
North) is fourth and West (26-14 against
Gordon) still has a chance. The others
are out of it. Randwick lost ingloriously
to St. George, 6-13.
* * * *
In the dearth of competent boxers, two
Rugby League heavyweights, Herb Narvo
and Ray Stehr, have taken on the game,
and they battled at Leichhardt on Thurs-
day. Neither has learned more than the
rudiments. Narvo, a southpaw, reached
Stehr’s solar-plexus with a left that
floored him four seconds before the end
of the first round. Herb started the second
with left and right to the heart, but
caught a left to the chin which floored
him for “eight.” Rising at seven, he
brought up a left from the floor which
FOR V.A.T.C. MEETING.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances .)
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
Arkaringa Hurdle: Isambard, 1 ;
Star Boarder, 2 ; Lord Jevington, 3.
Chatsworth Plate: Quezon, 1 ;
Burberry, 2 ; Azan, 3.
Australian Steeple: Victory
March, 1 ; Sachem, 2; Highland
March or Parentena, 3.
Malakoff Stakes: Rippling Avon,
1 ; David Innis, 2 ; Watch Guard, 3.
Knowsley Steeple: Henry Tudor,
1 ; Springhead, 2 ; Glenlonan, 3.
St. Aubin Welter; Big Warwick,
1 ; Royal Decree, 2; Pannade, 3.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT”
Trial Handicap; Easter Time, 1 ;
Wee Woo, 2 ; Faerie Queen or Pars-
ing, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Babil-
lard, 1 ; Roman Law, 2; Peter’s
Pence, 3.
Maiden Handicap: Mabonga, 1 ;
Chataroi, 2; Last Bowl or Silent
Flyer, 3,
Flying Handicap: Radical, 1 ;
Broadcaster, 2 ; Common Sense, 3.
Rosehill August Handicap: Trig-
german, 1; Lord Valentine, 2;
Two’s Company, 3.
Parramatta Handicap: Haridelle,
1 ; Bona Fide, 2 ; Rhythmic, 3.
FOR ASCOT.
Before Acceptances.
By “PILOT.”
Novice Handicap: Dark Felt, 1 ;
Barrenjoey, 2 ; Monaro or King of
the Mist, 3.
Fourteen-two Handicap; Majorca,
1; Mit, 2.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Judy Garland, 1 ; Marwin, 2 ;
Deneith or King of the Mist, 3.
Flying Handicap; Chatting, 1 ;
Triad, 2 ; Phalaran, 3.
Ascot Handicap: Tragopan, 1 ;
Cable Boy, 2; His Lordship, 3.
Welter Handicap: Mary Lou, 1 ;
Lockray, 2 ; Gipsy Way, 3.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
i
I JL i
w*£
flf)III!
ill
ill
mu
ill
111
-
Modern high-cbss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
PROVIDES THE SAME COMFORT AND SAFETY AS CITY SEWERAGE
WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPUY.
Besides Typhoid, Dysentery and serious diseases, many minor affections such as
Septic Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chills and Colds can he traced to unhygienic closets.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and runs off into the soil.
It eliminates closet pans and saves sanitary rates.
IT PREVENTS THE SPREAD OF THE BLOWFLY PEST.
There is no emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health and is fully guaranteed. Over 3000 in use.
W'rite or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd.?Sr. E K; ET SVDSM -
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.h. SYDNEY, including 10% Sales Tax.
Plus 30/- war surcharge; crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
Obtainable direct from ns or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Soarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
Missing Friends.
TO RALPH STUART DUNLOP formerly of
462 St. Kilda Street Brighton in the State of
Victoria but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife FLORENCE MAY
DUNLOP has commenced proceedings for
divorce against you on the ground of desertion
during three years and upwards. Unless you
enter an appearance in the office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court of Victoria at
Melbourne on or before the 27th day of August
1942 the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs If you
intend to defend this suit you must also file an
answer in the said office on or before the 7th
day of September 1942. —JOHN P. RHODEN,
376 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
THE
iiiiiTcn iNSURANCE
UNI I tu COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office;
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager,
Australian Institution
T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
Wanted.
AN ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA.
Latest copy of 14th edition, new or
second-hand, is required immediately.
Ring M 5087. Write E. 8., C/o Mercantile
Exchange, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ERIC HAMILTON late of 20
Belvoir Street Surry Hills.—TAKE NOTICE
that RUBY PEARL HAMILTON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 946 of 1942 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards You may enter
an appearance before the 20th October 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from DENSLEY & DOWNING Solicitors
39-49 Martin Place Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K,
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ERIC GORDON GEORGE late of 167
Victoria Street Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
BARBARA MAY GEORGE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 901 of 1942 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance by 27th October
1942 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from L. T. BRENNAN Solicitor 39-49
Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
TO JOHN RAPHAEL KING formerly of Lane
Cove near Sydney N.S.W. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife LYDIA CHARLOTTE KING
has filed a petition in the Supreme Court of
New South Wales Matrimonial Causes Jurisdic-
tion No. 1566 of 1942 praying for a divorce on
the grounds of your desertion for three years
and upwards You may enter an appearance on
or before the 30th day of September next and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. UTHER & UTHER Solicitors
350 George Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce. ■
Legal Notice.
TO KATE DAVIS (niece of David Williams
late of Wellington New Zealand and daughter
of his late sister Catherine Davis) and to all
persons claiming through her. —Failing your
claiming from the PUBLIC TRUSTEE Wel-
lington New Zealand by the 31st day of Decem-
ber 1942 a share in the estate of David Wil-
liams it will be distributed disregarding your
rights.
ECZEMA
Sensitive people feel eczema
acutely. The continued irritation,
the unsightly eruptions and the
uncertainty where the trouble will
next spread makes them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact
that certain skins react badly to various
forms of irritation (internal or external)
and poor general health increases the
liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema
to spread and to become chronic, early
local treatment is imperative, and the best
salve for this purpose is DOAN’S Oint-
ment. It penetrates to the true skin where
the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and
healing and quickly allays the irritation.
DOAN’S Ointment is also good for other
itching skin complaints and for the relict
of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but, be sure
you get DOAN’S.
Doans Ointment
REDUCE
YOUR
tELT will reduce
nd give a slim
Supports delicate
?, changing pres-
Ige is eliminated
you make.
UAL OFFER
vaistline will be
. Sin. of bulge
... OR NO
r full illustrated
DAYS’ TRIAL
COMPANY,
i St., Sydney
The GOVKRNA BELT will reduce /sf
your waistline and give a slim 111
athletic figure. Supports delicate //)
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated \T
with every move you make. //A
7 DAYS’ TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will be
Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of bulge
and strain gone ... OR NO
COST 1 Write for full illustrated
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL
OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 213 Elizabeth St., Sydney
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP.
BUY WAR SAVINGS certificate*
SMOKE-OH!
è
e
“It is popularly believed that veneer furni-
ture is inferior to so-called solid furniture.”
— “World’s News.”
The belief is especially strong among
those women whose neighbors have the
veneer furniture and they themselves the
solid type.
é
ê
e
Land Girl.
“Though hopelessly inefficient as a land girl,
her charms were such that her farmer was
quite unable to resist her; they were married a
fortnight after her arrival”’ — Woman’s paper.
Though all at sea upon the land
It seems this dainty charmer
With cultivated shrewdness planned :
She landed first the possie and
She landed then the farmer!
T. W. N.
Material Difference.
“Compared with her more skilful sister, the
girt who is not efficient with her needle is now
at a great disadvantage.” — Woman’s paper.
O’er rationed clothes the one may weep;
Her skilful sister though
A host of benefits can reap
Through knowing how to sew!
NAT.
The Sufferer.
“The decent man thinks of all that his wife
has to go through/’— Woman’s paper.
It is a highly developed sense of
decency that makes me think of all the
things Maria goes through.
Leading them all easily is my suit;
then come the various hiding places in
the house. My letters run a close third.
Sometimes she goes through the accounts
with me just to show how hopeless it is
to keep house on what I give her.
If I am late getting home, while she
waits she boilingly goes through what she
intends to say to me when I appear ;
afterwards she goes through my past
history. When she is through her going-
through depends on her supply of throat
jubes.
She goes through money, and I go
through a lot hearing her go through her
formula about what a woman has to go
through for her husband.
But one thing Maria positively won’t
go through and that’s the divorce court.
She’s not silly enough to give up an easy
meal ticket for life.
H. M.
The Rescue.
Three firemen dragged him out of the
burning building. He was struggling like
a madman. “Let me go back and save
them! ”he screamed. “For heaven’s sake
let me go!”
Out in the roadway he staged a grand-
stand effort. Kicking, punching and. bit-
ing, he hurled the firemen aside and
dashed back into the flames and smoke.
When he staggered out again his
clothes and hair were smouldering, his
face was like a ghastly mask. Before he
collapsed on the pavement he muttered
faintly: “Anyhow, I got them! ”
He was clutching a packet of cigar-
ettes.
T. W. N.
Heads a Bob!
“The Bong of Wong, ruler of a fierce tribe
of head-hunters in Assam, is now at war with
Japan.”
Mark where the wily Assamese,
Deep in his jungle-bound kampong.
Is stropping up his Mark IV kreese.
Pressing his battle-dress sarong,
And dusting down the trophy-shelf
Whereon he hopes it won’t be long
Before a segment of yourself
Reposes, Jap. Now pop along
And meet the Bong
Of Wong.
So long!
MUNJONG.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Sd. per line; all others per line.
Thoughts of a Digger
Ten years ago we out-of-works were
a lost legion, or so it seemed to us. An
ex-British Army officer chronicled our
experiences in The Bulletin —experi-
ences that were a fair enough cross-
section of the lives of thousands of men
who travelled in Queensland their 40
miles each week to draw six shillings’
worth of rations.
Hated by police sergeants, chased by
railway officials' shunned by the local
population in the towns where we camped
for a night or two, we wandered through
the State in search of work. After a time
we didn’t care whether we looked for
work or not. Many of us lost our pride
in ourselves and our country.
From 1935 onwards conditions im-
proved somehow ; and some of us who
had not lost all pride in ourselves man-
aged to become “decent citizens” again.
But when we enlisted four years later
we did so because of our love of adven-
ture and stoush or because our fathers
served in the previous argument.
When we were overseas we acquired a
pride in the A.I.F. We return to find
the newspapers crammed with articles on
the “behavior of troops,” “discipline,”
“drunkenness” and all the other tripe
that is printed daily ; and somehow those
mental scars which we received ten years
ago are reopened.
Australia cannot afford to let her young
men lose their pride in themselves. The
expenditure of the amount of one month’s
war bill of today ten years ago would
have paid great dividends to posterity.—
C. R. (A.1.F.).
In Defence of A.E.S.
Just a word or two of information
about the Army Education Service so
that its critics will have a better idea
what to fire at.
Firstly the staff. Members must be
over age or otherwise unfit for active mili-
tary service. Should a temporarily unfit
man be placed on the staff, he is trans-
ferred as soon as he is medically fit to
resume normal duties.
Purpose of the A.E.S. is to supplement
the soldier’s knowledge gained from civil
and military life with such education as
will improve his ability as a fighter. The
average soldier is a keen, alert young
Australian, willing to accept any help
which will make him a better all-round
soldier.
The A.E.S. also caters to some extent
for civil pursuits. This is done, not only
to safeguard the soldier’s future, but to
make him satisfied with his present status
as a member of a fighting unit. The end
of the war might well find him with his
technique forgotten, his knowledge obso-
lete, were it not for the A.E.S.
To thousands of men who enter mili-
tary hospitals, A.E.S. offers facilities for
filling in their spare time, adding to their
knowledge or improving their position.
A.E.S. delves into an invalided soldier’s
possibilities, assists him to choose an
avenue of employment still open to him,
and supplies the requisite educational
facilities. .When the man’s health is back
to normal, it endeavors to find him a
position for which his study has fitted
him—J.L.W. (Vic.).
Second-front Problems
The fact that a modern army can move
ten, twenty or a hundred times faster
than was the case in the last war is the
very thing that is going to make a land-
ing more hazardous. Tanks, transports,
guns, etc., must still cross the sea, and
until such time as they do land their
mobility is only the mobility of the ship
that carries them. They must still be un-
loaded under hostile artillery, ’planes,
etc., during which time everything is
stationary. Not one wheel of that
mechanised army can turn until it is
landed, and that is where the peril lies.
Even in Greece, where we had about
three weeks to make preparations after
landings in friendly harbors, we could
not hold out except for a couple of weeks.
In Crete we had the backing of our
naval forces, but the story of defeat
under pressure of superior air force and
lack of safe lines of communication was
retold.
Commando raids serve a purpose, as
did trench raids in the last dust-up, but
neither of these won, or will win, the war.
Parachute raids are a better proposi-
tion provided we make up our minds
to lose the men who carry them out,
and provided the men are willing. A
thousand parachute troops dropped
nightly in widely separated parts would
enable us to do a devil of a lot of
damage to lines of communication, sup-
plies, etc., and might induce the Hun to
withdraw large numbers of men from the
Russian front, but it would be a dickens
of a gamble.— Old Digger (Vic.).
Also at Dunkirk
While “2nd Divvy” (B. 22/7/’42) is
trying to forget “ ‘Gunbuster’ and his
brethren” let him hearken to this tale.
It is the story of Sergeant Butts (known
to his follow-Coldstreamers as “Green-
gage”), who, though 20 years old, had not
yet started to shave when he found him-
self, at the retreat to Dunkirk, cut off
from the Guards Brigade with six men.
They were 20 miles from the coast
and were continually dive-bombed and
machine-gunned. Five out of these six
men were killed and Sgt. Butts went
on with just one private. Their feet gave
out (though encased in boots they had
scrupulously polished, even during the
retreat), but Butts somehow helped the
other bloke along. They came on a
wounded Tommy, and they carried him
in turns, until he died. Then only did
they leave him. The two of them got to
the coast and Butts’s companion said
“Go on, Sarn’t —I’m not coming. Can't
swim.” But Butts could swim, so he
towed the fellow-Guardsman with him.
They went out three miles. They got to
a boat. They climbed aboard. There
Butts saluted the officer in charge—and
went out to it. It wasn’t fatigue so
much as the shrapnel he had in his back,
and some more in his leg. Butts is rated
by his fellow-Guardsmen as a good
soldier—because (in the words of a Cold-
streamer) “all that way, under what you
might call trying circumstances, he did
his best to keep neat!”
Might I recommend to “2nd Divvy,” as
an antidote to his perusal of “Gunbuster’s”
Dunkirk, to read They Die with Their
Boots Clean, by No. 2663141, Guardsman
Gerald Kersh (Heinemann; London)?
“John ©’London’s” said it was the best
book about soldiering that has ever
been written. — Inniskilling Dragoon
(N.S.W.),
Hospital Finance
With some experience on a hospital
committee and as an honorary collector,
I am convinced that the only equitable
way to finance these institutions is by a
straightout hospital tax, levied on the
same principle as the income tax, each
to pay according to his or her means. In
return every sick or injured person should
be entitled to free treatment.
The present system of depending upon
voluntary contributions, in addition to
grants and, in some States, a per-
centage of lottery “investments,” is hap-
hazard, ill-balanced and unfair. In col-
lecting I found instances of persons who
could ill afford five bob cheerfully hand-
ing over a pound or more, while others
who could easily spare a substantial
amount gave only five bob. — Nad (Vic.).
War Work for the Retired
In “S. M. Herald” (10/7/’42) the
Director-General of Man-power appealed
to retired men to engage in war work.
This is my experience. In December last,
in response to an advertisement by a
Commonwealth department, I applied
for a war job for which I was quite
fitted. The application was refused on
the score of my age (60). Three months
later a similar but more urgent appeal
to candidates for the same work was pub-
lished, so I wrote again, drawing atten-
tion to my previous application. The
result was the same. Is it any
wonder then that I and others
like myself now regard such
appeals as eyewash, issued with
the idea of impressing on the
public that somebody is doing
something? A cynical friend
says my services would have
been accepted if I had not made
the mistake of offering to work
for nothing.—K. L. M. (N.S.W.).
English Grammar
Much of the appalling English used by
Australian newspapermen is not the result
of carelessness on the part of the writers,
as “Ologist” (B. 10/6/’42) suggests.
Errors such as “He was as strong, if not
stronger than, his opponent” are so preva-
lent that they cannot be dismissed as mis-
takes of hasty writers or sub-editors.
They indicate very plainly that the per-
petrators have never acquired the rudi-
ments of English grammar.
It is a regrettable thing that no notice
is taken of such blunders by newspapers
which 30 years ago took the trouble to
be grammatical in serious articles and
ordinary news paragraphs. The root of
the whole matter, 1 believe, is the lack
of attention paid to grammar in our
schools. So many other subjects of
greater interest are included in the
modern curriculum that English grammar
is overlooked. As a former language
teacher, I know that the greatest diffi-
culty in teaching a foreign language to
Australians lies in the students’ abysmal
ignorance of the structure of their mother
tongue.
If we want to see better writing in the
daily papers there is only one way-
restore grammar to its rightful place of
importance in the schools. Wusslean
(Vic.).
War Damage Insurance
The effect of War Damage Insurance is
becoming apparent to the harassed prop-
erty-owner—just another pipe running
into the taxation milking machine and
bearing very little resemblance to ortho-
dox insurance. It discriminates unfairly
against a section already overburdened,
the middle-income class, as well as the
big property-owner. People earning good
money in the various avenues of war pro-
duction, who have all the advantages of
good housing and none of the responsi-
bilities, don’t have to contribute, although
the equitable arrangement would be for
the whole population to subscribe to pro-
tect its own joint property, since all must
live in houses, irrespective of ownership.
There is also the pathetic spectacle of
the country owner, with perhaps a sizable
chunk of property away in the bush
somewhere, with never a Chinaman's
chance of getting “damaged”-—bombed—
since if the enemy ever actually invades
to this extent it won’t matter two hoots
about any “insurance.” He has to fork
out, while the city-dweller, living in com-
fort on good wages in someone else's
house, goes free. Is everyone satisfied
because it is called the War Damage In-
surance Scheme, where they would be
indignant if it were frankly called a
Property Tax? —R. H. G. (W.A.).
Rural Salvage
If we country people were advised
where to send such salvage as old papers,
rags, cardboard, aluminium, rubber, etc.,
we could collect quite a lot. Just let us
know exactly what is needed, how it
should be packed and where sent to —
“freight free” of course —and we Queens-
land housewives will do our bit. — Mrs.
D. Courtney (Q.).
The Difference
“Tom” (B. 17/6/’42) states that the
poultry farmer must sell his fat hen and
his eggs at a price above production costs
as a “reasonable” reward for the service
he has provided. I cheerfully grant all
those claims, but what is biting many
people, including myself (a bee-farmer),
is the difference between what we pro-
ducers get for our goods and what the
consumer pays for them.
I have worked right around the clock,
back in the bush with my hives, camping
under the truck, bitten by ants at night
and having hell stung out of me by the
bees during the daytime, to receive three-
pence a pound for my honey. And then,
on a visit to Northcote —one of Mel-
bourne’s cheapest suburbs —I saw my bee
juice ticketed up as “pure garden honey,
ninepence a pounej.” — Archbell (Vic.).
N.S.W. Coal Strikes
Judging by the statements of the Coal
Commissioner, a coal shortage threatens
national security. Mr. Wells, president
of the Miners’ Federation, blames “those
few elements” and “those irresponsible
youths.” Ordinary citizens must obey the
law. Soldiers are punished for breaches
of discipline. There has been neither
law nor discipline for rebellious coal-
miners.
What must our Allies think of Aus-
tralia’s interpretation of the meaning of
“total war”? — Tom Gleeson (Q.).
The “Right” to Strike
v The new coalmining regulations mean
that the Government, bowing to the will
of the Miners’ Federation, has legalised
the “right to strike.”
Consider the case of Millfield, where
miners struck against an award made by
the properly constituted tribunal, namely,
the Central Reference Board.
The Northern Executive of the Miners’
Federation ordered the lodge to instruct
the men to return to work. The lodge in-
structed the miners to continue to strike,
and, in defiance of the Northern Execu-
tive, canvassed other lodges on the field,
bringing them out on strike. When the
members of the Northern Miners’ Board
saw the power that was held by the local
lodge they tripped over one another in
their rush to the seat of the trouble to
condone the strike which a few hours
before they had condemned.
This action of the Millfield men shows
that the power is vested not in the man-
agement boards nor in the executive of
the Miners’ Federation, but in the men
themselves. Miners strike at will, irrespec-
tive of what any board of management
may decree. They hold that they are the
union; they elect men to positions
on the management boards annually,
and these men are elected to carry
out the instructions of the miners.
The Government, in fact, handed over
to the Miners’ Federation all the gazetted
regulations to be policed by the strikers
themselves. The tribunals set up with
the idea of stopping strikes will be use-
less. If they adjudicate against the
men, the men will use the strike weapon
which has been handed to them on a
silver salver by the Government. They
will use it, not against the coalmine-
owners, but against the Government and
people of this country by striking and
refusing to supply coal urgently needed
on the railways and in the workshops
and factories. —H. Gregory Forster,
secretary, Northern Collieries (N.S.W.).
Income-tax Returns
One change in the requirements for
income-tax returns has evidently been
overlooked by “M.H.” (B, 22/7/’42).
Receipts for medical expenses are
no longer demanded; the taxpayer
is asked merely to attach a list. The
“bad joke,” therefore, appears now to be
on the Commissioner, who is apparently
prepared to take the taxpayer’s word for
such expenses, as he does for amounts
paid as life-assurance premiums.— Col
(N.S.W.).
Taxis and Petrol
Isn’t it ridiculous that I cannot drive
my seven-h.p. car (40 miles to the gallon)
because I must not waste petrol, but I
can hire a taxi (only 20 miles or less to
the gallon) and drive about all day long
if I have the money? It is safe to
assume that 90 p.c. of the business done
by taxis is purely for pleasure and quite
unnecessary.
Another point—a man capable of driv-
ing a taxi should be able to drive a mili-
tary truck. — Eureka (N.S.W.).
“ Remember, this is a most important listening-post and you are
picked men.”


&
m
V M.
- a
)v<w44n*^
75^
'Y
?ig
M/
V<
2
m
*
X
(■*’■;
1 ' !
£**
fl
miax-
r»
*SBr%-f«5».
3BS» V*
——rfT3
H'
H*
i
X
if
L^'
r
1
Y>
>•: "
/ :-ff
b \
«s
sx
mm
Wx&MmW.
wmm "‘m
’***'* A?' •**"
5®
ff
;k
W W
UH WU
*mm
i
S
w:s*
mmm
:/
iSFffmrromww!
>. i
\
Wwtiv. ;/,'.,'.' yjtyi.u-A
hiltlj.tf,} ,/ i}r ~ »r#m«>|-(V«V^-1
&.,~^z&x3 amr
t ...
To Trooper X 46801
Somewhere
On Active Service.
Dear Boss,
The stock are looking well considering the drought,
but No. 2 Bore is running low, and an inch would make all
the difference to the paddocks. We’ve still got plenty of dry
feed, so we’re all right. The snakes are bad this year and
we lost a few lambs to the dingoes. You don’t see so many
crows about since they started that flying school at
(erased by censor), but the planes are pretty noisy.
The storekeeper don’t send all we put on the order,
but we get a tin of Arnott’s Biscuits now and again, so
you’ll find some of your old favourites in the parcel. We
can carry on fine here, so don’t worry about us.
1 remain,
Yours truly,
BILL,
