

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3276
Wednesday, November 25, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
COLCHESTER CASTLE.
T’HIS castle, which dates from the twelfth century, the largest
Norman Keep in England, is situated in the oldest recorded
British town. The venerable Essex town makes an oblong upon
the ridge and sides of a promontory called the Hythe, stretching
down to the River Colne and forming the port. XDolchester
owes much of its importance from the fact of its being the
natural port and outlet of a great corn-growing district and to
its oyster fishery, which has belonged to the town council from
the time of, if not actually before, the Norman conquest.
Regarded historically, Colchester boasts a high antiquity. It
was the Camalodumum of the Romans, the Colneceaster of the
Saxons and a favorite stronghold of the Danes. The Roman
Wall, with gates which circled the town, has almost disappeared,
and the Roman remains include villas with tessellated pavements,
hypocausts (arched chambers in which fires were kindled to
heat rooms above) and baths. Samian pottery and coins have
been found in the greatest profusion. The Museum of Romano-
Uritish and other antiquities is visited by archaeologists from
all parts of the world. The public buildings are, nevertheless,
mostly modern and of considerable architectural merit. In
the reign of Edward 111 it sent ships and men into the service
of the sovereign. It was also visited by Queens Mary and
Elizabeth, and proved a staunch supporter of Parliament in its
struggle with Charles I. Colchester is an important military
centre, being the headquarters of the Eastern Military District.
The Colchester Oyster Feast was a unique feature of English
municipal life as represented in Colchester. Being in East Anglia
it did not escape Nazi attention from the air during the second
and greatest world war. Australians from Victoria who have
visited this pleasant and delightful town have declared the
castle architecturally suggests old St. James Pro-Cathedral,
Melbourne.


Siorv. Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, a»
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address ....
S.B. 242
The Red Page
ESCAPES FROM ART .
(2) Freudian Imbecilities.
I am going to have a twin yes I am
Love, I am tired of being just one.
—Gertrude Stein.
Yeliu apaohi Ouanyen akouta.
—Ezra Pound.
Bababadal gharagH takanim'marronnko-
nnb ro n n ton n erro n n tuonnth un n tro uan ho -
imawnskawntoohoohooordenenthurnuk !
—James Joyce.
The bagpipe-breasted ladies in the
deadweed. — Dylan Thomas.
It [Cecil Day Lewis’s “Magnetic
Mountain”] might also have been a
father-complex similar to Wordsworth's,
who was also obsessed by mountains.
—Francis Scarfe.
The cataracts blow their trumpets from
the steep. — William Wordsworth.
In last, week’s Red Page an endeavor
was made to establish the principle of
the personal responsibility of the artist
for the fulfilment of the talent with
which he was born. It was demonstrated
that in all ages writers without the
capacity or the heart for major achieve-
ment have magnified the eternal difficulty
of art into temporary impossibility, and
it was asserted that writers in the present
century —in Australia or New Zealand
as in England—are, unless they choose
to be, no more at the mercy of the “spirit
of the age” than were Shakspeare or
Milton, Byron or Browning. It was
pointed out, too, that the “spirit of the
age” is infinitely complex, and that our
own time, depicted by so many writers
as chaotic and despairing, is reflected in
more virile writing as heroic.
In all ages, men live and die in a vast
muddle. If a strong political system gives
a semblance of cohesion, there is always
the dissentient minority. Even in times
when religious faith is comparatively
secure, and human life seems to stand
upon a rock, the majority has seldom
been overimpatient to jump off it into the
bliss of eternity. And never at any time
has the personal emotional framework
or life itself been secure. In the great
muddle of love and hate, good and evil,
faith and disbelief, courage and despair,
the artist affirms or denies as he chooses,
clarifies as best he can, presents such
image of the eternal duality as suits his
disposition and his capacity.
Although, excusing his own incapacity,
Matthew Arnold denied the potentialities
of life and art in his own time, he took
his stand as a critic with those who be-
lieve that the artist should affirm life.
For him, as for Aristotle, the ultimate
test of the excellence of a work of art
was whether or not, in the midst of the
great muddle, it affirmed “by the imita-
tion of great actions” the tragic splendor
of the life of man on the earth ay men
live it.
The Poet, then, has in the first place to
select an excellent action; and what actions
are the most excellent? Those, certainly,
which most powerfully appeal to the great
primary human affections: to those ele-
mentary feelings which subsist permanently
in the race, and which are independent of
time To the elementary part of our
nature, to our passions, that which is great
and passionate is eternally interesting; and
interesting solely in proportion to its great-
ness and to its passion
Any accurate representation may be ex-
pected to be interesting; but, if the repre-
sentation be a poetical one, more than
this is demanded. It is demanded not only
that it shall interest, but also that it shall
inspirit and rejoice the reader.
Tragedy as well as comedy or the lyric
can inspirit the reader, Matthew Arnold
continues. So tremendous, so terrifying
almost, is the interest of man in the spec-
tacle of life that “the more tragic the
situation, the deeper becomes the enjoy-
ment ; and the situation is more tragic
in proportion as it becomes more ter-
rible.” Light or dark, man is prepared
in fact to accept life on earth; and criti-
cism applauds that art which, ignoring
the prejudices and fashions of the
moment, presents an acceptance of the
eternal struggle: the art of Homer, who
saw war as his gods saw it; the art of
Shakspeare, to whom Lady Macbeth
gave as much delight as Juliet, Lear as
Falstaff; the art of Walt Whitman, who
refused to “sweat and whine” at life's
conditions ; the art of the later Eliot, de-
lighting in Becket’s martyrdom ; the art
of Yeats, proclaiming “I am content to
live it all again!”
From this most desirable art which
accepts and presents a heroic image of the
life of man, there were, Arnold believed,
two escapes, both to be deplored. One,
the escape which rejects life as it is:
What then are the situations from the
representation of which, though accurate,
no poetical enjoyment can be derived?
They are those in which the suffering finds
no vent in action; in which a continuous
state of mental distress is prolonged, un-
relieved by incident, hope or resistance;
in which there is everything to be endured
and nothing to be done. In such situations
there is inevitably something morbid, in
the description of them something mono-
tonous. When they occur in actual life
they are painful, not tragic; the representa-
tion of them in poetry is painful also.
And the other, the escape into one’s own
personality, evading the labor of external-
isation, which is the essence of creative
art:
The modern critic not only permits a
false practice; he absolutely prescribes
false aims.—“A true allegory of the state
of one’s own mind in a representative his-
tory,” the Poet is told, “is perhaps the
highest thing that one can attempt in the
way of poetry.”—-And, accordingly, he
attempts it. An allegory of the state of
one’s own mind, the highest problem of
an art which imitates actions! No, assur-
edly it is not, it never can be so: no
great poetical work has ever been produced
with such an aim. Faust itself, in which
something of the kind is attempted
judged as a whole, and judged strictly as
a poetical work, is defective.
It is further evidence of the truth
of the theory advanced on this page that
the problems of art are eternally the same
that Matthew Arnold has set out here
exactly the two great faults that have
brought art in our time-painting and
the highest flights of the novel as well
as poetry—to its indubitable disgrace.
Unaltered in spirit in spite of the names
we give them, what are the Leftist and
the Freudian movements in modern let-
ters but the old deplorable escapes—one
rejecting life as men live it, the other
burrowing and drowning in the bogs of
the personality?
It is difficult to say which of the two
movements has been, at its extreme, the
more callow; the more uproariously
silly. Taking the Freudian first, let us
have Mr. Scarfe’s Auden and After
again:
“It might have been a father-complex
similar to Wordsworth’s , who was also
obsessed by mountains.”
To illustrate the absurdity of such a
contribution to our understanding of
God, art and man, it is almost sufficient
merely to quote, as above, a single line
of Wordsworth’s poetry. Although one
knows that whole skyscrapers of modern
criticism (Herbert Read’s, for example)
have been built on such foundations, it
seems unbelievable that Mr. Scarfe’s
observation could have been uttered. Can
the young giants of contemporary poetry,
most of whom are now in their thirties,
seriously believe that when Wordsworth
cried out in joy and triumph
The cataracts blow their trumpets from the
steep
the underlying meaning was that he
wished to murder his father and commit
incest with his mother?
The Freudian theory may easily be
countered, if one chooses to argue it, by
the opinions of Jung and his followers,
who would say that, although Words-
worth’s mountains might have symbolised
his father, they also symbolised his ances-
tors and the gods. Which, of course,
puts us right back where we were before
Freud first came down like a wolf on
the fold ; for if we agree with Jung that
Wordsworth spoke for “the gods,” we
might just as well admit that the poet
himself, who never doubted that he was
divinely inspired, was right all along. The
Freudian concept is interesting enough
from the viewpoint of psychology as pos-
sibly explaining the mechanism of poetry
but it can tell us nothing of any real
value, as Freud himself finally admitted,
about the source of poetry. From the
literary viewpoint, the matter is simply
not worth arguing. The Freudians offer
their little “explanation” about the dear
old father-complex, Wordsworth offers
the challenge of a heart filled with the
terror or triumph of the gods:
Not for these I raise
The song of thanks and praise:
But for those obstinate questionings
Of sense and outward things;
Fallings from us, vanishings;
Blank misgivings of a Creature
Moving about in worlds not realised.
High instincts before which our mortal Nature
Did tremble like a guilty Thing surprised;
But for those first affections,
Those shadowy recollections,
Which, be they what they may,
Are yet the fountain light of all our day,
Are yet a master light of all our seeing;
Uphold us, cherish, and have power to make
Our noisy years seem moments in the being
Of the eternal Silence; truths that wake,
To perish never;
Which neither listlessness, nor mad endeavor,
Nor Man nor Boy,
Nor all that is at enmity with joy.
Can utterly abolish or destroy!
Hence in a season of calm weather
Though inland far we be.
Our Souls have sight of that immortal sea
Which brought us hither,
Can in a moment travel thither,
And see the Children sport upon the shore,
And hear the mighty waters rolling evermore.
How limited and how degrading is a
concept of art that sees upon such lofty
snows of poetry only the irrelevant toad
of a “father-complex”! And yet, absurd
and pitifully meagre as it is, the Freudian
concept has penetrated everywhere into
modern art, making pictures ugly, poetry
obscure, criticism ridiculous and excus-
ing all its manifest pettinesses by the
stock phrase “Yes, but at least it is in-
teresting!” The hookworm is also
“interesting” scientifically, but it does
not rank high as a work of art. At the
moment the Freudian concept is making
some headway in Australia, so that one
finds an art critic seriously lamenting
that there is too much joy and meaning
in Australian painting and not enough
melancholia; and one finds in the Sep-
tember “Southerly” a critic seriously
puzzling himself about the possible mean-
ings of the poems of a very young man
who is exploring his very young soul at
one of our universities. (In case this
should be interpreted as an attack on
“Southerly” or a condemnation of a
poet who is still much too young to be
condemned, it should be made clear that
the magazine is recognised as the most
promising critical medium in the coun-
try; and that, having abounding energy,
considerable command of language and
the courage to seek for his own way of
writing, the poet may do very well indeed
when he learns that what he likes to call
“biology” and “creating the Myth” are
simply the normal interests of all young
poets—love, and reforming the world.)
On those writers who have wholly or
partly surrendered to the personal escape
in our time, Freud has had an effect so
devastating that the harm far outweighs
any advantage they may have obtained
in a clearer insight into human character.
Taken without the snigger that usually
accompanies it, the Freudian concept of
life, of art, of man and of the super-
natural is—as the quotations from
Scarfe and Wordsworth have surely
demonstrated extraordinarily limited ;
taken with the snigger (“Somebody has
said that the ‘Magnetic Mountain’ was
Auden”) it is degrading. Again limited
and degrading is the definition of the
artist as “a social misfit who tries to
reconcile himself with society through his
art.” Abdicating to that monstrous lie.
what artist could hope to produce major
works? Really believing it, what artist,
for very shame, could function at all?
Chief among those who have accepted
the Freudian degradation (or professed
to have accepted it) Mr. Scarfe lists
W. H. Auden, and, as the emergence of
Auden’s verse is the most sensational
event in the world of poetry since Eliot
wrote “The Waste Land” (not the most
important event, which was Eliot’s ac-
ceptance of duality in Murder in the
Cathedral), his case is worth considering.
Auden is essentially too good a poet ever
to have completely surrendered either to
the Leftist or the Freudian escapes, but
he has made so many temporary conces-
sions to the creeds that his verse is a
museum of the most entertaining idiocies
of both. In his verse play “The Ascent
of F. 6,” as Mr. Scarfe points out, the
übiquitous CEdipus-complex turnip-
headed apparition stalking the night of
how many contemporary poems, novels
and paintings! —bows again to the “inter-
ested” public.
A major theme in “The Ascent of F. 6”
is the mother-fixation or (Edipus-eomplex,
which, far from reaching the heights of
sublimity one might expect, is presented
in a somewhat contemptible and ridiculous
light.
Although in his own verse Mr. Scarfe
has progressed from what he admits was
the “illness” of surrealism to the clear,
heroic acceptance of the very fine poem
about an airman by which he is repre-
sented in Tambimuttu’s Poetry in War-
time —
Climb, Icarus, higher: the Sun will stand still
to greet you,
The world turn its shoulder, the Moon give
a friendlier stare:
It is only your courage can break your wild
heart and break you—
he is not yet prepared, as a critic, whole-
heartedly to condemn the Freudian view-
point. Auden and After amounts as a
whole to an uneasy realisation that there
might be such a thing as commonsense
and that, contrary to long belief, com-
monsense might have something to do
with poetry. Still hoping that a philo-
sophy which explains away all the hero-
ism of men of action as a sublimation
of incestuous desires (the hero of Auden’s
play is a mountaineer) might “reach the
heights of sublimity” he cannot quite
bring himself to admit that the produc-
tions of such a viewpoint are necessarily
“contemptible and ridiculous.” Critical
honesty forces him to the conclusions,
however, that
The weakness of Auden's psychology is
that it is too often based on sweeping
generalisations. The pseudo-psychology
by which disease is represented purely as
a defence-mechanism and selfishness leads
Auden very often to treat suffering cruelly
as though it were a joke.
He cannot accept Auden’s defence of the
Freudian definition of the artist as “a
crank,” and he believes
Auden, like most of us, was also too
ready to accept the overemphasis on sex
for which we must blame all lay disciples
of Freud.
If he had followed the Freudian trail
further, Mr. Scarfe might have realised
that Auden’s “toughness,” his obscurity
and his eschewing of “poetic” words (the
use of which by Stephen Spender the
critic sensibly defends) are the result of
the fear and shame with which Freud
infected the intellectuals who chose to
submit to him. Freudian theory in itself
contains no stigma ; but Freudian theory
applied to art has always had the stigma
added, so that poets in our time have been
afraid to write naturally on the great
traditional themes of love, landscape or
heroic action lest they should reveal to
the sniggers of the sophisticated some
dire secret of the subconscious. All
Auden’s jeering, all his toughness, all his
obscurity, all his seeming irresponsibility
may be traced to this fear of saying the
wrong thing according to Freud.
Writers and artists who have used Freud
to escape the burden of true creation
have thus found themselves driven to the
most frantic efforts to escape Freud. Like
the Old Man of the Sea, Freud clings to
their shoulders in the dark labyrinths of
the personality, direful, malevolent,
accusing the artist himself of the identical
“complexes” which it amused him so
much to detect in ordinary humanity. If
the avoidance of all mention of love, of
the moon, of trees, water, mountains,
friendship and heroism unaccountably
fails to produce the major art expected ;
and if the great debunkers are them-
selves debunked by every word they
write, there is perhaps one last glorious
escape from both art and Freud: and
that is to be so sternly unintelligible that
not Freud himself, let alone the ordinary
critic, could have the faintest idea what
you are talking about.
Surely it is the twofold desire of escap-
ing from art and escaping from Freud
that has begotten the most difficult, the
most “sophisticated,” the most unintelli-
gible art of our time. The vulgar dis-
plays of private erudition in “The Waste
Land,” in Pound’s “Cantos” and in
Auden’s latest poem, New Year Letter;
Gertrude Stein’s prattling, as of an idiot
child ; and, worse than any, the escape
into a private language as in Joyce's
Finnegans Wake and the early poems of
Dylan Thomas —all these which we find
“interesting” are merely, in the aggra-
vated form of unintelligibility, those
“allegories of the state of one’s own
mind” which Matthew Arnold rightly
judged to be an escape into inferior art.
(To be concluded.)
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“F.S.”: Art-lovers in Melbourne feel
somewhat baffled about the difference
between the city’s two societies which
call themselves “Contemporary.” There
are the same cerulean nudes, houses tot-
tering to destruction and plans and speci-
fications of the workings of the uncon-
scious in the current show of the Mel-
bourne Contemporary Artists at the
Athenaeum as there were in the Contem-
porary Group’s show a few weeks pre-
viously.
Sydney XV Group says stern words
about “modernism” (meaning that young
daredevil “S. M. Herald”) in the cata-
logue of its current show, but the pictures
of the XV (swollen now to XXVII by
converts) speak for themselves-r-even
George Finey’s extravaganzas are under-
standable. The exhibition includes top-
quality work by Norman Lindsay, Syd
Long, Fred Leist and Albert Sherman.
H. A. Hanke excels himself in the
effectively-posed figure study “La Petite
Parisienne” ; Percy Lindsay says more in
four little canvases than some painters
much better advertised can say in four
acres ; Howard Ashton paints marvellous
skies and yet maintains interest in his
foregrounds, and Erik Langker, H. Gallop
and J. R. Jackson keep the flag of con-
ventional landscape flying. G. K. Towns-
hend dominates the water-color section.
John Frith’s character models provide a
grin.
Direction of Sydney's latest A.B.C
orchestral concert was switched back
to that very able conductor Percy
Code. The A.B.C. must sit up o' nights
devising permutations of its four or five
conductors that will prevent any one of
them having charge of the same orchestra
for two consecutive concerts.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’
“Truth in Advertising”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
119th Year of Service
\)C$
-vO'
m
[o°,
pt*
mm
~m\
m
PP
fcl
o
IK
Practical
Preparations
by Famous
Makers
n
m
W,.
0
m
v
■:
tZ
n
w
SS»!
£T
■
Dubarry’s “Vanessa” Toilet Soap
A well known and popular product, boxed in
threes. At Anthony Horderns’. Price 3/9
Dubarry’s Talcum Powder
Absolutely pure-, delicately perfumed, and pre-
sented in attractive opalescent container. At
Anthony Horderns’. Price 4/6
“Crepe Myrtle” Dusting Powder
Direct from Peggy Prince, of London, and packed
in attractive Mirror Trinket Box. At Anthony
Horderns’.- Price 17/6
Potter and Moore’s Gift Sets
Neat boxing of Perfume and Talc. Obtainable in
Carnation, Violet, Frangipanni, and Lily of the
Valley. At Anthony Horderns’. Price 6/2
Corrinne Gift Set
Containing “66” Eau de Cologne Face Powder, Rose Cream Powder
Base, and Lipstick. At Anthony Horderns’. Price 13/3
Kathleen Court
Presents “Facial Youth” Cream and Face Powder in a pleasing setting.
At Anthony Horderns’. Price 4/6
Bourjois “Evening in Paris” Toilet Soap
A great favourite that is always acceptable. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, box 2/11
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


A GOOD DAY’S WORK
By E. O. SCHLUNKE.
THE noise of
the wi n d
woke Charlie
about mid-
night. He heaved
a sigh of thank-
fulness because it would relieve him of
the obligation to cart a load of water
from the dam for his wife’s vegetable
garden. She had been worrying him con-
siderably because the old windmill had
not been keeping up a sufficient supply,
but in a blow like this it would soon fill
the tank even though it worked at only
half efficiency.
He was settling himself to sleep again
when his wife stirred. Presently she
turned and prodded him. “Better get up
and see if the tank is full; we don’t want
it flowing over and wasting.”
“It’s not full yet,” Charlie assured her.
“The wind has only just started. It will
take till morning to fill.”
The wind continued to blow violently.
It worried Mrs. Charlie, and she worried
Charlie. Every few minutes, or so it
seemed to him, she woke him and de-
manded that he go to see if the tank
was full. When morning dawned he got
up early to have a look.
“You needn’t have worried,” he told
her through the window ; “the tank is still
empty. The pump shaft is broken.”
Mrs. Charlie gave a great wail. “All
that good wind wasted. You’ll have to
get a load op the cart this morning.”
“I think I can fix the pump,” Charlie
assured her, “and it’s still windy.”
At the breakfast-table they debated the
question. Charlie determined to fix the
pump rather than perform the hard and
tedious work of baling water out of the
dam into a tank on the cart. The shaft
had broken off just where it screwed into
the pump socket. It would be necessary
to cut a new thread, but unfortunately
Charlie had no die. He set out for Cook’s
place to borrow one before his wife could
take advantage of the new situation.
/-'HARLIE had not gone far along the
road when he saw a small mob of
sheep approaching, and when he came
nearer he recognised Crowder, the
butcher, driving them. All the lines on
Crowder’s face were pencilled in with
worry. He greeted Charlie in a pre-
occupied manner and came quite close
up to him as if he didn’t want the sheep
to hear what he was going to talk about.
“Could you help me count these sheep?”
he asked. “.When I counted them just
now there was one less than I paid for.”
Charlie had always classified Crowder
as a “mean, fussy old coot.” “I’m doing
an urgent job for the wife,” he said, “and
I don’t want to lose any tirtie.”
But Crowder was already making
arrangements for the count. “You stand
here and steady them as they run past
me. My dogs will bring them along,” he
said. “You’d better tie yours up.”
“Not on your life ; we might need a
decent dog,” Charlie said, giving Bingo
an affectionate pat on the head.
Bingo joined Crowder’s dogs at the rear
and did his share. Most of the sheep had
been counted when an old ewe bailed up
on the dogs. Bingo sailed in and bit her
hard on the back leg. The terrified ewe
made a blind rush to get away, crashed
into and through the fence and streaked
off across Brewster’s paddock.
“Don’t worry,” said Charlie, “Bingo will
b'-ing her back. Go way back, Bingo.”
Bingo went “way back,” but too far.
It seemed that, having offended once
against the sheep-dog’s book of rules, he
determined not to do it again. He col-
lected all the sheep in the paddock. They
were big, rangy wethers- and they came
on the run. They crashed into the fence
where the ewe had weakened it, and half
a dozen tumbled through and mixed
themselves with Crowder’s mob.
Charlie at last got Bingo to listen to
him, rounded up Crowder’s mob against
the fence and tried to catch some of the
wethers. But the fence had been tried
too severely. Several panel lengths fell
over, and half of Crowder’s sheep poured
through to join Brewster’s wethers. Then
Charlie noticed a streak of dust stretch-
ing rapidly across Brewster’s paddock.
“Here’s Brewster coming to see what in
blazes you’re doing to his sheep. I’ll
leave the job to you two. I really haven’t
time to give you any more help.”
CHARLIE had gone about two miles
farther when he saw that something
untoward was happening at the foot of
the steep hill ahead of him. He soon re-
cognised the ten-foot header which Clem
Dyason had bought at McDougal’s sale.
Old Bailey had apparently been sent to
bring it home.
Old Bailey was in great distress. “I
told him I couldn’t manage the job, but
he said I had to,” he complained to
Charlie. “The horses won’t pull it up
the hill, and if they did get part of the
way up the header would run back when
I stopped to give them a spell, and I’d
have a terrible accident.”
Charlie laughed at his fears. “You
walk beside the big wheel, and when you
want to stop you jam a fair-sized stone
under the back,” he explained.
“I couldn’t manage that,” the old man
quavered. So Charlie fastened his hack
to the back of the header with the bridle
reins, took the reins of Bailey’s team and
showed him how it was done.
But Bailey was not prepared to carry
on ; he just let the job fall into Charlie’s
hands. Charlie thought of Mrs. Charlie’s
vegetable garden ; then thought of old
Bailey and decided to divide the hill into
six stages. At the third he didn’t get
the stone right under the wheel, and the
machine rolled back a foot. It wouldn’t
have mattered if Charlie’s hack had not
been pressing impatiently right up
against the back of the header, so that
the top of the grain box hit it hard
in the eye. Barney was hurt and badly
frightened. He pulled back hard on the
reins; so hard that he pulled the header
back over the stone. That scared him
even more. Once having given ground the
horses in front could not recover against
the gathering momentum and Barney’s
frantic tugging.
Old Bailey yelled and ran for safety.
Charlie jumped on to the machine and
steered it into a gutter at the side of the
road. The header was undamaged, but
the gutter was so deep that the horses
could not pull it out again.
“We need another horse,” said Charlie ;
“these two will never do it.” So they
set off to borrow a horse from a farmer
who lived just over the hill. Bailey had
dropped all pretence of responsibility
and just left everything to Charlie.
When they topped the rise Charlie gave
a cheer. “This will save us some trouble,”
he said.
Bailey peered about shortsightedly.
“There’s a horse,” said Charlie, “and
we can use the harness Dyason bought
with the header.”
“Do you think it’s safe to use a strange
horse?” Bailey doubted.
“I know this horse,” said Charlie. “It
belongs to Jenkins. He bought it from
McDougal two years ago.”
“If it belongs to Jenkins,” said Bailey,
“why is it straying about the roads?”
Charlie admitted this was strange, but
still determined to use the horse. They
harnessed it with the others and man-
aged to pull the header out of the gutter.
They got going again up the hill. Charlie
obliged Bailey to take the reins while he
gave his undivided attention to chocking
the wheel. The borrowed horse pulled
very well; in fact, rather too willingly,
because at the end of the first stage it
was seen to stagger slightly from ex-
haustion.
“Two more pulls and we’re there,”
said Charlie.
They set off again, but when they
arrived at the end of the next stage
Bailey, fearful of a possible mishap, dis-
regarded Charlie and urged the horses
on to complete the distance to the top of
the hill. Charlie warned him, but his
fears made him reckless. He belted the
willing horse until it fairly heaved the
machine upwards. They reached the top
and were just about to congratulate each
other when the borrowed horse stag-
gered and collapsed on the roadway.
Bailey’s fears returned and fairly over-
whelmed him. He was instantly certain
that the horse was dead, and that they
would have to pay for it.
Charlie examined the body with prac-
tised skill. “He’s dead all right, from
heart failure,” he said. “Poor old fellow ;
he was a willing puller.”
But Bailey was more sorry for himself
than the horse. “What are we going to
do about it?” he asked in helpless panic.
“Earn a pound,” said Charlie brightly.
“I’ll bet that Jenkins sold this horse, and
whoever bought it wouldn’t pay for it
when he found out what was wrong, but
just turned it out on the road. Now we
can ring up the Shire Council, tell them
we’ve found a dead horse that doesn’t
belong to anybody and offer to burn it
for the usual quid. I could do with a
pound and some dinner, too,”
“I’ve got some dinner,” said Bailey,
“but I couldn’t eat anything with this
hanging over me.”
Charlie ate Bailey’s dinner while they
decided to take the bold course. They
even postponed telephoning the shire
office until they had done the job. “They
won’t be able to make any other arrange-
ments then,” said Charlie.
By the time they had piled sufficient
wood on the corpse the afternoon was
well advanced. Bailey went on his
timorous way, after magnanimously
granting Charlie his share of the Shire
Council’s pound. Charlie called at a
house on the way to Cook’s and
telephoned the shire office. The only
person there was a small boy with a
complete ignorance of the procedure in
connection with dead horses. Char ie
explained the situation, then cantere on
to Cook’s to get the thread-cu er
wood *Sn *he ho°rse then hurried oft
because it was getting late. Just as he was
turning oft the road he saw a large motor-
lorry belonging to the Shire Council com-
ing down the hill ahead of him. It was
loaded with firewood and there were
three men in the cab. Charlie wondered
if perhaps they were looking for a dead
horse, but he thought how urgently Mrs.
Charlie’s vegetable garden needed water,
so he didn’t wait till they came up. Ex-
planations could be made some other time.
"F HE sun was nearly setting when
1 Charlie reached home. Mrs. Charlie
urged him to cart a load of water, since
he could never
expect to get the
mill going in time
to provide water
that night, but
Charlie was not
to be deflected after all the trouble
he had taken. He got to work,
had a new thread cut and the mill
reassembled by the time it was dark. He
j ia( j been rather disturbed to see how
rust y and corroded the shaft was, and
how faulty the thread he had contrived
Cld However, there was still a strong
wind, so he swung the mill into gear.
The wheel spun round, began to labor
as he water flowed through I.then. sud-
denly it rotated freely and ineffectively
as it had done in the morning. Ihe
shaft had broken again,
Mrs. Charlie was there watching, and
s be was near to tears. “It isn’t fair that
m y pi an ts should have to die after all
wor ]£ five put into the garden.”
C harlie admitted that it was not. He
& Jant a couple of horses into
fiUed a two . hundre d-gallon
tank with water. Then he bucketed it
out again and gave Mrs. Charlie s garden
a thorough watering.
THE SHARED DOG
By Z. V. WEBB.
IT was nearing sunset and there was
still no sign of Bundoon. The last
man I had met on the road had put
the distance down as three miles,
but I’d walked a good four miles since
then. I was thinking breakfast would be
my next meal when I saw the smoke of a
fire by the roadside ahead and picked
up my feet a bit.
As I came nearer I found there were
two fires, one about twenty yards beyond
the other. A dog barked and I called
“Hullo, there!”
An answer came from the darkness
near the first fire: “Hullo, mate! ” And
then, like an echo, from the second:
“Hullo, mate!”
I stood at the edge of the road. An
old, weather-beaten man with a com-
plexion like mahogany and with a bat-
tered felt hat pulled over a thatch of
thick, greying hair was squatting by the
first fire grilling chops on a framework
of wire.
“How far is it to Bundoon?” I asked.
He sat back on his heels. “Bundoon?
Aw, I reckon it’s a matter of three miles.”
“Three miles?” I said. “Why, a farmer
about four miles back told me it was
three miles from there.”
The old man rocked to and fro on his
heels. “Y’ don’t want t’ take any notice
o’ them cockies.”
“If y’ want t’ get t’ Bundoon, mate,
it’s a matter of two an’ a half miles by
the road.” The voice came from the
further campfire.
“Don’t listen t’ him, mate,” said the
first man in a hissing aside. “He don’t
know what he’s talking about.” He
raised his voice, “Three miles, mate ;
that’s what it is.”
Like the whisper of a wraith came the
call from the further fire: “Two an’ a
half.”
“Anyhow,” I said, looking from one
to the other, “I’ve had enough for today.”
The old chap at the fire below me
turned over the chops. The dog squat-
ting beside him licked its mouth from
side to side. “Y’ better camp here for
the night, mate. Come an’ have a taste
of these chops.”
Before I could answer the voice came
from the further fire: “There’s some
stew here, mate, if you’d like it.”
Apparently the two old chaps were con-
ducting a feud of some kind. I did not
want to offend either. I turned towards
the further camp. “This chap asked me
to share his chops,” I called. “Perhaps
you’ll let me have a mug of your tea.”
“Just as y’ like.”
The chops were good. We ate them
together, the old man and I, and as we
ate we yarned as if the man at the other
fire did not exist. The dog trotted from
one camp to the other, getting a scrap
here, a bone there.
After a while I went over to the second
fire.
“Y’ won’t beat my billy tea,” the man
greeted me. He was a long, lean, sandy-
haired old man, with bony cheeks that
reminded me of the sides of an ancient
cow whose ribs threaten to break through
the hide. He poured the tea from his
battered black billy into an equally shape-
less mug. We talked, and the man at the
other fire might have been miles away.
WHEN I settled down for the night, I
took care to make my bunk halfway
between the two camps. Each of the old
chaps lent me a blanket, but neither came
within a chain of the other.
I wondered what the dog would do.
It looked from one fire to the other, then
settled at the warmer, which happened
to be that of the sandy-haired man. But
when I woke at dawn he was curled up
at the dying embers of the other fire.
The grey-haired old man had the billy
boiling by the time I got back from a
wash at the creek. “Y’ can have y’r tea
as soon as y’ like,'’ he said.
I glanced at the other man. “Do y’ like
y’r eggs hard or soft?” he asked as he
dropped eggs, one after another, into his
billy.
“Er —medium, thanks.”
As I drank the hot, black tea I felt sorry
for the two obstinate old men. “Why
can’t you two be friends?” I asked.
The little old man emptied his mug
and wiped the back of his hand across
his mouth. “Sick of each other,” he said.
“Suppose we were together too long.”
“Then, wouldn’t it be better to get
right away from one another?”
The old chap shook his head. “We
can’t. There’s the dog.”
“Who owns him?”
“We both do. Last year it was we
decided t’ go our own ways, and the
one that Spot followed could keep him.
But it didn’t work.”
“How was that?”
“Well, we set off on a long road. Back
of Junee, it was. I went north an’ Bill
went south.”
“And whom did Spot follow?”
“He followed me. I was almost sorry
for Bill. But when I got to the top of
the hill and turned around Spot was
going hell-f’r-leather down the hill after
Bill. I went on, and that night I was
just turning into me blankets when who
should smell me out but Spot. Fair done
up he was. I give him a drink and some
tucker, and then he lay down and slept
like a log. But when I woke in the morn-
ing he was gone.”
“Back to Bill, I suppose?”
The old man nodded.
“I could see the going was too hot
for Spot, so I packed up me swag and
set off back the way I’d come. Close up
to where we’d parted I meets Bill,
coming towards me. And at his heels was
Spot, not half glad to have us two to-
gether again. Bill and me had to camp
for a couple of days just where we was,
until Spot got rested. When we pulled
out, we went in the same direction. Tossed
a penny to see which way we d go. We
couldn’t do nothing else.”
“I suppose not,” I said.
I BREAKFASTED with Bill, while Spot
1 patronised both camps. As soon as
the meal was over the old men packed.
They were making along the way I had
come. As I moved off along the road
to Bundoon, I looked back at them.
Bill, his swag on his shoulder, his billy
in his hand, was swinging on his way. A
chain behind, his mate kept the same
steady pace. And, running first at one
man’s heels, then the other’s, was the
dog that kept the partnership together.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63. —No. 3276.
Wednesday, November 25, 1942.
THE CURTIN TOUCH.
"Nail my signal for close action to the mast! But not this year, comrade. The boys have decided that we must have seven
conferences before we start.”


The Bulletin
TVie National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors;
K. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London ; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THE WHIRLIGIG OF TIME...
“What is happening to Mr. Curtin hap-
pened to. me a quarter of a century ago/'
said Mr. W. M. Hughes with that impish
smile of his. He left it at that; and, since
there are those who have forgotten and
those who have never learned what hap-
pened to Mr. Hughes, a brief chronicle
of the events in which he was the princi-
pal actor may be appended. It may be
useful for purposes of comparison, if not
for the completion of a parallel:
July 15, 1915. —Introducing a War Census
Bill, Mr. Hughes made it clear that the measure
did not contemplate conscription —“I do not
believe conscription is necessary.”
September 24, 1915—He concurs in Mr.
Fisher’s statement on the Government’s atti-
tude to conscription: “I am irrevocably opposed
to it, and I am sure my colleagues are.”
October 27, 1915. —Becoming P.M., Mr.
Hughes announces that “Ministers consider it
vital that there shall be no departure from the
policy laid down by the Fisher Administration.”
January 16, 1916. —He leaves for Britain.
July 31, 1916—He returns to Australia, to
find the Army Council threatening to break up
the 3rd A.I.F. Division unless the Government
supplied reinforcements far in excess of en-
listments —6582 in June and 6170 in July. On
the strength of his guarded speeches the
“Worker” (Sydney) says he will decide against
conscription. He is reminded of a Parliamentary
statement he made in 1915: “In no circum-
stances would I agree to send men out of this
country to fight against their will.”
August 31, 1916. —Conscription referendum
announced. (“If the majority of the people
approve, compulsion will be applied to the
extent that voluntarism fails.”)
September 14, 1916. —Referendum Bill intro-
duced (carried in the House by 46 to 10 and
in the Senate by 19 to 9, the Noes being all
Labor members). Customs Minister Tudor re-
signs, ~. .
October 27, 1916.—Three other Ministers
(Treasurer Higgs and Senators Gardiner and
Russell) resign. .
October 28, 1916. —Conscription defeated in
N.S.W., Queensland and S.A.; No majority,
72,746.
Nov. 14, 1916. —Two more Ministers (Mr.
Mahon and Mr. O’Malley) resign. Motion to
depose Mr. Hughes as party leader moved in
Caucus. He walks out, followed by 23 of the
65 gentlemen present: “derisive but aston-
ished” cheer heard outside the room; within,
“a scene of confusion, the air blue with
tobacco smoke.” From the ranks of the faith-
ful (all expelled by A.L.P. executives) he forms
another Labor Government.
November 15, 1916—Asked to join with the
Liberals in forming a new party, Mr. Hughes
replies: “I do not favor the suggestion; I
propose to form a new Labor party.”
February 17, 1917.—Mr. Hughes joins with
the Liberals in forming a Nationalist Ministry.
May 5, 1917—General election; Hughes
Nationalist Government returned with majorities
of 12 in the Senate and 33 in the House. Mr.
Hughes becomes member for Bendigo, having
quitted West Sydney, which returns a Labor
candidate.
November 7, 1917—A.1.F. enlistments having
fallen below 3000 a month, Mr. Hughes an-
nounces another conscription referendum, com-
pulsion •to be enforced against single men,
widowers and divorcees to the extent to which
voluntary enlistments fail to reach 7000 a
month. “I tell you plainly,” he said, “that
the Government must have this power; it can-
not govern the country without it, and will
not attempt to do so.”
November 29, 1917—Warwick egg thrown at
Mr. Hughes. It misses him, but “hatches out
the Commonwealth police.”
December 20, 1917. —Conscription defeated
in four States—No, 1.181,747; Yes, 1,015,159.
January 3, 1918. —The Nationalist party “ex-
presses its continued confidence' in Mr.
Hughes.”
January 8, 1918. —Mr. Hughes tenders his
resignation to the Governor-General but offers
no advice as to who shall be asked to form
an Administration. The G.-G. sees seven
other gentlemen, among them John Forrest,
who offers to form a Government. Offer
declined, and Mr. Hughes forms the “fourth
Hughes and the second Nationalist Ministry.”
In 1902 Mr. Hughes made, the first
Parliamentary speech that came from the
Labor benches in advocacy of compul-
sory military training, and he was a
member of the Labor Government (first
Fisher) that embodied the principle in a
bill, also of the Labor Government
(second Fisher) that brought the pro-
visions into force. He remained constant
to compulsory military training until
September, 1929, when he joined with the
members of his old party, Mr. Curtin
and Mr. Beasley among them, in defeat-
ing the Nationalist-Country party Gov-
ernment that stood for compulsory mili-
tary training ; and he made no remem-
bered protest when the succeeding Labor
Government “suspended” it.
Until circumstances proved too strong
for him Mr. Curtin was just as constant
in opposition to compulsory military
training. Jauncey records in his Story
of Conscription in Australia that Mr.
Curtin was a member of a Melbourne
Trades Hall deputation which protested
to Senator Pearce, then Minister of
Defence, against “working-class boys
having to drill on Saturday afternoons
while others did not.” Mr. Curtin “could
not understand why a Government placed
in power by the working classes should
take away any, of the leisure time that
those classes had obtained after years of
struggle.” The Minister replied that “no
class distinction of any kind appeared in
the Defence Act,” and that he himself
had “submitted a scheme for drill in
working hours,” but “Hughes had replied
that the Commonwealth did not have
the power to make it an offence for an
employer to deduct pay for time lost in
training.”
This rooted objection to compulsion in
any but the trade-union form Mr. Curtin
carried to Westralia. He was not in that
State when the Westralians registered
their magnificent 1916 vote (94,069 to
40,884) for conscription, but he supported
his party with tongue and pen in the
1917 Federal election campaign, which
saw the W.A. electors repeat their con-
scription vote, returning all the Nation-
alist candidates —three Senators and five
Representatives. Mr. Curtin was also
one of those present at the second con-
scription referendum, when the Wes-
tralian figures were 84,116 for and
46,522 against. Those were sad days for
Mr. Curtin, and although Jauncey wrote
in his book, published in 1935, that “to-
day anti-conscriptionists in the West ex-
press their gratitude to their fellows in the
Eastern States for making it impossible
to saddle their State with the burden of
conscription,” Mr. Curtin may be prone
to remember rather that “anti-conscrip-
tionists in Westralia faced hostile audi-
ences and braved many stormy meet-
ings.” In any case the local gratitude
wasn’t sufficient to secure his election for
Perth in 1919 or for Fremantle in 1925.
He became member for Fremantle in
1928, but lost his seat in 1931.
In June, 1918, Mr. Curtin was a
delegate to the A.L.P. Conference in
Perth. That was the conference at which
the delegates resolved “unanimously,”
after giving an awe-stricken account of
the things that were happening overseas,
that “a complete military victory by the
Allies over the Central Powers, if possible,
can only be accomplished by the further
sacrifice of millions of human lives” and
urged that “immediate negotiations be
initiated for an international conference
for the purpose of arranging equitable
terms of peace.” There was another
regulation dealing with recruiting.
Further participation in recruiting shall be
subject to the following conditions: (a) That
a clear and authoritative statement be made on
behalf of the Allies, asserting their readiness
to enter into peace negotiations upon the basis
of no annexations and no penal indemnities;
( b ) that Australia’s requirements in man-power
be ascertained and met with respect to (1)
home defence, (2) industrial requirements; an
immediate inquiry, upon which the Australian
Labor party shall be adequately and officially
represented, to be held, and its decisions to be
immediately given effect to.
Provided that this determination shall be
immediately submitted by each State [A.L.P.]
executive, under the direction of the Federal
A.L.P. executive, with a recommendation from
this conference for its adoption, to a referen-
dum of members of all [A.L.P.] branches and
affiliated organisations, and shall become
operative upon a majority of the votes of those
voting being cast in the affirmative, the ballot
to close not later than November 1 next. In
the event of the Commonwealth Government
interfering with the conduct of the ballot, the
foregoing decision as to recruiting shall there-
upon be immediately operative.
No part of this amazing plan ever
“became operative.” The reactions of
some of the anti-conscription Labor
members, A.L.P. branches and trade-
unions were so hostile as to threaten
another party split, and the gloomy anti-
cipations of the Perth projectors were
shattered by triumphs in France, Flanders
and Palestine, in which the Australian
divisions, though battle-worn and, for
lack of reinforcements which conscrip-
tion would have furnished, fighting below
strength, bore an immortal part. By the
time “the ballot to close not later than
November 1” was to have been taken,
the “complete military victory by the
Allies over the Central Powers” dis-
missed at Perth as a possibility not to be
contemplated without horrible thoughts
of the losses involved had been gloriously
consummated.
Perhaps some of the authors of the
Perth resolutions have contrived to banish
them from their minds. But September
20, 1939, found Mr. Curtin and his sup-'
porters in the House, 10 of his present
Ministers among them, voting for a Ward
measure making it illegal to send con-
scripts to “overseas territory,” “over-
seas territory” being defined as “any ter-
ritory of the Commonwealth which is
not within the limits of the continent of
Australia.” And the impression remains
that time is of no consequence
in war, and that military decisions
may properly be shaped by and can await
the pleasure of civilians banded in Labor-
party organisations and not responsible
to the people. It was in full working
order at Melbourne last week when the
Prime Minister asked the Federal A.L.P.
Conference to sanction the amalgamation
of the A.I.F. and the A.M.F. and an
amendment of the Defence Act such as
will empower the Government to send
militia forces beyond Papua and New
Guinea to “such other territories in the
South-west Pacific area as the Governor-
General proclaims as territories asso-
ciated with the defence of Australia.”
So it is not to be thought that Mr. Curtin
has learned nothing since September, 1939.
He has learned much from the perilous
position in which Australia was placed
by the swift Japanese conquests and
from his association with General Mac-
Arthur. He realises that no general,
least of all a MacArthur, can be expected
to acquiesce in an arrangement which
divides the Australian army into two
parts, one of which must not be sent
where he may want to send it. As a
Westralian, proud of his State and its
valorous people, Mr. Curtin must have
a lively consciousness of the position in
Timor, a natural jumping-off place for
an invasion of North Westralia, bombed
night after night by General MacArthur]s
airmen, yet forbidden ground to his
militiamen while the geographical bar-
riers in the Defence Act remain. And
grateful for American support and ex-
pectant of more —not only during the war
but afterwards —Mr. Curtin sees clearly
that American public opinion, however
generous, will not long tolerate a posi-
tion in which American soldiers may be
sent to fight, and many to die —as many
have died —anywhere in the Pacific or in
the world while Australian soldiers not
in the A.I.F. are confined by law to the
Commonwealth and its territories.
But Mr. Curtin was treated, not as the
leader of a nation still threatened with in-
vasion and engaged with a generous ally
in the grand joint enterprise of saving it
and beating the enemy back to Japan,
but merely as an A.L.P. delegate from
Westralia. As an A.L.P. delegate from
Westralia he was bound by A.L.P. “prin-
ciples,” one of which (reaffirmed at the
conference) is that the Labor party,
however dire the extremity, must not be
represented in a national Government,
and by A.L.P. rules designed to keep
elected persons in subjection to non-
elected persons. One of these rules pro-
hibited him from moving for A.L.P.
“authority” to introduce the Defence Act
amendments in Parliament except by per-
mission of “a two-thirds majority of
conference.” Permission was sought and
granted, the voting being 28 to eight. Mr.
Lang has gleefully placed it on record
that one of the eight was Senator Donald
Cameron, the Minister for Aircraft Pro-
duction —and what a Minister! —and
another Mr. Calwell, M.H.R. for Mel-
bourne, a member with a loose tongue
and a sore head.
Doubtless swallowing hard, the Prime
Minister presented his motion and
Senator Fraser, the Minister Assisting
the Minister for the Army (that gentle-
man was not a delegate), seconded it.
But outright support came only from
Mr. Cooper, the Premier of Queensland.
Mr. Calwell was hostile; so was Mr.
King, M.L.C., from the Sydney Trades
Hall (Mr. King darkly referred to
“rubber, tin, oil and other vested
interests remaining vested interests,
even though located in the Pacific”);
and other delegates were either un-
friendly or afraid to commit themselves.
Seeing that the motion would be lost
if put to the vote, a Mr. Davies, from
Westralia, tabled an amendment adding
to the P.M.’s motion the words “But not
before the proposal has been referred to
the State A.L.P. executives, with all the
relevant information, and that the State
A.L.P. executives be directed to call
urgent special meetings” and report to “a
special conference” commissioned to
“determine the matter.” This was
apparently regarded as conceding too
much (!) to the Prime Minister. Any-
way, it was decided on the proposition of
a Mr. Walsh, from South Australia,
“that the discussion be adjourned, and
that the subject matter be referred to the
respective State A.L.P. branches to give
immediate consideration thereto with a
view to directing their delegates to a
special conference to be held not later
than the end of December.” Time being
no object, “not later than the end of
December” was altered to “on January
4.”
And that’s how the position stands.
A change required by the commander-in-
chief for the proper performance of the
high duties entrusted to him, a change
necessary to army discipline and effi-
ciency, necessary also to fulfil Australia’s
obligations to the American nation, to
which it owes lasting gratitude, and whose
championship it will need when the White
Australia policy is challenged at the peace
conference, as it was in 1919—a change
warranted by military necessity, Minis-
terial duty and national honor is to
depend on the caprices and prejudices of
a parcel of civilians collected in organi-
sations unknown to the Constitution and
themselves, for the most part, unknown
to the nation, which cannot call them
to account. It would be funny if it
were not tragic.
“Labor Must Fight Against Conscrip-
tion,” cries Mr. Lang, scenting another
party split—he has already been con-
cerned in four (1917, 1927, 1931 and
1937). If Labor does, and if the “fight”
is successful, what will Mr. Curtin do?
He would be an unhappy man, shorn
of much of his usefulness, if he had to
do what Mr. Hughes did on November
14, 1916, Nor would the nation like
to see his party separate into bitter fac-
tions again if the separation can be
avoided without sacrificing time and the
national interest and honor. But what-
ever happens to Mr. Curtin, his Govern-
ment and his party, this much is certain.
No A.L.P. conference or collection of
A.L.P. conferences will decide whether
called-up men shall stay in. Australia or
be sent wherever the military situation
calls them. That decision must and will
be made by Parliament.
Service Men's Congress.
Iso organisation in Australia has a finer
record than the Returned Sailors, Soldiers
and Airmen’s Imperial League, which
starts on its 26th annual Australia-wide
congress in Sydney this week. All through
the League has put the national interest
above every other consideration. Being
non-political, it has had no direct hand
in the assorted legislation which Aus-
tralia has tried to absorb over the past
quarter-century ; but it has had influence
to the good, mainly in seeing that re-
turned men got as decent a spin as could
be arranged.
On another main plank of its platform
it has stood strongly for improving Aus-
tralia’s defence. Because of its non-politi-
cal nature, all it could do in this respect
was urge and ?dvise. It did so at congress
after congress, through times when, politi-
cally, nothing was more unpopular. It
has advocated total conscription (the
current congress will be asked to re-
affirm this), so no doubt it would favor
the Prime Minister’s move to have the
A.I.F. and militia merged into one Aus-
tralian army, whatever it may think of
his method. In such a merger it would
probably wish to guard the A.I.F. man’s
status as a volunteer, but, because Aus-
tralia’s welfare always has been its pre-
occupation, it would, if anything, be a
jump ahead of the P.M. in appreciating
that the merger must come if the military
leaders are to have full freedom of action
in the vital job of belting the Jap back
to where he belongs.
Both the League’s defence advocacy
and the fact that this was ignored might
profitably be remembered for future
reference. If the League had been heeded
when politicians were wrecking the
country’s whole defence establishment
there would have been no need for the
urgent race against time that this second
world war enforced. Australia would
have had at least as good a defence
basis on which to build as luckily existed
when the first world war came along.
The suspension of compulsory service
midway between the wars, and the comic-
opera antics of subsequent Defence Min-
isters, staggered the League. In effect it
told them, and the Governments and
public permitting them, that they were
fools or worse ; but Ministers, Govern-
ments and public together were all con-
vinced that they knew better than the
men who had fought for them. In the
brave new world, secured by the fighting,
wars were finished for ever. Not this
League but the distant one at Geneva was
the right guiding star. Besides, defence
was costly. The League complained;
delegates to its congresses spoke bitterly.
All that resulted was that Australia s de-
fence became worse and worse.
Just now it might seem incredible that
Australia could ever again lapse into the
wide-open defericelessness that existed
when the present war started; but, look-
ing back, what Governments did and
public and newspapers sanctioned be-
tween the wars also seems incredible, jus
as it would have seemed incredible u
forecast while the last war was on and
going badly. Another lapse into aetence
lessness could occur. Any war has om>
to last long enough and a sweeping re-
action against war naturally follows, lhat


is all that really happened between the
wars; and it may happen again.
Here is where a greatly enlarged ser-
vice men’s league might, and should, come
in. On its.record in the development of
events it has been proved right, against
politicians and majority public together.
Instead of being ignored, as its advice
and urging on defence were between the
wars, it should be heard and respected
as the proved authority. Whether this is
likely when the League means to remain
non-political is an open question. It may
be left to a service men’s party to ensure
that, whatever other reductions in
national expenditure may be necessary,
defence should never again be sacrificed.
If such a party emerges after the war —
and it’s well on the cards that returned
men will then be more political than they
were last time —it could hardly do better
than shape its political platform from
the planks of the non-political League,
which, as long as it has been going, has
put Australia first, always.
PLAIN ENGLISH
American Example.
The platform on which the Republicans
fought the Congressional election, which
gave them nine more seats in the Senate
and 45 more in the House, consisted of
ten planks. In four, the party pledged
itself to give the President “loyal sup-
port” until “complete victory is won,”
to “oppose any attempts to negotiate
peace” ’and to strive for “a world under-
standing for continued peace.” The others
follow;
We pledge constant vigilance to eliminate
Goverment inefficiency.
The right and duty to criticise must be
fully exercised. »
The nation’s peril must not be exploited
by any individual or group for special
gains.
Individual freedoms must not be per-
manently surrendered in the name of the
war.
We shall insist that non-defence spend-
ing be reduced to essentials.
We oppose any use of the war effort as
an excuse for unwarranted encroachment
on free enterprise. In winning the war we
must not lose the peace.
If the U.A.P. is not too proud or
too stupid to accept a lead from the
American party which it at least dis-
tantly resembles, it should incorporate
these points in its own programme.
It would be putting it mildly to say that
in this country we have outrageous
examples of Government inefficiency, of
extravagance in “non-defence spending,”
of attacks on “individual freedoms” and
the right of criticism, of exploitation of
the nation’s peril for “special gains” and
of “unwarranted encroachment on free
enterprise,” with “the war effort as an
excuse,” All these abuses exist and more.
In America free enterprise is no longer
on the defence against doctrinaires and
Government-payroll meddlers. It now has
sturdy champions in the newspapers and
periodicals other than those given over
to the New Deal and Communism. The
sturdy champions point out that from free
enterprise and free enterprise alone have
flowed America’s vast industrial achieve-
ments and its unsurpassed production and
distribution of wealth, evidenced by the
highest wage-rates in history, and that
free enterprise, not any form of social-
ism, is producing the ships and ’planes
and munitions which are beginning to
stagger the Axis.
It was free enterprise which likewise
made Britain the world’s workshop till
rivals with greater populations and
greater resources came along, and which
enabled it to achieve miracles on the
mechanical side of its war effort after
Dunkirk. And to what but free enter-
prise, moving swiftly from a peace basis
to a war basis, can be ascribed Aus-
tralia’s own fine performance in the
manufacture of weapons, bombs, shells
and almost everything else required foi
the carrying on of the struggle, impos-
ingly illustrated by that munitions parade
in Melbourne?
Free enterprise has been hampered in
Australia by parasitic forms of politics
and trade-unionism (especially the Com-
munist variety) and by a persistent propa-
ganda of envy and greed. Concerns like
8.H.P., that tower of strength to the war
effort which has given Australia its one
successful experiment in the creation of
industry in a dead country town —doing
in that one instance more than the six
State Governments have done in 42 years
—have had literally to fight for existence.
Even now B.H.P. is threatened with
“nationalisation” whenever a Labor
Minister chooses to be nasty. Advocates
of “nationalisation” have rammed their
nostrum down the public throat many
times and in many fields, as the size of
the public debt testifies. “Socialisation”
is another quack medicine. How it
would work out the public may judge
from the words and proceedings of Mr.
Ward and Mr. Dedman and Mr. Thorn-
ton, of the Federated Ironworkers’
Union or Red racket.
Sacred Union.
General Eisenhower rose from his
chair at the conference table in Algiers.
“I* l effect then, gentlemen,” he began,
“the United Nations cordially welcome
the military collaboration of France in
North”
“Pardon, m’sieu le general,” broke in
Admiral Darlan. “You refer, of course,
to Vichy France, n’est ce pas ? The De
Gaullist pigs and traitors”
Count Clair de la Lune jumped up,
livid with fury. “Down with the Vichy
collaborators!” he cried. “Death to the
betrayers of France! ”
General Eisenhower coughed. “Now,
gentlemen”
General Polthogue jumped to his feet
and pointed at Admiral Darlan. “No
gentilhomme !” he cried passionately. “A
sewer rat, a hated co-operator with the
Boche, mais oui. Perforce 1 have agreed
to collaborate with polluted offal—gar-
ble u ! —against the common enemy,
when we can decide which is the com-
mon enemy. But a gentilhomme,
nevaire.”
Admiral Darlan leaped up, glared at
the general and shouted “Vive Petain!
Vive Vichy!”
A chair crashed as M. Flambeau got
to his feet, “Vive the new French North
African Army Regeneration Com-
mittee!” he shouted. “Death to the De
Gaullists! Death to Petain! Death to
Laval! ”
General Eisenhower rapped the
table. “Come, gentlemen,” he began
again. “Remember the sacred soil of
France”
“Over which the Cross of Lorraine
will fly when the Vichy betrayers and
murderers of France shall dance on air
from Parisian lampposts!” cried Count
Clair de la Lune.
The harsh voice of General Giraud cut
in. “Down with Petain and the Vichy col-
laborators and down with the North
African Army Regeneration Committee.
Vive the Giraudists!”
“Death to the Giraudists, Petainists,
Lavalists and De Gaullists! ” cried
Admiral Platoon, who had just arrived on
Petain’s orders. “I defy the Marshal’s
authority. Nom de nom de Dieu! It
is Vichy which has sold France body and
soul! ”
Count Clair de la Lune dashed over
and kissed the admiral on both cheeks.
“Mon grand patriot!” he cried. “Bien,
M. I’admiral, you will join the French
National Committee, then?”
“A bas!” growled the non-seagoing
seadog. “I spit upon the Lorrainist dogs!
Nom d’un petit chien ! Only one party
can save France —my own, the Croix
de Yin Blanc! I, Admiral Platoon, the
true leader of the mighty navy of
France! ” —and he bent a look of terrible
hatred on Admiral Darlan.
At this, shouts of execration arose from
all the sons of France gathered around
the table, and if the precaution hadn’t
been taken beforehand of putting paper-
weights on them all the documents would
have been blown out of the room by the
wind caused by the wild waving of
aims.
In answer to a bell an aide-de-camp
appeared. He bent as General Eisen-
hower whispered. As he departed Count
Clair de la Lune said “You are order-
ing your armies to march, General?”
The American commander passed a
hand across his brow. “No, Count,” he
said wearily. “I am ordering a dozen
aspirins for myself.”
Horselaughs.
Reporting for duty at the Flemington
operational base somewhere in Aus-
tralia, Private Cook, from Sydney,
mounted the Derby favorite, dashed to
the front in the final charge, and reached
his objective a full five lengths in
advance of the rest of the brigade.
For this feat Pte. Cook’s charger was
decorated with a blue ribbon, and Pte.
Cook with a cheque for £175, which he
handed as a gift to the Government.
This, it seems, wasn’t the only gift. A
spokesman for the stable was reported as
stating that out of the £3500 winner’s
share the net rake-off was slightly over
£l5OO. “The rest went in fees and gifts.”
To whom these gifts were made wasn’t
stated.
Regarding Pte. Cook’s presence at the
operational base in the first place many
held cynical views and their noses. They
declared that it made the Government’s
pious horseracing professions and inter-
state travel restrictions more than ridicu-
lous. They recalled the Prime Minister’s
own utterances on these matters, and
laughed outrageously at the joke of
jockey immunity.
Came Cup Day in the same operational
area, with not only Pte. Cook, from Syd-
ney, present again, but Pte. Munro, from
Sydney, also. Loud and prolonged
laughter.
The scene shifts to a racecourse which
is a training area for troops. Here when
the club’s turn to hold a meeting comes
round the war ceases. On Friday the
troops (A.1.F.) turn to and shift their
trucks, motorcycles and suchlike out into
the middle of the oval, canvas them
down and picket them. Unit h.q. is
moved from the tote building. The
officers’ and sergeants’ messes under the
stand are evacuated. Places housing
petrol and other supplies are boarded up.
On the Saturday more pickets are
appointed. The rest of them —normal
training suspended for the week-end —are
taken off on a route march. The way is
clear for munition - workers, wharf-
laborers and others of the New Rich to
surge in and enjoy their day’s racing.
On the Sunday—usually a quiet day
for them—the troops bring back their
trucks, cycles, etc., and house them again
in the horse-stalls. The petrol dumps
and the like are unboarded. H.Q. moves
back into the tote building. The officers’
and sergeants’ messes are set up again. By
Monday everything is shipshape and
ready for resuming the war.
The troops —if their point of view
matters —have somehow got it into their
heads that the job ahead of them is im-
portant. They resent the break in their
training to make a holiday for the New
Rich, and their resentment isn’t at all
lightened by comparing the bulging
pockets of these with their own.
Recent heavy mortality among kooka-
burras is attributed to their laughing too
furiously at these and other horse jokes.
THE CAT THAT CAME BACK.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
u
urn 1
in
ill I
Iffltl
ill
Modern high-clf*ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
DANIEL
CRAWFORD'S
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
POLITICAL POINTS
Anderson Dawson (Q.) was the first
Labor Premier to leave or be left by the
party. There followed, though not in
exact chronological order, Daglish and
Scaddan (W.A.); Verran, .Crawford
Vaughan and Hill (S.A.) ; Hogan (Vic.);
Hughes, Holman and McGowen
(N.S.W.); Theodore (Q.); Earle and
Lyons (Tas.). Will Curtin’s name go
on the list? It may if he fails to get
A.L.P.-executive support for sending
militiamen anywhere in the South-west
Pacific. The country will attend to his
case if he makes it a matter of “my party,
right or wrong.”
Obviously Curtin did not take Don
Cameron or Holloway into his confi-
dence before he launched his modified-
conscription motion at the Federal A.L.P.
conference. The two old gentlemen, who
are still living in 1917, are against it.
Ward, who was also left out of the
secret, has not declared himself. Pre-
sumably he will continue to wait till the
weather breaks.
At the beginning of the week 60-odd
gentlemen, politicians and officials, were
converging on Canberra to discuss Dr.
Evatt’s proposals for making the Com-
monwealth Constitution workable when
the defence power has ceased to operate.
They are not definitive proposals, and it
is important that they should be fully
discussed in the light of what happened
after the last war and in the uniform-
income-taxation case. If State-Righters
choose to be intolerant and intransigent,
so much the worse for them and their
cause, such as it is.
The Federal A.L.P. conference rounded
off a rotten week’s work by “recommend-
ing” {i.e., instructing) the Government to
remove the ban on the “Australian” Com-
munist conspiracy and its foul publica-
tions, “provided such guarantees as are
deemed necessary are approved by the
Parliamentary Labor parly.” “Guaran-
tees" given (and they wouldn’t be worth
a row of pins), the Communist conspiracy
is to regain “such property as is not sub-
versive.” Moving the “recommendation,”
a Mr. Nicholls from S.A. maintained
that it would “mean the achievement of
greater unity in the Labor party.” What
a party! Good God, what a party!
“The men and women of the Labor
movement must get to work immediately.
Every union and every branch of the
party must, by special or ordinary meet-
ing, inform their State executive that
they will have no part in Curtin’s pro-
posal for conscription for military ser-
vice overseas.” That was Lang, reach-
ing for the chance to lead another
“breakaway movement,” which would
be John Thomas’s fifth. And there was
a sneer at Curtin in an Open Letter:
You sometimes wonder whether the Aus-
tralian people are sufficiently grateful to
America.... Give it up; it isn’t worth
worrying about. We helped to save our-
selves, you know. Too much “thank God
for America” becomes a bit nauseating,
you know.
At just on 66 a politician is apt to be
forgetful, and this politician seems to
have forgotten (1) that he paid New
York loan interest when he was de-
faulting in London, and (2) that he led
“the anti-Communist Labor party.”
The Americans made their arrange-
ments with the Vichy men in North
Africa regardless of other people’s com-
mitments. At the end of September
Moscow recognised De Gaulle’s National
Committee in London as exclusively
“qualified to organise the participation
in the war of French nationals
and territories, and to represent with the
Government of the U.S.S.R. French
interests, especially when these are
affected by the conduct pf the war.” The
N.Y. “Herald-Tribune” hailed this as “a
diplomatic step of considerable import-
ance” that “cut through the mesh of
diplomatic red-tape which has encum-
bered the question of recognising the
Fighting French.” Washington and the
U.S. Army had other ideas.
Farewelling Senator Latham as M.L.A.
for York (W.A.), and tracing his history
as Digger, member, Minister, Deputy
Premier and Opposition-Leader, Doney,
M.L.A., said it was “a splendid record
for a friendless, homeless kid who struck
this State over 40 years ago without a
bean.” Doney asked York to elect
Perkins (C.P.), the latest of “a line of
renowned fighters in the cause of the
man on the land,” possessed of “a mind
fixedly resolved that no machinations of
meddlers in New South Wales shall rob
“Members of a religious organisation have arranged an inter-State conference but are
worried over priorities.”
“I’m Billy Cook, and I want tickets also for Darby Munro, McMenamin and Ted
Bartle.”
us of the heritage handed to us under
the Federal Constitution 42 years ago.”
One of the early York members, Fred
Monger, was so dissatisfied with the
“heritage” that he tried to start a secesh
movement in 1905 or thereabouts and
was sarcastically bidden to call out the
York Volunteers.
What the French need most in their
extremity and what the United Nations
need most from France is a first-class
general. Again and again in their stormy
history the French have rallied behind a
first-class general, and perhaps in the
present circumstances another Dumouriez
would do if he ran straight. Giraud may
be the man. De Gaulle had his chance,
but he preferred to play politics in
London.
Anti-Santa, Short-Shirt Dedman has
been forced by newspaper criticism to
“explain” his Christmas “austerity” re-
strictions, and he “explained” them in
newspaper and radio ads. There must be
no pictures of Father Christmas, but
the Dedman ads. carry a picture of a
film-star Dedman broadly smiling. Who
pays for these ads. —Father Christmas,
Minister Dedman or the public? The
public. Talk at Canberra is that the
Deddy ads. fractured several National
Security regs.
These are cold days for the Second-
Front-in-Europe mob, but some of them,
gathered in the Melbourne Trades Hall,
felt the atmosphere unpleasantly warm
when a merchant seaman had a crack at
them. Said the merchant seaman:
I am sick and tired of listening to the
rantings of Second-Fronters. Anyone can
dodge military obligations by getting a job
in munitions or some protected undertaking,
and that permits him to urge the other
fellow on to the Second Front. That means
that the other fellow fights while able-bodied
Second-Fronters are making the necessary
plans for a political career. All those who
have spoken here in favor of the Second
Front are, from appearance, eligible for
military service. Why don’t they fight
the Japs?
The speaker was Bill Clark, sometime
secretary of the Seamen’s Union. He is
a delegate to the Trades Hall Council.
With daily stoppages raging as usual
and an old-man strike threatened at Pelaw
Main (N.S.W.) pit a commission was
appointed to inquire into the causes of
strikes and holdups in the coal industry.
Pelaw Main “protested against the com-
position of the commission,” though on
it is James, M.H.R., who has been a
Miners’ Federation man since his ardent
youth. Meantime the defunct body of
Regulation 77 has been buried, “darkly
and at dead of night,” at a spot 15 paces
west of the bent gum on the Molonglo
River.
Conundrum for asserters of “Labor
principles”: What happens if a militia-
man in Mandated Territory chases a Jap
20 yards across the border into Dutch
New Guinea, is ambushed and taken
prisoner? 'Will the enemy be entitled to
shoot him as a franc-tireur not lawfully
enlisted to fight as a soldier beyond Aus-
tralian territory?
London Sunday papers and the Com-
munist “Daily Worker” are demanding
the dismissal of Darlan. This is a sort
of ultimatum to President Roosevelt,
who had explained that the arrangement
with Darlan was made because it would
“save American, British and French
lives” and render unnecessary a mopping-
up period which would enable the enemy
to build up strong resistance in Tunisia.
As for politics, when France was free
the shape of the Government would be
decided by the French people, “not by
individuals in metropolitan France or
overseas” meaning Petain, Laval,
Darlan or De Gaulle. This should have
been convincing, but there are writing
boys who won’t be convinced.
A private member’s Marriage Act
Amendment Bill making it possible for a
divorce to be obtained by people who
agree, either verbally or in writing, to
live apart for five years has been sent to
the Victorian Assembly from the other
shop. Unofficial-leader Eager com-
plained that it meant that marriage would
no longer be a lifelong agreement but a
contract terminable at will. Beckett,
sponsor of the measure, said it would
relieve the position of many de facto
widows and would lead to a decrease in
immorality, hypocrisy and collusion. One
thing it won’t lead to is more harmony
between the States so long as there are
si:c of them all legislating differently on
marriage and divorce.
Abram Slanda, M.L.A., attacking
The Bulletin in May, and turning on
an Assemblyman who mentioned its
advocacy of conscription:
Australia has done so magnificently that
there is no need for conscription Eng-
land cannot send troops 22 miles across the
Channel because of lack of shipping, so it
is perfectly ridiculous to say that Aus-
tralia should send her men away. We want
every man we can get to remain in Aus-
tralia to defend it.
It has been proved that England had
ships enough to carry and protect a great
army of conscripts from the U.K. and
U.S.A., and land thepi in North Africa.
It preferred striking in that region to
accepting the Second-Front-in-France
ideas of Slanda, Lazzarini and a lot of
other vociferous gentlemen whose studies
of war have been made from afar.
Meanwhile Slanda is at liberty to “remain
in Australia to” —er —“defend it.”
The more they confer with Dedman
the more baffled businessmen become.
His suggestion that competing firms
should agree to give each other selling
concessions and use each other’s space
and employees is typical of a department
staffed in the main by Government em-
ployees, professors, lecturers and vets.
The notorious clothing stampede which
preceded Mother’s Day (Dedman ver-
sion) has been re-enacted in Sydney, re-
tailers having to fight off a mad rush for
handkerchiefs and ties a fortnight before
they were rationed. It brought from
the president of the Retailers’ Associa-
tion a bitter demand for an inquiry as
to how these things get out.
It is against “Labor principles” for a
Labor Government to admit that any-
thing is or can be wrong with it or the
party j, so Queensland Labor’s reaction to
the Ibss of two electorates considered
impregnable was to abolish preferential
voting. Faced with palpable evidence of
public disapproval, it removes the people’s
power to disapprove. So petty tyranny
goes forward—but not for long.
A sorrowful undertone to the sorry
display in Melbourne when the A.L.P.
adjourned discussion on the militia ques-
tion was the death in action of two
more only sons. Both were unmarried,
both were men of the type Australia
badly needs and both families end with
them. Both were volunteers —Captain
lan McMaster, of Dalkeith (N.S.W.), and
Pilot-Officer V. W. J. Mansell, of Adel-
aide, a University blue.
Queensland pome-fruit growers are
making another desperate attempt to
escape from the Apple and Pear Board.
They’ve informed Canberra that “three
years of acquisition have financially
shaken the industry,” and asked straight
out “Does the Government propose de-
liberately to ruin us?”
When a stop-work' meeting was threat-
ened by moulders, Heine, of the Metal
Trades Employers’ Association, drew
Ward’s attention to it:
In conformity with the new technique in
dealing with these matters, I wish to bring
the matter promptly under your notice so
that no future board of inquiry could
assume that this matter has not been taken
seriously by employers.
Said Ward, “Mr. Heine can rest assured
that I will not be influenced in the execu-
tion of my duty by the bluster and
bounce of Mr. Heine.” This kind of
thing puzzles some Australians, but the
Darlanists, the De Gaullists and the
Flandinists would understand it perfectly.
A union secretary announces that,his
union will ask the Labor Government
not to consider basic-wage adjustments
when taxing its members. He points out
that a member without dependants will
actually lose Is. a week if that is done.
Salary-earners who don’t benefit from
basic-wage rises or war-loadings and
who’ve been carrying on without addi-
tions since the outbreak are a long way
behind Is. a week.


mm
Look After What You’ve Got!
Get your Exide dealer to give your battery “the once over” occasionally . . . and
when replacement is needed remember . . . Exide Still Keeps Going When the Rest
Have Stopped.
BATTERIES
EXB2-42
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Old-school-tie traditions cannot be
holding up the R.A.F. J. W. Yarra, an
apprentice printer from Grafton (N.S.W.)
and member of a family which has con-
tributed to The Bulletin for four gen-
erations, rose in five months from ser-
geant-pilot to flight-lieutenant, downed 12
enemy ’planes over Malta, collected the
D.F.M., became the first ace on record
with less than 300 operational hours, and
was posted to a position as second in
command of a new all-Australian
R.A.A.F. squadron in England. He re-
ceived his wings in Canada 16 months
ago at an Empire Air Scheme school, and
has since been flying Hurricanes and
Spitfires. He’s 21, six-fpot-one in his
socks, called by the fighter boys “Slim,”
and describes the fighter pilots of Malta,
of whom he was one for seven months,
as the world’s best.
Inspiration of Xavier Herbert’s Com-
monwealth literary prize-winner Capri-
cornia, Reuben Cooper has passed hence
at 40 somewhere in the Northern Terri-
tory. A cultured half-caste, educated at
St. Peter s, Adelaide, Cooper as a young
man set out with crusader’s zeal to better
the lot of the blackfellow. The color bar
beat him, sent him bush, shooting buf-
faloes. Later he rounded up a number
of half-castes and fullbloods into a
colony and started a timber mill at Port
Essington Peninsula (N.T.) to work the
rich cypress-pine forests there. This mill,
modernly equipped with steam plant, sup-
plied most of Darwin’s timber needs. It
was reported that the tribes were gather-
ing to dance a great death ritual to lay
his shade.
M. C. Clayton, who becomes head of
the “prep” at St. Peter’s, Adelaide, on
the retirement of A. I. Brooks, has had
seven years at the school already. He’s
a Melbourne product, Scotch and Uni.,
with a Science degree. Brooks has had
nearly 40 years in harness, but is quite
active, and will do the “Mr. Chips” come-
back by teaching in the senior school for
the duration of the war.
Frank Langstone, who holds the port-
folios of Lands, External Affairs, Native
Affairs, State Forests and Cook Islands
m the M.L. Cabinet, went to Washing-
ton last year on what was described as
a “trade mission,” stayed on to attend an
International Labor Conference in New
York, and looked forward to becoming
Mi. Minister to the U.S.A. But Pri-
minister Fraser decided that Nash was in
closer touch with war problems, and
sent him to Washington as Minister,
transferring Langstone to the High Com-
missionership of Canada, the sort of job
which by all precedent is the reward of
ex-politicians, not a sideline of a Minis-
ter of the Crown. But Langstone isn’t
grateful. After thinking it over for a
few months he has resigned his Ottawa
job and returned to look after his five
portfolios.
“Father” of Yarra Bank:
The announcement that a presentation was
to be made to J. W. Fleming, the 80-year-
old “Father” of Melbourne’s Yarra Bank,
moved a pressman to repeat an old story that
Lord Hqpetoun, when tenant of the stately pile
overlooking the soapbox from which “Chummy”
delivered his weekly discourse, sent him a case
of champagne. Actually Lord Hopetoun was
a sympathetic supporter of “Chummy’s” per-
sonal fund for the relief of the unemployed
during the depression of the ’nineties, sending
him several tenners. His final gift was £lOO
and 108 bottles of fizz which his Lordship
didn’t want to take back to Scotland. Be-
liefs are strange things. Every Sunday morn-
ing for upwards of half a century “Chummy”
used to lead a band of disciples bearing a red
flag through the city to his soapbox, where
he inveighed against a society which was chang-
ing all around him.
Writing in Brisbane “Courier” T. J.
Fairhall has touched on an interesting
sidelight of the fighting up north—the
naming of New Guinea airfields after
American and Australian fighter and
bomber pilots. One was lately named
after Squadron-Leader John Jackson,
D.F.C., who, with Flight-Lieut. Barry
Cox, was shot down last April when they
gallantly took up their two Kittyhawks
to intercept eight Japanese bombers and
12 Zeros raiding Port Moresby.
Squadron-Leader Jackson owned a sheep
pioperty and a stock and station agency
m the St. George (Q.) district. He had
seived in Libya and Syria. Other air-
fields thus named are Berry, Schwimmer,
Rodgers, Durand, Gurney and Turnbull.
Squadron-Leader Robert Gurney a
former Qantas pilot, was killed in a
crash on an island off New Britain.
Squadron-Leader Peter Turnbull, D.F.C.,
was killed when his ’plane crashed while
strafing an enemy tank at Milne Bay.
Major Berry, of the U.S. Air Corps, com-
manded a fighter squadron on the field
fhnt has been named after him. Lieut.
“Larry” Schwimmer commanded the first
U.S. Airacobra squadron in New
Guinea; Major “Buck” Rodgers was
killed while leading his dive-bombers
against an enemy convoy ; Lieut. Durand,
U.S. fighter-squadron leader, was killed
in the same action as Schwimmer.
At the returned men’s congress in
Sydney this week there’ll be no better-
known head than that of Col. Arthur
Wellsley Hyman, here modelled by Frith.
Col. Hyman has been president of the
service men’s league in N.S.W. since 1939,
and was vice-president for many years
before that, with one previous turn as
COL. A. W. HYMAN.
(Modelled by Frith.)
president in 1926-27. Sailing with the
7th Light Horse in 1914, he was an O.C.
Machine-guns at Anzac, and was there
four months before the sickness which
knocked many a Gallip. Digger made
him a cot-case headed for Blighty. Later
he was in France, at Pozieres, Bullecourt,
Messines and Villers-Bretonneux, and was
for a time on Monash’s staff. Till a
month or so back he had been Sydney
Cenotaph custodian for three years, and
about the same time he retired after
more than 30 years’ continuous service
with the C.M.F., though he still carries
on as V.D.C. liaison officer. The number
of his presidentships and trusteeships
would just about stretch from Sydney to
his birthplace, Tamworth (N.S.W.); h.
1880. Col. Hyman’s only son gave his
life to save a girl from drowning in the
Bondi surf in 1930, and was post-
humously awarded the Royal Life Saving
gold medal and the Aus. Surf Life Saving
silver medal.
The Most Cheerful Australian:
If there’s anyone with a better claim to this
title than Jack Moses (who sat the dog down
on the tuckerbox nine miles from Gundagai)
this Page would like to meet him. These days,
when Father Christmas has been hit in the solar,
and the Australian grin is deprecated as some-
how inimical to the war effort, and when the
good Australian wines he has represented up
and down the country for donkeys’ years are
pegged to parched quotas, Jack puts in most
of his time in Sydney. None of this has
affected his unrivalled cheerfulness, his belief
in the country’s future, or his faith in Aus-
tralian sunshine as a worker of miracles. Cer-
tainly something would seem to have worked
a miracle in him. Now getting on for 83, he’s
mentally and physically as lively as a cricket —
and not unlike one in other respects, including
size. He still jingles away, even in talk; if
someone picked him up and shook him there’d
be a jingling sound. Son of a onetime chef
(whose aunt paid 70 spade guineas for his
apprenticeship, and who came to a job as chef
at Government House), Jack was born in the
Haymarket, Sydney, where the family then had
a grocer’s shop. Seventy years ago he was
calling “Cigar and light, threepence! ” in that
vicinity. Later he took to travelling for wines,
and got his first order from Judge Windeyer,
forebear of the famous legal family. Half a
century ago Jack was thus travelling in Queens-
land and Tasmania, but for many years now
N.S.W. has been his stamping-ground.
Due for slippered ease in 1939, after
nearly half-a-century with Victorian Rail-
ways, chief civil engineer A. J. Ashworth
remained with his Indian ink and draw-
ing boards, at the request of the Vic-
torian Government, to see drawn the last
line of the last plan of a huge planning
effort. He has retired now ; but he had
been shaping the ends of things to come.
Estimated to cost at least £8,000,000, the
planned undertaking covers the future
development of city and suburban rail-
way transport and a radical reorganisa-
tion of Melbourne’s goods terminal.
As the 1914-18
war produced the
splendid figure of
“Fighting Mac” Mc-
Kenzie of the Sal-
vation Army, so this
one has produced
“the little Salvo,
bloke.” He is Salva-
tionist Brigadier A.
Mcllveen, and he
got the title at
Tobruk ; it was lately
mentioned by a
Digger who was
asked who was
the most popular
man in that desert
fortress. Brig. Mc-
Ilveen’s most cher-
ished piece of lug-
gage is a large sign
showing a kangaroo
and the legend “Hop
In You’re Wel-
come,” one of the
many that hang out-
side S.A. huts and
marquees for service
men. Mcllveen’s
sign has hung in all
weathers in all sorts
of spots, and has
been sunk and sal-
vaged at sea. At the
moment he’s touring
Queensland, looking
up relatives of
Tobruk men.
When this page took stock of some of
his art benefactions up to 1939 Howard
Hinton had donated the staggering total
of 450 pictures (mainly representative of
the best work by the best Australian
artists) to the splendid collection he estab-
lished at Armidale (N.S.W.) Teachers’
College. A later stocktaking was made
in a catalogue put out by the college,
listing 771 works of art in the collection,
nearly 600 of them Howard Hinton dona-
tions. Since then his score has been
raised still higher, and when he strolled
into The Bulletin office the other day he
was after recent black-and-white draw-
ings. His first art purchases—back when
he was a junior shipping clerk —were also
Bulletin black-and-white originals. He
ended up a director of the McArthur
Shipping and Agency Co., and as his
pocket-lining improved he kept on buying
pictures—oils and other works by leading
artists —building up the collection of
Hilders, Norman Lindsays, Streetons,
Gruners and others that eventually made
the Armidale collection possible, to say
nothing of the 200-odd pictures he has
given to the N.S.W. Gallery, of which
he has been a trustee since 1919.
General MacArthur’s Filipino A.D.C.
in Australia, Lieut.-Col. Carlos Pena
Romulo, is an inky-wayfarer of some
calibre. The 43-year-old colonel gradu-
ated in the Philippines, worked in the
U.S.A. (Columbia University) for his
M.A. degree and then went back to
Manila to become a Professor of Eng-
lish and also editor of the “Philippines
Herald.” One of President Quezon’s un-
official advisers, he became General
MacArthur’s press aide on the outbreak
of war, and later filled the same role for
General Wainwright. He was one of the
last men to escape from Bataan.
George Henry Faulks, new president
of the Maritime Services Board, takes
into the job two very useful qualities—a
wide knowledge of Australian shipping
and a keen sense of humor. His grand-
father —who fought at Waterloo—came
to Australia as a soldier in 1830, subse-
quently settled in the Shoalhaven district,
and died at 94. G. H. Faulks’s father
lived to be 92. G.H., born at Nowra
(N.S.W.) 55 years ago, started in the
Explosives Dept, as a junior clerk in
1904, transferred to Navigation in 1921,
three years later became secretary, and
when the maritime board was launched
in 1936 became its assistant-secretary. In
1937 he joined the board as commissioner
and in March this year became vice-
president.
Being a minister of religion is an
exempted occupation, though there have
been some cases of parsons who have
temporarily discarded the cloth for
khaki or the blue of the Air Force. The
reverse has happened with regard to
Leading Aircraftman Frederick Foley,
of Parkes, N.S.W., who was recently
recommended to the forthcoming Metho-
dist conference for acceptance as a can-
didate for college training by the Mel-
bourne North synod. He qualified as a
theological student while training for the
Air Force. He has been put on the
church’s list of reserves until the com-
pletion of- his business with Mars.
Into the silence:
By the irony of fate a minor accident caused
the death, at 95, at Aspendale (Vic.), of
Thomas Dunn, one of the toughest pioneers
the State ever harbored. While in his teens
he drove 300 head of cattle from Gunbower
200 miles to Traralgon, in those days an
achievement of no mean order, and he capped
it by droving 400 from the Barcoo (Q.) to
Gippsland. Four of Thomas Dunn’s sons
were in the last war and two are in the present
war, as well as nine grandsons.
Died of wounds, C. T. Ashton, of Essex, one
of three brothers who in turn captained the
Cambridge XI, a family record equalled only
by the Studd brothers 60 years back.
At Clare (S.A.), Dudley Angas, 50, of one
of the State’s leading pastoral clans. After
service with the British Navy in the last war,
he settled at Hill River station as stockbreeder.
Incidentally, a fine musician.
At 34, Arthur Francis Humphries Suther-
land, of Wellington (M.L.). He was the son
of Benjamin Sutherland, founder of Self-help
Co-op., Ltd., and for the last 12 years had
been managing director of that remarkable
enterprise, which, started in 1922, has since
spread all over M.L. Last year he founded the
Sutherland Self-help Trust, supplementing a sub-
stantial bequest from the Co-op. with a £5OOO
personal gift. He was well known in yachting,
golfing and ski-ing circles.
Hubert Thomas (“Tim”) Armstrong, Maori-
iand’s Minister of Public Works, 68. Born at
Bulls (NT.) and flaxmiller at 12, bushman at
16, then road and railway constructor, coal-
and goldminer, watersider, brickyard employee,
trade-union organiser, local body member. Par-
liamentarian and finally Minister of the Crown.
He represented the Government at Geneva
in 1937, then toured Great Britain, Germany
and France, studying social and industrial con-
ditions. A son is on active service overseas.
George Frederick Matthews, for over half
a century a leading citizen of Heidelberg (Vic.)
and prominent in Melbourne business. A re-
tired solicitor, he was for a long time chairman
of directors of Gordon and Gotch, but civic
affairs were his later interest.
At Bathurst (N.S.W.), Louis Chandler
Gronan, 88. Held to be the last surviving
member of the first contingent to serve in the
Sudan War, he was given a soldier’s funeral
by the R.S.S.A.I.L.A.
In Egypt, of wounds received in the A.I.F.
attack at El Alamein, Capt. lan McMaster, only
son of the Dalkeith McMasters. He left the
whole of his share in the family pastoral inter-
ests to the C.5.1.R., which has already been
enabled to do a vast amount of good for Aus-
tralian stockraisers through McMaster benefac-
tions, best known being the McMaster Animal
Health Laboratory at Sydney University.
Capt. Thorold Fink (45), a Melbourne
“Herald” director, son of the late Theodore
Fink. Capt. Fink, twice wounded in the last
war and serving in the present war with
Fighting Vehicles h.q., was fatally injured
when a jeep he was driving overturned near
Werribee (Vic.).


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Babs”: The Black Maria drove up
to the Select Wine Saloon and a
sergeant and file of licensing police
entered. It was the fourth raid in six
months. The customers regarded it as
routine and remained calm. Only a little
old gent, in the corner, blowing bubbles
through his faded whiskers, acted in un-
seemly fashion. He woke with a start,
sized up the position and made an urgent
dash for the door. “Aw, let him go,”
growled the sergeant tolerantly. The
rest of the clientele resignedly finished
their drinks, reached for their hats and
lurched through the doorway to climb
into Maria. And there, asleep in the
furthest corner, sat the little old gent., still
blowing bubbles through his faded
“ What steps would 'ee take if steam pressure suddenly went up to
two hundred pound ?”
“Longest I could, Cap'n .”
whiskers. A large policeman shook him
awake. “What are you doing here?” he
asked. “Sidin’ down,” replied the aged
one. “Last time I ’ad to stand the ’ole
wa y.”.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: The odyssey of three A.I.F.
men who got away from Rabaul and
travelled 2700 miles in 267 days before
they reached safety is worth thinking
about. They made most of the journey
in small boats and native canoes, half
the time leaking and falling to pieces,
having met on some jungle track after
getting away from the Japs. Living
on scraps of tinned beef and army bis-
cuit, they somehow battled through to the
south coast of New Britain, found a
village, spotted a Jap naval patrol in the
nick of time dodged it, and got away.
Then they got hold of a 15ft. boat and,
without maps, compass or sea knowledge,
tried to sail it to Australia. Wrecked
in a storm, they scrambled ashore,
heard that boats were picking up sur-
vivors in the north, headed that way and
got there five days too late. But they
collared a small launch, almost ran into
a Jap destroyer force, escaped in a rain
squall and dodged about the coast for
months, at one stage living 10 days on a
small island, drinking coconut milk, eat-
ing jungle fowl and turtle and bird eggs.
Their boat needed patching, and, having
done it, they sailed it across to New
Guinea and walked 72 days through un-
known country, over awful mountains
and still more awful jungle, until they
found southward-flowing water and
floated down to safety. The three were
city Australians, just ordinary blokes,
the kind this country produces in hun-
dreds of thousands.
* * * #
“Macann”: All the three or four
drops of Scots blood in my veins rise up
in protest at “S. M. Herald’s” leading-
article suggestion that Minister Dedman’s
anti-Christmas decrees possibly reflect
his “own national background,” and
more so at the further suggestion that he
should logically go further and prescribe
“what he deems to be the correct
Christmas fare for Australia, and by
decree substitute haggis for plum pud-
ding.” Since when have Scots so de-
generated as to take to mixing haggis (or
anything else) with their chief Christmas
food, whisky?
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Premier McKell, I read,
took out the first life insurance policy
issued by the brand-new N.S.W. Govern-
ment Insurance Office, and had the
pleasure of hearing it referred to by the
manager as a “historic document.” It
reminds me of some similar gestures by
Labor celebrities. When the Common-
wealth Bank was started one of the first
depositors was Andy Fisher, who opened
an accouht with the sum of £l, a con-
cession that would hardly have been
extended to anyone of less eminence. I
have sometimes wondered what became
of that lone quid. And when the first
State butchery was set going in W.A.
some 30 years ago “Happy” Jack Scad-
dan, the Premier of the period, was
among the earliest customers ; he drove
round with some ceremony in his Minis-
terial car and carried away with him the
very biggest sirloin of beef that the
establishment could furnish. It weighed,
I was told, 161 b. I have sometimes won-
dered how long it took the household to
consume it. It didn’t take much longer
for the Government meat-shop to put the
shutters up.
*"* * *
“Cauboy”: Sir Winston Dugan is re-
ported to have shown amazement when
he saw Walter Lindrum demonstrate his
skill at billiards at an R.A.A.F. locker
fund function at Melbourne Town Hall,
After contemplating a dazzling exhibition
the Governor of Victoria turned to the
audience and said “When I get back to
Government House I will destroy all the
cues there.” There was no need for his
Ex. to be so discouraged. According to
modern philosophers —or sophists—-he
only has to have the same degree of in-
terest in the game as Lindrum has to do
just as well, if he wants to. Interest can
move mountains. A Melbourne youth who
calls himself the Young Apollo pulls
two-decker buses and firecarts about
with his teeth at charity functions. His
chief regret in life is that Melbourne has
no three-decker buses for him to toy
with. Yet he is only an average-sized
young man. The only difference between
him and other men who are apparently
physical stronger is his obsession.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. Courts have heard
two odd excuses for a man’s hitting a
woman in public. No. 1 “thought it was
my wife,” and had apologised hand-
somely on finding out that he was punch-
ing a complete stranger. No. 2’s plea
was even more unusual. Escorting a
strange lady “into the park,” he imagined
from something she said that she was a
“ Mother, dear mother, come home to us now,
The clock in the steeple's struck one !”
man dressed up, and so he methodically
blackened both her eyes; after which
the two of them sought out an aston-
ished constable, each demanding that
the other should be gaoled. The Court
made it a ss. fine, and 255. compensa-
tion for each eye, telling the lady, how-
ever, “You were as much to blame as
he was.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: An extraordinary degree of
authority seems to be invested in the pos-
sessor of a ladder. Using one of these
appliances a man mounted to the second
storey of the jewellery and antique store
of Kozminsky in Little Collins-street,
Melbourne (closed for the lunch hour),
in view of hundreds of people. After
making some perfunctory motions sug-
gestive of a window-cleaner, he slipped
inside, descended to the ground floor,
found the keys of the show windows and
decamped with several thousand pounds’
worth of booty. A ladder figured also
in a famous vSingapore story. The Chief
Justice was drowsing on his throne at the
Supreme Court, a barrister was droning,
the prisoner was slapping the flies in
the dock and the jury was thinking about
its tiffin, when a bored-looking Chinese
coolie entered and, yawning heavily,
placed some steps against the wall behind
the Bench, leisurely mounted them, re-
moved the court clock and vanished with
it. It hasn’t since been seen.
W * * *
“Taniwha”: The shades of Te Raupa-
raha and Te Kooti must be chuckling
contentedly. There are those of the
Maori race who have feared that contact
with the pakeha would destroy the spirit
which made the Maori of old regard war
as the finest of outdoor pastimes. To
refute them returns (wounded) a former
R.S.M, of the Maori Battalion (now a
commissioned officer with the D.C.M.)
with tales of how the big brown men
fought in Greece, Crete and Libya. There
was a wild bayonet charge at El Alamein.
The Maoris, getting the Germans
on the run, continued past their objec-
tive till they were in the middle of the
enemy’s transport echelon, which British
’planes were bombing. In that little out-
ing 600 Germans were killed and 150
taken prisoner, and four tanks were de-
stroyed. The Maoris lost 10 killed and
74 wounded. Then there was a sortie
from a position north of Mersa Matruh.
The M.B. was under heavy artillery fire,
under cover of which 100 German engi-
neers were cutting a minefield. Five
minutes after the Maoris went over the
top, bayonet in hand, 85 Germans were
dead and the remnant taken prisoner.
And by all accounts the battalion is
doing as well in the present African fight-
ing.
***■•'
“C. Pipe”: Women! One in our
street found her cat with a budgerigar
on a Saturday morning, rescued the fowl,
doctored it, left it to convalesce and that
afternoon took herself to the Rosehill
races, arriving just before the main event.
“I wonder,” murmured she, “if there is
any horse with a bird name,” looked
through the book, found War Bird and
took a win-and-place tote ticket on it.
Yes, it won, and she collected £39 16s,
6d. for her 10s. Then she left the course,
went to town, bought the costliest packet
of birdseed she could find and went
home. But the lovebird had given up the
ghost.
* * *
“B. Hackshaw”: The sending of an
Australian representative to Moscow has
moved a special correspondent of Mel-
bourne “Age” to expatiate on the neces-
sity for a school of diplomats to provide
the Commonwealth Government with the
ambassadors it will need when, after the
war, it enters more fully into the comity
of nations. But who is going to teach
them? One of the most successful am-
bassadors in history was Rubens. His
Government sent him to the Court of
Spain and to the Courts of all the leading
countries in Europe, and in between serv-
ing his country’s interests he painted mas-
terpieces. His qualifications were that he
was sensitive, cultured, intelligent and
had fewer prejudices than most of his
fellow-countrymen. Consequently he
could sympathise with or understand
other viewpoints. The trained diplomat,
it would seem, is one who shares the pre-
judices of the Government which sent
him. Not one of the diplomats who lived
in Berlin during Hitler’s rise to power
really understood him or could foresee
his policy.
THE DEDMAN BLIGHT.
“A Dedman regulation has been gazetted forbidding
any mention in advertisements of Christmas, New
Year and Easter, or of the practice of giving gifts
on these occasions.”
His eagle eye relentlessly surveys
All possible expedients and ways
And all economies that may conduce
To cooking Hitler’s —also Tojo’s— goose.
All needless things on which our bunce we blew
Invite his Ministerial taboo.
From less engrossing jobs he’s time to pause
To shake a list at poor old Santa Claus
And, spurred by patriotism, undertake
To ban pink icing upon Christmas cake.
It gets our Dedman’s goat that thoughts should
stray
To memories linked with Yule and Hogmanay,
The mistletoe, the gifts, the cheerful din
Of bidding Old Years out and New Years in,
All those amenities on which we set
Such store and find it hardest to forget,
In times like these. He deems it far from
right
To have them heralded in black and white,
And warns us every cook the law will break
Who dares to put pink icing upon cake.
What clothes we should and what we shouldn’t
wear
He makes pre-eminently his affair.
Through all our daily lives his ukase goes,
His jurisdiction runs from hats to hose.
The harassed soul in the retailing biz
From day to day knows hardly where he is;
The chap who runs a hashhouse or a pub
Finds ever new restrictions upon grub;
And there’s another principle at stake—
The color of the icing on the cake.
Brother —and sister, too —whate’er they be,
These solemn fiats of Authority,
Though viewed with mild distaste or keen
chagrin.
Must be obeyed—when there’s a war to win.
Tighten your belts a trifle, and prepare
For somewhat lighter whacks of Yuletide fare;
Curb your addictions for the festive cup
And filling sanguine youngsters’ stockings up,
And don’t for heaven’s —and for Dedman’s —
sake
p ermit pink icing on your Christmas cake!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
FILM THRILLS.
I like that little line in talkie ads.
Acquainting lasses and apprising lads
Who tire of trudging through the well-worn pads
Of high-flown fudge and frill and fluff and
fuzz
That some new drama fairly takes the bun
For thrilling fancies and uproarious fun
As simply and emphatically one
“Where almost anything can happen —and
does.”
Long years have passed, but memories abide
Of plays to which in far-off youth I hied.
The sort that London labelled “Surrey-side,”
Wild blood-and-thunder gaffs, that still outbid
Old Shakspeare and the rest of the elect
In all the hallowed sock-and-buskin sect,
At least in the essential respect
That almost anything could happen—and did.
Tire urge persists—though highbrow souls may
probe
Vainly for reasons —over all our globe
From Noah’s time, or when the patriarch Job
Sustained afflictions in the land of Uz.
Until the end arrives, the screed that’s scrolled,
The scene that’s featured or the tale that’s told
On tense expectancy will keep its hold
When almost anything can happen —and does.
But Hollywood, ah! Hollywood’s the place
In fiction and in fact that wins the race,
Where startling new sensations come apace
To make the tongues of scandal-lovers buzz.
Not only where pictorial shows are shot
But where domestic unions go to pot,
It’s there —appropriately, is it not?
That almost anything can happen —and does!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Dhas”: At social gatherings in
Maoriland when we stood up and sang
“For he’s a jolly good fellow” at some
ass who was about to marry or some
skunk who was Jeaving the district we
sometimes varied the monotony of the
misstatement by bellowing it in Maori —I
wouldn’t guarantee the words, but they
were something like this, “Te tingata
tangata par aw a tu.” I have lived to hear
Australian kids singing a horribly Angli-
cised version which goes, “Tear into a
tongue or a pie or two.” Who made the
parody? I suspect a travelling football
team.
* * * ' *
“D.E.”: Stalin’s stature, subject of a
recent “Society” par., is referred to by
Wendell Willkie in a “Life” article.
“Though stockily built,” wrote the re-
turned globe-girdler, “he was shorter
than I expected him to be: actually he
would have to stand on his tiptoes to
look over my shoulder.” Willkie, judg-
ing by newsreel pictures, is two or three
inches short of 6ft. Apropos, “Time”
mentions that when the interesting pair
met at the Kremlin Stalin wore “a grey
military blouse, pink whipcord trousers
and black boots.” He was smiling when
he faced the camera with Willkie, Molo-
tov and two American reporters and —
shattering another impression—he obvi-
ously smiles easily. When “Snowy”
Baker tried to break into the pictures he
failed because he smiled with difficulty.
# * * »
“Nakhoda”: A Federal departmental
head was showing a high official from
now-occupied Thailand the sights of Mel-
bourne. They came to the historical sec-
tion at the National Museum and the
F.d.h. felt it incumbent to say something
portentous. “Until the present crisis,”
he said, “Australia, like your own delight-
ful country, had enjoyed profound peace
within its borders. With the exception of
the Eureka Stockade, an episode of minor
importance, its progress has been accom-
plished by peaceful means, like the blood-
less revolution in your country in 1932.”
“Bloodless!” exclaimed the shocked
Siamese. “Our revolution certainly was
not bloodless. Why, a friend of mine, a
colonel, was wounded in the leg!”
* * * *
“Spasebo”; Citizens who have sensitive
ears are inclined to hasten their lunch-
time peregrinations when they approach
the platform supported by two German
tanks in Melbourne’s Collins-street, from
which belches forth the weekly dose of
War Loan propaganda. For some reason
or other, the promoters think it necessary
to supply attempts at entertainment with
their exhortations to the public, and these
attempts usually are lamentable. The
other day,, however, passers-by were
astounded to hear sweet, modulated tones
and lovely part-singing coming from the
same location. Some Russians were
singing. It is a traditional talent, and
in Czarist days I never heard a truck-
ful of peasants or soldiers who couldn’t
and wouldn’t sing in perfect time.
Waiters in cafes would suddenly group
themselves together and thank their guests
with a folk song.
» * * *
“Bumpkin”: No war-time salvage feat
has been more remarkable than the re-
floating of a 4000-ton freighter driven
high and dry up on the beach Somewhere
in Australia. Broadside-on she looked a
hopeless proposition even without her
cargo. But modern earth-moving appa-
ratus in a few weeks made a pool beside
her, and at every high tide her bows were
swung round little by little until she was
headed for the sea. Then she was
dragged over 600 feet of sand into deep
water. There are scores of wrecks along
the coast which might be going about
their business if such methods had been
imposed by necessity for shipping in
bygone years.
* * * *
“H.R.C.”: “M.” (B. 28/10/’42) is
wrong in saying that the Nelson,
scrapped in the ’nineties, was “the last
British warship to use sail and steam.”
There were warship barques of the R.N.
with auxiliary steam engines in service
on the Australian station years and years
after the Nelson had gone back to Eng-
land to lay up in Rotten Row, Ports-
mouth. I can remember the Cura?oa,
Rapid, Royalist, Pylades and Dart
(schooner), and there were others. The
Nelson may have been the last flagship
to use sail and steam, but that’s the ex-
tent of her distinction in the matter.
* * * *
“L.H.P.”: Let me straighten out the
facts and chronology of “Hamfat” (B.
11/11/ ’42) concerning Sydney’s Theatre
Royal. The first Royal was at the back
of the Royal Hotel, George-street, and
lasted from 1833 to 1838. It was burnt
with the pub in 1840. The Victoria was
the theatre built on the present site of
McCathie’s, and it lasted from 1838 to
1880. The first theatre built on the site
of the present Royal in Castlereagh-
street was called the Prince of Wales
Opera House and lasted from 1855 to
1860. Rebuilt in 1863, it was burnt again
in 1872. Its Opera House title was
dropped in favor of Theatre Royal when
the new house was opened in 1875. This
theatre lasted till 1892. The Theatre
Royal title has been used for the fourth
and fifth houses on the site. There was
no Theatre Royal in Sydney between
1838 and 1875. Just one more correc-
tion: Barrett never played at the Royal
—only at Her Majesty’s.
* * * «
“B. A. Ker”; While “Tuart” (B.
4/11 /’42) has some ground for his con-
tention that John L. Sullivan was “the
world’s worst actor,” I think he must
have overlooked, or missed seeing, the
film performance of another heavy-
weight film champion, Jack Dempsey.
After his marriage to Estelle Taylor, a
star of “the silents,” the Manassa Mauler
had his nose remodelled and embarked
on a movie career. Evidently he was not
responsive to the suggestions of his
director, for in the only film of his that
reached the screen he registered his deep
emotion at the death of his mother by
scratching his head.
* * * *
“Den”; Austerity being in the air it’s
a wonder no one has cited the example
of Ludivico Cornaro. A member of a
famous Venetian family, Cornaro in his
youth was a high liver, and at forty suf-
fered severely from stomach trouble and
gout. He regained health by strict diet-
ing, commencing with 12oz. of solid food
and 14 fl. oz. of wine daily. In the last
“I don't mind being an office boy , but I DO mind tearing round getting
smokes for the typist !”
20 years of his life —he died in 1566,
aged 99 —he reduced the solids to one
egg a day. An Australian Cornaro might
get the egg, but he might have to dis-
pense with the wine.
c * * *
“H.M.F.”: One of Britain’s latest de-
stroyers, the Churchill, decorates its
ward-room with a signed portrait of
Britain’s Priminister; and thereby hangs
a tale. When the ship was commissioned
the commanding officer approached a
naval friend who was related to Winston
Churchill with a request that he should
ask for “a portrait of the ship’s name-
sake,” to be carried on board. The friend
complied, and shortly afterwards, to the
astonishment of the commander, his offi-
cers and crew, there arrived an engrav-
ing of John Churchill, Duke of Marl-
borough. The ship was not satisfied, and
a further appeal was made, this time with
the desired result. No precedent exists in
the annals of the Royal Navy for the
naming of a ship after the Priminister of
the day, which doubtless accounted for
Winston Churchill’s initial side-stepping
of the request.
* * * *
“Spasebo”; Asked in Adelaide when
sleeping cars were to be restored on the
Melbourne-Adelaide journey, Mr. Curtin
unexpectedly retorted that first-class pas-
sengers could now realise what second-
class passengers have suffered for years.
State Governments have been responsible
for the fact that Australia, even under
pre-war conditions, is 30 years behind
Europe in this and other matters. Second-
and even third-class sleepers have been
available in most European countries for
a generation, and even in Czarist Russia
I travelled on a peasant train from Vladi-
vostok to Petrograd more comfortably
than second-class between the capitals of
Australia. There were bunks in each
compartment and one brought one’s own
blankets, which eliminated the expense of
highly-paid attendants. The fare for the
fourteen days and 6000 miles was £lO,
which compares more than favorably
with the second-class fare from Perth to
Sydney and the privilege of sitting up-
right on a hard seat with a carriageful
of fellow-passengers, all looking as if they
were spending a night in that department
of hell where a solicitous devil sticks a
pitchfork into you when you show any
signs of nodding.
♦ * * *
“F.S.”: An indignant correspondent
of Melb. “Argus” complains that, while
we are having Austerity dinned into our
ears and the Government is appealing to
the public to cease spending on non-
essentials, there has been a day-to-day
auction sale of chinaware from the estate
of a woman collector at which £4OO
was paid for a single item. The
writer wants the Government to prohibit
sales of this kind. He might logically
demand the prohibition of sales of pic-
tures. Melbourne painters are having
the time of their lives at present. Every
artist can look forward to selling half his
output on the opening day of his exhi-
bition, and in one case the management
had to wire for a fresh consignment from
Sydney. Bears out the argument of those
who say that when necessities are rationed
more is spent on luxuries.
* * * *
“Prosetaster”: I had hopes that when
this war (so gigantic a clash of elemental
antipathies) got well under way there
would be a renaissance of the lost art of
invective. I have been disappointed.
Some attempts have been made, notably
by Churchill, but he, according to an
American interviewer, nowadays always
refers to Hitler as “that bad [or horrid]
man.” About the last great master of in-
vective was Theodore Roosevelt. His
“I call him a liar; if there were any
shorter or uglier name for him I would
use it in preference” was highly meri-
torious. And I have hopes, too, of a
writer in Sydney’s younger evening jour-
nal, who refers to “slimy self-seeking
traitors whose manifest treacheries
beggar even a thesaurus founded on 1900
years of contemplation of the Act
of Judas.” “Traitors” coupled with
“treacheries” is a bit redundant, but
otherwise the effort is a good stout bit
of commination.
* * * $
“C.Q.”: Australian comment on the
decision of the United States Govern-
ment in regard to Italian aliens shows
a misunderstanding of the effects
it will have on Uncle Sam’s war
effort. Uncle has had a long experience
of dealing with the “Melting Pot” which
European immigration has made of his
country, and one has only to talk to a
few Doughboys in this country to realise
that he has made a pretty good fist of
the problem. One of the lads told me
his blood was 100 p.c. German. He
himself was a first-generation American.
“Don’t you want to see your father-
land?” I asked him. “No,” he said in
surprise, “what would I wanna see it
for?” “But aren’t you interested in
your German origin?” “Why would I
be interested in that?” he retorted. “I’m
an American citizen.”
• * * *
“Yair”: Said Bill’s missus to her
homecoming lord, “Bring any beer? No
wine, either? A fine sort of husband you
are! I’ve got a nice piece of pickled pork
and a chicken and three veges. for to-
morrow, and two jars of cream for the
sweets, and candy and walnuts and olives.
And you can’t even think to bring some
beer.” “Stone the crows!” Bill said,
“whose birthday is it?” “Nobody’s—but
it’s a special day tomorrow. I’ve heard
them talking about it in town. Everyone
will be celebrating it. It’s Austerity
Sunday or something.”
“Jesmond”; There are ceitain circum-
stances in which the study of French may
be stimulated. A nephew suddenly de-
veloped a keen interest in the language,
and his school reports changed from poor
to excellent. I couldn’t understand why
until I found him going through my
few French authors, and he admitted,
quite unblushingly, that he was looking
for books by Pierre Louys. It seems a
school friend had found a mutilated copy
of Aphrodite, and, their appetites whetted
by the frank illustrations, the whole form
had swotted French so that they could
translate the more juicy passages. Know-
ing that he would get copies sooner or
later and that the sooner his obsession
was satisfied the better I lent him, much
to my sister’s disgust, my unabridged
copy. Now his really excellent under-
standing of the language is due solely to
Louys satisfying a schoolboy’s curiosity.
Adults, of course, sometimes study
French for the same reason. I once
worked with a man who had taken it up
because in a translation of The De-
cameron he found the naughtiest story
was given in French. Had he chosen
another cheap edition, in which Latin is
used for the wicked narrative, he might
have become a classical scholar.
* * * »
“Watsonia” remembers Sydney of the
’seventies:
Those were the days of the hansom-cabs, of
which there were hundreds (one, sometimes
two, can still be seen in Bridge-street); the
main stand queued from Elizabeth-street back
towards Woolloomooloo, while stands for single
cabs were almost at every corner of the city.
Charges were Is. per quarter-hour, 4s. per hour,
or as arranged. “The Racecourse,” as Hyde Park
was called, was fenced with wooden pickets, and
meetings were held on Sundays, as in the
Domain today. It was from the south-east
corner that the Eight-hour Procession started
for Clontarf on the historic occasion which re-
sulted in a libel suit being brought against
The Bulletin. Each day could be seen making
their way to the park two policemen, Parr
(short and dark) and Dillon (tall and sandy); they
patrolled the park together and were hated by
the “boozeroos” and “old wops” who tried to
sleep off the effects alongside one of the many
plantations. They seldom returned to the Central
station, opposite the Town Hall, empty-
handed; it always required the two to arrest
even a common drunk. Penalty was £1 or
seven days for the third indulgence; neglect to
pay meant a gaol crop, and the whole beard
(fashionable in those days) was shorn off. A
fire-alarm usually caused a race between the
different volunteer brigades to reach the scene
first, a horse being commandeered from a cab
or other handy vehicle —recompense usually
7s. 6d.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Melbourne stargazers
were thrilled by a cable from Wellington
(M.L.) Observatory to the Government
Astronomer, Dr. Baldwin, that a new
star has been discovered. According to
the M.L observers, it is Bhr. 4min. right
ascension, 35deg. south declination, first
magnitude, brightening, color bluish.
According to Dr. Baldwin this places the
new star almost exactly on the line
through the stars Rigel and Sirius low
down in the south-east towards mid-
night. Local astrologers are inclined
to connect the apparition with the Libyan
triumph.
* * * *
“H.M.F.” unfolds some Saharan his-
tory ;
Murzuk, an oasis in the southern Sahara, one
of the spots Rommel must be watching with
anxious eyes as the possible source of a thrust
from the Never-never on the line of his com-
munications with Tripoli, has a story behind it.
When Clapperton and Denham, the first white
explorers to penetrate Nigeria, crossed the desert
on an embassage from George 111, they were
held up at Murzuk for more than a year until
it pleased the Sublime Porte, upon representa-
tions by the Foreign Office, to allow them to
proceed. Their mission was to effect an
alliance with Osuman dan Fodio, Sultan 6f
Sokoto, a black Napoleon who had established
order by conquest over half a million square
miles of territory, and whose boast it was that
a woman might carry unmolested a bag of gold
on her head from one end of his dominions
to the other. A treaty established by priority
British claims to a protectorate over northern
Nigeria. In the opening years of this century
Murzuk became a place of exile for political
offenders against the Ottoman regime. They
were accorded complete liberty of movement,
except to the north, for no human foot had
used the old caravan route to Lake Chad since
Dr. Barth’s day, and it was thought to be im-
passable. Thirty-five years ago, however, Hans
Vischer, an eminent linguist and educationist,
Swiss-born and Cambridge-bred, obtained per-
mission from the Colonial Office to take this
route when returning to his administrative head-
quarters in Bornu, on the west side of the lake.
In the market-place at Murzuk he found a
seated figure in turban and fez reading a French
novel. The stranger was an exile and had
friends in the same plight. They were Young
Turks. Vischer blazed a trail, which they
followed the next year, arriving ragged and
penniless at his remote station at Maiduguri.
Sir Percy Girouard, the French-Canadian
Governor, made funds available under Vischer’s
guarantee for the refugees to sail for Eng-
land. While they were still upon the high
seas came news of a coup d’etat; the Sultan’s
Government was overthrown, and the exiles
arrived in Constantinople in time to go straight
into the first Cabinet of Enver Pasha. When
the Italian grab occurred soon after, the Turks
retired to Murzuk, filling in the wells as they
went. The Italian hold on the hinterland has
remained precarious ever since.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Murmurin’ Mick, out-
ward bound from Condobolin to Forbes
along the south side of the Lachlan, was
overtaken by heavy rain and took shelter
under a big box. It was getting on for
dark and it looked like a wet camp until
a car came along and the driver gave
Mick a lift. By this time the rain was
pelting down and visibility was bad;
still, Mick was content, knowing that the
Forbes showground lay ahead with its
grandstand for shelter. After a bit it
struck him that they seemed to be a long
time getting there, and he peered through
the wet windscreen trying to locate him-
self on what the headlights showed.
“Hey,” he said, “are y’ sure y’ ain’t
slewed?” “Not me,” said the driver con-
fidently ; “know this road too well f’r
that.” Mick was silent. Then he said “It’s
Forbes y’re makin’ f’r?” “Too right.”
Conversation ceased. Soon after dark the
rain stopped, and not long after that the
lights shone on a small hamlet with a
siding and a wheat silo. “Forbes,” said
the driver. Mick looked at it. “By
cripes,” he said, “that was heavy rain!”
The driver seemed puzzled. “It must’ve
bin,” added Mick, v/aving a hand at the
hamlet; “it’s shrunk Forbes up t’ nothing.
They used t’ have 11 pubs there; now
there ain’t one.”
“M.U.R.”: Has “Narrin” (B. 18/11/’42)
ever tried to shoot a musk duck when
it’s floating down the river about 40 yards
off? Down our way there are blokes
prepared to swear the fowl can crash-dive
between the flash of the gun and the
arrival of the lead at the spot where it
was.
Sj*
“E.C.”: The old man came in as Ma,
rising from the stove, clutched desperately
at her side and dropped into a chair.
“That pain catchin’ y’ again, Ma?”
“Y-yes, Dad,” she quavered. “Seems
to be getting a lot worse lately. S’pose
we couldn’t get down to a doctor?” “A
doctor! Rats! Anyway, how many
times I got t’ tell y’ we can’t go gallivan-
tin’ t’ town these days on any bit of an
excuse? It’s 50 miles, an’ we can’t afford
the expense till after the war. You’ll
soon git right.” He snatched up his hat
and made off, but 20 minutes later his
steps came thudding violently back down
the track. “Quick, Ma, where’s that
stock medicine the vet. gave us?” Ma
dived into a corner and came up with
an empty bottle. “What!” he exploded.
“Is it all gorn? Gripes! An’ the milker’s
sick! Now we’ll have t’ go t’ town f’
more. Get your hat an’ open the gate,
will y’, while I fetch the truck. An’, Ma,
f’ heaven’s sake hustle; that beast’s
worth close on 10 quid.”
* » ♦ »
“Sou’-west”: The scientific explana-
tion that gelignite detonates in contra-
distinction to an explosive charge, which
burns (B. 21/10/’42), finds expression in
the miner’s saying that fracture always
strikes downwards. Stuck for want of a
pile-driver, an engineer I knew took
advantage of this. First he got the black-
smith to beat out a steel saucer of the
heaviest boiler plate. Then, with the pile
in position, supported with stays, he
placed the saucer, with a couple of plugs,
detonator and fuse, on top. A succession
of such shots drove the pile to the re-
quired depth just as effectively as the
dropping of a half-ton pile hammer.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The rhob in the
shearers’ hut was doing the usual skiting.
Greasies were telling of the tallies they’d
put up ; there was talk about fencing,
post-cutting, grape-snatching and so on.
Mat wasn’t saying much, neither was the
little bloke with the mousy moustache
and the defeated look who sat withdrawn
in a corner. To hear those fellows talk
you’d have thought they were the main-
stay of the country, and maybe they
were, but Mat always hated skiting. He
got talking to the mousy little bloke,
and suddenly he spoke up. “Listen,” he
said, “you blokes is blowing out y’r bags
about what you’ve done an’ what y’ can
do. How many kids have you married
blokes got?” It brought several surprised
answers: “One.” “Two.” “So’ve I.”
“What’s bitin’ you, Mat?” Mat grabbed
the mousy bloke and stood him up.
“This bloke’s got six,” he said. “He’s
a better Australian than any of you.
The place is chock-a-block with gun
shearers an’ woodcutters an’ lumpers an’
all that. But what it wants is gun fathers
like him. He ain’t much t’ look at, but
he’s given us six more Aussies an’ that’s
better than ringin’ a shed, any day.” In
a thoughtful sort of silence the mob pre-
pared for bunk.
$ f: $ *
“Pegasus Pete”: That baker’s horse
that stopped automatically at customers’
gates (B. 18/11/ ’42) was a creature of
habit rather than of exceptional sagacity.
It’s a stone certainty that should any of
those customers drop out the nag will
keep on stopping at his place until belted
out of the habit. A cocky I knew
bought a bakery horse. The animal
always stopped at two places on the way
to town, until the cocky adopted the prac-
tice of calling out “Nothing today,
baker,” whereupon progress would be
resumed.
“Pick ’em up, Stumpy—we'll never get to Tripoli at this rate!"
“B. A. Ker”: The way that different
species of birds will suddenly flock to or
desert a locality fascinates me. For 15
years to my certain knowledge a black
magpie had not been seen in our district,
although less than 10 miles away they
abounded. Then, in the winter of 1934,
flocks of the birds arrived —not from the
adjacent districts apparently, since the
numbers there were not depleted. For
about a month the visitors stayed before
vanishing as mysteriously as they had
come. I’ve not seen a black magpie in
the locality since. On the other hand
peewee larks, friends of my childhood,
disappeared 10 years ago. Last month
I was agreeably surprised to see one
hopping about the grass; I’ve noted a
dozen since. Every winter a pair of robin
redbreasts beautify the paddock but at
the first breath of summer are gone. Blue
martins, once regular spring visitors, for-
sook us six or seven years ago, and have
only recently returned. Eight years back
an unknown bird appeared in the district.
Now the bulbul is quite common; but
orchardists, while admitting its cater-
pillar-destroying qualities, are beginning
to wonder —and worry.
# * * *
“Moama Maude”: Bin tellum that one
“Louden” (B. 18/11/’42) mine tinkit him
wanta go alonga some Murray sheds a
few years back him bin seeum one-two
black pfeller very good shearer. They
bin brudders an’ one bin husban’ belonga
me. Bin good barbers, yowi, an’ boss
fpim askum come back you pfeller nex’
time, by cripe.”
* w * *
“Theo D. Lite”: “Tracechain’s” attri-
bution of bullet-proof armor-plating to
the goanna (B. 11/11/’42) is on a par with
the old myth about the penetration of
goanna oil through glass. The effective-
ness of a go.’s overcoat against .22
bullets is about the same as that of
National Security Regulations in pre-
venting coal strikes in N.S.W. From a
short-barrelled rifle a .22 bullet can go
through steel plate one-sixteenth of an
inch thick, or through five kerosene-tins
in a row. On a survey camp on the
Murray we had a fad for collecting
goanna oil, and a treed go. was easy
meat for the grounded marksman. There
were no ricochets except from the
trunks of the dry box-trees, which they
climbed with great ease,.
“Walpee”: Goanna oil and wet weather,
is it (B. 18/11/ ’42)? We played South
Jonnycake for the premiership. It
was raining like hell when we got there,
and Nugget Aspinall, our abo. full-back,
produced a bottle of a horrible-smelling
oil and smeared it over our arms, necks
and shoulders. The Jonnycake mob never
saw the way we went. We shed rain and
opposing players with equal impartiality
and cantered in by 10.26 to 3.11. But
none of us was allowed into the social
that night.
* * * *
“Narrin”: The ordinary blue crane —
that heron with the ornamental flight and
the scolding voice—is worth watching
when he’s after a meal. Saw one the
other day alight on the bank, step
daintily into the water and survey the
margin of flood-washed duckweed.
Apparently he was satisfied that there
were shrimps lurking beneath the weed,
for he began to stalk along with the
characteristic leg action of his tribe just
out from the bank. With his white face
intent an<L dagger beak at the
ready, he began to stir the
weed as he walked. He used
one leg with the action that a
cat employs when its feet are
muddy, disturbing the floating
weed. The shrimps evidently
fell for the stratagem, for at
almost each stirring of the
debris the long beak darted
down, was flung up and then
settled back to the ready posi-
tion. The same bird often
alights on the bank behind us
just after we have rowed the
dinghy along the weedy bank,
apparently for the same reason
that magpies follow a plough.
♦ * *
“Patrionola”: That chap who
reckoned he’d had ants and
maggots in his tucker but vita-
mins were something new re-
calls the days when maggots
were held to be a prime source
of vits, though little was
known of those elements at the
time. Held to be a cure for
consumption, “jumpery” cheese
was much sought after; and
with a patient who had faith
in the treatment both the over-
ripe casein and its contained
livestock went straight down.
To the possessor of a stomach
of sufficient hardihood such a
diet would be very nourishing.
But it is years since I saw a
cheese “jumper”—l doubt if
the present generation realises that such
animals once existed.
* «> * «
“Tracechain”: Sound in the bush is
something like wireless reception ; you
hear everything that goes by night, but
only the big stuff by day —birds’ song,
wind, ring of an axe, shot, whipcrack,
and only rarely the beetle, which just
misses the ear. Mosquitoes and midges
are felt, not heard, by day, nighttime
being their session. Night in the bush —
our neighbors are beyond the five-mile
limit—telescopes and magnifies sound,
and, with water-soaked ground, frost or
watercourses, it gives away countless
secrets. Horsemen on the road, two
miles away, come in as clearly as the
A.B.C. regional. The bush is never
silent, though it is often calm, and it is
that calmness—one or other of the
phobias—which so often frets the soul of
suburbia.
* * * •
“Tertiary”: Govett’s Leap, near Black-
heath (N.S.W.), is reckoned to be the
deepest chasm with perpendicular cliffs
in the known world. The huge hollow
is almost surrounded by these precipices,
probably nowhere less than 3000 feet
above sea level. Popular legend has it
that the name derives from a bushranger
who, being chased by the police, jumped
his horse into the gulf, but the “leap” is
really the waterfall made by a small creek
falling into the hollow, and it is called
after one of Sir Thomas Mitchell’s
assistant surveyors, whose portrait as a
dandy of a century ago is in Sydney's
Mitchell Library. Mitchell himself tried
to ascend it from its junction with the
Nepean River, but, after walking and
crawling between the huge lumps of
sandstone that litter the bottom of the
densely-wooded ravine, was compelled to
give it best.
SJ: Jfc *
“Aperist”: Most birds and insects are
blind by night, or, vice versa, by day.
But the bee, although it comes home at
sundown and seldom voluntarily stirs out
again until dawn, can see equally well
in the dark. Anyone tampering with a
hive at night will learn this. The reason
is that the interior of the hive at all
times must be wrapped in darkness, or,
anyway, a very dim light. The combs
with their wonderful architecture and ex-
treme fineness of dividing walls are all
built in the dark. Even when night falls
outside, comb-building and honey-curing
still go on. And combs will be built
first at the far end of the hive, where
light penetrates the least. Yet, despite
this power of working in the dark, the
bee is really a creature of the light, re-
joicing in the most brilliant sunshine.
And from the darkness of the hive to the
glare of the sunshine its eye adapts itself
instantly. On leaving the hive the field
bee does not wait for its eye to adjust
focus, but flies straight out, a practice
impossible to any other creature except
its cousin the wasp.
* Jfe *
“A. S. S. Ayer”: “Bohemian,” whose
prospector (B. 14/10/ ’42) cunningly kept
his gold in a pickle bottle, and covered
with nitric acid instead of water, so bring-
ing the thief to justice, evidently isn’t
aware that you can’t keep nitric acid in a
bottle with a cork, much less scent the
cork. Or if the acid was so dilute that it
didn’t affect the cork it certainly wouldn’t
be capable of burning anyone’s hands.
Bottles containing acid of any sort need
glass stoppers. Even rubber corks won’t
stand the strain very long ; the sulphur
incorporated in the process of vulcanis-
ing becomes affected, causing the rubber
to rot.
* * * ♦
“T.V.”: Felix and Tige are two ex-
tremely anti-social tomcats. The colors
on Felix’s hide are as mixed as his
ancestry, and he is a confirmed chicken
butcher. Tige is conspicuous by reason
of a missing ear, a broken tail, a mendi-
cant voice and an uncanny way of in-
sinuating himself into the kitchen on
plunder bent. Both belong to that half-
starved and half-wild breed that invites
itself to live on any farm where there is
skim-milk. One day, because of the
absence of a duckling and a consider-
able depletion of a jug of cream, both
the feline bushrangers judiciously went
into smoke. But, as it happened, Mum
had to go up to the stables, and, entering
noiselessly on the straw-covered ground,
she discovered the sinners blissfully sleep-
ing a few feet apart under the manger.
An adjacent pitchfork tempted Mum to
action and, making a mighty swipe, she
scored on both. Whereupon two profane
cats exploded out of their slumbers and,
alighting simultaneously face to face,
immediately tore into each other. 1
have often seen the genus homo, awak-
ened suddenly from alcoholic slumber,
come up straight into the stoush position.
Perhaps men and tomcats have some
instincts in common.
WAITING.
Beyond the gums on the Western rise
I sometimes pause, and, hoping, search
The winding track where the creek bed lies
And paper-barks, part-naked, lurch.
Far down the valley towards the sea
I search for a trail of tell-tale dust,
But my eyes grow dim, for they disagree
With a heart which hammers “He must . ..
He must!”
The lucerne’s green, and the sky is blue,
But I see them not as I look for you.
The land wind blusters beneath a sun
Which breathes of long hot days ahead;
Two summers have passed and another one
Is breaking, brazenly draped in red.
But still I pause on the Western rise
And note the bend where the bracken grows
Along the track; then I close my eyes,
For I trust my heart and I know it knows —
I see not field, nor sky, nor track,
But my man in khaki coming back.
W.A.
K. HAND.


“Solitude”: The ringer became aware
of Seventyfiver watching him swinging
through his work, and, deciding to
impress the old bloke, he began tearing
through the job and breaking all his
previous records. “Ever do any shear-
ing, Ancient?” he asked, straightening his
back for smoke-oh. Seventyfiver, his
mind set on the days when he trailed a
pack north and followed the line of sheds
with the seasons, laconically admitted
that he’d tried it. The gun prepared to
enjoy himself. “Yair?” he grinned. “And
what’s your top with the machines?”
“Well, I dunno exac’ly. Weren’t never
able t’ really try out,” explained the old
cove, “on account o’ the way they build
these sheds.” “Why, what’s wrong with
’em?” “Why, havin’ only one outlet f
each shearer. Damn it, sonny, every
time I’d git a bit of a run on the shorn
sheep’d jam in the chute!”
at # * st
“Duddo Bore”: Old Mac had the blues
properly. “The only thing wrong with
this flamin’ Mallee,” he mourned, “is it
ain’t got no high things like bridges,
cliffs an’ skyscrapers.” “What are y’
gettin’ at?” sneered his equally morose
elder son. “Well,” Mac groaned, “it
stops a bloke from doin’ hisself in. I
never could face poison, shootin’ or
bangin’, but jumpin’ orf a bridge would
be right in my line.”
* * * *
“Danyo Bore”: Before anybody rushes
in to support the claim that bindi-eye
is staple diet for merinos in n.-e. S.A.
(B. 18 /11/ ’42), will somebody tell me
how many pounds of bindi-eye it takes
to keep a sheep going a day, how
many pounds to the acre n.-e. S.A.
grows and how many sheep to the acre
they cqrry down there? And, while
we’re about it, it might be as well if we
had a definition of bindi-eye. Some
people miscall clover burrs by that name.
“Quareef”: If “D.B.”(B. 28/10/’42) ven-
tured beyond the fringes of that particular
patch of mallee where he battles for a
crust, he would discover that Australia
is wide, very wide ; that mallee-scrubs are
numerous and vastly scattered and that
each particular patch of m.-s. possesses
its own peculiar types of grass, herbage
and bush. In some of these scrubs both
bindi-eye and saltbush flourish, in others
they are non-existent. Furthermore, all
merino mobs which I have tailed relish
bindi-eye as a delicacy—especially about
flowering time. They race each other to
the sandy patches and dunes whereon it
grows lusciously, and with unseemly haste
devour its sweet yellow flowers, its long,
creeping runners, and its tender, fern-
like leaves. Bindi-eye to the merino is
like beer to the boozer—he’d suck it
through a woolbale.
* * * *
“Narrin”: Like children, the cockatoo
is greatly influenced by environment. In
our neck of the river a retired actor-r has
his hut and his sulphur-crested pet. In
his odd sober hours he dreams of
past glories “on the boards” and teaches
the bird some juicily declamatory lines.
There came a day when a big brown
snake got in and curled around the old
bird’s perch. Backing into the corner
the old hamfat’s understudy struck a
true Thespian attitude and declaimed
dramatically: “By heavens, sir, I must be
seeing ’em again!”
* * * ,t
“B. 4”: Like “Bo’s” would-be dingo
captor (B. 4/11/ ’42), I found a litter
of pups with yellow shirts and white
vests in a smallish tree shell, and
blocked the exits with stones well driven
home. Going back with a bag, I saw
a pack of dingoes carrying off the log
with their teeth, which they had fastened
round knots and nodules. I followed till
they reached the brink of a precipice, over
which they dropped the bedroom. The
resulting crash split the welkin and the
log, the released pups bolting promptly
and melting into the scenery. While the
platoon rested, the mother ambled down
a cattle pad, haunched herself and,
crooning “The Warrigal’s Return,” was
soon ringed by her admiring progeny. I
now carry an anchor to maroon the next
dog-nest I find.
Aratta”: Poonarunna Pete had just
finished recounting a rather lurid tale of
grasshoppers up in the New England
country which swarmed so thick over-
head that the cockies had to use hurri-
cane-lamps at midday. The speaker
asserted that after two days of it he left
for the south. “It’s a pity, Pete, that
you hadn’t waited another day,” said Dick
the Bot. “I was in those parts at that
“Fishin' aint ’ wot it useter be, Bill. Remember when we could bring a
five-gallon along ?”
time. After you left the ibises came
after ’em. Billions of ibises. A proper
blackout they caused, and it lasted a
whole week! They flew so low you
could knock ’em over with sticks. Every-
one did, in fact, and, do y’ know, the
whole country was covered a foot deep
with feathers—looked just like a snow-
storm!” It was then that a sad-looking
individual broke in. “Y’re right, blast
it! ” he said. “And I wouldn’t be hump-
ing the drum today only for those two
plagues.” He glared fixedly at the two
previous speakers. “I was in the butcher-
ing business up there in a big way. All
me customers salted down so many of
them hopper-fed birds that not one of
’em bought a bit of meat fer six munce.
But long before that I’d headed south,
too.”
* * * *
“B. 4”: “Gumsucker’s” yarn (B.
4/11/ ’42) recalls a Winton (Q.) boundary
rider who established what he called his
“milk run” during the great rat plague.
“Dingo” often found miles of his net-
ting fence lined with brown snakes,
which, after sinking a brace of rodents,
would endeavor to crawl through. When
the bulge in their tubes contacted the
netting their subsequent body-stretching
would merely result in pushing the repast
further down the tunnel. Becoming exas-
perated Joe would then lash back through
another mesh to institute inquiries. Dig-
“Shut up, Towser —I can't hear what the missus is sayin' !”
nity reassured, another forward dart, with
repetitions of the turnings and twistings,
would leave the ophidian well kinked in
a grapevine. As their convulsions rattled
the fence “Dingo” would issue forth,
ride along and invite the visitors to have
a nip from a bottle with rubber stretched
across the estuary. Nothing loath, Joe
would lower his face and, sinking his
fangs through the rubber, would be
grabbed behind the ears and be forth-
with persuaded to let down the milk. As
“Dingo” was content to exchange the
proceeds of his snake juice for stagger
juice, he avoided that prosperity which
austerity forbids.
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad claimed to have been
a great foot-runner in his young days,
and when the new hand after tea one
evening casually mentioned that he had,
a year or two previously, won the State
quarter-mile championship, Dad hopped
in promptly with reminiscences of his
own youthful prowess. For a solid hour
he talked, the while the hand stared at
him as though hypnotised. According to
himself Dad had wiped the floor with
all opponents in contests from fifty-yard
sprints to ten-mile marathons. “Me
favorite distance was three miles,” pro-
claimed Dad, “an’ I useter give blokes up
to half-a-mile start and beat ’em holler.
’Course I wus in the pink o’ condition in
them days, an’ me wind wus good. In
them long-distance races it’s mostly a
matter of wind, an’ mine ain’t too bad
now even at my age ; and I ain’t 100 sure
that I couldn’t give some of the young
fellers a go even now,” he added boast-
fully. The hand eyed Dad with what
the old chap mistook for intense admira-
tion, and replied with conviction: “It
wouldn’t surprise me a bit; as you say,
plenty of wind is the most important
thing.” And, rising, he hurried off to
his room. Dad looked after him, beam-
ing, and remarked to Mum, “I like talkin’
to a young feller like that; he understands
y’.” “Yes,” replied Mum with a quiet
smile, “I’m sure he does.”
* <' *: m
“Bohemian”: The extent of the drift
of the Maori from his own language was
marked at a recent confirmation service
in the Maori church at Rotorua. Bishop
Bennett (himself a Maori) said that for
the first time in history the service would
be read in English, as the younger genera-
tion of Maoris knew English better than
their own tongue. The bishop said that,
though efforts were being made to retain
the native tongue, the children much pre-
ferred pakeha customs and language.
“Say 99”; I knew a barber-orderly in
an Australian sanatorium for consump-
tives who put all his customers to bed
when they wanted a shave. Starting as an
amateur, he had learned the trade that
way, hospital rules demanding that
patients should be shaved at least twice a
week. He just couldn’t shave anyone sit-
ting up, though he could give a good
haircut with the client sitting in an ordi-
nary chair--which again was something
of a feat, since the ordinary barber hoists
his customer in a high chair.
* * * *
“Bo”: Old Tom Perry clamped his
ancient felt hat on, “I’m just going over
to Thompson’s,” he said to Ma Perry.
“I’ve heard Milligan from along the gully
is coming to look at those cows this after-
noon, and Thompson as good as offered
them to me last week at 15 quid each. If
he hung out he could get 23. Think I’ll
snap them up.” About halfway across
to Thompson’s boundary fence Tom
pulled out his pipe, and, there being a
strong headwind blowing, he turned
around the better to light his pipe. For-
getting to turn around again he walked
straight on, his mind occupied with the
additions to his Jersey herd. As he
climbed back through his own hill pad-
dock fence his eye caught a wisp of
smoke issuing from the corner of the big
paddock where the almost ripe oat crop
was waving in the wind. Dashing across,
he saw that a root from the big gum out-
side the fence which was burnt nearly
a month before, and which had evidently
been smouldering underground, was just
bursting into flame. A few seconds more
and the crop would be alight, with the
loss of several hundred pounds. Pulling
off his coat old Tom beat out the flames.
Then, going back, he harnessed up Biddy,
took the big drum on the sled and filled
it at the dam, excavated round the still-
smouldering root and filled it with water.
By that time it was dark and he put
Thompson off. When he did go next
morning he found that Milligan had
bought the Jerseys for £2O each. As old
Tom used to say afterwards, “I know it’s
me own fault for bein’ so absentminded,
but it just shows y’ how flamin’ stiff a
man can be—do ten quid in in cold
blood! I haven’t stopped kickin’ meself
about it.”
H* Jjc jjc si*
“Pat Ater”: It’s a bit hard to accept
“BA’s” story about the snake being
tethered for a week by a fishing line
(B. 28/10/ ’42). I’ll back Joe’s gastric
juices against any gut line. Fishing in the
Nepean we saw a tiger-snake sidling along
a branch towards a green tree-frog dang-
ling on the branch-end. We intervened
as the snake was swallowing the puff-bag
and dispatched him. Half an hour later
we decided to make use of the tiger’s
late meal for bait. We slit Joe up, but
the frog literally dissolved in our hands.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: “Golden Mile’ doesn’t
seem to think that river-gum and box
logs, left half a year in the stack, would
be anything but pretty dry (B. 18/11 /’42).
Our idea was that only the top logs dried
out. We believed the underneath ones
were in constant shade, and that their
sort of half-ripened sappiness gave us
the heat. Anyhow, something about that
wood kept the pressure up, even on
muggy days.
* * #
From one who signs himself “Truthful
Murphy”:
Perambulating recently through the Pilliga
Scrub (N.S.W.) my mate and self made camp
just on dark one evening in a small clearing.
After the fire was well alight we rolled a big
near-by hollow log on to it, judging it was
of sufficient size to last throughout the night.
Somewhere about three in the morning, when
the log was burned about halfway through
and splitting in the centre, we were awakened
by a curious sound coming from the log, and
a few seconds later a short rotund individual
backed out. From somewhere among his
fiercely-burning whiskers there came a distinctly
annoyed voice demanding to know why the
adjectival so-and-so a blanky man couldn’t be
allowed to sleep in ensanguined comfort with-
out being disturbed and perhaps incinerated by
any lurid traveller that came along. After ex-
tinguishing his beaver and shaking a few thou-
sand sparks from his clothes he hurried off,
saying he was going to the nearest C.P.S. to
have us up for arson, assault, attempted murder
and wanton damage to his residence. Could
The Bulletin let us know where we legally
stand?
[The “Aboriginalities” editor, “Pilot” and
the office astrologer have gone into con-
ference. The result of their deliberations
will be forwarded on receipt of an affi-
davit.]
* * * #
“Nipper”: In the little pub, a cow-
cocky expressed astonishment at the ways
of the new schoolmarm who was board-
ing with the family. “Yair, she snoozes
with her window open top an’ bottom.
One o’ them fresh-air cranks who ain’t
satisfied with what she gets durin’ the
day!” The concourse solemnly agreed
that she must be a bit batty.
LITTLE SHIPS OF MINE.
I know what they’re doing,
Little ships of mine,
Lying by the quayside,
Waiting for the sign—
A rendezvous at midnight.
Nestling by the spars
Of grey shapes standing
Out beneath the stars.
I know where they’re going,
Little ships of mine,
Creeping past the headland,
Dashing o’er the Line.
Trade winds flurrying,
Tossing up the brine —
I know where they’re sleeping,
Little ships of mine.
N.S.W.
T. M. WALSH.


iOOHd
SUHOVS Al
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
r
m
■a:
H
*■«
:vr
. . *s t«i
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office; 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Crutch Strike.
“R. Ney”: The Australian Wool
Board claims that “many growers” have
reduced fly strike to one in a thousand
by using the 4in. tail and Mules opera-
tion and continues optimistically: “There
is every reason to believe that the com-
bined method should remove blowfly
strike as the scourge of the Australian
sheep industry.” It’s all the result of
work done by the C.S.I.R. at Gilruth
Plains, near Cunnamulla (Q.), where the
A.W.B. financed the setting up of a
National Field Station, comprising
40,000 acres and carrying 7000 sheep.
Fly-strike research was first on the pro-
gramme. The C.S.I.R. followed up suc-
cess with the Mules operation on two
N.S.W. stations with the 4in. tail. Both
helped keep the breech clean and dry,
and early in 1941 a widespread campaign
to popularise the combined methods was
begun. Growers who attended the special
schools and then put the lessons to prac-
tical use on their own properties reported
success.
J. H. Mules, originator of the operation
for removing breech-fold, has long held
that breech strikes vare main breeding
grounds of the fly and that to reduce
strikes is to reduce fly numbers. He now
becomes a prophet with honor in his own
country. The news should be welcomed
in Westralia, where for the first time
sheepowners have suffered extensive
blowfly trouble. The method can be
operated by ordinary station hands pro-
vided the overseer or owner has had the
proper training. The courses are avail-
able in pretty well every sheep district,
and it is worth noting that the method
protects the sheep for life.
If the Wool Board’s optimism is jus-
tified, another grand national achieve-
ment must be credited to the C.S.I.R. and
the pastoral industry generally.
Zone Shearing.
“Murrawong”: The fact that in
N.S.W., in spite of prolonged wet
weather, the shearing programme is prac-
tically complete is sufficient proof of the
success of zoning. There are still many
sheep to be shorn —cold-country sheds
are only now getting well started —but
had the labor available not been organ-
ised the whole thing would have become
a nightmare.
Zoning got off to a bad start. The quality
of the shearing suffered because many
of the best shearers are in the Army.
There was so much work offering that
shearers picked the easiest sheds, and for
flocks consisting mainly of wethers it
was hard to get shearers of any sort. This
position still exists, and many wether
flocks are losing sheep through fly strike.
The award rate was increased twice
during the season, but the general ten-
dency was to regard it merely as a mini-
mum to be used when bargaining. A
very high proportion of sheds could not
get a full board, and this had the effect
of prolonging and dislocating runs and
adding to the difficulty of arranging fol-
low-on sheds. Every other branch of
shearing labor was affected by the Army
drain on man-power. Preparation of
clips suffered, and wool appraisers com-
plained of faulty skirtings, mixed pieces
and a general decrease in the standard of
get-up.
There should be planning for next
year. Properties which lamb in April-
May are now joining the rams, and they
should have been told already how they
stand regarding zoning in 1943. Unless
£ ut out dates in each zone are strictly en-
lorced and policed and unless each dis-
tnct , 1S notified that there will be no ex-
eruptions next year there will be more
confusion. With the amount of labor
av aiHble there is practically enough
shearing to keep men occupied for eleven
months of the year. This should be
pointed out to the men also, as there is
evidence in later sheds that men are
deliberately going slow and voting sheep
wet because of the fear that at the end
of the present season they will be called
UP-
an« block.
“De Bee”: Whether sheep need salt or
not (B. 4/11/ ’42) is largely a matter of
locality. Experience in N.S.W. proves it
necessary in some districts. Sheep do
not need salt on heavy agricultural soils,
which are not suitable for growing fine
wool, though ideal for fat lambs. Light
“Well, there she is; an' don't forget t’ return ’er in the same
order as when y' borrered ’er."
soils produce the best wool, but are de-
ficient in certain minerals. Salt seems
to compensate for the deficiency, and if
the sheep don’t get it they’ll lick bare
patches of earth and consume a lot of
dirt.
“J.M.1.”: Unless given salt cattle will
lick the earth in black-soil country, par-
ticularly in black springs, which they will
bog up. Weak ones become bogged and
others develop into wasters. Sheep also
have their lick holes, though not so often
as do cattle. My greatest loss of sheep
through withholding salt was when 1
dosed them with carbon tetrachloride. I
have to do it regularly, but have never
lost any sheep since I began giving a
salt lick at the same time. I’m certain
that if I didn’t give them salt when dosing
I’d have heavy losses.
Irrigation on the Ord.
“Norther”; The Westralian Depart-
ment of Agriculture has sponsored tests
with irrigated pastures on one of the
Durack properties in East Kimberley.
Survey showed a good dam site on the
Ord River in the Carr Boyd hills and
showed also that in the wet season the
Ord carried enough water to fill Mun-
daring five times a day and that a fertile
and irrigable plain of about 100,000
acres lay below the dam site. This plain
is not subject to flooding. Twelve acres
were fenced off, ploughed and graded,
equipped with channels, check-banks and
drains. During the “wet” it was culti-
vated now and again to keep down
weeds. Then came fertilising and sow-
ing, necessary irrigations and the final
hay-making.
Results are merely preliminary, but
promising. Veldt grass and the first pas-
palum sowing failed to germinate.
Phalaris tuberosa fought mightily against
the local weeds and has hung on, though
it couldn’t be claimed a success at this
stage. A second sowing of paspalum got
away and looks like making good. Buffel,
Birdwood and Rhodes grasses all did
well, showed quick recovery after mow-
ing, quick response to irrigation and
beat the weeds.
Rhodes and lucerne sown together
meant domination of Rhodes, but
Mitchell and lucerne mingled well,
probably because Mitchell is a
slower grower than Rhodes. Lucerne on
its own had a bit of a struggle, but
seems to be now well established and
able to compete with weeds. A mixed
seeding of Birdwood, buffel and Mitchell
on unworked land without superphos-
phate, but irrigated, resulted in a fair
pasture. Water pumped on to an un-
touched flat, on which some native
perennials were previously burnt off, re-
suited in quick growth of the perennials
and germination from natural seeding.
There is much still to be done, but pas-
ture improvement seems to have arrived
on the Ord.
Dog Feed.
“Huxave”: Raw meat alone isn’t
enough for the hard-working dog. He
needs protein and can get it from lean
meat, milk, eggs, meat scraps and peanut
meal. Keep the dog on his usual meat,
but in addition feed him at least one-
third of the meat’s weight in peanut
meal. Get him used to it by feeding the
meal once a week at the start, then twice
a week for a fortnight and after that
three times weekly. Milk and eggs can
occasionally be added. When the dog’s
work is likely to be doubled, fat will pro-
vide him with extra energy. On ordi-
nary occasions too much fat should not
be given ; the dog’s appetite is then satis-
fied before he gets the protein.
Raw bones mostly supply the dog with
all the minerals he needs. When these
are not too plentiful add one tablespoon
of bonemeal once a week to the diet. Salt
should be given in the same proportions
ns to humans. All dogs need about three
teaspoons of cod-liver oil once a week.
Raw pork is one of the worst dog meats
possible, and induces heavy worm infes-
tations. Cottonseed meal? No.
The grown dog of about 501 b. needs
about lylb. of dry food a day under
ordinary conditions. Small, quickly-
growing dogs require as much food as a
mature dog weighing three times as
much. Amount of food given a bitch
should be doubled in late pregnancy and
while she’s nursing pups. Hard-working
dogs should be fed twice a day. Arrange
the tucker hours so that they don’t come
just before work. One meal a day is
enough for the ordinary dog.
Cost of Producing Eggs.
“Buff Leghorn”: N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture has worked out costs for a
one-man run of five acres with 1000 layers.
Production is set at 12 dozen eggs a
hen a year. Average prices of main food-
stuffs on farm: wheat 3s. lid., maize 6s.
6d., pollard and bran Is. 4d., wheatmeal
Is. 7d., ready-mixed mashes Is. 9d. per
bushel. Interest on land £l5, on equip-
ment £4O, depreciation £24, feeding costs
£387 10s., feed and fuel to raise 600
pullets £62 10s., rates, etc., £25, incidentals
£l5, basic wage allowance (at £4 14s. v a
week) £244 Bs., marketing costs £l5O ;
total cost of producing 12,000 dozen
eggs £963 Bs., or Is. 7.268 d. a dozen.
Revenue from cockerels and sale of
old hens would about equal cost of day-
old pullets for replacement, leaving rear-
ing costs as a charge against
the general income. It is ad-
mitted that maintenance costs
and wage allowance might
both be higher, and it is sug-
gested, too, that there is good
money in cockerels at present.
On the figures an average
of at least Is. Bd. a dozen
for first-grade eggs would be
necessary to give the pro-
ducer any sort of chance.
To reach that average eggs
would have to make a
monthly minimum of Is. 6d.
to 2s. a dozen wholesale for
the next year.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: Treat itch
in horses with a mixture of
two parts of sulphur, two
parts of tar oil, one part of
potassium bicarbonate and
eight parts of lard. Clip the
parts and wash away dirt and
scurf. Rub the dressing in with
a soft brush over and well
around the spot, and repeat
twice more at weekly inter-
vals. Disinfect yards, etc., with sheepdip.
“Bax”: Teach the young draught all-
round work at first. If he is put in the
furrow for the first time after several
years in the body of the team he is
likely to be much worse than a young
horse just taught. The same applies to
work in single harness.
“N.H.”: I’ve seen bobby calfskins well
tanned in 40 minutes. Six quarts of boil-
ing water were poured over two quarts
of bran, which was then strained. A
quantity of salt water, equal to the bran
liquid, was made by adding as much salt
as warm water would dissolve. Bran
water and salt water were mixed, and
loz. of sulphuric acid added for each
gallon of liquid. The skins were im-
mersed and stirred and were ready under
the hour. This method will tan possum-
skins in 20 minutes, and Too-, wallaby-
and sheepskins in an hour.
“Myrrhee”: One of the best ways of
conserving cowyard manure is to wash
droppings and urine into an underground
tank or pit, whence it can be pumped
into a portable tank and spread over
the pastures. It’s well worth while. An
analysis of the liquid collected in pits by
R. G. Caldecott, Tongala (Vic.), showed


For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
„ CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing’ all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence at St. John’s College and
an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and textbooks not exceeding £5O per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the Will of the late James
Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable their sons to
study Agricultural Science, and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University of
Sydney, or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
lor ms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than the 11th January, 1943,
iii the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, and not later than the Bth
1 ebruary, 1943, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further particulars
may be obtained from:—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
FULLY GUARANTEED AS TO LONGEVITY, EFFICIENCY AND MECHANISM.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF. AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine, and automatically runs off into
the underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
THERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT JOB.
Approved by the Board of Health—over 2200 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Ply. Ltd . Telephone 81052. E ' DNEi
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 12i% Sales Tax.
Plus 25/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
Obtainable direct, or from all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Wireless alone can meet the i
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units..,
INSTANT ★ CONSTANT ★ CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADI GIRO *
RAD
VALVES
uk... ~....... ........, ~, '
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETABV, LTD.,
83 Clarence Street. Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. PtyV Ltd.
CRAYENA
are kinder . .
to the throat
that 1000 gallons were equal to 221 b.
super., 241 b. muriate of potash and 741 b.
sulphate of ammonia, valued at 15s. on
present fertiliser prices. Caldecott col-
lects 8000 gallons of liquid manure a
month from 60-odd cows, and topdresses
three acres of pasture with it, making
36 acres fertilised each year.
“Doody”: A stack 20ft. long, 14ft. to
the eaves, 10ft. to the ridge and Ift.
wide holds a ton of average hay. Every
foot added to the width means another
ton.
“Mt. Boppy”: A good supplement for
pigs is 21b. of meatmeal to 1001 b. of
ground wheat, 51b. to 61b. to each pig
daily. For young pigs between 501 b.
and 1201 b. increase the protein by mak-
ing a mixture of 941 b. wheatmeal, 31b.
meatmeal and 31b. linseed meal. Mix
well and feed 41b. to 51b. a head a day.
“8.A.”: A well-grown hawthorn
hedge makes a first-class windbreak and
shelter for stock ; it is not easily damaged
by fire, and it’s well worth putting in
now when fencing timbers are scarce and
becoming scarcer. Hawthorn pips should
be sown in specially-prepared plots, and
when the quicks are planted in their per-
manent positions they should be pro-
tected from stock and carefully trained
and trimmed until they form a close
barrier.
“De Bee”: Try a fertiliser dropper
attached to the plough for potato plant-
ing. Some perseverance is necessary at
first, as the dropper is inclined to jam
owing to the fertiliser affecting the mov-
ing parts. Many growers have discarded
them before getting to understand them.
The machine should be cleaned regu-
larly, but oil is what is most needed. Oil
it well and often.
Outback Occasions.
No. 63.
“NECTAR OF THE GODS.”
t-,
rather was mighty pleased when our
brother came home and said there was a
good sort of a bees’ nest in a big yellow-
jack up behind the hay paddock. Father
was very fond of honey and our supplies
were getting low. Honey, according to
rather, was the true nectar of the gods,
an l ( L* le used to become poetic about it.
Look at it, he’d say ; “there was
ne \ ev f a golden color like that, all clear
and full of lights. It holds the sun in it,
an rain an’ the warm winds after rain,
<and the rich, hot beauty of gum blossoms
at n °°p- No, there’s nothing on earth
quite like it an’ ”
11 you leave the lid off the jar it
b' the flies, Mother would say.’
Woman, you’re a Philistine,” Father
would answer and then look surprised
at himself and a bit pleased, and if you
watched him you’d see him go quietly
and get the dictionary and look up Phil-
istine to see if he had been right. And
you d know he was right if you saw him
going away after that looking very self-
satisfied. Father loved passing some
remark that he thought was double-
Dutch to the family but full of good
m vsr r rr l se ff-
Well, our brother and I got busy and
cleaned out a couple of kerosene tins,
and Mother and our sister began washing
sugar-bags for strainers, and Father got
the axes and some veils and we had a
cup of tea, and then Father and we boys
and the dogs set off up the paddock to
get the honey.
( The dogs took a great interest in the
doings. They weren’t certain whether
we’d treed a rabbit or a fox or a dipro-
todon,but whatever it was they were deter-
rnined to be in at the death. It was a
ciear, hot afternoon, and after Father
had hit the tree a few times with the axe
the bees also took a mighty keen interest
in the proceedings and sent a few scouts
down to see what was doing.
Darkie and Blue, being long-haired
dogs, weren’t afraid of bees, but Ruff,
being smooth-haired, didn’t trust them.
His trouble that day was in mistaking a
bee scout for a blowfly and snapping at
it. The scout back-moved from the snap,
did a half-roll and then plunged at Ruff’s
ear. Ruff let out a yell and scooted for
home, and the other two, in the imme-
morial manner of dogs, promptly took
after him. Half-mad with pain, Ruff con-
cluded that Darkie and Blue were some-
how responsible and turned on them, and
there was one of the best dogfights we’d
had on our place for years.
We saw the tangle of hounds dis-
appear into the shed. We saw six chooks
and a cat shoot out of that shed. Then
a dog bolted for the house and two other
dogs tore after him, and Mother rushed
out and shouted and we boys raced down
to the house. Inside the kitchen the fight-
ing trio were at it hammer and tongs,
all three dogs seizing the opportunity to
work off on each other the grudges of
the past year. When our brother and
I got amongst them they worked off a
few grudges on us, and by the time we
got them sorted out there was blood and
hair in all directions and the kitchen was
a ruin.
Mother drove all five of us forth just
in time to hear a prodigious yell from
the direction of the yellowjack. We boys
galloped up there to find Father hopping
round trying frantically to tear off his
shirt, and we gathered that three or four
bees had got inside it. By forcibly hold-
ing Father still and feeling over him till
wc found the bees under the shirt we rid
him of their living presence and our
brother went back to the house for the
blue-bag.
Finally, with Father blued and re-
stored and the dogs chained up, and hav-
ing wrapped ourselves round another
cup of tea, we resumed our raid on the
bees’ nest. By this time, of course, the
bees were up and ready to repel boarders
and we had to wind ourselves up in veils
and cloths. Father made a smoke with
green bushes and we tore into the old
yellowjack again.
After a bit it came down with a crash
and about 2345 bats that had been living
in the hollows flew out and swarmed all
over us. They tried to get under our
hats and clung to our sleeves and pants
with their claws and squeaked and stank
to high heaven. We smote them and
swept them and hurled them and swiped
them and were nauseated by the heat of
our veils and the green smoke and the
bat-stink, and we had to retire some dis-
tance and loosen up and drink in great
gulps of fresh air.
It was getting on for sundown by the
time the bats had cleared out, and we
rehabilitated ourselves in our muslin
armor and resumed our sortie against
the honey hive. Father chopped away
a great slab of the log and we started
fishing the comb out. It was great stuff
and well stocked, and we soon had it
pressed down and overflowing our two
kerosene tins. We left a good bit behind
for the bees—we hadn’t sighted the queen
in the general excitement, but Father was
certain she was up at the top end of the
hollow where he hadn’t penetrated.
We took the tins of comb home and
Mother and our sister popped it in the
sugar-bags and hung it to drain and
Father went out and gazed at it with a
sort of sombre pride. He had several
lumps on his body and his eyes were
sore from smoke and the bat-smell was
stili clinging to his whiskers, but he had
enough of the gods’ nectar for a few
months and he was content.


Ofl
'u
OC
Qfnfnd
bs
*
The handy Trench Mortar "Toe
Emma" to the troops has proved
invaluable in this war, and has been
used with devastating effect. Its short
range and high trajectory make it
necessary to equip its projectile with
tail fins. These tail fins and the
nose-caps, made, as is shown
here, from CRMCO steel sheets.
HIK
ft/./
*<**
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
THE ARMCO-LYSACHT ORGANISATI 0N MANUFACTURERS OF STEEL SHEETS
Missing Friends.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts
of MRS. MARY JOSEPH (nee Antoni-Vitter),
who left Croydon, North Queensland, about
the year 1904, please communicate with the
PUBLIC CURATOR, Edward Street, Brisbane?
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and geii
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles
of kidney tubes and filters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger of acid
poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
flness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters.
Don’t delay 1 Ask your chemist or store
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS ...
used successfully the world over by millions
of people. They give quick relief and will
help to flush out the 15 MILES of Sidney
tubes. GET DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS at youc fiheialst or store,
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy or borrow I Worked in a Soviet
Factory, by Peter Francis (Jarrolds). —3324.
To buy or borrow Passing of the Third Floor
Back. —3323.
Information Sought.
What conditions must be fulfilled before
State Governments can be done away with ?
Must there be a referendum, with a majority
in each State?
Not necessarily. The High Court has ruled,
in effect, that the Commonwealth Parliament
has supreme taxing powers. Those exercised,
the States might find their occupations gone and
popular pressure might find them disposed to
take a broad view of Section 111 of the Com-
monwealth Constitution: “The Parliament of
a State may surrender any part of the State
to the Commonwealth; and upon such sur-
render, and the acceptance thereof by the
Commonwealth, such part of the State shall
become subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of
the Commonwealth.”
* * * *
(1) To what extent has the fish-canning in-
dustry expanded in Australia? (2) Is it possible
that in peace-time Australia’s fish-canning pro-
duction will provide for internal consumption
without importation ?
(1) Development of the fish-canning industry
in Australia is hampered in war-time by tin-
plate shortage and lack of suitable machinery
for the canning processes. Also there is a lack
of boats, gear and man-power. Existing
canneries are still operating on salmon, crayfish,
and at times on tuna and barracouta, and in
Tasmania the canning of sprats. Unless spon-
sored by the Government, the expansion of the
industry is doubtful on a big scale at present.
(2) Possible, but not likely.
* * * -T
What is the value of nitrogenous fertilisers
in the vegetable garden, and how to apply
them ?
Nitrate of soda and sulphate of ammonia
are nitrogenous commercial fertilisers used
extensively in the vegetable garden. They are
especially helpful to soils well enriched
with stable manures, but are of little
value to poor soils. Applied to leaf plants
—cabbage, celery, lettuce, spinach or silver
beet—they will produce quick results, but
the soil must be watered both before and after
application. Use it dry, loz. to the square
yard, or loz. to the gallon as a liquid fertiliser;
but be careful not to sprinkle it on the foliage
of the plants. Best results are obtained by light
doses once a week.
* * * it
(1) Is chiropractic a recognised method of
treating nervous disorders? (2) What is its
origin ? (3) Is it practised by any hospitals ?
(1) It is not accepted by the medical pro-
fession. (2) It would seem to have been the
brainchild, in 1894, of one D. D. Palmer, of
Davenport, lowa. (3) None, so far as informa-
tion available in Australia goes.
■ * * *
Method of destroying house mosquitoes?
Mosquitoes of the species known as Culex
fatigans breed in and around houses, in water
allowed to remain in tins, water tanks, drains,
etc. Steps should therefore be taken in the
first place to prevent mosquitoes breeding in
or near the house. In the house, the best
means of ridding rooms of the pest is to
spray with a pyrethrum-kerosene fly spray.
After treating a room it should be closed up
for a while. If a bedroom be treated half
an hour before retiring there should be no
trouble from mosquitoes.
* * * *
(1) Recipe for pickling hard-boiled eggs?
(2) Method of making soap from lard?
(1) Put into preserving pan one quart malt
vinegar, |oz. black pepper, 4oz. ginger, dash of
cayenne, one teaspoon salt; simmer for 10
minutes. Boil 16 eggs for 12 minutes, drop
into cold water, then shell, put into jars and
pour hot pickle over. When cold, tie down
and seal. Will keep four weeks. (2) Take
641 b. lard (free from salt), lib. caustic soda,
41b. resin, 41b. borax and two gallons of water.
Boil together for two hours, remove from heat
and stir in 4*cup of kerosene. Line a box
with damp cloth, pour soap in, leave till set,
then cut into cakes. Leave for 12 weeks to
harden.
* * * •
Method of drying figs?
Allow figs to fall from trees and gather from
the ground half-dry. Dip figs for half a
minute in boiling brine (3oz. salt to one gallon
of water) and spread on wooden trays, turning
every fig every other day. When dry (four to
six days) put in boxes to sweat and leave for
two weeks, mixing occasionally to allow dry
figs to “take up” from moist ones. Now grade
figs to uniform size, wash once more in brine
(same strength as before) and dry for half a
day. The figs are now steamed 10 to 15
minutes, then weighed into pounds and packed
into moulds and finally pressed, wrapped in
cellophane and put into cartons.
* * * *
What are (1) the complete record of the A.I.F.
cricket team and (2) the full bowling and bat-
ting figures of Jack Gregory and H. Collins ?
(1) Results of tour:
Played. Won. Lost. Drawn.
In England ..32 13 4 15
In S’Africa 9 7 0 2
In Australia 3 2 0 1
44 22 4 18
(2) Gregory: 52 innings, five not outs, 1720
runs, average 36.59; 197 wickets for 3241 runs,
average 16.45. Collins: 63 innings, two not
outs, 2501 runs, average 41; 150 wickets for
2624 runs, average 17.49.
■ * * *
(1) Results of the 1920 Rugby League Test
matches between Maoriland and England;
players who represented M.L. ? (2) Record of
the M.L.R.L. team in England in 1926-27, and
scores in the Tests?
(1) First Test (Auckland), England 31, M.L.
7; second Test (Christchurch), England 19,
M.L. 3; third Test (Wellington), England 11,
M. 10. M.L. players: W. Davidson, J.
Sanders, C. Woolley, E. Grey, K. Ifwersen,
A. McClymont, M. Pollock, S. Walters, W.
Somers, W. Stormont, E. Herring, H. Avery,
N. Bass. (2) M.L. team in England in 1926-27:
Played 34, won 17, lost 17; points for 542,
against 562. First Test (Wigan), England won
28-20; second Test (Hull), England won 31-11;
third Test (Leeds), England won 32-17.
* * * «
(1) What is Jack Dempsey’s real name and
age ? (2) How long did he reign as heavyweight
champion of the world? (3) When did he
retire ?
(1) William Harrison Dempsey. He was born
June 24, 1895. (2) He won the title from Jess
Willard (three-round knockout) at Toledo,
Ohio, on July 4, 1919, and held title until
Gene Tunney outpointed him (10 rounds) at
Philadelphia on September 23, 1926. (3) After
Tunney again outpointed him in 10 rounds at
Chicago on September 22, 1927.
Brief Answers.
A.C.P.; Cannot answer without seeing a
copy of the society’s rules. Know of no
National Emergency legislation which would em-
power a retention of rebates F.W.: Appli-
cation may be made to the Registrar-General
for an amendment or correction of the entry
of birth. He will advise what evidence he
requires before making the correction.
Although the error may not be likely to cause
much trouble, would advise its correction....
J.C.M.: Exact number unknown; but 30,000
’planes were built in 1918 L.N.8.: Yes. A
scores five for that second four... .M.S.: In-
formation of that sort cannot be published in
war-time... .L.C.: Too large an order. To
answer your question would involve at least
a month’s research and the writing of a 50,000-
word treatise... .A.H.P.: Cannot trace origin
of poems without name of author. Details too
vague... .D.J.8.: Write to the Office, N.S.W.
Commissioner of Railways, 19 York-street,
Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
A.C.:
He’ll sign a pact with any friend
And swear to keep it to the end,
Then turn his back and tear it up,
•Tust as he’d smash a china cup ;
This ruthless, truthless, worthless, wild
Barbarian of Europe.
C.A.F.; —
If you’re asked what old Grandfather did in the war,
You can hand this down to posterity:
He died like a hero, his pipe in his jaw,
In the odor of flaming Austerity.
F.S.:
The cruel yellow Jap to Australia he flew,
For us to invade he gave us a raid,
In bombs he was paid, for we are not afraid.
He found to his sorrow, we’ll all know tomorrow 7 .
D.C.M.: For a woman’s paper J.W.:
Call again... .M.P.: If you know what you
mean by “Time” you haven’t made it clear....
A.C.: Description’s not enough G. 8.: In-
effably dreadful G.C.: If everybody who
has written a pome entitled “Arise, Australia”
has arisen himself, we have an army of 64
millions... .W.J.: Poetic license employed to
submit “ ’ranged” for “arranged” is ’voked and
’celled... .S.C.: Keep it in the little string bag.
A.B.: Like the place-names, but it wants
a lot of polishing E.C.J.: Thanks; but a
version has appeared elsewhere.... Saltbush
Sailor: A rough sea E.S.S. (Canada): We’ll
have to hand ’em back across the sea
J.R R.: A new version of the limerick about
the young lady of Riga M.M.: Pleasant
enough, but it seems to travel from nowhere
to nowhere G.C.G.: Too melodramatic
A. 8.: Not a bad shot for your age... .C.G.V.:
Even the title’s a cliche M.L.: Not “be-
sotted,” surely!... .N.C.: “First Aid” beyond
mortal assistance.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.J.C.: Drawing birds won’t help you feather
your nest L.S.G.: We get that ancient gag
about the traveller riding a stick and asking for
permission to put his horse in the paddock
about three times a month L.S.: You are as
horrific as you are prolific... .P.H.: What has
the lady got on the lead —a small dog or a
large mouse? ... .E.H.A.: You capture per-
fectly the expressions on tailors’ dummies, but
they don’t look convincing on humans.


WE ARE
SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
£l5/17/3
DOUBLE RIGGED.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15/- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 28lb.
N.S. IV. Freight on Saddles Paid for Cash with
Order.
COWBOY BITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
CHAPARAJOS, TAPADEROS, ETC.
WALTHER* STEVEMSOH ZZS
335 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY, LIMITED.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
mt
: : :■ ■
mm
£&*'* £ ' V .• •• ••.<; • ••;> «Hs&ks
■
iiiiii
:
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER— 24th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanisra has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.’’
TEACHER —22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER—I4th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK —7th April, ’42 : “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency 1 have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER —17th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, '42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE—IBth May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part.... I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years.... I have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, '42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction
for over 34 years.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In conse-
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it as required. We learn
to trust our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and
woman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly
ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 50,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 cost free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelinan Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelmau
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.”
Name
Address
151
What Americans Are Saying.
This column is intended to be an occa-
sional, and necessarily abbreviated, substi-
tute for “Uncabled Additions,’ a feature
which will be revived whenever the news-
print position permits.
France had 5,000,000 men under arms and
waiting when the Germans struck. According
to U.S. Army figures the Germans won the
decision with only 321,400 men. France was
waiting. That was the trouble. Russia, with
her great army and resources, stood by and
permitted Hitler to decide some of her major
problems for her on the Meuse. She paying
for it now on the Volga. — N.Y. “Post. ’
So far in this Pacific war there have been
only two seafights in the traditional style
between surface ships without ’planes. The
Japanese won both. The battle of Macassar
Strait in January and the battle of the Java Sea
in February. The Macassar battle was a series
of running engagements in which our original
claims to have sunk and damaged some 60
Japanese ships were whittled down by a later
check to four enemy ships damaged. In the
Java Sea the Japanese outnumbered us and
outshot us. Even so that battle was to my
mind one of the most gallant fights of the
war. — Clark Lee, in the N.Y. “Journal Ameri-
can’'' (Oct. 2).
“We will win this war only by fighting. All
the nation’s productive output will be to no
avail unless we can come to grips with the
enemy. Our tactics must be such that our
objectives will be gunned, bombed or torpedoed
to destruction.” — Admiral Nimitz.
With 460 ships totalling more than 5,100,000
tons delivered up to October 1, American ship-
yards can be counted on to meet the objective
of 8,000,000 deadweight tons of shipping to be
delivered in 1942, fixed by the President last
January. Shipping losses are still severe, but
American yards alone can more than offset
them from now on. American shipbuilders
are meeting a great responsibility more than
halfway.— N.Y. “Sun."
Hitler’s actions if not his words will likely
shape up something like this: “Why do you
keep on fighting? You can have peace when-
ever you say the word. As I said in my speech
of Sept. 30, we and the British are not so
very far apart. I’m willing to leave the British
Empire more or less intact. And I have no
designs on the Western Hemisphere. So why
not put an end to the war? If you insist on
keeping it up, however, you’ll have to come
over and get me. You’ll have to cross oceans
and attack strongly-fortified shores even to gain
a toehold. Then you’ll have to fight on battle-
fields chosen by me. You can’t win. Eventu-
ally you’ll have to negotiate for peace, so why
not now?” What Hitler will not say, of
course, is that such a peace would be an over-
whelming German victory. It would mean an
Axis-dominated world —the very thing the
United Nations started out to prevent. It would
mean that we had lost the war—lock, stock and
barrel.— W. P. Simms, in the Scripps-Howard
chain.
The Government is having John L. Lewis
trouble again. He is reacting coolly to the re-
quest that the coalminers break up their 35-
hour week and go to 48 hours during the war.
The difference between those hours is that three
men would do the work of four. It would
mean a 25 per cent, increase in the use of
mining man-power. By foresight we have
managed to get up now the biggest stockpile
of coal in history... .but fuel experts forecast
a shortage next year With the armed ser-
vices, war industries and farms gasping for
men it is not likely that there will be any
place in the picture for a 35-hour week for
coalminers or anybody else. — Raymond
Clapper, in the N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
“Milne Bay may be exposed to Jap attacks,
but it’s the only outpost in the Far East where
American soldiers can have millionaire’s salad,”
a top sergeant said. “Millionaire’s salad is
made of heart of palm. You’d pay $1.50 for
a tiny plateful anywhere in a night spot in the
U.S. —if you could get it. Here we eat
millionaire’s salad three times daily, if we
like. You, too, can be a millionaire.” And
he forked about $2O worth upon my plate.—
George Weller, in the Chicago “Daily News.”
Since the British occupation of Iraq and
Iran, German propaganda, sabotage and espion-
age have been directed from Iskanderun, in
southern Turkey, by a modern Mata Hari named
Paula Koch, the Ribbentrop bureau’s “Direc-
tor of Middle Eastern Affairs.” Whatever the
sources of German propaganda, it is more effec-
tive than the milk-and-water hymns to de-
mocracy broadcast by the 8.8. C. Nobody
believes its propaganda, however truthful, and
everybody believes the Germans, no matter
how they lie. For they are the “outs”; the
British are the “ins”; and Moslem ever prefers
new masters to old. — Leigh White and Winston
Burdett, in the “Saturday Evening Post.”
The people of the United States will refuse
to co-operate in any programme of compulsory
employment which attempts to force millions
of citizens to pay tribute to the political sub-
division of the New Deal party known as the
Labor Movement. There is no point either
in urging people to get into war work volun-
tarily and then sending them to the office of
some union to pay graft to some racket as the
price of a job. The union officials are only
private citizens, with no authority of govern-
ment and'no legitimate right to extort money
or to collect income taxes from the people.
Compulsion is contrary to all the past experi-
ence of Americans and against their principles,
but we doubtless will submit if we are convinced
that everything short of compulsion has been
used. But all concerned had better be warned
that if and when the American people submit to
compulsion they will not submit to compulsory
unionism and extortion. — Westbrook Pegler, in
the Scripps-Howard chain.
The U.S. programme to supply oil for the
’planes of Russia is moving full speed ahead.
Nevertheless, official estimates are that it
will take two years before the refinery plants
are turning out aviation gas in the Soviet Union.
One year, it is estimated, will be required to
draw the necessary blueprints and engineering
plans and purchase the materials and processes
required for the plants. Another year will be
required for shipping the materials and parts
to Russia and erecting the plants.— Charles
van Deyander, in the N.Y. “Post.”


raTOWt, 1 !
■
Since 1858 IUDOWICI’S
have provided Australian Industry
with the finest leather belting.
The quality of Pioneer Leather Belting is the result of years of con-
tinuous specialisation in tanning and belt making. Constant chemical
control of raw materials and tanning processes, routine inspection of
every stage of manufacture, ensure that uniform quality essential for
long term dependability.
Not only our Tannery and Belt-making Factories, but our Engineering Plant is the
largest of its kind in Australia producing Pivot and Torque Drives, V Belt Drives,
Pulleys, Bearings, Shaftings, a complete line of Power Transmission Equipment.
★ POWER
TRANSMISSION
ENGINEERS
Ludowici's engineering work-
shop — largest of its kind in
Australia—produces a com-
plete range of Transmission
Equipment.
I. C. LDDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET (NEAR MARKET STREET), SYDNEY
20-26 QUEENS BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
STOP Jffig
babtw*f
If^rWORRIESo
0
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL. APPI4ASCB CO.,
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bradford Cotton Mills
f Dividends To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, serves,
1935.. 12,514 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,340 4,174 5,099
1936.. 21,591 6 „ 124 „ 12,645 8,946 14,043
Surplus revaluation assets, £22,406;
reserves capitalised, £21,500 . . 14,951
1937.. 2.6,966 6 p.c. 15 p.c. 18,525 8,441 26,892
1938.. 24,871 6 „ 124 „ 19,384 5,487 32,379
1939.. 29,001 6 p.c. 124p.c. 22,976 6,025 38,404
Capital assets reserve, £105,379 .. 143,783
1940.. 48,499 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 33,310 15,189 158,972
Bradford Cotton axd Subsidiaries.*
Added capital assets reserve, £47,190. . 203,304
1941.. 59,097 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 55,381 3,716 207,020
Forfeited shares reserve, £8 .. .. 207,028
1942.. 91,064 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 69,118 21,946 228,974
* Excluding outside interests.
A profitable Sydney cotton-spinner and
-weaver of moderate but growing size
before war began, developments recently
have been tremendous. A spinning mill at
Camperdown and weaving and dyeing
mills at Newtown originally turned out
cotton tweeds, drills, ducks, denims and
dungarees, output of these being encour-
aged by additional duties in 1935. The
market was still only tapped by 1939. Just
before the war a venture of importance
was the formation of C. and D. Mills to
make canvas and duck, two materials
later in great war-time demand. Then
Sanforising Services of Australia was
formed to pre-shrink cotton cloths, par-
ticularly for overalls. Really big develop-
ments later were the taking over of Aus-
tral Silk and Cotton Mills, Victoria, be-
cause of its yarn output, and the forma-
tion of Bradford Spinning Mills (Vic.)
and Bradford Weaving Mills (Vic.).
These two latter cos. set up on the old
Barnet Glass factory site at Footscray,
one spinning tyre-cord yarn and thread
for the other, which specialises in cotton
duck and smallware fabrics, besides
waterproofing materials.
The parent co. turned its attention
more to drills, tyre fabrics and gauze
as the war progressed. Because of a re-
sulting shortage in the country of indus-
trial clothing, such as dungarees and
overalls, it since has had to revise its
defence-work activities. C. and D. Mills
has been expanded, duck being the chief
product, and all the fabrics made in Syd-
ney are put through Sanforising Services,
which treats outside textiles as well. Aus-
tral Silk and Cotton, in Melbourne, is
working at high pressure, results being
a “source of gratification,” and its piece-
dyeing plant is the best of its kind here..
A Sanforising plant operates as in
Sydney.
Last term there were further additions
to plant throughout the various under-
takings. But biggest additions were made
during the preceding year, and there have
been other installations since the close
of accounts, with more on the way. Here
is some indication of the way the busi-
ness has leapt ahead since 1938:
Parent, , Consolidated Figures—,
_ 1938. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £202,742 £541,517 £674,482 £894,329
Outside inter-
ests . . 164 153 158
Liabilities .. 1 f 356,133 352,464
lax reserve,) 26,765 101,621 4
etc- .. J ( 45,940 86,772
Freehold . . 49,068 215,981 348.928 382,373
Plant, etc. . . 117,938 305,466 558,565 617,121
Stock, etc. . . 66,906 181,972 310,029 459,085
Sundry debtors 28,672 63,253 102,242 128,588
Cash, etc. . . 16,957 52,108 1,903 11,342
The figures speak plainly enough in
themselves, but, elaborating, over four
years £691,587 has been added to
capital (£894,329), £832,488 to fixed
assets (£999,494) and £392,179 to
stock (£459,085). From the point of view
of freeholds and plant the undertaking is
ever six times bigger than it was in 1938 ;
in capital about 4 % times as big. The
increase in liquids and the like has more
than looked after the growth in the debt
and tax liabilities.
The co. has been careful about the
price it paid for plant right from the
time it was formed by the Keighleys, of
Bradford, about 15 years ago. Though
the three war years have not generally
been favorable from this point of view,
Bradford Cotton is believed to have again
bought cannily. And last year’s depre-
ciation allowance was £64,827, repre-
senting rather more than 10 p.c. on all
the plant.
Capital issues since 1938 have been as
follows:
April, 1939, 20,000 6 p.c. prefs. to share-
holders.
Mid-1939, 43,000 f.-p. ords. and 93,104
prefs. to shareholders in Austral Silk and
Cotton.
December, 1939, 34,000 f.-p. ords. to
Dunlop-Perdriau and 240,193 ords. to
shareholders.
1940- term, 57,000 f.-p. ords. issued in
payment for Camperdown (Sydney) premises.
1941- term, 204,954 ords. for general
expansion.
On this growing capital, with new plant
installation causing a delay in earning,
relative profit-earning over several years
showed a decline. Last term, with the
new and re-formed Melbourne off-
shoots “in full operation,” profits
before taxation were shown £64,227
higher at £175,514. This growth was
achieved on a “substantially-increased
turnover” but lower margins of gross
profit and higher costs. After set-
ting aside £93,539 for taxation, but
charging back £8750 of this to 1940-
41, net profit of the parent and subsi-
diaries was £91,064, against £59,097 the
term before. Allowing for the prefs., the
net figure was equal to 13.6 p.c. on aver-
age ord. capital, compared with 10.9 p.c.
in the preceding year. Over the two
years to June, 1940, average earnings of
the parent were 16.1 p.c. The ord. div.
is kept steady, at 10 p.c., and in view of
all the circumstances, including the
growth of the share-register and the
demands of the taxgatherer, it is an
achievement.
The co.’s ords. are sought in vain at
the revised limit price of 41s. 6d. They
promise to have an interesting future,
subject to difficulties in getting raw
cotton to this country. The co.’s pro-
ducts are chiefly for the defence ser-
vices, and that should help as regard
priorities.
Sargents, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re~ Re-
June, Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 1,293 Nil 50,016
Unexplained reductions, £21,083 .. 28,933
Profit.
1933.. 3,505 Nil 3,505 32,438
Written off, £13,396 .. .. •• 19,042
1934.. 9,319 24 p.c. = 7,292 2.027 21,069
Taxation, £5OOO 16,069
1935.. 18,100 5 p.c. = 14,583 3,517 19,586
Share premiums, £1403 •• •• 20,989
1936.. 30,019 84 p.c. = 25,213 4,806 25,790
1937.. 33,538 9 ~ „ 26,881 6,657 32,452
1938.. 36,871 94 „ „ 28,375 8,496 40,948
1939.. 37,121 10 „ ~ 29,868 7,253 48,201
1940.. 21,319 8 „ „ 23,895 45,625
1941.. 21,579 6 „ „ 17,920 3,659 49,284
1942.. 16,221 54 „,, 16,427 49,078
This once-prosperous catering and re-
freshment co. —it took over the business
from the Sargents in 1909 for £60,000,
of which £45,000 was for goodwill —got
itself into difficulties through heavy prop-
erty purchases on borrowed money dur-
ing the booming 1920’5. Though that
policy has long since been discontinued
and the debt worked down, there was still
approximately 12s. of outside money in-
vested in the business for every pound
belonging to shareholders at the end of
June last, and the prop for capital was
none too stout.
However, the financial structure is
being slowly strengthened, as these figures
show:
1929. 1935. 1941. 1942.
Capital . . £272,050 £29R666 £298,682 £298,682
Mortgages . . 289,750 130,228 126,644 125,644
Overdraft . . 30,665 21,220 5,275 11,419
Sundry cred.* 51,278 49,358 74,532 67,015
Freeholds . . 576,428 297,426 295,560 298,485
Leaseholds . . 12,536 6,861 16,121 13,913
Plant, etc. . . 95,325 94,500 104,977 102,464
Stocks . . 29,431 5,788 20,906 26,108
Cash, debtors,
etc 25,788 41,072 46,709 40,723
Shares in other
cos 1,988 77,348 79,105 79,105
* Including provision for taxation.
Last term another £lOOO was snipped off
mortgages and, though £6144 was added
to the overdraft, the amount coming to
trade creditors, which is mainly provision
for taxation and obligations to sub-
sidiaries, was reduced by £7517 net.
When the books closed the amount
coming to outsiders exceeded more or less
liquids by £137,247, an improvement of
£1589 over the twelvemonth.
Shareholdings consist mainly of scrip
in Lucullus Pty—it took over the Mel-
bourne end of the business and a slice of
the debt in 1930 —City Property Estates,
Pearson’s Fish Cafe, Sargents (Whole-
salers), which does the buying and Sar-
gents (Newcastle), an associate with seven
branches in the steel-and-coal city. Pre-
cisely what all these turn in the law
doesn’t require the co. to divulge, but
“subsidiaries,” representing a book invest-
ment of £18,992, netted £lOB9 as against
£452 the previous term.
Shareholders had a steady 15 p.c. for
the five years to 1929, followed by 10
p.c. for the next term. Then came a
three-year drought, broken in 1934 with
2\ p.c. The rate continued to climb by
annual steps to a liberal 10 p.c. in 1939,
since when it has descended to 5| p.c.
under the weight of war costs and taxa-
tion. Still, turnover of the co.’s 42 restau-
rants and three pleasure grounds in and
around Sydney has kept on expanding.
Last term the tax slug alone was £9936
heavier at £39,396, or more than double
the amount earned for shareholders. The
spring in gross profit (£311,267) was
£14,176, but exes, again took the lot, plus
£5358, leaving the net result (£16,221) at
5.4 p.c. on capital. To check the drain,
the board is off to the Prices Commis-
sioner with a request to be allowed to
charge a bit more. The staff problem is
a headache at the moment, and it will call
for a lot more aspirin still in the future.
H. B. Dickie (Melb.)
Net , Dividends N To Re- De-
June, Profit. Pref. Old. Total, serves, licit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill, £27,000 .. .. T. 27,000
1935*. 3,450 _ 6 p.c. 2,783 667 26,333
1936.. 8,127 54 p.c. 7 „ 7,510 617 25,716
1937.. 10,504 54 ~ 74 „ 8,325 2,179 23,537
1938.. 13,960 54 ~ 8 ~ 8,825 5,135 18,402
1939.. 13,422 54 „ 8 ~ 8,825 4,597 13,805
1940. . 15,600 6 ~ 9,, 10,944 4,656 9,149
Share premiums, £6,250 . . . . 2,899
1941.. 16,920 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 16,591 329 2,570
1942.. 16,648 6 „ 8,, 14,400 2,248 322
* Six months.
While insufficient yarn-spinning capacity
constitutes a bottleneck in the war-
strained textile industry, Dickie’s is in
the paradoxical position of being unable
to man fully its new spinning, and
hence its weaving, plants, although a
protected undertaking. But Man-power
has now been clothed with authority both
to disemploy labor and compulsorily
direct it into essential channels, and, with
a call-up of women for war work immi-
nent, that should iron out the textile
labor problem. Absenteeism is an asso-
ciated headache which the Government
hopes its limitation of the working week
to 56 hours for men and 52 for women
may also cure, in the process making for
more efficient and greater production.
Melbourne towel and terrycloth manu-
facturers, Dickie’s began as a private co.
in 1926. The public came in nine years
later, and the record since has been one
of progress and doubling of capital. War
hastened the movements and saw the
div., after successive step-ups, reach 10
p.c. in 1941 ; but £5662 believed to be
surplus profit in that year was subse-
quently collared by the taxgatherer, and,
with no relief from the Prices Commis-
sioner in respect of mounting costs, the
rate was pulled back to 8 p.c. last term.
In view, among other things, of the
company’s youth and the relatively high
capital cost of recent expansion, discern-
ing shareholders won’t look for more
than 8 p.c. for the present.
The recent mill additions, completed
at last, have yet to make their presence
fully felt. They cost roughly £lOO,OOO,
of which shareholders subscribed £75,000
in 1940;
1935. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £92,755 £162,361 £190,000 £ 190,000
Liabilities . . 29,220 26,486 81,377 70,985
Tax reserve . . 1,530 8,709 10,000 12,750
Freehold . . 29,856 55,733 76,268 76,283
Plant, etc. . . 29,846 42,846 106,035 103,183
Stock.. .. 27,543 55,098 62,302 66,238
Debtors, etc. 1 1 28,818 34,824 19,047
Cash, etc. J ’ ( 12,406 13,740 15,862
The new plant brought an increased
necessity for depreciation, up £4204 to
£10,720 in the latest accounts. Capacity
is now devoted mainly to low-profit de-
fence needs, the weaving department
turning out 1,000,000 towels a year for
the services alone and the spinning section
providing the yarn for this and outside
purposes. The changed nature of demand
shows up in the contraction of £14,777
in debtors, used mainly to reduce the
debt.
Last year the co. embarked on produc-
tion of surgical gauze, and, despite harder
work all round, little-changed earnings
of £16,648 are exhibited after charging
£2912 less for taxation (£12,750). But,
allowing for payments on the £40,000 of
prefs., earning rate on actual ord. capital
at work fell from 10.2 p.c. to 9.5 p.c.
in the two periods. On the raw-materials
side particularly, the cost-inflation re-
sponsible for the decline continues, and
application has been made for an in-
crease in selling prices. In the long run
the level of costs and tariff policy will be
the important elements.


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Ail classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution
A. C. DAWSON. T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands:
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner ana
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
.(Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, SVDNET.
N.S.W DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Jlctny Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E,, M.L-C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
The Symbol of
Security I
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
Wm
wmm
mmm
m
%
.
. ... .m. r;^;:
m
m.
Wm
o »
< '4
*h .
i §
pi
mmm
1
/*
45
tJMlTi'J
FORESHADOWS A
GREATER PEACE
ODV
The exigencies of war
have evolved new, high-
precision machines and
rmoiAEijs: improved production
methods. . . . Richards Industries
Limited has enthusiastically adopted
the best of these to speed up
production of vitally needed war
munitions . . . and to be ready
to serve in the great work of recon-
struction following the war.
When to-day's armaments are but
relics, skilful R.I.L. craftsmen will
use their experience to produce,
efficiently and economically, peace-
time requirements.
A
H
■HKM!
Section of Richards Precision
Tool Room, where tools are
being manufactured for Air-
craft and various munitions
projects.
SUPPORT THE
RICIMRIS
INDUSTRIES
Great Boulder
Brian Manning, appointed by the
Court on July 9 sole liquidator of Great
Boulder in place of former secretary
Ronald Backer and Harry Rees, the joint
liquidators appointed with the board s
backing when the co. was put into volun-
tary liquidation in September, 1940, gives
shareholders an account of his steward-
ship : —•
I have been engaged in investigating the
general position... .Very early I realised that
the liquidation was not of a normal character
and that if the assets of the co. were not to
be realised in the usual way some effort would
have to be made to restore the position which
existed before the resolution putting the co.
into liquidation was passed; moreover, this
seemed to me the most desirable course.
I ascertained that the important group of
contributories whose opposition had led to the
withdrawal in December, 1941, of the applica-
tion to the Court for an order staying the liqui-
dation intended to persist in their opposition
unless the liquidation could be stayed on the
terms of a fresh start being made with a new
and independent board, the Articles of Associa-
tion being altered at the same time to ensure
that the new board would remain in office for
a minimum number of years.
A solution of the problem on these lines
would not have been possible without the co-
operation of another important group of con-
tributories, and my next step was to make in-
quiries to ascertain whether that group would
be prepared to co-operate to this end. The
response did not inspire me with any confidence
that an agreement could be reached on these
lines; consequently, it became necessary for
me to try to find a solution on other lines, and
certain proposals are under consideration. Pro-
gress is being made, and 1 have every hope
that it will be found possible to formulate a
scheme which should be acceptable to all who
have the interests of the company at heart.
1 regret that it is not possible for me at
this stage to give any details.
In the meantime I have learned with surprise
that a group of contributories styling them-
selves “Great Boulder Proprietary Shareholders'
Resumption Group’’ have sent to some (but
not, I believe, all) contributories a circular
which includes a statement that “there is no
legitimate reason for the continued denial
of the shareholders’ right to manage their own
affairs.”
I feel it my duty, as liquidator appointed
by the Court, to point out to contributories
that the general tenor of the circular is tenden-
tious and misleading, and in particular that the
sentence above quoted is a travesty of the real
position.
From what I have already said it will be
appreciated that the only reason for the con-
tinuance of the liquidation is that the dissen-
sions between two substantial groups of con-
tributories make it impossible to obtain an order
of the Court staying the liquidation except on
terms not acceptable to both those groups.
In these circumstances there is no question of
any denial to the shareholders of the right
to manage their own affairs. Actually the sole
responsibility for the present position rests on
the directors, upon whose initiative the com-
pany was put into liquidation before they had
satisfied themselves that the necessary permis-
sion of H.M. Treasury to transfer control
to Australia, which was the sole purpose of
the liquidation, would be granted.
Hal Colebatch, chairman of the
“Australian Shareholders’ Resumption
Group,” replies:
Since the issue of Manning’s circular a meet-
ing of Australian shareholders of Great Boulder
Prop, has taken place, and 1,011,472 votes
were registered in favor of the co. going out
of liquidation at the earliest possible date and
returning to the normal control of shareholders.
Arguments raised by the liquidator that he
was endeavoring to reconcile the views of two
dissenting groups of shareholders have nothing
to do with the question at issue. It is not the
duty of the liquidator to act as arbitrator; his
duties are either to complete the liquidation
of the co.—which in the case of the Great
Boulder does not apply—or, if the purpose for
which the co. has been placed in liquidation
(namely the transfer of its domicile to Aus-
tralia) cannot be achieved, then to return the
co. to the control of the shareholders con-
cerned. It would appear that the liquidator has
decided to retain his position as long as pos-
sible, and in view of this the Australian and
English shareholders’ committees are taking
steps immediately to apply to the English
Court for the removal of the co. from" the
liquidator’s control and its reverting to share-
holders’ control.
From Sept. 25, 1940, to June 30 last,
781,412 tons of ore was treated for a gold
yield, after deduction of Federal excise
tax, of £1,623,987 Australian. Working
costs, including ordinary development,
took £1,272,641, special development
£129,268, and outlay on plant and
machinery £29,043, leaving £193,035 ; off
this have to come depreciation, taxes, ad-
ministration and other considerable items.
There has been no div. since before
liquidation.
* * * *
Westralia has given up worrying about
the fall in gold production as the result
of inroads into man-power. This year’s
total yield will probably be at least
200,0000 z. below that for 1941. Divi-
dends will be down more than half.
Spargo’s Reward is the latest to give up,
although it reckons that at the time of
shutting-down developments were quite
satisfactory and there were more ore
faces than could be adequately worked.
=•= * * «
After constructional delays, Harriet-
ville (Tronoh), Ltd., Victoria’s most am-
bitious alluvial-gold project, has started
opening out its Ovens property. Thomp-
son’s-built at a cost of £380,000, the
massive 4600-ton dredge has a rated capa-
city of 350,000 c.y. monthly, digging to
a maximum depth of 130 ft. and remaking
the ground as it passes through in accord-
ance with modern practice. But labor
for only two shifts is available, so the
£176,000 of debt which was on view at
June 30 will take a bit longer than ex-
pected to cut away. Values of 3.22 gr.
are looked for in the first half-dozen
years ; the average for the full 96,000,000
c.y. available (22 years’ work) was indi-
cated by 60 bores to be 1.92 gr. Only a
fraction of the £375,000 of capital is held
locally, the risks being mainly carried in
London, which became interested after a
Placer pup had nibbled without biting.
With its new dredge, to dig 375,000 c.y.
monthly, scheduled to set in at an early
date. Tableland Tin, Mt. Garnet (N.Q.),
appears fly for a turn of luck, and the
nrefs have been chanoimr hands at nar
prets. have been changing hands at par.
The price includes a years accrued div.
They are an 8 p.c. issue, participating
with other shares in distributions beyond
that rate and enjoying equal voting powers
with the ords., while a special fund is to
be accumulated at the rate of £4OOO p.a.
to protect pref. capital in the event of
liquidation. Allowing for this £4OOO,
annual net earnings of over £39,200 will
be necessary to make the participating
rights worth anything; but the values
‘here, and prices haven t been better
War-time construction costs had put a
£103,140 in the way of ord. divi-
dends at Jun ; 3Q
; since, £45,000 has been
rece i V ed as compensation on the old
dredge? which foundered, the co. retaining
t h e right of salvage, while there have
been further plant payments. Tinminers
a re exempt from war-time (company) tax
in respect of earnings up to 8 p.c. on
capital.


mm
i
i
m
m
H
>S*
m
CAN A WIFE
AFFORD TO
BUY AUSTERITY
BONDS ?
Mrs. X discovers how
m
C v\
?
L -tfpf-l'
m
ss
p
Ss*.
I was determined to save up for a Bond, but
at first I wondered how on earth I could pos-
sibly afford £ 10. Food, gas, clothing .. ,
there are so many things that the family
simply must have. Then I had an idea . . .
11
xxjrjn
m
m
mil
m
r.
;•**»
SJ
s?
S 3
in
m
m
a
iS<
Mj
This evening dress! I shan’t
want one again for some time
yet. There’s enough material
for a smart little frock for
Jenny. That saving will pay
the first instalment on a Bond.
And while I'm on the job why
not a pair of trousers for
young Harry out of my old
grey skirt? It means a bit of
time, but if it’s going to help
the boys who are fighting. I’m
not going to grudge that I
As for food, it’s marvellous
what you can save by think-
ing: “Of course it’s tempting,
but do we really need it?” It
takes careful planning to save
£ 1 a month, but I get a real
kick out of doing something
to help!
• Bonds are £lO each and obtain-
able in multiples of £lO.
• interest if you redeem
them in 1958. redeem-
able in 1947.
9 You can buy your Bonds by in-
stalments if you wish—lo%
down and the balance over 3
or 9 months.
• Interest starts on money paid
from the date of lodgment.
• Bonds are realizable in case of
need.
Bonds are
from any Bank, Savings
Bank, Stockbroker or
Money Order Post
Office.
Almost everyone can save £1 a
month. That's all it takes
to buy a Bond!
To win the war we’ve simply got to raise the money to
pay for it. That means saving as we’ve never saved
before . . . doing without many things that we really
need—and being proud of our sacrifices. Don’t leave
it to your friends—we must ALL help to make the
Austerity Loan a winner!
austerity bonds
AL.7C.17.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Whakatane Paper Mills
There is a long story behind this con-
cern —a very long story. It started off
as an ambitious and talkative, if rather
nebulous, forestry-bond proposition in
1925, and was familiar in its early years
as Timberlands Woodpulp, Ltd. All-in
cost of the plantations eventually ran
out at about £l2 an acre, but in a con-
version of bonds into shares in 1933
there was a very substantial inflation in
book values of the forests, etc. The
result has been big figures in capital
and assets only. Earnings of any dimen-
sions have been absent until the last
couple of years.
There are Pinus insignis and rimu areas
near Lake Taupo and Te Teko, both on
the Rangitaki River (M.L.) ; they aggregate
about 69,000 acres. About six years ago
the co. got seriously into the job of erect-
ing a pulp and board mill at Port Whaka-
tane, on the Bay of Plenty. Production
began in the early part of 1939, the co.
drawing its initial pulpwood require-
ments from Matakana Island in the form
of thinnings, involving payment of a
royalty and about 45 miles of transport.
A fair proportion of chemical pulp has
had to be imported to blend with the
insignis product.
The plant was estimated to have a
capacity of 12,000 tons of groundwood
pulp and 20,000 tons of paperboard a
year, but such figures have not yet been
achieved, though results are improving.
The co. had great financial difficulties
right through the period of mill-erection,
seeking both pref. and debenture capital,
and it did not find the Government kindly
disposed when it came to marketing the
product.
During the year to June 30, 1940, the
co. turned out 7000 tons of board. Its
sales totalled £154,537, an average of
£23 a ton. Loss for the year was
£72,994. The co. at this time com-
plained that it was able to sell abroad
ar a cost to buyers “substantially in
excess of what we are permitted to re-
ceive from N.Z. customers.” But only
surplus production was allowed to be
exported. Until war broke out the co.
had to compete against imports without
tariff protection. With the commence-
ment of war price control operated, and
it was not until near the end of the 1940
term that any concession to the co.’s
high manufacturing costs was made by
the price controller. He then fixed a
general basis of recovery of production
costs, partial depreciation and 7 p.c. on
the capital invested in the mill, provided
12,500 tons a year was turned out. The
mill, however, represented only about a
quarter of the capital of the undertaking.
In the following year output rose to
9300 tons, but the co. realised that it had
to push production harder and reduce
costs, and improvements were made to
plant, taxing the financial resources of
the co. further. Sales for the term rose
by more than 100 p.c., reaching £321,855,
and indicating an average selling price
of about £35 a ton. On this important
point the co. recorded that “vital adjust-
ments necessary to secure an equitable
price structure under war-time condi-
tions” had been granted after half the
term had run, but with a low price-oper-
ating during the first six months a loss of
£13,180 was shown. The co. turned out
a variety of boards during this period,
which had the effect of restricting output
to a maximum rate of 10,000 tons a year.
A large part of the loss shown was due
to the cancellation of forward contracts
for Swedish chemical pulp at a cost of
£10,259.
For the term to June 30 last the co.
had better things to report. Boxmakers
decided to accept a reduced range of
board and a smaller percentage of chemi-
cal pulp in the products. The mill
worked round the clock seven days a
week, output rose by 2108 tons to 11,408
tons, and sales were booked at £445,954,
representing something like £39 a ton.
After charging manufacturing costs at
an average of £27 10s. a ton, administra-
tion of £4 a ton and depreciation at
£4 a ton the net result was a profit
of £40,582, including some minor income,
representing about £3 10s. a ton of
board. The entire profit was used to
reduce the debit in p. and 1. account,
which now stands at £45,591. A satisfac-
tory feature of the accounts has been the
provision for depreciation. It was £33,797
in 1940, £36,163 in 1941 and £44,849 in
the latest term. The latest provision
seems to be very nearly 10 p.c. on the
plant portion of the factory cost.
In spite of the turn for the better in
the go ’s affairs, its inherent difficulties
of finance are clearly visible in this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures;
1937. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital ..£1,892,649 £2,061,058 £2,064.195
Debentures .. 164,866 164,871
Land debts .. 21,250
Trust funds .. 16,240 10,360 10.072
Other debts .. 1,557 68,815 58,207
Forests, etc... 1,054,009 1,156,269 1,159,483
Buildings and
plant .. 185,452 548,819 523,997
Debtors .. 919 14,622 13,734
Shares .. 1,920 1,920
Consols, etc... 28,456 15,340 13,627
Public Trustee 16,240 10,360 10.072
Cash .. .. 186,893 12,713 52,860
Stores, etc. .. 28,847 49,206
Establishment 459,805 521,994 481,391
The huge capital of over two millions
represents four times the book value of
the only at-present earning asset —the
pulp and board mill. There is an
amount almost equal to the value of the
mill represented by nothing more than
bond-selling and other establishment and
constitutional expenses, plus losses. And
the plantations and other forests, in at
a written-up figure of more than a million,
until recently had contributed little or
nothing to the activities of the company.
But because of the need to conserve
rubber and petrol, combined with the
fact that logging operations will soon be
completed on Matakana Island, prepara-
tions are in hand to start logging on the
co.’s own Matahina forests, which
are closer (22 miles away) to the mill.
The logs will be transported by rail, and
there will be no further need to pay
timber royalties. But whether the royal-
ties that have been paid in the past will
be less than capital value at present
placed on the co.’s own timber it will be
interesting to see.
Most money, of course, was first sub-
scribed to this undertaking as an affores-
tation concern, even though pulping was
planned eventually. In 1935 it was esti-
mated that after 1942 the plantations
would allow a continuous output of
150,000 tons of pulp a year. Before
milling was got properly under way it
was necessary to raise £139,996 of pref.
money, £164,871 of debentures (£17,471
of interest still owing) and incur various
other debts. It now remains to be seen
whether the forests, in which most of
the original capital that was not spent in
bond-selling, organisation and reorgani-
sation was invested, will pull their weight
proportionately with the mill. In this
respect it should be kept in mind that of
the £1,924,199 of ord. capital shown in
the books a substantial part represents
writing-up. Persons who paid from £2O
to £4O for their bonds all eventually re-
ceived £55 in shares where they con-
verted. And for £66,750 paid up old
shareholders received 244,444 £1 shares
in the reconstruction.
The co. has a market in Maoriland
for a greater output, but “apart from the
works already in hand and budgeted for,
it is not the intention to incur further
major expenditure during the period of
war.” Another (bigger) forestry co. is
coming into the picture. After the war,
especially if financial and manufacturing
improvement occurs meantime, it is in-
tended to go ahead on chemical pulp,
newsprint and other products. Although
previous estimates of costs of £l5 a ton
for board have been all at sea, and other
estimates almost as wide, the co. has
served a national purpose in M.L. during
this war, even if the 12,000 or
more shareholders, about half of
whom are in Australia, have a long
trail ahead of them so far as divs.
are concerned. There is something like
£60,000 of pref. div. arrears in addition
to the p. and 1. debit. “Prospects for the
current production year are good,” the
board says.
Just now development of many min-
eral, rural and industrial activities is at
a standstill. Other industries are working
at the highest pressure. After the war
much of the present balance in industry
will be upset, and there will be a swing
from munitions to clothing, food, build-
ing, furnishing, transport and amuse-
ment. The importance of various metals
may change—aluminium and copper may
not be at such a premium—and a return
to goldmining is likely to be severely
restricted by the inflation in all costs.
The seas will reopen to international
trade. There will be much confusion
attending it all, and confusion will be
made worse if our credit position has
in the meantime been undermined by
false war-time finance.


Does Your
Money
Run Away?
THE civilian must practise thrift
in two ways: By saving his
money and by doing without the
things that he used to buy.
Savings that go into the War Loans
help the Nation mightily. Savings
that go into Life Assurance also help,
for a large part of such moneys
reaches the War Loans, yet protects
families at the same time.
The need for savings goes deeper
than money savings. We need to
save in goods that ordinarily we
would consume. The old quatrain
perfectly expressed the spirit of
to-day—
Use it up,
Wear it out.
Make it do.
Or do without.
All of us must learn the relation of
thrift to victory. There are a thou-
sand ways in which, by making
sacrifices and taking thought, each
one of us can help our country.
The “A.M.P.” capitalises the thrift
of its members. That is why it is
able to put £500,000 a month into
the War Loans.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A sure friend in uncertain times.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.0., Hubert Fairfax,
Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq., Dr. S. A. Smith,
Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
0. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart and Canberra, A.C.T.
District Offices throughout all States.
THAT
w 6.
The
WHY PENALISE
YOUR FRIENDS?
When you appoint a friend to be your executor or trustee you probably intend it
as a compliment to him. But is it? Don't you realise that in these difficult times,
should he have to assume these responsibilities, you are actually penalising him?
He probably has worries of his own to attend to. To add the anxiety of looking
after your estate as well is to burden him with more than he may be able to
bear. It is much -more generous to your friends and beneficiaries to appoint
Burns Philp Trust Company Ltd. as your trustee or executor. It is a permanent
institution, under experienced and capable direction. It has the combined know-
ledge of finance, taxation, and investments that no one of your friends, however
capable, could equal. And it is accustomed to bearing the responsibility of
administration. Call or write for full details of the service it can give you.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: 87901. Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
V:-:.v'- .
Hi »
I
j-SsSSSvSi®
ipliiiiili
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., Sydney.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
W.S. 160. 8.
'Out catrf and, daw/U- AW!
You can start your Card at once with to-day’s
Planes brought down, and keep this up to date
by buying each succeeding day’s total.
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
Nearly 100 Australian stocks have
been granted revision of price limits
under Treasurer Chifley’s new ruling.
The majority had sales or were sought at
the highest permissible quote almost im-
mediately. Among these were Electrolytic
Zinc, Bradford Cotton, 8.H.P., Austral-
asian paper, Colonial Sugar, some Bar-
riers, Claude Neon and General Indus-
tries. Stagnation then reigned once more,
with buyers almost everywhere and
sellers scarcer than Santa Claus on a
Dedman Christmas morning. The index
of 34 shares listed on Sydney ’Change
rose to 121.79, compared with the lowest
of 93.76 for the year. In the preceding
year the index had been as high as 131.26.
It is quite clear that there is no inflation
in share prices in this country. Though
wage rates and most other costs are well
up compared with this time last year,
share prices are still down substantially.
They are not permitted to keep step with
other values, and are not in any way con-
tributory to the obvious inflation now
taking place in the Australian economy.
But Mr. Chifley had better look out that
his deliberately created shortage of shares
doesn’t defeat its purpose completely by
putting unnaturally high prices on avail-
able stocks.
* * * *
Following the revision of three
groups of shares under the Treasury’s
new plan of Stock Exchange control,
B.H.P. sold at its new limit—up 2s. 3d.
on the old. At 40s. the immediate return
is 2\ p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
It isn’t often that a newspaper or an
Opposition political party asks for greater
use of taxation, but since this war began
The Bulletin has been a consistent advo-
cate of direct taxation as the fundamental
source of war finance, and latterly the
Federal Opposition has been that way
inclined, though Fadden did not go far
enough in the matter of taxation or post-
war credits when he brought down the
Budget on which he was defeated. During
the first and second years of the war this
paper was a lone supporter of the idea of
really extensive use of taxation, even if
Treasurer Spender was ineffectively in-
terested. The Sydney retail-trade press
was dead set against increased taxation
for war purposes; it referred to the idea
as a “policy of disaster” and “deflationary
finance,” and it howled that we weren’t
spending enough on war, not for the good
of the war effort but for the good of trade.
Possibly it was mesmerised by the then-
prevailing idea of “business as usual —or
better,” and didn’t have enough brains to
see that real war meant real sacrifice and
most of the restrictions and loss of living
standards that we have since seen come
to pass. When Labor took office just
over a year ago it set to work to extract
every penny it could in taxation from a
“selected” few, but removed the post-
war credit scheme from the sight and
feeling of its own followers. It had pre-
viously successfully fought the proposed
reduction of the exemption rate to £l5O
a year. Then there was a shower of
“benefits” for the “workers” which, de-
batable in peace-time, were entirely out
of place during war. Labor was all
against the Bulletin policy of paying
for war as we go. It was hostile in its
opposition to any such suggestion. In-
stead, it went for “bank credit” avidly.
The Government is now enmeshed in
the actual difficulties that inflation brings
about. They are just the difficulties this
paper pointed out, and which could have
been avoided by a pay-as-we-go policy.
And it seems to be dawning on a few of
the less bigoted and experimental of the
party that the pay-as-we-go principle is
all for the general good in the long run,
and that wishful thinking in economics
is not enough. Up to date the present
Government has budgeted on a basis of
wishing and envy. It has threatened to
play merry hell with a lot of established
institutions and industrial methods. But
it is finding that no Government can
retain power without governing. Its past
concessions to undisciplined selfishness
and wishful thinking are going to make
the job of governing all the harder when
the country’s limit of endurance is
reached.
*,* * »
Private building activity in Australia
has fallen by about 80 p.c. since the
drastic regulations were brought in a
few months ago. Government building
is being maintained at the level
established in 1940-41. What private
building is still going on relates princi-
pally to factories. New dwellings in
capital cities are down to about 1 per
cent, of their level this time last year.
* * * *
It is estimated that between July, 1941,
and July, 1942, Australian Governments
added 33,600 males to their staff and
27,200 females. Private employers lost
110.000 males in the same period and
took on 23,000 females to help make up
the shortage. In spite of the greater use
of woman-power, over the 12 months to
July industry lost 26,000 employees on
a net basis, and the term “industry” is
here used to cover all sections of the
civil service, directly productive or other-
wise. Over the last 12 months South
Australia has gone forward most among
the States as a manufacturer. With
the exception of N. S. Wales, all the
others have remained almost static so
far as employees are concerned, though
output is probably increasing everywhere
now that new plant has been run in. Gov-
ernment factories have been taking labor
quickly over the past 12 months, but the
estimated total for all factories was
705.000 for July, compared with 676,000
a year before.
* * *
The N. S. Wales Government has gone
into the life assurance business —at a time
when other underwriters have had to
restrict their activities in the interests
of man-power. It has been in and
out of ordinary insurance for a
lengthy period. While Lang endeavored
to enlarge the scope of the State
Insurance Office, the Stevens Gov-
ernment restricted its activities. Entry
into life assurance is a more ambitious
venture, and the term of policies, on the
average, will be far beyond the life of
any Government. Queensland has had a
Government life assurance branch for
many years, and it has grown consider-
ably. But private life offices still con-
tinue to write a great deal of business in
the northern State in spite of the fre-
quent legislative obstacles placed in their
path. M. G. Cooke, manager of the
N. S. Wales State office, says that a £5OO
policy will carry hospital benefits and a
£lOOO policy medical and surgical
benefits. The older and more strongly
established mutual offices don’t offer these
frills, as a rule, though they are avail-
able with policies from some of the
younger or smaller concerns endeavoring
to make their way to the front rank.
The N. S. Wales office will sell policies
at a lower rate of premium, its manager
announces, but it has to be remembered
that bonuses also enter into the net cost
of assurance. In theory, a State assur-
ance office should have many advantages.
* * * *
David Jones, Ltd., is losing its Market-
street (Sydney) store to the Ministry of
Munitions. The change-over will taxc
place shortly.
* * * «*
Australian woollen mills have been
paying appraised price plus 25 p.c. for
their raw material under arrangements
with the Central Wool Committee. The
Commonwealth Government recently de-
cided that the Prices Commissioner should
fix the price, and for home consumption
this has now been set at appraised price,
plus 10 p.c., retrospective to the beginning
of the present wool season. Adjustments
for wool already bought at the higher
figure are now to be made. In the case
of wool products exported, there will be
a deferred payment by manufacturers of
an additional 25 p.c. on appraised value.


THE SERVICE MAN
Gona Nearly a "Goner."
. “Ek Dum”: The South-west Pacific
Command never at any time shared the
easygoing opinion of radio uncles and
sections of the press that, so soon as the
crest of the Owen Stanleys was past and
Kokoda was within reach, the Papuan
campaign would be a walkover.
The military mind did not appraise
Kokoda and its more important adjacent
strongpoints as anything but outposts.
Main preliminary organisation was de-
voted to preparations for heavy fighting
for the Buna-Gona area, where it was
known that the enemy had well-prepared
positions and abundant dumps, among
which he would have to be fought at the
end of long and precarious communica-
tion lines, served partly by air.
No doubt by a supreme effort, in
spite of resistance and rain, the Owen
Stanley force might have pushed towards
the coast a little more quickly than it
has done. But its advance had to be
synchronised with the preparation of
offensive bases and the organising of a
route to feed them, and with the bringing
in of more forces which would be fresh
and rested to augment the seasoned but
battered Australians who had crossed
the range.
The Goodenough Island operations
cleared the enemy from a dangerous
flank position. A landing was achieved
on the north-eastern Papuan coastal
region, first by seasoned Australians with
New Guinea experience, who established
bases and embryo landing grounds, then
by fresh Americans, who began to arrive
in large numbers from Australia, and
who were dumped down, a little be-
wildered by the novelty, but undismayed,
in places which had not existed except
as unkempt areas of kunai and bush the
week before. Some of them had not the
faintest idea whether they were in Timor
or Tellicheny, but they took no time to
settle down.
In the last stages before the investment
of the Buna-Gona area many of the
troops who had crossed the Owen Stan-
leys were rested. The continual roar of
the supply ’planes assured them of abun-
dant food, and the clear, fast-flowing
rivers gave them a chance to get rid of
the sweat of battle and the mud of the
long struggle through the passes.
Generals MacArthur and Blarney
were in the Papuan battle area.
Australian patrols were active clearing
the road —it was a real one —from Wai-
ropi towards the coast. They met little
opposition. There was some downstream
hunting of enemy remnants who were en-
deavoring to escape on the Kumusi River
after the last fighting. The Kumusi runs
into the sea at Gona.
On Nov, 17 it was reported that off
Gasmata, 200 miles away, eight destroyers
had been seen steaming towards Buna,
after having apparently conducted
manoeuvres in support of ground troops.
Bombers failed to find them because of
bad weather. The danger was that it
was intended to use these ships as artil-
lery support for Lieut.-General Horii’s
troops at Buna-Gona, but it was also
remembered that eight destroyers were
sent to evacuate the remnants of the
Japanese forces after the Milne Bay
defeat.
By Nov. 16 American troops had
worked close to Buna, which is eight
miles from Gona on the Milne Bay side.
Just n.-w. of Buna a small river, the
Giriwa, flows in, and a little way up this
is Soputa village. To make connections
complete in surrounding the Buna-Gona
area, it was necessary to establish a
bridgehead across the Giriwa, and this
seems to have been done later at Soputa
when the four Allied columns began to
close on the enemy.
The Japanese at Sea
Up to Nov. 16 there had been no
sign of Japanese reinforcement of the
area since the futile attempt of two
transports with a couple of regiments or
so on board to make the coast on Nov.
2 —they were driven off, and one of them
was afterwards seen reduced to a burn-
ing ruin near the New Britain coast.
On Wednesday night or early on
Thursday morning, a Japanese light
cruiser put into Holincote Bay between
Buna and Gona with two destroyers.
They were soon picked up, and by the
light of flares were seen to have landing
barges around them, though whether to
put off or take on troops was not clear.
The observers did not waste time on de-
tailed spying.
Fortresses were called up and went
into action on the second. A 5001 b. bomb
settled the cruiser, which caught fire and
sank. A bomb amidships opened one of
the destroyers like a jam-tin, and the
second destroyer lit out for safety, con-
cealed by the mist. Just to make sure
that no landing of troops could be suc-
cessfully made, the whole of the beach
areas were thoroughly plastered with
bombs.
Gona and Buna Invested
Before sundown on Thursday Buna
and Gona were completely besieged by
land. In the morning the Americans had
had their first land clash in New Guinea
when they drove off an enemy patrol
and captured a machine-gun. And in
the afternoon Australians advancing down
the Kumusi in the west and Americans
coming up from the south and east made
contact for the first time between the
Owen Stanley and the north coast ex-
peditions, while other Australian units
put their grip on Gona.
The Americans as a first step cut off
the Japanese air landing strip to the s.-e.
of Buna from the main enemy position
by driving in between it and the beach.
They were met by mortar and heavy
machine-gun fire, but by Sunday they had
cleaned the enemy out of the environs of
the area and off Cape Endaidere, and had
occupied Soputa.
The Australians were not backward on
their side of the triangle.
They clamped themselves firmly on
Gona. Late on Saturday afternoon a
heavy reconnaissance and raiding party
broke into the Gona defence area proper
and did not retire until it had prospected
the lie of the land and caused heavy
casualties. The fight for Buna-Gona mow
seemed imminent, and another Japanese
convoy, escorted by four destroyers, was
reported coming at high speed 90 miles
from Buna.
So soon as the Buna-Gona areas were
approached, greater enemy air activity
and troop support were noticeable.
On Nov. 23 General MacArthur re-
ported that, in the face of heavy resist-
ance, our ground troops were “steadily
closing in on the enemy’s dwindling posi-
tions.” With bad weather and darkness
preventing efficient use of our air forces,
the enemy succeeded in landing rein-
forcements, but our bombers sank a
destroyer and two smaller craft, and an
enemy force of 12 dive-bombers and 20
“O” fighters was forced to retire without
reaching their objectives. A day of
ceaseless bombing cost the enemy 19
machines.
Buna and Gona had been fiercely
bombed by Allied aircraft. Rabaul and
the Lae area were also raided.
On Nov. 16, 15 “O” fighters and heavy
bombers had pounced on two small sup-
ply vessels manned by American and
Australian personnel just as they were
making their anchorage on the North
Papuan coast about sundown. The “O”
fighters attacked with machine-gun and
cannon, coming down mast-high ; and the
bombers followed. Both the little ships
and some lives were lost, but many stout
fellows came safely ashore and even
heroically brought wounded with them
through a mile or two of water in which
the Japanese persistently strafed them.
By Monday the early stages of the
main battle for Buna-Gona were in pro-
gress. Sunday had seen fierce air fight-
ing.
Bombing of Timor continues. The
enemy there has been given no rest either
by land or air.
Callaghan's Sea Fight.
“Ek Dum”: The November battle in
the Solomons marks a historic stage in
the Pacific war in that for the first time
(save for one hit-run raid which cost
Australia H.M.A.S. Canberra and the
U.S.N. three valuable cruisers) fleets have
been ranged in modern warfare against
each other in close combat, with the air
factor fully operating.
In the battle of the Java Sea there was
no Allied land-based air-power worth
the name.
The Midway and Coral Sea battles
were naval only in the sense that the
’planes which did the damage came
partly from carriers and that they oper-
ated against ships. The ships themselves
did not fire a single exchange; what
shells they expended were against air
attackers. While the actual fighting was
in progress the fleets, save for lurking
small craft, were anything from 150 to
200 miles apart.
In the Solomons there were strong
land-based forces, including dive-
bombers, Beaufighters and heavy four-
engined machines of the Liberator type.
Against the chance of meeting these the
enemy had to prepare.
Battles such as the Solomons battle
are not merely defensive fights to keep
the enemy from getting footholds in
areas in which he is not wanted. They
also are battles of attrition in which every-
ounce of energy is used to smash a bit
more of the Japanese Navy and rob the
enemy of more transport and cargo ships,
and weaken his general power of offence
at sea.
This. objective is being achieved at a
rate never before known in first-class
war in modern naval history.
In process of “attacking the enemy
wherever found,” it is the tradition of
Anglo-Saxon navies that they do not care
what kind of enemy he is or how big or
how armed. Grenville’s one ship tackled
Spain’s 53. Off Monte Video the Sin.-
gunned Exeter and the 6in.-gunned
Achilles and Ajax faced llin. 7001 b.
shells of longer range with their 2561 b.
and 1001 b. shells of shorter range, closed
in on the Graf Spec and maimed her.
Destroyers rushed at the wounded Bis-
marck even when most of her guns were
still active. At the Battle of Guadal-
canal Uncle Sam’s men followed suit.
Guadalcanal and Heligoland
In many respects the Guadalcanal fight
resembled that of Heligoland. Officers
were killed on admirals’ bridges; there
were surprises, and the confusion of early
darkness led the Japanese to fire on
each other, as two Commodores were
within an ace of doing off the Jade. Both
battles were fought—at least in respect
to the gallant Callaghan’s phase in the
Solomons—at short, slang-whang range.
At Heligoland it frequently was under
4000 yards; in the Solomons, both
in the Japanese attack on August 9 which
sank Canberra and her companions and
in Callaghan’s fight on Nov. 13, at 3000
yards or less. Both Guadalcanal and
the Bight battles were fought in con-
fined waters.
The islands of Florida and the north-
western part of Guadalcanal form a box
of sea only 30 to 40 miles wide and long.
The mouth which gives entry from the
north is the least interrupted—the island
of Savo lies a few miles off the end of
Guadalcanal. Down the centre of the
“box” runs a line of reef and there are
plenty of coral shoals and small islands.
The “bottom” of the box scarcely exists.
The reef runs within about seven miles
of Volinavua to the s.-w. of the Ameri-
can Marines’ positions on Guadalcanal,
and in the Sealark Channel thereabouts
some small islands stick up —Nugu, Tani-
pari.
The sea space bounded by Florida,
Savo and half Guadalcanal, like the
Heligoland Bight, is apt to become con-
gested when there are a few fighting
battleships lumbering, about it and their
destroyer flotillas are careering among
the reefs and islands between smoke-
screens at 37 knots or so.
Actions must be close-fought. Calla-
ghan saw to it that his was. Asked in
Pearl Harbor afterwards whether the
U.S. forces had attacked, Admiral Nimitz
replied, grinning: “We certainly did
attack. Everyone was swinging from the
flooj up. We were very rough with
them.”
MacArthur Helps
The battle of Guadalcanal virtually
began with the attacks of General Mac-
Arthur’s Australian-based Fortresses and
medium ’planes on Rabaul and Buin-
Faisi, where they were used with such
effect that a number of transports and
some war vessels did not leave those
havens at all.
There was enough enemy strength left,
however, for the heaviest attempt yet
made to retake Guadalcanal.
Early in November concentrations had
been noticed for the first time. The
enemy had lost little time in reorganising
after his Santa Cruz defeat. On Nov. 10
Japanese naval forces were picked up by
aircraft approaching the Guadalcanal
area from the north, while an armada of
transports brought up the rear.
The spearhead of the attackers re-
vealed itself as a twin force of two
Kongo battleships. The Kongo was de-
signed by Sir William Berry before the
last war and built in Britain. She was
29,300 tons, 64,000 h.p., 29 knots, and
carried main armament of Min. guns.
The others of the class were built in
Japan. All have been reconstructed in
the last decade and hung with every kind
of superstructure till they look like float-
ing Christmas-trees ; but they are formid-
able sea fort-esses.
With them were a couple of heavy
cruisers, four light cruisers, 10 destroyers
(two divisions) and the necessary auxili-
aries—submarines lurking in the distance
and aircraft. No aircraft-carrier was
mentioned, which seemed ominous for
the enemy.
On Friday morning, November 13, in
the dark of the early hours —which
among those shadowed islands can be
darker than the pit itself —this force
reached the north Guadalcanal region,
intending to come boldly into the sea-
box between the island and Florida and
bombard the Kukum positions held by
the Marines, as a preliminary to land-
ing a division or so of troops on their
way from the Shortlands.
The Jap ships came in in conventional
formation in three groups —a screen or
sweeping force and then the two battle-
ship formations. They did little or no
bombardment, because Vice-Admiral
Flalsey had his plans laid. His cruiser
forces struck viciously, led by Rear-
Admiral Daniel Callaghan, commander
of the cruiser flotilla.
San Francisco Goes In
Callaghan’s flagship was the 10,000-
ton cruiser San Francisco of the Astoria
class, nine Sin. guns, 104,000 h.p.—a ship
somewhat stronger than our lost Can-
berra, with 24,000 more h.p. and an
extra Sin. gun.
She was just the vessel for the kind of
job of disorganisation which had to be
done in the false dawn, with just the
commander and complement to do it.
Her commander, followed by his
squadron, sailed headlong into the
heart of the enemy formations, every
gun going. This was not harebrained
foolhardiness. An Sin.-gun cruiser is no
mere commerce-raider or sea-harrier,
especially if her guns are long 55cals,
weapons which pack a 17,000 or 18,000
foot-ton wallop. Her 2601 b. shells are
not marbles. In the last war anything
carrying Sin. guns was rated a battle-
cruiser—Bliicher, destroyed off Dogger
Bank by Beatty, carried B.2’s,
Ships like the Kongos, with their
14001 b. shells and longer range, do not
have it all their own way in this kind of
fight. The cruiser has greater manoeuvra-
bility and speed—Callaghan’s San Fran-
cisco had one-third more horse-power
than the Kongo. Her main armament can
smash battleship gun-turrets at short
range (this Callaghan and San Francisco
proved) and her Sin. guns can fire four
rounds for every one the Min. guns can
let go. San Francisco’s rate of fire would
be about 54 2601 b. shells a minute —total
weight, 14,0401 b. ; Kongo’s, 12 14001 b,
shells a minute —total, 16,8001 b. ; and the
cruiser’s fire could be more widely dis-
tributed.
Also, where an enemy gets into a
closed grip inside a squadron, he partly
immobilises some opponents, who risk
hitting their own ships.
In a word, especially if it is fairly
dark, he can play merry-hell-and-con-
fusion. This the Nipponese Imperial
Navy learnt to its cost when it met Cal-
laghan.
Even when battered, so long as her
speed is not affected, a heavy cruiser’s
running qualities, lesser draught and
other factors give her a better chance of
getting away than a battleship when it
has done its work. Cruiser attacks, how-
ever, are meat for strong men.
The President’s Story-
President Roosevelt himself told the
story, which would have delighted
Nelson:
“The San Francisco engaged three
enemy vessels, sinking one. She engaged
at point-blank range an enemy battleship
heavily superior in size and fire-power.
She silenced the enemy’s big guns and
so disabled her that she could be sunk
with torpedoes by our destroyers and air-
craft.
“The ship was hit many times. Admiral
Callaghan, my close personal friend, and
many of his gallant officers and men gave
their lives, but the San Francisco was
brought back to port by a lieutenant-
commander.” '
Captain Young, Callaghan’s flag cap-
tain, was killed beside his admiral. He
had won the Congressional Medal of
Honor at Pearl Harbor.
Lieutenant-Commander Candless was
wounded. He fainted, but recovered and
took the ship to safety.
The commander of the task force of
which San Francisco was a part (Vice-
Admiral Halsey) recommended that she
be the first of the U.S. Navy’s vessels to
be decorated for outstanding service. He
himself has been promoted Admiral.
Several Japanese ships were destroyed
or heavily damaged by the rest of Cal-
laghan’s squadron, and the fierce fighting
and close range were general in the
melee. Rear-Admiral Scott, in charge of
another U.S. unit, shared Callaghan’s
fate. .
Towards dawn there was confusion,
and two enemy groups began firing on


each other. Then they retired, their
lame ducks lagging behind with a ter-
rible day of bombing ahead of them.
So soon as it was light, the bombers
were on the wakes of the laggards,
attacking incessantly.
Sunday’s Decisive Battle
Late in the afternoon 12 transports
under heavy naval escort appeared.
Naval ships succeeded in bombarding
Guadalcanal in the early darkness of
Nov. 15.
But as the transport group arrived off
the island late the same morning, the U.S.
air forces struck heavily and sank at least
eight transports, though the remainder
continued doggedly on.
All through Saturday night and Sunday
there was continual naval firing. On
Sunday morning, four transports were
discovered beached at Tassafaronga, seven
miles n.-w. of the U.S. main positions.
The bombers, artillery and naval units
battered them to bits.
Well before noon on Sunday the Jap-
anese forces were in flight. They went
home only a remnant of their original
attack force.
For the first time the enemy ad-
mitted “substantial loss.” The Imperial
Headquarters version was a battleship, a
cruiser and three destroyers sunk and
another battleship and seven transports
damaged. The enemy claimed to have
sunk eight U.S. cruisers, four or five de-
stroyers and a transport and to have
heavily damaged two battleships, three
cruisers, three or four destroyers and
three transports, as well as shooting down
63 aircraft for a loss of 32,
The American estimate of the damage
was:
Japan: One battleship, three heavy
cruisers, two light cruisers, live destroyers,
eight transports and four cargo ships
sunk; one battleship, six destroyers
damaged, and from 20,000 to 40,000 men
lost.
U.S.: Two light cruisers and seven de-
stroyers sunk.
On Nov. 20 a further communique
embodying the report of Rear-Admiral
Lee, who fought the actions of Nov.
14-15, added to the casualties one Jap
battleship or heavy cruiser sunk—appar-
ently the one which Rear-Admiral Calla-
ghan’s force damaged three large
cruisers and a destroyer sunk, and a
battleship, a cruiser and a destroyer
damaged.
Admiral Nimitz called the fight “one of
the decisive battles of the war.” It was.
It definitely established U.S. moral
superiority over the enemy in surface
warfare and added to his already crushing
losses, which now, according to U.S.
statements, total two battleships, six
aircraft-carriers, 29 cruisers, 46 de-
stroyers, 29 submarines, 26 transports,
13 supply ships and 108 merchantmen.
Before the war only 41 cruisers appeared
on his lists altogether. It squeezed out
of the Japanese press an admission that
“we must reconstruct to push on to vic-
tory.”
On Gaudalcanal itself the results of
the victory ‘were immediately salutary.
There, one report said, 10,000 of the
enemy had been killed since August 7.
Half of the Japanese reinforcements—
1500—landed on Nov. 2-3 had been
wiped out and the rest dispersed, and
the Marines late in the week pushed
forward their western flank for five miles
in an *area which a week or so previously
they had been hard put to it to hold.
They suffered few casualties. The Japs
evidently did not resist heavily—they
left 35 dead behind.
At the same time an intensive policy
of air-and-land mopping-up throughout
the Gaudalcanal-Florida zone was entered
on. Cargo vessels from Buin southward
found themselves under regular attack.
“O” fighters were hunted so soon as they
took the air, and on one day no fewer
than 11 enemy nests on Gaudalcanal
itself were bombed.
From Benghazi to Bizerta.
“Ek Dum”: Details of the twin African
campaigns, east and west, up to the criti-
cal point on November 21 did not make
particularly warlike reading.
The tale of Rommel’s bumping lope
across Cyrenaica was better meat for a
racing reporter than for a war corre-
spondent.
The course was rough and ploughed
up by Allied bombers, torn up by Allied
fighters and cratered along the coast by
naval guns.
But no saw-mouthed Yorkshire nag
ever covered a Grand National course
with greater eagerness. Rommel took all
obstacles in his course, and his pursuers
had to depend for the most part upon
their ears for news of him as he bounced
out of the wadis with an armored clang,
his exploding rearward dumps making
his array sound like a giant tin hare
with crackers tied to its tail.
He broke all records, not merely for
Africa, but for all courses in all times,
championship, handicap, relay and go-
as-you-please. That part of his front
which had moved from El Alamein, via
the coast and Benghazi, travelled
750 miles in a fortnight. He moved so
fast that all attempts by the Hussar
stewards to head him off by the Mekili
short-cut proved futile.
The British in the rear, however, were
putting up a creditable performance.
Ten days after they broke open the
panzer ranks at Tel el Akakit, correspon-
dents were hanging on to the rear of their
advance units on top of the Cyrenaican
plateau, weaving their way among trails
of abandoned tanks, guns, tank-carriers,
trucks, burnt-out ’planes and lorries and
a vast debris of retreat.
Tanks were turned over and burst
open so as to be useless. The much-
vaunted 88mm. a.-a. guns were found
at intervals, their muzzles splayed open
with explosives so that they should be
of no use to their captors. On 120 land-
ing grounds from El Daba to Mekili,
were 550 aircraft, mostly destroyed.
The roads were dynamited for miles
together. The towns were mere shells.
Each successive harbor front, once
familiar, was scarcely recognisable to the
returning British, so great had been the
havoc wrought by the bombers.
El Adem, Tobruk, Gazala, Derna,
Martuba, Giovanni Berta (forlorn little
corner in a centre of sick and sorry
Italian farmer immigrants who had been
sent out to build the new Italian Empire
of Africa); then Barce and Benghazi.
All were taken without a shot, aban-
doned holus-bolus by the enemy.
Derna was actually taken by three
pressmen in a buggy.
The routes were much the same as
those followed in the German retreat of
December, 1941. One British drive went
along the coast —Tobruk, Gazala, Mar-
tuba, Derna, Giovanni Berta, Gyrene,
Barce, Benghazi, with side excursions
southward on to the plateau. The others
traversed the south-west routes, branch-
ing off from the main coastal drive east
of Derna, near Tmimi, and running down
the Trig Capuzzo and south of the es-
carpment from El Gubbi to a converg-
ing point at Mekili crossroads ; thence
via Msus to drive in to the escarpment
edge around Soluk. Soluk is 20 miles
from the coast of the Gulf of Sirte and
50 miles or so south of Benghazi.
From Msus another inland track led
the way still further south, past Antelat
to the important Jedabaya junction, 50
miles on the main road from El Agheila.
Another track further south, used by
the Indians in the 1941 campaign,
brought the pursuers down to Giallo
Oasis directly east of Marada, at the
southern end of the El Agheila line.
By Nov. 19 the enemy had dived south-
ward off the escarpment along the
Antelat-Jedabaya strip, on which he
began to turn the tables last year. He
would scarcely have got there if rain
had not come up over the Jebel Akdhar
behind him and turned the path of the
British armored and mechanised division
into churned-up mud.
On to El Agheila
As it was he was able to stand a chance
of getting down to the El Agheila line,
at the foot of the Gulf of Sirte, where
there is a limited defence position, dif-
ficult to outflank, but carrying little
cheer for him, with the news of the pro-
gress of the First Army along the
Tunisian borders and of the northward
move of the Lake Chad troop accumu-
lations, 1200 miles to the south-east.
By the beginning of the week it had
become virtually a straightout British v.
German war in Libya. The Italian divi-
sions had almost ceased to exist. Rome
Radio intoned in panic that “Italy’s hour”
had “come: Britain and the United
States are not only invading Africa, they
are preparing to invade Italy.”
About Nov. 16-17 the northern sec-
tions of the Eighth Army swung south-
west, to follow the southern drive which
was pushing its advance cavalry through
Msus, south of the escarpment, to try
to cut off and disorganise the retreat
south of Benghazi, where enemy vehicles
were already pouring into the Giallo-
Agedabia-El Agheila defence triangle
and providing the R.A.F. with a magnifi-
cent series of massed targets.
On Nov. 18 the British advance units
reached the line of retreat from Ben-
ghazi, 50 miles south of that town, in
the region in which Benganzoli’s fate
was sealed in the first retreat of 1940-41.
Contact was made with the enemy and
there was some action.
By Nov. 20 the southern sections of
British advance troops were another 100
miles further south at Jedabaya, and, as
the crow flies, 600 miles from the El
Alamein lines. They again were in con-
tact with Rommel’s screen troops. There
were some armored clashes, but the Allies
were completely out of luck with the
weather, which ruled effective air co-
operation out of the question and forced
Allied mechanised transport and tanks to
continue their way across the desert in
driving rain.
The decisive final phase of the Libyan
campaign is imminent. Both Vichy and
Berlin reported before the week-end that
Rommel’s forces had joined strong Axis
formations which had been making ready
for a stand in prepared positions. Heavy
minefields already had been laid along
the El Agheila front.
Rommel is a resourceful general in ad-
versity. His retreat in the circumstances
has been well carried out.
However, this time he is not fighting
against inferior material, and the Eighth
Army is not again likely to relax its
offensive attitude or to allow its momen-
tum to be slowed to a standstill. The
moral atmosphere of the Eighth Army of
1942 is very different from that of the
limited, inadequately armed and vehicled
army of 1941.
And Rommel has to contend with a
new and very deadly kind of air attack,
as was proved at Halfaya, against con-
stricted positions, and his rear and
southern flank are threatened as well as
his front.
Closing on Bizerta and Tunis
After the first occupations in French
Africa there was necessarily some pause
for the landing of troops and supplies,
but General Anderson’s First Army,
which is all British, with an accretion of
10 per cent, of U.S. specialists and some
French troops, moved forward with im-
pressive rapidity.
There were two main thrusts. One fol-
lowed the Mediterranean coast along the
Tunisian coastal railway. This route is
not hampered by mountain obstructions,
but is more open than the inland routes
to attack by Axis air units. It is the
most direct route to Bizerta and Tunis.
By Nov. 19 a column was on its way
to Sfax. By Nov. 20 it was reported that
in the region of Kairwan it had bottled
up enemy troops who ceased resistance
and that Gabes, which is the southern-
most Tunisian railhead on the Libyan
Gulf, was in the hands of friendly French
troops. At the same time, it was known
that Axis units had crossed from Tripoli.
Meanwhile, Axis efforts in the north
were purely defensive on land, though
Algiers was bombed and there were
waspish dive-bomber attacks on Bone,
Bougie and other Allied depot ports in
use for the Tunisian campaign.
In a week from the beginning of the
drive from Bone, the southern half of
the northern advance along the main rail-
way had travelled clean across Tunisia
and hit the coast at or near Hammamet,
where the railway spur ends, a few miles
south of Cape Bon and between Tunis
and Susa.
From here the invaders were due for
their first sight of Italy—Pantellaria
Island. They had earned it, having pene-
trated about 200 miles from their first
landing place in eastern Algeria at
Philippeville.
The northern half of the advance had
broken through to within 30 miles of
Bizerta.
Thus the north-eastern corner of
Tunisia, the only part in which there
were appreciable numbers of Axis
troops, a space about 120 miles long by
50 miles wide, was hemmed off and due
for attack, though up to Nov. 22, no
heavy fighting had been reported. .
On Nov. 19 enemy tanks were met for
the first time between 30 and 40 miles
west of Bizerta. In the head-to-head
fight which followed about a third of the
German column of 30 was destroyed ;
the rest retreated, Berlin claimed that
Allied tanks and armored cars had
been wrecked and a railway station taken.
But the Allied forces along the
Tabarca-Bizerta littoral began their week-
end near enough to Bizerta to hear the
Flying Fortress bombs exploding on
Bizerta airfield.
South of the main line of attack the
Allies seemed to be infiltrating Tunisia
by four routes, each along a Tunisian
railway, after the fashion in which the
Germans attacked Yugoslavia.
The bulk of Tunisia outside the areas
surrounding Tunis and Bizerta was under
Allied or friendly French control.
Like Magic
The metamorphosis in Africa and the
Middle East during the past few days
seems almost like magic.
On Oct. 21 all the Allies held of the
African coastline from Port Said to
Gibraltar —3000 miles as the crow flies —
was 200 miles at the further eastern end.
On Nov. 21 all the Axis could claim to
“control,” and that very tenuously, was
the 500 miles of desert along the Gulf of
Libya and the few miles of better coun-
try around Tripoli. In addition, the Allies
had gained a new access from the Atlan-
tic through Moroccan ports.
Russians Hitting Back.
“Ek Dum”: Early reports last week
suggested that the Russian front was
about to settle down to the conditions of
last winter. Correspondents and radio
speakers stressed the fact that conditions
were going to be bad, especially for the
Germans.
Reuter’s man at Moscow announced
that in a 21-day battle the Russians
had killed about 15,000 Germans and
Rumanians north-east of Tuapse. He
added that the Red Army also was forc-
ing the enemy back s.-e. of Nalchik.
On November 18 Moscow reported
that “the Red Army s.-e. of Nalchik
held attacks and killed 500 of the enemy.
Next day 300 were wiped out.”
Then there was circulated an account
of a big Soviet victory in the Caucasus
on the lines of Reuter’s statement four
days earlier. The big battle seemingly
had been going on for weeks in the
region of Orjonikidze—this town is 75
miles s.-e. of Nalchik and the German
attack on it had not previously been ad-
mitted.
The official Moscow communique was
that the Germans broke through on a
narrow sector on November 3, and pre-
pared for a final tank attack on the town,
but the Red Army made a powerful tank
thrust which cut off a large portion of the
German army and encircled it. The
ringed troops were devastatingly bom-
barded for five days and nights. On the
sixth day the Russians advanced from
north and south against three fortified
settlements, and, though the Germans
resisted fiercely, “pressed on, completing
the rout. The Germans abandoned most
of their arms and equipment.” t
According to Moscow the battle took
place on the approaches to Orjonikidze,
and in the routed army were the 13th
Panzer Division, a Brandenburg regi-
ment, the 45th Battalion and the 7th
Sapper Battalion, while serious losses were
inflicted on the 23rd Panzer Division, a
Rumanian Alpine Division and other
units. Among the booty were seven
armored cars, 75 guns, 95 mortars, 84
machine-guns, 2350 lorries and 180
motor-cycles. The Germans left more
than 5000 dead on the battlefield and
the number of wounded exceeded the
number of killed. Prisoners were not
mentioned.
It was later reported that German
casualties in the fight had mounted tc
20.000 and that the Germans “were now
stumbling back towards the mountains.”
The enemy pronounced this victory
“an invention.” He claimed a victory of
his own, with 18,000 prisoners and
considerable booty, in the Central Cau-
casus region. But presently he admitted
that the Russians were attacking on a
200-mile front north and south of Stalin-
grad, though he asserted that he had
repelled the initial attacks.
Of these operations the Russians re-
ported that in an advance north and
south of Stalingrad their troops had on
Nov. 22 advanced 40 to 50 miles after
three days’ intense fighting, had taken
Kalach, 120 miles s.-e. of Voronezh and
30 miles east of the Don, and cut both
railway lines feeding the Axis troops —
largely Hungarian, Rumanian and Italian
—east of the Don. In the three days,
18.000 prisoners had been taken, 360
guns captured and 15,000 Germans left
dead on the battlefield, while seven Ger-
man and Rumanian divisions had been
routed and eleven more badly knocked
about. The divisions routed included a
tank division ; and among those on which
heavy losses were inflicted were two tank
divisions and two motorised divisions.
The Berlin report was to the effect that
the attacks on the Don north of Stalin-
grad were in the region of Serafimovich,
where the Don heads west, “an area of
deployment long known to the High Com-
mand.” The Russians were using several
rifle divisions and a number of tank
brigades. Bitter fighting developed, but
the Germans and Rumanians held their
own. South of Stalingrad, Berlin said,
bitter defensive fighting continued, but
German counter-attacks had led to the
capture of large numbers of prisoners and
the destruction of 25 tanks.
It is rare for the Russians to announce
the taking of a specific number of
prisoners, and the evidence of their capa-
city to attack in strength is very hearten-
ing. It will be an excellent development
if they can break on a wide front across
the Don, which is probably the border
set by the enemy as the eastern limit
of his winter zone. If they are success-
ful in the Kalmuck offensive, the Ger-
mans must let go their hold on Stalingrad.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
What a Cup! Rain, wind and water,
water everywhere, but not a drop except
soft stuff for the weaker vessel to drink!
Fashions in umbrellas varied from the
slickest red and dashing blue to the
morning paper held over the head. The
Governor’s wife turned out in New-
market boots and white mackintosh and
Ida Turner and Ivie Price in their second-
best everything, including hats. Mrs.
Paul Henry at first sight promised to fur-
nish the fashion note of the day, but
second view showed that what had looked
like stockingless legs in Russian boots
turned over at the calf in beige fur were
just the usual sheer hose showing on
upper leg, and the boots rather a striking
contrast in dark leather. Great strength
of mind enabled the vice-regals to stand
unflinchingly in the pouring rain while
the band played the Anthem.
Women, who generally take their in-
justices quietly in public, became vocal
in the quarter of an hour before the Cup
race when those in front stood up to see
what could, by them at least, be easily
seen sitting down. “Sit down in front”
came from all sides of the members’
ladies’ stand, and vastly surprised the
slanders! Women also joined in no un-
certain voice in urging Tranquil Star to
hurry up to the scales when that placid
nag stopped to look round at the crowd,
not once, but three times. “Oh, go on!”
was the cry this time, and at length it
induced the laggard mare to continue her
journey. Just at a glance it looked like
a service man’s Cup, so many and varied
were the uniforms to be seen about.
Queues outside tote and afternoon-tea
places were as big as ever, and the rush
for tea and scones and cream after the
big race was a riot.
Of Cup eve parties, that at Devon,
Queen’s-road, was perhaps the brightest,
and gained much profit for the cause it
served, the mobile X-ray unit the Silver
Wings Auxiliary proposes to give to the
R.A.A.F. People paid for their tickets
to the buffet tea at the home of Mrs.
Maurice Patkin, and then, after, enjoyed
games, cards and sweeps on the Cup and
the like with profit to the cause and
pleasure to themselves. In these servant-
less days the chance to eat away from
home isn’t turned down lightly, and the
Devon party showed as many men as
women. Mrs. Patkin, ably seconded by
her husband, hostessed, and Mrs. Barry
Thomson, president of Silver Wings,
backed up her senior vice-president’s
efforts.
“Dod,” bright star of the Falkiner
clan, gave Collins-street a treat on her
wedding day when she stepped into her
photographer’s in her wedding finery. This
daughter of the Ralph Falkiners has always
done things in a picturesque way, and her
wedding was in keeping with traditions,
but just a little different. She was origi-
nal in choosing Friday instead of Satur-
day for the doings, and thus missing the
downpour which cut out much of Satur-
day’s pageantry. By the way, one Satur-
day bride made history by carrying one
of the new “made-flower” bouquets, first
seen at the Arts and Crafts show and
later at the Brookes lady’s sale of gifts
for Queen Victoria Hospital. These
bouquets, whose basis is wood pulp
lacquered over, are very costly, but their
glossy hardness makes them a godsend
on a wet or hot day.
A curious yet unexplained fact is that
the number of marriages on Derby Satur-
day was a great drop from the usual
Saturday rush to marry, and that on Cup
Saturday the rush was as great as ever!
Among Cup day brides was Kathleen,
daughter of the late Senator T, Givens
and of Mrs. Givens, of Canterbury. She
was given away by brother Squadron-
Leader Robert A. Givens. Alison
Bremner supported the bride, who was
glamorous in duck-egg blue frockings
and florentine cap of lovely feathers in
the same exquisite shade. Bridegroom
was Harold Arthur Wiltshire, son of the
Charles E. Wiltshires, of Berea, Mt.
Eliza.
On the occasion of the big War Loan
theatre preview a huge searchlight and
many A.W.A.S. made a fine sight out-
side Hoyts Regent Theatre. Inside, a
piece de resistance was the staging of
Britannia with the British lion behind
her and boys in uniform around, to the
tune of “Land of Hope and Glory.”
Crowds in the streets cheered convales-
cent troops as they walked or were car-
ried by pals into the theatre to the best
lounge seats, where they found that their
next-door neighbors were returned Army
nurses. Melbourne threw out its chest
at the announcement that seats had been
bought (a way of subscribing to the loan)
to the tune of 1 \ million.
One of the unexpected results of the
shortage of petrol is that people will go
almost anywhere in a train to a fete or
Australian tea or the like, just to get their
much-missed Saturday outing. Sums
far in excess of pre-war takings are in
consequence made at little shows out of
town a bit. Mont Park had one on Satur-
day, a sale for A.C.F. and Red Cross,
and the dainty little things made by the
local branches of the two societies, which
include doctors’ and engineers’ wives at
the Park, and nurses and others working
there. Then there is to be another, a
preview of which took the press and other
friends to the Park last week. This is the
work of patients who are being helped
back to health by occupational therapy
under skilled teachers and nurses. The
second show will be associated with an
exhibition and sale in town, too.
It was too bad that the first bivouac
of A.W.A.S. officers should have been
held in the depths of winter weather con-
ditions, but the girls, who are training to
be hardy, were able to pretend that they
didn’t mind. All three uniformed
women’s services are recruiting, the
slogan being “Join the forces and free a
man for service at the battlefront.”
V.A.Ds. are anxious that prospective
members should know that now it is not
necessary to have done home nursing or
a first-aid course before offering one’s
services. So good are the arrangements
now that in a very few weeks the trainees
have done that and much more and are
ready to serve in any way anywhere.
Her friends were glad to welcome back
to the old town Bernice Campbell, who,
when she sailed for Tokyo to be secretary
to the Australian Minister for Japan,
thought herself one of the luckiest girls
alive. She still thinks that, but for quite
different reasons. She has left behind
her eight months of strict imprisonment
in the Tokyo Legation, varied by two
visits to the dentist outside. She didn’t
mind the waiting for her passport home
so much, but frankly said that with fewer
than a dozen people in the Legation
eight months seemed a long time, and
they were a bit weary of the same old
faces by the time they got out. She is
being eagerly awaited in the West, which
regards her as its child.
Gertrude Johnson, here pictured, is this
week re-living days in London when she
used to appear in grand opera at the
world’s centre, her specialty being Mozart
operas, and one of her biggest triumphs
“The Magic Flute.” Her National
Theatre Movement is putting on, at its
theatre on Eastern Hill, “11 Seraglio,”
in which, in London days, Gertrude sang
Constance. She has been trying to set
before the cast the dazzling standards of
the days when all London of the West
End used to repair to Co vent Garden to
occupy its box and hear the stars, and
’tween times exchange scandal and stories
in the foyer and engage in the fascinating
game of box-visiting. The National
Theatre Movement has always gone out
after young folk showing talent, and in
“11 Seraglio” it is giving the main femin-
ine role to a young Maoriland singer,
Zonia Coleman.
All feminine Melbourne is a-twitter with
talk of the possibility of the wife of knight
Norman Brookes taking her chance in
the next Federal elections. She is a most
energetic woman, and has taken up
munition work in her holiday time, as
well as guiding the destinies of the Queen
Victoria Memorial Hospital as its presi-
dent of many years’ standing. Formerly
Mabel Emmerton, daughter of a city solici-
tor, the late Harry Emmerton, she wrote a
novel, and had as big a crowd to see her
married to the tennis champion in St.
Paul’s as ever gathered in this city —as
big, in fact, as that which 20-odd years
later crowded to see her eldest daughter
go to the same cathedral to marry the
then Lord Mayor, Harold Gengoult
Smith. Report is that she will contest
Henty in an effort to shake up Arthur
Coles, M.P., and will make equal
privileges for women of the services with
the men her slogan.
From Sydney
On Friday, December 4, the middle of
Martin-place will be turned into a
market garden where everything from
poultry to spinach, from ham to exotic
fruits, will be on sale. This is one of the
spectacular efforts arranged for Red
Cross Day, and the capable Walder lady
will be in charge. All the arrangements
were discussed at a meeting last week.
Twelve large collection boxes under
spreading and brightly striped umbrellas
will sprout along the sidewalks like so
many war-time mushrooms. Pretty girls
will flash smiles as bait for small coin.
Helping the day also is a sale of silver
at Lawson’s auction-rooms. This is
planned for December 1, and there are
already 600 pieces of silver to go to the
hammer. Celebrations on December 4
will end with late-afternoon tea at
Prince’s, when the winner of the title
Miss Red Cross will be announced.
This is Bungendore’s attractive candi-
date for the Miss Red Cross laurel-
wreath. When this was being written,
Myrtle Emmett, the girl in the photo-
graph, had scored well over 60,000 votes.
As this competition is being run on a
basis that gives large and small centres
an equal chance, Bungendore may yet
nail its colors to the winning post.
Knockrow, a town in the north of the
State with a population of 130, was lead-
ing last week in the contest. Its candi-
date had scored nearly 13,000 votes.
December 4 will see winner and runners-
up selling buttons in Martin-place.
The Make and Mend branch of the
Naval War Auxiliary reported for duty
on the quarter-deck of the Pickwick Club
last Wednesday. Bridge and other in-
tricate manoeuvres were under way by
two o’clock, and by three the lucky-
number competitions were bringing a
healthy flush to the moneybox. Some of
the Make-and-Menders live on different
pleasant islands scattered about the
harbor ; some on the points that stretch
like lazy lizards in the sun of the water-
fronts. They sew garments and keep
books mended and in good shape for
the Navy lads. They are busy all the
year round with important little jobs that
help the comfort of the fighting man at
sea.
Last Wednesday president Mrs. R. N.
White, Mrs. Cusack, Mrs. McMeekin
and other office-bearers smiled over a
packed-out ballroom. Over £l7 was
the afternoon’s clear profit. At the end
of the room Mrs. Barnett presided over
a table on which were spread coat-
hangers of gay silk, toys, powder puffs
and Thelma Sherriff’s posies of artificial
flowers. Thelma was also responsible for
the great box of sweets, prize in a com-
petition. In one luck-lurer there were
three winning tickets. Holder of the
first number called had the choice of a
cake, a pudding or a bottle of wine. She
bore off the cake. The owner of the
second number decided on the pudding,
and for the last number there was left a
bottle of good sauterne.
American Red-Crossers are having a
busy day. Between five and seven this
evening the new American Red Cross
Service Centre will have its housewarm-
ing.
On Saturday afternoon the garden at
Ball Green, Turramurra home of General
and Mrs. Anderson, is to be given over
to good causes. A fair will benefit the
Prisoners of War funds. An exhibition
of Treania Smith’s paintings (to be
opened by Lady Gowrie) will put vita-
mins L., S. and D. into the Women
Writers’ Friendly Fund. Mrs. Rodney
Dangar, who is so knowledgeable about
art, is president of the exhibition com-
mittee, Mrs. Osborne is to be president
of the tea urns, and Mrs. Yates will pre-
side over the amusements. There is a
committee of 106 altogether. A big hit
of the afternoon will be Myree Parker's
singing in Greek the song the Australian
soldiers sang in Crete. Leila Richmond
(Hollywood impersonator) has planned
some clever sketches. The Bodenweiser
ballet will flutter about the garden, gay
as butterflies. New Guinea’s Adminis-
trator, Walter McNicoll, will be one of
the guests.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says
that the ban on pink icing for wedding
cakes may just be subtle propaganda for
the White Australia policy, being a color
ban What the pastrycooks think is be-
yond the layman’s mind to conceive. The
Austerity Christmas (and other) cake
regulations do seem rather far-fetched.
After all, it shouldn’t need a regulation
to decree the topdressing on a cake —
the thickness of icing must be. limited by
the supply of sugar on hand. Pastry-
cooks last week pointed out that many
pounds’ worth of perishable sugar deco-
rations for gala occasion cakes, ordered
before the austere order of the day was
issued, would become a loss to the trade.
Incidentally, the initiated claim that the
cost of turning white icing to rosy hue
is one-hundredth of a penny per cake.
The housewife who bakes two iced cakes
a year could save a penny in 50 years by
excluding coloring matter.
His followers in Australia did not for-
get General de Gaulle’s birthday. In
Sydney they toasted the general’s.. fifty-
second year, and on Friday night as many
of them as could squeeze into History
House gathered to listen to the cable of
congratulation which was being sent in
their name to their hero. This gave
renewed assurance of the Fighting
French Movement’s loyalty and affection.
President Louis Duplatre was the reader
and spoke also in eulogy of the general.
Andre Brenac was another speaker. A
film showing General de Gaulle address-
ing a crowded Albert Hall in London
was greeted with applause.
Squatter's Luck is the name of a new
book of poems by Ethel Anderson, of
Turramurra. The book is being pub-
lished under the joint aegis of the Com-
monwealth Literary Fund, Melbourne
Uni. and the Oxford Press, and will be
on sale in Sydney bookshops in a week
or two. It contains two long poems, one
a saga of life on the land. The writer,
wife of General Anderson, is well known
as a maker of verse of charm and sen-
sibility. Articles and short stories, too,
by her have appeared in print.
The exhibition of papier-mache work
opening today will cause the burble of
admiration to echo through Anthony
Horderns’ art gallery. Besides the amaz-
ing collection of articles of everyday use
in hospital and household, the members
of this Red Cross auxiliarysare vying with
one another to produce pieces of charm.
One member has fashioned a baby’s
cradle —durable and artistic.
The XV Group of Independent Artists,
whose work hangs in Farmer’s Blaxland
Galleries, continues to draw crowds of
admirers and the occasional buyer. As
a matter of fact, sales have beep rather
better than expected. The Gallery
bought a Finey, a Leist and a Percy
Lindsay. Some lucky person now owns
Erik Langker’s “Evening Sky.” Man of
law Joe McFadden was captivated by
(and captured for his own) Albert Sher-
man’s “Daisies.” Maybe the subject re-
minded him of some of the witnesses he
had handled, for, as the song says,
“Daisies don’t tell.” Howard Hinton
bought a characteristic bit of Syd Long.
But why doesn’t one of the big public
galleries enrich itself with “The Water
Hole” by this artist? There’s all Aus-
tralia in it.
Beheaded to make an American holi-
day 100 plump turkeys will grace the
board at the American Centre next Thurs-
day, which is Thanksgiving Day. Cases
of lima beans and corn in tins have
come from the States to help the service
lads of the U.S.A. keep up the traditional
celebration started by their forebears in
acknowledgment of a bumper harvest.
Mrs. Maurice Samuels is looking after
the decorations, and president of the
women’s committee Mrs. A. C. Aubry
and members of the women’s committee
are looking forward to a busy time help-
ing to prepare this outsize feast.
“The Quaker Girl” was revealed as
the possessor of a natty pair of ankles
at her outing with the Eastern Suburbs
M.S. The argument with Tojo made it
mainly a gals’ show, with the Dental Hos-
pital’s Lorna Hamilton a dimpled and
melodious Prudence. War funds benefit.


Missing Friends.
MARGUERITE SMITH, also known as MAR-
GUERITE HEYFORD SMITH. —It is desired
that the above-named, who came from Eng-
land, or any person knowing her whereabouts,
or, if deceased, her children or legal representa-
tive, shall communicate immediately with P. J.
RIDGEWAY, Solicitors, of 379 Collins Street,
Melbourne, with reference to Marguerite Smith’s
interest in a deceased estate. —P. J. RIDGE-
WAY, Solicitors, 379 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Colonus, sold earlier this year for
150gns. and generally considered at the
time of his sale to be a speedy squib,
led throughout the two miles in a run-
away win on a rain-soaked track for the
Melbourne Cup last Saturday. Start-
ing at 33 to 1 after 50 to 1 had been bet
on the course, he won by seven lengths
from the 50-to-l maiden performer
Phocion, with Heart’s Desire, a 33-to-l
chance, five lengths away third.
The result was a great let-out for book-
makers who had laid heavily against the
favorites, Dark Felt, Great Britain and
Skipton, in doubles with the Caulfield
Cup winner Tranquil Star and the Vic-
toria Derby winner Great Britain. As
much as 500 to 1 was available against
Colonus when the first Cup lists were
issued, and even last week 200 to 1 was
on offer. He has a reputation as a mud-
runner, however, and the heavy going
on Saturday caused an automatic drop
in price. L. O. Menck, owner, and F.
Manning, trainer, were more than hope-
ful of success, and benefited accordingly.
Colonus must be classed as one of the
greatest bargains on record. As a
juvenile he won three races for his
breeder, R. R. Thomas, for whom he was
trained by C. T. Godby, but stamina was
not his long suit, and at the time of his
sale no stretch of imagination could have
visualised him as a Melbourne Cup
winner. By judicious use of his pace,
however, he has been transformed into
a mile and a half and a two-mile winner.
Failure in the Moonee Valley Cup, fol-
lowing his fourth in the Caulfield Cup,
suggested that the Melbourne Cup dis-
tance would be beyond him, but his
apprentice rider, H. McCloud, adopted
daring tactics and ran his opponents off
their legs. Colonus is a four-year-old
entire by Portofino from Genoa, and pre-
sumably will go to his owner’s Kelvin
Park stud property at Longwarry when
he finishes racing. Frilford, another
stallion owned by Menck, and the sire of
his Moonee Valley Cup winner Frill
Prince, died last week.
Manning, trainer of Colonus, began his
association with racing in Gippsland. He
rode as an amateur when a boy, riding
his first winner at the age of 12 and
his last at 14. He was still a lad when
he received a permit to train, and 12
years ago decided to try his luck in the
city. Many good gallopers have passed
through his hands, and he has a pen-
chant for long-priced winners.
Colonus won so easily that hard-luck
stories in connection with the Cup seem
right out of place. Heart’s Desire, how-
ever, might have been closer to the
winner but for a float breakdown which
resulted in her reaching the course less
than 10 minutes before the advertised
starting time of the race. She was sent
straight to the post without any time in
which to settle down after her rush trip
°f about 20 miles, and her trainer con-
siders it must have affected her chance.
Ronolive, also involved in a float break-
down, did not reach the course at all, her
owber not even getting a run for the
mare’s acceptance fee of £53.
Dark Felt, backed to favoritism on the
course, had every chance, but finished a
poor fourth 15 lengths behind the win-
ner. Great Britain, apparently unsuited
by the going, was beaten a long way
from home, and Skipton was never a
possibility. Gusher, fifth, was closest at
the finish, but weight and going stopped
Tranquil Star after she had trailed the
winner round the turn. Amazed dis-
appointed, but the going was so bad that
little notice could be taken of the form
of many of the beaten horses. The time,
3.33 i, was the second slowest in 50 years.
East End, the most brilliant juvenile
filly in Victoria last season, proved the
best stayer of her sex by defeating
Philander and Reply Paid in the Oaks.
Always favorite, she shot through a rails
opening to take the lead on the turn and
battled on gamely to win decisively. By
Enfield from North Star, she was bred
by her owner, R. Turnbull, acting chair-
man of the V.R.C., and looks like de-
veloping into an outstanding mare.
Gay Roi, revelling in the heavy going,
improved on his Derby form in a run-
away win from Illyrian and Cloudless in
the Batman Stakes. Scottish Maid, by
Gay Lothario from Ellen Douglas, was
backed from 15 to 1 down to 8 to 1 and
defeated Ola Rose by half a head in the
Mimosa Stakes. Maemanto, even-money
favorite, missed a place. Pharisee justi-
fied his favoritism for the Byron Moore
Stakes, but was all out to beat Simmer-
ing by half a head. Portfolio led over
the last half-mile to record an easy win
from Royal Decree and Sunrocks in the
Final Handicap.
* * * *
The attendance at Randwick on Satur-
day was 26,500, omitting soldiers, who,
very properly, are on the free list. The
tote turnover was £62,270. In most
races runners were numerous, and,
with several horses that were awkwardly
placed soon after barrier-rise among
those badly beaten, we may hear growls
anent alleged reversal of form at the next
meeting or two. Luck, or otherwise, in
running makes a lot of difference in
results.
Kingsdale (McMenamin), who did not
look himself when racing a few weeks
ago, returned to form in the Horsley
Handicap, in which he was a close second
to Lagoon at the turn, and had him
beaten immediately after entering the
straight. Lagoon was the early leader,
but inability to get a break on his closest
followers settled his chance. As she was
not well placed in the early part, Ara-
hura’s second was a good performance,
and she is evidently going to live up to
the promise she gave when second to
Tuhitarata in the last Doncaster. Half-
way down the straight Soho looked like
playing a prominent part at the finish.
However, he is now getting enough
weight to bother him, and was cut out
of third money by My Friend, who was
a long way back approaching the turn,
and will be better suited by next Satur-
day’s seven furlongs.
Guild Hall tried to lead practically all
the way in the Milperra Handicap, but
the task was beyond him. Haridelle
headed him at the leger, and she, in turn,
was outstayed by War Trophy (Pod-
more), who was always in a handy posi-
tion. It was a complete upset, as War
Trophy was thirteenth in a field of 14 in
the Canterbury Handicap the previous
week. Tel Asur, who was never further
back than fifth, finished a good third,
though without ever looking a probable
winner. Panurge’s third at Rosehill was
not of sufficient merit to entitle him to
favoritism, and he was never dangerous,
nor was Lord Valentine.
Sir Tennyson (Knox), who is much
better than he looks, was not prominent
early in the Encourage Handicap, but he
finished too strongly for Qui Va La after
the latter had taken charge at the leger.
Tidemark commenced so badly that he
was ahead of only two or three when
the field settled down, and yet he un-
wound such a good run in the straight
that, in third place, he was only a length
and a half from the winner. He is sure
to develop into a good middle-distance
horse. Adjust ran well to get fourth,
while Makatha, who did the pacemaking
into the straight, Gauntlet, Valiant
Garde and Valaroi, who were among
the leading division at that stage, all
weakened in the last furlong. Drawn
wide out, Glendower was never sighted.
Fine Art, favorite for the Two-year-
old Stakes, was hopelessly left at barrier-
rise through colliding with another horse,
and Clarion Call also got away badly.
Haddon Hall (Shean) led throughout, but
was all out to win by a neck from Mac-
arthur, whose run in the straight looked as
if it might carry him up to Haddon Hall,
but he could not quite manage it. Goya,
a Fresco colt, was running on, and Belle
Pomme (by Beau Pere) showed pace. The
winner, who was a 280gns. yearling, is a
nippy-looking colt by Hall Mark from
Queen Balak (dam of Prince Ariel, High
Flight and Milanja) and is trained by
Queenslander W. A. Tucker, who won
with St. Quentin at Rosehill.
Young Valais led into the straight from
High Flight in the first division of the
Three-year-old Handicap, but over the
last furlong the issue rested with the
latter and Modulation (Bartle). First
one and then the other had a slight ad-
vantage, but Modulation just got there.
Hawklet’s third was good enough to give
her a winning chance in the near future,
and Nobleman (a Rivoli colt from
Queensland) and Gryphon also ran well.
There was nothing in Baroda’s recent
form to warrant his 5-to-2 favoritism for
the second division of the Three-year-old
Handicap, and in running he never even
looked a place possibility. Fervent and
Jungle King were the early leaders, and
were followed into the straight by Mas-
tery (Knox). The last-named and Jungle
King had a sharp set-to until within 100
yards of home, when Jungle King tired.
Mastery hung on to win by a head from
Karaset, with Brinawa another head
away and doing better than either. Mon
Pere was disappointing, finishing weakly.
Kingston ran fairly, but several runners
failed to show form suggestive of giving
their owners an early return. The winner
is a Piccadilly filly, and is trained by
J. Carey.
Haripur (Bartle) is evidently not a
middle-distance horse, but he has recently
shown himself a good miler. Last with
61b. from the minimum in a field of
14 in the 11 furlongs Canterbury Handi-
cap a week earlier, he finished brilliantly
with 131 b. above it to win the mile
Leumeah Handicap. War Spear, with St.
Elmo nearest him, led along the back
and into the straight. He lasted to the
leger, then giving place to St. Elmo, who,
however, was no match for Haripur over
the last bit. Goonee was always in a
good position, and hung on long enough
to make a dead-heat for third with the
stronger-finishing Sir Wyvern. Lord
Spear did not act up to expectations, but
may do better over a longer journey. Of
the remainder, Windbrook did most to
entitle him to further support, though
Camsion may also be worth keeping in
mind.
* * ♦ •
More women are betting on Sydney
racecourses than at any previous time,
and their favored medium is the totalisa-
tor. That is accounted for by the fact that
the majority favor the ss. unit, though
some place large sums. As a rule more
women than men line up in the payout
queues in the members’ enclosures at
the various courses, and when there are
any outsize dividends the women benefit-
ing invariably outnumber the men. Some
are good judges and can give sound
reasons for their bets, but after listening
to some woman’s explanation why she
backed a seeming “impossibility” that
has won at a long price it is not unusual
to hear some disgruntled male remark:
“It’s enough to make a man give the
game best; why worry about form and
weights?”
* » * »
Main Topic is a good three-year-old,
but unless the A.J.C. gets more than two
days for its autumn meeting of this sea-
son we shall have to wait until next sea-
son to learn whether he is the equal at
w.f.a. of some older horses now racing.
He will have no chance of doing so in
the autumn at a longer trip than a mile
and a quarter, as the Autumn Plate, 1|
mile, is run on the same day as the St.
Leger. He has improved since, but it has
to be remembered that Rimveil on 141 b.
and Dewar on 71b. worse than w.f.a.
terms beat him in the Chelmsford Stakes,
and that later, with 51b. allowance, he
was unplaced to Yaralla, Evergreen and
Gold Salute in the Hill Stakes. It’s
Funny, on 21b. worse than w.f.a. terms,
defeated him in City Tatt.’s Cup, but
in his favor it must be added that in that
race he finished a long way ahead of
Yaralla—our best older w.f.a. horse up
to a mile and a quarter—who carried only
31b. over w.f.a. If club programmes are
the same as last autumn Main Topic’s
w.f.a. opportunities may be limited to the
Rawson Stakes, nine furlongs, and the
Chipping Norton Stakes, mile, and the
distance of each may be short for him.
* * * *
After the Saratoga (New York State)
sales in August, many breeders said they
would eliminate many of their poorer
mares and produce fewer yearlings. It
was also stated that it would be the last
sale held at Saratoga until the world’s
affairs returned to normal after the war.
The average of $lOOl for 480 yearlings
at the recent sales was the second lowest
for Saratoga in the past 25 years. The
peak year was 1925, when 457 yearlings
averaged $3825. The following year 632
averaged $3OOO, and in 1929 the average
for 524 was $3597. Such averages are
sufficient to make any Australian breeder
envious, but are not surprising when it is
remembered how much a two-year-old
or a three-year-old can earn in a season.
Up to the beginning of September of this
year a two-year-old, Devil’s Thumb, had
won five races of a total value of $62,875
(approximately £A 18,870).
* * * *
The public would like to know the
identity of the man who made an offer
of £lO,OOO for Great Britain with a con-
tingency that he should not start in the
Melbourne Cup. It would be difficult to
pick any studmaster who, at this juncture,
would be willing to give that much
unless he had an idea of passing Great
Britain on to an American buyer for
racing and breeding purposes. The lead-
ing studs in Australia are well stocked
with stallions. The owner of Great
Britain is comparatively new to racing,
and is possibly unaware that any report
a few days before the Melbourne Cup
that a strongly-fancied horse might not
be a runner is treated with suspicion. 1/
is generally regarded as angling fot
a “bit to nothing” out of one of the big
sweeps on the race. However, the
owner’s husband says there was never
any intention of accepting the offer with
its attendant contingency. Anyhow, if
the would-be buyer wanted to purchase
him principally with a view to breeding,
Great Britain’s run in the Melbourne
Cup has not lessened his value for that
particular purpose. His breeding strains
are still the same, and, so far as racing is
concerned he may still be a fair proposi-
tion in the autumn.
* * * *
The Melbourne Cup result still leaves
us in doubt as to whether Australia has
any specially high-class three-year-olds
this season. The manner in which Great
Britain won the Victoria Derby suggested
he was out of the ordinary, but now we
don’t really know. One thing certain,
however, is that he does not shine on a
heavy track, so it might be unwise to
condemn him on his Cup showing. It
is not unusual to hear the remark “A
good horse can gallop in any going. ”
Nothing can be much wider of the mark.
It is possible to recall many first-class
horses that were comparatively useless
on a soft track, and Great Britain may
add to the number. Skipton’s Cup show-
ing made it definite that, great three-year-
old as he proved himself last year, he
requires a firm track to be seen at his
best. Although Tranquil Star dropped
back in the straight she did so well for
a mile and five furlongs under her big
weight that she is evidently at home in
any going.
* * * *
Next year’s racing fixtures in Sydney
definitely provide for 19 days at Rand-
wick, while Rosehill has five days, Can-
terbury and Moorefield four each,
Hawkesbury one, and Ascot, Rosebery
and Victoria Park two each. Converted
into non-proprietary bodies, present
shareholders in the last-mentioned three
clubs may not be anxious to carry on.
It looks as if they will have to live on
the memories of a once-profitable past.
There will be little else left for them.
* * * *
Chief Secretary Baddeley attended the
Bellbird meeting last week to see whether,
despite reports to the contrary, it was
conducted in a proper manner. He
found it was, and it was scarcely to
be expected his decision would be other-
wise, where the pleasures of many of his
constituents were concerned. If he had
taken any other view it might, in some
way or other, have been regarded as
sufficient ground for a big coal strike.
The Bellbird secretary gave the A.J.C. a
hint to behave itself if it wished to avoid
coming under the ban of northern labor
unions.
Tozer v. Delaney at Leichhardt and
Patrick v. De Belin at the Stadium were
main events in Sydney boxing last week.
Tozer v. Delaney was pretty good. The
pair are lightweights, and they gave and
took plenty of punishment till the referee
intervened to save the gore-bedabbled
Delaney in the ninth. Patrick v. De Belin
was pretty bad. Patrick treated his obvi-
ously outclassed opponent leniently, but
nearly everyone was relieved when the
thing was stopped at the end of the sixth.
It was a Comforts Fund show, and there
was £l5OO in the house.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN CUP.
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
El Golea 1
Colonus 2
Dark Felt or Phocion 3
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “ PILOT ."
Hoxton Park Juvenile Stakes:
Macarthur 1 ; Kurranulla, 2;
Goya, 3.
Farm Trial Handicap: Brumaire,
1 ; Panabil, 2; Kiaree or Kareset,' 3.
Camden Handicap; My Friend,
1 ; Kingsdale, 2 ; John Halifax, 3.
Kirkham Stakes: Van Eyck, 1 ;
Clarion Call, 2; Fine Art or
Haddon Hall, 3.
Warwick November Handicap:
Warbird, 1 ; Gundagai, 2; War
Trophy, 3.
Welter Handicap: Sir Wyvern,
1 ; Ron Rico, 2; Pall Mall or
Windbrook, 3.


INVEST
ALL
YOU CAN
in the -
Interest accrues from Date of Subscription.
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH . N.S.W.
Hi* Masters Voice
ART FOR PROFIT AND PLEASURE
WHEN these abnormal times are behind us, where will you stand
financially? Commercial Art offers you a fascinating career and
future security, for industry and advertising are dependent on the
work of the trained Artist. You can begin learning now—in your own
home and in your own time-to draw posters,. cartoons, fashions and
illustrations' Develop that flair for sketching under the highly
serialised tuition of experienced Commercial Artists, When you
learn from Australia’s Foremost School of Commercial Art you leara
from leaders of the profession, and every step of your progress is
guided by an expert.
fdsf
\X/KITE today, enclosing 4|d. for postage, for
our profusely illustrated book, which includes
“Art Ability Tests.” This book may prove the
gateway to your success. It contains valuable
information about Commercial Art, a scientific
Questionnaire and special Test Drawings.
these drawings and we will give you an exp
criticism of your art ability—free. cost o
obligation if you mention “The Bulletin.
mimoffniEnnnE
80 Swam ston $r. Melbourne
SMOKE-OH!
“During the altercation the customer picked
up the scales, containing several pounds of
vegetables, and hurled the lot at the shop-
keeper’s head.” — Daily paper.
A full-scale offensive!
4* *2* 4* 4* .
“Research” is that branch of science
which works furiously to discover some-
thing for another branch to discover it is
wrong.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“How can I make my toothbrush last
longer?”— Correspondent in woman’s paper.
Have all your teeth out, dear.
•j*
“A publican usually has a straight-ahead life
of comfort.”— Temperance lecture.
It’s the pub itself that gets cornered.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In the duration of one summer the offspring
of a single fly numbers 2,080.320.”
— “World’s News.”
And marriage would make no differ-
ence.
•J* 4* 4* *?*
“Time cures young love.”— Dorothy Dix.
They married, but he ceased to love.
“I’m cured! ” he said. “I’m fed up,
see ? ”
With satisfaction she observed:
“A pig would naturally be ! ”
Trotter.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A policeman is a man who puts you
in if you put him out.
4» 4« 4* 4*
“Better status for army masseurs.”
—News item.
Now they’ll be able to rub along all
right.
4 1 •i 1 4* +
“There was an excellent swing band,
ducted by the dental officer.” — “S.M.H.
As usual, despite his preliminary assur-
ances, it hurt.
“It was because he had tried to excuse his
intrigue with the girl that his wife refused to
forgive him.” — Woman’s paper.
Defence was the worst offence.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Leathered.
“Originally his name was Hyde-De yore, but
following a feud with a portion of his family
his wife made him drop the ‘Hyde.’ ” — Serial.
He shared the fate of soft-souled men
Whose married lives are grim.
She browbeat him and nagged, and then
She tore the Hyde off him.
P. P.
4* 4*
Gardening Made Easy.
IX.
Mushroom Culture.
There is much to be said for growing
your own mushrooms. Not only does it
preclude the possibility of picking the
wrong fungus and having all the family
poisoned; it saves walking for miles
around a soggy paddock at an unearthly
hour in competition with hundreds of
other residents who are also lured by the
prospects of a cheap feed. And, of
course, for those who live in closely-
settled suburbs it is the only way to get
them.
Mushroom spawn can be bought at so
much a “brick.” In years of paddock-
roaming in search of the elusive fungus
the writer has never yet been fortunate
enough to come across one of these
spawn bricks, which apparently are de-
posited only by the very largest of female
mushrooms in out-of-the-way places, and
then only at certain favorable seasons.
The average home gardener’s inability to
distinguish the male from the female
mushroom, or its infant spawn from
young bindi-eyes, in a semblance of
which nature has camouflaged it to save
them being trodden on by cattle and
horses, rules out the hope of raising his
own spawn should by a strange chance
a mushroom happen to appear overnight
in his lawn.
It must be remembered, firstly, that
mushrooms must have a dark place in
which to grow. Unless you happen to
have a disused railway tunnel or cave in
your backyard, the end of which you
could brick in, excavate under the house.
Always do this in the rear part, prefer-
ably under the laundry, so that if it falls
in through faulty underpinning or muck-
ing about with the foundations the
damage will be less than, say, if your
lounge-room fell in.
If you are lucky enough to live in a
house where the ground slopes away to
the back, with the rear of the cottage con-
sequently raised, it will merely be a
matter of selecting a part and boarding
it in, afterwards stuffing up all cracks
with blackout paper. Should the ground
fall to the front, with the laundry on
ground level, sink a shaft near the foot-
path and cut in. The spoil can be used
to repot the aspidistras. If you haven’t
enough pot plants to use it all up, it can
be dumped over Next-door’s fence one
night. .
Into the excavation you thus obtain
put a couple of tons of manure. This
must be neither too wet nor too dry, too
cold nor too hot. The ordinary domestic
thermometer won’t sink deep enough into
it to get the true temperature. A work-
able plan is to stand in it in your bare
feet for half an hour. If at the end of
that time you are sweating violently it
will indicate too much heat. Should it
still be sticking between your toes two
minutes after you come out, it will be
too wet.
To remedy this don’t use a radiator, as,
though it has drying properties, it will
make the manure hotter. Set the electric
fan up and keep turning the bed over,
until you can stand in it and only get
reasonably warm.
Into this put the brick of spawn. Leave
it whole, instead of breaking it up into
small fragments, as some alleged experts
suggest. This will facilitate the finding
of it in the dark when you go in to water,
feed and weed it. A diet of carrots will
materially improve your eyesight for
working in the dark. If you are allergic
to carrots, tie a guiding string on to the
brick. Whilst it may increase the risk of
knocking your head on the overhead
floor beams, it is best to fill the bed to
within, say, a foot of the floor. If this
is not done the mushrooms will grow
tall and spindly and will droop over.
Being allowed only 12 inches height the
growth must necessarily go into the um-
brella part, thus ensuring those stocky,
muscular mushrooms which are so
admired.
As it will thus be impossible to pull
up the mushrooms, they will have to be
sawn off at the base and carefully wedged
out.
Bo.
Change of Face.
“It’s amazing what a difference a man makes
in a guest-house full of women.”
— Woman’s paper.
Though cutting looks and manners cool
And guarded taunts and sneers
And snubs are more or less the rule,
As soon as man appears
His coming odium soon arrests;
Each lady promptly ceases
To scandalise her sister-guests —
And pulls the bloke to pieces!
PERCY.
Accessory to Glamor.
“With only 12 months’ supply of peroxide,
and even less hair dye, Hollywood gals
are soon to be seen in their true colors.”
—Movie mag.
Wanda Away, the temperamental
Hollywood siren, picked up the peroxide
bottle and held it to the light.
“Enough for one more application,”
she muttered through set lips, “then
it’s—the end.”
Dramatically she threw herself on to
a bearskin rug till she realised nobody
was watching. Then her publicity agent
dropped a hint to the gossip hounds that
Wanda was contemplating suicide. When
the herd of pressmen swarmed to her
Beverly Hills mansion she bravely
greeted them as one doomed but coura-
geous.
“So you’ve run out of peroxide,” they
said, guessing correctly. “And you’re
thinking of suicide!”
“Alas, how true! ” sobbed Wanda, ner-
vously twirling her 50,000-dollar bracelet.
“I have only enough peroxide to last till
next week” —*
“Well, why worry?” said one reporter.
“The fans will like you just as well when
you’re a brunette”
Wanda leaped to her feet. “I’m a
natural blonde,” she screamed. “I never
use peroxide myself. It’s for Toto, my
famous miniature peke. He’s really
black, but now I’ll have to give him
away because I simply wouldn’t be seen
around town with a black dog. It just
wouldn’t suit me.”
YAIR.
Over the Odds.
“Victory shirts will be three inches shorter
in front and three to five .inches at the back.”
—Daily paper.
This is, I think, a sacrifice
Too hard. Why, it’s a cert.
The books won’t lay a decent price
Against a Dedman shirt!
PERCIVAL.
Alarming.
“Leahero runs fast time from a moving start,
but it takes him a long time to wind himself
up.”— “Daily Mirror."''
It brings back unhappy memories of Big
Ben, a really striking animal that the local
watchmaker trained for me some years
ago in his spare time. Big Ben galloped
like clockwork, too, but he had the an-
noying habit of running down at roughly
39 seconds past starting time. His pedi-
gree boasted fifteen-jewelled movement,
but I’m convinced now that there’s more
pace and reliability in a three-and-six-
penny stopwatch.
Big Ben was tricky to regulate. If you
were frightened of the favorite and deli-
berately retarded him, he’d blow to for-
lorn odds and bolt in. On the other
hand, shove his regulator hard fast and
back him solidly from tens to evens
and he’d stand flat-footed at the peg and
strike! I remember one race in parti-
cular. Thrown out of the barrier. Big
Ben was four in front at the half-mile
and apparently ticking two to their one.
Into the straight and it seemed Ben
would have to snap his mainspring to
lose, when suddenly he faltered and stag-
gered past the post like a spent top
exactly 4\ minutes late.
Back in his stall, we held a post-
mortem. Big Ben was an eight-day
hunter, and imagine my chagrin to learn
that the watchmaker hadn’t wound him
since the previous Friday week!
P. O. M. C.
A Little Knowledge.
“Copy the men and give a gentle hitch to
the legs of slacks when you sit down.”
— Woman’s paper.
They’ve entered all the services, profes-
sions, trades, and some
Can throw and brand a bullock with
proficiency and ease.
And now (though they’ll be novices for
many moons to come )
They’re learning how to stop our
trousers bagging at their knees !
P. O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2Jd. per lino.
Compulsory Unionism
Why the objection to compulsory
unionism? Surely a person engaged in
an industry and taking advantage of the
conditions of employment obtained by
the union’s efforts must in fairness be
expected to join the union. Nobody ex-
pects to use a tennis court unless he be-
comes a member of the club.
Australian citizenship itself subjects us
to compulsory unionism in that so long
as we are British subjects and reside here
we must comply with certain conditions
and obey certain laws. It isn’t a matter
of whether we like it or not. Our objec-
tion to a certain Government or its enact-
ments will not avail us at all. We enjoy
privileges and must bow to the accom-
panying restrictions. There is no question
of staying out of our national “union.”
Even a foreigner in Australia, before
he is permitted to “join the union” (i.e.,
until he is naturalised), is bound by its
rules, and in addition he is subject to
grave disabilities. For instance, he will
have his local income taxed without re-
ceiving a vote.
The main objection to compulsory
unionism seems to be a fear that many
of the unions are or may be Communist-
controlled. That is a most cogent reason
why a worker should join the particular
union applicable to his industry and
an active part in its affairs, instead of
falling a victim to the apathy saturating
the average rank-and-file member, an
attitude that enables the loud-mouthed
Red minority to obtain control. A dirty
stable doesn’t become cleaner if we stand
around outside complaining about it.
Another essential step in cleaning up
union control is the secret ballot —eon-
ducted, of course, by disinterested parties,
Government electoral officials —and the
only practicable way of introducing this
is by legislation.
A. Daly’s statement (B. 21/10/’42)
that coercion of minorities is opposed to
the spirit of democracy may be true
enough, but even where there is no
coercion the minority, by very reason of
being a minority, is subject to disabilities.
Democracy implies the greatest good for
the greatest number, and in that process
somebody is bound to suffer at times.
If democratic control will return to
trade unions only when the blackcoated
brigade is booted out, then the sooner
compulsory unionism is introduced and
enforced the better, for only by that
means will determined men in sufficient
numbers enter the unions. Macaw
(N.S.W.).
A.W.L.
“Tomsea” (B. 28/10/’42) gives me a
pain in the neck. This a.w.l. business
is no more than a matter of mentality,
and the chaps who come at it would go
a.w.l. from Paradise. In most camps near
cities the freedom is great enough—open
camp from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m., and at week-
ends from midday Saturday to Sunday
midnight unless the camp is in the midst
of vital training.
There’s a point to be noted —avoid
training youths too close to the officers’
mess and canteen. Lights and laughter
there produce a certain amount of dis-
content among men contemplating their
own quarters, straw mattresses on the
floor, a couple of drab blankets and a
kitbag for a pillow, and who are perhaps
told in the morning by an officer who
has had his tea or coffee and toast in
bed that they must make all sorts of sac-
rifices for their country.—Two AT.Fs.
(N.Q.). _____
War-loan Policies
There is nothing new in the English
practice of financing war-loan purchases
by insurance policies, as outlined by
“Lyle” (B. 11/11/ ’42). In 1918 I in-
vested £3OO in a Commonwealth War
Loan by taking out a life policy issued
by the A.M.P. Society, which fostered the
scheme. —P. D. (Vic.).
Reducing the Voting Age
Unfair as it may seem at first sight,
young men of 18-20 are not entitled to a
vote (B. 28 /10/’42) simply because they
are in the services. If they are, so are
naval cadets of 14: these cadets may not
be on active service, but neither is an 18-
year-old now unless he volunteers. Fur-
ther, if any young man who is fighting is
entitled to the franchise, it must also be
conceded to, say, an engineering or
medical student sticking grimly to his
books when he would perhaps much pre-
fer to be fighting; or, for that matter,
any youth of 15 serving his country on
farm, in factory or office.
Of course, the idea cannot be dis-
missed as entirely absurd: some boys of
15 have more commonsense than some
young men of 18. It is unfortunate that
mentally-adult young men are denied a
vote —just as it is unfortunate that adult
morons are allowed one—but if they
don’t work and fight now they stand a
good chance of losing much more than
the vote. — Ajax (S.A.).
“They’re Racing” in S. Africa
In B. 1/7/’42 it is stated that South
Africa is to have no more racing for the
duration. An error.
Owners and trainers and clubs were
asked by Prime Minister Smuts to
curb their racing efforts and do a bit
more for the war effort; and they
solemnly agreed to forgo one day’s
racing per annum. The “dogs” people
did not bother to take notice of the
P.M.’s appeal. At the Wanderers ground
in Johannesburg the African Greyhound-
racing Association has a meeting every
Friday. There are no bookmakers, but
“ Dammit, I ought to know whether it's more comfortable without them!"
as a rule £35,000 goes into the half-
crown tote. There is dog-racing on an-
other Johannesburg course and on an
East Rand one every Wednesday (tote
takings average £15,000), and the
whippets race every Saturday. The
Transvaal Provincial Government gets
a rake-off of p.c. on the gross, so it is
unlikely that many meetings of dogs will
be barred-
The horses race on Saturdays and
Wednesdays in Johannesburg and on
Saturdays at Capetown, Durban, Port
Elizabeth, East London, Pietermaritz-
burg and Bloemfontein.
Best of luck, and see if you can manage
to get State Parliaments abolished. My
solicitor’s statement of my financial posi-
tion in Australia shows that the Vic-
torian show has stung me for unem-
ployed-relief tax, though I have read
there are no unemployed in Victoria. —
F. D. R. P. (Johannesburg).
Sugar for Jam
If the special ration of sugar for jam-
making is not speedily revised and greatly
enlarged, the powers that be are in for
a rude shock. The majority of house-
wives, in town as well as country, make
the greater part of the jam they use.
Six pounds of sugar will make eight
pounds of fruit into jam ; when cooked,
about 21b. jars. That won’t last long,
say two months at the outside. What’s
going to happen when that large body of
consumers comes on the market for
manufactured jam? And what is to
become of all the fruit?
There was enough heartbreaking waste
of apples last year. We don’t want to see
jam fruits go the same way.—Cubberlie
(S.A.).
Salt Licks
The reasons Dedman gives for the
embargo on stock Ikks would lead one
to believe the things are harmful to
stock. What a dreadful commentary it
is on the lack of acumen of our pastoral
heads! Futile the experience of years
and knowledge of generations ; pastoral-
ists in general have been spending over
a quarter of a million a year on salt
which was not needed!
Experiments with small lots of sheep
amount to nothing. Five sheep will live
indefinitely without water in a paddock
where fifty will perish. On those lines
Dedman could also cancel all water im-
provements as unnecessary. If rail trans-
port is the real reason, why not cancel
the second priority (politicians’ wives) and
give that over to something of use to
the country —salt licks? —H. G. L. (Q.).
Bread
Mr. Dedman is giving his august atten-
tion to the problem of changing the
people’s eating habits with the object of
eliminating the production of any luxury
food of small nutritive value and to build
up basic foods that are substantially
nutritive. Well, why doesn’t he start with
white bread? It is a luxury food pure
and simple, for it merely satisfies a visual
prejudice and is neither as nutritive nor as
tasteful as wholemeal. Wholemeal bread
is a basic food, but it is as hard to get in
most Australian cities as caviare. But
the last thing a politician wants is to
violate the prejudices of the majority, so
I am expecting any moment to hear that
Mr. Dedman has created another board
to harass eaters of caviare and pate de
foie gras in the interests of the war effort.
—Strict Veg. (Vic.).
Private Ownership
In the controversy about private
ownership and the profit motive, people
are apt to forget the size of the cake.
They are so intent on dividing it that
they lose sight of the fact that the sum
total of the material goods available to
the community is dependent on two
things only: the natural resources of the
country and the productivity of the work-
ing population.
An increase in the standard of living
of the masses, whether in Australia,
America or Russia, is possible only
through increasing production.
The acid test of any social change must
always be whether or not it will favor-
ably affect the national or communal
output; otherwise it remains a political
catchcry, not an economic necessity.—
Viator (Vic,).
Married Women Teachers
“Actus” (B. 11/11/ ’42) complains of
temporary married women teachers in
N.S.W. being notified that their services
will not be required during the Christmas
vacation. What’s all the fuss about?
These women will be reinstated when
there’s work to do. They were called on
in a time of emergency to fill the vacan-
cies left by men gone to join the forces.
They enjoy the shortest of working hours
and conditions and receive very decent
salaries.
There are plenty of other vacancies
that can be filled by these women so as
not to cast yet another unnecessary
burden on us long-suffering taxpayers.
Let them have a go at some voluntary
war work, of which there is a surplus.
Anyhow, even in times of peace,
schoolteachers are coddled with their ten
weeks and more of holidays every year
on full pay.—E. L, (N.S.W.).
A Liberal Evattucation
_ln the N.S.W. school magazine of
February, 1942, fourth class, a photo, of
Mr. C. Evatt, the Minister of Education,
appears on the front page with that of a
little girl who is handing Mr. McKell,
the Premier, a cheque for £5OOO.
In the school magazine of May I,
fourth class, there is another photo, of
Mr. Eyatt and Mr. McKell, taken with
h.ttle girls who are drinking milk through
straws from bottles.
On the front page of the third-class
school magazine, same month, Mr.
McKell and a little girl have been cut
out Mr. Evatt and the other little girl
are the central figures, to the wondering
and admiring eyes of the thousands of
children who must keep their glimmers
glued to the magazines every day of the
week. (In passing, don’t you think that a
photo, of his Majesty the King or of
some member of the royal family would
have been more appropriate, seeing that
May 24 was Empire Day?)
Mr. Evatt again comes into the pic-
ture in the school magazine, fifth class,
of September 1, which contains a poem,
“The Swagman,” written by a little
Evatt.
If these facts do not show that Mr.
Evatt is becoming excessive I’m a P.L.C.
— i.e., perjurer, liar and cheat, as per
‘Hansard,” October 13. —W. J. Peake
(N.S.W.).
Lot’ries
The lottery business was inaugurated
in Queensland as a relief measure, as an
aid to hospitals and as an easy, profitable
method of increasing the State finances.
It has continued as a canker, eating into
the vitals of a sound State economy for
a generation. So great has been its
expansion that a recent visitor to
our capital, struck with the crowd
of lottery agencies, ads. and radio
propaganda concerning the “lucky”
shops, thought it must be our chief in-
dustry. All judicious citizens will doubt
the wisdom of the Commonwealth’s
raising money by such a questionable
method, even if millions were netted
thereby, as per “lesmond’s” reckoning.—
Demos (Q.).
“Jesmond’s” idea of running a lottery
(B. 28/10/ ’42) with a2O p.c. tax on sub-
scriptions and prizes payable in long-term
bonds is a splendid one, but there’s a
fly in the ointment. Who’s going to buy
tickets?—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
This Finance Business
We have been told that gold is true
wealth, despite the fact that we are “off
the gold standard.” The a verage man can
still grasp that if this metal is regarded as
backing paper currency, and is looked
upon by all as the solid medium of ex-
change, for which paper is only a substi-
tute, then it must have “real” value, and
must be used to pay for things in the ulti-
mate transaction. But now we find that
gold production is in the discard, indeed
only kept going more or less for political
reasons. No one seems to want gold at
a time when, one would think, it would be
most in demand to pay the bills piling up
everywhere. Instead, we mine all sorts of
other metals used in armaments. Then
how do we pay for these and the things
made from them? It simply adds up to
the fact that the gold-finance mystery is
so much poppycock.
We are led to believe that gold is the
final yardstick of value by all kinds of
fancy tricks, such as the absurd vault a I
Fort Knox, Kentucky, where fabulous
sums are hidden feel deep behind steel
and concrete, having been dug up in
Alaska, S’Africa and elsewhere and trans-
ported to Kentucky for this sole purpose.
One would think it more simple to just
say “Well, now, here we have so many
acres of gold-bearing country. On assays,
etc., it should be worth roughly so many
millions. 0.K.; credit the national bank
with the money.” This short-circuits all
the prospecting, the mining, the crushing,
treating, etc., the transport, the armed
guards, the huge vaults and so on, and
arrives back at the same place in record
time.
Of course, says your economist, bu<
look at all the work that’s been done. The
wages, the man-hours, the consumption of
this and that. The transfer of goods and
services during the process of getting that
gold dug up. But how can this make
sense? What has been used to pay for it
all if the gold, in the final analysis, is
valueless?
It would seem that the legitimate paper
and the book entries, provided value has
been given for value, are, after all, the
real money. Nothing has been produced
by this goldmining and burying but gold.
Were it wheat, wool, or fruit, I could
begin to get some idea. We can use these
things, and many similar commodities.
But we don’t use the gold ; we bury it
again! Now tell me this isn’t frenzied
finance. — R. H. Gordon (W.A.).


' 1
Dear Sirs:
My grocer cannot supply some of my favourite biscuits.
Have you opped making them?
Dear Madam:
Our factories are working at full capacity. Arnett's
Biscuits are “On Service” on every Australian battle
front. We have removed many lines from our lists to
enable us to fulfil war orders, and we look forward to that
happy day when supplies will once again be ample.
Grocers everywhere are assisting us to distribute fairly
our available supplies and avoid disappointment to our
many friends.
Lend to Defend
FAMOUS
§J
B SQUITS
A
ED
SILVER
tion Saleroom, Dec.
1.
