

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3263
Wednesday, August 26, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
CARLISLE CATHEDRAL.
THE city of Carlisle forms the border station of the London,
Midland and Scottish Railway before the line enters Scotland.
In romance, no less than history, the “old grey town’' occupies
a prominent place. The border “wars” Scott has made us all
familiar with, but within the walls of Carlisle are relics of Roman.
Norman and Middle-Age struggles. Here stood one of the chief
forts on Hadrian’s Wall, traces of which still remain ; here, too,
was upreared by William Rufus that Norman keep whose dark and
rugged outlines still stand gaunt against the sky. In this fortress
Mary, Queen of Scots, was detained after the battle of Langside,
Around the city itself were waged those bloody struggles of border
warfare just referred, to, Carlisle’s proud title “The Key of Scot-
land” marked its value and position in times past. During the Civil
War it took the side of royalty and paid heavy penalty for espousing
the cause of “The Murdered King.” Still later it manifested its old
spirit of loyalty by opening its gates to Bonnie Prince Charlie
in 1745 and was punished with merciless severity by the Duke of
Cumberland. Not far from the old castle stands what was once a
Norman priory, the present cathedral, famed for its east window.
The material of which this structure, founded by William II and
completed by Henry I, is built is the old red sandstone. The
original proportions of the building have been much curtailed. In
1292 a fire destroyed the nave, only a small part of which remains.


dgfdgfdg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Few Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Same.
My Address
S.B. X 42
The Red Page
THE UNKNOWN PACIFIC.
Bill Tully and I worked mostly at night,
lecturing by lantern light. The ship would
be off in the early morning. At Star
Harbor, on San Cristoval, the largest island
on the unfrequented south-east, the naked
people carried candle-nut torches as they
wound down the mountain trail. It was
like something out of A Midsummer
Night’s Dream, that twisting stream ot
light. Few traders and no missionaries
had come to them, and they showed a low
rate of infection. A friendly, backward
Negroid people, they were endangered by
their own hospitality. Charley One Arm,
the policeman, our fierce black guide,
couldn’t understand when we refused the
temporary gift of two island daughters. I
went away dreading what might happen
when more trading ships came in.
The place? Solomon: Islands That is
one of the many reasons for reading Dr.
S. M. Lambert’s A Doctor in Paradise
(Dent) —the extraordinary topical interest
of a travel book about the islands of the
Pacific every one of which, if not yet in-
vaded, is threatened.
But a Doctor in Paradise is far more
than an entertaining account of the
author’s wanderings among islands in
the news: it is a political document of
vital importance to both Australia and
New Zealand. Politicians in Australia
and Maoriland, and writers who realised
that the arts flourish best during an up-
surge of national spirit, once dreamed
of a great empire of the islands of the
Pacific. Whether or not a flood of im-
migrants after the war revives the dream,
the control of the islands is going to be
a matter of the greatest possible interest
to both nations for as far into the future
as the imagination can reach.
Dominion over or co-operation with
native peoples depends—as the British
learned to their cost in Malaya—on the
goodwill of the natives. On knowledge
of the natives. And about the contem-
porary life of the peoples of the Pacific
islands, the average Australian or New
Zealander knows nothing at all.
Exactly what is the attitude of the New
Guinea native to the white man —for,
agaihst, or indifferent? What does the
Solomon Islander think about all that
has happened there recently : whose side
is he on? How are the French managing
with their half of the New Hebrides, and
the British with theirs? What are the
Americans doing with their share of
Samoa? Why did a benevolent New Zea-
land have to deal with a Mau rebellion
in Samoa; and what was the rebellion
all about? There are a thousand ques-
tions (all, as Singapore showed, matters
of life or death to the white race in the
Pacific, infinitely more important to Aus-
tralia and Maoriland than anything that
happens on the other side of the world)
and nobody knows the answers.
Any Australian reading A Doctor in
Paradise is likely to realise with some-
thing approaching horror that, while
cheerfully joining in the popular clamor
against the British for neglecting the
responsibilities of empire in Malaya, we
ourselves have been just as much at fault
in the Pacific. Empire, or the shadow
and the responsibilities of empire, thrust
upon us, and our eyes fixed on Europe.
“America will look after the Pacific,”
we say vaguely and hopefully. But here’s
an American who thrusts responsibility
back upon us —back, in particular (Dr.
Lambert is not enthusiastic about the
Australian record in New Guinea), upon
New Zealand:
Ou the Pacific, New Zealand is unique:
her million and a half Europeans out-
number her natives by tremendous odds.
This may sound easy for the Dominion,
but the Government, every step of the way,
has been forced to tackle a variety of prob-
lems; ancient and well-earned grudges
against the pakeha, a tendency to lean on
a dole, a carefree indifference to modern
hygiene—a hundred and one cross-currents.
1 have seen the subsidised Maori farmer on
the East Coast, dressed in British clothes,
looking like any tanned European and
proud of modern farm machinery. I have
seen the model dwelling-houses which the
authorities set in the backyards of Maori
schools to inspire the native housekeeper.
I have seen British ladies striving to teach
back native arts which the natives had
forgotten. I have seen lazy boys playing
pool during work hours and pertly asking,
“Why work when the pakeha pays?” And
all this time, in the primitive village which
he ruled with a rod of tear, Rua the
Prophet lay dyinK of a rival witch’s curse;
when he died his followers sat for days,
expecting him to rise again.
In 1926 New Zealand was governing her
own Maoris, their cousins on the Cook
Islands and beautiful Niue, and had con-
trol of Western Samoa. She was ruling
152,000 Polynesians. It would be better
for the Polynesians, I think, if she were
to govern them all.
A Doctor in Paradise is not designed
as a political survey, but time after time
Dr. Lambert’s love of the natives and
anxiety for their well-being leads him into
politics. His chief interest in the Man
rebellion, for instance, is
Samoans hadn’t got back Samoa; all
they had received was a resurgence of the
native diseases which a careful mandate
had struggled so valiantly and success-
fully to cleanse” —but the medical facts
lead him inevitably to the political con
elusion that the rebellion was “madness.”
And so, seeking merely to set down what
he saw and learned during twenty years
pursuing the genial hookworm among the
natives, Dr. Lambert has accidentally writ-
ten by far the most important book relat-
ing to this war —from the Australian and
New Zealand viewpoint—yet to have
appeared. Inside Europe and Inside Asia.
—we know all about that. Here is “In-
side the Pacific.”
Naturally, when the book was not so
designed, there are limitations to its politi-
cal value. There could be more politics,
less medicine and less entertainment. It
is possible that the special interests and
special passions of a doctor occasionally
lead to a one-sided view of politics. And
a serious disadvantage is that the book
stops short at 1939. How valuable would
be an up-to-the-minute political survey
of the Pacific islands!
Still, it’s probably safe to assume that
things now are very much as Dr. Lam-
bert left them in 1939 ; his doctor’s en-
thusiasm and American gusto are im-
mensely appealing; and his skill as an
entertainer gilds the pills of politics very
pleasantly indeed. Politics and medicine
apart, this is a first-class travel book at
a time when travel literature is as rare
as the English language at King's Cross.
Sent out by the Rockefeller Founda-
tion in 1920, Dr. Lambert stalked the
hookworm (an amiably Rabelaisian pas-
time) on every speck of land in the Paci-
fic where it raised its dainty head:
Queensland, Papua, Samoa, Tonga, Fiji,
Rarotonga, New Caledonia, New Zea-
land—anywhere and everywhere.
From New Guinea (besides hook-
worms) he offers ghosts, cannibals, mis-
sionaries, planters and such scenes of
primitive poetry as:
Lecturing that night, my attention was
caught by something that gave my audi-
ence a troll-like look: several little pigs
followed the women with the affection of
lapdogs. When the women sat down, the
pigs jumped in their laps. And what in
the world was that one doing? I stopped
to look again—one of the women had
picked up her pig and was holding it to
her breast, nursing it. There was a second
woman doing the same thing, and a third.
This might have taken a good deal of ex-
plaining, but its reason was purely eco-
nomic. A sow had died in pig-birth and
left an orphan litter.
From Kuria in the Gilberts (besides
hookworms) an interview with a Robert
Louis Stevenson character and stories
of Bully Hayes and Timbinoka:
Timbinoka severed some enemy heads
which a trader bought, pickled, and sent to
a scientist in Australia. After this trans-
action the enterprising trader sold the rum
back to Timbinoka. The monarch found
out about it. so that he didn’t use the
liquor. But the shipwrecked sailors [who
had .been succored from Timbinoka’s
stores] got their share of it, and his
Majesty was vastly amused when he told
them what they had been drinking and
saw them get sick.
From Tonga (besides hookworms) the
story of a doctor who, when drugs were
allowed in duty free, used to get his fur-
niture past the Customs by labelling it
Carpetorum brusselorum and Hattus
rackus. From Samoa (besides hook-
worms) the most cheerful of suicides:
Hookworm lectures in the villages, when
we could drum up an audience, never
lacked the element of surprise. One day
we expected a fair number of natives but
nobody showed up. Then a shy pagan
sauntered in and explained that they
couldn't come today “because an old man
had to hang himself.” We set out with
police and missionaries, hut the party was
over when we arrived. The old man had
all his pigs slaughtered and had given the
neighbors a splendid feast. In the flush
of revelry he had gone into the house,
put a noose around his neck and thrown
the end out of a window. His friends
had obligingly pulled the string, then gone
on with the free feed, vowing that he was
a nice generous fellow, but too old to
be much good.
And from Rennel Island, Australia’s
near neighbor in the Solomons, a new
version of the familiar tragedy of the
Pacific —the brown man destroyed by
the diseases of the white. And yet, having
seen all that he has seen, Dr. Lambert is
“no medical Cassandra, moaning doom
for the Pacific peoples”;
1 have told you how 1 watched the New
Hebrides decline under a vicious form of
colonial government, and how
Island was blighted for lack of protection ,
how the natives of the world s second
largest island, New Guinea, must inevit-
ably fall off in numbers and weaken m
physique unless their case is handled with
more honesty and intelligence than the
home Government has seen fit to give u.
All this is on the dark side of the
canvas. Let’s look at the brighter picture.
I quote myself, from an article un the
“‘Pacific Islands Monthly.” “ Fhe problem
of depopulation of natives m the Pacific
need no longer exist. The formula for
turning declining into increasing popula-
tions has been devised and put into opera-
tion by British Administrations in Central
Polynesia, in Polynesian New Zealand, in
British Micronesia (the Gilberts) and m
Melanesian Fiji. American Samoans are
increasing under the operation of the same
general formula.”
The Formula: Native doctors and nurse-,
to care for current illnesses and educate
their people in the prevention of disease,
especially in soil sanitation and pure-vvater
supplies; attention to infant and child
welfare; reliable census-taking to check,
results —all under the supervision of com-
petent European physicians and nurses.
Add to this a careful study of native
customs on the part of civil administra
lions, so that they may learn respect lor
the more wholesome of the folk ways that
have given life’s zest to the people.
Where this formula has been applied
native populations have increased and are
continuing to increase. It has only failed
where it has been pigeonholed by in-
competents.
A topical book ; a travel book ; a doc-
tor's book; a vitally important political
book —and written with humor and gusto
by a man who came to his work, as he
says, “Like a wild horse, rarin’ to go.”
A Doctor in Paradise deserves the widest
possible audience.
Cardus on the Air.
Neville Cardus’s Music for Pleasure
(Angus and Robertson) comprises re-
printed broadcast talks and some per-
sonal reminiscences.
Mr. Cardus discloses that the critic
“must work and study hard all
day long and through the night.”
Most importantly, if he does not
make half a dozen enemies a week he
should, if he has any conscience at all,
send in his resignation. But he must be
prepared, “after he has sweated blood
and tears studying the style of music,
tracing growth and development, com-
paring period with period, rendering him-
self half-blind by his work to be told
by the first man who disagrees with him
that criticism is only a matter of
opinion.”
The rest of the book is in a more com-
fortable strain. It is easy to take a lik-
ing to the hard-up Lancashire lad who
paid his bob and stood on a steam-heater-
grid with his back to a draught to
hear the first performance of Elgar’s A
flat Symphony, and who later on got paid
a penny a line for criticisms which an
utterly Philistine sub-editor invariably
cut down from 600 to about 30 lines.
And when he says straight out about
Melba what so many of her generation
felt in their hearts but never dared to
express—“ Never once did her singing
move me in an imaginative way ; it was
flawless vocalism pure and simple”—he
becomes a man and a brother.
And there is a tribute to Edward Ger-
man’s really worth-while light operas,
“Tom Jones” and “Merrie England,”
which absolves Mr. Cardus finally from
the suspicion of piusical snobbery which
the first few pages of his little book
might engender. He’s proud of Elgar
and Delius and Holst, too, as an English-
man should be.
D. H. Rankin, M.A., M.Ed., who has
already written histories of the develop-
ment of education in W.A. and in Vic.,
rounds out his observations on the sub-
ject in a third tome, The Philosophy of
Australian Education (Arrow Printery,
Ltd., 11l Lonsdale-street, Melbourne).
Philosophy is a very wide term and Mr.
Rankin defines it very widely, tracing
the influences that have shaped educa-
tional aims and methods in this continent,
discussing education ideals and endeavor-
ing to peer into the future. There’s a
pleasant flavor of lavender about his
style, and he obviously loves his profes-
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“F.S.”: The Savoy in Melbourne
has just turfed out Wait Disney's “Fan-
tasia” after a year's run. The next best
local record is “Sunshine Susie” and
“City of Song,” which divided a year
between them at the Athenaeum. Various
explanations are given for the Savoy
achievement from Disney’s graphic
genius to the genius of the great com-
posers. I hazard the guess that it
was largely a success of curiosity. Con-
troversy raged around the legitimacy of
Disney’s attempt to illustrate the classics
and everybody had to see it. My only
objection to it is that I can’t listen
now to an orchestral performance of
The Sorcerer’s Apprentice” without hav-
ing conjured up for me the image of
Mickey Mouse slopping about with pahs
of water or of Beethoven’s Sixth Sym-
phony without seeing that strange Disney
pantheon of mythological characters.
lire satire of two of Gilbert’s operas
which have been occupying the boards
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, missed its
mark when they were first vouchsafed to
the British public. “Ruddigore” was a
skit on Italian melodrama, and not a bad
skit either, but Englishmen knew nothing
about Italian melodrama and cared less,
"‘Princess Ida” was a skit on Tennyson’s
romantic “The Princess.” It was a bit
too far-fetched for the British public
and it fell as fiat as the other. Neither
falls a bit flat at His Majesty’s, largely
because of Sullivan’s music. Sullivan
might have been trying to write skits on
Handel, but he couldn’t help writing en-
gaging music
“A.E.N.”: It wasn’t “Pirates of Pen-
zance” (B. 1/7/’42) that was first pro
duced in America, but “H.M.S, Pina-
fore ” the immediately preceding operetta,
which was pirated and performed in U.S.
before in London, owing to copyright
defects To avoid this, “The Pirates of
Penzance” was given a premiere for copy-
right purposes at the Bijou Theatre,
Paignton, Devon, on Dec. 30, 1879. After
a few performances there it was trans-
ferred to the Opera Comique, London.
The residents of Paignton still feel better
men when they remember that the town
once had a Gilsullivan world -premiere.
Francis Roy Thompson, who has a
show of oil-paintings at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, wields a joyous brush
and in moments of exuberance lays it
down in favor of a palette knife. Aiming
at the broadest of broad impressions, he
cultivates a sort of rugged neatness.
Sometimes, as in “Chrysanthemums
No. 1,” “Meadow Hay,” “Magnolias"
and “Three Sailing Ships,” he brings a
riot of color into order, but more often
it just riots. A catalogue foreword likens
Thompson to Van Gogh, but the Austra-
lian is no imitator. He stands on his own
feet.
Hans Heysen has filled, by a loan from
his private collection, some of the gaps
made at Adelaide National Gallery by
removal of its chief treasures to a place
supposed to be safer. His big Lambert
“The Half-back,” a youth in white, is
faced by Lambert’s audacious self-por-
trait, lent by T. E. Barr Smith, son and
namesake of its former purchaser. Hey-
sen’s own work includes a farm team of
the type that won him a Wynne Prize,
and other pastoral bits from his own
home in the hills. Nora Heysens range
from flowers and fruit to a stark mother-
and-child. A Millet, two Clausens, a Will
Ashton of Notre Dame, a small Streeton,
and three Blamire Youngs, varying from
dramatic scenes to a Corot-like lake, make
up a fine show ; for which Louis McCub-
hin, the Director, has also obtained a
Bonython loan of a Will Ashton at St.
Ives, from Ragless his own study of the
Grampians, and Septimus Power’s strong
team of grey horses.
Australian vaudeville long ago knew
Olsen and Johnson as a mad and merry
team; transferred to the screen they
became madder and merrier, and in
“Hellzapoppin’,” at Sydney State, they
reach the peaks of clever idiocy. Mischa
Auer is the horrified object of the affec-
tions of Martha Raye, who yawps m a
welkin-shattering voice. Settings are
gorgeous, as are the damsels who dance
and swim through the riot.
M.-G.-M. have done a good job with
their “Crime Doesn’t Pay” series. The
latest, “Don’t Talk,” at Sydney Liberty,
carries a message with a punch to the
careless gossiper—the ingenuity of enemy
spies in' piecing together information
gathered in public places and passing it
on to their saboteur gangs.
“Cauboy”: lam at one with the Tails
in hoping that the proposed Federal en-
tertainment tax will discriminate in favor
of flesh-an’-blood drama against the im-
ported, It is healthier to have Australian
actors, singers, dancers, scene painters
and stage hands busying themselves about
the drama than entrepreneurs winding off
yards of imported celluloid. A number
of legit, producers who were willy-nilly
obliged to turn their theatres over to the
talkies made a lot of money, but lost a
lot of fun. If different scales of taxation
gave them the conditions they would
gladly return to the flesh-an’-blood drama,
despite its ups-and-downs. A leading
actor or a prima donna may be tempera-
mental, but they are more exciting than
a spool of transparent tissue*.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Men’s Overcoat, 6/-
Men’s Suits, 57-
Men’s Trousers, 37-
I
S>
\
Men’s Vests, 17-
<<7n\
Men’s Cardigan, 3/6
S 3
Boys’ Overcoats, from 3/6
un
\
TP"
W
DRY CLEANING
SAVES
COUPONS
Ah! Those Coupons! They have brought to
all of us such care and economy where clothes
are concerned . . . nowadays we look at every
garment many times before disposing of it.
There’s nothing that will help your clothes
more than to have them carefully dry cleaned
and properly pressed.
The latest odourless method of dry clean-
ing is used in our Dry Cleaning Service . . . it
removes every particle of dust and dirt and
leaves the garments fresh and revitalised . .
it actually helps to preserve their wearing
qualities.
When you send your suits, coats and frocks
to us for cleaning, they are given the benefit
of specialists’ skill and returned to you with
the assurance that you will be fully satisfied
with the results.
Our Dry Cleaning Service Section is situated
at the entrance of our George Street Men’s
Clothing Department.
Men’s Sport Coats, 3/9
- v'
m
Boys’ Knicker Suits, 4/-
V
V
Boys’ Trousers, from 2/-
Women’s Topcoats, from 6/-
U 3" //"^ r
Girl’s Tunic, from 3/9
Pleated Skirt, from 6/6
Women’s Frocks, from 5/9
Women’s Skirts, 3/6
u
Women’s Coat and Skirt, from 6/-
nv 7 "
ZJ
y
Dressing Gown, from 6/-
Cj
;/
Women’s Blouses, from 3/-
~T
c-<Z
Women’s Ensemble Suit, 8/6
Child’s Coat, from 3/6
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


TO THE PIONEERS
By J. C. SHELLEY.
kA cGROGAN’S
ly\ homestead
I \ was away at
the back of
his station, so that
the road from it ran some eight or nine
miles across the property to the main
road and then west to town. For the
first half-hour or so of his driving
McGrogan could still consider himself
master of all he surveyed, proud of his
land and of the sheep that grazed there.
The road wandered about a bit as it
ran across the station, dodging a stump
here, a fallen tree there, a gutter, an
outcrop of rock. It had as many courses
as the lines on a man’s hand, for some-
times in winter a wagon or a car bogged,
and after they had got it out there was
a hole there, so that the occasional traffic
had to diverge and, diverging, often saw
a better track through the timber, and
gradually a new track began. But wher-
ever the tracks wandered, in a mile or
less they’d converge into bottlenecks that
were the gateways in the subdivision
fences.
Down about the middle of the station
the road ran diagonally down the side of
a hill to skirt the head of a gully that
projected itself at the heart of an old cul-
tivation paddock. There were six worn
tracks running down the side of that hill,
and a seventh beginning to show in the
grass, each one of them a little further
west so that the traffic could ease out
around the head of the gully that, each
year after the winter rains, showed a new
gash of earth where the old waterfall
had crumbled and been washed away.
Slowly but inevitably the gully ate away
at the old, worn-out cultivation paddock.
The old cultivation started some fifty
yards or so down in the fold of the hills
where the first road had been and was
now a deepening gully below the water-
fall, a half-mile in width and stretching
away westward, some three hundred-odd
acres in extent, and the lie of it following
the good ground. Seen in perspective it
was like a healed crooked gash in the
white flesh of a man’s forearm. Wheat
had not been sown there for upwards of
fifteen years ; not since the last crop had
been a partial failure and the share-
cocky, disgusted with the land and
McGrogan’s treatment, had moved
further west seeking virgin land. Since
then McGrogan had run his sheep there,
and often he cursed the day when, as a
young man seeking to improve his acres,
he had listened to the arguments of a
wheat cocky.
THE share-farmer had moved in with
his team of horses, his big, high,
table-topped wagon, ploughs, harrows,
drills and reaping machines. He’d built
himself a corrugated tin shanty, machine
sheds, horse yards and scooped a dam in
the head of the valley to one side of
what was to become the centre of the
wheatfields.
They began on the virgin country where
now, each year, the gully ate back into
the old cultivation paddock. They had
worked fast; fires burned and ate and
destroyed the timber as the men toiled
to prepare the land for the plough.
Nowhere in that gash did they leave a
tree unless it was well guarded by rocks
—and the land had been selected for its
freedom from stone. Hardly were the
ashes of the fires cold before the ploughs
were into the land, turning the topsoil
over with its grass and roots and shrubs,
bringing up the soil underneath. After
the ploughs had come the harrows, break-
ing the big clods into smaller ones, raking
the furrows in so that the drill and the
harvesters might run smoothly.
It had been a colossal task, and a
longer and more costly job than they
had bargained for. But they did it, and
did it well even though nobody else
reckoned it was a wheat district. The
money came from the bank, its security
guaranteed by a bill of sale ovpr the
share-farmer’s plant and beyond the
plant even, assured by the few acres that
McGrogan’s father had left his son.
When the first hundred and fifty acres
were ready for the drill there had been
no seed, for seed was scarce that year
and its scarceness accentuated by the
demand for cash on the nail. But they
hadn’t put their toil into that land for
nothing. It had been hard work, and
they weren’t the type of men to be beaten
right at the very beginning. McGrogan
took time off to hunt seed wheat, and in
the end he was successful, though the
stuff lay a long way from home —a hun-
dred and twenty miles. That was nothing
to a young man of McGrogan’s ambi-
tion. He took his share-cocky’s team and
brought it home himself.
FROM that first one hundred and fifty
acres they harvested a good crop
and they saved enough seed to plant
again with an additional twenty acres.
That was how they’d worked it out in
the beginning: Each year they’d add a
bit more to the plough so that, in time,
the whole of the property would be under
wheat. They were going to be the
pioneers of wheat in their district!
But that first one hundred and fifty
acres had scored a line deep on
McGrogan’s soul that time itself never
completely erased. That first crop had
grown well; had fought to outgrow the
black oats that did their best to choke
its green, tender life. All through the
spring McGrogan had watched that wheat
as it came through its different stages of
ripeness, and he walked each day in hell.
Right at the very beginning of his life
he thought he had made a mistake, a
fatal, tragic mistake. The wheat crop was
going to be'a failure, and he saw the
sands of his time running quickly out.
A little while and he’d be out, walking
the track perhaps, or seeking a Job else-
where. Uppermost in his mind was the
mortgage over his land, the warning of
his bank manager, “Don’t be a fool, Mac;
this is sheep-country, not wheat. We’ll
lend you all the money you want to buy
more land and sheep.”
He had been headstrong about it all;
gone against the warning, for he believed
in hfmself. He had, too, involved himself
with, the bank more than he cared to
admit, and his days were numbered when
he must go before the bank manager with
his admission of failure. The manager
might not laugh in his face, but his
manner would insinuate that the young
man had been warned.
* It seemed, though, that fortune smiled
on McGrogan and his share-cocky, for
just before the stripping the black oats
burst and fell to the ground. The two
men faced life afresh. They had made a
mistake in buying that cheap seed wheat
and they admitted it, but they kept the
secret to themselves. As soon as it was
possible after that stripping they razed
the stubble with fire, put the ploughs in
and turned the sod deep. They would
have liked to spell that paddock, cast
it out all together, but they dared not.
The bank demanded its pound of flesh
at the end of each season and would
not be satisfied with a bone for long.
Besides, they reasoned, ploughing the
black oats deep would rot the seed.
The second crop was fairly clean, but
the third and fourth saw the black oats
gradually beating them. But the time
they had gained in those four years gave
them another one hundred and sixty
acres for the plough, so that in the fifth
year they selected their seed wheat with
care and laid the first one hundred and
fifty acres fallbw, and when the self-sown
wheat and black oats came through
McGrogan turned his sheep on to the
paddock. He was accumulating sheep
also now, finding them as profitable as
wheat, less expensive to handle and more
to the liking of his bank manager.
For two seasons they struggled along
without that first one hundred and fifty
acres. They fought the oats with every-
thing they knew. They disced the land,
cross-harrowed it with the heavy harrows,
breaking up the clods, and turned the
sheep in and kept them there when the
ground was as barren and loose as dirt
in a gravel pit. For weeks on end the
sheep wove backwards and forwards
across that torn-up land, their feet gradu-
ally cutting the soil down to a powder
that flew in the merest breeze.
They kept those sheep there longer
than they should have, so that their hun-
ger sent them after the roots even. Hun-
ger and the flying summer dust drove
the sheep to shelter in a shallow gully
along the fence that separated them from
the wheat in the new paddock ; and when
the more desperate got through the wires,
others quickly followed. They were there
in the new wheat some days before
McGrogan discovered them. He mustered
them off quickly, but the damage was
already done. Over a wide area the
sheep’s droppings lay impregnated with
the black-oat seed waiting the coming
of the plough to turn it into the ground.
The summer of that season was dry.
The winds played havoc with the dust
on that one hundred and fifty acres of
fallow, and in the New Year there were
torrential rains, which washed the re-
maining dust into the channels and
gullies, leaving the topsoil as pebbles
and clay.
Still.it was good rain, and it repeated
itself at the right time. It was what
McGrogan and his share-farmer had
prayed for ; they put every available acre
under wheat.
With three hundred-odd acres under
wheat they congratulated themselves. But
the reward was not what they had aimed
for. The crop on that first one hundred
and fifty acres was poor, the soil worn
out from the flogging it had received.
The black oats were beaten there, but
in the other paddock where the sheep
had broken through the fence they were
as thick as the wheat itself.
It was that year after the harvest that
McGrogan took a reckoning with his
property and accounts. He was square
with the bank at last, square as far as
his wheatgrowjng venture was concerned,
and it was in him strongly to continue.
He’d pioneered wheat in his district;
he was set to reap the benefits. But he
looked at his land and saw the long road
of his future mingled with it. His second-
crop land was riddled with black oats,
and he knew from bitter experience that,
treated like the first paddock, the whole
of his wheat land would be ruined in a
few years. He • turned easily to sheep,
expanding the boundaries of his land with
ease, for the bank believed in sheep.
The share-farmer packed his gear,
moved further west, leaving as a monu-
ment to his stay a couple of worn-out
ploughs in a tumbling shed, a broken-
down harvester under a tree on the hill,
a number of horse-pads wandering up
from the dam to converge on the slip-
rails to the horseyard, pads that time
would never completely eliminate, though
the winds drove scurries of dust into
them and the sheep in their foraging
brushed in little twigs so that the rain,
washing down, accumulated the dust and
the dirt against the sticks and the earth
began to heal again and show up brave
new shoots of grass.
It was in that year, too, after the heavy
summer rain, that the second track down
the hill was made, the head of the gully
having enveloped the old track. The rain
flooded swiftly and fiercely down the
gully, rushed into the cracks opened by
the summer heat, split the sod by its
weight and washed the mud for miles
downstream. With it went portion of
the track; with it too went black-oat
seeds to germinate wherever the flood
deposited them, to grow a few stalks at
first, to burst, dropping the seed to the
ground, so that in the next year a bigger
patch would grow there;
I N later years that old cultivation be-
I came a thorn in McGrogan’s side. In
comparison with the rest of his acres it
cost him more to keep it free of noxious
weeds than it was worth.
Three or four seasons after the plough
had gone the black oats died out, but
their place was taken by the Bathurst
burr, the saffron and star thistle, and
these had a deadly hold before
McGrogan saw the menace. He did his
best with them. Around about Christmas-
time he’d put on men with hoes to cut
them down. And yet they thrived, each
year more healthy and widespread, creep-
ing into his other paddocks where wheat
had never been sown. He imagined at
first that they grew again from the stalk
below where the hoe chopped, but he
found instead that the cut stalk withered
on the ground, that the pod burst and
spilled its seed, so that the wind could
blow it about and the sheep pick it up
in their wool and carry it to other parts
of his property. To beat it he began to
cut earlier, saw to it
that the men bagged
the cuttings and
burned them in some
old log or stump.
He was sure that in the end he would
beat the weed.
Sometimes on his way to town he'd
give that gully a thought, but thinking of
it was as far as ever he went. Year by
year it ate its way slowly into the heart
of the cultivation paddock, where only
weeds and lank, weak grass grew. From
time to time a new track developed on
the hillside where traffic aimed out to get
round the head of the gully slowly eating
its way westward.
S. H. PRIOR PRIZE
For reasons already stated, there
will be no competition inviting sub-
mission of MSS. for the duration of
the war at least.
The Prize this year (£100) will
be awarded to the author or authors
of the book by an Australian writer
which the trustees consider the most
valuable contribution to Australian
literature published in Australia be-
tween June 6, 1942, and June 6,
1943. ("Australia” and “Austra-
lian” for the purposes of this award
include New Zealand.)
No work that has already won a
monetary prize will be eligible.
Various Verse
Five Moments.
(1)
Look in the crystal, child: life’s curdled fire
Moves in the inmost dimness, gyre on gyre—
Not yet Time gives to loveliness a name;
Stars and white roses bum the one sweet flame.
No endings—all’s beginnings! Laughter, strife:
Unsnarled, blind-eyed, the kitten laps at life;
A small spoon hammers on a wooden chair ;
Gold, young fire-tendrils twine in tawny hair.
(2)
Look in the crystal, lover: “Love goes by,”
The grey ones chuckle, but we know they lie,
Since years may prove inconstant, but not we!
Till the glass breaks, and sets our shadows free.
We are two prisoners in a pictured clime,
A faded fresco on the walls of Time,
Where the green shadow of painted forests, furled
With cords of silence, shuts us from the world.
(3)
Look in the crystal, friend: obscure and cold,
The road winds down to darkness; we’ve
grown old
In travelling it together, you and I.
What’s left now but to march on till we die?
Sometime, somewhere, the worst must turn to
best... ... .
There must be campfires burning in the west!
Somewhere the road must bend, and show them
clear
—Lanterns of courage in a land of fear.
Else what is Beauty for? And wherefore gleams
At heart the pain and loveliness of dreams,
Like spears of stars against life’s fading light.
If naught’s beyond but loneliness and night?
(4)
Look in the crystal, Death: pale dregs and lees
Swirl down and down —
Death in my skull, that sees
No beauty now, no thought, only dim pain—
And so ends blindly what began in vain.
(5)
Look in the crystal, God: what do You see.
Now Time, decayed, drops from eternity
Once more as the wheel turns. Ah, pause awhile
And comfort me with Your obscure sad smile
Ere I curve downward into Birth anew.
And, if permitted, hint, as I wait cue
To re-interpret these my meagre scenes,
If even You guess what the drama means.
S.A.
J. HOLLOWAY.
The Strawberry Cow.
“O God! Those Zeros are coming back.
They’re coming back to strafe —and I without
cover. , , , .
Perhaps if I run for it... No, that s fatal...
Think !”
Sometimes I wish,
I wish
That I might see a cow, a strawberry cow, m
a lush-green field,
Chewing her cud in a smug, calm way,
With a roan calf nuzzling hungrily
At her swelling teats, on a summer’s day.
I wish
That I might milk a cow, a strawberry cow, m
an old wood bail,
Bury my head in her fragrant flank,
While the milk in the pail spangs merrily
And I smell the cow-smell, strong and rank.
I wish
That I might drive a cow, a strawberry cow,
through the scudding rain
And watch her regally sway through mud...
The man in the grass writhes jerkily.
And his face is a dangling mask of blood.
A.I.F.
JOHN QUINN
The Clock.
MAORILAND.
Time’s hiding-place—
The grim reminder
Of cold mortality
To every creature in the room
With or without life:
To the landscape on the wall,
The pepper-grinder,
Fork and knife,
Table and chairs,
The master and his wife.
The companies of bloom
Shrined in silver and glass—
Tick, took, tick, tock,
Hear my decree,
All shall grow
Older and older
From dawn to eve.
All shall pass,
Crumble and moulder,
No hope of reprieve;
Too true, too true,
All shall fall.
All must go,
You too, you too —
Who cares, who cares?
Tick, tock, ticK tock,
The minutes creep by
While Time in his sleeve
Grins placidly,
Crouched in the clock.
ARNOLD WALL.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3263
Wednesday, August 26, 1942
“ONE FOR THE ROAD.”
"Between 25 and 30 toasts were drunk at the Stalin-Churchill banquet, the Russian drinking a full glass each time. Stalin proposed half a dozen toasts....'Don't
spend so much money on intoxicants,’ said Mr. Curtin at Brisbane. ‘Reconcile yourselves to a season of austerity.'"
“Another for Australia, comrades! Here’s to Jack Curtin and his austerity campaign!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
GAINS AND LOSSES.
In saying as he did last month that “the
next 80 days” would be “the gravest in
our history,” Mr. Oliver Lyttelton was
pretty right. Assuming the prophetic
mantle again last week, with his ear
attuned to “the symphony of the war
rising to a crescendo,” he saw “a terrible
increase in the intensity of the struggle
in the next 60 days.” With only seven
days of the 60 gone, the “terrible in-
crease” had arrived in Russia, where the
Germans were bearing down on Stalin-
grad, the Grozny oilfields and Novoros-
sisk—in the last instance threatening to
drive the Black Sea fleet from its sole
remaining port, possibly to seek a pas-
sage through the Dardanelles; a British
imperial force had made an ill-starred
descent on the French coast, and the
attack on the Solomons had been re-
vealed as an operation big with the fate
of the war in the Pacific.
In the first stage of the islands offen-
sive, concealment was necessary to pre-
vent vital information reaching the
enemy. When the position admitted of
the veil being withdrawn, it was revealed
that the enemy had in the first instance
been taken by surprise, and that “trans-
port-borne and amphibious forces from
the United States Marine Corps” had
made “several landings” on islands in
the Guadalcanal-Tulagi area, landings
which, in spite of “vigorous enemy re-
sistance” on the ground and attaots by
land-based aircraft, had been made good:
“the positions taken have been developed
and are now well established.” But on
the second night enemy cruisers and
destroyers came into action, aiming at
“our transports, cargo ships and sup-
porting forces.” They were engaged by
“our cruisers and destroyers,” and after
heavy fighting at close range they were
beaten off “before reaching the vessels
engaged in the landing operations.” But
in this night action damage was suffered
by both sides; and two days later Aus-
tralia received the sorrowful news that
H.M.A.S. Canberra had been lost, with
10 gallant seamen dead, 74 missing and
“believed killed” and 109 wounded of
its crew of 816 officers and men.
Among those who died for Australia,
and for the cause of which the Austra-
lian flag is a symbol, was the command-
ing officer. Captain Getting. Sydney was
his home and the Canberra’s home port,
and he died in the Philip Sidney spirit,
remaining on the bridge and refusing to
have his mortal wounds examined until
wounded men about him had been
attended to. * During a night of terror
all hands were true to the high traditions
of the R.A.N. Though the cruiser could
not be saved, cool resourcefulness and
fortitude on the part of Getting’s men
and their mates in succoring warships and
hospital ships preserved the makings of
another ship’s company for the period of
retributive justice. But how mournful
has been the fate of those splendid ships
and splendid men of the R.A.N., their
country’s pride! In the space of nine
months the waters have closed over the
cruisers Sydney, Perth and Canberra;
the destroyers Waterhen, Vampire and
Nestor, the sloops Yarra and Parra-
matta, and nearly 2000 of the brave.
In proportion to personnel and number
of ships, no section of His Majesty’s
naval forces has suffered more, and when
the day of victory comes none will stand
higher.
When Mr. Lyttelton spoke of the 80
days that would shape the world he must
have had Mr. Churchill’s visit to Moscow
in mind. On his roundabout journey,
the Prime Minister tarried in Egypt for
discussions with Field-Marshal Smuts
and others, including, no doubt, our own
Mr. Casey. There followed another of
those changes in generals which have so
often, in the Middle East particularly,
suggested a military version of the game
of musical chairs. The army in Egypt
has become accustomed to them. But
neither the army in Egypt nor the British
public was prepared for the removal of
General Auchinleck, who has had con-
trol of the fluctuating campaign in
North Africa since November, and who.
with Mr. Churchill’s approval or at his
instance, removed, first, General Cun-
ningham and then General Ritchie from
command of the Eighth Army after the
defeats which led to the stand on the
El Alamein line.
It is without precedent to dismiss a
commander when he has re-established a
position that was extremely bad ; with-
out precedent also to give his command
to a general who is a stranger not only
to the army he is to lead, but to the
country and to the kind of fighting that
goes on there. General Alexander, the
new incumbent, served with distinction
in France and saved the army in Burma,
but it will be a great transformation from
jungle fighting in south-east Asia to
desert fighting in North Africa. How-
ever, Mr. Churchill’s choice has. fallen
on General Alexander, and he is to have
General McCreery as Chief of the
General Staff in place of General Cor-
bett, while General Montgomery is to
command the Eighth Army in succession
to Generals Cunningham, Ritchie and
Auchinleck.
In all his speeches on North Africa
Mr. Churchill has praised General Auch-
inleck. Even in his reference (July 2) to
the “sudden” fall of Tobruk, of which
the C.-1.-C. had reported, “the night
before its capture,” that “the garrison
was adequate and the defences in good
order,” he made a point of assuring
Parliament and country that “we in the
War Cabinet and our professional
advisers thoroughly agreed with General
Auchinleck: if he was wrong, we were
wrong too, and I am very ready to take
my full share of the responsibility.” In
the general astonishment at the removal
of the General from the scene of his
stubborn defence of Alexandria and the
Canal zone, it has been suggested that
he is to be given another important com-
mand, and that he may be destined to
follow Dunsterville’s track to Baku, with
much bigger forces than Kipling’s school-
boy hero had. That, if the men and
machines can be spared, would be an in-
finitely better way of helping, Russia and
the common cause than any attempt to
repeat the Dieppe experiment on a vast
scale.
The Dieppe affair was an immediate
sequel to the Moscow discussions. That it
was an outcome of those palavers has
been denied, but the denials rest on no-
thing more substantial than a statement
that the thing was planned months ago —
which must have been the case whether
politics came into the picture or not.
Considered as a reconnaissance in force,
the venture may be said to have suc-
ceeded, though at cruel cost. Considered
as a dress rehearsal for a Second Front
campaign, it was a splendid failure.
Though the R.A.F. provided air cover
throughout, in the process giving and
taking heavy losses, and though the Navy,
as always, did its part of the job splen-
didly, “getting a large and complicated
convoy to the right spot at the right
time,” and being all there when the return
signal was given, the landing forces found
the enemy ready to meet them at all
points, probably superior in numbers and
certainly superior in fire-power. And
it is not necessary to believe half the
German story of damage and casualties
inflicted, tanks destroyed and prisoners
taken to realise that the gallant spirits
who landed and those who immediately
covered the landing had a dreadful time.
And this was an enterprise which was
prepared in every detail, and in which
the landing parties carried with them
everything they needed and worked to a
schedule. What would have happened
if twenty or thirty times the number of
soldiers had been concerned, and if sup-
plies had had to be kept' up to them over
a far greater space of sea day after day
and week after week —if they lasted that
long? It would have been mass slaughter
and a vast sacrifice of ships and crews,
with world-wide consequences of the
most unpleasant character. With ships
and ’planes enough we can make con-
quest useless to the Axis Powers. With
ground forces and equipment no greater
than the Japanese themselves have em-
ployed we can win the war in the Pacific.
But if we risk a Second Front in Europe
we risk all. Well might Mr. Spender,
who said last month that “ ‘All Aid to
Russia’ must be our battle cry,” now de-
nounce a Second Front in Europe as
madness.
Home-front Humbug.
If newspapers—Sydney newspapers par-
ticularly—were anything to go on, the
Australian home front would have to be
written off as hopeless.
Their fantastic representation of the
home front is largely a result of a quite
irresponsible practice of* presenting the
reading public with a sensation a day
at any cost —or, at least, at the cost of
tuppence. The working of it is that the
particular is loosely translated into the
general, and the result is a distorted pic-
ture of the Australian scene.
Take the recent squabble over the cen-
sorship. What was.it but an attempt, in
one aspect, to assert that Mr. Hughes
is above censorship, and, in another
aspect, to bring about a loosening up of
censorship restrictions? In both aspects
it was from the beginning wide open to
criticism. The censorship being a war-
time necessity, nobody can be held to be
above it. In the Hughes squabble there
has been a hairsplitting to fine down the
censorship’s functions to the single one
of preventing information of value to
him from reaching the enemy. That
popular conception of all the functions
of censorship is very wide of the mark.
Actually, those functions can be covered
in a phrase —national security. But this
ranges over a far wider field than the
suppression of information that might
be of use to the enemy. It is much mors
complex. It involves consideration of
the whole employment of propaganda,
including possible effects.
As the censorship squabble, with Mr.
Hughes posed as the victim of political
suppression and the staunch old cham-
pion of liberties, was sensationally belted
up, the very serious disservice to national
security in the Hughes statement from
which the squabble started was con-
veniently allowed to drop from sight.
This was Mr. Hughes’s grossly unfair
attack on “our military leaders.” Those
knowing Mr. Hughes—and none know
him better than the very newspapers that
sought to represent his case as a political
sensation —could well have dismissed that
attack as palpably ill-informed and typi-
cally irresponsible. It was an attack on
General MacArthur, as well as General
Blarney. As such, it could conceivably
have been decidedly harmful. It would
be a sorry thing for Australia if Ameri-
cans got the impression that in this Mr.
Hughes spoke for Australia; that the
leader who has their whole confidence
has so little here that the Hughes state-
ment contained it all.
Newspapers which belted the Hughes
business up into a fictitious sensation
should have been well aware, in the first
place, that Mr, Hughes’s attack was, out-
side its characteristic irresponsibleness,
merely another example of political inter-
ference in military matters. On one
ground or the other it should have been
valued at its real worth, and treated
accordingly. The same goes for the bulk
of those other home-front doings that are
belted up into newspaper sensations from
day to day—and dropped as readily when
something that looks like the makings of
a better “stunt” appears ; time and again
screaming sensations of today by
tomorrow have vanished into thin air.
Odd features of this traffic are wide dif-
ferences in the sense of values displayed
—newspapers in other States practically
ignored the Hughes stunting that bulked
so big in Sydney—and a curious assump-
tion that the public wants to believe the
very worst possible about itself.
As a result of that assumption wow-
serism is getting almost as much space in
newspapers as the war. Consequently it
becomes more and more rampant, arro-
gant and insulting. The public at large
is represented as wallowing in an orgy of
drunkenness and harlotry. Not a day
passes without some particular example
being sensationally set forth as if it had
a general application. If “girls under 18”
happen to figure in the example—actual
or merely say so —so much the juicier.
Men in uniform add a special spice, since
it is still true that
For it’s Tommy this an’ Tommy that an’
“Chuck ’im out, the brute!”
But it’s “Saviour of ’is country” when the
guns begin to shoot.
One paper specialises in what it has
described in large scare headlining as
“Rampant Food Hoarding by House-
holders.” Beneath that it was related
that “one suburban grocer” had told of
“several” of his customers having “con-
fided” in him that they had “garages and
spare rooms literally packed with food
lines.” Said another: “As soon as they
read the Government announcement,
everyone started buying a few pounds of
rice. They bought it Qven if they didn’t
like it.” The rice orgy was said to have
taken place subsequent to Mr, Curtin’s
warning of a possible shortage. A letter
published obscurely in one newspaper
threw further light on it:
Where did the excessive buying of rice
take place about which we have heard so
much? I am a big buyer of groceries, and
buy from about 20 stores, and on the date
that the great rush was supposed to have
taken place I called at several stores, and
not one of them had any rice. Some of
them said they had ordered it, but had
not received any.
The truth about the “Rampant Food
Hoarding” probably is that the great
majority of Australian housewives have
had the good sense to spend some money
on stocking up with some food reserves.
The bulk of the other insulting charges
against Australian people at large would
seem to be just as worthless.
In the cities, as elsewhere, the great
majority of Australian people go about
their affairs as normally as war-time con-
ditions and unavoidable restrictions per-
mit. They are thus to be seen—in the
very great majority—as clean and decent
as anyone could desire. They take the
wowser and other insults unwarrantably
hurled at them as quietly as “our mili-
tary leaders” took Mr. Hughes’s equally
unwarrantable charges—knowing all these
tor what they are really worth. They
are not greatly excited—though per-
haps lightly amused—by the thunder of
the gods, as represented by the noises off
of the sensation-making newspapers
prompting the leading actor of “Blither-
ing Blazes.”
Despite all the representations of such
as these and the whole screaming tribe of
wowsers, they—that is, the great bulk of
Australians at large—are deeply inter-
ested in the only too real thunder of the
war that has approached nearer and
nearer to them. There are examples to
the contrary; but these are particular
instances, nothing like representative. A
better picture of Australians at large than
can be found in the welter of home-
front humbug can be had by anybody
looking on the people in general. They
bear little resemblance to the gross cari-
cature of them paraded in a press that
welcomes wowser and political tumblers
alike, provided a sensational act can be
guaranteed.
War-time Elections.
The great Republic over the water is to
have its Congressional elections in
November. War or no war, the 435
Representatives and 32 of the 96 Sena-
tors have to face the music of the polls
every second year.
For ten years, as well as electing Mr.
Roosevelt for three terms with command-
ing majorities of electoral and popular
votes, the Democrats havedominated Con-
gress. There were 59 Democratic Senators
and 313 Representatives in 1932, 69 and
322 in 1934, 75 and 333 in 1936, 69 and
262 in 1938, 66 and 267 in 1940. Though
the number of Republican Senators grew
from 17 to 28 in four years—in the same
period there have been a few Indepen-
dents in both Houses —it is altogether im-
probable that their party can win suffi-
cient of the 32 vacancies to end the long
Democratic predominance in the Cham-
ber which has so great a say in foreign
policy, but it seems to entertain hopes of
getting majorities in the House.
Two years ago the Republicans
appealed to the people on an- anti-war
platform. “The Republican party,” the
platform said, “is firmly opposed to in-
volving this nation in foreign war,”
and dissociated itself from “explosive
utterances by the President, directed at
other Governments which serve to imperil
our peace,” when, “by the President’s ad-
mission, we are still wholly unprepared
to defend our country in a war that
threatens to engulf the whole world.”
These words and others of the kind
should furnish good campaign material
for the Democrats.
On the other hand, the Republicans
will be able to counter with pieces of
the Democratic platform, particularly a
claim (“our defence forces are today at
the peak of their peace-time effective-
ness”) and a pledge (“We will not partici-
pate in foreign wars, and we will not
send our army, naval or air forces to
fight in foreign lands outside of the
Americas, except in case of attack”).
They will make what they can of the
fact that the defence forces were declared
to be “at the peak of their peace-time
effectiveness” 17 months before Pearl
Harbor, and they will exploit other
features of the Government’s perform-
ance with which there is considerable
popular dissatisfaction, as well as the
New York Democrats’ rejection of the
President’s nominee for State Governor.
An Administration successful in war
has nothing to fear from its opponents.
If the tide of victory is flowing strongly
in November, the Republicans can ex-
pect nothing more than the gain of a few
seats. Meanwhile some Republican
electors seem to be rallying to former
isolationists, notably Mr. Hamilton Fish,
member for the Garrison division of New
York. Though the influence of Mr. Wen-
dell Willkie was thrown against him, Mr.
Fish gained one of the most resounding
victories recorded in the primaries so far
held. This may mean nothing more than
an expression of personal and local sym-
pathy with a veteran member against
whom a dead set was made, not only by
Mr. Willkie and his supporters, whose
record is good, but by Communists and
“fellow-travellers,” whose record is rotten.
However elections may go, neither of the
great American parties will “falter or
fail” in the task to which their country
is devoting all its strength.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Uncle Sam's Silence.
In a hotly-criticised speech in Brisbane,
made when he had only too much cause
for worry and some cause for resent-
ment, Mr, Curtin came out with an
amazing statement:
I am more than ever convinced that the
Japanese had some knowledge of the Solo-
mons attacks. There were men yelling for
offensives when they knew they were being
undertaken.
It is a common trick of stunt news-
papers to get wind of something that has
been decided on, and at once begin
screaming in favor of it. What had been
decided on before ever the newspaper
stunting started is duly put into effect,
and with a good many people the news-
paper gets a certain amount of kudos
for having thought up the idea and bar-
racked for it.
There were circumstantial reasons for
believing that this same sort of stunting
had been taken over by politicians before
the Prime Minister made his accusation.
It was open to question in the linking-up
of the two sentences quoted. A fair
inference was that the yelling for offen-
sives and the imparting of information
were related. There appears to be no
ground for this in anything that has come
out. On the contrary, the first detailed
American account of the attacks in the
Solomons insists that they were “a com-
plete surprise to the enemy.”
The sentence on “yelling for offen-
sives,” taken alone, is another matter.
There certainly was such yelling, and it
was given enlarging publicity. It, with
the whole of the pother about it, con-
trasts strangely with the sensible reticence
of Uncle Sam over the Solomons.
Despite the naturally great interest in
the Solomons doings, Uncle Sam showed
that he was letting nothing out till it
suited him. In that he was showing a
proper appreciation of the only thing
that matters in armed operations —the
special interest of those taking an actual
part, with their lives at stake.
May Uncle Sam continue to hold that
interest paramount —high above the satis-
fying of civilian curiosity or the placat-
ing of newspaper or political stunters!
Wardism Again.
Mr. Arthur Blakeley has been an
A.W.U. official for 13 years, a Labor
M.H.R. for 17 years and an arbitration
inspector or something since. An excel-
lent training for a trade-union position,
but not a business training; indeed, Mr.
Blakeley knows no more about business
than Mr. Dedman, of Mother’s Day
celebrity. And Mr. Blakeley’s report on
the case of Rice v. the Commonwealth
Aircraft Corporation suggests that he has
no particular capacity for weighing evi-
dence and dispensing judgment of a kind
calculated to assist the wheels of war
industry to run smoothly.
Rice is the Red machine hand who,
with the union, Security, Man-power and
Mr. Ward active in the matter of
his job, was “off again, on again, gone
again” like Finnegan’s truck. After a
very long inquiry in which, as they say,
the Bar was “strongly represented,” Mr.
Blakeley found that Rice was irrespon-
sible, interfering and inattentive to his
important work. He should have been
more punctual; he could have increased
his production and as employee and
shop steward set an example. , He was
also charged with “conducting meetings”
at the factory and “absenting himself
without permission,” but this “did not
constitute serious misconduct” in the view
of an investigator who has had a trade
union but not a business training.'
As for “a letter from Security stating
that Rice was the subject of a record at
the Fingerprint Branch, his last convic-
tion being in 1938, and that he was not
considered suitable for continued em-
ployment in an organisation responsible
for the execution of vital defence work,”
Mr. Blakeley did not agree. Anyway, he
ordered Rice’s reinstatement on two
months’ probation, offering to hold an-
other inquiry, if requested, after the pro-
bationary period had expired.
Mr. Blakeley reported that there was
“a real apprehension among unions as
to intervention by Security into matters
which were being or might be dealt with
by Man-power.” He protested that it
was not his function “to lay down lines
of demarcation,” but there was a danger
of departments overlapping in industrial
matters.” This danger exists; in tact,
it is one of the plagues of running busi-
nesses in Australia ; but then Mr. Blake
ley has not had this experience. Mr.
Blakeley’s statement may be interpreted
to mean, if it means anything, that union
“apprehensions” are the all-in-all in these
matters, and that, whatever the circum-
stances, Security must not come between
Mr. Ward and the exercise of his great
powers as Minister of Labor.
Evidently taking the decision to mean
that Rice would be at liberty to perform
as he pleased for two months, whatever
the results to factory discipline and out-
put, the C.A.C. refused to reinstate him.
It said it had a right of appeal and would
exercise it. At the end of a fateful week
which saw the return to Australia of sur-
viving officers and men of the lost
Canberra, which had no strike on its
magnificent record, Rice’s union was
threatening a strike. It would be a very
ugly development of Wardism.
A Refuge for the Rowdy.
The Tasmanian Government has received
an application for a lease of an islet oft
the north-east corner of the State. The
applicant wants it for grazing, but has
been told that it is a mutton-bird rookery.
It is also a snake rookery, 1000 tiger-
snakes having been killed in two years.
The applicant said he had the mutton-
birds in mind. The snakes lived mostly
on the young birds, and if the land were
burned off and grazed Pacific gulls would
get amongst the snakes and kill off large
numbers. The Minister doesn’t favor the
application because the mutton-bird
income is valuable to Tasmanians, who
have somehow induced their own and
Melbourne people to eat the things, and
the flocks are becoming fewer.
A patriotic solution would be to offer
the island to the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, which could open it up as a
sort of Pacific Paradise for ancient and
garrulous politicians, newspaper and
radio squawkers and other noisy birds.
It is already fittingly named Babel Island.
Mr. Hartiqan's Plan.
N S.W, Railways Commissioner Hartigan
has a plan for the “overhaul, repainting
and remodelling of existing rolling stock,
and for “a public relations campaign to
advertise railway travel.” Mr. Hartigan
isn’t afraid of air transport because
“inter-State passenger business before tne
war was only 2 p.c. or 3 p.c. of ordinaly
passenger travel.”
There is more to be afraid of than air
transport.
If Mr. Hartigan imagines that Austra-
lians to whom time is money will be con-
tent to travel over their vast country after
the war in trains that are too often slow
and uncomfortable, he has another think
coming. ,The country will be equipped
with aeroplane factories, with aeroplane
pilots and ground staffs in their thousands,
and with aerodromes that are multiplying
almost daily. Nobody with business to
transact will waste hours on train jour-
neys that ’planes will cover in minutes. As
for air transport of goods, nobody need
be a seer to visualise the next 20 years.
Apart from all that, motor transport
will leave railways far behind. Australia,
with its vast distances, isn’t going to put
up with transport strangulation policies
after the war merely to keep moribund
railways running and vast numbers of
men running them who would be better
employed at other work. Nothing is
more certain than that the cost of the
private motor-car will be brought within
reach of the wage-earner, just as it had
been in America before the war. And the
war is giving Australia good motor roads
in all directions. .
The best thing Mr. Hartigan can do is
cast round for some way to get in on
the ground floor of the tremendous for-
ward leap in land and air transport that
will follow the end of the war. One
thing he and his fellow-Railways Com-
missioners can be sure of is that
Australia, having once been caught with
its painful railways, their breaks of gauge
and, peculiar habits, will have no more
of State attempts to hamper natural
transport development by Government
regulation. In no long time there will be no
State Governments to regulate anything.
ANOTHER COMMANDO RAID.
"Mr. Curtin's Challenge. Mr. Fadden and Mr. Menzies Make Hot Rejoinder. Mr. Spender Amazed. Mr. Makin Threatens an Election."-From the Headline News.


£
UhT
£
fig
09
/p®
fc<T.V
Sg!© 3
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a IB AMD A OSS * 00- LML BIBMIMU HA M. E«U
DANIEL
CRAWFORDS
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
I SUBS
WtfiK M£N AND WOMCN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
1131 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
821
suim
O/NOl
<2N*7O
POLITICAL POINTS
“To us there are no more parties. Mr.
Curtin is Australia’s leader; Australia
could not choose a better... .There are
no rights worth a damn until we have
beaten the Japanese.” That was “S. M.
Herald,” breaking with all its traditions,
five months ago. Last week the old
paper’s managing director, saying he was
“astonished at Mr. Curtin,” whirled him-
self off a Press Advisory Committee on
the ground that Curtin was supporting a
censorship that was “rankly political,”
and some testy comments of the P.M. he
described as “utter nonsense; I am
dumbfounded that they should have been
made.” So another alliance goes west.
And the Union Club’s Oldest Member is
himself again.
As .was the case when Beaverbrook
and party visited Moscow, Stalin spread
a “gala banquet” before Churchill and
party, and there were 26 toasts, six of
which the host proposed himself. All
accounts agree that he was in extraordi-
nary spirits. Possibly a belated Australian
mail had come in with one of those
Christmas cards which were struck off in
Sydney by the outfit to which Bishop
Burgmann, Mrs. Jessie Street, Miller, of
the Rugby League, Rupe Lockwood and
a bloc of Federated Ironworkers belong
and charged up to Aid Russia. Sandwiched
between the words “Xmas, 1941,” and
“Socialist Greetings,” there is a cut of
Stalin, followed by a printed assurance,
attributed to the Dean of Canterbury,
that “Dawn breaks over the East.”
A Sydney newspaperman sees “interest-
ing possibilities in the fact that recent
public attacks on three of the most im-
portant Australian office-holders have
brought from Mr. Curtin a warm defence
of each of the functionaries attacked” —
Blarney, Professor Copland and Bonney,
the Chief Censor. Well, why shouldn't
Curtin defend them? It is not merely a
matter of chivalry but a matter of duty.
One of the attacks on Blarney—it appeared
in a Sunday paper—got right down to
the gutter. All originated in Sydney and
have been directed against men identified
with Melbourne. That goes also for the
attacks on Knox, of the “Argus,” and
the Army Public Relations Committee.
Billy in his most blithering mood:
No doubt the public will have noticed
the very recent activity of the Australian
forces around Kokoda. This may be fairly
ascribed to the criticism there has been of
the failure to prevent the Japanese from
establishing themselves at Guna and Bona
and attempting to set up a base at
Kokoda.
6n the map they are Buna and Gona,
which shows how small is Billy’s know-
ledge of the territory which he ruled for
so long and of military points on which
he professes to speak with authority. If
ir wete true that military movements
were dictated by the clamor of Billy and
his newspaper pals, it would be a bad
lookout for Australia. But it is not true,
and, while MacArthur and Blarney are
in control, it never will be true.
Curtin, Hughes, Fadden, Menzies,
Spender, Makin and a lot of editors,
leader-writers and specials have been con-
cerned in one of those furious arguments
which sicken the soul of a nation en-
gaged in war. It began over the censor-
ing of Billy, and raged over other sub-
jects in several States, being marked in
its noisiest stage by threats of and chal-
lenges to an election this year. No Aus-
tralian out of Callan Park wants an elec-
tion this year. Every Australian expects
Government and Opposition to stop
brawling and get on with the job of sav-
ing this country.
Brazil is at war with Germany and
Italy, though not with Japan or any of
the “satellites.” Cause, as in 1917, U-boat
destruction of Brazilian ships, crews and
passengers. It couldn’t possibly profit
the Hun to have so productive a country
among his enemies, but there is a streak
of stupidity, as well as cruelty, in his
composition.
Dr. Evatt, who wasn’t in Australia
when the sixteen N.S.W. Australia-Firsters
were interned, with wildly inappropriate
remarks by Army Minister Forde, Hughes
and Sydney newspapers, has ordered the
release of five and broadly hinted that
others would have been set free if they
hadn’t “refused- to go on with their
appeals unless guaranteed a public hear-
ing.” Pointing out that National Security
regulations prohibit public hearings, the
Attorney-General virtually invited appeals
in all cases save two —in these, release
was not recommended. And “when all
applications for appeals are finally dis-
posed of,” he proposes to place before
Parliament “as full an account of the
facts and proceedings as is consistent
with national security.” There spoke a
man with a judicial mind and a right con-
ception of what is due to the individual
and the country. It is a pity he wasn’t
in control of the cases from the begin-
ning.
Billy-Who-Musn’t-Be-Censored, bellow-
ing in the House on March 27:
The real purpose of the Australia First
movement is to prepare the way for the
coming of the Japanese So these people
“It is suggested that Mr. Churchill should make his next visit to Gandhi. The King of
Egypt presented the P.M. with a cigar 11.8 inches long.”
“Have a cigar!”
stand convicted. Their general purpose
is revealed. They sent their spies and
shock troops into Western Australia and
they were arrested.
Dr. Evatt on the same subject, August
24:,
It seems certain that there was no guilty
association between members of the [Aus-
tralia First] movement in New South Wales
and the group of the same name in Western
Australia, four members of which were
tried and two convicted.
Which suggests that Billy-Who-Musn’t-
Be-Censored will have a hot time when
the House meets.
Every day you can read in the papers
that the Germans are making “desperate”
attempts to do this and that, or that their
proceedings are “feverish,” “frantic,”
“frenzied.” It is a sad misuse of adje?-
tives. The enemy is most dangerous
when he is methodical, as in the organisa-
tion of supplies. When he reaches the
stage of being “desperate,” “feverish,”
“frantic,” “frenzied,” he will really be in
a bad way.
With Congressional elections coming
on, it was horribly indiscreet of Mr.
Harriman, the President’s representative
at Moscow, to say that his chief would
“agree to all the decisions” artived at by
Churchill and Stalin. Whether he had
White House authority for the assurance
or not, it was as good as a gift of a
million votes to the Republicans.
There having been a shortage of
domestic gas in Melbourne, Victoria’s
State “Parliament” is considering a Gas
Bill. The gas bill the people of Aus-
tralia have to foot for their six State
“Parliaments” runs into seven figures.
Now that States are clearly doomed,
N.S.W. State Ministers have deveioped
a passion for bringing things under “Min-
isterial control.” Pastures Protection
Boards are the latest. They are elected
by landholders, and the travelling-stock
reserves which they control have been
established, fenced and watered through-
out the State with ratepayers’ money.
Big-City Governments have always
listened eagerly to proposals for getting
control of country affairs away from
country men, but that sort of thing is
particularly imprudent when they are on
their last legs.
Earle Page, spilling some oil on
troubled waters:
This is no time for Australians to fight
amongst themselves the danger is still
very great and very close I can tell
Australia (after active membership of the
British War Cabinet for six months) that
the war picture is still sombre and fraught
with great dangers.
It sounded like a voice from the heart
of things crying above the uproar among
politicians and newspapers, and it ex-
plains why Curtin is anxious to get the
doctor on the War Advisory Council.
“Wheat! Wheat!” Wilson says he will
vote for the Government if it becomes
necessary when Parliament meets. Badly,
the N.S.W. Deputy-Premier, wants an
election “as soon as the war position
allows.” Whose fight is this?
Dunstan made his umpteenth attack
on profiteering last week, this time with
regard to foodstuffs. Leg. Assemblymen
stood it stoically, but some of them
groaned when Zwar, the Heidelberg boot-
maker, pointed out the cost of adminis-
tering “sustenance” in 1941-42 was
£10,249, £7OO per person receiving relief.
There are 14 officers on the job.
Commerce Minister Scully, announcing
increased prices for mutton and lamb
under Government contracts, issued hints
of compulsion if sheep-raisers didn’t
deliver the goods. Compulsion seems to
have suddenly become a grand idea
among Labor politicians; but whether it
can be used on ewes is another matter.
Ewes are ladies with decided opinions
of their own.
Another Victorian legislator got off a
neat one during the interminable debate
on the liquor question. While members
were passionately discussing the pros and
cons, Mullens (Lab., Footscray) suggested
that the Parliament House bar should
be closed between 10.30 a.m. and 2.30
p.m. The ensuing silence could have
been cut with a corkscrew.
A so-called safety strike in the Pelton
(N.S.W.) pit led to four miners and the
bosses being prosecuted under the new
peace code. The charges against the bosses
were dismissed, but the four miners were
convicted and fined £5. A dreadful facer
for Mr. Badly, the Minister of Mines,
who tried to intervene on the score of
his department’s safety regulations being
involved, and for the Miners’ Federation
heads, who growled fiercely. In the previ-
ous week they had boasted that “for once’
all the miners worked on a particular day
and demanded that the newspapers con-
spire to praise “these men.” As this
would have been equivalent to praising
soldiers for not mutinying in the face of
the enemy, the demand was ignored.
Back from his travels with good Aus-
tralian views about the relative import-
ance of fronts (“a western front in
Europe must be a hazardous undertak-
ing ; an eastern front against Japan is a
cornerstone of victory”), Earle Page
brought encouraging information about
Australia’s place in America’s plans.
American aid will come to our assistance
in increasing volume,... .As the war pro-
ceeds it will become a mighty flood.
And there is no reason to fear that the
promised assistance will fade into hot air.
as did that guaranteed by Forde, in
much the same aqueous imagery, to the
doomed men in Singapore.
It will go as a stream which will
swell to a flood and a flood which will grow
to an overwhelming torrent.
It says nothing for the members at Can-
berra that this assurance of an impulsive
amateur, given a few days before the
greatest' disaster that Australia and the
Empire have ever suffered, has not been
the subject of even a mild question.
Anyone reading the beer-to-beer
description of the moves to tighten up
the liquor trade cannot but be struck by
the concentration on girls under 21. It’s
sufficient to lead anybody to believe that
most of the boozing in pub lounges has
been done by flappers, whereas most
flappers prefer to spoon strawberry ices
or chocolate malteds into their little
selves. Still, since the flapper hasn’t a
vote, she offers as good a section as any
upon which to shunt the blame. The
worker with a taste for beer can depend
on it that Labor politicians will fight to
the end for his right to struggle in a
seething crowd and drink like a hog at
a trough.
N.S.W. figures for the year to March
3, 1942, showed that the total number of
men employed permanently as owners,
share-farmers or paid workers on farms
dropped by’16,241, about a third of them
being from coastal and tableland dairy
country. Females on the land increased
by 11,279. It won’t be hard to get
women off the land. It will be hard to
get men back on it who have tasted the
sweets of work in the cities and towns on
fixed short hours and high wages.
Great things are being done for and
in Australia by men whose names never
appear in the papers. Minister Ashley
mentioned the case of a Ma State
camp for Italian prisoners of war and
Japanese internees, but he didn’t tell the
whole remarkable story. The man chiefly
responsible is a lieut.-colonel from Syd-
ney. With Digger-settlers on his staff and
local farmers assisting, he has converted
1100 acres of aridity not only into a
model prison camp, with good housing
and sanitation, but into a flourishing
mixed farm which, on a capital expen-
diture of £25,000 or so, is expected to yield
a profit of £70,000 this year—though,
of course, it won’t be always like that.
The produce includes mountains of vege-
tables, and cotton and tobacco are grown
in a district thought to be unsuitable for
both. And it has all been planned as the
nucleus of a closer-settlement scheme for
service men.


m
KEEPS HER FIT
A clear skin and bright, sparkling eyes .
are signs of radiant health. If YOU
suffer from constipation take one or two
NYAL FIGSEN TABLETS before
retiring; no nausea, no griping pain.
In the morning the action of Figsen is
mild, gentle, sure. NYAL FIGSEN
helps to restore a normal bowel action
without forming a habit. Equally good
for young and old. Figsen is one of the
168 dependable NYAL FAMILY)
MEDICINES, Sold by chemists every-
where. 1 / 3 a tin.
The next lest thing to Nature . ~
NyalFigsen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
MACMILLAN BOOKS
DRAGON SEED
By Pearl S. Buck
The spirit of China at war is symbolised in
this novel. It has the Quality and spirit of
“The Good Earth,” and is the story of a
people strong in their determination to carry
on the %ht to the end. The scene is in the
region of Nanking, and the book deals entirely
with Chinese characters in the period just
before and after the Japanese invasion.
Price 11/6; posted 13/-*
WAKEFIELD’S COURSE
By Mazo de la Roche
A new novel in the famous “Whiteoaks” series.
The time of the story is the present, and
several of the brothers are in the war.
Price 11/6; posted 13/-.
BIRD OF THE WILDERNESS
By Vincent SKeean
The scene is laid in a small American town
just before the United States entered the first
World War. The story is particularly
memorable for its portrayal of the widening
and deepening experience of a boy’s growth to
manhood. Price 10/6; posted 11/-.
RANDOM HARVEST
By James Hilton
The author of “Lost Horizon” and “Mr. Chips”
at his best. (Third printing of Australian
edition.) Price 8/6; posted 9/-.
These books may be obtained from booksellers;
wholesale only from
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON, W.C.3.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lieut.-Gen. Bernard L. Montgomery,
newly-appointed C.O. Bth Div. in Egypt,
rightly said he felt qualified to wear an
Aussie hat, “as he had spent some years
in Tasmania.” One of four sons of the
late Bishop Montgomery, he came to the
Apple Isle as a youngster in the ’nineties.
After some schooling in Tassie, he went
back to England when he was about 13;
he was then a tall, energetic youngster,
very keen on athletics. His bishop father
had always a strong itch to see places,
and, instead of staying put in his diocese,
took trips round the South Pacific islands
and also to the then next to inaccessible
islands of Bass Strait, Dean Farrar, the
author of Eric, or Little by Little, was a
grandfather of the General.
Bernard Thomas Heinze, Ormond
Professor at Melbourne Uni. and one of
the most active musicians Australia has
ever had, is likely to see war-time con-
ditions realise one of his pet projects—
BERNARD HEINZE.
an outdoor theatre on the lines of the
Hollywood Bowl. His first attempt was
at the Botanic Gardens, but that had
more the acoustic properties of a plate.
Now, the Tennis Assoc. Stadium at Koo-
yong being vacant, the prof, proposes
holding Saturday-afternoon symphonic
concerts there, commencing in November.
The tennis stadium, an almost perfect
bowl, holds 12,000 people, four times the
capacity of Melbourne Town Hall. The
Tramways Board promises to keep its
conductors off the bellpush, and proceeds
will be in aid of Red Cross and Com-
forts. Kooyong has its “Scotchman’s
Hill,” like Flemington; but nobody
ought to object to eavesdroppers to good
music. Heinze was born at Shepparton
(Vic.) and educated at St. Patrick’s, Bal-
larat. A scholarship took him to Europe
to complete his musical apprenticeship,
which was interrupted by five years’ ser-
vice with the Royal Artillery in the Great
War.
It is a sign of the most belligerent
epoch in human history that the “adviser”
to the Chinese Government should be
“One-Arm” Sutton, reported captured
after the fall of Hong Kong. Sutton lost
his right hand at Gallipoli, serving in the
Royal Engineers. Then he turned up in
China, where he supplied munitions to
Chang Tso-lin, the Manchurian war lord
who was fighting Japanese penetration.
In 1938 he played a similar part in help-
ing Chiang Kai-shek against Communists
on the one hand and Japanese on the
other. A recent photo, shows him seated
alongside an outsize in bombs, a symbol
that would have appeared somewhat out
of place in the portraits of China’s pre-
vious white advisers. Sir Robert Hart
would have preferred the telegraphs and
posts as a symbol of Western civilisation
and the Australian “Chinese” Morrison
would probably have plumped for a pic-
ture or the philosophic works of Lao-tzse.
Getting, of the Canberra:
Admiral Evans once told J. H. M. Abbott
that the Australian Navy’s lieutenant-com-
manders (meaning the Jervis Bay boys) were “as
smart a lot as he’d ever served with” —
extremely high praise coming from that model of
efficiency. Those referred to included, among
others who have since made names for them-
selves, one of the best “gunners” the Aus-
tralian Navy has produced (Collins of the
Sydney), and Captain Frank E. Getting of the
Canberra, mortally wounded when his ship was
lost in the Solomons battle. Another- school
with a string of good men among its products
—Sydney Technical High—had a hahd in Capt.
Getting’s training; he was a fellow-student
there with Kingsford Smith. They had widely
opposite preferences in their later careers —
Kingsford Smith above the clouds; Getting
under water as an outstanding expert in sub-
marines. Earlier in this war Capt. Getting
commanded the merchant cruiser Kanimbla, ahd
before his Canberra appointment was Deputy
Chief of the Naval Staff, Melbourne. His
father, one of the most likeable of men, was
formerly for many years head of Sydney
Quarantine Station. Capt. Getting—met ashore,
a striking cut of a man, of a lively, happy and
attractive personality—at the end, “despite his
wounds, refused any attention until medical
attention had been, given to wounded ratings.”
That was what anyone who had met him
would have expected of him —at once an in-
spiration to and typical of the heroism shown
by the officers and men of the Canberra.
There is a definite atmosphere of the
speed track at Australia’s principal Army
school of mechanisation, lately visited by
war correspondents. The commanding
officer, Major J. Snow, is a former inter-
national racing motorist, having com-
peted at Brooklands (U.S.A.), in England,
and in most of the big events on the Con-
tinent. Sergeant-Major Frank Hollis,
one of the instructors, was well known as
a speedway rider in Sydney. Lieut. Vic
Huxley, known particularly well to
Queenslanders, has just completed a
course at the school and is now instruct-
ing elsewhere in Australia. It’s rather
incongruous at times to hear these noted
speed merchants telling their pupils to
“take it slowly.”
“Me”: Obit, notices of R. B. Orchard
failed to mention his histrionic ability. I
remember him 30 years ago as Pooh-Bah
in “The Mikado,” but, though a natural-
born laughmaker—which served him well
on the hustings—he preferred heavier
roles like Gaspard in “Les Cloches de
Corneville.” As a lesser-known young
man, Dick Orchard shared diggings with
the late Chidley, whose apostleship of
near-nudism and views on sex led to his
sanity being questioned. He pronounced
“Chid,” in spite of his unorthodox ideas
on raiment, quite a likeable chap.
Succeeding J. Adams as Deputy Fed.
Commissioner of Taxation, Melbourne,
H. H. (Bert) Trebilco has returned to his
native city after a long innings in Can-
berra, where he first went with Robert
Ewing. In 1915, when the Fed, Land
Tax Act was passed, Ewing transferred
from Customs to become secretary to
Geo. A. Mac Kay, the original Federal
Commissioner, and eventually succeeded
the lean and lanky Scot, with Trebilco
his very helpful offsider. Trebilco was
lately recalled to Canberra to help in the
Federal assumption of unified control.
“Lao-dah’s” tale of Celestial tonsils:
One of the best stories told about the late
Dr. Kent Hughes, father of the lieutenant-
colonel M.L.A. now a prisoner of the Japs,
concerned two Chinamen who turned up when he
was honorary surgeon at Melbourne General.
Having polished off half a dozen cases, he was
washing his hands when the nurse pushed the
two trembling Celestials into the operating
theatre. One of them, his mouth wide open,
was pointing down his throat and making gut-
tural noises, while his cobber stood silently by.
“Tonsillitis, doctor,” said the nurse. “Up with
him,” shouted the doctor; then, after an ex-
amination, “Put the cap 0n!”... The doctor
was hurrying out of the hospital after a suc-
cessful operation when he was intercepted by the
nurse, accompanied by the other Chinaman.
“I’m sorry, doctor,” she said, “but from what
I can make out from this man your patient
was a friend he brought along to explain the
position because he doesn’t speak English. He
claims that you’ve taken the tonsils out of the
wrong one.”
One of the busiest blokes in the For-
gan Smith country these days, John R.
Kemp, heads the local Civil Construction
Corps, is Deputy-Director of Allied Works,
State Co-ordinator-General of Public
Works, Main Roads Commissioner and
Chief Executive Officer of the Depart-
ment of the Interior. His main form of
nerve sustenance is an endless chain of
cigarettes. His hobby—work.
After fifty years of. Govt, department
service, G. C. Catt is retiring as registrar
of the S.A. Land Office. An old cricketer
and a foundation member of the Cyclists
Rifle Club, he has been biking these 40
years, and its effect on his health is shown
by the fact that he hasn’t missed a day
through illness for. 20 years. A great
worker for charity, he is interested in
the Children’s Hospital, a boys
club and—a school for mothers!
To his M.C. gained a few
months ago and M.B.E. for work
in Palestine before the war. Major
J. W. Hackett, of Melbourne, has
added the D.S.O. for distinguished
conduct in Libya, where he has
been serving with a British regi-
ment. Major Hackett is a son of
Dr. Buller Murphy, whose first
husband, the late J. W. Hackett,
owned the “West Australian” and
founded the Perth University.
Between 1928 and 1934 a Bush
Brother with a dinkum Aussie
dial, Rev. V. Butters, used to drop
in on settlers and timber-getters
and anybody else he could find up
and down the Clarence River
(N.S.W.). Then he was at the
Anglican church at Dover (Tas.).
Later, he started dropping in on
Germans and Italians along the
shores of the Mediterranean, this
time sans peaceful intentions
he’d become an A.I.F. private.
Back in Australia, he’s now an
A.I.F. chaplain.
C. K. Johnston, of Hobart, be-
lieves in taking the rungs one by
one. Forty years ago he jointed
the Ancient Order of Foresters
and began getting himself elected
to official positions in their order
of importance. Now president of
the Southern Tasmanian Friendly
Societies’ Association, he finds time also
to audit the Hobart Dispensary Board,
of which he is a past president.
C.O. of a United States unit in Aus-
tralia, Col. Lawrence Aioysius Quinn
comes of a family so given to the fighting
game that “Collier’s” recently was im-
pelled to coin for it the swagger slogan
“Win with the Quinns.” His father was
decorated for bravery in the scrapping with
Indians of the frontier days; he himself
collected the Silver Star, the Purple Heart
and the Croix de Guerre in the 1914-18
war, and a lieut.-col. brother and two
nephews, as well as a niece, are in Uncle
Sam’s present army. A Virginian, now
46, Col. Quinn started soldiering as a full
U.S. COLONEL QUINN.
private in the National Guard in 1913.
He was wounded in France, but, if any-
thing, that improved his appetite for
soldiering; that war over, he took to it
as a profession.
Enter, Sidney W. Jackson, 70, natural-
ist, with “I have something here I would
like to show you,” spoken in a careful,
quiet voice. From a pocket he brought
out a small tobacco-tin, opened it, very
gently lifted a layer of cottonwool, and
“This is the smallest bird in the world.
I have had it for 40 years.” He lifted
out the tiny specimen—a lovely atom ; a
Jamaican humming-bird, so small that its
kind get caught in spider webs ; its minute
stiff body a dull green, with, about
head and neck, spangles of the ruby-red
seen in opals, with the same glow of fire
and light, still burning in the plumage
after near half a century as a naturalist s
treasure. Against the background of
war’s violence everywhere the incident
and its characters seemed like something
out of a play. A minute Australian bird
—extremely rare, and almost as tiny as
the Jamaican atom—has Jacksoni in its
scientific name in compliment to this
naturalist’s discovery of it. For many
years he was curator of the H. L. White
collection at Belltrees, Scone (N.S.W.),
which contained a large number of his
discoveries. Camped m the wild in the
course of a lifetime given to scientific
Australian bikls, flora, etc., he
collected thousands of botanical speci-
which are housed in the Sydney
Botanic Gardens Herbarium. The noted
authorj Qn eucalypts j. H . Maiden
named one of Jackson's finds Eucalyptus
SIDNEY W. JACKSON.
Jacksoni, and the N.S.W. Zoological
Society has recognised his outstanding
work by making him a life member.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 65, J. O. Meeks, chairman of
Harrison, Ramsay, director of British Traders’
Insurance, Meggitts and A.M.P., and member
of the A.J.C. He was with the Harrison,
Ramsay firm for 40 years, and its chairman for
ten. A son, Capt. Harry Meeks, is with the
A.I.F.
Frank O’Flynn, one of Maoriland’s most in-
telligent Upper Chamber members. A native
of Greymouth (West Coast), he was a school-
teacher by profession and a scholar by choice.
He wrote excellent articles for the old “Maori-
land Worker,” and collaborated with the
“Worker’s” editor. Bob Ross, and the late Harry
Holland in a history of the famous Waihi strike,
in which present Maoriland Priminister Fraser,
Minister for Mines Paddy Webb and Works
Minister Semple figured, and in the course ol
which a miner, Frederick George Evans, was
killed. The Bulletin’s present head reader, a
brother of Bob Ross, wrote a verse for the book
of the strike.
In New York, Dr. Maurice Patrick MacGilli-
cuddy, a Melbourne medico with a musical
bent which has come out strongly in two
daughters. Mauricette, the elder, is one of the
most promising of the younger generation of
Australian composers, and Joan is a brilliant
violinist.
At 87, Captain “Sam” (Samuel Robert) Law-
rence, who back in 1878 skippered the first
regular Sydney Harbor steam ferry to run to
Watson’s Bay. He might be named one of the
last of the Sydney pioneer skippers.
At 83, Hugh Pye—a name familiar wherever
wheat is grown, in Australia and abroad.
Science master at the Dookie (Vic.) Agricul-
tural College in 1887 and later principal, he
resigned in 1916 to give all his time to improving
wheat strains, with such success that upwards
of 450,000 acres were eventually sown with
strains he had evolved.
In Sydney, John Carl Thies Boock, whose
break-of-gauge device for Australian railways
was considered some time back —though not
adopted—by N.S.W. railway authorities. A
Dane, Boock came to Australia at the age of
nine. He spent most of his life on the Upper
Manning (N.S.W.).


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“B. Orchard”: For a job requir-
ing “constant contact with the Air
Force,” 12 engineers are called for
by advertisement in my morning
daily, N The chief qualifications are
“personality and good appear-
ance.” Presumably, broken noses
and cauliflower ears are out,
though their owners might have
topnotch aero-engineering experi-
ence. Is this a war or a beauty
contest?
* * *
“Ex-dig”: Any Digger could
have told the Tel Aviv hotel pro-
prietress why the troops souvenired
the cat’s kittens (B. 19/8/’42).
Camps, however well kept, are
liable to mouse and rat plagues. In
France cats were at a premium amongst
the troops, and their sleekness was a
testimonial to the excellence of the rat-
hunting they got. A queer point was
the way they lived through gas-shell
attacks. Night after night that Ypres
sector was drenched with German gas-
shells and we had to wear our gas-masks,
for hours sometimes. But in the morning
the cats could be seen sunning themselves
on top of the dugouts as if nothing had
happened that worried them.
*,* * *
From “Not for the Infantry, O Lord” :
H. Thring Phipson (his passing was recorded
in B. 19/8/’42) has an unusual memorial at the
Imperial Service Club, Sydney, where a framed
illuminated copy of one of his verses, in his
most caustic vein, has a place on the walls.
At a church parade of mixed units at Liverpool
Camp (N.S.W.) in 1917 the senior chaplain—
Colonel Rose, of the Aus. Field Artillery
—was said to have uttered the fervent prayer
“O God, guide and protect all our chaps, more
especially the A.F.A.” This was too much for
Phipson— at the time a Pioneers officer —and
he let himself go:—
Not for the Infantry, 0 Lord; those blighters
With packs and puttees, shorts and hairy knees;
Those ribald and unconscionable fighters:
We do not crave Thy grace for such as these.
Who pass their sordid days thigh—deep in water,
Walled and embowellcd in avenues of mud
Their garments fretid with the breath of slaughter.
Ribboned by wire and smeared by German Mood.
Not these, O Lord; we do not r<viui<Ht'''*>
Thy special providence for such as they;
Rut rather shouldst Thou make it Thine ambition
10 guard the gunners of the A.P.A.
After describing the special excellence of the
worthy gunners, Phipson wound up:
® such the stars stand idle in their courses,
And that is why, 0 Lord, I humbly pray,
Assist, if possible, our other forces,
But make a feature of the A.F.A.
As well as writer of verse with a bite in it,
Phipson was actor, pianist and black-and-white
artist and etcher, and he topped army Engineers
schools in both Sydney and England—in Eng-
land against 600 competitors.
* * * *
“Jachris”: They apparently exist—
people who don’t drink tea, don’t drink
milkshakes, don’t drink beer ! There was
an ad. in “S. M. Herald”:
Wanted, Board, Room or share house
with water drinkers.
Any takers were asked to reply to
.*P anacea -” Panacea! A remedy for all
ills, a cure-all! Be careful, brothers ;
be careful. He’s trying to take you in—
if you do exist. He’ll worm his way into
your hearts, then take you down for your
tea coupons. Why didn’t I think of it first?
* * * *
‘Craiser”; Sounds of a heavy bom-
bardment reached Melbourne the other
evening, and it was variously rumored
round the town that a Jap submarine
had tried to enter Port Phillip Heads;
that it wasn’t a submarine but a whale,
and that there had been an abortive
attempt at an air raid. It turned out
next day that the hullabaloo was just
gunnery practice. When our charlady
arrived she was full of excitement. “My
lodger’s son was called out last night,”
she said. “What was he called out for?”
I asked. “Is he in the army?” “Oh, no,”
says she; “he’s a reject. But he’s one
of those A.P.Cs.”
* * * «
“K.”; I have long admired Tarzan, of
the syndicated strips, for his indestruc-
tibility and his stout resistance to the
allure of his glamorous and scantily-clad
fellow tree-swinger, but most of all for
the ease with which he slips from one
century to another. A week or two back
“Keep your blasted rudder still!"
he was hobnobbing with Vilyeno and
Guyon, clad in morions and breastplates
that proclaimed them the contemporaries
of Torquemada. Now he is tangled
with a seductive dame who bought her
stylish clothes in 1942. I am now writ-
ing a strip scenario. Hero, Chrysanthe-
mum Glubb, is a Regency buck. As
he is standing, bearskin-clad, outside his
cave sharpening his stone axe, a 200-ton
flying-boat alights on the lake. While
the crew are ashore Chrysanthemum
commandeers their craft. There is just
enough gas to get him to Jerusalem to
save Richard the Lion Heart from the
Saracens. Commanding a 20-oar Viking
galley he then takes part in the Battle
of the Solomons, confounding Yamamoto
with his brilliant naval tactics.
* * * •
“A.R.P.”: Wardens who have to keep
an eye on lighting in browned-out areas
have discovered a vast difference between
the sense of responsibility of people in
houses and of those in flats. Time and
time again flat-dwellers have to be called
upon to douse the glim, and many of
them simply will not make the necessary
preparations. Constant offenders are flats
with an entrance or portico light. It
seems to be nobody’s job to attend to this,
each flatite refusing to accept the onus,
and wardens have either to rout out the
owner or agent or pull the fuse-wire
themselves. In houses, one warning is
usually sufficient. The difference can
only be put down to the flatite’s movable
existence. Most of them don’t regard
themselves as permanents, and therefore
can’t see why they should spend money
and time on defence precautions, an atti-
tude they carry into other aspects of
communal life.
♦ * * *
“Pawang”: Teacup readers, palmists,
astrologers and similar soothsayers are
more in demand than ever in Mel-
bourne, and they strike me as being more
dangerous than the Demon Drink.
Some people are always on the look-
out for an excuse for inaction, and
if they go to one of these sages and he
tells them that there is an abrupt break
in their line of life, indicating that at a
certain age they will suffer some dread-
ful complaint or some tragic crisis, they
have all the excuse they need. “How
can I do anything when I have this dread-
ful thing hanging over me?” is their atti-
tude. I know a young woman who was
taken to an astrologer by a fond mother
at 16, and who was completely ridden
by the belief that there would be a crisis
in her life at 25. There was, and she
nearly died. The astrologer would take
this as confirmation of his prophecy, but
it was the fear of a crisis which produced
the crisis, just as fear of running into a
lamp-post makes a greenhorn cyclist run
into a lamp-post.
* * * »
“Chevroford”: Signed by “Six Who
Protest” in Melbourne “Sun”:
We travel 26 miles to high school each
day. We leave at 7.30 a.m. and do not
return until 6 p.m. We all live on farms,
and have to do our share of the farm-
work and housework owing to shortage of
labor. After this we are too tired to do
our homework, and the teachers get an-
noyed. We suggest that homework be
abolished while there is a shortage of labor.
I never had an excuse like that when I
was a schoolboy.
» * ♦ *
“Boarder”: Tire livelier of the two
Sydney morning newspapers licks its lips
over the thought that service men on
leave will soon be able to sleep for two
v bob a night in a King’s Cross hostelry
that used to charge eight guineas a week
for a suite. It adds, with bated breath,
that there are carpets in the bedrooms
and that hot and cold water is laid on.*
Just goes to show that the wayfarer who
wants reasonable comfort can get it in
Sydney, and can pay a fancy price for it.
But that’s nothing new. When J. A. Froude
and his brother visited Sydney they could
have been guests at G.H. but preferred
a free leg and sought suitable lodgings.
Froude in Oceana records that they
found a very nice little place in Mac-
quarie-street, but the rent was 15 quid
a week for two bedrooms and a sitting-
room, which Froude thought a bit more
than he should pay, as he wasn’t earning
anything in Sydney. What he did pay at
the digs he finally selected he doesn’t
say, but there can be little doubt he
would have jumped at one of those eight-
guinea suites that seem so palatial and
so expensive to the Sydney newspaper of
today.
k “ MacH °ots” may be right
about the reason for the air of savage
triumph with which some shopkeepers
now inform you that what you want is
out ot stock (B. 29/7/’42), but why do
so many retailers encourage the public to
come in and ask for the unobtainable’
If they have no chocolate, for instance
why leave the window still dressed with
dummy packets? A few sensible shop-
keepers are doing the right thing by leav-
ing the window bare and putting in it
two large showcards, one headed “Sorry
w ® t {l* ve , no ” and the other starting
of We have ——That’s an example
many retailers would do well to follow.
• * • «
"Cruiser”; Apropos of criticisms of
women announcers, I was listening the
other evening to a Melbourne broadcast,
and when the portentous stream of plati-
tudes ended my wife said “How did you
like the woman?” “Didn’t know she was
one,” I retorted. The women speak
exactly like the men and the men speak
like impersonal machines with a quasi-
Oxford accent. So what does it matter
what sex they are?
“S.T.S.”; I endorse every word
of The Bulletin's praise of Kip-
ling (B. 5/8/’42); but what a shock
it would have given to those who
ran the paper 50 to 40 years ago!
They were battling finely for the
Australian point of view at a time
when “colonial” was an apology
and “imported” the badge of excel-
lence. Theirs was a grand effort;
and it succeeded. But it in-
volved criticising at the time such
British institutions as Government
House. For well over ten years,
when Kipling was making a name
as a poet, the literary side of The
Bulletin hadn’t a good word to
say for him, because the paper
coupled him with Joseph Chamberlain as
spreading the “Imperial” spirit. “B.S.A.
for British South Africa,” it snorted, I re-
member ; “truly appropriate as standing
also for Birmingham Small Arms Co.”
“And remember, when you're asked to do a thing DO IT, and object after .”
INEVITABLE.
“A U.S. aircraft co. is planning to segregate
women workers because the men are always looking
at them, thus slowing up production.”— Cable.
It’s clearly not a circumstance
That makes for slaves to duty,
The frequent chance to steal a glance
At neighboring youth and beauty.
But you’ll agree when he and she
At common tasks are trying
It’s not the male invariably
Monopolises eyeing.
Some poet’s pen has told us, when
In candid mood it caught him,
“His only books were women’s looks
And folly all they taught him.”
I may be wrong, but all along
I’ve thought in this connection
The looks he meant were those that went
In his—not their —direction.
But here’s the oil, the dinkum oil,
In Jack-and-Jill contactions
The things to spoil effective toil*
Are her or his attractions.
How can the sexes pull their weights
As handicraft uniters
When what relates to making dates
Is mixed with making fighters?
This human trait, it’s safe to say,
Is past all modern shelving.
It’s had its way from Adam’s day
When first he started delving.
And when his spade aside he’d heavt
And edge past some obstruction
To get an eyeful of his Eve,
We all may readily believe
It slowed the day’s production.
N.S.W,
IFORD.
GOAT-GETTING.
“The thing that reaUy gets my goat.”
■ — W. M. Hughes on war-time censorship.
How often words of learned length
Will carry less conviction
Than those with all the punch and strength
Of terse and homely diction.
Restrictions which in most men’s eyes
Appear supremely silly,
Annoyances we stigmatise
As things which make the gorge to rise,
They “get the goat” of Billy.
From milder lips we might have got
A courteous assurance
That this or that was something what
Had gone beyond endurance.
But Hughes will never hide behind
A honeyed phrase and frilly;
What other politicians find
A menace to their peace of mind
Just “gets the goat” of Billy.
He might have said such stealthy blows
Had left him hot and flustered,
Or caused to mount into his nose
(As Frenchmen say) the mustard.
He might have voiced in softer ways
Resentment keen and chilly.
But all they did his ire to raise
You feature in one pungent phrase:
They “got the goat” of Billy.
How few there are whose tongues may reach
In partisan collisions
Those “sabre-cuts of Saxon speech”
That horrify precisians.
And who is there will ever know,
And where are there the notes of
The lists of men who long ago
In half a century or so
Our Billy “got the goats” of?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Norther”: I don’t know what the
news was like when you blokes down
south got it, but in our N.Q. paper it
read; “The United Press Chungking
correspondent learns from Burmese
quarters that the Premier of Usaw died
in Egypt recently.” We are now waiting
to learn whether the State of Usaw has
declared war on Swat.
* * * »
“Bo”: A lover of dogs, I admit my
withers were entirely unwrung on read-
ing that 2000 Sydney greyhounds, repre-
senting a weekly ration of 20 tons of
good meat, and including “many good
performers,” had been destroyed by the
R.S.P.C.A. Most dogs are full of affec-
tion ; but the feral instinct has been so
brought uppermost in these long skinny
brutes that they regard their owners with
a glacial eye even when being fed. Nor
have I ever observed in an owner any
affection for his tin-hare chaser, except
a transient flutter of gratification when
the dog wins. An unfailing index to the
popularity of dogs is the film public’s
reaction to the appearance of one on
the screen. In the “Thin Man” series the
appearance of Asta, a wire-haired fox
terrier, was the signal for a murmur of
delight. In “Johnny Eager” Robert
Taylor is followed about by a grey-
hound. The fans are stolidly silent,
=r- * * *
“Well, Well”: I read that Fred Leist
holds that artists are highly-strung,
temperamental and allergic to noise and
bullets, and that, therefore, a pupil of
his, aged 22, shouldn’t be called up.
Right up on my hind feet I rear to ask Mr.
Leist who isn’t allergic to bullets, and to
assure him that it is a common human
experience in the face of a bombardment
to become highly strung and tempera-
mental. Mr. Leist says that when he
was an official artist with the old A.I.F.
he thought he “was the only man the
Germans were shooting at.” Mr. Leist
isn’t unique, nor does a man have to be
an artist to feel that way. I’ll guarantee
that 300,000 others knew the feeling the
first time they went up the line. If every-
body who was allergic to bullets stayed
at home there wouldn’t be any war.
♦ * * *
“Lao-dah”: Russian jewels and furs
were auctioned in Melbourne the other
day, extraordinary precautions being
taken against theft. There was nothing
remarkable about the bids, however. A
vodka service, allegedly once the pride
of Alexander 111, and a bracelet with 122
rose diamonds and five large pearls were
amongst the articles offered. The Czar’s
vodka outfit fetched a mere £5O, and
an ermine coat, said to be worth £340,
went for £25. A woman prominent in
pre-Soviet Russia was the former owner.
Twenty years ago there might have been
a rush for the historic baubles, but not
today.
$ * * *
“Matros”: Ever since the war started
there have been voices crying in the
wilderness to give recognition to the
Merchant Navy. Most of us sailors had
given up hope long ago, but when I
returned to Australia this time from a
six months’ trip I could not help but
notice a change. People seemed to know
at last what our “M.N.” badge means.
The reason was not hard to find —ships
were being sunk in home waters. Eng-
lishmen discovered that the merchant
sailor was also in the battle line when
England’s fate hung on the Battle of the
Atlantic ; Americans first called us heroes
when the U-boats started ravaging their
fine tanker fleet within coo-ee of Long
Island. So will Australians slap us more
heartily on the backs as they get more
accustomed to survivors coming ashore
in open boats.
“Nakhoda”: According to Melbourne
“Sun,” members of the Australian
Women’s Army Service had been won-
dering why soldiers, sailors and airmen
of the N.E.I. sheer off them, but plucked
up heart on learning that A.W.A.S. on
their shoulder straps means “Beware” in
Malaya. “Jaga” was the word when I
lived in those parts, and “Kijk uit” (look
out) was the Dutch phrase printed on
railway crossings. “Awas” may be Java-
nese for keep off the grass or something ;
but it is rating our Allies’ intelligence
at flapper-press level to presume that a
badge of palpably military significance
would be taken in that way or that the
Dutchman, noted for his gallantry, would
be scared off even if he thought so. A
huge sign in Collins-street, A.P.A., stands
for the Australian Provincial Assurance.
It also has a certain meaning in Malay,
but I haven’t heard of any N.E.I. sea-
man being taken in by the coincidence.
* * * *
“8.M.M.”: “C.Q.’s” reference to the
injunction in Deuteronomy against the
sexes swapping togs (B. 29/7/’42) re-
calls my first voyage to Australia. Cer-
tain tableaux were to be the entertain-
ment for the evening, and I was cast to
represent one of the “01d Maids of Lea.”
An ultra-pious old Scot took upon him-
self, as he was a friend of my family, to
warn me, quoting Deut. xxii, 5, that
dressing up in woman’s clothes would be
an abomination unto the Lord. I then
took counsel with another elderly Scot
(a son of the manse but broadminded),
who asked the ultra-pious one what his
shirt and his coat were made of. He
replied that the shirt was made from
linen from the North of Ireland and the
coat of the best wool from a Tweedside
factory. The broadminded one then
quoted Deut. xxii, 11: “Thou shall not
wear a garment of divers sorts, as of
woollen and linen together.” The ultra-
pious one ignored us both for the rest of
the voyage,
* * * *
“M.C.”; Commandos, figuring in the
news again, are specially tough eggs even
in the A.1.F., where all are tough. The
A.I.F. variety are got by calling for
volunteers, who must be under 25, with-
out any manner of dependants and hard
enough not only to stand but to thrive
on a line of training that would kill five
men out of any average ten. One yarn
about them tells of a recruit going into
the orderly room to report, standing to
attention and saluting the loot across the
table and then getting a soul-shaking kick
in the rear from a sergeant just by way
of informing him that that sort of thing
wasn’t done in the commandos. At all
events, they’re a grand crowd of tough
blokes, with a singularly strong family
resemblance to the 1914 Digger, a resem-
blance which recalls the curious fact that
the very sort of job for which the com-
mandos are specially recruited and trained
was done at Anzac by the A.I.F. as a
“How do I know you didn't flirt with all the girls in Tobruk?"
body, without any of this newfangled
specialising.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: I know all about Wel-
lington earthquakes (B. 12/8/’42). I once
bought a three-storeyed wooden house in
one of the Windy City’s most fashionable
thoroughfares. The thing had been occu-
pied by two maiden ladies, a parrot and
a lot of antique furniture. When the
furniture was moved out it became sadly
evident that the house had been sat
on by something. The doors would
not shut, the windows were awry, the
floors all slanted at such a degree, from
normal that if you put a bottle on the
ground it careered across the room and
smashed itself against the skirting board
opposite. When I protested, the agent
retorted that that had happened 50 years
ago in the big earthquake. Perhaps, he
supposed, the next earthquake would
right it.
* * * *
“C.Q.” on the beginnings of Mel-
bourne’s civic history:
Melbourne’s first municipal elections were
held on December 1, 1842, and a week later the
city fathers chose as Mayor Henry Condell, a
brewer —for some reason or other, beer and the
Melbourne City Council have always been in-
extricably mingled. A fortnight later a glitter-
ing procession negotiated the ruts and pits of
the town’s streets. First came Mr. Condell in
a gown of crimson silk borrowed from a Free-
mason. Next came the councillors in coats of
fine blue cloth, with gilt buttons, and skirts
lined with white satin. At the rear of the
procession were all the ragtag and bobtail. At
the courthouse Mr. Condell was sworn in.
Then all repaired to Batman’s Hotel to pay
their respects to his Honor the Superintendent,
Mr. Latrobe. History doesn’t record whether
the day ended with a banquet, but if it did i
was held in the Athenaeum in Collins-streev,
then the Mechanics’ Institute. John King,
the first town clerk, drew £250 a year. Salaries
have gone up since then, but not as fast as
land values. The site of the present town
Hall is now valued at half a million. Ihe blocK
opposite was bought at the first land sale by
Henry Howie for £45. It is now worth close on
£400,000 of anybody’s money, but, what is
even more remarkable, as early as 1888 it was
officially valued at £493,500!
* * * *
“Mulvaney”: M.L. Works Minister
Bob Semple has been demonstrating that
his talent for picturesque invective is as
bright as ever. Letters of protest
against some new regulations made by
Bob’s department brought these animad-
versions from Bob: “They do nothing
but growl, growl, growl. Oh, what nits!
They have no more .soul than a polecat,
no more guts than a whitebait, and are
as spineless as a jellyfish. All they can
do is to holler like a hungry donkey! ”
* * * *
“L. de Rideau”: An unidentified ’plane
gave Melbourne its first air-raid alert the
other evening. If the sirens sounded I
never heard them. I was sitting in His
Majesty’s Theatre listening to Hilarion
(John Fullard) making melodious love
to Princess Ida (Viola Wilson) while Ivan
Menzies shuffled around as the deformed
and malignant King Gama. Possibly
the note of the siren harmonised so well
with the tones of the beauteous gents
and ladies of Hildebrand’s court that it
merely gave an added accent to Sullivan s
parody of Handelian music. If so, it
only confirms me on the view already
expressed that Melbourne’s A.R.P.
authorities need the advice of‘a musician
who could show them how to make their
warning signal sufficiently piercing to
reach the ears of everybody within
reasonable distance. At the last air-raid
rehearsal, although its volume was satis-
factory, the pitch of the warning sirens
was the same as the normal collective
voice of city traffic.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne air
warden, a patriotic fellow, lets his subur-
ban home be used as a warden’s post.
One night there was a practice alert, and,
equipped with helmet, gas-mask and all
necessary fixings, the warden went on
duty in his own house, while dispatch-
riders tramped up and down his hall
carpet bringing reports of breaches of
regulations and of terrible imaginary
happenings. A.R.P. technique having
long since ceased to interest his wife,
she was visiting neighbors and having a
quiet rubber. Unknown to her, appalling
“incidents” were occurring all over the
suburb, showing the desperate ferocity
with which the enemy was endeavoring
to lay Melbourne in ruins. Sitting
dummy, she suddenly remembered some-
thing and rang up her hubby. “What is
it?” said a familiar voice in tones of
intense expectation. “Would you turn
the gas off under the tripe, dear?” said
the lady.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Though official status has
been given to Bracken’s “God Defend
New Zealand” as Maoriland’s national
anthem it is quite clear that many people
not only don’t recognise words or tune,
but never heard of Bracken. And though
everybody ought to know “Not Under-
stood” and its author, it’s an even-money
bet nobody of the younger generation
knows how that poem came to be written.
Tom was a canvasser for the Otago
“Daily Times” and was allowed “meal
money,” in addition to his commission.
One morning before he set out he had
a haircut and shave, costing eighteen-
pence, and put this item in his exes. bill.
The Aberdonian who guarded the
“Times’s” cash box, struck out the claim
as not coming under the heading of
meals. All the Irish in Tom surged up.
He went home in gloomy mood and
wrote his famous poem. At least that was
Bracken’s own account of its origin and
inspiration,
“Cine Ma”: I fear that history is
destined to make a fool of R. Dooley,
secretary of the Federation of Broadcast-
ing Stations, who spent an afternoon listen-
ing as a judge to 40 Australian National
Anthems. No official judge’s decision
gave to the nations “God Save the King,”
“The Marseillaise,” the terrible Moslem
hymn calling the Faithful to strike down
the enemies of Allah or “Scots Wha
Hae,” but they have preserved their posi-
tion and their potency, yea, these many
years.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Tell “Vacca” (B. 12/8/ ”42)
that when I said that there can be
scarcely any immunity against smallpox
in Australia I was referring to immunity
through contact with the disease, as exists
in China, not immunity through vacci-
nation. Universal vaccination might pro-
vide greater immunity than there is in
China, but vaccination is very far from
being universal in Australia. Geographi-
cal isolation and quarantine regulations
have kept the disease from becoming
epidemic in this country for several gen-
erations, so a community is growing up
to which the infection is a complete
stranger. We don’t know what would
happen if a germ, possibly changed in
character, as it is the way with germs to
change, entered the land. In the early
days of the European voyagers syphilis
was unknown in the South Sea Islands.
When it got a footing it almost depopu-
lated some atolls. Yet it has been wan-
dering around Europe for centuries with-
out producing epidemics.
* * * *
“Mulubinba” recalls the bad start of
a great Australian port:
The first official colony planted at Newcastle
(N.S.W.) was a quaint little community and not
altogether a success. In June, 1801, Governor
King sent Corporal Wixstead with five privates
of the N.S.W. Corps to the mouth of the
Hunter in charge of two small parties of con-
victs, one of which dug coal out of the cliff
face on the ocean beach and the other cut
cedar up the river. Wixstead was a good fellow
and did his best, but was quite unsuited foi
the command of such an outpost. His military
subordinates resented his appointment as a
sort of minor lieutenant-governor, and soon
landed him in Queer-street. He seems to have
treated the prisoners pretty well, but anonymous
letters began to drift into headquarters in
Sydney accusing him of not issuing the soldiers
their rum and of drinking it himself. Sur-
geon Martin Mason was sent up to hold an
inquiry. Wixstead was exonerated of the rum
delinquency, but censured for administrative
slackness, and Dr. Mason was put in charge.
Dr. Mason’s brutality to the convicts provoked
a mutiny, and eventually he was relieved of his
job. Soon afterwards King decided to abandon
the settlement because of its distance from Port
Jackson, and soldiers and convicts were brought
back to Sydney early in 1802. Two years
elapsed before the settlement was re-established
under the name it carries today.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: An Australian press agency
in London had a story about an Army
Inventions Department girl saying her
superior officers were a “lot of inverted
Micawbers waiting for something to turn
down.” I passed it on to a man on the
Inventions Board in Melbourne. He said
“I laughed like billyoh at that one when
I first heard it three months ago.”
* * * *
“Morimoto” discourses on some Nip-
ponese peculiarities:
According to Robert Bellaire, former man-
ager of the United Press in Tokyo, General
Tojo, the Japanese Premier, is trying to make
himself dictator by kissing babies, talking to
young students and assisting old ladies over
street crossings. In the meantime he is alleged
to have confined the Emperor to his palace
and forbidden him access even to the dailies.
Probably another furphy, but quite in line with
Japanese tradition, except for the kissing of
the babies. The great nobles who seized power
from the mikados and established the shogun-
ate started a precedent which accustomed the
Japanese to shadow Governments and shadow
emperors. Eventually even the shoguns be-
came shadows behind fresh shoguns, whom the
first Europeans mistook for the hereditary
rulers. Every revolution had for its object the
dragging out of the shadow emperor from his
palace and putting him back in office, the price,
of course, being that the party which did it
became the real controllers. In 1868 the sho-
gunate was sanguinarily abolished and the
Emperor brought out into the daylight, and all
the weapons of propaganda and education were
used to make him a semi-divine symbol for the
divine destiny of Nippon. The old clans re-
mained in the ascendant, however, one monopo-
lising the army and the other the navy. A
new shadow was added to the system by the
institution of Parliamentary government on the
Western model. It proved to be more of a
wraith than any of the others.


THE MOUNTAIN.
All those who are bom nigh a mountain
And there through their childhood abide
Shall never go free of its glory,
Its gloom cast aside.
Though wide be the ways that they wander
Or narrow the walls where they dwell,
So great is the power of a mountain
Aid lasting its spell.
Its shadows at times they’ll remember,
Remember its mystical gleams.
And deem it again in their fancies
A weaver of dreams;
Red dawns on its crest they’ll re-vision,
Or swathing its shoulders with gold.
As dim lies the landscape. beneath it,
Rich sunsets behold.
Folk neighbored and bora by a mountain,
Though gay be their fortunes or grim.
Bear ever within them a wonder
That time cannot dim;
For, like to an ocean or forest,
Storm-troubled or sunlit and still,
It moulds with its power and its beauty
Man’s inind to its will.
A mountain, a forest, an ocean,
O great is their glory, in truth!
And rich their bequeathal to those who
Dwell near them in youth:
The mountain has silence to give them,
The ocean has beauty profound.
And gay, green and gay is the forest
With color and sound.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Narrin”: As Dad is still slim, well
set-up and rather handsome Ma McCaf-
ferty was inclined to resent the two land-
girls who had come to the farm. A
time arrived when Dad was much in
demand on neighboring farms, and Ma
found herself obliged to direct and super-
vise the work of the girls: a task she
liked no better because they so obvi-
ously missed “nice Mr. McCalferty.”
One morning she determined, Dad being
absent, to begin a vegetable garden. The
girls were lined up and given orders, but
the tools were found to be locked in the
garage. Said Ma, “Do you think you
could ride over to Hennessy’s and ask
Dad for the key? Just follow the track
round Hennessy’s woolshed and you’ll
find him in the sheepyards on the other
side.” So, mounted on Taffy and Boxer,
the two rode off. They cantered along
the road, bumping enthusiastically, swung
into the sand track among the acacias
and came out beside flennessy’s shed.
Dismounting, they tied their horses,
spruced themselves up and walked round
the corner right on to the catching yard
where Dad presided at the rail. For a
long moment they stared at Dad’s hor-
rific visage as, knife in hand and covered
with blood and details, he stood at the
gory fence. Was this the man who
talked, who ate at table with them? Did
they drink from cups that had touched
those lips? Yes, there’s another labor
shortage at McCafferty’s now.
# * * »
“Flight”: A common guttersnipe of a
sparrow was taking a dustbath in my
garden. He fluffed his feathers, dabbed
with his beak, splayed his tail, twitched
with his feet and slung showers of dust
in fine style. Another street arab of his
breed came to look on. The bather
stopped short in the middle of a shower,
leapt from his tub, dipped into the Peep-
ing Tom and stoushed him. He did that
half a dozen times and seemed to be
enjoying the process. Returning from one
prolonged duet dust-up to his solo effort
the truculent spag found another rooster
in his bathroom, but this fellow had more
science, and he belted the rightful owner
as freely as that bird had previously dealt
stoush to others. Sparrows are almost
human in some of their ways.
* * * *
“Naturala”: As soon as the average
Australian catches a glimpse of a snake
he becomes filled with feral intentions,
yet poor old Joe is one of the most useful
of all our bush denizens. His diet con-
sists of all the ground vermin of the
bush —mice, frogs, beetles. Only very
occasionally he may indulge in poultry,
and then it invariably takes the .form of
carrion, for the average snake has little
or no idea of how to capture even the
tiniest bird. Joe, too, is a great deci-
mator of insects —the real curse of this
continent. Because he is credited as
being the world’s champion purveyor
of sudden death the snake finds every
man’s hand against him. Yet the common
house-fly piles up a human deathroll
annually that makes Joe’s record ultra-
microscopic in comparison.
“B. 4”: Cannot endorse “D.R.H.’s”
triple ligation thesis (B. 29/7/’42). Liga-
tures other than above the elbow or knee
are valueless, since blood vessels deeply
seated between bones cannot be ob-
structed; and all are useless unless
applied within a few seconds, as the
venom of Australian snakes is rapidly dif-
fusable. Again, the blood cannot deal
effectively with venom which, unless
swiftly impeded, will in the case of cer-
tain species of snake cause coagulation;
others affect the nervous system. Having
but recently recovered from the effects
of a copperhead’s punch, I can recom-
mend this treatment: Apply ligature, in-
cise bite deeply, keep patient quiet and
warm and keep up copious supply of
fluids so that tne blood circulation may
be maintained. Bandage tightly down-
wards from ligature'to incision to squeeze
out poisoned blood. After half an hour
remove ligature for one minute till pink
tinge appears; replace ligature and
repeat every quarter-hour for two hours.
Rush to the doctor for antivenene or
venesection treatment if death-adder bite.
* * * *
“Beamish”: During the past three years
I have been stationed in four different
country districts of N.S.W., and in each
there has always been a peewee window-
tapper (B. 12/8/’42). Each bird has had
its regular tapping hours —sometimes
twice, sometimes as many as four times
a day. Visits are as regular as clock-
work. The birds tap only on windows
that have little or no inside coverings.
They dash themselves against the pane,
beating at it with beak and claw. Gener-
ally they are not easily frightened away,
at least not when the habit is in an
advanced stage. One bird had three
“regular” windows at which he called in
turn every day ; they were within a radius
“HALT!"
of half a mile. He did his rounds like
a tradesman —and a businesslike one.
Often the peewee will stand on the sill
preening himself for minutes at a time.
I am still not satisfied as to the motive —
ferocity, hygiene or vanity.
♦ * * *
Good evening, mate, it’s getting late
The day is nearly over;
Tie up your dog behind the log
And come and flash your Dover.
The last line of that old bush verse needs
an interpreter for the present-day out-
backer. To “flash your Dover” was to
get to work with your clasp-knife on salt
beef and damper, the urban cognomen
coming from the trade-mark on the blade.
In Sydney 80 years ago an employer
hiring a man would offer pay at “£3O a
year and the run of your Dover,” mean-
ing that rations were thrown in.
* * * *
“Bo”: “Wot I got against these bush
knowalls,” said the lugubrious-eyed bloke
wearing the hirsute handlebars, “is that
they’re too damn’ vague in the way they
give their remedies for everything, from
bites of green tree-ants to shanty-pub beer-
sparrers. Take the time me dog picked
up the poison bait while I’m rabbitin’ up
at Bowenfels. When I sees him startin’
to go in the back legs an’ frothin’ at the
mouth I’m just reachin’ for me gun to
put him out of his misery when I remem-
bers readin’ a par. in The Bulletin
about a sure cure bein’ swingin’ the victim
around y’r head by the tail. The tyke
on’y had a three-inch rudder, but I man-
ages to get a grip an’ start swingin’. After
I’m goin’ for a while Bitser’s makin’
queer noises, an’ I’m just thinkin’ of
puttin’ him down when I realise the par.
didn’t say how long to keep it up. If
I knock off it might be too soon an’ he’ll
wriggle out. So I keep goin’. The dog’s
heavy, an’ I’ve got to swing round with
him, an’ after another minute or so I
start to feel queer. But I still keep it
up, an’ the nex’ thing I don’t know is
that the mong flies out o’ me hand an’
I’m flat on me back. Don’t know how
long I bin there, but I come to with the
sound o’ barkin’ —yair, it’s me dog lead-
in’ a near-by cocky an’ his son that he’d
gone to bring for help. The treatment’d
saved him all right, but I’d got a lump
on me scone the size of a emu egg where
I’d fallen on a gibber,”
* * * *
“Mainmast Prop”; I’m used to read-
ing about blokes boxing the binnacle,
tucking the jib sheets under their chins,
patting the catheads and gazing over the
taffrail at the bowsprit; but when I read
in Aboriginalities (B. 29 /7 / ’42) about a
dog doing “30 knots an hour”— why,
I laid my reading specs, on the mainmast
truck and climbed into my bunk in the
lubbers’ hole to try and sleep it off.
Which, owing to the clamminess of the
futtock shrouds, I haven’t done yet.
5{C i * *
“Bad Australian”: “Propalong” (B.
12/8/ ’42) must have been riding with
very slack girth and surcingle when the
latter shifted to his mount’s flank, as a
properly adjusted double cinch can’t be
shifted so long as the gear holds. Some
years ago I was engaged on a job where
we used about a thousand transport
animals, chiefly mules. Among other
things, the mules carried lengths of 3in.
steel piping, Decauville rails and sleepers,
drums of oil, coal, firewood, cement, cor-
rugated-iron sheets, baled hay and other
equally difficult loading. About 200
horses were used for riding purposes,
and, although the only gear used on any
of our saddles was the double cinch, we
experienced no trouble except when the
boys neglected to keep the cinches
tightened up. Several years’ experience
of the use of the double cinch in carrying
such loading as that indicated, over one
of the steepest and roughest tracks on
the planet, leaves me in no doubt as to
its value, particularly in mountainous
country.
“Nor’-west”: While the Council is dis-
cussing the surcingle, how about a word
on its unorthodox uses? Many a time
when police patrols and other expeditions
have reached northern rivers, only to find
them in flood, linked surcingles have
formed a lifeline that enabled a crossing
to be made. There are records, too, in
the Territory of where a surcingle has
often stood to Jack Ketch in the absence
of the more orthodox rope. But its
quaintest use was during a willy-willy
that hit Cossack (n.-w. W.A.) in the early
years of this century. During a lull in
the blow three prominent citizens who
had been caught out in the pindan
struggled into town with an outsize in
surcingles around them. Just as a pre-
caution against being blown away—a
thing likely to happen to a single person
caught out in the open.
* * * ♦
“Bohemian”: Know another back-
blocks husband who brought down an
unorthodox vengeance on his faithless
spouse (B. 29/7/’42). Everyone in our
Maoriland district seemed to be aware of
the wife’s affairs, but over the years the
husband was apparently complacent. It
was his habit to pay all the bills. The
wife had inherited the house and furni-
ture and the house was insured in her
name. Then while she was away on a
visit to her mother the place was burned
down. Shortly after the fire the town
was not at all surprised when they learnt
that the husband had left for parts un-
known. The wife on going to collect fire
insurance on house and furniture got an
electric shock when she was informed
that the husband had allowed the insur-
ance to lapse.
* * • *
“Looby”; Danny was always boosting
the superiority of the goat to the sheep.
“Easier to rear and easier to feed”—he
was on his favorite topic outside
Grogan’s place—“and the kids aren’t
troubled by fly or crow.” “Garn,” said
Grogan, “they don’t stay in flocks like
sheep, and their milk or meat ain’t so
popular.” “Well, is there any money in
sheep?” asked Danny, knowing he was
touching a sore point there, because
Grogan’s sheep venture hadn’t been much
of a success. “The only way to make
goats pay,” Grogan said to evade the
issue, “is to keep them as well as sheep.”
Danny roared laughing. So, to prove his
point, Grogan took him into the kitchen
where his five sons were arguing over the
after-work pot of tea. “See what I
mean?” Grogan said sourly. “Me and
the boys look'after the sheep, and so
that makes it a mixed flock. We’re the
goats and, so far, it’s us wot’s doin’ all
the payin’! ”
* * * *
“8.-b.”: On the Murchison (W.A.) when
the beef market was exceptionally light for
a short period, a butcher decided to fatten
colts. He was doing quite well until an
inspector who was going the rounds of
the local abattoirs happened to count the
ribs on one side of “beef.” Fifteen ribs
belong to a horse ; a bullock, however
young and appetising, never has more
than 13,
* * * *
“Anthropo”: “Munjong” (B. 22 /8 / ’42)
struck something unusual when he saw
a koondy, called a dowark in the West,
used for dentistry purposes.
The dowark is essentially a
throwing stick; with it the
marksman can bring down a
wallaby or a duck with ease;
and with equal ease use it to
crack a skull. To fit it with
such lethal qualities the dowark
has to be heavy and an inch
or more in cross-section dia-
meter. The ends are only
bluntly pointed, and I am at
a loss to understand how it
could be used as a tooth-extrac-
tor. Have seen the medicine-
man extracting a tooth. The
dental instruments were not
improvised ; they came ready-
made from the doctor’s dilly-
bag, part of his surgical equip-
ment. With the patient broad
on his back, his head held
firmly on the knees of the
assistant, the specialist got
to work. With a prodder
made from a splinter from a
’roo’s shinbone, the gum was
pushed well back until the
roots were exposed. The
actual extractor was no
bigger than a butcher’s wooden skewer,
which it resembled both in size and
shape. The sharp, fire-hardened point
fitted nicely into the fork of the roots —
and a sharp clout with a stone did the
rest. To perform so delicate an operation
with a heavy curved stick, 18in. long by
l|in. thick —well, I should expect to
find an abo. with a broken jaw.
* * ♦ *
“The 0.p.”; I never regarded the
crow as a “clumsy-looking” flier (B.
19/8/*42). Have seen them soaring high
on a windless day with hardly a tremor
of the wings, and the way they can zoom
upward on rigid, outstretched wings
when startled is something even a hawk
might envy.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Mother Earth, whether
she be sand, soil or rock, is never a very
comfortable couch ; but when compelled
to accept her embrace give me a couple of
dry blackboy trunks as a solace, not for
a bed but to burn. Laid side by side and
lit at the grassy head, these will burn
right through the longest night, diffusing
warmth, filling the air with perfume, and
also providing a pair of handy hobs
should one think of boiling the billy
halfway towards the dawn. A pannikin
of hot tea in the small hours isn’t too
bad either, especially when you just have
to reach out from the nap to take it, the
while you watch the snowy flakes of
burnt blackboy gently falling.
s* * # *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’re on the Pinnaroo
train one day and a lanky, fair-haired
cove gets into the carriage at Tailem
Bend. He has to sort of fold himself a
bit to fit in, and after we get talking Mat
says “How tall are y’, cobber?” “Me?”
he says. “Aw, I’m just on six-foot-four.”
He peers out the window ; then he says
“But y’ ought t’ seen me old man. Six-
six, he was. He was a Pole, y’ know.”
“Too true,” says Mat, “a blanky tele-
phone pole!”


“I demand a second front!"
“ Alf, show the gentleman to the back door."
* * * *
“Betcha”: Shrimp was a one-time
jockey and proud of it. Wc had him in the
shearing shed picking up for Big Jim, and
Jim’s two hundred pounds of bone and
muscle was spread over a length of six-
foot-four. The trouble began when Jim
started mixing up Shrimp’s name and
then claiming that a prawn was much
the same, anyway. Shrimp couldn’t see
it. He smouldered through the first run,
but at smoke-oh his resentment subsided
when the talk turned on horses, and he
began laying down his theory for a nag’s
education. Jim stood it till he’d finished
rolling his second fag. “Horses!” he
scoffed. “You wouldn’t know a real
moke if y’ seen one. Why, Tadpole, them
hothouse imitations you been used to
don’t even look the part.” “Hothouse
imitations! Tadpole!” Quick as thought
Shrimp streaked for a packing-case,
propped it against the big bloke’s leg,
sprang on top and landed his tormentor
a sock on the jaw. Big Jim’s voice joined
in the roar.
* * * *
“Sleepercutter”: Barefooted or with
sandshoes for a chopping contest, per-
haps (B. 29/7/’42), but in a lifetime
among the big timber on the N.S.W.
North Coast I have never seen a bare-
footed broadaxe-man. The heaviest boots
made are none too heavy for that. Even
those giants of the Royal Show, all of
whom are broadaxe-men, would not risk
working in the bush in light boots. Have
seen bushmen, among them one of the
Sydney Show champions, squaring minus
everything but their blucher boots. For
confirmation storekeepers in any timber
town will tell you the military boot is
their best seller, with the sandshoe a
bad last.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: A stallion might be “no
flamin’ good f’r a hack” (B. 19/8/’42),
but a Clydesdale entire in the shafts of
a dray is something worth writing home
about. In the old days on Prill Park
(N.S.W.) there was Mick, whose proper
name was about a yard long and whose
pedigree went back to the Crusades or
somewhere. Mick was too big for the
shafts of the dray on which I was cart-
ing green pine slabs for timbering a well,
so we shoved Dusty Sal, an ancient and
cunning mare, in them and hooked Mick
ahead in tandem. That horse-mountain
not only lugged the drayload of slabs
but also the mare, since she was a born
jib and jammed her hind feet tight down
and sat in the breeching. They still
reckon some of the scars her feet scored
in the country when. Mick was pulling
her and the dray later on turned into
creeks. Another time Mick was pulling
Sal, me and a mighty load of chaff home
from Tammit, when a dead box limb
picked me off the load. Mick wasn’t
stopping for details that day, and even
went straight through the homestead
gate, with me stumbling along' behind
between prayers and profanity. That
blasted stallion could walk seven miles
an hour, and he revelled in displaying
what he could do with a loaded dray and
a reluctant partner. In the yard he was
as docile as a kitten, a fact which ruined
one of the boss’s best roosters. The bird
was swapping small talk with Mick and
idly picked at a fly on the horse’s near
hind fetlock. There was a flash, a faint
thud, a few feathers floating downwind
and a ghostly crow as that rooster’s soul
joined its ancestors.
* * * •
“M. U. Ray”: In north-west Victoria,
south-west N. S. Wales and eastern S.A.
the term “mallee” covers a variety of
vegetables (B. 19/8/’42). The whipstick
is the most prevalent; it consists of a
number of thin, heavily-foliaged rods
springing from one solid root (the famed
mallee-root of winter fires) and growing
up to 10ft. high, the rods seldom exceed-
ing an inch in thickness. This stuff grows
so close that dogs can’t bark in it; the
leaves are green on the upper surface and
silvery underneath. Bull-mallee is bigger
timber, even up to 2ft. through, long,
twisted arms going up to leafy heads
maybe 20ft. high. Tough to cut and
good for swinglebars and rails, if you
can get a straight bit. Red mallee is
pretty much the same, except that it’s
straighter and the roots will supply water
in a pinch, “Rilston’s” “stunted gum”
mallee is probably the little, black-barked
stuff on which the manna gathers and
which showers stinking little black ants
on all who touch it, the leaves being
broad and dark green and purple. All
mallee is eucalyptus, and mallee is now
taken to cover “all low-growing species.”
The dinkum stuff is E. dumosa, from
which come oil, cockies and curses, and
which, as “Rilston” noted, goes on for
ever once you get into it.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Once saw a dispute con-
cerning the ownership of a mirror start
a bit of bother in the monkey pit at
Taronga Park Zoo. Out of the melee
a little brown fellow leapt, dashed to the
nearest pole and shinned up it, with a
big black monk, consistently missing his
tail by inches. At the top, his retreat
barred, Brownie took the only means
of escape—a jump of three feet to the
next vertical pole. The avenger followed,
whereupon the pursued jumped back
again. Six times the manoeuvre was
repeated; then Blackie climbed down,
disappeared for a moment and returned
with a cobber, who climbed the other
pole. Brownie, jumping across to avoid
the next attack, found himself cornered.
The avenger leaned over, scruffed the
little bloke, shook the mirror out of
him, meted out punishment in the form
of a hearty bite in the neck, and honoi
apparently was satisfied. But if that
monk, didn’t explain the situation to his
accomplice I’ll ride through Wagga on
a scrubbing-brush.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: To the pothunter all
game he bags, both furred and feathered,
is always deliciously tender. The wealthi-
est and stingiest guest at the guest-house
I once toiled at arrived home with a bush
turkey he’d shot. Epicurean expectation
gleamed in his eye when the chef con-
sented to cook and serve it for the
next day’s dinner. To me fell the task
of denuding the corpse of its plumage.
Although not unskilled, and granted also
unlimited boiling water, I finished the
job with a pair of pliers, though I felt
that the claw-hammer might have been
better, especially for the feathers along
the back. Roasted by an artist, basted
many times with hot dripping, that turk
shot off the plate at my first attempt to
carve it. But with the cook maintaining
a stranglehold with the two-pronged fork
and self using the breadsaw, we managed
to serve the seven helpings* the hunter’s
entire family. And with the h. leading
the chorus they all agreed that it was
lovely, just like chicken. The following
Sunday we served a choice young gobbler
from the backyard. This,J;he hunter con-
ceded, was not bad, “though a little on
the tough side compared .with the bush
turkey I brought home.”
Jfe * * ♦
“Merran Yarran”: That par. of Old
Gabe and Cockney Joe (B* 19/8/’42) was
a good one, but it prolongs the mis-
naming of a good river. It is the Edward,
not the Edwards.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Admittedly, the old grey
mare isn’t what she used to be, and, with
the wind and sleet cutting him to the
bone, Seventyfiver’s impatience to reach
the township grew with every mile. He
kicked the nag’s ribs as a spell from
pounding her rump, but the most he
drew fo?th was two strides of body-shat-
tering jog before the aged dumper again
relapsed into her usual comatose state.
“So y’ won’t, eh?” wheezed the old bloke
at last. “All right, me girl, just you wait.
I’ll s’prise y’, see if I don’t!” The re-
mainder of the journey was heartened
by a secret and momentous intention
and by mysterious admonitions to the
nag to wait. Three hours later, his other
errands completed and on the home track,
he decided the time had now come, so,
cautiously donning the pair of vicious
looking spurs he had bought at the store,
he let fly with both heels. The result was
electric. The nag rose under the attack,
and the old bloke left the saddle to crash-
land in some mammoth blackberry
bushes. A few minutes later a torn and
blood-streaked scarecrow crawled pain-
fully forth, an unholy grin spreading
across his thorn-studded face. “There
y’ are,” he chortled exultantly to the old
grey feeding by the track, “told y’ I’d
give y’ a s’prise! ”
* * * *
“Propalong”: We left Horace at the
old Snake-nest Hut to be lord for a week
of all he surveyed: a prospect which,
as it was his very first spell alone, pleased
him mightily. We also left some dry-
salted mutton, and that pleased him not
at all. Going down to the tank at dusk
he discovered a bogged ewe, dead but
apparently quite intact because of the
cold snap which that year followed the
first hot fortnight of spring. Horace was
hungry and resentful at the thought of
salt meat, so he heaved the stiff carcass
out of the mud, got hold of the hind legs
and dragged it up the rise to the hut.
There his thoughts turned to grilled
chops. He didn’t know how to butcher
a sheep, but he knew where the jumbuck
carried its chop supply, so with the knife
he began an excavation over the ribs.
He bottomed on bone, made a few
exploratory drives and then got the axe.
Two swipes made a fair-sized hole and
enough mess to daunt anyone but
Horace. But Horace’s mind was focused
on chops. Grabbing the lantern, he bent
over the carcass to plan his next move.
And then, out of the gaping hole into
the flickering yellow light, came two cold
eyes, a sharp snout and a flickering
tongue. Horace squealed, dropped the
lantern and ran. When we came back
for him he was camped in the horse-
yards, and what the boss said about the
festering carcass and the bloated goanna
in the hut won’t bear writing.
* * * *
“Zake”: I have seen many a case of
gelignite and dynamite tossed around
with gay abandon by fellows who appar-
ently had little respect for the lethal
power of the stuff, and I marvelled not
a little. But I once hit a little mining
township in nor’-west N.S.W. where they
spoke with great disrespect of blasting
powder. A couple of miners returned
to their camp one day, and one of them
lit the fire and put a billy on. After a
bit he grabbed a handful of tea, lifted
the lid and was about to toss it in when
he heard a sizzling sound which water
doesn’t make. It was a couple of pounds
of blasting powder. Thinking quickly,
he hurried away and stood it gently in
the shade of a tree. Then the argument
started between him and his mate.
* * * *
“Old Bill”: The teapot is a wasteful
implement. It is generally stone cold
when taken to the kettle, and, being mas-
sive, uses up the actual boiling point
of the water merely in making its thick
delf hot; thus the tea, instead of being
infused, is merely soaked. Which ex-
plains why billy-tea, in which the
pekoe is tossed into the boiling, bubbling
water, is so much superior. Following this
line now that billy days are mostly over I
brew each cupful individually. Just a
pinch of tea is needed: have the water
really boiling and place the saucer on top
of the cup for the required four minutes.
Economical and real tea. The Chinaman
has made his tea that way for centuries.
* * * *
“J.D.P.”: Nature must have wrapped
“Bo’s” drover (B. 29/7/’42) in alligator
peel to resist the corrosive action of his
bath water. Knew an old Crimean codger
who fell into a cattle-dip while surfing
his tyke at the take-off. He did not rinse
his ensemble, along with the wiser Toby,
in an adjacent lagoon, but fled pubwards
to apply irrigation treatment to the in-
side of his whiskery neck, thereafter
spreading his frame in the sun to dry.
He spent the next fortnight in hospital
carefully packed in vaseline and cotton-
wool while his former tegument slowly
peeled off. On leaving he bore away his
ancient cracked hide as a souvenir.
"Oh dear! I Want coke, not coal!"
THE COW-COCKY’S PASTORAL.
Mud!
Clumps of it,
Thumps of it,
Foul, reeking dumps of it,
Splashes and lumps of it,
Thumping big plumps of it,
Mud!
Mud!
Bails of it,
Pails of it,
Splashing wet tails of it,
Splattering trails of it,
Fences and rails of it,
Mud!
Mud!
Seams of it.
Streams of it,
Nightmarish dreams of it,
Warm rising steams of it,
Everything seems of it,
Mud!
Mud!
Spirts of it.
Squirts of it,
Strawberry flirts in it.
Even my shirt’s in it,
How one reverts to it,
Mud!
Mud!
Sounds of it,
Pounds of it,
Great boggy mounds of it.
Mud!
’Struth! I’ll be found in it,
Blooming well drowned in it!
Mud!
VICTORIA.
COWSLIP.


BUILD UP MILK PRODUCTION
Tri-cal: Production is the first thing to
suffer when a cow is not receiving the
food elements she requires. In addition
to roughage and concentrates the cow
requires a mineral mixture in accord-
ance with pasture conditions. The most
valuable mineral supplement for in-
creasing milk production is Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour; it has a guaranteed mini-
mum of 33 p.c. phosphoric acid and
40 p.c. lime. I found that profitable
milking can be carried out for some
months longer by feeding Tri-cal-os to
the cows in the dry period.
&
r
k'
All particulars can be obtained from
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O.
Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Old Farmer.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE >A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Merinos and Wool.
“Bellfields”: The main thing in build-
ing up a merino flock is setting an ideal
and sticking to it.
The district and climate are important
in deciding the type of wool. When the
flock is being culled every ewe that
doesn’t measure up to the standard set
by the district must go out. But in ail
districts if a sheep is to carry heavy wool
it must have the area and the frame
to do it. Look for a good, well-shaped
frame, good legs and a fleece as even
and dense as possible.
Frame isn’t as important in merinos
as in lamb-producers ; still it must con-
form to type. Throw out anything weedy,
with devil’s grip (a dip between the shoul-
ders), narrow shoulders or rear and
crooked legs or feet. Out, too, with any-
thing carrying patchy wool, a fleece that
shows hair or kempy fibres, that lacks
density and length and that has too
much color. If you are bringing in new
rams or ewes, see that they have none of
these faults.
Best time to class is just before shear-
ing ; otherwise when the sheep have at
least seven months’ growth of wool
aboard.
Pulpy Kidney.
“Bungaree”: It can cause heavy loss
of lambs. Ewes should be inoculated
before lambing so as to give the lambs
some protection until they are old enough
to be vaccinated themselves at marking
time. Some ewes vaccinated regularly
before lambing have apparently attained
immunity. They should get two doses of
vaccine—the first any time between
mating and six weeks prior to the second,
which should be given 10 to 14 days
before they begin lambing.
The protection given the lambs through
the first milk of the ewes is only slight,
and in dangerous years lambs should be
inoculated at marking time. The dose
for lambs is 5 c.c., administered just
under the skin anywhere. Most people
favor the bare inside of the thigh, others
the brisket and others the slack skin on
the inside of the upper foreleg. Choose
a spot where the skin is not stretched
tightly.
The new alum-precipitated vaccine is
more potent that the older-type “plain”
vaccine—one dose equals two. It should
be used with care on crossbred lambs
intended for slaughter, as the alum may
leave a slight blemish on the tissue under
the skin. Unless the lambs are inocu-
lated in a spot that will not be noticed
when the carcasses are dressed the plain
vaccine should be used.
In a season such as this it may be
necessary to give lambs a second inocu-
lation. The first dose will not give pro-
tection for 10 to 14 days ; so, if lambs
are already dying before inoculation
takes place, expect further losses. If
losses continue a month or more after
the first dose a second dose should be
given. It will take effect at once.
Temporary expedients are yarding
overnight or taking the lambs off good
feed and driving them for a time. They
may be fed hay to offset effects. These
are merely expedients; vaccination is the
only reliable method of control.
A Classing Pen.
“R.N.”: The long-established practice
of holding each sheep while the classer
goes over it is still the best, since it makes
for thoroughness, but these days when
men are scarce it might be necessary to
follow some other method.
A good idea is to build a race in which
the sheep can be held while the classer
bends over the race-wall to inspect them.
Make it somewhere about 2ft. 6in. wide,
which will allow two sheep to stand side
by side, and with one wall not more than
3ft. high. The narrowness will stop
movement and the low wall allows the
classer to get well over his sheep. Have
the wall of rounded logs, or at least use
a round log on the top. It might be as
well to go through the selected jumbucks
a second time, just to make sure nothing
has been missed.
Build the classing race in such a
position that sheep from it can pass on
into the drafting race. A classing race,
say 40ft. long, filled with sheep and the
“ How's the new hand shaping , Dave?”
classer raddling the ones he wants, could
easily feed the drafting race so as to
allow the marked sheep to be cut out;
thus two men could handle the whole job.
Check pens should be built as such,
not just as square yards for holding
sheep. A check pen not more than Bft.
wide would give the classer a chance to
run a further eye over his sheep from
either side and is also handy when look-
ing for earmarks, brands or fats.
The classing race would come in handy,
too, for drenching and jetting.
Coastal Fodder.
“H.C.”: Best summer crops for the
N.S.W. South Coast are maize, sorghum,
Japanese millet and cowpeas. Fitzroy
maize has good, fine stems and holds the
sap longer. By drilling it’s possible to
cultivate and get a crop of 20 to 25,
tons per acre even in dry seasons. Sown
from September to January, at 251 b. to
301 b. an acre, the crop is ready for graz-
ing from December to May.
Sorghum is sown and ready for cut-
ting in the same months. The saccalmc
type is popular, but White African is
worth trying. Its heavy growth makes it
resistant to disease. When the seed is
broadcast 151 b. to 201 b. is needed per
acre, but if it is drilled only 61b. to 81b.
Milk-producing qualities of Jap millet
are almost as high as lucerne. Pigs do
well on it. Millet gives best results when
sown from October to February. In a
fair season the crop yields seven tons to
14 tons per acre. Seed can be broadcast
or drilled, 71b. to 101 b. an acre.
Sow cowpeas between October and
December at 201 b. per acre broadcast.
or 81b. to 101 b. in drills 3ft. apart. Pre-
paring the seedbed well repays in abun-
dant growth. Broadcasting the peas
through early maize crops ensures good
grazing after the maize is harvested.
Burr Clover
llTrn „
H.C. : Clover as a cover crop is
worth a trial by orchardists facing mtro-
gen and labor shortages It has already
put up a good record with prune-growers.
A re-seeder, it germinates with autumn
rams or irrigation, and M.I.A. men say
that it saves the trouble of preparing the
seedbed needed for ordinary green
manure crops. The clover grows from
March to November and keeps the soil
in a good permeable condition. It cuts
down the time usually taken by trees to
respond to irrigation and gives them
good growing days between waterings.
Crop and foliage then stand up better to
summer heat.
Keep the weeds down by light harrow-
mgs between November and March,
Then apply super, at about 2cwt. to the
acre. Plough lightly in early April and
grade if necessary. Put in irrigation
furrows that will be used until the fol-
lowing November and cut out spring
ploughing. Before the trees blossom,
apply sulphate of ammonia at the rate
of lewt. to 2cwt. per acre. Let the crop
grow until October or November and
then disc it in. Provide adequate irriga-
tion for cover crops and trees during the
growing season.
The native cover crop may call for a
regrading of ditches and levels or altera-
tions in length of furrows, since it slows
down the water flow. Increase the height
of the ditch banks to get a greater head
of water and you make up for this slow-
ing down. Don’t make grading altera-
tions during the blossoming and setting
period—the fruit crop will be adversely
affected —or during winter when the
cover crop is doing its work.
Citrus Culture.
“Pat Ater”: A. J. Foott, of Wilgamere,
Ourimbah Creek, near Gosford (N.S.W.),
has developed profitable methods of
growing oranges. He finds they don’t
need overmuch moisture, but must not
be allowed to dry right out, especially
when the fruit is filling and during blos-
som setting. He irrigates by spray when
prolonged dry spells occur. During
recent dry seasons two good soakings
were given each year, each approximating
2in. of rain. Keeping the trees in fine
fettle through the production period is
better than a last-minute flooding.
On the heavy soil of his property, too
much water and manure, particularly
nitrogenous, increases the rind beyond
marketable thickness. Feeding is done
systematically, and the ration is about
101 b. per tree, alternately of No. 1 mix-
ture and blood and bone, spread over the
root area in July-August and worked in
subsequently by hoes. On light sandy
soils heavier feeding is required.
Manuring, spraying, ploughing, culti-
vating to keep down weeds and occa-
sional pruning are all necessary. A cease-
less watch is maintained against pests
and diseases. Red scale was checked by
white oil emulsion. White louse is the
worst pest, and the standard lime-sulphur
solution (1 in 10) might be bettered for
it. White wax scale is wiped out in its
young stages with washing soda spray.
Black spot is kept under with Bordeaux
mixture, but Foott feels that this could
be bettered by something more stringent.
Horses are preferred to tractors, main
objection to the latter being compacted
undersoil after use. Two-furrow ploughs
for spring use between rows, with
“springtaii” cultivator, one-way disc for
summer weeds and hoes under the trees
is the programme. Saccaline, winter and
spring oats (Algerian and Buddah) and
maize are grown for horse feed.
On a five-acre paddock lj bags of
blood and bone and 2\ tons of winter-
saved farmyard manure per acre assure
quick maize growth, the best way of
beating the corn beetle.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: If the cows begin to
eat bark or the like you can be sure they
lack essential calcium and phosphoric
acid. Give them a lick of equal parts of
sterilised bonemeal and salt. If they
don’t take to it, add a little
molasses at first. Put the bone-
meal and salt in separate con-
tainers.
“L. Cove”: Grinding husks and
cores of corncobs and adding
them to ground corn for feed
upsets Dennis’s digestion no
matter how finely they are ground. Try
serving the cobs as charcoal. After
the pigs have chewed the corn off, rake
cores and husks into a pile and burn
them. When they are a mass of red coals
pour water over them: gather up old
bones and burn them, too. Then add to
the charcoal made from the cobs. This
provides good charcoal and mineral
matter for the pigs and clears up other-
wise useless waste.
“Mullengah”; When feeding skim-miik
’and grain to pigs the correct proportion
is Igal. of skim-milk to 61b. of grain.
Fed when grain Is worth £6 a ton, the
return for the skim-milk is 4d. per gallon,
against per gallon when fed alone.
A mixture of 50gal. of skim-milk and
3001 b. of grain will put 1001 b. weight on
a pig.
“Sailor Bill”: Before planting spread
potato seed under a tree for a week to
encourage shoot formation and to find
faulty spuds. Big ones should be halved
before planting, and the cuts dusted with
slaked lime. The potato is at home in
a potash-rich soil, and is helped by horse
cultivation and hoeing during the growing
period.
“Canbelego”: A good brine for
pickling meat can be made from 31b. of
common salt, £lb. of brown sugar, 4oz.
of saltpetre and 2gal. of water. Boil
the mixture half an hour and strain. With
the brine, rub into the meat, two or three
times a week, a mixture of Boz. of bay
salt (crude), Boz, of common salt, 6oz. of
brown sugar, 2oz. of saltpetre and 2oz.
of black pepper. Increase the quantities
in proportion as required.
“5.8.”: To protect seedlings from frost
sow the seed in prepared beds, then drive
a forked stick 3ft. long into the ground
at each of the four corners of a square.
Lay two light poles between the forked
sticks and cover the top with wire net-
ting. At dusk the wire netting should
be covered with dry grass, branches, etc.


KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help T 5 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and gefi
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles
of kidney tubes and filters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger of acid
poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
flness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of Intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters.
Don’t delay I Ask your chemist or stord
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS ...
used successfully the world over by millions!
of people. They give quick relief and will
help to flush out the 15 MILES of kidney
tubes. GET DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEX
PILLS at your chemist or store.
For Bronchitis
Coughs, Colds
Canadiol Mixture Quickly
Loosens Things Up
It’s different—it’s faster in action —
it’s compounded on superior, medical
fact findings new in this country.
Buckley’s Canadiol Mixture (triple act-
ing) is the name of this amazing cough
and cold prescription that “acts like a
flash” yet is so pure and free from
harmful drugs that a child can take it
—and stop coughing.
One little sip and the ordinary cough
is eased—a few doses and that tough
old hang-on cough is silenced —it’s
wonderful to watch how speedily hard,
lingering colds are put out of business.
Right away that tightness begins to
loosen up—the bronchial passages clear
—you’re on your toes again—happy and
breathing easier.
Get Buckley’s—by far the largest-
selling cough medicine in all of bliz-
zardly cold Canada —to-day. At your
chemist or store.
&ue/Jeq’i
CANADIOL
MIXTURE
A SINGLE SIP PROVES IT
Wireless alone can meet the
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units... j
INSTANT ★ CONSTANT * CERTAIN ;
" ' * ’ ■'%/; \
AUSTRALIAN-MADE 1
RADIOTRON
R A D I O VALVES
Australian general electric proprietary, ltd.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
xv:-
m
1
k\//
m
/
X1035D8.41
"The secret's in
the 333’s blend!’*
WESm
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
ISI CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney. Gable and Radios GrancentraL
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Outback Occasions.
No. 50.
THE RIDDLE ON THE WALL.
Of course we know the answer now,
but in those days it was a new one to
us, and it came up when old Tom
Browdy dropped in one night for a yarn.
Tom and our father had been mates
when they were boys—anything under
30 was a “boy” to Father and Tom
and any time either of them heard a new
joke or a yarn or of a high-jump or har-
vest record he’d go as soon as he could
to tell the other about it.
This night old Tom had a new puzzle.
“There’s a bloke in the store t’day,” he
said, “an’ he tol’ it. It’s like this: I’m
lookin’ at a photo, on the wall, see, an
I say:
“ ‘Brothers and sisters have I none,
But that man’s father is my father’s son.’ ”
There was a pause. We all looked at
Tom. Tom looked at us. Then Father
said “Well, what’s the riddle?”
“That’s it,” said old Tom ; “y’ hafta
find whose son it is.”
“Aw, that’s easy,” said Father. “Who
is it?”
“No. You hafta tell that.”
“Yams, I know. But whose picture
is it?”
“That’s just it. That’s what y’ hafta
find.”
“But you said we had to find whose
son it was.”
“Too right.”
“Well, how the hell can we do that if
we don’t know his name?”
“What’s his name got t’ do with it?”
Father drew a breath, then he said
slowly “Look, y’ said the bloke’s fathei
is my father’s son, didn’t y’?” Tom
nodded. “Well, that’s all right. He’s
my father’s son, but y’ can’t go any
further-—y’ can’t say who he is—unless
there’s a name in it somewhere.”
Tom frowned. Father looked at him.
We looked at him. Suddenly Tom
smacked his thigh. “Cripes,” he said, “I
knew there was something wrong. Y’
don’t hafta to find his name ; y’ got t’
say whose photo, it is, see?”
We thought that over. Then our
brother asked Tom to repeat the formula
again and he did. Father grinned. “Aw,
it’s easy,” he said. “It’s his brother.”
Old Tom laughed scornfully and
Father got annoyed.
“I’ll betcha it’s his brother,” he cried.
“It couldn’t be his sister if it’s a man,
and a bloke can’t be his father’s father,
so it must be his brother.”
“Listen,” said Tom. “ ‘Brothers an’
sisters have I none’ —is that clear?”
Father subsided. Old Tom turned to us
boys and said “You boys know?”
“It’s a picture of himself,” I said.
“Don’t be silly,” said our brother. “It
says his father is your father’s son. How
can it be himself?”
I didn’t know. It was getting too com-
plicated for me. Suddenly Father came
back into the fight. “It’s his brother,”
he asserted. “Look, it says ‘brothers’
have I none. Well, that’s plural, see?
But it don’t say ‘brother’ have I none.”
This seemed feasible to us, but old
Tom wouldn’t have it. We called on
him to explain. He tried hard but got
himself snarled up among “fathers” and
“brothers” and “nones” until neither he
nor anyone else could follow him. Then
he fell silent a moment and frowned and
muttered anxiously to himself, and finally
came out with “Well, it ain’t his brother.”
“Oh, rubbish,” said our father chid-
ingly ; “it must be.”
“It’s not!”
Father looked hard at Tom ; then he
leaned toward him and said trium-
phantly “Well, if it isn’t, who is it?”
This sat old Tom back on his heels.
He made one or two attempts to speak
but cut them short, frowned, cut some
tobacco in an absorbed sort of way and
filled his pipe ; then he said, with a hunted
look about him, “It must be himself.”
“That’s what I said,” I shouted. Tom
stopped ramming the pipe, looked at me
and said “Didger? Well, y’ wrong.”
This was too much for Father. “You're
a beauty,” he roared. “Y’ come here
givin’ us riddles an’ then y’ don’t know
the answer, an’ when we give y’ answers
y’ swear we’re wrong. What’s the matter
with you?”
Old Tom was dogged. “I know it ain’t
his brother an’ it ain’t himself,” he said.
He looked at our brother and added
“Listen, tell it again, will y’?”
Our brother looked startled. “It wasn’t
me,” he said. “It was you.”
“Eh?” Old Tom looked surprised and
scratched his head. Father said to our
brother “Look, get a pencil an’ write it
down.” Our brother got a pencil and
old Tom remembered it and it was
written down. Father took the paper,
conned over it a long time and said re-
sentfully “I still say it’s his brother.”
Then he passed the paper to our brother,
who eyed it sourly and said “Wouldn't
matter what a man said, he’d be sure
to be wrong. I reckon it ain’t anybody.”
He handed it on to me. I did my best.
I imagined the picture on the wall and
me looking at it and the father business
and not having any brothers or sisters,
and the only thing I could see was myself
and said so.
“Well, you’re all wrong,” declared old
Tom Browdy, “an’ I’ll go down t’ the
store t’morrow an’ prove it. Give me
that paper.” He took the paper and,
in an indignant sort of way, went home.
We tossed half the night trying to work
it out. At breakfast next morning we
were still at it. At lunchtime old Tom
rode over on his flea-bitten hack and
said “I bin down to the store, but the
bloke was gone an’ they couldn’t
remember.”
“Aw, cripes,” said Father, “I tell y’
it was his brother.”
In the end we made our bets about it
and decided to write to The Bulletin.
They said it was a picture of the man's
son, and after a lot of thought we boys
could see it. But we could also see that
Father and old Tom doubted it.


d
w
a
£ Co SpQt t
*'*k ing
1*59
tew
'ess Vi
dfgfdgfdg
NO. 4 OF A SERIES
Brake troubles develop gradually as a
result of ordinary wear and tear. They
seldom come about upon an instant’s
notice. Warning signals come before-
hand. Heed them and follow the wise
course of consulting your G.M. Dealer.
He is skilled in brake diagnosis and
equipped with proper facilities and appa-
ratus for determining and measuring the
condition of braking systems.
Hints that will ensure efficient braking;
At all speeds above the very slowest, apply
the brakes before disengaging the clutch.
This gives a smoother and safer stop, and
lengthens life of linings and tyres.
Use the hand brake regularly when stop-
ped on an upgrade, this will keep undue
strain off the far more vital foot emer-
gency system.
Don’t tug the life from brake linings with
constant fierce stops.
The job of the linings is to take the strain
of stopping the car and the load safely.
This strain is sometimes taken under ter-
rific heat up to 1450 degrees but if
you use your brakes sensibly, and avoid
making every stop an emergency stop, by
giving yourself time to stop smoothly and
quietly, you will obtain far more active
miles from every set of linings.
dfgfdgfdgfd
Serve and Save by Buying WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
-General Motors
BEDFORD—BVICK CADILLAC
— CHEVROLET — G.M.C. — OLDS-
MOBILE—PONTIAC - VAVXIIALL
GENERAL MOTORS— HOLDEN'S LIMITED
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
GMH 10-16
Dealer
“BILL ABONG ”
TROUGHING
■"PANICS''
atent no 2176
patent no 2176
'V>VE»S^ < V^
Sheep
A GOOD SUPPLY OF PURE WATER
ESSENTIAL FOR YOUR STOCK.
Write for Prices and Particulars to
fIOdjSKS~
Cattle
Stable Door
Pig
&9
no
52
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Our Service Department
Information Sought.
How to remove the brown stains on old
books and prints?
Remedy must depend on cause. To remove
the commonest brown stains, commonly- known
as “foxing,” which appear on old prints and the
pages of old books, and to prevent further de-
terioration, a solution of oxalic acid, citric acid
or tartaric acid is applied with a small camel-
hair, brush. The pages of the books must be
kept open to the air in order to dry properly.
The acids named do not attack printing ink.
Prints or books should be kept in a dry place.
Dampness causes stains.
* * * *
Particulars of the island of Mauritius? When
was it first discovered ?
The island was known to Arab navigators not
later than the tenth century, was no doubt
visited by Malays in the fifteenth century, and
was discovered by the Portuguese between 1507
and 1512, but the first settlers were the Dutch
in 1598. In 1710 they abandoned the island
and it was occupied by the French under the
name of Isle de France in 1715. The British
occupied it in 1810, and it was formally ceded
to Great Britain by the Treaty of Paris in 1814.
The island is about 500 miles east of Mada-
gascar, has an area of about 720 square miles
and a population (estimated at 1939) of 419,059,
including 12,144 in the dependencies. Staple
exports include sugar, copra and poonac, and
aloe fibre.
* * * * '•
(1) Is the title “Marquis of Lorn” (or
Lome ) extinct? (2) Where and how did it pass
from the Stewart clan to the Campbells ? (3)
If the title is in existence, what branch of the
Campbells holds it, and who is the heir to the
title ?
(1) No. It is one of the subsidiary titles of
the Duke of Argyll. (2) No evidence that a
Stewart ever held the title, which was created
in 1701. An account in Whitaker’S Peerage
of the history of the Campbell clan says that
Sir Colin Campbell, of Lochow, who was
knighted by Alexander 111 in 1280, was later
slain in battle by the Lord of Lorn. Whether
this Lord of Lorn was a Stewart or not
is uncertain, as early Stewart family records
have been destroyed by fire. (3) There is no
record of the title having been relinquished
at any time, and the present holder would be
the current Duke of Argyll, Niall Diarmaid
Campbell, who among his numerous other
titles is the Keeper of the Great Seal of Scot-
land. The heir presumptive to the dukedom is
lan Douglas Campbell, first cousin, once re-
moved, of the present duke.
* * * *
What is the law governing the branding of
knitting and crocheting wool manufactured in
Australia? Is it being observed? If not, how
is one to know the percentage of fibre blend-
ing ?
There is no Federal law compelling manu-
facturers and makers-up to mark on textile
piecegoods apparel the content of the fibres.
Nor is there any Federal law providing that
wholesalers *and retailers shall carry such mark
on to labels displayed on textiles offered for
sale. Such legislative power falls within the
province of State Governments, and all States,
except Tasmania, have laws dealing with
the labelling of certain specific products, such
as blankets. Prior to the war the Australian
Agricultural Council, which comprises repre-
sentatives of all State Governments under the
chairmanship of the Minister for Commerce,
agreed upon a principle of uniform legislation
being enacted by all States to provide for aftix-
ing to textile goods manufactured and offered
for sale in Australia a label indicating the
fibres extraneous to wool in woven or knitted
goods and knitting yarns. Owing, however, to
the outbreak of war and the concentration or
all woollen manufacturing machinery upon
production under a war-time economy, the ad-
ministrative steps necessary to apply the prin-
ciple have not been taken.
* * * *
In comic papers, farmers fire guns loaded
with saltpetre at boys stealing fruit. Is such a
thing a myth? And, if it is true, wouldn’t it
be dangerous and illegal?
It has been done. Shot is removed from the
cartridge and then replaced with saltpetre
crystals. About half the powder is also re-
moved. It is dangerous because the shock might
be worse than the wound. To discharge a
firearm at anybody, irrespective of what the
loading is, means trouble with the law and a
lot of explaining, no matter what the provo-
cation.
* * * *
(1) Is there any effective treatment for
arthritis ? If so, what is it ? (2) Does diet
help ?
(1) If you refer to rheumatoid arthritis, there
are certainly effective methods of treatment, too
long to describe in detail. The removal of focal
infections, the “protein-shock” therapy, the
use of artificially produced fever, and the
treatment by injections of gold may be meh-
tioned. All have enthusiastic advocates. (2)
A light diet, with an abundance of fresh fruit
and green vegetables, is advisable. Meat should
be limited in amount, and the patient should
be given plenty of fluids such as lemonade or
orange juice. Wheat germ should also be
given, and cod-liver oil is often helpful.
(1) Did Maoriland ever contribute to the cost
of the Royal Australian Navy ? When was the
M.L. Navy established? (2) Did M.L. con-
tribute to the cost of Singapore ?
(1) No. From 1887 to 1909 M.L.’s interest
in naval defence was expressed by contributions
to assist in maintaining an Imperial naval
force in Australian and M.L. waters. From
1887 the sum contributed amounted to £20,000
a year; in 1903 it was raised to £40,000 a year;
and in 1908 it was enacted that it should be
increased to £lOO,OOO a year for 10 years as
from May 12, 1909. The Imperial Conference
in London in 1909 focused greater public
interest on the naval defence problem, and
M.L. undertook to present the battle-cruiser
New Zealand to the Imperial Government.
This ship was commissioned in 1911 and served
with battle-cruiser squadrons of the Grand
Fleet throughout the 1914-18 war. In 1913 M.L.
decided to prepare a naval organisation for
the express purpose Of manning ships to be
employed in M.L. waters, and the Naval De-
fence Act of 1913 empowered the Government
to raise and maintain naval forces and to
govern them by regulations issued under author-
ity of Orders-in-Council. In the same year
H.M.C. Philomel was detailed as a seagoing
training ship and a Naval Adviser to the M.L.
Government was appointed, but war broke out
before any other executive action could be
taken and Philomel was withdrawn for war
service. After the war Jellicoe visited the
Dominion to report on naval defence matters,
and after considering his report the Government
decided to give effect to the Act of 1913.
H.M.S. Chatham was lent by the Imperial Gov-
ernment in 1920 for service under the M.L.
Government, and the following year the first
batch of M.L. recruits joined H.M.S. Philomel,
which had been presented to the M.L. Gov-
ernment at the end of the war. So M.L. had,
“by a natural process of evolution, departed
from the policy of subsidies and assumed re-
sponsibility for a definite share in the material
organisation of naval defence.” She under-
took to maintain a seagoing naval force and a
training centre under her immediate control.
(2) Yes. Parliament passed an Act in 1927 bind-
ing the Dominion Government to contribute
to the cost of construction of the Imperial
naval base at Singapore. It consisted of annual
subsidies providing for a total contribution of
£1,0U0,000. The last instalment was paid during
the year ended March 31, 1936. In 1927 the
Government also announced that M.L. would
undertake the responsibility for the maintenance
of modern cruisers when the Singapore subsidy
had lapsed.
* * * »
What are normal systolic and diastolic blood
pressures for a man of 60, and would 80 and
125 respectively be considered too low ?
For various reasons, there is no “normal
blood pressure” for a man of 60 ; but 95 to
100 diastolic and 160 systolic are a bit high.
The figures you give are not too low in the
absence of heart or other constitutional
disease.
* * * ♦
Method of tanning leather, using wattle
bark ?
To make wattle-bark solution, crush bark as
fine as possible, put it in a wooden, earthen-
ware or concrete vessel and fill with boiling
water. When cool pour off into a similar con-
tainer, add boiling water to cover and leave to
cool. Pour off water and repeat. These three
fillings, all mixed in the second container, are
the right strength. Soak skins till soft in clean
fresh water (24 to 48 hours), scrape off all fat,
put in tub and soak in solution for four days
to a week, airing each half-hour each day.
Dry in draughty shed, rubbing now and then to
soften. Trim with sharp knife.
* * * ♦
Is it possible to mend the rim of tortoiseshell
spectacle frames and method of doing so ?
If the frames are substantial a break any-
where save on the bow may be repaired by
drilling a very small hole —l-32in. or even
l-64in. —each side of the fracture and binding
together with copper or silver wire. It’s a job
for a jeweller. Repairs made by using adhesives
are never to be recommended, and it is always
less trouble m the long run to buy a new frame
Brief Answers.
R.L.: Enamel badges for Buick and Vaux-
haH cars can be obtained from the agents,
Boydeds, 150 Forbes-street, Woolloomooloo
Sydney; 9s. Buick; 7s. Vauxhall... .A McN •
(1) A good shampoo is loz. soft soap (pure)
2oz. carbonate of potassium dissolved in water’
to which is added 2oz. rectified spirit, 20oz’
rose water and perfume if desired. (2) Formula
for shaving cream is useless, as ingredients are
all unprocurable M.F.: Walks in Rome by
Augustus J. Hare, is out of print Brownell’s-
There are many such publications on sale-
write to the Soviet Book Shop, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney... .R.S.R.: Impossible to tell
from your description whether you are suffer-
ing from seborrhoea or ringworm, and therefore
useless to suggest treatment. You should con-
sult a skin specialist A.E.S.: Cannot trace
the song you are seeking R.H.T.: Justices
of the High Court now in office are Chief Jus-
tice Latham and Justices Rich, Starke, Dixon,
McTiernan and Williams. Owen Dixon is
absent from Australia as Australian Minister
in Washington. The greatest number of Jus-
tices ever in office at one time was seven,
namely, during the period from April 5, 1913,
to January 21, 1931. Since the last-mentioned
date the maximum number of Justices in office
at any one time has been six. The numbei
of Justices is limited by Section 4 of the
Judiciary Act. In 1903 the figure was three,
in 1906 five, in 1912 seven and in 1933 six
J.D.8.: To clean the metal, use one of the
commercial cleaners or mix whiting to paste
with liquid ammonia and use that. To resilver
is now not possible at home; special fluids and
special processes that were formerly available
to the amateur have now been diverted to war
purposes, and the only way is to have the
articles silver-plated by an established firm.
Try F.. Isles, of Brisbane F.J.McN.:
Cannot trace any such book as you describe.
Information too vague P.K.: You are not
the only one who would like to see the rest
of the poem. But so far it cannot be traced.
R.A.S.: Any bookseller should be able
to sell you a fairly cheap book containing
the information. You’ll find it in Pears’ Ency-
clopaedia if all else fails A. 5.8.; To prevent
freshly-cut myall and mulga from cracking
while it dries coat the cut ends with red lead
(or any good lead paint) and dry the wood in
the shade where there is free circulation of air.
When cutting the timber into small pieces give
each piece a coat of clear, hard varnish.
. ...H.8.M.: “Australian Woman’s Mirror”
of 20/ 7/ ’37 contains a column of the recipes
you require. Copy available from publishing
department for 9d., including postage 8.D.;
To cement path, mix one bag of cement, two
cub. ft. sand, four cub. ft. metal and six gallons
water. This will give you 4\ cub. ft. of
path. Wood ash would be useless, but you
could use coke ash in place of the metal. For
a durable path you must use bag cement—
H.A.C.: Western Electric “Audiphone” should
be suitable. The firm is forwarding particu-
lars of that device to you Word: In some
cases naturalisation is possible. Send particu-
lars to the Department of the Secretary of the
Interior, Canberra R.M.W.: Army Records
Department is forwarding you an application
form J.S.F.; As far as Australian practice
goes tennis nets and camouflage nets are made
only by hand; fishing nets by machine
A.C.P.; No legal provision. You might send
particulars to the Minister of the Interior, Can-
berra, also acquainting the Army Inspection
Branch, Victoria Barracks, Sydney, with the
facts of the case. There may be a possibility
of converting the place into a convalescent
hospital Babinda: Paving paint, obtainable
at any paint store, is an excellent medium.
Scrub the steps well and dry before application.
E.S.: Submit the stamps to a Hobart
stamp dealer for valuation J.D.: You will
have to make application for permission to
leave your present employment. Apply to
National Service Officer, Magellan-street, Lis-
more.


Public Notice.
I, GERTRUDE ELLEN MAJERSZKY, of
Hungarian nationality, born at Manchester,
England, and resident 28 years in Australia,
now residing at S.C.E.G.S., North Sydney, in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-36.
Missing Friends.
WOULD ALFRED WILLIAM RIGGS, a near
relative of the late Fred Riggs, of Adelaide
Road, Wellington, New Zealand, or any person
knowing his whereabouts, or ALFRED WIL-
LIAMSON MASON, please communicate with
the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Welling-
ton, N.Z.?
STORER, Arthur, who left Yarloop, W.A.,
about 1930. Will he or any person aware ot
his address now or since 1930 please communi-
cate with the WEST AUSTRALIAN TRUS-
TEE, EXECUTOR & AGENCY, CO., LTD.,
135 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia?
Legal Notice.
TO the brother of MICHAEL TREGONING
and uncle of MARY TREGONING (daughter
of Michael), formerly of Cornwall, in England,
and last heard of in Australia 45 years ago, and
to all persons claiming by, through or under the
said brother. You are requested to claim your
share in the estate of Mary Tregoning before
Ist January, 1943, or the estate will be dis-
tributed disregarding your claim. —The PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Wellington, New Zealand.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME" COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR WILLIAMS late of 10
Gloucester Street Burwood. —TAKE NOTICE
that ANTON ERTL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 476 of 1942 for divorce from his
wife MARY ELIZABETH ERTL on the
ground of her alleged adultery with you If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
by the 13th November 1942 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from EMIL E. J.
FORD & CO. Solicitors 350 George Street Syd-
ney.— (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRY PEARCE late of Sydney Railway
Employee.—TAKE NOTICE that PATRICIA
PEARCE has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1614 of 1942 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance on or before the 6th of Novem-
ber 1942' and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MADDOCKS COHEN
’& MAGUIRE Solicitors 38 Martin Place Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Wanted to Buy.
10-15 K.V.A. 3-phase Alternator. Star con-
nected. Complete with control gear. 415 volts.
50 cycle. Direct coupled steam driven. Or,
alternatively, component parts for a complete
unit.—Box 782 J, G.P.0., Melbourne.
V
i
-
*
■m
"Sffe give them the t 0015...
dfgfdgfdgfd
Above the thunderous tumult of War, from the
very core of the fast-moving drama, comes the
clarion call of Churchill for mere tools, so that
the job may be finished and victory be won.
Swiftly the wheels of industry are turned from
peace-time pursuits, and the factories of Aus-
tralia move into the front line.
Tuned to meet the nation's need, rich in experi-
ence. and with men and machines capable of
turning out equipment of the greatest technical
and scientific integrity, E.T.C. is mobilized for
war.
And the watchword is accuracy. Just as the
men of Anzac give their best, so the factory
front is manned with those who are anxious,
with courage and determination, to do a job
worthy of their race.
leciiico
And we too are proud as each
tested unit passes into the line
bearing the hall mark-—"A
fecnico Product."
E. T. C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
QHR. CARRINGTON RC. AND RENWICK ST., MARRICKVILLE, N. S. W.
4-33-41
dfgfdgfdg
10 for lit . 20 fori 10
Also in Fifties
It’s their extra touch of quality -
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
MAPE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
mm
E 1865
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —
A.N.S.:
Oh, dear Gandhi, I am glad
You’re in gaol, you’re in gaol.
So if you get up to your old trick
Of hunger-striking or getting sick.
Every Harry, Tom or Dick
Will not care a damn.
H'.H.:
The day has been long and telling
And the innards of some are yelling
For the brew down the road
At the beerhouse not far away.
But at the door Bung is standing
With greetings so sad but true;
“No beer today I’ve been landing,
I’m sorry to have to tell you.”
... .C.A.P.: Arnold Wail said that for us about
mosquitoes. .1 .C.M.0’8.: It looks like “Shear-
ing Time” all right; and it smells like shear-
ing time. But it reads as if it was dashed
off during smoke-0h... .J.C.; It doesn’t begin
to be a poem... .J.H.: Then “we, the young
moderns,” will have to learn that “the crude
stabbing color, the rich ugly words our pain
calls art” aren’t E.W.R.: Gandhi has a lot
to answer for G.M.H.: Yes, promising
A. : Rough A.M.M.: Underdone....
B. : Doesn’t get there... .G.G.: Too slight.
W.L.S.: Reading the established authors is
better than, any textbook G.M.: “Now it
has rained, it’s not so dry at Mungindi.” And
very natural, too ... .J. 8.8.: Cows are cows
and “kine” is a cow... .D. McC.: “Life” is a
large theme J.L.: Why don’t you say “Like
a proud old woman” instead of “Like proud
old woman”? P.J.F.: “I want to be out
in the open.” Off with you V.M.H.:
“Heave-e-o, boys, heave-e-o!” And heavc-e-o
we did... .L.T.C.: Nearly... .E.W.: It’s maga-
zine stuff W.H.K.H.: And so is “Inscrut-
able Kate” H.V.P.: “Sunday at Peters’
Place” begins well enough, but subsides into
dull routine J.E.: Sickly sweet K. 8.0.;
Too much the magazine story R.E.R.: Near;
but it’s too slight. Try us with others D.S.;
Flapper fodder... .P.R.M.; So is “The Hill.”
. ...D.W.8.: Both come close... .S.W.P.:
“Have vivid memories of an uncle of mine
sending some poetry to you some 30 years ago.
Your answer to him was ‘Rot’!” History re-
peats itself....R.D.: If you could say it with-
out adding to the appalling list of parodies ot
Kipling’s “1f”... .T.M.: Only the clerks ot
the travel bureaux are permitted to write about
“scenic splendor”... .H.P.: Woodman, spare
not yon “self-reliant” forest giant.. . .p.W.:
“I am enclosing a poem called ‘Spring. An,
well, it’s the first this year M.R.: Take
more pains with ’em, and then try a woman s
paper.... M.T.McN.: “One needs the pen of
Ossian.” Then, if one hasn’t got it, what s the
use? J.R.P.: Surely this is a little unkind
to worms? :
I understand so many things.
Birds fly because God gave them wings.
Because he knows his real worth
A worm remains beneath the earth.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
MKT.: Your abos. belong to the Tennessee
cotton fields....H.S.: Gent, clinging to ‘No
Parking” sign, with placard around ms necK
marked “Full,” was emptied out on sight.


You
cannot bequeath
your Judgment
or experience
The judgment and experience a man accumu-
lates in his lifetime cannot be passed on to
his dependents. For this reason it is doubly
important that he should take the necessary
steps to ensure that his estate is managed with
competence and fidelity.
For more than 63 years The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited has
provided the impartial advice and assistance
of a permanent corporation as Executor,
Trustee, Attorney, Agent, and in other capaci-
ties of a fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the company ensures
continuity in the execution of a trust, which
cannot be provided by a single individual.
Charges are fixed and moderate and ample
security is provided. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for full information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
1 BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E. ; G. S. Cohnan, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman);
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
=T Gen. Manager: H. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes :
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
The Federal Mutual Insurance Comnany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACGIDENTINSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All Slates.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney-
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Written
June, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 253,866 5J p.c. = 260,646 4,417,446
1933.. 259,077 5 „ „ 236,950 20,000 4,419,573
1934.. 256,731 5 „ „ 236,951 20,000 4,419,353
1935. . 263,937 5 „ „ 236,951 25,000 4,421,339
1936.. 298,227 6 „ „ 284,341 25,000 4,410,225
1937.. 342,041 6i „ „ 308,035 25,000 4,419,231
1938.. 365,975 7 „ „ 331,730 35,000 4,418,476
1939.. 377,454 7 „ ~ 331,730 35,0'00 4,429,200
1940.. 389,492 7* „ „ 355,426 35,000 4,428,266
1941.. 384,589 * 7* „ ~355,426 35,000 4,422,429
1942.. 377,162 7$ „ ~355,426 25,000 4,419,165
The trading banks have played, and
continue to play, an important part in
the development of Australia’s war effort.
They were the spearhead of the series of
economic controls which marked the
switch from peace to war conditions.
One of the first steps taken to divert
necessary goods and services into re-
quired channels was control and direc-
tion of the flow of money. Credit —
chief stock-in-trade of the banks—was
therefore placed on the rationed list early
in the piece, and the price of it (interest
rates) was fixed at a low figure, which
has been further forced down, despite the
all-round rise in costs. In these and
other directions the wings of the banks
have been clipped a bit closer than those
of most other traders.
The trading banks, which had agreed
voluntarily to most of the restrictions
now imposed upon them, are obliged to
follow the policy of the central bank in
granting credit, buying securities and in
fixing interest charges—the highest rate
for advances is now 5 p.c., irrespective of
the risk. They are also obliged to deposit
with the central institution their surplus
investible funds (the growth in Austra-
lian deposits since Aug., 1939) at a rate
of interest —less than 1 p.c. at the
moment —designed to ensure that net
earnings don’t exceed average profits for
the three years to the end of Aug., 1939.
By thus freezing part of the trading
banks’ liquid assets, the central bank,
which also enjoys a monopoly in the
foreign exchange market, has been
placed in a strong position to divert
public savings to the war elfort by lend-
ing them to the Government —the trading
banks could have done this direct —and
at the same time to control secondary in-
flation within the limits of its powers.
To help offset rising costs and assist in
the solution of man-power problems,
trading hours of the banks have been
reduced and, where competition had
forced unnecessary overlapping, branches
have been closed. Last term the C.B.S.
shut down 33 of its outposts.
Since the entry of Japan into the war,
and with the shipping problem becoming
more acute, Australia has advanced
nearer to a state of siege economics—it
has become more than ever dependent
upon its own productive, distributive and
man-power resources for both war and
civilian requirements. Also, rapid ex-
pansion of the fighting forces and Allied
services has produced a host of prob-
lems involving adjustment of production,
consumption and man-power as between
war and civilian needs. This in turn has
led to a wide extension of controls which
have restricted supplies available for
civilians in order to meet vital war
demands. There have been serious over-
lapping and muddling connected with
these controls, especially those relating to
war organisation of industry and man-
power, and generally there has been too
much bureaucratic concern with petty
details. Equity demands that financial
policy be remoulded by imposing direct
taxation on a broader basis in order to
meet loss of revenue from company tax,
sales tax and customs receipts.
Expanding war expenditure, met partly
from savings and partly from credit ex-
pansion, and the contraction in demand
for bank accommodation are reflected
in the following comparison of the
C.B.S.’s balance-sheet figures;
1939. 1941. 1942.
Notes .. .. £13,602 £13,586 £13,549
Bills •• •• 1,154,948 2,031,214 ).. ... qo-
Deposits* .. 53,713,813 56,530,020 j tu,dlt>,d 0
Liquids . .. 20,895,574 26,647,627 32,229,532
Advances .. 42,114,246 40,080,147 36,690,503
Premises, etc... 1,206,620 1,186,200 1,162,908
Other assets .. 582,862
* Including provision for contingencies.
Last term a growth of £2,755,131 in
deposits, etc., was accompaned by a
shrinkage of £3,389,644 in advances and
the addition of £5,581,905 to low-interest-
bearing liquids. These liquids include
£4,769,000 special deposit with the Com-
monwealth Bank. When the books closed,
liquids amounted to 52.5 p.c. and ad-
vances to 59.8 p.c. of deposits, bills, etc.,
and the bank was holding £6 13s. lid. of
the public’s money for every pound of
its own. It is a very strong position, but
means moderate earning power.
The profit for the twelvemonth (down
£7427) was 7.9 p.c. on the £4,739,012 of
share capital compared with 8.1, 8.2, 7.9,
1.1 and 7.2 p.c. back to 1937. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s net earnings were only
4.1 p.c. The div. was kept at 1\ p.c., but
may not be maintained. Average net
earnings for the three years to the close
of accounts in 1939 were 7.6 p.c. on
capital.
Meggitt, Ltd.
f Dividends
Pref.*
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 7,623 3400 2ip.c.= 8.184 103,745
1933.. 25,968 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 97,245
1934.. 29,078 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 87,635
1935.. 30,354 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 76,749
1936.. 43,479 3400 84,, „ 27,826 64,496
1937.. 45,020 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 56,213
1938.. 46,464 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 46,486
1939.. 45,907 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 37,316
1940.. 40,821 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 33,232
1941.. 39,788 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 30,181
1942.. 29,887 3100 7f „ „ 25,371 28,765
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October 1, 1931.
Linseed, imported from India and the
Argentine and the co.’s chief raw
material, is the problem of the hour, total
Australian requirements running to some
1,300,000 bushels annually. So far Meg-
gitt appears to have been able to get its
requirements, but at high cost, and its
supply lines have now become more vul-
nerable. With characteristic enterprise,
therefore, and co-operation from agricul-
tural departments, it has set about en-
couraging local production of the stuff, in
N.S.W. supplying seed cheaply in
approved districts and offering world
parity at time of harvest for the resultant
crops. Developments are still rather
experimental, however, conservatism of
farmers and the dry seasonal outlook
around April-May not being conducive
to the sowing of as big an acreage as
hoped for.
Meantime there has been no let-up in
the demand for the linseed-cake and -oil
which the co.’s factories at Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Port Adelaide turn out. As
stock food, the meal means more wool,
mutton and beef for the pastoralist, while
the dairy-farmer finds Daisy’s supply of
milk increased and the butterfats en-
riched. Markets for the oil, a ton of
which results from each two tons of
cake produced, once presented problems,
but these were solved at considerable
effort and, just at the moment, the diffi-
culty is to meet demand for the stuff,
notwithstanding Government control of
the paint industry and the rather changed
nature of activities of Michael Nairn, the
offshoot of the Scottish lino, people which
the board encouraged to set up locally.
The reduction of £9901 in last term’s
net earnings was therefore due to factors
beyond the board’s control. The extent
to which taxation may have influenced
things isn’t evident; but after “ample”
provision for the item and writing-off
depreciation of £13,127 the £29,887 of
profit shown represented 8.1 p.c. on capi-
tal, compared with 10.8 p.c. for the year
before. The div. was reduced to 1\ p.c.
all round —the minimum rate applicable
to the 40,000 prefs. under the N.S.W.
Interest Reduction Act. That left £1416
to benefit general reserves, which noW
offset all but £28,765 of the £115,748, at
which goodwill, not treated as an asset
herein, appears.
Movements in finances were mainly in
connection with linseed shipments:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £367,369 £367,369 £367,369 £367,369
Liabilities .. 78,022 309,691 176,524 305,293
Depi-ec. reserve 64;639 70,101 87.874 100,127
Premises .. 85,988 92,437 98,524 100,003
Plant . . 129,890 139,913 140,988 143,554
Stocks .•• 134,546 256,496 198,754 276,555
Book debts .. 57,300 88,897 70,461 93,942
Cash, etc. .. 83,356 168,554 123,227 156,204
Stocks, in monetary value never higher,
moved up £77,801 and liabilities £128,769.
Still, there was an improvement of £5490
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£221,408). Deducting the whole of the
depreciation provision from plant would
leave the latter in at 30 p.c, of cost. Apart
from the raw-material problem, scant
national attention to primary industries’
man-power requirements, particularly
dairying, obscures the future.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit Dividends. serves, serves.
1932.. 42,807 5 p.c. = 25,000 17,807 200,439
1933.. 47,761 24 „ „ 12,500 35,261 235,700
1934.. 52,165 10.7 „ „ 37,500 14,665 250,365
1935.. 59,642 8.9 „ „ 31,250 28,392 278,757
1936.. 67,710 14.5 „ „ 43,750 23,960 302,717
1937.. 62,937 20 „ „ 50,000 12,937 315,644
Deprec. reserve disappears, £20,368.. 295,276
1938.. 81,676 221 p.c. = 56,250 25,426 320,702
Deprec. reserve disappears, £11,803.. 308,899
1939.. 76,511 20 p.c. = 50,000 26,511 335,410
1940.. 53,957 20 „ „ 50,000 3,957 339,367
1941.. 51,236 20 „ „ 60,000 1,236 340,603
1942. 44,992 74 „ „ 18,750 26,242 366,845
Although the old quantities of concen-
trates aren’t being railed to the smelters
on the seaboard, the slash in the
div. the usual February distribution
was passed —is rather breath-taking.
The report doesn’t air the whys
or wherefores, and profits of them-
selves don’t indicate that any of the
locos, “piled up” in the Border City’s
dust or suggest other reasons for so deep
a cut. Whether the board’s intent was
more than conservatism today’s meeting
may tell.
The co.’s fortunes are mainly those
of the Barrier lead-zinc mines; its
36-mile track links Broken Hill with the
S.A. State railway at Cockburn. The big
factor in recent earnings has been the
British lead contract, which comes up
for another year’s renewal at the end of
the month. For most of the period under
review the deal was, broadly, for 90 p.c.
of previous tonnages ; still, the volume
of freight to go through the co.’s yards
was “comparable” with the previous
term’s figures, showing increases in the
higher-rated goods and passenger traffic
—this partly on defence account.
Gross earnings (£158,738) lifted
£9136; working exes, were in sym-
pathy with the upward trend of basic
wage and fuel costs, while taxes paid
(£32,247) were also £6630 bulkier, partly
because of the previous term’s under-
provision. Hence the decline of £6244
in this page’s calculation of net earnings
(£44,992). That includes prior additions
of £4293 net to reserves, mainly on
account of depreciation. On the quarter-
million of capital, the £44,992 was 18 p.c.,
compared with 20.4, 21.6, 30.6 and 32.6
p.c. for the four years before, the last
two of which reflect the heavy ’3B-39
mine outlay. Divs. actually paid during
the year came down from 20 p.c. to
p.c.; a 10 p.c. distribution, which the
“Wild Cat” takes into the current year’s
figures, has since gone out.
To the benefit of repair bills and the
workshops’ defence contribution, further
new rolling-stock was put on the tracks
last year, and the whole of the plant and
permanent way is reported in apple-pie
order. So are these finances:
1934. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £350,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Creditors .. 33,799 59,853 61,303 61,931
Fixed assets.. 483,069 461,976 481,022 483,852
Fuel and stores 23,316 20,957 19,973 24,284
Sundry debtors 38,934 66,610 58,688 67,196
Cash, etc. . . 89,887 81,011 92,223 103,444
British and American metal purchases
govern the immediate future; prices,
developments and costs at the mines
determine the longer view. The diamond
drill in Zinc Corp.’s and New B.H.’s
ground particularly has extended the
life of the field, and a strong post-war
reconstruction demand for metals is
indicated.
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
f Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932 .. 7,008 26 8 p.c. = 12,518 167,838
1933.. 5,133 13 8 „ „ 6,259 166,699
1934.. 8,874 8 „ „ 6,259 2,615 169,314
Reserves capitalised, £26,080 -- 143,234
1935.. 12,126 8 p.c. = 8,345 3,781 147,015
1936.. 15,843 8 „ „ 8,345 7,498 154,513
Loss liquidation subsidiaries, £1993.. 152,520
1937.. 18,717 10 p.c. = 10,432 8,285 160,805
1938.'. 22,460 10 „ „ 10,432 12,028 172,833
• Reserves capitalised, £34,773 .. 138,060
1939.. 20,821 10 p.c. = 13,909 6,912 144,972
1940.. 12,585 8 „ „ 11,127 1,458 146,430
1941.. —8„ „ 11,127 1,205 147.635
1942.. 12,007 —8„ „ 11,127 880 148,51 a
Ceiling for the pound shares has been
fixed at 225., and, as a lock-up, any of
the tightly-held scrip coming on to the
market around that figure should be
jumped at. A net tangible backing of
41s. 4d. is showing in the accounts, mostly
of a liquid nature. Though normal
trading is at present circumscribed with
difficulty on the supply side, a handy
accumulation of investments should stand
by shareholders, as in the early ’thirties,
when a similar surplus of funds enabled


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advi.
Public Notice.
I, ARTHUR EDWIN. FLECKNOE, of South
British Building, 28 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
Stock and Share Broker, member of Sydney
Stock Exchange and a partner in the firm of
Messrs. Flecknoe & Osborne, of 28 O’Connell
Street aforesaid, Stock and Share Brokers and
members of the Sydney Stock Exchange, hereby
give notice that I am not connected in any
manner whatsoever with any person of the same
name or almost the same name or with any
company, firm or person other than as above-
mentioned. Dated this 20th day of August, One
thousand nine hundred and forty-two.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown
Sydney.
The MARS Six-Inch Lathe
\
M
mm
I
mm*
MAR
ill
♦
m
m
km--
Wmmmi
Save the bigger Lathe for
bigger work and increase
Production Efficiency!
DYNAMIC
BALANCE
Highest Speeds
Without
Vibration
THE "Mars" Six-inch Lathe, being Dynamically Balanced (an exclusive
feature), will run at from 2000 to 3000 r.p.m. With sustained accuracy
and freedom from vibration. Its sturdiness eliminates chatter.
The "Mars" is a delight to handle, as all controls fall beautifully to hand.
Gear teeth are generated to ensure sweet running. ,
Anti-friction bearings in the main headstock spindle are provided with a
4-hour period lubrication. Substantial four-way tool box. ,
With Sturdiness, Precision and High Production qualities, the Mars has all
the features required in any shop.
Send for full details and illustrated folder to
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, ADELAIDE. PERTH
Manufactured by
dfgfdgfdgfdg
(formerly Rapson & Dutton Pty. Ltd.)
THE VALLEY. BRISBANE
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER— 34th April, ’43: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER— 33n<I May, ’43 ; “I have taken
a fresh grip on things, I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER— I4th May, ’43: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK—7th April, '43: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER—I7th May, '43: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, '43:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE —IBth May, '43: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years. .. .1 have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I3th May, '43; “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development,”
SOLDIER —Ist May, '43; “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory,, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London,
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction
for over 34 years.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In conse-
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it as required. We learn
to trust our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and
woman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The Exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly
ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when callled upon, contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 44,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy
of “The Bfficient Mind,” 76 pages, cost free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to out The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of "THE EFFICIENT
MIND.”
Name
Address
151
half the capital to be returned and a
healthy -rate of dividend to be maintained
on the remainder. This is not to suggest,
of course, that history will necessarily
repeat itself quite that way. For one
thing, war loans are a much more fitting
repository for any spare change now, and,
for another, funds will be wanted to
finance the immediate and large replace-
ment demand at the cessation of hostili-
ties.
Just before war broke out, the business
was shaping sufficiently well to warrant
a £34,773 bonus issue, second of its kind
in four years. Chief avenue of profit is
normally the co.’s Morris ajid Stude-
baker distributing franchises for Queens-
land and N.S.W. northern river towns,
ElectrlCE refrigeration and Philco radio
figure among other agency lines, all added
of recent years and a useful stabiliser
to Brisbane and Toowoomba branch
turnover at the moment. Considering
the circumstances to which petrol-ration-
ing and chassis-import restrictions have
reduced the motor trade, turnover in new
and used cars —particularly the latter, it
would seem —was “quite good” last year,
and the management has lost no time in
adjusting expenses to the altered charac-
ter of trading conditions. Though gross
earnings (£68,780) recorded another fall
of £8729, disclosed profit slipped only
£325. (In two years now the contraction
in gross has been £27,166 for a fall in
net of no more than £578.) On capital,
the latest result was 8.6 p.c., and 8 p.c.
again went out. Shareholders are advised
“not to expect a similar result until con-
ditions become more normal.”
As money came in from the reduction
in stocks and h.-p. transactions last term
it went into less-profitable Consols, con-
fusingly grouped with other investments
and debtors:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £139,093 £139,093 £139,093 £139,093
Creditors* .. 44,867 39,868 30,995 31,643
Freehold . . 69,610 69,969 69,949 69,929
Plant, etc. . . 1,392 1,754 1,795 1,623
Stocks.. .. 76,870 105,247 87,880 69,869
Book debts, in-
vestments, etc. 188,456 158,458 138,223 161.348
Cash, etc. .. 6,514 1,092 31,003 27,603
* Including unaccrued interest.
The fall in stock was £lB,Oll, and the
lift in the omnibus item mentioned
£23,125. Assets can be taken worth
their book value, stock being in at cost
Or under, investments less depreciation,
while “ample provision” is reported for
bad debts and contingencies. Adding
to the supply problem, refrigerators have
now passed off makers’ production lines,
except for essential purposes.
Victoria Gold Dredging will go on,
working one shift, which will add about
Hd, to unit costs. On adjoining leases,
G.M. of Australia and Gold Exploration
and Finance together have two dredging
blocks, one of 10,500,000 c.y. of 2|gr.
wash, the other 20,700,000 c.y. averaging
2£gr. gold, further development of which
has had to be stood over.
* ♦ ♦ *
Westralian notes;
Fall of Westralia down the dividend slippery
dip speeds on. Aggregate distribution for the
first half of this year was £190,652, compared
with £326,237 for the corresponding period
of 1941. Among cos. to give shareholders some-
thing this year are Lake View and Star, Boulder
Perseverance, South Kalgurli, Paringa, Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie and Hill 50. Sons-of
Gwalia has announced postponement of its dis-
tribution, while North Kalgurli has so far not
shown its hand, and neither has Yellowdinc.
Blue Bird finished dividend-paying some time
ago, and, like Cock Robin, has passed on.
Central Norseman is getting in position to
return something to Western Mining Corp.
and Phoenix Mines, its two shareholders. Profit
of £222,199 (up £68,259 before depreciation)
last year enabled a reduction in the debt to
£42,663, mostly coming to Gold Exploration
and Finance. G.E, has an option over
2,000,000 unallotted Central Norseman shares
—H times the present issue.
Knight Frederic Hamilton told a cheerful tale
at Golden Horse Shoe’s London meeting. He
said the strong position had prompted the
board to consider making a further return ot
capital (a shilling a share was repaid in 1932).
However, it was decided that as on normal work-
ing the existing stock of Great Boulder tailings
would be exhausted in 1943 a handout now
seemed hardly worth the trouble and expense.
Offer of a small lot of tailings on another mine
would delay the end by a few months, assum-
ing the co. would be permitted to proceed with
the work. Total joint profit (on behalf of Gt.
Boulder and Golden Horse Shoe) from treat-
ment of Gt. Boulder No. 1 dump (now com-
pleted) was £A569,709, compared with an esti-
mate of £A212,565. The surplus was accounted
for by underestimation by 326,870 short tons of
the dump’s contents, by the increased price
of gold and particularly by a percentage recovery
higher than anticipated. More than the whole
of the £165,000 of capital is held in cash or
its equivalent.
Man-power, long a headache, has clamped
down on Triton, making it impossible to main-
tain the output necessary to offset the heavy
costs at depth. A caretaker has been put in.
A Claude de Bernales co. has asked the
Federal Government for £175,000 to open up
the Wilga coalfield, on which so far it has
scarcely done a hand’s turn. Wilga appears to
be an extension of Collie, and is near a rail-
way. It is claimed to have almost limitless coal
deposits.
Tonnage and monthly gold revenue from
Wiluna have varied little in the past 12
months, but profit has dropped. That for July
was £A6600, against £ll,OOO at the beginning
of the year and over £12,000 12 months ago.
Shareholders of Linden Gold will be
asked in Melbourne on September 7 whether
the co. should be wound up or continue in the
hope of securing a'show which can be worked
with the money in hand —about £2500, or 3d. a
share. In August, 1941, the co. sold its mine,
with plant and accumulated tailings, to Cool-
gardie Brilliant for £3500.
Norseman, on its Iron King block, is shaft-
sinking and drilling for pyrites. On the main
holding gold-ore production is now little more
than half that at the beginning of the year.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
P.M.G.: Broken Hill Prop., Australian Con-
solidated Industries and a sound brewery like
Tooth’s or Carlton should be a satisfactory
trio.


- - : : r« '■ - „ '" ; —-
" ■• ' $ , s''.'''' 'x\«Sx. v
J«» . , ”I|,
Sr idTfc v !
A l«d ■ :
SS9
liililiill
wtmm
for
o
■
H
«
mm
m:i
m
H
0»»COK
SSSgg
:> : Sa
■
A
SSi
Mobil
><<
Oil
.■: .•:.
*s
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
<lnnrp«r»U4 in Au»tr*U«)
VACUUM
OUAUIY PRODUCT,
This SPANKING TEAM advertised our harness oil way back in the
1870’s. It was a good oil too —the best of its day
Then horses gave way to horsepower. The makers of Mobiloil
created a new lubricant... helped make possible Selden’s first car,
the first Diesel, the Wright Brothers’ first aeroplane.
Today, Vacuum, an important factor in Australia’s Defence, helps
harness horsepower on the sea, in the air and in every industry.
THE WORLD'S QUALITY OIL
1877- Flr*t Cor
People scoffed, but Georgs
Ssldsn’s horseless carriage
worked! He used an oil made
by the makers of Mobiioil.
1900—Dr. Diesel's Engine
The first Diesel was a failure
until a new oil. mad# by the
makers of Mobiioil, assured
d*p*ndahU lubrication.
1903—First Plane Flight
The Wright brothers’ firat
flight was made possible by •
lightweight gasoline angina-*
lubricated by Mobiloil.
1941 35% of Shipping
Ocean traffic ia vital today. And
over 1/3 of all merchant vhipa
rely on the makers of Mobiloil
for dependable lubrication.
M 24
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Red-herring Finance
In April, 1932, the Commonwealth of
Australia was passing through the depths
of misery. J. T. Lang was Premier of
N. S. Wales and stirring up class hatred,
blaming anyone and anything but his
own blustering and defaulting Govern-
ment for the mess the country was in. The
national calamity had international re-
lationships, but Lang seemed determined
to make an internal class issue out of it.
That was the extent of the man’s intelli-
gence and capabilities. Unable to cope
with the real problem in hand he created
a diversion by political larrikinism. And
in that unhappy month of Australia’s
life trade-union unemployment was
over 30 p.c. of the number registered. In
the State of N. S. Wales the figures were
considerably worse. Lang’s dole coupons
were being refused by traders, and the
Government’s credit was in contempt.
A little earlier the Scullin-Theodore
Federal Government had been in a sad
plight, too. Australia was paying for its
sins, not only for the one of putting Lang
into office, but for many more sins and
mistakes committed over a wide spread
of years, going back even to the 1914-18
war. Some of our errors were made in
ignorance, others through indifference,
greed or lack of energy. Election promises
to voters, when fulfilled, were almost in-
variably followed by higher costs, higher
prices. Our economic framework was so
bad, and our statesmanship so poor, that
the country was first into the worst de-
pression the world has ever seen.
We cannot blame the collapse of over-
seas markets alone for our troubles
during the early part of the slump. It is
evident to all who can think that on ex-
port prices still v,ery low great improve-
ment was already being shown before the
end of 1933. We were reorganising our-
selves, disciplining ourselves, working
harder for less reward and waking up to
facts. Otto Niemeyer, that much-maligned
expert who came to Australia at the re-
quest of the Commonwealth Government,
had helped to open our eyes (Premiers’
Conference, August, 1930):
By a series of accidents, chiefly the liber-
ality of lenders and accidental high prices
for Australian exports, Australia has so far
been able to remain aside from the general
trend of world conditions, and to main-
tain a standard of costs which the rest of
the world had long since found impossible.
But falling prices for exports are altering
that.
Australian credit is at a low ebb; on a
6 p.c. basis in Australia and rather more
abroad. It is, in fact, lower than that
of any of the other Dominions, not ex-
cluding India, and even lower than that of
some of the protectorates,
Australia is off Budget equilibrium, off
exchange equilibrium, and faced by con-
siderable unfunded and maturing debts
both internally and externally; in addition
to which she has on her hands a very large
programme of loan works for which no
financial provision has been made.
There is no sign that Australian produc-
tion is responding in any way to what is
now a well-marked international phenome-
non, namely, an increase in productivity
per head... .There is evidence to show that
the standard of living in Australia has
reached a point which is beyond the capacity
of the country to bear without a consider-
able reduction of costs resulting in in-
creased per-capita output.
Australia had arrived at this miserable
state partly because it had not paid
enough of its share of the cost of the
1914-18 war as the bills fell due, prefer-
ring to borrow to pay for this non-
reproductive outlay ; partly because after
the war an orgy of overseas borrowing
continued, with the result that for a num-
ber of years Australians were being, in
part, fed and clothed without immediate
cost, a thing they didn’t then realise ; and
partly because inflation, from political
and economic causes, had taken place in
our currency and costs to such an extent
that eventually we had to acknowledge
that our pound had slumped away 25 p.c.
from sterling.
Until we did take action to recog-
nise the fact that £125 Australian was
worth no more than £lOO sterling we
were at a great disadvantage with our
exports because costs had to be paid in
Australia at an inflated rate, while the
exporter got no compensation when he
changed his receipts from overseas into
Australian currency. The raising of the
exchange rate helped to offset this, but
it was a revolutionary and disrupting
measure that would not have been neces-
sary had we not encouraged inflation to
take place in the years preceding the
slump. Out of a fool’s paradise we
crashed into chaos.
The Premiers’ Plan was evolved; it
aimed at purging inflation from our
finances by cutting down costs, interest,
salaries and wages, living within our in-
come, and balancing Budgets and
external trade. The people accepted the
situation splendidly, on the whole, and
Australia returned to prosperity more
rapidly than most countries, certainly
more quickly than the U.S.A. Wage-cuts
were restored and employment spread.
Political Labor’s contribution? These are
part of the resolutions of the A.C.T.U.
conference, Sept. 15, 1930:
This conference calls upon the Federal
and State Labor Governments to repudi-
ate the decision of the Premiers’ Confer-
ence which Sir Otto Niemeyer attended,
which calls for a reduction of wages and
a lowering of the standard of living.
Further, we are of the opinion that the recent
proceedings of the Loan Council have
demonstrated that that body is merely an
instrument in the hands of the money
sharks, loan-mongers and capitalists gener-
ally, which can always be manipulated to
prevent a Labor Government, Federal or
State, from carrying out the platform of
the Australian Labor party in the interests '
ge f ne t r h a e ily Lab ° r movement and the people
That steps be taken immediately to amend
Loan‘dCouncil agreem ' ent and dissolve the
Slipshod and unskilled direction of our
national affairs and self-delusion represent
the shortest way of describing what led to
the confusion and misery of 1930-34.
Lang s regime was the culmination of the
misdirection ; it had been going on for
years before. The lesson is there for all
to read ; our economic structure had been
grossly strained by abuse and expediency,
and the function of money and finance
was widely misunderstood. People were
led to believe they could get something
for nothing, and that the sky was the
limit. They borrowed and bought on
terms and forgot there was a day of
reckoning to come.
At the present moment Australia stands
at another grave stage in its career. It
is confronted by enemies without, and in
the strain of meeting these enemies poli-
tics are white-anting our economic struc-
ture within. This time we are short of
men and materials, but have a surfeit
of money in circulation that makes Mr.
Curtin’s “austerity campaign” a mockery.
The personal issue has again been
raised by a Labor Government, and facts
are again blinked at. The opinion has
been expressed here before that it is part
of Labor’s policy never to look a fact
in the face, and never to pay for anything
if it can possibly avoid it. The false issue
and the red herring are again with us.
And Canberra’s financial policy, that of
borrowing to finance war wastage even
to the extent of using “bank credit” as a
major feature, is highly inflationary.
It leaves more money in the hands
of the people than they are morally
or economically entitled to. Inflation
eventually fathers a slump after kill-
ing-off production. The senseless in-
flation now taking place in this country
arises principally from a refusal to tax
adequately the voting masses and a mis-
guided notion about showering money
benefits on the same people when any
honest-thinking person knows that the
country is being stripped to provide a
£4OO million war effort —Bs. in the £ of
the national income.
The best way of paying for war is to
pay for it immediately. We pay for it in
life, labor and materials as it is fought,
and it is right that we should pay for
most of it in money immediately.
It is futile and foolish to talk about
maintenance of living standards at the
present time. Anyone who says Aus-
tralia’s living standards are being main-
tained now is a fool, a liar or a
humbug. We are rationed in clothes,
travel, tobacco, sweets, tea, liquor, news-
print and a dozen other things. But we
are not being rationed in money, except
in the case of the higher incomes, which
are taxed heavier than anywhere in the
Empire. The lower incomes, representing
in the aggregate more than three-fourths
of all the income of the Commonwealth,
are taxed extraordinarily lightly, and in
them we have a wall of obstruction to
the war effort. By not paying for war
as we go, as Canada and other Dominions
are doing, we are creating a wall of higher
costs that will again hinder our trade after
the war and bring exchange problems.
The present Federal Government was
full of experimental ideas when ft took
office 10 months ago. Its financial policy
is weak as water. Most of the well-run
private financial services have been inter-
fered with, but the Government has un-
ashamedly confessed that its own 4 p.c.
profits policy is “administratively impos-
sible” —after months of floundering and
blustering.
Last week the Prime Minister descended
to some stuff that sounds almost like
Wardism —and Eddie Ward is political
descendant of J. T. Lang:
Newspapers in this country are very
afraid that when the war is over the Labor
party will still be in control and the capital-
ist wolf will not be able to feed on the
lambs in the factories and workshops as it
has done in the last 50 years in this country.
The country can get on quite well with-
out the capitalists, but it cannot get on
without the people I represent. They do
the work while shareholders, whom these
other people represent, invest a few thou-
sand pounds and then sit back.
Yes, typical Yarra Bank soapbox talk,
and quite out of place in a war, but in
keeping with Labor traditions when “on
the spot.” The Prime Minister surely
knows that if all the “capitalists” were
hanged, drawn and quartered and their
“wealth” scattered among the followers
of his party the latter would be only
minutely better off. And a short while
afterwards they would be looking round
for some possibly overlooked capitalist
to help pull them out of the mess they
would get into.
, Without the capitalists? B.H.P. pig-
iron, £6 10s. a ton in 1930, is now £4 10s.,
though the basic wage has risen from
£4 6s. to £4 11s. meanwhile. And B.H.P.’s
Essington Lewis is doing the biggest
munitions job in Australia.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILSON.—HERBERT and AMY WILSON,
children of James Wilson, late of Hampton,
New South Wales, and Mary Louisa Wilson,
nee Knowels. Will the abovenamed, or anyone
knowing their whereabouts, kindly communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell
Street, Sydney, regarding the estate of their
half-sister Grace Wilson?
CLARKE, John (son of William Clarke), for-
merly of Portland, later of Hamilton and Cas-
terton districts, Victoria, station hand, deceased.
—Anyone knowing whereabouts of any of his
children, Elizabeth Anderson, Caroline Tait,
Mary Quirke, Myra (or Maria) Clarke and
Bessie Musgrove—financial advantage —please
communicate with RIGBY & FIELDING,
Solicitors, 60 Market Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HERBERT JOSEPH CARPENTER for-
merly of Jervis Bay.—TAKE NOTICE that
LILY CARPENTER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 513 of 1942 on the ground of
desertion without just cause for three years and
upwards You may enter an appearance by the
30th October 1942 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from GILBERT C.
MURDOCH Solicitor 133 Pitt Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE BROOKS late of Darlinghurst in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARY ADAMS BROOKS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2305 of 1941
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
by the 7th December 1942 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from WM.
WALKER TAYLOR & EDWARDS Solicitors
11c Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Street#,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
•tc.
” , wiU save ‘ h
'‘Speed "ill *** _*.■*«• D. «»...«'•■
will save our free om terrain « ““'''u.
.el Ttactom as H u°twen>r {our l '° U ? they come out
»Caten>m« P top Of theit )° b t«c"J Mn gwond *!7 Catel pUW
■■ J *'ll ~SXS2&S
. a
»
; ■■■ i
V-^
ii
?K
; :*v;>
w
MJ
c
V
14
i
*
*%>
' 4 m
.■Spfc?-’-’?'
'■*s?
pip
kCI
*mo
im
It 4.
V
mm*
CATE R Pill AR oteset,
RES. U.S. PAT. OPP.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS ond WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH-MOVING E9UIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.
Unwin's Bridge Rd., Si. Peiers, Sydney. 'Phone: LA 3321 Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone: Gunnedah 326
Service Engineers: Mr, J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge Street, South Grafton; Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
'Phone: Port Macquarie 81; Mr, D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid Street, Wagga. 'Phone: 2886; 102 Melbourne St., South
Brisbane. 'Phone: J I 486; Rankine Street, Innisfail, 'Phone: Innisfail 475
“Waste, excess, luxury and even ameni-
ties must become less and less if Aus-
tralia as a nation is to survive,” said
Prime Minister Curtin recently. “If
every man and woman living in Aus-
tralia today were stone motherless broke,
our sons and daughters could in the
future make a great Australia, a wealthy
Australia, and an Australia of which we
would be proud.” While agreeing with
the Prime Minister’s sentiments about
the necessity for sacrifices of immediate
income, luxuries and many conveniences
—no one looking facts in the face could
think otherwise—this paper suggests that
while Australians own Australia it is im-
possible for every one of them to be
stone motherless broke. If this war does
no other good it should establish for all
time the fact that money is of value only
as organisation and legal tender; it is
not wealth or value itself —value is
behind it. Australia’s wealth is repre-
sented by its development and production
capacity, by its materials and man-
power. While those things are still free
we should be able to carry on the fight
and, when we win, turn to civil life again
and “remould it nearer to the heart’s
desire.” Obstructions will not be those
of being broke or otherwise; they will
exist in the economic and mental disor-
ganisation that follows war’s shattering
to bits of customs, rights and the pre-war
order of things. It will require brains
and skill to avoid time-wasting eco-
nomic disorders in the post-war confu-
sion. We can help a lot if we behave
realistically during the war itself.
# * * *
In the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court last week Judge O’Mara refused an
application by women workers in the
metal trades for pay equal to men’s. The
Judge also criticised the National Security
(Employment) Regulations as discrimi-
nating between States, between establish-
ments in the same State, and possibly
between employees in the same estab-
lishment. Such a state of affairs usually
resulted in discontent and disputes, and
he saw no more hope for the Employ-
ment of Women Regulations. They might
well lead to the adult male wage becom-
ing the standard wage. In the case before
him he did not feel justified in granting
women men’s wages:
I do not regard comparative productivity
of itself as a proper basis for the fixation
of wages. Disabilities, mental and physical,
which are associated with the performance
of work may be greater in the case of one
sex than in the case of the other, and such
disabilities are a material factor in fixing
the rate of wages.
In any event I believe it would be
opposed to the war-time economic plan to
transfer to such a large number of em-
ployees an increased purchasing power,
which they could exercise only at the ex-
pense of the other and possibly more
needy employees.
Because the Judge was satisfied that the
terms of the award had been disclosed
to a member of Parliament by one of the
parties, its operation has been postponed
to September 20, instead of August 15.
» » f
Following the letting-out of price limits
for B.H.P. shares the market almost im-
mediately paid full price for the scrip,
with sellers so reluctant that business
came practically to a standstill once more.
Bradford Cotton, General Industries and
Woolworths were in similar shape. Brad-
ford Cotton is maintaining its div. at
10 p.c., but B.H.P. looks like paying no
more than 5 p.c. for the current term.
Last week the sharemarket generally was
in a mood of confidence, the Sydney index
of ord. shares moving up to 107.50 ; this
was still below the highest of 112.37 for
1942, and greatly below the average for.
1941. However, the improvement, small
as it was, was good to see. Investors
have been badly treated at the hands of
experimental or biased politicians.
* * * •
Professor Copland has told us that,
in spite of fairly rigid control of profits,
the cost of living in Australia had in-
creased 17.9 p.c. since the outbreak of
war. “Apart from the possibility of ex-
ercising more rigid control of increased
prices by still further limitation of profit
margins,” the Prices Commissioner said,
“little can be done to prevent the general
price level rising unless a system of sub-
sidies is established. The cost of these
subsidies would be very large and would
no doubt embarrass the Commonwealth
Government.” The increase in the Aus-
tralian cost of living has been partly due
to inflationary methods of Government
finance, to the use of substitute labor as
a result of man-power call-ups, to the
payment of overtime to make up for man-
power shortages, and to transport diffi-
culties. Though the Prices Commissioner
has done a job noteworthy for its effi-
ciency and singleness of purpose, he can-
not cope with all the factors besetting
him. The only reserves he has left to
draw upon are business profits, and in
many cases they have been drawn on sub-
stantially already. Canberra had better
wake up to the fact that falsification of
the books and currency of the nation by
not paying for war as we go is a funda-
mental danger that cannot be countered
by an expedient of limited value such as
price-fixing.
• * • *
An Australian manufacturing firm with
several departments lately had an officer
of the Prices Branch in on a small matter.
While on the premises he had a look at
the books generally. He found that on
an increasing turnover in one department
gross profit had increased, and at once
raised objections. It was pointed out to
him that this department had not, up to
the stage reached by the accounts he had
examined, been charged with any over-
head expenses, and that when the fair
proportion chargeable had been allowed
the department would show a loss, in-
creased gross profit notwithstanding. He
still strongly objected to the fact that any
increase at all in total gross profit had been
achieved, and the firm was told that it
would hear more about it. Here is a
case of price control gone astray. Possibly
the principle which the prices officer
aimed at administering applied equitably
in some other instance, but on this occa -
sion enforcement would be totally un-
just. If the Prices Commissioner hasn’t
enough latitude to use discretion in varied
circumstances he should be granted it.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War
“Ek Dum”: Eight days’ H.Q. com-
muniques in brief: —
August 17: Medium bombers attacked an
enemy-occupied town on the s.-e. coast of
Timor; large fire started in the target area.
All ’planes returned to their base. Patrol skir-
mishes between small enemy forces and the
Allied outguards beyond the barrier line along
the Owen Stanley Range, Papua.
August 18: Medium bombers raided enemy
dispositions and communications in Timor.
High-altitude raid on Moresby aerodrome by
24 Jap bombers; some casualties and damage
to installations. Kaevieng (New Ireland) harbor
and town bombed by Allied reconnaissance
'planes,
August 19: In north-west sector, reconnais-
sances only. A reconnaissance machine dropped
bombs on dispersal areas of Kaevieng aero-
drome with unknown results.
August 20; Medium bombers attacked
Maobisse, an enemy-occupied town in Timor,
from low altitude. At Faisi (Solomons) heavy
bombers attacked enemy warships with un-
known results. Heavy a.-a. fire encountered.
All the Allied ’planes returned to their bases.
August 21: Medium bombers raided Mao-
bisse. All bombs reached their targets; a large
explosion indicated that fuel or ammunition
dumps had been hit. All ’planesTetumed. In
the north-east'sector there were reconnaissances
only.
August 22: Medium bombers attacked Mao-
bisse, hitting the crossroads and building areas.
Fires were started. Three “O” fighters inter-
cepted; one shot down over the sea after a
running fight.
August 23: Reconnaissances only in the
north-west. Heavy bombers, in a night attack
on Rabaul, hit the runway and hangar areas
with more than eight tons of bombs, starting
fires. There was no interception. All ’planes
returned.
August 24: Twenty-seven heavy bombers,
escorted by 20 “O” fighters, attacked an aero-
drome, causing slight damage. In brilliant
interception by Allied fighters four bombers
and nine “O” fighters shot down without Allied
loss. Buka Passage bombed.
Details of the midnight battle in which
H.M.A.S. Canberra was lost in the
Solomons gave an inkling of the peril
which Australia has been facing.
Among those who know the Solomons
here never have been any delusions about
the difficulty which would be experienced
in pushing even a small and well-estab-
lished force of the enemy out of the group.
Both Guadalcanal, in the south, and
Bougainville, in the north, rise in their
centres to peaks as high as or higher than
any in Australia. There are wild jungles
of the North Queensland variety, track-
less save for Kanaka paths, sandfly-
ridden mangrove coasts, innumerable sea
passages, channels and harbors which it
would take the fleets of the world to
guard sufficiently to prevent a surprise
attack on any centre. The land and water
area of the group is about equal to that
bit of Australia which lies east of a line
from Melbourne to Bathurst and thence
to Newcastle (N.S.W.).
Communiques gave little information
about what was going on. But the U.S.
communique of August 20, in its refer-
ences to an attack on Faisi, showed
clearly that there was still a strong force
of Japanese ships, heavily guarded by
a.-a, batteries, in the Bougainville Strait,
only 300-odd miles from Tulagi, while
the enemy still held the Louisiades, 400
miles to the north-east, between Tulagi
and Moresby and the north-east Austra-
lian coast. All the evidence from New
Guinea was that a long chain of enemy
airfields was being consolidated in the
coastal area beyond the Owen Stanley
from Lae and Finschhaven to Buna-
Gona. Rabaul Harbor was busy; no
ioubt, Kaevieng also.
The Official Story
On August 22 Admiral Nimitz, naval
C.-in-C, in the Pacific, issued a com-
munique on the Solomons attack: —
Since the initial United States landings
a period of mopping-up has been in pro-
gress, in order to consolidate our positions.
The Japanese defenders took to the hills
and jungle to escape our forces. There have
been daily skirmishes between marine
patrols and enemy detachments, in which
both sides have suffered casualties. On
Wednesday marines wiped out a Japanese
detachment of 92 officers and men who re-
sisted to the last man. The marines lost
six killed and 13 wounded. On Thursday
night the enemy landed a force of about
700 well-equipped troops from high-speed
boats outside the marines’ lines and
attempted to break through. During the
darkness only hand-to-hand fighting was
possible, but at dawn the marines were
able to manoeuvre. While one battalion
held the front line, another battalion
moved to the flank and drove the with-
drawing Japanese to the beach. Of the
700 Japanese 670 are dead and the rest
prisoners. The marines lost 28 killed and
72 wounded. The marines in the Solo-
mons, under Major-General Alexander
Vandegrift, have added another page to
history with their outstanding achievement.
To this he added the story of an
attack on Makin (Taritari) Island,
northernmost of the Gilberts, where, till
a few months ago, the most dangerous
weapon an invader would have encoun-
tered would have been a native-propelled
bicycle. This is only 300 miles from the
main centre base of the Marshalls —Jaluit.
Marines landed under Commander
John Haines, U.S.N., Lieut.-Col. Evans
F. Carlson and Major James Roosevelt,
son of the President. They killed at least
80 Japanese, destroyed radio, stores and
seaplane base installations and two sea-
planes in the water. Much of the serious
damage was done by the enemy’s own
heavy ’planes, which were rushed from
other bases to try to stave off the landing
parties.
The U.S. naval force gunned and sank
a small transport and a gunboat, and
suffered only “moderate losses.”
Tokyo has admitted that U.S. marines
have landed in the Solomons. The Im-
perial High Command sounded none too
pleased; and there was a savage note of
anxiety in Japanese Radio references to
the Makin Island affair. It was claimed
that 700 marines had attempted the land-
ing and that 200 had been killed.
Activity in Timor
After all the months of defence and
retreat, these activities, especially in view
of seasonal conditions, are good news,
and from the Timor sector, where the
enemy concentrations of the D.E.I. and
Timor threaten the north and west coasts
of Australia, there is even better news.
The D.E.I. Information Bureau an-
nounced last week that for six months in
the hilly part of Timor, 300 miles long,
Australian, Dutch and Indonesian sol-
diery had carried on, living off the coun-
try, often without food or footwear, torn
with illness but still being a plague and
a burden to the occupiers of the country.
The story of what these forces have done,
though most of it is known now in Aus-
tralia, cannot be told yet for military
reasons. It will make one of the most
thrilling chapters in the history of the
war in the Pacific,
Last week substantial air backing began
to be given to the last-stand forces of
Timor.
The several raids on Maobisse, 17 miles
south of Dili! (Portuguese territory), by
the R.A.A.F, on following days were
heavy and were accompanied sometimes
by machine-gunning. The explosions
which followed had a satisfying sound.
But the most brilliant success was that
of the Kitty hawks at Darwin. New tactics
have taught the enemy a serious lesson.
All along the northern line for 3000
miles there are signs of impending acti-
vity on a large scale. Japan is not likely
to delay taking the initiative if the
Imperial High Command feels that the
United Nations are preparing an offen-
sive. Japan must have its South Pacific
situation consolidated before mid-
October, when the war on the Indian
frontier may flare up in the natural
course of things.
So the next six weeks may easily deter-
mine the general trend of events in the
West and South Pacific and Indian Ocean
zones for the whole of the next six
months or more.
A Flagship Goes Down.
“Ek Dum”: The first casualty lists
from the Solomon Islands made sad read-
ing for Australians and brought bereave-
ment or anxiety to hundreds of homes.
For H.M.A.S. Canberra, one of the
Commonwealth’s two heavy cruisers,
had been lost in a surprise night attack
on August 9. Her captain, Frank Get-
ting, one of Jervis Bay’s first cadets, was
mortally wounded. Nine others died of
wounds, 74 are missing, “presumed
dead,” and 109 wounded were landed in
home ports, among 600-odd survivors.
H.M.A.S. Canberra was a 9850-ton
cruiser of the London class, built by John
Brown, of the Clyde. She was com-
pleted in 1928. Her main armament was
eight eight-inch guns, supplemented by
four-inch a.-a. and smaller batteries and
eight 21in. torpedo tubes. She was fast —
311 knots —and she was a good sea boat.
For many years she served as flagship.
Built in the days before major air war had
been envisaged, she was lightly armored ;
but a heavy reconstruction and complete
overhauls, in which there were extensive
replacements, had modernised her con-
siderably. One of these overhauls was
very recent and thorough.
Canberra passed safely through the
first two days of the Solomons battle.
She had carried out her patrol duties
assiduously and effectively during the
early stages of the landings, in company
with other ships. She had been attacked
twice a day at least by swarms of Japa-
nese bombers and fighters, 40 to 50 at
a time, and once by 22 torpedo bombers.
On Sunday night it was pitch black—
an impenetrable tropic darkness —and the
weather was bad. Only those who have
actually seen the tropics under those con-
ditions know what it is like to be im-
mured in a bottle of slightly turgid Indian
ink. The two-hour watch after midnight
was nearly at an end when an A.B. in
an anti-aircraft defence post reported a
sudden burst of shelling on the starboard
side.
Two torpedoes went down the port side
and two down the starboard side. Just as
star shells showed Canberra altering
course a withering blast of fire was
directed accurately from 3000 yards away,
apparently from a single vessel.
Canberra replied vigorously.
A broadside landed under the bridge,
killing the gunnery officer and mortally
wounding the captain. Another smashed
the 4in. a.-a. platforms.
From then onward those on the bridge
saw their captain dying, but, as so many
other R.N. captains have done according
to their tradition, carrying on while he
could speak.
He was sitting on a stool passing his
orders to the telegraphist, while Com-
mander J, M. Walsh, blood streaming
from a wound in his face, stood by.
The captain refused to leave the bridge
or receive first aid until he was too weak
to resist. Then, protesting, he was carried
below. Later he was transferred to a
destroyer. Next day he died.
The firing lasted only about 10
minutes. In that time the decks were
strewn with dead and dying. Some
men had been blown off the ship by
shell blasts. Only two boats and those
riddled with shrapnel were seaworthy.
Engineer Commander McMahon and
the three surgeons —C. Downward,
Dudley Ward and Morris —moved about
amid the mess coolly perilling their lives.
They stopped bleeding, eased pain, per-
formed operations by the light of hand
torches. All the wounded were trans-
ferred to another vessel just as dawn
revealed Canberra as a battered hulk
whose doom was sealed.
Taking the wounded off was a diffi-
cult and perilous job which added a
grand chapter to the history of the United
States Navy. Once, as a destroyer lay
warped to the wrecked ship, ’planes were
reported overhead and she was forced
to tear loose without waiting to cut
adrift. Some wounded men were moved
direct from ship to ship. Many had to
be passed along ropes. The rescue was
a grand piece of work —Lieut. Victor
Smith, D.S.C., who had had his last sink-
ing in Ark Royal, described it as “mag-
nificent.” As generous as they were game
and skilful, the American seamen gave
the survivors everything they needed in
their extremity, one crew subscribing 300
dollars for canteen purchases.
A little later with two explosions, as if
her magazines had gone up, Canberra
sank. The last to leave her were Com-
mander Walsh and the ship’s padre.
Rescue ships brought the complement
home —men who had been blown off the
gun platforms, men with broken limbs
and marred faces, men who had dared
sharks and gunfire together in the dark-
ness. Most had come out of the inferno
without uniforms and had been garbed
from American stores. On the shoulders
of American tunics some officers proudly
fastened their executive bank badges.
When a rescue ship arrived at “an
Australian port,” her side was lined with
cheering survivors in khaki. Every hand
seemed to give the victory sign.
There was no cheering on the wharf.
Anxious mates hailed the arrivals so soon
as they came within range of lusty
naval throats. Sydney “Sun’s” reporter
described it:
“How’s Jim?”
“Gone!”
“And Joe?”
“Gone!”
“And George?”
“Gone, too!”
Men turned silently away. The cheering
on the ship continued.
As for the women, their example was
set for them by the captain’s wife, Mrs.
Getting.
She was told of the death of her hus-
band. That day she had to attend a
function with the wives of other officers.
Since Canberra’s loss was still a naval
secret and her absence might have raised
fear or suspicion, she went and carried
on, giving no sign.
The R.A.N. has suffered sadly in this
war. Out of two heavy cruisers and four
light cruisers, including the old recon-
ditioned Adelaide, one heavy cruiser and
two light cruisers survive. And there has
been a heavy toll of lighter craft, includ-
ing three destroyers and two sloops.
Changes in Egypt.
: m t* l6 case General
Wavell and others, the boo-boo boys
jumped to the conclusion that the changes
in command in the Middle East reflected
on the man most affected—General
Auchinleck—who, on the face of it, has
done a fine job in a difficult situation at
Alamein. Rarely in history have troops
been rallied in such large numbers, at
such speed, from such great distances
as those which were rushed to stem the
tide after Rommel’s break-through at
Tobruk. It was a great piece of prompt
organisation, which history will remember
with gratitude, even if peahen reporters
forget it.
One gentleman went so far as to sug-
gest that the general’s removal was made
to appease opinion in South Africa, which
lost 10,000 men in Tobruk. Field-Mar-
shal Smuts squashed that yarn—General
Auchinleck, he said, was “one of the
ablest commanders I have ever met,” and
the fact that changes were made need be
no reflection on the men concerned.
General Harold Alexander has been
named C.-in-C. in the Middle East. He
is a seasoned leader who showed him-
self cool, daring and resourceful in
France, where he commanded a division,
and in Burma, where, with a lightweight
corps, he conducted one of the most diffi-
cult operations of the war with complete
success—a retreat through bad country
before an enemy with superior resources
and sea lines, and water communications
on his flank along which he could be
outrun.
Lieutenant-General B. L. Montgomery,
who takes Lieut-General Ritchie’s place
in command of the Eighth Army, led the
Third Division to France and afterwards
commanded a corps and then the south-
eastern area of England. Primarily he is
a training. general. Many Australians
know him well and he knows much of
Australia—his father was Bishop of Tas-
mania, 1889-1901.
Major-General Herbert Lumsden, 42
years old, a well-known amateur rider
who has figured in Grand Nationals, a
pioneer in tank warfare, succeeds the late
Lieut-General Gott as O.C. Eighth
Army Armored Corps.
Lieutenant-General Maitland Wilson,
who commanded the first advance into
Libya, has been given independent com-
mand of the area east of the Mediter-
ranean.
It can be taken for granted that
General Auchinleck will not be wasted,
unless he is ill. Changes in command
were inevitable as the dry season of
October in India will bring the chances of
a major campaign and the German
advance in Russia threatens the defence
lines south of the Caspian and along the
Indian north-west.
It is easy to imagine more than one
theatre in which a man of General
Auchinleck’s great experience with Indian
troops could be used to better effect than
in Egypt,
And General Alexander’s job has gone
with the absorption of his force into the
main Indian defence armies, and he had
shown himself fitted for a bigger one.
The Alamein lines have been quiet
save for normal skirmishing and patrols,
though there was plenty of air activity.
Both sides are steadily strengthening
themselves. The Italian Bologna divi-
sion has returned to the front line; the
Eighth Army has been busily sucking in
men, armor, guns and ammunition on a
grand scale.
The prize for the most daring small
operation of the week goes to an A.I.F.
reconnaissance party. Rommel recently
altered his front-line positions and with-
drew in several sectors.
The Aussies, to provide markers for
quick mapping of the new posts, crawled
right up to them and laid down cordite
with set time fuses. When the cordite
went up, survey and plotting were fairly
simple.
Raid on Dieppe.
“Ek Dum”: In the dark hours of the
dawn on August 20 the strongest com-
bined British naval, land and air force yet
used against the Germans in France
made a heavy raid on Dieppe.
Objectives, as officially stated:
To test on a larger scale than any pre-
viously tried the defences of a heavily-
defended coastal area.
To destroy German batteries and a radio-
location station which had played an im-
portant part in German attacks on Channel
shipping. . , .
To destroy German personnel and equip-
ment and installations and take prisoners
for interrogation.
The affair was, therefore, in the spirit


of Zeebrugge, Ostend and St. Nazaire
and of the harrying of the French coast
defences in the days after Trafalgar.
The point chosen might be called the
pivot of Ciermany’s Channel coastal
defence; the likely pivot also of any
German offensive against Britain. It is
one of the two areas shown in the
Schuddekopf maps issued under the aus-
pices of the German General Staff before
war broke out, from which one point of
a pincer could be driven round London
and across the narrow west of England.
The other proposed London pincer
point was The Wash.
Dieppe is 67 miles from the English
coast at Newhaven over a favorite route
for night sea travel from London to
Paris, which is closer to Dieppe than to
any other Channel point. Newhaven
has tolerable quay accommodation. It
lies about the centre of the electrified
railway which runs along the coast from
Hastings through Bexhill, Eastbourne,
Brighton to Worthing. An electrified
line runs the 50-odd miles into the
heart of London. There is a network of
highways—besides the direct route of
the magnificent Brighton road, on which
weakly-resisted Panzers could make Lon-
don in a couple of hours and armored
cars in under an hour.
A drive of 25 to 30 miles from New-
haven or Brighton would sever the main
connections between the capital and
Portsmouth and Southampton. Within
the 125 miles of coastline to the west
lie all the greatest ports of the Channel,
save Plymouth—Portsmouth, Southamp-
ton, Poole Harbor, Weymouth. To lose
these would be to lose naval command
of the whole of the south coast and to
drive nearly all British warships out of
the Channel.
How little Britons can afford to stand
any nonsense in the Dieppe area is shown
by what they themselves achieved; since
what they can do the enemy at has
a chance of doing even if, minus naval
power, it might cost him more of the
man-power which he regards as little as
any other gun-fodder.
There are, as usual, two contrasting
accounts of what happened in the raid —
our own and the enemy’s.
The latter reported that about 5 a.m.
a British force appeared off Dieppe.
From transports, troops were transferred
to 300 to 400 landing barges, which
reached the coast about 6.5 a.m., under
cover of 13 to 15 cruisers and destroyers.
They were backed (said the German
account) by a floating reserve of six
transports and three freighters, which
stood off.
Further north 26 transports waited
with operational reserves which were to
put men and battle plant ashore when
a beachhead had been established.
The Germans alleged that the raiders
were “repulsed everywhere in hand-to-
hand fighting,” and “all strongpoints were
held.” Tanks were landed —“26 were
destroyed. More than 1500 prisoners
were taken [the number was later raised
to 2095], including 60 Canadian officers.”
The communique continued:
The enemy’s casualties were very high.
Three torpedo boats and two transports
were sunk by artillery. The Luftwaffe shot
down 83 aircraft, sank two special troop
transports and a motor torpedo boat and
damaged five cruisers or large destroyers
and two transports. The enemy suffered a
devastating defeat which served political
purposes but defied all military reason.
The German watch in the West has been
the proper answer to an amateurish under-
taking and awaits further enemy efforts
with the calm strength of a military force
which has gained victory in a hundred
battles.
German Radio blared that the attack
was an attempt at invasion. That was
nonsense. It was known that there were
two crack Black Guard Divisions, the
flower of Hitler’s armies, in the Dieppe
region, just arrived from Russia.
It was also known that Dieppe was
ideal for defence, with dominating environs
packed with naval-gun emplacements,
with a ring of aerodromes behind, a
centrally converging railway system and
with the highly developed naval port of
Le Havre only 50 miles or so in the Seine
mouth to the south-east.
The first British communique gave no
details of the numbers employed, though
15,000 was unofficially mentioned. It
said that R.N., R.A.F. and special troops,
largely Canadians, and including a few
Americans, had worked in perfect co-
ordination. The raid was carried out to
schedule and re-embarkation of troops
began only six minutes behind timetable.
The troops had begun to go ashore at
4.50 a.m. Some tanks were lost in action
and “reports showed that fighting was
very fierce and losses were likely to be
heavy on both sides.”
The results:
In addition to the destruction of a six-
gun battery and ammunition dump, a
radio-location station and an a.-a. battery
were destroyed. Apart from losses inflicted
on thp enemy, vital experience has been
gained in the employment of substantial
numbers of troops in assault and in the
transport and use of heavy equipment
during combined operations. Our new
tank-landing craft were in action for the
first time.
The air battles took a very heavy toll.
Officially, it was stated in London that
91 enemy aircraft were destroyed, apart
from a number shot down by naval
vessels, and 100 “probably destroyed or
damaged.” The R.A.F. and F.A.A. had
their record loss for a single day—9B
’planes, though 30 pilots were known to
be safe.
The accounts of eyewitnesses and cor-
respondents fill in the details of the un-
dertaking. Invasion barges, moving under
their own power, and heavily escorted
by destroyers and corvettes, took the ex-
pedition aboard on Tuesday night and
Wednesday. On Wednesday night the
voyage began. Less than an hour before
reaching the French coast the screen
ships preceding the convoy ran into a
covey of enemy armed trawlers. They
destroyed one, set fire to another. But
it was too late. When the coast was
reached, it was found that the alarm had
been given.
The first attack was made on the
coast of Berneval, 4\ miles to the east
of Dieppe. Warned, the enemy had every
gun trained on the landing places. The
landing parties were driven back. They
left the beach strewn with dead and
dying.
A second attack west of the port, at
Varengville, was successful. Here em-
placements were invaded, a battery of
6in. naval guns wiped out, and the
attackers retired with comparatively small
losses.
By the time these two operations were
fairly in progress, the sky was black with
’planes, the naval guns had begun to
thunder and the Canadians were going
ashore. The Germans let loose everything
they had, including a.-a. guns, against the
beach. For 20 minutes advance was im-
possible.
At Puys, east of Dieppe, the Canadians
were stopped in their tracks as they
landed, but they re-formed and pushed
through. Nearer Dieppe itself, the naval
bombardment smoothed down the enemy
fire while the troops got a foothold. As
they forced their way off the beach, the
Varengville battery went up in a geyser
of flame.
Tanks rumbled over the ramps of the
landing craft, preceded by engineers clear-
ing a path. Behind, the sea was black
with ships and the sky thunderous with
one of the most concentrated air battles
of the Channel war.
Then tanks and infantry went hunting
while the smoke-shells blotted out objec-
tives. Buildings in the narrow streets
came roaring down like avalanches as
bombers and naval artillery cleaned out
machine-gun and mortar nests.
After seven or eight hours the order
to evacuate was given. Retirement was
made under a still murderous fire,,which
caused heavy casualties. Units boarded
barges and ships, dragging some prisoners
with them.
Vichy said that 30 French civilians
were killed in the streets.
It was a grim affair; and whether it
was justified entirely depends upon its
real objectives—a subject on which mili-
tary circles are unlikely to enlarge.
The casualties (“severe” in the case of
the Canadians) and the indication given
of the vastness of the transport
needed for even so small and transitory
a military adventure across the Channel
should cure second-fronters of their delu-
sions, except those who are incurable.
Russia at Bay.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Churchill’s meeting
with Stalin at Moscow was presented as
having taken place in a busy but some-
what lighthearted atmosphere of confi-
dence in which the highlight was a ban-
quet of 25 to 30 courses. A large-scale
visit by Russian armies to ,the western
bank of the Don or the north bank of the
Kuban would have had far more effect
on the course of events than 20 Churchil-
lian visits.
The position in- Russia is really
desperate, and there is no use baulking
it, since breach of the Volga and approach
to the Caspian would have reactions
throughout the world. Which is not to
say that the Russians may not yet save
themselves by their exertions plus Allied
help in the defence of Baku.
Correspondents in Moscow continue to
write with all the assurance of eye-
witnesses of “successes” which they see
only through the spectacles of a tardy
Propaganda Bureau.
In the earlier part of last week the
impression was given that everywhere
the Germans were being checked,
thwarted, hurled back or even —in the
Kotelnikovo region, south of the Don —
suffering a severe local defeat.
But the fact obviously was that the
enemy, having broken through to river
crossings in the Don bend, opposite
Stalingrad, was moving up supplies tor
a main assault. Each delay was so
short as to be consistent with the
delivery over long supply lines to advance
points of the necessary material for large-
scale river crossings by heavy armored
forces ; also, with the creation of advanced
depots and dumps out of which, when
the time for the actual battle for Stalin-
grad arrived, the usual thousand tons
per day per division of ammunition and
replacements could be poured instanter.
The news-—it sent some correspondents
into transports —that defensive pillboxes
and trenches were being built in the Don
battle area was consistent with the
reality of a continuously staged offensive.
These accessories are a necessary part
of the guardian organisation of forward
supply bases.
On August 19 Moscow admitted the
fall of Krasnodar, the refinery city of
the Kuban region, which the enemy had
reported nearly a fortnight earlier. Its
surrender had seemed probable for some
days, and for over a week Russian refer-
ences to it had been qualified. On August
23 there was fighting for the approaches
to the naval port of Novorossisk.
The position at Voronezh seemed to be
static, and there was no further news of
crossings of the Don westward by the
Russians. There was a sudden quicken-
ing of interest in this sector in Berlin
with a great insistence on the German
H.Q.’s astonishment that it had been
“impossible to make progress” against
strong Russian forces there, A few days
before, Berlin had been mainly content
with careless references to Hungarian
operations in the district. Now it was
openly complained that the Supreme
Command had found it necessary to
divert troops from the southern flank
along the Don to stem the Russian onset.
There was little room to rejoice over
this frankness. If the position is such
further south that any appreciable force
of troops can be spared by the enemy for
Voronezh, it suggests that he is very
strong in the south and feels he has won
the decision there. Otherwise, he would
have called on his westward reserves.
It is more likely that he has new oper-
ations in view round Voronezh and is
seeking to blind the Russians to the real
significance and purpose of his move-
ments.
Enemy propaganda is full of traps.
Moscow correspondents gobbled up
another bait when the news was
dangled—via Berne and other “neutral”
centres—that the Germans had been able
to move 22 divisions from France to the
Russian front. The object of this piece
of propaganda obviously was to lead the
Russians to believe that the German armies
were so weak that it had been necessary to
hurriedly move 300,000 men or so from
the west to save or decide the eastern
situation; that this had been possible
through the cowardly inaction of Britain
and the United States.
It may have had a secondary purpose
of persuading the silly section of the
Allied press that French defences were
being denuded, and thus strengthening
their demands for a second front in
Western Europe.
What the yarn was worth was soon
proved by the discovery that Dieppe was
garrisoned by the two crack Viking Black
Guard Divisions, freshly arrived from the
Eastern Front. Some of them had been
shown off to the Parisians only a few
days before.
German attacks were begun in the
forests near Orel and along the Bryansk-
Kaluga line. This looked like the begin-
ning of a giant move to pinch off the
great bag of territory which Russia re-
covered between the main Smolensk-
Moscow road and the Bryansk-Kursk
area. It would be a preliminary to a
new attempt to invest Moscow.
In the Orel sector the Germans claimed
14,000 prisoners since August 11.
By the end of the week the Germans
had a bridgehead 40 miles from Stalin-
grad in the Kalach area. They were
carrying on a holding battle here to keep
as many Russians as possible in the area
while the armies south-east of the Don
and north-east of Kotelnikovo, which
had no big rivers to cross, pushed for-
ward a wedge which they had driven.
Theirs was a main attack threatening
Stalingrad and the rear of the army of
Kalach-Kletsk.
The invaders would be unlikely to
attempt a firm crossing here unless they
felt that both their northern flanks along
the Moscow railway and their southern
flank round Kotelnikovo were secure.
Possibly the drive into the salt steppe
of the old Caspian Sea bed, below the
Ergenni Hills towards Astrakhan, was
primarily a securing movement against
surprise on the southern flank. That
movement was typically German much
like Rommel’s detachment of the 21st
Panzer Division into the Quattara depres-
sion before El Alamein, apparently for a
drive to the Cairo-Fayum road. The
21st turned up in the main battle before
it was all over.
Moscow issued a casualty list for three
months ended August 15 —the Germans
the week before had claimed 1,044,000
Russian prisoners since the beginning of
the 1942 campaign. Moscow’s account:
Germans, 1,250,000 casualties, including
480,000 killed, 3390 tanks, 4000 guns, 4000
aircraft destroyed or captured.
Russians, 606,000 killed, wounded and
missing, 2240 tanks, 3162 guns, 2198 air-
craft destroyed or captured.
All that tan be taken for granted in
this list are the Russian admissions, which
are terrible. An army retreating before
fast-moving armored spearheads, burst-
ing forward at 20 miles a day, can form
only the sketchiest estimate of the enemy’s
losses in dead or wounded, most of which
it never sees. This is especially true when
there is heavy night fighting for towns.
It is doubtful whether 1,250,000 Ger-
mans have actually been in battle. At
the same time, Moscow need not
be blamed for the type of statistics it
issues. Its figures are mainly for German
consumption.
Brazil’s entry into the war will bring
the Allies valuable supplies and the help
of a navy which includes- two 19,200-ton
battleships, reconstructed in 1939 and
1940 (each carries main armament
of 12 12in. guns), two light cruisers and
numerous serviceable light craft. And
the use of Rio de Janeiro, with its mag-
nificent harbor, is a gift beyond price to
the Allied cause. At present the major
Allied base nearest to the South Ameri-
can coast is Capetown, 4300 miles from
Cape Horn. On the American side the
nearest of consequence are Trinidad and
Georgetown, nearly 4000 miles by sea
from Rio.
* * * ♦
Destruction of two cargo vessels and
a large transport in Far-Eastern waters,
with a cargo vessel hit and a destroyer
possibly sunk, raises U.S. submarines’ bag
of shipping in the Pacific to 91 vessels.
* * * *
The Admiralty announces the loss of
H.M. submarine Upholder, Lieut.-Com-
mander Wanklyn, V.C., D. 5.0., in an
almost unique obituary notice in which
it is recorded that the little ship was
“long employed against enemy com-
munications in the central Mediterranean
and the nation has lost a source of in-
spiration and an ever-potent weapon
against the enemy.” Beside the com-
mander, 10 of the crew had been deco-
rated and 11 mentioned in dispatches—
the normal complement of the type is
27 officers and men. The vessel was on
her 25th operational voyage, had made
23 successful attacks, sunk three U-boats,
a destroyer, an armed trawler, 15 trans-
ports and supply ships totalling more
than 122,000 tons, and had probably sunk
a cruiser, another destroyer and two
transports.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
U.S. Navy announces that only five
ships have been lost out of 2000 con-
voyed in the Atlantic coast zone since
May 14. It is the lone ships that fall
victims to individual raiders.
« * * ♦
' The R.A.F. during the Dieppe raid on
Wednesday was, according to Air Secre-
tary Sinclair, involved in “the heaviest
air action seen on any front.” It made
over 3000 sorties inside 24 hours in close
support of naval and military forces—a
“staggering feat of organisation.” But it
. was still able to fling another 500 fighters
at northern France —where its machines
met little opposition —next day and on
days following.
• • ♦ ♦
In China, the Japanese are reported to
have withdrawn from Wenchow. For
some reason not yet clear they seemed
to have abandoned their plan to estab-
lish railway communication from Korea
to Singapore.
* * * *
Squadron-leader Tom Price has been
decorated by General Mac Arthur with
the U.S. Soldiers’ Medal for gallantry
in saving his companions in a bombing
raid on Rabaul after his machine had
made a crash landing in the sea.
Working under water, he cleared the only
available exit for the injured pilot and
bombardier, and helped- them out. He
seized a two-man raft, inflated it and
attempted to row three injured men to the
shore three miles away. At the same time
he assisted a badly-injured member of the
crew to hold on to the raft. _ They were
being swept to sea when natives in out-
rigger canoes rescued them. On reaching
shore he immediately gave aid to other
members of the crew.
Price had already received the D.F.C. for
his work as pilot of H.M.A.S. Sydney’s
Seagull during a bombardment of Bardta.
He comes of a political family. His
father was an Adelaide Assemblyman,
Agent-General and M.H.R. for Boothby
(S.A.); his grandfather, also Tom Price,
a South Aus. Labor leader and Premier.
Grandfather is remembered for his say-
ing “Tell the boys to pull together,” and
young Tom lives up to it.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Accessories, before and after the fact,
are going to turn the Victory styles into
a pageant of color this spring. To begin
with the leather, calf- or snakeskin bag
of pre-war wardrobes has been replaced
by the jaunty emerald green, pillar-box
red or burning sapphire blue of the felt
and grosgrain handbag. Of the two this
Letter prefers the grosgrain. Its surface
is not so vulnerable to dust. Scarves
have never been gayer; slim fly-away
trifles, they will emphasise the throat of
graceful line, or help to camouflage the
neck that has begun to sag a trifle.
Artificial flowers bloom with abandon
in the early fashion shows. But the
woman of discernment will always go
slow on such allure. Too many bits and
pieces are apt to look arty-crafty. How-
ever, a slim spray of wheat-ears dyed faintly
pink, a bunch of satin-centred buttercups,
or three or four petunia, so well made as
to look real, commend themselves in the
display of aids to making last winter’s
suit take on a second blooming.. Blouses
come into their own again. These are
not man-tailored blouses, but feminine
things of dainty sheer, of embroidered
collar, of tucks and short sleeves. High
in the honor roll are those of a heavy-
weight and close net. In ivory these will
be just the right finish for a black suit.
In deep-rose or petunia they will make
an oatmeal or grey tailored.
The fashion experts seem to want to
enforce color ‘en suite. That is to say,
where they show little red-and-white
blouses they spread red bracelet and
necklet. With blue they show blue. But
there is more cleverness in contrast. With
the blue-and-white garment try the red
bracelet and clip. With the red wear
the blue. White shoes and white hand-
bags (the most attractive of the latter
are made of straw) are going to be a
feature of hot-weather days. And for
the practical woman there’s the big hand-
bag made of tapestry (a rather formalised
beach-bag). This is lightweight and
sturdy, and could hold a bottle of beer,
if a smart girl could get one.
On the second floor of the Bulletin
Building the C.W.A. has one of its busiest
netting centres. Under the stimulus of
Mrs. Lamb and Mrs. Haldane the mem-
bers completed, in six months,- their
1000th camouflage net. This was
thought occasion for rejoicing, so there
was a conclave of ah the members to
discuss a cake of great dimension pro-
tected, though not for long, by a camou-
flage net of icing. Then Mrs. P. Robin-
son, O.C. the W.A.N.S.’ netting activi-
ties, plunged a dagger into its heart, and
distributed slices to one and all. The
centre is a particularly happy and active
one, much frequented in the lunch-hour
by businesswomen from neighboring
offices.
The John Butters president of the
Y.W.C.A., outlined the scheme for rais-
ing one million shillings for Y.W. woik
to a group of city presswomen last week.
The shillings are expected to come roll-
ing in from every corner of Australia, as
this is a national appeal. All the money
will go to providing recreation huts and
canteens for service women at all battle
stations, camps and aerodromes, and to
forming centres for women of the ser-
vices in the large cities. But the Y.W.
does not propose to set up new centres
at battle stations and aerodromes where
canteens established by other organisa-
tions are already in working order, unless
requested by one of the services to do so.
Lady Gowrie will launch the shilling
drive on September 20 in a national
broadcast.
Musical Sydney was all agog to hear
Thomas Matthews, the English violinist
who comes here under engagement by
the A.B.C. He made his Sydney debut
with the A.B.C. orchestra on Saturday
afternoon as soloist in the Elgar Violin
Concerto, a tallish, very slim young
man, whose dark blue suit with a
double-breasted coat (worn with a grey
tie) was a reminder of pre-war vanities.
His seriousness might have been mistaken
for nervousness as he stood awaiting his
cue while the orchestra worked up the
atmosphere for his entry; but he had
not played a dozen notes before his
mastery and superb confidence were obvi-
ous. After the first movement he proved
that he could smile —very nicely, too —
and at the end he insisted on the whole
band acknowledging the ovation as well
as himself and conductor Bernard Heinze.
The Town Hall, as always at these
matinee concerts, was crowded.
The party arranged- by the Henry
Lawson Society in honor of Mary Gil-
more’s birthday was a great occasion.
Dame Mary gave thanks to all her many
friends very modestly and diffidently, but
she was pleased, no doubt of that. John
Curtin and his wife were there, and the
Prim mister's wife produced as part
of her present a pair of bed-socks she
had knitted on the long journey from
Perth. State Premier McKell, not quite
recovered from illness, sent his apology
and good wishes. Tom Mutch was among
those who made speeches.
All Sydney women who attended the
Sesquicentenary Women’s Conference
remember the attractive Mrs. Fabian
Chow, who came as China’s delegate and
brought with her a personal message
from the wife of Generalissimo Chiang
Kai-shek. A letter from Mrs. Chow,
who is now attached to her country’s
Department of Information, tells of a
nightmare journey from Hong Kong to
Chungking. She reached Chungking on
June 12, after nearly two months’ travel.
There were times when she and her two
children (they were in Australia with her)
faced starvation.
“Our money was giving out, and there
was no way of reaching the outside
world. Sugar from 20 cents per catty
had risen to three dollars sixty cents.
Flour was unprocurable, and bread that
used to be 12 cents per pound was
two dollars 50 cents. We had no meat,
bread, butter or flour for months.”
Finally Mrs. Chow and the children
escaped, with the help of friends, by boat
to Free China. A journey by sedan chair
and bus for eight days followed. Then
a ’plane flew them to safety and Chung-
king.
Poet Ruth Bedford, Janet Stephen and
Miss Earle Hooper, all members of the
English Association, are doing their bit
to keep poesy from becoming but a blos-
som in the dust of war’s chariot. They
have arranged a series Of poetry read-
ings, the works where possible being read
by the writers. Tom Inglis Moore has
already given his, and Mary Lang is to
give a reading of some of her poems on
Thursday next at half-past two. After
that the readings will be from 1.15 to
1.45 to suit people who have jobs in
town. The first and third Thursdays of
the month are the days, and Mrs.
Aarons’s bookshop in Martin-place is the
address.
Corporal Laurie Barnes, of the
W.A.A.A.Fs., has gone south to an
officers’ training school. Before she
joined the W.A.A.A.Fs., she was well
known in the voluntary services of
women’s war work. She was equally at
home in canteen and in transport duties.
The corporal has just announced her
engagement to Lieut. C. Fay, of the
A.I.F. Falk photograph.
Died suddenly at the week-end. Miss
Kate Kelly, elder sister of Nora Kelly,
now and for many years writer of The
Bulletin’s Sydney Women’s Letter. She
was the housekeeper of a menage of
three sisters, very devoted to each other.
Deep sympathy is felt for the two who
remain.
In the New York “Times” Book
Review is a Martha Foley story that will
give all writers of novels a wry grin at
themselves. Martha now does the select-
ing that Edward O’Brien used to do in
compiling the year’s “Best Short Stories.”
Miss Foley and her household are natu-
rally book-minded. One day her small
son was having a chat to the garbage
man. While this person was about his
duties, Foley Junior asked in an inter-
ested manner; “And how is your novel
coming along?” To which the garbage
man replied tersely: “I throw them out;
I don’t write them.”
From Melbourne
What a change on the women's
fighting front in one week! It may truth-
fully be said that hitherto no lack of
woman-power has been felt. There were
always plenty of recruits for the most
amateurish and ephemeral effort. But now,
if volunteers are asked for to do this or
that, the only offers come from women
of middle age, and even they aren’t so
numerous. Director Kitty McEwan’s
call for land girls coincided with the
spring sunshine, and girls who at other
times would shudder at the thought of
a cow * are practising calling the cattle
home in various soprano yodels, and sur-
reptitiously trying out the effect of a
land uniform, extemporised for the occa-
sion, before the mirror. Kathleen Lyons
heard the W.A.A.A.Fs. a-calling, and has
gone to another capital city to be put
through her paces, farewelled by Dame
Enid for herself and most of the family,
which has scattered to serve its country.
Dr. Deborah Buffer Murphy, here pic-
tured, is taking a breather from her war
work, which was the running of the
United Services Cafe, at the site of that
old-time rendezvous the Winter Garden,
popular with this generation’s parents
during .the last war. “Deb’s Dell,” as
naughty young things caff their favorite
resort, was run mostly on volunteer labor
for the benefit of British war orphans
and children otherwise hurt by war’s
havoc.
As every batch of children from over-
seas arrived here they were welcomed with
a bumper party at the United Services
Cafe, Dr. Deborah, mother of several
children, herself, having just the touch
with table setting and welcoming hand
that made the little travellers feel at
home. Her own cooking skill has been
at the cafe's service, and some wonder-
ful di»ners have been served there in the
rooms which were made quite unusual
with some of her own pieces of rare
glass and old furniture. First big dinner
at the cafe was for the Food and Wine
Society, of which husband Basil B.
Murphy is a shining light, and the last
will be for this society, too. The cafd
closes on the 27th. A woman's club will
take over the premises next month.
Some very distinguished women came
in silently at last week-end. They were
Americans who called themselves by
working names, Miss This and That, but
are mostly married to men whose names
carry weight over more than one con-
tinent. The reason for their arrival is
the U.S.A. Army’s determination to do
the war-club job properly. Miss Helen
Hall, in- private life Mrs. Paul Kellogg,
wife of the editor of “Survey,” has a
proud war record extending back to ser-
vice with the Red Cross in France a
quarter of a century ago, with control
of war-service clubs in China and the
Philippines to follow. She has also taken
in her stride England (to study unem-
ployment insurance) and Cuba, and now
is here to take a firm hand with clubs
and leave areas as administrator-assistant
to the delegate-in-charge of these clubs.
Washington thus keeps its eye on all war
efforts, everyone here being delegated
authority from U.S.A.
Miss Helen Hall is on leave from
Henry-street Settlement, in the heart of
New York’s slumland. She has there
come in contact with the hard-to-employ
and the derelict, as well as the victims
of hard luck. Her outlook on life is
realistic without being hard, and she
should be able to see what needs doing
for the troops and do it. With Miss
Pauli are Anita Woodworth, whose hus-
band of the same name is a Professor
of Education and is now with the Red
Cross; and Florice Langley, from
Alabama, who has special knowledge of
welfare work in camps.
Ever since Olga Blarney returned from
nursing service abroad there has been a
suggestion that her talent, discovered
there, for bringing to the sick and
wounded just that quiet, unfussing re-
assurance that makes for convalescence,
and leads the men to tell tfi.eir troubles,
and thus forget all about them, should
be made available to hospitals in these
parts. Now, after a week’s conference at
Royal Surgeons’ College, Australian Red
Cross leaders from every State have
evolved a Red Cross hospital visiting
plan. Leaders for Victoria will be Olga
Blarney and Matron Grace Wilson, both
now veterans of this war, and they have
got together a good team which will
cover the State and help itself to suitable
women everywhere so that visiting will
become a real art, and not a devastating
nightmare to soldiers, sailors and airmen
laid on their backs.
With practically everyone but father in
uniform, the Sawtelle-Langridge wedding
on Saturday, at St. John’s, Toorak, was
a sparkling affair. Bride was attended by
her twin and elder sisters both in
A.W.A.S. uniforms, and the bridegroom,
a Californian, of the U.S.A. Army, was
also in uniform, as were the lads who
attended him. Mr. and Mrs, Gordon
Langridge, bride Patricia Eileen’s (Pat
for short) father and mother, are mem-
bers of one of Melbourne’s oldest busi-
ness families. Bridegroom’s full name is
Joseph Donald Sawtelle.
Casual remarks of prize-winners in the
breadmaking contest conducted by the
Housewives’ Association at Howey Court
suggest that there is more than a chance
that, if bakers are no longer able to keep
up the supply, homekeeping women may
take to baking their own bread. One
winner said that it was easier than she
had thought, and that in a modem small
family there wasn’t much more trouble
in making the bread than in tackling a
steamed pudding. A leading woman
medico said that she had for years ground
her own meal and baked her own bread,
and, as she is a mother of children of
unusual brightness, her family is a good
advertisement for her methods. H. E.
West, of the William Angliss Food Trades
School, judged the bread, which was all
wholemeal and home-baked, and he
found it very good indeed.
“Has your lad come home from the
sea? Then send a parcel to another lad
slili keeping watch and ward over the
sea lanes.” That is the burden of the
appeal which Mrs. Ernest Poolman is
making to all who have thought for the
men of the merchant service. Mrs. Foot-
man believes in the appeal to give outright
as an escape from the everlasting camou-
flage of parties for this and that, and
especially from bridge, which may be
sport to some women, but which to others
is a nightmare. Mrs. Poolman is vice-
president of the Auxiliary to the Mission
to Seamen. After all. it’s quite easy to
say “I would have spent ss. on cards at
Mrs. So-and-so’s,” and get a postal note
for the amount and mail it to Mrs. -Pool-
man at 237 Domain-road, South Yarra.
Very easy, and to some women a darned
sight easier on the nerves than the con-
versation and port-mortems of the card
party.
A busy man these days is Pauli
Fiddian, not at his usual job of seeing
that A.B.C.’s wheels go round and the
University Conservatorium functions to
time, but preparing himself for the part
of Ko-Ko when, in a fortnight’s time, the
curtain goes up on “The Mikado.” He
was telling Con. friends that his six
weeks’ leave began last Monday, when
he started on rehearsals so that Gilsulli-
van fans won’t miss their Ivan too much.
Actually, some of them, unless they
follow their programmes closely, won’t
know for a while that it isn’t Menzies.
for the two men are extraordinarily alike
in figure, and both have a whimsical ex-
pression. Fiddian has a bit more weight,
but is exceedingly light on his feet. The
Firm expects that the curiosity to see a
new man in a Menzies part, plus the joy
of seeing “The Mikado” yet again, will
bring crowds to His Majesty’s for at least
three weeks.
Congratulations are being rained on
Betty Love and lan Stewart, who are
making the announcement of their en-
gagement to friends in five States. West-
ralia knows Miss Love well, lor she did
part of her massage course there before
coming to Melbourne to finish, and, of
course, Victoria throws out its chest
about the young man, who was not only
the southern State’s swimming champion,
but also holder of the Australian 100-
metre championship. He broke off a
Law course at Melbourne Uni. to become
a bombardier. The bride-to-be, who is
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Love, of Ned-
lands (W.A.), made many friends during
her college course, when she was in resi-
dence at Janet Clarke Hall. lan Stewart’s
home town is Echuca, where his‘parents,
Mr and Mrs. C. W. Stewart, live.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There was what might be termed a
“comfortable crowd” at Rosehill on
Saturday, when the respective wins of
Wee Woo and Faerie Queen saved the
books from what might have been a
disastrous day.
In the Flying Handicap Soho showed
all the pace that has marked his recent
track work, but though he led into the
straight he could not stall off Radical’s
strong finishing run. As Radical (Cook)
was second-last after going half a mile, he
put up a rattling performance. At the
same time Soho did well, considering it
was his first race for over two months,
and at his next start he is likely to be a
tough nut to crack. With the exception
of Rimveil, who is still above himself,
and was last home, the other runners
finished jn line behind St. Constant.
In the Brighton Handicap Wee Woo
(C. Powell) upset calculations by slip-
ping away from the other runners at the
first turn, and, passing the six furlongs
post with a lead of seven or eight lengths,
was not caught, though Haridelle, who
was third entering the straight, got within
a neck at the winning-post. After losing
a fair position before reaching the three
furlongs. Yours Truly ran on in the
straight to finish a good third. Haripur
and Red Pete shaped fairly, but Angus
and Ron Rico were disappointing, and
perhaps the last-named is feeling the
effects of his recent hard runs. Angus
tired after being second into the straight.
Shortly after barrier-rise San Sebas-
tian and Aquatic (Knox) were the leaders
in the first division of the Three-year-old
Handicap, with Mon Pere nearest them.
San Sebastian had a slight advantage
over Aquatic at the turn, but the latter
outstayed him, while Mon Pere, who was
not so forward in condition as the other
two, was a moderate third. Afloat and
Commando were nearest of the others,
but over the last half-mile the issue rested
with Aquatic and San Sebastian. The
winner is a well-grown and stylish-look-
ing colt by Midstream from Glade (Spear -
head-Lucina, by The Welkin) and was a
600gns. yearling.
The favorite, Main Topic, may have
been a trifle unlucky to lose the second
division of the Three-year-old Handicap.
He nearly dislodged his rider at barrier-
rise, met with a check at the three fur-
longs and even then looked like winning
when he made a run on the rails in the
straight. However, he was held over the
last bit by Davinia (Delaney), who was
third to Antelope and Pinocan (El
Cacique-Wedding Feast) turning for
home. Antelope showed lots of pace, but
at the finish was cut out of third money
by Display. Metaxas was backed, but
scarcely ran as well as at his previous
appearance.
In the Moorefield Handicap Tuokool
(R. Parsons), after being headed by Bona
Fide in the straight, hung on so gamely
that he won by a head from Pantler,
with Bona Fide a similar distance further
off. two strides Pantler would
have won, and, questioned by the
stewards why he checked him more than
once in the straight, James said it was
due to the horse hanging in and getting
on to the heels of other runners. Rod-
borough, after doing the early pace-
making, ran fourth, but though John
Dory was in the betting he was never
dangerous.
Rameo tried to win the Jumpers’ Flat
Race all the way, but was beaten at the
top of the straight, and Anpapejo
(Hynes), in squeezing home half a head
in front of Saratoga, gave B. Payten his
first win of the season. Later in the day
Payten narrowly missed with Haridelle,
and won the last race with Air Link.
In the first division of the Welter
Handicap imported Faerie Queen (Bartle)
compensated for her recent failures.
Coming from a long way back at the
straight entrance, where Trade Mark and
Linemond were the leaders, she won
from Triad in a fashion that said a lot
for her prospects of further success.
Trade Mark does not stay any better
than when younger, but it will not be
long before Linemond is again heard
from. There was some support for Mer-
rimba, presumably because Munro was
his rider. Last most of the way he fin-
ished in the middle of the field.
At one time the books had a pull over
backers in the matter of information, but
now the latter hold their own on
that score. Having his second run in
eight months, backed from 4 to 1 down
to 5 to 2, and moderately placed up to
the turn, Air Link (Munro) won the
second division of the Welter as he lilted
from Cadger, who did the pacemaking.
Good Company and Parsing, who headed
the remainder, shaped fairly, but Royal
Emblem, after being well placed to the
turn, weakened in the run home,
m * * *
Ascot (Sydney) met with a fair
measure of support on Saturday, but
something to be . thankful for is that it
will be the last clash meeting for some
time.
Maradadi (Knox), improving upon his
recent form, won the Flying Handicap
in good style from Benburb and Cradle
Song. The favorite, Mannerheim, again
stopped after leading round the home
turn. His last three runs have been
costly to his connections and the public.
The Victoria Park Handicap went to
Tetreen (J. Duncan) by a narrow margin
from Kestrel, who led into the straight.
The favorite, Amberspear, did not run
up to his Rosehill form of a fortnight
earlier. Nearer last than first most of
the way, he finished fourth.
Widden (Freedman) had a well-
deserved win in the Welter Handicap, in
which, after being seventh at the turn,
he was served by a clear run on the rails.
Gallop and Glamour Lad each had a
a turn in the lead, but the former faded
away a long way from home. Christopher
Milne ran his usual sound race, but
Widden was too good for him. Scooter
was favorite for the Fourteen-two Han-
dicap, but his years are telling upon him.
First into the straight, he was beaten into
third place by Shop Girl (Mulley) and
Te Rama.
Prairie King (Darke) finished strongly
to defeat Royal Lancer in the Novice
Handicap, the latter starting favorite. Well-
backed Master Rion never really got in
it, but King’s Cross, who was prominent
throughout, was a good third. Prairie
King won a race in Victoria a little while
ago. Pall Mall proved the “good thing”
supposed for the Three- and Four-year-
old Handicap. Third to Valiant Garde
and Fort Leon at the turn, it did not
cost him much effort to beat the latter
a length and a half. Marchotti, though
first to show out, gave his backers a
poor race. McMenamin rode the winner.
Hullabaloo, who was not considered
good enough to be nominated for the
Caulfield or Melbourne Cup, defeated
several Cup candidates in the Ascot
Thousand on Saturday. Never farther
back than second, he finished too strongly
for the pacemaker, Hero, with Saint
Warden a rather unlucky third. Hulla-
baloo had been beaten half a head in his
two previous races, but the company on
Saturday was considered to be much
stronger, and he started at 12 to 1. He
is a six-year-old gelding by Excitement
from Birthday Girl, and his win repre-
sented a welcome change of luck for his
trainer, D. McCormick. Latter experi-
enced setbacks with Winterset, Highland
March and Cheery Jack during the jump-
ing season.
Form shown by David Innis, Prairie-
dale and Primavera did not enhance their
Cup prospects, but Exactly shaped fairly
in fourth position, and might repay fol-
lowing. El Golea, unsuited by the track,
and unable to obtain a clear run in the
straight, made up a lot of ground to
finish sixth. All going well, it is intended
he shall contest the Caulfield Cup, for
which his stablemate Skipton is favorite.
Aggressor, heavily backed at fours and
threes, outstayed Jenny Law in a bump-
ing finish for the first Yarborough Handi-
cap. He is a good advertisement for his
sire, Hostile, whose only other son to
race is the useful galloper New Warrior.
Purtell, rider of Aggressor, completed a
double on Mating Call in the second
Yarborough Handicap, but subsequently
suffered slight injuries in a fall with Wil-
lunga. Mating Call, an Adelaide-owned
filly by Manitoba from Resonance, won
well, even if narrowly, and she may be a
runner for the important spring races for
fillies —the Wakeful Stakes and Oaks. On
Saturday, however, she carried only 7.13
as against the 8.13 by Jenny Law. Latter
is one of the most promising young gal-
lopers of her sex, but, because she was
nominated as part-owned by a book-
maker’s clerk, doubts exist whether she
is eligible to run in the Oaks.
Improving on her latest form, Queen
Baccha “smothered” the favorite, Law
Student, at the finish of the first Queens-
berry Handicap. Law Student turned
for home with a clear lead, but was not
good enough. Bevera, a 10-to-l chance,
defeated Indignant and Atlas in a close
finish for the second Queensberry Han-
dicap. It was her best form for some
time. Florin was all-out to defeat
Bronze Flight a head in the first Rosslyn
Welter, but Beau Lake (third) might have
won had he not been forced to cover a
lot of extra ground. Director (favorite)
had every chance, but the second favorite,
Willunga, fell approaching the three fur-
longs, and brought down Radama. Denny
Shingle recorded the fourth success of
the day for S.A. owners when he nar-
rowly defeated Brazen King, also from
Adelaide, in the second Rosslyn Welter.
Other S.A.-owned horses to score were
Sligo, Queen Baccha and Mating Call.
* * * *
Auction’s Epsom chance with 10.12
is anything but bright, notwithstanding
he carried that weight—minimum 7st. —
when he won the Doomben Newmarket,
defeating Beaulivre and Gold Salute,
among others. Marvel, with 10.2, holds
the record for weight successfully carried
in the Epsom. It is too early yet to make
anything in the way of a definite selec-
tion, but Rimveil, Yaralla, Evergreen,
Pinero, Merrimba, Soho and Kingsdale are
likely to be among the favored division.
Dashing Cavalier has 51b. more in the
Metropolitan than when he won last
year, and lower down such horses as
Veiled Threat, Dewar, Pantler, Thrax,
It’s Funny, Goose Boy and Shining Night
are more likely to take the fancy of
punters.
Hc * * *
As was generally anticipated the motion
to allow of the present A.J.C. com-
mittee remaining undisturbed until after
the war did not meet with support at last
week’s annual meeting. It did not appeal
even to the committee. However, the
proposal that stakes should be given pre-
cedence of patriotic contributions was
generally approved. It is practically cer-
tain the sweepstakes system will be re-
stored, and as that will mean consider-
able loss of revenue in the way of ac-
ceptance fees, the club may be unable
to distribute as much added money as
anticipated.
The member who said that higher
prizes would attract better horses and
that profits would be so much greater
that the club would be able to give nearly
£50,000 annually instead of £19,000 to
patriotic funds lost sight of a few facts.
Even under present conditions the best
horses race at Randwick, and the odds
are much against attendances being
more than double as great as* last season
as a result of any step to make racing
more attractive in the way of big stakes.
The most that could be expected would
be a few more horses from other States,
and a great deal more than that would
be necessary to draw crowds so large as
to permit of a £50,000 contribution.
• •*•••
Marked increase in admission revenue
appears improbable. Very properly,
men in uniform are admitted free
to Randwick, whereas as civilians they
had to pay the customary admission to
paddock or leger. That may tend to
a decrease in revenue, and the Federal
Government’s contemplated big increase
in entertainment tax will be a heavy
blow. It is the hope of backing a winner,
and not the actual sport, that attracts
many people to the races, and the chances
are that a large* section of these will
decide that their needs can be satisfied
in the leger, and many who now
patronise the latter enclosure will drift
to the flat
**, * •
Yaralla has been getting through such
a sound preparation that it is practically
certain he will start favorite for the War-
wick Stakes. His last run was in the
All-Aged Stakes, 1 mile 110 yards, in
which he easily beat Evergreen, who
was conceding him 81b. On Saturday
the latter receives 41b. There are favor-
able reports from Rosehill con-
cerning Evergreen, but the chestnut
may again prove his master. Flying
Knight and Gold Salute, who are in the
w.f.a. race, are also in the Campbell-
town Handicap. Mildura will scarcely be
ready, and the distance seems short for
Dewar, Veiled Threat, Katanga and
Dashing Cavalier. Winnipeg should find
8.7 quite a luxury after the weights he
has been carrying, and of the likely
runners on Saturday he reads like
Yaralla’s most dangerous opponent.
* * * *
The largest attendances at Randwick
in the 1941-42 season were 74,488 on
Derby day and 69,484 on Metropolitan
day. In 1941 the attendance on Don-
caster day was 62,800, and on Sydney
Cup day 63,300. Last season change of
venue to Rosehill made a marked differ-
ence in revenue from admissions. Don-
caster day attendance was 25,928, and
that of Cup day 18,924, making a total
for the two days of 44,852, against 126,100
for the corresponding two days the
previous year. It will probably be a long
time before the Randwick record of
92,287 for one day is equalled. That was
on Doncaster day, 1922, when Beauford
won the Autumn Stakes, for which Mel-
bourne’s champion Eurythmic started at
2 to 1 on and finished third.
* * * , *
South Australia will still have to
struggle along without racing. In the
House of Assembly last week a motion
to remove the ban on racing was, on
non-party lines, defeated by 21 votes
to 10.
*-* * *
V.R.C. judge John Henry has been
appointed judge for the V.T. and R.A.
(Ascot, Melbourne) meetings. He now
judges for all the Melbourne metro-
politan clubs, and does not turn a hair
when disappointed backers loudly advise
him to consult an oculist.
Miscellaneous
Reminiscent of “Freight-train” Dunk-
horst, whom Bob Fitzsimmons, not much
more than half his weight, knocked cold
with a punch, was “Man Mountain” Les
McNabb, of Lithgow (N.S.W.), when
he shaped up to Herb Narvo, six
or seven stone lighter, at Leich-
hardt. A Narvo left to the body made
him take “seven” before they had been
fighting a minute. Three more knock-
downs and then McNabb apparently
went down without being hit. He took
another eight seconds, and was down
again at the bell. Still under the weather
as they started the second, McNabb had
no defence for a flurry of fists to head
and body and was knocked out. Exit
McNabb. Narvo, though he came into
the game rather late —he is nearer 50 than
20 —is no muscle-bound footballer-pug,
and looks sure to beat Britt.
* * * »
Essendon, Richmond, Sowth and —
yes! —Footscray are the V.F.L. four.
Carlton made a grand bid for fourth
position, downing Richmond 18.19 to
10,14. But Sowth won also (with a
wealth of behinds), 14.23 to 14.7, against
Melbourne, and Footscray ran up the
day’s best tally, 129 points—l9.ls to
’Roy’s 14.8 —so Carlton was outed on
percentages. Essendon was never out of
second gear against North —8.16 to 5.8.
Poor old Collingwood had to battle hard
to stave off Hawthorn, 16.21 to 15.13.
The result didn’t matter, but defeat
would have been a felon blow to ’Wood’s
pride. Saturday sees the first of the
semi-finals: Sowth v. Footscray.
* * * *
In one of the hardest, fastest and
brightest Union Rugby games of the
season East beat Uni. 10-3. It was the
Students’ second loss in 17 matches, and
they got the only try. Cochrane,
from Edinburgh University, scored all
East’s points and gave a capital exhibi-
tion of five-eighth play. It’s still Uni.
first, East and Manly together and Parra-
matta, with the rest nowhere. Parra-
matta had little to spare against St.
George (8-3), but Manly “annihilated”
Randwick: 30-nil. North beat West 18-14,
and Gordon passed the wooden spoon
back to Drummoyne, 13-9,
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(At Randwick.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
August Hurdle Race: Sobersides,
1 ; Anpapejo, 2'; Tea Dennis, 3.
Campbelltown Handicap: Soho,
1 ; Flying Knight, 2 ; Radical, 3.
Hobartville Stakes: Riverton or
Baroda, 1 ; Hall Stand, 2; Pan-
branch, 3.
Farm Novice: Glendower, 1;
Mabonga, 2; Louano or Casket
King, 3.
Warwick Spring Handicap :
Shining Night, 1 ; Pantler, 2 ; Goose
Boy, 3.
Glenlee Handicap: Pinero, 1;
Wee Woo, 2; Tel Asur or Air
Link, 3.
FOR MENTONE.
(Before acceptances .)
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Beach Hurdle: Claudette, 1 ; Har-
ley, 2 ; Bluebeard, 3.
Berwick Handicap: Register, 1 ;
Grain Trader, 2; Bobby Pearce, 3.
Waverley Handicap: True Flight,
1 ; Velocity, 2; Royal Peter, 3.
August Stakes: Tea Cake, 1 ;
Phoines, 2; Reception, 3.
Westminster Welter; Dark Felt,
1 ; Darraweit, 2 ; Sir Locket, 3.
Hume Trial: Liberal Knight, 1 ;
Wheatear, 2 ; Manawatu, 3.


‘Until tmti
a
nr
Until headlights again light the night, heralding the
return o£ peace and unrestricted motoring facilities, the
needs of essential war transport have, under Regulation,
priority in your Ford dealer’s service station. With any
remaining time available, Ford dealers will do their best
to deal with private motorists* major mechanical problems.
Until then . . . Here's how Ford private car owners
can deal with minor adjustments themselves. To
show how this can be done we have published the "Owners’
Emergency Guide Book.” This explains how to find
and correct minor troubles in carburettor, fuel pump,
distributor, ignition, generator, spark plugs and fan belt.
Other useful and helpful information is also included
%»»»
Name
Address..
POST COUPON FOR YOUR COPY. For your free copy
post coupon to address shown, or ask your local Ford Dealer.
To Ford Motor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., F 214.15.1
Private Bag,
NORTH GEELONG. VIC.
Please send me free and post free a copy
of "Owners' Emergency Guide Book."
Car Model..
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Inc, in Vic.)
m
m
*
ft m
6? v
cawwA oh!
Geared for war, the
Olympic organisation is
carrying on, day and
night, producing sinews
of war that toughen the
Allied Nations’ War
Offensive.
mM
V'”* - 1
ttipic
geared for war
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO., LTD.
SMOKE-OH!
“Respondent in a divorce in which petitioner
‘named’ four other women admitted that his
wife had been good; she was a woman in a
thousand, he said.” — “Sun.”
That’s precisely what she seemed to
suspect.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Men wore their hats to dinner in the seven-
teenth century.”— “World’s News.”
On hot days members of the no-hat
brigade simply went outside in the sun
and had a grill.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Life is not all milk and rattles,’ says an
advt. for baby wear.”
No? Ask anyone who tries to get a
few minutes’ sleep in our street after
4 a.m.
*-• »|«
“Simpson had been a traveller in perambu-
lators.” — “Argus.”
Some may be inclined to think
Simpson was unique ; not so.
Here’s a fact you cannot blink —
You and I were, long ago.
Zake.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Jury Locked Up.”
“About time, too,” is the unanimous
opinion in Long Bay and Pentridge.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Altered Views.
It’s no use whinging about the terrible
crush in these trams at peak hour. After
all, it’s war-time, and we’ve got to realise
that the Government must limit transport
as much as possible. It’s necessary—
and there’s an end to it!
Yes, I know I used to moan about
people barking my shins with their suit-
cases, stamping all over my feet and
elbowing me in the ribs. But I’m wiser
now r —l’ve seen the light. We’ve just got
to take these things philosophically.
I’m quite satisfied. You see, the last
four mornings I’ve had the good luck
to be squeezed up against that dinky little
fluffy-haired thing who always gets on at
the stop after mine.'
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Western aborigines wage war for woman.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
But women also don’t abhor
The thought of fearsome rages.
Though black or white their tempers soar
(.For wives will often wage a war.
And simply for the wages).
Loo.
“We live in a synthetic age.”
—" S . M. Herald.”
An age in which glasses are sold to
mugs as mugs and rooms are let to flats
as flats.
4* 4> 4* 4*
“Until the 1920’s the saxophone was used
only in brass or military bands, as a substitute
for clarinets.” — “World’s News.’’’
It is now used in jazz bands as a sub-
stitute for music.
“Fought Off 15 Zeros. Bomber’s Feat.”
—Newspaper headline.
Fifteen zeros? Why, that’s nothing!
■J* 4* 4* 4*
“Only the very best goes into W.A.A.A.F.
uniforms.”— Radio news item.
We’ll say!
•J*
“Evidence was given that defendant punched
his wife every Saturday when he came home
drunk. He was bound over.” — “Sun.”
Another war-time curtailment of week-
end sport.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Fine wool claimed to be made from soya
bean ."—“Argus.”
Not having a bean to wear—that’ll be
the next complaint.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Our rates are naturally higher than those
of picture theatres because we employ human
artists.”— J.C.W. manager on entertainments tax.
Hollywood hopes this doesn’t reach
the ears of Donald Duck or Michael
Mouse.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The man who is mad about fishing is seldom
a satisfactory lover.” — Dorothy Dix.
He is liable to sling his hook at any
time.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The situation, the colonel could see, was
rapidly becoming intolerable. He studied the
glowing end of his cigar for a few seconds,
cursed softly and then put it back in his
mouth.” — Serial.
Then he cursed loudly.
*2* *l* *2*
“His relations did what he told them. He
had a six-figure fortune to leave when he died.”
— “D.T:”
Plenty of will-power, in short.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Petitioner said she had taken domestic work
in various country towns, in the hope of tracing
her husband.” — “D.T.”
Scouring the country for him.
•J* *|*
Crowning Achievement.
“But mere disapproval is an understatement;
he hit her on the head with a poker.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
A man of speedy action, he
Was not content to mope about,
And, quicker than it takes to tell.
He had his trouble ironed out.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Getting Booked.
“An enemy alien in a Sydney divorce court
handed to the Judge his certificate of marriage
—a 50-page booklet with pages left blank for
debts, children, family history, etc.”
Even though the innovation came from
Schicklgruberland,. there seems to be
something in the idea.
Here, a fellow on holding out his neck
to have the yoke fitted on, prises him-
self apart from anything from two to
five guineas, according to whether the
harnesser says “your wedded wife” or
“youah wedded waife,” and gets in return
a measly lOin. x Sin. slip of paper which
can be turned out at 2-Id. a gross.
Having landed him, the strife rolls it
up and keeps it in the middle drawer of
the dressing-table among the nighties and
Spencer bodices. The only time it is ever
brought to light is when she happens to
be giving the drawer the once-in-a-decade
clean-out. Wondering whether it’s the
pattern for a bolero coat that she’s been
searching for, she opens it, gazes puzzled
for a second, then has a good hearty
laugh.
How much better value for the
’groom’s money it would be to be pre-
sented with a 6in.-thick tome bound in
vellum, which could be used as a com-
bined diary, record of s.p. bets, stamp
album, cooking recipe book, file for bills,
Sheffield Shield and Test batting and
bowling averages, relatives’ birthday dates
and a host of other valuable memoranda,
as well as the bald statement that you’ve
been duly and legally hitched! It could
then have a respected place on the book-
shelves, appropriately, say, between
Stephen Leacock’s Moonbeams from the
Larger Lunacy and Alice in Wonderland.
And what better place to record family
history? Especially the wife’s family.
When her uncle bites you for ten bob
“till payday” you can record in black
and white the extreme murkiness of his
pedigree, and you can let yourself go in
a fine burst of rhetoric that will be pre-
served for an admiring posterity when
her pa and ma are still occupying the
best bedroom six months after they came
on a week-end visit.
“Billy, what are you doing there on
the lounge-room floor with my marriage
certificate?”
“Aw, gee. Mum, I bet Stinker Smithers
six glasses to my top that Brad’d get
two cencheries in the Test, an’ I want to
see if I won!”
A strange conversation, perhaps, to be
heard in Emoh Ruo or Hazelville, yet
who knows that it might not be heard
one day?
A minor alteration would have to be
made, though, for the Australian version.
In the book that the enemy alien sub-
mitted several pages were set aside for
children. Judging by our birthrate half
a line will be ample.
Books are sometimes lent, of course,
and everyone knows their fate. You
might lend your marriage, certificate to
some cobber who wants to study the
Melbourne Cup winners over the past
50 years. Later perhaps one of the
official forms that we are always filling
in might demand production of the mar-
riage certificate.
That would be awful.
Or would it?
Bo.
Technique.
“A.R.P, with a Touch of Art.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
When streets are dark and lamps are dim
And wife and kids are snug in bed.
And searchlights watch for raiders grim,
A man has got to use his head.
So, having joined the N.E.S.,
I keep collected, calm and cool;
But little does the missus guess
I’m warden at a poker school!
P. O. M. C.
Expert Cooking.
“Planned oven meals can be real tickets for
freedom.” — Woman’s paper.
He didn’t like braised liver, so she
cooked a lot of that. He liked his savory
steak quite lean ; she served it very fat.
He hated turnips; said that they were
only food for swine. And so she gave him
turnips, saying “Here, they’ll suit you
fine,”
Her oven meals were thus well planned.
She laughs now all the day. Her free-
dom has been gained because —her hus-
band ran away. But where her cooking
really won was at the local bank. (Her o
husband says he has his own stupidity
to thank. He should have known her
cooking would create a nasty stir!)...
She’d cooked up some excuse —and he’d
transferred all cash to her.
L.
Perpetual Motion.
“A Hungarian inventor has been awarded a
prize for a ‘perpetual’ match which can be
struck 500 times.”—' "World’s News.”
I’ve often had a box of those.
“Perpetual” is right!
You strike each match 500 times
, But still can’t get a light.
LOO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
I ''hat Money Can’t Buy
The slogan "Save and Lend for Vic-
ry” is sound enough. We all know
at a modern war costs a lot of money,
ith money, ships, tanks, planes, guns
id other requirements of modern wax-
re can be bought. But let’s remembei
at money isn’t everything. It won I
ty military genius, administrative wis-
m, discipline and enthusiasm,
ft is the spirit of a country’s people
at wins wars ; their willingness to make
orifices and to work long hours.
Would all the gold in the world have
wed England after Dunkirk if the spirit
• her people had been weak ? I hey
id money over there, plenty of it, but
was the factory workers and the men
: the R.A.F who saved England and
,e Empire And neithei were the
;ople of London bribed with gold
, stand up to the Blitz. It was their
oflinching courage that kept them going
hen death rained from the sky, and
toney certainly can’t buy courage.
END AvESTA (Q.).
L Merchant Navy Grievance
1 am one of many hundreds in the
lerchant Navy who complain of in-
istice because we must pay taxes on out
3i per cent, “war-risk bonus." Tax us
n our wages, but not on our bonus,
/hen the tax-collector takes his lot, our
onus looks pretty sick. Some of us are
orking with Chinese crews whose wages
ave increased 200 to 300 per cent in the
ist 12 months, and they are not required
> pay one penny taxation. Remember,
e are getting that bonus, not to put
s upsides with the big rise in wages
shore, but because we take a risk the
eople on shore do not. —Red Ensign (at
-a).
‘Class Distinction”
A young soldier died at a camp about
,00 miles from Sydney. His mother
vanted his body buried in Sydney. Ihe
eply was that he must be buried where
ic was. The mother offered to pay ah
;xpenses of removal to Sydney. Ihen,
earning her boy would be buried in a
hack coffin, she offered to pay for a
relished coffin, as well as all charges for
mrial in Sydney,
Communications travelled from Syd-
rey to Melbourne, to the camp and back
igain. Officialdom wouldn’t budge
neyond letting the parents pay for the
polished coffin, and it complained that
his was establishing a precedent and
;lass distinction.
Surely these tragic matters should be
irranged to the satisfaction of bereaved
parents.--C. S. (N.S.W.).
A. Taxi-driver Talks Back
There’s a lot of things about taxis
“Eureka" (B. 5/8/’42) doesn’t know. 1
come to be driving for a Mosman (Syd-
ney) car firm because I have been dis-
charged from the A.I.F. after nine
months’ service, with two and a halt
years in the permanent military forces
immediately prior to that. All the other
drivers are either returned soldiers or
too old for service. In these days a man
has to have a darn good excuse to be out
of uniform. ,
Let me invite “Eureka” to let me drive
him about five or six hours at night (if
he’s got the money) in my hire car,
equipped with a gas-producer unit, and
see just how hard a taxi-driver works
for his earnings, coping with those thou-
sands of citizens who assume a glazed
look in the eye when the sun sets and
wander about the streets in their blackest
clothing, congregate like sheep in safety
zones which don’t exist and then have
the hide to abuse motorists who nearly
knock them down. —G. R. M. (N.S.W.).
Battles and Gambles
I am surprised that “Old Digger” (B.
5/8/’42) should speak of the opening of
a second front in Europe as “a dickens
of a gamble.” What is war if not one
tremendous gamble, unless it is a cam-
paign such as the Abyssinian war where
Italian troops fought natives equipped
with antiquated weapons? Are we going
to keep on saying that military adven-
tures, being gambles, cannot be under-
taken by us? If only our enemies would
lake that attitude ; if the Japanese would
say “Attack Australia? Ridiculous! It
is too much of a gamble,” the position
I The contributor placed first is paid
4 Jd. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
ight be different. But they seem always
illing to take a sporting chance
x-VX (Vic.).
übber Salvage
1 suggest that every motorist in Aus-
alia should surrender the rubber floor-
lats from the front floorboards of his
r her motor car. Also that surfers give
p their surfo-planes.
It should be a matter of shame for
nyone in these times to possess such
jbber articles. Arthur D’Ombrain
sf.S.W.).
lard to Take
1 am a Briton who has been in Aus-
alia for six years. During these last
;w weeks I’ve had to listen to talk that
/as pretty hard to take. Some of us
tritish people are looked on as if we
elong to a race with the same fighting
uality as Mussolini’s “Navy.”
I’ve never yet heard an A.I.F. man who
ad been in action with British troops
ondemn their courage or fighting ability
)nly the fellows who have never been
o a war, and never will if they can keep
,ut of it, run the Tommy down.
I should like to say how much 1 appre-
late “Ek Dum’s” articles. Here is one
vriter who has a sense of what is due
o the Royal Navy, the Merchant Navy,
tie British Army and the R.A.F. — Scotty
N.Q.).
Australia and World History
Optimistically seeing a better world
irising out of the present chaos, Dr.
Sorokin, of Harvard University, in his
rook The Crisis of Our Age writes:
Many signs suggest that America may
play, in a modified form, in regard to
Europe, the role of Rome in regard to
Greece. In connection with this, many'
evidences point to a shift of the centre ot
world history from Europe to the Pacific
Ocean, with America, China, India, Japan
and Russia as the main players ot the
world-history drama during the next cen-
turies.
That is enough to make any Austra-
lian sit up and take notice. Here we’ve
been deluding ourselves into thinking
Australia was already a nation and that
her part in Pacific affairs was an impor-
tant one, and yet the learned doctor over-
looks the possibility that Australia can
play any part in world history (which he
states will be centred in the Pacific
Ocean) in years to come.
Even if he had been dealing with but
the next few decades we would still have
joined issue with him on his contention,
but to be blind to our national future
all down the centuries—well! — Macaw
(N.S.W.).
In Defence of N. Queensland
Men called up by the Allied Works
Council asked to be sent to N.Q. Official-
dom hastened to tell them that they may
be bombed, the climate was bad and
they would probably catch dengue. But
they still wanted to go.
That gets my goat—“the climate is
bad”! I’ve lived most of my life in the
Far North and I can’t wish for a better
climate. Colds and influenza are prac-
tically unknown. Knew a consumptive
whom Sydney doctors said had only three
months to live. She came to N.Q. That
Ivas 10 years ago, and now no one would
Iream she had ever had an illness in her
ife.
The robust children one sees are ample
widence that the climate is the best in
Australia. After all, the “dreaded”
lengue is only a severe form of ’flu.
Anyhow, there are more people in North
Queensland than in the whole of Tas-
mania, which is claimed to be so healthy.
—Gip(N.Q.).
How Small States Suffer
While there are ten arguments for
Federation for every one against, we in
the smaller States suffer sometimes from
centralisation in queer ways. For in-
stance, two R.A.A.F. ’planes, crashed a
few miles out of Adelaide. Local reporters
and correspondents had the information,
unofficially, in the way pressmen naturally
get hold of such items, but we were not
allowed to use it. On the following day
our own papers received the news from
their Melbourne correspondents.
The time we spent checking up on the
story 24 hours earlier was wasted. We
had nothing to show for our time and we
might as well have had the afternoon off.
If this sort of thing continues a few of
us will be looking for jobs as war corre-
spondents, since we will not be required
here.
One other point on Federation, How
many returned-soldier journalists from
IL, W.A. and Tas. have had a
ince at the many appointments to the
•ions Public Relations jobs? Not one.
ey are filled by Melbourne and Sydney
irnalists. —J. Campbell (S.A.).
ic Black Man’s Burden
Mixed herbs used to cost merchants 2d.
>ound baled on wharf ex-French Africa,
eight to Fremantle was Is. 2d. a pound,
le other day I was quoted prices for
xed herbs grown in W.A.: 7s. a pound.
nflower seeds, also from Africa, used
be procurable f.o.b. Fremantle at 3d.
pound. More than 90p.c. of Australia’s
ffee came from Java, because of the
eapness.
Why was all this stuff so cheap? Re-
use of cheap native labor. When we
rn-to to produce a simple commodity
ch as herbs in Australia, the price is
. a pound. This does not mean thai
is particular grower, or any grower,
profiteering. It sets the likely scale
ir all such commodity prices, if the
tempt is made to grow them in our own
> untry.
We have been confusing “high stand-
d of living” with “high wages.” The
tter item can be clearly detected, by
imparison with wages paid to workers in
;her countries, after the necessary ad-
istments have been made for exchange,
;c R H Gordon (W.A.')
r«e Treatment
I agree with “Nad” (B. 5/8/ 9 42) that
hospital tax should be levied, every citi-
en receiving free treatment. But “free
reatment” calls for a generous interpre-
ition. . .
At present in a Sydney hospital is a
/oman with a leg badly broken in three
►laces. Being of small means, she is no
loubt almost on the free list. Of course
he will receive excellent professional
reatment, but she is also receiving con-
iderable pain from being “shown off
o student doctors. Does this happen to
'paying” patients, too?
Many a lodge patient can give instances
>f having been treated by his doctor
vith less interest than was a here s-a-
;uinea bloke with the same type of com-
plaint. Even if treatment is free to all
;here may be the possibility of favored
patients unless very strict control over
lectors and hospitals is exercised. —M.
N.S.W.).
Law Reform
In police courts in N. S. Wales it is
noticeable how readily costs, substantial
in some instances, are granted upon con-
victions in cases where the proceedings
are commenced by the police or by
Crown Law authorities, either State or
Commonwealth. But it seems an invari-
able rule that costs will not be granted
to the other party, if successful, thougn
the prosecution may have been un-
warranted.
Even if the convicted party appeals to
Quarter Sessions and wins his appeal his
costs are rarely, if ever, granted. The
Supreme Court does now and again grant
costs if the appeal is upheld or a prohibi-
tion is granted, but the appellant is still
without his costs of the hearing in the
lower court. The certainty ot being out
of pocket, whether convicted or not, is
one reason why persons plead guilty
rather than fight a case that could pos-
sibly be won. .
In criminal trials an acquitted person
is never granted costs. Yet he may have
waited some considerable time for his
trial and spent it in a gaol.
A fund should be established so
that persons acquitted may be granted
compensation for the time spent m gaol
awaiting trial, for earnings lost and lor
the costs of defence. We now have in
N.S.W. a Public Defender, but without
recompense in cases where recompense
is warranted the reform is only hall-com-
pleted.—Lex (N.S.W.).
Churchill
If Churchill lost the battle of Malaya
and other battles, why not be consistent
and give him the credit for the winning
of the battle for Britain, the greatest win
of all the war? Blunders are a British
characteristic in war. What ol Hitler s
blunders —his date fixed for driving
through the streets of London, the British
a decadent race, Russia to have been
overrun in six weeks, etc,?
Bouquets are rarely thrown at great
national leaders until they have been
dead half a century or more. —R. Anninc.
(N.Q.).
Churchill’s remarkable hold on the
British public is capable of more than
one explanation. One reason goes
some time back to a period when
I Winnie in some curious way had
le whole George Newnes press be
ind him. Prior to the wax every
;ws stall assaulted the eye with a copy
E Newnes’s leading magazine, the cover
E which would blazon, say, Sir John
imon” (in quite small print), “by Win
on Churchill.” That caught the club
K»m and the country-house crowd.
For the herd there was the “News ot
le World,” on the entire front page of
?hich would be the bovrilised version ot
ame famous book by a long-dead writer,
audly placarded as “By Winston
’hurchill.” This, of course, meant that
nly the bovrilising had been done by
Vinnie, but so cleverly was it put that
be uncritical reader, and most of the
N. of the W.” readers were that, gained
he impression that the whole splendid
tory emanated from the Churchillian
vrain.
So we had the scion of the House ol
darlborough held up as a soldier, states-
nan and author—a veritable Admirable
Crichton. Before such actional and in-
ellectual splendor lesser lights like Cham-
berlain faded to the insignificance of a
arthing dip. But it was Chamberlain who
>ave Britain the implements for the only
battle she has thus far won, the smashing
bf Hitler’s air attack on England.—
iV. C. C. (W.A.).
Farm Housing
A contributory cause to the shortage
of farm labor is the execrable accommo-
dation provided by many employers,
coupled with the absence of decent sani-
tation. I’ve seen dairy- and pig-farms on
which the bails, milk-room, pens, etc.,
were models of excellence, but the living
quarters provided for the hands con-
sisted of dilapidated galvanised-iron
sheds, without bathing facilities or fire-
places. How can “land girls” be expected
to replace male workers unless reason-
ably good accommodation is provided?
Some years ago I had to advise on
methods of improving the colored-labor
supply in a certain British colony. The
remedy was not far to seek. The wages
were adequate, but the housing on the
plantations was deplorable. Ameliora-
tion of the latter condition had the imme-
diate effect of increasing the labor supply
almost to the point of embarrassment.
Rural employers invariably raise the
same cry, “We cannot afford it but it
is noticeable that there is usually no
shortage of labor on properties where the
amenities of civilisation are observed.
L6cal authorities have all the powers
necessary to remedy this state of affairs
by refusing to permit the occupancy of
buildings which do not conform to the
regulations. —K. L. M. (N.S.W.).
“ She's firin' high. Will y' true 'er up, mate?”


m
PRODUCT
for
wireless apparatus in Australia
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Buy . . .
£lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
and WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
WAR
For 29 years A.WA. has m
a reputation for making hi
I O N
Wi
Ac
• • -t
untamed
ih made
