

t
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 63. No. 3281
Wednesday, December 30, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
CHEDDAR VILLAGE.
r "p HROUGHOUT the “cheese world,!’ or perhaps “cheese-
eating-world” would be more appropriate, no word is
better known than “cheddar.” Yet few of the millions who use
it regularly have any knowledge of the thriving mid-Somerset-
shire township from which the name is derived. This village
about eighteen miles south-west of Bristol, is situated at the
entrance to a deep gorge in the Mendip Hills, Cheddar Cliffs it
is called, and presents one of the most romantic and -picturesque
scenes the Old Country has to offer. It is buttressed on either
side of a small stream, with walls of living rock—they extend
between two and three miles —which rise perpendicularly to a
height of several hundred feet. Within these natural bastions
are caves presenting “stalactite beauties” in forms innumerable.
The handsome parish church, with its square tower surmounted
by eight pinnacles, to a height of 100 feet, completes a picture
that in attractiveness is peculiarly, one might say exclusively,
English. There is also an ancient village cross, beautifully
carved and in good preservation, which recalls the times when
Somerset was a country where religion was strongly implanted
and which exercised great influence on the entire religious life
of the country. The dairies in the locality have for generations
been famous for the excellence of their cheese. Shirt-making
was once a prosperous industry, but that is, as Mr. Kipling
would have said, “another story.”


Learn
FwtfVmce
Journal
<it HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDRNCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
My Address
S.B. 142
The Red Page
TIP KELAHER'S VERSES.
Now if a mortar cops me when the shells are
falling thick,
I hope I’ll go where battlers go and meet old
Ginger Mick.
He’s the cove that Dennis wrote about who
came and had a go
On the rugged slopes of Anzac over twenty
years ago.
This Mick was Dinkum Aussie, and his mates
were all the same;
I hope they’ll come and greet me when the
devil calls my name;
For we’ll all have much in common ’spite of
twenty years between,
They will know the tracks I’ve travelled and
the places where I’ve been.
I know I’ll mix with all these blokes; they’ll
speak my language, too.
They’ll talk of beer and fights and fun the way
they used to do.
We’ll all sit down and roll a smoke, and yarn
of this and that.
From Bulyeroi to Bendigo, from Bourke to
Ballarat.
That is an extract from one of Tip
Kelaher’s poems which was first published
in ope of The Bulletin’s Red Pages of
A.I.F. verse, and which is now reprinted
along with 27 other ballads, songs and
lyrics—all poems of this war by a man
who fought and was killed in it —under
the title The Digger Hat (Currawong
Publishing Co., Sydney). It’s quoted here
not only as typical of Kelaher’s ballad
style, but because the phrase “They’ll
speak my language” is the key to the
author both as a man and as a writer.
With the unconscious and wholly
admirable pride of a man who, fighting
in the front line, felt at peace with him-
self as an Australian, and of a writer
who, deliberately entering the field of
“Banjo” Paterson and C. J. Dennis, felt
assured that his verses would have their
place, Kelaher wrote that he “spoke
Ginger Mick’s language”; and, since
that’s the Diggers’ language, and the lan-
guage of all that’s best in civilian Aus-
tralia, it won’t be surprising if the second
edition of The Digger Hat sells out as
quickly as the first —which was snapped
up on publication.
Kelaher was one of the stalwarts of
the A.I.F. Red Pages,' and The Bulletin
felt it as a personal loss when he was
killed. Besides the “Ginger Mick” item,
readers may recall “Royal Randwick,”
“Wounded from Tobruk,” “A Message
to Aussie” and “The Pillbox on the
Rise”:
Well, it wasn’t built for comfort,
But to stand some heavy knocks;
The ventiladon’s not hygienic
And it smells of sweaty sox.
At night the sandflies eat us.
And by day we have the flies...
A delightful little mansion
Is this pillbox on the rise.
Soldier verses have a historical and a
national value which may atone for
lapses in technique ; and a good many
of Kelaher’s ballads will have to plead
those “extenuating circumstances,”
Dennis and Paterson will greet him as
a brother, beyond doubt; he “spoke
their language” ; but it will have to be
as a younger brother whose promise
would have had to be fulfilled before
he could achieve a “Sentimental Bloke”
or a “Man from Snowy River.” In many
of the poems there are flashes of highly
promising craftsmanship—the precise,
stinging satire of this couplet on civilian
Australia, for example:
While democracy’s degraded and the foe is
at the door,
The avaricious wealthy fight the needy, grasp-
ing poor—
but he could follow that with a line as
bad as “It’s incumbent on our leaders
some method to devise”; and so the
technical quality of much of the verse
remains patchy.
But that doesn’t always apply. “Brown
Men,” technically as well as in spirit, is
excellent verse:
Brown men marching, marching
Through the olive-trees,
Slouch hats tilted backwards,
Brows bared to the breeze.
Brown men, tough men,
Men with dry hard faces,
Digging gun positions
In high, lonely places.
Brown men smoking, yarning
In the tents at night,
Dreaming of the homesteads.
The warmth of firelight.
Brown men in the cafes,
Shading from the heat,
Followed by the wallads
Down the village street.
Brown men marching, marching
In the soft white dust.
God reward the brown men
Who keep an Empire’s trust!
Somebody should set that to music. There
is one poem, too, “written in Syria only
a few weeks before the writer was killed
in action,” on the strength of which
A. E. Housman, as well as the balladists,
would admit that Kelaher could speak
his language;
The wildflowers grow on the breeze-blown slope,
The trefoil in between,
While far below bn the coastal strip
The crops are waving green.
The soldiers march on the dusty road.
Or iest ’neath the olive-tree.
The winds drift in from the Cyprus Isle
Over a tranquil sea.
When Winter next drops his sombre cloak
And emerald floods the plain.
How many of these will live to feel
The breeze on their brows again?
The publishers have made a nice job
of the booklet. It includes a photograph
of the author and a brief memoir.
The Golden Age .
The Red Page article “Blaming the
Age” (B. 18/11/ ’42) raises one of the
most difficult problems in art, and it
comes at an appropriate moment, for if
there was ever an, age when there was
more confused tfimjang about it and
more dogmatic assertion I would like to
know it. v
Australian Communists, Tor instance,,
say that there has been a great liprush
of artistic expression in Russia, and they
seem to think that this is a direct result
of the Communist or semi-Communist
system that exists there. As to whether
any geniuses have been produced in
Russia under the new regime I am not in
a position to say, and I venture to sug-
gest that the Communists aren’t either.
But even if it were so, there was some
remarkably fine sculpture done in Ger-
many prior to the war. If the Russian
artists are the products of Communism,
we would have to say that the German
sculptors were the product of Nazism,
since both occur under particular systems.
The truth is that neither is the pro-
duct of a system. There have been great
artists and writers in feudal countries,
capitalist countries, dictator countries
and primitive societies like the Cro-
Magnon.
Nor is genius confined to classes.
Beethoven, Van Gogh, Keats, Shak-
speare, Tschaikovsky and Dostoevski
came from the poorer classes. So did
Chekhov. On the other hand, Tolstoy
was a rich man. So were Gibbon, Shelley
and Byron. Tolstoy, Shelley and Byron
were aristocrats; Chekhov was a peasant
and his family had just emerged from
serfdom.
In the “Golden Age,” presumably,
writers will have not only the perfect
political system and perfect economic
security (neither of which, as has been
shown, they need), but also perfect
health. But they don’t need that either.
Dostoevski was a sick man and he
became a great writer. He had epilepsy
and made a study of it.
Then, in the Golden Age, we would
certainly have perfect personal happiness.
But genius doesn’t need that either. Some
rejected lovers can’t write poetry because
they are so unhappy. Shakspeare was a
rejected lover, but he wrote great sonnets
about unrequited love. If his love had
been requited, he could not have written
such burningly sincere poems about un-
requited love. Byron was a successful
lover and wrote poems about the despair
of the successful lover whose illusions
are shattered; but he could not have
written the same kind of poems as
Shakspeare wrote because, being hand-
some, rich, charming and aristocratic,
women fell for him easily and he never
had the opportunity of knowing how the
lover feels who has been jilted.
Most lovers, when they are rejected,
run to self-pity or to reviling the beloved.
Shakspeare didn’t; he ran to pouring all
his unhappy feelings into his deathless
sonnets, and it is because he had felt all
those feelings and was capable of describ-
ing them that we are thrilled by his
poems. Had Shakspeare and Dostoevski
lived perfect lives in a perfect world we
should have had neither the sonnets nor
The Brothers Karamasov.
People who wait for a better economic
system or a new spirit of the age or some
hypothetical society, wherein everybody
will get plenty of leisure and there will
be no wicked judges and cruel officials
or censorship and repression, are like the
writer who says he cannot write until he
is cured of this complaint or the other or
gets rid of a nagging wife or burdensome
children; or like the poet who thinks
that he can’t write feeling sonnets until
he is feeling nothing.
If a writer says that it is the bad Spirit
of the Age that stands between him and
writing one would be tempted to ask
him if the spirit of the age which Shak-
speare depicted was any better. What
makes Shakspeare a great writer is the
skill that Shakspeare had, not his con-
ditions. It was his understanding of
human nature. If a writer hasn’t that
understanding, how would giving him the
same conditions as Shakspeare give it to
him? But his belief that it is the fault
of his conditions can completely pro-
tect him from making any effort.
F. S.
Files on Parade.
I spent this afternoon with cuttings of
verse from The Bulletin and its com-
panion paper the “Woman’s Mirror,” the
cuttings from the latter being mostly
taken during the regime of one editor
who attracted particularly good verse.
My cuttings are a fine anthology, includ-
ing uncollected work of poets like Ronald
McCuaig, Robert Crawford, D. P.
McGuire, and some good pieces by the
unde^-^w 1 Roderic Quinn; good work
by poets who have never to my know-
ledge published a volume, J. Holloway,
Adrian Summers, B. Vrepont and Peter
McGregor, a Queenslander who for a
short poetic life wrote beautiful verse.
I enjoyed again the rare verses of
Geoffrey Cumine and of Eric Moore, a
Tasmanian writer of ballades whom I
Oflce -swore to have done better work
than the Ehglishmen of the ’nineties.
That opinion I may not now so strongly
subscribe to, yet I still find his ballades
models of 'style and workmanship and
having great beauty.
I read again poets who apparently
write a verse only once in several years:
to mention one, A. S. T. Allan, a fine
sonnet by whom I have kept for many
years now. It was the first of his work
I had seen, and I have seen only a few
since ; but they are all worth keeping.
Another is a lady, Nance Wilson of Vic-
toria, whose output is small but good.
But these two are only taken at random
from many. There is an army of poets,
each of whom has apparently written
only one poem but a good one, probably
the one poetic utterance of which the
writer was capable. These last are mostly
women, girls I like to think, because the
verse usually has a freshness, simplicity
and spontaneity; lyrics in which some-
thing delightful has been caught, perhaps
by accident; others made a thing of
beauty by one miraculous line. Others
are brief, a mere four lines of magic,
and others display a workmanship that
apparently could not be repeated. And
unless someone who cares more for
beauty than for money does something
about it most of this work will be for-
gotten. Australia needs a volume of the
type of the Oxford Book of Verse which
could include all of these outstanding
occasional pieces as well as exhaustive
selections from the poets of a past period.
CHARLES C.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
It is about seven o’clock, and at this
picture show in Papua all the slab seats
have been taken. Later arrivals are
exploring the tall elephant grass for boxes
or perching themselves on the high rocks
behind the projection room. Some are
spreading groundsheets or gas-capes less
than ten feet in front of the screen.
In the west a technicolor sunset —grey
clouds bathed in orange, black clouds
sprayed beneath with coral tints, trees a
deeper green than emerald, velvetlike,
changing their color as the glow above
them fades.
In half an hour the show will start.
There was never an audience quite like
this. Men from the Convalescent Depot;
men from the Reception Camp who will
soon be going forward again (perhaps
tomorrow); men with fuzzy heads who
have been, and will be again, the lifeline
to the hinterland; men from Rear
Details and Base. Some are in green
shirts and slacks, some in khaki. One
or two are wearing pyjama trousers under
their shorts to comply with the malaria
regulations. Those who have recently
come bade from “up top” are heavy-
eyed and thin, yet have a cheerfulness all
the more noticeable by contrast. The
men who have books and magazines read
patiently. Those who have not sit quietly
and think, with home life but a memory.
The theatre is the slope of a hill. Its
room stretches from horizon to horizon.
The portable generator is started and
settles down to its quiet job. Somebody
does something in the projection room,
and a feminine voice from the screen is
heard singing “Begin the Beguine.” The
net result is music of sorts, evidently
with associations for many. Readers stop
reading; the musical whistle or hum the
tune; those whose matches will strike
light cigarettes.
The lass is followed by a western
American, singing of a mother whose
erring son repented too late. Nothing
remains of the daylight.
The likeness of George VI appears on
the screen to the accompaniment of the
National Anthem. The audience rises
and stands to attention. Then come the
slides threatening dire penalties for
failure to wear long trousers and sleeves
rolled down at night.
A “Passing Parade” feature dealing
with the discovery of insulin is well
received. Comes a three-minute break
while the reels are changed. “News from
Home,” ironically enough, consists of
Damien Parer’s “Road to.Kokoda.” Its
showing is studded with comment from
the audience; laughter greets the scenes
of mud ; cheers, the native carriers. Some
of those who watch it see themselves on
the screen; others see their cobbers and
explain to those next to them.
It comes to an end and there is pro-
longed clapping. A Popeye and a song-
andance precede the main feature.
The clouds have disappeared and the
stars are brilliant. The dialogue coming
from the screen is the only sound.
A few miles to the north men who
occupied these seats less than a week ago
are fighting or trying to snatch a few
hours’ sleep in wet clothes.
The audience is attentive to the drama,
the cool air good to breathe and
quietly sings the river.
NX24960,
* * ♦ *
The story of how England’s Fourth
Service —the Ministry of Economic
Warfare—drags tight and ever tighter the
noose around the neck of the Third Reich
is splendidly portrayed in “The Big
Blockade” (Sydney Embassy). Fictional
touches are added, mostly set in Ger-
many itself; and overdramatisation of
some of the Nazi industrial leaders is the
film’s only weakness. Dialogue is often
discarded for a running Commentary de-
livered by Frank Owen ; there isn’t a
woman in it—except one sexless hag, a
Nazi factory executive—and there are no
roles in the generally accepted sense;
nevertheless the film remains of absorb-
ing interest, and the co-operating hand
of the Royal Navy and the RAF. is
apparent in the sure touches in sea and
sky.
There are the ghosts of at least three
Longstaffs in the memorial exhibition of
the artist’s works at the National Gallery
in Melbourne. There is the distinguished
portrait painter who painted the official
and semi-official portraits of Melba, Nor-
man Lindsay, George Lambert, Maurice
Moscovitch, Queen Alexandra, Arch-
bishops Lee and Marmix, Lord Strad-
broke. This one was a careful, conscien-
tious painter; but he was not the same
Longstaff who painted the affectionate
portraits of his family and his numerous
self-portraits. That Longstaff loved his
job much mere than title official Long-
staff with the reputation so ancient that
its owner at 80 was walking hale and
hearty round the streets of Melbourne
or cracking urbane jokes and drinking
wine at artists’ dinners with nearly 60
years of fame behind him. The third
Longstaff was the Longstaff who painted
“Old Vineyard, Shepparton,” “River
Yarra, Near the three noc-
turnes and other little landscapes. This
Longstaff had no official status but was
a young man excited by such simple
problems as how the light falls on an old
cowshed. There is possibly a fourth
Longstaff—the one who seems to have
had some romantic conception about
women which stood between him and
seeing what was there, so that they all
look extraordinarily like one another.
The only new thing afcout a show of
Lionel Lindsay’s water-colors (North
African, and therefore topical just now),
etchings and woodcuts at the Macquarie
Galleries is “S. M. Herald’s” revised
estimate of the knight’s place in Austra-
lian art. Granny used to wax lyrical
about this artist’s talent# as a draughts-
man, colorist and engraver, but now he
“is unable to compose aod select, to give
force to the scenes.” Hi» works, “instead
of presenting the artist’l point of view
and the strength of his feelings, seem to
rely entirely on the accidents of Nature”
—such accidents, presumably as those
which make skies blue, sand yellow and
leaves green, and provide camels with
four legs.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
FISHING TACKLE
COD, PERCH, FLATHEAD
Mounted line on wood frame with wire
boom and sinker. A good line for Cod,
Perch, or Flathead. 28 yards. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price 2/9
LONG SHANK HOOKS
English Fish Hooks, long shank, fine
flatted. At Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes Bto 1 1/0 2/0 3/0
Price, per 100 .. 1/4 1/6 1/9 2/-
Sizes
Price, per 100
4/0 5/0 6/0
2/3 2/6 3/-
GLAZED COTTON LINES
Glazed Cotton Lines. Approximately 20
yards. Hanks connected. These lines can
be used for fresh or salt water fishing.
6ozs. Bozs. lOozs. 12ozs. 11b. l£lbs. 21bs.
6d. Bd. lOd. 1/- 1/3 1/4 1/9
XX STRONG Eng. HOOKS
English Fish Hooks, strong flatted. At
Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes 2 1 1/0 2/0 3/0
Price, per 100 1/- 1/9 2/- 2/3 3/-
Sizes 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0
Price, per 100 3/6 4/6 6/6 8/6 11/-
“THE SENIOR STORE”
\\
m
\
m
'4os*: ■- \gk \
r~ *
%??* % -
MUSTAD HOOKS
Mustad Hooks, XX strong flatted. At Anthony
Horderns'.
Sizes 5/0 7/0
Price, per 100 2/6 4/-
' -•■ ~„v - -yy'"/ ' """
SHOOTING EQUIPMENT
W. W. GREENER D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS CUN
W. W. Greener D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun. 30-inch steel
barrels, treble wedge. Fast action, independent side safety,
full choke. Barrels chambered for 2f-inch cartridges.
Weight, 7\ lbs. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, £47/10/-
D.8.8.L. 12-CAUCE CUN—W. W. GREENER
12-Gauge J. V. Needham, made by W. W. Greener, D.8.8.L.
12-Gauge Gun. 30-inch barrels. Both full choke. Automatic
safety, chambered for 2f-inch cartridge. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price £37/10/-
ţ
RABBIT NETS
Rabbit Nets, with draw cord and
rings. At Anthony Horderns'.
3 feet. Price, 1/3 ea., 14/- doz.
4 feet. Price, 1/6 ea., 17/6 doz,
RIFLE COVERS
Strong Canvas Rifle Covers.
At Anthony Horderns'.
Without sling. Price .... 22/6
With sling. Price ...... 45/-
it.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) ' BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


OUT OF THE
PAST
"Captain Moonlite.”
J-H-M- ABBOTT-
THE^ case of Andrew George Scott,
or “Captain Moonlite” as he chose
to call himself, is a curious study
in the development of a criminal.
Poets, they say, are born and not made,
and criminals are a bit like that, too.
Looked at in that way, this vain and
passionate young man becomes more
easily understandable. He had not the
opportunity to develop into a first-class
bushranger before his career was nipped
in the bud at Wantabadgery, but he did
quite enough damage to human life and
property while he was on the job to
entitle him to his place amongst the list
of Australian highwaymen.
He was born in the north of Ireland
in 1842, and became a civil engineer. He
came out to New Zealand as a very
young man, and did some soldiering as
a volunteer in the later Maori wars,
being slightly wounded a couple of times
towards the close of the trouble. He was
a well-educated young man with a
pleasant manner, and a little later he
turned up in Victoria as a lay reader in
the Church of England at Bacchus
Marsh. He had not been there very long
before he showed himself in his true
colors.
The little township of Egerton isn’t
very far from Bacchus Marsh, and there
was a branch of the London Chartered
Bank there, whose manager, a Mr.
Brunn, slept alone on the bank premises,
taking his meals with the family of a
Mr. Simpson and returning to the bank
each evening somewhere about 10
o’clock. Scott was temporarily located
in the town as a sort of understudy for
the parson. He and the bank manager
were on pretty good terms, but early in
1869 they had some sort of a difference
and after that didn’t often meet.
One Saturday evening the bank was
stuck up. Brunn’s story of the incident
was that it was a rainy and very dark
night when he went back there at about
10 o’clock to go to bed. As he was about
to let himself in with his latchkey he
was suddenly grabbed by a masked man
who threatened to shoot him if he didn’t
keep quiet, and put a revolver to his
head.
The fellow ordered Brunn to go into
the bank and he then forced him to open
the safe and hand over what was in it. In
alluvial gold, notes and silver this came
to about £2OOO. Then the man bandaged
the bank manager’s eyes and took him
outside. He told Brunn that he had two
mates, one close at hand and the other
over in Gordon robbing the bank there.
Although he didn’t let on that he knew
him, Brunn had by this time made a
pretty fair guess at the robber’s identity.
He was escorted to a stable, where the
man got his horse. Brunn begged him
for some sort of a certificate to show that
the money had been forcibly taken from
him, so they went to the village school-
room where the fellow signed a paper, in
the name of “Captain Moonlite,” setting
forth that he had compelled the bank
manager to hand over the contents of
the safe. Then he tied Brunn up and
rode off into the night.
In about ten minutes Brunn managed
to get loose, and rode into Gordon. With
two constables he then went back to
Egerton, where the police arrested him
and charged him with having robbed the
bank himself. They also gathered in the
schoolmaster as an accessory.
Brunn told them he was certain
that Scott was the thief, but, although
they looked that worthy fellow up, it was
only to sympathise with him, refusing to
believe that he could have had anything
to do with the business. Brunn was com-
mitted for trial, and Scott gave evidence
against him, but the bank manager was
acquitted.
The good Mr. Scott then cut loose from
the church, and towards the end of the
year gave out that he was taking a trip
to Fiji, but on December 28 he sold to
the Royal Mint in Sydney 120 ounces of
retorted gold which looked very much
like that taken from the Egerton bank.
However, he incurred no suspicion, and
deposited £llOO with the Union Bank in
Sydney, drawing on it in his own name
until November, 1870, when the account
was closed.
Next Scott went to the Hunter River,
where before long he was arrested in
Maitland for fraud, and got two terms
of twelve and eighteen months’ imprison-
ment. He was out of Maitland Gaol in
fifteen months and back in Sydney. But
the mills of God had been grinding, and
he was arrested in March, 1872, and
charged with robbing the bank a-t Eger-
ton. He was escorted to Ballarat, where
he was committed for trial. But he
wasn’t quite caught yet. He managed to
burrow through the wall into an adjoin-
ing cell, and with the help of its inmates
the warder was overpowered and his keys
used to free four other prisoners, so
that the whole six were presently over
the wall and at liberty.
Scott was soon retaken, and in July,
1872, he was convicted in Melbourne and
sentenced to ten years’ hard labor. Good
conduct remissions brought about his re-
lease in the middle of 1879, and then he
began the bushranging career that was his
final flutter as a criminal.
WHEN he came out of Pentridge he
delivered a series of lectures in Vic-
toria on his experiences, and made a
name for himself as a sort of Dick
Turpin, so that he was presently able to
gather about him a gang of young crimi-
nals with whom he began the last act of
his career.
The party of six—Wreneckie, Wil-
liams, Nesbit, Rogan and Johns, alias
Bennet with “Captain Moonlite” as Scott
now began to call himself—began their
work in the Mansfield district, but soon
afterwards crossed the Murray into New
South Wales. One night in November,
1879, they bailed up the little township
of Wantabadgery, less than thirty miles
from Gundagai, After looting the local
pub, they rode on to Wantabadgery
station and got to business in earnest.
The Macdonald brothers, the owners
of the run, were away when the gang
arrived at the homestead, and returned
to find it held by the half-dozen well-
armed desperadoes, who had about a
score of prisoners confined in the house.
They were compelled to entertain their
captors through the night. On Sunday
the bushrangers fitted themselves out with
clothing from the station store, took all
the cash and valuables their prisoners
had, and made an easy day of it. They
treated their captives well enough, but
ordered the Macdonalds and one or two
others to get up on the roof so as to keep
a look out for possible rescuers.
Word had reached Gundagai about
what was going on, and a message was
also sent to the police at Wagga. Four
constables reached Wantabadgery early
on the Monday morning. They decided
to leave their horses and approach
the homestead on foot, and had begun
to do so, when they were suddenly
challenged by Scott, who had observed
their approach and came out to meet
them. He dared the police to' fight, and,
his own men coming up, the shooting
began. Finding themselves outnumbered
and cut off from their horses, the police
were obliged to fall back across a swamp
and take cover until reinforcements
should arrive. The bushrangers captured
the horses and took them back to the
homestead, and presently they rode away.
About 11 o’clock five mounted and
two foot police arrived from Gundagai
bringing a sulky carrying extra arms and
ammunition. An armed party of civilians
also arrived from the railway construction
camp at Junee, and without delay a strong
force set out in chase of the bushrangers.
They hadn’t gone far when they fell in
with the gang, who had delayed their re-
tirement to stick up a mail coach.
Senior-Sergeant Carroll was ip charge of
the pursuers, and they found the gang
near the farmstead of a settler named
McGlede. A scrap immediately took
place, and the firing for a time was pretty
brisk.
One of the gang was dangerously
wounded, and his mates retreated with
him to McGlede’s house. From its cover
they kept up a heavy fire, severely
wounding Constable Bowen, and for a
while they held the police up. But after
a long bout of shooting the police rushed
the place and Scott’s men surrendered—
all except Rogan, who was afterwards
found hiding under a bed. Young Nesbit
died of his wounds, and so did Constable
Bowen.
T N a few days Scott, Rogan, Johns and
I Williams were brought before the Gun-
dagai Police Court, charged with robbery
under arms and with wounding Constable
Bowen with intent to murder. During
the hearing, which lasted for a couple of
days, Scott kept up a cool and uncon-
cerned appearance, though now and then
he broke out fiercely against statements of
witnesses or remarks made by the P.M.,
Mr. Lowe, on one occasion roaring out:
“You don’t know how to behave yourself
on the bench, sir. You’re putting leading
questions to a witness. Don’t sit there
as a prosecutor instead of a Judge, or
I’ll disgrace you through the whole coun-
try, Keep yourself quiet. Conduct your-
self with the proper decency as a Justice
of the Peace, Don’t dare to interfere
with my witness, sir. Do you think I’m
afraid of you? You haven’t any brains
or anything else.”
In spite of his bluff, the four were com-
mitted for trial at Darlinghurst, and were
convicted at the Criminal Sessions there
and sentenced to death. On account of
their youth, Williams and Johns were
reprieved, but the Executive Council de-
cided that Scott and Rogan should hang.
All sorts of petitions were presented pray-
ing for their reprieve, but they were
hanged in Darlinghurst about the middle
of January, 1880. Their death marked
just about the end of organised bushrang-
ing in Australia. They were hanged
exactly a week before the Kellys came to
their Waterloo at Glenrowan. A played-
out game. It never was much else. If
a bullet in the bush didn’t finish a man
off when he became an outlaw, some
such miserable end as that of “Captain
Moonlite” was all he had to expect. A
dog’s life—and a dog’s death!
The Fat Liar.
AUSTRALIA for many years had
a sort of international repu-
tation for the facility with which
she bred confidence men, but
few of them have had such an un-
deniable claim to fame as the butcher
from Wagga, the gifted Mr. Orton, who
turned up in London at the end of 1866
with the assertion that he was Roger
Tichborne, the missing heir to an ex-
tremely valuable estate in Hampshire.
Arthur Orton was born in Wapping,
on the Thames, on March the 10th, 1834.
His father was a shipping butcher, and
he sent the lad to sea in a vessel bound
for Valparaiso when he was fourteen.
Here the young sailor deserted, finding a
refuge with a Chilean family of the name
of Castro, with whom he lived for some
little time. He found his way back to
England in 1851, and in the following
year emigrated to Tasmania. After vari-
ous ups and downs he found himself in
New South Wales in 1864, and began to
trade as a butcher at Wagga under the
name of Thomas Castro.
In the following year a fellow-towns-
man who hailed from Hampshire drew
his attention to a newspaper advertise-
ment asking for information concerning
the whereabouts or fate of Roger Charles
Doughty Tichborne, heir to the estates
of a wealthy family in that county. The
missing heir had held a commission for
three years in the 6th Dragoon Guards —
the famous Carabiniers —but had sold
out in 1852 and sailed for South
America, He had last been heard of at
Rio de Janeiro, where he had embarked
on a ship called the Bella. Some wreck-
age having been found which was sup-
posed to have come from this vessel, it
was assumed that she had been lost at
sea, and in 1855 a younger brother suc-
ceeded to the estate. His mother, how-
ever, couldn’t be convinced of the death of
her elder son, and kept on advertising for
him in various English and colonial news-
papers.
The Wagga meat vendor immediately
recognised in this situation a field that
might be profitably exploited. For some
time he had been dropping hints that he
had seen better days, and that butchering
was only a poor substitute for the real posi-
tion he had once occupied. It was well
known that he had spent some time in
South America, and, further, the some-
what slipshod description of Roger Tich-
borne fitted him in several respects —with
the exception that the missing heir was
described as being slimly built, whilst
Orton, or Castro, was big and burly and
very nearly twenty stone in weight.
When people questioned him upon the
supposed resemblance he affected an un-
willingness to discuss the matter, solemnly
burying his face in his hands and shaking
his head mysteriously. So when rumor
went round Wagga a solicitor practising
there, one William Gibbes, jumped to the
conclusion that the missing heir had
really been discovered. Thus encouraged,
Orton wrote a letter to Lady Tichborne
claiming kinship and asking for suffi-
cient money to defray the cost of his
passage to England.
AT this stage of the proceedings the
butcher merely hoped to raise suffi-
cient funds to join a brother who was
settled on a ranch in California. How-
ever, a gullible public took the matter
out of his hands, as it were. When he
got down to Sydney he found local society
more than willing to recognise him as
Sir Roger Tichborne, and hardheaded
bankers anxious to advance him money
with which to prosecute his claims.
There happened, also, to be in Sydney
at the time an old West Indian native
named Bogle, who had been a servant in
the Tichborne family, and who was quite
ready to acclaim the fat liar from Wagga
and Wapping as the rightful heir. The
wily butcher was able to gather from him
a good deal of information regarding the
Tichborne family, which he used to great
effect, and as soon as sufficient money
was available from his backers in Sydney
he embarked for Panama, giving out that
he was on his way to London, but really
with the intention of joining his brother
in California.
Once again, however, others took
charge of the game, and his fellow-pas-
sengers made it impossible for him to go
anywhere but to London without giving
the show away. He arrived in the
Thames on Christmas Day, 1866, and,
being now almost convinced himself that
he really was Sir Roger, continued his
journey to Paris to meet his adopted
mother.
The poor, deluded lady recognised him
at once as her son, despite the fact that
he had grown very fat, knew no French
—Roger Tichborne had been educated in
France —and was able to speak only the
sort of English they speak in Wapping.
She passed over to him all Roger’s letters
and intimate family papers, and made
him an allowance of £lOOO a year.
Recognising that he was now on a
good wicket, the fat humbug returned to
England and devoted himself to finding
out all about the Tichbornes. He visited
the villages in the neighborhood of the
family estates, and told such good stories
as to convince most of the villagers that
he really was the returned prodigal. He
hired as a personal servant a man who
had formerly been a trooper in the
Carabiniers, and from him learnt all the
regimental stories and traditions.
Quite a number of influential people
welcomed “Sir Roger” to the countryside
of his ancestors, but his “brother” was
less credulous. That gentleman was in
possession of the Tichborne estates, and
they were to be held in trust for his infant
son. He had no intention of handing
them over to this very doubtful “elder
brother,” and when Orton, on the death
of Lady Tichborne in 1868, brought a
civil action for the recovery of the estates,
he announced that he was quite ready,
and more than willing, to contest the
claim.
The butcher from Australia raised
£40,000 with which to finance the case
in the courts by the issue of Tichborne
bonds to the public.
In the meantime the trustees of the
estate had been making inquiries. It
appeared that, on the evening of his
arrival in London, Orton had visited
Wapping and made inquiries about his
own kith and kin, some of whom had
received money from him. Moreover,
his very bad writing and worse spelling
corresponded remarkably with the hand-
writing and spelling in several letters
written by Athur Orton to an old sweet-
heart in Wapping.
THE action spun itself out from May,
1871, to March, 1872, because of the
necessity of taking evidence on commis-
sion in South America and Australia. In
the end Orton was nonsuited, and the
Chief Justice at once caused him to be
charged with perjury. So deeply-rooted
was the faith of many people in
his claims that pressure of public opinion
induced the British Treasury to defray
his witnesses’ expenses.
In February, 1874, Orton was found
guilty of perjury. Going for his counsel,
Dr. Kenealy, in pretty severe terms, the
Chief Justice sentenced the fat liar from
Wagga to 14 years’ penal servitude. He
was released towards the end of ’B4, and
nearly a dozen years afterwards published
in a London weekly a full and frank con-
fession of the impudent and daring fraud.
It was a little of Fate’s irony that he
should die on All Fools’ Day, April 1,
1898, after having almost succeeded in
fooling half the world.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3281.
Wednesday, December 30, 1942.
THE YEAR OF RECOMPENSE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne .
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane .
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
THE ACHIEVEMENT OF
CANADA.
Australian politicians must have felt
astonished and embarrassed when they
read that Canada was increasing the
army private’s pay to a dollar and a half
a day, equivalent to eight-and-six Aus-
tralian, and making substantial additions
to cost-of-living bonuses and the like.
They have not challenged the Canadian
Defence Minister’s statement that his
department is paying “the highest mili-
tary allowances in the world,” Canadian
rates exceeding U.S.A. rates by $6 to
$ll a month and Australian rates
by $5.22 to $16.36 a month, according to
the number and condition of dependents.
Nor could they impute vote-catching to
the Government which believes in treat-
ing fighting men generously, for a general
election is not due in Canada till 1945,
and the tremendous majority given to the
Liberals on March 26, 1940 (they won
177 of the 245 seats in the House) has
not been shaken since.
Canada’s war effort is in truth very
impressive, especially in the fields of pro-
duction and finance. From the begin-
ning the Government has eschewed all
temptations to wage a private war on
wage-payers, property owners and Stock
Exchanges and to let bureaucrats and
trade-union bosses have their fling. It
decided that the foreign war would engross
all its energies, and announced that “pay-
as-you-go” would be its financial policy
to the extent to which pay-as-you-go
could be usefully pursued. It announced
also that there would be “a job for every
man and woman” in the fighting services,
in the war factories and shipyards, in
“the industries, utilities and services with-
out which a highly complex society could
not operate,” and “on the farms, growing
food for Canada, its fighting men and its
Allies” and building up stocks for a
hungry post-war world.
At the end of the third war year there
were 1,250,000 workers on farms, 300,000
employed in “essential industries and
mining,” and upwards of 900,000 (145,000
of them women) engaged in war work. To
these were to be added before the end
of December 250,000 persons taken from
2,000,000 employed in civilian industries
(“Canada and the People’s War,” issued
by the Director of Public Information,
Ottawa, under authority of the Hon. J. T.
Thorson, Minister of National War
Services).
As for the fighting services, there are
upwards of 350,000 men in the army,
40,000 in the navy (estimates for March,
1943, run to more than 44,000 men and
500 ships) and 115,000 in the air force,
there being 25 R.C.A.F. squadrons in
Britain alone. From July 14, 1939,
Canadian war industries have received
orders exceeding $5,000,000,000, and
there is immense production of tanks,
guns, shells, bombs, depth-charges, mines,
radiolocators, anti-submarine equipment,
naval and cargo ships and ’planes. “Every
few days a 10,000-ton cargo vessel slides
down the slipways of a Canadian yard.”
Aircraft production, next to nothing
three years ago, has passed 400 a month.
Naturally a great part of the immense
volume of Canadian production has been
carried across the Atlantic to Britain.
Finding that payment in dollars, securi-
ties, gold and goods was embarrassing
the British Government, the Canadians
offered Britain $1,000,000,000 worth of
munitions, raw materials and foodstuffs
as a gift, agreeing besides to let the
amount of an outstanding balance go
into the books as an interest-free loan
for the duration of the war. The gift
was offered and thankfully accepted “in
the grim grey days after Dunkirk” ; in
terms of foodstuffs and raw materials it
has been reckoned at 200,000,000 bushels
of wheat, 600,000,0001 b. of bacon and
pork, 100,000,0001 b. of cheese, equipment
for ten armored divisions, personal equip-
ment for 20 infantry divisions, 1000
fighter ’planes, 500 four-motored
bombers, 100 merchant ships and 100
corvettes —though what Britain has re-
ceived and is receiving is naturally an
official secret.
As the war proceeded Canada had
troubles and perils of its own. The
worst peril was inflation. To guard
against it prices, rents and wages were
frozen, though in the case of wages it
was provided that, except in certain
exempted industries, a bonus must be
paid for each rise of a point in the cost-
of-living index above the October, 1941,
level. To provide against industrial strife,
it was decreed that “disputes between
labor and management” must, if not
settled privately, be referred to a con-
ciliation board.
No strike action can be taken until after
the report of the conciliation board has
been released, and then only if a majority
of those eligible to vote favor a strike.
And the vote must be taken under the aus-
pices of the Federal Department of Labor.
Canadian war expenditure for the cur-
rent year was estimated at $3,200,000,000,
“$278 for every man, woman and child.”
A large part goes towards the cost of
the Empire Air Training Plan. This was
originally reckoned at $824,000,000, and,
with Canada providing R.C.A.F. adminis-
tration and, in the first place, 80 per cent,
of the students, the Canadian share ex-
ceeded $600,000,000. The present agree-
ment, which dates from July 1 and is to
operate till March 31, 1945, is expected
to cost $1,500,000,000 and Canada has
undertaken to find $750,000,000.
Requirements for all purposes this
year were reckoned at $3,900,000,000.
“Every year has seen the imposition of
new taxes and the increase of existing
ones,” and the Government planned to
get from these sources $2,050,000,000 —
53 per cent. The Australian Government,
for its part, figured on a total expendi-
ture in 1942-43 of £549,500,000, of which
£224,500,000 was to be raised by taxes,
and £299,500,000 by loans; but in the
first five months of the financial year
only 18 per cent, of the expanding war
expenditure was derived from taxation.
Part of the Canadian gap is being bridged
by a method which the Australian Gov-
ernment has shirked.
For the first time in their history Cana-
dians are contributing minimum savings,
deducted with income tax from pay en-
velopes or in compulsory instalments. The
savings will be refunded after the war,
and contributors will receive interest at two
per cent.
“Other money held by the Govern-
ment will be utilised... .leaving an esti-
mated shortage of $1,170,000,000.”
This is the amount which must be met
by the Government borrowing from indi-
vidual Canadians —by war loans, war-
savings certificates and war-savings stamps.
No mention of bank credit. Canada
is not without counterparts of Senator
Darcey and Mr. Calwell, but they are not
permitted to interfere in national finan-
cial policy.
One of the fine things of this world,
and one of its hopes for the future, is
the enduring friendship between Canada
and the United States, so fruitful of
benefits to both in peace and war. It
will have nasty results for the Japanese
when the partners strike at them from
Alaska, to which a great military road has
been built, together with a chain of air-
fields from Edmonton, and from which
clouds of aircraft will in good time test
Japan’s home defences. It is not for
Australians to suggest that Canada should
throw its weight into the war in the
South Pacific, but the suggestion has been
made by Major-General Odium, home
from his assignment to Canberra. Old
Diggers, still serving, who remember the
great days of August, 1918, heralded by
Monash in his message to “all five Aus-
tralian divisions” (“the full resources of
our sister Dominion, the Canadian Corps,
will operate on our right”), would give
much to have one of the historic
Canadian divisions on a flank.
A Word for Australians.
Abusing them has become a fixed habit,
particularly among politicians. Good
Australian as he has proved himself in
other respects, the P.M. has shown a
misplaced zeal for it, and few of
his voluble colleagues are blame-
less. The harangue and the homily
have taken the place of equally ques-
tionable appeals and promises. Con-
fident leadership with clear directions has
no place. The idea seems to be that a
people who in peace could be led along
easily enough—often by the nose ; often
up blind alleys paved with gold bricks—
must in war be treated as so many head
of dumb driven cattle ; stubborn beasts,
calling for the whiplash of scorn and the
bark of contempt.
Do they deserve it? Has their per-
formance as a people in this war (granted
that there are elements which have be-
haved badly, as in Britain itself) war-
ranted what was rained down on them
in the late unlamented “austerity” cam-
paign? Instead of that long depressing
avalanche of unrelieved condemnation of
unspecified faults and failings, how would
an appeal to the heroic in them have
panned out? Have they shown them-
selves unresponsive to this sort of appeal?
Are they the whiners, the snivellers, the
hoarders, or the blind, complacent, selfish
imbeciles that “austerity’s” amateur
propagandists made them out to be?
lirere would seem to be a number of
things those amateur propagandists and
the whole horde of homily howlers have
lost sight of. There is the fact that three
years ago staunch old John Bull barged
into war because he’d given certain under-
takings regarding a country in Eastern
Europe. In a strictly selfish view from
the Australian standpoint it was a distant
war, to say the least of itbut J. Bull
as distinct from others today ranged on
the same side went in fighting, not
because he was directly attacked, but
for the principle at stake ; and once he
was in, especially.on those terms, it was
naturally Australia’s fight, too. So in
went Australia —even, it might be argued,
more strictly voluntarily than J.B. him-
self. Leave out the elements which have
behaved badly (they have their apologists
in the Ministry), and who has heard Aus-
tralians objecting or complaining or
wanting to do anything but fight from
that day to this?
Then there was the call for a new
A.I.F. This condemned people oversub-
scribed it, just as they did the recent huge
loan which (mistakenly) occasioned th©
orgy of harangue and homily ; and the
men of the new A.I.F. went abroad to
prove afresh the mettle of their pasture.
The casualty lists came back and mounted
up. They were saddening to the nation,
and deeply so to many families; but
(except from the elements which have
behaved badly) who heard complaint or
noticed any faltering? Under the worst
blow—the falling into Japanese hands
of many thousands of the pick of the
country’s manhood —who detected any
other national reaction than a renewal of
will; an intensified determination to go
on with it, to see it through?
The A.I.F. needs no praise. Its deeds
speak. Even the most mournful of the
homily howlers can agree on that. In
their moments away from microphones
and other harping places it might even
cheer them up a little. But with this
people from whom these fighting forces
—land, air and sea, among the world's
finest—are sprung, apparently there’s an
unbridgeable difference. Yet this people
has readily accepted the imposition of un-
precedented taxation, turning being finan-
cially bled white to a joke. Similarly with
the increasing lists of shortages or depri-
vations, from bog oranges to Rolls
Royces, from lemonade and gingerpop
to beer and wine. It has grumbled about
these things ; of course it has grumbled.
As a people it has not objected to any of
them. Its mouthpieces (so-called) have
done some objecting—as well they might
—to the more bungling shifts of imitation
totalitarianism that have added the dole-
ful word Dedmanism to the language.
But as for the people as a whole, they
have taken even these shifts with a
patience that deserves to become pro-
verbial.
That patience—with all that the war
has brought to pass, from necessary
violent changes to the tedious spate of
homilies —is the more remarkable in the
face of what these same abused people
know. They know how much of the
responsibility for a lot of the present
state of things belongs to the very politi-
cians who, having turned a dozen or two
sugardoodles in the meanwhile, carry on
as the Big Bosses, or, in their favored
role of homily vendors, like hereditary
patronising lords of all creation. It is a
sorry story and a sad one what many of
these magnificent beings did to Australian
defence in the years when the lotus was
eaten. Does the maligned public—know-
ing how much of this stringent present is
the measure of past neglect—now arise
in its wrath like the garrulous pot to the
kettle? It does not. It knows that it is
the pot in this figurative set-up ; that it
is not itself guiltless. But it knows, too,
that in this they just as certainly stand for
the kettle. Even so, it says nothing. It does
not answer the patronising abuse with
counter-abuse. It allows to the politicians
their imaginary cloak for past failings,
and for its own part goes on with the
job, or waits to be sensibly directed what
to do.
It knows a lot more than this. It knows
plenty about the present. It knows so
much about the lamentable and pathetic
in the great political show that now when-
ever a politician or a hired homily vendor
gets into full cry it looks past the
abuse to see what fault or failure is there-
by being camouflaged. It considers the
shifty handling of the damaging proces-
sion of coal strikes, and it wonders what
part of its own performance compares
with this. It hears that some Marco Polo
has discovered a £2,000,000 war factory
a hive of droning inactivity in the Wilder-
ness of Bungle, and it wonders how its
own little individual lapses compare with
that sort of thing. It witnesses the cease-
less efforts of Cabinet Ministers to foster
bitter class war, and it wonders how this
is reconciled with fussy old-woman
diatribes on its own alleged lack of unity.
What it does not do is gather itself
together in a dingo corroboree apd howl
to the moon. What it does do—what its
calumniators don’t do is make allow-
ances. It knows that those politicians—
the best of them and the worst of them,
and the plain duds—are according to
their talents grappling with a big job.
It allows that there must be mistakes.
It knows its own private failings, and so
it allows for lapses and blunders. It
knows the vocational and environmental
conditioning of politicians, and so it
allows for vacillation. It has not itself
found the transition from peaceful drows-
ing in Fools Paradise to serious awareness
of war any too easy, and so it puts up
with the common spectacle of its Bold
Big Bosses walking as on eggshells.
All this and more it allows, because it
is in its inarticulate heart generous to a
fault. In return, it deserves something
better than being made the butt of alleged
war-needs salesmen who couldn’t sell a
bottle of beer on a hot Sunday in the
’Loo. It deserves to be treated as what
it is—not the puling kindergarten class
the homily-howling predicates, but a full-
grown, responsible, willing and not un-
heroic adult, capable of being led to
even greater things when leadership is
forthcoming.
Another Pilgrimage.
There have been no coal strikes in N. S.
Wales this week, and there can be no
more until next week. No miracle has
been wrought; the fact is simply that it
was arranged to close the mines from
December 24 to January 4, so that “the
machinery” might be “overhauled” or
something. The machinery of war goes
on all the time, and there were no
Christmas-New Year holidays for war-
worn soldiers battling under dreadful
conditions with a fanatical enemy who
neither gives nor takes quarter; but
N.S.W. coalminers are privileged.
Word went round that if they
weren’t granted the long break they
would take it; indeed the fear was ex-
pressed that they would date the holiday
period from December 21. The Attorney-
General was moved to visit the coalfields
before and during the dangerous period,
a step preceded by the legalising of the
Communist party.
The Evatt pilgrimage differed from
that of Mr. Ward earlier in the year, in
that the doctor didn’t wholly blame the
employers. He reserved most of his
criticism for the miners, pointing out that
the pretexts for their stoppages were
almost invariably childish, and that the
consequences were serious, affecting not
only Australia’s “internal war organisa-
tion” but its efforts to get war supplies
from overseas. Yet the miners had had
“dozens of tribunals for the settlement
of their disputes,” tribunals “set up at
their own request.” The Attorney-
General might have added that the
miners had, also at their own request,
had conference after conference, and that
strikes, stoppages and absenteeism had
been prohibited by several sets of
National Security regulations —all with-
out the slightest effect.
The second pilgrim’s remonstrances
were made at so-called “aggregate
meetings,” and the gentlemen present
were moved to offer solemn promises of
reform. An immediate sequel was that
the men in “two of the largest mines in
the State,” producing 3600 tons a day
when production goes on, took a day off.
A day off means a four-day week, for
Saturday is always an idle day; a work-
ing week is 40 hours, which means 36
hours from bank to bank. But all the
mines were working before the holiday
whistle blew.
In the first quarter of 1942, accord-
ing to Mr. Curtin, loss of production
was estimated at 283,000 tons caused by
strikes and 201,000 tons caused by
absenteeism. This average was not quite
maintained during the year of Australia’s
deadly peril, but Dr. Evatt reckons the
loss for the year at 1,250,000 tons. Pro-
duction for the war years amounted to
11,000,000 tons in 1939, 9,500,000 tons
in 1940, 11,750,000 tons in 1941 and
12.250.000 tons in 1942 ; and at least
13.500.000 tons a year is needed. Unless
a real miracle happens or unless the
Government enforces its own regulations,
adding to them disfranchisement in every
case, it will not be reached.
Dr. Evatt is at a loss to understand
why this favored section has so little
regard for its pledged word, for the neces-
sities of the imperilled country and for
the privations and sacrifices of the men
of the fighting and auxiliary services who
are so ill requited, comparatively speak-
ing. The nature of the occupation is
often assigned as the reason, but this is
grossly overdone. Other and weightier
influences are the gambling spirit and the
propaganda of hatred for the boss and of
contempt for authority which Dr. Evatt's
party (though not Dr. Evatt himself) has
helped to spread, while grovelling to the
favored section when in office, even more
ignominiously in the State than in the
Commonwealth. A worse factor than
any other has been long-continued
Communist agitation. It implanted in


undisciplined minds the belief that Com-
munism would “free” them some day;
and that meanwhile the miners, so far
from owing any duty to any set of “capi-
talists” or any “capitalist” Government,
might properly insist on being gov-
erned only by their caprices. And the
shift in the party line has failed to undo
this fell work. The only difference is
that contempt has crept in, Communists
being now regarded as twisters.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Good Mews, Bodly Put.
Possibly as an offset to the deadly
Dedman hand, Minister of Munitions
Makin handed Australians an outsize in
Christmas and New Year boxes of cheer;
Australian munitions production has be-
come so prodigious that adequate strategic
reserves of many armaments have been
built up.
Adequate for what? Prodigious in com-
parison with what? Australian cities
lately witnessed the spectacle of war
materials and weapons being paraded
through the streets in heartening quanti-
ties. What was seen was only represen-
tative of a very fine effort, so it would be
fair enough to call the total production
prodigious compared with what Australia
had a few years back. It might also be
that that total production is in certain
lines adequate for the forces Australia
can field.
This would be all right if the standard
for superlatives was Goat Island. The
standard is a whole nest of islands that
amount to a leading world Power, the
potential destructive strength of which
it has needed the Pacific end of the world
war to reveal. By this imperative stand-
ard Australia’s munitions production is
neither prodigious nor adequate. To say
it is throws the Pacific job out of its true
perspective. This job is one calling for
everything Australia can do, along with
every available fit man Australia can
muster together in a single united army,
plus all the fighting weight that America
and Britain can bring to bear.
It makes a call to Australian patriotism
at its most heroic. It might even be
that beating the Germans, with their vast
hold on Europe, should be regarded as a
lesser task than beating the Japs, with
their vast hold on Asia and on wide-
spread points of the Pacific. Anyway,
the position calls for a putting of the
case as fully as possible fairly and
squarely to Australians, without either
superlatives or understatement, and with-
out either bemusing optimism hr depress-
ing pessimism.
It is a colossal job this that is ahead
of Australia and the rest as 1943 opens.
It calls for a prodigious joint effort and
joint adequate means. That will be a
grand day when Australians can join
with their friends in saying “It was tough,
but we were adequate to it.”
Darian.
At his first and last encounter with
British and American reporters in North
Africa, Admiral Darian attempted a
defence of Vichy policy.
The admiral pleaded that it had been
forced on him and his associates because
the Germans had them by the throat.
For, himself, he had “tried, sad and re-
signed,” to prevent France “dying under
the German heel.” He had tried also
to keep the enemy out of North Africa,
and, when disavowed by Vichy, had
“committed himself to the American
military authorities” with the intention of
“mustering all Frenchmen to fight against
the Axis” and letting them settle their
own political destinies, himself retiring
into private life when the war was over.
To British Commonwealth readers this
statement was defective on many points,
notably Syria and Indo-China. But it
seems to have been read with satisfac-
tion in America, where Senator Vanden-
burg said that the Eisenhower-Darlan
arrangement had “saved American lives
and valuable time and gained amazing
bloodless victories.” Senator Vanden-
berg is a Republican, and his speech was,
in part, a criticism of a Wendell Willkie
description of the arrangement as “false
finangiing with expediency.” From the
White House itself the general and the
admiral received steady support from the
day they came to terms. This steady sup-
port will no doubt be continued to the
new High Commissioner in North Africa,
General Giraud.
For Darian is no more. He was shot
while walking into his office at Algiers
a week after he unburdened himself to
the reporters —shot by an assassin who,
with astonishing laxity, was permitted to
enter and remain unguarded in a neigh-
boring room. Within two days the
assassin had himself gone to his account.
His name, nationality and political brand
were officially withheld “for reasons of
military security,” but a correspondent
described him as a youth 20 years old, of
French nationality, though his mother is
—or was —Italian.
The murder of Darian was denounced
by Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Cordell Hull
in terms worthy of those great gentlemen.
It was reserved for a De Gaullist to hail
it as “good news” and for Red prigs to
express as much exultation as they dared
—this in a country where assassination
as a political weapon is bracketed with
slavery and private war in the form of
duelling as one of the extinct barbarisms.
A Million Little Immigrants.
“Avon”: Leigh Hunt, a 66-year-old
Wellington (M.L.) businessman, who is
chairman of the Dominion Settlement
Association, has an idea for saving
Maoriland from depopulation by making
the country a “haven for the orphans ot
Europe.”
He quotes impressive figures to show
that Fernland’s population tends to de-
cline (the Government Statistician shares
his forebodings). Old people are increas-
ing, young children decreasing; 24 p.c.
of marriages are childless ; 38 p.c. pro-
duce only two children. There was a
small but steady gain by immigration be-
tween 1898 and 1928 (205,580 in thirty
years), but that has ceased ; later years
showed scarcely any gain.
Mr. Hunt prefers children to adult
immigrants (doubtless in view of poli-
tical considerations). He suggests that
Maoriland could take a million of
them at the rate of 100,000 a year
—adopted into homes as far as pos-
sible. To popularise adoption and family
growth generally an increase in income
taxation exemption to £2OO a child is
proposed.
A sketchy scheme, perhaps, but the
only intelligible solution of a grave prob-
lem that the Dominion has been asked
to discuss in the last 20 years.
Hirohito and A.B.C.
“Feng-Shui”: The Chief of the U.S.
Office of War Information recently re-
marked that American propaganda has
expressly refrained from mentioning the
Emperor Hirohito because the Japanese
regard him as a god and attacks on him
would arouse public feeling. The
Emperor, moreover, may serve as a useful
symbol if and when Japan is invaded.
A.B.C. officials have been scratching
their heads over this conundrum for a
long time wi rut coming on a solution.
They might just as well give it up and
turn their expensive propaganda depart-
ment to making camouflage nets.
Public morale is always destroyed by
internal causes, never external ones.
What effect had German propaganda on
the British people? Did Lord Haw
Haw’s jibes at “the pluto-democracy” of
England, followed up by Nazi bombers,
weaken or stiffen British resistance? They
stiffened it. Why would not jibes at
Hirohito have the same effect on the
people of Nippon?
There are no indications that the
Japanese are any less patriotic than other
people. In fact, all the evidence points
the other way. Even Allied statesmen and
generals have asked us to emulate the
fanaticism of the little men from Nippon,
though I think that fanaticism has been
exaggerated out of all proportion by war
commentators, some of whom wouldn t
recognise a Jap if they saw one.
The prestige of the Emperor will begin
to collapse when the Japanese leaders
begin to lose too many battles. People’s
emotions can switch round overnight, as
they did in the French and Russian revo-
lutions, and as they do after an Australian
general election. If the Mikado ceases to
be successful the belief in his divinity will
disappear without A.B.C.’s assistance.
Chinese revere their rain god, but when
he doesn’t deliver the goods they take
him out of his temple and plant him in
the fields without a hat on, to let him
know what a drought really feels like.
Tomalo.
J. H. M. Abbott remembers him:
It was on Guadalcanal, many years ago,
that I met Tomalo. He was no ordinary native
such as those who met us on the palm-shaded
beach when we got out of our boat he was
one of us, and we were “brothers belong
Tomalo.”
The men and children of the village came
down to the sands to meet us; the women were
kept in the background. They walked slowly
across the beach from the shelter of the trees,
their black bodies, save for a small loin-cloth,
as naked as the day they were born. Their
merry laughter and obvious jestings at our
appearance sounded pleasant in the lazy
morning as they helped to drag the skill
up the beach. Cordial welcome —but it was
possibly only derision. They took our guns out
of the boat with gusts of laughter, played
about with them (luckily they were unloaded),
aimed at the tree-tops, at the ship anchored
out in the bay, and generally enjoyed them-
selves until Tomalo said a word or two to
them in their own lingo, when, almost apolo-
getically, the guns were handed over to us.
Tomalo was the “big pot” of the village
all the more noble because he had been
“alonga plantation longa Queenslan’,” and we
were to go shooting with him in the jungle.
He was a sinewy, active fellow, dignified and
graceful in his carriage, lively and springy in
his walk. A little, goggle-eyed, pot-bellied baby
trotted up to him as we approached the grass
houses above the beach, and ran along beside
him, clinging to one of his father’s fingers and
twisting round every now and then to take
further stock of us. “This phfella he belong
me,” explained Tomalo —-“piccaninny belong
me.” Tomalo had pride in many things
his travels in Queensland, his baby, his know-
ledge of “talk belong whitefeller,” of his
obvious superiority to his fellows —and was
prouder than ever because he carried my gun.
The village had the sour stink of all Solo-
mon Island villages. Flies swarmed above
stagnant rainpools, the aromatic scent of wood-
smoke drifted out of the houses, patches of
bright sunlight mottled the beaten earth, pigs
walked about as if all belonged to
scraggy chickens scratched the dirt. “Tam-
bak?” whined an old woman in a doorway who
smoked a clay pipe, “Tambak?”
“She mother belong me—you got any bacca '
She savvy catch him,” laughed Tomalo. So
(Continued on page 8.)
AS THE LAST GRAINS FALL.


we handed over all the tobacco we had.
Tomalo, junr., aged about four, produced his
pipe and lit up.
Tomalo’s house at the far end of the village
was bigger and better than the others. He
asked us in, and through the acrid smoke from
the little fire in the middle of it we saw a young
and comely woman nursing a very new baby.
“Mary belong me. Young phfella Mary, he
belong me too,” Tomalo introduced us to his
wife and daughter. “Five Mary belong me—
five Mary, plenty piccaninny.”
Tomalo is an old man now —if he is still in
Gaudalcanal —and with the war he is having
the most surprising time of his life, which
memories even of Bundaberg in the ’nineties
cannot eclipse.
POLITICAL POINTS
It looks as if Curtin really prefers
Dednian’s advice to Evatt’s. Yet if
Curtin became “unavailable” in circum-
stances that would admit of Caucus
nominating his successor, the only vote
Dedman would be assured of —like the
N. S. Wales M.L.C. who put up for re-
election, after falling out with his party
—would be his own. Indeed he’ll be
hard put to it to hold Corio.
Eighteen months was the sentence
passed in Melbourne on an army doctor
and his two confederates —a barman and
a wharfie—who were caught in the act
of rigging an army disqualification for
a perfectly fit policeman—though they
didn’t know he was a policeman. In Syd-
ney a few days later two young ruffians
who pleaded guilty to throwing nuts in
a munitions-factory machine “whenever
we wanted a rest” were let off with six
months. In all the Axis countries, and
at least one Allied country, the whole five
would have been incontinently shot.
South Australian manufacturers and
others are urging their “Parliament” to
reject the Commonwealth Powers Bill.
Hannan, the Crown Solicitor, claims to
have found legal flaws in it; and he is
no mean authority on Constitutional law.
Ex-Senator Tom Brennan, himself a bar-
rister, has expressed doubts of his own
in a letter to the “Argus.”
At the Melbourne Austerity luncheon
at which Dunstan was the guest of honor,
that gentleman “was presented with a
watch, and each of his Ministers with a
pair of gold sleeve-links” ; and the Pre-
mier “paid a tribute to his colleagues,
who had always stood by him whether
he was right or wrong.” Sleeve-links!
Nose-rings would have been more appro-
priate.
In his first speech in the Senate the
Westralian Latham said he was “very
keenly disappointed, after travelling 2600
miles to reach Canberra, to find that the
Government has no business to place
before this Chamber.” He will live to
learn that the Government rarely has any
business to place before “this Chamber”
except when they are getting up steam
for the 4.15. Then the unspoken order
is “Whisk this through; the 4.15 never
waits.”
The Communist “party” returns
thanks:—
Dr. Evatt said: “I make it clear that the
decision evidences no sympathy by the Gov-
ernment with any Communist views or
doctrine.” That statement is entirely cor-
rect. The Labor Government and the
Labor party are not Socialists, but bour-
geois Liberals.
There was something more about “lead-
ing comrades” undertaking that “the
Communists will work for increased pro-
duction,” with the explanation that “the
Communists, of course, have been doing
this ever since the Soviet Union entered
the war.” Before that it was, of course,
a scoundrelly imperialist war.
Some people have all the luck. Here’s
Casey back in England as representative
of the British Government in the Middle
East, and with admiring pressmen fol-
lowing hirfi wherever he goes and mar-
velling at his English accent. In Aus-
tralia, though always regarded as an
awf’ly nice fellow, Casey never impressed
anyone as being of Priministerial timbre,
and if he had remained where he was
for another 18 months he would have
been out of politics, licked by Dedman.
Yes, Dedman.
Trust a retired revolutionary to see
through the revolutionaries still in busi-
ness. . Lang, formerly “greater than
Lenin,” has been writing the history of
the Communists in his “Century,” begin-
ning with these few genial remarks: — *
They started the war as conscriptionists.
Within three weeks they were howling that
it was an imperialist bloodbath. They
established an anti-conscription front. Now
they are conscriptionist again. That is
why the Corns, are today regarded by Aus-
tralians as objects of contempt.
There is a great deal more of it, one
merry observation being that “When
Unde Joe rolls over in bed every Com-
munist in Australia also has to roll over.”
In their rolling the Corns, “still want a
Second Front. But that does not mean
they want to go to Stalingrad: they are
prepared to do all their fighting from a
Domain platform.”
Just when Emanuel Shinwell, M.P.,
and F. Ehrenfried Baume seemed to be
about to declare war on Spain, the
Spanish Foreign Minister hastened to
Lisbon, returning with a Treaty of Friend-
ship and Non-Aggression, He describes
it as “an instrument of peace and an
expression of the desire of the two nations
to remain outside the present conflict” ;
and, considering the past relations be-
tween Spain and Portugal—no Spanish
Foreign Minister had been seen in
Lisbon for 300 years—it is at least an
interesting addition to history. But the
parties may still have to reckon with
Emanuel and Ehrenfried, terrible fighters
both.
Give the “advanced” union boss an
inch and he wants a thousand miles. In
spite of its partiality for the Allied Works
Council the Government yielded to the
Demands of union bosses when four
clerks —all, of course, members of the
union were put off as a sequel to a
furious newspaper attack on the A.W.C.
One Demand was for full payment of the
four clerks from the time they were put
off (that was easy, the Canberra idea
being that the public purse is bottom-
less) ; another for an inquiry by royal
commission. The Government instructed
Harry Brown to abandon his other and
presumably important duties and conduct
the inquiry. Straightway union bosses
were heard shouting that the terms oL
reference did not comply with their
Demands and that the inquiry might be
boycotted. Meanwhile the Government
will be expected to go on paying the four
clerks for doing nothing.
Mr. McGuinness, president of the
N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation, was heard
again last week in the sweated and
oppressed dominies’ expensive Sydney
building on the subject of their griev-
ances. The first head that showed itself
was that of the Public Service Board,
“Perhaps We've gone and overdone it, Chief!"
and Mr. McGuinness aimed a polthogue
at it according to custom. Then, being
a Government schoolmaster, he had a
crack at Government schools:
The school at present is a reactionary
force whose activity is controlled by the
needs of an outmoded society, whereas the
■ business of the school should be to make
democrats.
Meaning presumably Labor politicians.
Urged on by Mr. McGuinness, the
teachers “decided to affiliate with the
N.S.W. Labor Council and the A.C.T.U.”
and to plump for “absolute preference
to unionists” —this perhaps on the prin-
ciple that “who drives fat oxen should
himself be fat.”
Though early gratification of Earle
Page’s desire for more Federal members,
38 at least, is not likely, Canberra is ex-
pected to acquire another politician
shortly. It is proposed to shift the head-
quarters of the Anglican bishopric of
Goulburn to Canberra, which means that
Bishop Burgmann will take up residence
there. Dr. Burgmann’s politics are the
same as those of the Bishop of Bradford
and the Dean of Canterbury, though he
may not go quite as far as Bradford.
Dr. Blunt, Bishop of Bradford, to the
Socialist Union at Leeds University:
What I am propounding is a revolution.
I think we must have one. Whether it will
come in a swoop, as in Russia, or piece-
meal, I do not know. We have to fight the
stranglehold of finance —the Bank of Eng-
land bossing the country and the empire.
The reverend gentleman must have been
reading Lang’s Why I Fight.
The Sydney Premier, who was twitted
from all quarters over the long delay in
appointing a president of the State Indus-
trial Commission, got off his bike when
Federal Judge O’Mara hinted that he
might call upon “responsible State Min-
isters” to explain the “incompetency” of
the Commission. “Precipitate and ill-con-
sidered,” snorted McKell; but he
promptly invited Ferguson, J., one of the
Industrial Commissioners, to become
president. Ferguson, J., declined. There-
upon McKell sent to “Security” for
Stanley C. Taylor. Taylor is a barrister
with an industrial-court practice and has
an impressive history of failures as a
Labor candidate.
One of those engaging young men who
write Labor pars, for Sunday papers let
it out that M. E. Cantor, as senior N.S.W.
Industrial Commissioner (he has been on
the job for 15 years), had the best cre-
dentials for appointment to the presidency
when it became vacant, but was ruled
out because union “executives” objected
“Government of the people by union
bosses for union bosses.”
The Scully-Dunn tick inquiry drags on
and on at Grafton (N.S.W.) and looks
like outlasting the war. Latest is that
farmers are to be asked to fill and return
questionnaires about tick-control by
January 6. They ought to get Scully-
Dunn to expound the Labor post-war
reconstruction ideas to the ticks —that’d
scare ’em back to Queensland.
A point made by “S. M. Herald”;
Dedman’s ban on domestics was “dis-
creetly withdrawn” while Parliament was
sitting and promptly reintroduced after
Parliament dispersed. The “Herald”
figures it as “a deliberate attempt to
evade Parliamentary control.” There
have been many deliberate attempts “to
evade Parliamentary control,” and only
a few members ever object.
“There is only one way to gel rid of
necessary war-time restrictions if you
don’t like them,” said Curtin —“get on
with the war and win it.” The Curtin
idea of getting rid of coal-stoppages and
war-factories absenteeism is to implore
the offenders to be good boys. It never
has any effect, but he never wearies of
imploring.
Praising Dedman’s department, the
P.M. mentioned that it had achieved
“rationalisation of wool appraisement
and handling.” Then how does he
explain the action of another Min-
ister, Scully, in “rationalising” the
N. S. Wales end of the appraisement
scheme by dismissing its chairman,
Dewez, the unanimous choice of every
section of the wool trade in the biggest
woolgrowing State? Does he really
know what is going on in his own
Government?
People trying to discover why Scully
got rid of G. L. O. Dewez as Director
of Appraisement for N.S.W. suggest that
Scully was certain Dewez would oppose
Scully’s notion of setting up country
appraisement centres. If Dewez did
oppose it, he’d be backed by most of the
wool trade, which can’t reconcile Scully’s
motion with the man-power shortage.
Samuel Silverman, a British Labor
M.P., has discovered that Australia
“could absorb six million Jews.” An-
other way of putting it is that six million
Jews could absorb Australia —but they
shan’t.
Victorians learned last week, per
medium of very expensive newspaper
advertisements, that “Mr. A. W. Ander-
son and his private secretary, Mr. Harold
Sterling,” were visiting them, and would
be glad to become acquainted with
“men of wisdom without weakness, cul-
ture without cowardice” —preferably at
Menzies. If they passed inspection, on
the hoof or the hooks, they would be
welcome to stand for the House and
the Senate as Independents supporting a
One Parliament for Australia Movement.
One Parliament for Australia is very
necessary, and there are other good
features of the advertised programme,
but a party consisting solely of Indepen-
dents would soon cut its own throat. With
a rude dig at the founder’s calling,
enemies have already designated it “the
Sausage party.”
These archbishops and bishops who are
so busy denouncing “the profit motive”
are not convincing. After all, their com-
fortable salaries and quarters are in no
small degree results of the working of
“the profit motive” over many years.
Statutory limitation of profits might mean
less comfortable quarters and sweeping
reductions in episcopal salaries. It may
be that all these eminent reformers would
be content to be lodged and paid on the
scale of a rector in a fair-to-middling
parish, but none of them has been heard
to say so.
San Francisco “Chronicle”: “Australia
lacks full fighting power because of her
law forbidding the use of militiamen out-
side her own territory.... This is one war
and one front... .no political expediency
should be permitted to divide us in spirit
in the effort for victory.” There was
more: “Aussies are needed on an Aus-
tralian front that knows no boundary
.... to let our men know they don’t stand
alone at the outposts of Australia.”
There was never a bill so worded that
it could be understood by all. Edgar,
M.L.C., said that in the Victorian “Par-
liament.” He added that there are 26
courts of appeal in Australia and another
in London, but did not mention that there
are six superfluous gashouses.
The grand work of New Guinea natives
as stretcher-bearers and guides to our
wounded goes on in the thick
of the fighting and the rain.
One N.G. Digger summed up
the feelings of his mates in the
line; “And the look upon their
faces makes us think that Christ
was black.” It’s a fair tribute
to the work of Australian ad-
ministrators that the natives
should turn up such trumps.
Queenslanders will probably
vote on the same day in Mackay
and Barcoo, formerly held by
Forgan Smith and Frank Bul-
cock respectively. Smith went
to the Sugar Board and Bulcock
to be Commonwealth Director
of Agriculture, both sweet cops
after the hurly-burly of politics,
particularly with so many “In-
dependents” winning Labor
seats.
Comrade Thornton has an-
nounced that his union fines
members who absent themselves
from work. Who gave it the
right to try, convict and punish
Australians, and when?
A witness in the U.S. Supreme
Court said that when he at-
tended a meeting of the Inter-
national Hodcarriers’ Union he
had 15 or 18 bodyguards, each paid
25 dollars a day from union funds. It
may come to that in Australia if “body-
snatching” goes on. In Queensland a
dispute between the A.W.U. and the Car-
penters’ Union about who should join
which ended in the Carpenters’ man being
ducked in a river.
Jauncey’s Story of Conscription in Aus-
tralia was mentioned in a recent article.
To the author “it was not surprising that
one of the first acts of the Scullin Gov-
ernment was to suspend the compulsory
provisions of the Defence Act”:
The training strength of the Citizen
Forces had fallen from 127,960 in 1921 to
47,931. After the suspension of compul-
sion the number further declined, by the
beginning of 1932, to 27,934. At this time
there were only 2640 senior cadets in train-
ing, compared with nearly 100,000 in the
most active days of compulsion.
Mr. Jauncey made this record with
obvious delight. It shows what fools
clever men can be.


PERSONAL ITEMS
General Douglas MacArthur is elig-
ible for inclusion in the somewhat rare
class of “praying generals” ; a rough way
of saying that he is deeply religious, as
sundry of his utterances have indicated.
He’s not the only topnotch American
soldier of whom this can be said. The
top dog of them all (bar Roosevelt as
Commander-in-Chief by virtue of his
Presidential post) is Gen. George C. Mar-
shall, who not long back appeared before
Senate to impart his view on the lowering
of the draft age to include chaps of 18
and 19. As he rose from his long session
with the Senators he remarked “I pre-
sume that all you gentlemen finish your
day with the Lord’s Prayer—as I do.”
Which, said a cynical reporter, should be
added to the Erroneous Assumptions
Department.
The laughing visage here depicted is
characteristic of knight Stanton Hicks,
who ought to look bowed down by the
weight of letters that come after his
name. As Director of Army Catering
he’s responsible for food rations for
special purposes, and, in his own words,
he’s been on 10,000 committees con-
ARMY CATERER.
cerned with the manufacturing of, the
canning of, the dehydration of, the
scientific control of and the nutritional
value of food. After a couple of years’
struggle, he has elevated army cooks to
the professoriate by giving them rank and
finally status in a corps of their own,
no doubt with color patches. So the bab
can now rise to field rank if his baking
power is good enough. On loan to the
army, Lieutenant-Colonel Hicks, M.Sc.,
M.D., Ph.D., F.1.C., is owned by Adel-
aide University as its Professor of Human
Physiology and Pharmacology. To get
his sketch Counihan, who’s an inveterate
steak-eater, had to sit out in the Domain
sun in front of Victoria Barracks, Mel-
bourne, and be regaled by the Food
Baron with two apples, three bananas, a
pineapple and an orange purchased by
the colonel himself at a fruit-shop sub-
merged in the industrial area behind the
barracks.
Continuing a practice in which notable
examples have been the appointments of
Archbishop Gilroy (Sydney) and Dr.
J. D. Simonds (as Coadjutor-Archbishop
of Melbourne), the Catholic Church has
again drawn on Australia for its latest
appointment to a high Commonwealth
post, Archbishop Tweedy, of Hobart,
being a New South Welshman. Born in
1900, he has been administrator of West
Maitland Cathedral for the last 10 years.
Professor Kenneth Hamilton Bailey,
M.A., B.C.L. (Oxon.), LL.M. (Melb.),
Professor of Public Law at Melbourne
University, has been granted leave of
absence to assist Federal Attorney-Gen-
eral Dr. Evatt. If any knotty points arise
over recent Governmental regulations
the suave and scholarly Bailey is likely
to be able to give the latest, as well as
the most ancient, academic ruling. Born
44 years ago at Canterbury (Vic.) and
educated at Wesley and Queen’s College,
Melbourne, he was with the 2nd Div.
Australian Field Artillery in France, then
went to Corpus Christi College, Oxford,
as 1918 Rhodes scholar. In 1937 he
assisted in League of Nations delibera-
tions as delegate from Australia.
For the first time in its history the Uni-
versity of Melbourne has granted its de-
gree of Bachelor of Engineering to a
woman —Diane Adrienne Lemaire, still
in her teens, a daughter of Lieut.-Col.
Lionel Lemaire, on the staff of General
Blarney.
K, K. O’Connor, a Gray’s Inn bar-
rister who was practising in Singapore
till the Japs overran it, has been ad-
mitted to the S.A. Bar after six months’
residence. He is in the Adelaide office
of the Commonwealth Crown Solicitor.
Chief Justice Napier welcomed him to
“either a city of refuge or a permanent
home,” whichever one the visitor pleases
to make it.
Hudson pilot:
The R.A.A.F. can be said to be composed
of specialists, with some of them so much so
that they have the flash of genius. Instance
William Allen Pedrina, D.F.C. Squadron-leader
at 24, “Pedro,” as the service has known him
(he was killed last week in New Guinea), was
also known to the service as the genius of the
Hudson bomber. What he couldn’t do with
a Hudson simply couldn’t be done. He was
in a Hudson what Kingsford Smith was in
his Southern Cross. One of the first to win a
decoration in an Australian battle zone, “Pedro”
was utterly without fear. Of one scrap he
brought back an extraordinary record. Over
a Jap field his Hudson crew saw a Zero taking
off to come up and have a go at them. They
photographed its take-off, its flight up, the
fight they had with it, and its destruction. All
last year “Pedro” was on the job up North,
playing a magnificent part in helping stop the
Jap from swarming down into Australia. A
Hamilton (Vic.) native, he'd been in the
R.A.A.F. since 1937.
In one way, G. L. O. (Gus) Dewez
is slightly pleased with his recent “retire-
ment” from the directorship of the
N.S.W. wool appraisements. He had
given three and a half years of solid
work to the job, and can at last take a
small holiday. He came to Sydney about
35 years ago, and since that time has
made innumerable trips abroad in con-
nection with the wool trade. He has
been chairman of the Wool Buyers’ Asso-
ciation on and off all that time and was
a “natural” for the appraisement job.
Practically every organisation directly or
remotely connected with wool expressed
appreciation of his services on his “re-
tirement.”
The worst sort of bad news and quite
good news came respectively to two
prominent Australians last week. E. J.
Tait, managing director of J.C.W., re-
ceived word that his son, Sergeant-
Observer George Edward (“Bill”) Tait,
had been killed in an aircraft accident in
England ; Richard Windeyer, K.C., had
word of the award of the D.S.C. to his
son, Lieut.-Commander Guy Stanley
Windeyer, who’s with the Canadian Navy
in control of a flotilla of corvettes.
Stanley Skipper, Adelaide lawyer, who
has charge of the conscientious-objector
tribunal in S.A. and is well in line for
higher honors, has lost a son and junior
partner in New Guinea, after previous
service in Libya and Syria. The founder
of the family was one of Adelaide’s
earliest painters.
After various moves, including the
offering of the job to Ferguson, J., who
declined it, the N.S.W. Industrial Com-
mission has been provided with a presi-
dent by elevating Sydney barrister Stanley
C. Taylor to the Bench. Cantor, J.,
Webb, J., and De Baun, J., are the other
members, the first-named the senior, and
in the ordinary run of things the one for
the job, which is a plum of sorts at the
disposal of the Sydney Government. A
Rylstone (N.S.W.) native, b. 1896, the
new president was a public servant before
he turned barrister.
The appointment of Dr. Allan Robert
Callaghan to take charge of the rural
division of the Department of War
Organisation in Victoria adds another
Rhodes scholar to the war effort. He
was the N.S.W. choice in 1925. Born
at Perthville (N.S.W.) in 1903 and edu-
cated at Bathurst High School and the
Sydney University, he returned from
Oxford to plant breeding research in the
N.S.W. Agricultural Dept, In 1932 he
took charge of Roseworthy Agricultural
College (S.A.).
Leading authority and writer on Aus-
tralia’s fauna and flora Tarlton Rayment
these days keeps an editorial and scien-
tific eye on natural history articles for
the geographical magazine “Walkabout,”
and is himself a frequent contributor. A
son, a Master of Science, is flying a
bomber over Germany.
Putnam has published a volume of
verse by an Australian which is receiv-
ing high praise in U.S. —Jervis Bay and
Other Poems, by Lieutenant Michael
Thwaites. Thwaites was educated at
Ivanhoe (Vic.) Grammar, Geelong Gram-
mar and Melbourne University ; at the
Uni. he won the Newdegate Prize for
poetry with “Milton Blind,” a poem that
also earned him the Royal Prize for
poetry. A son of the headmaster of
Ballarat College, and Victorian Rhodes
scholar for 1937, he left Oxford to join
the R.N.V.R. He is on leave in New
York from escorting Atlantic convoys.
New York critics describe the title poem
as a vivid description of a gallant ship’s
last stand.
Peter Finch, whose voice in A.B.C.
plays is familiar to thousands of radio
fans—he played Blackburn the detective
in several mystery thrillers —and who
appeared in some Australian talkies,
notably “Mr. Chedworth Steps Out,’
“The Power and the Glory” and “Dad
and “Dave Come to Town,” is making
an appearance in a couple of Dept, of
Information efforts in which he plays an
airman and a Tobruk Rat. He draws
on real experience. He’s an A.I.F. gunner
who has seen service in the Middle East.
Ernest Bullas, Melbourne’s leading
man of substance and known on account
of his profession as the “Peanut King,”
lately broke his leg when the car he was
cranking started up and ran him down.
He weighs 28 stone and has a car fitted
with special spring and minus its side
door, but he has always got about in it
with that ease peculiar to big men. Perth
residents of a past generation will remem-
ber the 30st. newsagent who drove daily
to his business in a spanking jinker.
Adelaide Uni. has had some unusual
bequests this year, as announced by
Chancellor Mitchell at its annual degree-
giving. (1) From Dr. Rogers, the Aus-
tralian orchid expert, his herbarium of
3000 specimens. (2) From Hughes, of
Eureka station (far-west N.S.W.), half
his residuary estate ; the other half goes
to Sydney Uni. and each should get over
£30,000. (3) Five thousand pounds from
J. E. Jenkins, an Arts student lately
killed in a flying accident. Also (not
unexpected) £lO,OOO from Tom Barr-
Smith, who was on the Uni. Council for
many years, as was his father Robert
before him. S.A. Government has always
allowed 5 p.c. p.a. on such endowments,
up to a limit which has often required
to be raised. Last session Parliament
cheerfully raised that limit from £30,000
to £40,000.
Reported from London as missing after
a raid on Germany, S.A. wicket-keeper
Charlie Walker. A modest, intelligent
fellow, Walker had two trips to England,
as understudy to Oldfield in 1930 and
in 1938 to Barnett (also missing—in
Malaya).
John Curtis, Y.M. rep. in the North,
who goes to Adelaide on transfer, has
done a fine job in the past year or two
organising sport for the troops, including
international swimming titles, football
and athletic championships. Educated
at Springfield Uni. (U.S.A.), he’s a jour-
nalist like his dad, who’s an editor at
Ouyen (Vic.).
Back in Adelaide on a visit after eight
years in London, Charles McCann, who
has earned a title for his work as Agent-
General for S.A. A younger brother,
who died lately, was manager of the big
Bovril works at Santa Elena in the Argen-
tine. Charles does a lot in London for our
A.-G. for S.A.
Fighting Forces Comforts Fund, of which
W. F. J. McCann is the S.A. president;
they are not related. The A.-G.
reports that Britain has increased its
farm areas in war-time by over six mil-
lion acres, is now relying largely on Aus-
tralian agricultural machinery and wants
a lot more of it, also a lot more Austra-
lian wine.
Dairy-farmers in N. S. Wales parted
with a good man when the Primary
Producers’ Union let Jack Shute go
to the Department of Commerce as
chairman of the N.S.W. Meat Com-
mittee and deputy controller of meat
for the State. Mudgee-born 42 years
ago, Jack has been with P.P.U. for
practically the whole of his worl.'ng life
and for the last 10 years has been general
secretary. He has spoken a vigorous and
well-informed piece on numerous boards
set up by the Federal Government to
straighten out the dairying industry’s war-
time tangles. He’s also secretary of
the Australian Dairy Farmers’ Federa-
tion.
Here pictured by Frith, R.A.A.F.
Group-Captain Robert Henry Simms,
A.F.C., hailing from the northern end of
Ireland, came to these parts with his folk
GROUP-CAPTAIN SIMMS.
when he was six, inhabiting Sydney
Harbor seaside village of Manly, though
not, like its Cutler, V.C., trying to out-
grow the pine trees. Still, he grew sound
enough to have no trouble passing the
stiff R.A.A.F. tests of 1927, when he was
20, and when the intake was only about
20 pilots a year. After close on 10 years
of R.A.A.F. flying he went to England to
have a year with the R.A.F. at Andover,
and then other courses for a further 18
months. Coming back via the U.S.A., he
spent three months at the Lockheed fac-
tory flying Lockheeds and gaining a gen-
eral working knowledge of Uncle Sam’s
ideas on aviation —now extra handy.
Other grounding includes piloting with the
big geophysical party which mapped out
the country holding gold and other useful
metals over vast areas of inland Aus-
tralia. More recently he had an R.A.A.F.
squadron that has lately been putting up
a splendid show in New Guinea, and he
was for some time C.O. of an R.A.A.F.
training school in Queensland. Now, in
the Air Force argot of understatement,
he’s a “chair polisher,” or (same lingo)
one of the “shiny boys.” In other words,
he’s holding down the man-size job of
senior air staff officer of Eastern Area,
21. to Air Vice-Marshal Anderson.
Which isn’t so bad for 35.
For most of his 90 years G. S. Dun-
combe, now taking it easy at Sandy Bay
(Tas.), has believed that “there’s tin in
them thar hills.” First hearing of tin
while winning a ploughing match back
in the “airly” days he boarded a sailing
ship for the north-east coast. The ship
ran aground at St. Helens, which was the
ploughman-prospector’s destination, and
he followed the old slab round up into
the Gould country and on, discovering
the Cambria lode. He had retired to
Hobart when the Adamsfield osmiridium
field was discovered, and, though then 72,
promptly headed into that wild country.
His 90 years sit lightly on him.
Into the silence;
At 70, in Melbourne, Henry Isaac Cohen,
K.C. Admitted to the Victorian Bar in 1896
and made a K.C. in 1920, he went into the Vic.
Leg. Council for Melbourne in 1921. During
his 16 Parliamentary years he was Minister
of Public Works and Mines, Attorney-General
and Solicitor-General and Minister in Charge
of Electrical Undertakings under Lawson. A
boundary reshuffle ended his political career
in 1937.
Mrs. S. G. Drummond, who was chief auxil-
iary to her parson husband when, 20 years back,
he founded his Far West Health Scheme under
which thousands of bush youngsters have
been given seaside holidays, with special medical
treatment.
In Sydney, at 46, District Court Judge A. G.
Hill, who, enlisting as a youngster in the old
A.1.F., lost a leg at Gallipoli. Returned, he
went to Sydney Uni., and was called to the
Bar in 1923. He’d been Judge for the last
five years.
In Sydney, at 67, James Semple, one of
“S. M. Herald’s” several long-service record-
holders ; he’d been on “S.M.H.’s” stall for
50 years.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Cadji”: Whenever I think of the vast
amount of fillum material in Australia
I come all over solemn. We have at
our backdoor thousands of acres of
desert, dark dismal caverns, awe-inspir-
ing ravines, hog-back and saw-tooth
ridges, mysterious blue-hazed mountains,
phantom towns and various kinds of rivers.
We have characters such as sundowners,
swaggies, Murrumbidgee whalers, hatters,
cattle and sheep riders, trappers, ’roo-
shooters, crocodile - shooters, camel-
teamsters, the dwindling bullocky, pros-
pectors, mine magnates and squatters.
We can throw in cactus, snakewoods,
cadjibutts, spinifex, mangrove swamps,
lagoons, cyclones, lonely graves and
perished corpses, snakes, tarantulas, red-
back spiders, scorpions, centipedes, din-
goes, wild pigs, donkeys, camels, niggers
and Chinamen. We can provide loca-
tions such as goldmines, cattle camps,
lead and asbestos shows, timber mills,
tobacco plantations, banana and cotton
plantations, wheat farms, factories, dock-
side fisheries, slums and palaces. In
short, every prospect should please a
Hollywooden impresario, save one. And
there we fall right down. There are no
longer any bottles on the shelves for the
bad men from the Badlands to shoot at.
“An remember , laad. Cap’ll 'isself Was only young when' e Was your age.”
“M 8”: All this talk about people
living to great ages although they ate
white bread (B. 23/12/’42) reminds me
of George. One of his favorite meals
was strong, hot black tea liberally laced
with rum and ballasted down with a
mountain of pancakes. Taken to hospital
with appendicitis George told the sur-
geon of his diet, and the latter, horrified,
murmured something about George giv-
ing it up if he expected to live much
longer. “You be bio wed,” wheezed
George; “it’s done me for nigh on a
lifetime, an’ I’ll be 92 next year. That’s
a fair-enough trial for any tucker, ain’t.
it?” The surgeon assented.
* * * *
“Macko”: A stage wedding set my
mind winging back to a similar
affair at Broken Hill. We had in
our midst then a lady playwright,
one Mary Ann , a nice-looking
girl and a plucky one, but she wrote
the oddest sort of melodrama. Berhaps
the highwater mark of her dramatic art
was a piece called “Into the River with
’Er.” Bert Sayers, lessee of the Royal,
put on this opus for Mary Ann at a
matinee. She played the heroine. In the
last act she and the villain struggled on
a bridge. At last he threw her over,
while someone in the wings made a noise
with two slats of wood. A handful of
rice was thrown in the air to represent
the splash, and then Mary Ann climbed
out, perfectly dry, with every curl in
place, to speak the tag: “I will roam the
world disguised as a postman and find
out My Father’s Name!” Well, Mary
Ann got engaged to a visiting comedian,
and Sayers made the nuptials part of a
performance on the stage of the Royal.
It was a fine wedding, parson, brides-
maids, wedding march and all. Mary
Ann looked lovely. A bit in the pro-
gramme said the wedding dress was made
by Buckley and Nunn. That was,
evidently, an overtouch of grandeur, for
the next issue of our newspaper had
a counter-claim from a South Broken
Hill dressmaker. The ad. was terse:
Mrs. —— begs to inform the public
that she made Mary Ann ’s wedding
gown —and hopes she’ll be paid for it.
Jjc * *
“Jean Qui Rit”: Two-bob punters grew
goggle-eyed at the astronomic good
fortune of Mick Bitt, from Boland (B.
16/12/’42). Melbourne “Sporting Globe”
credited Bitt with having cleaned up
£38,000 over four racing days. Sydney’s
“Sunday Telegraph” threw in an extra
£12,000 for good measure. But two-bob
punters were poring over problems of
simple arithmetic to figure out his system
—and found it wouldn’t work without a
few miracles thrown in. Bitt “started with
a bank of £2O, betting s.p. on Victoria
Derby Day, 1940; he backed the first
five winners and cleared £1800.” The five
were Session (7 to 4), All Love (9 to 4
on), Beau Vite (11 to 8 on), Lucrative
(11 to 8 agst.) and Gold Salute (10 to 9
on). With an initial outlay of £2O, “all-
up” wagers would at those prices have
yielded a profit of £599 4s. 2d.
% * * n
“Cropear”: With an idea of getting a
nice cushy job as a famous correspondent
in the next war I have beefl carefully
studying the technique of the practitioners
in this one. Most of them I can follow,
so to speak, but there is one intellect
whose processes sometimes elude me
that of Mr. Frederick Ehrenfried Baume.
Referring to fighting in Russia he opens
a recent communique thus:
The dose silence being maintained at the
Russian Embassy can be regarded as a
good augury of sensational news to come,
he says.
There is no clue as to who “he” is (it
may be Foo or F.E.B, himself), and no
means of gauging how, from the close
silence of anybody or anything, auguries
of any sort may be extracted. Methinks
it’s just the difference between knowing
things like that and not knowing ’em that
marks the gulf between the famous cor-
respondent and the correspondent who
isn’t famous.
“Here's a note from my wife, sir, explaining why I'm late.”
“Justus”: Blaming the Department of
Information for the war pictures show-
ing plenty of female leg (B. 9/12/ '42)
wasn’t quite fair. The department’s
camera men take plenty of good pictures
of Diggers and Yanks in action and close
to it and issue them freely to the press.
The leg part develops when some make-
up man with a flapper fixation spots a
leggy picture in the issue ; it goes in and
the rest take pot luck. But look at the
department’s picture in a good illustrated
weekly like the “N.Q. Register” and
you’ll see what I mean.
* * ' *
“V. Cluse”: This war, like the last, is
adding to the vocabulary. Some time
ago a Bulletin versifier wondered in
print what a willyhouse worker was, the
occupation having emerged in an ex-
empted man-power list. Now it has been
decided that women won’t be allowed to
work as podgers, on the ground that it’s
too nard for them. Lodging (if I may
coin a word) consists of ramming bully-
beef into cans.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: A highly popular feature
of the Dutch delegation to M.L. in con-
nection with the Tasman ter-centenary
(and it had a right cordial reception) was
the luxuriant whiskers of Dr. Van de
Bias, head of the friendly mission. When
he arrived at Hokitika the chairman of
the Reception Committee was so vastly
impressed that he asked the doctor if the
luxurious appendage was genuine. The
Dutchman gave suitable assurances. He's
proud of the growth. On the West Coast
children followed Van de Bias every-
where. They cried for him, believing
him to be Santa Claus. The oldest inhabi-
tants recalled the roaring mining days
when all males cultivated copious
beavers. “Flash Kelly,” the Beau Nash
of his day and environment, aroused
such envy among his mates by the
exuberance of his beard that they got
him drunk and sheared him.
* * A It
“Ike Hollar”: A typical slang develop-
ment is the transition of “nark” from
verb to noun. Originally, in the English
north country, a girl’s parents “narked
the wedding,” an enemy “narked” your
being given the job or, in its most general
use, people were asked to “nark it” —
similar to the appeal to “give over” or
“stop it,” I don’t think I have heard
anyone say “nark it” for 30 years.
Nothing is now used save “nark,” the
noun, in the sense of the Cockney
“copper’s nark,” which seems to have
been the first southern metamorphosis
of the Lancashire term.
*** . *
“Bumpk”: When Melbourne was ex-
pecting an air raid at any moment Mr.
Dunstan’s State Emergency Committee
got busy and laid in a great stock of
stirrup-pumps. Now that the scare has
abated there is a swag of unsold stock at
th® S.E.C. s headquarters. An astute
householder has discovered that each
pump has ieet of hose attached to it,
and by buying two pumps he gets 50 feet
0 f hose, enough to water his garden. The
pumps are beautifully-made articles and
are useful for spraying his cabbages and
fruit-trees ; and they cost only 355. apiece,
It’s an ill wind, etc.
* * * *
“Roady”: Despite the maplike appear-
ance of the terrain as seen from aloft,
map-reading from the cockpit of a kite
flying at anything between one and three
hundred m.p.h. is not as easy as it looks.
A squadron of pilot-trainees about to
take off on a cross-country flip was given
the map-reference of its destination, a
satellite ’drome out in the mulga. As
a further aid, all hands were told that
there would be two Tiger Moths side by
side and headed upwind in a corner of
the field. The squadron took off with a
five-minute interval between each kite.
When two-thirds of the distance had been
covered the leader developed engine
trouble. The pilot picked out a likely
spot and brought her down. Jhe sedond
pilot had similar trouble, looked about
for a landing field, spotted the first ’plane
and brought his own down beside it. The
two pilots were busily inspecting their
engines when they heard the third ’plane
droning overhead. To their astonishment
the pilot circled the field and came in
for a nice landing. His language was
dreadful when he found he’d picked on
the wrong pair of Tiger Moths, but his
rage turned to keen enjoyment as, one
after the other, the rest of the squadron
spiralled down to the supposed journey’s
end. But the fledglings’ instructors
were not amused when they had to travel
miles by tender to lift three ’planes from
a field far too small for a take-off.
* * *
“P.S.”: I question “Jamwood’s” theory
that women wear high heels to make their
feet look smaller (B. 23/12/’42). They
don’t know why, except that it’s fashion-
able, Let some movie star appear wear-
ing ice-skates on the street and in no
time the local flapper would be stumbling
about on ’em. Fashion is the world’s
most unanswerable tyrant.
THE MUDDLERS.
“Action is being taken to rid the array of dither-
ing, muddling officers who hold up business and cause
hottlenqpks.” —Minister Forde.
A really admirable resolution,
Boughs that are rotten from the tree to top,
Deadwood to cull. In every institution,
From an administration to a shop,
Saps such as these are waiting execution,
There’s always room for talent at the top.
But all too often, one’s compelled to say,
Dull mediocrity obstructs the way.
Misfits and dubs—square pegs ill-shaped, un-
suited
For orifices definitely round,
In various walks of life, it’s undisputed,
Exist, or even possibly abound.
But how infrequently it is they’re booted
Out of the cushy jobs wherein they’re found,
With no return, excepting that it be
A record of their inefficiency.
The Judges’ Bench how many have a flair for!
Others attain a magisterial seat
And seldom fail to look the role they’re there
for,
Serene, impassive in their own conceit.
Though when we muse upon the why and
wherefore
Of their advance, it’s apt to leave us beat.
How often in the courts we get a glimpse
Of markedly civilian “Colonel Blimps”!
Out with them, all! These blokes outclassed,
outmoded,
Poor as the pantaloons in pantomimes,
Professors with old theories exploded,
Parsons whose doctrines lag behind the times,
And even bards whose poesy is loaded
With mouldy metres and with rusty rhymes
That set the highbrows, scandalised and vexed,
Ejaculating acidly “What next!”
Out on them, all! Such dithering transgressors
Should obviously get their just reward,
Like those in ships wherefrom all muddling
messers
Are heaved incontinently overboard,
Including university professors.
But don’t you, let me ask you, Mr. Forde,
Think thSt the process fairly might begin
Upon the crowd you happen to be in?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
NAMES.
I know why he whom now we call a cop
Was termed erstwhile a peeler or a bobby.
But it remains to me a mystery dark
Why almost anyone whose name is Clarke
Should be sub-titled “Nobby.”
“Spud” Murphy—that, of course, is pikestaff-
plain,
Sticks out self-evidently as a pillar
In deserts. It’s as obvious, I suppose,
Why “Dusty” is the sobriquet that goes
So trippingly with Miller.
Intelligible, these, admittedly, .
But other well-worn epithets are mighty
Hard to interpret. And it stumps me, quite,
Why “Milky” should so often prefix White,
While Brown is labelled “Whitey.”
And when our womankind their given names
With more familiar substitutes vary,
Well, nobody has ever told me yet
Why “Peegy” should be short for Margaret
And “Polly” short for Mary.
What’s in a name? the Swan of Avon asked.
More, I imagine, than most eyes may me 6l.
These quaint alliances, these kinships slick.
In which the most unlikely couples click,
And unto one another cleave and stick,
They fairly have me beat!
N.S.W
PIPARDS.


“Bernard Hacksaw”: When the cali-up
of women “not gainfully employed”
started in Melbourne an “Age” corre-
spondent acidly pointed out that, whereas
the bureau for the reception of gain-
fully employed ladies was situated in a
drab old office in Craig’s building, where
they were unceremoniously treated,
the ungainful were interviewed in ele-
gant surroundings, met by a hostess and
politely introduced to the official who had
to deal with them. Man-power authori-
ties explained the difference as the re-
sult of a “keen official sense of the
appropriate” and said that the staff itself
had provided floral embellishments to
create a congenial environment. Having
had several interviews with Man-power
officials who didn’t seem to give a dump
what I thought of them or of their en-
vironment, and evidently regarded me as
less than the dust, I’m pleased to hear
that they are developing sensitive emo-
tions.
!H * * *
“Tuart”: Without exception our war
correspondents in Papua have done an ex-
cellent job, and I remembered this indul-
gently when I read that “General Tomi-
taro Horii, reported killed in the Buna
fighting, had been seen several times
riding a white horse among his troops in
the forward areas.” But, to me, that
white horse has all the marks and brands
of a furphy, the invention of some
sportive Digger or Doughboy. 1 have
been incredulous of white horses in
modern warfare ever since I heard a lady
poet expatiate on the steed mounted by
the King who defied the Kaiser in the
1914 invasion. Lady poet was in Brussels
when the Huns swarmed over the
frontier, and, lecturing on her experi-
ences, she gave a dramatic account of a
cavalry attack she had been privileged to
witness somewhere. The charge was led
by “a giant of a man,” who, like “Car-
digan the fearless,” rode lengths ahead of
his troop, but the narrator failed to
recognise him until the invaders had been
sabred out of their trenches and the
victors gathered round, singing the Bel-
gian National Anthem. “And there I saw
him,” the lady poet declaimed, working
up to her most effective climax. “Albert,
the hero-king. Still on his white horse.”
It never failed to bring the house down.
M: * * *
“Roundhead”: I was never, even in
days when I would sooner get up a
bazaar or a concert or a fete for charity
than sip a long lager, very keen on kiss-
selling as a money-spinner at such shows.
Selecting the gals causes a lot of jealousy
and back-biting and what-not, and then
you’ve got to be so darned careful about
the general setting of these transactions.
Organisers of a Sydney shivoo who re-
sorted to this sort of endeavor seem to
have made quite a lot of mistakes. Two
damsels who were roped in as baits had
a rough spin. They said afterwards;
We fully expected that men offering to
buy kisses would come on to the stage,
and that the whole affair would be con-
ducted decorously, with due regard to our
feelings. Instead, it was announced at
10.20, after the concert had ended, and
most of the people had drifted away, that
we would sell the kisses in the foyer. At
this time people were pushing out of the
foyer on their way home. We were hemmed
in by women, who barracked and taunted
the men offering to buy kisses. As a result
we wasted our evening, and the matter
ended in a fiasco.
At that, the lassies didn’t find themselves
in such a tough spot as did my cousin
Gloria Gloober, She was dispensing tea
at a garden party and a noble lord asked
how much a cup. “Five shillings,” says
Gloria, “but if I kiss the cup thus (and
she did so) the price is one guinea.”
“Thanks,” said the noble lord icily, pro-
ducing one sovereign and one shilling.
“And now, please, may I have a clean
cup?”
* M: M= *
“G.F.N.”: A Queensland war-time de-
velopment is women s.p. bookies. In a
Brisbane court S.M. Wilson fined one of
them £2O, in default two months in the
“cooler,” and expressed the caustic
opinion that women, “in their foolish-
ness,” were coming at a risk that men,
deterred by the prospect of imprison-
ment, were now dodging. There was evi-
dence that the convicted lady did a thriv-
ing business —she had handled in one day
267 bets.
M: * * *
“Myrrhee”: Report from South
America that a Kelly (B. 16/12/’42) is
still alive there doesn’t surprise me. Such
claims have been coming from all cor-
ners of the earth for the last half-century.
Apropos is the story of the Hansonville
farmer who lost the mouldboards from
his plough during the Kelly period.
Years after his loss he visited the Mel-
bourne Aquarium where the suit of Ned
Kelly’s armor was on display. After
examining the iron closely he excitedly
grabbed the arm of a passing attendant.
“What do y’ think of that?” he shouted.
“That there suit’s made out of the mould-
boards off my plough.” The attendant
gently disengaged his arm. “I’ve only
been here two years,” he replied, “but
you’re the 876th bloke to lose them mould-
boards.”
“Archbell”: Ned Kelly’s younger
brother Jim lives at Greta, near their old
home, and often is in Wangaratta. He
must be nearly 80. So if Dan were
alive I think he would be too ancient to
take on steer-riding, as “1.0.A.G.,” of
Buenos Aires, claims.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: There was a wild, un-
precedented rush in Melbourne for travel
permits for the four days’ holiday at
Christmas allowed by Mr. Dedman, and
Tourist Bureau officials were worked to
a standstill. I asked my charlady if
Mr. Dedman had upset her plans. “It
isn’t Mr. Dedman,” she gloomily
answered ; “it’s the Japs. My idea of a
holiday used to be to take a trip on one
of those liners up to New Guinea and
lie in a long chair and watch the sailors
swabbing down the decks. I’ve been
scrubbing floors for men all my life, and
to see men scrubbing them for a change
used to make me feel wonderful. But
I can’t do that now.”
M= M= * M*
“N.”: Toby Barton, the Common-
wealth’s first Priminister, described 40
years ago as “Australia’s Noblest Son,”
was, like Parkes, sometimes given to
verse-making. When a member of the
civil service in his youthful days he made
history with this effusion:
From ten to one
There’s nothing done;
From two to three
We begin to see
That from three to four
There’ll be nothing more.
Those were the days!
"Now We've got him, let's hop down to where We spotted the marlin."
“C.Q.”: A cable reports that for the
first time in military history a military
unit has been dropped from the skies
complete with surgeons—it happened in
Tunis. It is not the first time that a
medico has gone to his patient in a para-
chute. In Australia the flying doctor got
a call from a flooded area in the nor’-
west to deliver a settler’s baby. The
pilot having decided that it was unsafe
to land, the doctor with his bag of tools
floated down to terra firma.
* * * *
“Yair”: I’ve always liked the way
women pay compliments. Said Bill’s
missus to me yesterday: “My word,
you do remind me of a brother of mine.”
“Oh, yes,” says I, being polite ; “I hope
he’s good-looking.” “He was quite nice
as a boy,” says she calmly. “But, my
goodness, he’s gone to pieces now!”
M= * * M=
“Pawang”: In quashing the inquest on
a Geelong woman who died under an
anaesthetic, Justice Gavan Duffy recently
had some caustic remarks to make on
coroners who know little about the
law and less about medicine. The case
was one in which two doctors were sud-
denly called to a house and faced with a
situation wherein they decided that an
immediate operation was necessary. With
the husband’s consent they allegedly per-
formed the operation on the kitchen
table. At the inquest the coroner —a
deputy —remarked that he had given
serious consideration to committing the
two doctors for manslaughter but had
decided that the evidence just fell short
of the necessary elements. In giving
judgment Duffy, J., remarked that he
was satisfied the coroner had determined
to bring in his finding notwithstanding
any evidence that might be brought for-
ward and that such conduct was inex-
cusable by anyone holding a judicial or
semi-judicial office, however ignorant of
the law or medical science he might be.
A fresh inquest was ordered.
* * * •
“Craiser”; This ruthless war has its
tender-hearted moments. A soldier, a.w.l.
for several months, booked a place at a
Footscray (Melb.) altar for himself and
his bride-to-be. Detectives and police-
men waited outside while the parson gave
his blessing. As the bridegroom was
about to step into the bridal car the
M.Ps. touched him on the shoulder and
spirited him away to a military detention
centre. The bride, a textile worker, fol-
lowed hotfoot and put up such a touch-
ing plea that a sympathetic Provost Corps
officer gave his consent to the delinquent
attending the wedding breakfast. The
speeches were made and the toasts drunk
while a grim guard watched the pro-
ceedings. Then the prisoner was once
more carried off to serve his sentence.
* * * *
“Listening Insect”: Cabled that the
Fighting French have compiled a black
list of active Fascists holding office under
Darlan. One is alleged to have boasted that
he was the inventor of an instrument of
torture consisting of two wires clamped
on the ears and attached to the loud
speaker of a gramophone, from which
one tune is played over and over until
the nearly demented victim finally
“confesses.” The fellow is a plagi-
arist, not an inventor; the device he
claims to be his own has been in active
use by the A.B.C. and other radio insti-
tutions in Melbourne for years. The Only
difference is that its victims, or those who
retain their reason, have a right to write
to the “Argus” about it. A son of mine
who works in a munitions factory informs
me that in order to stimulate the workers
the management has had amplifiers in-
stalled to cover every section of the works,
and these are plugged in to a station
which obligingly broadcasts records not
only all day, but all night. The station
appears to be the owner of thirty records
and these records are played in an in-
variable order. When one transmission
is finished the operator puts them on
again in reverse so that the last record
comes first, and so on. The “chaps in
munitions” have become so familiar with
this procedure that they whistle the next
record before it comes over the ether.
The business goes by the high-sounding
name of “inspirational music.”
♦ ♦ * *
“Long Tung”; This Foo craze
seems to be getting Sydney down. A
Sunday paper says that billposters con-
sider Foo to have caused the worst epi-
demic of public scribbling in Sydney
since the “Lang is Right” days. Every-
body has a different explanation for the
word and its origin. “Zake,” on this
page recently, blamed the Navy for the gag.
Others blame the air force and Ameri-
can comic strips. Here’s my theory, no
worse than the others: “Fu” in Mandarin
Chinese is pronounced “Foo” and, when
said in two different tones, one can mean
husband, the other wife. So maybe these
“Foo” notices are, in code, the secret
communications of love-lom Chinese. If
so, there has been a recent convert, for
someone, underneath a chalk-scratched
“Are you saved?” in the Wynyard cata-
combs, has added “No, but Foo is.”
“Austerity” remembers early Sydney’s
wild days:
There were no Luna Parks or “penny parlors"
for “the laboring classes” in early Sydney.
Drink and gambling were almost all they had as
distractions from a pretty dreary and difficult
existence. Rum was the principal tipple, and
it was retailed at about 10s. a bottle. Beer
was also popular, and there were four breweries
in existence in 1809, the best being the one
run by James Squire at Kissing Point on the
Parramatta River. There may still be seen a
remarkable advertisement of Squire’s brew on a
tombstone in St. John’s churchyard at Parra-
matta :
Ye who wish to be here
Drink Squire’s beer.
Gambling had such a hold that people would
sometimes stake all they had—even their cloth-
ing—and, judging from the current wage scale,
they must have worked very hard for their
occasional flutter. The yearly pay of a servant,
with board, was £lO, weekly 6s. and daily Is.
Black tobacco from Bengal varied in price
from 7s. to £1 per pound, but in 1820 tobacco
grown at the Government farm at Emu Plains
was sold at 4s. a pound.
* =k * *
“Joco”: “S. Y. Another” (B.
J 6 /12/ ’42) has missed the point in
Ampleforth’s reply (not Stoneyhurst):
Ampleforth and Eton are the only two
schools, as far as I know, that play the
wall game of football. In reply to
Ampleforth’s request for home-and-home
matches Eton sent a discourtous reply
slightly tinged with the sectarian issue,
to which Ampleforth returned “We would
remind you that Ampleforth is what Eton
was, a school for the sons of Catholic
gentlemen.” For some reason you cannot
insult either of them more than by refer-
ring to Eton as a school or Ampleforth
as a college.
* * * *
“F.S.”: These professors who periodi-
cally upend themselves and tell us that
as yet we have no culture —a Maoriland
one was mentioned by “Avon” (B.
16/12/’42) —make me tired. Of course,
we have a culture. Our literary gods are
Shakspeare and Shelley; our musical
gods are Beethoven and Mozart; our
artistic gods are Rembrandt, Velasquez
and Turner; our scientific gods are New-
ton and Darwin. One could add Aus-
tralian names to this heritage of culture,
and the only reason why one doesn’t is
that there is always controversy about
recent contributors to culture, whereas
there is no controversy with regard to
Socrates and Shakspeare. These pro-
fessors remind me of the Melbourne
student of painting who complained that
his master was always talking about
Rembrandt, and ought to take, a more
national viewpoint. “What do you want
to be?” retorted his teacher, “the best
painter south of the Yarra?”
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Catering for children has
become so commercialised that before the
war Australia was getting most of its
shoddy Christmas offerings from Nippon,
which used mass-production methods. All
those toys did was to stand between the
child and the use of his imagination. Left
to his own devices a child will get more
pleasure and instruction out of whittling
a stick than out of all the elaborately
mechanised toys in existence. When I
was a kid I used to fashion ships out
of blocks of wood and cardboard, take
them along to a neighboring farmer’s
duckpond and set them afloat. Then I
would put my head between my legs and
contemplate them, and viewed from this
upside-down angle the pond became an
ocean with all the harbors of the world
bordering on it and all the navies sailing
between them. Making toys hadn’t be-
come a business in those days, but if a
fond father had bought me an expensive
toy yacht with all the rigging exactly
according to Fife all it would have done
would have been to destroy my incipient
creativeness.
« * * •
“Snasebo”: Japanese militarists, accord-
ing to Charlie Chaplin, planned to assas-
sinate him when he was in Tokio in 1932,
hoping thereby to precipitate war be-
tween Japan and U.S.A. Mr. Chaplin
seems to overestimate the cosmic im-
portance of clowns.
* * • •
“Spokeshave”: The latest show of the
“modernists” in Melbourne outdid in
pictorial horrors all previous exhibitions.
In the beginnings of the movement in
Paris its authors revelled in eccentricities.
One I knew made a hit by carrying live
snakes in his pocket. Another cultivated
a fine upcurving moustache on the under-
lip instead of the upper. A sculptor went
in solely for carved cats. A painter had
the floor of his studio so covered with
paint that he walked about with the pig-
ment squelching through his bare toes
while he dabbed his brush into the various
puddles and hurled them at his canvas.
Here, “modernism” has suffered the usual
fate of the successful, and it is now as
conventional to paint houses tumbling
over and nudes suffering from elephant-
iasis as it is to wear colored shirts and go
hatless and tieless.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo.”: “Kapok” Charlie and Tim the
Blower, op the track, were sick of the
eternal mutton, damper and swede
turnips which had formed their diet for
weeks. “Kapok” appealed to Tim to give
his imagination a bit of unwonted exer-
cise, and that worthy, after due cogita-
tion, announced his plan. When they saw
a place where the cocky was well out in
the paddocks out of earshot of the home-
stead, “Kapok” was to go in and get a
bit obstreperous. Then Tim would
appear, bounce the intruder out after a
“staged” struggle and collect the culinary
gifts from the grateful female of the
house. Round to the back door of a
selected farmhouse duly went “Kapok,”
and when a little old woman opened the
door he staggered straight in and de-
manded in a thick voice the production
of suitable comestibles. The little old
woman said in a gentle voice “Y’ there,
Martha?” The self-invited guest was
just mentally running over a list of the
things he specially was going to demand
when Martha arrived from another
room. She wasn’t very tall, but she was
very wide. “Sling this maggot out!”
came the old girl’s order, still in the same
sweet voice. A second later “Kapok”
felt a knock behind one knee. As he in-
voluntarily bent the floor seemed to come
up and hit him. Two seconds after that
he was flying across the verandah, to lob
in among a few straggly geraniums in a
flinty bed. As he sat up dazedly the
female tornado said “Here’s your mate
coming; he can rescue you instead of
me. We had two fellows try that lurk
yesterday—but one of ’em kidded mad
instead o’ drunk!”
* * * *
“Louden”: The use of a wooden
batten sharpened to a chisel point for
scraping mouldboards (B. 9/12/ ’42) re-
minds me that when I was a boy, many
navvies in the Warrnambool district
(Vic.) carried a bullock’s rib in the back
of the belt and used it to scrape the
shovel. It went out of fashion, however,
long before the clay pipe and bowyangs.
* * * *
“Betcha”; Conscientiously the young
city w'ife settled in to run Bill’s bit of a
place for him while he was overseas.
Each day she walked along the river
where the would-be milker sojourned
temporarily with neighboring stock, and
at length was delighted to find the Jersey
with a midget red-and-white follower.
After a Jot of trouble the pair were
driven home, the calf locked up and un-
certain manoeuvres with a bucket com-
menced. Results at first were greatly
disappointing, but perseverance was at
last rewarded ; the calf’s affections were
transferred to a kerosene-tin. Then one
morning a fortnight later the lady was
mildly surprised to discover her charge
in the home paddock fussing over a small
brown replica; an ugly youngster this
time, big-eyed and staggery. Mrs. Bill
eyed them dubiously for a minute, then
patted the milker’s rump gently. “Oh,
dear! It’s not so good this time!” she
sighed. “But there, I’m sure no one
can say the poor little thing isn’t doing
her best in a time of need.”
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Dogs usually consider
blasting a close relative of gun-shooting
and work up a lot of enthusiasm for each
firing. We were cutting a track through
a solid granite bar and flogged in eight
holes, four in the cut and four heavy
ones to follow in the body of the face.
The old dog had been at this caper for
years and climbed the hill with us, wait-
ing tensely well out of the way of flying
scats. The pup started to follow but ran
back to scratch frenziedly where the
fuses were spitting. The first ear-splitting
explosions were followed by the grunt
and thudding from the big holes. What
was left of the pup was under the debris
somewhere. The old dog took it very
much to heart; after that he’d always
make for camp at full gallop whenever
we got the tamp in action.
» * * «
“Herbie”: The new hand who started
during the harvesting was putting us off
our tucker moaning about his ailments
and describing the sicknesses of coves
he’d met everywhere, from the Barcoo
to the Goulburn Valley. He was saying
something about soon needing a doctor
Reverse on the Home Front.
when old Job butts in. “We uster have
a bloke up here once,” he drawled, “who
suffered terrible with about 19 diseases.
He wakes up one morning and can’t make
up his mind what’s hurting him most —
the cheap terbacker cough in his neck,
his liver that wasn’t accustomed t’ eight
eggs with fatty bacon for breakfast,
or the corn on his big toe. Anyhow,
he’s sufferin’ so badly that I feels queer
meself, so I drives him into the quack t’
get somethin’ t’ relieve him so’s we could
finish the bit o’ corn-pullin’. The doctor
fixes him up a powerful liniment, some
pills and a corn plaster. We drop in
at the pub afterwards for a few snifters,
and by the time we gets home the other
bloke had got the doc.’s instructions a
bit mixed. He slams the plaster on round
his gullet, crushes the pills on to his toe
and swallers the liniment in one gulp.
After that he never suffered-—he passed
out without a moan! We planted him
near that belar over there.” The new
hand was better at dinner-time.
* * *
“Naturala”: The disappearance and
reappearance of birds in a locality (B.
25/11 / ’42) find explanation in the one
word, food. Forty years ago I noted that
during ordinary parched seasons on the
Coolgardie (W.A.) fields the wild turkey
war a rear rara avis. Yet let there be
a moderate rainfall so that the shrubs
threw out fresh foliage, thus inducing a
flood of caterpillars, and at once the
turkey would arrive. The same burst of
verdure would herald the coming of
the wild duck and half a dozen kinds of
smaller birds, some of great beauty.
Where they came from I could never
fathom, nor where they went to when
the semi-desert resumed its normal
aspect ; nor how they knew conditions
had improved. The crow is another who
turns up in unexpected places. Normally
he leaves the sea beach to the gulls ; but
should there be a heavy blow from a
certain direction he will be down to
the sands in hundreds, snapping up crabs
and other marine titbits that come ashore
with the breakers.
* * * *
“Nigel D.”: On a W.A. farm I struck a
real-life version of that joke of Percy
Lindsay’s (B. 25/11 /’42) of the cocky
looking down the well and saying “Shut
up, Towser, I can’t hear what the missus
is sayin’.” There I found Bill, a
14-stoner, straining to catch the accents
of a feminine voice rising from the
depths. After half a dozen buckets of
mud and sand had been hoisted by means
of the windlass, May, nine stone and
dressed in shorts, arrived by the same
means of transport. “Wasn’t any good
Bill going down to clean out the well,
for once he got there who was going to
haul him up?” she said. And anyone
who has strained arm- and back-muscles
to almost cracking-point hoisting even
a 12-stoner from 50 feet will agree that
the little lady was right.
$ % *
“Yokel”: After the bulldog and the
bull camel, I award the palm as a sticker
in a fight to the common Muscovy drake.
Two drakes introduced to a pen con-
taining ducks will fight to the death ;
and sometimes a drake will take to a
bird of another species. His 131 b. sup-
ported on big flat feet being detrimental to
newly-hatched progeny, I tossed Bolivar,
my biggest Muscovy drake, into a fowl-
yard where a crossbred Malayan rooster
held himself as cock of the walk. For
two days Bolivar stood the Malayan’s
chivvying and prancing ; then the worm
turned. With open mouth Bolivar
charged. Prancing in to do some fancy
stuff the Malayan took a smack from
the Muscovy’s wing that sent him back
six feet; and before he could recover
Bolivar had him by the outer joint of a
wing, the Muscovy’s favorite grip. Hang-
ing on like a bulldog and using the
leverage thus gained Bolivar plodded
steadily around, wiping up the yard with
the squawking and flapping rooster.
Even when the Malay escaped and sought
refuge on the fowl perch Bolivar fol-
lowed, reaching up and biting his toes.
Finally, completely demoralised, the
rooster found sanctuary on top of the
hen-house. But for days after, whenever
he ventured down the drake was ready
to renew hostilities.
* * * *
“P. Park”: Know of a fox that met a
simpler death than strangling by wire
(B. 23/12/’42). Walking on a sheep-
pad through thick, young wild tobacco
bush, I came on Reynard sound asleep,
his head lying just out of the bush-screen
on the track. Went back a quarter-mile
for a pea-rifle, returned and made the
sleep a permanent one.
* * * *
“Narrin”: “Piangil” (B. 2/12/ ’42) says
“if you know your river, your fish and
your bait you need never be in any doubt
as to whether they’re biting or not.” It
is not as simple as all that. • Whilst the
movements of fish —depending on such
factors as the depth, temperature and
movement of the water and the availa-
bility of food —are predictable, whether
they’ll bite or not is another matter, and
why they will or not bite is a deep mys-
tery. The falling of the river and the
presence of catfish and baby cod on the
set-lines indicated that the fish were leav-
ing the lagoon here. Just upstream of
the mouth of the lagoon is a good stretch
of reed-fringed feeding ground. Indica-
tions were so good that we reckoned that,
for once, hand-lining off the reeds would
be worth while. But for two solid days
of good catching weather the cod flatly
refused to bite. Then, unaccountably,
they started again and would come at
anything on the hooks.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Tell “Naturala” (B.
23/12/’42) that on the Murray we found
no trouble in rearing young black duck-
lings from the downy stage to adulthood.
We did it by putting them in an en-
closure with a few domestic ducks and
feeding them the ordinary duck tucker.
But, once they reached the flying stage,
they took off and never returned. Tried
cutting their wings, whereupon they swam
or waddled away. This was a common
experience in our bend ; the only way
they could be kept was in a netting en-
closure with a roof. Yet black duck will
stay in public parks and come up to be
fed by humans.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’re in Petersburg
(S.A.) and short of cash when Mat spots
a prosperous-looking bloke making for
the station weighted down with sundry
bags, parcels and rugs. “Here, mate,”
he says, “me an’ me cobber’ll help y’
with that load. We’re goin’ to the
station.” We weren’t, but I caught Mat’s
drift and grabbed a bag. Mat asks the
bloke where he’s making for, and he tells
us Adelaide, so Mat gives him some good
advice about where to stay and some
of the sights to be seen. When we get
to the station Mat says, “Now, you hang
on here an’ I’ll get y’r ticket. You goin’
first class or second?” “Aw, reckon I’ll
go first, thanks,” says the bloke. “Might
as well do it in style.” “That’s the stuff,”
says Mat, and the bloke hands him a
couple of quid. I nurse him and his
luggage till Mat gets back with the ticket
and change. Then the train pulls in and
we bustle along, find him a window seat
and stack his luggage in the compart-
ment. Then we stand talking and the
bloke starts thanking us. “You’ll do
me,” he says. “It ain’t often y’ meet a
couple of blokes willin’ to help another
bloke. 1 won’t forget it.” Time’s getting
short, so Mat comes to the point. “Well,”
he said, “how about a couple of bob?”
The bloke is overcome. “Aw, I couldn’t,”
he says. “You blokes have done more
than enough for me. Besides, I’m well
cashed. Gripes, no, I couldn’t take your
money too.” And before we can recover
the train whistles and heads into the
Gumbowies.
» * ♦ *
“N.”: Our kero.-tin bird-bath has a
rag plug stopping a hole in the lowest
corner. The kids had forgotten to fill
the tin, and there was only a drop of
water left when W. Wagtail came along.
Shortly afterwards we saw him upside
down swinging on the rag. Knowing
William’s fondness for a little game, we
were at first disinclined to credit him with
purposeful motives. But when, after
several bouts of swinging and some mus-
cular tugging, he hopped up on the edge
of the tin, looked at the remnant of water
with a dirty eye, scolded it vigorously
and renewed the assault on the plug,
there was no doubt that his was extremely
intelligent behavior. But how did Wil-
liam know that pulling out the plug
would release the water and, presum-
ably, give him a shower bath?
* * * *
“Wingella”: Peculiarities among abos.,
such as hairlessness (B. 2/12/’42), are
mostly confined to the one tribe. Roam-
ing the NT. around Darwin some years
ago were some abos. known among
whites and their fellow myalls as “the
Boomerangs,” so-called from the shape
of their legs—between knee and ankle
curved exactly like that weapon, and
abnormally long. One doctor ascribed
the abnormality to rickets, but I never
knew a coastal NT. black to suffer from
that complaint.
m * * *
“Beaudesert”: Wilson sat watching
Bill pulling carrots. As a particularly
warty specimen came up Bill laughingly
commented on its shape. “They tell me
vegetables sometimes take on the pecu-
liarities of their grower, Bill,” Wilson
drawled. Bill, who had a bulbous nose,
took the jab square on the point and
bided his time. A day or so later Wilson
was proudly showing him some of his
new pumpkin crop. Bill casually picked
up a large Turkscap. “Gripes,
he said, “this is a beaut.” “Too right!
replied the unsuspecting grower. Bill
slowly turned the vegetable over, reveal-
ing a gaping cleft in its crown. “Pity s
she’s cracked,” he remarked slyly, gazing
into Wilson’s moon face, in which the
light of understanding was slowly dawn-
ing.
THE NEW YEAR.
Time was when we, a carefree folk,
With wine and merry din
FarewelJed the Old Year passing out
And hailed the New Year in.
Time was, but much has changed since
then
To mute the mouth of Mirth,
And dim the thoughts of those who
watch
To-night the New Year’s birth.
To us, strive as we will, slight cheer,
Scant joy, the moment brings;
So shadowed are we by the shape
Of direful happenings—
Red happenings ’neath sun and star
On far-off seas and shores,
And happenings that may, perchance,
Seek entrance at our doors.
How can we meet in merriment
With vacant chairs between
If we but think of what may be
And what, alas, has been?
Though honored, then, should be to-
night
The young, the valorous,
Who faring far and fearing naught
Laid down their lives for us.
Who fought and fell, yet still live on,
Defying death still live;
For death is not the end of those
That noble service give:
Remembered shall their deeds remain
When we have passed away—
Stones in a stately edifice
Of Nationhood for aye.
Yet, musing over absent folk,
The living and the dead,
One draught we’ll drain in fellowship
To wet the New Year’s head:
Lift then your glasses, one and all,
From starlit coast to coast,
And to the last red drop drink deep—
“ Australia! ” is the toast.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“One more question , did you bring some tea and sugar?"
“Old-timer”: We got up a picnic race
meeting for New. Year’s Day, and
we gave Shorty and Jim the job of col-
lecting on the “gate,” which comprised
an opening through the scrub on to the
course. All the youth and beauty of the
countryside rolled up, and a lot of it
flashed by Shorty and Jim per motor-car,
never thinking they were appointed offi-
cials. After a bit Shorty got tired of
chasing the cars down to the course and
collecting there, and Jim took the job
on. When Jim got tired the pair did a
bit of quick thinking, went off into the
scrub and returned with a dead pine
stick about 20ft. long and well-armed with
spikes. This Jim held upright until a car
appeared, whereupon he promptly
dropped it across the track and waited
till Shorty collected. It caused a lot of
laughs and curses, but it made the meet-
ing a financial success, much to the bene-
fit of the bush nursing establishment.
SfS 9fC * *
“90 Mile”: So dead-shot “Narrin” (B.
23/12/’42) put a bullet into a musk-duck
at 200 yards! My, my! Was the thing
asleep on the bank or did “N.” use a
telescope sight to magnify all that could
be seen out of the water at that range?
Bill Gorrie, our dead-shot, could punc-
ture a condensed-milk tin at 150 yards,
and, with the top of the barrel chalked
and the foresight whitened, get five out
of seven water-rats swimming in the billa-
bong at dusk ; but Bill never even both-
ered to fire at a musky at anything over
30 yards. “What do y’ think I am?”
he’d want to know.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”; “Yorick’s 1 ’
wooden memorial slab (B. 2/12/’42) is
only a chicken to one at the 108-year-old
deserted penal ruins at Sarah Island —
immortalised in Marcus Clarke’s For the
Term of His Natural Life —in Macquarie
Harbor on the Speck’s wild west coast.
This Huon pine slab’s engraved date
reads 1830, and, while some of the letter-
ing is weather-worn beyond recognition,
it, stands in a climate which rains for 300
days a year before the wet season sets in.
Seventy miles south at Bramble Cove, at
the now uninhabited Port Davey, there
stood 80 years ago 100 or so of these
pine splinters, marking the resting places
of pioneers and seamen buried from the
many whaleships of the world which
then in plenty tried-out and wood-and-
watered at the awe-inspiring bald-faced
mountain-surrounded cove. But in the
early ’seventies a callous bluenose whaler
chopped down for fuel all these head-
stones except two, which still stand
among bramble and the decapitated butts
in what must today be the Common-
wealth’s least-known and loneliest ceme-
tery.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Those snakes that the
Bass Strait mutton-birders juggle (B.
9 /12/’42) are venomous all right; they’re
copperheads, the only species beyond odd
whip-snakes I’ve seen anywhere on the
islands. At a well on Prime Seal, where
I’ve butchered 36 in an afternoon, the
lessee told me he understocks in summer
because of the risk of stock being bitten
while waiting to water. But the daddy
spot of the strait for wrigglers is small
Christmas Island of the New Year
Group. There in 1936, while rabbiting
for the King Island Council, the tally
of Bill Scott and his mate in a three-
months’ blitz, on longtails was 1763. But
going ashore there soon afterwards I saw
more copperheads in one day than I saw
on the mainland in a year.
* % * *
“Chevroford”: Turning a corner on a
country highway the other evening I was
presented with a strange sight. Six kids
were tearing down the middle of the
thoroughfare on scooters, a flock of hens
was strolling along behind them, a herd
of cows was grazing along the gutter
and a dog was sleeping in the fairway.
Except for the bitumen surface the road
had returned to the old pleasant state of
security of the horse days. When the
motoring age returns the children, the
dogs, the fowls and other cattle will all
have to be reconditioned, and that takes
a long time. In the first years of the
motor in Malaya millions of fowls and
dogs must have been immolated under
the wheels of the petrol charioteers, and
the motorist was so intensely hated by
the peasants that it was dangerous for
him to stop in a village, consequently he
sped through at top speed, exacting an
increasing toll of human and animal vic-
tims. It took about five years to make
the humans and ten years to make the
animals aware of the march of civilisa-
tion.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Bert got hold of a book
entitled Mind Over Matter, and for a
week was unwontedly quiet. Then we
got it! Pain, he declared, was non-
existent, being merely a device invented
by ancient witch-doctors in order to
exploit the masses. The rouseabout's
toothache was imaginary; Dad’s corn
was a myth, and Ned’s bellyache would
vanish if the kid concentrated on thinking
nice thoughts. He’d just started on
Mum’s neuritis when his eye fell on
Strawberry—trying to commit suicide in
the crop paddock. If he’d been wearing
boots, or the bindi-eyes hadn’t been ripe,
his dash to release the dog might not
have looked so funny. Bluey, with cus-
tomary exuberance, ran to meet him, en-
circled his legs with the chain, then leapt
joyfully up. Bert hit the ground hard.
The dog, obviously pleased, was getting
in a few juicy licks on his master’s face
when the foxy decided to be in the fun.
The subsequent brawl was fought prin-
cipally on the recumbent Thinker. Sud-
denly a hand shot out of the melee, '
punched wildly and landed in a snarling
mouth. Swearing with perfect selection,
the human battleground rose and, dash-
ing to the adjacent woodheap for a stick,
placed his palm square on the vicious
teeth of the crosscut saw. Bert still be-
lieves in mind over matter, but he main-
tains that you must have the right atmo-
sphere.
* * * ■■!!
“Arev”: Bill Jupp, driving home from
the township, overtook a stranger and
pulled up. “Care for a lift?” he asked.
The pedestrian nodded and climbed up.
“Nice day,” remarked Bill. Again the
other nodded. “You don’t live about
these parts, do you?” The man pointed
to his mouth and shook his head. Dumb,
Bill told himself. As they reached the gate
Bill said, “Sorry, mate, but this is as far
as I go.” The man got out, smiled, gave
a flick of the hand that was something
between a wave and a salute and went
striding down the road. That afternoon,
when Bill turned on the wireless for the
news, he learned that a prisoner had
escaped from the internment camp.
“Gripes!” he said to Mrs. Jupp, “that
just fits the chap I gave the lift to. He
must ha’ been kidding he was dumb” ;
and, getting out the jinker, he drove to the
township and told his tale to the police
sergeant. Together they set off along the
road the stranger had taken. About a
mile past Bill’s place they sighted smoke
rising from the scrub, and footed it that
way. Soon they saw a figure emerge from a
bark humpy and approach the fire. “That’s
him,” whispered Bill. As they stepped
into the clearing the stranger gave a start
and looked around. “Arrest him, ser-
geant,” said Bill. “He’s the bloke all
right.” The man stare 1. “You needn’t
pretend to be dumb,” Bill said. “I know
who you are. You’re the German
escaped from internment.” The stranger
stepped forward. “Get out, y’ stupid
cow!” he said. “I ain’t dumb, an’ I
never heard of a McGillicuddy fightin’
with the Fritzes. I couldn’t talk yester-
day because I’d lost me voice.”
* * * *
“Anghler”: Assuredly a snake’s gastric
juices would soon dissolve a gut line
(B. 25/11 /’42). In fact, I’d back the
human stomach to do the same. Catgut
is a purely animal product. One form
is derived much as its name indicates,
the intestines of an animal scraped
and drawn until it becomes of
that peculiar toughness and trans-
parency that makes the violin string
and the heavy fishing line. The finer
kind is derived from unexuded silk,
the fluid silk squeezed from the mature
silkworm and then processed, being finally
forced through a grating of fine holes. A
fishing line of this origin will often after
long use resolve itself into threads of
silk. Boil a new gut line for half an hour,
cut to appropriate lengths, and you could
serve it with a vinegar sauce as North
Pacific whitebait.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: I agree with “M.U.R.”
(B. 25/11 / ’42) that cut wood in which
the sap had dried makes wonderful burn-
ing. Fallen timber, though it be as dry as
a bone, makes the worst. This is possibly
because the tree that falls is already de-
ficient in sap, a tree’s blood, and so fails
a victim to wind or fire. That sap leaves
deposits in the grain of a wood I once
saw exemplified. A shipment of likely-
looking light wood arrived from the
N.E.1., and, being ready seasoned, was
put through a planing mill for the pro-
duction of joinery. It soon had half the
machines out of action and the saw-filer
and cutter-grinder frantic. Saws and
planer-knives were blunted by the first
hundred feet after each resharpening.
The microscope revealed the entire grain
of the wood filled with a kind of sugar,
derived from the sap. Hard apd gritty,
it was capable of taking the edge off steel.
* * * *
“Zake”; “Yair,” said old Gubbins, as
he stood with one foot on the fence-rail,
surveying his lower paddock with a criti-
cal eye; “looks like a crook year for the
locusts an’ ’hoppers. In the old days we
had flocks of ibis come around an’ they’d
clean ’em up. But these maniacs with their
shotguns got among ’em, an’ now we’re
lucky if we see a couple dozen ibis the
whole season.” Just then Sam, Gubbins’s
son, came down the road holding a native
companion by the legs with one hand and
a rifle with the other. I remarked that
it was a pity that the long-legged fellows,
unlike the ibis, were strict vegetarians,
but my sarcasm was wasted. Old Gub-
bins agreed it was. I was an interested
spectator when they opened up the native
companion later. His innards were
chocked with over a pound of locusts.
* #
“Sur Cingle”: A cocky who scratches
around on a few thousand acres of
mallee and sand assured me that sheep
were “right enough as a sideline, but
you’ve got to grow wheat to make any-
thing out of cockying.” I happen to
know that his sheep and his wheat bring
him in almost exactly similar gross
amounts. His woolshed is a brush shelter,
and a travelling two-stand plant does
his barbering, so that his jumbucks cost
him only shearing expenses and the price
of a gallon or two of dip and tar each
year. For the same gross return he puts
in a crop. To do so he keeps several
hundred pounds worth of machinery—
all expensive toys, and their depreciation
is considerable. Besides these he has the
expense of seed and super., and, in
normal times, labor. One of these days
I’ll persuade him that the most eco-
nomical crop for a marginal area is a
good even line of merino ewes. Then, if
he can resist the temptation to stock up
in good times with the consequent neces-
sity for selling off in bad, he’ll have a
fair chance of growing old gracefully.
* * * *
“Nor-west”: It’s odd how possession of
a lethal weapon inspires courage in animal,
bird, reptile, and even fish. Was watching a
couple of youngsters working the shal-
lows of a W.A. estuary. One was armed
with a two-foot harpoon and line, the
other with a five-foot stick sharpened to
a point. Catfish or cobbler was their
quarry. Presently they spotted one about
the size of a man’s arm lazing in 18
inches of water. The harpoon was flung ;
it missed. Any other fish would have
taken alarm and bolted, but the cobbler
at once charged at the two pairs of bare
legs and feet from which the attack had
obviously come. As the catfish is armed
with three barbed spikes over an inch
long and carrying a dreadful venom I
expected casualties. But the boys were
experts; instantly the harpooner stirred
up a screen of sand with his feet, while
the stick-wielder interposed a barrage of
rapid thrusts. Somewhat daunted, the
cobbler retired a few yards. Again the
harpoon flew, and missed as the fish
dodged ; again it charged and was driven
off, but still declined to flee. The third
cast of the harpoon got it and, still full
of fight, it was hauled ashore.
* # # «
“Betcha”: When it comes to memo-
ries the elephant hasn’t got much on the
old nag. If a horse gets a fright at a
certain point on the road he remembers
the place for years, and if he is driven
through a particular gateway once he
usually wants to turn in again every time
he goes that way. Some nags never
forget the district they were reared in,
and each spring, if opportunity presents,
they will return to it even though it be
many miles away. Cobber of mine had
a brumby he used, to swear by. Brought
him in from the back country, broke
him, and used him as a stock pony for
years. A few weeks ago the nag left
him flat and returned to the scenes of
his youth, Jim tracked him over broken
country, across short cuts and out through
the gap where he’d been brought in years
before. Days spent scouring the bush gave
no sign of the culprit and Jim finally re-
turned crestfallen and thoroughly dis-
illusioned. It wasn’t, he said, that he re-
sented the old chap wanting his freedom,
but he was mighty put out over the good
bridle, saddle and overcoat he’d taken
with him.
"It's all right. I want the cove who's been sellin' hundreds an thousands."
COCK AND MAGPIE.
For miles around the golden cock
Who takes his music from the sun
Cries to an older world. He woke
And saw them put their clothing on.
Though he all night would sing his song
He cannot keep it up for long.
The magpie then begins. He warms
The day with his familiar note
And present lovers wake to hear
The liquefaction of his throat,
Who sings from twig so small you’d swear
That yogi-like he sat on air.
R.A.A.F.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery
cloth to grinder discs is
DAVIS
LIQUID GLUE
specially recommended for shearing-shed use.
Obtainable in 40z., Boz., 16oz. and I-gallon sizes.
Hardware and general stores.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL. FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEV.ILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Candidate for an Award.
“R.N.”; In 1938 the Commonwealth
Government offered an award of £lO 000
for a proven means of eliminating fly-
strike in sheep or reducing it to unim-
portance. Fly-strike has cost Australia,
in loss of sheep and wool, mainly wool,
and in time, labor and anti-fly material
somewhere around £4,000,000 a year, to
say nothing of the amount spent on re-
search by the C.S.I.R. and other organi-
sations. Now the Australian Wool Board
announces that the Mules operation and
the 4in. tail dockage mean “that effective
control of sheep blowfly crutch strike has
been achieved at last” and that the
method, tried on wool properties, has re-
duced breech strike to as low as 1 per
1000.
J. H. W. Mules is a South Australian
and his operation is the surgical removal
of breech folds from merinos, especially
ewes, so as to ensure dry crutches. A dry
crutch means immunity from strike, and
if the fly can’t strike it can’t propagate.
Mules also discovered that merino ewe
lambs early developed a dermatitis in the
crutch region through scalding, thus
being predisposed to strike. After years
of constant battling for a test of his ideas,
Mules got the C.S.I.R. interested and
large-scale experiments were conducted
at Gilruth Plains (Q.) and later on pri-
vate properties. Of them, Dalziel Kelly,
Wool Board chairman, says:
Reports are now coming to hand
These indicate an incidence (of strike) in
several instances as low as one per 1000,
despite that flies had been fairly active
These results are about 10 times better
than were obtained with the experimental
groups... .[by the Mules and 4in. tail
method] the sheep is protected for life.
Mules’s work not only earns him consid-
eration for the award. He should go down
in Australian history as a national bene-
factor.
Wool in S.A.
“R.N.”: Both under auction and
appraisement the average price for wool
in S.A. has always been lower than in
Victoria and N.S.W. though the returns
per sheep compare more than favorably.
Several factors are responsible, not the
least being the difference in feeding con-
ditions and weather, which contribute to
a difference in breeding.
Victoria, N. S. Wales and Queensland
have large areas of country suitable for
fine wool, and fine wool country also
grows a higher percentage of spinners’
Types. As S. Williams told the S.A.
Advisory Board, a big percentage of S.A.
wool comes from the saltbush country,
both in S.A. and across the border in
western N.S.W. Rainfall is light both
there and on the S.A. farming areas which
produce wool. About the only part of
S.A. comparing with the best eastern
grazing areas is around the Adelaide
Hills, the South-east and lower Eyre
Peninsula, which produces about 20 p.c.
of the total submitted at Adelaide.
S.A. has little really good merino coun-
try, and on what there is of it a strong
wool type is the most profitable sheep.
Dust affects most of the wool from the
drier areas, tips are faulty through lack
of natural oil ; often 30 p.c. of the fleece
is perished by earth content. Generally,
the S.A. clip averages 6 p.c. lower in the
clean scoured yield than eastern wool.
Williams pointed out that the average
for S.A. 64/60’s and 58’s could not equal
the average for 80’s, 70’s and 64’s in
other States, that the percentage of high-
class spinners’ wools in S.A. was much
lower than in the east and that the spin-
ning quality of S.A. merino was coarser
and the clean yield lower.
He advises South Australians to con-
sider returns per sheep rather than price
per pound. There is extra dressed weight
of mutton fom S.A. merinos, but there is
room for big improvement in crossbreds.
Crossbred clips come mostly from mutton
sheep of poor wool value, whereas Vic-
torian clips have up to 44 p.c. crossbred
of high quality. Freezer lambs in good
rainfall country, culling out of nondes-
cripts from the drier areas, more use of
purebred merinos on dry farms and the
appointment of a competent sheep ex-
pert could all help.
Wheats for 1943.
“B. Cubbin”: The N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture has got its recommended
grain wheats down to 13 for the 1943
sowing and the hay wheats down to
three. Nabawa is not in the list, though
“Spare me days, she'll kill that 'orse!”
it is stated that millers would like to see
it grown provided it is likely to equal
Bencubbin’s yield. The 13 grain wheats
are Bencubbin, Bordan, Dundee, Eureka,
Eureka 2, -Fedweb 1, Ford, Ghurka,
Gular, Pusa 4, Pusa 111, Ranee, Waratah.
The hay wheats are Baroota Wonder and
Zealand for inland districts and Florence
on the coast.
Notable wheats missing from the list
are Baldmin, which does pretty well in
the central west, Baringa, Geeralying and
Bobin. These, and others, were thrown
out on the recommendation of the Wheat
Advisory Committee, which is primarily-
concerned with the best milling and
disease-resistant types capable of good
yields.
Bencubbin will likely be the most
popular on the list. It can be sown in
mid-autumn, is a high yielder, resists
flag smut well and stands up fairly well
to stem rust. Very rich soil and heavy
rainfall knock it back because of its ten-
dency to lodge and its tall growth. It
will bleach quickly in a wet summer, but
normally gives a bright grain of good
flour quality, and it stands up to dry
weather a shade better than does
Nabawa. A lot of Bencubbin is being
grown in Australia, causing some diffi-
culties with blends and export shipments,
and for that reason the department sug-
gests some replacement with medium
strong varieties like Bordan, Dundee or
Ford where conditions favor them.
Ford, of course, is almost sacred in
the N.S.W. north-west and deserves to be.
It resists the smuts and rust fairly well —
though continuous use of seed from rusty
areas seems to weaken its resistance —has
a good stripping straw, finishes extra
well, won’t bleach easily and yields
heavily. It’s a great wheat for heavier
rainfall country.
Generally, the recommended wheats
are divided into the Ford type for early
sowing, the Bencubbin type for mid-
season sowing and the Gular type for
late sowing. For the dry west, from
Deniliquin down to Euston, Ghurka,
Ranee, Dundee and Bencubbin are best.
Horses in Summer.
“Plane Creek”: Scouring in horses is
usually due to improper feeding, stag-
nant drinking water, dental troubles,
bolting of feed or working too soon after
a heavy meal. Light, “washy” chestnuts
or nervous nags are most susceptible ;
even minor excitement or exertion can
bring on an attack.
Nervous horses should be handled
generally at all times and given crushed
oats in preference to corn in their feed.
Dry feed is better for them than green.
Diarrhoea caused by improper feed or
bad water is likely to continue until the
cause is removed, but a daily dose of
raw linseed oil will help. If the horse is
bolting his feed place a couple of big
stones in the manger or fix wooden cross-
pieces in it to prevent him taking large
mouthfuls. Don’t work horses until two
hours after a heavy meal. If teeth are
suspect call in a vet.
Small amounts of dry bran have a
binding effect, but avoid feeding a great
deal of bran. A cup of dry flour is a
very good remedy for diarrhoea ; it may
be given in the feed as often as necessary.
Drugs are useful, but are best left to
the vet.
Tobacco.
“H.C.”; Few, deep and thorough culti-
vations are the thing. Make the first
round with a pony plough, with or with-
out mouldboard, and throw the soil away
from the plants. Then, before the soil
dries, plough in reverse and throw the
soil back to the plants. The area be-
tween and around the plant needs chip-
ping with a hoe. If a scuffler with hillers
drawn close is run between the rows
afterwards the hills are widened and
there’s a deep and narrow drain left to
cope with storm waters.
The second cultivation is when the
crop is din. to Sin. high. Again plough
out and back, break up the soil about
the plants again with a hoe and clean
out between the rows with a sweep blade
on the scuffler. It isn’t always necessary
to make a third cultivation of this type,
but when it is it should be done when
the crop’s knee-high, and care taken not
to damage the roots between the rows.
When these have gone too far across the
rows cut out the ploughing.
This sort of cultivation promotes good
side root as well as rapid plant growth
and larger leaves. Losses from root rots
are fewer. The soil doesn’t get water-
logged after heavy downpours, and the
wider hills hold the moisture longer.
About an acre a day is the average when
it’s done properly.
Hints for the Farm.
“8.A.”: All horses, hacks as well as
draughts, should be broken to harness.
It often happens that an emergency arises
when a harness horse is required in a
hurry, and although several saddle horses
may be available none of them have been
broken to harness. A horse intended for
use as a draught animal should be broken
to work in an open bridle instead of
winkers. Driven in an open bridle the
animal soon becomes accustomed to the
sight of the vehicle following close behind,
and once he has overcome his initial
nervousness he is far safer to handle
than if worked in winkers. Many acci-
dents have occurred through loose or
badly-adjusted winkers being rubbed or
shaken off. Once free, the animal attempts
to move off and, taking fright at the
vehicle rolling along behind him, breaks
into a frantic gallop. Once a bolter
always a bolter.
“Bogan George”; Point the style of
a small temporary gate and fit it into an
upturned bottle buried in the ground or
into a 2in. auger hole in a solid block
of wood. For the top, bore a 2in. hole
in a bit of 9in. by lin. board, fit the style
easily into it and nail the board to the
top of the post. It will save hinges.
“T.R.0.”: The dengue mosquito breeds
only in still water that is clear and fresh.
Cover the house tanks —inlets, outlets and
top—with 18-mesh bronze gauze. It
won’t stop wrigglers getting in, but it
stops mossies getting out. Make sure no
water is left in old tins, troughs and simi-
lar places about the farm. If you can’t
get screens, a quarter-cup of kerosene
on the tank water will stop breeding.
“L C.”: Leave a corner of the lucerne
paddock for seed, cut with a scythe and
hand-thresh. On large areas make sure
that two-thirds of the pods have turned
brownish-black before cutting and use
the mower. Spread the lucerne on a tar-
paulin to dry. Overheating and moulding
should be avoided. Seed that’s clean,
plump, kidney-shaped and bright yellow
is close to perfect.
“Plane Creek”; Most root vegetables
and some leaf vegetables can be kept
fresh for months in a pit. Dig it 3ft.
or 4ft. deep under the house or in a
well-drained spot, line it with straw or
dry grass and arrange the vegetables,
each separated by straw, in rows. Cover
the pit with boards or iron and a few
inches of soil. If boards are used leave
some of them uncovered to permit easy
access ; if iron is used the soil can be
removed quickly with a shovel. Pure
sand may be used instead of straw. Vege-
tables that keep well include English and
sweet potatoes, carrots, parsnips, onions,
beet, turnips, celery and cabbage.
“Feline”; There are two sorts of citrus
branch borer. One goes for big limbs or
the trunk, the other, a more common
type, prefers small branches or twigs.
When branches wither cut them off well
back in the unaffected area and burn im-
mediately. If removal is delayed the
borer will escape. When big limbs are
infested insert a bit of cottonwool soaked
with carbon bisulphide into a borer hole
and seal all other holes with putty or
soap. Healthy trees seldom become badly
infested with borers.
“Wingella”: Meet Fred Barwick, of
Sparkes Creek, near Scone (N.S.W.).
Fred has just shorn his flock with tongs
and scythed four acres of hay. Not bad
for a man of 86. He has been shearing
for over 60 years and can still wield a
blade with the best of them.
“Box 113”: Money in pigs! On
November 23 Steve Whitikar, a Casino
(N.S.W.) pig-fattener, yarded 121
baconers. They made an average of £7
a head. At the previous sale he yarded
60 for an average of £7 3s. 6d. Whitikar
this year has sold just on 3000 pigs, buy-
ing everyone as a store and buying all
their food.


a
eas
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. - Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney. Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
______ _____ G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
UHCABLED ADDITIONS
The Jap Fighting Man.
[Condensed from an “Infantry Journal”
(U-S.A.) article by Lieut-col. Warren J. Clear
(U.S. General Staff Corps), who spent four
years in Japan as an observer training with the
Japanese Army.]
The typical Jap soldier is a runt, five
feet three inches tall, weighing 116
pounds. He can live on a handful of
rice and a few scraps of dried fish a
day. He is one of the toughest fighting
men in the world.
This is our enemy. We will be wise
to learn as much about him as we can.
After the great earthquake of Septem-
ber 1, 1923, I saw crowds of hysterical
Japs perpetrating the mass murder of
thousands of inoffensive Koreans.
Rumors had been circulated that the
Koreans, seeking revenge for the many
wrongs done them, were planning an in-
vasion of Japan. Armed with the fearful
Japanese swords and razor-edged bamboo
spears, the mob fanned out over Tokyo ;
I saw shrieking Korean men, women and
children hacked to pieces.
One can understand this bestial
savagery only by a glance into history.-
The modern Jap soldier is the product
of centuries of internecine warfare that
made the island kingdom one vast blood-
soaked battlefield. Imperial princes and
the unarmed people were ruthlessly
butchered, for human life was held at no
value.
The Japanese recruit is conditioned by
years of discipline and hardship. Not
even in Germany and Italy have the
people known such regimentation. For
years before induction the conscript has
been fired by recitals in his schoolroom
of stories of supreme sacrifice and devo-
tion. From all sides, in the home, the
temple, the classroom, the barracks, the
plastic mind of youth is moulded to the
army pattern. The child’s military train-
ing begins at the age of six when he
straps on his first knapsack and goose-
steps around the school-yard singing
military songs. At 12 he is in uniform,
carrying a light rifle and participating in
annual manoeuvres involving light field
guns and hand grenades. At 15 he is
shouting battle cries as he charges up a
hill to take a simulated enemy position
with the bayonet. A year later he is
driving plyboard tanks through the fields
near his school. At 19 he has forded
ice-cold mountain streams, shoulder-deep,
slogged through mud and dust, and
cooked his handful of rice over an open
fire.
When the Second Division began pre-
paring for Grand Manoeuvres we ate
the field ration even worse than the
Japanese garrison ration, which is the
world’s worst food.
The final revelation of what the Jap
soldier can endure came at 3 a.m. one
night when my regiment turned out for
a forced march. Each man carried 150
rounds of ammunition and a 40-pound
pack. An hour after the start, a driving
rain began. Roads turned into vquag-
mires ; rifles, packs, clothing, shoes were
water-soaked. All morning, all afternoon
and half the night, the regiment slogged
on. By midnight we had marched 31
miles. Then we halted for a half-hour
to eat and adjust packs. By eight the
next evening the regiment marched
another 30 miles. Then the order came
to take up a defensive position along a
river line. Before the men could eat they
had to dig 600 yards of trenches. As
each squad completed its section it gulped
a helping of rice, then fell asleep in the
trench.
After not more than four hours’ sleep,
the men received orders to make a forced
march back. Up to this point they had
marched 61 miles in 40 hours, and dug
trenches with only five hours’ rest.
Once again the regiment took to the
road in the darkness before dawn ; the
march continued all day in a broiling
sun. About 6 p.m., as we approached
a town, we could see the townsfolk lined
up to greet the regiment. Commands
were passed down the line, the bent backs
straightened, rifles were snapped to the
correct angle, left hands began to swing
in an exaggerated arc, and the regiment
began rigidly goose-stepping past the
At the edge of the town we halted for
a brief ceremony. The mayor of the town
rea d from a scroll. In reply all the men
j n re gj ment c h an t ec } j n a reverential
undertone; “Whether I float as a corpse
upon the waters, or sink beneath the
grasses of the mountainside, I willingly
die for the Emperor.”
“March!” came the order,
The river of packs moved forward.
Hour after hour the long serpent of weary
men struggled through the darkness.
There were two 20-minute halts that night,
After rice balls at 6 a.m. we went on, in
the dogged silence of iron determination,
Tension was creeping in. A dog ran out
frpni a farmhouse and yapped at a cap-
tain’s heels. He drew his heavy sword
slashed off its front legs. The weary
column broke into laughter as the maimed
thing flopped helplessly about,
There was no halt at noon. The distant
f 0 °fs of the home station were shimmer-
m 8 ln the sun.
Then the command, “Double time!”
1 could hardly believe my ears. What
madness was this? These men were reel-
with fatigue. They had marched 122
m 72 hours, under rifle, 150 rounds
ammunition and 40-pound pack, with
f? ur ( h° urs sleep! And now, ‘ Double
tiras-
- column broke into a ragged trot.
P ac ks jogged up and down on the sweat-
AIN’T WILKIE A LAUGH?
(New York “Daily News” comment on Russia-China tourist
Wendell Willkie’s shouting for a “second front” and “prodding”
of military leaders.)
soaked backs. A lieutenant dropped on
his face in the dust and lay still. The
gates of the barracks came in sight. The
cobblestones rang as the heavy boots
stamped down on them. They were home
—the forced march, which no other army
in the world could have endured, was
completed.
The colonel sensed my resentment at
the punishment the men suffered in the
double time. Said he: “Tired men can
always march just one more mile to take
another enemy position. This is the only
way to prove it to them.” When I inter-
posed that these were merely manoeuvres
he replied, “Manoeuvres are war as far as
I am concerned.”
A few days later, when I asked about
the lieutenant who had collapsed, I was
informed that he had died in hospital.
The Jap fighting man’s instant readi-
ness to sacrifice his life has been fre-
quently illustrated since that time. This
readiness is predicated on faith in the
Emperor’s divinity and his corollary
attributes of infallibility and invincibility.
Right now the Jap soldiers are enthusi-
astically following a victorious Emperor-
god. But let the realisation come to the
troops, and to the masses at home, that
not a god but a puppet has led them to
great slaughter and disaster ; let the dis-
illusion of defeat strike Japan’s legions
and the people behind them —and then
see what turn their fanaticism takes!
Once they realise that their “god” is
merely a goggle-eyed little mortal who
bit off more than he could chew, their
morale will collapse. But to bring about
such a collapse calls for administering
crushing defeats in the field —no easy
task against a nation continually and for-
ever at arms.
There are, fortunately, tangible advan-
tages on our side. We are going to put
this war on a mechanical, industrial and
scientific plane to which the Jap cannot
aspire with a heavy-industry potential
one-tenth of ours. It will take our man-
power and our machine-power to win.
Meanwhile, the Japs have no doubt of
their eventual success —and in an under-
taking that dwarfs Hitler’s wildest
dreams. Says General Nonaka: “The
ultimate conclusion of politics is the con-
quest of the world by one imperial power.
The Japanese nation is bracing herself to
fill her destined role.” We shouldn’t un-
derestimate the strength of a people like
this.
Second Fronts.
{Norman Thomas, in New York “Herald
Tribune.”)
There is no debate among thoughtful
men concerning the
extraordinary heroism of
the Russian resistance, its
importance to the cause
of the United States, and
the strategic advisability
of the so-called “Second
Front” if and when pos-
sible.
We Americans, how-
ever, are engaged in a
war with Japan as well
as with Germany. We
have a very difficult ship-
ping problem. The
Dieppe raid cost at least
50 p.c. in casualties. I
think we can all sym-
pathise emotionally with
Stalin and other Russians
who urge action. Never-
theless, Stalin’s criticism
was something less than
just.
Certainly he did not
open a Second Front
against the Japanese
when they attacked us at
Pearl Harbor —doubtless
for the same good
reasons that keep us
from opening a Second
Front now.
At the outbreak of
this war Stalin not only
.failed to open a Second
Front but also made a kind of alliance
with Hitler.
If, as his eulogists now insist, he did
this from necessity to gain time, he ought
to be charitable toward others who must
gain time.
There are excellent reasons, not only
in the war but afterward, why our Gov-
ernment should work on friendly terms
with the Russian Government; but there
are no valid reasons for subordinating
American policies to Stalin’s wishes.
1000-bomber-raid Problems.
[ln this (condensed) article New York “Post”
war editor Gilbert Cant explains the difficulties
in the way of more frequent 1000-bomber
raids on Germany.]
Why haven’t the British made a lOOO-
’plane raid over Germany every night or
so since they first showed that it could
be done?
A bomber makes an operational flight
only once in every four days, on an aver-
age. Thus a 1000-’plane raid every other
night would require an initial pool of at
least 2000 bombers. Actually the number
would be higher, since the weather will
not oblige with a perfect alternation of
good and bad nights. But set down the
figure at the minimum—2ooo.
Losses in recent months, with icing and
fog crashes at a minimum through the
summer, averaged about 5 per cent.
These figures refer to “aircraft which
failed to return” because they were lost
over enemy territory or at sea. At least
as many ’planes are lost in take-off acci-
dents and in landings and other “opera-
tional” incidents. So the total losses must
always be figured at 10 per cent. With
1000 ’planes flying 15 nights a month,
that means 1500 ’planes lost. It is almost
certain that the British cannot turn out
that many heavy and medium bombers a
month.
Even more serious than the loss of
’planes is the loss of personnel. All the
pilots and all the crews of ’planes shot
down or making forced landings in enemy
territory must be considered lost. About
half of those in “operational” losses can
never fly again. So for every 1500 planes
lost, 1125 pilots are lost, plus about six
other crew members per ’plane—almost
7000 highly-trained men a month.
Although the Empire air training scheme
produces vast numbers of pilots, they
are also needed for other commands and
for other fheatres of war.
As for gasoline, a big bomber uses 50
gallons per engine per hour. For a four-
motored job, this is 1000 gallons for a
single five-hour flight to Germany and
back, or 500,000 gallons if half the 1000-
’plane force is made up of heavies. The
mediums will take half as much—-a total
of 750,000 gallons a night, 15 nights a
month. Every gallon must be shipped
to Britain, and most of it in American
tankers under American escort, along
with all the gas for American bombers,
and for fighters of half a dozen nations.
The heavy bombers carry an average
of six tons of explosives, while the
mediums carry two tons. That would
be 4000 tons on a 1000-’plane raid, with
types equally divided. The fact that no
raid yet announced has reached that
figure shows that the heavy bombers still
do not make up half the bombing forces.
Three thousand tons of bombs were
dropped in a single night in some of the
1000-’plane raids already executed. If
this weight had been maintained in raids
on alternate nights for the first eight
months of 1942, the total would have
been 348,000 tons. But the actual total
dropped on Germany in that period was
only 31,000 tons.
For comparison it is worth noting that
in little more than eight months 14,000
tons of bombs have been dropped on
Malta. Germany is about 2000 times as
big as Malta, and Malta is still very much
in the war. While it is unlikely that Ger-
many could absorb bombs in the same
proportion—2B,ooo,ooo tons—it also is
unlikely that the Reich could be knocked
out of the war with 160,000 tons.
Japs v. Germans.
C From a “Wall Street Journal” article by
Ray Cromley.)
The Japanese do not want Germany to
win the war. They want the war to end
with an exhausted Reich —one that will
not be able to challenge Japan.
Next to defeating the United States
and Britain, the Japanese want —and
want very badly—the downfall of Ger-
many. Japan is allied with Germany be-
cause the Nazis are doing yeoman’s ser-
vice in supporting Japan’s strategy for
winning the war. Japanese plans depend
for success on keeping the Allied effort
divided. The Germans are valuable be-
cause they offer a “diversion” in Europe.
Japan wants an exhausted world to
deal with, one that will be easy to handle.
Thus, to the Japanese mind, the United
Nations are useful in “exhausting” the
Germans, just as the Germans are valu-
able in “exhausting” the United Nations.
The Japanese know that each German
advance, each German threat of an
advance, forces the Allies to use men
and arms to defend the endangered area.
Such crisis give the Japanese a chance
to attack.
Vast Allied supplies, enormous Allied
production, are to no avail if they are


&
&
&
m
E 1865
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
It’s their extra touch of quality -
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
-7 -Mveb Vain!
PREVENT
.. .J
r.:.
m >sssss§g§ps5
mm w- • ■
W M
not in the spot where the Japanese attack.
And the Japanese have made sure they
were not there before they attacked. Thus
the Japanese go and have gone from
island to island, from coast to coast, each
step timed to a crisis in Europe.
In Germany lies the strength of the
Japanese army. Therefore, the Japanese
cannot afford to let Germany be defeated
—quickly. A quick war would leave the
Allies free to act against Japan. So the
Japanese, in their turn, must act to divert
the Allies when Germany finds itself in
too tight a spot.
It may be that Japan entered the war
when it did to save Germany from defeat
in order that Germany might go on help-
ing—Japan. It is likely that in the future,
as in the past, Japan’s moves will be timed
to coincide with German successes and
German failures.
The Japanese, therefore, want a long
war in Europe. They want a war that
will exhaust the Soviet Union, the United
States and Britain. This would put Japan
in a very good position, indeed. •
Hitler or Japan First?
[Condensed from an article in which the
“Saturday Evening Post” correspondent in
India, Edgar Snow, discusses Japan’s position
in relationship to the Allies Get-Hitler-First
strategy.]
The guiding principle in planning
strategy is the assumption that the enemy
has an intelligence at least equal to one’s
own. Unfortunately in dealing with
Japan this principle has not been applied.
This neglect explains much of our mis-
fortune in Asia and the Pacific. And with
our eyes still fastened on Europe, to the
virtual exclusion of Asia, we continue
to ignore it today.
A corollary mistake is that we have
estimated Japan’s power by what we be-
lieved she was yesterday, rather than by
what she could be tomorrow. We have
failed to recognise that from 1931 Japan
ceased to be purely an island power,
lacking in self-sufficiency and vulnerable
to blockade by sea, and began to emerge
as the strongest power in Eastern and
South-eastern Asia. If we don’t soon
begin to contend with her on land, we
may be unable to destroy her when the
time comes —except through as-yet-un-
dreamed-of costs in blood and material.
Consider the sombre picture that con-
fronts us today. Japan has become the
second-largest empire in the world, domi-
nating an area populated by about
500,000,000 people. Besides seizing more
than 1,000,000 square miles from China
and Mongolia, she has destroyed three
European empires in Asia and driven
America from the Western Pacific.
Japan is in possession of the
spoils today. In a campaign lasting
a few weeks the Nipponese took
from the British and Dutch areas
which held 90 per cent, of the world’s
rubber production, 60 per cent, of
the tin, and a greater oil production than
the Nazis have seized in all Europe. The
U.S.A. lost the source of 60 per cent, of
tin imports, nearly 100 per cent, of rub-
ber, 20 per cent, of tungsten, 30 per cent,
of chromium, 100 per cent, of quinine,
and access to important quantities of oil
and silk.
Along with raw materials in many re-
spects better than ours, and ample for a
protracted war, Japan also won vital
strategic assets. She has won more time
—she has already enjoyed nearly a year —
in which to increase war production. She
has won time in which to exploit her
colonial territories and weld them to
her island and continental chains of de-
fences and communications.
The thing about Japanese possessions
which we continually overlook is that the
richest and most important of them can
be held by land power and land-based
air power alone. Japan can be defeated
today only by a major continental cam-
paign severing her from her essential re-
sources, or by a successful invasion of
the Japanese mainland —an operation
which is itself hardly conceivable without
a continental base.
Japan has scored all her gains to date
with but negligible costs in man-power,
and has captured more equipment than
she has expended. Armies representing
every large far Eastern country are now
for the first time organised and trained
by an Asiatic power. Japan has Korean,
Annamite, Siamese, Filipino, Burmese
and Javanese troops under her co-pros-
perity banner. Manchukuo troops are
policing and helping to defend the Philip-
pines and Malaya. An army of unknown
strength has been organised in the Anglo-
Dutch colonies.
We tend to assure ourselves that these
puppet troops are worthless because of
Japan’s experience in China. Personally,
I see no reason for believing they won’t
make excellent soldiers if properly in-
doctrinated to believe they must fight
against the white man instead of fellow-
Asiatics. Few of these natives have been
used in combat, but they are carrying
out wide police tasks. There must be
nearly half a million colonial troops now
releasing Japanese soldiers for more
aggressive duties. With a vast pool of
nearly half a billion people to draw upon,
Japan is in no danger of exhausting her
man-power resources for a long time.
Such is the measure of the catastrophe
which has befallen us in this part of the
world.
What reason have we to assume that
if we leave Asia to Japan until Germany
is smashed, Japan’s own demise will be
inevitably and speedily accomplished?
Could Japan win without Germany?
Why not? Since Pearl Flarbor our naval
record in the Pacific is not without glory,
but it has been largely on the defensive
side. We have even recovered territory lost
to Japan in the Solomon Islands. But the
Solomons are about 5000 miles from a
suitable supply base in America, and it’s
another 2500 miles across the water to
Tokyo. The heavy price paid for the
Solomons brought home —or should have
brought home —the measure of the sacri-
fices we must be prepared to make when
we attempt an island-by-island recon-
quest of the Pacific without a battle line
in Asia —an offensive by sea unsupported
by an offensive by land.
The fact is that while we have been
brushing against the fringes of a vast
Japanese oceanic empire, we have not
done anything on a comparable scale on
the Continent, where the enemy is still
preparing new offensive moves. There is
no active front anywhere in South-eastern
Asia. Free China is now practically im-
mobilised—in spite of some of the recent
Japanese retreats —and is certain to be-
come more so unless Burma is retaken
soon. It constitutes no real menace to
Japan now. It is not so much a front as
a frontier.
Militarily, our position is that with only
a small fraction of the forces now being
poured into Europe we could not only
safeguard the remaining bases in East
Asia but we could launch an early coun-
ter offensive to reopen Burma and re-
store China’s active front. In a few
months that opportunity will no longer
exist. What can be accomplished now
with five divisions or 100 ’planes will
then require ten times that force. The
war that can be fought now, largely with
Indian supplies on the spot, may then
have to draw entirely on American bases
15,000 or 18,000 miles distant.
Naturally, the Japs are enamored of
our “Get-Hitler-First” strategy.
A Word for J. Bull.
[Condensed from an article by Vernon Bart-
lett, M.P., in “Life” (U.S.A.), replying to an
article in that publication which, among other
implications, urged Britain to “quit fighting a
war to hold the Empire together and join with
us and Russia and your other allies to fight
a war to win by whatever strategy is best tor
all of us.”]
No belligerent has .a higher production
of war materials per head of population
than Britain, and that despite the long
months of bombing. We have had to dis-
perse our forces as no other power has
done. „ . .
In the middle of the Battle of Britain,
after the loss of almost all our war
material and while invasion of Britain was
looked upon as inevitable, the British
Government decided to send a new army
to the Middle East. That decision required
great courage, and you may be sure that
we are “prepared to help” by similar acts
of courage now that we are no longer
alone.
Why do you suggest that our strategists
are only planning “a war to hold the
British Empire together?” Ours is the
only country among the United Nations
that has taken up arms without being
first attacked, and you could hardly find
a country in the world of less obvious in-
terest to the “British Empire” than
Poland. Has not Hitler been ready on
more than one occasion to do a deal with
us which would leave the Empire un-
touched provided that we acquiesced in
the reduction of Europe to slavery? He
will make other offers of the same kind
before this war is over, and you may be
sure that we will reject them.
You join in the chorus for a “second
front.” Were you a member of such a
chorus when we w'ere so near defeat two
years ago that there was not one single
division in Britain fully trained and
equipped? Have you no respect for the
British sailors who convoy tanks and
aeroplanes to Russia, or for the factory
workers who have enabled us to keep all
our promises to Stalin, or for the British
Government which decided that those
promises must be kept to the full even
when your Government was unable to do
so? The fighter pilots who give those
convoys their air protection fly machines
that are less well equipped than the
machines in the holds of the ships they
are protecting, and you thank them by
gibes about the British Empire.
Are we fighting for that Empire? Yes,
and why not? There must be some good
in it since it has given law and security
to vast areas of the globe until they have
become politically adult and, as a result,
independent.
The problem of India is a terrible one,
complicated no doubt by our own mis-
takes, but I wonder whether there is any
comparable area in the world where there
has been so little bloodshed in the last
century as in India. Does that not sug-
gest that our control has been based on
certain ideals of decency and justice?
What Americans Are Saying.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
I learn from J. B. Priestley’s Britain at War
that the English are growing food even in
bomb craters, even in the moat of the Tower
of London. The English had 12.000,000 acres
in cultivation before the war: they have in-
creased this to 18,000,000, doing at least part of
this work under bombing. They have labored
magnificently; 3,000,000 of their new food-and-
fodder acres are reclaimed land, formerly
worthless; they used to have 2,000,000 acres in
wheat; they now have 5,500,000; each acre
produces 4.5 bushels more than before the war.
They have done the job after withdrawing hun-
dreds of thousands of men from the fields.
What are we to suppose Hitler has been doing
all thn time, with a continent of slaves to send
into wide and empty plains?— Samuel Grafton;
New York “Post.”
* * * *
We hear only about the dreadnought when
one of them happens to get sunk or damaged.
We hear nothing of the part the dreadnoughts
are actually taking in this war because their
role is so very important their whereabouts
and movements are guarded by all nations with
the greatest secrecy. The fact that most of the
active combat operations are being performed
by aircraft and submarines and the lighter sur-
face craft has led the public to believe that
the battleships and battle-cruisers are of no
further use. The public are influenced by
columnists, radio commentators and others
who feed the people their comments, opinions
and thoughts, most of which are superficial,
and are based only on the news which the
censors permit to be made public. Accordingly,
the great potential value of the battleships isn’t
generally understood. — Rear-Admiral Joseph K.
Taussig; “United States News.”
* * * *
Prof. Harold J. Laski spends about half his
time cavorting up and down the United States
telling us in the most labored tuxedo English
how blasted bloody rotten our capitalistic
system is. “Where do we go from here?” he
asks. Well, we expect to go to Berlin and
Tokyo. But we know where Prof. Laski’s
going.'* It is toward “State Socialism” (monocle
English for Communistic ball-and-chain). He
says the English reverses in Libya were “a
necessary consequence of a Government which
seeks to revitalise a society that is dying.”
Well, if English reverses are due to the capital-
istic system then to what are Russian reverses
due? Russia has scrapped the English and
American system of private enterprise. But I
do not see that that has helped her much up
to date. Does Prof. Laski secretly subscribe
to Hitlerism, the only thing left to choose from?
Well, even Prof. Laski’s worst enemies would
not accuse him of that. What we see in Prof.
Laski is a perfect type of the hopelessly be-
fuddled academic mind before the raw facts
of reality.— Benjamin de Casseres; New York
“Journal-A meric a n.”
* * * *
Goring made a promise of a glorious present
for Christmas: Every German soldier going
home on leave would get a prize package con-
taining a kilo of flour, a kilo of peas or beans,
a pound of butter and a large sausage. It is
possible to infer too much from this, but it is
at least obvious that you can’t give much of a
thrill to a person who is eating regularly by
promising him a kilo of beans and a pound of
butter for Christmas. — New York “Sun.”
* * * *
Americans were shocked by Pearl Harbor.
We keep calling it “the sneak attack.” The
Japs laugh at our simplicity. They hope we
keep that up. The Nazis are not disturbed by
the horror of their actions; they proceed to do
what chokes us with nausea. Our enemies
fight 100 per cent. We must be as cold and
ruthless to them as they are to us. They
know we feel revulsion over doing what they
do. Yet no greater, shock could fall on the
Axis than if we did to them what they do to us.
—Boake Carter; New York “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
The Allies are helping Stalin materially. We
agreed to furnish him with $3,000,000,000 worth
of Lend-lease supplies this year, and rammed
them through to Murmansk over a perilous
route. The British since the beginning of the
war have kept Germany blockaded —and it was
the Allied blockade, as much as any other one
factor, that beat Germany in World War 1.
The United States’ war with Japan is at least
diverting Japanese strength which might be used
to realise Japan’s old dream of taking Russia’s
Maritime Provinces. Speaking of that part of
the world, Washington has not so much as
hinted out loud that Stalin allow us to set up
air bases on the Siberian coast for the bombing
of Japan. We can all understand that Stalin
does not want to fight Japan any sooner than
he has to. But when second fronts are under
discussion it is fair to point out that Russian
bases for U.S. bombers would be most accept-
able, Vladivostok being only 650 miles from
Tokyo. — New York “Daily News.”
* * * *
The American Marines —and the sailors and
soldiers supporting them in the air, on land
and on sea—have the absolute confidence of
those at home for whom they are fighting.
They have earned it. From the day of their
daring capture of the Guadalcanal area, through
the treacherous weeks they have defended it,
their heroism has matched the highest in
America’s fighting tradition. Sure the Japs are
tough. But so are the Marines —ask the Japs!
—New York “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
This is the age of mechanised warfare, but
the secret of a successful offensive seems to be
the good old Neanderthal method of getting the
jump on the other fellow. — New York “Times. ’
* * * *
The joke for me is the fact that if Hess had
landed in Russia at the time he came down in
Scotland he would have been a welcome guest
—met by Molotov and dined by Stalin. — New
York “Herald Tribune” letter.
* * * *
One post-war fact in regard to our country
can positively be laid on the line now. It is a
fact that must be patent to all good Americans.
It is: The United States must become a quasi-
militarised democracy if it is to survive. The
day of a nominal navy, a small standing army
and merely civilian aircraft is as dead as the
old lamp-post. Continental Europe and Asia
being what they are—almost purely predatory
in intent, as, indeed, they have been for thou-
sands of years —we must never disarm. Further
than that, military training must be part of
the education of all our youth from an early
age The future watchword of America must
be READY! — New York “Journal-American.”


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY, LIMITED.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
DANIEL
CRAWFORDS
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
BILLABONG
HAND, POWER
AND
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
ť
DESIGNED TO
MEET THE
STATION OWNER’S
and
Farmer’s Requirements
SEND TO THE MAKERS FOR ALL
PARTICULARS
JOHN DANKSison
P[y. Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy back numbers of “Walkabout”:
March, Apr., May, July, Oct., Nov. and Dec.,
1935, March, 1936, November, 1939, and Jan.,
Apr., June, July, Aug., Sept, and Nov., 1942. —
3327.
Instruction Book for 1930-31 dual-carburetter
twin o.h.v. Riley. State price.—332B.
Information Sought.
How can edible mushrooms be distinguished
from poisonous?
Sprinkle a little salt on the spongy parts or
gills. If they turn yellow they are poisonous;
if black they are wholesome. Allow some
time for salt to act. Gills of true mushrooms
are pinky-red, changing to liver color. The
flesh is white, the stem white, solid and cylindri-
cal. False mushrooms have an astringent and
disagreeable taste. When cut they turn blue,
and are moist on the surface and generally of
a rose or orange color.
* * *
What is the law of copyright in Australia?
Copyright is regulated by the Common-
wealth Copyright Act 1912-1935 wherein, sub-
ject to modifications relating to procedure and
remedies, the British Copyright Act of 1911
has been adopted. Reciprocal protection of
unpublished works was extended in 1918 to
citizens of Australia and of the U.S.A. under
which copyright may be secured in the latter
country by registration at the Library of Con-
gress, Washington. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment promulgated a further Order in Council
on February 1, 1923, and extended the pro-
visions of the Copyright Act to the foreign
countries of the Copyright Union, subject to
observance of certain conditions.
* * * *
(1) Who invented the art of “canning” food?
(2) A few details of the essentials of the pro-
cess ?
Napoleon offered 12,000 francs for anybody
who could offer a new way to preserve food
for the French Army and Navy. Nicholas
Appert, who had experimented with foods all
his life, announced a food-canning process in
1796, and in 1809 the French Government
awarded him the prize. He made no secret
of his important discovery, and published facts
about the process in 1810. (2) Appert used
bottles, with special airtight stoppers with
four or five layers of cork, after he had pre-
pared the foodstuffs by his own “cold-pack”
method of putting food in cans. A preliminary
cooking is usual today, done in a pressure
cooker, at, say, 251 b. per sq. inch, and 267
deg. F. Meat needs 250 deg. F. to make sure
that germs are killed, but fruit juices need
only 170 deg. to 190 deg., and should never
be allowed to reach boiling-point (212 deg.).
i!e * * *
Method of preserving olives ?
Olives should be green but mature. Handle
carefully; they must not be bruised. Steep
first in soda solution (4oz. washing soda in one
gallon water), leave overnight and next day
wash in clean water, then put fruit into brine
(11b. salt to one gallon water) for a day. Wash
again in clean water, put into jars and pour
boiling vinegar over. Another way is to steep in
clean water (after soda bath) for 12 days,
changing water daily, then put into brine as
specified and leave for 10 days longer; finally,
pack into jars of fresh brine.
* * * *
Cure for eczema in a dog?
As to diet, give the dog very little meat,
milk, gravy or green vegetables, and eliminate
biscuits, bread, cake and sweet stuff generally.
A dose of laxative should be given once a day
while the dog is dieting. Lotion for the affected
skin: Sulphur 40z., oil of eucalyptus J)oz.,
olive oil Boz. Wash affected skin with soap
and water (wear rubber gloves), dry, then rub
the lotion on. Leave three days, wash off and
re-apply.
* * * *
How are apples and other fruits stored?
In cool climates apples keep well for limited
periods without refrigeration. During summer-
time in Sydney cool storage must be resorted
to. Apples suitable for cool storage over long
periods are the Granny Smith, Democrat and
Statesman, but the fruit must be unbruised
and must not be kept longer than periods pre-
scribed by experts when the fruit goes into
store.
« * * *
(1) If a player at cribbage obtains four cards
of a kind ( i.e ., four aces) what does he count ?
(2) A player picks up three fives and a jack,
and a five turns up on kitty, what would the
correct count be ?
(1) Twelve. (2) If the jack in his hand is the
same suit as the five that turns up he scores
29; otherwise 28.
* * * #
What is the reason for the use of italicised
words in the Bible?
The translators of the Authorised Version of
the Bible state that the italics indicate that
the words so printed are used to complete or
clarify the meaning of the text without inter-
fering with a close translation.
* * * *
My cabbage plants this year withered off
without apparent reason, and when dug up the
roots were covered with masses of knobs.
What is the trouble and the treatment ?
The cabbages are attacked with club-root —
the most serious of diseases with brassicas.
Pull up and burn all affected plants and those
immediately surrounding them, then dig through
the soil to a depth of 18in. 11b. to the square
yard of agricultural lime and let the beds
fallow for two months. Do not grow brassicas
in this area for at least 12 months; in the
meantime the plot can be used for lettuces,
turnips and radishes.
* * * *
(1) What were the match records of the Great
Britain Rugby Union teams in Australia ? (2)
Who were the captains; and their places in the
teams ?
(1) .—Points —
Played. Won. Lost. Drawn. For. Against.
1888 ..15 13 2 202 66
1889 ..21 18 3 333 90
1904 ..14 14 265 51
1908 ..9 7 2 139 48
1930 ..7 5 2 204 113
(2) Captains were: R. L. Seddon (forward)
in 1888—after Seddon was drowned in the
Hunter River, N.S.W., A. E. Stoddart assumed
captainship; Rev. M. Mullineux (half-back)
in 1899; D. Bedell-Sivright (forward) in 1904;
A. Harding (forward) in 1908.
* * * *
What are the biggest “gates” drawn by light-
weight, light-heavyweight and heavyweight
boxers anywhere ?
Lightweights Benny Leonard and Lew Tend-
ler drew 452,648 dollars when they fought in
New York on June 23, 1923. Light-heavy-
weights Jack Delaney and Paul Berlenbach drew
461,768 dollars in Brooklyn on July 26, 1926.
Heavyweights Gene Tunney and Jack Demp-
sey drew 2,658,660 dollars in Chicago on Sep-
tember 22, 1927.
* * * *
Did Bill Lang fight Jack Johnson, Tommy
Burns, Bob Fitzsimmons and Sam Langford?
If so, where did the contests take place, and
results ?
Lang fought Johnson in Melbourne on March
4, 1907, and was beaten in nine rounds.' Burns
beat Lang in nine rounds in Melbourne on
September 3, 1908, and again in 20 rounds in
Sydney on April 11, 1910. Lang knocked out
Fitzsimmons in 12 rounds in Sydney on De-
cember 26, 1909, and lost on foul in six rounds
to Langford in London on February 21, 1911.
» •
Boxers Hockey Bennell and Vic Patrick are
claimants of the Australian welterweight cham-
pionship. Which one really holds this title, and
how would either compare with past welter-
weight champions ?
In 1933 the National Boxing Club of Aus-
tralia framed rules to govern championships,
and one rule stipulated that championship con-
tests should all be scheduled to go 15 three-
minute rounds. Hockey Bennell beat Jack
McNamee for this title over 15 rounds at
Carlton (N.S.W.) in 1938, and, according to
the rules, Bennell is still champion as nobody
has beaten him in a contest scheduled for 15
rounds. To the Sydney Stadium Patrick is
champion. On performances, past champions
like George Johns, Mick Dunn, Snowy Stur-
geon, Tommy Uren and Jack Carroll would
have beaten Bennell. Patrick’s southpaw stance
and his punch would have troubled all of
them.
(1) What Australian cricketers have taken 10
wickets in an innings on an English tour, and
their figures? (2) Has any English bowler
taken all 10 wickets in an innings against tour-
ing Australians ?
(1) W. Howell, 23.2 overs, 14 maidens, 10
wickets, 28 runs v. Surrey at Kennington Oval,
1899 (this was his first match in England); A.
Mailey, 24.4 overs, 5 maidens, 10 wickets, 66
runs v. Gloucestershire at Cheltenham, 1921;
C. Grimmett, 22.3 overs, 8 maidens, 10 wickets,
37 runs v. Yorkshire at Sheffield, 1930. (2)
Only E. Barratt for Players v. Australians, 29
overs, 11 maidens, 10 wickets, 43 runs in 1878.
Brief Answers.
B.B.: Consult this year’s Whitaker’s Peerage,
available at any public library. List too long
to print here... .J.D.: Various magazines are
published that give particulars of new films
each week... .W.J.8.: You seem to know more
about it yourself than anyone else in Australia.
Here, as in the Old Dart and elsewhere, any
table available in the bar parlor serves as
a shove-halfpenny board... .Raycon; Family
name Morris, Christian names William Richard.
. ...D.C.: Nothing known about him. Prob-
ably a fictitious name... .K.J.: (1) Bleaching
beeswax involves the use of acids not now avail-
able and is a messy job. Boil it in water, leave
it to harden and scrape off any impurities;
yellow wax is as good as white for all purposes.
(2) Experts say figs are useless for wine as the
quantity of juice extracted after rejecting skins
and seed is worthless. Make them into pre-
serves or dry them.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
J.K.:
Boot does not like the Sergeant,
A bullying bloke is he;
And when Boot is a Colonel,
He’ll give him life C.B.
L. 8.:
The Japs advance
Not in a trance
Bht with desire
To start a fire.
We want them not,
The filthy lot.
, ...J.P.: Australia didn’t enter the war for
“glory,” but to fight for its existence C.E.:
No “flirting” butterflies, please; but there’s
the right touch in the other... .H.W.: A pun
there is rather like a goat in church H.W.:
Unless it’s part of your normal vocabulary,
don’t say “Nay” C.L.: But what makes you
think it’s a poem? ... .R.S.: The end’s flat....
E.S.: “Remember the silver lining.” We do
D.McC.; Neither good nor bad M.K.H.:
The quotations are the best of it... .D.C.M.:
Merely descriptive... .P.S.: “Trappers” and
“They’ve Knocked ’Er Back” the nearest
J.W.: Try elsewhere... .T.McC.; Needs live-
lier description and more humor A.J.V.:
“Oh, Come Back!” Don’t worry. It will.
... .M.C.: The “grunt” of battle? ... .N.E.D.;
“Say! where’s my toothbrush? Drat the
thing!” Hitler’s wearing it, and drat all
rhetorical questions in doggerel verse
H.H.8.: Improving M.C.D.: Conventional
description... .L. 8.: “Would the enclosed have
a commercial value for the fishermen’s page of
your journal?” If our journal had a fisher-
men’s page—no...-N-D.R.: Your humor’s
too frisky and your verse is too lame
R.D.M.: “Gone” rhymed with “song”; “sang”
with “Japan”; where’s your ear? T.O’M.:
Well enough tied together, but it’s a string of
cliches E.A.H.: Even if it’s deliberately
so, it’s still chaotic... .R.M.: Better; but you
can hardly claim to have removed all the in-
versions when there are two in the last line....
H.H.: Slight 0.W.: All lightweights, but
keep at it V.E.; “I’m going to roam with
my horse and my gun ’Mid the fragrance of
wattle, the scent of the gum.” If everybody’s
kept his word, you’ll find about 3756 other
homesick bards just ahead of you... .8.F.C.:
Sorry we can’t find a perch for the birds....
G.C.G.: In the four lines beginning “The
swampy lake” there are three examples of
Ruskin’s “pathetic fallacy”... .R.M.P.: You
need the lyrical fury of Billy Hughes to make
poetry about the birthrate... .1.W.: Jerky....
J.V.R.G.: When it’s all as good as the first
stanza of “Wild, Wet Wind Woman,” you’ll be
writing poetry... .M.S.: “I never fail to shed
a tear when thinking of a spot.” Nor do
we, these days... .T.M.D.; Read reviews that
are published if you want to learn how to
write ’em P.N.: Chopped-up prose
8.M.: Not too bad for “a boy’s effort”....
L.H.D.: Might be better said in prose....
L. : Tut C.P.; Someone else might find
room for it 5.8. C.: Thanks... .J.G., S.S.,
M. C.H.T., L.8.C., F.J.S.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.F.8.: Develop a bolder linework, and
ease up on that heavy shadowing.... Bert C.:
Bovine kicking at a horizontal log that faintly
resembles a canine; why? T.R.N.: You
labelled the figure “Billy Hughes”; we took it
to be a kind of china cabinet.... 8.P.: The most
venerable of the Ikey-fire jokes, atrociously
illustrated Joseph B.: “I have never had a
lesson in art.” Well, Joe, that saves us saying
some hard things about your teacher... .L.F.:
The boundary-rider’s horse walks with the
four hooves off the ground at once as well as
leaning against the air at an angle of 30 deg
T.W.8.: Is Dad wearing a fly-veil or whiskers?
....Bert C.: A fat old girl floating above an
anthill and a short-eared bloodhound leaning
against the atmosphere—what does it mean?
R.M.W.: The cocky is talking about his
dam. You’ve given him an inland sea... R.L.D.:
Patented, your rowing-boat which can be pro-
pelled without rowlocks should put you on
Easy-street....J.M.: You’re overcrowding your
figures G.R.8.: At least you are consistent:
the humor-hungry gags match the scrawny female
figures you delight in drawing... .G.C.L.: The
gent, makes a peurile remark, the lady retorts
with “So what?” and you call it a joke!”


Tan you
rely upon
an individual ?
A Trustee should administer your Estate to
the greatest advantage of your beneficiaries,
a task needing business wisdom, constant
devotion of time to the duties involved over
a considerable period, and sound technical
knowledge. He must be completely trust-
worthy. Should you find a friend possessing
all these qualifications and appoint him
Trustee—he may die before completing his
duties—age may sap his wisdom —misfortune
may befall him.
But should you nominate The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited,
these circumstances cannot arise. Consti-
tuted under Act of Parliament, and answer-
able to the Courts, it is absolutely trustworthy.
It devotes its whole time and energy to the
administration of Trusts. It has the necessary
knowledge of the technicalities relating to
Trusts, is controlled by Directors of proved
capacity, and . . . the Company “goes on
for ever”.
Charges are moderate. For details write or
call upon;
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, ftND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled ) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,(122.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager; K. M. Hughes
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £34,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,200,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidney® contain 15 inilei
oS tiny tubes or filters -which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons In your blood
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
with smarting and burning, nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, puffiness under the eyes, head-*
laches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
jget Hd of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait! Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist
9i store,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re—
Sept., Profit. Dividends. nerves, serves.
£> £ £ £
1930.. 68,231 10 p.e. = 45,000 23,231 481,145
1931.. 42,639 10 „ „ 45,000 478,784
Unexplained reduction, £lBl6 .. 476,968
Loss.
1932.. 12,022 5 p.e. = 22,500 442,446
Profit.
1933.. 27,140 6 „ „ 27,000 140 442,586
1934.. 49,045 7i „ „ 33,750 15,295 457,881
1935.. 38,569 8 „ „ 36,000 2,569 460,450
1936.. 48,454 8 „ „ 36,000 12,454 472,904
1937.. 51,067 '8 „ „ 36.000 15,067 487,971
1938.. 57,609 8J „ „ 38,250 1., , r , q - O o 00 0
To staff fund. £5OOO . . j 14,3j9 5U -’ di5U
1939. . 57,671 9 p.e. = 40,500 7 , 71 , 14 r>o i
To staff fund, ,-£5OOO .. J ’
1940.. 46,862 9 p.e. = 40,500 6,362 520,863
1941.. 51,559 9 ~ „ 40,500 7 nro
To staff fund, £5OOO . . J 6,059 526,922
1942.. 60,874 9 p.e. = 40,500 7
To staff fund, £5OOO . . 5 1,37 542,296
Latest accounts, presented in austerity
guise—a single sheet 8 x inches —
show the co. to be getting more kick from
the business than for over a decade.
Gross premiums (£831,337) bounded up
£147,131 —mostly in respect of marine
war risks, contracts more or less literally
charged with t.n.t. these days and mainly
promptly farmed out among less-fussy
underwriters. It is reflected in reinsur-
ances £125,674 higher at £436,188, leaving
the gain in net premiums at £21,458:
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1925.. 297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 p.e. 49.2 p.e.
1930. .*498,050 261,695 108,124 52.51 „ 33.71,,,
1932. .*357,830 256,408 113,450 71.61,, 31.71,,
1934. .*325,693 144,417 132,208 44.31,, 40.61,,
1936. .*366,755 191,806 126,620 52.31,, 34.51 ~
1938.. 385,782 217,975 142,764 56.5 ~ 37.0 ~
1939.. 387,358 206,958 157,683 53.4 „ 40.7 „
1940.. 348,104 186,760 148,6227 53.6 „ 41.2 „
1941.. 373,691 179,434 172,3751 48 ~ 46.1 „
1942.. 395,149 165,226 192,5177 41.8 „ 48.7 „
*lncludes interest, etc.
IRatio to net premiums plus interest, etc.
7 After deducting investment income taxation.
A peep at the loss experience shows the
policy to be a paying one, and, although
taxation and war-time running exes,
swallowed a lot more, the underwriting
surplus panned out £15,524 better at
£37,406 —for the benefit of insurance-co.
critics, lid. in the pound of premium
income, and a fraction of a penny of
the cover insured for.
The other £23,494 (down £6988) of
profit represents the net return from in-
vestments built up over a period of 79
years. Taking reserve adjustments into
account, the improvement in the net re-
sult was £9315. The £60,874 was 13.5
p.e. on capital, against 11.4 p.e. ; div. was
kept at 9 p.e. and £5OOO added to staff
funds, leaving £15,374 to stiffen both
policy- and shareholders’ already-strong
protection.
Somewhat changed conditions now
confront the United, which confines its
attention to London and New Caledonia
outside Australasia. Car insurance is
rapidly dwindling, with claims propor-
tionately heavier, workers’ compensation
has become even less worthwhile, private
building has ceased, the State Govern-
ment has poached man-power resources
generally and re-entered the business in
N.S.W., and all marine war cover is now
handled on behalf of the Commonwealth.
However, as civilian inventories decline
war ones mount, and fire risks continue
a healthy standby. Another stabilising
and economy factor is stopping by regu-
lation of transfer of existing business
from one office to another.
Subject to unexpired risks, net tangibles
equal to 238 p.e. of the year’s retained
premiums are on view, all represented by
assets of solid fibre:
1933. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £450,000 £450,000 £450,000 £450,000
Creditors* . . 103,466 148,922 246,534 350,089
Government
securities .. 444,970 468,723 518,890 560,890
Cash, book
debts, etc... 284,755 393,584 473,785 556,130
Debentures .. 39,875 40,000 40,000 40,000
Mortgages . . 123,444 109,745 89,409 83,993
Premises . . 118,759 126,622 126,622 126,622
* Including taxation, etc.
Sundry creditors include provision for
unadjusted claims and taxes, etc., and
both items can be taken as adequately
looked after. As part of their war effort,
the insurance cos. are gathering premiums
for the War Damage Commission free of
charge.
United Provisions, Ltd.
, — —Dividends \ To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 35,611 8 p.e. Nil 36,000 —19 9 J
1933.. 22,090 5 „ Nil 22,500
1934.. 35.652 8 „ Nil 36,000 244
Transferred from taxation reserve, £830.. ao/a
1935.. 67,812 11* p.e. 2 p.e. 68,500
1936.. 55,326 8 „ 2 „ 55,000 326 'l-
- 36,087 8 ~ Nil 36,000 87 799
Tax refund, £467 •• Ij,™
1938.. 70,853 8 p.e. 3 p.e. 64,500 6,303 7619
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
Nominal
r Dividends , To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£££ £ r
1939.. 57,490 8 p.e. 3 p.e. 64,500 164,875
1940.. 55,185 8 „ 1-J,, 47,875 7310 172,180
1941 . .142,589 8 ~ 4 „ 74,000 68,589 240,774
1942.. 71,756 8 ~ 3 ~ 64,500 7256 248,030
* Including’ 3 p.e, arrears. t Subject to intangibles
of £641,632.
The leap in ’4l figures reflects changed
treatment of taxation. This is not now
provided for till the bill comes in, the
amount charged to p. and 1. last term in
the consolidated statement being £67,873,
against £656. So, allowing for reserve
adjustments, pre-tax earnings were
actually only £3616 lighter at £139,629.
And takings had to bear unrecurring
losses in respect of Asian shipments prior
to Jap liquidation of the co.’s trade con-
nections in that part of the world and
the D.E.I. The profit of £71,756 shown
was no more than 3.7 p.e. on ord. capital
after feeding the prefs. So one way and
another the influx of war business hasn’t
produced any pickings for the ords., which
have had a poor run and are back on a
3 p.e. diet again. That left £7256 for re-
serves —at £248,030 subject to tax on the
past year’s takings and intangibles of
£641,682, largely the hangover from the
merger of J. C. Hutton and Foggitt, Jones
15 years ago, when U.P. paid £1,355,000
for scrip with a par value of £716,700.
The operating cos. represent the larg-
est organisation in the ham- and bacon-
curing, smallgoods and canned foods,
etc., business in Australasia. Despite
the loss of foreign markets referred to
and the seasonal influence on the supply
and price of pigs, the pups recorded fur-
ther “substantial” increase in turnover
last year, mainly in meeting service appe-
tites. In so far as shipping permits, the
U.K. trade in canned meats and frozen
pork also continues a prominent side of
things. But specialty packs in the civilian
market have disappeared through the
shortage of tin-plate, price control is far-
reaching in food lines, and growing costs
leave very little margin in defence con-
tracts. Still, with Allied besides Austra-
lian forces to provision, all cos. should
become busier yet; seasonally, immedi-
ate prospects are good, and the Govern-
ment is attempting to stabilise pig meat
prices.
Financial figures exhibit a healthy
enough complexion;
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £1,400,000 £1,400,000 £1,400,000
Bank overdraft . . 60,034 236,957 261,192
Other creditors . . 144,413 124,052 140,979
Tax reserve . . 29,358 11,800 2,885
Suspense account. . 380
Freeholds . . . . 395,909 389,458 888,427
Plant, etc 158,204 170,351 164.182
Stock . . . . 371,801 579,957 538,346
Debtors .. . . 236,021 248,046 328,418
Cash, etc 37,344 37,627 44,912
Intangibles* . . 641,807 641,732 641,682
Suspense account.. 4,094 2,413
* Mainly difference between book value and par
value of inter-co. shareholdings.
Depreciation (£30,370, up £2819, last
term) looks adequately cared for. Of
recent years it has prevented plant get-
ting a spread on in the books, despite
additions, including new lamb- and
sheep-processing works in the Speck. At
£164,182 the working assets, indeed, are
a comparatively low figure, covering 13
factories and a like number of ware-
houses in all States of the Common-
wealth and Maoriland. The growth in
books debts illustrates the course of
trade, finance coming mainly from a
reduction in stocks. There was little
change in the more or less liquid surplus
(£503,505).
The market is more optimistic than for
a long time, paying 11s. 9d. for the hold-
ing co.’s ords., compared with as little
as ss. lOd. in 1941. They account for
£950,000 of the capital,
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 18,283 6 p.e. = 16,575 1,708 20,908
1934.. 25,027 7 „ „ 19,337 5,690 26,598
1935.. 35,506 7 „ „ 20,410 15,096 41,694
Profit on sale of property, £13,121.. 54,815
1936.. 45,868 7 p.e. = 25,640 20,228 75,043
1937.. 49,786 8 „ „ 29,454 20,332 95,375
1938.. 51,746 10 „ ~ 37,033 14,713 110,088
1939.. 52,853 10 „ „ 37,371 15,482 125,570
1940.. 56,101 10 „ „ 37,681 18,420 143,990
1941.. 44,412 10 ~ „ 38,113 6,299 150,289
July,
Life-policy bonuses, £2433 . . . . 152,722
1941*. 25,7&9 10 p.e. = 19,190 6,599 159,321
1942.. 48,610 10 „ „ 38,379 10,231 169,552
*.Six months.
Though the rationing of clothes and
piece-goods has eased the strain on ex-
ternal supply lines and service-pressed
local manufacturers, and at the same time
created a run-off of spending power into
the reservoir of war finance, it has also
changed the tide of retail sales. Fur-
ther, a host of regulations governing
rationing, prices, employment, local and
overseas buying, standardisation, de-
liveries, wrappings, etc., have complicated
the problems of management and made
overhead difficult to restrain. Work con-
nected with price observance alone —the
old percentage addition on cost has been
replaced by a fixed money profit per
article—is particularly onerous, and the
diversion of both men and women into
the services and war industry has added
greatly to the difficulties of obtaining
trained and competent staff. With savings
restricted to a few flexible items, it will
be difficult to get costs back in proportion
to the drop in turnover. And Brisbane’s
absurd and uncomfortable shopping
hours—7.3o a.m. till 4.30 p.m.—assist
neither trade nor personal efficiency.
Finney, Isles’s latest accounts, however,
reflect little of all this. Assisted by in-
creased spending, the volume of which
was expanded by the presence of Allied
troops, Brisbane retail sales for the period
were nearly 10 p.e. higher. Indeed, never
before has there been so much money in
circulation in the northern State, and only
part of the substantial growth in trading-
bank deposits has been sterilised by com-
pulsory lodgment with the central bank.
Certainly public loans mopped up some
of the increased savings, while the heavier
demands of the taxgatherer, lifts in wages
and wholesale prices and the steep rise in
costs generally bit into the increased
takings of traders.
Finney’s very satisfactory showing of
recent years is the combined result of en-
terprising management, shrewd buying
and the favorable position of the store —
in the heart of the busy Queen-Albert-
Adelaide-Edward-street block. For the
12 months covered by the latest accounts
the board figured net earnings £4198
better than for the year to Jan., 1941.
That was after paying a staff bonus of
£2456, allowing £8095 for depreciation,
and setting aside £44,671 for taxation
and contingencies—the tax bill for the
year to the end of July, 1941, was
£31,256. The £48,610 of profit claimed
was 12.6 p.e. on capital as against 13.4
p.e. p.a. for the preceding six months
and 11.6, 14.8, 14.1, 14 and 13.5 p.e. for
the five years before that. The div. was
kept at 10 p.e.
The financial position was further
strengthened:
f January r -‘ July 1->
1934, 1941. 1941. 1942.
Capital . . £276,243 £381,128 £383,793 £383,793
Debentures .. 39,000
Mortgages .. 44,174 -
Creditors . . 18,883 49,171 133,276 78,144
Tax reserve, etc. 16,620 55,800 30,150 41,109
Property, plant,
etc. ' . . 192,768 351,596 356,313 352,785
Stock.. .. 158,039 214,016 305,463 300,875
Book debts, etc. 39,156 52,784 48,799 31,769
Investments and
cash . . 44,505 37,048 15,156 6,358
Practically every pound that became
available was used to reduce the trade
debt (down £55,132). The reduction in
debtors’ balances (down £17,030) reflects


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt,
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
sslvte
IF anything happened to you, is
it fair to burden your relatives
or friends with your business
worries? It is a task that calls for
specialised training and know-
ledge. For your own sake, and
for your dependants, entrust the
administration of your estate to
experienced trustees.
Smith, Boydell 8C Company is an
organisation specialising in the man-
agement and supervision of estates
and personal business. The principals
—H. Landon Smith and F. M.
Boydell, A.1.C.A., A.C.1.5., person-
ally direct all transactions. Special
facilities are available for country
and interstate business. Write now
for free brochure explaining how this
service can assist you.
SmiIfIIOVDELUCO
l 58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'adders* Comprehensive, Workers*
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
STATE EXPRES.
m
a&MBu/spisade !
Lend your Money to hasten Victory.
Buy £lO National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates.
19590-11,42
'MwM
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gjunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
J acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
public credit policy. Stocks (down £4588)
are substantial; they are reported fresh
and well assorted, and can be taken as an
insurance against increasing difficulties in
obtaining deliveries.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1932.. 88,511 24 p.c. = 38,750 43,913 1,398,893
1933.. 96,687 2$ „ „ 38,750 47,400 1,409,430
1934.. 38,972 2| 38,750 32,480 1,377,172
1935.. 127,751 ' Nil 61,672 1,443,251
1936.. 263,958 5 p.c. = 77,500 76,759 1,553,130
1937.. 420,404 15 „ ~232,500 76,472 1,664,562
1938.. 224,149 ,,193,750 73,556 1,621,405
1939.. 252,393 7* „ ~116,250 91,186 1,660,362
1940.. 275,860 8| „ ~ 135,625 92,935 1,713,662
1941.. 265,316 8| „ „ 135,625 95,975 1,747,378
1942.. 226,811 8| „ ~135,625 71,132 1,767,432
There is no difficulty in disposing of
the output. The Commonwealth is
normally self-sufficient in copper ; now
the boot is on the other foot owing to
war-time consumption of the red metal,
despite the extra assistance coming from
Queensland, including Mt. Isa, these
days. While the London price of the
mineral has remained around £62 stg.,
so urgent is local demand that the Aus-
tralian selling price has been repeatedly
let out to encourage production and
meet advancing costs. Fixed at £63 17s.
6d. a ton after the outbreak of war, the
figure rose to £76 the following February,
to £7B 10s. Feb., 1941, to £B6 10s.
May, 1941, and to £lO5 in May,
1942, where it remains. The whole
of these prices hasn’t accrued to
established producers; Lyell now, for
example, receives £lO5 for output in
excess of “normal” only ; the bulk of its
production is paid for at £lOO, the differ-
ence going into a pool to subsidise the
ultra-marginal producer. As a further
stimulant, metal miners have been granted
20 p.c. remission of taxes to compensate
for war-time exploitation of properties,
and the concession extends to dividends
in shareholders’ hands.
Because of the growth in costs and
lowered ore grade, Lyell figures haven't
responded to these favorable influences,
and they were farther affected last term
by the sharp decline in investment in-
come (£63,619, down £41,332). Gross
income from mining was £1,160,433 (up
£110,983). Extraction and treatment
(£900,714) proved £94,389 costlier, and
administration, etc. (£51,591), swallowed
£23,804 more. There were savings of
£9996 in taxation (£45,000) and £24,843
in the charge for depreciation and pros-
pecting, shown as written off, leaving the
net balance £13,662 lighter at £155,679
—lO (against 11.8) p.c. on the £1,550,000
of capital. That was after taking a
smaller quantity of copper on hand in at
£BO a ton. Divs.—in the table, those
actually paid during the year —were kept
at Is. 9d. per share.
Despite reduction in grade, there was
a small improvement in refined output,
the board advises —this because of further
mechanisation in the opencuts and a
higher recovering following finer grinding
and variation of flotation practice. Out-
put from the pyritic plant was on an un-
changed scale, but less was disposed of.
Better could have been achieved all
round but for the general shortage of
labor, skilled and unskilled; a lament
of most producers of strategic war
minerals which, with goldmining drasti-
cally curtailed, suggests poor Govern-
mental co-ordination of man-power.
The drilling programme begun a couple
of years back was completed during the
term, and a revised estimate of ore
reserves puts the position as follows:
Reserve r Average Assay
Ore, Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. P.c. Oz. Oz.
1935 .. 7,593,000 2.05 0.17 0.020
1936 .. 8,825,000 1.90 0.14 0.016
1937 .. 9,894,000 1.69 0.13 0.016
1938 .. 11,146,000 1.52 0.11 0.015
1939 .. 10,458,000 1.52 0.11 0.015
1940 .. 10,620,000 1.47 0.11 0.013
1941 . . 15,760,000 1.15 0.07 0.012
1942 . . 14,850,000 1.14 0.07 0.012
In the West Lyell, principal ore-producer,
the drill disclosed further large quanti-
ties of pay material which show little
variation in character with depth, while
at Lyell Comstock prospects below No.
11 level are regarded as encouraging.
Finances are in very fair nick. At
Sept. 30, metal and other stocks, debtors
and Consols totted up to £728,693, as
against liabilities of £366,367. Then
there were investments with a book value
of £1,732,391—£208,937 less than par,
an internal provision for the depre-
ciation that has occurred in some of
them;
Shares Fully
Company—- Paid to £l.
Com’wealth Fertilisers and Chemicals;
311,174 7 p.c. prefs. 1 „ 07 ,01
596,257 ords. .. j " " JU '’ 4di
Cuming Smith and Mt. Lyell Farmers’
Fertilisers . . . . . . . . 450,000
Australian Fertilizers . . . . . . 93,750
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers .. .. 27,150
Metal Manufactures:
49,204 7 p.c. cum. par. prefs. 7 A o o oov
383,793 ords J "
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries.. 30,000
Metal Manufactures is the bright one
there, and will continue so owing to
further strictures on the supply of phos-
phate rock for fertiliser-making. It is
at present paying 7} p.c. and is seeking
permission to raise another quarter-
million of capital to erect and equip
wire and tube works.
Locally and overseas, copper supplies
are being stretched by substitution of
silver wherever possible ; but the white
metal isn’t likely to develop into a seri-
ous post-war rival to the red one, for
which permanent new uses have been
developed in Australia. The same is not
so certain as regards the light metals
aluminium and magnesium, combined
world output of which is expected to
exceed 2\ million tons in 1943, compared
with 600,000 tons in 1938.
Lead-zinc stocks are no longer accumu-
lating at the Barrier or the smelter on
the seaboard, and all silver production
is now being placed locally. “We
are in the fortunate position of hav-
ing made arrangements which, subject
to remote contingencies, remove any
cause for anxiety as to our ability to dis-
pose of our output over and above such
stock as may be deliberately retained in
Australia to meet emergencies,” assures
M. H. Baillieu, North’s chairman. The
former yCar-to-year contract with the
British Government has been replaced by
one for the duration, though tonnages,
prices, conditions, etc., aren’t now men-
tioned. North 8.H., however, doesn’t ex-
pect any increase in the price of lead in
the current term, and suggests that re-
turns may even be lower. Empire re-
quirements are being cheaply met, Aus-
tralia’s at a price lower than that paid
by any Allied Government for the metal.
Though metals output this year is assured
of sale, the co. is looking for lower divs.
owing to increasing costs and taxes. But
it mentions that high-grade ore has been
proved to 300 ft. below the lowest work-
ings, and that promises well for the
future.
« * * •
Because of uniform taxation many
Westralian goldmines are bringing
accounts into line with the Federal fiscal
year. Those for Consolidated Gold
Areas, at Hampton Plains, show the co.
to be living still from hand to mouth,
though the position looks to have be-
come a bit better following developments
between Nos. 4 and 5 levels which have
opened up the best values yet. In the
18 months to June 30 last a loss of £340
showed up for the first six and a profit
of £1972 for the final 12. Treatment for
the full period comprised 41,860 tons for
4.3dwt. recoveries. Yields of s.Bdwt. have
been coming out of the plant since the
close of accounts, and the figure may rise
to 6dwt. or more if the grade of 7.3dwt.
placed on ore reserves is realised. These
are now set down at 41,600 tons to
within 30ft. of No 5 horizon being
O o£ P Ts! d 2oo P iB a ™oirl g :.
bration plant has been acquired, and an
h.-p. liability of £23,000 to the State
Government is in evidence. Labor and
transport strictures—the ore has to be
carted seven miles to the mill—are be-
coming increasingly burdensome.
* * * *
Latest ore-reserve estimate at Ora
Banda Amalgamated, one of the West’s
lightweights at Grant’s Patch, is 12,000
tons, grade 6|dwt., or 8000 tons less than
the last published figure. But in the 18
months in between the two computations
34,985 tons was extracted and milled ,
recoveries of 5.57dwt. compared with
6.54dwt. in the previous yeai, and,
though mine costs were reduced from 545.
4d. to 465. 6d. a ton, the 18 montns
profit of £12,305 was £1134 shy of the
previous year’s. That takes no account
of an extra £3050 of tax paid since the
books were ruled off. Main difficulty
is to keep development ahead of the
mill, and sinking of McKenzie’s shaft,
followed by deepening of Nicholson’s, is
planned. Execution, of course, depends
on the labor available. There was £30,545
in the bank at June 30.
* * * *
Latest rough estimates place the aggre-
reserves j lhc seven p rincipa l
Ka.goor.ie-Bou.der goldmines at
tons , °f w h lc h about halt is m t e La e
View and Star group. . Average grade in
North Kalgurli and Boulder Perseverance
is above 6dwt. a ton; in Lake View,
Great Boulder, South Kalgurli and Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie above sdwt. ; and in
just under sdwt. Elsewhere, Big
Bell and Sons of Gwalia are reported to
have 3,000,000 and 1,000,000 tons of
3.sdwt. and 6.l7dwt. ore respectively, and
Central Norseman some 350,000 tons of
from 6dwt, to 7dwt. grade.


YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “No," just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney,
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.O.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindlet Street. Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors-.
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND CECIL IT. DOYLE
A. E. BOND F. AY. HIXSON JOHN SAVING
E. V. T. AVHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAAV. Assistant Manager.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Total-war Year
Financially, 1942 has been full of
events and effects. The money that makes
the industrial world go round has been
shackled and fettered in every way, and
there are some who would go so far as
to say that Government regulations in
connection with finance and industry
have been like the introduction of hard,
square wheels where round, pneumatic
ones formerly operated—and this not only
in connection with forms of finance,
business and industry which the authori-
ties desire to suppress but also in connec-
tion with essential war-time work and
services. One of the big difficulties which
skilled and capable workers of all social
classes have had to contend with has been
departments clothed with endless author-
ity but possessing little knowledge or
efficiency.
There is something about Bureaucracy
that is absolutely foreign to the individual
Australian. It leaves him speechless—
or at least bereft of words of a printable
kind. Possibly because he is essen-
tially a resourceful person himself he
is all the more dumbfounded by the frus-
tration and delay he encounters when
he comes up against Authority re-
fusing to accept Responsibility. That
has been all too frequently the tale in
1942 departmental officers wielding
the whip over industry and individuals
but always passing the buck when
it comes to accepting an onus. And yet
in a world changing as rapidly as the pre-
sent one, and with all sorts of rough
material in the way of officers and work-
men to cope with, a lot of responsibility
has to be accepted at times to get any-
where before the enemy. Possibly arising
from the type of Government now in
office there has been a serious waste of
time and man-power in 1942 because of
departmental men scared to take respon-
sibility for vital decisions and changes.
Departmental officers each day have
been granted more and more authority
over the individual. Very little private
initiative can be exercised in anything,
and our lives and our war effort become
increasingly subject to the ponderous
effect of red-tape. It was inevitable that
a great deal of Australians’ initiative
would be taken from them in order to
get the country on a total-war basis.
Mobilisation is the obvious answer to
Axis mobilisation. But much of the
administrative side of this war effort falls
short. of requirements. There are too
many of the wrong people in the wrong
jobs. This is partly because the present
party in power finds it hard to put aside
in war-time its old belief that government
is a political game, with spoils to the
victors.
The year 1942 practically coincides with
Federal Labor’s first term of active office
since the days of Scullin and Theodore.
One outstanding feature of the year has
been the Government’s refusal to tax
adequately the voluminous under-£B-a-
-week incomes or to adopt the post-war
credit system, as Britain and Canada have
done. On the other hand, companies and
the higher personal incomes have been
taxed severely, and until the much-desired
one taxing authority was established there
were cases of citizens paying more
than 20s. in the £ in taxation. There is
no rebate of tax paid by companies, and
though this is not an arrangement of the
present Government it is enforced by it
without fair regard to its other taxation
rates and forms. At the same time, largely
because incomes above £8 a week repre-
sent, even in total, only a part of our
annual war commitments, taxation exac-
tions are far below the sound thing so far
as payment for war expenditure is con-
cerned.
Borrowing to pay for war has been
heavy, and there has been excessive use
of bank credit. Response to the appeal
for funds through war-savings certificates
has been far below expectations. There
has been a great flow of money to the
savings banks because of the impossibility
of spending it in these days of high wages
and rationed purchases. Note- and cur-
rency-hoarding has been going on at a
great rate, and in some respects has
become an embarrassment to the
Treasury. Each time the Government
has approached the public with a war loan
this year it has been oversubscribed, but
with the assistance of how much savings-
bank and central-bank assistance has
never been disclosed. The Austerity loan
which closed in the last month of the
year at least had the virtue of a record
number of subscribers —420,000 came
when 500,000 were asked for.
Money has become a sort of secondary
currency with the people. For many
items coupons are more essential than
money. “Government permission” is
another exchange factor nowadays.
The cost of living rose fairly rapidly
during 1942, making the total rise since
the outbreak of war a little over 20 p.c.
Wages have been advanced accordingly,
and the average Commonwealth basic
wage is now in the vicinity of 955..
against 795. before the war. Compara-
tively few munition workers and the like
are on this minimum wage. Even adult
factory trainees are paid it in the majority
of cases.
Company dividends in many instances
have been reduced during the year.
Heavy special company tax, plus rigid
price-control, have kept profits down
even where turnovers have increased be-
cause of war work. Cost-of-living in-
creases have made dividends worth even
less to recipients.
War expenditure in Australia soared
rapidly ; Japan’s entry into the war and
the arrival of Allied troops here resulted
in a prodigious change-over from a semi-
combatant to a fully-combatant national
programme. What we haven’t been able
yet to provide in the way of modern
armaments we have made up to a large
extent in transferring food, clothing and
transport and other facilities to all Allied
fighting services. This has worked on a
lend-lease basis, and we are not receiving
money for these things any more than we
are paying money for equipment received
from the U.S.A. Only those officially
informed realise the large extent of Aus-
tralia’s reciprocal lend-lease.
At the same time a big programme of
independent munitions work has been
going ahead in Australia, noteworthy,
aspects being the production of Beaufort
bombers, 25-pounders, a variety of anti-
aircraft guns and tanks. Bren, Owen
and other automatic arms are also being
turned out in an effort that is costing
something like £5OO million a year.
The Budget figure for 1942-43 de-
fence was £440 million, but actual
accounts for the first five months
showed outgo at £207 million, or
an average of £492 million. For October
and November respectively the outgo
was at the high rate of £46 million
and £4B million. The mushroom growth
of Australia’s war effort has been accom-
panied by a number of mistakes and mis-
calculations, and it is probable that a pro-
portion of the outgo will never bear the
desired fruit before the war is over. Waste
of this kind is inevitable, but Australia
has suffered more than its share of war-
time mistakes, delays and misplacement
of man-power and money-power.
A feature of 1942 has been the shack-
ling of the trading banks. They are
bound to follow a set Government policy
in all matters of advances to clients, and
with regard to deposits they have to
transfer “surplus investible funds” to the
Commonwealth Bank at 15s. per cent,
interest. Their rate of earning is pegged,
and they must not subscribe to Govern-
ment loans. Money cannot, “as a
general rule,” be made available by them
to any but essential industries, and there
is a restriction on the raising of an over-
draft by a company to pay a dividend or
income tax.
One of the most bitter and contro-
versial issues raised during 1942 was the
proposed 4 p.c. profits limitation. It was
a typically unrealistic and half-baked
idea that had a political but not a practi-
cal basis. It was abandoned after some
months of suspended animation. Re-
striction on Stock Exchange and real
estate dealings have been introduced,
with variations from time to time. A
definite top limit has been set to share
prices based on pre-lap conditions, and
this has already been reached in many
cases. Before a person is able to buy a
house now he has to show, as a rule,
that he has all the money necessary to
pay for the house but no home of his
own. Building of new dwellings has been
virtually suspended.
Man-power and woman-power have
been controlled even unto domestic ser-
vants. There is no longer a free market
for any kind of labor. Acute shortages of
many varieties of goods and services de-
veloped as the year progressed. Dedman-
ism ran riot throughout, a sort of inscrut-
able stupidity accompanying much of the
effort of the Department of War Organi-
sation of Industry.
In 1943 the increasing demands of a
full war effort will tax severely the weak
economic underpinning created by the
present Government. The point is that
we have to deliver the goods to the fight-
ing fronts, and all the mistakes and politi-
cal mischief of the past year will reveal
themselves under the weight of hard and
unavoidable realities. The spirit and will
of the people have stood up well to the
problems encountered so far, but Can-
berra will be making a grave mistake if
it thinks that it can go on in its present
fashion much further.
The shares of N.Z. Forest Products
have been listed on the Stock Exchanges
of Australia and Maoriland. Australian
’Changes have fixed a maximum price of
4s. 6d. for the £1 ords. and a minimum
of 3s. 6d. The price-range for the 5 p.c.
non-cum. prefs. has been set at Bs.-
6s. 6d. The co. made a loss of £8723 on
its insulating board activities last term,
and its total debit was £37,595.
* * * *
Mr. Ward, the member for East Syd-
ney, might do “social conditions” in Aus-
tralia a good turn if he investigated the
sly-grog market in his electorate. “Pussy-
foot” Johnson’s prohibition in the U.S.A.
wasn’t able to encourage higher prices
for “Scartch” than are being paid around
King’s Cross at the present time. And,
of course, it isn’t all “Scartch” either, or
even good Australian liquor of any kind ;
there are inevitably substitutes. But so
far as first-grade whisky is concerned,
city taxidrivers will tell you that £2 or
so can be got for a bottle of imported
stuff, and not much less for Australian.
Some will tell you where liquor of almost
any kind can be obtained—at a black-
market price. The retail liquor trade —in
Sydney, at any rate —is resolving itself
principally into a legitimate bar trade in
hotels and a black market in bottled
stuff. It seems that one result of war-
time liquor “control” has been that the
person to whom drink is a vice will get
his liquor anyway, and that the ordinary
citizen is nowhere in the race. Like so
much other “rationalisation” in this
country, the attempt at curbing the
“liquor orgy” has defeated its own pur-
pose. A widespread racket has grown
out of it.
* * * *
Some interesting figures have recently
come to hand from Canada. On public
borrowings 3 p.c. is paid on 14-year
offerings redeemable at 101, while on
three-year loans the rate is If p.c. at par.
War production in the Dominion is
reaching the limit of factory capacities ;
in September the output of small arms
was more than the total for the whole of
1941, and. the same applied to heavier
guns. During the nine months to Sept.
30 Canada’s shipbuilding industry had
“delivered into service” fifty 10,000-
tonners, and is now turning out a
freighter of this type every five days. “It
has become plain that a crisis in man-
power has been reached”; drastic
measures for regulation and distribution
of labor are contemplated. Goldminers
are being transferred to base-metal mines.
Electric power is being conserved by
shutting down a number of paper mills in
Ontario and Quebec. All Canadian dis-
tilleries diverted their output from Nov.
1 onward to war purposes, existing stocks
only being-sold as liquor. Any building
contract for over $5OO calls for special
permission. It is clear that although
Canada has got away to a flying start in
war production it has been able to do a
great deal of it without indulging in too
much abstract theorising about rationali-
sation ; intense control of man-power and
industry is only now coming into opera-
tion.
* * * *
The Stock Exchanges closed for Christ-
mas with dealings almost at a standstill
because pf the virtual absence of sellers.
Buyers were in abundance, but because
of pegged upper limits holders were not
able to obtain the prices they wanted
for good stocks, however willing buyers
may have been to meet them. The creep-
ing of inflation over the Australian
economy has accelerated the demand for
all kinds of property or equities in prop-
erty, and this is reflected in the great in-
terest now being taken in manufacturing
enterprises. What few stocks were avail-
able to buyers last week were mostly
financial, mining (including coal) and
retail concerns. Australians are being
discouraged from, protecting themselves
from Government-created inflation ; they
are stopped from putting money into
shares or property investments, and are
instead exhorted to put their money into
Government loans. The underlying idea
of the investment controls is not open
to so much criticism as the inflation itself
is. That reveals lack of self-control on
the part of the Government.
• * * «
Some Sydney firms were circularised a
few days before the street display of
munitions a week or two ago which was
described as “the culminating feature of
the Austerity Loan campaign.” Firms
were asked to “allow all employees suf-
ficient time off to travel to the city to
view the procession.” The procession
alone took about an hour to pass a given
point, and travelling time would double
that even in the case of very-near indus-
trial districts. One industry that has been
“protected” declined the invitation to let
its staff off for the morning—a Saturday
when overtime rates would have to be
paid. It has been repeatedly asked if it
can step up output, and has been dazzled
with science by the war-time bureaucracy
for a year or more, but when a Govern-
ment loan was lagging because of Gov-
ernment weakness in all vital financial
matters —well, stop war work by all
means and give “the voluntary system”
a a wor d> the Government
was “on the spot,” and no way was con-
sidered too expensive to get it out of the
spot, especially if it was someone else’s
expense.
* * * «
Knight Clifton Love, at the annual
meeting of the Manufacturers’ Mutual
Insurance;—
There is an obsession in some quarters
for what is termed nationalisation, or
rationalisation, of banking, insurance and
distribution of goods. This would inevit-
ably extend to our outstandingly successful
industries. Such schemes are introduced
by an insidious and far-reaching campaign
against the making of profits by industry,
or the retention of any sufficient portion
of them as a reserve against future loss
or to provide for expansion.
A political policy of “safety first” is
essential to business and national stability,
and no one with a proper sense of responsi-
bility in perilous times like these should
think of sacrificing realities for daydreams.


BRANDAL ER-S
C,**
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDADEE A CO. 144, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
I
I
v 7
rjyl Lh&*^.
a /j v*°: <**
7^
9r^J!L~~-rt7l^
A,asM*L
(*&&*
ri*£
Wwv&£m Mirp
WS| Hpi jg^jtPS^essea
lbssr*i
EarW. «**g}
H reads: ‘^ eV O ( a\\ car <^* r ‘*Bo ,P e Frantfm
*nr r jt; ;v*•-
mi
DUNLOP RECOMMENDS
4 SPEED LIMIT Qf)
UV m.p.h.
WHICH MEANS NORMAL
TYRE LIFE
40%
ISSUED IN THE NATIONAL INTEREST BY
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
H 8.779
The Post-war World
With the peace will come the gradual
reopening of trade routes and the turn-
ing of the world’s industrial machinery
again with the aim of supplying popular
needs instead of military requirements.
There is likely to be confusion for
a period, with the measure of markets to
be found only by trial and error, with a
rush by war-ravaged countries to rebuild,
with transport scarce and international
and internal finances in an amorphous
state, and with the flood of war-time
invention sweeping away many old ideas,
standards and vested intrests.
Concerning the last factor, Dr. Charles
M. Stine, of the great Du Pont concern
in the U.S.A., has said that “the incon-
ceivables of only two years ago are to-
day’s realities. The war is compressing
into the space of months developments
which might have taken half a century
to realise if necessity had not forced the
pace.” For the United States he predicts
duplication of the world’s rubber supply
by synthetic means, a sevenfold expan-
sion in the production of aluminium and
an output of magnesium (lightest of all
structural metals), mainly from sea-water,
double that of aluminium in 1939. New
types of petroleum motor fuels will make
present-style car engines out of date;
“the auto, manufacturers’ slate has been
wiped clean for a fresh start which should
result in new cars of incredible efficiency
judged by present standards. We are
now in the 1960’s of cars as judged by
the pace of old developments.” As to
plastics: “The high-pressure synthesis of
ammonia, one of the major chemical ex-
ploits of the century, will have taken on
an industrial status that, in terms of new
producing capacity, may be comparable
to the discovery of a sixth continent.”
As representing the concern that de-
veloped nylon and that controls numer-
ous other products of everyday modern
life, the opinion of Dr. Stine is not to
be treated lightly. Taken at half its face
value, the shape of the post-war world
as visualised by him is something to test
the adaptability and mental stability of
the average man as well as serve him.
It looks as though the big countries will
become more self-sufficient and the
smaller countires more dependent on the
big countries. In other words, one-way
trade, evident before the war, may be-
come even more lopsided afterwards.
Developments of science will again be
at once a blessing and a problem. Com-
ing out of the confusion and strain of
war, human wit will again be taxed to
cope with problems created partly by
W'ar, partly by “progress.” In Australia
for more than a year we have been
financing war in a manner designed to
bypass, the real burden a shockingly
irresponsible thing to attempt. This in-
flation that we are creating, this mental
confusion surrounding the matter of the
burden of war, is going to leave us wide
open to trouble in the post-war return
to trade. With costs inflated internally
to a figure above world parity we are
likely to meet with exchange problems
as soon as import quotas are removed.
It was problems of exchange that brought
about economic warfare as a preliminary
to the present total war. And the world
simply will not leave Australia or any
other country to its own carefree, hap-
hazard way. We cannot free ourselves
from international any more than
national responsibilities.
Finance will be one of the predomi-
nating factors in the shape of the post-
war world. While finance and what
goes with it are rationally handled they
are servants of trade and aids to living
standards ; abused they can become ob-
structions to these things. Finance has
to be handled by well-developed minds
as an honest measure and record of
exchange, not as a means of evading
payment, as so many, including the
Federal Labor party, would like to use
it. Finance must not be used in a child-
ish, political way. It has a basis of fact,
not of fancy. As it is handled so it in-
evitably produces its results.
We must remember in this country
that our production costs affect our rate
of exchange with other countries, and
that wasted time and materials, as well
as spiralling wages, inflate production
costs. The rise in the basic wage from
795. to 955. since war began, while not
benefiting the wage-earner by the equiva-
lent of another egg for breakfast, has
depreciated our money in the world’s
markets. All countries at the present
time are suffering from war-time infla-
tion, but Australia in this regard is not
pursuing such a prudent path as, say,
Canada, and is certainly not doing the
best job it can.
One obstruction to pre-war world trade
was the overlooking of the fact that a
country cannot buy from the world more
than it sells. The U.S.A. has always been
a reluctant buyer, though a hustler for
sales. Considering the size and import-
ance of the United States in the indus-
trial world it has often shown a lack of
responsibility that has dismayed and be-
wildered many smaller countries.
A London opinion put forward early
in the present year was that after the
war international trade should be car-
ried out along the lines implied in the
Lend-Lease Act. The suggestion was
that trade should be conditioned by the
fact that nations can pay for goods
and services only by goods and
services, and a barter system was,
therefore, proposed, based upon fixed
exchange rates between national curren-
cies, the maintenance of exchange con-
trols, “and the internal control of the
trade cycle by a new monetary mecha-
nism which will equate effective demand
with supply.” Lord Semphill spoke up
for the idea in the House of Lords, and
pointed out other features of the plan —
one of particular interest was that every
nation which exported more than it im-
ported would be under penalty of having
the uncleared balance cancelled after a
period of years. In this way fluctuating
exchange rates would become a thing
of the past. Even if the idea is not
found to be fully practicable it has the
value of being excellent illustrative ma-
terial for those who have never fully
pondered the essentials of international
trade, which is entirely one of reciprocity.
Inside a country it should be possible
in the future to “equate effective demand
with supply” much more satisfactorily
than hitherto. Subject to a system of
price-control based principally on labor
costs we should be able to control indus-
trial activity and employment, within
limits, by the management of credit,
never forgetting, however, that where
credit is made available, even during a
slump, repayment or the turning of it into
substantial assets is a fundamental pro-
vise. In order to ensure the soundness of
credit expansion it will be necessaiy foi
tts to keep an up-to-date tab on all
matters of supply and demand, and to
finMC J y assistance accordingly.
Need|ess , 0 far ter responsibili-
than usual will be thrown on the
shoulders of banks and politicians. Inside
countries the influence of gold is becom-
j n g more an fl more remote.
In spite of the grea , demand for spelter ;
pr o tris of Electrolytic Zinc have again
f a u en xhe official figure for the 1940
term £443 732 1941 £362 784 1942
£216,416. The div. has dropped' from
24 p ’ c _ to 9 p c R easons f or the decline
have been taxation, higher wages and
o ther costs, lowered efficiency because of
warj fl xa tion of selling prices at well
below export parity, and the creation of
a reserve fund for mine depletion,
* * * *
Certain N.S.W. coalminers “unani-
mously” resolved to increase coal pro-
Auction in 1943. Dr. Evatt asked for an
extra million tons. Before the Minister
had time to return from the coalfields
two of the largest pits in N. S. Wales
were idle ; but they were all at it before
they entered upon their holidays.


THE SERVICE MAN
Grim Work in Papua.
“Ek Dum”; While Sydney bakers and
others were enjoying their four days’
Christmas leave, while shops were being
stripped by buyers, while the general sec-
retary of the Communist party was taking
the salute at a Sydney Town Hall dance
as if he were already Dictator of the
Proletariat, young Australians and Ameri-
cans were dying around the swamps of
Buna, only 10 hours’ flight away, in one
of the most horrible bits of territory in
which it ever has been the fate of soldiers
to fight.
They and their mates were fighting an
enemy cunning and vicious in combat
and rendered desperate by hopelessness.
The Japs fought like men who not only
knew how to die but knew that death
was expected of them. They held a series
of ideal positions to the last cartridge.
In the 11 direct miles or so from Cape
Endaiadere westward, the natural features
are somewhat as follows: Between the
new landing ground captured opposite
the cape and another landing ground laid
out parallel to the coast, Sinemi Creek
runs in through wooded country north
and south till it is near the beach. It
then takes a long east-west sweep parallel
to the west airstrip and between it
and the sea. Three-quarters of a mile
n.-w. of the landing ground Giropa Point
sticks out like a pimple in the sea ; half a
mile or so further on, on the eastern side
of a rounded headland, is Buna Mission.
Immediately west of this peninsula is the
small Entrance Creek, crossed some dis-
tance inland by the Giriwa track. A few
hundred yards further on is Buna itself,
on Buna Creek.
Here the Giriwa estuary begins. About
a mile from the sea the Giriwa River
breaks into a blotch of swamps confined
by two creeks —Buna Creek, on the east,
and a main stream coming out beyond
Giriwa village, east of Sanananda Point,
which is 2\ miles or so from Buna Mission.
Two main streams run through the
swampy land, dividing it into three partly
submerged islets—Siwori on the east,
Giriwa on the west. Along the firmer
coast across these “islands” runs a track.
Inland from this in the swamps the coun-
try is trackless.
Sanananda Point, with its coconut
grove, sticks out jaggedly into the sea.
Just west of it the trail from Soputa,
several miles away, comes in.
About 2\ miles inland a track swings
off this main inland road to the sea, to
go to Cape Killerton plantation, about
two miles from Sanananda Point.
West of Killerton is more swamp, in-
tersected by creeks shutting off Gona.
Attack on Sanananda
It was in the area between Killeiton
and Sinemi Creek that the last pockets
of Japanese remained after the A.I.F.
and its Stuart light tanks had cleared
up around Endaiadere on December 18.
At dawn next day Australians opened
a fresh attack on the main Soputa-San-
ananda trail at the western end of the
defence area, after Americans, wading
through what had been thought be-
fore the war to be impenetrable
swamps, had gone round a strongly-
established enemy pocket thrown across
the trapk to block it. Sometimes the
Americans sank to the armpits in the
horrible black mud of the swamps. But
they achieved their objectives, though it
was obvious that they could not be left
long in their new positions unless sup-
plied.
The first move at consolidation was for
an Australian unit to follow the Ameri-
cans and join with them. This the Aus-
sies did.
In the meantime other Australians had
brought up 25-pounders and other artil-
lery, including mortars. Throughout Dec.
18 hundreds of shells were dropped on
the enemy positions between Killerton
and Sanananda, while the R.A.A.F.’s co-
operation unit kept up a continual strafe,
uninterrupted by enemy aircraft. Wirra-
way men had filled their pockets with
grenades, and these they dropped into
glades on any exposed enemies they en-
countered as they flew over at treetop
level,
Australian infantry then attacked
straight down the Soputa-Sanananda
trail and in stages, during which they
encountered strong opposition from
strongpoints till they reached a point
within li miles of the coast.
The Two Pockets
When this attack finished the position
was that the enemy, apart from a pocket
or two, the strongest of which was up
the Soputa trail, held two beachheads.
That round Sanananda stretched from
Cape Killerton, about three miles to the
east, to Tarakena, and in parts reached
two miles inland.
That at the Buna end began a little
over two miles from the other area. It
was represented by two miles of coastal
country between Sinemi Creek, including
part of the old airstrip, west of the creek
and Government station.
This fortress was about half a mile deep.
The airstrip enfolded by Sinemi Creek
and west of it on Dec. 18 was still in
enemy hands.
In this area the Australians penetrated
to within 3000 yards of Buna Mission
and Government station before Dec. 20.
They had inflicted heavy losses on the
enemy, though his dead had not been
counted, and inexperience had caused the
first use of tanks on Dec. 18 to be marked
with some casualties, it having been
thought safe to pass crushed pillboxes
without examination. Many of. the enemy
strongpoints were actually below ground
level.
It had been a stout fight. Americans
who were supposed to follow the Aus-
tralian tanks and infantry could not
restrain themselves. They rushed in to
join the fray.
Mopping up on the Endaiadere field
continued throughout the week-end
(Dec. 19-20). The Allies, having suc-
ceeded in rebuilding a wrecked bridge
across Sinemi Creek, passed through the
wooded area between the western end
and eastern landing grounds, and fierce
fighting followed. By Dec. 23 it was
reported that the squeeze was reaching
its greatest pressure in the face of despe-
rate enemy resistance.
General MacArthur’s communique an-
nounced that “progress was relatively
slow, due to the intricate and thoroughly-
prepared positions of the enemy.”
Next day’s communique declared that
the enemy’s position was now desperate.
Allied attacks had breached his fortifi-
cations in many places. Many hundreds
of his dead had already been buried.
There were signs that Japanese morale
had begun to crack. Most of the coun-
try along Sinemi Creek had been infil-
trated by Australians and Americans.
They held half the west airstrip. The
Japanese a.-a. guns n.-w. of this strip had
been smashed. The captured half of
the airstrip was strewn with the wrecks
of about 20 aircraft, including three “O”
fighters, which were repairable.
At the western end of the Buna strong-
hold American troops had pushed into
a bit of island land in the centre of
Entrance Creek and were about 700 yards
from Buna Point and Mission. The
weather was not at its best, but Beau-
fighters supported the ground attacks and
hammered the Buna position and Man-
grove Island, which lies a little way out
in the sea.
Meanwhile Australians and Americans
driving on the Sanananda pocket were
fighting their way yard by yard down the
Soputa trail.
On Christmas Eve the bridge over
Sinemi Creek was in sufficiently good
order to allow tanks to cross and attack
the remaining sections of the airstrip held
by the enemy. They and following in-
fantry captured another 400 yards in
short order, in spite of heavy spurts of
fire from the swamps on each side. The
enemy used a.-a. guns against the tanks.
By noon three-quarters of the strip was
in enemy hands; by sundown it was
almost completely overrun ; by evening
the Buna position was described officially
as “the last line of defence in this sector,
centring on Giropa Point and extending
approximately a mile in length along the
coast, with a width of between 500 and
600 yards. A prepared and fortified cita-
del of resistance.”
The other battle on the Soputa trail, to
the west, continued to rage briskly and
independently.
Christmas in Papua
Christmas Day saw a lull during which
there was regrouping and the Allies pre-
pared for the last bitter fight. The enemy
had walled himself in with palisades of
heavy timber, placed upright, sometimes
several logs thick, and capable of resist-
ing light shellfire. Through these outer
walls gunports had been driven, so that
artillery and heavy machine-guns could
pour out death directed by snipers and
observers overhead in the trees.
Inside the palisades was a maze of in-
dependent defences, each self-contained.
They would have to be taken one by one.
The Christmas communique was brief:
On Christmas Day our activities were
limited to routine safety precautions.
Divine services were held throughout the
command wherever possible.
Most of the troops were too tired to
celebrate, even if there had been any-
thing to celebrate with, or too eager to
get on with the job. But the U.S. troops
got a bumper Christmas mail which they
shared with Australian comrades. And
the flower-decked carrier boys had a
special issue of tabac.
General Mac Arthur’s statement on
Dec. 27 said that close envelopment of
the enemy’s new Buna position was under
way. An attempt had been made by 12
“O” fighters to interfere with Allied air
co-operation, but eight of them had been
shot down in a fight in which the Allies
lost three machines.
This air attack was made largely on
Hudsons carrying their normal fighting
armament. A Hudson loaded with
wounded was damaged and landed in the
sea with the loss of two men. The Hud-
sons had accounted for two fighters and
had winged a third before Kittyhawks
swooped into the fight and finished it so
well that only a third of the enemy
limped home.
Buna Fortress Penetrated
American forces over Christmas had
attempted to cut the enemy enclosure in
halves by sweeping from the west round
the Buna Mission area to the sea, be-
tween the station and Giropa Point, the
centre of the fortification.
A spearhead seems to have got to the
sea, but it was cut off. It had survived
over the week-end, and rescuers on Sun-
day night were vigorously striving to
reach it from points 300 to 400 yards
away.
On the east Australian and American
troops had pushed to within a mile of
Giropa Point, and were fighting in the
westward dispersal bays of the Buna air-
strip.
On Dec. 27 Lockheed Lightnings (P3B)
made their debut over Papua, and 12 of
them shot down 13 out of 27 “O’s” and
two dive-bombers without loss. The
enemy lost 34 ’planes in the week-end.
The Australians’ Achievement
Australia can be proud of the grand
and major part her troops have played
in the Papuan campaign ; doubly proud
that it has been planned and achieved
under the command of an Australian
C.-in-C. of ground forces, General
Blarney, and an Australian staff.
From the day of late September, when
loribaiwa was attacked, the campaign
was conducted without hesitancy, without
undue haste or impatience and without
mistakes.
On Christmas Eve General Blarney
personally conveyed the thanks of the
Commonwealth and himself to many of
the A.I.F. survivors who fought from lori-
baiwa to Gona, and who were enjoying
a well-earned Christmas rest far behind
the lines. He said:
I am frequently asked how the old A.I.F.
measured up to the new A.I.F. I say;
“Never was the original A.I.F. asked to
perform so difficult a task as that you
have accomplished so splendidly. This is
not the first time I have addressed you,
but it is by far the most memorable. I
bring you from the Prime Minister the
thanks of the nation for what you have
done. You deserve, and you have, the
highest praise of the nation. Your deeds
will remain to your eternal credit....ln
doing what you did you set a standard
for yourselves, for the rest of the A.I.F.
and the rest of the Australian Army that
will be difficult to live up to.
You have lost many comrades, but you
have learned that it can be a high and
sweet achievement to give one’s life for
one’s country. We reverence their memory,
for they gave all they had to give so that
our freedom should continue.
But he added that the war would be
so long that he “could not see the end
of it.”
Bombers Far Afield
Details of operations by the South-
west Pacific Command were given in the
communiques:
Dec. 22: Heavy bombers destroyed two
medium-sized enemy cargo vessels at Finsch-
hafen, n.-e. of Lae. One had its stern blown
off; the other was left in flames. Finschhafen
was strafed, and many fires were started.
Dec. 23: Enemy installations at Vila de Aviz,
on the n.-e. tip of Timor, as well as the village
itself, strafed by Beaufighters. Cargo vessel,
seemingly bound for the N. Guinea mainland,
destroyed off Arawe (s. coast of New Britain).
Raid on Moresby beaten off before it caused
damage.
Dec. 24: Medium bombers raided a new
aerodrome discovered at Cape Gloucester —
on the north coast of New Britain, just east
Of Dampier Strait. At Jacquinot Bay, on the
south of the island, a Flying Fortress on recon-
naissance fought from six to nine “O’s” for
25 minutes, shot down one and damaged two ;
In the same area, a cargo vessel was damaged
by the near-miss of a 5001 b. bomb.
Dec. 25: An enemy tanker bombed with un-
known results in the Admiralties. Three of
nine enemy fighters shot down and two others
probably destroyed during an attack on an
Allied reconnaissance unit over Kaveing.
Heavy bombers raided Cape Gloucester air-
field. At Arawe a medium-sized cargo ship
destroyed; at Gasmata, heavy bombers sank
a 5000-ton transport and shot down one and
damaged two out of 15 “O” fighters which
attempted to intercept the raiding formation.
At Lae-Salamaua medium bombers sank a
destroyer. Installations at Dobu, in the Arus,
were strafed by a reconnaissance unit and a
seaplane sunk, and Beaufighters plastered
Fuiloro (Timor).
Dec. 27: Beaus, again strafed Fuiloro.
Medium bombers off the Timor coast made a
direct hit on the forward bridge of a 6poo-ton
cargo ship. Bombers raided Gasmata ’drome,
strafed a schooner at Lorenga (Admiralties),
shot down three “O” fighters without loss and
started heavy fires in the aerodrome area at
Lae.
Dec. 28: At Rabaul a 15,000-ton ship was
left on its side after a direct hit, and two ships
of about 8000 tons were seen in flames after
a night raid.
From Solomons to Rabaul
In the Solomons the bombing of
Munda base in New Georgia continued,
Maoriland Hudsons being added to the
growing American air force and drawing
blood in their first week in the air. One
N.Z. bomber beat off three “O’s” and
another destroyed a flying-boat. In their
14th raid on Munda U.S. machines de-
stroyed 24 enemy ’planes.
American units, with increasingly long-
range ships at their disposal, took over
their own handling of Rabaul, which has
hitherto been solely General Mac-
Arthur’s prerogative. It is about a 1150-
mile round trip from Henderson Field,
on Guadalcanal, to Rabaul.
One Solomons squadron has attacked
88 Japanese warships and six transports
during five weeks and sunk or damaged
18, losing only two pilots and four rear-
gunners.
In Africa and Palestine.
“Ek Dum”: Fathers, mothers, sweet-
hearts and wives of members of the
grand Ninth Australian Division spent a
happier Christmas for knowing that their
boys were not to be in the firing line.
Having done a fair thing, or more, at
El Alamein, they had been withdrawn
to a rest camp in Palestine, where rein-
forcements from Australia to mend the
gaps in their ranks were being welded
into them.
Camped on a battlefield on which their
fathers made history in the last war, they
were reviewed by General Alexander,
who said:
Your reputation as fighters has always
been famous, but I do not believe you
have ever fought with greater bravery or
distinction than during that battle when you
broke the German and Italian armies in
the Western Desert The battle of El
Alamein made history and you are in the
proud position of having taken a major
part in it Your losses have been heavy,
and for that we are all distressed. But war
is a hard, bloody affair and great victories
cannot be won without sacrifice.
On the Road to Tripoli
In Tripolitania the Eighth Army con-
tinued its day-and-night chase after
Rommel’s remains. Berlin declares that
the British force consists of the 7th
British Tank Division, the N.Z. Armored
Division, the 50th (North of England)
and 51st (Highland) Divisions, the 4th
Indian Division and part of the 44th
British Division.
It is nightmare work in the worst of
country. Round the flanks go the
armored units straining every cylinder to
catch the enemy in the side where it
will hurt him most. Overhead is a con-
tinual roar of strafing ’planes, and then
comes a distant thump of bombs. The
horizon is ringed with black smoke.
Columns force their way through dust-
clouds. And every inch of the ground,
every tap, every dropped Italian corpse,
every well-head, jam-tin, broken-down
’plane or dead camel or church door is
a potential harbor for a booby trap.
“Jumping Jacks” are apt to spring out
of the dust and strike the unwary on the
face before exploding. Nothing is safe
to touch till the Royal Engineers have
been over the ground. They use an elec-
tric diviner in their “delousing” work.
This instrument, passed over the ground,
emits a sort of humming moan which
shows symptoms of changing into a
muffled shriek when it nears metal. With
its help the R.E. clear roads at the rate
of 25 miles a day (besides replacing
bridges and communications), and the
scale of their work may be judged by
the fact that on the “Marble Arch air-
field” alone 600 mines were removed.
Sirte Taken —Buerat Reached
A Christmas Eve Cairo communique
announced that contact had been made
with enemy troops near Sirte. Brazzaville
Radio (Free French) gave the first news
of the Lake Chad forces in action. They
had routed an Axis motorised column in
southern Libya, about 400 miles from
the coast. .
On Christmas Day Sirte was m Allied
hands and forces were pushing down
the road to Misurata, 135 miles away.


CD
am
At Sirte the Eighth Army was 240 miles
from Tripoli. Some of its formations
which had come the longest way round
had travelled 1000 miles since leaving El
Alamein —an average of 140 miles a
week, in spite of bad weather.
Rommel was reported to have left a
strong Italian rearguard at Misurata.
He was likely to need it. D.N.B. —Ger-
man News Agency—announced that a
strong Allied tank and motorised force
had been detected on the southern flank
of the retreat, 60 miles from the coast,
but there was no indication whether it
was a British force or a section of the
Lake Chad expeditionaries.
In any case, it was certain that the
Afrikakorps’ difficulties were increasing,
and the meticulous care with which the
R.A.F. had bombed Khun aerodrome,
150 miles inland on the Lake Chad road,
during the week had suggested that some-
thing which did not wish to be molested
was coming up from that direction. By
Dec. 27 the advance guard of the British
were at Buerat, about 190 miles from
Tripoli,
The Guards Strike
For most of the week bad weather still
hampered operations in Tunisia, but both
armies busied themselves with supply
problems, and both were strengthened by
sea, though continual strafing of enemy
shipping by air and naval units gave the
Allies an advantage.
Christmas Eve and Christmas Day saw
a brigade of Guards in action.
The Guards attacked the serried
heights six miles north of Medjez el Bab,
on the southern arm of the Bizerta-Tunis
triangle.
The attack began shortly after 5 p.m.
on Christmas Eve. By morning on
Christmas Day all objectives were gained.
The Germans had counter-attacked and
regained some of their lost ground, but
they were driven out of it before break-
fast. In the range the Guards hold all
but the highest ridge.
The port of Tunis (La Goulette), Susa
and aerodromes in Sicily were bombed
at the week-end.
Admiral Darlan’s Death
The death of Admiral Darlan caused
no break in the continuity of the French
North African war effort.
Whatever the political effects of the
assassination of the admiral, his loss
from the viewpoint of the fighting forces
is a heavy one. He was essentially a
fighting man —he chose to fight in the
last war on land in command of naval
guns rather than at sea, because on land
he expected more and quicker action.
His qualities as a naval commander
made him a vice-admiral at 51 and C.-
in-C. of the French Fleet before war
broke out, and he was described in a
citation as “a man of bold initiative who
gets the best out of his crews and
materiel” He was the first and only
man to be promoted to the rank of
Admiral of the French Fleet since the
Franco-Prussian War.
The aftermaths of the assassination
were so swift as to show that the Allies
have a firm grip on the North African
situation. Within two days of Darlan’s
death his young assassin had been tried
and shot. Almost before the public
realised what had happened, General
Giraud had stepped into the dead man’s
shoes and the war was proceeding as
before.
Russia in Perspective.
“Ek Dum”: In considering the Russian
winter campaign, while giving due praise
to the Russians for their sturdy achieve-
ments, it is only prudent to remember
what “famous” editors, correspondents
and radio uncles made of the 1941-42
winter campaign.
In the first week of January, 1942, the
“famous” John Gordon wrote: “Hitler’s
armies in Russia are about to be com-
pletely destroyed ; Hitler is on the edge
of the greatest military disaster in world
history.”
Other writing boys routed Von Kleist’s
armies. They saw the remnants of
11 of his shattered divisions fleeing 100
miles in a vain effort to avoid the clutch
of a great swoop through the Donetz
industrial area, and prophesied the swift
evacuation of the whole of the Black
Sea coast. When the smoke cleared
away, the Germans were discovered only
15 miles from Rostov. They had never
lost towns which the boo-boo boys had
wrested from them, notably Taganrog
(“Russian Flag Flies over Taganrog”).
In the present series of campaigns
Timoshenko was credited with having
struck a devastating blow, encircling Stalin-’
grad and sweeping both north and south
to the gates of Kotelnikovo, 95 miles
s.-w., killing, wounding and taking
prisoner about 300,000 Germans in a few
days. The fall of Kotelnikovo was pro-
nounced imminent. But a few days after-
wards the Germans, in spite of their
allegedly devastating losses, were driving
an exploratory wedge into the Russian
positions 40 miles on the wrong side of
Kotelnikovo, which seemed to be still
firmly in their hands and not even imme-
diately threatened, though later there was
a new Russian advance in its direction.
Meanwhile correspondents and radio
uncles relieved Stalingrad. Russian com-
muniques report daily actions in that
city. And the 350,000 (or 100,000)
Germans “trapped” between the Volga
and the Don readers have their
choice according to the newspaper they
happen to buy—are still there. Last week
the enemy was still dropping shells
across the Volga, and his motorised
columns were raiding the Kalmuck steppes
to the south and delivering “desperate
counter-attacks” on the north-west, where
there is no word of his having lost the
important bridgehead in the Dubovka
region.
The succeeding offensive in the Kalinin
sector was supposed by correspondents
to have driven within 55 miles of the
Latvian border. Velikiye Luki was sur-
rounded ; so was Rshev. And “a drive on
Smolensk” was in progress ; some corre-
spondents seemed to expect that
Smolensk would fall any moment. Rshev
itself was said to have been entered in
one quarter. German casualties —inflicted
and counted sometimes in snow feet deep,
and in an atmosphere so dense that
columns frequently passed each other
within a mile or so —were again declared
to he staggering.
Next came the offensive on the Middle
Don against a sector largely held by
Italians and Hungarians. In a matter
of 12 days an advance of from 95 to
125 miles was proclaimed, together with
the capture of 56,000 prisoners and the
killing of nearly 50,000 of the enemy.
The territory captured was said to in-
clude the far-eastern tip of the Ukraine,
and with it went a number of towns
which do not appear even in the maps
of the National Geographical Society of
America or in the larger “Times” atlases,
though Kamenka and one or two others
are recorded.
It was here pointed out three weeks
ago that there was no lateral com-
munication east of the Voronezh-Rostov
railway along which the Germans might
build a winter defence line. They might
not attempt to hold all the vast area of
open country and its unimportant posi-
tions, contenting themselves by forming
a west-east corridor along the lower
Don —similar to the “fist” which they
have kept along the artery of the
Smolensk road and railway pointing at
Moscow. This would keep them in
Stalingrad and hold communications to
the Volga open for use next spring, be-
sides walling off the Cis-Caucasus and
Caucasus and retaining control of the
Black Sea.
An early report was that Kamensk,
the key to the Rostov area, had fallen.
A teething child with a map would not
have believed this news; first, because
it could not have been accomplished in
the time supposed to have been taken, and,
second, because half a dozen other places,
the fall of each of which would have sent
Messrs. Winterton, Shapiro and Morley
Richards into hysterics, would first have
to be assailed. But the news was swal-
lowed whole by daily newspapers which
were unabashed when it was discovered
that the town really taken was Kamenka,
an obscure place more than a hundred
miles away to the north.
In a further Russian attack on the
Caucasian front the capture of several
populated places and the wiping out of
large numbers of the enemy are claimed,
and from the enemy comes the old, old
story —“a withdrawal to new positions
was carried out according to plan.”
The Germans were reported to have
in the Middle Don area about 300,000
troops —15 divisions, with, of course, the
usual accessories. This is just as unbe-
lievable as the assumption that they had
about a million on the 100-mile line of
Stalingrad, as they must have had if the
statistics of casualties and trapped armies
and annihilated and severely damaged
divisions are anywhere near accurate. It
is doubtful if there are more than
1,250,000 front-line Axis troops between
Lake Ilmen and the Caucasus.
At the same time there is no question
that in each area the Russians have
achieved gallant successes. They have
moved the enemy back, inflicted consider-
able losses and helped to shake Axis
winter morale.
The Germans have admitted these
penetrations, and admitted also that they
were achieved after severe fighting, though
in each case the enemy has asserted that
Russian losses have been heavy.
Whether the drives will be worth while
strategically remains to be seen. At the
week-end not one important stronghold
had been taken. Rshev, Velikiye Luki,
Viazma, the strongpoints on the Volga
above and in Stalingrad, Kotelnikovo,
Kamensk, Millerovo, Voroshilovgrad and
the Tsymlayanskaya crossing of the
southern Don were all in German hands,
though Millerovo was claimed to be in
danger. When any one of these has been
taken, there will be real cause for rejoic-
ing.
But if some of them are not taken the
territorial gains of the Russians may be
a burden rather than an advantage. They
will have pushed themselves at several
points into wide open spaces served by
long lines of communication through
snowbound country. Their new frontal
formations will find them more or less
in a void, but contiguous to well-stocked
and powerfully-armed centres of defence
and offence when’the thaw and then the
spring come. This sort of advance had
something to do with the failure on the
Kursk-Kharkov line earlier in the year.
Within a week or so the Russian winter
will begin to enter a new phase. At
present, though there is plenty of snow,
much of the ground is still open and
hard. But in January the blizzards will
begin to reach their full fury, the snow-
drifts to become deep, the temperature
to reach its lowest. Movement on a large
or organised scale will become impos-
sible for either side, and the man who
remains in the open for a few hours is
likely to freeze into a block.
Attacks on fortified places! in such
weather mean exhaustion and loss of
men and materials which would be better
employed in spring.
Advance Continues in Burma.
“Ek Dum”: Without meeting opposi-
tion, Lieut-General Irwin’s Akyab ex-
peditionary force pushed southward
along the coastal road from Maungdaw.
By December 22, London had reported
the occupation of Alethangyaw, 12
miles onward, where there is a land-
ing-ground.
The troops are moving slowly down the
coastal road, hampered by the nature of
the country, but not by the enemy, who
retired after one or two feints. When
the British forces approached the Japs
moved inland, covered by a little distant
shellfire which was meant to deceive and
not to resist the invaders, and then
slipped down the Mayu River to Akyab.
British movements are careful and
methodical. The route chosen is close
to the sea all the way. The sea itself
is being used as a main communication
line ; supplies are brought to the Irwin
Force through many small harbors by a
variety of boats, ranging from one-man
sampans upwards.
At intervals, not too long apart, the
R.A.F. visits Akyab, from which the
British force was still 50 miles or so at
the week-end, and blows a few more bits
off its edges and out of its military
centres. Magwe on the Irrawaddy also
has been bombed frequently,
A Japanese raid on Calcutta at the be-
ginning of the week and others later were
played up busily by Tokyo, which
appeared to hope great things from the
effects on Indian morale. The sentiment
likely to be roused in Bengal by bombing
is not fear so much as indignation. The
heaviest raid was on Christmas Eve.
Late in the week the British operations
were hampered by rain.
While portion of Wavell’s army is
pushing into the Arakan country the
Japanese are carrying new drives into
Yunnan, the main one of which is aimed
from Kentung, in Burma, at the southern
part of the Chinese province. The objec-
tive is obviously defensive, a movement
to consolidate the rear of the Japanese
Burma armies, so that they will not have
Chiang Kai-shek hanging on to their tails
while they cope with the Indian forma-
tions. It is also apparently intended
to give added protection to Thailand
by establishing border defence.
At the end of the week, the Chinese re-
ported that they were holding their
attackers in check along the Nalmwi
River.
Vale Armsdale!
Mr. Curtin announced on Christmas
Eve that H.M.A.S. Armidale, a mine-
sweeper of 938 tons, built in a N. S.
Wales dockyard and commissioned last
June, had been sunk by Jap bombers off
Timor, with a loss of 40 out of her crew
of 83. Among the 40 were Lieut. J. R.
Buckland, R.A.N.V.R., and Prob. Temp.
Engineer Lieut. H. F. M. Jenkyn,
R.A.N.R. Those lost mainly were from
N. S. Wales, though all States suffered.
Armidale, the P.M. said, was heavily
and repeatedly attacked by enemy air-
craft, including torpedo bombers.
Attempts to communicate with her were
fruitless. Searchers found no trace of the
ship, but aircraft sighted a lifeboat con-
taining survivors. A naval ship which
went to the rescue was attacked by
aircraft, but reached the boat and
picked up the 17 survivors in it. These
were taken to an Australian port,
A further 26 were picked up three days
later in another lifeboat, which again was
discovered by the R.A.A.F. and retrieved
by the R.A.N.
The survivors’ story showed that the
ship put up a resistance worthy of the
R.A.N. Her crew shot down a bomber
and a fighter and probably a second
fighter. “Proof,” Mr. Curtin said, “of
the fighting spirit of her men.”
It indicates, too, that the enemy knows
the type of ship sunk in this attack, and
it is tilting that Australia should make
known her name. I extend the sympathy of
the Government and of the Naval Board
to the next-of-kin of the missing.
To the Prime Minister’s sympathy will
be joined that of all Australians,
The behavior of the enemy was in
strong contrast to that of the men who
sank Prince of Wales and Repulse. For
three days after the loss of the Armidale
the bulk of the officers and men rescued
were alternately swimming in the water
or clinging to rafts. Japanese machine-
gunned them, coming so close to the sur-
face that the faces of the pilots could be
seen by their would-be victims.
On the third day a party of 29
righted a submerged lifeboat. The
gunnery officer who commanded set out
for Darwin with a complement of rowers
already weak and with, for food and
drink, two tins of bully beef, six tins of
condensed milk and a bottle of water.
Eight days and two and one-quarter
hours after their ship had been sunk this
boatload were rescued. They collapsed
almost to a man on the deck of the rescue
ship.
The ship’s motor-boat, commanded by
Armidale’s captain, had 20 aboard when
she turned for home after several hours’
work getting the engine to start. Twenty
hours later petrol ran out, but the men
rowed in shifts for four days and five
nights. They were then sighted and, on
the sixth day, picked up.
Three U.S. generals have been wounded
in the Buna fighting. The first was
Brigadier-General Hanford McNider,
who suffered 10 wounds from an ex-
ploding Jap grenade near Cape Endaia-
dere. A private was killed by the same
grenade. Brigadier Albert Waldron has
a bullet wound in the right shoulder and
a D.S.C. to hang below the left one as
a memento of “extraordinary heroism in
action” when, with an assault column
only 25 yards from the Jap lines, he
moved along his own line under heavy
fire until he was knocked down by an
exploding grenade and hit by a sniper.
The third general is Brigadier Clovis E.
Byers, who was shot in the hand after
raking the treetops with a tommy-gun
as he moved into the front line. All
three generals, as the result of their dash
and courage, are now in Australia in
hospital.
* * * *
Every moment the British and Allied
grip over the western Mediterranean be-
comes tighter, Malta, according to the
Admiralty, has received large reinforce-
ments without major interference, and
small convoys have carried to the island
supplies sufficient to last several months.
The first convoy to come through Bomb
Alley from the Atlantic without loss for
a year was cheered wildly by the great-
hearted Valetta crowds. Part of the
secret of the change is that the R.A.F. is
now able to give land-based protection
to convoys from the African coast.
The state of enemy communications in
the Mediterranean may be judged from
a Dec. 23 report —five enemy supply
ships, a destroyer and an escort vessel
torpedoed by British subs, and naval
’planes.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
When this Letter goes into print 1943
will be just around the corner. The little
candle of 1942 will be guttering out. It
will have burned almost away its joys
and its sorrows and its fears —particu-
larly its fears. When the year started
even the bravest-hearted faced the coming
months with trepidation. Well, the worst
did not happen. It so seldom does! Aus-
tralia was not called upon (Heaven be
praised!) to live through a hell of bombs,
of burning cities. Her people have learned,
however, to endure shortages and incon-
veniences ; have learned to carry groceries
and meat home, wrapped or in the raw.
Bottles, even completely in the nude, are
borne with self-conscious pride (when
obtainable). Best of all, 1942 has proved
• that in a world of minor hardships cheer-
fulness can still be achieved. The candle
of 1942 flickers out, and lighting the
w'ay is the silver beam from the star of
hope of 1943.
This year, if it hadn’t been for the home
toy-maker, many a Christmas stocking
would have lost its plump contour.
Mothers, aunts and child-lovers generally
got busy weeks ago when there seemed
likely to be a shortage of cuddley dogs,
elephants, bears, bunnies and other dar-
lings of the animal kingdom. Velvet even-
ing frocks were taken from their hangers,
and, though it may be impossible to make
a silk purse out of a pig’s ear, many a
pig has been made out of a pair of angel
sleeves. Wooden toys, too, were being
trundled about on the morning of
December 25, with great joy, by the very
small boy of the family. But, of course,
the tank was the only plaything the man
of six and upwards thought worth look-
ing at. Makers of dolls showed ingenuity,
and beautifully lithe and long-legged
charmers were evolved from choice
scraps. Some of these belles were even
made of papier-mache.
The big iron gateway at the entrance
to the drive to Government House seems
to look a*little surprised at itself these
days. High across it runs a bannerette
announcing: “Australia On the Offen-
sive.” It is trimmed with flags and a
soldier in khaki stands on guard. Within
on the grassy slopes to the right is spread
a grand display of “made in Australia”
armaments. With the arch of the Harbor
Bridge behind and Farm Cove before,
the General Lees and General Grants
and Matildas, put out to grass, seem to
be enjoying the visits of the populace
and the admiring awe they evoke.
Among these weapons for soldiers are
anti-aircraft guns and anti-tank guns
whose projectiles can pierce solid metal
as nonchalantly as a dart can tear a sheet
of tissue. There are mines, and the para-
vanes to undo their malice. Most of the
exhibits have their names on them. From
camouflage nests that mimic bits of land-
scape sinister guns show ironic grin or
the blackened face of a greeny-camou-
flaged warrior peers. Even the pigeons,
first cousin to the dove (the bird
that has been out of fashion for so
long), have taken to warlike pursuits, and
have become an important bit of the Air
Force. It is a show to which Sydney’s
fathers and mothers, aunts, uncles, sisters
and especially small brothers are going
in great numbers. Sun-bronzed young
soldiers are there to answer questions,
even the one by the querulous old lady
who walked around a strange and fear-
some object three times, then prodded a
passing soldier: “Young man,” came her
acid tones, “has this object got another
name besides ‘Wet Paint’?”
A tree whose boughs seemed to be
composed of scarlet bonbons made brave
showing at the top right-hand corner of
the Town Hall on the opening day of the
United Nations Fair. The Fair, which
was to help the R.A.A.F. Central Area
Comforts Fund, ran gaily for four days
and four nights, and on Christmas Eve
waited up to see Santa Claus. It was
two o’clock in the morning before the
candles of festivity were extinguished.
Mayor Stanley Crick declared the money-
raiser open, recalling that his first public
duty in office was to open Air Force
House.
Vendors in the national costume of
the Allied Nations sold lucky competi-
tion numbers, the prizes being cakes,
hampers and other seasonable fare. Each
country’s colors streamed above its par-
ticular stall. At each end of the lucky-
dip counter was a small Christmas tree
frosted with tinsel and glowing with silver
and golden fruit. Around its fa?ade were
bright red and emerald wreaths, suitable
for setting in windows or below door-
knockers, between December 25 and
January 1. Lord and Lady Wakehurst
vrere in the audience for the first night's
entertainment.
Australia is the poorer for the passing
of Mrs. S. G. Drummond, wife of the
founder of the Far West Children’s
Health Scheme. For 20 years Mrs. Drum-
mond actively helped her husband in his
kindly work of bringing the Far West
to the Pacific. In the years since its be-
ginning hundreds of sunbaked small
girls and boys have been brought to the
salty spray, the curling waves of Manly
beach. All through the year, too, the
Far West Children’s Home is filled
with sick and invalid children, come to
the city from remote corners of the State
for medical care. Towards the end of this
year Mrs. Drummond and her husband
were stricken with illness. He is battling
back to health in Gloucester House, but
Mrs. Drummond’s lifework was ended.
Mrs. Drummond was born on the Pater-
son.
A crib surrounded by tiny lambs and
asses and oxen and banked on each side
with Madonna lilies was a true bit of
Christmas at the children’s mid-day party
in the Friends of France Club. President
Ivy Moore had cooeed to all the French
children, from Pacific islands, now in
Sydney, whose fathers are with the fight-
ing forces, and the result was a great
muster of childhood with grown-ups in
attendance. A prosperously-laden and
bedizened tree held the eyes of youth till
every bauble was stripped. There were
presents for all, and hillocks of cakes and
sweets. A girl in the costume and the
high-haloed lace cap of Brittany acted as
first lieutenant to Santa Claus.
This is Kae McDowell, recently elected
president of the Women’s Auxiliary of
the National Defence League. What the
N.D.L. has done in training camouflage-
netters and the good job put in by their
transport section is known and praised by
both war-worker and the military. Kae
has been a leading spirit in the Women’s
Auxiliary since its beginning ; in fact, she
was its organiser. The Service Women’s
Canteen in Phillip-street is the latest suc-
cess made by these patriotic and untiring
women. Norton Trevaire photograph.
Senator H. S. Foil and his wife had a
romantic cable from their second daugh-
ter, Private Beryl Katherine Foil, of the
Australian Army Medical Women’s Ser-
vices, last week. It told of her engage-
ment to Warrant-Officer John Richard-
son, A.I.F. He is eldest son of the Major
C. R. Richardson couple, of Armidale
(N.S.W.). Both Beryl and John are serv-
ing abroad.
In the hall of Christ Church, St. Laur-
ence, there were great clusters of Christ-
mas bush, outsize bunches of Christmas
bells, tall agapanthus and lilies. In be-
tween were vivid streamers and a shower
ot the confetti of glad sounds, laughtei
and music and dancing feet. The scene
was set for the Christmas party prepared
by the Mrs. Ben Edye, Lilian Frost and
Bort Fahy group for boys of the services.
There were at leastJSOof these guests, and
each had a pretty girl to partner him.
There was a cake as festive as the spirit
of the season. Raissia Kouznetsova, of the
Polish-Australian ballet, was greatly ap-
plauded in her special dances. Stanley
Clarkson is booked to sing at the New
Year festivity of the same group at the
same place.
Geneva, and what that city had meant
to civilisation and the cause of liberty
in the two thousand years since its found-
ing by Julius Caesar in one of his all-
round non-stop tours of Europe, was the
subject of a recent lecture by Dr. George
Morel. The doctor is the delegate in
Australia of the International Red Cross
committee. The lecture was particularly
interesting from two angles. Its date in
December was close to the great day on
which the whole of Switzerland com-
memorates the absolute defeat of that
Duke of Savoy who threatened to take
away its prized liberty. On every dinner
table on that anniversary appears a roast
turkey stuffed with chestnuts, represent-
ing the Duke. The head of the house
later declaims a poem of 48 verses which
takes about 40 minutes to recite. This
keeps the memory of that far-off day
green.
Also, as the whole world, whether for
us or against us, is now engaged in Red
Cross activities, the doctor’s remarks
about the International Red Cross move-
ment, founded in Switzerland, had special
point. The International Red Cross
Committee is exclusively Swiss. It is
supported up to 66 p.c. by Federal Coun-
cil, various cantons and by the Swiss
people individually. The Red Cross
societies of belligerent countries contri-
bute to it according to the use they make
of its resources.
From Melbourne
Squeezing in a spot of acting in the
Christmas break, Joan Denyer, here pic-
tured by Antoine, took the part of Gay
Bright, Mayfairite in Brett Randall’s rol-
licking Christmas show “Saloon Bar,”
with Mr. Randall himself leading the
fun. Miss Denyer is usually hard at
work with “herbs for the forces” and is
no end bucked by the reports coming
from the Navy and the forces in the
Middle East that the men’s health has
improved measurably since cooking herbs
have been included in army rations. Miss
Denyer has a personal interest in the
health of the forces, as fiance Sergeant-
Pilot John Swain is overseas and was
recently reported as bombing Turin. The
herb-growing movement has received *a
shower of blessings from the powers that
be and is expanding to keep up with the
demand. Further quarters in G.H. Mews
are being taken over, and the Observa-
tory premises, used up till now, will
probably be vacated. Herbs grown all
over Victoria as well as on the spot are
taken there to be dried.
Melbourne experienced its usual
Christmas Eve cool-off, and there was a
moment when a downpour seemed immi-
nent to usher in the Dawn; but no. Salva-
tion Army bands were able to go out
at 4 a.m. in their summer suits and
serenade the suburbs and hospitals with
“Christians, Awake” and carols. Later
the services and the rest of the popula-
tion sat down to the traditional poultry
and plum pudding and enjoyed it. Never
have the birds played their part better;
there seemed literally thousands of them
hanging in the shops, and it would seem
no Christmas dinner was without its
poultry. Beer ran out, true, but that was
probably due to excessive pre-Christmas
rejoicing.
Some private Christmas celebrations
were made gayer by engagement an-
nouncements. Bettine Cotter, of the
newly - formed W.R.A.N.S., probably
pioneered this service’s engagements by
announcing hers to Sergt. Jack Harrison-
Owen, R.A.A.F., son of Mrs. Harold
Kerr and brother of Peggy Harrison-
Owen, now an officer in the A.W.A.S.
Jokes about Mr. Dedman blue-pencil-
ling Santa Claus are being discovered to
be not altogether without foundation by
mothers of small children who look for
him yearly at the big stores. A harassed
parent of two lively youngsters was
heard explaining to sympathetic fellow-
travellers as she staggered wearily on to
a suburban platform that she had spent
the day waiting in a queue for the only
Father Christmas in town who had not
been spirited away by Man-power.
When Mrs. Edward Campbell, Lady
Mayoress, gave a very small Christmas
lunch at her room at the Town Hall
all her guests except two were women.
Those two were Lord Mayor Nettlefold
and the hostess’s husband, Cr. Campbell.
Cr. Campbell, replying to her speech in
which she thanked him for letting her be
Lady Mayoress and the Lord Mayor for
the compliment he had paid her in ask-
ing her to fill the role, referred to her
as “my best girl.” The Mayor and Cr.
Campbell, both old soldiers, kept the
lunch party in cheery talk, but the
Mayoress was speechmaker-in-chief. She
has developed great aptitude in this part
of her job.
Workers for war funds have been
doing a bit of general stocktaking while
otherwise resting during the Christmas
break. The Town Hall fraternity has
been discussing its monthly appeals, and
members of committees have been analys-
ing methods to discover just why one
appeal succeeds beyond all expectations
while others bring in barely adequate
amounts. Outstanding success, the
“Young Bill” appeal for prisoners of
war, requires no explanation, as anxious
thoughts of the whole community,
whether personally touched or not, have
been with the men in prison camps. The
Russian appeal, though in crowded
streets, found the Christmas-shopping
crowd rather too harried to contribute
as heartily as usual. Generally it has
been found that all sales of things that
people need day by day, jam, cakes, vege-
tables and the like, are extremely suc-
cessful and fancy “fetey” things are at
a discount. Town Hall’s Paddy’s Market,
thoroughly utilitarian from “pigs on the
hoof” to vegetables and furniture,
touched the £l3OO mark. There is some
speculation as to whether responses in
general will slump in the New Year.
It is to be hoped pessimism is not justi-
fied, as city collections for nurses and
later for blinded men of the forces, both
very deserving causes, are to be made
soon.
The nativity play which A.W.A.S. put
on in the pleasant grounds of a Toorak
mansion on Christmas Eve lingers in the
memory. The criticism that uniform
tends to make the girls less feminine has
often been heard here, but in their angels’
robes the AW.A.S. members of the cast
were womanliness in quintessence, their
girlish voices sounding through the night
with freshness and intensity as they sang
of peace. Major Deasey, AW.A.S., was
mostly responsible for the staging, and
indeed the rest of the work involved in
the play. Nearly 100 girls were in the
cast.
Bright dressing and Allied support made
the first night of “Reunion in Vienna”
a gay patch in a sombre Boxing Day.
After the show there was a procession
of friends to the dressing-rooms back-
stage to say to Eddie Styles how much
they had loved him as Rudolf Max ; and,
because they really couldn’t help their
enthusiasm, most of them, although only
a day off their Christmas dinner, toiled
up the steps to the second balcony to
wring Mrs. Dorrington’s hand and tell
her that her Frau Luccher was even better
than her Danvers. As Mrs. Dorrington
was trying to take the paint off her nose
she probably didn’t worry what they
thought, but her black wig bobbed up
and down as she took her bows.
Typical of war’s changes is Bessie
Sweetland’s transfer of her energies from
schoolteaching at Strathcona to an assist-
ant commissionership of the Y.W.C.A.
in Victoria. Beatrice V. Woollcott, once
house-mistress at Firbank and later man-
ageress of the Lyceum Club, controls two
Y.W.C.A. hostels for women of the forces
in Toorak. Lois Green, niece of “Bob”
Menzies, would have been interior deco-
rating, but now wields a brush in camou-
flage which may be considered exterior
decorating.
The American Red Cross seems to
provide a wider scope for its workers than
does the Australian ditto, helping men
of the U.S. forces with home troubles and
career difficulties as much as with their
recovery from ailments and the various
necessities for illnesses which the Aus-
tralian Red Cross plentifully provides.
Soldiers come into the U.S. Red Cross
rep.’s office with inquiries about cables
home and all sorts of odds and ends
about their friends here, and what to do
in little social matters. International Red
Cross also has a hand in composing let-
ters for the Americans, not a few of
whom have parents whose language is
Russian or Polish.
When someone next makes up another
of those little booklets explaining each
nationality in the Allied armies to the
rest of the Allies, a paragraph might be
included on the insularity of humor.
Digger and Doughboy just don t see the
same jokes. This fact was evident at the
Christmas Eve concert given by Ameri-
cans for American troops. But “Waltz-
ing Matilda” got a big hand when sung
by five army doctors. A big feature,
tremendously applauded, was a dance
with his broom given by a negro sergeant.
He swept as he danced, every muscle
superbly rhythmic.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Randwick was well patronised on Sat-
urday, the attendance, including 8000
soldiers, being 43,000. The tote turnover
for six races was £66,691, against £43,180
for seven on the corresponding day last
year. The Summer Cup was responsible
for £15,174 —£6050 win and £9124 place.
Amberspear (J. Duncan) closed favor-
ite for the Summer Cup after Grand Fils
had held that position early in the day.
The soft going sent Dashing Cavalier
out of favor. Amberspear justified his
favoritism by setting up a lead of six
lengths from Angus and Jymjon in the
first five furlongs and increasing it to
eight or nine at the commencement of the
last half-mile. At that point it seemed
as if he would have almost to walk to
suffer defeat. Lambeth, Angus and Jym-
jon reduced the gap after entering the
straight but were unable to threaten
Amberspear seriously, though Lambeth
and Enderby were gaining on him at the
winning-post. Amberspear met Lambeth
1 lib. better than in the December Handi-
cap, and that made all the difference.
Dashing Cavalier confirmed the gen-
erally accepted belief that he was of little
account in soft going. Fairly placed at
the mile post, he commenced to lose
ground at the six furlongs, and beat only
one. Grand Fils was last, and Rimveil’s
9.7 completely stopped him with the track
on the soft side. The time was 2.49,
against 2.46 j last year, but owing to the
false rail the field covered an additional
22 yards. The position in respect of Am-
berspear is a peculiar one. Since an
inquiry into his poor form at Rosehill
was postponed he has won a valuable
handicap.
John Halifax (Podmore) was seen at
his best in the Chisholm Handicap.
Second to Trimmer into the straight, he
and Soho led a furlong from home. Fifty
yards from the winning-post Soho
appeared to have the measure of John
Halifax, but, raising a final effort, the
latter won by a head in the last two or
three strides. Mildura, who was among
the tail-enders after going a couple of
furlongs, put in a good run to get third,
and Gallop and Irish Sea headed the re-
mainder. Martheus and Lagoon showed
their usual pace in the early part, but had
nothing to do with the finish. In fact,
from the commencement of the last fur-
long it was certain the winner would be
Soho or John Halifax.
The greatest disappointment of the
afternoon was Haddon Hall in the De-
cember Stakes. He commenced fairly,
dropped back last of the four, and
wound up third. Van Eyck led
shortly after barrier-rise, but Clarion Call
(Cook), who took his measure halfway
down the straight, won comfortably.
In the way of a race it was decidedly
poor for ope carrying £l5OO added
money.
War Eagle (W. Cook), favorite for the
Summer Nursery, had his work cut out
to win by a half-head from Falcon
Knight (by The Buzzard) after the two
had raced together over the last furlong.
War Eagle is a stylish colt, and will do
better. Alcestis, though third, never
looked a winner, but will improve. Cock-
crow did very little better than at his pre-
vious appearances. He died out after
showing pace to the turn, aqd it was the
same with Decanter, a Talking filly. War
Eagle is by Manitoba from Gneiss, and
was a 475gns. yearling. The time, I.lo*
for five and a half furlongs, was slow
by comparison with Clarion Call’s 1.2 j
for five furlongs in the December Stakes.
Easter Time (Munro) was not one of
the leading division at the turn in the
Christmas Trial Handicap, but, with a
good finishing run, he scored by a length
from Picaroon, who looked a winner
when he disposed of Casket King just
after entering the straight. Kiaree, in
third place, was always in a handy posi-
tion and his failure went towards prov-
ing that he is not so good as previously
supposed. Kept nearer the front in the
early part than in his previous races,
Casket King weakened from the turn, and
Sir Tennyson, though fourth, was never
dangerous. As Barrenjoey, who looked
particularly well, was last, the going must
have completely settled him.
G. Price gave Baroda (J. Thompson) a
good chance in the A.J.C. Handicap, and
his judgment was correct. Well placed
from barrier-rise Baroda was too solid
for the pacemaker. Whisper Low, over
the last furlong, beating her a couple of
lengths. Goonee, who was always promi-
nent, was a fair third, followed by Mary
Lou and Stylish. Merrimba ran no better
than in the Villiers, and Chatham’s
Choice was never a possibility. It is
probable, however, that the chances of
some runners were adversely affected
when Sir Wyvern and Prince —who were
fairly close to the leaders at the time —
fell shortly after passing the mile post.
• * * *
Reception’s defeat of Millais in the
Standish Handicap at Flemington on
Saturday had an unhappy sequel for his
rider, R. Heather. A protest against the
latter for interference shortly after the
start was dismissed, but Heather was sus-
pended for two months for starting
from a wrong barrier position and cross-
ing towards the rails too sharply. Recep-
tion, who should have started from
number 20 in a field of 33, took up a
position at 12 or 13, cut across to the
fence soon after barrier-rise, and led for
the rest of the trip to win by three-
quarters of a length.
Reception’s task may have been more
difficult had he started from his correct
position, but he earned full marks for his
success under 9.12. He is one of the
most outstanding straight-six performers
seen in recent years, and has been a fine
bargain at the 500gns. he cost in Sydney
in the spring of last year. For his present
owner he has won nine races and £2785 in
stakes. Millais, although beaten in his
first race for his new owner, may be
worth the 1400gns. he cost at auction
recently. Cacique, third, will do better
over a distance beyond six furlongs, and
Hiawatha, fourth, did well enough to sug-
gest that he will be a payable proposi-
tion for his new owner, who purchased
him cheaply several weeks ago.
Mac Rob, purchased after he had fin-
ished fourth in the Ascot Cup two weeks
earlier, made a successful debut for his
new owner by defeating Portfolio and
Throttle in the £lOOO Bagot Handicap. He
was a solidly-backed second favorite,
and outstayed Portfolio to win by a neck.
Mac Rob is still trained by his former
owner, J. Holt, and gave the latter his
first win for over a year. Holt has won
most of Australia’s principal races, but
does not now train on the same exten-
sive scale as formerly, and it was only
recently that he resumed operations after
a retirement of about six months. Old
Prairiedale showed by his fourth on
Saturday that he is not altogether a back
number, and High Road would have done
better than fifth had he experienced a
clearer run in the straight. Sir Romeo,
favorite at 5 to 2, made up ground to
finish sixth, but was never dangerous.
Crow’s Nest, a filly by St. Magnus
from Crow Call, justified her favoritism
for the Stradbroke Stakes. Drawn fairly
wide out, she won running away from
Sirius and Helicon. With Ben Butler,
Simmering and Crow’s Nest, trainer L.
Robertson has three of the smartest
juveniles of the season.
• . #• . •
Sunrocks, backed to favoritism at 3 to
1, overcame the disadvantage of an out-
side barrier position in the first Welter
Handicap. Although forced to cover a
great deal of extra ground, he won bril-
liantly from Harith and Jack Again.
Fuomint, an outsider, easily defeated
Athol Belle and Lucille in the second
division, but the finish would have been
closer had Athol Belle missed interfer-
ence in the first furlong. Maniototo,
backed from 15 to 1 down to eights, gave
his owner an overdue win by easily de-
feating Reply Paid and Blue Valley in
the Patriotic Handicap.
* * * *
It is worth the attention of trainers
that, with the exception of the Carring-
ton Stakes and Tattersall’s Cup, appren-
tice allowances can be claimed for races
at Tattersall’s meeting. A capable jockey
is worth more to most horses than an
apprentice allowance, but some horses
gallop well for lads to whom they are
accustomed in their work, and in their
case a 71b. or 51b. allowance does make
a difference to their chances.
* * * *
Reception has improved more than
any horse that has gone from Sydney
to Melbourne for many years. It does
not follow that this is due to superior
training. But comparatively few trainers
vary their methods in their preparation of
sprinters to any extent, and as what
brings out the best in one is not suitable
for all a change of stables occasionally
has a beneficial effect upon a horse.
Weight stops the best, and though
Auction, Queensland’s crack sprinter,
started favorite for the seven furlongs
Open Handicap at Albion Park (Bris-
bane) on Saturday last he was beaten into
third place by Max Corban (an outsider)
and High Rank. However, the result
further demonstrated Auction’s quality.
He was conceding sst. 21b. to Max Cor-
ban and 2st. 101 b. to High Rank, and,
while Max Corban won by a length,
Auction was only a head behind High
Rank. It will now trouble Auction to
win races in Brisbane, and the pity is
that difficulty of transport will probably
keep him there.
* * * *
If there was previously the least doubt
on that score Kindergarten proved him-
self truly great by easily winning the
Auckland Cup by five lengths. He car-
ried 10.2 and ran the two miles in 3.22.
There was recently controversy in Maori-
land as to the best horse that had raced
there. General opinion appeared to favor
Gloaming up to a mile and a quarter,
and Kindergarten beyond that distance.
In Australia Gloaming won the A.J.C.
Derby, and though at nine years he was
also successful in the A.J.C. Spring Stakes
he was better suited by a shorter dis-
tance than a mile and a half when
racing over here. Kindergarten unfortu-
nately went amiss after having one run
when he visited Sydney last year. It is
to be hoped he is a visitor in the autumn,
but with fewer w.f.a. races to be run,
and difficulty and danger attaching to
transport, that may be almost too much
to expect.
* * * *
Two-year-olds that have raced in Syd-
ney this season have included many that
lacked nothing on the score of breeding
or looks, but it cannot be claimed that
there is anything outstanding. Moorland
and Ajixa have not raced since they won
at the A.J.C. autumn meeting, and, though
Haddon Hall’s three successive wins
appeared to give him claims to be con-
sidered well above the average, his
December Stakes running disposed of
that idea. Clarion Call is a smart geld-
ing, but not exceptional, and it will be
no surprise if, in the autumn, the best of
the lot comes from something that has
either not yet raced or has shown indif-
ferent form,
» * * *
B. Payten, who did so well last
season, has not been so fortunate up to
the present in the current one. Plenty of
minor platings but few wins have been
his share. He has been decidedly un-
lucky with his two-year-olds, Van Eyck
having scored two seconds and a third ;
MacArthur, a second and a third ; and
Hecuba, a second. However, though un-
successful, each of those mentioned has
done sufficiently well to point to wins
in the future.
# * * *
According to the Racing Calendar
weights for the Carrington Stakes and
Tattersall’s Cup will not be issued until
Jan. 4. With a fortnight intervening
between the second day of the A.J.C.
meeting and Tatt.’s meeting, an earlier
appearance would have been appreciated
by owners and trainers.
* * * *
It may not have altered the result, but
it did seem to many of the spectators as
if some of the Summer Cup riders were
waiting on each other to go after
Amberspear, and they delayed until their
chances of overhauling him were prac-
tically hopeless. Amberspear was a tired
horse at the finish, and so were all his
followers in trying to accomplish an
almost impossible task over the last half-
mile.
=H * * *
When G. M. Currie won the Derby
with Rink at the recent N.Z. Cup meet-
ing it was the first time he had ever
started a horse at Riccarton (Christ-
church). This was remarkable in view of
the many years he has bred and raced
horses. Rink, who is by Ringmaster
from Impetuous (dam of Elanage),
beat 11 other runners in 2.33|. The
Derby was run on N.Z. Cup day, when,
for the first time in the history of the
C.J.C., the tote turnover reached six
figures, £100,666 going through the
machines.
* * * *
An American owner, Emil Denemark,
is suing Arlington Park (Chicago) for
$75,000 (a little over £A22,800) for the
loss of War Minstrel. The horse bolted
into the infield (equivalent to the flat at
Randwick), and, running into a wire
fence, was so badly injured that he had
to be destroyed.
* * * *
Nothing contained in the new Racing
Bill really subordinates the Sydney Turf
Club to .any other racing body. It is
empowered to appoint its own racing
stewards and other officials, and, apart
from the fact that all profits are to go
into racing, it savors of an earlier Asso-
ciation, though with Government back-
ing. The bill has yet to be passed, and
it is regrettable that, in an address to
the Owners and Trainers’ Association, a
member of Parliament —one who prob-
ably anticipates playing a prominent
part with the new club—allowed a spirit
of antagonism to the present ruling body
to manifest itself. According to this
gentleman it is probable the S.T.C. will
“make the A.J.C. sit up and take notice.”
The A.J.C, is not faultless, but it is
responsible for the standard of racing
attained at registered meetings in
N.S.W., and past committees must be
given credit for what they accomplished
—even though they did not please every-
body—without any other incentive than
the good of the game. So far as the
Owners and Trainers’ Association is con-
cerned its thinking— not the most
voluble —members are unlikely to coun-
tenance anything that might not be for
their eventual benefit.
* * * »
In America races are not timed from
when the barrier rises, as in Aus-
tralia, but from a few yards beyond it—
the point at which the distance of the
race actually commences. Of course this
gives the horses the advantage of being
on the move, but, even so, the speed
at which they run the early part of short
races is remarkable. When Occupa-
tion won the valuable two-year-old
Futurity Stakes at Belmont in October
he ran the first quarter-mile in 22f, half-
mile in 44| and the six and a half fur-
longs in 1.15 j. He carried 9st., and won
easily by five lengths,
* * * *
The fact of there being only four
starters for the A.J.C. December Stakes,
of £l5OO, further emphasised the luck
that is necessary in yearling buying. In
the past many high-priced yearlings that
proved absolute failures were selected by
men entitled to be regarded as good
judges. They went on breeding and con-
formation, and yet even those desirable
qualities were not productive of a gal-
loper. Of the four December Stakes
starters Haddon Hall and Van Eyck
were bred in N.S.W., and Clarion Call
and Air Lord in Queensland. Their
yearling prices were: Haddon Hall
280gns., Clarion Call 70gns. and Air Lord
325gns. Van Eyck was catalogued, but was
not sold at auction and is raced on lease.
* * * *
King George has changed his trainer.
W. R. Jarvis, who had classic winners
in Sun Chariot and Big Game this year,
has given place to Captain Cecil Boyd-
Rochfort, whose stables. Freemason
Lodge, are at Newmarket. The King’s
racing manager, Captain Charles Moore,
made the announcement in the press, but
naturally no reason for the change was
given.
Sun Chariot was last for a long way
in the English St. Leger, but won by
three lengths from Waiting Street. After
the race Gordon Richards said: “Sun
Chariot is the best horse I have ever
ridden.” At the close of the season it was
uncertain whether Sun Chariot would race
again or be sent to the stud next year.
* * * *
A Sydney trainer recently expressed
the opinion that many people go to im-
portant meetings not so much in the hope
of backing winners as for the pleasure
of seeing the horses. Since when? Long
association with racing makes one scep-
tical, and, according to my observation,
there are few keener seekers after infor-
mation likely to lead to a winning bet
than social and professional lights who
do not patronise minor meetings but
grace Randwick with their presence.
V * * *
Sterility in stallions is now receiving
special veterinary study in Kentucky.
Twenty Grand, one of America’s great
racehorses, has never sired a foal, and
St. Germans and Boojum very few,
though St. Germans’s progeny included
two Kentucky Derby winners. It is stated
that there have been cases in which
sterility has, to some extent, been cor-
rected by treatment.
There were two fights in Sydney last
week, Saturday-night shows having re-
turned to the Stadium after many years.
At Leichhardt Jimmy Purcell threw away
a good chance of a comeback by using
the rabbit-killer on George Elliott. He(
floored Elliott twice in the fourth, but,
applying the illegal punch again, was dis-
qualified. The pair were middleweights.
Looking heavier than his announced
10.4, Jimmy Dundee got all over Les
Fitzgerald (9.10) for a couple of rounds
at the Stadium. Then Fitzgerald began
to connect with solid rights, and
one of these won for him in the seventh.
Hustled here and there and roughed in
clinches, Fitz. waited patiently until he
had Dundee’s chin in position for a
knock-out punch, then dropped his man
with a perfectly-timed right. Many ring-
siders thought Dundee had beaten the
count, but he hadn’t.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND— ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice Brennan.
TO BRENDAN GERAD GRIFFIN formerly
of Toowoomba in the State of Queensland
Commission Agent and Stock and Share Broker
(but whose present whereabouts are unknown).
—TAKE NOTICE that an action No. 45 of
1942 has been commenced against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Rockhampton
by petition filed therein and writ of summons
issued thereout by LOUIE ELIZABETH
GRIFFIN your wife in which she claims a dis-
solution of her marriage with you and that by
such petition filed in the said Court on the
Eighth day of December 1942 she alleges that
you have deserted her without cause continu-
ously for five years and upwards viz. from the
month of July 1925 up to the Eight day of De-
cember 1942 And that it has been ordered
that service of the writ of summons and the
said petition on you by filing and sticking up
on the Notice Board in the Registry of this
Honorable Court an office copy of the said
petition and the affidavit verifying same and a
true copy of the said writ of summons and also
by publishing this notice once in The Bulletin
a newspaper, published at Sydney in the State
of New South Wales shall be deemed good
and effective service on you of the said petition
and of the said writ If you desire to defend
such action you must within Thirty days from
the date of the last act done in compliance with
the saiu order cause an appearance to be
entered for you at the said Registry and in de-
fault thereof the said Louie Elizabeth Griffin
may by leave of the Court or a Judge or Regis-
trar proceed therein and judgment may be given
against you in your absence. DATED the
Eighteenth day of December 1942 —<l s.) F. L
RUSSELL, Registrar. SWANWICK AND
MURRAY, Solicitors for Plaintiff, A.M.P.
Buildings, East Street, Rockhampton.
if any illustration in Ihb Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price tor the original.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAVID FARLEY NEWTON formerly of
Melbourne.—TAKE NOTICE that DORIS
NEWTON has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2728 of 1942 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the 15th day
of February 1943 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from ROWLEY
ROSEBY & CO. Solicitors 107 Elizabeth Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILFRED AMBROSE BLACKLEY late
of Geraldton in the State of Western Aus-
tralia.—TAKE NOTICE that RHELMA MAY
BLACKLEY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2710 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards. If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Ist
March 1943 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from BARKER & JONES
Solicitors 39 Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN THOMSON late of Bingara in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that KATHLEEN MAUDE THOMSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1848 of 1942
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney before Ist February 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from HUMPHREY MANSFIELD Solicitor 350
George Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LIONEL COLIN HARWOOD also known
as SAMUEL BAKER formerly of Wollongong.
—TAKE NOTICE that MARTHA JANE HAR-
WOOD has filed her Petition for Divorce No.
2174 of 1942 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance before the Bth February 1943
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. WILSON & CLAPIN Solicitors
14 Martin Place Sydney the Town Agents for
MESSRS. THOMAS & HAGUE of Quirindi
Solicitors for the Petitioner. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO MARGARETT GANNON late of Rand-
wick Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that GEORGE
JOSEPH GANNON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2647 of 1942 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 17th
day of February 1943 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from DUNCAN
BARRON & CO. Solicitors 81 Elizabeth Street
Sydney Town Agents for JOHNSON & SEND-
ALL Solicitors Goulburn. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO EDITH JESSIE BLAKE of Coolah in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that FRANCIS BLAKE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1765 of 1942 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office King Street Sydney by the 15th
February 1943 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from NORMAN DAWSON
THOMAS Solicitor 51 Castlereagh Street Syd-
ney _(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HENRY VERNON late of
Leichhardt in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that MINNIE VERNON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2278 of
1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
AND TAKE NOTICE if you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance before the First
day of March One thousand nine hundred and
forty-three and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from S. G. SOMMERS &
STEWART Solicitors 197 Elizabeth Street Syd-
ney _( L . S .) c. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERIC JACOB formerly of Griffith now of
unknown address. —TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHY FLORENCE JACOB has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2306 of 1942 upon
the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office King Street Sydney by the
First day of March One thousand nine hun-
dred and forty-three and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS. CATER
& BLUMER Solicitors Griffith or from their
Agents MESSRS. KERSHAW MATTHEWS
LANE & GLASGOW of 34 Martin Place Syd-
ney DATED this 22nd day of December 1942.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EILEEN JONES late of 40 Charles Street
East Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that MARIA
LAURA DESPOSITO has filed a Petition No.
428 of 1942 in this Court praying for a divorce
from FRANK DESPOSITO on the ground of
his adultery with you You may apply to the
Court for leave to defend the charge if you so
desire A copy of the petition may be obtained
without charge from CLIFTON R. PENNY
Solicitor 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—(l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SMOKE-OH!
V V T V
Now it’s austerity, not prosperity, that’s
just around the corner.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She endowed the nation with II children.”
— Woman’s paper.
And now the nation endows her for
ten.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In certain parts of South America it is con-
sidered obscene for men to wear pants.”
—“Wireless Weekly.”
They are breeches of convention.
4* 4* ' 4* 4*
“A red-headed person does not necessarily
possess a hasty temper.”— “World’s News.”
Perhaps not; but a hasty-tempered
person is always seeing red.
H* 4*
“The Sheik Danced Divinely.”
— Story, “Woman’s Mirror."
He wasn’t of the harem-scarem type.
4* *1* 4* 4*
“ T simply can’t stand any weight on my
mind,’ Elsie screamed.” — Short story.
No wonder. Whoever heard of balanc-
ing a pumpkin on a cream-puff!
Q.E.D.
“The ABC and £ s. and. of eating.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Milk.
Bread and jam.
Steak and oysters.
Lobster mayonnaise.
Roast gosling and mushrooms.
Caviare.
Gruel.
R.I.P.
P. M.
“For months he lived honestly; but some-
times an overmastering temptation to steal
possessed him.” — “Sun.”
He felt crook, so to speak.
•J*
“The fiercest of the cat tribe is not the lion,
tiger or even leopard, but the red African
lynx.”— “World’s News.”
To hell with the African lynx!
Although it’s a bad-tempered mynx.
It ain’t half so savage, methynx,
Asa wife when her spouse overdrynx.
Jynx.
„j. -l*
The Outrage.
He’s nothing but a dirty blackguard!
That’s my opinion of him. In view of
how the Government has impressed on
us the necessity for curbing extravagant
spending, especially on non-essentials, I
think it’s a scandal that anyone should
squander his cash the way he’s done!
In fact, he’s nothing but a fifth column-
ist ! They ought to shoot anti-social
mongrels like him!
Fancy him spending all that on a use-
less necklace —and then giving it to my
Nancy!
T. W. N.
•I* •!• -I- -I*
Nonsuited.
“He tried to make poetical love to Bess, but
he looked so ridiculous in his ragged clothes
that she could not help smiling.”
—Magazine story.
What time he tried to capture Bess
With words like music of a lute,
Although he didn’t gain success,
At least she smiled upon his suit!
T. W. N.
•I* *!• -I* •!-
Old Bore’s Almanac for 1943.
Jan. —In a speech Hitler will promise that if
and when the Luftwaffe has nothing else to do
it will exact a terrible vengeance for R.A.F.
raids. Mr. Dedman will announce that
women’s sleeping hairnets are to be banned.
General Tojo will decide to give Australia just
one final chance to join the East Asia Co-
s Sphere. The N.S.W. Miners’ Federa-
tion will announce that the rank and file have
agreed to renounce all strikes.
Feb. — A wheeler at a northern N.S.W. pit
will cease work because one of the pit ponies
belches, and all the other N.S.W. coalminers
gQ QUt in sympathy- The Dedman W. 0.1.
w jjj announce that the ban on women’s sleepmg
hairnets will now apply only to nets of |m.
on thc
Works Council will have his earnings reduced
to £47 a wce k an( j w jn threaten to “see Eddie
about it.” W. 0.1. will announce that a com-
ple.e SSTJS.
miners , pres ident will declare that prospects
f or pe ace in the industry are bright,
Apl.—At a southern N.S.W. coalmine a
pitboy will object to the way the mine manager
u his hair and the men Wlll go out in sym .
athy Tlie women Voters’ Advisory League
will strongly condemn the ban on sleeping hair-
nets. .
May.—ln a pep talk to war workers,
Goebbels will announce that as soon as the
United Nations are beaten strength-through-joy
cruises will be resumed. The N.S.W. Miners’
Federation will declare that all causes of fnc-
tjon the mines have been removed. A
Federal Minister will make a violent attack
on t | ie arrogance of the bureaucrats.
June. At a western N.S.W. pit the miners
w ill take a week or two off to discuss the
shortage of mothballs and dried ginger. Mr.
Dedman will announce that sleeping hairnets
may now be worn by women over 22 but only
six days a week. The federal Cabinet will
unanimously agree to the creation oi 1" more
boards. N.S.W. Labor Minister Heffron will
denounce the brownout.
July—A Melbourne centenarian in a news-
paper interview will assert that the modern girl is
super j or j n every way to her grandmother. Fed-
eral Minister for Security Lazzarini will denounce
tke | oose thinking of people who want the
brownout lifted. The W. 0.1. will announce
that the use of women’s sleeping hairnets will
in future be reduced to three days a week be-
tween the hours of 10 p.m. and 6 a.m., Sundays
and holidays excepted,
Aug.—A Sydney wharfie will emerge from
the P ub at lunch-hour with a sprained elbow
and the wharflabo rers’ Union will demand free
massage treatment for all its members. Mr.
Dedman will announce that no women’s sleep-
S3T»
Australian troops in Papua to surrender, also
U.S. forces in Hawaii.
Sep.—A Sydney police magistrate will sen-
fence a man found guilty of wilfully pouring sand
i n t o a vital munitions-factory machine to the
rising of the Court, with a threat that if he
does it again he may be fined. Feminists will
enffiSSl o?the
nets Several Federal Ministers, accompanied by
Bishop Burgmann and several members of the
Legal Rights Association, will tour the N.S.W.
s *pp"lges™ t 0 m,ners to refra,n trom
—A Sydney magistrate will sentence a
man found guilty of chucking a strange girl
under the chin and saying “Howdy, sister?” to
12 months’ hard labor. Miners at a northern
N.S.W. pit will strike because a wheelman
grunts P A Hollywood star will divorce her
seventh husband because he pulled faces at her
Pekinese, the custody of which she will be
granted. The W. 0.1. will announce that the
ban on women’s sleeping hairnets will be un-
conditionally removed. A visitor to a contem-
porary art exhibition will correctly guess what
one of the paintings is all about,
Nov.—Goring in a speech will promise that
when the Luftwaffe has no other commitments
11 wil i andr °P 1000 H i h°m
one dropped on the Reich. A child missing
for seven hours in an outer* Sydney suburb
will be found by a search party on the foot-
path 20 yards from her front gate under a
thick, entangling arch of paspalum. The
W. 0.1. will announce that sleeping hairnets
may not be used by women with bobs, semi-
shingles or Eton crops. Mr. Heffron will make
a violent attack on Mr. Lazzarini s archaic
attitude to the brownout. The Council or me
N.S.W. Miners Federation will announce that,
after protracted negotiations, final agreement
has been reached between men and owners tor
peace in the industry.
Dec.—Twelve hundred N.S.W. coalminers
will strike because a pitboy “scab” refuses to
buy a place-card for the dogs. Mr. Dedman
will declare that the Government is firm in its
determination to police the new total ban on
women’s sleeping hairnets.
Salute to the Bald.
“With increased demand due to war worries
and limited supplies, the Australian wig trade
is now in a parlous state.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
So while the war’s increasing care
Achieves a thinning of the thatch.
The powers that be conspire to hatch
A lack of complemental hair.
And yet, if one could but relate
The nations debt in midnight oil.
The long, self-sacrificing toil
That harrowed up the barren pate,
A certain measure of respect
Would greet the men whose domes re-
veal
The mark of patriotic zeal —
A gleaming billiard-ball effect.
P. M. L.
The Gage.
“The ‘gage of battle’ was something, usually
a glove, thrown down by a challenger. Who-
ever took it up was engaged to battle with him.
The custom, of course, like knightly tourneys,
is obsolete.” — “World’s News.”
Not at all. Maria is apt to throw my
hat to the floor with the remark, “The
top of the piano is no place for your
hat.”
When I pick up my property the battle
begins pronto. “I suppose you think Tve
got nothing to do all day but pick things
up after you!” Maria says. “I slave to
keep the home tidy, and directly you
come home you throw your things
about.”
That’s just the start.
Not only is the gage of battle well
known in “Emohruo” but the nightly
tourney has its place.
Nor does Maria have to confine her-
self to an article of apparel for a gage,
as in the old chivalric days. Only last
night it was my pipe which she said I
had put on top of her new hat. But as
I pointed out, if she was so particular
about everything being put away, why
should she have left her hat where I
could put my pipe on it?
Towards 4 a.m. Maria became un-
hoarsed after taking several throat
lozenges, and the tourney petered out
when I fell into an uneasy slumber.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Chicken wheel at social gathering was a
success.” —“Sunday Telegraph.”
The old hens went mad about it.
•J* *l* *l*
Foundation for a Faint.
“Never suspect exhaustion as the only cause
of a faint.” — First-aid book.
She tried to step up in the tram but
fell back rather quickly. They found
her lying on the roadway looking very
sickly. A sympathiser hurried up and
gave the girl some brandy. She coughed
and didn’t seem too pleased. A first-aid
post was handy, and so she staggered into
that, sat down and started gasping. “Her
heart perhaps,” a student said. The
patient now was grasping herself around
the waist as though the pain was some-
thing shocking. The first-aid officer
approached and soon with mirth was
rocking.
Said he: “Although you cannot walk,
or talk with any force, it’s just the heat.”
.. . The patient sighed, “Ah, no! It’s
just new corsets!”
Loo.
To a Bright Young Thing.
Figure cast in beauty’s mould,
Face delicious to behold;
Mother Nature made in you
Something richly fair to view!
Wonder why she took such pains
Then forgot to give you brains ?
T. W. NATHAN.
Silly Sausages.
“The Silly Surprise Sausage. Up it jumps
when lid is opened. 2s. 6d. or 3s. posted.”
— “World’s News” advt.
Nothing spectacular about that! The
sausages I manufacture have breeding,
and can bounce about sufficiently with-
out removing any lid. I’ve seen them
pivot on a plate and do a handspring on
the lino.
The best batch of snags I ever made
proved their gymnastic prowess when I
was bringing some of them home. A
, „ , , T f ac .
fellow bumped me as I came out the tac
tory door and they fell to the pavement.
Before I could recover them they’d
skipped away. They were home halt an
hour beiore 1 was.
The wife put six in the pan ; she turned
her back for a moment to get the fork
and when she looked again, they’d all
gone. I located one meowing on me
picket fence, another two were eating
the afternoon paper, the fourth was chas-
inn the fifth down the street and the
mg tne nttn down me street auu 1
sixth had leaped into the water in me
air-raid trench to get cool.
My business motto is: “My snorks
deliver themselves ”
deliver tnemseives.
BUTCHER-BIRD.
According to Plan.
“Progress on the Home Front.”
— Woman’s paper.
Though we’ve been fighting, off and on,
7, 6 . „ „ *
For six or seven years,
And nopes of early peace are gone
Unless the weather clears ;
Though she has reinforcements,
jit . * l • _
And her strategy s beginning
My Government to overthrow —
The neighbors think I’m winning !
P. O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Exemption for the Only Son
I read in a newspaper a letter from
“Lonely Mother” complaining that her
only son had been called up for military
duties and been sent to camp. She
thinks “he should be placed in some
duty either in or close to his home
town” —in other words, should receive
preferential treatment.
Before any extra consideration is
shown toward an only son, it would be
wise to inquire whether he was not an
only child by deliberate choice of his
parents. So many are, and the parents
then ask for special favors for their only
child when he is asked to bear his share
of the war effort. They are twice self-
ish —in having but one son, and then
asking that he be granted favors not
given to the son from a large family.
From my own experience and obser-
vation I am convinced that the woman
with one son has no more love for him
than the mother of a dozen has for each
of her boys. Indeed, the mother who
has reared a number of sons shows more
love for her country than this mother of
one, because she doesn’t squeal when
they are all taken to camp. Very few
people give a thought to the heavy burden
of anxiety she has to carry. If any
exemptions are granted, why not to one
of her boys?— Another Lonely Mother
(Q-).
“Paradise for Union Bosses”
That’s what it is, all right (B. 2/12/’42).
The workers on a naval installation are
dominated by the bosses of a union
which, since the beginning of the job,
has gathered possibly a couple of thou-
sand new members and lashings of fees.
“Body-snatching” from other unions is
rampant and favorites of the boss union
get the best and easiest jobs, as well as
preference in things like the issue of
smokes. Almost every payday two union
bosses stand by all day collecting from
the toilers for something or other. On
being called up by the C.C.C. I was asked
if I was a union member before I knew
what job I was going to. I was not,
having been running my own business,
but on arrival at the job I was promptly
told to get in the union or get out. And
the union seems to have the power to
have those who offend it sent far away.—
A. R
Paradise it is! I’ve been trying to
run a quarry which is mainly on war
work, but I’m convinced that the secre-
tary-organiser of the union is the boss.
He turns up about once a week, goes
through the time-sheets, interviews the
men and then tells me what I have to
do. Recently, while I was away, his nibs
arrived and told the foreman he had
come to inquire into the man-power posi-
tion at the quarry; and he waved under
the foreman’s nose a form which he
claimed to be an authority from the
Man-power Department for him to do so.
The foreman gave him his head. What
the fellow is mainly after is to assert the
right to try to “body-snatch” members
of other unions.—M. P. (N.S.W.).
I’m a typist on a naval job. Not long
ago there was a big increase in typists
and clerks and we were told that unless
we joined the union we would not get
any war-loading on our wages, nor could
we claim overtime. I’d always thought
I was a Commonwealth employee, but it
seems the union is my real boss. —H. P.
(N.S.W.).
Harvesting Difficulties
“In spite of man-power shortage the
wheat crop is being harvested smoothly.”
Thus spoke the city radio announcer at
approximately 8 a.m. on December 15. At
8.5 a.m. our regional station gave the
news from country papers. Owing to
heavy rains wheat crops were faced with
disaster. In the Dubbo district it would
be weeks before farmers could get on
to the ground owing to the water-logged
condition. Rust and bleaching were in
evidence.
Some months ago we were told that it
would be a long harvest. What those
who hold the |eins of government were
told, but would not heed, is that Nature
has her own rules. What promised to
be an exceedingly bountiful season has
changed here in a week to a mediocre
one. Hail ruined thousands of acres in
about an hour. Because of the heavy
rain, crops that were yielding wheat well
over required weight for silo are now
just f.a.q.
Most cockies are keeping their chins
up, even saying “Well, floods are not as
bad as fire, anyway.”
Old men and young lads are doing
wonderful work. The townspeople,
though inexperienced, have given up
leisure hours to help. But time is pre-
cious on the land as well as on the battle-
field and in the munitions factories.
Speed is essential if the wheat is needed.
Speed can only be obtained by experi-
enced men used to handling farm
machinery and working long hours.
The man-power problem is a big one,
and only those in authority know what
products are needed most. If 1943-44
wheat is required more experienced men
should be made available early in the
harvesting season. And, above all,
let us have truth from the radio. —
City-bred Cocky’s Mate (N.S.W.).
Comb the Civil Service!
With man-power shortage allegedly so
acute it seems an absurdity that State
public services should be included in the
“Hold it, blokes —Fee cleaned ’em up!”
reserved-occupation list. The railways
had more stress thrown on them by war
than most other departments, and yet
here in Queensland the Administrative
branch still works a five-day week. And
juniors have been refused leave to join
the fighting services on the grounds that
they cannot be spared.
The greater part of clerical work is
merely routine, and women could carry
out some of the work. Another help
would be to work the older men on
Saturday and Sunday. This would at
least allow the younger men to enlist
if they were willing to do so. — One of
Them (Q.).
Circumlocution Offices
N. S. Wales civil servants are having
lots of quiet fun just now. Take the
Taxation Department. When the Com-
monwealth took over all income taxes
the public innocently supposed that that
branch of the department would fade out
and its employees be released for war
service.
But, no. To make work, this depart-
ment is sending out letters and demands
calling upon taxpayers to furnish returns
for past periods. It is no use pointing
out that the returns have been furnished
previously and assessments issued on
them. The Commissioner blandly points
out that he is entitled to call for a return
at any time, notwithstanding how often
it may have been previously rendered.
So time is wasted, paper is used, stamps
are expended, tempers are frayed, and
the horn of the department is exalted.
Then take the Lands Department.
Normal business is almost dead, so the
department scouts round and fills in time
by sending out “requisitions” and writ-
ing unnecessary letters and taking puerile
points on applications submitted by the
public, whose servant it is supposed to be.
This business of filling in forms has
long ago attained the status of a r °und
game. Points and bisques are awarded
on a complicated system that is hard tor
an ordinary man to follow. Normally,
any form submitted passes through the
hands of at least 12 men, and any one
of these is entitled to score a point tor
every “requisition” he can make. it
the form gets through without any objec-
tion, a point is awarded to the taxpayer.
But this is never allowed to happen three
times in succession—else the official
would lose a “life.” It is all good clean
fun, of course; and so long as the tax-
payer puts up with the waste of time an
money it will go on.— Fitzwilliam
(N.S.W.).
Gold’s Place in Finance
In reply to R. H. Gordon (B.
25/11 / ’42) it can be said that under war
conditions gold is a most useful com-
modity because it can be used in pay-
ment for imports from other countries.
Temporary non-use of gold arises from
the fact that, with almost the whole world
at war, there are few neutral countries
from which the belligerents want to buy
goods, and the Allied nations are work-
ing under lend-lease arrangements under
which spot payment is not called for.
Under these conditions, it is felt that
man-power can be more usefully em-
ployed in the fighting forces or in pro-
ducing armaments, but it is not correct
to assume, as “R.H.G.” does, that gold
is not still a universally acceptable means
of payment, when payment is wanted,
and a much-sought-after metal for other
uses. It is a commodity which is parti-
cularly useful to Australia in obtaining
funds abroad with which to settle our
obligations, or for use in the purchase
of goods. Westralia’s gold output of
£12,000,000 (Australian) annually in
normal times is more valuable in that
respect than, say, Queensland’s sugar
production of similar total value.
It would be useless to take credit in a
national bank for gold still in the ground.
We want the credit in England or U.S.A.
and it is the finished product in the form
of gold bars which is good delivery in
those world’s markets. The large stocks
for which U.S.A. has paid 35 dollars
(paper) per ounce will not be buried in-
definitely, but later on will come into
active use in world affairs. It is absurd
to call this gold a valueless commodity
when it can be used to buy other com-
modities more freely than wheat, wool
or fruit. None of these could act as a
store of value and a medium of exchange
so well as gold does.
To avoid the difficulties in bartering
goods for the purposes of internal trade.
Governments have made paper currency
legal tender and have prohibited the cir-
culation of gold coinage so that in local
transactions the notes cannot depreciate
—though prices in paper money can rise.
When it is a question of trade with other
countries with different currency, it is
necessary to have a common denomi-
nator to arrive at the relative value of
goods and gold has become as it were
a universal legal tender. The position
can be illustrated by the following
equation:
52 bushels of wheat = one suit of
clothes = £lO 10s. (Aust.) = £8 Bs. (Eng-
lish) = 17 pesos (Argentine) = 35 dollars
(U.S.A.) = one ounce gold.
—Student (W.A.).
Compulsory Loans
A. Daly (B. 9/12/’42) is right in sug-
gesting compulsory war loans. 1 have
listened to speeches exhorting the public
to invest to help our troops, and the
manner of approach and pleading dis-
gusted me.
Never in the history of this country
has there been so much money about
nor so much squandering.
Rationing hasn’t eased the public’s
desire to spend. Only compulsory loans
will. And, if the Government formu-
lated a scheme whereby a percentage of
weekly earnings would be retained by
employers for the purpose, there would
be no necessity to coax people to invest.
Nothing is more humiliating than the
spectacle of impassioned street oratory,
aided by parades of troops, to bring
realisation to the public that the war
cannot be fought to a successful conclu-
sion, without sacrifice. — Jeff (Vic.).
Tobacco
Queensland increased its tobacco crop
by over a quarter-million pounds to
2,535,0001 b. for the 1941-42 season, and
growers intend increasing acreage. Gov-
ernment spokesmen have stated that in
five years Australia will be producing
the whole of her smoking requirements.
Very good. But war-time shortage has
led to the marketing of tobacco which is
very bad. Poor-quality leaf, stems and
dust are being retailed in Queensland
at Is. sd. an ounce. In pre-war
days this rubbish sold at 6d. an ounce
to those who would take it. Aus-
tralia cannot afford to allow the tobacco
industry to be prejudiced by get-rich-
quick exploiters.
Incidentally, American cigarette and
tobacco advertisements have appeared in
the press, which indicates that Uncle Sam
has an eye on the future Australian
market. — Lemon Leap (Q.).
Health Insurance
It is everyone’s duty to contribute some-
thing towards the building of first-class
hospitals, efficiently staffed. Under the
present voluntary system this cannot be
done. Some will contribute and others
won’t; some pay for the treatment they
receive, others don’t, even though they
may have the money. Hospital com-
mittees and workers have an unenviable
task cadging funds to try to make ends
meet.
The districting of hospitals is the
most unfair system ever introduced, as
the financial responsibility falls on a few
ratepayers.
The law compels the ratepayer to
make provision for his employees, under
the Workers’ Compensation Act. There-
fore, why cannot the law compel each
wage-earner earning over £3 per week
and keep to contribute something from
his pay as an insurance against sickness?
An estimate of all wages paid could easily
be compiled, and a rate struck to enable
sufficient funds to be provided for a
first-class service, not only in the large
cities but everywhere.
The principle is already practised by
some trade unions. It could be done
with stamps, the same as the unemploy-
ment insurance. A contributor should
be entitled to free treatment throughout
the State.— Bill M. (Q.).
Fruit-tree Inspection
Mr. Dunn, the N.S.W. Minister for Agri-
culture, is compelling North Coast dairy-
farmers to dip their cattle. Probably
quite justifiably. But there is another
enactment administered by Mr, Dunn’s
department that is a dead letter so far as
urban areas are concerned. It requires
the registration of all fruit-trees and the
treatment or destruction of such as are
not in healthy condition. There are
thousands of backyards with fruit-trees,
often miniature orchards, that have never
been registered, and more often than not
the trees receive not the slightest atten-
tion. As a result they are riddled with
disease.
The neglect of the owners of these
trees is productive of greater economic
loss than the failure of dairy-farmers in
a restricted area to dip their beasts. Yet
there is not even a hint of action being
taken against them.
It is safe to prophesy that no N.S.W.
Minister for Agriculture will be game to
make suburbia care for its fruit-trees or
root them out. — Tom (N.S.W.).
Ban Unripe Fruit
When Commonwealth Agricultural
Director Bulcock gets into his stride he
should do something to compel growers
to allow their fruit to develop and ripen
properly before marketing. For many
months Queenslanders have been com-
pelled to pay skyrocket prices for imma-
ture rubbish of all descriptions, both
locally and southern mown.— G. F. N.
(Q-).


Services
communications
SERVICE
Sc SERVICE
H m^GRAPH^T^ lONS
ss® sgss sssr
WIRELESS D.'^INSTRUMENTS
KSol? Svdckt mono®
biL_J
S3S5*. SCHOOL
» TSS»r
igsr»»
DEVELOPMENT
ARTISTS
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS LIMITED
Australians National Wireless Organisation
