

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
Jltfhlt c Wme oflaM TtiellcimeuamlImiqfUet
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 63.—N0. 3237.
Wednesday, February 25, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
STRATFORD-ON-AVON.
ONE hundred miles n.-w. of London, a pleasant afternoon’s run by car, is a township more famed than any in the British Isles—
Stratford-on-Avon. Here the Immortal Bard was born, died and is buried. Of no man who ever lived could it be said, as is said of
that “myriad-minded man,” “Shakespeare is England.” It is fitting that such a place should go back into the dim and almost legendary
past. In the seventh century it possessed a monastery, and was a place of considerable consequence prior to the Norman Conquest In
modern times its world fame arises from its connection with Shakespeare (1564-1616) and for that reason is visited by travellers from
every quarter of the civilised globe. The chief objects of interest, besides the house in Henley-street where the poet was born, are the parish
church of Holy Trinity, where he is buried, the house to which he retired, the architecturally unlovely new Memorial Theatre erected
by funds subscribed in Britain and U.S.A., the Free Grammar School founded in 1482 and the ancient bridge going back to the
days of Henry VII. The scenery surrounding Stratford-on-Avon is worthy of the dramatist—gently swelling hills, rich pastures, sleeping
woodlands and the softly-flowing river fringed with lofty trees casting their shadows on footpaths and water A beautiful avenue of
lime-trees leads to the church, a large and venerable cruciform structure, in the chancel of which is Shakespeare s tomb. Yet the whole pile
seems Ms mausoleum. A monumental bust adorns the wall on the left of the chancel and a plain flagstone with an inscription covers
his last resting-place. What the British race and all English-speaking peoples, and, indeed, the world owe to Shakespeare is beyond
computation. This may be advanced, however, that so long as Shakespeare’s work remains There 11 always be an England.


mi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, unthout obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
.1 ty Name
Sty Address
S.B. 142
The Red Page
THE TOUCH OF GENIUS.
Because Virginia Woolf last April was
“presumed drowned in the River Ouse,”
certain passages of the novel she had
completed before her death, Between the
Acts (Hogarth Press ; Angus and Robert-
son), seem strikingly prophetic. One of
the characters, Mrs. Giles Oliver (nick-
named Isa), who symbolises mature
womanhood, snared in a powerful mesh
of love and hate for “the father of her
children,” tempted towards a lover and
constantly retreating into a private land-
scape of poetry, is haunted by the thought
of a final escape from complexity by
drowning.
There had always been lilies there, self-
sown from wind-dropped seed, floating red
and white on the green plates of their
leaves. Water, for hundreds of years, had
silted down into the hollow, and lay there
four or five feet deep over a black cushion
of mud....
It was in that deep centre, in that black
heart, that the lady had drowned herself.
Ten years since, the pool had been
dredged and a thigh bone recovered. Alas,
it was a sheep’s, not a lady’s.
Sheep’s thighbone, something sad and
ridiculous, mocking Isa’s deepest hopes.
Yet her adoration of death persists, and
her subconscious mind is “the lily pool
where the bones lay.” She makes a poem
about a wishing well, and wonders if she
should wish for the “gentleman farmer”
who might be her lover.
“But what wish should I drop into the
well?” She looked round. She could not
see the.man in grey, the gentleman farmer;
nor anyone known to her. “That the
waters should cover me,” she added, “of
the wishing well.”
“There,” Isa mused, “would the dead leaf
fall, when the leaves fall, on the water.
Should 1 mind not again to see may-tree
or nut-tree? Not to hear on the trembling
spray the thrush sing, or to see, dipping
and diving as he skimmed waves in the
air, the yellow woodpecker?”
To the limited extent that Isa’s thoughts
might be taken to represent what was
passing through Virginia Woolf’s mind
before her death, the thoughts of another
character, Miss La Trobe, could also be
regarded as significant. Miss La Trobe
is the author and producer of a village
pageant—the chief substance of the novel
—and Virginia Woolf’s picture of her
when the magnificent allegory is over is
a most moving analysis of the disillusion
and despair that overtake any artist
when a big work is finished:
The bells had stopped; the audience had
gone; also the actors. She could straighten
her back. She could open her arms. She
could say to the world, You have taken
my gift! Glory possessed her —for one
moment. But what had she given? A
cloud that melted into other clouds on the
horizon. It was in the giving that the
triumph was. And the triumph faded. Her
gift meant nothing. If they had under-
stood her meaning; if they had known their
parts; if the pearls had been real and the
funds illimitable—it would have been a
better gift. Now it had gone to join the
others.
Whether or not she speaks for the
author Miss La Trobe’s philosophy is
certainly tragic. When the pageant is
over, the village parson, a serio-comic
figure, tries to explain what it has sym-
bolised—the whole history of mankind.
Unable to grapple with so vast and con-
fused a theme, he comes down to prac-
ticalities and announces that, whatever
the pageant meant, it has at least achieved
its object of raising “thirty-six pounds
ten shillings and eightpence towards the
illumination of our dear old church.”
This bitter satire, implying that the whole
vast history of mankind, all the endea-
vors, agonies and triumphs of the cen-
turies, had been directed, as a matter of
cold, inescapable fact, to the raising of
30-odd pounds for the village church, is
followed by a gentler land more hopeful
note. If the fruits of history are trivial
enough, at least honest effort went to
produce them; and, as there is still a
deficit of £175 in the church funds, there
is still an opportunity for further effort.
But as the parson says the “opp” of
“opportunity,” twelve bombers cut across
the evening sky ; cut across the oppor-
tunity; cut across all the hopes of man-
kind.
Meaning, of course, that the world war,
when it came, would be the end of every-
thing.
That’s magnificent, but it isn’t war; as,
indeed, Virginia Woolf herself suggests by
carrying the novel past the interruption
of the bombers to show Mrs. Oliver and
her husband continuing their eternal play
and counterplay of love and hate.
So ingeniously is Between the Acts con-
trived that it’s impossible to say where
the symbolic contents begin or where
they end ; the pageant is a play within
a play; the whole book, even where it
seems pure human comedy or drama, is
also allegory. A delightfully batty old
woman—the Spectator, detached by her
age from the human struggle—gives an
effect first of prologue and finally of
epilogue by reading extracts from an out-
line of history. She reads about the
primeval slime ; then the pageant is held ;
then she reads, “Prehistoric man, half-
human, half-ape, roused himself from his
semi-crouching position and raised great
stones”—making, by implication, the
comment that civilised man, when the
bombers have done their work, will begin
where his half-ape ancestors began:
“progress” is illusion ; there are, as Isa
sums up, “only two emotions—love and
hate.”
Presented in Virginia Woolfs unneces-
sarily scrappy style, the pageant at jfirst
makes little impression. It is not as in-
teresting as the various loves and hates
among the spectators —themselves, though
wittily presented, of no great moment.
But then, when it has depicted in turn
the Elizabethan age, the Age of Reason,
and the Victorians, the pageant suddenly
becomes so extraordinarily dramatic, so
bitterly satirical and so pitifully tragic
that its light illumines all the earlier
scenes, giving them form, weight and pro-
found significance. That happens when
Miss La Trobe shows the audience the
present age, their own time and their
own selves.
Dozens of contemporary poets, play-
wrights and novelists have tried to do
this, to hold up a mirror to the contem-
porary world: Auden in The Dance of
Death, for example ; Macleish in The
Fall of the City ; Noel Coward in Caval-
cade; the whole host of Little Man
novelists. But none of them has done it
a tenth as well as Virginia Woolf does:
with a simplicity that is a stroke of
genius she does literally hold up a mirror
to the age.
The programme announces that the
next scene will be “Ourselves.” But no
scene is presented. The audience becomes
puzzled, angry, bored ; they resume the
love-making or hate-making the per-
formance has interrupted. And then the
performers rush out with mirrors and
hold them up so that the audience all
too literally sees “Ourselves.” “Ourselves”
baffled ; “ourselves” angry ; “ourselves”
bored ; “ourselves” conducting our com-
plex affairs of love and hate. And, conse-
quently, “ourselves” ashamed of our-
selves, squirming before the cold face of
the mirror, abased or angry at the revela-
tion that “we” are the heirs of the ages,
that the long historical pageant led up to
“us” and “our” trivial affairs. In all the
audience there is only one who is at
ease: Mrs. Manresa, who has been
established as the symbol of Lust, and
who calmly reddens her lips as the mirror
is held before her.
Then the performers whirl the mirrors,
rush about with them ; the figures of the
historical scenes come back and join in
the dance ; and all this, the kings and
the idiot, the peasants and the fine ladies,
the complacent Victorians, the audience,
all whirling and flashing, confused and
broken under the calm sky of the evening
—that’s “ourselves.”
The parson tries, and fails, to sum it
all up ; the bombers come over ; nobody
can find Miss La Trobe to thank her for
the pageant nobody understood ; the old
lady reads about the ape-men piling the
great stones ; and Mr. and Mrs. Oliver
prepare to have a domestic row, make it
up, and make love. Thinking back over
the book, one remembers the first sen-
tence : —-
It was a summer’s night and they were
talking, in the big room with the windows
open to the garden, about the cesspool.
Bitter enough, if that, too, is symbol;
a tragically bitter satire, but an amazing
piece of allegory and relieved by a fine
wit.
New War Novel .
First novelist to attempt to do for this
present war what Graves, Aldington,
Blunden, Remarque and co. did for the
last is Eric Knight, author of This Above
All (Cassell ; Dymocks).
Considered apart from what it aims to
be and its place in the literary scheme of
things, Knight’s is a remarkably fine
novel. It is written in the economical, or
clinical, style—no padding whatever;
which, however, also means no particu-
larly striking passages of English prose,
no arresting pages of description. Sen-
tences are short and direct. Yet there’s
no question about the intense literary
feeling behind them.
Main characters are an English soldier
on hospital leave after having been
through it in the Belgian fighting and
Dunkirk, and a W.A.A.F. girl he meets
at a dance. They go off on an unofficial
honeymoon, the week or two of which is
the time space of the novel. Other
characters—dragged in, or conscripted,
by the author for the purpose—help to
broaden the canvas to include a general
picture of Britain in this war (air raids
and so forth), the American supply side
(slight and quite unnecessary), and easily
the best description so far read of the
fighting in Belgium.
The account of that last is conveyed
through another English soldier who was
through the tough fighting with the main
character. However the novel may be
rated when other novels of this war come
to be written, these chapters should solidly
stand their ground. They’re in the top
flight of war writing.
The story that serves as a thread for
the general depiction is better than that
of most war novels. The honeymooning
soldier has had a very tough spin. In the
fighting he performed with great bravery,
and, out in the water at Dunkirk, allowed
another to take the place he could have
taken in a rescue boat. The result was
pneumonia, from which he was recover-
ing somewhere on the East Coast of Eng-
land when he met the Waaf, who, like
himself, is sufficiently out of the ordinary
to make a genuine fictional character.
These and other details come out when
the fairly long novel is well into its stride,
the soldier cobber passing them on to the
girl. They explain for her the desperate
and sulphurous remarks her man makes in
his sleep, his teeth-grinding and other in-
dulgences. Though due for a decoration
for his job in Belgium, the leading soldier
character (an echo of Sassoon) has made
up his mind not to go back to the army.
Both his mate and girl try to talk him out
of deserting; but he goes off on a wild
trek through England. Among other
things, this enables him to tell a parson
where, in his opinion, parsons stand in
this war. It also enables the author to
introduce a nurse with a nurse’s obses-
sion for duty, and to work out a logical
ground on which the sick deserter can
make up his mind to return. An air raid,
very clearly depicted, helps work up to
a realistic ending in every sense of the
word.
Though the scenes depicted are mostly
very different from those of the last war’s
novels the work is in the tradition those
novels established. It does not deliberately
set itself out to debunk, but that is the
effect. There’s an attempt to present a
heroic justification, but it isn’t notably
successful. Significantly, the best part of
the book is the account of the fighting in
Belgium, which stems directly from the
best writing in the last war’s novels. The
scene in England is comparatively super-
ficial and confused, but the attempt to
get it down is courageous and important
from a literary point of view. From it is
certain to spring magnificent writing on
this war.
In The American Impact on Great
Britain (University of Philadelphia Press)
Richard Heathcote Heindel gives a super-
ficial picture of the effects of American
civilisation on Britain. Most of the Eng-
lish comment is either sarcastic or
abusive. It changes only when the poli-
tical policies of the two countries happen
to coincide with one another. All the
professor is concerned with is current
prejudices and fashions. He scarcely
touches the higher reaches. Yet U.S.A.
has had some distinguished authors and
one philosopher, William James, who
has been one of the biggest influences
on modern philosophy. He gets a two-
line mention.
Play Songs for Children (Angus and
Robertson). Nellie Grant Cooper wrote
the words, Dorothy R. Mathlin com-
posed the music, and Pat O’Harris did
the decorations. The tunes are well-
made (the Bunyip song has a clever har-
monic twist), the lyrics have humor, and
the decorations are beautifully designed.
Dover Front: Reginald Foster (Seeker
and Warburg). Foster has been London
Labor “Daily Herald” correspondent at
Dover for a year or two, and describes
his personal experiences. He saw the
Dunkirk affair from that end, and records
that the men returned there brought
dogs back with them not in ones or two
but in hundreds. Before making the last
trip back across the Channel men from
British warships went round the blazing
outskirts of burning Dunkirk on bicycles
crying out for the benefit of stragglers,
“Any more for the old Skylark, any
more lor a sail!”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Admirers of the rhinoceros were
noticeably disappointed by “Sunset” a t
Sydney Regent. It hails from Da’rkes
Africa, per Hollywood, and devotes a
fair footage of film to several giraffes'
more to hundreds of buffaloes ; still more
to some Hollywood savages who, with
Nazi rifles, are threatening British’ rule
even more to several American negroes
disguised as British soldiers ; more still
to British Commissioner Bruce Cabot
and Major George Sanders, who, after
much derring-do in the vicinity of their
lonely outpost, subdue the uprising; and
most of all to a streamlined Hollywood
damsel who owns an African trading net-
work and whose acting ability ranges
through the 17 recognised magazine-cover
poses. But the one (1) rhinoceros which
figures in the film is permitted only a
very few feet of celluloid, and those at
a distance which makes any comment on
its histrionic ability impossible.
For fully three minutes Sydney Royal’s
“Thumbs Up” revue was smart, topical
and original and had the house holding
its sides. Clem Dawe was giving the
latest news from Canberra: “There will
be a full blackout over the whole of
New South Wales tonight ... No there
won’t, yes there will, no there won’t, yes
there will, no there won’t, yes there will,
no there won’t and then, “All
workers will be allowed to take their
annual holidays ... No they won’t, yes
they will, no they won’t, yes they will,
no they won’t The co.’s gag-maker
didn’t find anything as bright as that to
say about the Water Board, but he didn’t
need to; all he had to do was to say
“Apple and Pear Board” or “Water
Board” and the taps in the washroom
laughed.
After that, if either Clem Dawe or Don
Nicol had had the nerve and the loving-
kindness to say “Stop me if you’ve heard
this one before,” nine gags out of every
ten could have been strangled at birth:
those that didn’t go back to Methuselah
were old friends from Tiv. shows during
the past 12 months.
There was an extremely lamentable
attempt to depict the bombing of Rotter-
dam, and an even more lamentable piece
of compering by Bobby Mack in “Grand-
father’s Follies.” The acrobats were the
best of it. Songs, ballets, a skit on bridge-
players, much well-meant foolery; and
altogether an absolutely first-class fill-up
between Gilsullivan and “Claudia”
ho it isn’t, yes it is, no it isn’t, yes it is,
no it isn’t
Whether the musical offensive in Mel-
bourne this year will reach the intensity
of last year’s isn’t known yet, but the
opening shot —the Sidney Myer free con-
cert at "the Town Hall —was a fair effort.
Although urgent business elsewhere has
affected the personnel of the Symphony
Orchestra, Bernard Heinze’s shock troops
went over the top jn Beethoven’s
“Egmont” overture with customary vigor.
Then the heroes dug themselves in for 40
minutes, which is about the time it takes
for Brahms’s Symphony No. 3 to go
through the gamut of musical emotions.
There were wild excitement and confused
fighting in the “Prince Igor” Dances, and
then French violinist Jeanfi® Gautier gave
an extraordinary display of individual
initiative in the Prokofieff concerto. Free
drinkers at the late Mr. Myer’s counter
applauded her to the echo.
It was unfortunate for Mr. Priestley
that the Federal Government saw fit to
stage a rival show outside on the night
the National Theatre in Melbourne
selected for producing “Dangerous
Corner.” At the best of times Mr. Priest-
ley as a playwright is a bit of a dull dog.
His characters have only a superficial
appearance of being human beings, and
after the sirens wailed like expiring dino-
saurs they seemed much less living than
the mental picture conjured up of the
million inhabitants of Melbourne retiring
behind their blackout curtains, trams,
buses and cars coming to a standstill,
and the couples whispering in the dark-
ened doorways of Bourke-street. The ex-
plosion of a revolver offstage when the
leading character commited suicide
seemed to have no importance in rela-
tion to the cosmic explosion which has
produced the need for blackouts. How-
ever, Valda Joseph, Jacki Burnett, June
Phillips, Bettye Goldsmith, Alexander
Bennett (producer), Gerard Dreyfus and
Lewis Leon acted so well that a more
vivacious vehicle for their talents was
indicated.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —business sincerity
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Be Ready for Rain and Crisp Autumn Weather
Donegal Tweed Sports Coat 57/6
Sports Coats in Australian reproductions
of the famous Donegal Tweeds. Two-
or three-button styles, with patch pocket's
and art silk lining. 66 different fittings
lor men 9 to 18 stone. Price 57/6
Tailored Leather Jacket, 75/
Leather Jackets, real hide, will not crack
or peel. Full cut for comfort. Expertly
tailored and fully lined. Button front.
Finished with 2 pockets. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price 75 /“
•■V'
ggG P
ft
U
N
WORK OVERALLS
That can “Take It”
Bib and Brace Style, 15/6
Combination Style, 27/6
Our famous Hordura (Registered)
"Sturdy Oak" Overalls are avail-
able again. These are the best
make throughout and are uncon-
ditionally guaranteed by us. In
heavyweight English Drills, Navy
or Khaki. Cut with that extra i
yard of material in the garment.
All strain points bartacked. Triple
sewn seams. Rustless metal snap
fasteners. Sizes from 4 to 10i.
Combination style. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price 27/6, 28/6
Bib and Brace style, 15/6. 16/6
• Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street.
J
Jill
i m
f p
Garbadine Raincoats, 89/6, 95/-, 115/-
Men's Raincoats of Woollen Gabardine, specially
proofed, finished with rich art silk linings. London
style slip-on Raglans, featuring accessible pockets,
fly front, and vent back. 34 to 46in. chests. In Fawns,
Olive, and Dark Grey. At Anthony Horderns.
Prices 89 / 6 ' 95/ ~' 115/ -
100% Waterproof Macintoshes, 45/-
Double-breasted Macintoshes, double texture, 100%
waterproof. With storm collar and all-round belt
and buckle. Check lined. In shades of Grey, Fawn,
and Parchment. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, 45/-
MILITARY PUTTEES, 3/9
Military Puttees, new style as worn by
A.I.F. and Militia, correct shade. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, pair .. 3/9
Delivery Restrictions
RESTRICTIONS ON THE DELIVERY OF PARCELS.
Under instructions from the Director of Emergency
Road Transport, the delivery of parcels under 41b.
in weight, or less than 3ft. in length, has ceased
within the delivery radius of our vans.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
Phone; M 2401 (Day and Night)


FIRST SOLO
By R. H. BROWNE.
Since this short sketch was written, on a transport going overseas, the
writer has been reported missing on air operations over the North Sea.
THE two men walked down the road
towards the hangars, their feet tread-
ing softly in the dust and the sun
throwing their shadows ahead.
Round them the red fields sloped to
where the aerodrome lay, with the con-
trol tower rearing through the ground
nust and hangars spread along the
tarmac. One of the men was near middle
age, stooping, with faded blue eyes. He
wore an old golfing jacket and a pair
°f goggles swung against his thighs. The
other was a young boy stepping along
nervously, his thin face keyed up with
excitement.
“Will we need to wait for the ground
mist to clear, sir?” he asked anxiously.
After a few paces the older man
replied, “We’ll do a couple of circuits
first. See if you’ve got the feeling this
morning.”
The boy held himself in control, crush-
ing down the gathering turmoil of his
thoughts. He must force himself to take
this morning naturally as if it were just
another day. He looked down across
drome to where the mist was slowly
lading. The air was calm and steady on
his face. Everything was in his favor.
Yet up in the yellow ’plane there would
be no man in the front cockpit with his
faded eyes on the watch and his voice
steady as a hand on your arm. There
would be no stick in the front cockpit,
only himself alone flying her round.
Already he felt a stab of bitter-sweet
achievement.
“You’ll not need a flying suit this
morning. Just as you are will do.” The
older man made off towards the hangars.
He turned and called after the boy, “Oh,
and, Bennett, if you’re ready first, run her
up and check the switches.”
VkJ HEN he was ready and standing by
v the ’plane, a fitter climbed down from
the cockpit and held the pack steady,
“Thanks,” said the boy.
“Going solo?” the fitter asked.
“With a bit of luck. Got to do a check
circuit first.”
The fitter said eagerly “Good luck,”
and gave the parachute a final tug. He
was anxious to stay and talk, to ask
about the chances of a ride later on.
There was a pause while the boy climbed
into his seat and got comfortable, and
then the fitter was standing up beside
him again, one foot resting on the wing.
“Is it right you can take us ground-crew
jokers up after you go solo?” he asked.
“Let’s go solo first,” said the boy, and
the fitter laughed and went round to
prime up the engine.
Sitting in the cockpit, it added to the
tension in his mind the way the helmet
was so tight, the way the ’phones cut in
against his ears. He took longer than
usual in an effort to become comfort-
able, and his safety belt today was a bad
fit. He ran his eyes along the instru-
ments, and with his hands he adjusted the
switches, thinking only about doing
everything naturally. As he was warming
the engine, Thompson clambered into the
front cockpit and slowly adjusted his
straps.
“How many does she drop?” he asked.
“None, sir.”
“Try again,” said the voice through
the ’phones.
“Sorry, sir, she’s dropping about forty.”
“That’s better,” came the same quiet
voice. “It’s not worth worrying about,
so taxi out. Watch the wind and take
your time. One circuit with me and then
solo.”
Automatically the boy’s hand was
moving on the throttle, and the rudder
bar was firm beneath his feet. Confidence
had returned and sat beside him. He
opened wide the throttle, taking the ’plane
smoothly into the air.
HE flew the circuit well, except as he
was coming in to land the steady
voice in the ’phones corrected him, and
because he was on edge it broke the con-
tinuity of his thoughts, spoiled his judg-
ment, brought vague fears back to his
mind. So the landing was poor, and as
he taxied down-wind a depression closed
in around him. Another circuit obvi-
ously, and even then his solo might be
postponed. His depression shut away
the world about him, clouded over the
cool sunlight, turned the mist into a
hazard.
“Bennett,” the voice said, “there’s no-
thing to be afraid of. Take it all quite
calmly, and you’ll be right. Come in
faster over the fence and check lower.
You’ll be right. Good luck.” He slid the
control column out of its socket and
threw it on the ground. Then slowly he
climbed down, unclasping his parachute
and loosening it on to the wing. He waved
vaguely and, gathering up the stick and
parachute, walked away.
The boy brushed his face with his hand
and waved back. He had no connection
with the man walking away. All con-
scious thought seemed drained away,
leaving him detached, unaware of his
actions. Slowly he checked the instru-
ments and turned into wind. The ’plane
began moving, gathering speed as it went,
and pulling back the stick he helped her
off the ground. He was forty feet in
the air before he was fully conscious
that the helmeted head was no longer
in front of him, feeling the controls
lighter. Quickly he looked round, saw
the hangars fall away on his right, gentle
tufts of cloud a thousand feet ahead ;
heard the singing in the wires. He moved
the stick and the ’plane jerked uneasily.
Panic surged down into his fingers. His
body grew tense and tight in the cockpit.
He stared straight ahead, all action gone
dead within him, knowing subconsciously
it was time to turn and level off, not
knowing how. He felt powerless to
change the way he was hunched up, grip-
ping the stick between rigid fingers, his
feet wedged in against the rudder bars.
He was alone in all space with no way
0 f turning back.
Suddenly his consciousness snapped
back again, and he remembered the in-
structor’s oft-repeated advice: “Relax,
old man ; enjoy yourself.” His depres-
sion left him, the cloud that was lying
on his mind slipped away, the oppress-
ing sky receded to the horizon’s edge, the
earth came into focus. He began to sing,
He flew her round in a wide circuit,
looking about him, moving the controls
and laughing as the ’plane answered. He
shouted down the rubber mouthpiece,
telling the absent instructor what to do
and how to fly. As he came cross-wind
he passed over Donavon’s farm, noticing
for the first time how sheltered they
were by trees, how remarkably like a
miniature farm it looked, seen in a shop
window at Christmas. Beneath him as
far as he could see the land fell away in
these miniature farms, patterned, slowly
waking to the dawn, with blue wood
smoke climbing through the trees.
Maggie came out of the back of Dona-
von’s place and looked up, and from the
aeroplane the boy tried to wave, but his
arm was forced back by the rush of air
and he brought it down quickly. His
last turn he made too steep from sheer
delight, and he brought her over the fence
smooth and fast. She bumped on two
wheels and then her tail came down. He
adjusted the trim and turned down-wind,
looking for the friendly face of a dan
along the fence. *
It seemed a long time after Thompson
had climbed back into the front cockpit
before he spoke. “Wide circuit you
made,” he remarked casually.
“Yes, sir. Too wide.”
“Maybe. How d’you feel?”
“I feel like it’s only the beginning.’’
The boy had his head hard up against
the rubber mouthpiece, his voice alive
and trembling.
“Yes, just the beginning. You did a
good job.”
The yellow ’plane bumped across the
field towards the fuel dump, and after
the two men had finished writing up their
flight logs they walked up the road to-
gether looking at their feet, not saying
much.
FOR A COUNTRYMAN.
There was once a lean Australian
Who sang a solemn song:
“Even the rocks of Leeuwin
And the twisted trees belong” :
How bone-white gums at midnight
Point their dead limbs stark.
Cup the fear of ages
In dingo’s hollow bark ;
Murray takes from Walgett
Token soil to sea.
Flood-bird and the mailman
Share her mystery;
Moving south for Christmas
From Victoria Downs,
Shearing, droving, drinking.
To the southern towns.
Exult through lonely stretches.
City rats forget;
For summer, grilling Sydney;
Queensland in the Wet;
Avid, arid journeys
By Afghan camel pad,
Spinifex and mulga,
Wild, and gold-dust mad;
Sang the ragged ti-tree
C Bloom of broken stars).
Stole the sea gods’ thunder
From the Barrier bars.
And then this lean Australian,
Because he did belong.
Met all hell at Tobruk,
Masked death with a song;
Crowned again with glory
Old Thermopylce,
Hung with valor’s trophies
Plains of Thessaly;
Staunch, outstayed disaster;
Young, outlived defeat;
Left us, full of honor.
On the heights of Crete.
victoria.
MARY FINNIN.
DESOLATION DRIFT
By WILL LAWSON.
SOMEWHERE in the Southern
Ocean, where the Aucklands and
the Campbells keep lonely watch
over a wilderness of sea, a steamer
went drifting thirty-five years ago.
Maybe she is drifting yet, maybe she only
survived a day or an hour after her crew
left her far south in the ’fifties; yet just
how long she did float and whither she
went, if it could be learned, might well
have a bearing on the finding of the
Marine Court in New Zealand, which
fined the captain for taking off his crew
of 48 men and abandoning his ship.
The ship was the Port Stephens, of 5000
tons, and Captain A. E. Jolley—he lives
now in Sydney—was her captain. In
October, 1906, the Port Stephens, on
time charter to Scott Fell and Company,
left Port Chalmers for Melbourne to
load for London. The usual route would
have been through Cook’s Strait and
across the Tasman Sea. But Captain
Jolley went “south-about” through
Foveaux Strait, because he knew it was
shorter and he was used to such waters.
When a day or so out a nor’-wester came
up blowing hard; instead of fighting it,
he went with it, knowing that such gales
always turned to westerlies, which would
blow him back to his course.
The ship was “flying light” in ballast,
tossing on the big seas like a balloon, and
the racing of the propeller became a
serious matter. The thunder of the screw
when deep-sunk would suddenly rise tq
a shouting sound, even though the engh
neer on watch throttled down, as the
blades spun in air. Then one night the
engines suddenly raced wildly, shaking the
ship and waking all hands. Everybody
knew what had happened: the shaft
had broken in the stern-tube, where the
fracture could not be reached to cut a
scarf and rivet it together again.
Efforts were made to get rid of the
propeller—to push it out or drag it forth
and so leave the ship free to be sailed
to port. Wire rope tackle was made fast
outside, but it carried away. The pro-
peller swung wildly and water poured
into the engine-room.
Cargo chains were used next, and after
a day’s terrific toil the propeller was
made fast, a bit askew, with a prepon-
derance to port. Then the inside end of
the tube had to be closed by fixing a
plate. Each time the men tried a huge
wave would wash in and send them fly-
ing, half-drowned, along the floor of the
tunnel. Yet they managed in the end,
and all the time it was blowing and rain-
ing, with nothing in sight save the grey
seas and driving spray and the tossing
crests of the waves.
The ship was still being taken south-
ward by the current, towards the spot
where the Aucklands stand, 200 miles
south of Dunedin. To stop that drift,
Captain Jolley decided to set sails to
try to sail before the westerly. The ship
carried them fore-and-aft. Square sails
were improvised with cargo derricks as
spars ; every patch of canvas in the ship
was set, but the propeller spoiled every
effort to run before the wind, the drag
of it making the ship “come about and
look at you.” She simply sailed in
circles in that world of desolation.
A week passed in these tireless,
desperate efforts to save the ship, and
there were only two days’ provisions
left. On the short run of six days to
Melbourne these should have been ample.
Now they had been over a week out and
were still drifting southward, completely
out of the tracks of ships—even of sailing
ships—in what might be called a back-
water of ocean.
Then suddenly, during a lull in the
squalls, away to the north-east a big
barque, under reefed topsails, came bear-
ing down on them out of the murk. It
was incredible, but it was true. The
barque was the Ravenscourt, Captain
Jenkins, bound from Newcastle to Val-
paraiso with coal, and coming down far
south to make the Great Circle course
eastward, miles off her regular course.
She hove-to a mile away and signalled.
Captain Jolley asked her master to
tow him. He had plenty of chain and
wire to make a long and heavy towline,
to give plenty of spring between the two
ships. The salvage would have been
many times the value of the freight
of coal for Valparaiso. But Captain
Jenkins held it would be too dangerous
in such seas. He said he would take the
captain and crew of the Port Stephens
on board.
This was decided upon. With the roll-
ing of the helpless steamer, the launching
of the boats presented a problem. One
minute they were afloat in their chocks,
the next they were forty feet in the air.
But it was accomplished. Up the barque’s
ladders, thrown over the lee side, the men
of the Port Stephens scrambled aboard.
The boats were let go; it was hopeless
to try to get them on board. The
steamer slowly faded from sight in the
storm wrack as the barque stood away
on her course.
Back to Port Chalmers Captain Jolley
and his crew were taken, but without
their ship.
"THE Marine Court was severe on the
* captain. It held that he should have
carried a larger stock of provisions and
should have had a copy of the “New
Zealand Pilot,” which would have shown
him that the currents which flow south-
wards past the Aucklands sweep north-
wards and eastwards to the Chathams,
and if he had had plenty of food and
stayed in his ship she would have drifted
back to safety. Which is where the ques-
tion of how long she floated and drifted
comes in, for she was never sighted again
after that day when the Ravenscourt
sailed away and left her. The Court
fined Captain Jolley £5O.
The New Zealand Government, how-
ever, took a different view and went so
far as to state that, had the captain re-
mained in his ship and by doing so had
caused the death of even one of his forty-
eight men, he would have been guilty of
manslaughter. In Sydney Captain Jolley
was presented at the Royal Exchange
with a purse of sovereigns to cover his
expenses before the Marine Court and
an address appreciating his action in
saving his crew. For twenty-five years
he continued to command Port Line
steamers, but his thoughts are often away
down south where he left the Port
Stephens, wondering how long did she
float and, if for long, why she did not
turn up at the Chathams.


BLESSING IN DISGUISE.
“Though even the Stock Exchange reports that the escape of the German capital ships from Brest dealt a severe blow to confidence, Mr. Churchill insists that it
has been decidedly beneficial to our war situation."
“It is decidedly beneficial, I assure you. Think of all the country will save through not having to keep them in confinement.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 2.52 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London’: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
STILL ROSES AND
RAPTURES!
Worthy of William Howard Russell, the
first London “Times” war correspondent,
was the “Thunderer’s” account of the 10
weeks’ campaign which ended at Singa-
pore on February 15. Dispatched from
Batavia by the paper’s Singapore corre-
spondent, it was as vivid and revealing
as Russell’s messages from the Crimea,
for the writer wields a powerful pen
and, like Russell, extenuated nothing.
But it made very painful reading.
Singapore, in the writer’s judgment,
could have been held only if there had
been ships and aircraft enough to keep
the Japanese several hundred miles from
the base. The story that it was a fortress
was a legend, invented in the first place
to deceive the Japanese—who, of course,
were never deceived. It had “none of
the natural qualifications.”
Unlike Malta, Singapore had no natural
protection against air attack. Unlike
Tobruk, it had a civilian population total-
ling 700,000. And, unlike Moscow, the bulk
of this population were apathetic spec-
tators of a conflict which, they felt, did
not concern them After nearly 120 years
of British rule the vast majority of the
Asiatics were not sufficiently interested in
continuance of this rule to take steps to
insure its continuance.
This they showed in ways which baffled
the defenders. All of them deserted the
docks, nearly all the naval base (in which
12,000 Asiatics had been employed), and
those whose job it was to fill in bomb
craters quitted it almost as soon as the
bombing began. Small ships there were
in plenty, enough to bear away “many
thousands” more soldiers and civilians
than reached the Dutch islands, but the
native crews walked off them, and
although European substitutes did their
best it was necessarily a poor best. And
all this came about principally because
“the few thousand British officials and
residents were completely out of touch
with the people.”
The British and Asiatics lived lives apart.
There was never a fusion or even a
cementing of these two groups. British rule
and culture and the small British com-
munity formed no more than a brittle
veneer. Against this structure there was sud-
denly launched the explosive force of a
nation impelled by fanaticism and the
frustration of economic repression.
And “the same lack of dynamism” that
“characterised the upper ranks of the
civil administration after a lifetime spent
in the easygoing routine of colonial
administration in Malaya” was found
among generals, our own Gordon Bennett
excepted:
Though hard, bitter, sarcastic and diffi-
cult, he was a fighter through and through,
imbued, like his men, with an aggressive,
offensive and unconventional spirit. Other
generals lacked this vital spark, and the
absence of forceful leadership at the top
made itself felt from the top downward.
Moreover, “many of the white troops—
the Australians were conspicuous excep-
tions —never seemed physically up to the
mark.”
Some had been too long in a tropical
climate and had gone soft. Others had just
armed and were not accustomed to the
climate or terrain. One brigade plunged
straight into the jungle fighting in Malaya
three days after landing from an 11 weeks’
sea voyage.
And that jungle fighting and the long
retreat to the island took a heavy toll of
the army. A battalion of the Argyll and
Sutherland Highlanders lost 80 p.c. of its
men and Gurkhas lost more. Remnants
of East Surrey and Leicestershire regi-
ments had to be amalgamated in a single
battalion under another name. “Two
Australian battalions were badly cut up
at Muar, and the Australians lost heavily
in other sectors in Johore.” So when the
army took up its positions on Singapore
Island it had ‘acquired a psychology of
withdrawal, and almost a psychology of
defeat.”
There was no rest for weary men
The Japanese effected their landings, and
their superiority in artillery was almost
as pronounced as their superiority in air-
craft; Troops defending one sector, “sit-
ting in shallow open trenches,” were sub-
jected to “a crescendo bombardment” for
three days. The enemy’s spotters worked
unhindered, and his incessant bombing
had its inevitable effect on morale, that
of the Indians especially. His aerial
ascendancy was such that “the day after
the landings, when hundreds of dive-
bombers and fighters were bombing and
machine-gunning our men unmercifully,
there were only six Hurricanes giving
air support.’ ” And so the tragedy
moved to its certain close.
Malaya and Singapore! Proud names
for generations ; now bitter in the utter-
ance, summoning up the rage and
humiliation our ancestors felt when they
spoke the words Saratoga and York-
town. To the servicemen engaged, sol-
diers, airmen, naval and merchant sea-
men, they represent a Calvary which
could have been prevented; to the
Empire, a staggering loss, the ultimate
effects of which may be worse than the
immediate effects, serious as these are in
every way ; to the Axis, a triumph which
has filled it with exultation and increased
its opportunities of extending its malig-
nant influence and carrying death and
destruction into regions previously un-
touched by its bloody hand. But the
military historian who traces the course
of events from Khota Bahru to the sur-
render of the Lion City will sum them
up as the latest and worst example of
Mr. Churchill’s methods of making war.
If he is an Australian, he will quote what
Charles Bean wrote in his Story of
Anzac concerning Mr. Churchill’s “allur-
ing vision of the power of the naval gun,
which enticed Kitchener into the naval
attack” on the Dardanelles, “but proved
false,” and the sequel:
Through a Churchill’s excess of imagi-
nation, a layman’s ignorance of artillery
and the fatal power of a young enthusiasm
to convince other and more cautious brains,
the tragedy of Gallipoli was born.
And he will certainly descant with
severity on the deadly truth that two
generations of Australian soldiers,
organised in five divisions, have had shat-
tering experiences of Mr. Churchill’s
methods of making war—two divisions
in Gallipoli, one in North Africa, one in
Greece and Crete, one in Malaya and
Singapore; and in a great many cases
fathers and sons.
Strange and sad, in truth, but no
stranger, in a sense, than the idolatry
which sustains Mr. Churchill in his efforts
to ride on the whirlwind and direct the
storm. There has been considerable criti-
cism of Mr. Churchill in Britain. In Aus-
tralia, especially Sydney, there are dis-
tinct traces of an anti-British agitation—
very irrational and unjust, for “Tune in
with Britain” has been the accepted
policy of this country, subscribed to by
nearly all the politicians and newspapers,
for 10 years—but it has not taken an
anti-Churchill direction. In respect of
this country, though the present Govern-
ment grumbles, Mr. Churchill is still in
a position to do or leave undone any-
thing that it pleases him to do or leave
undone. Even when the Japanese were
boasting that they had made captives of
13,000 Australian soldiers in Singapore,
he gave the now-familiar abrupt negative
to a Commoner who asked whether he
intended to set up an Imperial War
Cabinet. And the so-called Pacific War
Council has boiled down to an occa-
sional meeting, at which he delivers a
monologue to Dr. Page and another
gentleman—or perhaps two gentlemen—
after which “the results are cabled to
Washington.”
A faint protest against the Churchill
military dictatorship appeared in the
“Daily Mirror,” a Sydney picture-paper.
Mr. F. Ehrenfried Baume, the paper’s
European correspondent, “famous” for
calling upon the Empire to stamp Ger-
many, Italy, Japan and Spain “flat,”
soon settled all that. Three days after
Singapore, surrendered, Mr. Baume
boomed from London to this effect:
Every member will be happier at this
stage of the war to see soon Mr. Churchill
rising to his feet to announce, with courage
and not blandness, that he had decided for
the mass of the British people It will be
a tragedy if a man of such giant stature
as this great leader was to topple when
there was no need for him to shift from his
two balanced feet. He is at his best, in
the height of his genius. He is the greatest
fear of Hitler and Mussolini and the great-
est friend and confidant of Roosevelt. Also*
Stalin is learning to trust him. These are
very great considerations.
And is Australia no “consideration”?
Evidently not; anyway, Ehrenfried,
though alleged to be “Australia’s most
famous war correspondent,” didn’t men-
tion Australia.
There are still many Baumes about.
From 1937 onwards they clamored for
Resistance to Aggression in distant parts
of Europe and Asia from which our
forefathers, virile as they were, kept well
clear. They never once stipulated that
the Empire should be fully prepared for
such Resistance or had the faintest
glimmer of a notion that it would mean,
not a romantic punitive expedition, with
the glad promise of reflected glory for
Fireside Fusiliers without any sacrifice
of home comforts or peril to their tender
skins, but a stark struggle for survival
in Britain and the southern Dominions
and measures like the summoning of
Chiang Kai-shek, K.C.8., to India,
designed to save something of the British
Empire in Asia. It was then a case of
on with the dances and the cinema
shows; the daily horseraces and the
nightly dograces ; the football, the tennis
and the ten-day Test matches ; the nudity
competitions and the astrology columns” ;
and “order out the Air Force with its
96 third-rate machines, and the Navy
with its two cruisers, and the 30,000
militia boys who (when the Treasurer
agreed to furnish the funds) got 16 days’
annual training, to give the Dictators
hell”! Now with Malaya and Singapore
gone, Burma and New Guinea invaded,
Darwi bombed and India in danger,
these people won’t give up their Churchill.
They would see the Empire damned first!
An End to Oratory.
It is something to be thankful for that
Mr. Curtin is no orator. On the demo-
cratic side oratory has served the one
purpose of inducing a false state of
security, a completely false outlook. In
a false sense it has converted disastrous
defeats into victories. In the same sense
it has built impregnable walls that have
fallen one after another. Actually, it has
contributed nothing to the winning of a
single battle, even on the home fronts.
Significantly, while the democratic side
has seen the full flowering of two of the
greatest orators its countries have known,
oratory has been declining elsewhere. It
is not through loss of voice or miracu-
lous development of an inferiority com-
plex that Mussolini has practically
become dumb. Hitler makes one speech
now, without oratory, for every ten he
formerly made, all oratory; meanwhile
he assembles “vast new armies and stocks
of arms for decisive campaigns, which
are near.” With the Russians waging
their fierce war oratory is at a total dis-
count in the Kremlin.
It is being realised that wars are won
by fighting, not by words. All to the
good that Australia is at this time led by
a man who talks little and plain. All that
oratory has done for Australia was im-
plicit in every blunt sentence of his “no-
surrender” call:
Everything which Australians have, and
everything which belongs to them, must now
be mobilised. No longer is there a time
factor on which complacency can place an
anaemic reliance. No longer can Australians
allow any stultification of their own efforts
by depending on external forces and external
support. These are assured to them, but
the problem of their coming, and its rela-
tion to the calendar of the enemy, are
factors which Australia should disregard
in making itself a nation completely at war.
If anything like a realistic outlook had
prevailed that would have been accepted
as the true position from the day war
broke out, instead of now, two and a
half years later, and only now because
the latest of the orators’ “impregnable”
walls has fallen just over the horizon and
the “remote” war been brought actually
here. Presumably, if Singapore had been
held Australia could have dithered along
on the old limited-liability lines. Even
now a great deal depends on whether
those in a position to do so see that Mr.
Curtin’s plain speaking is followed
through. It is up to them. They cannot
delegate the initiative to the people at
large, which is the very essence of their
outmoded “voluntary system.” They
must do now what they have been too
politically timid and unrealistic to do —
direct the willing and compel the rest.
It is now work or fight as we have never
worked or fought before We must not
play at work, or be indolent or irrespon-
sible in anything that is called work. On
what we do now depends everything we
may like to do when this bloody test has
been survived.
The trouble with such statements in
the past has been the lamentable poli-
tical weakness in following them through
to their logical end in positive action.
Mr. Curtin got as far away from mere
rhetorical oratory as any speaker, him-
self deeply moved, possibly could ; but
there need now be no speeches at all,
even in the sense that Mr. Curtin’s rally-
ing call might be classed as a speech.
Events now call for acts only—not, as
recent and past events have brought
forth, every big and little man in the
country with a voice rushing on to the
nearest platform to blab.
Mr. Curtin accurately stated that
“Every citizen has a parallel duty to that
of the man in the fighting forces.” With
this duty must go a parallel responsibility
to do it, or suffer definite consequences.
It is worse than useless to generalise
about duty at this time. It can be taken
for granted that everybody realises that
something is required of him. The Gov-
ernment has the duty of directing what
that duty is, and seeing that it is done.
This means total conscription—for
everything. What would Australia’s
defence position be today without mili-
tary conscription—if this side of it had
been handled in the shamefully weak
manner that enabled, if it did not en
courage, N.S.W. coalminers to g 0 0 n
striking even when Singapore was lost?
On the other hand, how incomparably
stronger would Australia defence produc-
tion, N.E.S. and every other total-war
essential be now if they had been en-
forced, as they should have been by
directed compulsion from the beginning
Politicians have been amazingly slow
to grasp one simple truth—that they have
not been leading on in advance of the
people; progressively since the war
started the people at large have been well
out m advance of them. Nobody was
put out by Mr. Curtin’s “general mobili-
sation” declaration because everybody
was ready for it long ago. All that any-
body who thinks well of Australia now
asks is that, without further explanations
or quite unnecessary apologies, the Gov-
ernment will implement that declaration
to its stated and implied limits.
Re-enter Theodore.
An elderly politician and an elderly ex-
politician, each with a newspaper which
publishes articles bearing his name, have
been offered to Australia as saviors.
The claims of Mr. Lang have been
rejected. Those of Mr. Theodore have
been accepted, to the extent that he has
been named “Director-General of an
Allied Works Council in Australia.”
Who is Mr. Theodore? To a genera-
tion which sets little store by elderly ex-
politicians, he is known only as a Rich
Uncle from Fiji, where he is interested
in goldmines. But Queensland knew him
as a burly young Labor member who
did not attend the last war; as a Cabinet
Minister who took a leading part in the
anti-conscription campaigns, after the
second of which heroic A.I.F. battalions
had to be broken up for lack of reinforce-
ments ; and as a spendthrift who, in nine
years of misrule as Treasurer and Pre-
mier, turned an annual profit on the rail-
ways into an annual loss of £1,500,000
or so, doubled the cost of the State estab-
lishment and the taxes, and added £24
per head to the State public debt, in the
process introducing American loans, one
of $12,000,000 at 7 p.c. and another of
$10,000,000 at 6 p.c., which have since
been headaches to the National Sinking
Fund Commissioner. He was M.L.A. for
Chillagoe, and in that district he com-
mitted the State to a vast speculation in
Government mining ventures which
proved singularly unfortunate.
Theodore’s connection with Queens-
land politics ended in 1925. Having re-
signed the Premiership, he stood for
Federal Herbert, an electorate held since
1901 by a Labor member who left the
party after the conscription split, but
was not a candidate in 1925. Mr. Theo-
dore failed to defeat a little-known
Nationalist, Dr. Nott. That gentleman
at the subsequent election was unseated
by a Labor man who has held Herbert
ever since.
Coming to Sydney, Mr. Theodore was
elected in 1927 at a by-election for
Federal Dailey, in circumstances without
parallel before or since. They led to a
public inquiry, at which the previous in-
cumbent explained that he had made his
pile by backing the winner of the Mel-
bourne Cup, with bookmakers whose
names he could not remember, and had
thereupon decided to efface himself to
admit of the surpassing merits of Mr.
Theodore being placed at the nation’s
service.
In 1929 Mr. Theodore became
Treasurer in the Scullin Government.
Before that Government met Parliament
it had, with Mr. Theodore’s enthusiastic
approval, suspended compulsory military
training, a political crime for which Aus-
tralia has paid dearly, and tenfold dearly
since the outbreak of the present war.
Within three years the number of sol-
diers permanently employed, exclusive
of Defence Department clerks {they, hav-
ing a union, were provided for, but war-
rant officers got it in the neck), had
slumped from 1755 to 1536, and the
training strength of the A.M.F. from
47,931 to 29,821 (“training,” when fully
carried out, was “16 days per annum”);
and the rot was not arrested till after
Munich.
But clouds were gathering in the
North, The continuous Labor Govern-
ment had fallen, and the Administration
that succeeded it gave a former N.S.W.
Justice a royal commission to inquire
into the Chillagoe mining ventures. Mr.
Theodore’s attendance was solicited, and
the Royal Commissioner offered to keep
the inquiry open to enable him to give
evidence. Pleading a Budget engage-
ment, Mr. Theodore remained in Can-
berra, and his Honor returned his com-
mission with a startling report:
“Theodore was guilty of the grossest im-
propriety in becoming secretly associated in
the Fluorspar Mining Co. and the Argen-
tum Mining Co.”
Theodore and others were “guilty of
fraud and dishonesty in procuring the State


to purchase Mungana Mines for £40,000^
The leases had been forfeited to the: Crow
for non-payment of rent. Theodores
banking account showed that he receive
regularly one-half of McCormack s share
of the fruits.” [McCormack was another
Labor Premier.]
As for Chillagoe operations in general,
there had been
“reckless extravagance, unscrupulous ex-
ploitation, suppression and misrepresenta-
tion of truth in yearly balance-sheets and
cynical transgression ° £ ‘^rclusive
a loss to the people of £1,127,000, exclusive
of interest. . .
Declaring that he had been a victim
of a “frame-up,” the work of “a hired
assassin” (though the “Labor Daily said
“the integrity” of the Royal Commis-
sioner “is undoubted in this State ), Mr,
Theodore resigned his portfolio but not
his seat, and challenged the Queensland
Government to take action against him
and the other parties mentioned. This it
did, the issue as presented by the Chiet
Justice to a special jury of four being
whether Mr. Theodore, Mr. McCormack,
the manager of the State smelters and
the Mungana leaseholder had conspired
to take the Government down by selling
it a mine for £40,000 which was not
worth more than £10,000.” The jury
found for the defendants, with costs
against the Crown. Mr. Theodore had
refused to “answer the charges” m Par-
liament, saying “I am looking for a
better opportunity... .a fair opportunity
to face my accusers, and to present evi-
dence in rebuttal of that which they may
bring.” He did not go into the box.
Before the case came on Mr. Theodore
was reappointed Treasurer. Thereupon
Mr. Lyons and Mr. Fenton quitted the
Ministry and the party and helped to
form the U.A.P. The Scullin-Theodore
Government fell on evil days. At the
1931 general election its party was
routed. Mr. Theodore, making his final
appearance as Federal member, was de-
feated by the present Labor M.H.R. for
Dailey, Mr. Rosevear, scoring only 7272
primary votes out of 37,129.
Mr. Theodore’s appointment, in which,
according to his own paper, he to
have “complete freedom of action,” is
no compliment to the Allies concerned
in the Allied Works Council.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Preference to Lotteries.
You can no longer buy or sell land or
shares, and if you can’t pay your income
tax you can’t borrow the equivalent from
the bank. But you can “invest” in lot-
teries.
Lotteries are run in the four States
with Labor Governments, and three of
them were started by Labor Govern-
ments. Each Labor Government is very
jealous of the other’s lotteries, calling
them “foreign” lotteries and prohibiting
sales of “foreign” lottery tickets within
its boundaries. The Westralian enterprise
has a former Labor Minister, Mr. J. J.
Kenneally, for chairman.
Moved by a lively expectation of
brisker business, Mr. Kenneally is intro-
ducing “a new system.” Under the “new
system” “the principal prize will be
£1000,” and there will be 503 other
prizes, with a total distribution of £3220.
“It is expected,” said Mr. Kenneally,
“that at the commencement of the new sys-
tem lotteries will be drawn about once a
fortnight. When the system is established
the Commission hopes to conduct one lot-
tery a week. _
“The subscription,” he added, “is to be
50,000 tickets at 2s. 6d.” ; or £325,000 a
year. Substantial figures, but only a
fraction of what the other lotteries
rake in.
Income from property and dividends
is heavily taxed. Combined Common-
wealth and State taxes are vaguely under-
stood at Canberra to reach 18s. in the £,
but in a burst of candor the Assistant
Treasurer admitted that the combined
rates might reach 21s. in the £ and that
was before his Government clapped an-
other shilling in the £ on income Irora
property. Lottery prizes, which run from
£5 to £20,000, are not taxed by the Gov-
ernment which has the responsibility ot
financing the war.
Labor loves lotteries.
"Scorched Earth" in Java.
From “Feng-Shui”:
Java, obviously next on Japan’s list, will be
an entirely different proposition from Malaya.
That peninsula, having no natural central-heat-
ing and fertilising system like Java but a bac
bone of inaccessible and uninhabited mountains,
is neither as intensely cultivated nor as an-
tastically populated as the island of Java-
has none of the charms, culture and history
which make Java a place that the Dutchman
and his wife and children think would be the
most delectable spot in the world to spend their
lives in. .
The Englishman went to Malaya with no in-
tention of staying. The Dutchman dreams of
retiring to one of the temperate mountain dis-
tricts where he can drink his gin in the cafes
and listen to good music. To this extent there
is a more sympathetic relationship between the
native and the white man than there was in
Malaya. Each regards Java as his home and
not as a mere place of sojourn. The native
cultivates his island over every inch of the low-
lands and almost up to the tops of the in-
numerable mountains. The crops he plants tor
export are only a small proportion of the crops
he plants for his own sake. Consequently the
prosperity or otherwise of his island does not
depend so much on foreign markets as was the
case in Malaya.
Hence of all the bad kinds of propaganda
which have come out of this war of bad
propaganda, the worst seems to be the
“scorched-earth” policy, so dear to armchair
strategists and well-fed press correspondents who
get out before they see the dire results of their
doctrine.
From the point of view of defending Java
nothing could be more disastrous than this
propaganda. If the Chinese and the Russians
like to destroy their own means of subsistence
for the problematic advantage of embarrassing
an invader, that is their affair. But for foreign
Governments who wish to be regarded as the
custodians and guardians of Asiatic races it is
an almost suicidal proceeding.
Suppose the 45,000,000 natives and 2,000,000
Chinese of Java believed that their Govern-
ment would scorch their fertile island —not that
the Government could do it, but the mere rumor
in the pasars would be sufficient. How could
the natives be expected to like it? They would
know perfectly well that if the Dutch position
became untenable it would not be they bu
the Europeans who would be cared tor ana
evacuated. Would that knowledge tend to
make them more or less loyal to the Dutch
power? Would it tend to make them feel less
secure or more apprehensive? If it made them
more apprehensive, would they be better or
worse soil for Japanese Fifth Columnists?
These are the questions that “famous” corre-
rS s .ru t .Tl^w S SSgab n oTlat
" thC kfmP ° nBS
♦
„
"This Is Canberra."
The significance ot the attack by the
Premier of South Australia on the new
A.B.C. “news service” lies m the fact that
Mr. Playford’s is the only purely non-
Labor Government ot the seven.
Before a change was made lor me
worse, the A.B.C. news service comprise
a survey of overseas happenings, a bnet
review of Commonwealth events and a
short broadcast of news of the particular
State in which the national station was
located. Now, as Mr. Playford put it,
there are set out “in great detail
the relatively unimportant doings and
sayings of minor Federal Ministers,
together with the views, and often a
second helping,” of other Ministers an
announcements of the appointment o
committees, “of which Australia already
has as many as rabbits.” Listeners have
to endure minutes of sheer boredom m
the hope of extracting a kernel or two
of fact.
One of the results has been an assump-
tion by some Federal Ministers of ideas
about their own importance which are
out of all proportion when set against
the national scene. Thus we find them
taking unto themselves assistants from
the Parliamentary ranks and blithely tell-
ing the world that “extra and onerous
duties make it necessary that they should
be relieved of minor details.” Every Aus-
tralian who ever thought about it
knows full well that there are more than
enough under-secretaries and lesser lights
to eat the work.
In effect, Australia, in the midst of
unprecedented dangers, at a time when
it should be able to rely on its national
broadcasting system for accurate report-
ing of facts, when it might yet have to
rely on that system for orders affecting
civilian life and property, has all too
much reason to suspect that the party
politician has got control of it. This is
mad, bad and dangerous.
NOT YET UPON THE LIST—THOUGH THEY NEVER WOULD BE MISSED.
“Production of a long list of non-essential good,, ranging from bath-healer, to fur coat,, ha, been prohibited."


HOW TO BE HEALTHY
Constipation clogs the system and causes 1
many ills. Doctors say, “To be healthy
you must keep free from constipation.’’
NYAL FIGSEN, the gentle laxative, aids
Nature in a natural way. It acts gently
and mildly to give you comfortable relief.
Easy and pleasant to take, Figsen is just
as good for youngsters as it is for grown-
ups. Get NYAL FIGSEN to-day and see
how easily this natural laxative will cor-
rect constipation and improve your health.
Sold by chemists everywhere— l/3i a tin,
{The next pest thing to Nature , . ,
NyalFigsen
FOR CONSTIPATION
Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/l/’3B). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
■Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
All Types of Luggage Stocked
: : '
: :
m
-
OVERNIGHT BAGS
Calf Leathers, Outside Pockets.
English Frame .. . . 45/-
C, E. KITCHING
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
LTD.,
POLITICAL POINTS
Two headlines that few Australians
ever expected to see appeared in their
press on the same day last week;
JAPANESE BOMB DARWIN.
NO N.S.W. COAL PITS IDLE.
But on Monday seven pits were idle “as
a protest against the exemption of key
men from compulsory retirement on pen-
sions,” applicable to 2000 other miners
turned 60.
Sydney “D.T.” notes that “Mr.
Churchill has made a gesture to
Dominions’ criticism by asking Mr.
Attlee to take the Dominions portfolio.”
Mr. Attlee is Mr. Churchill’s valet or
something.
Commerce Scully is the latest Federal
Minister to acquire a couple of “assis-
tants.” Finding a Labor man or an Ind.
round Canberra who isn’t “assisting”
somebody or other is as hard as finding
a State Parliament at work.
Years and years ago the Victorian
Government prohibited the sale of cattle
for human consumption from the Board
of Works farm at Werribee because of
alleged taint of beef measles. Now an
overriding Commonwealth regulation
threatens to release the meat to the pub-
lic, and Dunstan is indignant. Reputable
medical men and high health authorities
have declared the beef to be just as fit
for human consumption as any other.
Official announcement issued on Feb.
18, 1942 :
Orders for new telephone services will
not be completed unless required by the
armed forces.
S.p. bookmakers who find seven ’phones
insufficient are requested to accept this
(the only) intimation.
Astute as he has shown himself in run-
ning Victoria for seven years as leader
of a minority party, Dunstan has fallen
in at last. In gross abuse of a National
Security regulation weakly delegated to
the Premiers, he authorised the trot-
ting gentry to hold “meetings” after
the horseraces on Saturday after-
noons. It has hitherto been illegal under
the Victorian Police Offences Act to con-
duct “meetings” after 7 p.m., but Dunstan
extended the time limit to 8.30. As it
happened, the first “meeting” was a
fiasco, and Dunstan, bitterly reproached
by Curtin, among others, is now threat-
ened with a no-confidence motion. Fortu-
nately for him, his alleged Parliament
will be out of action till June.
Matthew Arnold found Clarendon’s
style “a little Asiatic, a little excessive.”
What would he say of the style in which
“S. M. Herald” grovels to Churchill?
The trifling changes in his War Cabinet,
in which one press-boomed character,
Cripps, has been substituted for another,
Beaverbrook, moved “Granny” to a
turgid rhapsody on “Churchill’s wisdom
and imagination,” his “bold and generous
reconstruction,” the mark of a “great
statesman,” his “greatness” as a Parlia-
mentarian, the “affection and confidence”
with which he is regarded throughout the
English-speaking world and “the genius
and experience which fit him above all
others to hold the office of Minister of
Defence.” On the same page there
appeared a comment on this frenzied
claptrap, though it wasn’t presented as
such. It was a bald statement by Forde:
“At the end of January there were 18,231
members of the A.I.F. in Malaya,” and,
since they fought in Singapore to the
last, “the chance that any escaped from
the island is slender.”
Not being able to obtain enough coal
for current requirements, the Victorian
Railway Department had to stop carrying
barley, fowl feed, salt and lime and
drastically curtail passenger trains. And
this while the Government responsible
for the war effort was speaking severely,
and then softly, to coalmining strikers in
N, S, Wales, who, compared with coal-
miners in other parts, get the maximum
of reward for the minimum of exertion.
On the morning of February 17 a
Government publicity officer, broadcasting
from Canberra, said; “The Supply De-
partment has acquired all the tomatoes,
and any grower who will not pick and
deliver his tomatoes to a cannery will be
arrested.” Coal is required more urgently
than tomatoes, but the Labor Govern-
ment has not “acquired” coal. It did
threaten to arrest persons who will not
mine and deliver coal, but thousands of
workstoppers defied its regulations and
“Don’t drop your bundles, mates. They been goin’ to do all that to us fer two
munce.”
they were not enforced. Incidentally, the
very same penalties which were to have
been inflicted on striking miners are pre-
scribed for blabbing members who attend
secret sessions,
Sydney a month or two ago had a
sex-crime of the kind in which the
monster murders his mutilated victim.
The carcass of this particular monster
still pollutes the earth, the Sydney Gov-
ernment being against capital punishment.
Now Sydney has had another sex-crime
of the kind in which the monster murders
his mutilated victim.
Almost since the war began this coun-
try has from time to time read of the
meetings of an “Australian Agricultural
Council,” its job presumably being to
keep agriculture in line with possible war
needs. Now the country faces a short-
age, not only of vegetables but of seeds
to grow new crops of them. A body
that could not even maintain the place
in sufficient vegetables ought to be folded
up at once.
Parliament sat in secret at Canberra on
Friday and on Saturday morning. Archie
Cameron was the only objector, and be-
fore strangers were spied he got in some
good sabre-cuts of Cameronian speech.
One of these days King Compromise will
cease to rule in this Parliament, and then
it will be necessary for the viewpoint of
the Opposition to be put by the Leader of
the Opposition.
Though the enemy is bombarding Aus-
tralia’s back door there is no sign of some
very important things being done. While
a lot is being published about giving effect
to financial proposals, there is no indica-
tion that the Government is getting down
to telling the man-power of this country to
get to work.
Australians have to disabuse their minds
about Russia or America fighting their
battles for them. They have to do it by
their own efforts and brains, and by stand-
ing on their own big flat feet.
A terrible fellow, Cameron. Too terrible
to be employed in any Ministry when
party hacks and Yes-men abound.
After postponing the reopening of N. S.
Wales State schools for a fortnight in
order that air-raid shelters might be pro-
vided, the Sydney Government sent the
children back to school last week. Except
in odd cases, the only shelters were the
desks, under which the pupils were
“trained” to shelter, and teachers were
told that when an alert sounded they
were to take the children to “where the
shelters will be.” Yet N.S.W. has a State
War Book, a State Council, a State N.E.S.
and a State Child Welfare Department.
Expressing regret to the U.S.A. over
the babblings of Mitchell Hepburn,
Premier of Ontario, the Canadian Gov-
ernment points out that it was not a
formal apology, “since Mr, Hepburn is
merely a provincial Premier.” Australia
can fully understand that reference.
In the ordinary course of events the
50 Westralian Assemblymen would now
be preparing for a general election. Their
“Parliament’s” time was up on January
31. But on the last day of the session
its life was prolonged for .twelve months,
and so were the terms of ten Leg. Coun-
cillors due for retirement. Leg. Coun-
cillors are elected for six years, and one
gentleman had the face to propose that
the whole 30 should get an extension to
seven years, but this was too much for
most of the other gentlemen. Members
of the Commonwealth Parliament who
can’t prolong their own terms must envy
the facility with which the oracle was
worked in Perth.
W. H. Ifould, forced by age to retire
from the position of N.S.W. Public
Librarian, has been appointed N.S.W.
Deputy-Director of the Department of
War Organisation of Industry. His quali-
fications for the position:
. He was largely responsible for the build-
ing up of the Mitchell collection of books,
documents and other articles relating to
Australia.
He established the Public Library’s
country reference section and research de-
partment.
In 1940 he was appointed first chairman
of the New South Wales Library Board.
It’s a wonder he wasn’t appointed to
command a battleship.
Australia has some notorious examples
of ‘Russia First” journalism, but the
most blatant specimen is issued in Lon-
don ; name, “Evening Star,” A certain
General Gororov said his country would
need more Anglo-American assistance,
and this the “Evening Star” described as
“a clear call that must be met at all
costs”:
No bad news from the Far East, no urgent
call for reinforcements to endangered out-
posts, can for a moment stand in the way
of General Gororov’s call.
That damnable stuff appeared when
British, Australian and Indian troops had
been scourged out of Malaya and were
awaiting their doom on Singapore Island.
The Sydney “Parliament” opens its
new session today. Somebody ought to
stick a notice on the door: “Opened by
Mistake.”
One of the men hated by newspapers
which have been wrong about every
phase of the war and every country their
foreign correspondents have “covered” is
Sir Samuel Hoare. That in itself is a
recommendation, and a very good judge
gives some positive testimony:
Our Ambassador has done well in Madrid.
No one who has been there doubts it for
a single moment. He deserves credit for his
achievements. He has had one of the most
difficult and thankless jobs which a man
could be given. He faces every sort of
difficulty and annoyance, but he is continu-
ing his mission with great patriotism and
great success.
The witness is Kenneth de Courcy, who
writes the monthly “Bulletin” issued by
the Imperial Policy Group—the ablest
study of foreign affairs printed in English.
“We want to be regarded as comrades
to stand side by side with the men,” said
Mrs. Jessie Street, leading a deputation of
Sydney women to the Army Minister in
search of crossbows or something. The
lady must think wars are fought as they
are in the pictures, the “goodies” always
beating the “baddies.” Contemplate, if
you can, an enemy Army Minister being
plagued with such things.
The N.S.W. police force is on a war
footing, but the executive of its associa-
tion objected to police doing one night
in four in billets in Sydney and New-
castle, demanding overtime and other
“concessions”—A.R.P. wardens, many not
in reserved occupations, nor on a mini-
mum of 17s. a day, do a night a week on
garage floors and other uncomfortable
spots. Commissioner Mac Kay refused
the “demands,” and an article threaten-
ing that something would “burst”
appeared in the association’s paper.
Mac Kay thereupon transferred the
executive —17 in all —to country districts.
The usual cry of “Fascism!” arose, and
Baddeley, Chief Secretary, was heard
from. Saying “you come and see me or
I’ll come and see you,” he assured the
17 that their “rights” would not be taken
away. The sorry affair is a significant
preliminary to the compulsory-unionism
policy of the McKell Government. The
police have a union.


Syuotj. Y\jcfihko§j 'jydcwoWt' cwicL ojj
* BARDINET LIQUEURS *
Obtainable at hotels and spirit stores where QUALITY counts. If you have difficulty in getting supplies in your district, write
or ’phone SWIFT & COMPANY PTY., LTD., 26-30 Clarence Street, Sydney. Phone, 87377.
PERSONAL ITEMS
There should be a special award of
the Order of the Long Arm for this
example of coincidence: Two Melbourne
airmen with the Australian Spitfire
Squadron in the Old Dart are Squadron-
Leader Keith Truscott and Flight-Com-
mander Newton Wawn. Twenty years
ago Dr. Wawn, the flying Wawn’s father,
saved young Truscott’s life by an opera-
tion. Last October his son doubled the
compliment by shooting a Messerschmitt
off the tail of Truscott’s Spitfire over
mid-Channel.
Nobody will challenge E. G. Brooke’s
right to the title of doyen of telegraphists
in Australia. Fifty-seven years ago, his
English father having made a fortune
and lost it, he was wandering round Mel-
bourne, with vague notions of becoming
a farmer. He saw a telegraph key in a
shop window, decided to learn Morse and
later joined the Eastern Extension Tele-
graph Co. as an operator. He has seen
that infant concern spread to Maoriland,
Tasmania, Malaya and China; was in
the long fight between private enterprise
and the Pacific Cable and again in the
war between the cables and that other
infant the wireless, and assisted in the
amalgamation of all these interests into
E. G. BROOKE.
the vast Cable and Wireless, Ltd., with
its 165,000 miles of submarine cable, its
200 cable and wireless stations and its
30 millions of capital. Although 55 is the
retiring age for his company, he’s still
going strong at 76 and has just been
elected to the Court of Directors of
Cable and Wireless Holding, Ltd., and
Wireless, Ltd., in London—the first Aus-
tralian to get this position. He remains
Resident Director in Australia. Horse-
racing is his hobby ; he owns Tea Cake.
Something of an Australian record
must have been put up by three men who
enlisted in the R.A.A.F. at Brisbane on
February 13. F. N. Royal, of Brisbane,
returned the number of his family at 11,
ranging from 20 years to 10 weeks. One
of his seven sons is in the A.I.F. and
another on full-time military duty. E. N.
Smith, of Woodenbong (N.S.W.), owned
up to seven, six of them being under 16.
L. Petts, a contractor and sugargrower
from the Mackay (N.Q.) district, weighed
in with 10 ranoino frnm 16 to three
in with 10, ranging trom 10 to mrec
years, and secured nnal Honors.
When the Japs were getting further
south there was one far-flung bit of
organisation whose author didn’t get into
the headlines—the evacuation of civilians
from New Guinea and neighboring
j? la l dS ; ItS „ a ife ol W f™ fc Ur B A° Wn !nr
Corbett, M.8.E., A.M.1.L., Director-
General of Civil Aviation, whose head-
quarters are in Melbourne. Born in
Brighton, England, in 1877, he «as clerk-
ing for the G.P.O. Accounts Branch in
Brisbane before he went to the Boer War,
where he won the King’s Medal with
five bars, returning to be district engi-
neer at Rockhampton. He designed Syd-
ney G.P.O.’s mail-handling machinery
(1922), was Superintendent of Mails
(1926-33) and Deputy Director of Posts
and Telegraphs in Bananaland from 1933
to 1939. His control of civil aviation
has just been extended.
If there is a bigger job waiting for
him in the Army, Alexander Edward
Kelso, Engineer of Water Supply in Mel-
bourne and now released by the Board
of Works for military purposes, will be
surprised as well as delighted. His back
is still smarting from the pat it got from
Dr. J. L. Savage, Chief Designer for the
United States Bureau of Reclamation
and the world’s greatest authority (after
the beaver) on dam-building. After run-
ning his eye over Kelso’s plans for the
million-pound Yarra dam, the doctor de-
clared them faultless. A Heidelberg lad,
Kelso was educated at “Scotch” and the
Uni. He served as a sapper in the last
war.
As evacuees from other parts have dis-
covered, Sydney, for all its size, can be
a very lonely place, and only a kindly
twist of fortune made it less lonely for
James Thomas O’Malley when he passed
on in his native city at 67. He joined
the Papuan public service in 1907, was
Commissioner for Native Affairs from
1926 until 1940, and saw two nephews
join the Papuan service (Jim O’Malley
accompanied Jack Hides in exploring the
unknown country between the Strickland
and Purari rivers). J. T. O’Malley re-
tired in 1940 and remained in Papua
until, a very sick man, he was brought
to Sydney a week or two ago. Also
roaming the city at the time was Stanley
Arthur Greenland, for 30 years with the
Papuan service himself, and O’Malley’s
chief inspector from 1926 to 1940, when,
as Acting-Commissioner, he took over
the Native Affairs Department. A chance
meeting with a nurse and he was at the
bedside before O’Malley departedxon the
last long lead.
Col. L. R. Thomas moves from Adel-
aide, after five years at the head of its
A.B.C. station, to take over in Mel-
bourne. Wicks, who replaces him, was
a sports broadcaster in Perth before tak-
ing charge in Tasmania, and. for the past
year or two has been acting-manager in
Melbourne.
With headquarters in N’York, Maori-
land engineer Geoffrey E. Page is adviser
on small arms production to the British
Purchasing Commission in the U.S.A.
Early in the piece he tried to enlist with
the Enzedders, but Authority reckoned
he was best employed in the responsible
job he then held. A product of Auck-
land and Canterbury colleges, he bagged
degrees in electrical and mechanical engi-
neering in 1930, later joined the Vickers
co. in England, then transferred to
Enfield Small Arms.
Collected the Allenby Prize for top-
ping the Officers’ Training School in the
Middle East, young Bill Morgan, who in
1938 pulled a solid oar for Queensland
in the King’s Cup race on the Yarra; he
learned his rowing at Brisbane C. of E.
Grammar. Christened Franklin James,
he is a son of the State manager of the
National Bank, and was beginning in
the same line himself (Commonwealth
Bank) when the guns went off.
Mr. Forde (and others), please note:
Missing familiar faces from the near sur-
roundings, The Bulletin's tame Sherlock
tracked their wearers down and found them all
clustered together in one small garrison unit,
on behalf of which a challenge is hereby issued
to all comers to equal its percentage of business
executives serving in the ranks. The figure to
be beaten is 60 per cent. Following are typical
specimens:
A. G. Haswell, secretary of G. S. Yuill and
Co., the shipowners and colliery proprietors;
among other things, the firm also lately con-
trolled cold storage in Singapore and Hong
Kong. Private Haswell.
J. A. Brown, assistant accountant, same con-
cern. Pte. Brown.
K. E. Jenkin, accountant, Backhouse and
Coppock, paper merchants; president of N.S.W.
Paper Trades. Cpl. Jenkin.
Morrie Solomon, managing director, P. T.
Taylor Pty., flock manufacturers; director of
Tapitex Pty. and other concerns. Pte. Solomon.
Colin Walker, estate agent, Double Bay;
V.D.C. adjutant when called up for the other
unit. Pte. Walker. .
Keith Dowling, managing director, W. Balcmn
Pty., timber merchants. Sgt. Dowling.
Ken McL. Bolton, managing director, Mc-
Leod, Bolton and Co., and Trugrade Cotton-
waste, manufacturers; Deputy Mayor of North
Sydney. Cpl. Bolton.
John Gunning, managing director, W. J.
Gunning and Sons, the softgoods firm. Pte.
Gunning.
N. M. (Nick or “Pencil”) Jones, managing
director, N. M. Jones and Co., sales organisa-
tion for Columbia pencils and Stephens ink.
Pte. Jones. His business opponent, G. F.
Bickford, of Eagle Pencils, the English firm.
Pte. Bickford. . ..
That will do to go on with. All know a bit
about war already, and have brought themselves
up to the minute on Brens, tommy-guns, mortars
and so forth. But having them all as common
or garden soldiers in one show seems an extrava-
gance of proved brains and executive ability.
Seated at the rough table in his Tobruk
“orderly” room, the major interrogated
the very tall German officer who had
been brought in. A disciplined marvel,
the German officer looked down from
his great height, answered questions with
punctilious evasiveness; then, the inter-
rogation over, clicked his heels, threw his
hand up in the Nazi salute, heiled Hitler,
about-turned and goose-stepped —bang
into the beam over the door. He was
knocked cold, stunned, and was still out
after the count had been clocked in
minutes! The interrogating Australian
was Major D. A. Cormack, second in
command, 9th Div. Sigs., last heard from
in Syria, after having seen the Tobruk
siege through. One of the first militia
Sig. officers to get into the A.I.F. (Nov.,
1939), his peace-time job was handling
Perpetual Trustee claims in Sydney.
Fifteen years naturalised and very Aus-
tralianised, too, Gregory Koshnitsky, the
chess champ., will now be more so than
ever —he’s A.I.F. A White Russian
refugee, he made his Australian landfall
via China when a mere youth, picked up
the Queensland championship on the way,
and in Sydney was unrivalled exponent
of the violent game until the arrival of
the Hungarian champ., Lagos Steiner,
who, while on a world exhibition tour,
also decided that Australia would do him.
Steiner, too, does his bit —as an engineer
with exceptional skill useful to the war
effort.
For some years Returned Soldiers’
League vice-president in S.A., Major
E. W. J. Millhouse now has the chair.
He’s a leading Adelaide lawyer ; admitted
to the Bar in 1915 ; then a last-war term
as gunner, subsequently sergeant, with
the Bth Battery; Crown Prosecutor,
1922-29, and first South Australian
appointed to the Army Legal Depart-
ment. Also finds time to take the chair
for the S.A. Football League and the
Major ERIC MILLHOUSE, president
South A us. R.S.L.
Police Appeal Board, and is liable to be
found at other times at the hopeful end
of a fishing line.
“Feng-Shui,” when East meets East:
Except that both are thin and spare and
incorrigibly active, there could not be two more
widely contrasting beings than Generalissimo
(Sir) Chiang Kai-shek (latest K.C.8.), and
Mahatma Gandhi, who met in India last week.
Both had foreign educations, but Chiang’s was
in military academies in Japan, Gandhi’s at an
English university. Chiang was brought up
an orthodox Confucian ancestor-worshipper, but
married a Methodist wife and turned Methodist.
Gandhi was born a Hindu, and claims to have
remained one. Till lately Chiang had been a
hunted revolutionary most of his life ; Gandhi
earlier was a £20,000 p.a. lawyer in British
Soldier and Pacifist.
South Africa. One has turned half a nation
of 400,000,000 pacifists into soldiers and
munition workers; the other turned even light-
ing Sikhs into non-resisters. In spreading
his doctrine of non-resistance Gandhi’s weapons
were argument and example; Chiang made
China into a nation of resisters by establishing
a military dictatorship. Chiang’s message to the
Chinese in Singapore was to fight to the last
man; Gandhi’s early message to the British
people was not to resist the Germans but not
to give them their allegiance, whereupon, as he
sees things, the British would emerge as the
greatest spiritual force in the world. With two
such completely contradictory viewpoints, the
conversation of these two Asiatic leaders, the
one in his loincloth and the other in his
general’s uniform, would make ten times more
interesting hearing than the effusions of the
entire tribe of “famous” correspondents.
Blew himself from England to Tas-
mania—Professor B. W. Caton, builder-
up, tutor and boss of Launceston Boys’
Band. Joining the Scots Guards’ Band
in 1906, he tootled to Australia in 1913,
tootled in Sydney Conservatorium of
Music as professor of the trombone,
directed the tootling of the Young Aus-
tralia League band on tours of Austra-
lian States, Maoriland and S. Africa.
More than 250 young bandsmen have
tootled to proficiency at his command,
and his band proudly claims to be the
only one for miles which uses a xylo-
phone, which doesn’t tootle.
These times many young men are
making their marks on Europe; and
some of the worst scars on Berlin, Kiel,
Brest and Turin blaze the tracks of
Maoriland airman Wing - Commander
Trevor Owen Freeman, whose specialty
is low-altitude bombing. Awarded the
D.F.C. last year for navigation feats in
bad weather over Germany, he now has
the D.S.O. alongside it. He’s 25, was
born at Laurence, Central Otago, edu-
cated in Dunedin and got his A flying
license at 17 as a member of the Otago
Aero Club.
Into the silence:
Passed over in Melbourne, James Lawrence
Murphy, one of the ancient stalwarts of the
Labor movement and member for Port Mel-
bourne since 1917. A County Cork Irishman, he
landed in Melbourne as a boy, was a South
Melbourne councillor in 1904, a member of the
Harbor Trust Commission and secretary of the
Fire Brigades’ Union for donkey’s years. A
hard worker in social causes, the Fair Rents
Court and the housing scheme at Fishermen’s
Bend were two of his babies.
Captain Fred E. McNaughton, reported
killed in Malaya, was a Melbourne University
man who brightened many a university revue
with his song compositions. A member of the
University Rifles and a leading Rugby and
hockey player, he also found time to develop a
talent for film scenario writing. Before joining
the A.I.F. he was with the Commercial Bank
in Sydney.
In Canberra, at 63, John Irwin Dent, retired
station-owner, who had had a hand in practi-
cally every public movement in the Federal
Capital from Y.M.C.A. to Volunteers’ Associa-
tion. Music and Rugby Union had his sup-
port. His widow is running a War Aid in
Plymouth (Eng.), one) daughter is stationed on
war work in Washington (U.S.A.) and his only
son is an A.I.F. lieutenant abroad.
At 59, in Melbourne, Edward Joseph Me-
Cristal, Victoria’s leading authority on live-
stock marketing. The son of a Yea grazier and
farmer, he drifted from farming into journalism
and edited the livestock section of “Stock and
Land” for 25 years, making a system of market
reports a criterion for the whole of Australia.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Have you any vacancies in the Panzay Division?"
“Oliver Filter”: Had I been asked to
nominate the most industrious and most
courteous of the many Government em-
ployees in Darwin I should have imme-
diately suggested the post-office staff.
These kindly and decent people remained
at their posts during the bombing, and
nine of them were killed there; the
postmaster, his wife and daughter, the
supervisor of telegraphs, a clerk and
four telephone girls, two of them
sisters. Eight were South Australians.
South Australians were the first to take
up the white man’s burden in the Terri-
tory, and were the first victims of Asiatic
barbarity. Incidentally, an eyewitness of
the cruel business said there was only
two minutes’ warning before the first
bombs began to fall. It is a fact which
should be borne in mind by those with
authority over the crowds which throng
the streets of southern cities during day-
light.
» * * *
“W.T.”: Sydney’s toniest suburb has
endured a lot during this war. It has
watched its bravest and best go off to the
fighting, seen sandbags erupt along
streets hideously marked with white
lines and spots, been ordered by un-
known male persons to mask lights or
have them put out by force, endured an
invasion of wealthy aliens and then bit-
terly watched them “evacuate” (wondering
meantime whereinell they got the petrol
for their huge cars) and shed tears of
grief over dying lawns and shrubs as the
edict of the No-Water Board “scorched”
the once-fair earth. Added to all this
was a sudden decision to deprive the
place of its city-centre bus service and
the consequent necessity to crowd on
trams with the hoi polloi of less exclu-
sive districts. Nov/ the final blow has
fallen. Stockingless legs flinch, people
in company fiercely repress an age-old
desire freely expressed by simians, and
by night, under aristocratic sheets, there
are a grabbing and a cursing and scratch-
ing and many a hunt by torchlight, for,
ultimate insult of fate, the place is suf-
fering a plague of fleas !
* * * «
“Clooter”; I see by the papers that a
17-year-old youth on the track in Vic-
toria who found himself near a church
on a cold night and took refuge therein
got six months’ for sacrilege, the sentence
being suspended on bond. As one who
has also tramped, X confess here and now
to having slept in dozens of churches, but
sacrilege never entered my head. The
Founder of all Christian faiths was well
disposed towards the poor and outcast,
but seemingly some of His agents in Vic-
toria don’t share their Master’s view.
* * * *
“Quiller”; When I called the other
day on Angus McOatmeal, of Haggis and
McOatmeal, commission agents, I found
him in a peculiar frame of mind. He
had, I gathered, been spending the best
part of a week besieging various Govern-
ment departments endeavoring to dis-
cover what parts of the New Order, fresh
instalments of which are daily proclaimed
by Ministers of the Crown, have the effect
of law, what parts are likely to be made
law in the near future and what parts
are, as he puts it in his rough Caledonian
way, “just bubblyjockin’,” Angus, it
appeared, had had but ill success in his
mission, and was at his wit’s end to guess
what had best be done with the hundred
and one pies, financial and industrial, in
which H. and McO. have their fingers.
“But I found out one thing,” he ended a
sad recital, “and that is that the Japs
will never invade Australia.” “What
makes you think that?” I asked him.
Angus laughed wildly. “Because before
they got three yards from the coast they’d
be tangled, entrapped and smothenred
in red-tape!”
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Our drunk, meandering
about the streets in his usual condition
in the browned-out night, somehow
reached a beach and got tangled up.
Startled sentries, hearing the struggle
below, investigated and, after a lot of
trouble, during which our drunk lost bits
of skin and clothing, set him free. Where-
upon he sat down and said resignedly
“Orri’, orri’, gerrit over with.” The mili-
tary surveyed him and said kindly
“You’d better go home, ol’ chap.” Our
drunk climbed erect with a startled ex-
pression, looked round, pulled himself
together and with an astonished “Gor
bloomey, I reckoned I’d fallen inf the
raishushe’s roshe bush again,” wavered
off into the darkness.
* * ♦ *
“St. Arno”: I don’t have to go back
40 years to recall my struggle with shop
shutters (B. 12/2/’42). My first job was
in a draper’s in a Victorian country town ;
and my first act was to wrestle with
heavy wooden shutters, 6ft. by 3ft., under
which I must have looked like an ant
carrying a matchbox. I fought with the
damned, things morning and night for
a fortnight, and in between ran messages
for the boss and staff, delivered per boot
orders ranging from a couple of doyleys
to a roll of lino, and swept out the place.
Then they decided to hold a sale, and I
was handed bundles of handbills to
deliver to every house and shop in town.
Back from my first round, the boss sourly
remarked on my dusty boots. It was the
last straw. Bitterly contemplating my
ss. a week, my aching feet and sore
shoulders, I took those bundles of hand-
bills and dropped them one by one down
a conveniently idle mineshaft. A week
later I was working for a sheep-drover
who didn’t care how dusty my shoes
were, and I have never been associated
with the retail trade since.
* * * *
“Jachris”: To get any account of the
war, or anything else, from Sydney dailies
it’s still a matter of paying your two-
pence and taking your pick. Sydney saw
a pretty fair (or very minor) private war
of its own the other night, and both the
morning sheets ran the story. Said the
“Herald”:
One of the worst brawls ever to occur in
a Sydney public hall; men and women
fought furiously; rotten eggs and stink
bombs were thrown; one man wielded a
wooden mallet around which were pieces
of wire and to which was attached a
lengthy bolt of about 18 inches; chairs were
smashed.
But to the “D.T.” it was “a small riot.”
The “S.M.H,” man noticed
six men rush Mr. P. R. L. Stephensen,
knocking him to the floor. He was kicked
while two men held him. Two teeth were
knocked out. His right eye was badly
marked, and his head was torn in several
places.
The “D.T.” merely saw
Mr. Stephensen punched and knocked
down.
The occasion of the battle was a meet-
ing of the “Australia First Movement.”
Although Mr. Stephensen spoke for 90
minutes after he was “punched” (or lost
his teeth) neither paper saw fit to men-
tion what he said or attempt to explain
with what the meeting was concerned.
* * * «
“J.H.M.A.”; “S.T.S.” (B. 31/12/’4l) is
at fault in his “reading of history” when
he asserts that gentlemen getting hanged
did not enjoy the luxury of a drop before
the eighteen-sixties, but were left dang-
ling and choking in the air when a cart
was drawn from under them. The “Syd-
ney Herald” of March 17, 1841, describ-
ing the finish on Gallows Hill of the Jew-
boy gang of bushrangers, says: “The
ropes were speedily adjusted, and the
white caps drawn over the faces of the
wretched criminals. In the short interval
which elapsed before the withdrawal of
the fatal bolt, Marshall and Glanville
were engaged in loud and apparently fer-
vent prayer... .The struggles of all the
men were of short duration.” “With-
drawal of the fatal bolt” means that trap-
doors suddenly opened beneath the vic-
tims’ feet and gave them a drop of some
distance. Incidentally, the writer’s great-
uncle landed from Ireland that morning
as a youth of 19, and this was his cheer-
ing first impression of Sydney. Long
afterwards he used to attribute the recti-
tude of his Australian career to the edify-
ing spectacle. He never wanted to be-
come a bushranger.
* * # *
“Avon”: Despite Maoriland’s very
severe restrictions on motoring—petrol
or even a producer-gas installation is
denied (save for a skeleton taxi service)
to any car that is not used for an indus-
trial purpose—there is still quite a lot of
motor traffic on fine Sundays. Everybody
asks how it is possible. The explanation
favored by Authority is that many
motorists who filled up their tanks just
before the restrictions were clamped
down are still using that supply for a run
of five or ten miles once a week just to
keep engine and batteries in order.
Dilution of the original tankage with
kerosene, turpentine, distillate, eucalyptus
and camphor balls has been heard of
and despite stringent traffic laws to the
contrary most motorists these days coast
downhill to save juice. Some resourceful
drivers use acetylene cylinders full of
compressed house gas, and others even
connect up old tyre tubes filled with gas,
but there is a feeling that this is probably
illegal. Certainly one of the quickest
ways of getting into gaol in Fernland
just now is to be found using petrol with-
out a good sound story about where it
came from.
* * * «
“Sing 9”: Largely inspired by the
appeal of the Minister for Supply to
keep private cars on the road, I levered
mine off the chocks, had it overhauled
and presented it and self for re-registra-
tion. Examining officer took me over at
12.45 p.m. Everything was O.K. except
that one headlamp refused to dim. “Get
another bulb,” said the examiner. “Yes,”
I said, waiting. He gave me a gentle
smile. “You’ll have to get it now,” he
said. “Wouldn’t my word be enough?”
He smiled again. Circulating the city,
per boot, I was sent from shop to shop,
being told everywhere that bulbs were
“frozen” and hard to get. At 2 p.m. I
got back, complete with bulb, stuck it
in and waited. Men stood about the
yarning. Every now and
then a vehicle would arrive, be parked
and the driver would get out and stand
around. At 3.47 p.m. I walked out, certi-
fied by the sovereign State of N. S. Wales
as eligible to place self and vehicle at
the service of the Commonwealth
Minister for Supply. I hope Mr. Beasley
feels relieved about it.
“’ Struth , Charlie, We forgot to leave a passageway for yer!"
“DECLARED.”
Another firm has been ‘declared’ in Sydney on the
i eeornmendatipn of the Commonwealth Prices Commis-
sioner, Professor Copland."
Intelligible, doubtless. But I wonder
What makes officialdom so dull and dense
can h n d no happier term whereunder
a ,i° u anc * catalogue a new offence,
a nd our . dictionaries shouldn’t be spared
Another definition of “declared.”
It seems to rpe an undeserved reflection
Upon the riches of our mother-tongue,
Ever expanding in some new direction
Since Bacon moralised and Shakspeare sung.
Surely to stigmatise misdoing thus
Is inexpressive and ambiguous.
o(|cmay “declare” in quite appropriate diction
this man an enemy, or that a friend,
A positive belief, a firm conviction,
A war, a peace—even a dividend.
But to “declare” a company or store
sets one inquiring what is language for.
Hammered,” “disqualified,” “proscribed,”
‘blacklisted”—
All such are phrases regularly heard.
various synonyms like these existed
Where was the need to twist a pleasant word
Into opprobrious significance,
Denoting something to be viewed askance?
Come, I’ve a notion that deserves a hearing,
And this is what I hopefully suggest:
When chaps are penalised for profiteering
Let's give this bothersome “declared” a rest.
How far more fitting to record instead
Another sinner has been “Coplanded”!
N.s.w.
MIDFORD.
TOO MANY COOKS.
“ Attacking ‘the glaring' inefficiency of seven taxing
authorities, with their multitudinous demands on the
same set of taxpayers,’ the Sydney ‘Morning Herald'
points out that a ‘unified income tax now ranks as
an absolute war essential.’ ”
Yes, we are seven, and there’s less and less
Reason in that, it’s clear, for thanking Heaven,
When day by day we get some jolt to stress
In times like these the utter foolishness
Of being seven.
Seven distinct and separate Governments,
Six of ’em busy grinding local axes;
Seven authorities, to all intents,
And seven sets of estimable gents
Collecting taxes.
We’ve heard acclaimed, for forty years or so,
The fine ideals, the sturdy resolution
Of those celebrities of long ago,
Those statesmen of the past to whom we owe
Our Constitution.
They did their best. ’Tis pity none could be
Of some prophetic attributes the owner.
But -there were things ahead they couldn’t see
And hence —in some respects, admittedly—
They “pulled a boner.”
Too late we realised, when sore bestead
By bureaucratic muddling and frustrating,
How easier would be the paths we tread
If only we had unified instead
Of federating.
Too many cooks will spoil the broth —you’ve
there
A proverb as reliable as any.
And when it comes to hashing war-time fare
Even the dullest must be well aware
We’re six too many.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Better take a bath before you go, dear, 'cause you wont be able to
’ave one in Sydney."
“Looby”: Our suburb’s Tame Blonde
(no relation to “V. Cluse’s” tame drunk)
watched the digging of air-raid trenches
with wide-eyed enthusiasm. “What a
wonderful idea,” she cried at last to a
sweating workman. “Yair?” he said cyni-
cally. “Why? Think it’ll be fun hopping
down into them?” For a moment our
Blonde was silent. Then in tones of dis-
appointment she said, “Oh, is that what
they’re for? I thought they were there
to catch the bombs.”
* * * ♦
“Ologist”: Among the definitions of
“safe” in Webster’s New International
Dictionary are “freed from harm, injury
or risk.... no longer threatened by
danger or injury.... as, to arrive safe and
sound ; safe from disease, storms, foes.”
In a note dealing with “safe” and
“secure” as synonyms, Webster says:
“Safe only is used of that which has
escaped danger; as, they came safe to
land.” Those definitions and examples
clearly establish the validity of “D.E.’s”
contention (B. 18/2/’42) that “safe” and
not “safely” should be used in the sen-
tence “All our ’planes returned safely.”
“D.E.”: May I come in again on this
subject of journalese? It is merely to
thank a Sydney picture-paper for the in-
formation that London’s new Jack the
Ripper is “credited” (used twice) “with
three murders.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne bushfire
experience showed that motorists, of all
citizens, are hardest to educate in public-
safety ethics. Now they’re upsetting the
brownout. Surveying the country from
a high eminence the other evening I ob-
served how tens of thousands of houses
lay completely enveloped in darkness and
a great black blot sprawled where there
used to be millions of sparks of illu-
mination. It was impossible to define the
plan of the city until some motorist, no
doubt hurrying home from a convivial
party in the outskirts, heaved up his
searchlight. He ran a hoseful of light
along the Prince’s Highway, turned into
St. Kilda-road, considerately throwing a
beam on military headquarters in turn-
ing, and then vanished into the congested
areas of South Melbourne. Incidentally,
he was travelling at about 40 m.p.h.,
which is double the blackout speed or-
dained by Premier Dunstan.
* * * *
“Looby”: Women everywhere! A
flapper-paper runs a picture of a husky
girl delivering ice. I recently shied at the
sight of two be-slacked females standing
up in the back of a milk-cart and urging
the disgusted horse onwards as though in
a chariot-race. We have women bring-
ing us telegrams, and we’re warned to
expect women butchers. But the worst
blow fell t’other day when I traded my
fountain-pen to Uncle for the price of a
lottery-ticket. I was faced across the
pledge department counter by a little
blonde. Very polite, but I had a feeling
she longed to call me back and give me a
sisterly lecture on the evils of gambling.
$ V * *
“R. Volt”: During the full-dress
blackout in Melbourne warning sirens
were so ineffective that, although they
scared you out of your soulcase if you
were near by, they became so muffled by
distance that lots of people never heard
them. There must be some acoustic
reason for this, and it seems likely an
alteration in wave-length might over-
come the trouble. In Java the invader
will find an extraordinarily simple alarm
system in operation. Hollow wooden
drums are hung in the guardhouses of
every kampong. When somebody starts
an amuck or some disgruntled landowner
creeps into the sugar with a coconut
bomb and sets fire to the crop because
he regrets having leased it to the Dutch-
man, the watchman takes up his mallet
and smites the log according to a pre-
arranged code of signals. The low boom-
ing sound reverberates for miles and is
picked up by the watchman in the next
desa. He starts striking, and in the space
of a few seconds the air over hundreds
of miles of country is set vibrating. The
volume of sound isn’t anything like what
is at the command of Melbourne’s
A.R.P. officials, but it is much more pene-
trating.
“Nakh”: When the brownout was in-
stituted in Melbourne citizens were
appalled, though the streets weren’t as
dark as my fully-illuminated home town
was in my young days. But after the
“all clear” sounded after the recent black-
out and the darkened city returned to the
brownout it seemed to be almost unbear-
ably brightly lighted. When peace comes
inhabitants of congested cities might with
advantage consider the question of street
illumination. Nine-tenths of it hasn’t
come about out of a desire to promote
public safety. It has come about through
every shopkeeper trying to outdo his
neighbor in illuminated signs. But I sup-
pose if they all went back to scratch
somebody would think of a new gadget,
like smell-advertising, and in a decade
every shop-door would be belching
lavender and eau-de-Cologne at the
pedestrian.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Melbourne has seen
Javanese soldiers under Dutch officers
marching through the city to the Shrine
in St. Kilda-road to lay a wreath on the
Rock of Remembrance. Until the present
conflict the Dutch Government recruited
its small army from foreign legionaires
and non-Mohammedan natives from their
Outer Possessions. There were political
reasons for it, and, moreover, the Javanese
Moslem was not regarded as a natural
fighter. Any belligerency he had was
given an outlet once a year after the
Month of Fasting (when everybody eats
only after nightfall and eats twice as
much as usual) in the getekan, or rattan-
cane fighting, which is almost as danger-
ous as a League football final in Mel-
bourn. The long canes are split to give
a nice cutting edge and champions from
each kampong face one another on a
huge green arena. Each is stripped to his
loin cloth and holds his formidable
weapon with both hands behind his head.
One man strikes a lightning blow which
raises a long weal across the back of his
opponent, who throws his head back and
roars with laughter. Then the smitten
man has his turn, and his cane slashes
the face of the other like a whiplash.
Both stand their ground, exchanging blow
for blow until one begins to falter, then
breaks and runs. The punishment re-
ceived and given is terrific, but the cham-
pion of champions takes it until he has
vanquished allcomers. The tourney ends
in a general melee, which the native re-
gent’s policemen lash into order with
their batons.
* * * •
“Spokeshave”: Having heard, possibly,
that the Japs were using elephants in the
invasion of Burma and being annoyed
at not being included in the new man-
power regulations, one of Wirths’ pachy-
derms went musth the other morning
somewhere near Toorak. After making
short, work of the front fence of a
suburban residence it added to the cur-
rent vegetable shortage by demolishing
the kitchen garden, then walked over the
fence adjoining and made mincemeat of
the shrubs, flowers and
fruit-trees of a neigh-
bor. After treating half
a dozen other gardens
in a similar fashion it
returned on its tracks
and paid all its pre-
vious battlefields a
second visit. Finally it
ranged up beside a
woman who happened
to be deaf and was ab-
sorbed in pruning her
roses. Observing an
apricot-tree in full fruit
hovering in the air
above her, the lady
looked round and
found two tons of elephant surveying
her with disapproval. At this point its
keepers arrived and the suburban crisis
was over.
» * * *
“Hawkshaw”: Murderers who commit
the bodies of their victims to the deep
anywhere around Sydney don’t seem to
have much luck. A few years ago a
human arm found in a shark’s stomach
brought to light the assassination of a
gentleman named Smith. Recently an
early-morning visitor to Rushcutter Bay,
Sydney, saw a bundle in the sea that
turned out to be the body of a one-legged
man named McLean, who lived with
some others on a yacht of which he was
owner. He had been in many lands and
told colorful stories of his travels. His
skull was smashed. His body had been
wrapped in a sheet and bound tightly
about with wire to which four pieces of
iron resembling railway fishplates, aggre-
gating in weight about 601 b., had been
firmly attached. Yet the body floated.
* * * *
“Yellow L”: Let me join “Blue P.”
(B. 18/2/ ’42) in a grouch against those
authors who attempt to indicate the dic-
tion of the illiterate. There is a school
of these which seems to think that all
that is needed to convey the speech of
the vulgar is to put ordinary pronuncia-
tion into phonetic spelling and juggle a
few aspirates. “Soot” for “suit,”
ture” for “amateur” and “orf” for “off”
are examples. They look dreadful, but
don’t we all (of the older generation any-
way) pronounce the words just that way
—suit with a very long “oo,” not suet or
shoot; amature not ammeter, though
every dictionary prefers the electrical
instrument; “orf,” not “off” as in “offal”?
We adopt the “slippered speech,” so to
speak, of all educated men, including
professors of English. On formal occa-
sions the wisest of us, even among the
profs., steer clear of those words no one
can attempt to pronounce properly with-
out sounding and feeling silly.
* * * *
“8.P.”: “Cauboy” (B. 11/2/’42),
like most fellows with weak cases, com-
pletely evades the issue, which was that
a Biblical play could gain nothing from
being reduced from the beautiful lan-
guage of the New Testament to modern
English-cnm-American lingo. To say that
Shakspeare lived, not because of his
Elizabethan (language?) conventions, but
because “every now and then a great
thought emerges and because of his un-
derstanding of human nature” surely sup-
ports my original case. “Cauboy” should
try expressing a great thought in the sort
of bastard English the Sayers woman
uses. If the translators of the both
Testaments didn’t express their know-
ledge of human nature and make that
understanding crystal clear in simple lan-
guage I’m a Dutchman. “1 see,” says
“Cauboy,” obviously beginning to
flounder, “no objections to an author
writing a play about the Redeemer in
an idiom with which she is familiar in-
stead of one she doesn’t know.” No?
llien if she didn’t know the Bible
“idiom,” how' in thunder is she fitted to
write any sort of a play about Bible
themes? I might just as well write an
essay on Sanskrit, which I couldn t hope
to fathom. Dragging in Billy Sunday
seems a poor effort; why not Aimee
Semple MacPherson or Father Divine,
both of later vintage?
* ♦ * *
“Spare Corp.”: The original Diggers
didn’t like saluting, but when a couple of
them passed General in the
Strand the only reason they didn’t salute
was that they didn’t recognise him.
Birdie’s companion, a Tommy brasshat,
was annoyed; he thought that Birdie
should bring the offenders to book.
“What? And be ticked off in the middle
of London?” demanded Birdwood, with
a laugh. He knew his Diggers.
* » *
“Wodgil”: In these dark hours my
thoughts go out to the newspaper pil-
grims from Sydney who made the perilous
trip to Malaya to study the life of the
A.I.F. in that region—to the lady from
the “Women’s Weekly” who found it
full of glammer, supplied by millionaire
hosts and Chinese taxi-girls; to the
“Sunday Sun” man who saw the Diggers
suffering from “bloody-mindedness
through looking too long at rubber-trees
and proposed that they should be trans-
ferred in “convoys” to the Cameron
Highlands; to the managing editor
of Consolidated Press, who, with unerring
perspicacity, pounced on “the whole
point about Malaya.” What is the
whole point about Malaya”?
It is just north of the Equator, where the
intense tropical conditions are very wearing
on human beings.... Special efforts should
be made straightaway to greatly improve
and facilitate the troops’ opportunities tor
leave and recreation and education.
There followed a dialogue between this
“newspaper executive” and one of his brisk
boys: all abo\t picture shows, the lack
of a “system of rotation so that men in
the jungle far away from Singapore can
get into town regularly,” the need for
“the Army” to “spend a lot of money”
whereby “the short periods of leave and
the cost” might be “rectified,” the rela-
tions of soldiers with native women, and
so on. The parties “talked for a long
while, be sure, about what could be
done to help provide these men with
normal interests,” and the m.e. once
again came back to that word urgency.
One of the urgent needs, he said, was for
the Army to send up to Malaya men with
authority to get things done—
Men with power to put up canteens, to
order talkie equipment, to buy books —
Men who can decide on the spot, and
give an order for the thing to be done: on
the spot.
“The whole point about Malaya,” as we
know now, was that there was a devas-
tating dearth of men and equipment,
aircraft above all ; but it eluded these
newspaper pilgrims, who were interested
only in the trifles that interest leg and
lipstick journalism.
“Get on to the A.B.C., Charlie, an' see if y' can find out how were doin'."


ABORIGINALITIES
. ‘Aratta”: It was the new parson’s first
visit to the farm, and the family, under
dire threats from Dad, were on their best
behavior. It was hard going for the
adult males, particularly the hand, a
hard-bitten product of the city; but
all managed to conduct themselves
with decorum in the good man’s pres-
ence. When he was leaving, Dad escorted
him towards his sulky, which young Joe
had got ready. Just as they were pass-
ing the hand’s quarters near the stables
there came from inside a lurid burst of
profanity, and the next instant a couple
of well-grown pups came tearing out
through the open doorway, yelping in
terror. The parson gave an exclamation
of alarm, and hurried towards his sulky,
while Dad rushed to the hand’s hut and
pushed his head in at the doorway. Dad
himself was laboring under the stress of
hardly-controlled emotion. He found the
hand standing holding a pair of dilapi-
dated trousers. “Look at this,” he bel-
lowed at Dad ; “I just come in an’ found
them crimson pups havin’ a blanky game
of tug-of-war with ’em, me best pair!”
“Yes, yes, I know,” said Dad in a sub-
dued tone, but apparently speaking so
with some difficulty ; “but tone it down a
minute or two till the parson’s gone an’
I’ll come an’ join y’. I’ve just hunted
a blanky cow away from the clothesline.
She’s chewed half a leg of a pair of my
best pants. So ease up till I come back,
an’ if y’ can beat me then I’ll raise y’r
wages.”
* * * *
“Mac Moses”: To the white, except
such hardy pioneers as Andy and Ma,
the emu has little attraction as poultry,
but to the abo. it is a regular menu item.
The natives of the Musgrave Ranges have
its preparation down to a fine art. The
bird is plucked. The skin is then cut
right around each leg about one-third of
the way down, and from leg to leg across
the breast; then, with care taken to leave
all fat adhering to the skin, the carcass
is taken out whole. The skin is
stuffed, first with feathers rammed well
into the neck and tail, then with green
leaves and small sticks. The carcass is
cooked first in the usual way; the stuffed
skin is lightly cooked in the same oven.
It is reserved for the men, the women
and dogs sharing the carcass.
* * * *
“Moiler”; So the “boys were arguing
about a brickie who was supposed to be
able to pick up four bricks with one
hand” (B. 18/2/’42)? I’m a pen-pusher,
but I’ll do it any day of the week. You
put one brick on its end, lay one across
it and two others, leaving a gap between
them, put your hand down, grasp the
bottom brick and lift.
* * * «
“The 0.D.”: From the top of high
cliffs along the Murray, 50ft. to 60ft.
above the water, I’ve seldom missed put-
ting a bullet through the carapace of a
tortoise basking on the river surface.
From that height in a clear river anything
can be seen six feet under water, but I
couldn’t hit the same tortoise resting on
the sand. And it wasn’t refraction,
“Dickie Beech” (B. 18/2/’42); it was
the cushioning of the water on the bullet.
And bombs can be timed to explode at
different depths, which is probably why 1
that U-boat was forced up. I’d advise
“Dickie B.” to buy bait; it’s much
cheaper than trying to stun it with costly
bullets or shotgun charges ; besides, the
bait might not agree with the stunning
theory.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Those white-tailed rats
which have been killing N.Q. giant toads
(B. 28 /1 / ’42) are a variety of the big
Hydromys fellows who make their living
mostly from the water, but are always
ready for a snack of land-tucker ranging
from chickens to grasshoppers. They
seem to be just tasting round experi-
mentally, as all toads killed are reported
to have had only the throats chewed.
Unlike most of their frog relatives, toads
carry an unpleasant taste in their skin-
glands which render them unpopular as
food amongst predatory animals and
birds. Binghi got over the difficulty by
skinning such mass-migrating species as
the Cross-bearer, which appears after
rain westward of the Divide in Queens-
land and N.S.W., but it is unlikely that
the river pirates will take the trouble to
go on with the experiment when there’s
plenty of other tucker about.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Myself and a decrepit
individual who once proudly bossed the
wheelhouse of a Murray River paddle-
boat have been in the habit of meeting
once a month in the only Sydney cafe
that knows how to cook cod—the dis-
covery of the place ranks with the most
important exploratory feats in Australia
—and my greatest task was to keep him
from dying from longing. He couldn’t
get the river out of his blood, and he
couldn’t face the river without a boat.
But hope burns high in his withered
“ Well, I could ’a' sworn there was a pub there larst week!"
breast again. “Mate,” said he, “I’m orf
t’ Canberra. There’s an old steel-
hulled boat rustin’ up a creek below
Swan Hill. All she wants is a bit of a
overhaul, a couple o’ them there pom-
poms an a good ol river crew an’ we’ll
range the Murray again an’ gordelp any
o’ them Japs that come sneakin’ round
the bends Have y got fifteen bob? It’s
all I need t make up me fare t’ Can-
NSation h Xts h him Sr f<H
Navigation greets mm well.
“w * « “ru- i J f • * -
Wang , This lastin faith of a
woman m a y read about,” re-
marked Dan, am t all it s cracked up
t be. On the track one time I bite a
whiskery ole coot on a farm for a job.
Before he has time t’ reply a female voice
"It wont be his fault if we don't get air supremacy."
sings out from the house: ‘Who’s that
y’ got there, John? Bring him here.’
‘Me missus,’ mumbles Whiskers; ‘come
on.’ I follow him t’ the house, an’ a
big, bony, hard-dialled Judy meets us
on the back verandah. Her ole man tells
her what I’m after. She eyes me over ’s
if I’m a horse she’s thinkin’ of buyin’,
an’ then ses they’re wantin’ a hand. Then
she raps out sharp ‘Do y’ drink?’ I’m
stony, so I lies, prompt, ‘Never touched
it in me life, mum.’ ‘YTe the sort we
want here ’ she ses, pointed, eyein’ her ole
man otf vicious. The job don’t turn out
bad ; but the missus is boss there, all
right. Whenever the ole coot has t’ go
t’ the township, ten miles away, she goes
with him. ‘He ain’t t’ be trusted.’ she tells
me one day; ‘he drinks.’ Then one day
she deputes me t’ take her place, with
strict orders not t’ let her ole man outa
me sight. I don’t. About nine that night
we arrive home, both as full as ticks.
She’s waitin’ up fer us, an’ sails right
inter her ole man, ignorin’ me altogether.
‘Y’ drunken ole beast, leadin’ an inner-
cent young man like this inter temptation,’
she yelps. Then she turns t’ me an’ ses,
apolergetic, ‘l’m real sorry ’bout this;
but it won’t happen again. Any time in
future y’ have t’ go t’ town that con-
taminatin’ creature won’t go with you—
I’ll go with you meself, an’ you can feel
safe. Y’ won’t be tempted again.’ ”
* * * *
“S.H.C.”: There’s another point
about the horse in “Youanmi’s” argu-
ment (B. 18/2/’42) that it beats the loco-
motive on work done for fuel consumed,
and that is that it’s easy to have a lot
more little horses running about the
place. I’ve never seen little locos, steam-
ing round behind a parent.
* * * «
“Forgeron”: It was sale day, and old
Grasshay, in from the other side of the
Reef Hills for his monthly supplies, was
stocking up in the Jundaboora Em-
porium. On the counter was a high
pyramid of tins—the day’s special
attraction —a popular brand of tooth-
powder for artificial teeth. The label
showed a large reproduction of a set of
teeth nicely poised for action. Grasshay
had been gummy for years, and he
looked at the tins with interest before
expressing a certain doubt to the girl
behind the counter. “Gripes, miss,” he
said, “they’re cheap for Is. 6d., but they
wouldn’t fit everybody, would they?”
♦ * * *
“Factshound”: There have been many
wrangles as to the miscreant who intro-
duced the bunny into Australia, Few of
the disputants got further back than the
’so’s, which was the goldrush period.
Digging into files of old Westralian
archives I find, however, that numbers of
rabbits were introduced into the western
colony as early as 1830 Every one of
these rodents was carefully recorded
for they were property and helped to’
bulk up the total assessment on which
f ree grants of land were made to earlv
comers. Though dozens of rabbits were
thus introduced, none survived • vet it is
certain that, in a colony where every form
of imp orted animal was of value, efforts
wo l V ld b ■ m ?, de t 0 breed them - Not until
well on m t he present century did WA
reall y receive the rabbit—and then ’he
was an overlander who had painfully
worked his Way across the route where
n ow runs the Trans, railway,
* * * *
“Bo”: I struck “Frogskin” Farnsworth
up Ingham way, and we used to do the
canefields together in season. In the
slack time we’d go huntin’ the big rock
pythons—skins were bringin’ a deener a
foot them. We found that shootin’ 'em
not only spoiled the skins but frightened
the other big fellers away. So “Frogskin”
worked out a technique of his own. Talk
about lightness of touch! Sneakin’ up
on a sleepin’ Joe, he’d lift its head, un-
wind it and have it tied in a double knot
and hung up on a tree for collection later
before the reptile woke up. With the
wideawake ones his method was different.
If Joe was stalkin’ a frog or rabbit he’d
trail along noiselessly alongside its tail,
which he’d be makin’ into a noose. Then
as the slitherer would put its head back
to strike “Frogskin” ’d lasso it. Usually
he’d have no need to pull and strangle
it—the shock of seein’ its own tail cornin’
over its melon without it feelin’ a thing
beforehand was mostly enough to make
the python drop dead.
• * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The Digger technique
has improved somewhat since the days
of walking-stick plantations and treacle
mines. A city girl became quite indig-
nant when I chuckled at her pen-friend’s
effort: “The biggest problem here in
Darwin was to find drinking water until
we adopted the blackfellows’ method. We
catch frogs at night and bury ’em alive,
banging the ground down hard so they
can’t escape. In the morning the frogs
are dug up, held upside down and their
stomachs gently squeezed. About half
a cupful is the average yield per frog.”
I’m wondering how long it will be before
the flapper press enlightens its credulous
readers with this information “direct from
our special correspondent.”
* * * *
“Narrin”: I’m sick of hearing blokes
moaning that fishing doesn’t pay. A few
months ago I took a 101 b. cod off the
set-line. He’d been on the tether only
a day when the missus wired from tne
city that she was returning with a friend.
After coping with the fortnight’s wash-
ing-up the problem of tucker arose, it
being probable that the city friend would
not approve of straight bully beef and
home-brewed beer as a diet. The cod
rose nobly to the occasion; roasted
slowly he provided a meal that put me
up three pegs in everyone’s estimation.
Then the missus cannily scooped a dollar
and a half for a prize recipe for roasting
Murray cod. So far that fish has panned
out at, say, a guinea for moral support
and food value; one recipe, seven and
a zac ; a total of £1 Bs. 6d. And if this
comes in he’s earned another half a wheel
or so —which pans out at an average of
about three bob a pound, liveweight.
THE UNSEEN THIRD.
As we sped by Tarrawingee
Through the mulga, two abreast.
Faint metallic lights of sunset
Still were gleaming in the west.
Little time on idle topics,
Little talk had we to spend,
Thinking of the miles before us
And what waited at their end.
Ere a league of track lay covered
From the lonesome Barrier town,
Far away across the border
Died the lights, and night came down.
Then it seemed as through the darkness,
Horsemen twain, we hotly spurred,
Joining us upon our night-ride,
That there rode a shadowy Third.
Though we galloped to escape him,
Neck to neck he rode anear;
Fcm a man may ride his swiftest,
But he may not outpace Fear.
Through the mulga, through the mallee,
Neath the night skies, chill and wide,
Towards a loved one, nigh to dying,
Thus companioned did we ride.
Stayed he thus, his nearness chilling
Blood to ice within our veins,
Till a pearly, early dayspring
Stole across the hills and plains.
Stole across the plains and showed us,
Nigh a homestead lone and white,
Brave to see—a woman waving
Hands that signalled tidings bright.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Junius, Jr,”: My favorite Sydney
weekly brings words of comfort:
Today the knowledge that Japan is at
war with the white races fills the aborigines
with joy. Many a blackfellow is getting
ready a whole armament of spears with
which to avenge his race. The black is a
master of camouflage, and the spear is an
absolutely silent and deadly weapon, in-
valuable for sniping or guerrilla war.
Possibly that’s where the English got the
idea of reviving pikes and bows and
arrows.
* * * »
“Old Camp”: Those Cunnamulla goats
(B. 28 1 1 / ’42) needn’t take on too much of
an aspect of virtue because “they never
trespass on grass plots,” though I doubt
their abstinence regarding gardens. Goats
don’t care much for grass; herbs are
their natural diet, though I have seen
them enjoy paper, leaves and even wood
in many a W.A. mining town. Saltbush
and mulga they like, but they won’t be
tempted by the Chinese pepper-tree,
grown all over the same W.A. localities.
Feeds I have seen them enjoy were when
a decaying town tore down its
houses, leaving the canvas-and-paper
lining behind. Not one scrap would
be wasted, the goats taking in the
lot, spiced as it was by flour-paste.
And I’ve seen them eat dough—-outside
Boulder, when the Doughies Syndicate of
a leading bakery won £5OO in Tatt.’s. With
all his staff gone on the drunk McDougall,
after vainly punching the next day’s
bread back a dozen times, chucked up the
sponge and had it carted to the town
dump. It looked as if that solid ton of
dough would beat the goats, for it kept
on rising inside them, but they stuck to
it valiantly, and before sunset the last
ounce was gone. There was some rich
milk for the next couple of days.
« * * *
“N”: “M.U.R.” (B. 4/2/’42) is pretty
right about the landing grounds outside
ducks’ nests ; but what I want to know
is: how does a duck, whose nest-spout
may be 15ft. above the water, get her
nestlings down into the water? >
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow had a
job in a small Gippsland town, and all
went well until the boardinghouse-keeper
decided to remodel the place. Mat was
provided with a bunk in a motor garage,
and two days after he moved in, some-
what annoyed, a plague of fleas broke
loose. The big fellow swore afterwards
that they were so thick that they had to
stand end-on to find room on
the dogs, and his body was badly
bruised from the stamping of
their feet as they fought for pos-
session of the juicier parts of
him. He applied for relief in the
way of insecticide sprays, but
that boarding-house knew its
rights and declared that Mat
could provide his own relief or,
if he didn’t like it, could find
other accommodation. There was
none, and the job was too good
to lose. By this time the new
roof was on the frame, and the
township was astounded one
bright morning to find Mat sit-
ting up on top of it in his
pyjamas. “It’s the only place
free of them blankards,” he told
the inquiring constable. “Yair,”
said the Law, “but where’s y’r
blankets?” Mat considered.
“Well.” he confessed, “I was
hopin’ the ruddy fleas’d soon
wake up that I’d cleared an’
come after me with the nap, but
it looks as though they’ve found
better grazin’.” Just about then
the officer began grabbing
violently at his own legs, gave one horri-
fied look and fled—to put the Health
Department machinery into sudden
action. # m
“The 0.D.”: Tell “K.1.N.” (B.
11/2/’42), who believes that his horse
knows him whether he’s wearing a blue
shirt or a pink one, to dress himself up
in a picture hat, a blouse and skirt and
try that. If the nag doesn’t shy away it’ll
be because its heart is broken, and it
wouldn’t care if a Mohawk Indian in full
war-paint got on it.
* * ♦ *
“Splodger”: There are a dozen ways
of making a merino ewe adopt another
lamb, apart from the method advocated
by “R. Ney” with the pelt of her own
lamb disguising the stranger. One of
the simplest is to squirt some of the
ewe’s milk at the butt of the tail and
along the back of the lamb to be adopted.
That will win with a little perseverance.
Another way is to rub kerosene on the
ewe’s nose and also at the butt of the
tail and along the back of the little bloke.
Some say the liver of the dead lamb,
opened and rubbed similarly, will suffice,
but I never tried it. Roughly speaking,
a ewe recognises her lamb by voice and
smell —sight plays a secondary part.
Smell is the main thing. She picks up
that taint from the butt of the little fel-
low’s tail and along his back. Watch
any one of thousands of ewes and verify
that statement.
* * * •
“Crowfoot”: Jack did a bit of drov-
ing with an old mare and jinker and his
dog Scotty, a heavy hound of mixed
ancestry, sitting up straight on the seat
beside him. The old mare needed no
tying up, and would stand quietly any-
where Jack left her, till one unlucky day
Scotty decided he’d like to sit down for
a while. When his bulk hit the jinker
the mare mistook him for Jack, woke
out of her daze and started for home.
Presently she became aware that all was
not well, the reins hanging slackly down
about her hocks. Panic overtook her,
and she broke into a canter. Scotty
meanwhile had been looking back ner-
vously over his shoulder, and at this
stage he gathered himself together and
“Ha! Thought you d he here, Moses!"
leapt over the back, giving the jinker a
bouncing kickoff by the force of his
going. It was the last straw, and the
mare bolted. They were in a big clear
paddock save for one solid old gum.
Three times she lapped round it and then
she turned straight for the tree. In the
resulting crash both shafts broke and
she lost" the turnout, bits of harness flying
everywhere. Jack sold the mare to a
milkman. Reckoned she was untrust-
worthy.
* * ♦ *
“Dungeness”: lam for the plaintiff in
Chisholm v. Leichhardt (B. 18/2/’42).
Daniel Bunce, who accompanied him as
botanist on his 1846 expedition, recorded
numerous instances of Leichhardt s in-
competence, selfishness and unreliability
during that unsuccessful attempt to reach
the Swan River (W.A.) from New Eng-
land. A doctor, he took no medicines
except a small private supply of quinine.
The 270 goats which he bought for the
express purpose of providing milk and
meat for the first year of the trip did not
include a billy until someone thoughtfully
pointed out the defect and gave him one.
When Bunce planted mustard and cress
for his fever-stricken companions Leich-
hardt stole and ate it. Next day he
grabbed the “jemmy” of a sheep which
was being boiled for broth for the in-
valids and ate that too. After they
returned he sought to blame his com-
panions for the failure caused by his
stupidity and selfishness. The tradi-
tion that he was killed by his exas-
perated companions on his 1848 ex-
pedition still persists in the outback. The
real Leichhardt tragedy is that he “led
so many better men than himself to
miserable and unnecessary deaths.
* * * *
“Zake”: What Choom lacked in agri-
cultural lore he made up for with a
boundless enthusiasm, so that, although
he nearly settled the few old ewes that
he had galloped into the home paddock,
and his efforts at ploughing resulted in
what looked like a cross between a
Chinese puzzle of lines and a demonstra-
tion of the Einstein Theory, his eager
"Splendid, darling! That makes a pigeon pair!"
willingness to learn took the edge off the
wrath of old Tanbark, his employer. But it
was not without misgivings that Tanbark
handed Choom the axe and told him to
have a go at the big dead bluegum at
the top of the river paddock. The ants
were in it and the woodheap could do
with replenishing. He explained the
scarf and how to cut, and warned his
employee not to cut into it too far before
reporting to him. Choom sallied forth,
chock-full of confidence and thrilled at the
prospect of helping to fell a forest giant.
Three hours later Tanbark asked had.
anyone seen Choom, and his spouse re-
plied that he had come back for a shovel
and mattock and had gone back again.
Old Tanbark stumped down to the pad-
dock. As he approached his gorge rose,
as he could see no sign of life around
the butt, while the ringbark mark was
still the only sign of laceration on the
tree. Then he spotted a head bobbing
among the roots, and his pipe fell from
his opened teeth. Choom, standing in
the 6ft. deep and circular excavation, was
swinging the axe and was fully 4in. into
the trunk. “It struck me, sir,” he said
cheerfully, “what a waste of good timber
cutting it like those others so far above
the ground. Well get half a ton more
this way.”
* * * *
“8.A.”: Watched some city chaps try-
ing to remove a cleaning rag stuck in a .32.
After much belting at a wire ramrod
the end was heated and attempts made
to burn the rag out. This failing, an-
other ass poured petrol in and around
the barrel and lit her up. His curses and
prancings as he hopped around with
singed paws removed the depression but
not the obstruction. As the mugs had
fired only two bullets into the mess I
tried this: removed bullet and packed
more powder into cartridge case, topping
off with only wad. Then poured water
into the barrel from breech till the tide
rose to where the bullet would be seated.
Inserted the cartridge case and handed
outfit to owner, advising him to mind
the kick. He agreed he’d allow about
four inches for that, and the backlash
gave him a beaut. I’m still wondering
which roared the louder, the rifle or the
owner, as both emptied their mouths of
a mighty blast.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Tell “M. U. Ray” (B.
21/1/ ”42) that most fish, when taken
from the water, die of suffocation, really
oxygen poisoning, just as a human will
die of an excess of carbonic-acid gas.
Fish breathe oxygen, like all red-blooded
animals, through their gills, which are
actually a kind of exposed lung. But it
has to be water-saturated oxygen, the
water playing the important part of
keeping the gill wet so that the water-
borne oxygen is absorbed readily. Diy
oxygen cannot be absorbed, so the fish
dies of suffocation. Fresh-water fish have
considerable immunity in this direction,
varying greatly with the species. Through
countless generations they have been ex-
posed to their pools drying up and have
thus become more or less drought-resist-
ant. Salt-water fish, never having been
exposed to drought conditions, die within
a few minutes of being exposed to dry
oxygen. That fresh-water fish will live
for hours, even days, wrapped in a wet
sack, or, better, wet grass, is due to their
still having sufficient moisture to wet
their oxygen. Chinese carp, bred for
thousands of years in squalid ponds, will
live a week in a basket of damp weed.
The greater puzzle is why sea crayfish,
taken often from 20 fathoms, will live to
48 hours and more in the upper air.
THANKSGIVING SONG.
“There is only one drought poem and everybody
writes it.”— B. 11/2/’1,2.
Whacko, the red, red sunsets!
Whacko, the flamin’ morns!
Me sheep ’ave conked, me ’orses, too,
An’ so’ve me achin’ corns.
Hooray, f’r steel-blue skylines!
Hooray, f’r still machines!
The R. 1.8. bloke comes no more
T’ count me dead marines.
Whacko, f’r busted credit!
Whacko, the ol’ crow’s shriek!
Me wheat is gorn, me tank is dust,
Me missus went last week.
Hooray, f’r hot, dim silence!
Hooray, f’r peace I know!
They’ve took the flamin’ tractor and
That blasted radio.
Whacko, the drought! It’s bonzer!
Whacko, it’s rooned me farm!
Me land career is ended
But that won’t do no ’arm.
Hooray, there’s plenty meat-ants!
Hooray, there’s no more toil!
Kbr indigestion, either, ’cos
I’m livin’ on the soil.
N.s.w.
BARELLAN BILL.


MINERALS FOR DRY COWS.
More Gallons”: You must feed a cow if you
want milk. The cows won’t do any good
on those dry paddocks. Certainly they’ll
forage round and seem to get enough to keep
them alive. Is that all you want?
I feed my cows and give them Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour, too that’s why my herd milks
much longer than it used to. Another tip that
I’ve found useful—give the Tri-cal-os to the
milking cows while they are in the bails.
You are sure of them getting it. On your
mineral-deficient country you’ll be surprised
at t'he results.
St
Ask Davis Gelatine to send a folder. G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, will find them.
They are also at G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O.
Box 588, Perth; G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane.
Old Farmer.
20 Investments in One!
Your purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES secures a “spread” of investment over 20
leading Australian Companies listed on the Stock Exchange.
You also obtain a yield, at present prices, of around 5% per
annum, and your investment is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 gives full details. Your copy posted free on request
to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Burn Anthrax Carcasses.
“D.I.E.S.”: If you have to get rid of
sheep carcasses, dead of anthrax, spray
with sump or crude oil and they’ll burn
readily. It’s cheaper and quicker than
building a stack of wood around the
carcass and there’s not the same risk of
starting bushfires. On a property in
western N.S.W. 42 beasts dead of anthrax
were destroyed with 12 gallons of crude
oil costing about Is. a gallon.
You’ll need a pitchfork, a kero.-tin
and a stirrup or hand pump. Spray the
carcass with from a third- to a half-
gallon of oil, saturate the grass around
with water and let her go. The heat will
be pretty severe, but the first gust of
flame will die down after about five
minutes ; then spray on another but con-
siderably smaller quantity of oil. Use
the pitchfork to turn the carcass and
also to rake up loose bits of wool and
throw them into the flames.
The whole job
takes about 20
minutes and leaves
only a greyish bone
ash. This ash will
go on burning for a
while, and after a
half - hour or so
douse it with water.
By that time all in-
fection will have
been destroyed. The
same method can be
used for cattle car-
casses, but you’ll
need something
heavier than a pitch-
fork to toss them
about.
Malnutrition.
“R. Ney”: The
district veterinary
officer of south-
eastern N.S.W. is
worried about malnutrition among the
flocks. Starvation through lack of feed
is understandable, but insidious losses
such as retarded growth of lambs,
milk shortage in ewes, ewe deaths through
weakness at lambing, pregnancy toxaemia,
decreased resistance to worms, osteo-
malacia, etc., and general malnutrition in
a district of good rainfall, good soil and
climate must be the fault of the stock-
owners.
Pasture improvement alone isn’t suffi-
cient. Crops should be grown for quick
grazing and for conserved fodder. On
the tablelands lucerne, cereals and tur-
nips offer handsome returns, and on the
coast sorghums and maize thrive. Around
Bombala the value of turnips as part of
the winter ration for sheep and cattle has
been proved time and again. *-
The officer notes a big increase in sheep
in the Berrima, Picton, Bombala, Braid-
wood, Cooma, Goulburn and Yass dis-
tricts, as well as a slight increase in coastal
areas ; and, in view of the general stand-
ard of nutrition, he doubts whether the
increase is warranted. Soil fertility in
the area is decreasing, largely through
overstocking, and to load more stock on
to it without first providing adequate
fodder reserves means a greater flogging
out than ever.
The success of such men as Prell, of
Gundowringa, on the tablelands, and
Emmott, of Bodalla, on the coast, sug-
gests that those who advocate compul-
sory fodder conservation and official
supervision of land operations have a
very strong argument.
Rusted Implements.
“Hux”: Chipping or filing away rust
from farm implements usually carries
off some of the good metal. Try oiling.
It softens the rust and makes it easier
to chip away. Squirt oil round the ex-
posed threads of rusted-on nuts and give
it an hour or two to seep in.
For delicate machine parts, dissolve
the rust chemically. Each article to be
cleaned must have a small contact place
filed on the surface. A thin band of
zinc is then slipped around so that it
touches this clean place. Next place the
article in a trough containing 21b. of
caustic soda to a gallon of water. Leave
it there for 48 hours. Rust will then be
seen to form a coating of black powder,
which can be rubbed off with a wire
“First they'd straddle this road with a stick o’ bombs and disorganise
the traffic,"
brush. An old sink or crock is safest for
caustic—it eats through metals quickly.
Use tongs to hold the articles to save
the hands.
Oil is a good preserver against rust.
Paint spots where oil may get rubbed off.
Best paint is red lead. For steel stan-
chions and fence posts, bitumen paint is
a fine preservative. Two parts of tar
mixed with one part of paraffin covers
well and dries hard. To prolong the life
of iron, wire netting, pipes and gutters,
apply a hot mixture of five parts of tar
and one part of pitch after the metal is
slightly rusted.
Lice on Pigs.
“BL3”: Watch for eggs on the hair in
white clusters, especially behind the ears.
Spray with waste car or engine oil. If
only a few pigs are kept use a piece of
bagging tied on the end of a stick and
rub the oil along the back and behind
the ears. For large numbers use a stirrup
pump with a few feet of rubber hose and
an orchard spray nozzle.
Strain oil through double hessian to
remove grit, seeds, etc., and heat it before
using. The oil heats quickly and catches
fire easily—a bag on top of the tin will
put it out. The heated oil is easily
pumped as a fine spray, but will clog if
cold.
Spray along back from head to tail,
behind the ears and over the head. Don’t
bother about the flanks ; the oil saturates
the whole body if the back is well
sprayed. Do it at feeding time. The pigs
won’t worry about oil in the trough.
If doing big lots, lock the pigs in a
small yard ; scatter grain and get to work.
One man can do the job, but with one to
pump and another on the nozzle it is
quicker.
Make two sprayings with a weeks
interval. This will clean up all lice, and
the work may not have to be repeated
for two or three months.
Vegetables Wanted.
“Kyoga”: Anyone with a few acres of
fairly rich soil and water for irrigation
should get in touch with the Common-
wealth Department of Supply, which is
letting contracts for vegetable growing
on a large scale and is anxious to get as,
many acres under veges. as possible. !
In the N.S.W. Murrumbidgee irriga-
tion areas and in parts of the Goulburn
Valley and the mid- and lower-Murray
in Victoria, where dehydration and can-
ning plants already operate, growers are
working on large contracts. From the
M.I.A. alone the department expects this
year 2600 tons carrots, 1260 tons beet-
root, 2000 tons cabbages, 1000 tons silver
beet, 1100 tons parsnips, 300 tons swedes
and 100 tons white turnips. Leeton can-
nery has been told to process fis many
tomatoes, green peas, French beans and
leeks as it can lay hands on, and large
tonnages of potatoes and onions are to
be treated. The cucurbits, cauliflowers
and other miscellaneous veges. will be
needed.
Many farmers have river flats and rich
slopes which could be turned to profit
provided water is available. Information
and advice on the best types to grow and
the season to grow them can be had
from Department of Agriculture officers,
together with methods of combating pests
and likely diseases. Remember, vegetable-
growing is just as much a science as
growing wheat or wool. All the same,
for anyone with the soil and the water
who is prepared to work hard and listen
to experienced advice, there is a good
chance of profit in it. Food for
the fighters is as essential as ammunition.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jass”: To cure meat, bleed the car-
cass thoroughly when dressing. See that
it is properly cooled where there is proper
air circulation and not too high a tem-
perature. Cure in a vessel thoroughly
cleaned and sterilised before filling with
meat and brine. Protect the meat from
flies during the operation, and never in-
clude any meat that is in the slightest
tainted. Don’t take meat direct from a
refrigerator and put it in pickle—allow
to thaw first, as cold meat won’t take the
pickle properly.
“Mullengah” : To prevent calves suck-
ing each other tie them up with light
chains for half an hour or so after feed-
ing or keep them in separate pens. Then
turn them into a good pasture..'
“Berthull”: For ear canker in dogs
(B. 14/1/’42) use half metho. and half
warm water and mop ear out gently with
it on a soft rag. After three days use
pure warm metho. and the ear will be-
come clean. There is no pain or scrap-
ing of the flesh, and the warm metho.
does not worry the dog as the cold spirit
would.
“Molecule”: Reports from overseas
confirm what some of us have suspected
for a long time; that stock rations have
tended to become too elaborate to be
economic, and that when there’s a neces-
sary return to simpler foods there is no
appreciable decline in production. Poultry
feeding is typical. In an egg-laying test
last year average production on the war-
time ration was higher than for some
years past. The Hawkesbury (N.S.W.)
competition mash consists of bran, pol-
lard and meatmeal. These three in-
gredients, plus grain and salt, will give
your fowls all they need for maximum
production.
“Hortus”; Ninety per cent, of tubers
which sprout in sacks become slightly
bruised and the tips eventually blacken.
If shoots are grown in bright light and
become bruised, no marked blackening
is noticed. Put the sets out on trays
and let the maximum of light fall on
them. Shift the trays round now and
again so that the light is spread over them
evenly. Remember that by preventing
blackening and dying of tips the potato
plants will reach maturity sooner and
they begin to die off as much as three
weeks earlier.
“Mullengah”; Make yellow axle grease
by dropping 2oz. of powdered resin into
a pint of boiling water. Boil slowly until
the resin is thoroughly dissolved, stirring
continuously. Then add the solution to
31b. of clean tallow ; place on a slow fire
and simmer for about 20min. Keep it
well stirred. An ounce of beeswax will
give the grease more holding power.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department .)
The milk from a young, well-bred milking
Shorthorn has a bluish, watery look, and the
cream, when the milk is set, has a peculiar for-
mation of small bubbles as though it were start-
ing to ferment. Glenfield (N.S.W.) research
station reported that a sample of the milk gave
indications of mastitis in at least one quarter.
Can I cure her ? Is the disease hereditary ?
It seems she’s a bad case, since the trouble
has been apparent since her first calf. If only
one quarter is affected you may get a cure by
stripping out that quarter frequently and massag-
ing the teat, but there isn’t much hope. Fatten
her up for the butcher. The disease is not
hereditary, but it is contagious. Don’t use the
affected milk and be careful not to infect other
cows—wash your hands after milking her and
before going on to the others.
* * * *
Some time back I noticed an article in M.O.L.
on a South African weed. Could you supply
means of identifying the weed?
An article in B. 26/11 / ’4l referred to the
action of the Westralian Government in order-
ing the dumping at sea of 1000 tons of South
African soil brought in as ballast, but made
no mention of any specific weed. Dumping


SOME COMMON SENSE
M**
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs litt*e.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. Iso obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 81 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MACMILLAN BOOKS
THE MAN ON MY BACK
By Eric Linklater
The autobiography of a writer well known lor
his witty and entertaining novels. In relating
his own adventurous career he introduces
excellent character sketches and stories picked
up in all parts of the world. Fresh supplies of
this book have just reached Australia.
Price 16/-; posted 16/8.
BLIND MAN'S HOUSE
By Sir Hugh Walpole
Julius Cromwell, blinded in the last war, brings
his young wife, Celia, to their new home. Cir-
cumstances combine to awaken in him a distrust
of the world he cannot'see. and soon his house
is pervaded with unhappiness. A crisis brings
both husband and wife to realise the need lor
interdependence, tolerance and understanding.
Price 11/6; posted 12/3.
NO COMMON GLORY
By David Pilgrim
The first of two novels relating the astonishing
career of James de la Cloche, the young nun
from Jersey. Born in 1646, at the age of 18
he had been a friend of Moliere, had cut a
figure at Versailles, incurred the anger of
Louis XIV, shared in the escapades of the
Merry Gang at the Court of Charles 11, taken
part in a famous sea-fight with the Dutch, and
been accepted as a secret agent of the Crown.
Price 12/-; posted 12/9.
These hooks may be obtained from booksellers;
wholesale only from
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON, W.C.2.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREL, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON. T „_
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LIU.
A I a OF VITAL IMPORTANCE
lENT COMMUNICATION '
BETWEEN SEA, LAND AND AIR.
AUSTRALIAN MADE
RADIOTRON
Valves . . . Always Available
STANDARD TO AIR FORCE TRANSMITTERS AND RECEIVERS :
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PKOPBIETARI, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SI A), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty.. Ltd.
“BILLABONG”
WINDMILLS
HAVE
AUTOMATIC
OILING AND
ENCLOSED
GEARS
THE BASIS FOR
EFFICIENCY IN PUMPING
ftjtA£/KS&
&i 9
°^D
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Vf?ADC
MAKERS OF PUMPING EQUIPMENT FOR OVER 70 YEARS.
m
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from
Double Rooms from
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing
5/6
11/-
Hot and Cold Water
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals
Telephone; 8W1531 (7 lines).
G.P.0., SYDNEY. i7PICT
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/*
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Cable and Radio; Grancentral.
a la Carte.
Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
was ordered to prevent possibility of S. African
weed seeds getting a foothold in the West. It
you’ve discovered strange weeds on the property
have them identified by sending either the
whole weed or some of the leaves or seed-
vessels to the Weeds Officer, Department ot
Agriculture, Farrer-place, or the Herbarium,
Botanic Gardens, both Sydney.
Outback Occasions.
No. 24.
THE HOLIDAY.
The occasion of our holiday up north
will long be remembered, not for the
enjoyment so much as for the intimate
knowledge we gained of our immediate
surroundings during the three weeks we
were there.
It was the wet year. Heavy rain fell
in October and kept on falling, on and
off, right through the summer. From the
coast right back through our district it
seemed that a permanent leak had de-
veloped in the heavens. The wheat, of
course, went mad, grew twice as high as
the fences and so thick you couldn’t
walk through it. It got rust and smut
and glume rot and rheumatism, and it
lodged and tangled all over the paddocks.
Somehow we managed to get it off and
into the bags, but what wasn’t bleached
at once started to grow in the stack.
We’ll never forget that harvest.
The rain kept on well into March. How
we longed for a real old-man drought,
recalling wistfully the dry and burning
days, the pall of dust, the caked water-
bags and burning crowbars of a true
summer. In the end Father said “What
we all need is a holiday. It’s no good
goin’ t’ the coast; it’s wetter there than
it is here. But I bin readin’ about a dry
spell they’re havin’ up on the Darlin’
Downs; they say that s wonderfu
country.”
So we decided to go up to the Downs
for our holiday. We’d never seen any
Queensland papers at our place, but in
order to gather some information we sent
for copies of the Downs papers from
Toowoomba out to Cunnamulla, and we
read all the news and all the advertise-
ments and tried to picture what sort ot
a place it was.
The thing that pleased us most was the
reports of the dry spell. Tanks were
giving out in some places, it was said.
and from Moree right up to Emerald
nobody except foreigners from other
parts had seen a drop of rain for months.
We’d seen all the rain we wanted to
see, and it was still coming. So we got
all our things together, loaded the car,
made arrangements for somebody to look
after the place while we were away and
started out one wet Sunday morning.
Father and Mother and a lot of the
gear were in the front seat, and our
brother and our sister and I were in
the back with a lot more gear. The boot
of the car had a lot more gear. Because
of the wet we couldn’t put anything on
the running boards or parcel-carrier, and
the state of the dirt roads made it neces-
sary for Father to take a long route so
as to keep on metalled roads.
We only got stuck seven times getting
to Wellington and bogged twice on the
road to Coonabarabran, but soon after
that we ran into the dry country and
began to enjoy ourselves. Seeing the
country from between the corners of two
suitcases, with your brother’s elbow in
your left ear, is somewhat trying when
there’s so much country to see. Then
there was Father’s dreadful habit of pull-
ing up to admire some bit of scenery and
us struggling up from among the legs
and gear and things to see it, only to find
that he was smacking his lips over a mob
of fat wethers or perhaps a black Angus
bull far off in a paddock.
Anyhow, on we went. Narrabri and
Boggabri and all the smaller bries we
passed, admiring the dustclouds we left
behind and getting much refreshment
from the sight of dry grass and stubble
not mashed into the mud.
In Moree we stopped a day, got half-
stewed in the famous hot bath, were
shown the Town Hall and the railway
station and the place where the team
vanished in the ’96 flood; then Father
headed east through Inverell and up on
to the New England. Gosh, it was beau-
tiful ! Clear, dry, hot heat; fine, sunny
days full of sunshine and balmy, starry
nights full of starlight; a noticeable thing
about the New England sky at night is
that it is quite dark in parts where there
aren’t stars. They told us this in the pub
at Glen Innes, and when we said we
couldn’t see any dark in the sky they
said it was the wrong time of year. “You
ought,” they said, “to see how dark it
is when it’s raining.” We let out a shriek
and rushed for the car.
On through Inverell, lapping up the
sunshine and the dry air, wrestling. with
suitcases and brotherly and sisterly limbs,
passed the border without having to do
a tick quarantine or be dipped, and in-
to Queensland.
It was then we noticed some signs of
hostility. Father would pull into some
roadside bowser; we’d flow out of the
car and circulate round, all ears and
eyes; Father would stretch himself, grin
expansively and say aloud “Gosh! It’s
great to see fine days and real summer
weather!” And everybody round would
give us a black look, and we’d get back
in the car and drive off abashed.
Four days after leaving home we pulled
into Warwick. We hadn’t time to more
than note that it was Warwick before
some wild-eyed bloke with beer on his
whiskers dragged us off to show us the
very spot on which stood the man who
threw the egg. “What egg?” said our
brother, and the man shivered, went a
bit white and cleared off without a word.
Well, we found a nice hotel, and Father
parked the car and we parked ourselves
in a couple of rooms and washed the
stains of travel off, as the writer blokes
say. Then we gathered together and went
out and looked at Warwick and the
Darling Downs. So far as our brother
and I could see it looked just the same
as any part of the country, except for
the sunshine, but we weren’t game to say
so, because Father was so enthusiastic
and looked forward, he said, “to three
weeks of rest and enjoyment in a rooral
paradise.” Our mother said he oughtn’t
to talk like that in front of the children,
and we all went into tea. A bit tired,
we went to bed early. Next morning it
was raining like the devil, and it went on
raining for the next three weeks. What’s
more, we couldn’t move, because of the
black soil.


vtm fc
14
m
N
Wft
M
e
m
r 'X£
SO LYSftGHtS
present N
ORB
CORRUGATED AND PLAIN
L7B
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.
SYDNEY ME I BOS it NT fififSflANE *0 El A IDE PERTH
Hr 1 HE next time you buy Gal-
vanized Iron the familiar
"spangled" finish may be missing.
This is due to the fact that tin,
which is normally added to the
coating, must be conserved for
essential war purposes. ...
There is. however, absolutely no
loss of durability or quality and
each sheet carries the well-known
Lysaght guarantee. In presenting
this new "War Finish." therefore,
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
is confident that it will be widely
accepted as a necessary contribu-
tion towards the successful prose-
cution of the War Effort.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always. "THE SENIOR STORE”
; a
'AO
n a ■o
Ylr
/ji
r
2
• A
:^V
I
r>
t.„-'
Parcels for Australian
Prisoners of War
Interned in Enemy or Enemy Occupied Territory
Here's your opportunity to brighten the life of your Husband,
Son or Brother Prisoner of War . . . Anthony Horderns', in
conjunction with the Australian Red Cross, have established
a special section of permissible goods which may be included
in a next-of-kin parcel, to be sent by next-of-kin or nominee
to prisoners of war in enemy or enemy occupied territory.
GOODS CHOSEN, ARE PACKED AND FORWARDED TO
AUSTRALIAN RED CROSS FREE OF CHARGE.
PERMIT PARCELS which contain Books, Music, Packs of Cards,
Games, Sports Equipment, Tobacco, Cigarettes and Pipes may
be purchased and sent by friends. These goods are also
packed and forwarded to Australian Red Cross free of charge.
See for yourself the special display in the Big Bargain Hall,
Ground Floor, Pitt Street, and for further particulars ASK
FOR MR. LOVETT.
PERMISSIBLE ARTICLES
The following articles may be included:—
Slab Chocolate in tins which can be conveniently opened;
Blankets;
Brilliantine in tins;
Brushes of all kinds;
Chewing Gum;
Cigarette Tips and Cigarette Rolling Machines, but NOT
Cigarettes or Cigarette Papers;
Clothing, including underwear, civilian or service shirts;
Any Footwear;
Windcheaters;
Knitted Silks and Cottons;
Coloured Silks and Cottons;
Plain Linen or Canvas Embroidering;
Toothbrush Dentifrice (solid or powder, but not in tubes);
Frames with Talc or unbreakable glass;
Hussifs containing the usual items;
Kit and Sleeping Bags;
Knitting Needles and Wool;
Pencils and Fountain Pens;
Pipes and Tobacco Pouches;
Safety Razors and Blades;
Safety Tin Openers;
Shoe Polish (solid, not liquid or in tubes);
Small Musical Instruments;
Soaps of all kinds;
Towels;
Face Cloths and Sponges.
• Big Bargain Hall —Ground Floor—Pitt Street.
Anthony Horderns’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone M 2401
(Day or Night)
Post to Box 2712 C
G.P.0., Sydney
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy H. G. Wells’s Outline of History. —
3239.
To buy The Spiritual Exercises of St.
Ignatius. — Answer, with price, to Box 482d,
G.P.O., Adelaide.
To buy, second-hand, Herbert Spencer’s
First Principles. —3242.
Words of recitation in which each verse
finishes with the line “I s’pose yer never heard
what won the ’urdle?” —3236.
Information Sought.
Was the first shot in the 1914-18 war fined
in Australia ?
Yes, on the morning of August 4, 1914, by
A2 Battery of the Royal Australian Garrison
Artillery. A German merchant ship, Pfalz (later
the Australian Boorara), expecting hostilities,
left Melbourne and raced for the heads 40
miles away. War was declared in the mean-
time, and as she cleared the entrance of Port
Phillip the Nepean Battery put a shot across
her bows. She stopped and returned, and the
officers and crew were interned.
* * * *
What was the actual text of the paragraph
in Air. Chamberlain’s broadcast (3/9/’39) in
which he announced Germany and England were
at war?
“I am speaking to you from the Cabinet-
room at 10 Downing-street. This morning the
British Ambassador in Berlin handed the
German Gbvernment a final Note stating that
unless we heard from them by 11 o’clock that
they were prepared at once to withdraw their
troops from Poland a state of war would exist
between us. I have to tell you now that no
such undertaking has been received, and that
consequently this country is at war with Ger-
many.”
al: sfe jfc 3jc
Biographies of (1) Curtin, (2) Forde, (3)
feasley and (4) Ward?
(1) Born Creswick (Victoria) on January 8,
1885, educated at State schools, secretary Vic-
torian Timber-workers’ Union 1911-15, editor
“Westralian Worker” 1917-28, delegate to In-
ternational Labor Conference, League of Nations,
1924, member of Royal Commission on Child
Endowment 1927-28, member Joint Committee
on Public Works 1929-31, advocate for West-
ralian Government before Commonwealth
Grants Commission 1933-35. He was M.H.R.
for Fremantle 1928-31 and since 1934; Leader
of the Opposition from October, 1935, to
October, 1941, and Prime Minister since then.
(2) Born Mitchell (Q.) on July 18, 1890, edu-
cated Christian Brothers’ School, Toowoomba,
was electrical engineer, teacher, Queensland
M.L.A. 1917-22. M.H.R. for Capricornia (Q.)
since 1922, member of Royal Commission on
Motion Picture Industry 1927-28, Public
Accounts Committee 1929, Assistant Minister for
Trade and Customs 1929-30, Minister 1930-31,
Acting Minister of Markets and Transport 1930-
31. He was Deputy Leader of the Opposi-
tion from 1932 to October, 1941, when he
became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
for the Army in Curtin’s Government. (3)
Born Werribee (Victoria) on November 9, 1895.
Was Australian Labor delegate to the Inter-
national Labor Conference at Geneva 1926,
M.H.R. for West Sydney since 1928, Assistant
Minister for Industry and External Affairs from
October, 1929, to March, 1931, Leader of N. S.
Wales Labor party in House of Reps. 1931-36,
Leader of Non-Communist Labor party 1940-41,
and Minister for Supply and Development since
October, 1941. (4) Elected M.H.R. for East
Sydney at by-election on March 7, 1931, de-
feated at general election in the same year, re-
elected at by-election in February, 1932, and has
held his seat since then. Minister for Labor
and National Services since October, 1941.
* * * »
Method of sticking cellophane, mosquito-
netting and cheesecloth to windows to prevent
them from shattering?
For netting and cneesecloth lay on a coating
of ordinary transparent varnish and then the
cloth or netting, extending it over the sashes
and glazing bars. When dry add another coat
of varnish. Cellophane is the trade name of a
transparent wrapping of which there are several
kinds, and it is best to follow instructions
attached to whatever brand you use.
* * ♦ •
What were the original words of Schubert’s
“Serenade” ? English translation, phase ? Have
other words ever been fitted to the song?
Presumably you mean the “Stdndchen” of
1828, the best known of Schubert’s songs to
which the English title of “Serenade” has been
given. The original words are by Ludwig
Rellstab. A free translation of the original
German is: “Listen, you have only to listen.
My voice and the unsleeping leaves and that
beseeching nightingale—every sound tonight
quivers with desire. You cannot but listen, you
cannot but come —come and give me love.” A
very close English rhymed translation, used in
some editions, commences “Hear my pleading,
softly stealing, through the night to thee. In
the tender hush of evening come, my love, to
me.” Various other English words have been
fitted to the melody, some of them having but
little resemblance to Rellstab’s original verse.
(1) What estate did Beethoven leave? (2)
Is there any truth in the story that he died
shaking his fist at the lightning ?
(1) Seven bank shares of 1000 florins apiece,
£lOO transmitted by the Philharmonic Society
of London just before his death, proceeds of
a benefit concert, and 1193 florins derived from
the sale of the composer’s musical effects (in-
eluding the sketchbooks and notebooks, and
autographs of 73 published and 19 unpublished
total estate was under
£lOOO. (2) Almost all biographers tell the story.
Grove says: “As the evening closed in at a
quarter to six there came a sudden storm ol
hail and snow... .followed by a flash of light-
mng and an instant clap of thunder. So great
was the crash as to rouse even the dying man.
He opened his eyes, clenched his fist and
shook it in the air above him. This lasted a
few seconds while the hail rushed down out-
side, and then the hand fell and the great
composer was no more.” Beethoven’s sister-
in-law and his friend Anselm Huttenbrenner
were with him and are the source of the story,
* * * »
What is the laboratory method of separating
mtignesium bromide from sea water?
It is impossible directly to extract magnesium
bromide from sea water—you may be thinking
of-the recovery of magnesium and bromine from
sea water by the Dow Chemical Co. of U.S.A.
First step in the recovery of magnesium is to
add a lime slurry to sea water and form a
flock of magnesium hydroxide. This flock is
separated from the solution after settling and
is converted into magnesium chloride solution
with hydrochloric acid. This solution is evapo-
rated to dryness and magnesium produced by
electrolysis of fused magnesium chloride.
Bromine is liberated in sea water by treatment
with sulphuric acid and chlorine. The bromine
is removed from the liquid by a current of air
and is absorbed in soda ash solution to form
sodium bromide-bromate solution. Bromine is
formed from this solution by treatment «ai.
sulphuric acid and is then steamed out anti r
densed to liquid bromine. on '
* * * #
How to sterilise soil and make it suitahl, t
use in flowerpots and bowls ? ,0r
There are two methods; (i) Place the soil •
boxes or tins in which there are drainage W
and drench thoroughly with boilina wat«
making sure that the whole of the earth 7
cially the corners) is saturated. (2) On a shm
G f iron with the ends turned up lay the S
make a fire beneath and bake 15 minutes. The
addition of peat-moss or tan bark to this snii
(neither of which contains weed-seeds or <ik
eaS e) will increase its fertility.
Rrlpf Aikwppc
biici Miisweib,
L.F.: Have never heard of any other work
being bracketed in a broadcast or other perform-
ance with “Messiah,” which, indeed, is often
abridged. The “story about a prophet” you
refer to may be Mendelssohn’s oratorio
“Elijah,” which, after “Messiah,” is the best-
known of such compositions 8.T.; The First
A.I.F. “went finally and officially out of exist-
ence on April 1, 1921” J.L.; The Federated
Ironworkers’ Association of Australia is regis-
tered under the Commonwealth Conciliation and
Arbitration Act. It may, under its conslitu-
tion, start branches in the various States,
and each branch must be registered in the re-
spective State... .F.T.R.: There is an abrasive
reducer which may be applied only to those
parts of the negative which are too dense.
Write to Kodaks, Sydney W.M.: Fish is
a wirrah; it can alter its color-markings. It
needs skinning, and even then is very tough and
coarse D.T.; Apply at the R.A.A.F. Recruit-
ing Depot, W001100m00100... .T.G.8.: A copy
of the Official Year-Book of the R.S.S.I.L.A.


BRANDAEJERrS
f*S
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations,
a brandaobe * co, lmu Birmingham, eno
•ss*.
f
h
0
/a
a
9
A*
f
m
M
S>*6
* I
v v ■••>•> 'm
ym
m
rx
wm
»
In this hour
of danger
WE DARI NOT FAIL
hush your subscription to the
Liberty Loan
Apply at once, at any bank,
money order post office, or
stockbroker. Interest is 2i%
for 4-5 years or 34% for 9-17
years. Subscriptions may
be paid by instalments.
HB
I:::'-".
m
w
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
~jf ( u *****
;-s4
10 for ll d 20 for 1/10
E1866
PREVENT
will give you all that information. Price, Is. 6d.
R.G.T.: Jupiter is the largest planet; then
come Saturn, Neptune, Uranus, Earth, Venus,
Mars and Mercury... .N.K.F.: In the table
ot precedency the Archbishop of York comes
before the Prime Minister... .B.F. : Kitchener
was drowned on his way to Russia when lire
Hampshire was torpedoed on June 5, 1916.
V.D.: Parnell died on October 6, 1891
p.R.8.: On Active Service is not yet available.
G.D.B.: The A.I.F. voted for conscription
at the 1916 and 1917 referenda. October, 1916
the vote was 72,399 for, 58,894 against, '-520
informal; December, 1917, the vote was 103,789
for, 93,910 against, 1978 informal R.G.8.;
(1) The Australasian Turf Register gives the
date of J. Toohey’s last mount at Randwick
as April 6, 1929, when he rode Lady Bush in
the Fernhill Handicap. At the same meeting he
won the Doncaster Handicap on Karuma. (21
The Wild Goose’s last run at Randwick was m
the Anniversary Handicap on January 26, 1926.
N.G.: He is looking at a photograph ot
bis son S.J.: Insufficient information to
diagnose the horse’s trouble; suggest you try
your local stock inspector or a vet W.R.G.:
Ves, Guy Menzies. All the facts were pub-
lished at the time... .L.T.: No approval has
been given so far for the employment ot
photographic assistants in the W.A.A.A.F.
There may be a new but limited call for photo-
graphers in the W.A.A.A.F., depending on the
availability of R.A.A.F. personnel—duties fre-
quently require the attention of men because
of the arduous work involved... .A.H.; The
Whampoo last arrived at Sydney on September
27, 1878 N.McL.; Depends largely on color
and make of coat. Try eucalyptus extract or
ripe tomato pulp, afterwards scrubbing with
soap and water and rinsing well. Do not use
any spirit or rubber solvent... .A. 8.: (11
’Groom and best man wear dinner jackets and
black ties; if formal wedding, tails and white
ties. (2) Either is correct. (3) Correct, though
during war some consider a light affair is suffi-
cient. .. .L.R.: Don’t use acid. Wash tiles and
terrazzo with a mixture of finest powdered
pumice (one part), bicarbonate of soda (two
parts) and french chalk (one part). Rub this
over the marble and then wash with soap and
water. Washing, with an occasional rub over
with raw linseed oil, should keep it in good
condition C.H.0.: The National Security
(Debtor’s Relief) Regulations provide for relief
where a debtor is unable to pay his debts or
any of them through circumstances attributable
to the war R.F.: The owner cannot sue you
for rent without leave of a competent Court,
and it is most unlikely that he would get such
leave... .F.8.R.; Victoria and N. S. Wales
were connected by rail on June 14, 1883.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no M.S. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused :
L.I.: —
My country, so proud, so free,
Has it ever occurred to thee
That while we drowse in luxury
Governed by our own conceit.
Others for us face the foe ?
E.H.:
We must get behind the “Curtain.”
Come! Come! You can no longer
Mumbo-jumbo.
What’s Menzies done?
Faith, like Charity, must have some clarity.
Rally to old Aussie!
D.D.MacK.: —
Why hark to Liszt when you can hear
The gentle tones of Spender
Provoking Mr. Ward to air
His shrill vituperative blare
In all its swelling splendor ?
T.I.P.: “Shell Sounds” the nearest
R.J.: Pleasant but pointless... .E.C.V.: “Gas
Producer” stalled at the first stanza J.P.:
There’s nothing vivid enough in language or
imagery to make a reader share the experience.
F.R.B.: It might make a song or a reci-
tation H.J.H.: Those who rhyme “dawning”
with “morning” will not be forgiven....
P.L.S.: Keep on with your lessons J.CJD.:
No space for your outsize heroine J.A.M.:
“Balanced Account” passed —and sent back....
M.K.R.: As a synopsis for a story it’s not bad.
G.M.M.: Feeble funning K.E.C.: So
long as -he’s happy it’s best to leave him where
he is 8.A.: The new teacher is too thin.
C.K.: Not with that coincidence; try it
elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
" '
f P fhM d T r C f T tha f y °S T fh n "makes
a faithful delineation of a bottle of beer makes
your case hopeless... .W.M.8.: A collection
of shaky strokes and a tattered jest R.N.W.:
Why didn’t you put hats on the axemen so that
we could distinguish them from the stumps?
J.B.: Bathing belles so uninteresting the sand-
flies would scorn ’em... .C.K J.: We’ve devised
a special torture for those who trace J.T.W.;
Where have you seen a myall with legs like a
centre-forward’s using a bow and arrow....
G.S.L.: The lion-tamer looks as if he’d be terri-
fied at sight of an enraged silverfish... .E. 5.8.:
Reverently laid among the other corpses
Bert C.: Having perpetrated the horror, you
apparently tried rubbing it out with a firebrick
and re-doing it with a carpenter’s pencil....
K.F.R.: Niggling penwork and a joke we heard
over the radio a month ag0.... J.T.L.; Style is
there, but aim for originality of situation.


C 1 an you
rely upon
an individual ?
A Trustee should administer your Estate to
the greatest advantage of your beneficiaries,
a task needing business wisdom, constant
devotion of time to the duties involved over
a considerable period, and sound technical
knowledge. He must be completely trust-
worthy. Should you find a friend possessing
all these qualifications and appoint him
Trustee —he may die before completing his
duties—age may sap his wisdom—misfortune
may befall him.
But should you nominate The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited,
these circumstances cannot arise. Consti-
tuted under Act of Parliament, and answer-
able to the Courts, it is absolutely trustworthy.
It devotes its whole time and energy to the
administration of Trusts. It has the necessary
knowledge of the technicalities relating to
Trusts, is controlled by Directors of proved
capacity, and . . . the Company “goes on
for ever”.
Charges are moderate. For details write or
call upon;
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £958,760,
BOARD OP DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman);
D. Stuart Murray; John Pordyce;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder. "
N.S.W MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
m
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australasian Catholic Assurance
Ex-
June, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 163,842 29,637 59,005 74,212 t 376,254
1984.. 184,821 32,530 61,222 90,081 t 540,547
1935.. 210,943 36,939 66,819 106,197 f 646,006
Net unexplained additions, £65 . . 647,059
1936.. 252,031 44,862 84,667 121,514 t 768,573
Property reserve taken in, £24,101.. 792,674
1537.. 290,101 44,565 90,783 153,765 t 946.439
Loss property, £1574 .. .. .. 944,865
1938.. 334,349 41,147 101,026 >191,1881 1,136,053
Unexplained addition, £llB4 . . 1,137,237
1939.. 369,776 51,115 107,750 209,923 f 1,347,100
Unexplained addition, £1852.. .. 1,349,012
1940.. 399,134 116,314 117,299 164,53311,513,545
Loss property, £124 .. .. .. 1,513,421
1941.. 429,941 105,993 123,892 200,056 1,713,477
*Net funds apart from capital,
fAfter paying 7 p.c. on prefs. and ords.
This firmly-established 20-year-old life
office continues to make satisfactory pro-
gress. The accounts don’t tell so much
as they might; but the business consists
mainly of industrial assurance, with a
comparatively small amount of fire and
accident risks. Careful management
avoided any attempt at forced growth,
with consequent moderate-for-age ex-
pense rate and low lapse and satisfactory
claims experiences. Also policy-holders
receive regular and satisfactory bonuses,
and have done so for the last decade—
altogether an achievement of which the
management has good reason to feel
proud.
Chief effects of war upon the business
thus far have been a reduction in the
rate of bonuses paid to policy-holders—
a general experience—and stoppage of
dividends to shareholders. That was in
1940, and is indication of the manner
in which policy-holders’ interests are
placed in the foreground. Last term,
bonuses to policy-holders were main-
tained at the reduced rate and share-
holders—there are only £6054 of 7 p.c.
pref. and £8458 of ord. capital to feed—
are to come into the picture again. The
prefs. will get their 7 p.c., plus arrears
(together £846), and the ords., which had
received 7 p.c. p.a. prior to 1940, 3+ p.c.
(£296).
New business figures aren’t broadcast,
but, including £2952 fire premiums, etc.,
last year’s net premium income (£353,232)
increased £22,657. Interest and rents
(£76,709) brought in an extra £Bl5O, mak-
ing the spring in total income £30,807.
The contraction of £10,321 in claims was
due to lighter maturities (down £7990)
and surrenders (down £3671). A tight
hold was kept upon outgoings, exes,
making off with 32.3 p.c. of net premiums
as against 33.8 p.c. for 1940, deducting
the bigger tax bill (£9637, up £4104).
Before allowing for divs., £200,056 was
added to funds, making them £1,713,477,
of which £25,439 is a property reserve,
£llBl reserve for unexpired risks and
£4017 reserve for bonuses to policy-
holders.
The slight drop in the net interest
return on mean funds (4.23 p.c. as against
4.56 p.c. for 1940) was due to the pre-
vailing low rate of interest and rents and
continued climb in maintenance costs,
etc. Still, the co. assumes that its funds
will turn in only p.c. net.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1930. 1935. 1940. 1941.
Paid capita] .. £0.4,610 £14,610 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* . . 4,935 14,999 32,773 38,612
Mortgages.. .. 207,775 309,891 808,717 886,987
Freeholds . . . . 206,488 537,183 619,912
Govt, securities .. 26,716 131,408 75,084 95,302
Cash, etc. .. 1,327- 13,506 4,809 6,965
Debtors . . . . 1,788 2,008 6,853 4,378
Loans on policies 3,251 31,042 101.401 126,076
Equipment . . 4,696 4,668 16,234 15,431
Shares in other cos. 1,682 3,388 11,647 11,647
* Other than under policies.
Mortgages (up £78,270) and freeholds (up
£82,729) are the chief of the investment
portfolio. Other features of the latest
accounts are an increase of £20,218 in
Government securities and of £24,675 in
loans on policies.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
To Re -
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 7,665 4 p.c. = 30,412 291,461
1933.. 38,111 5 ~ „ 38,016 95 291,156
1934.. 43,411 54,, „ 41,821 1,590 293.146
1935.. 80,286 10 ~ „ 76,043 4,243 297,389
Profit on sale assets, £1426.. .. 298,815
1936.. 84,984 10 p.c. = 76,043 8,941 307,756
1937.. 83,845 10 „ „ 76,043 7,802 315,558
Reserves disappear, £11,150.. .. 304,408
1938.. 99,109 124 p.c. = 95,054 4,055 308,463
1939.. 98,753 124 „ ~95,054 3,699 312,102
1940.. 97,359 124 „ „ 95,054 2,305 314,407
1841.. 96,076 124 „ ~95,054 1,022 315,489
This co. (oaid capital £760,433) and
Kandos (paid capital £673,862) are equal
partners in Australian Portland Cement
(paid capital £2,000,000), which operates
two big plants with a combined capacity
of 500,000 tons of cement p.a. The one
at Kandos (N.S.W.), which can turn out
up to 200,000 tons p.a., shares the market
with four other producers in its home
State. The other at Fyansford (Vic.) has
a rated cement capacity of 300,000 tons
p.a., and now manufactures high-grade
potash as well. This potash, made from
a hitherto waste product, is a welcome
addition to Australian manufacture,
especially since war activities have prac-
tically cut off imported supplies of that
important material. The only serious
competitor of the Fyansford works is
Goliath Cement (capacity 100,000 tons
p.a.), a low-cost producer at Railton
(Tas.), now experiencing shipping diffi-
culties.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts a lot of cement was re-
quired for defence purposes, and there
was no slackness in the public works
programmes of the States or in private
building. The operating co.’s two works
were, therefore, kept busy, but the curtain
remains drawn over its figures. Appear-
ances are that, despite higher costs and
heavier taxes, it passed on £90,000 (same
as for three or four years now) in divs.
to each of the holding cos.
Australian Cement received £92,791 in
divs. and £10,494 in commissions, in-
terest, etc. (it acts as agent for the
operating co.). After paying its own exes.
(£2978) and allowing £4231 for taxation,
the net result (down £1283) was 12.5 p.c.
on capital, as against 12.8, 13, 13, 11 and
11.1 p.c. back to 1936. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c. and a p.c. bonus was
added for the fourth year in succession.
Balance-sheet figures don’t tell very
much:
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £760,433 £760,433 £760,433 £760,433
Sundry creditors 2,265* 76 76 76
Shares in other
cos. . .1,003,750 1,003.750 1,003,750 1,003,750
Book debts .. 1,222 483 110 110
Consols & cash 123,221 118,651 122,886 124,664
* Includes tax provision.
The co.’s own position is obviously very
comfortable. Everything, of course,
depends upon the state of affairs in the
operating co., and in the absence of de-
tails of the financial structure it is not
possible to guess what future income
may accrue from this source. As
far as production goes, demand for
cement for private construction can be
expected to slacken, but the stuff is likely
to be extensively used in connection with
air-raid precautions and other defence
activities.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
Nov., Lops. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£, £/£>£/
1931.. 5,296 Nil 50,651
Trade-marks disclosed, £lOOO .. 49,661
Profit.
1932.. 18,409 24 p.c. = 16,374 2,035 51,686
1933.. 11,875 2| „ „ 12,281 51,280
1934.. 13,038 24 „ „ 12,281 757 52,037
1935.. 11,057 24 „ „ 12,281 50,813
1936.. 20,046 4 „ „ 19,649 397 51,210
1937.. 29,515 6 „ „ 29,474 41 51,251
1938.. 21,291 4 ~ „ 19,649 1,642 52,893
1939.. 34,685 7 „ „ 34,386 299 53,192
1940.. 33,872 7 „ ~ 34,386 62,678
1941.. 33,261 7 „ „ 34,386 51,553
Shortly after war began Britain offered
to take Australia’s exportable surplus of
frozen beef, mutton and lamb, together
with certain classes of pork and edible
offals, for 12 months. The offer was
later altered to 240,000 tons of all classes
of meat combined. Actually 260,000 tons
was taken. But supply was about 34,000
tons in excess of this, which meant re-
striction of store receipts of cheaper
classes of meat. For the second year,
ended Sept., 1941, Britain decided to
take 240,000 tons, including 24,000 tons
of baconer pork. Later the total figure
was reduced to 198,000 tons, and later
still to 144,000 tons. Then, before the
year ran out, it was lifted to 198,000
tons again ; but not before prohibitions
on slaughter of mutton and lamb for
export and further restrictions on store
receipts of beef had been imposed. For
the third year, a new arrangement was
entered into. The Federal Government
agreed to buy, at fixed prices, all lamb
of certain grades offered for export as
well as surplus canned mutton and
canned pig-meats, at prices to be
arranged. Then, in December last, all
frozen meat for export came under the
Government purchase scheme when
placed in store.
Last year Q.M.E. further increased re-
frigeration storage space at the Ross
River works, and, owing to heavy out-
side demands, the can-making section of
the business was passed to a subsidiary.
Northern Manufacturers Pty. The net
addition to the book value of fixed assets
and shares in other cos. was £72,624, of
which £42,161 was in respect of shares
in (£40,000) and advances to (£2161) the
new subsidiary;
1935. 1939'. 1940. 1941
Paid capital. . £491.232 £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Creditors* . . 190,827 319,459 221,363 233,358
Property, shares
in other cos. 3 99.09 1 3 2 9,155 391,7 1 5 464 339
Stock.. .. 141,332 283,079 47,261 35 759
Stores .. 19,698 18,992 42,704 39 639
Debtors & cash 185,0 3 3 2 6 7,04 3 3 1 7,98 0 270,801
* Including provision lor contingencies.
To meet the outlay, the amount coming
to outsiders, including something for
contingencies and taxation, increased by
only £11,995. The year’s contraction in
the more or less liquid surplus (£112,834)
was £73,748. The comfortable financial
position is due partly to provisions for
depreciation in the past.
What the balance of the current term
holds for the business nobody can say.
Much depends upon what happens in the
war with Japan. The Government has
fixed the upper limit for dividends at
4 p.c. on capital, which is taken to mean
share capital and reserves combined. For
the Q.M.E. this means 4.4 p.c. on paid-
up share capital alone. The question
arises whether cos. should be allowed to
shake out inner reserves. The “Wild
Cat” thinks they should. A concern
which has written valuable premises en-
tirely out of its accounts nevertheless has
a paper reserve equal to the amount so
written off and a tangible reserve equal
to the realisable value of the property.
The point is that shareholders should
not be penalised because of the board’s
method of treating reserved profits.
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- Ee-
July. Loss. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1931.. 25,203 Nil Nil Nil 1,227
Deficit
1932.. 17,757 Nil Nil Nil 16,530
Profit. 18.1 p.c.*
1933.. 7,711 5434 4200 Nil 18,453
6.4 18.9 2J
p.c. p.c.* p.c.
1934.. 23,787 1627 9923 9,542 2,695 15,758
6.2 p.c. 4 p.c.
1935.. 27,944 1627 3255 15,268 7,794 7,964
5 p.c.
1936.. 31,713 1627 3255 19,084 7,747 217
6 p.c. 6 p.c. Reserves,
193 7.. 39,0 30 180 0 32 5 5 2 2,901 11,074 10,857
5.4 p.c. 5 p.c.
193 8.. 26.8 50 162 7 32 55 19,08 4 2,884 13,741
1939.. 31,969 1627 3255 19,084 8,003 21,744
1940.. 29,196 1627 3255 19,084 5,230 26,974
1941.. 32,4 3 9 16 2 7 32 55 1 9,08 4 8,4 7 3 35,447
* Including arrears.
This co. enjoys a prominent position in
the high-grade furniture, furnishing
drapery and china business. During the
12 months covered by the latest accounts
there was plenty of money about, and a
bit more was spent on renovations and
on flat-construction and home-building
and the furnishing that goes with them.
So, despite climbing costs and provision
of an extra £2260 for rates and taxes
(£26,088), the board was able to figure net
earnings £3243 better than for the pre-
ceding term at £32,439, equal to 6.9 p.c.
on capital (pref. and ord. combined) as
against 6.2, 6.8, 5.7, 8.4, 6.8 and 6 p.c.
back to 1935.
The distribution to shareholders re-
mained unaltered at 5 p.c. to the ords.
and 5.4 p.c. to the first and 6.2 p.c. to
the second prefs., both of which, under
the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act,
are subject to a p.c. cut, with the
right to advance with the ords. to their
original contract rates.
As for the current term, there will still
be plenty of money in circulation, owing


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
♦ * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated oy
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
MEN!
821
GLAND
TONIC
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY
limited
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
offers all facilities for the transaction of every class
of Banking business. Since 1854 <-> over a century
ago i- 1 the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
has maintained the confidence of its depositors and
the community alike.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
HIGH IN PUBLIC FAVOUR!
The consistently high quality Virginia tobaccos from which they are blended
•make 333’s “tops” with smart smokers everywhere. Remember—' “The secret’s
in the 333’s blendl”
I
I
■
/
m.
EXPRESS
a ate
1721-1.42
to heavy defence expenditure, but the
Government will mop up more of it m
taxation and loans, while new Govern-
ment regulations from the end oi
January prohibit erection, alteration or
extension of any dwelling-place within a
25-mile radius of Sydney and Melbourne
G.P.Os., and restrict new private and
co. borrowing under mortgage to a limit
of £l5OO p.a. Also the furniture trade
is to be one of the first affected by the
Government’s industrial mobilisation
plans, which aim at standardisation and
minimisation of “low-priority” industries
in order to release labor and physical
resources for essential war work.
This is the co.’s position so far as
balance-sheet figures disclose it:
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Capital . . £464,187 £464,187 £464,187 £464,187
Liabilities* .. 133,903 99,981 127,440 111,245
Freeholds, etc.. .272,252 272,252 272,252 272,252
Machinery, p,a,, t. g 27 ,460 25,077
Stocks . . 222,748 181,718 250,371 240,242
Book debts .. 91,339 112,191 75,476 79,387
Cash, etc. . . 6,203 5,147 5,033 5,901
* Including provision for taxation.
Stocks, down £10,129 last term, are still
substantial. The outside debt consists of
mortgages on freehold £61,000 (un-
changed) and sundry creditors and provi-
sion for taxation, together £50,245 (down
£16,195). Including stocks, the year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£214,285) was £10,845.
During 1941 the ords. were priced be-
tween 13s. lOd. and 10s. They closed
at 10s. The net tangible backing is
£l6 13s. Id. first prefs., £8 18s. lid.
seconds and 21s. lid. ords.
Senator Collings’s gloomy forecast
from Canberra of drastic curtailment of
goldmining brought consternation in Kal-
goorlie, amazement in Perth, The
Chamber of Mines wouldn’t commit
itself / without hearing more. The
Minister for Mines wasn’t so cautious.
Gold, he said, could always be mined ;
it wouldn’t run away. If the Federal
Government considered other war
minerals such as copper, lead, tin, tanta-
lite, mica, asbestos, antimony, tungsten
or molybdenite of greater importance,
goldmining would have to lose some of
its man-power to enable those minerals
to be produced in greater quantities. It
is not known whether men will be
switched from the Westralian gold in-
dustry to other mineral deposits in the
State or whether all or any of them will
be transferred to eastern Australia.
America is short of supplies of many
minerals the production of which the
Commonwealth is speeding up.
* * * *
Mt. Magnet Mines’ plant and
machinery, which was to have been
auctioned, has been compulsorily ac-
quired by the Ministry of Munitions.
There is likejihood of the equipment of
recently-closed Youanmi also being
grabbed.
♦ * • •
Five of the West’s Melbourne-con-
trolled goldmining cos. —Western Mining
Corporation, Triton, Central Norseman,
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie and Lake View
South —have begun, “in the interests of
economy,” to clean up every six instead
of four weeks. Other producers are
chewing over the advisability of doing
likewise.
* * * *
Coolgardie (W.A.) is producing feldspar
as well as gold. From one deposit near
the old Londonderry mine, Australian
Glass Manufacturers is reported to have
extracted a tonnage worth £lO,OOO for
dispatch to the Eastern States. Feldspar
production elsewhere in the West is prac-
tically nil.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) has
abandoned its option on the Evanston
auriferous block, for which the vendor
asked £15,000. Recently the directors
reported that the lode was big and poor.
Now they say it doesn’t live down.
After its early blank at Inglewood,
eU Consolidated has more than re-
its fortunes from the Just in
T - 1p navlesford (Vic) A 23 p.c. ex-
T ,Y ( h J almost doubkd
P d t o November,
P ro . fits 7 < £2 W 89 324) S
and 2s. per share (U 8,3241 was a
tnbuted. Co. is working a series or mi
makes the grade of which, second h!ghe t
in the State, continues steady around the
i«dwt. of the past couple of years.
* * * ,
Ironbark South, mainstay of Bendigo s
Hercules group, on the Sheepshead line,
f ared less favorably in the year to
December. Throughput went up from
7150 tons to 7881 tons, but a fall in graae
from 11.3dwt. to B.7dwt. (excluding con-
centrates) is reflected in a cut from
?,\\ tO £18,708 in divS. (Bs. 6d.
’ . \ Along with further develop-
profitable 927 ft. level, man-
asement is sinking another 470 ft. in a
hunt for the reef worked by the Ironbark
co to w ithin 200 ft. of the northern
nndnrv
Boundary. #
. . .
Pmevale coppermine Miram (C.Q.),
has been reopened by Mackayites in
small way and is producmg about 20
tons monthly of 10 p.c. ore. An English
co. formerly worked it. . inspection
by * southern syndicate is under way.


POWELL ON THE JOB
'wm.
THE CHOICE OF FLEET OWNERS
Proved efficiency on the job . , , that’s the BIG reason why Australian
Business is standardising on POWELL Engineered Gas Producers to
secure unfailing operation of motor fleets. The following excerpt from
Croft’s Stores report demonstrates why POWELL has won favour as the
outstanding unit with progressive Australian organizations:—
“ ... as you know we are operating a substantial number of these units.
The performance of our heavy duty Ford Semi-trailer (pictured above) is
indicative of the results we have secured from ‘Powell.’ This truck was
hauling gross loads of 13 tons, 700 miles a week with negligible petrol.
After 25,000 miles, the condition of the engine is quite satisfactory.”
(Signed) L. C. LANYON, Secretary,
Croft’s Stores Ply. Ltd.
HIGHLIGHTS.—Heavy duty construction throughout . . . Famous Beresinsky
Cleaner reducing engine wear to “less than with petrol” ... A model for
every truck purpose . . . Recommended by the Ford Motor Co. (Aust.)
Pty., Ltd. . . . Only Producer Gas Units with Government approval. Models
up to 40 horse-power.
KEEP AUSTRALIA
FREE !
Subscribe now to the •
POWELL
GAS PRODUCER TRUCK UNITS
Immediate delivery from H. C. SLEIGH, Sydney, Mel
bourne, Adelaide, or Powell Dealers throughout Aus
tralia.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Four-Per-Cent. Foolishness
“There is no efficiency in industry pos-
sessed by the enemy that we cannot out-
match,” said Mr. Curtin last week when
he announced his intention to put a 4 p.c.
blanket over all Australian industry.
Initiative and resource are acknow-
ledged to be among the chief character-
istics of Australians, especially when
Australians are set alongside peoples of
other countries. Yet no country in the
world has so drastically crippled initiative
as Canberra Labor threatens to do under
its economic control. No free country
has dealt so weakly with the real prob-
lems at hand. The Australian is un-
doubtedly at his best when left to his
own resources and taking his chance ;
he is at his worst when tied up by red-
tape and salary limits, as happens in the
civil service of all the States and the
Commonwealth, or when he is compul-
sorily unionised. At the present time sec-
tions of the Commonwealth civil service,
especially so far as new departments are
concerned, are one of the most depress-
ing features of the war effort; Lend-
Lease and the Department of Informa-
tion are two good examples. Yet
pinheaded and snakeheaded gentlemen at
Canberra are trying to drive the whole
Australian economy along in the way
the civil service is conducted.
Earnings of industry limited to a fixed
figure on capital and reserves irre-
spective of other factors —not even
Nazi Germany has made the mistake
of destroying initiative and multiplying
waste in this manner! The Germans
set a high premium on efficiency. There
is no encouragement to efficiency
in profits set at a fixed low level any
more than where profits are set
at a fixed high level. The wharf-
laborers themselves have shown, though
not in the manner of Nurse Cavell, that
“patriotism is not enough” where an in-
centive to do extra war work is con-
cerned ; they have demanded penalty
rates for overtime on all occasions, and,
in Sydney, two-and-a-half times on holi-
days. No good Australian industrialist'
wants to profiteer during war-time ; sen-
sible people realise that war is waste, and
that no one should make extra money
out of it —that the burden should be
spread evenly, and lightened wherever
possible by extra production. But Can-
berra Labor has made thousands of
patriotic Australians feel they have been
treated contemptuously ; that those who
give willingly are the first of whom more
is demanded. And the sometimes unfor-
tunate rhetoric of Prime Minister Curtin
makes them feel not the least bit better.
When one studies Canada’s war effort
and how it is financed, and then has a
look at Canberra’s financial methods and
economic results, one may be excused for
feeling unwell. Canada’s realism has
brought strength to that country and
impetus to its war effort; Canberra
Labor’s methods—especially the latest
embellishments —are weak and one-eyed,
and the war effort is progressing in spite
of them rather than with their assistance.
At the onset of war Australia also
adopted the pay-as-you-go policy so suc-
cessful in Canada; Fadden showed an
inclination to water the policy down, and
when Labor assumed office it soon dis-
closed an inability to cope with the situa-
tion at all. One after another common-
sense principles were pushed aside and
their place taken by “easy” methods and
cranky portions of the party platform.
The banks were interfered with almost
immediately Labor took office, though
they had served the country more effi-
ciently than the politicians ; 8.H.P., pro-
ducer of the world’s cheapest steel, was
the object of envious criticism by Min-
isters like Messrs. Ward and Forde. Taxa-
tion policy was turned in the direction
of those who save and invest rather than
against those who consume and compete
with the demands of war; the few were
sacrificed in order that the voting multi-
tude might escape. Of course, they can-
not escape, but in trying to let them off
Labor has fallen for the old deceptive
fallacy of bank-credit finance. Its
economics have reached the floundering
stage after a few short months of
operation.
Canada has a population of 11 million,
Australia seven million. In 1941-42
Canada is spending the equivalent of £4lO
million Australian on war on its own
account, and in addition is finding £240
million to help Britain’s programme—
much of this money is being converted
into Canadian goods to be sent to Britain.
Canada’s total war spending during the
present financial year will be in the
vicinity of 40 p.c. of the national income ;
outlay on the Dominion’s own account
alone will run to 25 p.c. The total ex-
penditure on war will be nearly £6O Aus-
tralian a head, and though £22 of that
will be charged to Britain or wiped off
Canada’s London debt, for the present it
is a tax on Canadian living standards.
In Australia our Budget war expendi-
ture figure was £221.5 million. But it
looks more like being £250 million. That
is equal to 25 p.c. of the estimated
national income for 1941-42, and repre-
sents approximately £36 a head.
Though Canada’s total war production,
including that on behalf of Britain, is
much ahead of Australia’s effort, we may
rightly take to our credit the larger
proportion of our man-power on
active service overseas. Canada’s contri-
bution of men has been no small one, but
ours has been bigger. Nevertheless, with-
out encouraging inefficiency by imposing
any rigid limit on profits, without revolu-
tionising the banking system, and with-
out nationalising industry, Canada has
been able to finance 75 p.c. of its total
Federal Budget expenditure out of taxa-
tion. In Australia, taking in the business
income of the post office as revenue, of
the total Chifley Budget outlay only
57 p.c. was to be met out of taxation.
Federal taxation in Canada almost tallies
with war expenditure on Canadian (de-
ducting British) account; in Australia
total taxation revenue, as originally
budgeted for, is much below war outgo,
and additions to tax sources since appear
to have been more than offset by rising
war expenditure.
The war effort has gone quite smoothly
in Canada. There have been labor and
other troubles, but nothing to affect
the programme seriously, and of th?
vastly increased national income over
half is represented by salaries and waseT
Nevertheless, all classes have felt Z
pmch, first of all through taxation
Profiteering has been dealt with among
all occupations. The minimum tax on
companies is 40 p.c. of their profits,
75 p.c. of any profits earned in excess
of Pre-war averages. There are no pro-
vincial taxes now. And, though under
war-time statutes the Government “has
power to regiment the physical and
human resources of the nation in any
way necessary to the security of the
State,” actually these wide powers have
been invoked only where voluntary co-
operation has proved faulty, and have
never been used as a back-door means of
introducing radical “anthboss” principles.
It was officially announced not so long
ago that “in all phases of its war pro-
gramme the Government has sought
wherever practicable to secure the volun-
tary co-operation of the persons and in-
terest involved.” But, so far as taxation
to pay for war waste is concerned, it has
left the people no option. And loei-
cally so.
The work Canada is doing for Britain
at the present time has more than repaid
the Dominion’s national debt owing to
the Old Country. This has been possible
only with the co-operation of the
Canadian people, and it has not been
achieved without the sacrifice of some
comforts and near-essentials. But addi-
tional output per head has helped lighten
the burden of war. And —of the great-
est importance—the burden has been
more evenly spread than in the Com-
monwealth. Since all provincial taxing
authority has been handed over to the
Federal Government, waste of man-
power in the civil service has been re-
duced, and non-productive clerical work
has been lessened all round.
The good work done in Canada—
tanks, ’planes and ships are being turned
out on a much greater scale than here—
shows that Canberra’s proposed drastic
interference with private initiative and
the confiscation of most of the earnings
of particular classes are not necessary
to a streamlined war effort. It actually
emphasises the contrary. Canada was
more industrialised than Australia to
begin with, admittedly, but industry can-
not function properly unless assisted by
sane finance and sensible politics.
One of the fallacies common in this
country is that the bosses and the
bankers alone stand in the way
of greatly lifted living standards. But
consider the position. If all the national
income of the Commonwealth were
spread over all its citizens it would
amount to less than £3 per head
per week. And under present taxa-
tion scales tall poppies are non-
existent. The man in Australia who is
going to suffer most under the Labor
Government’s 4-p.c.-profits edict is the
small man with a thousand or two saved.
Where his shares or property returned
him 10 p.c., less tax, before they may
now yield him only 4 p.c.—a cut in a
modest income of more than 50 p.c. The
big man will not suffer in the same way;
he is already taxed at the rate of 18s.
in the £. The thrifty person of moderate
means and a saving disposition will again
be the chief victim of Federal Labor’s
fevered financial policy. The war effort
and confidence will be two other casual-
ties.
The plant of Australian Newsprint
Mills at Boyer (Tas.) is turning out
over 400 tons of newsprint a week, a
valuable contribution to the meagre sup-
plies of paper now reaching the Common-
wealth. But plans to increase output to
65,000 tons a year have had to be aban-
doned owing to the impossibility of ob-
taining the necessary plant for the second
stage of the scheme.


Public Notices.
I, HULDA KATHERIN PUHAKKA (Parker),
of Finnish nationality, born at Helsinki, Fin-
land, and resident 13 years in Australia, now
residing at 134 Crown Street, Sydney, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1930.
I, HEMIA HELMER, of Polish nationality,
born Lowicz, Poland, and resident nine years
in Australia, now residing at 137 Bondi Road,
Bondi, intend to apply for nationalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1930.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce).
TO CHARLES WILLIAM SMITH—TAKE
NOTICE that a petition has been filed in this
Court endorsed with a notice to you to appear
and answer the charges in the petition of ELIZA
ALICE SMITH of No. 49 Toorak Avenue
Hobart in Tasmania praying for a dissolution
of marriage In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce judgment in re-
spect thereto AND take further notice that for
the purpose aforesaid within Thirty days after
the date of this publication an appearance must
be entered at the Registry of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart. —(Sgd.)
H. R. DOBBIE, Deputy Registrar.
How to make Friends
and make Life worth living
■■PROFICIENCY in handling people in a
-way that makes them think and believe
aa you do. that makes them admire and
genuinely aspire to your company, is gained
through the New H. & R. applied Psychology
Course and Training Service. This New
applied Psychology Training will so increase
your knowledge of Human Relations that you
will quickly strengthen your power to influence
people more, to make and to hold friendship
. . . and thus lead to an adequate life,
full of interest, and contentment.
Full details will be posted Free upon request.
Department of Distribution
Hemingway & Robertson
Founders of Commercial Education In Australasia
38A Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney.
Offices in all capital cities, Newcastle and
Launceston. 38AA/P6
ss
2^
o
&
s
I
r<
o
I
-
Iffy
fW }
\
i.^
>
i/r
*«*
BECOME AN ARTIST-Quickly
Let Brodie Mack Teach You at Home!
AT last you are able to learn all branches of art under the supervision of this
famous Australian artist. This amazing short-cut method simplifies art. You
learn at home.
Make Money In Your Spare Time
BRODIE MACK has made it possible by means of this remarkable Course for you
to earn money in your spare hours. He shows y r ou how to “cash in” on his
experience. He teaches you how to rapidly develop your latent ability so that you
are able to produce striking illustrations and art work. The fact of you reading
this announcement points to you having a desire to be an artist—then send for this
amazing book and let us prove that we can make you a skilled artist.
How To Be An Artist—lt’s FREE!
NEVER before has a book of this nature been offered free. That is why you
should send for your copy now. It shows you how to draw —develop your
talent —how to cartoon, the secret of illustrating, etc. Fill in the coupon and
send at once, NOWS
id^
Tear This Out—Post Now!
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School, Desk 43,
Wayne House, Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W. q
■ Dear Sir, — _
■ Please send me, FREE and without obligation, a copy *
■ of your famous book, “How to Be an Artist.” I enclose g
« 3d. in stamps to defray postage. ■
„ NAME ■
I
ft
ADDRESS
25/2/’42
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
Meeting Other People.
Every one of us should, in our
homes, amongst those we work with,
at games, in all our contacts with
other people, either casual or pre-
arranged, seek to meet others without
self-consciousness on the one hand
or self-assertiveness on the other
hand, should acquire those habits
of mind and body that help us to
comport ourselves with ease and
confidence, capably and agreeably,
whenever and wherever we may be
with others.
The Pelman Training provides
fully for this very important aspect
of pleasant living. Apart from
quickening the sense perceptions,
thus providing material for conver-
sation and making us aware of the
responses, individually and collec-
tively, of those in whose company
we are, the Course specifically dis-
cusses the different states of mind,
and of the emotions, that determine
our attitude towards others, the
causes of undue sensitiveness in our-
selves and in others, the ego con-
sciousness that robs us of our sense
of proportion and magnifies the sig-
nificance of our own feelings and
opinions, and, in particular, of our
own mistakes.
Pelmanism emphasises the im-
portance of the objective life, of
participation in what is going on
around us, of thinking outside our-
selves, it discusses the place of
dress, manner and deportment, and
pays particular attention to the
control of the voice and the use and
enlargement of the vocabulary.
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established
in Melbourne under the same direc-
tion for over 34 years.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In conse-
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it as required. We learn
to trust our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and
woman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The Exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose. The
Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly
ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of
“The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will
be regarded as a confidential communication; we have no
outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU 2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pel man Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
Name
[ Address
• I4(*
A Splendid Response
In the face of Japan’s southward surge
and other hard problems, Australians
responded magnificently to the appeal for
war-loan funds. In about three days
over £22,800,000 of the £35,000,000 asked
for was provided. But it is the last few
millions that count, and quick oversub-
scription will represent an effective
answer to the brag and gloating of Radio
Tokyo.
Canberra’s economic regulations pro-
hibit the sale or transfer of (a) any free-
hold land, (b) land leased for more than
three years or shorter term if the prop-
erty isn’t for the sole use of the buyer,
(c) shares, stock or debentures of any
company and ( d) other forms of property
that may be prescribed as an after-
thought. The Regs, don’t apply to Com-
monwealth bonds or public-body secu-
rities, and do not “control mortgages and
permitted transactions as the result of
the discharge of those mortgages.” Ex-
ceptions allowed are transfers and sales
made before Feb. 10, completion of
options entered into before Feb. 10, and
disposal of property in deceased estates,
bankrupt estates and companies in liqui-
dation. The Treasurer may grant exemp-
tions. In view of the fact that bank
accommodation for the payment of in-
come tax is not permitted, and that all
profits beyond 4 p.c. on capital and
reserves (allowing for taxation and de-
preciation) are to be confiscated by the
Treasury, the financial chaos indicated
by the prohibition on the sale of assets
will cause the Treasurer to work over-
time in granting exemptions. Where
profits go into stock or plant there will
be no means of paying either the Treasury
or shareholders. Before the granting of
exemptions drives the Treasurer off his
head one of two things may have hap-
pened—(a) the Regulations may be as
dead as Jack Lang’s depression tactics,
or ( b ) the Government may be out of
office.
More than the usual percentage of
straightout humbug is embodied in the
new Regulation which purports to “peg”
wages. There is no pegging worth a hoot.
All that happens is that awards must be
adhered to, or, if more than award wages
are being paid, they must not be in-
creased out of hand. But cost-of-liying
increases will go on, ordinary promotions
will be allowed, and contract terms may
be carried out. The civil service is
well protected. Absence from work both
by employers and employees is prohibited
unless a legitimate excuse exists. Allow-
able absence relates to illness, annual
holidays or “domestic or other pressing
emergency.”
* » * •
The day that Prime Minister Curtin
stood in Martin-place, Sydney, and, in
the course of an appeal for loan money to
finance the war, said that “nothing you
have shall be withheld if the Government
says that it is proper for fighting a maxi-
**^“^nickvlsuTee'n'to
registered the most panicky tall seen in
m ars xhe faU was aU the more
remarkabJe jn view of the war - and tax-
stdcken &tate alr£ady reached after
several weeks of major declines. The
market was at last convinced that the
Govemment was definitely set on pur-
sui jts ast onishing “4-p.c.-and-kid-to-
strikers” economic policy, and B.H.P.
which ftt the de p resS ed
price of 295. 3d. on Tuesday (17th) morn-
ing, collapsed to 275. 9d. after the
Prime Minister’s speech. Another heavy
fall on the day was that of Colonial
Sugar shares, down £3 (at £37),
and on the same basis Tooth scrip
slumped by 2s, 3d, to 345. 9d. At the
close of September last B.H.P. shares
stood at 395., C.S.R. at £49 55., and
Tooth at 535. 9d. For a while some
onlookers were inclined to believe that
the Tuesday collapse was due to Mr.
Curtin’s announcement that E. G.
Theodore had been appointed Director-
General of the Allied Works Council. But
Mr. Theodore’s post doesn’t seem to come
very directly into the investor’s sphere,
a nd a little reflection convinced most
people that even “Fiduciary Ted” prob-
ably knows more about economics than
a ll the Labor Cabinet put together. By
Thursday the market showed signs of
steadying; on Friday there was no market,
“retrospective to the 10th.” Mr. Curtin
| n t he meantime had been reduced to a
state w here he considered it necessary to
j n f orm the people that dealings in all
Commonwealth loans, including the new
onCj W ould be permitted when trading
j n shares was prohibited, and that the
Government wasn’t going to interfere
wd h savings-bank deposits. It was a
news i tem on which the A.B.C. worked
overtime.
$ * * «
~. , .
The possibility of closing down Aus-
trahan goldmines on the ground that they
are unnecessary from the economic point
of view in present circumstances has
caused an Empire-wide flutter. London
SU p por t for all gold shares, whether S.
African or Australian, received a setback,
though the f act that much of the native
labor used on the Rand was unsu i ta ble
f(Jr other had the effect of
steadying matters in that direction. With
Lend-Lease in operation, the immediate
demand for foreign exchange in Aus-
tralia has fallen considerably, and some
minds take the view that, since gold is
of little physical use for fighting a war,
goldminers might be given something
better to do. There are arguments for
and against. Much depends on the
amount of useful work the transferred
miners would be able to do in the time
available.


THE SERVICE MAN
The Foe at the North Gate.
“Ek Dum”: Thursday, February 19,
1942, anniversary of the arrival of A.I.F.
men at Singapore, saw the first attack by
an enemy on the Australian continent.
There were two Japanese air raids on
Darwin. The first came at 10.5 a.m. It
was a surprise so complete that only two
minutes’ warning was given.
Darwin lies on a bay which faces a
huge harbor and which is formed by two
peninsulas.
Looking in towards the town from the
harbor the smaller and narrower penin-
sula on the left is like a stubby finger
with the roofs of the Residency splashed
across its base. Then comes the bay, ter-
minating in the cliffs of the longer and
broader peninsula, at the root of which
old Lovers’ Walk begins. To its point
clings the curious wharf which has been
a subject of controversy for a generation
—an official report of 240 printed
foolscap pages was written about it
once, and it has been sentenced to death
more times than any wharf in history. It
is shaped like a large set square.
Behind, between the wharf and the
Residency, on land as flat as a billiard-
table, lies the town. Much of it is built
of stone ; much on the Chinatown side
of galvanised iron. From the outer har-
bor one sees in the foreground a highly-
placed parade centring on the long, low,
old - time administrative building in
which, of yore, nearly the whole civil
service slept in easy comfort.
Beyond this structure, it is possible to
look down the length of three streets,
wide and completely flat, which stretch
towards the Timor Sea. The one on the
right shows a close cluster of galvanised
iron—Chinatown. In the other two the
buildings are more sparse, though latterly
many of the gaps have been filled in.
Plenty of trees are spaced between the
white roofs.
Not far away is the spot on the outer
shore where the first aeroplane ever to
fly into Australia from the outside world
—Ross and Keith Smith’s in November,
1919—set a period to the days when
Darwin was the end of the earth and
reoriented the whole of the Common-
wealth’s outlook and communications
defences.
Geographically there was never a town
easier to attack than Darwin. It is isolated
by many miles of bush from any other
town. It has one clearly-marked road
and one railway line making for the
south.
By coming in on the east the invader
has plenty of points for bearing and dis-
tance —a narrow land neck between sea
and harbor, the two peninsulas and the
wharf and the straight streets and the
main buildings widely separated, their
shapes clearly indicated in galvanised
iron blazing white in the sun. The posi-
tions of the aerodromes, the water supply
and the military camps and new admin-
istrative buildings and other defence
features had, of course, been outlined by
southern newspapers.
Photographs taken from the air, show-
ing the positions of some of the most im-
portant military objectives, have been
published both in Australia and abroad,
and the direction and nature of the raid
showed that the enemy had detailed, accu-
rate and up-to-date information. Since
the raids the length of railway torn up
has been “illustrated.” From the details
given in Sydney it would be possible for
the enemy to deduce with fair accuracy
what objectives were hit by every bomb.
The raiders came from the south-east,
where the neck of the main peninsula is
narrowest. Doubtless they struck the
Arnhem coast much further east and went
inland to avoid coastal patrols ; thus they
could approach over wild bush almost
until they struck the railway. They
divided into two sections; one lot went
inland for a time.
The two minutes that separated siren-
calls and bomb-falls would mean eight
miles’ flying for the bombers, which were
large two-engined jobs carrying what
were apparently 5001b. bombs. They
were escorted by naval “O” fighters. The
likelihood is that the bombers came 600
miles from Amboina, but it is by no
means a certainty. The Germans built
two experimental ships from which twin-
engined bombers were launched at sea
three years ago. Some time ago, before
the outbreak of war, S. American sources
reported that these were in the Pacific,
though they had not previously been
heard of for long. It is conceivable that
the new Yawata Maru liners of the
Nippon Yusen Kaisha and the 20,000-ton
whaling mother ships have been con-
verted, though the latter, built to carry
whalekillers, are more likely to be in
service as sampan and armored-barge
carriers.
The time of the first raid, however,
suggested attack from Amboina —a start
after dawn would have made it possible
to reach the mainland at that time.
The bombers came over in waves in
precise squadron formation, and aimed
at definite objectives, including the ship-
ping in the harbor, where a Qantas fly-
ing boat was lying. Darwin Radio imme-
diately gave warning to the south, but
the enemy knew that the post office was
the nerve centre. Though there were
easier marks to hit, the van of the in-
vaders made straight for it after spread-
eagling the town and placing a bomb in
front of the civil hospital. The Resi-
dency, almost next door, was a much
more prominent mark.
To the old-timer there was something
bestial and cowardly about the attack on
that innocent old stone building. Its
walls remember the days when Adminis-
trators went about Darwin in their shirt-
sleeves, when the mail went down to the
goldfields on packhorses.
The lady of We of the Never Never
went there to get her mail with The
Maluka ; the crew of the first motor-car
to cross the continent (1907) made a bee-
line for it; its ticker sent down the O.T.
Line over 2000 miles of wire the news
that the first ’plane had arrived.
All its history was wiped out in a
moment; with it the postmaster, H. C.
Bald and his wife and daughter—all the
Bald family save a 15-year-old boy in
Adelaide. With it also was destroyed
A. T. R. Halls, a familiar figure to
travellers passing by Powell’s Creek, and
an old hand in the devoted O.T. Line
service. In all the bomb destroyed nine
members of the staff, including Mrs. Bald,
who had filled a vacant place on the
switchboard. Four other telephone girls
were dead at their posts.
The blasts roared down Smith-street,
smashing every window. A wild din
arose as the R.A.A.F. and the a.-a. guns
came into action and the ships’ guns
began to fill the air with shrapnel and
machine-gun bullets.
Smoke and dust rose in clouds as the
enemy ripped the length of the town,
wrecking everything in his path and not
forgetting Milly Point Hospital and the
old abo. compound, which also has
become a hospital. A black column ris-
ing from a ship happily hid the grey-
and-green camouflaged flying-boat out
in the harbor. Her crew were ashore.
Captain Crowther, shaving at the time,
“damn’ near cut himself” because the
detonation of the bombs almost made
his hand shake. A passenger who had
learnt from bitter experience what a raid
can do, Captain Koch, of the flying-boat
Corio, which was shot down by raiders
on Jan. 30 at the mouth of the Noelmina
River, and who was carrying home a
broken leg, was also ashore in hospital.
He crawled under a bed. Nurses fol-
lowed.
A bomb hit a wing of the hos-
pital. The captain limped out into the
open. He saw low-flying Japs machine-
gunning shipping. He saw a Wirraway
being chased by a Jap fighter and be-
lieved it was shot down.
After the first raid ended, while
Darwin sought its mangled dead, the
flying-boat was taken to safety by Cap-
tains Hussey and Crowther.
A second raid by 21 Japanese machines
passed over in the afternoon, doing fresh
damage and causing fresh casualties. At
dusk the two captains flew their boat
back to the harbor.
On Saturday afternoon the same
machine, with bullet holes in its tail, flew
seemingly only roof-high over the startled
streets of Sydney’s south-eastern suburbs,
more than 2000 miles away by the near-
est route. It was hard to realise, looking
up at its powerful shape, that 2} days
before it had been the centre of a battle,
and that less than two days before it
had been in an actual war zone.
The War Cabinet heard news of the
bombings in the Commonwealth Bank in
Sydney after it had been through the
test daylight alert in which Sydney had in-
dulged that morning. The Prime Minister
heard it in hospital; he was down with
gastritis. A flood of oracular announce-
ments by Ministers and State Premiers
followed.
All the meat of them could have been
boiled down to three or four short sen-
tences: Darwin had been bombed. Fif-
teen persons had been killed, 24 injured.
Much damage had been done, but it
could not be particularised for fear of
giving information to the enemy which
he needed. Casualties of the three ser-
vices did not exceed eight killed.
The gallant, outnumbered R.A.A.F.
had climbed into the air, mostly in in-
ferior machines. Fighting the first battle
over Australian soil, and, for the most
part, in action for the first time, the lads
gave a good account of themselves, as
did the a.-a. crews. Six enemy ’planes
were known to have been brought down.
Having regard to the conditions, a grand
performance.
Bathurst Island, which has few inhabi-
tants at ordinary times, but which stands
guardian across a strait from Darwin to
the n.-w., was also raided on Thursday,
but not heavily. It was reported to the
Minister for Air that some of the enemy
machines used in this raid bore swastika
markings.
Next day the Prime Minister’s Depart-
ment announced another raid; but it
proved a false alarm. A word had been
dropped out of a telegram notifying an
alert.
One of the worst features of the busi-
ness was the muddle which seemed to
ensue in the compulsory evacuation of
the civil population, which should have
been removed long ago. Since 1937 the
member for the Northern Territory,
A. M, Blain, now in the Far East with
the A.1.F., had importuned Minister
after Minister and made speech after
speech on the theme that Darwin was
the point which needed most protection
for the civil population. His representa-
tions went unheeded. There were no
air-raid shelters in Darwin in the true
sense of the word, as there were none in
Rabaul and are none in some of the
northern towns which certainly will face
what Darwin faced if attack comes from
the east.
The post office, as a main communi-
cation centre which would provide the
only means of keeping in touch with the
south if radio were compelled to go off
the air to avoid guiding the enemy,
should long ago have been placed under-
ground.
Women and children, save nurses and
a few others, had been removed earlier
from the town, but it took a general
bombing before the authorities con-
sidered moving the whole of the civil
population from an area which is almost
wholly military, wholly surrounded by
military and naval areas.
They then began to bundle them
hastily southward on a 2000-odd mile
exodus which will clog the single line
of railway and block the roads, ham-
pering military movement and occupying
military time.
The first two trainloads of women and
children and wounded left Darwin at
6 p.m. on the day of the raids and made
a journey of 40 hours at less than 10
miles an hour before being decanted
from flat cars and open trucks, to be
carted by military convoy over the road
to Alice Springs, another 600 miles
away. This meant another three days’
run through country in which food is
barely enough for local requirements.
There is still a 1000-mile train journey
to the south to be faced.
The road is impassable along the rail-
way south of the Adelaide River, about
76 miles from Darwin. So from Friday
onwards the place was the centre of
a scramble for seats on trains. Many
of those who arrived at the Adelaide
had walked all the way from Darwin.
Many had on Sunday been without food
for hours. They will still be without
food as they move southward at many
stages.
Australian public reaction, except in
some newspaper offices and radio
stations, was calm. In Sydney on Satur-
day flaring posters announced the declara-
tion of martial law in Darwin. The
statement was attributed to Senator
Collings, Minister for the Interior. The
Prime Minister denied it, though he said
some measure of military control had
been established in Darwin:
The enemy is not in Darwin. The fact
is that Darwin has been bombed but not
conquered. London has been bombed and
not conquered. There is not martial law
in either place.
The Japanese Radio claimed that
Darwin had been “wiped out.” Giving a
Sydney paper as “authority,” it alleged
that invasion was feared and that Aus-
tralia was “thrown into the depths of
terror” by the bombing. Its spies should
know better. There is no certainty or
even evidence that invasion of the Com-
monwealth will follow a single bombing
of an outlying base. It is more likely
that the operation was designed pri-
madly to cut off direct succor for Java,
Darwin being a danger channel through
which thousands of troops might be
poured into that country.
Primarily the attack on Darwin was
an incident in the siege plans which are
being applied against the Indies. The
enemy has progressed far in this siege.
He has Singapore. He holds all the
northern and north-eastern passages
through the islands to Java. He has
wrought tremendous damage, wiping out
great sources of oil supply with little
resistance. On the west he commands
the Malacca Strait and the whole of the
native shipping along the Malay and
southern Burmese coasts. He has a strong
foothold on Sumatra and has made two
landings on adjacent Banka. His land
and sea forces are 70 miles from Java
in the west. He needed, on Feb. 19, only
to take Bali and Timor and assume con-
trol of the Timor Sea to complete the
investment of Java. To do this he has
been working methodically.
While incessantly bombing Java itself
to create panic, he has been at work at
both ends and south of the island,
Chronologically, his operations worked
out as follows:
First he bombed the outer ring of
islands and New Guinea stations round
Amboina, and captured those points in
the Celebes likely to be of use in forming
a nucleus of resistance or attack any-
where at the eastern end of the Indies.
Amboina was tackled after the neces-
sary preliminary effects had been achieved
in its surroundings. Apart from Dutch
and some of the best of the native D.E.I.
troops, it was guarded by an Australian
force —R.A.A.F., and A.I.F. under Lieut.-
Colonel W. J. R. Scott, one of whose
gun crews sank a cruiser and a de-
stroyer.
Part of this force was certainly active
on Feb. 10, ten days after the first
Japanese attack, and there were un-
confirmed rumors that some had escaped
in small boats —which seems likely, know-
ing the resource of the A.I.F.
A week ago Japanese naval units, in-
cluding an aircraft-carrier, were supposed
to be south of Java. Darwin had more
than one warning. The bombing of
Koepang on Jan. 31 and the destruction
of the Corio near by pointed the lesson.
The Taking of Palembang.
The Japanese attacked Sumatra almost
contemporaneously with the fall of Singa-
pore. The story is now known in some
detail, though detail is difficult to keep
up with in a war which moves over vast
sea spaces engulfing huge populations at
a rate swifter than was ever before
known in the history of war.
The first parachutists were dropped on
Palembang from 100 ’planes at 9.30 a.m.
on Feb. 15, a Sunday. Their mission
was to make a surprise attack on the oil-
fields and get control of them before the
Dutch could prevent them. They failed.
Their remnants, however, were strong
enough to take up positions in the under-
growth and harass the defenders.
Next a large flotilla of enemy trans-
ports arrived. They were heavily guarded
both by air and by naval units. They
anchored in the estuary of the Moesi
River, a stream much like many a one
in New Guinea and eastern tropical Aus-
tralia, whose mouth is 54 miles by water
from Palembang.
Troops were decanted in swarms like
flies into every kind of small craft. It
was while this was going on that the
Dutch fired the oil installations. The
surface of the Moesi was filled with burn-
ing • petrol and oil as the first boats
appeared. As they paused in the face
of the movable hell which was flowing
towards them the attackers caught the
first blast of the Allied air assault. A
cloud of ’planes dived almost to water-
level. Heads stuck out of the smoking
water like currants in a pudding. But in
the face of the flaming countryside the
boats came on endlessly, nosing into
muddy side channels, permeating all the
approaches.
At the mouth of the river more British,
Dutch and U.S. ’planes attacked the
enemy armada, scoring direct hits on five
transports and two cruisers. But they
again were working against odds, as
were the Australian, British, Dutch and
native soldiery ashore. Resistance was
only a matter of hours. Monday’s com-
munique from Batavia announced the fall
of Palembang, and it subsequently be-
came certain that virtually the whole of
Sumatra was either seriously menaced
or under some control from the air.
U.S. officials throughout the island were
told to get out as best they could. The
great air base at Medan was in an un-
tenable position.
Bali Is Attacked
The next operations came in a bunch
at the opposite eastern end of Java,


nearest the offensive group of bases which
Japan had developed in Borneo, the
Celebes, Moluccas and Amboina.
The breadth of the invasions and con-
quests in this region are worthy of notice.
Not only were the investments new
stepping-stones for fresh attacks; but
they formed a line of protection against
U.S. assault from the north or east if
the fleet should come into action, and a
point from which approach from the
Torres Strait could be patrolled and
quietening smacks delivered at Darwin
and forces moving from Australia in any
direction through the Timor Sea.
The first of the new attacks was a
withering one on the islands east of
Java —Bali, Lombok; Sumba (to the
south); also on Buma and Flores on
the day Palembang fell, nearly 1000 miles
to the west.
Then followed a raid on Koepang, then
the two on Darwin, then several more
on Javanese towns, including the inland
capital of Bandoeng, which in position
and appearance is from a distance not
unlike Canberra in a green season.
Next came the arrival off Bali of an
invasion fleet very like that which had
been used in the Moesi and in a dozen
other places—same troopships, same
cruisers, same sampans and steel barges
and overwhelming umbrella of ’planes.
The one new feature was all to the dis-
advantage of the defenders —the weather.
Nevertheless there is a gallant air and
sea defence. Up to Feb. 23 there had
been sunk eight transports, a cruiser and
two destroyers, besides over 30 other
vessels damaged.
Wet Season Troubles
It is the monsoonal wet season in the
Java seas. Reconnaissance against sea
attack is wellnigh impossible. The
heavens seem to come down in a swirling
muddy-colored fleece of ragged grey
until they touch the treetops. The Indies
are wet enough at ordinary times, even
to the hilltops, whither the terraced rice-
fields carry the swamp. But in the
rains the atmosphere is a solid roaring
stream under which every palm branch
bows its tip straight to earth and man and
beast bow their soaked heads.
Bali and Lombok, facing Macassar
Strait, are only 3973 square miles between
them, but they carry a population of
over 2,000,000, mostly living in primi-
tive, inflammable huts and houses.
Attack on Timor
At the western end of Bali, Java can
be seen across a strait only a mile wide.
This being closed, so are the most direct
approaches to Sourabaya, the Allied
headquarters, from Australia. And the
seal is being placed on the door of the
route by the invasion of Timor, which
lies athwart the sea-track to Darwin from
the Indies. There are Australian soldiers
in Timor. The enemy asserts that they
“tried to restrain the advance and were
repulsed.” At the time of writing no
. news of what happened to them had been
received in Australia.
The Japanese High Command at-
tempted to justify the landing on Timor
on the ground of defensive necessity. The
Portuguese Premier, Senhor Salazar, repu-
diated the plea and reiterated his assur-
ance of the good relations which exist
with his country’s oldest ally, Britain, and
Australia and the D.E.I.
The Threat to Java
It has to be acknowledged that Java
and the Allied headquarters there are
in danger of being cut off. Not only the
northern but the southern ports of the
island are being bombed. The Japanese
claim to have heavily bombed Buitzen-
zorg, directly across the island from
Batavia at its eastern extremity and again
Bandoeng to the east of it.
The Dutch report that the enemy lost
three ’planes in these raids, and that
several more were damaged so severely
that it was improbable that they were
able to return to their base.
At the other end, within sight of Bali,
Banjoewangi, the nearest Javan port to
Australia, was bombed on Jan. 20 and
39 civilians were killed and 15 injured,
mostly in an air-raid shelter which re-
ceived a direct hit.
The air defence of Sourabaya and
Batavia seems to be stronger than it has
shown itself anywhere in the Far Eastern
war, except in Rangoon, but there is no
baulking the fact that the Javan situa-
tion is dangerous.
With the subjugation of Java the neces-
sary condition precedent would be created
for Japanese naval and air incursions
into the Indian Ocean. From Japanese
ports —Sourabaya, for instance —Fre-
mantle (1620 miles) would be well within
the normal 2500-mile operating range of
the Japanese heavy battle fleet. So would
Ceylon and the whole of the Indian
coasts.
But the most vital prize to the Axis is
India, Malaya counts, with its rubber
and tin. So do the Indies; so does
Singapore. Burma is important, but only
as a means of opening the door to China
and bolting the door to India,
India, with its 400,000,000 people, its
great rivers which run the width of its
north, its transverse railway routes and
its ports on the west, is the key to Axis
victory.
Given control of Bombay, Colombo,
Trincomalee, the Japanese battle fleet
could dominate the British trade routes
to the Middle East; Japanese bombers
could pour into Iran and open the door
for an attack on Russia from the rear,
while German legions forced their way
through Turkey to the Suez Canal and
the Anglo-Iranian oilfields.
At this stage, however, Japanese plans
need only be discussed as strategic possi-
bilities which must be avoided.
Wavell
While much has been heard of every-
body else, nothing has been heard of late
of General Wavell, whose actions are the
key to everything. He took over his
command without delusions or compla-
cency, knowing that “though he had been
handed many babies in his time this
problem appeared to be quadruplets.”
It was pointed out on this page when
he was appointed that his strongest chance
lay in having time to establish one con-
centrated position which would call for
the application of all the Japanese weight
to break it.
Wavell is no parlor general. He is one
of the world’s greatest strategists. And
if he can hold for a time in Java and
turn Burma into his own battleground,
or turn both into enduring battlegrounds
which can be held while forces are piled
up on a grand scale in Burma for trans-
fer to China, defeatists may soon be
singing a different tune to the mournful
accompaniment of Tokyo Radio.
The Line Holds in Burma
There must be a steady, unmolested
stream of Japanese transports pouring
down the coasts of China. The latest
reported convoy is supposed to be mov-
ing up the Burmese coast towards Ran-
goon to attack the southern flank of the
British troops holding the line 15 miles
from the Rangoon-Lashio railway, be-
tween the Bilin and Sittang rivers, 60-
odd miles from Rangoon. There are
literally dozens of creeks along the
Irrawaddy Estuary into which invaders
could sneak; and, even with the
British forces greatly reinforced in Ran-
goon and the R.A.F. and U.S. airmen
at the top of their form and continu-
ously harassing enemy positions, this
sea approach is dangerous.
Possession of the Salween gives the
enemy a great advantage. It provides
him with a valuable waterway for com-
munication.
The defence line of the Bilin is stand-
ing up stoutly, but Japanese aircraft have
succeeded in making their way up the
Irrawaddy to Mandalay, the temporary
capital, where a mild raid was reported
at the week-end —one building damaged,
six persons killed.
Japanese claims to have taken Pegu
and cut the Burma Road are flatly denied
and negatived by subsequent enemy
claims to have bombed the town.
Large enemy parachute forces were
said to be assembled a few days ago at
Chieng Mai, the railhead in upper Thai-
land, 300 miles from Mandalay, where
the rail branches to the railhead of the
Burma Road, but Rangoon’s eagles made
a bad mess of them. There were, how-
ever, further enemy expeditions muster-
ing at other points.
In Singapore.
“Ek Dum”: Little trustworthy news has
come out of Singapore since the Japanese
occupied it. It has transpired that a few
R.A.A.F. men got away at the last
minute, as well as nurses of the 10th
Australian General Hospital, who
travelled in a small Chinese steamer con-
verted into a Red Cross ship. She sailed
on Feb. 11, the day the docks were com-
pletely smashed by bombers. With the
nurses were 150 wounded A.I.F. men
and 200 of the R.A.A.F. and British and
Indian forces. Many of the poor chaps
were severely wounded, and three died
on the voyage to Batavia.
The day after they left Keppel Harbor
a Japanese bomber flew low, but, respect-
ing the Red Cross this was not
done in Darwin it signalled the ship
to proceed. Later they were given pas-
sage by other Japanese machines.
Reporting on Singapore, the Japanese
claim a varying number of prisoners and
a varying amount of loot every day. The
last claim was 65,000 men, of whom 8000
were said to be wounded. A large
number of them, including General
Gordon Bennett, Major-General O. A.
Callaghan (A.I.F. artillery) and 26 other
high officers, were declared to be
immured at Changi, the air base on
the north-eastern tip of the island. The
prisoners went in with high heads behind
the pipes of the Argylls.
Mr. Forde made a statement at Can-
berra when Parliament met. He said
that General Percival’s instructions were
to hold the island at all costs, and it was
understood that the A.I.F. had fought
to the last minute. Nobody doubts that
it did.
The Minister revealed that there were
18,230 members of the A.I.F. in
Malaya on Jan. 31. He could give no
information about their fate, but expressed
the “fear that most of them had not left
Singapore.” The Air Minister could do
no better regarding the R.A.A.F. beyond
saying that nothing had been heard of
the Singapore personnel for several days
before the capitulation. There were re-
ports of machines being flown to safer
bases, but it was not known if the A.I.F.
was involved.
Heroes Who Flew Wirra-
ways.
“Aileron”: Several hundred refugees
have now arrived from New Guinea,
Many of them made journeys over hun-
dreds of miles of dangerous seas.
All agree on the heroism of the
R.A.A.F. pilots, few in number and ill
equipped, who never before had seen a
shot fired.
Roy Howard, one of the Government’s
schooner masters, said he had seen every
raid on Rabaul before the invasion. He
saw many acts of heroism. He saw a
Norwegian machine-gunner on a ship
continue firing until there were flames
all around him.
He saw an a.-a. man, with only ring
sights, blow the wings off an attacker.
And he saw six young Australians go
up in Wirraways to meet 110 Japanese
bombers, dive-bombers and flying boats
escorted by 26 fighters.
Most New Guinea men and women
-—they included Mrs. Boles, a widow
from Westralia, who has lost a substan-
tial sawmill plant which she had been
managing on the south coast of New
Britain since the death of her husband
some years ago—are stone cold with fury
at the defence conditions in New Guinea
and the tales of peahen reporters. The
Rabaul soldiers have disappeared into the
dank greenery of New Britain without
the Commonwealth military authorities
having any word or trace of them, or
apparently any means of succoring them
and the civilians who volunteered to share
their fate.
One R.A.A.F. pilot who was shot down
near the coast escaped. His bomber was
attacked by 12 Japanese machines and
all the rest of the crew apparently were
killed. He parachuted to the treetops,
dodged the enemy and, picking up an
isolated settler, made his way across the
sea to safety.
Spring Approaches in U.S.S.R.
“Ek Dum”: In the continued absence
of any independent reports about the
Russian front it is impossible to form
any idea of what is happening there save
by reference to indisputable facts of
geography.
On February 18 the Stockholm corre-
spondent of the “Times” sent a dispatch
which was quoted as follows by “S. M.
Herald”:
In process of relieving Leningrad the
Russians have hewed through the deeply
and densely strengthened zone. The Rus-
sians now appear to have adequate men
and material unceasingly to strike blow
after blow Authorised spokesmen in
Berlin reveal anxiety about the effect of
these tireless Russian blows, which, appear
to be wearing down German resist-
ance, notwithstanding reinforcements from
Estonia. The Russians are unrelentingly
deepening the dent in the besiegers’ zone,
and are obtaining inexhaustible supplies
along the Leningrad-Rybinsk and Moscow-
Leningrad railways.
The Russians already have penetrated
deeply and appear confident that this time
they "will relieve Leningrad.
Not to be outdone by its ancient rival,
Sydney “D.T.” quoted the Stockholm
correspondent of the “Times” as writing
that “it is impossible to judge the real
value of recent unofficial reports of im-
portant Russian progress,” pending
“official statements”:
There has been a lot of loose talk of
operations in White Russia and in the
approaches to the old Russo-Polish frontier.
These reports may give a false impression
of sweeping large-scale operations, which,
in reality, are obviously impossible while
winter restricts mobility. Apart from exten-
sive patrol work and infiltration, accom-
panied by guerrilla activities which have re-
sulted in the recapture of hundreds of Nazi
villages, the fact must be recognised that
the general outline of the fighting zone is
the same today as at the end of January.
Viazma, Rshev and half a dozen other
towns which the Russians had practically
within range in January are still apparently
in German hands.
The correspondent declared that another
month of winter could be expected along
the whole front, and in that time the
Russians might accomplish much, but,
even if nothing more was achieved, they
had obtained valuable information about
the strength, disposition and morale of
the German forces.
The same day it was reported that
Berlin Radio had admitted that the
original German front had been driven
back 180 miles by the Russians. A few
hours afterwards it was announced that
a Berlin official spokesman claimed that
the towns of Chudovo, Bologoe and
Vishni Volochek, 150 miles apart on the
Moscow-Leningrad railway, had been cap-
tured simultaneously, which, if true, meant
that strong columns of Germans must be
almost at their furthest point of penetra-
tion —achieved last November —and one
of them only 70 miles from Kalinin itself,
and nearly in the same longitude. Vishni
Volochek is 220 miles east of the point
which the Russian drive was supposed to
have reached near the Latvian border.
The main king-posts of the Germans’
line on Nov. 25 last, when their main
advance ended, were Schlusselburg,
Tikhvin, Chudovo, Kalinin, Mojaisk,
Kaluga, Orel, Bryansk, Kursk, Byelograd,
Kharkov, Stalino and Rostov —the last
they had captured a few days before.
Their main king-posts at the end of
last week were the same. They had lost
Rostov, Kalinin, Mojaisk and Kaluga.
On the central front, since the Rus-
sians have not announced the capture of
Borodino, it seems clear that the Germans
have retreated along the main Moscow
road only 20 miles or so, and are still
within 85 miles of Moscow there. Fight-
ing at Borodino was mentioned last week.
A few days previously the Germans
claimed to have re-entered West Mojaisk.
In the extreme south they hold a line
between Taganrog and Rostov —despite
the daily newspaper maps, all of which
differ and some of which might have
been compiled by Hans Andersen in an
optimistic mood.
There is no doubt that there is an
awakening along the front, and there are
signs of an early spring. All are agreed
on one fact —that the almost universal
agreement which prevailed last month
that the Germans were being driven to
destruction after having been lured into
a vast winter trap was miscalculation.
A gigantic German offensive will have
to be faced in the spring.
The position on the Libyan front is
tentative, each side feeling for advan-
tage, but the cunning Rommel is appar-
ently in possession of Mekili and doing
his best to lure the British into fighting
on his own chosen ground. Up to the
week-end, he had achieved nothing but
some sore fingers, due to heavy raps in-
flicted by the Royal Dragoons and other
crack cavalry regiments. The R.A.F.
and the R.N. have been active through-
out the week in the Mediterranean.
* * * *
At last, another paper which says it
was dead wrong to put Russia First:
Russia’s need was great, but the need in
Malaya was infinitely greater, and the same
applies to Sumatra and Java. The number
of ’planes sent to Russia in one single
month might have changed the whole
Malayan position.
The other paper is the London “Spec-
tator.” And it would be perfectly safe
to wager that not a single ’plane which
reached Russia in those fatal months of
December and January was in action
against the enemy.
* * * ♦
Having apparently decided that they
had got away with their allegation that a
Russian naval attache at Tokyo called
with congratulations after the sinking of
Prince of Wales and Repulse, the
Japanese asserted, through “Nichi Nichi,”
that “representatives of the U.S.S.R.” had
“congratulated” them on “the fall of
Singapore.” The Tass agency denies the
impeachment, and “warmly condemns
any suggestion that Russia would take
any such course or congratulate Japan
on any of its acts in the Far East.” That
is better.
* * * #
U-boats are doing dirty work off Uncle
Sam’s Atlantic coast, and have delivered
two attacks on Aruba, a small island in.
the Caribbean inhabited by U.S. oil
men and their families, who refine and
tank Venezuelan oil. Seven tankers were
torpedoed and hit within a few days
between Aruba and the Venezuelan coast,
and the island was attacked with shell
and machine-gun fire —the first time at
1.30 a.m. in the morning. Small tankers
in the harbor were hit, and many mem-
bers of the crews burned to death.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Long will Melbourne women look back
on the third week in February as that of
“The Great Dig.” In small home allot-
ments, in parks and squares, the trenches
are going deeper and deeper. And it did
not begin there. For weeks before they
started off in Faulkner Park on Saturday
Mrs. V. M. Fairley and Mrs. G. S. Elliott
and their helpers, whose homes are key
posts on the trench-digging army’s line
of march, have been eating chops to get
enough fat to refine and hand round to
the diggers whose hands are suffering
under the strain of unusual exercise
with pick and shovel. Mrs. G. S. Elliott,
widow of Major George Elliott, who died
in the 1914-18 war, and Mrs. Fairley
had the cauldrons ready on the roofs of
the flats, so that at each gong which
marks the quarter-hour the diggers
marched up in relays for tea. The trench-
digging after its inauguration last Satur-
day will go on for week-ends till there
is a square right round Faulkner Park.
One of the most enthusiastic diggers is
Vice-Consul Jandrey, the popular Ameri-
can.
The Garden Army, recruited by Miss
Hindle of the Y.W.C.A., has also got its
picks into the soil. Beginning with 10
acres at Balwyn, given for the purpose
of vegetable raising by R. A. Smith, and
another plot from Mrs. Essington Lewis,
and bits and pieces in hospitals and con-
valescent homes, this army considers it
has a good start-off. Mr. Smith is also
lending a horse and plough, and will give
counsel to the garden party on his land.
All veges. in season will be coaxed to
grow, and girls who used to be auxiliaries
for sewing have now put an “o” into
their spelling of this word, and will water
and tend the young veges. day by day.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Beaurepaire,
has put in some pretty work so as to
look like an expert when she turns the
first official sod. A less official army of
gardeners, but one which promises to be
equally expert, is getting under way with
the enthusiastic assistance of Mary
Bostock. She has planted her own seeds,
for a prerequisite of her plan is seedlings
for the army before the land is taken
over.
Everybody’s doing it now, in the words
of the old song. Munitions, textiles and
aircraft claim the girls who used to get
up just in time to have their hair set for
afternoon bridge. It’s not so hot to be
getting up at five-thirty to catch the six
o’clock train, nor is it after the first night
or so, when it’s fun to see the sun rise, so
jolly to be on night-shift. But they can
take it. The lady who is Mabel Brookes
to her friends is at Maribyrnong, and
Elaine, her second daughter, who returned
from England last year, has a job on
St. Kilda-road of a clerical nature. Mrs.
Adrian Quist is with her. Lots of the
country girls are at work on transport,
among them Lome Hood, who knows
all about sheep-farming, and her friend
Alison Fitchett. Dorothy Fraser is a
W.A.A.A.F., and so it goes.
All members of the Greek community
in Melbourne are looking forward to the
opening of the 16-bed ward which has
been given to Royal Melbourne Hospital
through the efforts of Greeks resident
here. When first the money was gathered
in, through a ball at which every 12s. 6d.
ticket was bought up within a few days
of printing, the hope was to send some
of it to Greek war funds. But, practical
and gallant as their fighting men, the
Greeks here determined that if they
could not send the money abroad it must
still do good service, and promptly gave
it all to Royal Melbourne. S. G.
Raftopoulos, president of the ball com-
mittee, personally handed over the
money. Several special sums were given
for individual beds.
The stately homes of Toorak are, one
after the other, losing their pre-war
owners and acquiring uniformed inhabi-
tants. Mrs. Sidney Myer made a set of
three in a row when she gave up Clen-
don, for her home is flanked by Orrong
on the one hand and Woorigoleen on the
other, both given over to the services.
Mrs. Myer has been much alone since
daughter Neilma married and went to
California, for son Kenneth is in the
Navy and Baillieu, her second boy, is still
at school, and Marigold is also in the
school stage. At the other end of the
town some of the university colleges are
doing their bit by dividing themselves into
two parts, one for students and one for
men or women of the services. Trinity,
Newman and Queen’s already have their
quota of the fighting forces in residence.
Munition workers’ hostels, too, are being
acquired at a rapid rate, one of the most
interesting, still under consideration by
the department, being the onetime home
of Papal Count O’Loughlin. It is in the
loveliest part of Kew, on the Studley
Park rise, and belonged to the family of
Dr. Edward Ryan, who owned some won-
derful antiques.
Down from her country home near
Kyneton for the executive meetings of
the women’s section of the United Coun-
try party, Mrs. P. McNiff has just had a
busy week. The country women are put-
ting their strength into planning for
evacuee children, and are ready against
possible events. Mrs. McNiff, who was
formerly a teacher, has a clear mind,
and some of her ideas on revival of
country life and keeping the young folk
down on the farm and liking it deserve
publication. There are signs that the
Women’s Land Army, if it is ever
organised, will give country girls an idea
of their own value, which they tend to
underestimate now. If a land girl is
worth £2 a week and keep after a few
weeks’ training, how much of an allow-
ance should the girl who has been
brought up on the land and can milk and
plough and tend the poultry get? There s
the crux of the country-life problem
according to Mrs. McNiff.
When Broothorn caught the subject of
this picture, Jane Merrie Urquhart, she
was in a serious mood. But to her friends
in the Western District and in Mel-
bourne, her second name is almost the
girl herself, and her smile is as cheering
as the bird’s song in spring. Daughter
of the Keith Urquharts, of Boorunah,
Hexham, Merrie has been brought up in
the middle of the polo-playing set, and
has helped her mother dispense hospi-
tality on many a hard-fought polo field.
Her father has captained a team, and is
one of the best players in Victoria, or
was, since, for the duration, polo is
abandoned. At the moment Merrie is
receiving congrats, on her engagement to
J. R. Peardon, now of the Air Force,
and also a well-known Western District
identity. As Merrie was first bridesmaid
to her friend Betty Laidlaw, formerly
Hedderwick, only a few days ago, she
should have all the rules of. the wedding
day at her fingertips, and won’t need
any special coaching when her own
comes round.
Small boys in a “jam” have stalwart
defenders in Melbourne’s probation
officers who work with the children’s
courts. To the onlooker at last week’s
probation officers’ conference there was
something exhilarating in the quite fiery
defence of the good in all the young each
speaker put up. It was clear that the
heavy arm of the Law must get a jolt
sometimes, when it meets the strong left
of the probation officer defending its
young. Anna Brennan, who as a member
of St. Joan’s Alliance sometimes finds
herself taking sides against Anna Brennan,
LL.B., gave one judgment which did
justice to her ancestral Ireland. Speaking
of the present custom of charging all
children who are to be brought under the
Welfare Department as “neglected,” she
said that it was as logical to charge these
little ones with being neglected as to
charge a corpse with being murdered.
An instance cited was that of a baby of
two whose mother had put it in the care
of the Children’s Welfare Department
while she went into hospital for the birth
of a second child, and the small person
had to be charged before the Court as
“neglected.”
That the W.A.A.A.Fs. are about to
acquire a literary flavor it is too early to
say, but leader Claire Stevenson, who
knows her new recruit, Helen Palmer,
may have the idea of a few W.A.A.A.F.
choruses and chanties in her mind, since
the women’s services are all said to be
song-conscious. Helen is the younger
daughter of Vance and Nettie, both
known as writers. She has been a school-
teacher. Elder sister Eileen remains m
London for the duration. Helen Palmer
was one of the brightest of the Mel-
bourne University’s English School
students, and she also used her first-hand
knowledge of foreign languages to good
effect. She entered the W.A.A.A.Fs. last
week.
From Sydney
Our visitors from Malaya may be in-
voluntary, but those gathered at Govern-
ment House last week kept the flag flying,
smiled gaily and wore their hats at an
angle provocative, if not defiant. The
Governor and Lady Wakehurst had in-
cluded the children from the Near North
in their invitation, and on the lawns near
the house they played happily enough,
cared for by kindergarten teachers. A
cool breeze from the harbor blew across
the gardens and the terrace, and here
most of the party mingled.
The afternoon party was one of a
series. Three more are being arranged
at Government House. The guests will
be arrivals from Malaya, and the idea,
besides extending the hand of welcome
to them, is to enable these visitors to
meet one another, to renew old friend-
ships and, maybe, make new ones.
The story of most of the guests is piti-
fully the same: a day’s or perhaps only
an hour’s notice; a quick gathering to-
gether of children and a few essentials
and then a voyage in a ship carrying
more than twice its quota of passen-
gers, Mrs. Riches and Mrs. Walker, two
young wives whose husbands had been
in the same firm in Singapore, met for the
first time since their arrival in Sydney.
Both husbands, soldiers now, are still up
north. The ladies were recalling friends ;
and there was talk of a bright girl who
escaped in beach pyjamas carrying one
bundle and her precious make-up box.
Mrs. Elink Schuurman, wife of the
Consul-General for the Netherlands,
brought a group of Dutch mothers and
their children. Three of the youngsters
had lived all their former life in Sumba,
an island near Timor. An attractive guest
was Mrs. Coote, who is here from
Rabaul. Now she awaits news of her
husband. Mrs. John Davidson, too, is
another of the anxious. Her home was
in Japan; from there her husband went
to Singapore.
Gwen Plumb is to be the “Lady in
Danger” of a new comedy thriller by
Max Afford. Max writes many plays
for the radio, and “Lady in Danger” is
said to be one of his cleverest and most
entertaining. The first performance will
be on Saturday, February 28. The play
will start at a quarter-past eight, and will
be presented on the two following Satur-
day evenings also. Doris Fitton, director
of the Independent Theatre at North
Sydney, where the play is being presented,
will see to the production. Gwen is
the latest addition to 2UE’s children’s
session. She is to be heard every Tues-
day and Friday between ten minutes past
and half-past five.
Though Anne Gordon was married last
week in war-time England, a shoal of
good wishes reached her from Australia.
Anne, pretty, clever, and with enough
of her mother’s charm to make her one
of Sydney’s most popular girls, became
Mrs. Roger Kynaston Lloyd in the Savoy
Chapel. Her husband is a lieutenant,
R.N.V.R., and he lost his right arm in
a scrap with a German convoy off the
French coast. There was a reception at
the Savoy Hotel. Anne has proved that
her courage is equal to her other quali-
ties. Ever since war broke she has been
up to her eyes in war work in England.
If Jimmy Bancks hadn’t been a car-
toonist he could easily have made caviare
and champagne as a showman. He was
in his element at the “Rise Above It”
dinner-dance at Prince’s last week. It
may be said of the R.A.A.F. Central
Area Comforts Fund that “it needed the
money,” and the boodle flowed in. Not
only was the dance well attended, but
there were “blind-date” dances, at a price.
A man might buy a ticket to partner
Miss Tail Spin, Miss Pancake Landing,
Miss Tiger Moth, but not till after the
tickets had been bought did he know
whom he would lead (or misdirect) in
the dance.
Edwin Styles and Jimmy also ran a
floor show. One of the “taxi dancers” was
Mrs. Bill Kendall, then Betty Maxwell.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly was president of the
committee, and among her guests were
Donald Cameron, of R.A.A.F. recruit-
ing drive renown, and U.S.A. Consul-
General Ely Palmer and his wife. Before
the cash register began to pop at night
with the ticket-money, Mrs. Marcel
Dekyvere had collected five cheques, in
all totalling about £37. The Ernest Watts
were among those who entertained. A
pretty “taxi dancer” was Eve Playfair.
Marcus Rex, who was British resident
in Perak, Malaya, till the Jap cyclone
struck it, was there with Mrs. Rex, who
was bora a Sheldon.
Betty Maxwell, pretty eldest daughter
of the Justice Maxwell couple, of Dar-
ling Point, was indeed a lass with a deli-
cate air when she kept her matrimonial
date with Bill Kendall. The wedding
was in St. Mark’s, the bride’s raiment
was all light and grace, and there was
great cheerfulness at the wedding recep-
tion at the Royal Sydney Golf Club.
’Groom’s parents are the E. J. Kendalls,
of Woollahra. Bill is a “champ.”
swimmer, and has represented Australia
at the Olympic Games. Bride’s sister
Margaret was her only attendant. Brother
Captain Victor Maxwell was an usher.
John Goodwin was best man.
Helen, one of the two daughters of
China’s Minister to Australia, Dr. Hsu
Mo, is studying music at the Conserva-
torium, and later on her sister Mary Sue
will join her in Sydney to study at the
Uni.
The sap will be running free in
Canada’s maples when Peter Heydon, of
Epping, marries his Naomi Slater, of
Ottawa. Wedding is dated for March 7
in Ottawa. Peter is a secretary at the
Australian Legation in Washington, and
went with R. G. Casey to U.S.A. He
was at one time attached to the Depart-
ment of External Affairs at Canberra.
Naomi is a member of the Legation staff,
and is a graduate of Toronto University.
The young man is a graduate in law of
Sydney University.
Soon there will be an art reference
library at the National Gallery. This is
one of the results of the American visit
of Will Ashton, the Gallery Director.
When he escorted the loan exhibition of
Australian paintings to the U.S.A. he
was impressed by the reference libraries
which were a vital part of each of the
galleries. At present the Sydney seeker
after knowledge about the masters of
brush and palette must look for it in
the Public Library. Another new idea is
to keep the pictures changing. Loan ex-
hibitions will be invited; so will ex-
hibitions by notable Australians. The
first two requested to give a display under
the new scheme are W. Dobell and Mar-
garet Preston.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite went to
rent a cottage in a North Shore line
suburb for some friends the other day.
She was told that there were several in-
quiries for that particular place ; that she
might look at it, decide she liked it and
even be willing to pay a deposit, but that
did not mean she would get it. The agent
would submit all the credentials of the
various competitors in the cottage com-
petition, and the owner would decide
which applicant he considered the most
suitable. A dossier she was asked to
answer included such questions as:
Name and present address, how long resi-
dent at present address, what was the
name of the landlord, where did he live,
telephone number of both applicant and
landlord, what rent was applicant paying
for present habitat, what was the appli-
cant’s occupation and where employed.
When the questioning was concluded
the Girl in the Flat Opposite commenced
briskly to ask a few questions on her own
account. She asked: “Is this man who
may be my landlord respectable? Is he
a man of his word? Are his finances
such that I can depend on him to keep
the premises in proper order?” But
these questions were not answered. She
was given to understand that they were
almost unholy. Isn’t it time that intend-
ing tenants should expect a few references
from the man who takes the rent?
Dr. Miles Sterling-Levis, just back from
England, married his Meryl Featherstone
in St. Philip’s, on Church Hill, last Mon-
day. Both bride’s and ’groom’s fathers
are doctors. Mrs. Sterling-Levis is a
writer of plays and verse. Reception was
at the Forum Club,


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Burrabil, seven years old and probably
the most improved sprinter racing in Aus-
tralia, recorded the best win of his career
when he defeated Zonda, Tea Cake and
Gold Salute in a blanket finish for the
Caulfield Futurity Stakes, run at Flem-
ington on Saturday. The four horses
crossed the line with only half-heads be-
tween them, with High Caste, 5-to-4
favorite, a disappointing fifth.
O. Phillips, rider of Burrabil, did not
think his mount would run even a place
when he was behind Gold Salute, Tran-
quil Star, Beaulivre, Zonda and Tea Cake
on the turn, but Burrabil unwound a re-
markable finish and emphasised the good
judgment of his owner, J. M. Slattery, in
paying £3O to make him a final entrant
for the race. It cost another £2O to start,
but first prize was worth £2300, includ-
ing £lOO to the nominator of the winner.
Racegoers have been inclined to under-
rate Burrabil, but they will not overlook
him in the Newmarket next Saturday.
Zonda’s performance was an improve-
ment on her effort in the Oakleigh Plate,
and she may be returning to her good
form of last autumn. Whether she can
improve on her third in last year’s New-
market is another matter. Tea Cake, an-
other late entrant for the Futurity, showed
that he had taken no harm from his race
in the Oakleigh Plate, but further im-
provement will be necessary for him to
win the Newmarket, in which he will
meet Burrabil 61b. worse. It may be said
for Tea Cake, however, that he is a
lightly-framed gelding and might appre-
ciate the drop in weight more than Burra-
rabil, who is at home under welter
handicaps.
High Caste ran his worst race for some
time. He showed no real dash at any
stage, and will need to begin much faster
to win the Newmarket, in which his
weight drops only 41b. Gold Salute, on
the other hand, ran his best race this
autumn, and, after looking a winner a
furlong and a half from home, missed a
place only in the last stride.
Primavera enhanced her Australian
Cup chance by winning the first Wood-
cliff division after a desperate finish with
Heart’s Desire, and her connections are
confident she will extend Skipton in the
V.R.C. St. Leger next Saturday. The
Oaks winner is one of the gamest fillies
seen for years, and will contest the Leger
on a public preparation of four races, as
against Skipton’s one. Skipton resumed
in the Futurity Stakes on Saturday, but
the distance was too short, and he fin-
ished last. Some critics doubt whether
he will be seasoned enough to beat Prima-
vera either in the Leger or Cup, but
trainer Jack Fryer knows his business
best, and he is not worried in that respect.
As the trainer of two Melbourne Cup
winners. Fryer has nothing to learn
about the preparation of stayers. Badger,
who rode Primavera on Saturday, has
been engaged for her in the bigger races
ahead.
Velocity, although only fifth to Prima-
vera, was not disgraced. He did not
have the best of luck in running. Prairie-
dale, ancient, but one of the most con-
sistent horses in training, gave book-
makers a good result by defeating Darra-
weit and Rex Buzz in the second Wood-
cliff Handicap. He carried 41b. more
than his original Australian Cup weight
of 8.1, but his time for the mile and a
quarter was a second and a quarter
slower than that recorded by Primavera.
England’s Glory would have done better
than a close fourth had he not lost
several lengths at the start and run un-
kindly in the straight.
Stewards probed Great Britain’s appar-
ent reversal of form after he had de-
feated Burberry and Grain Trader in the
Alma Stakes. The colt had finished a
long way back in the Federal Stakes a
week earlier when starting at 15 to 1,
but on Saturday, with Badger substituting
for the stable apprentice, Crilley, he was
backed from eights down to fives. Always
near the lead, he outstayed Burberry,
who started favorite. Evidence disclosed
that the stable commission for Great
Britain was approximately the same in
both races, and explanations were ac-
cepted. H. Freedman, trainer of Great
Britain, has hopes that the colt will
develop Derby form next spring, but his
next big hurdle will be the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes next Saturday. He is to run
in that race, but further improvement
may be necessary for him to defeat River-
ton, Chatfield and Hesione.
A plunge which forced his price from
eights down to 11 to 4 preceded All Veil’s
defeat of Fur Trader and Reception in
the Hawksburn Handicap. His form was
' a decided improvement on his effort a
week earlier in the Oakleigh Plate, in
which he finished fourteenth without ever
being a danger, and a section of the
crowd voiced its disapproval. All Veil
has always run his best races up the
straight six. Reception was unlucky in
having to be checked several times in the
last furlong, but All Veil should beat that
gelding and Fur Trader again next Satur-
day.
* ♦ 3ft £
Moorefield did not suffer as a result
of trotting opposition on Saturday. The
attendance was large and betting brisk.
As a 20-to-l chance won the first race,
and the winner of the last went out at
25 to 1, close of proceedings found most
of the books in happy mood.
Arahura made a game effort to win
the St. George Handicap practically all
the way, but, though when she gained an
advantage entering the straight she looked
like pulling through, she had been set too
severe a task, and My Friend was too
solid for her over the final half-furlong.
John Halifax was third after being
prominent throughout. Abspear, who
made a fast move into third place at the
turn, failed to run on, and Stylish did
no better than in her race earlier in the
day. Prince did not improve upon his
recent effort at Randwick, and while the
Moorefield mile was too far for Beau-
caire it was too short for Pantler.
Mortine led from the start until within
a few strides of the winning-post in the
Moorefield Handicap, and then was de-
feated by Beau Frere, who continues to
improve with hard racing. Jymjon was
third without ever looking more than a
minor-place getter. Widden headed the
remainder, none of whom had a look-in
at any part. The race should benefit
Mortine to the extent of enabling her
to win when she next runs at a suburban
track.
Stylish, favorite for the Three- and
Four-year-old Handicap, never flattered
her backers. After Gauntlet had shown
the way into the straight, and Pannett
had looked a winner half a furlong from
home, she was outstayed by Artistic, a
J. R. Smith gelding in the same owner-
ship as Arahura, Rhythmic and Amazing.
Addition, who was not lucky in running,
did well to finish third; while Angus
was forced too wide entering the straight
to have any chance subsequently. Breezy
Boy was a fair fourth, and may shortly
do better. Artistic’s dam, Clarolet, is by
Claro.
B. Payten gets hold of his share of
smart two-year-olds. Good-looking
Minnamurra (sister to Soho and
half-sister to John Dory) adds to
the number. She led after going
half a furlong in the second division
of the fillies’ Juvenile Handicap,
and won at her ease from the slow-
beginning Lady Hamilton, who beat
Amazing (by Amalfi) a head. Of the
others Ohaeawai and Oriole did best.
Although she wop in such easy fashion
Minnamurra did a quarter-second faster
than Fervent and a half-second faster
than San Sebastian in their divisions.
•••••#
Milanja had the first division of the
Flying Welter won from the first fur-
long. Benburb and Canvasser were
nearest to him at the turn, and the only
alteration in the straight was that Old
Sport, who came from a long way back,
cut the latter out of second money. Poi
Morse, though backed, could not go the
pace set by Milanja, and of the unplaced
lot Canvasser, Koomeluck and Pendorus
did best.
• • • • *
Miss Pentheus, who was always promi-
nent in the second division of the Flying
Welter, went to the front from Denis Lad
and Good Earth entering the straight,
and then had no difficulty in holding off
Skerries and Good Company. Cable was
well placed to the turn but then weakened
badly. Panturn finished fairly, as did
the crack 14.2 pony Little Gundi.
Lord Valentine, who had not raced
since last year, demonstrated what a
middle-distance horse can do in a sprint
when fresh. In the middle of the field
for half the trip in the third division of
the Flying Welter, he finished brilliantly
to beat Melrose, who led into the
straight. Tyrannus, in third place, did
well, and Insignia and Mary Lou, after
being badly placed for a long way, made
up ground in the straight. Taurus made
a fair showing to the turn, but could not
see it out.
* * *
In my notes of last week I wrote that
Burrabil would have to be seriously con-
sidered for the Newmarket. Futurity
Stakes running emphasised that conten-
tion. Somewhat slow in finding his legs,
it was by a narrow margin he beat Zonda,
Tea Cake and Gold Salute, but in the
Newmarket he will meet them respec-
tively 191 b., 61b. and 101 b. better, and
will be 101 b. better off as compared with
High Caste. If figures could be relied on
to work out correctly he should again
beat that lot, but taking a line through
Tea Cake’s running Burrabil will find
High Title a tough opponent, despite his
big weight for a three-year-old of 9.0.
Phoines has still to be reckoned with.
He did not get a good run when second
in the Oakleigh Plate, and will meet Tea
Cake 61b. better than in that race. He
reads like again beating the latter. Beau-
livre did not show up in the Futurity, but
though well enough to do good track
gallops he does not appear to have yet
struck race form and is now reported
to be sore. He drops 101 b,, but that still
leaves him at a disadvantage as com-
pared with Burrabil. Tranquil Star will
have 71b. less than in the Futurity, but
her form in that did not make her chance
nearly so good as that of either Burrabil
or Tea Cake.
In the Hawksburn Handicap All Veil
improved greatly on his performance in
the Oakleigh Plate a week earlier. If
he continues to improve at the same rate
there is no telling to what heights he may
rise, but it must not be overlooked that
Fur Trader and Reception, who were
second and third to him on Saturday, were
also unplaced in the Oakleigh. That
slightly discounts the value of Hawks-
burn Handicap form. There seems little
hope for several Newmarket acceptors
beaten in the latter, these including Chata-
san, Sunflash, Queen Baccha and Celeris.
On latest form and weights Burrabil,
High Title, Tea Cake and Phoines read
like the best collection, and, while it would
be inadvisable to say High Caste must
now be counted out, it seems to me that
the Newmarket winner will come from
Phoines, High Title and Burrabil.
For his Oakleigh Plate win High Title
has gone up 61b., his weight now being
9st. He beat Tea Cake and All Veil in
the Oakleigh, and will meet them respec-
tively 41b. better and 21b. worse.
* * * *
In winning the first division of the
Woodcliff Handicap Primavera proved
that she was as nearly as possible at the
top of her form, while Skipton’s effort in
the Futurity Stakes was not reassuring
for those backers who have ended
doubles with him. Neither the distance
nor his weight gave him much chance of
success in the Futurity, but his showing
left doubt as to whether he was as for-
ward in condition as reported. St. Leger
running will enlighten backers on that
score, but it now looks as if he is going
to find Primavera hard to beat. Prima-
vera has been penalised 41b. for the Aus-
tralian Cup.
Heart’s Desire, who ran Primavera to
a half-head in the Woodcliff Handicap,
will have an advantage of 41b. in the
Australian Cup, but the longer dis-
tance should be of greater assistance
to the latter. Velocity, carrying 21b.
more than his Cup weight, was fifth in
the Woodcliff Handicap, but his form
was somewhat disappointing. Fairway
Freddie was below expectations, but as
Saul did much better than at his previous
outing there may still be hope for him.
There is a big margin between Trial
Stakes and Australian Cup form, but as
Similar ran third in the first division of
the St. Clair Trial after being third-last
for a long way it is possible he is . a
stayer. He will be carrying 7.7 against
his 9.0 of last week, and the field will
not include many proved stayers. Prairie-
dale won the second division of the
Woodcliff Handicap with 21b. more than
his Cup weight, but his time was a
second and a quarter slower than Prima-
vera recorded in her division. Somerset
also ran well in Primavera’s race, but the
day’s running said more for the latter
than anything else, and next to her
Similar and Saul were probably most
worth noting.
* * * *
The Newmarket adds to the many Aus-
tralian races which prove the extent to
which our horses have developed speed.
Up to 1888 Cranbrodk’s 1.14? was the
record for the race, and that stood until
1898, when Amiable did 1.14. Queen o’
Scots recorded 1.12* in 1911, and that
was the best until Sunburst won in 1.12
in 1923. The record is now 1.1 Of, that
time being done by St. Ardent (1929) and
All Veil last year.
* * * »
In Sydney there was never less interest
taken in the Newmarket and Australian
Cup than this year. Up to last week it
was difficult to place a bet of real con-
sequence, and the Doncaster and Sydney
Cup double is unlikely to bring a rush
of business. On the other hand, the big
bets recorded on ordinary events at
Sydney meetings point to a particularly
large racecourse turnover by many book-
makers. If rumor is correct the old prac-
tice of putting a £5O bet down as a
“fiver” is again not quite unknown.
* * * *
Under the Control of Paper Order
bookmakersv in England are now de-
barred from sending out price lists or
circulars. The first prosecution for an
offence of this kind took place in London
in December, and a firm of bookmakers
was fined £l5 on each of three charges,
and 30 guineas costs. The two firms
which printed the circulars and lists were
each fined £25 and 10 guineas costs.
* * * *
There is nothing definite as to the
future of racing in Maoriland. Bearing
on the position, “The Watcher” wrote
as follows in a recent issue of the
“Dominion” (Wellington):
Easter racing is at the moment not on a
definite programme. In some cases clubs 3
whose courses are occupied have yet to
meet to decide whether they will carry on,
and a decision also has to be made offi-
cially whether Easter Monday is to be re-
garded as a holiday. Several plans are in
train, but, as they will be affected by these
decisions, no announcement will be made till
matters have been cleared up.
• * * *
Canonbury, the A.J.C.’s convalescent
home for children, is an institution of
which not a great deal is heard, but it
has benefited many of the latter since
it was converted from the War Memorial
Soldiers’ Home in 1925. Special atten-
tion is given to orthopaedic cases, and
for greater scientific treatment a hot sea-
water bath was installed. There are two
permanent masseuses, and the children
are given some hours’ treatment and
“education” in the bath each day. There
are no restrictions as to a child’s eligi-
bility for admission, and treatment and
medicine are absolutely free. A school-
teacher is provided by the Department
of Education.
*•••••
There is accommodation for 42
children, and recently 20, with the
matron and staff, were evacuated to the
Fairbridge Farm Schools, Molong. The
A.l.C.’s average yearly expenditure on
Canonbury is £5OOO, and is another
instance of good coming from racing.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Pines Hurdles: Giant Killer, 1,
Harley, 2 ; David Spear, 3.
March Nursery: Baroda, 1 ; Bur-
berry, 2 ; Blue Valley, 3.
St. Leger: Skipton, 1 ; Prima-
vera, 2; High Road, 3.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Riverton,
1 ; Chatfield, 2; Hesione, 3.
Newmarket Handicap: Burrabil,
1 ; High Title, 2; Phoines or All
Veil, 3.
Flemington Handicap; Velocity,
1; Brave Lady, 2 ; Saul, 3.
Brunswick Stakes: Panka, 1 ;
Crojick, 2 ; Rex Buzz, 3.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP.
By “PILOT.”
phoines i
HIGH TITLE 2
BURRABIL 3
FOR ASCOT (SYDNEY).
( Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT."
Two-year-old Handicap: Royal
Result, 1 ; Era, 2; Burlington or
Chonda, 3.
Heavyweight Handicap: Sir
Amyas, 1 ; Rameo, 2 ; Mandowie,
Fourteen-two Handicap; Vanity
Fair, 1 ; Te Rama, 2 ; Lidworth, 3.
Flying Handicap: Romero, 1 ;
Canvasser, 2; Good Company or
Stainless, 3.
Trial Handicap: Widden, 1 ;
Addition, 2 ; Royal Land, 3.
Ascot Handicap: Mortine, 1 ;
Hieron, 2 ; Pimm’s or Lo Dokes, 3.


Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; F. E. I.oxton, Esq. ;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.; E. E. D. White, Esq. ; H. C. Morrow, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank otters the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Spark Pings can
increase you
car's SAFETY!
The car that is lively and respon-
sive can move more quickly out
of normal driving hazards. Keep
your car alert. New Champion
Spark Plugs provide strong,
hot sparks that ensure
speed, power and quick
acceleration. They will
soon pay for themselves
in the fuel they save.
F actories, F eltham, Eng.
Windsor, Can. Toledo,
USA.
IP
I
sss
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Sillment seals Champions against troublesome
leakage, at the shoulder and past the center
electrode, common to ordinary spark plugs. This
patented feature corrects rough, uneven and
wasteful engine operation caused by leaky,
overheated spark plugs.
V
7
<±jkS>
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,900,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLES
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
SMOKE-OH!
“Mr. Hanlon sprayed the footpath with
gusto while leading Civil Defence officials
looked on.”— “Courier-Mail.''’
Is it wise to reveal in war-time the name
of this new extinguishing fluid?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Dinghy or flatiron, about 10ft.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser” ad.
Evidently the need is pressing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Have you a beauty query?”
— Woman’s paper.
Yair, the same one to each: “What
are you doin’ tonight, kiddo?”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Here’s your solution, a combined throat
and tummy exercise.” — Woman’s mag.
Men also find the exercise handy. If
they use the correct solution, their throats
will get thin through exercise and their
tummies increase contentedly.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Will widow with two girls and chef, who
inquired three or four years ago the way to
Mt. Tomah, call again or write?”
—Agony advt.
Must have remembered the turn-off
wasn’t at the bent tree, after all.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A young eel is so transparent that it is
possible to see right through it.”
— “World’s News.”
To its mate the adult male, wriggle as
he will, has the same qualities.
The Newer Advertising.
Lost, gold cigarette-case, diamond-
studded, containing four cigarettes.
Finder keep case, return cigarettes.
Are you worried about the future? Let
me take charge of your financial affairs.
Send stamped and addressed envelope to
Commissioner for Taxation. Branches in
every capital city. Thousands of testi-
monials.
Washerwoman, quick and efficient.
Has nine knobs of blue stored in safe
place. Ring XXI9BO for terms.
• •••••
For sale: Malayan rubber plantation.
No argument. First reasonable offer
accepted ; walk-in, walk-out basis.
I, Sessue lyakawa, resident four years
in Australia, of pure Tierra del Fuegan
descent, intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion.
Managing director of large company
would like exchange positions with
“Mind you, I don't think they'll bomb this place."
“What? After all the trouble I've gone to?"
wharf-lumper, who must have good pros-
pects of overtime.
M8.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When a man owed as much as Tom did,
how could he face the situation squarely?”
—“Sunday Telegraph
By going round to the creditors, mak-
ing them see his angle and squaring them
off.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Russians so severely pounded the
German rear that they were unable to make a
stand.” — Cable.
Much less sit down and take a rest.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Boot Trade. —Man, for pounding seats and
beating up toes.” — “S.M.H.”
Does the Department of Labor and
Industry know that this sort of brutality
is going on?
A Place for Everything.
“If you’re looking for your pipe,” said
Maria, “it’s in the left-hand drawer of
the writing-table. There’s a place for
everything in this house and everything
should be in its place.”
“I suppose,” I said, “that this knitting
here among my socks is”
“I put it in there in a hurry when
Mrs. Speers called,” said Maria loftily.
“Well,” I commented briefly, “what
about that gas bill that you thought
you’d put in the tea-caddy? I couldn’t
find it in the loose tea.”
“You ought to know I keep the tea
in the coffee caddy,” said Maria, “Any-
way, you found it on the bookshelf even-
tually, so what are you growling about?
But you’re only trying to make an argu-
ment. Now get my white shoes —I
think they’re on the laundry window-
sill.”
“They wouldn’t be in the shoe
cupboard?” I asked mildly as I began
the search. I eventually located them
under a cushion of the lounge.
Maria was quite annoyed when I told
friends at bridge that night about the
new everything-in-its-place idea.
“It was most out of place,” she said
bitterly.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Faker wants jobbing.”
— “S.M.H.” “Positions Wanted” ad.
But not in the bread-basket, surely?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Abject Surrender.
“Altar Rush to Dodge Militia Call-up.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
’Tis strange that Harry, Dick and Bert
Would rather hide behind a skirt
Than fight for their inheritance.
For, while a fighting man must flirt
With death and court some lesser hurt,
A t least he gets a sporting chance!
P. O. M. C.
Community Song.
“Few know the words of our own national
song.”— “Sunday Sun.”
Breathes there a bloke with soul so dead
Who never to himself hath said :
“My national song is dear to me ?”
/ know it well, and disagree
With him who says that few folk know
Those words which make our optics glow.
Just find me six Australian men
Who can’t shout “Fill ’Em Up Again!”
N. E. BOTTLES.
The Disappearing Act.
Life being a curious business, it is
natural that some very curious things
should happen in war. Still, the pheno-
menon of a “mighty army” hurling itself
into enemy territory one day and the next
vanishing completely somewhere into the
sub-stratosphere seemed to us rather
too supernatural, so we asked Basil
Biggeiyam, world-famous correspondent
of the “Evening Furphy,” how such a
thing could happen.
“You mean that splash the other night
about the Chinese invading Thailand and
the papers next morning knowing no-
thing about it?” he said. “Well, it’s
probably one of those things you can put
down to the Oriental mind. It’s just that
Orientals don’t think as we do. They’re
fatalistic. They send an army or some-
thing out, and if nothing is heard of it
again they just shrug, say the Chinese for
“that’s that,” and start getting another
one together. It’s funny your mentioning
that, because I had a somewhat similar
experience with a phantom force. It
was while I was reporting the Sino-Jap
war in ’37.
“I was covering the operations of the
16515 t Chinese Red Route Army i n
Southern Kwangtung, which was battling
like tigers against a Japanese column
advancing on Hop Yu Kow from their
base at Yo Ho. I was sitting one day in
the cocktail bar of the Magnificent at
Ning-po writing up my dispatches
when”
“But half a mo,” we said. “Ning-po
is up in Chi-Kiang province, isn’t it,
about 600 miles from Kwangtung?”
Basil gave us a look of deep pity,
“Good life!” he ejaculated. “What
would a famous correspondent be doing
fooling around where the army actually
was? He’d never get any information
that way! As I was saying, I was in the
bar when who should walk in but Plen
Tee Pong, a ginseng-seller I had met down
in China Po. I knew he hit the pipe a
lot, and he had the reputation among
business acquaintances of being the big-
gest liar between Inner Mongolia and
Canton. But when in his right senses he
gathered some wonderfully reliable infor-
mation.
“Well, I could tell by the look on his
bland, inscrutable face that he had some-
thing of vital import. Also, by the way
he slipped his right thumb across his
first and second fingers, that he was short
of the ready. I slipped him a two-dollar
bill.
“ ‘Plenty see aerleplane over Sum Kow
Sing come ’long Hu-nan,’ he volunteered.
“ ‘What, Japs, eh?’ I replied. ‘Perhaps
they’re massing for a new offensive.’
“ ‘No, no. Chinee ’plane. Plen Tee
see four, six, mebbe ’undled ’plane.
Bang Go Up, who sell umblella to
General Lee Kee Sump, say fer big attack
on Nanchang tomollow week, p’raps
October, eh? Big five-engined bombers.’
“I could see immediately he had some-
thing there, so I went over to the Splen-
diferous, where I knew I could pick up
Throgmorton, a barber who specialises
in pulling hairs out of the beards of
■ mandarins so as to give them that mangy
look. Throgmorton had also heard that
General Lee Kee Sump had got some
’planes ; old Bu Hoo the water-seller had
mentioned 500. But I was still not satis-
fied with my check-up. Accuracy above
all is what we pride ourselves on, we
famous correspondents. I then contacted
Hang Lang, the radical politician who
runs the weekly ‘Wot Ho,’ and Soo Gee
Bag, Ning-po’s fan-tan ‘king.’ Both had
heard that the General had got some
’planes.
“It was enough! My dispatch proved
a real hair-raiser that pushed even a
gruesome murder off the front page and,
re-cabled, made world headlines. I de-
scribed vividly the roar of wave after
wave of these five-engined monsters tak-
ing off from secret ’dromes until the day-
light was blotted out by their wings and
how this, the greatest aerial armada in
history, had flown into the rising sun to
shatter Nippon’s cloud divisions before
they could strike.
“Then a wall of silence descended! A
funny thing, but nothing was ever heard
of that great armada again. That they
took off was certain. Some think that
they overshot the target and came down
in the Yellow Sea; others that they
crashed somewhere in the Tibetan moun-
tains. Perhaps nobody will ever know. I
questioned many Chinese generals, but
they all shrugged their shoulders. It is
the Oriental mind. Fatalistic, unmoved
by loss of human life.”
“We see,” we said, again humbly.
“We’d never have known how these
armies and things disappear.”
“It’s quite all right,” said Basil, with
gracious condescension. “It’s quite easy
when you know, really.”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
The Skilled Worker
One result of this war to Australia
has been the restoration of the artisan
and the skilled tradesman to their rightful
position in the community.
Up to the present much of the educa-
tion in our schools has been conducted
as if all boys were to go to a university
or enter a profession. Lads have been
encouraged to enter white-collar jobs and
to consider themselves a cut above their
fellows who were being taught a trade
And great numbers became unskilled
laborers. The exigencies of war are
changing this. The Army is calling for
more and more skilled tradesmen, paying
them extra trade-proficiency money and
recruiting its crack mechanised units from
their ranks
The R.A.A.F. classes fitters, turners,
riggers, plumbers and mechanics as its
highest class of ground personnel, and
pays them a minimum of 11s. a day;
carpenters and painters are Class II on
9s. 6d. a day, whereas clerks and store-
men are Class IV on Bs. 6d. a day and
men without a trade are Class V (6s. a
day). The Navy also pays extra money
for trade proficiency, and in civil life
skilled tradesmen of all classes are earn-
ing big money for useful services to the
nation.
The white-collar job, so sought after
in peace, has been shown to be useless
to the nation in its hour of need, and
post-war education should avoid a repeti-
tion of the mistakes of the past by being
vocational as well cultural. — Smilax
(Q).
“Not Fighting”
Here it is, straight from the offi-
cial horse’s mouth; “Members of the
Merchant Marine abroad are not re-
garded as members of the fighting forces.
The war postage charge of id. applies
to postal articles other than air-mail
letters so addressed.”
In the 1914-18 war the British mer-
chant service lost 7i p.c. of its personnel.
Proportional losses in this war have been
greater still.
The inquiry about postage was made
(and explained as such) on behalf
of a young Australian-born, -bred and
-trained merchant seaman who has been
constantly in British ships in Atlantic
war-zones since November, 1939, was in
the Jervis Bay affair, narrowly escaped
the Bismarck, helped to beat off three
air attacks and saw the next ship in
convoy-line go up with a torpedo,
Parliament does not regard such Aus-
tralians as worth a ha’porth of recog-
nition. — Ex-Mister (Q.).
Taxing Soldiers
Agree with The Bulletin (11/2/’42)
regarding taxation anomalies, but I do
consider that the man who is taxed £4026
on £5OOO can afford more for life’s trim-
mings than I can. As a staff sergeant on
home service I am paid £9 14s. lOd. a
fortnight, and this includes 2s. sd. a day
for subsistence. Each fortnight the Com-
monwealth deducts 13s. 6d. and the State
6s. 6d.
At the end of the financial year, when
the superfluous Treasurer of a super-
fluous Parliament tots up his accounts, I
shall probably find myself debited with
an additional sum to meet totally super-
fluous expenditure.
I shall probably finish my military
service unfit to resume my civil occupa-
tion, with no prospect other than the
charity of a paternal—Federal, not State
—Government. However, the man on
active service is having a worse spin,
and it’s not for me to growl. Perhaps
when A.I.F. and home-service men get
together at the end of the scrap they
will be able to do something about
settling the hash of State Parliaments and
Oliver Twist Treasurers. —1/A.I.F. (Tas.).
Farmers at War
Many farmers who would like to join
up are “man-powered” and compelled to
stay on their farms, hedged around with
innumerable regulations, boards, com-
mittees and whatnot, all, or nearly all,
designed to prevent them from growing
more than a bare minimum of crops,
particularly wheat.
Why not allow those who are eligible
and want to go to join up—say half
of them—and let the other half do a
full-time job at home working their farms
to capacity-production?
What is the sense of making a section
of the community stay at home and work
half-time, with the result that all are dis-
contented —those who are eligible but
aren’t allowed to go, and those who can’t
go but aren’t permitted to make a proper
living? —R- H. G. (W.A.).
More Waste
On the very day that Canberra
gazetted regulations curtailing commer-
cial use of paper and cardboard in order
to meet urgent defence requirements I
received from Queensland’s Civil Defence
Department 120 square inches of excel-
lent cardboard and 80 square inches of
f.a.q. paper containing instructions and
inquiries concerning air raids and evacua-
tion.
I live in a rural area averaging per-
haps six houses to the square mile. The
card warns me to keep off the streets
during a raid and to avoid crowds. The
nearest city is nearly 70 miles away and
the card asks me to remember that “the
city proper is the real danger area.” It
urges me to turn off the gas at the meter
and to extinguish fires in grates on hear-
ing the air-raid warning. We have no
gas and no grates. There is nothing
about what to do with the public electric
"I wish to apply for his exemption.”
supply which provides for our modest
needs in their stead.
“The paper” inquires whether I want to
be evacuated in the event of invasion.
Even if I had any leanings that way I’d
prefer to take Canberra’s reiterated advice
to sit tight and not get in the way of
military operations.
Many Australians would give loud
cheers were Canberra to summon up the
pluck to push all provincial politicians
clear off the war job and keep them off.
Defence is essentially a national affair, and
the millions wasted on futile, uninformed
State jittering should be going into the
national war chest. — Nagheer (Q.).
Teachers’ Holidays
About the most ridiculous thing done
by the so-called N. S. Wales Government
in its attempts at A.R.P. was the closing
of State schools for a further fortnight
on top of the ordinary vacation. Osten-
sible reason for the delay in opening was
the provision of air-raid shelters, etc., for
the schools, but what was done in
that extra fortnight? No trenches have
been dug in any of the school grounds I
have seen, nor have the many glass doors
and windows been proofed against shat-
tering—l pass two of the biggest schools
in the metropolitan area frequently and
not a window has been papered or
strengthened in any way.
All that came of the extra vaca-
tion is that parents had the worry
of the kids for another two weeks, the
teachers had an extra fortnight holiday
on top of their usual 10 weeks a year,
and the State lost a fortnight’s pay for
thousands of teachers.
All of which raises the uneconomic
practice of giving State schoolteachers
10 weeks’ holiday on full pay in each
year when other Government employees
are working long hours without overtime
—Taxation Department employees, for
instance, start work at 7.30 a.m. School-
teachers could do some of the jobs re-
quired in that office —indexing, filing,
additions, etc. In other offices, too,
where retired men have been brought
back at £5 and £6 a week to do odd
jobs, the schoolies could surely help.—
Macßopus (N.S.W.).
Stock Evacuation
There’s yet another conference in the
offing—this time to plan for the evalua-
tion of stock from the east coast should
the enemy get close enough for landings.
Another aspect is the question of dis-
posal of cattle from the tick areas.
Getting the cattle away may be simple
compared with finding feed for them.
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture re-
ported on 12/2/’42 that inland rain for
the past year was far below average, that
the winter was one of the coldest on
record, that conserved fodder supplies
have been heavily denuded and that the
central tablelands district has gone
through one of the worst droughts in its
history. Still, feed held extra well inland,
and there were heavy conserved fodder
supplies. The main hardship was, and
is, shortage of water. This is being
written while floods rage in Queensland
and the rain may move southward, but
N. S. Wales is finding out now what it
is likely to lose through failure to con-
serve inland water.
Dairying in the west has never de-
veloped as it should. Now, with military
camps demanding dairy products in the
inland, it is necessary to find those pro-
ducts on the coast and send them west.
Yet average production figures of western
cows are above those of any other part
of the State.
A mass movement of cattle such as
that contemplated needs a lot of think-
ing about. Heavy milch cows won t
travel more than a few miles a day on
foot; there’ll have to be feed and water
all the way up the mountains and down
again. If evacuation has to come it had
better be confined to the best; there are
thousands of scrubbers on the coast that
should be destroyed, anyhow. — Wester
(N S W)
If the “scorched earth” plan for N.S.W.
coastal areas has to be put into opera-
tion in the near future, there will be
trouble in large quantities. About the
only unscorched earth N.S.W. has just
now is the narrow coastal belt. It is a
heavily-stocked area. The sudden pitch-
forking of cattle by hundreds of thou-
sands into the already scorched inland
won’t solve any problem. Certainly the
tablelands may appear attractive; but
many stockowners who at premium
prices bought pasture on the tablelands
at the height of the 1920 drought know
to their cost how deceptive those pas-
tures are. The cattle died on what
seemed to the Westerner to be wonder-
ful feeds—G. A. B. (A.C.T.).
Argentina
Almost as soon as the Pan-American
Conference at Rio began the cables were
assuring us that Argentina would join
with the rest of the American republics
against the Axis. Has it done so? Not
q U ite.
I remember reading a thing published
soon after Japan entered the war. It
appeared in only one edition of the
Sydney “Sun.” President Castillo had pro-
claimed a state of siege and everybody
took it as a move to end Axis machina-
tions. Instead, a mass meeting in honor
of Roosevelt was banned, anti-Axis
papers had their editorials censored, pro-
Axis papers remained normal, one of
them with the headline “Yankees Steal
Petroleum from Colombians and Foment
Revolution.”
Australia has suffered a lot in an in-
direct way from Argentina. Somehow,
the Argentine seemed to have no diffi-
culty in gaining preference on the United
Kingdom market, preference which no
Australian will believe was achieved
simply because the journey was shorter,
Even the much-boosted Empire Pro-
ducers’ Conference—or the English por-
tion of it—evaded discussion on this
point in Sydney in 1937. In 1938 the
U.K. imported £38,486,000 worth of
Argentinian products against an export
of £19,338,366. In 1939, British invest-
ments there were £428,518,172, including
£64,031,246 in Government bonds and
£264,598,588 in railways.
The figures may set some people think-
ing. There may be good reasons for
them. But when peace comes again it
might be well for Empire countries like
Australia, struggling against foreign
competition, to remind each other that
it is Empire and not Argentinian sweat
and blood that stand off such dire threats
as those of the present time. —M. W.
(Vic.).
Democracy and Power
One of the commonest errors of this
war is the belief that the dictators have
an advantage over the democracies by
reason of their disregard for all human
rights and liberties. It is argued that a
Hitler, ruling by force, may do things
no representative Government has the
power to do. Nothing could be further
from the facts. The simple truth is that
every power which a Hitler wields by
force is already vested in the democratic
Governments with all the force of law
behind it. As Dicey’s Laws of the Con-
stitution puts it:
The power and jurisdiction of Parliament
is so transcendent and absolute that it can-
not be confined, either for causes or persons,
within any bounds.
The tragedy of the democracies is not
that they do not possess the power to
move as quickly and effectively as their
enemies but that, having that power, they
shrink from using it. No tyrant ever had
greater powers than those conferred upon
the Government of the Commonwealth
by the National Security Act, which em-
powered regulations to be made
requiring persons to place themselves,
their services and their property at the dis-
posal of the Commonwealth as appears
necessary or expedient for securing the
public safety, the defence of the Common-
wealth or the efficient prosecution of the
war.
But nearly two years after that Act
was made the Prime Minister was still
asking men, whose presence in the
Cabinet he deemed necessary, to join it,
and was being rebuffed; and Ministers
were almost daily “urging” striking
unionists to return to work.
Democracy can fight totalitarianism on
equal terms; but not if faint-hearted
leaders fear to use the weapons it places
in their hands. —W. K. D. (Q.).
Among the Prophets
“Famous” American correspondents
are now in Australia and have been given
the freedom of the local ether. One
gentleman broadcast a sensational pro-
phecy about the imminence of a Japanese
invasion. How does he know more than
any other person what is going to hap-
pen? The fact that his predictions have
come true in the case of Singapore does
not mean that he necessarily had know-
ledge. If a man predicted rain every
day and went on doing so until rain came,
that would not make him a prophet. -
L. L. (Vic.).
Birth Control
Incidentally “Period” (B. 4/2/’42)
touches on the ever-contentious living
wage as bearing on the question of birth
control. Upwards of 30 years’ attend-
ance in and connection with Federal
and State Arbitration Courts dealing
with wages claims has convinced me
that, like a mirage, the solution so much
fancied and expressed by workers’ dele-
gates is always far off. When the common
or basic wage was £2 Bs., the prologue
began of all this clamorous drama about
giving the worker enough money to pro-
vide well for himself, a prospective wife
and a few prospective children.
Baby bonuses were going to fill the
Australian cradles. Judges and Presidents
called in experts on calories and pro-
teins that gingered up the human frame
and added more pounds to the muscles ;
learned statisticians dwelt ponderously
on the relative values of pence yesterday,
today and tomorrow, and books were
written on the next steps to be
taken in the progress to the ideal-wage
state that would end for all time this
problem of the living wage and birth
control. So increased wages and family
allowances resulted.
They had not existed long before new
claims came for something more—-“load-
ings” they were attractively called ; but
even these were not enough. Clamorous
demands for new statistical bases came
and vital changes followed in index com-
putation. Wages went up and continued
to go up.
Great stress is laid on the better
standard of living today, and yet with it
all the cradle remains empty. It may be
ultra-Tory to suggest it, but it seems that
the position calls for a retreat to more
primitive things.—BiLL Ding (W.A.).


Aspects of Australian Industry , No. 9
mm
Mmgm.
mmM
wm
m
r*
23T- '. " ...
? /
f
1
-4
-
if
P:
1
* »
«
- #
'oJH
1
r
* ii
Mir* ■*% *£«' ;l|
n
ir
>X/«ir'
m-&
; '
i h
m
i '- / M* 1 ™
I |r
®V <
; - * "l|gp
1
IP
s wm
CORN IN EGYPT
VER since Joseph stored corn in Egypt
against the seven lean years, Man has
had to face the problem of conserving the
produce of his crops for himself and his
livestock. Throughout the centuries this
problem has steadily assumed greater
importance.
In Australia each year millions of tons of
wheat, fruit, sugar and produce of all kinds
must be protected during growth, storage,
processing and transit, so that it may be
delivered to consumers in fresh, sound and
palatable condition.
In the solution of this problem the food
supply of the Empire Imperial Chemical
Industries of Australia and New Zealand
Limited plays a vital part.
To help the farmer grow larger crops
the soil must yield its best* This
demands that additional supplies of
the elements necessary for plant life
be added. Chemical Industry has made
these available in a range of inorganic fer-
tilisers. To protect crops and their produce
against the ravages of the arch enemies—
insect pest, fungus attack and bacterial
decay—an armoury of powerful chemical
weapons have been developed and produced.
1.C.1.A.N.Z., backed by the wide research
activities of Imperial Chemical Industries in
Great Britain, and by co-operation with
local workers whose role is technical aid to
Australia's great primary industries, has
been enabled to manufacture and provide
fertilisers, pesticides and other chemicals to
solve the specific problems arising under
local conditions.
Right down the scale, from soil to side-
board, Chemical Industry assists to
produce and preserve truly the
world's oldest art is its youngest
science*
ŧ
c ßehind the Empire Throughout the Empire
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND
CIANZ
NEW ZEALAND LTD.
Subsidiary Companies :
NOBEL (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD. 1.C.1. ALKALI (AUST.) PTY. LTD. IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES (N.Z.) LTD.
