

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 63.—N0. 3264
Wednesday, September 2, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
IN QUAINT CHESTER.
AN interesting statement of fact relating to this
city on the Dee is that it is the only city in
England still possessing its walls perfect in their
entire circuit of two miles. The gateways have
all been rebuilt in the last 150 years, the north
and east gates on the site of the Roman gates.
Save the cathedral and churches, the city possesses
few public buildings of particular note. The
castle, with the exception of “Caesar’s Tower”
and a round tower with adjacent buildings, was
taken down towards the end of the eighteenth
century and replaced by a gateway, barracks,
country hall, assize courts and prison, all in severe
classical style of architecture. Among sporting
men Chester has the reputation of possessing the
most picturesque racing course in the kingdom.
The city is divided into four principal blocks by
the four principal streets —Northgate, Eastgate,
Watergate and Bridge. These four streets exhibit
the “Rows,” a characteristic feature of Chester of
unknown origin. In the first three named streets
the rows are on either side and may be described
as continuous galleries open to the street over
and under which the houses lining the thorough-
fare project. The “Rows” are flagged and boarded
underfoot and ceiled above, thus forming a
covered way, standing in the same relation to the
shops at their back as the ordinary foot pave-
ment does in other towns. In Northgate Street,
however, the “Row” on the west side is formed,
as it were, out of the ground floor, the houses
having cellars beneath. In these streets several
examples of old-timbered seventeenth-century
dwellings are to be found and many good speci-
mens of modern imitations as well, which give
a picturesque and foreign character to the town.
Chester is a city whose history goes back to very
early times. After the departure of the Romans it
was possessed by Britons, Saxons, Danes and
Normans. Benedictines, Carmelites, Dominicans
and Franciscans had houses here. St. John’s,
without the walls, was a collegiate church with a
dean, seven prebendaries and four vicars. Chester
was for a time in the diocese of Lichfield and
Coventry, but in 1075 Peter, then Bishop, restored
the seat to the see of Chester. His successor,
wever, removed the seat back to Coventry. In
41 Henry VIII erected Chester into an inde-
ndent see making the old Benedictine Abbey
St. Wesburgh the Cathedral of the Diocese,
ose to Chester is the seat of the Duke of West-
ister, Eaton Hall, and of Hawarden Castle,
;.e seat of the great statesman William Ewart
idstone.


sfsdfds
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
The Red Page
SIX AUSTRALIAN POETS.
A roar oi' hooves, u lightning view of eyes
Redder than fire, of long, straight whistling
manes.
Stilt crests, and tails drawn out against the
skies,
Oi’ angry nostrils webbed with leaping veins,
The stallions come!
That is Hugh McCrae ; and though T.
Inglis Moore does not attempt a ranking
ol his luminaries in Six Australian Poets
(Robertson and Mullens), it is to Hugh
McCrae that the mind turns and returns
while reading this pleasant addition to
Australian criticism.
McCrae, Inglis Moore demonstrates by
a comparison of lines such as
I leap with rage and seize my stick,
Like Hitler turned quite lunatic,
Throw open doors and cupboards wide.
And canter down the stairs outside,
Exclaiming “Damn!” and “Well, I’m' blowcd!”
with the fire of the early poetry as in
the “Stallions” piece, has had little of
importance to say of recent years.
“Imagination has dwindled to fancy,”
the singing joy to “playfulness,” and so
the critic is justified in regarding his
poetic statement as complete. That
applies to all the poets Inglis Moore
deals with, except Fitz Gerald.
Pleasing as it is to see Fitz Gerald’s
merits recognised, he is one man
who should not have been among the
six—not because he has not the same
unmistakable poetic genuineness as Inglis
Moore finds in the others, but because
he is still a comparatively young poet
in active production. His place is not
with the established classics —McCrae,
Neilson, O’Dowd, Baylebridge and Bren-
nan —but with men such as Kenneth
Slessor who are still in the process of
“becoming.”
The five, then, according to the critic,
are the Australian classics. There are
others of very nearly the same stature —
Furnley Maurice and Mary Gilmore, for
instance—but these five lead. Or, rather,
these five and one more: for, lacking a
study of “Banjo” Paterson, Inglis
Moore’s book can never be the “canon”
of the leading poets he intended it to be.
Representing the contemporary aver-
sion from the balladists —the inevitable
reaction to the overrating of them in
the days when a ballad passed for serious
poetry —Inglis Moore mentions Paterson
only slightingly and in passing. But
Paterson spoke for Australia; Paterson
had sunlight and color ; Paterson, as no
other Australian poet except Hugh
McCrae has done, came to his work
with that joyous gusto, that fine
arrogance, that triumphant recklessness
which —witness Shakspeare’s plays or
Byron’s Don Juan —is one of the hall-
marks of enduring art. When a writer
comes in thundering and flashing with
the joy of life as Paterson does in “The
Man from Snowy River”:
Then fast the horseman followed where the
gorges deep and black
Resounded to the thunder of their tread,
And the stockwhips woke the echoes, and they
fiercely answered back
From cliffs and crags that beetled overhead—
it is no use trying to stop the stampede
with little banners labelled “Balladists
Shall Not Pass.” Australian criticism will
have to come to terms with the balladists,
just as Eliot has recently paid homage
to Kipling. It is the mystery of art that
Hugh McCrac’s stallions make poetry
and “Banjo’s” horses only verse. But
“Banjo” should have been in this book
as a verse writer as good in his metier as
the poets are in theirs.
It is just that note of arrogant vitality
(the assurance of the born poet)
that one misses in Inglis Moore's other
poets—Neilson. O’Dowd, Baylebridge
and Brennan. That is not to say that
these men are not poets. But they do
not. as McCrae did, come to poetry with
an air. With, as Yeats said, “A sword
upstairs.”
Shaw Neilson was unquestionably a
poet. Only a true poet could have
written:
The young girl stood beside me. t
Saw not what her young eyes could see:
A hght, she said, not of the sky
Lives somewhere in the Orange Tree.
* the young girl said. There calls
No voice, no music beats on me
But it is almost sound: it falls
This evening on the Orange Tree.
But place the total of Neilson s work
beside the total ol McCrae’s, and how
thin, how slight (however delicate) is
the song. Never could Shaw Neilson
shout in triumph with McCrae:
' I blow my pipes, the glad birds sing.
The fat young nymphs about me spring,
I am the lord,
1 am the lord.
! am the lord of everything.
Place Brennan's work beside McCrae’s.
.•■ever, and under that solemn shade.
huge, vague and trembling with a melan-
choly music from the distance, it is Pan
and his fat young nymphs who look
small. McCrae, Inglis Moore says, had no
constructive power. The critic is inclined
to give him credit marks for constructing
such a ballad as “Red John,” but a ballad
is not the same thing as a “long poem”
and, in any case, over all modern
attempts to write medieval ballads hangs
the taint of imitation. McCrae’s attempts
at dramatic poetry failed. Brennan, suc-
cessful in the long poem, bulks huge
beside him. And yet, if a comparison is
made between the two, even when it is
admitted that the long poem is preferable
to the lyric, McCrae emerges as the
stronger poet. If one takes a poet at
his own valuation —and it is not unfair
to do so, because all “personal poetry”
such as Brennan’s is a search for inner
and fundamental truth—McCrae is “the
lord of everything" and Brennan admits
niy futile heart still wanders lost
in the same vast and impotent dreams.
Throughout his- poetic life Brennan
was a dying swan. It was said in a radio
talk recently that one could “speak of
Brennan in the same breath as Yeats
and Eliot.” But A. G. Stephens was
nearer the mark when he ruthlessly
summed up:
Brennan’s is a bush of poetry that
smoulders and never really burns; an
apparatus of patient craft that seldom be-
comes an artistic engine. Always busy
with himself, his images remain external for
others; they rarely make the decisive
escape of poetry from the composer. Toler-
able displays ; some good sonorities ; many
efficient ideas; yet we sit in a theatre to
watch a performance we do not often join.
Both in philosophy and in creative art.
Yeats and Elibt made that “decisive
escape.” Carried to its logical con-
clusion, says Inglis Moore, Brennan’s
symbolism would lead to “nothing less
than poetic nihilism” ; his philosophy, in
tune, leads to defeat and death. Even
when he tries to sing defiantly, as he does
in the noble sonorities of “O Desolate
Eves”—
yet in that wind a clamor of trumpets rang,
old trumpets, resolute, stark, undauntablc,
singing to battle against the eternal foe —
he fights in a doomed battle:
in some last fight, foredoom'd disastrous
uppn the final ridges of the world.
Curious that out of his own defeat a
man can make strong poetry (as, in a
different way, Herrick used to make
songs out of the statement that he had
nothing to sing). But, measuring strength
against strength, the denial of life always
pales before the affirmation—Lionel
Johnson before Yeats, Brennan before
McCrae. Is there any poetry that
branched from Baudelaire —from Dowson
and Johnson to the Brennan of “The
Wanderer"—that is not fundamentally a
surrender to death ; tainted with the con-
ception of the poet not as the lord of life
but as Baudelaire’s captive albatross,
wounded, persecuted, doomed?
In spite of the note of self-pity, Bren-
nan is unquestionably a poet. The
“Desolate Eves” passage is more than
Miltonic in its sonorous splendor; it is
Homeric. And if the symbolist “fading
out into whiteness” ends in nihilism,
there is fine and true poetry before it
comes to that white death:
and darkling on my darkling hill
heard through the btach’s sullen boom
heroic note of living will
rung trumpet-clear against the fight:
so stood and heard, and rais'd my eyes
erect, that they might drink of space,
and took the night upon my face.
This is not, like McCrae’s poetry or
Paterson’s ballads, life with an air; but
it is at least death with an air. In Bernard
O’Dowd’s verses there is the oddest air
ever worn by an Australian poet; a
valiant attempt at the arrogance of the
true poet, emerging, because O’Dowd
was not at heart a poet but a moralist,
as honest patriotism but false poetry.
Take a McCrae verse in a high mood:
Clean running wave and sunward-soaring flower,
The great hot sky, the colors of the wood
Troubled with shadow, and the sudden shower
Of heavenly fire across the solitude —
and take O’Dowd at his very best, in
what Inglis Moore calls “the splendid
uprushing sweep of his hopeful hymning
of Australia”:
All that we love in olden lands and lore
Was signal of her coming long ago!
Bacon foresaw her, Campanclla, More,
And Plato’s eyes were with her star aglow!
Who toiled for Truth, whate’er their countries
were, *
Who fought for Liberty, they yearned for her!
No corsair’s gathering ground, nor tryst for
schemers,
No chapman Carthage to a huckster Tyre,
She is the Eldorado of old dreamers,
The Sleeping Beauty of the world's desire.
It is McCrae who is the poet—and that in
spite of the fact that O’Dowd’s stanza
is the climax to a long poem, and that
he had in his mind some epic vision of
this country. McCrae’s hot sky, as wide
though only for a moment as O’Dowd’s
Australia, is an arrogant image burning
with poetic truth. O’Dowd’s “Sleeping
Beauty”—at attempt at the arrogant
poetic image—is (alas!) inflated. We
are, we would admit, a pretty good
people. We like “Banjo” Paterson to
tell us that
all our roads are new and strange
And through our blood there runs
The Vagabonding love of change
That drove us westward of the range
And westward of the suns.
But, “Plato’s eyes were with her star
aglow”; “the Sleeping Beauty of the
world’s desire” —that is coming it a bit
too thick for the sardonic Australian!
In O’Dowd’s finest poem, “The Bush,”
valuable in the first place because it is
a long poem successfully carried to its
conclusion, there are passages of genuine
poetic importance, those stanzas in which
he used a specifically Australian imagery
in serious poetry as “Banjo” used it
in the ballads. But, because he is
primarily a moralist, a didactic writer
(“Poetry Militant,” he called his work),
he is not fundamentally a poet at all in
the sense that McCrae and Brennan are
poets.
It can be admitted with Inglis Moore
that O'Dowd’s epigrams and social verses
are, of their kind, excellent. In many
of his quatrains he is as skilled an
epigrammist as Pope is in his couplets.
But, then, Pope is not a true poet, either.
Art is not “a weapon.” Aristotle, who
said that the moral good of art is its
catharsis in laughter or- tears of the
troubled spirit of man, knew more about
poetry than Bernard O’Dowd, who said
that it should crusade against the political
ills, real or seeming, of the time.
True poetry, McCrae’s lyricism or
Shakspeare’s drama, is no more a moral
crusader than the stars at night are moral
crusaders. It is a spectacle bringing news
of the gods ; an image of the eternal joy
or the eternal agony. From the spectacle
the crusader draws what morals he
chooses.
From the social versifying of “Poetry
Militant,” one returns to McCrae:
Then O, awake, Elizabeth,
The dawn is in the aspen-tree,
The air. is rich with honey-breath . . :
Come out, my love, and dance with me.
One returns to the joy of the gods. And,
if the crusader retorts that the gods are
not always joyful, to McCrae again for
a rare image of the soul of man poised
in proud and terriblg solitude in eternity:
The hawk entowered in the sky,
The lonely lord of heaven,
At daybreak saw him solitary;
And yet again at even.
Although Hartley Grattan in a fore-
word to Six Australian Poets offers
the fantastic opinion that McCrae
should not be included in the com-
pany, to what other poet could the
verdict go if a contest were held here to
determine the finest Australian poet to
date? fWhy, incidentally, does an over-
seas “authority” have to introduce a
book that specifically attacks “the colonial
outlook”?)
The last possible contender, accepting
Inglis Moore’s canon, is Baylebridge.
There is this great argument in Bayle-
bridge’s favor; —
The quantity of writing is considerable
in itself, and this, together with its range
and variety, makes Baylebridge remarkable
in a country whose genuine poets have
rarely continued their poetic production or
sustained its strength over the years. It
is worth noting, too, that in this respect
Baylebridge possesses one of the con-
stituents of greatness, for, although
quantity alone may be worth nothing as
such, yet the poets whom we accept as
great in English literature—Shakspeare,
Chaucer, Milton, Blake fEut!], Wordsworth,
Tennyson and Browning, for example
—all have to their credit a solid body
of writing which has enabled them to
play on more than a single note, to dis-
play a broad mastery of diversified ex-
pression, and to achieve a certain weight
of dignity. As poets, as well as producers
of poems, they bulk more impressively than
a Herrick or a Housman, a player on one
or two strings.
True, very true (except that to call
Blake a “great” poet is to fall headlong
into a fashionable Bedlam). What, then,
comprises Baylebridge’s bulk? Chiefly,
there’s This Vital Flesh, which includes
the long philosophical poems “Life’s
Testament” and “The New Life” ; and
Love’s Ephemeris, of which the outstand-
ing section is the spnnet sequence “Love
Redeemed.” And the poetic merit of
these long poems? After praising highly
(“ ‘Truffled’ appeals to me especially”)
truffles such as this:
The brain, the blood, the busy thews
That truffled in the primal ooze
Support me yet; till ice shall grip
The heart of earth, they shall not lose —
Inglis Moore records of “Life’s Testa-
ment”: “Unfortunately, Baylebridge
cannot keep it up.” And then after
gallantly truffling among the Nietz-
schean philosophisings of “The New
Life,” the critic decides;
How much of this philosophy in “The
New Life” is transmuted into poetry? Very
little, 1 am afraid. The verse remains
statements put into metre a*td rhyme. The
language is vigorous enough, and eloquent
on occasion, but it lacks the finer breath of
poetry.
That is exact criticism. Inconsistently,
Inglis Moore picks out one of the worst
statements put into metre and rhyme”
says it can “stand on its own poetic
Jeet”— but compare any Hugh McCrae
lyric about love with this cry of Bayle-
bridge s for a higher Australian birth-
rate, so oddly reminiscent of a poultry-
farmer calling up his flock:
Women’s holy bodies hither
Hail from every end of Earth—
Men, to help work out our whither,
Gainst that solemn-coming birth!
Bone we build on: haste to flood
Our clamoring Land with flesh and blood.
It is interesting, certainly ; it is vigor-
ous ; it is wise ; but it is not poetry. The
sonnet sequence is another matter. Here
there are lines that McCrae might envy:
Ai sight, yes, she illumed me—like a splendor
Hashed on the soul in some immaculate dream.
And lines that Brennan would have been
proud to own:
The quiet moon, immaculate of face,
Her silver pours —it floods the solemn fields;
The glimmering pastures lengthen into space.
There are flashes of magnificent poetry,
clear and assured. But, unfortunately,
there are not only lines that Wordsworth
would have been delighted to write:
there are lines that Wordsworth wrote:
or very nearly so. Sonnet LXXIV im
mediately Suggests Wordsworth’s “Sonnet
on Westminster Bridge”:
I walked our headland —for at dawn I woke—
And watched the city, proudly, like a queen,
Lift from her shoulders fair that marvellous
cloak
Where pearl and opal the pale silvers grain—
for Wordsworth observed
1 he city now doth like a garment wear
The beauty of the morning.
Baylebridge goes on:
Not the tranced heart of the impetuous world
More beauty dreams than now addressed these
eyes.
Wordsworth, too, saw a dreaming heart:
Dear God, the very houses seem asleep
And all that mighty heart is lying still
Baylebridge proceeds:
Soft as a vow, still as a banner furled,
Deep-hushed as orisons where breath has flown
To heaven in adoration.
And one cannot help recalling that
Wordsworth, not in the “Bridge” sonnet,
but in an evening piece, wrote:
The holy time is quiet as a nun,
Breathless with adoration.
These unmistakable echoes of Words-
worth seem to have escaped Inglis Moore,
but he deals at length with the more ob-
vious limitation to one’s appreciation of
“Love Redeemed” in Baylebridge’s frank
imitation of Shakspeare. “In truth, the
timbre of Baylebridge’s native originality
emerges slightly muffled out of his Shak-
spearean loudspeaker.” One can agree
with him that, despite the use of the
Shakspearean instrument, there speaks
“the authentic voice of a poet.” But one
cannot possibly agree that “actually, no
Australian poet is more individual and
vital.”
Baylebridge is clearly a poet at heart,
certainly a poet in occasional flashes of
execution, but he has failed in the great
test of developing an individual style.
How can a man come with pride to
poetry when he comes in another’s cloak?
We would not think highly of Shakspeare
if his best work consisted of first-class
narrative poems in imitation of Chaucer.
And so, one returns to McCrae;
I seek her in the labyrinthine maze
Of stars unravelling their golden chain,
And, from my cavern, mark the lightning blaze
A pathway for her down the singing rain.
McCrae—if it was the great song of
Homer or Shakspeare he sought—never
found her. Australia still awaits its Shak-
speare or its Whitman. We have never
had a major poet. But we have had one
lyrist to place beside Herrick and Suck-
ling, and that’s no mean achievement.
Inglis Moore carefully avoids coming
to any such conclusion abdut the superi-
ority of one of his poets to the others.
Six Australian Poets is intended to be a
persuasive book: to persuade his readers
that each of his six poets is of consider-
able stature, to argue that Australian
poetry can be judged by world standards,
and to stimulate interest in the works of
each of the six. As such —this article as
witness —it is successful. There are faults
of style when the author strains Tor
effect; faults of generosity; and, of
course (every critic says this about
another) incomprehensible lapses of
taste. But, on the whole, a discerning
book, an authoritative book, a valuable
book, and a pleasant one.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
sdfdsfds
o-
6-
A
O^A
6-'
<b
6-
&
:v-
-;C>
o
*
c>
4
6
a
s:
*o*
D
£
<C°
<9
b
v
6
O
&
6-
CK
O'
o
0
cX
b
,0
A
*v%<
o
O'
A
S 5
V
<>
b
O'
:<>
SP
0°
\
G>
3>
O
For Men
of Taste
High Grade Work Boots
Made from first grade, stout
oil grained leather, extra stout
Butt leather soles. Black and Tan. All
sizes. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, 27/6
6 Coupons Required.
“Sturdy Oak” Combination Overalls
Men's Hordura (Regd.) Combination Overalls.
Full cut, pockets everywhere. Strong British
Drills—all guaranteed to wear. At Anthony
Horderns'.
Navy. Prices 23/6, 26/6, 29/6
Khaki. Prices 18/9, 21/-, 26/6, 28/6
White. Prices 21/9, 28/6
8 Coupons Required.
Men’s Bib and Brace Overalls
Real huskies for wear. All seams sewn as strong
as we know how. Guaranteed to wear —all
necessary man sized pockets. All sizes up to
10i. At Anthony Horderns'.
Navy. Prices 13/9, 17/6, 21/-
Khaki. Prices ......... 13/9, 16/6, 18/6, 21/-
White. Prices 8/11, 11/6
6 Coupons Required.
■MS.
to
i
m
&
$
o
&
G
O-
$
&
&
£>
&
&
<2
<9
&
£
$
■
\<y \ Jv
CP
*
x>
Men’s Cotton Underwear
White ribbed cotton athletic under-
shirts in a serviceable weight, no
sleeves. Sizes: 34in. to 42in. chest.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price .. 2/6
7 Coupons Required.
Men’s Poplin Trunk Drawers
The garment for the coming warmer weather,
with elastic at sides of waist. Sizes: 32in. to 44in.
waist. At Anthony Horderns'. Price 4/11
7 Coupons Required.
Anthony
FAMOUS
Phone; M 2401 (Day and Night)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


THE PASSING OF JIM
By JOHN W. WELLS.
SOME men are born heroes who hide
their lights under a bushel, some
are born under a bushel of lights
and taken for heroes, and there are
others that are up-and-up heroes who
do dingbat things for limelight that sen-
sible folk wouldn’t do for all the rice in
Java, and there are those that aren’t too
brave at all who’ll do things knowing
that their next smoke may be rolled in
hell. Myself, I’m just one of those blokes
that kick around the bush doing things
that don’t matter a bit.
We at Upsandowns Outcamp thought
that Jim was like that too ; in fact, we
reckoned he was cheating the crows out
of a feed by being alive at all. Jeff, the
overseer, used to send him on all the
perishing rides he could find, hoping
perhaps that a newspaper account of
Jim’s corpse being found would put Ups-
andowns on the map. But the way Jim
did pass out at the finish ndver got into
the papers, and that’s why I’m telling this
now, and anybody who disbelieves —why,
they’ve only to come to Upsandowns
and we’ll show them Jim’s ghost still
pottering around as he did before it hap-
pened. The same old Jim with a mo like
a Chinese mandarin —same old broken-
mouth Jim with his knees bent as if his
body is too heavy for his legs, and the
same ability at the tucker table. The
same Jim except
It’s the except I’m going to tell you
about, or try to, not being up on facts
about the hereafter or spiritualdom. I’ll
tell you what I know about it and you
can judge for yourselves how Jim was
turned from an ordinary sheep bloke into
a ghost rider.
\X/E’D finished shearing, and we were
camped at Upsandowns putting the
jumbucks back into their paddocks,
which is nearly as big a job as mustering
for the shearing itself, because all the
offshears have to be drafted after being
turned out anyhow into the holding pad-
docks, 30 mile or so from their home
paddocks. After months spent on the
run with no cover except our Birkmyres
and no bunk other than a hip-hole dug
into the ground, we were glad to see the
old camp.
It was a good camp, Upsandowns,
hidden away from the duststorms in a
thicket of snakewoods, fairly good drink-
ing water in the well only a couple of
chains away, good drafting yards and a
smithy for shoeing. We rode in one night
with the moon making the camp roof like
a lighthouse beacon which we had headed
for the last two hours of the ride. We
were worn out after a big day, and most
of us were riding with reins over the
kneepads and half asleep in the creaking
saddles.
That was how Sid came a beaut when
his horse shied at a little building just
inside the camp fence. We others just
had time to grab our strings or we would
have been beside him on the ground too.
We cursed, but we couldn’t blame the
horses for shying at the black shadow
that the new building threw.
We were too tired that night to feel
anything about the new building. The
babbler soon had everything ready for
us, and we went to sleep as soon as we’d
put it away. But we tossed our beds
down a long way from that new hut.
Our antipathy to that building was born
and bred through our living with the
things of nature. Animals and birds and
insects constitute our God’s bible ; we've
learnt to trust the instincts of dogs and
horses, and that was why we trampled a
new horse track into Upsandowns, so that
we didn’t have to pass the new building.
I T must have been a month or maybe
* two months after. We were shoeing
horses when Sid says—just for something
to say, mind you—“l wonder what’s in
that new hut.”
“Don’t you be quizzy, Sid,” says I.
Sid spat into the forge. “I’m going to
have a dekko this afternoon,” he said.
Jeff finished clipping the shoes, then
he says “Righto, Sid, I’ll go with you.”
He and Sid shook hands on the deal,
and Sid says “Good on you, Boss. We
can see through that funny little window
at the end.”
Muldoon and I and Jim and Curly
Main argued with them against the busi-
ness, and nearly thought we had changed
their minds, but Sid ups and says, very
wild, “I’m not going to let a hut bluff
me,”
We waited anxiously until they came
back from the hut. They both looked as
important as if they had just inherited a
station, and Jeff says “It’s all right, you
blokes ; it’s only a X-ray plant.”
We looked at Jeff as dumb as carpet
snakes until he explained. “A X-ray
plant is a thing that they use to look into
your guts with for ten guineas.”
We left it at that, although we couldn’t
make out what it was doing at Upsan-
downs.
Now Jim always had funny intestines.
If he ate too much bad meat or ropy
damper or greasy spuds he would always
get sour, and all he could eat for days
after was tobacco. Every time he saw
an advertisement for pills or tonic he
would read the symptoms and reckon he
had the disease they could cure. That
sour stomach cost him many a quid. He
didn’t ever mention the X-ray, but he
often said that he would like to see inside
his internals, so one day Muldoon pro-
posed to him to use the one in the new
hut.
Jim didn’t like peeling his clothes off
any more than we other blokes did. He’d
had them on so long that if he took
them off he mightn’t know how to put
them on again. However, after Jeff told
him that the rays wouldn’t go through
dusty and sweaty clothes, he peeled off.
I’ve never seen a skinned bungarra,
but if I saw one it would look just like
old Jim did naked. There was a scared
look on his dial, and we were a bit scared
too ; it was quite possible that Jim was
going to his doom in that hut, but he
was game. We shepherded him to the
door of the little hut, and all shook his
hand and told him good-bye. At the last
minute Jeff tried to make him renege,
but Jim swallowed his Adam’s apple,
pulled at the door and was gone.
Sid and Jeff rushed to the little slotted
window thing, and we others peered
through chinks in the weatherboards.
It was fairly dark inside the hut, and
It was a while before we could get
used to it. The first thing I saw was
Jim standing there and looking slowly
around as if he expected something to
jump at him at any moment. He looked
for a long time at a shiny thing on the
wall, then he looked up at the roof and
stared as though he was seeing a ewe
with quadruplets. I couldn’t see what he
was gazing at from where I was, but Mul-
doon could ; he whispered hoarsely along
to me “Faith, an’ it’s the Ray lamp he’s
seein’.”
I watched Jim, and I’d never seen a
gamer shivering bloke in all my life.
Then I saw his hand reach to the glit-
tering thing on the wall. He’d decided
to get it over, thinking no doubt that
it would be better to be dead than suf-
fering with sour bowels.
None of us rightly knows what hap-
pened next. One minute Jim was touch-
ing the shiny jigger on the wall and the
next there was a howling, crackling roar
and poor Jim disappears amongst the
noise.
I closed my eyes and ran and stumbled
into Muldoon’s camp-oven hole, got up
again and headed for the snakewoods,
where I lay panting and not daring to
look at the infernal hut for quite a while.
When I did there was no sign of any-
body. “Heaven save us,” I said to myself,
thinking at the time that the horror had
taken all my cobbers.
I was just ready to bolt again when I
saw a white face poked out from behind
a snakewood to my left. It was Sid.
“Where’s the others?” he bawls; then
scared faces begin to poke out from
behind the trees.
Curley was trying to roll a smoke with
wobbly hands when Jeff, looking towards
the hut with mouth and eyes wide open,
screams “Gripes, look.” We all looked,
and Curley’s smoke dropped out of his
hand, my knees quivered and Muldoon
vanished behind his snakewood again.
From the hut and running towards us
was a black stream of liquid.
“ Tis the blood of Jim,” moaned Mul-
doon from his tree. We looked at the
ooze coming, and we were frozen stiff
with fright. Then The Thing came out,
white and shiny and waving its arms
at us.
We were off, like yallabiddies before
a bushfire. We fell over dead branches
and spinifex clumps, into potholes and
gypsum yabbers, but we had to stop at
last owing to petering out of breath. We
camped in the bush that night, cold and
hungry and scared.
M EXT morning at dawn we sneaked
1 N back to Upsandowns like bungiddies
coming up to a trough. We’d worked
the wind into our faces so that we could
sniff for danger, and the first thing we
smelt was curry. Then we saw The Thing,
dressed in Jim’s clothes, pottering around
the fireplace outside the camp.
Besides having Jim’s clothes on it had
his mandarin mo as well. In fact, it
was like Jim in all ways, except that
ghost look about it—face all shiny and
white, and hair hanging down over the
face like a blackboy whiskers.
We lay in the dry grass for a spell,
watching The Thing. We were as quiet
as mice until Muldoon got some ant bites
and cursed. The Thing looked over to
where we were and waved its hand,
beckoning us.
It was near dinnertime before we were
burned out by the sun and hunger and
thirst making us fit to tackle the spooki-
est ghost ever.
Sid says “Damn the ghost; I’m going
to have a feed.”
You’ve seen how boomers will send
the joeys into a trough first to see if it’s
safe before they go in themselves. Well,
that’s how we let Sid go in. As he stood
up Curley asked him could he have his
Wieneke saddle if the ghost got him.
Sid walked over like a bird to a snake
when it’s mesmerised. He went straight
into the hut and he came out with a plate
which he filled at the fireplace. We could
see the steam rising, and the temptation
was too much for us.
V\J E’VE been living with The Thing ever
v v since. We call it Jim through habit,
and 1 think that if it didn’t visit that
little hut at nights like we’ve seen it do
we could learn to trust it like we used
to the old Jim.
We’re riding into the homestead next
week with some stragglers. Jeff wants to
ask the boss about Jim, and it’ll be good
to see the homestead again. They must
have had some rain down there because
the boss rang Jeff the other day and asked
him how he liked the shower. It’s a bit
early for showers, only being September.
“A shower?” says Jeff. “Have you
had one?”
The boss laughed and says “Yes,
haven’t you?”
Jeff replied “No,” and we all won-
dered why the boss laughed so much as
he rang off.
YOU KNOW NOW
By CHRISTOPHER INMAN.
VOU often saw them in the old days
before you enlisted and went away.
They’d be camped along the water-
holes of the Diamantina or some
western creek with a few head of horses
and maybe a dog or two. You wondered
why they lived their lives like this.
If you talked to them their talk was
mainly of grass and horses; they knew
all the odd corners where the grass grew
sweet and fresh after a few drops of
rain, and the best places in the sandy
creekbeds to find a soak from which
to bail water in a dry time. Some-
times when men were scarce some
sheep-drover would entice them into
working a week or two for him,
but they never stayed longer than they
could help, and all the time they were
away they wondered if their horses were
all right, or if the Bally mare had found
the place in the corner of the common
where the fence was down and had
crossed in to the station country.
Mostly their whole lives seemed to
centre round their horses, even though it
had been years since they had pulled
into their present camps by the creek
and the wheels of their buggies or light
wagonettes were gaping open in the sun,
or the stuffing had long since rotted out
of their pack-saddles.
Sometimes when you were pushing the
packhorses out to the ’Weal again to
wait for the next droving season you
would pull up at some little township
along the route to rest the horses and to
spend the last of the droving cheque.
You would drive the packs into the
pub yard some time in the early after-
noon, trail the reins of the saddle horse
and step, stiff-legged, around to the broad
verandah in front. There’d be a “Good
day” to the odd lounger on the verandah
and the boss would stir himself sleepily
in his cane chair behind the bar and note
the dust on your clothes and leggings.
Then you’d buy a beer or two. He’d tell
you where the best grass was, and you’d
say that if it was good enough you might
stay a few days. Then you’d step over
to the store and buy a loaf of real bread
and maybe some butter and a few
luxuries like that.
Down by the waterhole you’d unpack
the horses, picking a camp under a shady
old coolibah. While you were fixing the
camp you’d have the quart-pot boiling
by a bit of fire you’d scratched together
—you would decide on a proper fireplace
later —and it was almost an odds-on bet
that as you sipped the strong black tea
some old-timer would saunter over to the
camp carrying an old bridle.
He wouldn’t say much at first; he’d
probably eye the gear and packs, and
then maybe remark that it wasn’t a bad
sort of a bay horse you rode into town.
That was his camp you’d passed just
down the creek a bit. Yes, his horses
mostly ran on the top end of the com-
mon ; that’s where the sweetest picking
was. The fence round the common was
pretty good, though sometimes they left
the station gates open. Yes, he was going
out after his horses now. He always
brought them up to the camp once a day
just to see them. You never knew with
horses. Maybe he’d saddle up again in
a few days
Later he would come back driving
three or four mud-fat old horses in front
of him. They would hang around the
campfire trying to get away from the
flies and stir up the dust, and then at
sundown they would wander out along
the pad again, and you would turn your
own horses out that way too. On
your way up to the town that night
you would pass his camp, and perhaps
stop awhile to yarn of stock routes and
what the country was like further down
and hear about his horses.
You got to know a lot of those old-
timers as you came in each year with the
Alroys or the Avons or the Brunette
mobs, and then, after delivering the bul-
locks far down the Cooper or in New
South, made your lonely way back to
Boulia or the ’Weal. Generally you came
back on the inside track through Long-
reach, Winton, Kynuna and McKinlay
to the ’Curry or Dajarra because there
were more towns that way. Each year
you’d find these old-timers camped by the
same creeks or waterholes. You’d wonder
why they chose to live away out here
instead of near a decent town in the south
or on the coast. It wasn’t because they
had no money ; they nearly all had a few
quid socked away, and living would have
been cheaper “inside,” Some of them,
you knew, had sons or daughters in
decent jobs down below. But if you
asked them why they chose to live so
far out they wouldn’t tell you ; maybe
they’d just mumble in their beards and
stamp away.
You wondered about them until the
other day. It was two years since the
crowded transports sailed down the bay;
two years in which you had cherished a
memory and a hope. But now that you
have returned you know that all that is
left for you after the war is a camp on
some far-off creek.
Action.
This is your hour.
When the barrage lifts,
Forward!
Behind the tanks,
A shadow in the monsters’ shadows.
And kill.
Kill.
Forget that his face is young ;
Forget terror, bitten deep in a young face.
Forget that he has loved,
Forget his woman, dreaming at this hour.
Forget a child, laughing in a grey house.
Forget time, fading from his eyes.
And his idiot stare, greeting eternity.
Kill.
You are a mortal god,
Tearing the web of fate.
Mercy is not in you.
Let hate sweep over you,
A black rain on white snow.
And strike,
Lest he, the foe, strikes
And you die.
Chisel desire to a red stone of hate.
And forward!
With winking death cold on your bayonet.
A.I.F.
JOHN QUINN.
The Tempest.
Washed by what waves to pearl, these eyes?
Changed to what coral these sea-strewn,
Sea-shifted bones, once intimately
Held heart to heart, known, understood;
Now fathom five, remote, alone,
Uncared for by the incurious sea?
Sailor, young man, is this not strange?
Sang the sea-nymph to the second lieutenant.
And the wind blew back no answer.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


THE ROAD WINDS UPHILL ALL THE WAY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.O.}, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
FRANK FORDE'S FOLLY.
In announcing that five of the 16
members “or associates” of the Australia
First Movement who were interned early
in March had been released at his in-
stance, Dr. Evatt gave evidence of being
troubled in his mind. He said he had
“made a careful independent examina-
tion of the cases,” and had had the five
liberated on the day liberation was
recommended by “the advisory com-
mittee,” to which body they had appealed.
He invited other members “or associates”
still detained to lodge appeals without
insisting upon a public hearing, which
was prohibited by National Security regu-
lations ; it was “regrettable” that this
had been insisted upon, for there was
“reason to believe that some of the
appeals might have succeeded.” When
all appeals had been disposed of he would
“place before Parliament as full and frank
an account of the facts and proceedings
as is consistent with national security.”
The Attorney-General’s statement sug-
gested, at least to cynics, a lively antici-
pation of a hot debate at Canberra and
a desire to take some of the heat out of
it in advance. But the responsibility
for the internments does not rest on Dr.
Evatt’s shoulders. They were ordered
by the Army Minister, Mr. Forde, a few
days before the Attorney-General left for
Washington. Dr. Evatt did not come
into the picture until he had taken up
his duties again at Canberra. It having
by that time become evident that Mr,
Forde had got himself and the Govern-
ment into a dreadful mess, control of
internment cases was transferred from
bis department to Dr. Evatt; and while
Mr. Forde remains Army Minister —a
position to which he brought neither
aptitude nor training, unless service on
the anti-conscription front in the last war
can be counted as such —it will not be
switched back.
First mention of the Australia First
cases was made by Mr. Blackburn in the
House on March 25. That devotee of
the Four Freedoms intimated that he had
protested against the right of public meet-
ing being denied to the Australia First
Movement, which, “so far as I have
been able to discover, operates only in
New South Wales,” by N. S. Wales Police
Commissioner Mac Kay, now Director-
General of Security or something, con-
sequent upon attempts to break up its
meetings by plug-uglies from the water-
front and other haunts of Communists.
Mr. Blackburn did not say this, but he
said that “15 members of the Australia
First Movement” had been interned
“after the House rose last month.” He
refused to believe that any of the 15 “or
any other Australian-born person” sym-
pathised with Japan, adding that he had
“consistently taken a position in this
House and elsewhere that persons, par-
ticularly those who are Australian-born,
should not be imprisoned without trial
on the mere suspicion that they had com-
mitted offences.” He put it to the House
very pertinently that enemy spies and
agents were not recruited from the ranks
of persons “engaged in addressing public
meetings and openly opposing Govern-
ment policy,” as the Australia-Firsters had
done in the exercise of “the free expres-
sion of opinion, a valuable safety valve.”
Mr. Forde gave his version on March
26 in reply to a member’s question, obvi-
ously prearranged. He made it as sen-
sational as he could, and Sydney papers
in reporting him improved the shining
hour: one decorated the full width of its
front page with the headline “Spy Murder
Plot Alleged ; Gang of 20 Caught, Says
Forde.” That gentleman declared that
“twenty persons—nineteen men and one
woman—who are believed to have been
associated with the so-called Australia
First Movement have been arrested and
interned.” Documents “indicating a Fifth
Column activity of the worst kind” had
been seized —in which State pr States and
on whose persons or premises he did not
disclose. The documents set out
“elaborate plans for sabotage”; for
treasonable contacts with Japanese in-
vaders, who were to be welcomed to
this country, as “friends and liberators,”
and for “the assassination of prominent
people.” “We shall stand no Quislings,
whether they come from the highest or
the lowest,” Mr. Forde thundered in
conclusion.
A very excited debate followed. Public
trials were demanded by members; and
Mr. Curtin promised that “the whole
processes of the law will be invoked.”
It was suggested that the charge should
be high treason and the penalty, on con-
viction, death. Mr. Hughes intimated
that if his name was on the assassination
list he would get in first. He declared
that “the real purpose of the Australia
First Movement is to prepare the way
for the coming of the Japanese,” and that
“the men who started the movement in
New South Wales sent their spies and
shock troops” to Westralia. “They”
(“the men who started the movement in
New South Wales”) “still walk the
streets.” “No,” Mr. Forde interposed;
“the bulk of the internments have been
in New South Wales.”
There were no treason trials. The
only persons placed in the dock were
three men and a woman, all little-known
Westralians, and the charge was con-
spiracy, the Crimes Act, theme of a
thousand Labor attacks, being invoked
for the purpose. The principal wit-
ness was a rolling stone in police
employ who admitted Communist con-
nections. The woman and one of the
men were acquitted (in this man’s case,
it was admitted by the police that “for
at least 10 days after he was first de-
tained he was not served with a Minis-
terial detention order”); the others were
found guilty and sentenced to imprison-
ment for three years (Bullock) and two
years (Williams). Counsel for the con-
victed men said they would appeal on
two grounds: (1) the verdict was against
the weight of evidence ; (2) the sentences
were too severe.
Dr. Evatt now declares himself satis-
fied that “there was no guilty association
between members of the Australia First
Movement in New South Wales and a
group of the same name in Western Aus-
tralia,” which may be taken to mean that
there was no association whatever. Mr.
Forde could have satisfied himself
on the same point, very important
to the N, S. Wales Australia-Firsters,
months ago, but evidently he didn’t
bother. If he did, he concealed his con-
clusion, if any, from Parliament and the
public. In one of Parliament’s thought-
less moments, this Minister —as the
N.S.W. Chief Justice put it in the case
of Mrs. Pankhurst Walsh—was invested
with “arbitrary powers over the life and
liberty of every Australian citizen,
members of Parliament included,” and
he doesn’t seem to have ever realised
that it was a most serious matter to take
away the reputations, livelihoods and
liberties of these Australia-Firsters and
hold them in custody without trial.
All Mr. Forde’s references to their case
were disingenuous or worse. Tackled in
the House on June 2, he protested that
“in March last I said ‘some members of
this organisation have been responsible
for certain actions.’ ” He drew no such
distinction. He tarred all the internees
with the same brush. In his second (and
last) reference to them in March, he said
“The members of the Australia First
Movement have been interned because
the Government is mindful of the neces-
sity for vigilance.” “Charges,” he added,
“will be made against these men, and
they will be given an opportunity to
answer them.” June 2 found him saying
that “many of those who have been in-
terned have lodged appeals and I have
given instructions that the hearings are
to be expedited ; I was informed today
that 16 typists had been put on to hurry
the work forward.” How much expedi-
tion there was Dr, Evatt’s statement,
made twelve weeks later, has shown.
In the cases of the Communists
Thomas and Ratliff, expedition was
the order of the day. Mr. Forde had
them out a fortnight after he became a
Minister. Yet, unlike the N.S.W. Aus-
tralia-Firsters, these Russia-Firsters had
been convicted and sentenced. They had
been caught running a secret propaganda
factory, directed against “the imperialist
war” and against recruiting for the A.1.F.,
they and their confederates being engaged
in beating up recruits for the Communist
party. Interned after they, had served
their sentence, they went before an
appeals tribunal headed by a Judge,
the Government of the day having sur-
rendered to that extent to the Demands
of Communists and their fellow-travellers.
The tribunal’s report was very unfavor-
able to the fellows and their application.
Mr. Forde set them free in spite of it.
Afterwards Communists bragged in
their evil and lawless press, giving a list
of names in contempt of Mr. Curtin and
the censorship and attacking the owners
in the argot of the gutter, that the Aus-
tralia-Firsters had been interned on in-
formation supplied by them. It will be
Parliament’s duty to determine how
much truth, if any, there was in this
boast. For obviously the whole black
business, which should be the end of Mr.
Forde as Army Minister, will have to
be referred to a Select Committee.
"The Australian News."
Mr. Menzies, speaking in Hobart:
Every time I have listened to the Can-
berra news session it has, in my opinion,
consisted almost entirely of Government
propaganda.
Who will differ from Mr. Menzies?
Senator Ashley, the Postmaster-General,
will have a shot at it:
The Canberra news is merely a continua-
tion of the A.B.C. news service, which has
been organised over a number of years,
except that the service today is transmitted
from a greatly increased number of
stations —all national and commercial
stations in Australia. The news is prepared
by the A.B.C.’s own news staff, and the
Government has no part in its selection
or compilation.
Only a plainly interested party Minister
would attempt to defend stuff put over
in A.B.C. “news sessions” as news. Any-
one tuning in on the very morning that
Senator Ashley’s “Reply to Attack on
A.8.C.” was published would have heard
“This is the Australian news” and
these items:
(1) An announcement by the Minister
for Customs, Senator Keane, that the
Rationing Commission proposed provid-
ing extra coupons for workers whose occu-
pations were extra hard on clothes.
(2) The Attorney-General, Dr. Evatt, had
announced that he intended making re-
forms which would expedite the hearing
of appeals against internment.
(3) The Minister for War Organisation,
Mr. Dedman, had announced that waste
caused by unnecessary packing was to be
stopped; among other things, cartons would
not be used for some of the present purposes.
(4) The Prime Minister, Mr. Curtin, had
announced that the great £100,000,000 War
and Austerity Loan campaign would be
launched in September.
(5) The Treasurer, Mr. Chifley, had men-
tioned the Government’s new entertainment
tax proposals when referring to the forth-
coming Budget.
(6) Under National Security regulations,
an order had been issued prohibiting the
opening of hotels in Victoria before
10 a.m.
(7) The Minister for Commerce, Mr.
Scully, had made a statement on the pool-
ing of labor for agricultural work.
(8) The Minister for Commerce, Mr.
Scully, had announced that the ban on
Werribee beef was to be lifted at once.
That was the “Australian news” from
Canberra on Tuesday, August 25. With
slight variations the same dull output of
departmental propaganda, plus a few sen-
tences about the war, a change forced
recently by indignant public protests, had
been the “Australian news” from Can-
berra every day for months. Up to a
point it could be defended as “news,” but
nobody can pretend that it was not also
departmental propaganda at its monoton-
ous worst. Whether under direction or
not, it quite obvious that the “A.B.C.’s
own news staff,” fatuously defended by
Senator Ashley, interpreted its role in the
scheme of things as purveyor of depart-
mental propaganda, and of little else.
It had not even the virtue of being
clever or useful propaganda. As
propaganda, nothing could have 'been
more crude and clumsy. It left the
impression—no doubt most unfair —of a
collection of Ministers all striving to hog
the limelight. Listeners to it must have
felt that the chief difficulty troubling the
“A.B.C.’s own news staff” was the safe
apportioning of shares in the valu-
able six or seven minutes of the “news
session” according to respective Ministers’
importance or vanity.
If Senator Ashley’s “defence” could be
accepted, and the “A.B.C.’s own news
staff” at Canberra held to be quite out-
side Government control or influence,
there would be only one thing to say
about it —that it should be sacked on the
spot, and a more competent news staff
appointed. Probably it is a thoroughly
competent staff, merely doing the job it
knows very well it has to do. Just as
likely there is no cure for it and its
“news service.” What is chiefly to blame
would seem to be a fundamental miscon-
ception of what is news. This has been
the death of one Labor paper after an-
other over the years. They have been
conducted on the fallacious idea that
party propaganda should predominate in
a party newspaper. Even staunch party
supporters refuse to subscribe for- very
long—except under compulsion—to such
“newspapers,” and sooner or later the
propaganda sheets go bung.
For all Senator Ashley’s, or anybody
else’s, defence of it, that is true of the
so-called “news session” from Canberra
under the present Labor Government. It
is so bad that there is daily astonishment
for anyone who, after listening in to the
“Australian news,” looks into a daily
newspaper and finds what a wealth of
real Australian news has, as usual, been
overlooked by the Canberra “news staff.”
Indefensible as a “news session,” the
service might possibly be defended as
necessary employment of an incompar-
ably effective instrument of propaganda;
but for this defence to hold it would
need to be shown that the propaganda
was helpful to Australia’s war effort, not
merely to politicians engaged—like quite
a lot of other unpublicised people—in
that effort. On the sample day here used
for demonstration—August 25; com-
pletely typical—there was mention of
nothing except departmental doings. The
“news staff” did not move once out of
the precincts of Government departments
or out of the hearing of Ministers. There
was not even a passing reference to the
war in the Pacific. There was no men-
tion of air attacks on Darwin, about
which newspapers had long and genuine
news stories. The whole effect of the
“news session” was to make it appear
that the little —mostly routine and un-
inspiring—doings of certain Ministers
were of paramount importance, tower-
ing over everything.
The plain truth about the “Australian
news service” from Canberra is that it
has long been a dull joke. It has
had a hearing for only one reason —that
it is, as Senator Ashley innocently
pointed out, a Government monopoly.
If there were any choice —if there were a
news service in competition with it —the
departmental propaganda from Canberra
would not have a dozen listeners in the
whole Commonwealth.
Communist "Demands."
Dr. Evatt was present at the British
Labor party’s annual conference in Lon-
don. Possibly he has been too busy with
other matters to give his colleagues an
account of the proceedings ; but if Cabi-
net feels itself obliged to consider the
Communist agitation for a Second Front
in Europe This Year (“Tell Curtin to
Demand it!”) and for the lifting of the
ban on the “party” and its publications,
the Attorney-General should reveal the
reactions of delegates to similar Demands
in Britain.
The Communist clamor for a Second
Front was icily dismissed by the chair-
man, Mr. George Gibson, as a stunt.
“With all that has happened,” he said,
“we prefer the strategy of Whitehall to
that of Fleet-street or Trafalgar-square.”
Removal of the ban on the “Daily
Worker” was put to a card vote and
carried by a narrow majority—l,244,ooo
to 1,231,000. It was opposed by the party
executive, but eleventh-hour support from
the Mineworkers’ Federation and other
big unions with mischievous Red minori-
ties decided the issue. However, the win-
ners got no change out of the debate.
Said a representative of the Railway
Clerks’ Association:
No one could accept the word of anyone
responsible for the “Daily Worker.” In
1940, when the enemy was only 20 miles
away, the “Daily Worker” was inciting men
in our forces to desert. When Communists
demonstrate for a Second Front, it is in-
teresting to note that about 90 p.c. of the
young demonstrators are not in the forces.
Said James Walker, M.P.:
If the British people had followed the
advice of the “Daily Worker” there would
have been no munitions for Russia when
the war broke out there. When our men
were standing on the Dunkirk beaches,
and we called to the people of this country
to rescue them, out came the “Daily
Worker” denouncing the war and telling
the people that their sons and brothers were
fighting a capitalist war in the interests of
the plutocracy of Britain. How do we
know, if things change in the east, they
will not do the same thing again?
Labor co-operation with members of
the Communist party, forbidden by a
long-standing resolution, was also put to
a card vote. This was too much for
even some of the unions which were for
republication of the “Daily Worker,” and
it was defeated by a tremendous major-
ity—l,B99,ooo to 132,000.
Again Mr. Walker, M.P., was among
the speakers. He was sarcastic at the
expense of “Harry Pollitt and his harle-
quins,” whose shift from opposition to
“the imperialist war” to support for “the
holy war and the national Government”
he described as “the most miraculous
conversion since the days of St. Paul.”
For years the Communist party has been
bitterly opposed to the Labor party. There
can be no co-operation with it; the gulf
between a dictatorship and democracy is
too wide and deep.
In the same robust strain spoke a Mr.
Protheroe, a delegate from Neath:
We cannot forget 1939, when the Com-
munists first supported the war, then over-
night converted it into a war of Imperial-
ism. In June, 1941, the war was converted
overnight into a workers’ war. Can we
understand such people? Don’t let us for-
get that for two years we fought against
Hitlerism alone. When our homes were
bombed the Communist party worked upon
poor homeless people in order to demand
that there should be a pact of peace with
Hitler.
Save that “Australian” Communists
have lacked opportunities of preaching
sedition in bomb-wrecked or -fired homes,
everything said by these British Labor


delegates is applicable to their “party*
and its poisonous press.
With the consent of his Conservative
colleagues. Home Secretary Morrison is
permitting the “Daily Worker” to come
out again, provided it gives no further
cause for action. He curtly intimated to
the management that “if there should be
systematic publication of matter calcu-
lated to foment opposition to the prose-
cution of the war to a successful issue,”
the embargo will go on again. This is
no precedent for Canberra to follow, for
in the case of the “Daily Worker” there
was no deliberate defiance of the law.
In other words, it was not published sur-
reptitiously. There has been surreptitious
publication of Communist rags outlawed
in Australia, and this wilful defiance of
the Government and the censorship has
been accompanied by wicked attacks on
soldiers and private citizens, as well as
by a ceaseless outpouring of vicious
propaganda, virulently anti-Australian.
Though Mr. Ward is a patron of Com-
munists, the Government has no warrant
for throwing the mantle of its protec-
tion over the Communist press or the
Communist party. Its duty is to enforce
the law which has been defied, and to
protect this democratic Commonwealth
against its enemies, not only foreign hctt
internal
PLAIN ENGLISH
Back to Japan!
By last Friday, when the War Council
met at Canberra, all the petty censor-
ship wrangling, the contests in political
Billingsgate and the wild threats of an
early election had vanished into thin air
—at least for a timer
The meeting was “harmonious.” Mr.
Hughes, who had made an unpardonable
attack on “our military leaders” and in-
dulged in other political stunting, had
apparently been pardoned. For Ms part.
he’d apparently forgiven all —for a time.
Probably all hands—the politicians in-
dulging in the luxury of mutual abuse
and political limelighting, and the stunt
newspapers egging them on and belting
up their paltry performances into national
“sensations” —had been suffering from a
passing attack of springtime madness-.
All was quiet on the Canberra front.
Elsewhere things were anything but quiet.
The Japanese had brought off another
landing in New Guinea, on the south-east
tip, 420 miles from the Australian home-
land. They had bombed Broome after
having had another shot at Darwin.
From the Solomons came news of heavy
damage done to Jap naval and ’plane
counter-offensive forces, and from fronts
in Australia’s North there was other
news of numbers of Jap ’planes destroyed
and successful anti-Jap bombing.
In the general picture there was much
that was heartening; but the fact stood
that, with the new landing in New
Guinea, the Japs had come closer stiff.
Beyond that, implicit alike in the Jap
successes and the successes against them,
towered the greater and more significant
fact that this menacing enemy is power-
ful and resourceful and enterprising to
the point of recklessness.
At Milne Bay he found the Aussies,
under Major-General Clowes, ready for
him with a well-planned counter-attack.
Australia learned with a thrill of pride
that its sons were driving the invader to
his ships- In this they had the help of
American and Australian airmen—a part-
nership of proved worth,
Milne Bay and the Solomons have
demonstrated that the Japanese can be
defeated. But to defeat them calls for
the very greatest effort and the very
closest unity of which Australia and Aus-
tralians are capable, together with the
maximum effort of the U.S.A. and others
with like interests.
The job is enough to sober more than
stunting politicians and stunting news-
papers, now and until it is done.
It Can Happen Here!
Eight months ago nobody would have
imagined that a native-born Australian
who served on Gallipoli could be in-
terned and ruined, in business as well
as reputation, without being placed on
trial on any charge, and under a Labor
Government at that! But it can happen
here* It has happened here!
The case of Harley Matthews, returned
soldier, condensed:
B-. North Sydney, 1889; father, h- Grafton
(N S.W.) of British parents; mother, b-. Con-
cord (N-S.W.) of Australian-born parents,
On August 26, 1914, I enlisted m the 4th
Battalion, A.1.F., for service abroad, landing
on Gallipoli on April 25, My name
was mentioned in General Walker s dispatches.
Subsequently I was evacuated to England alter
being wounded. After a period m hospitals 1
was returned to Australia and discharged as
medically unfit in January, 1918. .
In March, 1918, 1 joined the editorial staff
of the “Sun” newspaper. In October ot mat
year was published a volume of short stones
written by me entitled Saints and Soldiers, inis
work has been described by Mr. H. M. Green,
of Sydney University, as the one piece ot
writing really depicting the Australian soldier
a s jjg is. » ,
In 1922 I went on the land and established
a vineyard at Moorebank (N.S.W.J, where I
have resided ever since. ,
About 4.30 a.m, on March 10 I was awak-
ened by two men. They said they were police
detectives and had a warrant to search my
house for literature and documents connected
with the Australia First Movement. I told
them that I did not belong to tire movement,
but I assisted them to go through my corre-
spondence, manuscripts and books. I searched
for and handed them letters and a book which
I thought might be relevant to the matter they
were investigating.
Eventually the noise awoke my mother, who
has been living with me for 10 years. The two
men told us that they would have to ask me to
come with them into Liverpool for questioning
by a special magistrate. I asked could I not
go in later as I had wine in the process ot
brewing and a batch of grapes was going
through the process of pressing. They told me
that 1 would be wanted only for a few hours and
that I would be home by noon that day at
the latest. Accordingly I proceeded with them
to Liverpool, where 1 was immediately lodged
in the ceils at the police station. About 1 p.m.
the same day I was led out and handed ovei
to two other men who removed me to an
internment camp, where I have been ever since.
I have never been a member of the Aus-
tralia First Movement or taken any part in its
activities. 1 have always been and still am a
loyal subject of his Majesty the King. Ever
since the outbreak of war with Japan I have
agreed with the defence policy of the present
Commonwealth Government, and I have never
uttered or written any statement in variance
with that policy. . .
Because of my arrest and imprisonment a
large quantity of wine on my Riverside vine-
yard has become spoiled and unfit for use and
a large quantity ol grapes went unharvested.
Since my imprisonment the Liverpool Coun-
cil has served me with a summons for the re-
covery of rates, and through my not being able
to dispose of my grapes and collect moneys
owing to me I could not satisfy the debt and
am now informed that judgment has been
signed against me.
On the strength of this case of a Gal-
lipoli veteran, more of what Dr. Evatt
has started would seem to have some dis-
tance to go before it is fairly finished.
Diet and Dietitians.
“Strict Veg.” : A controversy has blazed
up in the moribund Victorian Parlia-
ment over a bill to register dietitians.
The notion is to provide protection for
the public against exploitation by quacks
and faddists, and it is proposed “to regu-
late and determine the status and practice
of persons engaged in giving treatment,
attendance or advice in matters of diet in
relation to health or in relation to
disease or ailment and in the man-
agement and supervision of food for
consumption by patients.” Since the Uni-
versity and similar institutions are the
recognised bodies for teaching the sub-
ject, the effect of the bill will be to give
these institutions a practical monopoly
of the business.
The measure was vigorously attacked by
Mr. Tunnecliffe and others, but most of
their criticism was beside the point. The
aim is to eliminate the quack, who
can do, and no doubt does, a lot of
damage. But important advances in diet
have been made by individuals who were
{Continued on Daee 8.)
ENTER AUSTERITY.


HOW TO KEEP FIT
you can’t keep fit if you suffer from
constipation. Constipation saps energy,
makes you feel tired and “off-colour.”
NYAL FIGSEN, the pleasant-tasting
laxative, ends constipation quickly and
naturally. Figsen is made from three
of Nature’s own laxatives—Figs, Senna
and Cascara. That’s why Figsen is NOT
habit-forming, and why it is equally
good for everyone. Figsen is one of 168
dependable NYAL FAMILY MED-
ICINES. Sold by chemists every-
where. 1/3 a tin.
■The next best thing to Nature . , .
NyaiFiffsen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
, VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
As a long satisfying drink, a liqueur, or as a base of your
favorite cocktail.
CLAYTONS
A *OU TONIC
iuct of CLAYTON BROS., London.
Agents: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
<r -*
*
m
☆
S
■o
THE No. 150 DEEP-SEATED
£9/15/3
(MOUNTED)
This saddle is
very good
value. It has
Kemp pads,
deep seat,
good long
pads and
short panel with leather
points.
A'.S.IF. freight on saddles
paid for cash with order.
WALTHER* STEVEMSOM IT?:
39S CEORCE ST. SYPMEY
thought to be quacks. One of the greatest
advances was made, not by a professional
but by James Cook, master of the En-
deavour. Before his time 50 p.c. or more
of deaths in ships’ crews from scurvy
was regarded as normal. Cook’s dis-
covery that lack of greens was the cause
of scurvy produced a revolution in ocean
travel. He took his ship round the world
without losing a single man from scurvy.
Would a Victorian Institute of Regis-
tered Dietitians recognise a sea captain
as an authority on dietary problems?
POLITICAL POINTS
Curtin didn’t send a Message to Ward,
as stated by a certain Alderman Frank
Green (a name with a very familiar
sound) at Ward’s Paddington meeting,
but Lang did. To prove it, Lang printed
it in his paper, together with “the full
text of Ward’s [mud-] Stirring Speech,”
spread over 13 15-inch columns. And
there was another column of guff with
this priceless bit:
A framed composite photograph of Mr.
Ward, Mr. Churchill, President Roosevelt,
M. Stalin arid General Chiang Kai-shek
was presented to Mr. Ward by the Mayor
of Paddington, Alderman W. Read.
Ward first. Let True Greatness be recog-
nised though the bottom fall out of
everything.
Canberra’s name for the newspaper-
men who gather about Curtin is “The
Menagerie.” To “The Menagerie” he
said last Thursday night;
When I referred in my statement in Bris-
bane to information the enemy had, as the
result of which he was able to cause naval
loss in the Solomons battle, I neither said
nor implied that this information was due
to anything any member of the War Ad-
visory Council had said.
Express as far as it goes, but not defini-
tive. Would any other person care to
fit the cap on his head?
Curtin has “co-opted” Page, who is
to attend not only Advisory War Coun-
cil meetings but War CabineF meetings.
In the latter case, of course, without a
vote. Objections have been muttered in
the neighborhood of both party rooms ;
but there is no sign of public dis-
approval ; on the contrary, the indica-
tions are people would welcome a
still ampler departure from precedent.
Maoriland Labor has shown the way.
Superfluous Premier Dunstan, who told
Victorians a few weeks ago that their
State would be Rooned if the one income
tax became law, told them last week
that they wouldn’t be Rooned after all.
On the contrary they could look forward
to a surplus of £85,000, and that with
land tax reduced by £135,000, grants to
hospitals and other institutions increased
by £200,000, all-round rises in the pay
of police and public servants and a scat-
tering of a great deal of money in other
directions. With a £600,000,000 Budget
in prospect, the Commonwealth would
love to be Rooned in the same propor-
tion.
The Dunstan surplus for 1941-42 was
estimated at £ll,OOO. Easy money came
in so profusely that the actual surplus,
according to Dunstan’s reckoning, was
£792,000. Before the accounts were pub-
lished, Cain, referring to a published
guess that the amount would be £150,000,
said it would be nearer £2,000,000; and
Lang’s estimate of the N.S.W. surplus,
stated at £894,000, was £4,000,000. Tax-
payers can only marvel and pray that
the truth will come out,
A complaisant State Labor Govern-
ment has permitted Sunday football to
be established in Sydney, with its accom-
paniments of brawling, betting and
booze, when bo*»ze can be got. The
Rugby League (secretary “Horrie” Miller,
of Aid Russia Committee notoriety) had
the face to stage a semi-final, in which
there were “flagrant breaches of the rules,
kicking and punching.” One husky was
off the field for an hour nursing kicked
ribs; another had a “gash in his head” ;
a third, sent to the pavilion for punch-
ing, had a tooth gouged out, a nearly-
shut peeper and a blood-bedabbled mug.
Rallying to the League’s cry of More
Footbrawl Than Usual, “7000 people
paid £428, a record for the ground.” Not
to Aid Russia, but to Aid Ruffianism, or
something.
If there is any sense of shame in
“Attack! Attack!” politicians and jour-
nalists, their ears must have reddened
at the American General Brett’s reference
in New York to “the rather pitiful con-
dition of troops who were daily under the
strain of combat in New Guinea.”
I immediately dispatched a young major
from the mainland to clean up the place,
an d his heroic effort provided suitable living
conditions and improved the quality of the
food. Every ’plane going there became a
carrier of luxuries. Within four weeks the
ANOTHER MYSTERIOUS TELEGRAM.
"It is ex pe c te d t hat Mr. La ng, who is n early 66, will go after the Labor nomination for
the Reid Federal seat Members of the Slate Cabinet and ‘Caucus generally’ would support
the transfer of Mr. Lang to Commonwealth politics.”
combat efficiency of the troops had im-
proved 100 p.c.
Every problem of tropical service should
have been worked out years ago. That
the whole thing should have been
neglected till the Americans came is
humiliating to Australia and a lasting dis-
grace to the politicians responsible and
the journalists who backed them up.
Fadden should keep going on the sub-
ject of compulsory unionism, and many
a unionist will feel grateful to him if he
gives a bit of time to the study of union
finance, particularly that of the Federated
Ironworkers. Men who join or are
dragooned into the Federated Iron-
workers pay an entrahce fee of 2s. ■and
Bs. 6d. a quarter. Part of the “considera-
tion” is “literature” written by Leftist
louts for Leftist louts.
Returning to their favorite pastime in
spite of three sets of prohibitory national-
security regs. and two codes, N.S.W.
coalminers to the number of 800 came
out on August 26. Below the report was
a London cable stating that 900 men
working a 45-hour week in a Leicester-
shire pit had made a production record
for the mine. These men and their mates
were recently granted a minimum wage
of £4 ss. Before they got it not half of
them made that amount, N.S.W. coal-
miners are supposed to work a 40-hour
week in five days of eight hours, which
usually means 36 hours from bank to
bank. And men on a good seam can
make five times £4 55., a wage that
wheelers would despise.
No Second Front editor, leader-writer,
football-league secretary, Federated Iron-
worker or “leading Communist speaker”
attended the Dieppe raid. Nor were the
last moments of any of the lads who
gasped out their lives on the sands
soothed by the Dean of Canterbury or
any other of those holy men who don’t
seem to care how much blood is shed
by men of their own race so long as they
die for the holy men’s mixture of politics
and strategy.
Ex-Senator Needham, now M.L.A. for
Perth, has been brooding on the High
Court judgment in the uniform-income-
tax case, and finds his occupation in
peril. With a heavy sigh, he said: “It
is now idle to talk of sovereign rights.
The States haven’t even half-sovereign
rights.” Unfortunately, unlike the half-
sovereign, they are still in circulation.
Curtin, Smuts and Fraser have been
invited to visit Washington, and Fraser
is already there. Our P.M. is not keen
on going, but go he should. If his party
is in such a state that it will fly apart if
he isn’t on hand to keep it together, it
doesn’t deserve to be kept together.
While the unburied body of the Duke
of Kent lay in the Windsor Castle chapel
named after his great-grandfather, and
while all decent people were respecting
the sorrow of the Court, a flapper-paper
came out with a story that the Princess
Royal’s younger son, aged 18, was in
luv with a Leeds Jewess, also aged 18
and wanted to marry her. Only a flapper
paper would have done such a thing ai
such a time, and the “Daily Mirror”
™ °? ence doubl y damnable by
publishing ‘romantic” interviews with
the pair of greenhorns, whose union
could--and would —be forbidden under
the Royal Marriages Act. The “Dailv.
Mirror sets standards for other flapper
papers. Now and then they rise above
gutter level.
Our P.M., an earnest man, is opening
his austerity and £100,000,000 loan cam-
paign (£23,000,000 is for conversion) to-
day- Tis not in Curtin to command suc-
cess, but he 11 do more, supporters say
--deserve it. However, the best contribu-
tion to austerity would be the adoption
of the J. M. Keynes plan applied to in-
come tax. Things that would help would
be a 20 p.c. tax on lottery prizes, the
80 p.c. to be payable in war bonds or
stock; abolition of all Parliamentary
committee fees for the duration and a
50 p.c. reduction in pay of all State
politicians.
“There is no exact Australian parallel
for an Opposition member attending War
Cabinet meetings.” No, and never
before has Australia had “an exact paral-
lel” to its present danger.
Correction:
In that par. about “sustenance” in Victoria
(B. _6/8/’42) H. P. Zwar, M.L.A. for Heidel-
berg, was described as a bootmaker. The Zwar
Concern (“tanners, curriers, japanners and
enamellers”) makes the Prestonite leathers.
By way of a question Heidelberg’s member ex-
tracted the information that in 1941-42 the
Sustenance Department handed out £113,537,
at an administrative cost of £10,249. This was
a bit more than £7OO per officer, not per person
in receipt of “sustenance.”
On a hero to war strikers, conchies
and Corns.:
In his mob oratory at Paddington, Ward
attacked the press, the Opposition, the banks, the
mineowners, Courts, bosses in general, 8.H.P.,
,C-A.C. (on the score of its unwillingness to
re-employ Rice, whose record he was careful
not to mention), and all his other aversions.
Every dollop of mud brought applause from
the packed meeting, mingled with hoots for
men singled out for abuse. But at one stage the
applause died down to nothing. The clumsy
speaker blurted out that his party had opposed
the formation of the A.1.F., and that its
“idea” was to “develop our industries to meet
our own requirements and to help meet the
wants of our allies” (in other words, to
make money out of their agony), “and at the
same time to build up and maintain an air
force, an army and a navy capable of keeping
these shores inviolate.” All this from a
politician who boasted of being a non-starter
in the last war, who bitterly opposed Defence
votes, who tried to get Defence Act obliga-
tions limited to “the continent of Australia,”
the defence of Papua and New Guinea to be
left to volunteers, if any, and who exerted
himself to save the skins of “conscientious
objectors on religious or other grounds” within
“the continent of Australia,” demanding that
even “when this country has been actually in-
vaded by a foreign foe” the service “required
from” conchies so defined “should be limited to
civilian service” —meaning, no doubt, a 40-
hour week at award rates for all species of
coldfooters, with double pay for Saturdays and
public holidays, and annual holidays. It
seems to have been too much for even a packed
meeting. Conscious of the sudden chill, Ward
stumbled on to another subject—the coal-
miners, serfs of “the Faddens, the Simon
Legrees of Australia.”


THE BRITISH NAVY USES EXIDE
The British Navy—from battleships to submarines—
places implicit faith in Exide Batteries for essential
equipment. Bear this in mind when buying a new
battery for your car, radio or home lighting plant.
Obtainable from dealers throughout Australia.
ItXldC BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOINS WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
- •
?. >;< .& p " *• • i _j
m
s»
K-aigr- -
H mm
mm
.
■ —a
*
1
k mSSScW*
m
PERSONAL ITEMS
A remarkable number of A.I.F. gen-
erals were invited to witness the march of
the 3500 present-war returned A.I.F.
through Melbourne, including Chauvel,
Witham, Jess, Tovey, Grimwade, Brand,
Caiman, Dodds, Wisdom, Bruche, Phil-
lips, Coxen, Fetherston, F. G. Hughes,
Johnston, Anderson, Griffiths, McGlinn
and Stewart. Hughes is the oldest at 85 ;
Harry Chauvel is 77.
An ex-bank clerk led the Melbourne
A.I.F. march—Brigadier Murray John
Moten, of Hawker (S.A.). Born 1899
he left Adelaide University to join the
State Savings Bank in 1916. His interest
in soldiering got him a commission in
the Senior Cadets in the same year. By
1936 he was in command of the 43rd-48th
Battalion, the first post-war officer to
attain this rank and appointment in Aus-
tralia. In 1940 he was commanding a
battalion in the Middle East.
Artist and art teacher John Samuel
Watkins (passed on in Sydney at 75) was
for many years past “Watty” or “Old
Watty” to thousands —a fair epitaph.
Short, square figure, uncommonly long
arms, rugged phiz of one who had been
a good boxer in his day, he was familiar
J. S. WATKINS.
to many apart from the 5000 or so
pupils (including H. A. Hanke and Nor-
mand Baker, the only N.S.W. winners
of the Archibald Prize) who had heard
him on his favored theme —that an artist
should learn his craft. With that as his
guiding principle, he lived to see the day
when a fried egg could be thrown at a
canvas, framed and called a work of art;
his comments on this development he
had a Carlylean hatred of all shams and
affectations —were pungent and fruity.
Born in England, “Watty” had already
got a grounding there in drawing and
painting before he came to Australia,
alone, at 16. He tackled a variety of jobs,
but still managed to provide himself with
an art training that included, eventually,
lessons at Colarossi’s and Julian’s in Paris.
Back again, he tried the Inky Way for
& while before opening an art school
that was to become a Sydney institution
for 40 years.
The airman Prince:
Killed when the Sunderland that was taking
him to Air Force duties in Iceland crashed 60
miles from its taking-off point in Scotland on
August 25, the Duke of Kent was definitely ot
his generation in his liking for planes and
flying. He transferred from the TSavy to the
R.A.F. for his war-time service. He’d become a
pilot in 1930, and in one year flew 40,000 miles
looking the R.A.F. over. With the Navy and
on trips he had seen most of the world the
Far East, South Africa and South America,
with a visit to Canada (flying the Atlantic) a
month of two before the war broke out. That
year (1939) his appointment as Governor-
General of Australia for two years was an-
nounced, but under the increasing threat of
war was held over, after a special residence had
been prepared at Canberra, and after those who
expected to make thundering profits out ot
the social stir had made thousands of appropri-
ate pictures, wall plaques and the like, and filled
shop windows with them. Born in 1902, George
the Fifth’s fourth son (the fifth, Prince John,
died in 1919), the Duke married at 31 Pnn-
cess Marina of Greece, who had spent most
of her life in exile, a beautiful and tragic,
now doubly tragic, figure. Two Australians
were among those who lost their lives in the
crash —Flight-Lieut. F. M. Goyen (b. Mel-
bourne, and in the R.A.F. since 1928; his
father lives at Shepparton, Victoria), who was
captain of the flying-boat; and Pilot-Officer
Sydney Wood Smith, of Sydney, who was
second pilot.
Flight-Lieutenant P. M. Goyen, the
Victorian who captained the Sunderland
in which the Duke of Kent was travel-
ling, had had previous experience of
piloting distinguished persons. He was
selected to convey Haile Silassie and
Anthony Eden to Egypt. He was twice
rescued from the sea, once off Algiers
and again in the Bay of Biscay; and he
had seen service in Gambia, Greece,
Crete and Nigeria.
Panthers, Bullfrogs, Gerties, etc.;
In the official announcement, Brigadier V. T.
England, D. 5.0., succeeds Major-General J. D.
Richardson as Corps Commander of the V.D.C.
in N. S. Wales. In unofficial pronouncement,
“The Black Panther” takes over from “Bull.”
Brigadier England was given the fear-
some handle by men lately serving with him
in the Middle East, a comment on his fighting
ferocity: a captain who was with him vouches
for “The Black Panther” grabbing a rifle and
bayonet and tearing out in front in a charge.
Major-General Richardson is one of several last-
war A.I.F. leaders to be' nicknamed “Bull ;
there were at least three other “Bulls” —Ryrie,
Antill and Kirkland. Bifdwood was, of course,
“Birdie” and Rosenthal “Rosie.” In this
gentler sort of nomenclature for old A.I.F.
leaders there were also a “Pansy,” a “Gertie
and a “Marjorie” (this - last, now a bar-
rister, a little chap with a singular gait and a
quite incomparable inability ever to keep in
step). Light Horse Col. Arnott had the obvious,
very widely known, handle of “Biscuits ;
General Iven Mackay is “Iven the Terrible”
(with special emphasis from those who have
been before him for a commission); and Re-
volver Tom” (Capt. Westbrook, a cousin ot
Bede Kenny, V.C.), “Sticky” Stevens and
“Jockey Jack” Hookway (old 2nd Batt. leadeis),
“Springheel Jack” (now a cathedral verger),
“Bill the Bouncer” (for his wretched horseman-
ship), “Bullfrog,” “Dugout Dick” and “The
Gutzer King” (one of the best-known of
all; a leading A.I.F. doctor, Col. Ryan, so
called for his drastic hand with malingerers)
were some others. General Walker, who com-
manded the Ist Aus. Divvy, was “Hooker
Walker (from the bend in his nose); a son
joined thp Navy, lost an arm, subsequently
wore a hook and so also became “Hooker
Walker. There was also one who was Bill
the ” to his crowd till they’d been into
action with him; then they gave him a bar to
it, “Bill the
Commander John Walsh, of the Can-
berra, is the only surviving son of Mrs.
and the late Richard Walsh, of Too-
woomba (Q.). The first son, Flight-Lieu-
tenant George Walsh, was- killed in the
1914-18 war, and Flying-Officer Richard
Walsh about six months ago in Darwin-
Commander Walsh and Lieut.-Com-
mander Max Hole (also of the Canberra,
and missing) were two of the three Aus-
tralian lieutenants chosen to sail on
H.M.S. Hood when she visited Australia
about 18 years ago. John was educated at
St. Mary’s C.B. College in Toowoomba,
winning the Queensland scholarship which
took him to Jervis Bay Naval College.
The two flying brothers never met—
George passed on about the time young
Dick was born.
Another good Duntroon product in
the A.I.F. is former South Australian
tennis star Ron Hone, lieutenant-colonel
commanding an A.I.F. artillery regiment
in the North. Gar Hone, also a tennis
star, and Brian Hone, who still holds the
S.A. public school’s record cricket score,
are brothers. In Lieut.-Colonel Hone s
unit, and attached, are Len Schwartz
(Davis Cup), Bill Mates (S.A. Linton
Cup), Ken Teasdale and Bill Simpson
(Melbourne pennant), and Dug Dunlop
(Riverina champion).
In dropping the Melb. Lud Mayorship
after a two-year term instead of the
almost statutory three-year, Frank
Beaurepaire is following his own notion
as to the ideal tenure of the office. He
was the right sort of civic head for the
Yarra City. He likes spectacles, and so
does Melbourne. In this the times were
against him, with parades and processions
more or less frozen for fear of air raids ;
but the march of returned A.I.F. men
fittingly ended his reign. He established
one precedent for future Lud Mayors.
The famous international swimmer
opened a new swimming pool m a
country centre by taking the fir t P
m The man who led the advance com-
mand in the Dieppe raid, Air ICommo-
dore Adrian Trevor Cole, C.8.E., M.C
was born at Glen Iris,
Melbourne. Now 47,
he was educated at
Geelong and Melbourne
Grammar, left school
to join the Aus. Flying
Corps in the last war
and ended captain and
M.C. In 1921 he joined
the R.A.A.F. as flight-
lieutenant and in 1926
commanded No. 1
Training School at
Laverton. Attending
the Imperial Defence
College, London, when
the present shindy
broke out, he returned
to become O.C. South-
ern Area, R.A.A.F.
Then to Egypt, where
he helped supervise the
defences of Tobruk and
Benghazi. When the
Dieppe raid was pro-
jected he was taken
from the fighter com-
mand to work out raid
plans under Lord Louis
Mountbatten, He is in
hospital now suffering
from head and shoulder
injuries.
Bob Hacket, retired from the editorial
chair of the “N.Z. Herald,” Auckland,
after a quarter of a century of it, is a
74-year-old Scot who cut his journalist
teeth as * a reporter on the Aberdeen
“Free Press.” He was 30 when he joined
the “N.Z. Herald” as chief reporter. A
fair-minded chap, well-liked by two
generations of colleagues, he succeeded
William Lane (disillusioned by an attempt
to found a Utopia in Paraguay) as editor
of the “Herald.”
Devon-born, John Edward Christopher
Stephens has no regrets for deciding to
invade Australia, He stepped ashore in
1922, was foui* years in Victoria without
getting anywhere in particular, then
joined the S.A. Fire Brigade as a fireman.
Now, at 42, he’s chief of the Brisbane
Brigade. He started off very young in
the other sort of fighting, getting himself
into the British Army at 15 and seeing
some service in Russia in the last war.
While with Adelaide’s firefighters he sat for
Queensland’s New Fire Chief.
the graduates’ and associates’ examina-
tions, and each time came second in the
British Empire. In Adelaide, too he was
drum-major of tha S.A. Caledonian Pipe
Band, but not even that form of music
could keep him from a good fire if there
was one to be got at.
As Frith’s version of him indicates,
Albert Alexander Watson, chairman of
the N.S.W. Milk Board at £l7OO a year
for seven years, has thrived on his 40-odd
years in the public service, rounded on
with the jobs of Director of Soldier Settle-
ments (1920-27) and from 1927 till his latest
appointment Director of Marketing. As
Grand Treasurer of the LO O F. he went
Chairman of the Milk Board.
to the Oddfellows’ Convention in Canada
about six years ago, and took the oppoi-
tunity of giving the U.S.A. a once-over.
Those he met included the chairman oi
the N’York equivalent of the Milk Board,
with the outsize job of keeping supplies
up to 8,000,000 milk-bibbers in that city
and another 3,000,000 in its surroundmgs.
Major A. T. Watson, an army doctor now
in W.A., is one son; another, E. A. D.
Watson, winner of the Sydney Technical
College art travelling scholarship, which
in normal times would have taken him
abroad for three years with a tidy allow-
ance, is an Australian infantry private.
Into the silence:
At South Yarra, Melbourne, at 79, H. I.
Farnsworth, father of Lady Blarney. A Bendi-
gonian, he was mixed up with mining most ot
At 76, in London, Robert Reid, chairman
of directors of Buckley and Nunn, Melbourne
A son of the late Robert Reid, M.L.C., he had
represented the big store in the Big Smoke loi
“A? Wellington (M.L.) C. of E Rt. Rev
Thomas Henry Sprott, Bishop of M.L. s capital
from 1911 to 1935. Bom m Co. Down, Ireland
(1856), and educated at Trinity College, Dublin,
he headed for M.L. in the ’eighties, and became
vicar of St. Paul’s, Wellington, in 1892. He
wrote Modern Study of Old Testament and
/'X’jT'Boss”) Daly, 68, of a famous football
family in Adelaide, had become almost a
legend even in his lifetime. Forty-odd years
ago he kicked 23 goals in a match, and it re-
mains a record, although Farmer tied it two
or three years back. Present-day football
followers find it hard to believe that Daly
got them with the place-kick, which was then
considered far the safest way to score, but is
now, in Australian Rules, almost unknown.
“El V.” farewells a friend:
Sydney will never see again the arresting and
vital figure of Bruce Dellit. His was a form
and personality which would have been more
in place in London or a great world capital.
Everything about him was big—his fearsome
sombrero, so large that it had to be made
specially for him, his conceptions as an archi-
tect, his working hours (which he used in 48-
hour stretches), his enthusiasms, hates and
loyalties. He left his mark firmly on more
than one Australian city and on Sydney s
domestic architecture. At 21 he was head ot
the staff which planned Brisbane’s town hall.
A few years later he won the competition toi
the Soldiers’ Memorial in Hyde Park, Sydney,
the embellishment of which he expected to take
a lifetime. Round the harbor section of Sydney
a large group of Dellit buildings stand, the most
imposing being the new ’Wales bank in
O’Connell-street. At the height of his powers,
42 years old, absorbed with the futures of his
three children, he was suddenly told that he was
the victim of a dreadful disease and had two
months to live. Not till he had finished all
the work he had in hand did he tell his friends
of the tragedy which had struck him. lo the
last he was the most cheerful and argumentative
of them all. On the afternoon before he died
he was heard lustily bemoaning the blindness qt
company directors- who would not spend then
wealth decorating their halls with Norman
Lindsay murals on a heroic scale, and drawing
a plan for the reorganisation of the Bulletin
building with firm hand and clear mind. That
was his last essay in architecture.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: With woe I record that
the N.E.S. has ruined Sydney’s King’s
Cross. One of G. K. Chesterton’s para-
doxes about the ferocious herd-life of
small towns led me to the conclusion that if
you really (like Garbo) want to be alone,
free from the pestilent feuds of the neigh-
bors and their still more pestilent good-
will, you should live in the most crowded
district of a big city. For five years it
worked. 1 knew that Greasepaint the
artist and Static the radioman lived some-
where down another tunnel in the warren
of the Cross, and they knew that I was
a denizen ; but we did not call on each
other, we did not speak in tram or bus,
“Any complaints?"
we lived in moody isolation and were
free. But now, by cripes, if Greasepaint
is not calling on me to tell me to brown-
out my lights, I am calling on Static to
reprove him about his. At my sector post
(we are all wardens) I have been pained
by the life stories of fifteen souls, and
fifteen souls are taking an appalling in-
terest in my life story. A week ago, at
the Group post, I met a bloke who said
“Oh. yes, I’ve never spoken to you but
I’ve seen your face in the trolley bus for
the last three years”; and now every
morning in the bus we meet and discuss
the weather with mutual agony. We have
become a Community. Let those who
can bear it feel patriotically or socially
uplifted: I mourn the downfall of the
last fort of rugged individualism, and
until that fellow takes a different bus I
will not be comforted.
* * * ♦
“K,”; While Eddie Ward, after his
meeting at Paddington (Sydney), was
searching for a cordial telegram from the
Priminister which that dignitary couldn’t
remember sending, his chairman, ex-
city alderman Frank Green, laid
his ears back and rushed to the pub-
licity breach. To the press boys he
confided that he could “only imagine”
that someone had used
“misplaced zeal.” Any
Randwick bookie, asked
to accept bets on the
respective possibilities
of “zeal” and “joke,”
would gladly invite the
bettor to write his own
ticket about “zeal,”
But the ingenuous
Green went one better.
“Mr. Ward,” he went
on, “would be terribly
distressed if the mes-
sage read from the
P.M. proved to be a
fake.” The spectacle
of Eddie registering ter-
rible distress would
make any union secre-
tary weep,
“D.A.”: The affair of
the Curtin “telegram”
read out at Ward’s
meeting reminds me of
two other Labor-party
incidents. One, the “raid” on the “Labor
Daily” office, in which “Fascists”
assaulted the atmosphere in the editor’s
sanctum with “new pickhandles,” is his-
tory ; the other, from bitter disappoint-
ment, I have been reluctant to
reveal until now. It was some time
in 1931 or ’32. On Chatswood rail-
way station I was handed dodgers on
three successive nights declaring that
Premier J. T. Lang (the name, in heavy
type, took up a quarter of the paper),
supported by other stalwarts, would speak
at Chatswood on Friday night. Anxious
to see the man whom De Groot had
lately beaten to the tape, I turned up and
had no difficulty in getting into the town
hall of the suburb that always votes for
Billy Hughes. Jack Beasley was there,
and “Digger” Dunn, but no Lang. Hold-
ing the dodger in my hand I showed it to
the man at the door. “Mr. Lang won’t
be here,” he explained smoothly ; “that
was just a misprint.”
* ♦ * *
“S.V.”: There is nothing new in the
practice announced by the Department
of War Organisation of Industry of pro-
viding extra seating in the trousers of
men’s Victory suits. When I was a boy
my mother always gave me pants with a
double bottom, obtaining the material
from the legs of the long ’uns of my elder
brother, which I automatically inherited.
I felt humiliated by this dependence on
my brother’s sartorial superiority and I
used to watch the decline and fall of my
future nether garment and wonder when
its owner would decide that it was too
baggy at the knees or out of fashion for
his requirements. To counter oppression,
I used to remove my pants secretly on
every possible occasion and vigorously
abrade the double bottoms between two
bricks, so that they wore out at a rate
that astonished my mother. As a result,
I at last got one pair of pants ahead of
“ Atlantic, Indian Ocean, Mediterranean, North Sea and now the Pacific.
By cripes, they MUST Want to get me!"
my brother and thus achieved inde-
pendence,
* * * *
“Uramao”: Our pastor is a mighty
supporter of good causes and usually has
collections for several of these on the
tapis. Recently, however, he has dis-
covered a great cause that, like Aaron’s
snake, has swallowed up all smaller ones.
He announced this in rather a breath-
taking manner one Sunday morning:
“Now, dear brethren,” said he, “I have
an important matter to place before you
to which all other considerations must
yield—in fact, I must put all my begs in
one askit.”
• * * *
“Craiser”: The war has smashed
another old tradition of the Melbourne
City Council, it having been decided to
select the next wearer of the chains and
rffies of Lud Mayorship by exhaustive
vote. If there is more than one candidate,
nominations will be put to the vote in
the order of their reception. The candi-
date with the fewest votes will be ex-
cluded and the remaining candidates will
be put up again, and so forth and so on.
If two candidates tie, it will be decided
by lot which shall be excluded. As the
balloting will be done in public, council-
lors signifying their preferences by a
show of hands, it should be the most
embarrassing election in the council’s his-
tory. It isn’t stated whether the traditional
candle will be lit and allowed to burn out
before proceedings start, in order to give
councillors time to reach the Town Hall
on the slowest horse from the farthest
confines of the civic see, in accordance
with ancient custom,
» * * *
“Ramper”; It would appear, since the
clutter of scaffolding that has guarded its
George-street frontage for ten years has
been cleared away, that Sydney’s Plaza
Hotel has reached completion at its
second storey. It was designed as a 17-
storey structure, the largest and grandest
hostelry in Australia, and until very re-
cently a beautiful drawing of its front
elevation was displayed in a window on
Wynyard ramp. For reasons known best
to its lessee, and to the N.S.W. Railway
Dept, as lessor, building progress, once
bar and restaurant accommodation was
provided on the scale of the “largest and
grandest,” came to an end, so far as the
public could notice. The hundreds of
bedrooms that should balance the lavish
scale of the catering departments accord-
ing to the usual principles of licensing
law have never materialised, and about
30 acres of potential floor space over
Wynyard station, presumably intended to
be revenue-earning, are just empty air.
Possibly some day the public, which is
supposed to own the railways and the
railways’ pub, will be told what went
wrong—not since 1939, but in the seven
years before that.
“L. de Rideau”: Melbourne Esperan-
tists are up in arms because some indi-
vidual in New York with more time than
sense has invented a new lingo, Nulango,
which he claims can be learned in a day!
The Esperantists refuse to believe this.
Their patois takes a good linguist three
months to acquire and an average person
a year. They also refuse to believe that
Nulango will supplant Esperanto, although
Esperanto supplanted something else
which supplanted something else, and so
on ad infinitum. 1 once invented an arti-
ficial language myself and assiduously
tried to proselytise its cause amongst my
schoolmates. Itibus wentiorum some-
thingibus likeiorum thisibus, and could be
learnt in five minutes. 1 made one con-
vert, and soon after our ways parted, but
the other day—forty years later —1 got a
letter from him from Somewhere in Aus-
tralia couched in our private lingo. Evi-
dently the key was so obvious to the
censor that he didn’t suspect Fifth
Column,. So I can claim that my artifi-
cial language is the longest-lived on
record. Artificial languages may be use-
ful for business, but people soon get
bored with them because the words have
almost no associations. What makes
English or any other language loved is
that every word in it is rich with asso-
ciations.
* * * 4=
“Amicus Curioe”: Concerning the
dropping of the Christian name Albert
by Edward VII and George VI, there
is a legend that Merlin, wizard of King
Arthur’s Court, foretold defeat and ruin
of England under the Whites (Alberts).
This, I seem to remember, was the reason
given for the shift from Albert to Edward
in Whitaker’s Peerage at the time of the
death of Queen Victoria.
AUSTERITY.
“Mr. Curtin, announcing Hie opening of the Aus-
terity Loan Campaign, said that ail our seven million
people must conform to the austere way of life that
war demands.’’
Austerity, austerity! Sound counsel, of a verity.
In times so tense and critical, in days so dark
and drear
As these, ’tis meet that all of us, alike the great
and small of us,
Should do at least a bit towards becoming
more austere.
The word, when scholars speak of it, interpret-
ing the Greek of it,
Refers to that which makes the tongue grow
bitter, dry and hot.
A phrase in all sincerity that typifies austerity
When duty bids you go without something
you’d better not.
And yet how hard I guess it is to separate
necessities
From luxuries when household bills you aim
at cutting short.
It’s hardly comprehensible how much that’s
indispensable
To you, another will regard as nothing of
the sort.
Some will not miss amenities or forfeit such
serenities
As others get from glowing fags or foaming
pots of beer.
They clearly need no cure of them who never
felt the lure of them;
They’ll have to figure other ways of being
more austere.
The chap whose speciality is dress may face
reality
By switching from expensive togs to vestless
Victory suits,
A gesture highly rateable but hardly undatable
By him in shiny reach-me-downs and heavy
working boots.
Austerity, austerity—and Spartan-like severity,
These we must aim for, each and all, in this
our hour of need.
And I suggest reflectively, to urge it more
effectively.
Our loads of legislating lords should give
the land a lead.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
ASTROLOGERS.
There isn’t much escapes my eyes,
From fashion notes to leaders,
In all the fare our press supplies
For avid hosts of readers.
The only articles I brush
Aside with terms uncivil
Are those which deal with astral slush
And planetary drivel.
The priests of Baal’s prophecies
And eke the Witch of Endor's
Might fairly rank with those of these
Preposterous pretenders,
Who’d have us think that tips are borne
On that which lies before us
From Cancer and from Capricorn,
From Aries and Taurus.
From stellar charts they claim to know,
By zodiac signs they’re posted,
When Musso.’s ©ake will turn to dough
And Hitler’s goose be roasted.
Their horoscopes they’d have you prize
• As destiny-assigners,
These students of the midnight skies,
These cock-and-bull diviners.
Some get their dupes by reading paws,
And some by teacup-readings,
And learn, too late, their country s laws
Discourage such proceedings.
All trades that credulousness backs
And superstition fosters,
All pseudo-crafts invite the axe.
I’m sick of astrologic quacks
And zodiac impostors.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Tuart”: Geography is playing a part
in the taxgatherers’ proceedings against
Bertie Johnston, the Westralian Senator.
While Dwyer, J., was hearing a Supreme
Court action against him in Perth, Lukin,
J., “sitting in Bankruptcy Court
chambers” in Sydney, “extended from
30 to 60 days the time in which Senator
Johnston may comply with certain
notices”; and when the additional 30
days have elapsed I suppose the scene
will shift to Canberra. What will happen
if the Senator makes a sanctuary of the
Senate Chamber? Processes cannot be
served on him there, and it is question-
able whether the House Committee could
run him off the premises. And though
it might be in the power of the Senate
to expel him, there would be a natural
reluctance, for at least two reasons —one
personal, the other the state of parties —
to take that drastic course. A contem-
porary of Bertie’s in Westralian State
politics once took refuge- from his numer-
ous creditors in the Parliament House
at Perth, dossing on the benches and re-
cruiting his powers in the refreshment-
room. If memory is not playing tricks
with me, he held the fort for a couple of
weeks, besieged by a posse of bum-
bailiffs, until, venturing forth for a
breather at night, he was surrounded and
served with a large assortment of blue
and white papers. Bertie must remember
that incident better than I do, and, being
a determined and resourceful character,
he may add to the gaiety of the nation
by improving on it.
* * * *
“D.E.”: I am interested in Mr. Raja-
gopalachari or Rajagopalachariar, of
Madras. Not because of his politics, but
because the Sydney dailies, so unanimous
on other subjects—notably the persecu-
tion of Billy and the shameful goings-on
of Melbourne politicians, editors, pro-
fessors, censors, flappers and the darned
place itself —differ as to the spelling of
his name. It is the only thing on which
the two morning papers have differed
since the Commonwealth elections two
years ago, when, both coming out with
lists of “outstanding candidates,” by way
of Knocking Menzies, one barracked for
Tweedledee and Tweedledum and the
other for Tweedledud and Tweedle-
doodle. London “Times” spells it Raja-
gopalachari. And the “Thunderer” is
still an authority in these matters.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Every revolutionary move-
ment has had its hated symbol, and it
seems that the objects of hate to insurgent
Indian youth are the European hat and
necktie. According to report, mobs in
Calcutta and in other places have been re-
moving these badges, of servitude from
the necks of passers-by and making bon-
fires of them. In the Chinese Revolution
the attack was made on pigtails, regarded
as a badge of subjection to the hated
Manchus. Some of the revolutionary
youth, with a keen business instinct, put
the spoil in their pockets and sold the
hair to the makers of mattresses. There
is no evidence, however, that the Manchus
forced the Chinese to adopt the form of
hairdressing once general among English
schoolgirls, and there is no evidence that
the British raj ever ordered the Indian
ryot to wear a nut cover or a necker-
chief.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Even the war hasn’t dimmed
the aura that surrounds anybody who
caters for the betting instinct in Aus-
tralia. In litigation over a pub in the
Banco Court in Melbourne, it was given
in evidence that an s.p. man was operat-
ing on his usual pub beat one Satur-
day afternoon when one of his scouts
was lumbered by a cop. Appalled at this
threatened interruption to his business,
the s.p. man pleaded with the constable to
let the man go on scouting for the rest of
the afternoon. Apparently the John agreed,
having received a guarantee from the
bookmaker that the man would attend
at the police station after the last race.
The bookmaker “saw nothing ludicrous
or humorous in this, but seemed to think
he was a highly-respectable citizen of
Prahran, well and favorably known to
the police,” was Justice Martin’s com-
ment-
* * * *
“Burglar’s Laborer”: A policeman
having said that a man had been
described as a “bott,” a Sydney Beak
wanted to know what a bott is. He was
told that it means a man who hangs
round pubs for such drinks as come his
way. Of course, that’s only a small part
of the story. In that part of Sydney
known to the gangs as Mugs’ Alley,
there are botts who live well on the
game—and even a bott cannot live by
beer alone. Actually the business of the
professional bott is to keep moderately
sober and to look out for groups which
are spending freely and are full of cash
and carelessness. Butting in with infor-
mation about horses or anything else that
may be acceptable, he is joined in the
shouts. His main object is to appropriate
the change of a shouter who may be too
eager arguing some point to notice it.
Done expertly it succeeds surprisingly
often. The half-drunk, assured by the
barmaid that she passed him his change
and by others that they saw her do it,
is easily convinced that he pocketed the
cash without remembering it.
* * *
“Ear Punisher”: The boy in my office,
a bright, intelligent lad, told me the other
day that he had eaten some dim sims for
the first time, and was utterly disgusted.
Somebody has told him that Chinese
cooks are dirty and that this is evidenced
by the smell of their cooking, though
that is the characteristic odor produced
by their excellent sauces and is no more
an indication of dirt than the smell of
Gorgonzola or Worcester. The lad’s
prejudice against the best and most
dietetically sound cooking in Melbourne
isn’t surprising. An adult citizen once
stared at me in horror when I said I was
going to a Chinese cafe. “Don’t you
know what the Chinese use for ovens?”
“No, I don’t,” I said. “They keep the
potatoes warm under their armpits.”
“But the Chinese don’t use potatoes,” I
retorted.
qc # j}c %
“Hamfat”: Ekatahuna, badly knocked
about by the latest M.L. earthquake,
boasted a ghost when I visited the place
with a theatrical co. during show time.
The town being crowded, I slept in the
“haunted room,” which was in one of
the pubs, although the publican shook
his head over opening it and a hard-
headed police sergeant said I had better
not. There were no ill-effects, although
the blowing out of my candle once or
twice during the night—probably caused
by a draught, which may explain the
ghost—gave me some shocks. Presum-
ably, memory of that ghost has faded
out; but Ekatahuna had another. The
first settlers believed the railway would
run right through the town, which was
laid out with that idea; but the rails
were put down a considerable distance
to the east, so that the two sides of
what is the town’s main street stared out
one another across about a hundred yards
of empty wilderness. Ekatahuna made
the best of it by turning the intervening
country into parks, but to old folks these
represent the spectre of a great dis-
appointment.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Ho\tf are the new liquor
restrictions working in Melbourne? I
saw a man who used to be a moderate
drinker enter a bar the other evening,
glance at the clock and, noticing that the
hands stood at five minutes to six, order
two pots. Holding one in each hand he
drained them in quick succession. Then
he ordered two more and drained them.
Then he ordered two more and drained
them. By this time he was well
and his final order was a single. “Time,
gentlemen, please,” shrilled the elderly
barmaid, and a second later he was spilled
out on to the pavement, to provide any
wandernfg “Herald” reporter who hap-
pened to be passing with irrefutable
evidence of the need of more restrictions.
“Nakh”: Awful effects of Melbourne
“Herald’s” Beating the Booze campaign,
as reported in its own correspondence
columns:
The reason for so many cases of drunken-
ness is that it is almost impossible to get
bottled beer. Like many other decent men,
my husband.would rather drink in his own
home than in public. I don’t drink, but I
do think that when a man works solidly fox-
seven days a week he should be entitled to
relax with a bottle or two. Before the
shortage my husband never had any need to
visit the hotels, but now he stays there until
he has had more than his share. Let the
men have their bottles and keep them
home. „ .
The “Herald” should be ashamed of itself
for thus disrupting the Australian family.
“c T c ” now The Bulletin’s oldest
S 1 AntSSntnr recalls a thrilling day
regular contributor, recalls a thrilling y
of ms you • A t H now
How many others aie there Kenn i ng ton
Oval on d August 29, when Australia won
its first Test match in England? I was ; but 1
very nearly left the ground tor, anot!
on the first innings, 63 to 101, a bad deficit
in those lower-scoring days. On the second
morning Massie (55) and Alec Bannerman (1
an,-
thin" and England had only 85 to make to win.
With’si up for three wickets all seemed over,
but then Spofforth and Boyle became unplay-
SSSi every SLSTSA
before the end we felt the bowlers must be
supreme, even though a couple of smites
would still have the scale.And l «
other players were Tom Garrett (now, at 84,
the sole survivor), Blackham, Sam Jones,
Bonnor George Giffen i and Horan—afgward
Thnes” foofehly Called ' this' defS ’tte death
of English cricket. But the false prophet,
, adding that “the body will be cremated, and
the ashes taken to Australia started a phrase
which seems likely to last as long as encket
* •* * . *
“Cauboy”; In Melbourne, a city world-
famous for its culture, there lived once
upon a time a Beautiful Young Lady,
One day the Young Lady decided to take
up Painting. In one month she had
painted five pictures, and one was
accepted for an Exhibition by a Society
which proudly called itself Modern. At
the opening People looked at her and
remarked on her Beauty, and when they
heard that she was the Author of one
of the Paintings they crowded round to
view it, and one and all cried: “What
a beautiful picture!” The Critic of a
Leading Daily happened to be passing
on his way to the exit, and hearing the
Uproar approached the group, and
observing that they were all looking at
the same Picture asked who had painted
it. “That Girl over there,” said one of
the spectators. “What a Beautiful Girl!
murmured the Critic, and taking his Cata-
logue out of his pocket he hastily wrote
“Undoubtedly the Masterpiece of the
Exhibition is No. 29, ’The Pie-eater s
Funeral,’ by Miss X. Miss X will be
worth watching.” And as if to prove his
words, so concentrated was his gaze on
the Beautiful and Talented Young Artist
that he walked out backwards and fell
over the doorstep.
% * :i:
“Sydneysider” on Sydney’s G.H.:
N.S.W. State Government House is nearing
its centenary, for it replaced Governor Phillip’s
first residence 97 years ago. This earlier build-
ing had its foundation-stone laid on May 15,
1788, and stood on the s.-w. corner of the
present Bridge and Phillip streets. David
Collins says it was intended to be the temporary
dwelling-place of the Governor until a more
suitable building could be erected, but this
didn’t take place for another half-century.
Phillip’s cottage was patched and altered by
successive Governors, and it wasn’t until 1845
that Sir George Gipps moved into the present
vice-regal mansion. A copper plate was placed
in the foundations of the first* Government
House, with an inscription engraved on it re-
cording that the “first of these stones was laid
on the fifteenth day of May, 1788.” In 18-9
the plate was dug up during some street excava-
tions in Bridge-street, and may now be seen in
the Mitchell Library. The gardens of the old
place extended to the shores of Sydney Cove,
and the last of the trees in it, a venerable Eng-
lish oak, grew out of the pavement in Philhp-
street until 1917.
* * * *v
“Unisci”: “F.S.” (B. 19/8/’42) is a bit
astray in his sweeping assertions about
the invention of words. For instance,
Whewell, whose vigorous personality
dominated Cambridge during the mid-
nineteenth century, was directly respon-
sible for the “invention” of some of our
best’known technical terms. Electrolysis,
electrode and cathode were supplied by
him to Faraday. Again, university minds
produced such terms as electron, proton,
Isotope, vitamin, enzyme and libido. ln-
cidentally, Lord Kelvin more than 50
expression “wetta-
bility,” in respect of which compare the
modern (very modern) startability. As
to the term “shop” for Melbourne lim-
veJt-sity, the R.M.A. at Woolwich has
been known as “The [Sweat] Shop” for
generations; so the Melbourne students
dld not invent that,
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A “Stamp Out the
Jap” scheme is the latest, and 1 Lud
Mayors have taken it up with en-
tbusiasm. Cards are printed and
j d t every interested citizen and
special, stamps Lpt in. readiness. Each
day, or as often as circumstances war-
rant t b e Lrid Mayor announces that
j apan ese 'plane has been hit and is
of nS further use to the enemy. The
holder of a card will then buy a stamp
/p r j ce one penny) and affix it. When
card . holder has affixed 10 0 stamps
he is "promoted to the rank of .flight-
sergeant.” His second hundred will earn
bjm dde G f pilot-officer ; and when
have been leted (and 50 0
Mown tQ smjthereens) hc wil |
get a special badge. I suppose if the
supply of Jap ’planes keeps up he may
become an air chief marshal. Whether
be is to wear the uniform of the? relevant
ran k i sn ’f stated,
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Probably the most talla-
cious of all human dreams is that of
“making restitution” by punting. A recent
Sydney case in which it was declared that
the accused had returned £695 of his
shortages from a racecourse win was the
first reported fulfilment of the dream in
my recollection. Even when it comes true
resolution may falter. Take the tale told
in court by a man who had to be extra-
dited from M.L. a few years
ago. His defalcations were a
few hundred pounds ; he took
another hundred to go after the
win that would clear up the
mess, and for a wonder fortune
smiled. Following up a run, he
finished up a big race meeting
between four and five thousand
to the good, and the squaring-
off would have been easy. But
the impulse came to him to get
off with the lot. He made a
break for the U.S.A. A cabled
warrant stopped him at Auck-
land.
* * #
“Bohemian”: I agree with
“Avon” (B. 22/7/’42) as to Joe
Ward’s beautiful manners, but
not as to his omniscience. One
afternoon, alone in the Minis-
terial mansion in Molesworth-
street, Wellington (the rest of
the household had gone junket-
ing), Joe, working in his study,
had his attention diverted by
repeated ringing of the door-
bell. Somewhat annoyed, he went
to the door, to find a brown-paper
parcel on the step with no address.
He opened one end of the parcel and it
appeared to be a bunch of flowers. Think-
ing it a floral gift for his good lady, he
placed it in the kitchen sink, under a
dripping tap. When the household re-
turned that evening there was a roar
from the kitchen as if Tongariro had
erupted. “Some idiot,” yelled Mary, the
housemaid, “has ruined my beautiful new
hat.” Ward, in his study, heard all, but
lay doggo. But, always big enough to
enjoy a joke against himself, he told' a
friend ; the friend told others, and within
a few days the whole incident got into
“Hansard,” an Opposition member’s con-
tribution to a Budget debate.
* * * *
“Silverfish”: Nine out of ten people
who enter a second-hand bookshop go
to inquire if one specific book is in stock.
Unless it is a classic the chances are
1000 to 1 that it is not in stock.
And even in regard to the classics the
odds are precarious. In Sydney, why
I know not, it is possible to buy second-
hand all of Scott’s novels or poems—
every dealer has a brave array of Scott.
Dickens, too, is very well represented.
But not Thackeray. Among more recent
authors Stevenson is easy to pick up;
Mark Twain, too, John Buchan and Gals-
worthy. But the woman who hankers
for the works of Rosa N. Carey or Kath-
leen Norris is doomed to disappointment.
They never seem to get into the hands
of dealers, possibly because women are
the conservative sex and every generation
battens on the same literary fodder. 1 hat
perhaps is why even such writers as Jane
Austen and the Brontes. are scarce in
second-hand circles. But just when you
think that you have established a principle
you come on a shelfload of Marie Coielli
and theories go west*.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The Murray was over
the banks, and we were sitting around
the hut talking about floods and related
things, to the deep interest of the bloke
on holiday from Melbourne, who was
hearing river lore for the first time. Old
Bill was telling how sound travels over
water by night, and the holiday-maker
was at first interested, then frankly scorn-
ful as Bill’s imagination expanded.
Young Brett came in, and as he opened
the door we caught a faint roar from
the south. We knew it was the water
racing through a flood-cut across a bend
about two miles away; but our guest
asked “What’s that?” Old Bill seized his
chance. “Aw, that,” he said. “I reckon
that’s the Mildura train somewhere
about Hattah.” “How far away is it?”
“Aw, I dessay it’s 40 mile.” It was more
like 70. The guest pondered this, then
a sudden gleam lit his eye. “Hey,” he
said, “this is Sunday night. There’s no
train on Sunday.” “Don’t be a goat,”
said Bill witheringly. “Don’t y’ know it
takes time f’r sound t’ travel? That’s last
night’s train!”
“Bad Australian”: Old Steve Wilson,
who had been fishing and rabbiting along
the river for 30 years, thought it was
time to see a bit of city life. Pushing
his way on board a tram at Spencer-
street and feeling a hand at his inside-
coat pocket, he called to a policeman
who was standing on the pavement;
“Hey, mate! There’s a bloke here tryin’
t’ go through me pockets.” The thief
made no attempt to break away, but
crouched close against his accuser, and
when the cop gave him the come-along
twist he yelped like a dingo on a cold,
wet night and clung to Steve like a long-
lost brother. “That’ll be the hooks,” Steve
explained. “Y* see, mate. I’ve heard
about blokes gettin’ their pockets ratted,
so I sews a few fishhooks on t’ the inside
o’ me pockets in a way that it’s easy
enough for a cove to get his hand in,
but damn’ near impossible t’ get it out
agin. It’s queer how things turns out,
ain’t it? I comes down here t’ get away
frum the fishin’ fer a bit, an’ the first
thing I does when I gets orf the train is
hook this damn’ shark!”
* * # #
“B. A. Ker” What marvellous co-
ordination of eye and wing some varie-
ties of birds display! Watch a hunting
swallow; with every dart, swoop or
lightning-like swerve it is catching insects
scarcely visible to the human eye at a
range of three feet. When nest-building
the birds will be seen wetting the re-
quired mud to the necessary consistency
simply by skimming over waterholes and
immersing the beakful. Not a feather
will they wet in the process, A pair of
sparrows once showed me even better
judgment. To reach their nest in the
eaves they were compelled to fly upwards
through a hole in diameter. Thus
the aim had to be perfect, the right
momentum gauged and at the exact split-
second the wings folded. Never once
did they misjudge. But a little Jackie
Winter beat them all. Sitting on a bush
several feet from the tap he waited
patiently for the drip. On the instant
it fell he was in the air and had caught
the drop before it could hit the ground.
Three times he performed the trick
before an easier way occurred to him ;
then he gripped the mouth of the tap
with his toes, hung upside down, shoved
his beak inside and evidently drank the
drops as they formed.
# * ❖ *
~“Plane Creek”: An old fallacy is that
nails hammered into its trunk when it is
a year or two old will result in the male
pawpaw-tree bearing fruit. “Yes, an’ I
done it, too,” boasted Old Ned, my next-
door neighbor. “The tree bears now.”
He had wasted about 21b. of nails. The
"No Wonder the thing Wont go off. It’s not loaded!”
male pawpaw-tree bears fruit just as the
female does. But the fruit, borne on
long stems, is unlike that of the female
tree. The male pawpaw’s fruit is seed-
less and often tasteless.
* * * *
“Bo”: Old Jim Burrows had been busy
all the morning, putting new rungs in the
ladder, selecting cornsacks with holes in
them or putting them in where necessary,
and rounding up the biggest of the
Australorps. Then he stacked the fowls
in the sacks, poked their heads through,
slung a sack over his shoulder, ascended
the ladder that he had propped against
the house and deposited his burden on
.the roof. Three trips he made, then he
sat down for a breather and a smoke.
As he rose to untie the neck of one of
the sacks a voice hailed him from below.
It was the mailman. “Cripes, what are
y’ doin’ up there, Jim?” he asked. Jim
hauled one of the fowls out and pushed
it, squawking loudly, down the chimney.
“How the hell else d’y’ expect a man to
clean it out?” he asked in return.
*•>
“J.H.M.A.”: American occupation of
Tulagi, in the Solomons, where his head-
quarters were, recalls the late C. M.
Woodford, who was Resident Commis-
sioner in the group when I was there in
the early part of the century. His book,
A Naturalist Among the Head-hunters,
descriptive of the 25 years he spent in
the Protectorate, remains one of the best
accounts of those picturesque parts. At
that time he was a sort of absolute
monarch over about 1100 miles of islands
and nearly a quarter of a million black
men, besides about 75 whites. How very
absolute was brought home to me one
hot afternoon in a harbor of the Short-
lands. The chief engineer of the steamer
had a small-bore Winchester rifle with
which we were amusing ourselves firing
at flotsam and jetsam in the water. About
300 yards away a solitary native was
paddling towards us in a canoe. “See
me scare that fellow,” said the chief,
aiming at the water 50 yards in front of
him. The bullet ricochetted directly over
the man’s head, but unfortunately for the
shooter Woodford walked along the deck
behind him as he fired, and for about
ten minutes the engineer had a devil of
a time of it, Woodford said he had half
a mind to pass sentence of three months’
imprisonment, as he was quite able to
do, and ordered the chief below to his
cabin while he considered the matter. It
was a sobered and crestfallen chief who
fled the deck.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: Since Italians, who put
everything from sparrows to crows in
the pot, have had the run of North
Queensland, bird life in these parts is
getting less plentiful. I hadn’t seen an
ibis on my farm for years, so was glad
to see one recently plodding up a drain,
extracting crayfish from their burrows
in the muddy bank and eating them.
After a time I noticed that, although he
was still digging them out, he was no
longer eating. When he rose and sailed
majestically across the paddock and
alighted on the gully bank his bill was
full of crays, and he spent a few minutes
digging in the damp, clayey soil and then
flew off. When I investigated there were
18 crustaceans buried obviously for a
future dinner. It’s the first case of thrifti-
ness I’ve struck among the fellows who
are such sudden death on grasshoppers.
* * *
“Looby”: Herb McQuickly was up
before old Ben King, J.P., for driving his
ancient Overland through Onehorse “in
a manner dangerous to the public,” After
the constable had said his piece Herb
heaved himself up. “Y’r Worship,” he
said, “this charge is a lotta bunk. I
admit I’d hit her up to 15. That’s them
new spark plugs. But, cripes, I was
drivin’ straight, and” “That’s just
it!” roared old Ben. “Everyone in this
town is so accustomed to you drivin’
crazily from side to side and swervin’
every yard or so that when y’ drove
straight y’ damn’ near bowled Jim
Wallis’s prize cattle-dog over. It’ll set
y’ back half a nicker and a dollar costs,
Herb, and watch how y’ drive through
this town in future! ”
* * * *
“Underbool”: “It’s durin’ plague times
that mice get real cunnin’,” said Bill the
barber. “Me brother Eb was keepin’
a general store in a nor’-west Victorian
Mallee township durin’ the big T 7 plague,
an’ he couldn’t keep the pests out of the
oatmeal, flour an’ such stuff. Well, he
got a big table made and put the legs
in oil-drums. This stopped ’em for a
few days and then they were at it again.
So Eb kept watch one night to see how
they were getting at it. He so6n found
out. He had his home-made ginger-beer
stacked along the wall, an’ when every-
thing was quiet the mice would get on
to the corks, nibble the string through,
and 'when she popped they’d ride the
cork on to the table!”
* * * ♦
“Cam”: Sydney “Herald” has reported
that, owing to the shortage of gun am-
munition, shanghais and bows and arrows
are being successfully used in the war
against the rabbit pest. That S. Ameri-
can weapon the bolas has been used
extensively in this (Lower Hunter, N.S.W.)
district. It consists of about 4ft. of fine
rope with weights at each end, and is
whirled through the air so as to entangle
itself round the legs of the hunted animal,
which is thus captured alive. An expert
thrower often is able to throw the bolas
so that one end winds round the legs
of the rabbit and the other round some
convenient sapling, and the tethered animal
is collected when convenient.
* Jfc
“Sodnak”; For brainily getting out of
spots of bother the hare will give the fox
an easy licking. In our horse-paddock
one was sighted by a golden eagle and
immediately became the object of a dive-
bombing attack. The hare set sail for
the wires, some 300 yards away, only
deviating from a straight line to dodge
like lightning to right or left as the eagle
came down to pick him up. Reaching
the wires, he ran along for a few panels
quite leisurely and took cover at the foot
of a post, knowing that he was quite safe
from further attention. One of the same
wily little pests put it o.ver the best grey-
hound that I’ve ever seen. We put him
up along the road, which was flanked by
a new fence, through which he immedi-
ately dived and began to race along
parallel to it. The dog jumped over to
get to closer quarters, but the little fellow
simply ducked under again and continued
to seek the horizon. That fence was
crossed and recrossed a dozen times, but
the hare was too shrewd to make for the
open country, and the dog had to turn
it up, utterly exhausted.
* * *
“Bundalinga”: One of the biggest
laughs got by sheep-country Diggers who
were in the Middle East was afforded
by the “gun” shearers in those parts.
The sheep’s legs are tied together and
two men hold the animal, turning it over
when necessary. The shearer sets to work
with a pair of blades about 18in. long
which he holds at both ends and squeezes
together. No attempt is made to keep
the fleece intact. As each cut is
made, a third man picks up the wool and
puts it in a bag. Four men to shear
one sheep, and half an hour is good time
for a ringer. Shade of our blade-days
Jackie Howe!
V * * *
“Jeff”; When the new cow-hand drifted
in he was nicknamed “Clothespeg” im-
mediately because of his brand-new Vic-
tory suit. Long and lanky, his skinny
legs showed to disadvantage in the skimpy
trousers. The boss laughingly told him
he’d never be able to work in that
clobber ; didn’t he have any old strides
to wear? When “Clothespeg” admitted
the raiment he stood in was the total
extent of his wardrobe, the bulky boss
lent him a pair. In his ample leg-
covering, the new hand started to work,
but in the barn the baggy trousers caught
on a nail and ripped. The boss’s missus
rounding the barn spotted him commenc-
ing to undress. “Hey, ‘Clothespeg,'
where’s your modesty?” she asked flip-
pantly. “It’s all right, missus,” he re-
torted. “I’m goin’t’ work in me under-
pants.” He had his tight-fitting Victory
trousers underneath.
at * • <
“Carrick, A. 8.”: The great thirst
problem, is it (B. 5/8/’42)? Take a few
tips from a man who has worked in a
badly-ventilated stokehold and who has
also been very hot and dry in the bush.
In addition to a metal can of water, carry
a tin of salt tablets and a tin of finely-
ground oatmeal. Every time you refill
the canteen, put a couple of teaspoons
of the oatmeal into the water; every
time you take a drink pul a salt tablet
on the back of your tongue and wash it
down; failing that, take a pinch of salt
with a few mouthfuls of water as a
chaser. You must have salt in your
bloodstream in order to be able to per-
spire, and if the salt isn’t there you go
out to it from “stoker’s collapse.” Nowa-
days, wherever men do hard work in
great heat —foundries, boiler-houses, etc.
—you’ll find a supply of salt tablets beside
the drinking water, and the use of the
little tabs has practically ended the col-
lapsing in front of the fires which used
to be so common. To keep your mouth
moist, chew a bit of leather or, far better,
carry with you some of that clear gum
which exudes from the bark of some of
our wattles. A bit of that chewed every
hour or so will enable you to make the
water supply spin out.
* * * *
“Yair”: Ever since Dad got a write-
up in the “Wallaby Siding Gazette” on
his new method of administering a drench
he has boosted the township as the
“finest this side of Sydney.” So when
he wrote to a nephew in Sydney inviting
him up for a week, he added: “You 11
like the place. It’s got a great shopping
centre, a quarter of a mile long.” Nephew
consequently was staggered when he saw
the place. “Gripes, I thought you said
the shopping centre was a quarter of a
mile long,” he growled. “Why, except
for the pub and the store the joints
deserted!” “Yair,” drawled Dad easily.
“But they’re a quarter of a mile apart,
ain’t they?”
COAL.
Who’d be in the stokehole of a ten-knot
coastal tub,
Slugging through a Tasman gale and running
from a sub..
With forepeak holed and leaking, wheelhouse
shot away,
With Gabo sixty miles astern and an hour to
bring the day,
When it’s coal, only coal,
In the reeking glory-hole,
Where the weeping rivets glisten in the sickly
lamp-lit gloom
And each falling shell comes, knocking like the
hammer-fist of doom,
And there’s no weapon in your hands —there’s
only coal?
The fans above are pulling down long wisps of
yellow smoke:
You guess the forward hold’s alight, you know
the cargo’s coke;
You curse the day you put to sea and learned
a stoker’s trade,
And the ruby tongues come reaching out to
lick your shovel-blade.
Curse the coal! The filthy coal!
In this hell —the glory-hole,
Where the morning watch is crawling and
your eyes are fighting sleep—
Oh, there’ll be time enough to close them
soon ... a hundred fathoms deep!
So dig your shroud and dig it wide —in coal!
Yes, the battle-glamor’s distant when you’re
sweating there below.
Where the water’s past the floorplates, and it’s
slopping to and fro.
In a moment you’ll be groping for that greasy,
climbing stair
With your world a swinging chaos as you fight
your way to air.
And you’ll fight your way through coal
From the choking glory-hole,
Where every time she throws her heels you swear
the end is near,
And you’re tired and sick and groggy, but by
God! it’s not with fear,
For you’ll shovel while she’s sinking—shovel
coal!
Now they’re yelling down to boost the fires and
edge another knot—
Oh, you’d think the fools aloft would know
she’s given all she’s got,
With a bearing hot and thumping fit to break
a greaser’s heart,
And pressure on the gauge enough to tear the
ship apart!
But it’s coal, precious coal.
From the sweating glory-hole
That flays the old witch onwards like a phantom
in the night,
And lifts her to the mountain seas while yet
there’s hope in flight:
If there’s one shot in the locker left —it’s coal!
N.S.W.
A. S. ALLISON.


OLD WHALING STATION.
By these bleak shores, where southern wrack
and shell
Wash with the stormy thunder of the seas,
The little valleys lie; no tongue can tell
Again the strange wild history of these.
The vanished whaling-men, that stern sea race,
Have left their rusted try-pots, and their toil
Is but a memory in this haunted place.
Over the little hills of fallowed soil,
Over the fern and tussock, salt winds sweep.
The ships that once so bravely sailed their
ways
Now on the ribbed sand lie, ten-fathom-deep.
And yet some imprint of those sterner days
Remains, some mournful dignity and grace
That Time shall never manage to efface.
MAORILAND. JOYCE WEST.
* ♦ * •
“Wippegong”: I have just read again
Dickens in Camp, and on looking up
was struck by the contrast between Bret
Harte’s camp and mine. Not so much
because his campfire roared among pines
whilst mine glows in a hut; not so much
because his mates were gathered “in the
fierce race for wealth” while my cobbers
—fitters, armorers, coppersmiths —are
intent on, keeping bombers fit; but
because in his camp Dickens was given
a reverent hearing, whereas here he would
flop. That doesn’t imply a lack of literary
appreciation—there are some rattling
good books in these lockers —but all con-
versation and comment here are heavily
salted with a biting humor that is death
to sentimentality. No cards would be
dropped for Little Nell in this “school,”
Perhaps the gold-rush days were less
cynical than these ; perhaps Americans
are more sentimental than we are —I
don’t know. But I do know that when
Americans came in force to this station
the bloke who had most- new cobbers
soonest was wild, rough, rowdy Alf —
Alf who could no more be swept away
in the sudden craze for U.S.A. styles in
speech and dress than a bluegum could
yield huckleberries. Through that first
violent jumble of jargon and clobber he
remained plain, blunt, Australian Alf —
and Yankees and Southerners alike
attended him everywhere. Work it out
for yourself.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: In happier times Melbourne
citizens at this time of the year looked
eagerly for that harbinger of spring
the budding of the elms in Collins-street;
and as soon as they appeared the table-
talk journalists started writing ecstati-
cally about them. This year the grimmest
spring in Australian history is being
ushered in by a different if not less
appropriate symbol. The grass is sprout-
ing in the city’s sandbags.
£ 3: $ #
“Betcha”: Was over helping Jim sort
up some jumbucks when he suddenly
started swinging the gate into the third
yard. In came 15 fat wethers, culls from
an early sale and the last of the line.
“Gee, these culls have done well!” he
said, examined the wool, felt the tail and
stood back eyeing them speculatively.
“Thirty-four an’ sixpence,” he pro-
nounced. “You’re up a bit,” I ventured.
“Give you thirty-three an’ a half for
’em.” He shook his head. “Thirty-four
an’ six, or they go to the yards.” The
following week Jim drove his 15 wethers
to the saleyards, and refused an offer of
thirty-four and fourpence. He spent the
best part of next day getting them home
again, and most of the one after riding
round consulting agents and arranging
interviews with private buyers. Then a
few mornings later he drove into the
township, collected a likely buyer and
took him out to inspect. Getting on
towards evening he returned the buyer,
and dropped in on me. “Well,” I in-
quired, “get your price?” Jim hitched
his pants with a satisfied grunt. “Yair,”
he announced solemnly, “he took ’em.
Thirty-four an’ six. But talk about lousy!
Why, the cow haggled for hours over
that last flamin’ penny!”
*** . *
“Macßopus”; Perhaps I’m dense, but
“The O.D.’s” par. (B. 19/8/’42) about
the crib game has me bamboozled. The
“first take” player, according to “The
0.D.,” played the ten first, then a three,
and then a six. So that he then had only
one card left. And that could not be a
six, for the other three sixes were in other
hands. Then how could he peg 24 on his
first take? It would be very interesting to
know what was his other card, and what
turned up.
« * * «
“Zenus”: Tell “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
29/7/’42) that the fluid used by Perth’s
Ascot racecourse hardly comes within
the description of “bore water.” It is
really only the local rain-water lifted
from the subsoil water-table that extends
all under the alluvial plain that lies be-
tween the Darling Ranges and the sea.
Such water is excellent for all purposes,
and, except in a few unfavorable places
where deposits of salt and alkali occur,
is absolutely swarming with growth-
promoting bacteria. Below this water-table
lies a stratum of impermeable clay close
on 1500 ft. thick. On boring through
“Dammit , I Want a THREE-r ail fence!”
this (from pressure and age it is consoli-
dated almost to the toughness of slate)
one comes on the recognised artesian
flow. This is a water quite different from
the subsoil flow ; it is dead, and in several
bores rises to the surface carrying iron
in solution. Such iron, on contact with
the sunlight and oxygen, is precipitated
in the form of an infinitely fine red pow-
der. This water is really death to vegeta-
tion, though by the aeration it gets from
flowing into open-air reservoirs and an
admixture with a proportion of hills
water it becomes a potable enough fluid.
* * * *
“Sleepcutter”: Broadaxemanship is an
art, and one of the great artists is Sammy
Cooper, reported among the missing in
Malaya. Among timber-getters Sam has
become a tradition in his own lifetime.
A veritable Bradman of the broadaxe,
he has on four occasions exceeded 500
railway sleepers for a monthly pay, a
performance nobody else has ever
approached. Winning his first squaring
contest at the age of 16, he was never
again defeated, and competing for the
R. J. White Cup at Coffs Harbor (N.S.W.)
in 1935, when the competitors comprised
many of Australia’s best axemen, he
lapped the field and won by more than
halfway; and he was getting on to
middle-age then.
* * * *
“Uckle”: Tell “E.H.S.” (B. 29/ 7/’42)
that it is possible to “cross” bush trees.
My dad grafted a peppermint-gum on to
a eucalyptus, and on that peppermint he
grafted a pine. He did it so that all the
saps would mix, for he was particularly
interested in saps. To supply the tar for
the pine, he chose a eucalyptus which was
growing beside a council depot. He made
a fortune selling the resultant cough
remedy. But he spent it all and a bit
more trying to graft a rubber tree on to
a pencil pine, with the idea of supplying
“ What are these round things ?”
“ Potatoes! Dont you remember ?”
schoolkids’ self-erasing pencils. That’s
why his heir is now trying to lay the
foundation of a new family fortune by
getting a bob or two for this par.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: First arrivals at Cool-
gardie in ’92 mostly carried their picks
and shovels on their backs, though some
had packhorses and at least one crowd
snorted camels. Tools and tucker were
the absolute requisites —there was no
room for a blacksmith’s forge. But when
the picks became blunt, as soon happened
on the hard cement, the need for a means
of resharpening became apparent. Fuel
could be got by burning charcoal from
the desert trees; a heap of stones made
a forge; a big flat stone an anvil —but
the real problem was how to get blast to
blow up a forging heat. Among stuff
brought from The Cross was a now-
empty dynamite case. This measured 24in.
by lOin. by Bin. of soft wood dressed both
inside and out. The end from another
case by a little fitting made a piston or
plunger. A strip of bagging made this
fairly airtight. A thin gimlet stick made
a piston rod. A couple of empty tins
made a spout, and a scrap of leather the
intake valve. So the blower was made,
on the principle of the bicycle pump.
Worked horizontally by means of a to-
and-fro lever, welding heats could be
taken off that forge. It takes something
to beat the digger, no matter where he
may be stranded.
* * * *
“Scuta”: The tree-frog, easily dis-
tinguished by its markings and peculiar
croak, is a daddy bait which no self-
respecting cod will refuse. One night,
sitting as usual by the campfire, the lines
all set and baited, I was filling in the time
bagging frogs. There was a hint of rain
and the batrachians, attracted by the fire,
were plentiful. Hearing a tree-frog
croaking near at hand, I looked round and
saw the head of the croaker, well within
reach, peering from behind a tussock.
I was just about to grab when something
stopped me. I stood up and immediately
spotted the most vicious-looking tiger-
snake I have ever seen. He had the frog
caught by the hind legs. A faggot from
the fire soon finished him; but it was a
near thing. Now what stopped me from
grabbing—what the Americans call a
I
hunch or the workings of some atavistic
instinct which the pundits aver is given
only to animals of the lower order?
* * * *
“Naturala”: Among my possessions
are two roosters, the old bird and his son.
Noting the way in which the old man
chivvied the youngster around the hen
yard, and wishing the latter to have a bit
of peace, requisite as a preparation for the
table, I confined the old bird in a small
separate pen in a corner of the main yard.
At once the young bloke took control,
became cock of the walk, even crowing
at the disgruntled prisoner. This went
on for a week. Then one feeding time
the elder bird got out. Did the young
fellow display any dullness of wit? Before
Pa could get within striking distance he
was up on top of the hen house, his
refuge in former persecution days. But
just as soon as I had recaptured and
confined the old man he was down again.
Quite often when I fancy that his spirit
requires a little chastening, I play this
trick on the young cockerel, but he never
waits long enough for the old bird to
get a slap at him. Now, if that isnt
thinking—and pretty quick thinking
well, give me another explanation.
H 5 H 5 ♦
“Ec”: I was saying to my mate that
our land hadn’t any native animal or bird
of much use to us. But Bill never agrees
with anybody about anything. “I dunno,”
he says. “P’raps y’ never tried any of them
out. ’ When 1 had a slaughteryard out
west me dog was poisoned, so I had to
do the roundin’ up meself. Bein’ rather
lonely I made friends with the crows. I
gave ’em bits of meat, an’ they useter
meet me and follow from tree to tree
when I was roundin’ stock up for a kill.
One day I’m runnin’ late, an’ I sees the
stock cornin’ along near the yard. Blime,
if the crows wasn’t drivin’ them! They’d
swoop almost straight down, clash their
bills, then up and down again. No need
for a dog after that. People came from
all over the joint to see ’em at work. A
German livin’ near by went up to Sydney
when that Von Lookner bloke was there
and brought him down for a day or two.
Of course he was brought over to see
me crows at work, and I heard him say
to his Fritz cobber that an aeroplane
could be built to do that. I’ve often won-
dered since if he told Hitler about it
and so got ’em to make dive bombers.
But keep that under y’r hat—they might
yard me up as a Fifth Colonist.’
* * * *
“Solitude”; The old fellow, always
growling about the laziness of the new
hand, was loudly airing his pet griev-
ance to Sandy. “The lazy coot! he
said. “Why, he’s too tired to unsaddle
his horse or tie up a dawg, too lazy
to” “Yair, so ’e might be,” Sandy
interrupted, “but what about him bein
down there fencin’ right this minute? As
I came along just a while ago he was
diggin’ postholes like mad an’ rammin
the big strainer f’r all he was worth,
when here it is dinnertime!” “Well,” bel-
lowed the old bloke, “an’ don’t that prove
it, eh? Ain’t he just too flamin’ lazy
to knock off even to have dinner?”
* * * *
“Yair”: Dad wasn’t impressed when
he heard from Ben Turner that Turner’s
daughter (married and living in the city)
had her fiat “furnished like a palace.”
But he felt impelled to get all the infor-
mation possible because Mum and the
girls had told him before he left home
what would happen to him if he didn’t.
So when at last, chock-full of news, he
walked back over the paddocks and got
inside he was promptly tackled on the sub-
ject of Lizzie’s new social status. “Well,”
said Dad, “old Ben skites a lot, and she’s
' supposed to have everything she asks for,
but from one thing he dropped she don’t
seem to be doin’ so hot. Ben reckons
that every room in the joint’s got Brussels
carpets.” “Yes, I heard the place was
carpeted right through ” interposed Mum.
“Well, it’s a lie,” snapped Dad. “You
all know what Brussels sprouts are like
compared with cabbages, don’t you?
Well, I suppose them carpets are just
fiddlin’ little things in the centre of the
floor!”
“Mat’s Mate”; We were
camped in a hut well out from
anywhere, on a fencing contract,
and it was Sunday. I had put
all my pants in the wash and
was sitting round with a blanket
round my waist when we sud-
denly spotted the owner coming
in a car and beside him was his
wife. I vanished through the hut door.
“ ’Day, Mat,” I heard; “where’s your
mate?” “Aw, he’s around somewhere,”
A pause, then the owner said “Look, was
that a woman ducked into the hut just
as we come up?” Another pause. Then
Mat: “Well, yes. It’s me missus, over
from Gilalbey. She’s dead shy.” Silence.
Then the owner, “You’re not married.
What’s goin’ on here? I’ll have none of
this funny business on my place!” He
must have pushed Mat aside and rushed
to the hut, for the next thing was he
and I looking at each other. Hurriedly
I explained about the pants. He backed
out. “All right,” he said to Mat; “get
her out of this quick an’ don’t let it
happen again.” Then he drove off, no
doubt expounding on morality to his
missus.


PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
‘ as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
... --
x-.«
JO*
SPECIFY " LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Concerning Rams.
"Bungaree”: The C.S.I.R. is out with
a booklet on fertility in sheep, covering
some aspects of the research done by
Dr. Gunn, of Sydney University. It has
much useful information on factors
affecting mating and lambing results.
The effect of continuous hot weather
on a ram’s breeding capacity is shown.
Also how driving or handling the animals
in hot weather affects them, as does a
thick, heavy fleece. The theory that rams
should not be shorn immediately before
mating, - as the handling and sudden
change will have an adverse effect, has
been proved wrong. The value of shade
trees is noted.
Experiments carried out with rams
specially fed for show purposes have
shown that the animals are not then
suitable for immediate use. This not only
because of the heavy fleeces, but also
because of the type of feeding. Feed has
a large bearing on fertility. Drought
and lack of feed —even protein drought
where there is plenty of dry feed lacking
nourishment —make conditions unsuit-
able for the use of rams. At least a
month should be allowed after feed im-
proves before they are used. However,
if local conditions make it necessary to
lamb at a certain period, thus entailing
mating when feed is scarce, rams may be
hand-fed.
Sickness causing fever (fly strike, foot-
rot and abscesses) can render rams in-
effective. It’s useless to join a ram for
some weeks after fly strike has been
cured.
it was found that the effect of arsenic
was considerable, although it varied with
the quantity of wool on the rams at the
time. It is unwise to dip rams in arsenical
dips immediately off shears and not for
at least a week thereafter; also there is
grave risk in jetting rams with arsenical
solutions or in using dressings contain-
ing arsenic for fly strike. Rams carrying
more than five months’ wool should not
be dipped in arsenical fluids for at least
three months before mating.
By a co-ordination of three factors—
(1) cool weather, (2) good natural feed
conditions or supplementary feeding,
(3) the most suitable oestrus period for
ewes—the time of the year can be deter-
mined when best results would be ob-
tained by mating. These figures have
been checked by actual results in different
districts; and although there is a fairly
wide margin it is possible for breeders
in any particular district to arrive at an
understanding of the most suitable mating
time for sheep under local conditions.
Pink Eye.
“J.R.D.”: Cause is a minute organism
which may be carried in the eyes of cer-
tain sheep for varying periods up to two
years. Outbreaks usually occur in early
spring, and flies are chiefly responsible
lor spreading the disease. A C.S.I.R.
report on recent experiments shows that
much of the usual treatment is useless.
Pink eye varies in severity; some
sheep are only slightly affected, others
may be rendered temporarily blind. Chief
danger is the damage they may suffer
through walking into obstacles and loss'
of condition through being unable to find
feed and water. As a rule the worst
stages do not last more than a week, but
some partial blindness has lasted longer.
Affected sheep water at the eyes. The
tears contain the germs and are respon-
sible for spreading them. Sheep rub
their heads against other fleeces or brush
through long grass, leaving infection to be
picked up by following animals or flies.
Sheep that have recovered usually have
some immunity against further attack,
and where a flock has been regularly
subjected to pink eye it will be found
that fresh-outbreaks are usually confined
to younger sheep which have not built
up resistance.
Instead of attempting to treat indivi-
dual cases, which would be an addition-
ally difficult job at present on account
of labor shortage, it would be better to
keep an eye on badly-affected cases, if
possible, to see they get sufficient to eat
and drink until sufficiently recovered to
look after themselves.
Southern Pastures.
“Ex-C.G.”: Back in 1931 the Victorian
Pastures Improvement League began a
series of tests on pastures. It aimed to
“Well, they're first-class sheep, ain't they?"
find the best plants for various soils and
climate, and also manurial requirements.
W. D. Andrew, assistant agrostologist,
now points out that superphosphate has
been the outstanding fertiliser except at
Mirboo North, where lime is deficient,
and at Cobden and Lardner, where
potash is lacking.
This potash shortage, evident also at
Yering, Larpent and Cobrico, became
evident as repeated mowings of pasture
depleted the natural reserves. There was
instant response to applications of potash.
Andrew claims that tests in the north
haven’t gone on long enough to settle
the potash question there. Use of a
waste product commonly called “cement
ash” and which contains potassium has
proved of benefit. As with super, the
legumes respond most to potash, and
when either it or super, drops out the
clovers disappear.
Use of sulphate of ammonia as a nitro-
genous aid resulted in a falling off of the
legumes after a year or two in practically
every test. It can be taken that the tests
prove sulphate of ammonia uneconomic
for Victorian pastures. Lime added to
pastures which got a regular dose of
super, resulted in more vigorous growth,
though heavy yield increases followed in
only a few places. Best responses to lime
were on the red country in the Gippsland
hills.
On irrigated pastures the responses to
fertilisers were practically the same, ex-
cept that it now seems clear that heavier
phosphatic manures can be applied to
irrigated areas with benefit. A single
dressing of about 4cwt. an acre is the
thing.
Sub. clover is still the best pasture
species. Of the various strains, Mount
Barker showed up best. Wimmera rye
and P. tuberosa proved most suitable
for a mixture with the sub. clover —
perennial rye knocked the sub. back.
Results with other clovers were inde-
terminate.
Dairy Heifers.
“L. Cove”: When choosing a dairy
heifer, get hold of the type that’s angular
and spare and minus surplus flesh. The
head should be typical of the breed, eyes
large and bright, and muzzle large too.
When the neck’s lean and lengthy and
slopes with the shoulders, the heifer’s
usually sharp over the shoulders, has the
ribs well sprung and a good heart girth.
Forequarters should be light.
You can guage her digestive capacity
by the depth through the barrel from the
centre of the back to the navel. That’s
where she converts food into milk —
the greater the depth the greater the
production.
See that her back is straight and that
there’s a good length from the hip to
the pin bones and from the hip to the
flank. Thighs should be flat, free from
fleshiness, and the line of the thigh in-
curving. Bones should be light—not
coarse. The animal with these features
doesn’t put on much flesh.
Well-developed milk veins and large
milk wells are big points in a heifer’s
favor.
Handling a Young Horse.
“8.A.”; There’s more in “breaking” a
Porse than getting it so it can be ridden
past the boss without bucking. The usual
procedure is to rope the animal and give
him a few hours mouthing and lunging
and then saddle up and ride him to a
standstill. All the handling is done from
the rear side.
After a colt has been taught to lead
he should be made familiar with the
breaker’s touch on all parts of his body,
and taught to lift his feet when required.
With a foreleg strapped up the operator
should subject him to a thorough rubbing
and patting, starting at the back of the ears
and running down the neck and shoul-
ders, along the barrel to the rump and
down the hind legs to the heels, giving
somewhat more attention to the offside
than the near.
A 1 ter a few repetitions of this treatment
the animal will submit to handling with-
out the strap on the foreleg; he should
then be taught to lift his feet by exerting
a steady strain on the fetlock with one
hand, and at the same time giving his
leg a rap with the knuckles of the other.
French Beans.
“P.C.”: French beans are an all-the-
year-round crop in mild and moist
climates, but watch the bean-fly. It is
seldom active in midwinter, and will not
touch plants sprayed, with a solution of
6i fluid ounces of white oil emulsion,
one fluid ounce of nicotine sulphate and
four gallons of water when they are three
days old. Spray again at six days old,
again at nine days old and then every
four days. We use warm water made
very soapy with kerosene soap and warm
water colored with potassium perman-
ganate at similar intervals, and get good
results.
French beans need a deep, rich loam,
ample moisture and an open situation.
They are fond of well-rotted stable
manure, but the best fertiliser is 21b. of
sulphate of potash, 61b. of super, and
lib, dried blood per 50 square yards of
land. Sow in rows, allowing 6in. between
plants and 12in. between rows, or 3ft.
if there is to be horse cultivation.
Canadian Wonder is an excellent
dwarf variety and Epicure is a good
climber. The climbers need a high,
strong trellis? are extremely heavy
croppers, and the beans are of splendid
quality. The butter bean is like a dwarf
French bean, except that its beans are
golden-yellow and stringless. Dwarf
Startler Wax is well worth a trial. Break
the runners off the top's of dwarf French
and butter beans to make the plants
bushy. Keep the pods picked to ensure
a long growing and cropping period.
Hints for the Farm.
“L. Cove”: Watch the skirting of the
clip. Every pound off means a loss be-
tween the prices received for piece wool
and for pieces and broken wool. When
it looks as if it would pay you to “free”
the wool, get to work to remove burrs
and the like from the fleece. When burrs
and grass seeds have the wool well matted
up, make the skirting a light one and
put the wool up for sale as a burry or
seedy line.
“Plane Creek”: Mushrooms are easy
to grow and easy to sell. Make beds of
fresh horse-manure six inches deep under
the house or in the shed. They don’t
need light or fresh air. The fresher the
manure the better, but if it is very wet
it should be allowed to dry for a few
days before being made into beds. Spawn
should be broken into Sin. square bits
after the manure has begun to generate
heat and the pieces laid four inches apart
on the well-flattened surface. After six
days spread l£in. of fresh horse-manure
over the spawn and beat it down
well.'"- Two weeks later cover the bed
with 2yin. of leaf-mould and beat down
as before. The first mushrooms will
come through within six weeks, and if
the bed is kept moist by watering with
lukewarm water when the surface seems
dry it will produce for a couple of
months.
“Goulburn”: Don’t sow millet where
sorghum was grown the previous year, as
self-sown sorghum will appear in the
spring and may poison the cattle. Fodder
millets are ideal crops to grow in spring
and summer, but make sure seed is free
of Sudan and Johnson grass.
“Bundalinga”: Take advantage of
present opportunities to get rid of low-
producing cows. If in good condition
they will sell well for beef.
“Ninety-nine”: When a four-year-old
horse is cutting his back molar teeth his


QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd-,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
sdfdsfdsf
A dog in
good work-
ing condi-
tion is an
asset, espe-
cially to-day when
labor is scarce. It
pays to watch his
health. If his coat
is dull, loose or
ragged, if he is
listless or oIT his
food, start him now , ■
on a course of BARKO Condition Powders, which
are a combination of valuable, nourishing and
restorative ingredients. BARKO Condition
Powders are recommended for Cattle-dogs, S'heep-
dogs and Watchdogs.
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOC?K AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD,
IS
mmm
m*
Wireless alone can meet the
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
INSTANT * CONSTANT * CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
*
RADIOTRON
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney. .
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Yalve Co. Pty.. Ltd.
Whi) not
3SO lbs
v V
EFFORT
MW
M
|k
MONEY
Extra Weight Does Not
Affect the Price Per Lb.
Jute Wool Packs are imported from India and
call for freight and exchange while supplies to-
day are very limited.
Put at Least 25 . More
Wool in Every Pack
The Wool will bring the same price per lb., and
the savings on Australia’s clip would be: —
200.000 woolpacks; 3,200 16-ton railway trucks;
8.000 lorry trips at least; 100,000 double dumps
at 6/6 each; 8 storage sheds of double dumped
wool and 12 ship loads.
Every Woolgrower Can Help
gums often become sore and swollen and
he drops his food. The trouble will right
itself in time. Plenty of cool water
should be available, and he is better feed-
ing on. green grass. Failing that, he
should be fed sparingly with slightly-
damped feed, free from whole grain and
with the addition of bran and lucerne
chaff. An ounce of Epsom salts in the
feed daily is helpful; halve the dose if too
laxative. The feed box should be cleaned
after each feed, and rock salt made avail-
able.
“W. Court”: Cracked raw maize is
preferable to boiled whole maize in the
horse’s diet. Boiled corn may ferment
internally and generate gas, with possible
fatal consequences. Cracked raw maize
is easier to eat and to digest. A 21b. fruit-
tin to each kerosene-tin of chaff is a
good ration.
“Goulburn”: Try the paddock system
of grazing pigs. It requires less labor
in cleaning up and feeding, and the pigs
do well. Grow crops in small paddocks
for rotational grazing, which saves the
work of harvesting. As with any system
of feeding, it is best to grade the pigs
according to size, keeping each grade by
itself.
“Plane Creek”: Don’t leave hollow
logs lying around the place. They’re
breeding places and refuges for vermin at
any time and are dangerous when burn-
ing firebreaks. Burn them out when
there’s no danger of the fire spreading or
split ’em up for household firewood.
“Sailor Bill”: When firewood gets
scarce cut down suitable green trees and
chop them into short lengths. The wood
is much easier to cut when it is green and
the lengths will dry out much more
quickly than would whole trees. They
can be left in heaps in the bush till they’re
dry enough.
“G. MacK.”: The average weight of
wool per bale in the Commonwealth
came down to 2981 b. last season. In Vic-
toria the average was only 2851 b. It’s
a matter of some great importance when
woolpacks are scarce and becoming
scarcer. The average weight per bale of
the Maoriland clip is 3401 b. So, press
wools to heavier bale weights.
Outback Occasions.
No. 51.
A NARROW ESCAPE (1).
We nearly lost our farm once. A new
sort of stock and station agent came to
the town. Stock and station agents in
the country are good blokes, as a rule.
They stand by their word and they give
everybody a fair go. They have a pretty
shrewd idea of values, and they don’t
hesitate to give their clients good tips or
to warn them against crook propositions.
And they generally take a big interest in
the district and help it along wherever
they can.
This new bloke was different. His idea
was to get business. “Keep on the move,”,
he’d say—“that’s the only way to pro-
gress ; keep on the move.” He began
by travelling round asking all the farmers
what they’d sell out for.
“But I don’t want t’ sell out,” said
Father. “I’m doin’ all right ; an’
there’s me boys cornin’ on an’ ”
“But,” broke in the agent, “you could
hardly fail to entertain a good offer.”
“That depends on what y’ call a good
offer.”
“Well, what do you think the place is
worth?”
Father turned away. He wanted to
hide his faint grin. He winked at me.
Then he said “Aw, say fourten or fifteen
quid an acre ; walk in, walk out.” Top
value of the place was about ten quid.
But that, agent couldn’t be bluffed. “All
right,” he said, “1 take it you’ll sell at
that.”
Father laughed. “Too right,” he said.
A few months went by. Then one day
Father got a ring from the town. He
listened awhile, then hung up the ’phone
in an awed sort of way, looked at us
and said “ ’Struth, that agent has got
somebody cornin’ out t’ look our place
over. Says he reckons he can get four-
teen-ten an acre.” He sat down, dazed.
Mother and our sister and we boys
went for Father. We didn’t want to leave
the place. Mother didn’t. “I came here
a bride,” she said in a strange voice. “I’ve
looked after you and your children for
nearly twenty years, and now you want
to sell the roof over my head. Money,
money, money ; it’s all you men ever
think of! We’re part of this place ; it’s
part of us. Where will we go? What
will we do?”
“My stars,” roared Father, jumping up,
“anybody’d think I’d sold the blasted
place. As if anybody’d buy it at that
price! ” And he rushed outside. Mother
smiled. “That stirred him,” she said with
a kind note in her voice. “He loves the
place as much as we do.” And I’m
blowed if she didn’t go round all three
of us and give us each a little hug.
Our brother had been pretty thought-
ful, and he said “Yes, but suppose the
bloke’s a bit silly or got more money
than sense an’ does want t’ buy at
Father’s price? What about that?”
Mother gave him a startled look, put
her hand up to her breast, then hurried
to the back door and called Father. She
told him what our brother had said. “By
cripes,” said Father, slowly and wonder-
ingly, “it’s on the cards.”
“But you don’t have t’ sell.”'
Father looked miserable. “I told that
agent I would, never thinkin’ anyone
would come at it. And that’s as good
as givin’ me word.” Father was a great
stickler for the sanctity of the given word.
“You and your word,” snorted Mother.
“This is something more than words. It’s
our home!”
“Don’t I know that, woman? But
who’d have thought that blasted agent
would do this? It’s him we gotter worry
about. If I back out now he’ll go round
sayin’ I ain’t a man o’ me word.”
“Gracious, what does that matter? Our
friends know better.”
Father sighed. “It don’t take much
t’ upset a man’s credit,” he said ; “and
gossip mounts like costs. You ought to
know that!”
Mother snorted. She said she never
suspected she’d have to live with Father
for 20 years and then be rewarded by
being told she was a gossip. She sup-
posed she was only a woman and had her
faults, but she never thought gossiping
was one of them. And there were faults
in others she knew of, things that had
happened in 20 years which she knew
about, things which Father knew about
but didn’t choose to remember, though
she couldn’t forget them, having been
face to face with them for 20 years ; and
as for gossip—well, she had always been
found in her place, that she could say,
and nobody could say, unless they were
downright liars, that she was ever any-
where than where she ought to be—
where every good wife and mother ought
to be—looking after her home and her
family. Nobody thought of that. No-
body ever thought that a woman some-
times dreamt of other things like having
someone else to do her work for a while
or having a change for a while. Oh, no ;
but they could go up to some fiddle-
faddling agent who was getting too big
for his boots and sell the very roof over a
woman’s head and expect her to be joyful
about it. They never realised that to a true
woman her home was everything and,
goodness, what it would be like ——
At this stage we children sneaked out-
side and went and sat in the stables and
talked in low voices. And presently
Father came sneaking in and looked at
us in a threatening sort of way and said
“What do you fellows mean, frightening
your mother like that? She’s got her-
self all worked up. Thinks I’m really
going to sell the place. Thinks I’ve been
planning to do it for months and keep-
ing it secret. By cripes, I’ve a good mind
to knock your blocks off.”
By that time our brother and I had
backed out under the mangers and gone
round behind the haystack, where we
squatted on our heels and played with
bits of straw and chewed them and
thought about a lot of things and felt
like crying but wouldn’t because neither
of us wanted to let on that bad. And
behind it all loomed the figure of that
agent and the buyer he was bringing out.


Treat your
n»»R
COVERING
with every care
It’s better to lend than spend
buy national savings bonds
SPECIAL, NOTICE.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Is not just a modified closet pan but a complete self-contained sanitary system
in itself. All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and automatically
runs off and is absorbed in the soil. No water supply required.
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH AND IS FULLY GUARANTEED.
Many other chemical systems have come and gone during past years, but the
sturdiness, efficiency and longevity of the Hygeia Dissolvenator are beyond dispute.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
No emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
Price, £l7/17/6, F.O.R. SYDNEY, includes 10% Sales Tax.
Plus 20/- war surcharge. Crating (if necessary) 10/6 extra.
WRITE OR TELEPHONE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty.ltd Telephone 'blos2^
Obtainable direct from us or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; 11. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
ill
Pll
H
If®
M
Modern high-cWs accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates—
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy a Gaelic dictionary, books on sur-
names and Names of Victorian Railway
Staions, by O’Callaghan (1918). State price,
etc.—3302.
Words of recitations “The Outlaw of Glen
Idle,” “The Grey Welangie,” “The Man Who
Steadies the Lead” and “When the Fire Queen
Crossed the Swamp.” —3301.
Information Sought.
Dates and places where naval engagements
of the present war have taken place?
“Naval engagements” is a wide term, and to
itemise every action in which naval craft have
taken part in a war in which the British Navy
alone has lost 415 ships would overtax space
here available. A selection of naval actions of
importance is given here (excluding many in
which aircraft played a preponderating part
on one side or the other): December 14,
1939, German battleship Graf Spee damaged
off the coast of Uruguay and subsequently
scuttled; May, 1940, combats of British and
German naval units off Narvik and Trondhjem
in Norway; July 3, 1940, at Oran, French
Morocco, British Navy severely damaged French
warships; July 9, 1940, at Dakar, British Navy
units damaged the French battleship Richelieu;
July 8, 1940, British Fleet engaged the Italian in
the Mediterranean; November 11-12, 1940, Battle
of Taranto resulted in part of the Italian Fleet
being crippled by British forces; November 29,
1940, engagement between British and German
destroyers; December 25, 1940, British and
German battleships engaged in an encounter
in the Atlantic; March 31, 1941," Battle of the
Ionian Sea, or Battle of Matapan, an engage-
ment between the British and Italian fleets;
May 4, 1941, encounter between the British
and Italian fleets off Sicily and Tripoli; May
24, 1941, engagement between the British and
German fleets off Greenland in which battle-
cruiser Hood was sunk; May 27, 1941, German
battleship Bismarck sunk; January 28, 1942,
Allied forces attacked Japanese squadron in
Battle of the Macassar Straits; February 27,
1942, Battle of the Java Sea between Allied
and Japanese fleets; May 11, 1942, Coral Sea
Battle between the Allied and Japanese fleets,
north-east of Australia; June 8, 1942, United
States Fleet encountered Japanese Fleet in
the Battle of Midway Island; August 10,
1942, Allied forces in the South-west Pacific
launched an attack on the Solomon Islands and
dispersed units of the Japanese Fleet.
* * * *
(1) A recent decision of the High Court de-
clares that the Commonwealth Government is
the only taxing authority. Does this apply
to returns for income earned in the year ended
June 30, 1942? (2) Service men have to make
returns to the State in which they enlisted, but
we can obtain only forms of the State in which
we are now stationed. Will these forms be
accepted? (3) When a soldier is away from
camp for over 72 hours he is granted a sub-
sistence allowance of 2s. sd. a day to cover
the cost of food and shelter. Is this amount
taxable ? If so, is it taxable only when actually
received, i.e., while on leave, or is an amount
of 2s. sd. a day taxable over the whole year.
(4) Is deferred pay taxable? (5) A solaier
makes an allotment to his wife; the Government
grants the wife a separate allowance *; the allot-
ment is taxed from the soldier; is the wife
taxed on the separate allowance?
(1) Yes. (2) If a member of the military-or
air forces stationed, say, in W.A. finds it im-
possible to obtain a N. S. Wales income tax
form, he should make his return on a W.A.
form and lodge it with the Deputy Commis-
sionet, Perth, stating, in the space proviaed,
where his last return was lodged. There is now
only one income tax in the Commonwealth,
so that the place of lodgment of the return
is only a matter of convenience. (3) The value
of a soldier’s keep (at 2s. sd. a day) for year
ended 30/6/’42 is reckoned as part of his
assessable income whether received in money
as a subsistence allowance or in food whilst
in camp. (4) Deferred pay should not be in-
cluded in the 1942 return. When received
after the end of the war, 5 p.c. of the total will
be treated as assessable income. (5) Separation
allowances granted to wives of members of
the forces are exempt from tax.
* * * *
(1) Can a member of the Australian mer-
cantile marine wear any kind of uniform ?
(2) What are the wages of an able seaman?
(3) Under what conditions do A.Bs. sail?
(1) There is no uniform for members of the
mercantile marine. (2) £2O and 6d. a month,
plus 33| p.c. war bonus. (3) Australian award
conditions (Seamen’s Union of Australia).
* * * *
Why is Handel’s “Dead March” always re-
ferred to as the Dead March IN “Saul,” and
some details concerning it?
The mafch, of course, is from the oratorio
“Saul,” composed by Handel in 1738, and first
performed in 1740. Why it is always referred
to as in “Saul” instead of from “Saul” has
never been satisfactorily explained. The use
of the march on State occasions in Britain and
later throughout the Empire is, as well as a
tribute to its splendid dignity, a reminder that
Handel was, in a sense, a Court musician. Inis
is the only well-known funeral march in a major
key, being written in C major.
« ♦ * *
(1) Is it usual for the military pay of a
prisoner of war to be continued while he is a
prisoner? (2) If so, will Australian soldiers at
present imprisoned in Japan be credited with
full rates? (3) Will deferred pay be credited in
full?
(1) Yes. (2) Yes, pending advice as to
whether they survive. (3) Yes.
* # *
Method of cleaning an eiderdown quilt in the
home ?
Before washing quilt, prepare a generous
solution of suds in warm water and soak quilt
in it for half an hour, then press dirt out, but
don’t rub. Rinse well and hang on the line to
drip, shaking now and then. When partly dry,
beat gently to lighten the filling and repeat
several times. A good quilt should wash easily
if care is taken.
* >;• * ♦
What are the measurements of a deck-tennis
court, including the height of the net ?
Outside line, 30ft. by 17ft.; inside line, 28ft,
by 15ft; height of net at posts, sft. 6in.
* * * *
How to remelt a number of small pieces of
soap, so they can be remoulded and cut up into
larger cakes ?
Cut the small cakes of soap into shavings,
place in a container and heat, adding a little
water to moisten. Heat must be very slow, and
continuous stirring assists in the speedy re-
ducing of the soap. When thoroughly mixed,
allow to cool and cut into desired size.
* * * *
Spontaneous yeast used in breadmaking some-
times gets very slow in working after it has been
used for some time. When this happens a
fresh setoff is needed, which is sometimes hard
to get. There is what is termed a maiden yeast.
How is it made?
Here are two yeasts that do not need starters
and will make bread as good as any: Boil to-
gether a handful of hops, four cups water, one
tablespoonful brown sugar and teaspoonful
salt till hops sink, then strain. Mix one table-
spoon flour smoothly into the mixture, bottle
and cork tightly. When yeast is fit to use, boil
and mash three medium-sized potatoes, mix
with cups of the yeast, put in small vessel,
tie a cloth tightly over lid and leave for several
hours. When setting sponge strain the yeast
and use one to six cups of flour and one pint
of warm water. Keep a little yeast in bottle as
starter. Acid yeast; Mash a boiled potato with
one quart water, add one tablespoonful flour
and one teaspoonful tartaric acid, strain into
big bottle and cork tightly. Ready in 24 hours.
v # * «
(1) When did W. M. Hughes leave the
Labor party ? (2) Was the first National Minis-
try of February, 1917, primarily Labor, with
representatives of the Liberal party? (3)
What were the dates of Mr. Hughes’s visits to
England during the last war, and what party did
he represent on those visits? (4) For what
reason did he hold a referendum on the con-
scription issue in 1916-17, instead of enforcing
conscription by law ?
(1) On November 14, 1916, when he formed a
conscription Labor Ministry. (2) No; there
were six Libs, and five Labs. (3) The first visit
was early in March, 1916, when he represented
Labor, the second in 1918-19, when he repre-
sented the reconstructed National Ministry.
(4) He could have used the War Precautions
Act, but Parliament could have held up regu-
lations issued under it; furthermore, such action
would have split the Labor party.
* * * *
What is the meaning of the badge on a
medical man’s motor-car? «
The Americans, who use a badge somewhat
similar to that in vogue in Australia, say that
the serpent is supposed to typify wisdom and
the knots on the rods signify the difficult
problems of medicine. The colors, scarlet and
gold, have been regarded as the particular colors
of the physician’s costume. In the Middle
Ages the physicians of the King’s retinue wore
scarlet cloaks. The Elixir of Life was usually a
red tincture. Gold symbolises the sun, which
has long been regarded as having definite in-
fluence over health. The Maltese cross has
an international meaning in connection with
medical services.
Brief Answers.
A.S.: If the utensils are clean, and the milk
is covered when boiled, there should be no
discoloration left in the jug....X320; The will
suggested could not be upset by anyone.
LX).: Larke, Neave and Carter, 177 William-
street, Sydney, can supply a Chevrolet 1936
instruction-book Westralia: Traps for small
birds are procurable from Anthony Horderns’,
Sydney....C.R.C.: “Bartimeus” is the pen-
name of Paymaster-Captain L. A. Ritchie, R N
For other details, see Who’s Who Inquirer:
If the fence is wholly on your property the
adjoining owner has no right to . use it. If
it is on the boundary side, he has W.: Facts
stated are insufficient to give a considered
opinion, but it would seem that you might
have acquired a right-of-way and could pre-
vent interference with it J.D.: Application
for admission to old people’s home should be
made to the N.S.W. Department of Public
Health, 52 Bridge-street, Sydney T.F.S.: No
award for station overseers; salary is a matter
for arrangement between employer and em-
ployee. You would have to apply to the
Director of Man-power, Pitt-street, Sydney,
concerning any change in occupation J.G.:
Apply to Brisbane State Fisheries for booklets
dealing with fish-smoking H.W.: No com-
plete record of Victoria Cross winners of this
war available in Australia. Try the War Office,
London.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
G.A.8.:
Xiy decree of Mr. Dedman,
When man puts his Sunday best on,
He will not, if a well-bred man,
Have a vest on.
D.F.F.:—
To of the past the flag flies half-mast —
Mow Spearmints and P.Ks. hayc flittered.
There’s nothing worth buying—it’s really most trying
To find my young life so embittered.
... .K.McA.: What’s the sense of re-submitting
it with the line we criticised unaltered?
E.D.S.; Nothing new in it, except the heart-
rending rhyme “trodden - modern” T.T. :
Try elsewhere R.A.: Saying “Thou dost
offer” instead of “You olfer” doesn’t make it
poetry K.E.C.: Far too thin for that theme.
J.L.: “Awe” rhymed with “hour” has kept
us an hour in awe PJ.R.: Harrowing
W.H.L.: You’ve taken a lot of trouble to get
nowhere in particular with someone else’s idea.
C.S.; No more than a yarn H.H. ;
We’re a little shy of Idylls... .N.F.H.: “The
Misfit” won’t fit... .M.A.T.: No bid for the
kitchen table W.G.: Would need to be
rounded out to make a story N.C.: Nearly,
but it’s too thin... . A.W.R.: It’s been done
before... .F.X.M.: Feeble S.W.: Near. Let
us see some others M.K.; All “gnomes” are
shot on sight.... 1.W.: Too much in the style
of the “Nature Note” on which it is based.
... .E.K.S.: For a woman’s paper, perhaps
W.K.: Elementary..,. J.C.G.: Polished, it
might qualify as atrocious doggerel H.U.8.:
Jerky... .8.T.: Neither up W.E.C.: Don’t
like Barts, even when they’re “ordinary men
who can’t help being Barts.” W.L.McC.:
Poem about the girl who fell amongst cannibals
and was “too young for a devil’s feasting”
not for these respectable pages.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.L.H.: Hirsute pigmy on left holding back
a sea of black ink in foreground and a butter-
box on elliptical wheels in right-hand corner—
what does it all mean? ... .Bert C.: An excruci-
ating pun and a couple of earless freaks
A.G.: Rigor mortis seems to have overtaken
your figures while they are still standing.


■
|HH|
GrinnelVs record
in the Battle for Britain
These facts are taken direct from a British
analysis of 250 cases of fire damage caused
by incendiary and high explosive bombs
in buildings protected by Grinnell Auto-
matic Fire Extinguishing Equipment.
.
............................................................................. ... -
V ■: : '2
> 2x
m
' ■
11
Hi
i
iMSBBraHRPMIiHI
■
■- 1 ■
'■■ M......-.i
m
i i
tr
-
HHH
--Ow
■■■
mmmmm
m i
Us
nn
■
FIRES NOT EXTINGUISHED or CONTROLLED—INSUFFICIENT WATER
FIRES NOT EXTINGUISHED or CONTROLLED OWING
TO' COMPLETE FAILURE OF WATER SUPPLIES
V -'HIUO ; -' ' ■■■; A|
. . r-: v ;
: s
FIRES EXTINGUISHED
BY "GRINNELL” SPRINKLERS
Including o few partial successes
NO FIRE
Sprinklers Damaged
NO FIRE
But Sprinklers Readv
FIRE
INCENDIARY
This diagram, at right, tells the
full story of Grinnell Automatic
Sprinklers during Britain’s first
two years of war.
Incendiary Bomb
Fires
Grinnell was 82 % successful in
extinguishing fires started by
incendiary bombs in sprink-
lered premises. In fact, the
only times Grinnell sprinklers
failed to control the fire
was when water mains were
damaged, or when water sup-
plies were insufficient.
High Explosive
Bombs
21 % of times, Sprinkler equip-
ment was damaged but no fire
resulted.
34 % of times, H.E. bombs
failed to damage the efficiency
of Grinnell equipment and
failed to cause fire.
In the remainder of cases where
fire occurred, Grinnell was
40% successful - otherwise
failure was due to bomb
damage of Grinnell installation.
GKINNELL ■
Automatic Sprinkler Systems
WormalA Mros. Piy* Ldd. (Incorp. in N.S.W.)
FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERS SINCE 1889
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
Naturally, the R.A.N.,
A.1.F., R.A.A.F., De-
fence Works and key
industries have first
priority on our com-
plete range of Fire
Protection equipment
but we are glad to
undertake essential
Fire Protection work
of lower priority as
conditions permit.
GS2


Correct belt tension, the all important factor
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian OUice: 20 Queen's Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States.
m
.
IMS I" AL L A M
m
m
Vj
%
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache aa a signal that there
Is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
5n your body passes through these tubes to be
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
,tlnless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. Frequent or scanty passages with
smarting and burning also show there is
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
Jfour chemist or store for DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as vour neighbour does—take DOAN’S
gACKACHfi i’ILLS ft-flag.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£, £• & £>
1935.. 13,945 6* p.c. = 12,324 1,621 2,445
1936.. 34,017 10 „ „ 18,317 15,700 18,145
1937.. 55,259 12-1 „ „ 27,268 27,991 46,136
1938.. 82,346 13* „ ~ 42,969 39,377 85,513
1939.. 98,220 14| „ „ 55,580 42,640 128,153
1940.. 75,152 14 J „ „ 59,305 15,847 144,000
1941.. 63,750 13* ~ „ 66,734 142,996
1942.. 93,903 11* „ „ 23,782 166,778
This rapidly-grown organisation is now
fully geared to war work, though the
gearing isn’t quite so high as was in-
tended. This because, when the Jap
severed our main rubber sinews of war,
the Olympic management had to forgo
some of its expansion plans, with the
result that £46,750 of capital is languish-
ing at call, mainly in connection with
the £116,000 share-issue put out early
last term. Allied rubber hopes now
hinge chiefly on the success and cost of
America’s big synthetic programme. This
will not swing into really adequate pro-
duction before 1944, but the Olym-
pic control reckons there are “reasonable
hopes” that before present stocks are
exhausted it may be possible to obtain
synthetics in sufficient volume to carry
on at full bat. Meantime most rigid
economy in the use of the elastic article
is being enforced. Main immediate
avenue of eking out existing supplies
lies in reclaim, on which Olympic’s plant
is working round the clock to supple-
ment its own and other Australian rubber
cos:’ requirements.
It was as late as 1933 that the co., all
but one of whose directors are also execu-
tives, set up in the tyre-manufacturing
business in Melbourne. Connections
quickly expanded to all Australian States
and Maoriland, and the range of defence
and industrial activities is now too wide
for enumeration here. Special mention
is merited for pioneering local manufac-
ture of rubber-insulated electric cables,
of which 130,000,000 yards have been
turned out and the varieties of which are
to be extended following appearance of
£ competitor. In itself the first table isn’t
a true indicator of the elevenfold in-
crease in turnover since 1935, owing to
the curb on profits of war-time Govern-
ment controls, taxation and raw-material
and other costs absorbed by the co. Par-
ticularly onerous has been the war-time
(company) tax, for which £44,500 was
set aside last year apart from other in-
come imposts. The measure reacts
harshly on an efficient youngster like
Olympic, which hasn’t had time to accu-
mulate really substantial reserves, despite
rather careful husbanding of profits.
Here is the growth over a seven-year
period as seen by the ledger-keepers:
1935. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £173,343 £392,500 £549,667 £649,099
Overdraft . . 15,592 643,464 953,299
Sundry creditors* 16,560 107,929 446,505 304,670
Premises . . 18,669' 78,119 181,392 201,160
Plant, etc. . . 59,248 115,707 311,114 343,562
Stocks . . 81,099 244,359 1,151,111 1,334,669
Debtors, etc... 65,642 245,448 194,729 229,336
* Including tax reserve.
In that time capital has grown by
£475,756, of which £99,432 came in
during the latest twelvemonth, when there
was further heavy increment in stocks (up
£183,558), partly on security account.
The only misgiving about this item now
should be that it isn’t more bulky still.
It is being carried with nearly a million
of bank assistance, but as it goes down
so will the overdraft. Thanks to the new
capital there was an improvement of
£50,165 in the more or less liquid surplus
(£306,036), depreciation balances looking
after much of the new outlay on plant.
For Olympic, the first two years of
war comprised the blueprint and con-
struction stage. Results came with a
rush last term, when the swing from
profitable civilian trade to less-remunera-
tive defence activities was more than
balanced in p. and 1. by the big and
varied outturn of the latter. After charg-
ing taxation and £49,796 (up £20,918) for
depreciation on intensively-run plant,
profit bounced up £30,153 to £93,903.
That allows for an adjustment of £21,378
in the ’4l figure in respect of taxation
underprovided. On average capital the
£93,903 stretched to 15.4 p.c., compared
with 12.8 p.c. the year before and 25.1
p.c. in 1939. Div. was reduced from 13f
to 114 p.c.—it took £3387 more than the
previous term’s higher rate—leaving
£23,782 to benefit reserves and finances.
Essential output can be expected to be
maintained at the maximum of raw
material available. Time is too short to
expect much from publicised possible Aus-
tralian sources of the elastic commodity.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
To Re- and Re-
June, -Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1935.. 47,372 7 p.c. = 28,000 1
Provident fund, £2OOO j- 13,872 628,904
Staff bonus, £3500..
1936.. 51,514 8 p.c. = 32,000)
Provident fund, £2OOO !-14,514 643,418
. Staff bonus, £3000..
1937.. 54,745 8 p.c. = 32,000 ) „ n ? . r .....
Provident fund, £2OOO J ZO,7 * J 664,163
Provision contingencies written
back, £5OOO 669,163
1938.. 62,686 10 p.c. * = 40,000 "
Provident fund, £5OOO 13,686 682,849
Staff bonus, £4OOO ..
1939.. 56.121 9 p.c. = 36,000’
Provident fund, £2OOO 13,121 695,970
Written off premises, £5OOO
1940.. 58,345 9 p.c. = 36,000"
Provident fund, £2OOO 1-15,345 711,315
Written off premises, £5OOO
1941.. 61,454 9 p.c. = 36,000’
Provident fund, £5OOO 15,454 726,769
Written off premises, £5OOO
1942.. 63,111 9 p.c. = 36,000"
Provident fund, £7OOO 15,111 741,880
Written off premises, £5OOO
* Includes 2 p.c. diamond jubilee bonus.
It is a good Australian office in which
reserves are visibly approaching the stage
where they will afford pound-for-pound
protection for capital, the £400,000 of
which is already composed, as to
£152,250, of transfers from that source.
Taking the difference known to exist
between market and book values of some
of the assets into account, that stage
may even have been reached. Policy-
holders are equally well protected.
Together, capital and reserves equal to
229 p.c. of last term’s net premium
income are on view, or half as much
again as is usually considered desirable.
The present volume of business is thus
well within the capacity of the funds to
handle.
The Mercantile’s connections spread
throughout the world, and since the out-
break of war the management has played
safe and reinsured all overseas war risks
in full. Locally, chief features of war-
time underwriting have been a big and
profitable expansion in marine premiums
—coastal submarine warfare has added to
the hazards here —and a lengthening of
war and other inventories which, with
the price fillip to insurable values, have
more than compensated for any disrup-
tion of peace industry.
Certainly car insurance has slumped ;
but it is a class of business in which
there has been little profit for most. Thus,
though last year this caused a contrac-
tion of £15,180 in the Mercantile’s gross
premiums (£684,880), it wasn't missed,
and after reinsuring 53 p.c. of the year’s
business a surplus £1478 higher at £38,099
showed up on underwriting account:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
£ £ £
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 53.8 p.c. 43.5 p.c.
1933.. 232,712 110,573 122,917 47.5 „ 52.8 „
1936.. 250,010 91,517 128,273 36.6 „ 51.3 ~
1937.. 275,763 113,760 130,825 41.2 ~ 47.4 „
1938.. 294,595 118,702 137,382 40.3 „ 46.6 „
1939.. 300,940 134,204 135,922 44.6 ~ 45.1
1940.. 306,541 134,981 137.110 44.0 „ 44.7 ; ,
1941.. 315,104 131,798 146,685 41.8 „ 46.5 ~
1942.. 322,944 124,645 160,200 38.5 „ 49.6 „
Smaller reinsurances and a favorable
loss experience did the trick, notwith-
standing the way taxation, etc. (£56,733,
up £9940), bumped up the expense rate.
With an extra £lBO from interest and
rents (£25,011), there was a total of
£63,111 to show to shareholders, or 15.8
p.c. on capital, as against 15.3 p.c. and
14.4 p.c. for the two years before ; 9 p.c.
again went out. After sending £7OOO to
staff funds, that left £20,111 to put by,
of which £5OOO was whisked to property
reserves.
With other underwriters the Mercan-
tile is playing its part on the financial
front;
1931. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 20,668 215,000 250,789' 255,721
Tax reserve .. 6,000 18,000 30,000 35,000
Freeholds, etc. 412.968 485,384 486,709 480,300
Mortgages .. 19,256 14,745 21,283 21,661
Public securities,
deposits, etc. 319,963 364,149 396,920 441,859
Book debts .. 67,614 68,212 79,665 76,323
Cash, etc. .. 6,051 23,479 50,980 42,457
Besides, insurers have voluntarily under-
taken collection of war-damage premiums
for the Government free of charge. To
June 30 the Mercantile alone had
gathered £75,700, representing a cover of
£19,536,100.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1932.. 8,805 3 p.c. = 6,300 2,505 65,181
1933.. 13,522 5 „ „ 10,500 3,022 68,203
1934.. 18,757 71 „ ~ 15,750 3,007 71,210
Reserves capitalised, £42,001 .. 29,209
Unexplained addition, £750 .. 29,959
1935.. 22,152 71 p.c. =18,901 3,251 33,210
1936.. 25,143 8 „ „ 20,161 4,982 38,192
1937. . 33,496 10 „ „ 25,201 8,295 46.487
1938.. 31,732 10 „ „ 25,201 6,531 53,018
1939.. 25,875 9 „ „ 22,681 3,194 56,212
1940.. 21,920 8 „ ~20,161 1,759 57,971
1941.. 18,789 8 ~ ~ 20,160 56,600
1942.. 15,939 54 „ ~13,860 2,079 58,679
Ever since Sydney interests took over the
business from Melbourne owners early in
this century, the Metropole has enjoyed
a wide reputation among country visitors.
And for many years the co. was a money-
spinner—£ll7,ool of its £252,010 of capi-
tal is bonus scrip, and in addition special
distributions totalling £67,500 and a
steady 10 p.c. were paid during the 20
years to the close of accounts in 1929.
Then, just as earnings were beginning to
recover from the economic malaise of
the early 1930’5, an unfavorable combina-
tion of seasonal, economic and local
factors interfered with takings, which the
war-time controlled economy and the re-
lentless pressure of costs, including taxa-
tion, have further forced down; and
things might yet get worse before
they become better. Chief comfort for
shareholders lies in the fact that the co.
has an able management and is well
equipped to earn whatever profits are to
be had from this class of business.
The slip in last year’s profit was due to
the all-round rise in costs. Depreciation
written off the building was again £2OOO.
and the allowance for taxation £10,500,
up £l5l. The previous year’s provision
for the latter purpose (£8400) was £1949
short of actual requirements, and the
figures in the table have been adjusted
accordingly. The £15,939 of profit, the
lowest since 1933, was 6.3 p.c. on capital
as against 7.3, 8.7, 10.2, 12.2 and 13.3 p.c.
back to 1937. Two and a half points
were chipped off the div., reducing it to
54 p.c. and making the average over the
last decade 7.8 p.c.
In addition to the rise in the cost of
foodstuffs and labor, man-power regula-
tions have affected the stream of country
visitors and complicated the problems
of the management. Also, beer and
spirits have been rationed at the source,
and they cost more on account of the lift
in excise. With a break on expansion of
turnover, the problem of making savings,
without impairing service, is becoming
increasingly difficult.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances;
1931. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £210,007 £252,010 £252,010 £252,010
Liabilities .. 30,331 9,510 6,818 7,870
Fixed assets.. 311,317 285,317 280,317 278,317
Stock . . . . 3,770 2,608 6,546 4,423
Book debts, cash,
etc 1,927 53,608 52,379 60,179
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£56,732) was £4625,
the outside debt being more than seven
times covered. In this class of business
much depends upon what is spent on
repairs, renewals and renovations and
charged against earnings. The board
regularly reports that “assets have been
maintained' in every respect,” and the
co.’s history bears out the claim.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Apri], Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
1932.. 3,605 Nil 18,198
1933.. 9,306 Nil 8,892
Profit.
1934.. 333 Nil 333 0,225
1935.. 10,473 4 p.c. = 6,625 3,848 13,073
1936.. 12,248 5 „ „ 8,281 3,967 17,040
1937.. 15,189 6 ~ „ . 9,938 5,251 22,201
1938.. 15,952 7* ~ „ 12,422 3,530 25,821
1939.. 14,979 74 ~ „ 12,422 2,557 28,378
Unexplained reduction, £3260 .. 25,118
1940.. 9,255 5 p.c. = 8,281 974 26,092
1941.. 11,567 6 „ „ 9,937 1,630 27,722
1942.. 11,087 6 ~ „ 9,937 1,150 28,872
War-time weight of demand over the
supply of nearly all commodities means
that competition, and hence price-cutting,
is less fierce than it was ; but price-control


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA. N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collin* Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become you?
Executor or Trustee. This la a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land. .
HE
IICO"
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation ami in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest The Symbol of
confidence Security!
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF UMn'ED LU *
(Incorporated in Victoria)
8 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.8.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.K.. M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.O.;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J. G, H. Shipway.
is rigid, so there has been little difference
to profit margins. Moreover, rationing
of tobacco, cigarettes and other mer-
chandise is an increasing curb on turn-
over, which will be further affected by
the disappearance of some lines and the
threatened exit of many others. Sale of
firearms and ammunition, for example,
has long been at a standstill, while enlist-
ments and longer working hours will
tend to cut into the demand for such
sporting gear as is still available. “In
short, indications point to business be-
coming increasingly difficult,” report the
directors, announcing the appointment of
secretary Wigmore to the board to share
their headaches, the biggest of which are
arising in connection with supplies, both
domestic and imported.
Specialising in radios, haircuts, etc.,
besides the goods mentioned, the co. con-
ducts a chain of city shops and has strong
connections with suburban retailers to
boot. Despite restrictions of one kind
and another, last year saw an expansion
of £14,281 in gross earnings (£178,608)
that war inflation of values partly pro-
duced ; but it was all, with £4BO besides,
swallowed by the rising tide of exes.,
taxation being largely responsible judg-
ing by the lift in the reserve for the pur-
pose. The net balance of £11,087, struck
after charging depreciation of £4428, was
6.6 p.c. on capital, as against 6.9, 5.5
and 9 p.c. back to 1939. Divs. stayed at
6 p.c., leaving £ll5O for the lay-by, now
£28,872 in excess of goodwill (£22,110,
not treated as an asset herein).
Stock has been maintained in monetary
value, if not in physical quantity and
variety;
1936. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £166,008 £166,008 £166,004 £166,004
Mortgages .. 131,211 130,207 118,664 118,664
Other liabilities 115,306 102,981 110,949 91,553
Tax reserve . . 9,053 11,021 17,387
Freeholds . . 212,183 212,915 191,212 191,212
Plant, etc. . . 19,286 19,288 14,481 11,577
Stocks. . .. 99,383 102,433 125,627 123,774
Book debts . . 103.194 105,517 107,431 98,224
Cash, etc. .. 487 543 1,408 3,490
At the same time the tax allocations and
lowering of debtors’ balances enabled a
cut of £19,396 in the outside debt. Alto-
gether, finances are in their best nick for
years, which, of course, doesn’t mean
there still isn’t a high proportion of out-
side money at stake in the business. In
a chain business of this type overhead
is one of the troubles with a falling turn-
over. But diversion won’t help at h.o.
After much bucking and shying be-
tween parties, the Government is itself
tackling development of the oil-bearing
glauconite sands at Lakes Entrance (Vic.),
although Austral Oil, holder of the leases,
has been anxious and pressing to imple-
ment the Fairbank-Ranney report ever since
its presentation a year ago. Federal and
State Governments then proposed to sub-
sidise the project to the extent of £50,000,
leaving the Austral co. something like
£lOO,OOO to raise to see things through,
but the necessary Treasury consent was
withheld. Now, under powers conferred
by the National Security (Minerals) Regu-
lations, (1) direction of the project passes
to the Controller of Minerals Pro-
duction ; (2) the Government reserves an
option to purchase the co.’s assets out-
right for £25,000 —the co. says it has
spent over £40,000, and its predecessors
£160,000; and (3) the co. is offered a
seventh equity in net earnings, subject to
revision if capital expenditure exceeds
£150,000. The terms last week brought
protest from shareholders in general meet-
ing. The equities of the situation apart,
it is encouraging to outsiders that some-
thing tangible is being done about Lakes
Entrance after many years. In suggesting
horizontal drilling radially from a central
shaft at 1200 ft. vertical, American ex-
perts Fairbank and Ranney regarded the
East Gippsland field as a source, not of
petroleum, but of good-quality lubricating
oil, which may become more valuable to
the Commonwealth the more prolonged
war is. They predicted a production of
1.160.000 barrels from the 400 acres
selected.
* * * *
Theoretically, Victorian mines which are
the lifeblood of a township are to be
allowed to carry on ; practically, the ques-
tion is to find the men to do so, as Morning
Star, at Wood’s Point, is discovering. Its
payroll at present numbers 53 ; 80 is the
required (and permitted) minimum which
the management declares necessary if de-
velopment is to be maintained, for to live
on present ore reserves (as at present)
“will jeopardise the future of the mine.”
Unless further labor is forthcoming,
therefore, there is talk of closing down.
Meantime funds are being conserved.
Here is the operating record since surface
gear was renewed after being burnt out
by bushfires three years ago:
Yield Working
Year, Treated. Ton, Costs, t Divs. ,
Mar., Tons. Dwt. Ton.* Profit. Share. Amt.
1940 f. . 7,342 8.0 60/- £3,703
1941 .. 13,391 10.2 61/1 22,316
1942 .. 16,458 9.9 51/6 31,216 1/- £20,000
* Including current development, t months.
Last year’s figures reflect the installation of
a second 10-head of stamps, lifting capacity
to 2400 tons monthly. On a 91 p.c. ex-
traction, grade was maintained, despite
increased throughput, and looks like
being so for the present, value of the
41.000 tons of ore in reserve at the end
of March being about 12dwt. Inactive
Mt. Coolon, N.L., has a quarter interest.
♦ * ♦ *
Great Boulder (W.A.) reports very
little nowadays. Return for July, first
monthly one handed out for some time,
showed treatment of 25,511 tons for
gold valued at £A55,331. Outgo took all
but £5912. Extraction averaged 86.8 per
cent. It is a while since the liquidators
who are now running the show issued
a statement regarding the financial state
of the co. or the underground position.
Some Westralian shareholders are im-
patient at the delay in issuing another.
* * * *
As at the end of March ore reserves
at Central Norseman (W.A.) are put at
314,500 tons —down 13,500 tons and up
0.1 dwt. in grade (7dwt.) compared with
a year earlier. In addition, 21,000 tons
of 7.2dwt. stuff exists in the Lady Miller
block. Reserves are thus some three
years ahead of the mill, which handled
115,398 tons of ore for 50,3900 z. gold
and 34,0760 z. silver during the year —
recoveries of B.7dwt. and s.9dwt. per ton
respectively. Excluding development,
mining and milling costs came back from
345. 2d. to 325. 3d. a ton. With the
l|dwt. improvement in gold yields and
greater throughput, it sent profits up
from £153,940 to £222,274. And that
after charging £75,265, against £25,946,
for development. Again all the surplus
was appropriated for reserves of one
kind or another and used to reduce the
debt, mostly reflecting working capital
put up by Gold Exploration and Finance.
At £42,663 liabilities are now down to
the stage winch normally would soon
encourage hopes of a divvy to Western
Mining Corp. (81.2 p.c.) and Phoenix
Mines (18.8 p.c.), owners of the prop-
erty. Gold Exploration has options over
a half-million of unissued capital.
Throughput is now down to 6500 tons
monthly.
* * ♦ •
Yellowdine Gold Areas, N.L. (W.A.),
is to carry on, the necessary 75 p.c. of
holdings not being in favor of a recent
liquidation motion. Had it been carried,
shareholders would have got a liquida-
tion distribution of something more than
Is. a share.
* * * *
Westralia is very short of coal. Sup-
plies from Collie, the State’s one and
only producing field, are much below
demand, and none has been coming from
other States lately. A local committee has
been appointed by the Commonwealth
Coal Commission to control distribution.
There are coal deposits in the West apart
from Collie, but so far no one has been
game enough to put up the money to
open them up.
COMPANY REPORT
Broken Hill Pty., Ltd.
GENERAL MEETING
The Chairman (Mr. H. G. Darling) said:—
Ladies and Gentlemen, —
The year has been a very busy one and every
effort (within the compass of our abilities and
the financial resources of the Company) has
been directed towards assisting in the war effort.
Whilst it is not desirable to go into detail,
we feel that the effort has been attended with
no small amount of success.
You have before you copies of the report
and balance sheet. From this it will be seen
that the net profit for the year was
£687,711/5/8 after providing for depreciation
£1,025,013/1/6, for income tax £750,000, and
£550,348 for special depreciation on plant
and machinery connected with war-time
activities. The net profit is £275,567/7/8
lower than the profit shown in last year’s
accounts. Depreciation has been calculated
on the same basis as last year. You will re-
member when addressing you last time I ex-
plained that depreciation is a very real cost
in the steel industry to enable it to keep on an
economical basis and make the progress so
essential to successful production. I would
like to call your attention to the fact that it will
have a very definite bearing on the state of in-
dustry at the close of the war. In particular
this applies to buildings, plant and machinery
erected for war production. Having in mind
the after-effects of the last war with the serious
consequences on industry, a far greater stgdy is
being made of the general subject of deprecia-
tion. The U.S.A. have agreed to allow plant
and machinery erected for expansion for war
to be completely written off over a
period of five years; Canada has gone further
and allowed in some instances a complete
writing-off over a period of two years. So far
this aspect does not seem to have received the
attention which it deserves by the authorities in
Australia. It is most vital and will have a great
bearing on employment after the war, and, in
fact, on our entire national economy.
Stocks and stores on hand show an increase
of £697,002/0/2. War needs demand the use of
many costly raw materials and stores, and the
policy of your Directors in providing for these
needs is reflected in the increased figures for
stocks and stores on hand. This policy was
pursued before the war and has largely enabled
the Company to hold prices of its products
steady throughout the difficult days of the war.
Up to the present it has also enabled the Com-
pany to keep its furnaces and mills working
round the clock when, but for these stocks,
serious delays to production with the attendant
higher costs would have occurred. I think it is
no exaggeration to say that a great sum of
money has been saved the community, and the
war effort of the country has been materially
helped by this policy.
In my last year’s address to shareholders a
note of warning was issued that costs were
rising. lam sorry to say that this proved to be
only too true, especially during the last eight
months. Many factors are responsible for this
state of affairs, such as increases in wages,
dearer cost in coal production, dearer freights
on the coast and higher war risk charges.
Transport is the principal factor leading to
higher costs. As was naturally to be expected
a great deal of the shipping space previously
available to us for the carriage of raw materials
is now required for much expanded war re-
quirements. To meet this difficulty every effort
has been made to utilise outside ships and
to open up ironstone deposits of lower grade
in N.S.W. These arrangements are proving
most costly both by reason of the greatly in-
creased freight and higher cost of winning iron-
stone, which by reason of its lower grade
makes the smelting process much more costly.
It must be remembered that the production of
iron and steel necessitates the assembly of
large quantities of raw material at the point
of manufacture, so that increases in cost at
each raw-material base, plus increased transit,
quickly reflects dearer raw material at this
final point of manufacture. On to this has to
be added increased costs in the process of
manufacture due to many causes; therefore,
when once this process of all-round increased
costs takes place the cost of the final product
rapidly becomes dearer. This is the position
of iron and steel manufacture.
Your Company is proud of the fact that the
Australian market is supplied with the cheapest
steel in the world, but the time has now
arrived (in fact, is overdue) when serious con-
sideration must be given to the question of
advancing selling prices to allow for increased
costs which are outside of the Company’s
control, and in this connection we are now in
consultation with the Prices Commissioner.
Even with an increase to correspond with the
increased costs Australian iron and steel will
still be the cheapest in the world. Three years
of war without a forward movement in the
price of iron and steel is an achievement not
paralleled elsewhere.
Ferro Alloys Plant: I am glad to say that this
plant has proved a lifesaver for the steel in-
dustry. Supplies of many ferro alloys from
overseas are now unprocurable except in small
quantities and at famine prices. In one ferro
alloy we have been able to assist a sister
Dominion as well as supplying our own re-
quirements; further, it has been possible to
provide all other Australian users with these
important ferro alloys. Gradually the range of
these alloys has been extended, and I am pleased
to say a wide range has been covered embrac-
ing Ferro Manganese, Ferro Silicon, Ferro
Chrome, Ferro Titanium, Ferro Zirconium
and Ferro Molybdenum. In addition, this plant
is also producing large quantities of Calcium
Carbide, a necessary ingredient for the manu-
facture of Magnesium.
Regarding Magnesium, I would like to say
that this plant is in full operation. Time has
confirmed the wisdom of its establishment as
fresh demands for many purposes continue to
come into existence. Several alloys with Mag-
nesium are now being made. Aircraft manu-
facture is taking more and more of this metal,
chiefly on account of its weight, which is one-
third lighter than aluminium.
Regarding Tungsten Carbide: Next to
diamonds, this is one of the hardest materials
known. For some years we have endeavored
to obtain from overseas manufacturers the
technique covering the manufacture of Tungs-
ten Carbide products, but without success.
It was originally a German Krupp patent,
and jealously guarded, with the result that in-
formation as to the technical details of its
manufacture was of a most nebulous character.
As the war progressed supplies of this article
were difficult to obtain, with the prospect of
becoming almost unprocurable. During 1940
our Technical Officers at Newcastle started
studying all available data. In December,
1940, a research programme was instituted, and
a proposal was submitted to the Board for the
erection of a pilot plant. . Excellent progress
was made in 1941 in spite of many difficulties,
and I am pleased to record that in December,
1941, our Shell Annexe at Newcastle was using
B.H.P. tungsten Carbide Tips, and by January,
1942, Messrs. Rylands had changed over to the
use of B.H.P. Tungsten Carbide Drawing Dies.
We are -now arranging to market, through the
Commonwealth Steel Company, a wide range
of tool tips at prices considerably lower than
those for the equivalent imported article.
Although in considerable use in peace-time,
this is an exceedingly important product in
war-time. I would like to add a note of con-
gratulation to the young and enthusiastic tech-
nical officers at Newcastle who are responsible
for this very fine and outstanding achievement.
We have now been asked by the Authorities
to investigate the possibilities of manu-
facture of further products associated with
Tungsten.
Whyalla : This centre continues to be a
hive of activity. In addition to the ordinary
routine of mining and shipping of iron ore,
the Shell Annexe is in active operation to-
gether with Machine Shop and Tool Room.
Shipbuilding is progressing, perhaps not as
fast as we desire, due to shortage of labor.
Our commitments for the Navy have been all
launched, and the Yards are now concentrating
on merchant tonnage. The first launching on
our own account is due in the near future, and
merchant ships which are in urgent request
will be produced in a steady stream.
Rapid Bay, South Australia, commenced
production of limestone on the 13th August.
Rapid Bay has an excellent deposit of lime-
stone abutting the sea, together with the latest
up-to-date quarrying, crushing and shipping
facilities. This deposit will supply the needs
of Whyalla, and after the war a fair propor-
tion of Newcastle’s requirements.
If there is one thing outstanding in Aus-
tralia’s prosecution of the war it is the way Aus-
tralian industry has responded to the many
tasks placed upon it. I am not referring only
to the large companies, but to the many small
companies, and individuals, who are producing
all manner of articles for munition purposes.
The whole combination, both large and small,
is turning out large quantities of parts for the
final assembly. These parts when they reach
their final destination are of considerable magni-
tude, making Australia’s effort to equip herself
in the many and various implements of war
something to be proud of. This is private
enterprise. In some quarters it may appear
fashionable to decry private enterprise, but
there is no question of doubt that this country
without this private enterprise would be so
seriously handicapped as to be almost helpless.
This is something for the nation to recognise
and remember.
I would again like to thank the officers and
men for their splendid efforts during the last
twelve months. No task has been beyond their
capacity and their services have been given
willingly to the nation and to the Company.
Absenteeism has been at a minimum. the
relationship between the Company and its men
continues on a most harmonious basis and 1
have no reason to think it will ever be other-
wise.
In conclusion I would like to say that Aus-
tralia is now starting to feel the difficulties that
arc bound to arise when a nation is engaged
in war. We must expect still further diffi-
culties, but the effect of these can be eased
off by hard work on the part of everyone.
Harder work is equivalent to more man-
power ; being somewhat short of the latter,
let us all make up for this by working harder.


THE HOURS VOU
fISTE
r.. t
(a
%
LNRD
Could Bring You Fame !
Spare time is both pleasurable and profitable if spent in
the study of COMMERCIAL ART. Fine careers are open
to both MEN and WOMEN in the fascinating world of
Illustration.
Provided you have some natural talent for Drawing, our
world-famed Correspondence Course can fit you for a
well-paid position in a little over a year of SPARE TIME
STUDY AT HOME 1
Write at once for our beautifully illustrated booklet
of 32 pages. It is full of valuable information and
contains Ait Ability Tests, which you may attempt
and send back to us for Free Expert Criticism.
SEND 4*d. FOR POSTAGE AND MENTION
BULLETIN.”
“THE
Art Training Institute
80 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
cb
o>kc6
calc
AZOpd
oil
faafar
you.
a£g
CtAtCo
Teem
&*dZc&aMom£*a? /c£
a
&
OAfC£
caws.
TF you bave an “His Master’s Voice” radio
set you are fortunate. To-day, tKe output of
these receivers is necessarily restricted. Your
dealer is well placed to keep your present set
in good working order—make use of Kis
service facilities. As soon as production is
possible new “His Master’s Voice” receivers
will bring you the latest advances in radio.
ihe
OR
Siri of
RADIO
The Gramophone Coy. Ltd. (Inc. to England). Homebush. N.S.W»
R2O/42
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Seeds of Revolution
Where it is desired to stir up strife in
a country an effective way of doing it
is to interfere with the economic system,
Economics are astonishingly intimate and
inescapable. A country’s financial arrange-
ments, from the Government accounts
down to a person’s wages and the
price of bread, order our life and
mode of living these modern days
to an extraordinary extent. It is
only by a reasonably well-regulated
money and marketing system that it is
possible for a large city like Sydney or
Melbourne to exist without producing all
its living requirements in suburban back-
yards. “Remote control” of production
and marketing is only possible because
of an organisation, based on experience
and human requirements and character,
known as the financial system.
The main function of finance is
not to make shrewd men wealthy
or to satisfy avarice. Money is an
essential service, the same as surgery
and medicine, food and clothing produc-
tion. Only money is a service that plays
its part in nearly every other human ser-
vice. It facilitates the carrying-out of
work by people for other people with
only the remotest of associations. It
enables Melbourne to trade freely with
Darwin, Australia (in peace-time) with
America. It is one of the most essential
and yet the most delicate factors in
creating national output. It enables a
man to spend what he earns immediately
or to save it, just as he feels disposed,
Through the loan of money a man with-
out capital or other assets may set him-
self up in business and, if successful,
repay the loan out of the fruits of the
venture.
It is worth while coming back to bed-
rock in times of uncertainty and strain.
Money is organisation for the purpose of
enabling expeditious exchange of goods
and services, the granting of credit
and the saving of income, and it
has a basis of law, trust, value and
human nature. It assumes various forms,
but in few of them has it much value
of itself unless the organisation on which
it rests is working effectively and with
confidence. Thus in countries whose
finances are soundly managed a Treasury
note will exchange readily for its written
value ill goods and services, while the
currency of countries whose national
business methods are unscientific or
illegal may not be worth the paper it is
printed on. In the latter kind of countries
the man who works is frequently robbed
of the worth of his services through
monetary breakdown or trickery, and the
man who has saved may be in the same
boat. Money that serves its purpose
honestly should always give value lor
value ; it should not fluctuate violently.
In Australia most of our ready money
is in the form of notes and coin, and in
addition there are some hundreds or
millions in deposits in the banks. It is
not necessary to have actual notes or com
to represent these because they are not
passing from hand to hand all the time ,
and as payments from one person to
another are often no more than transfers
from one deposit account to another, the
use of cheques often takes the place of
notes or coin. But behind all this cur-
rency and credit there is, or is supposed
to be, value. Only a very small part of
the total will not be used at some time
or another to pay for living requirements,
to buy a home, luxuries or the necessities
of old age. To get this money its owners
in most cases gave value, and at some
time in the future they expect to be given
value in exchange for it. If they don t
get value equal to what they gave it wil
be because of inflation. Inflation is the
develops
money s cmer disease. ... ,
Australia at the present time is jeopard-
ising its future well-being by using infla-
tionwry methods of war finance. The
cost of war is to a far too great extent
being capitalised. The value of our out-
lay on most war materials does not stay
with us after hostilities cease. Evert during
the fight itself munitions are being con-
tinually shot away, and such war outgo is
an expense rather than an investment,
But our Government, instead of charging
all this expense to the taxpayers, has
chosen to borrow to pay for the greater
part of it. When it borrows it leaves the
right in the hands of the lender to spend
money which the Government has already
spent on something that is not a repro-
ductive asset. The Treasury has achieved
a temporary control of this inflationary
factor by prohibiting the raising of
money by holders of Government secun-
ties on those securities, and by otherwise
restricting almost all avenues of spending
and investment. But the great volume
of money in the hands of people who are
not paying their proper share of war s
cost and who are not even lending money
to the nation is a highly inflationary
force, and rationing so far has not
checked it.
The most inflationary of all the Gov-
ernment’s methods, however, is the use
of bank credit finance. The Common-
wealth Bank establishes credits on which
the Government can pay war bills simply
by drawing cheques and paying a small
rate of interest, and except so far as the
central bank has drawn on the trading
banks for customers’ deposits to help
carry out the programme, no one is any
way out of pocket—visibly—as a result.
But the point is that someone should be
out of pocket. The money has been spent
on defence, and every earning citizen of
the Commonwealth should have borne
a share of it. Instead, we have record
private spending, record savings-bank
deposits.
There is more than a moral issue at
stake. War materials are not the kind
of thing that the average citizen
would want to buy, and therefore they
don’t represent the kind of thing that
forms good backing for our money value.
But actually Australia at the present time
is creating money and credit by hundreds
of millions on the security of defence
weapons and munitions. It is opposed to
all reason and sound financial practice.
You can’t have a war without paying for
it. If you try to kid yourself otherwise
you have inflation. Australia already
has some inflation. The rise in living
costs within Australia since war started
has been about 20 p.c. That means that
we have lost 20 p.c, of the value of our
money already. The loss would have
been more but for the fixing of prices
at the expense of the producer rather
than the consumer. All sorts of artificial
barriers have been erected to check the
inflation that the Government is in other
ways encouraging.
The Commonwealth basic wage has
risen to £4 12s. a week—a record figure.
But the wage-earner is no better off; the
wage has risen simply in keeping with
living costs. The value of life-assurance
provisions is falling away, and savings-
bank deposits that would buy £5-worth
of goods before the war will now buy
only £4-worth.
But the great tragedy attending
inflation such as we see is that of pro-
duction costs. Australia has already added
20 p.c. to labor costs, and on pre-war sell-
ing prices in many cases what were profits
would now be losses. When losses start
industry stops unprofitable production,
and men are thrown out of work. That
brings more losses, more unemployment.
Economic revolt occurs, and depression
and social confusion descend on us. Each
man blames his neighbor, and financial
quacks add to the turmoil. /
Australia’s inflationary methods of war-
time finance are out of step with the rest
of the Empire and with commonsense.
Our costs of production are rising more
rapidly than in Canada, and if there were
no artificial controls they would be much
higher still. All this means that in the
return to normal world trade after,the
war other countries will be able to under-
sell Australia and put our vital export
trades in jeopardy. Our income may fall
overnight, but costs reduction is a long,
provocative problem. Canberra’s finan-
cial policy is letting this country down
badly. Why should we encourage econo-
mic revolution and depression when the
right thing to do is plain to see?
Almost anything can be expected to
happen in political circles now. At the
last Federal election Mr. Norman Rydge
was an “outstanding candidate” supported
by Sydney “Telegraph” to win Parra-
matta from knight Frederick Stewart.
Of course, Mr, Rydge had a slogan;
it was “This war is for posterity; let
posterity pay.” Somehow Stewart re-
tained his seat. Last week Mr.
Rydge was talking about austerity in
place of posterity ; the “Herald” records
him as saying: “The only way to pre-
pare ourselves for total war is to elimi-
nate those things that we can do with-
out. This means simple, austere living.
No one doubts the vital need for discard-
ing peace-time living standards for war-
time interests.” A couple of years stand-
ing out in the wet seems to have done
Outstanding-candidate Rydge a power of
good.
Sf 3= * ♦
Associated Pulp and Paper, the Tas-
manian fine-paper undertaking, turned
out a greater tonnage in the term to April
30, and a larger proportion of eucalypt
pulp was used, technical advancement
overcoming the necessity for so much
imported pulp. Net profit, after provid-
ing an additional £21,300 for depreciation
and an additional £15,000 for taxation,
was £9617 lower at £122,040. A 6 p.c.
div. absorbs £90,300. Production costs
are now rising, the board says.
* * * *
While subscriptions to war-savings cer-
tificates continue to lag, deposits in Aus-
tralian savings banks are mounting rapidly.
Never before has the July figure of
£282.5 million been reached; it is up
£8.2 million on the total for June, and is
£46 million higher than the July, 1940,
aggregate. Since July two years ago
notes held by the public have increased
by £45 million, and there is plenty of
other proof of banked-up spending
power, with accumulation still going on.
Here is additional evidence of the Gov-
ernment’s fantastic financial policy. A
country spending Bs. in the £ of its
income on war waste can hardly be
growing richer. Four hundred million
pounds is the estimated outlay for the
current year. Yet the Government hesi-
tates to tax the people in their pocket,
though they are already severely taxed
in terms of travel, clothes, some foods,
tobacco, beer and other luxuries. Our
money is magnified while our living
standard is reduced ; actually they should
maintain a proportionate relationship.


Wanted to Buy,
10-15 K.V.A. 3-phase Alternator. Star con-
nected. Complete with control gear. 415 volts.
50 cycle. Direct coupled steam driven. Or,
alternatively, component parts for a complete
unit.—Box 782 J, G.P.0., Melbourne.
THE
II MITCniNSURANCE
U 111 I til COMPANY LT"'
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HlM'fid STdfifiTS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is sin Australian Institution
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager. .
T. O. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
•x HAT
LET EXPERIENCE
DIRECT YOUR AFFAIRS
The private trustee or executor is not to be envied. Always an onerous and
trying task trusteeship has been rendered trebly difficult by war time con i ions.
The truly fortunate executor is the one who can say Burns Philp save me ali
that worry," the one who has legally transferred his responsibility, wholly or
partially, to Burns Philp Trust Company Ltd., and who therefore knows that all
administrative duties are in safe, capable hands. The Company is a permanen
institution under experienced and capable direction. It has the combined
knowledge of finance, taxation, and investments which no individual executor
could be expected to possess. A special brochure dealing fully wi h he
specialised services offered by this organisation will be forwarded free of
charge on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H, Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
-j »R|OC£ STREET. SVDNEY
PHONE: B 790.. Box 543 B . GPO - S V dne *-
The business of providing the handles for Army cutlery is in
the charge of 8.T.M.... for tubular knife handles are just
another variation of Cold Drawn Precision Seamless Steel
Tubes. This is an instance of the every day and often
unsuspected cases in which Steel Tubes ideally solve a manu-
facturer’s problem. B.T.M. has only to know what a tube is
expected to do, and it will supply that tube—and save
weight and machining time
while providing a tougher,
more durable article.
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
(A USX.) PTY. LTD.
R. &Mc
BTMI2
Who’s .
HANDLING
this business?
PRECISION
ALL WAYS
AXES
It
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
01/l J# » 83 A. pH j# » 01
sdfdsfsdf
Unfair commandeering by the Com-
monwealth Government still goes on.
Tents, binoculars and other items have
already been mentioned here; now a
case concerning a utility truck has come
to notice. In round figures the position
is this: A greengrocer paid £450 for the
vehicle recently enough for it still to be
in first-class order. The Government took
it from him and gave him £l6O. 'The
greengrocer was then obliged to buy an
inferior truck that cost £250. A
clear case of bureaucratic high-handed-
ness. There have been other instances
where trucks have been impressed at low
values and the attached gas-producer
removed and dumped with the ownei
without any compensation for that part
of the vehicle at all. In spite of this
oppressive sort of parsimony, there is
ample evidence that there is no stinting
of money or man-power for the civil
service itself. All sorts of nests within
departments are springing up to do fanci-
ful jobs. The pay is the good old award
rates, often with overtime. If comman-
deering of vehicles increases, as is likely,
the Government will need to use a little
more justice in its methods of dealing
with Australian citizens, otherwise a
major issue may develop. It is wrong
to the point of indecency to specially Lax
a person by underpaying him where he
happens to have something that is useful
to the nation and to leave alone the man
who has put his money into something
of no national value at all. Any taxa-
tion necessary to finance the war should
be of an overall nature sanctioned by
Parliament. Individual victimisation
should have no place in our war effort.
* * # Ht
Chaotic results have followed Senator
Keane’s action in pegging gross profit
margins at the money figure prevailing
on April 15. This ruling made it illegal
to add the customary percentage of profit
to the cost price of an article ; only the
April 15 money margin is allowed. Thus
if an article costing Id. was sold at \\d.
on April 15 and it now costs 2d. to land,
it may be sold at no more than 2£d. In
such a case the percentage of gross profit
has fallen from 50 p.c. on to 25 p.c. on.
As usual, it has created problems “which
were not foreseen,” and wholesalers and
retailers are up in arms. Losses are
actually being incurred on the sale of
some articles as a result of the edict, and
the detail work needed to carry it out
conscientiously is considerable. Australia
is being governed at the moment by trial
and error.
* * * *
After three years of war, with rising
costs and transport disorganisation,
Broken Hill Prop, has made its first
application to the Prices Commissioner
for relief. Profit last term was not
enough to cover a 5 p.c. div. If the
price asked for is allowed by Professor
Copland the co. will still be selling the
world’s cheapest steel. B.H.P. has a fine
war record. Among its achievements
other than economic has been the success-
ful production of tungsten carbide, a
material almost as hard as diamonds and
essential in war-time industry. Mag-
nesium alloys are now being turned out
in quantity for the aircraft industry.
* * * *
For the final three days of last week
the Sydney Stock Exchange ord.-share
index was steady around 108.70. At this
stage about 60 active stocks listed in that
capital were jammed at their “high” limit
and awaiting the fortnightly adjustment,
due this week. The imminence of the
Federal Budget in no way subdued the
tone of the market. In the majority of
instances no sellers were visible; in the
case of Barriers, all were sought at the
“high” limit. Some stocks, notably Broken
Hill Prop, and Bradford Cotton, .have
had very few sales except at the “high”
figure since the last official adjustment.
Fears of inflation are believed by some
to be responsible for the increased prices
offered for first-class industrial shares.
It seems possible, however, that a feeling
prevails that the Federal Government
has got over the worst of its economic
experimentalism and the time may be one
for market convalescence. By any stand-
ard there is certainly no inflation in Aus-
tralian share prices, however much there
may be in wages and living costs.
* * * *
The Department of War Organisation
of Industry is considering the prohibition
of all commercial travelling throughout
the Commonwealth. Commercial travel-
lers have already been taken off the road
in South Australia. An official has stated
that 90 p.c. of the wholesale and retail
firms in that State agreed to the action
of their own accord, and the Government
order was made to ensure that they lost
nothing by their contribution to the man-
power pool.
* * * »
Spooner, M.H.R., is the latest to press
for the introduction of post-war credits
(B. 12/8/’42) as a necessary as well as
convenient method of raising money for
war purposes during the current year.
The Budget governing 1942-43 war ex-
penditure comes before Parliament
this week. Spooner reiterated the
obvious benefits of the Keynes scheme
—its action of taking surplus spending
power away from a people already over-
flush considering the shape of our war-
time economy, and its post-war effect
of releasing spending power at a time
when it might be badly needed from a,
national as well as an individual point of
view. The Curtin Government has shied
off the system of post-war credits because
it formed part of the Budget on which
the Fadden Government was defeated.
If it continues to imperil the economic
security of the Commonwealth by dither-
ing over this and similar matters it will
reveal to the people the measure of the
Government’s administrative intelligence
and sense of responsibility.
* * * *
How “awards” are made these days:
Notwithstanding anything contained in
any law of the Commonwealth or of any
State or Territory of the Commonwealth
or in any award, order or determination of
any industrial tribunal or in any industrial
agreement, the standard or ordinary hours
of work in any week of employees in the
maritime industry shall not exceed forty-
four.
That is Section ,8 of the National Security
(Maritime Industry) Regulations, made
law by a Labor Government, not
through the usual channel of an Arbitra-
tion Court. Apart from the ethics of
the case, the 44-hour week is one of the
things endangering our war effort. It
is inflationary and discouraging to effort.
* * * ♦
Sugar-rationing, now in force, is on
the basis of a pound per person per week.
Australia is to help supply other Allied
countries with sugar and build up emer-
gency stocks here. Transport problems
also entered into the decision to ration.


THE SERVICE MAN
Nearer—and Farther.
“Ek Bum”: The Japs found the Man-
dated Territory, despite all the warnings
which had been given Australian Gov-
ernments for years, defended by a force
pitifully small and ill-trained, equipped
in the air with out-of-date Wirraways
instead of fighters, and with totally in-
adequate artillery or jungle-experienced
infantry.
They moved forward to Gasmata along
the coast of New Britain after first hav-
ing thrown a lasso round all the northern
Bismarck Islands. By that time a few
Allied bombers had become available,
and both Gasmata and Rabaul were sub-
jected to attacks which, intrepid as they
were, were far from what could have
been done if the R.A.A.F. had had only
the long-distance fighter and bomber
equipment available to any one of dozens
of R.A.F. groups in Britain.
Hurriedly, the civilian population had
to be taken out of range from the north-
eastern mainland of New Guinea. Miners
were compelled to bury their gold;
pioneers, men and women, to abandon
their homes and the work of a lifetime,
to be flown in overloaded craft by splen-
didly game men across the high mountain
ranges.
Lae and Salamaua temporarily became
Jap territory. Raid after raid by in-
creasingly heavy Allied forces and de-
struction of shipping failed to move out
the enemy, who next fixed his clutch on
Finschhaven. The ample space and cover
and the overwhelming defence against
high- or low-level bombing which can be
provided for small shipping concentra-
tions ; the distance of our forward bases
from main bases in the Commonwealth
and of objectives from forward bases;
the high mountains that intervene and the
uncertain and inclement weather all mili-
tated against the success of air attack
on the Bismarck and north-east New
Guinea bases. Air attack in any case has
never successfully blasted any invader out
of a land position without adequate naval
and military help, unless it is used in
overpowering strength at low level and
on concentrated objectives.
The United Nations had forewarning
of the landing at Buna-Gona ; but could
not prevent it. With far greater air and
sea forces they have been unable to
prevent Rommel landing reinforcements
and supplies at Tobruk. Neither was it
feasible to prevent the Japs from driving
inwards for 60 miles to the foothills of
the ranges, bringing them within 60 or
70 miles of Moresby, but with the for-
midable land barrier of the Owen Stanley
Range between.
The menace meantime had been mov-
ing none so slowly down the Coral
Sea archipelagos through islands which
this paper has been advocating for years
should be placed under Australian con-
trol and embodied in a comprehensive
Australian defence scheme. Undefended
Buka, undefended Bougainville, un-
defended Faisi, undefended Tulagi,
Florida, Malaita, Guadalcanal — the
enemy got them all. Though he suffered
heavy losses afterwards in the Coral Sea
battle in holding them and making further
advances, those losses did not prevent
him from consolidating in the Louisiades,
600 miles from the Australian coast.
And while the Solomons are still being
fought for, on our side with great gal-
lantry and skill, on the Japanese side
with the fanaticism that refuses to
surrender, the Japanese made an-
other move' in the long series of hops
round the New Guinea coast. They
lodged themselves in the long inlet
at the eastern end of Papua, and land
fighting “of bitter intensity” begun.
An Eventful Week
Last week indeed saw widespread acti-
vity in the south-west Pacific.
It began with the appearance of an
enemy force off the Solomons, a sequel to
the Allied bombing of Faisi. A force so
strong as to leave not the slightest doubt
about the ugliness of Japan’s designs to-
wards Australia. Its operations began
on Sunday, August 23. Fortunately,
thanks to the U.S, Marines, the United
Nations had a firm hold, in Guadalcanal
particularly.
The strength the enemy was using
was advertised on Wednesday by Wash-
ington’s announcement that army and
navy ’planes had caused heavy dam-
age to one large and one small
Japanese aircraft - carrier — the Ryoju,
which carries 30 ’planes, was one
—a battleship, several cruisers and a
transport. One cruiser and a transport
had been left burning. Over Guadalcanal
21 enemy ’planes had been brought down.
The Allied forces had had both carrier-
borne ’planes and Flying Fortresses avail-
able. But, notwithstanding this resist-
ance, enemy destroyed had shelled U.S.
positions on the island on Sunday night,
necessarily causing damage.
Up to August 27 Uncle Sam officially
claimed no more than 12 effective hits on
Japanese warships, including one large
and one small aircraft-carrier. His sober
statements failed to stem the tide of rub-
bish and guesswork which, ever since
the Macassar affair, has flowed from
presses and radio stations. Next day a
warning was issued from Washington that
the battle had been only a heavy naval
reconnaissance from which the enemy
withdrew after suffering losses and fail-
ing in his main objectives. The enemy
claimed damage to two aircraft-carriers
and a battleship of the 33,000-ton Penn-
sylvania class, while admitting the loss of
a destroyer and damage to an aircraft-
carrier. A battle in which the Japanese
Navy does not claim to have sunk half a
dozen battleships and a dozen cruisers is
certainly only a reconnaissance.
The news from the Solomons, facts
sifted from guesswork, is good. The
Marines not only have landed ; they stay
landed. This is a vital factor. Japanese
plans are obviously based on concertedly
stretching out several claws towards Aus-
tralia in the approved German fashion.
Even if Allied forces have not bitten off
the Solomon Islands claw, they have
bitten it to the bone and are hanging on
too heavily to allow their victim to make
any use of it for the present.
The American Achievement
Some details of the early operations
in the Solomons are now known. The
Allied warships having approached in
cloudy weather, the Marines overcame
the enemy, save for isolated and fugitive
units, on Guadalcanal and Florida
and the adjacent small islands of Gavulu,
Tanambogo and Tulagi by August 10.
That was three days after combined
naval and air formations had taken the
enemy by surprise with sudden bombard-
ments of the Tulagi area and Guadal-
canal positions. In these bombardments
18 seaplanes and a schooner were caught
in harbor and sunk.
The Marines landed on Gavutu, within
sight of Tulagi and Florida, under cover
of carrier-based aircraft and naval fire,
and were furiously resisted.
Appeals to the Japs to surrender were
answered with grenades. The defenders
died to the last man, many in caves and
dugouts to which they had retreated.
Next morning another landing was
made on Tanambogo, whose reefs inter-
lock with those of Gavutu —the islands,
Lever’s H.Q., are joined by a causeway.
The landing party took two tanks with
it. The Japanese attacked the tanks in
force with blazing petrol torches.
The Marines charged right on top of
dugouts with irresistible fury. One of
their commanders, Major Chambers, led
them on all day, despite broken wrists,
and afterwards left his hospital bed to
continue in action.
Simultaneous operations were carried
on at Guadalcanal. Nightfall on the first
day saw the Marines in command of a
strong beachhead there on the Tenaru
River. Most of little Tulagi was in U.S.
hands, all Gavutu and a position on the
south of Tanambogo. Tanambogo, now
also attacked along the causeway from
Gavutu, fell early next morning.
It was a gallant show in the best tradi-
tion of the Marines.
There appears to have been about a
complete Jap regiment—equal to one of
our three battalion brigades—in the
southern islands,
American casualties are announced as
having been severe, but the Japanese
were much severer. Not many of the
defenders are left. And the landing
parties captured a fine store of transport
trucks and the necessaries of war and
the Guadalcanal airfield, which the enemy
had built with great effort and which he
left almost intact. This capture was put
to good use. In the first two days of the
fight 47 Jap ’planes were shot down.
The heavy reconnaissance by enemy
naval forces which began last Sunday
week was renewed later.
A Navy communique reported that on
Thursday, however, ’planes from Guadal-
canal sank one Jap destroyer, probably
sank a second and set fire to a third.
Three air attacks on Guadalcanal were
beaten off with an enemy loss of 40
’planes, the Americans losing four. In
the couse of eight days the Americans
sank or damaged 17 ships, 13 of them
naval.
Landing at Milne Bay
By Aug. 26 it was clear that the Japs were
not using by any means their whole avail-
able force in the Solomons area. While the
Solomon Islands battle still blazed. Allied
fighter bombers went out to greet another
convoy in the Trobriands, the group of
islands which lies between East Cape and
Cape Nelson, just off the north coast of
the eastern tip of Papua.
The day’s communique which first
mentioned it was indeterminate. The
Aveather was unsuitable either for bomb-
ing or reconnaissance, so that conditions
were in favor of surface ships. An
enemy gunboat was sunk, but the convoy,
which consisted of transports guarded
by warships, continued its voyage.
The Allies meanwhile were man-
handling the New Guinea bases which
might give support to this enemy enter-
prise. Two surprise attacks destroyed 13
fighter ’planes on the ground at Buna.
Heavy bombers dropped eight tons of
bombs on runways, hangars, dispersal
areas and a seaplane base, starting big
fires. Eighty tons would have been much
better; eight tons is the load of only
one heavy bomber for a single trip by
European standards of attrition. Barges
and quantities of supplies found on a
beach south of Buna were destroyed.
Though limited, the operations were a
great credit to the pilots. At Buna it
was raining heavily. Dense cloud swirled
almost down to the land and the tree-
tops, but, breaking through a ceiling only
100 feet from the ground, the attackers
sizzled along a row of “O” fighters, tear-
ing them to bits. They swooped off, pur-
sued by the rattle of a.-a. fire; re-
turned to find three fighters burning on
the ground and 15 more, into which they
poured cannon fire, turning them into a
twisted line of ruin which presently was
obscured by the black smoke from a
couple of burning ammunition dumps.
By August 27 the destination of the
convoy which had been attacked in the
Trobriands was made manifest by a
landing at Milne Bay.
This is a long, narrow but ample inlet
at the extreme eastern tip of Papua. Its
innermost point is over 50 miles from its
broader entrance. It gives good shelter
for both surface craft and flying-boats.
There the terminal foothills come down
through a tangle of tropical foothills to
the sea. Moresby is 220 miles away.
Newspapers screamed that the enemy
was “now only 700 miles from Towns-
ville.” Actually he had been in the
Louisiades, roughly 700 miles from
Townsville, and a little nearer to it and
in greater force than at Milne Bay, since
the period of the Coral Sea battle with-
out moving editors to hysterics.
Milne Bay, however, was slightly
nearer to the little-inhabited coast above
Cooktown —about 420 miles —but only
about the breadth of a pig’s whisker.
The whole importance of the new ad-
vance was that it menaced Moresby more
strongly. And Moresby is the key to the
control of New Guinea.
With New Guinea lost, control of the
Torres Strait would go. A storm cloud
of the enemy would hang over the whole
north and north-east and north-west of
the continent ready to burst.
The way would be open for the con-
tinuance of progress step by step through
the Torres Islands to Cape York and
down the inside of the scarcely frequented
Cape York Peninsula to Burketown,
whence he could bomb everything down
to Longreach and the Darwin routes
from the south. All far north-eastern
Queensland would be within range of his
assaults from two sides at once.
At the same time, panic-mongers
might remember that in the Tanimbar
Islands (200 miles) and in the Arus (390
miles) the enemy is nearer the Australian
coast.
The implications of his timetable must
not be forgotten. It is of the same type
that he has followed in Asia. There he
has planned his advances in Burma and
elsewhere to conclude on the edge of the
rains, at points where he can continue
to pour in supplies over staged routes
by sea and river, while the enemy is
compelled largely to depend on long-
distance land routes.
The North Australian rainy season will
begin normally in October to interfere
with movement —at least across country ;
but at sea the rains would be rather an
advantage to an invader, since they would
help to screen his ships from dreaded
reconnaissance and torpedo-bombers as
they helped the Milne Bay landing. ’
General Blarney’s Prediction
Bay landing was not re-
ported till 30 hours after it had taken
place. It seemed that Japanese warships
appeared in the bay in the darkness of
the early morning of August 26.
flying Fortiesses raced to the area and
round a jungle-infiltration force coming
ashore and a,-a. defences already in being
on a scale to call for wariness.
The Fortresses attacked at low level.
Losing one of their number, they sank
a transport with a hit amidships, dam-
aged and probably destroyed a cruiser
and damaged a destroyer. Martin
Marauders and Kittyhawks joined in the
fight; they sank six landing barges and
gunned supplies coming ashore. All the
same the enemy succeeded in achieving
his primary objective.
But for the first time a land-based de-
fending force was in the vicinity. Three
days after the enemy came ashore the
Allied Command reported that action on
the ground was developing.
Enemy movements inward were said
to have been checked. In air attacks re-
ported on August 28, 10 enemy fighters
and bombers were destroyed.
General Blarney summed up the posi-
tion on August 28, though critics sug-
gested that he didn’t know what he was
talking about:
Up to the present we have been quite
successful. . I believe we will stop the
enemy and prevent any junction with the
Kokoda forces. Tremendous resources will
be absorbed in the area of attack, as this
is no single battle action. Before the show
is over there will be fierce hand-to-hand
fighting and use of the bayonet The
Milne Bay landing is a reciprocal action
with the Solomons battle. It is part of the
enemy’s pattern of conquest.
Glorious News
By the week-end it was obvious that
the first major fight for Australia and
on Australian territory had begun. Along
a front —not continuous —stretching from
Lae to Milne Bay, Japanese posts were
active. There were clashes with Austra-
lian jungle outposts at the Huon Gulf
end, a bout at Kokoda, and at Milne Bay
there was the heaviest fighting which ever
has taken place on the north-eastern
front, save that in the Solomons,
The arrival of a cruiser and eight
destroyers in Milne Bay showed how
seriously the enemy was taking that fight,
and how crucial would be the result.
The squadron arrived in a rainy haze.
It was not spotted till it was off D’Entre-
casteaux, 50 miles from the Papuan
coast, when aircraft operating through
dense haze dropped bombs and a de-
stroyer was believed to be damaged.
If the enemy had reinforcements to bring
there was deck space enough for a divi-
sion on an overnight voyage. His present
effort looked perilously like an all-out
attempt for the control of the whole of
British New Guinea and Papua, if he
succeeded at Milne Bay. He then might
make another landing at Abau, another
perhaps at Rigo, and finally assail
Moresby from land and sea while hold-
ing in combat forces engaged in the
back country on the Owen Stanley,
Kokoda and Goldfields lines.
It came out that strong Allied forces
were in the Milne Bay area, including
the first battle-seasoned A.I.F. units
which have gone into the fray in the
Australian zone.
And the last day of the month brought
the news that they had shown the Jap
the mettle of their pasture.
At 11 a.m. on Aug, 31 General Mac-
Arthur’s Headquarters announced that the
Milne Bay area was rapidly being cleared
of the enemy by Australian combat troops
under the command of Major-General
Cyril Clowes, D. 5.0., M.C., who com-
manded Corps Artillery in Greece and
who, as one of the brigadiers brought
back from the Middle East at the time
of the outbreak of the Japanese war,
then took command of the Ist Division
in N.S.W. He is one of the Common-
wealth’s best gunnery specialists.
The communique said that “Australian
combat troops, ably commanded by
Major-General Clowes, and brilliantly
supported by American and Australian
air units,” had “thrown the enemy back
into the narrow confines of the penin-
sula north of the bay, where he was
being rapidly reduced.”
It was added:
The enemy’s losses have been heavy.
Some remnants of his force were probably
saved from destruction by evacuation by
naval craft under cover of darkness. All
his heavy supplies and equipment, includ-
ing tanks, were lost.
Then followed an account of recent
operations which makes nonsense of,Mr.
Hughes’s attack on “our military leaders”
so hysterically supported by Sydney
newspapermen:
The [Milne Bay] operation represents
another phase in the pattern of the enemy’s
plans to capture Port Moresby.
This citadel is guarded by the natural
defence line of the Owen Stanley Range.


The [enemy’s] first effort was to turn
its left flank from Lae and Salamaua,
which proved impracticable.
Then he launched an attack in large
convoy force against its rear.
This was repulsed and dissipated by air
and sea action in the Coral Sea.
He then tried to pierce the centre in a
weak attempt by way of Buna-Gona-
Kokoda, subjecting himself to extraordi-
nary air losses because of the extreme vul-
nerability of his exposed position.
His greatest effort was to turn the right
flank by a surprise attack at Milne Bay.
The move was anticipated, however,
and prepared for with great care.
With complete secrecy the position was
occupied by our forces and converted into
a strongpoint.
The enemy fell into the trap with disas-
trous results to him.
The issue of the communiques was
followed by the news that the Japanese
warships had left Milne Bay and that
sporadic fighting had ended in the repulse
of the enemy at Kokoda with heavy
casualties.
In effect, the Japanese have been
rudely taught that they have reached the
limit of the zone of easy victories. In
the Solomons and at Milne Bay our men
have given them a foretaste of what is to
come. “The Aussies and the Yanks”
were “there”!
Other Communiques
Gist of previous communiques from
the South-west Pacific H.Q.:
August 25: Three enemy aircraft dropped
bombs in a swamp near Darwin. Forward
units dispersed an enemy patrol at Kokoda;
four “O” fighters wrecked and others damaged
there. One Allied ’plane hit but returned to
base. One enemy machine set on fire in air
by raiders, who were intercepted by two “O”
fighters at Rabaul.
August 26: When, in darkness, two enemy
'planes dropped bombs at Darwin no damage
was done. Heavy bombers dropped eight tons
of bombs on air-base objectives in Gasmata-
Rabaul area ; fires started which were visible
40 miles away. Two successful attacks on
’planes on the ground at Buna, despite rain
and poor visibility. An a.-a. position silenced
and three “O” fighters destroyed in first attack;
10 “O” fighters out of 13 destroyed in second
attack. Barges and supplies wrecked on beach
south-west of Buna. Enemy warships and trans-
ports attacked in Trobriand Islands, off eastern
tip of N. Guinea. An enemy gunboat destroyed
by direct hit; two transports heavily strafed;
one Allied ’plane missing.
August 27: Bombers started fires at Dilli
(Timor). In bad weather bombers caught 10
“O” fighters on the ground at Buna, destroyed
six and damaged two, besides starting fires
on the field. One Allied ’plane missing. At
Milne Bay the enemy landed from a small
convoy during the night in the face of strong
air opposition. In bad weather Allied heavy
bombers sank a transport, heavily damaged and
probably sank a cruiser and damaged a de-
stroyer. One Allied bomber shot down.
Allied medium bombers heavily bombed and
gunned enemy landing parties in barges and
supplies ashore. Fires started and six landing
barges destroyed.
August 28: Two bombers caused slight
damage at Darwin under cover of darkness.
Two seaplanes caused slight damage in night
raid at Broome. Allied medium bombers, with
fighter escort, shot down four enemy ’planes
out of 10 during combat over Buna; two more
“O” fighters probably destroyed and three
damaged. All Allied ’planes safe. Action be-
tween ground forces at Milne Bay developing.
Four “O” fighters brought down in one
combat ; two “O” fighters and two dive-
bombers destroyed and a third dive-bomber
badly damaged in a second fight. Allied a.-a.
fire destroyed three more enemy machines.
Allied loss: One fighter missing.
August 29: Three enemy aircraft passing over
in darkness caused no damage in Darwin.
Heavy fighting progressing at Milne Bay.
Medium bombers attacked enemy positions at
low altitude, bombs falling in target area and
starting numerous fires.
August 30: Apart from reconnaissances, the
only activity in the Timor and Arafura Seas
was an attack on an Allied cargo vessel with
unknown results. Allied bombers attacked
Buka passage (Mandated Solomons) aerodrome
at night and heavily hit runways and dispersal
areas from medium altitude. No interception;
all ’planes returned. Heavy bombers dropped
10 tons of bombs among buildings and dis-
persal areas of Rabaul aerodrome. Two ‘O
fighters shot down and two severely damaged
and probably destroyed out of six which
attempted interception. An Allied reconnais-
sance unit shot down two more “O” fighters.
No damage to Allied machines in either attack.
Development of the enemy’s attack on New
Guinea continues. Under cover of his local
naval control of the north coast and adverse
weather a cruiser and eight destroyers entered
Milne Bay and may have landed reinforce-
ments. Ground fighting of bitter intensity has
had no specific results, but ’planes co-operating
with Allied land forces have inflicted heavy
damage and casualties. An enemy destroyer was
attacked, probably damaged. Enemy thrusts
at Kokoda repulsed. In the Lae-Salamaua
area outpost clashes are occurring. At Buna,
bombers with heavy low-level fighter escort
inflicted heavy damage on the aerodrome. Five
“O” fighters and a bomber were damaged on
the ground or in the air; others damaged by
bomb blasts. Three fires started. No attempt
at interception.
The Position in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: All that anybody could
have made an affidavit on at the end
of last week:
The Germans had continued to
advance south-east along the northern
foothills of the Caucasus. They had
reached the outskirts of the Grozny oil-
fields. In that region they were only
140 miles from the Caspian Sea and
were threatening the eastern military
road down the Terek River to Tiflis.
On the Black Sea coast their spear-
heads had reached the environs of Novo-
rossisk, the eastern base of the Russian
Black Sea fleet. They had secured con-
trol of the Kerch Strait. But the Rus-
sians reported having staved off an
attempted landing on the Black Sea
coast and sunk 10 enemy transports.
Isolated, Novorossisk could not do
more than resist for a time, and its in-
vestment would leave the way open for
the enemy to begin a drive down the
Black Sea littoral. The Russian Black
Sea fleet, which is only a squadron by
major-navy standards, and ancient for
the most, part, faces the prospect of re-
tiring successively to Tuapse and Batoum,
both oil ports, neither very useful for
naval purposes and both in danger of
having oil supplies shut off by land and
sea. Tuapse’s oil pipeline and rail com-
munication inwards already have been
cut; the main refinery of the fields which
fed it and the field itself are in enemy
hands. But it could get enough oil for
naval purposes from Batoum.
Driving down the Kuban River across
the narrow Caucasus range, the Germans
claimed to have taken its highest point
—the giant extinct volcano, Mt. Elbruz,
18.000 feet odd. “Commentators” poured
scorn on this claim, confusing Mt.
Elbruz in the Caucasus with the Elburz
Range, which is 600 miles away in Iran
below the Caspian Sea.
However, on Russian admissions of
the depth and direction of the enemy
advance down the Kuban, invading van-
guards may have crossed the main
divide of the Caucasus, slightly west of
Mt. Elbruz. In that case, though the
track down the Kuban is almost impas-
sable for vehicles, alpine troops could
attack the Baku-Tiflis-Batoum pipeline,
and railway. If the enemy succeeded in
reaching this region, the last worth while
in far southern Russia-in-Europe, Baku
would soon be faced with a threat by
two columns, 'one trying to drive down
the Caspian littoral from Makach Kala ;
the other coming in from due west along
the railway.
At Stalingrad the enemy seemed by
August 31 to have secured control of the
great Don Bend, to have severed rail
communication between Stalingrad and
Moscow and to be pressing across the flat
plain before Stalingrad under burning
summer heat. The Russians were putting
up a splendid defence, but on part of the
line were fighting on the edges of
suburbs, which, like the centre of the
town, had been cruelly battered by the
Luftwaffe.
In the early part of last week Moscow
made gloomy remarks about the Stalin-
grad position, and in these even the
Propaganda Bureau joined. Its chief,
Jaroslavski, scolded town authorities in
the south, accusing them of having failed
to provide for their own defence ; berated
also units which had retreated before
being ordered to do so and traitors who
did the work of the enemy.
On August 25 the Germans, according
to their own account, were approaching
Stalingrad from 30 miles away—less, an
unofficial account said. The Germans
admitted heavy fighting before Stalin-
grad under “difficult” conditions, im-
posed by the river crossings and the
mining of the countryside. They gave
no indication of the forces involved.
To Moscow press correspondents the
battle was of the usual magnitude. They
estimated the number of Germans used
by Von Bock, as 1,000,000. Stalin, for
his part, was reported as saying:
The military situation in south Russia
remains very serious. History has perhaps
never seen so tremendous a battle.
His text showed that he was referring
to the whole of the battle of the Don
and the Caucasus and not merely to
Stalingrad operations.
A London correspondent “estimated”
that “750,000 Germans, including 25
Panzer divisions,” were “attacking Stalin-
grad.” As he also averred that Timo-
shenko had brought the enemy up with
a round turn, it must be assumed that
the Russians have as large or a larger
force. Since a space 60 miles long by
30 to 50 miles deep is supposed to hold
not only this gigantic battle, with on the
German side alone about 13,000 tanks, at
least 70,000 other vehicles and endless
artillery, and with an industrial city of
500.000 people as the prize, shoehorns
must be standard equipment served out to
every soldier in the battle so that he may
prise his way through the crowd.
On the whole Russian front at the end
of last year Hitler had 29 Panzer divi-
sions (and some of those were in reserve),
as against the 25 which he is supposed
to be using at Stalingrad. Thus far there
is no major battle on record in which
the Germans have used more than four
Panzer divisions on a front of 60 miles;
indeed, that is about the most that could
be manoeuvred and properly supported
by mechanised and infantry divisions
against efficient artillery under Russian
terrain conditions.
It is a point of honor with boo-boo
boys that an enemy never attacks in
Europe without “using 1,000,000 men m
a desperate attempt to break through.
In the Bryansk battle of last Sep-
tember, during which a correspondent
heaved two Panzer divisions 62£ miles
long into a river in a single day, “authori-
ties” were convinced that the normal
million, “with at least 20 Panzer divi-
sions”—/.*., 10,000 tanks—were being
hurled at the Red Army. In an official
Russian book recently issued the Red
Army itself has stated that the German
force used was four mechanised divisions,
five ordinary infantry divisions and four
Panzer divisions —say 150,000 to 170,000
men and 2000 tanks. And in place of the
mountains of Panzer equipment pictured
by “experts,” the Red Army reported
the wrecking or capture of 1525 lorries,
206 guns and “thousands of rifles in
10 days.
It is senseless and dangerous to promul-
gate the idea that the enemy is being
destroyed by his own victories. That
sort of thing has caused a great deal of
trouble, and may cause more. The
enemy’s advance is too swift to allow of
hopes that he is suffering lethally or
severely straining his man-power re-
sources. The geographical limits of the
battlefields where actual stands are made
and the time factors involved in bring-
ing up supplies over long distances,
through devastated country and over
torn-up roads, and in the crossing of
wide rivers preclude the chance of battle
loss being enough to debilitate him.
Exhaustion of his troops and supply
units and wear and tear on his vehicles,
on which there is a tremendous call
out of all proportion to the drain on
man-power because of the speed of the
advance and the great distances which
have to be travelled at breakneck speed
—may be a serious matter for him.
Side by side with reports of a desperate
situation at Stalingrad on August 27
appeared reports of a Russian victory on
the central front, at the point where the
Germans were at the best advantage.
Throughout the winter the enemy had
held a 250-mile-wide mailed fist clenched
at Moscow, which was about 70 miles
from the knuckles. The circulation sys-
tem of this mauler consisted of the main
Smolensk-Moscow road and rail and the
Rshev-Vyazma railway system. Its
advanced point was in the hills of
Gzhatsk.
The southern limits of this central Ger-
man intrusion were vague. The Russians
can scarcely hold all the territory which
was previously assigned to them, since
they admitted a week or two ago fight-
ing in the Kaluga region, which should by
previous Moscow statements have been
60 miles inside Russian-occupied territory.
The Germans asserted that they had taken
14,000 prisoners in offensive fighting here.
They afterwards admitted a series of
Russian attacks which they claimed to
have repulsed.
There had been sporadic references, for
some time to fighting, often heavy,- but
always local, in the Rshev sector on the
north of the German “fist.” The Rus-
sians occasionally mentioned some ad-
vances ; the German story was that Red
Army attacks had been thrown back.
On August 26 Moscow issued a com-
munique which reported that “the Red
Army continues to engage the enemy and
grind down his man-power.” The report
instanced the fact that, as part of a
general offensive along 200 miles oppo-
site Moscow, Russian armies had pushed
back the enemy 30 to 40 miles for a
length of 75 miles in the Rshev-Gzhatsk-
Vyazma sector. They had routed seven
German infantry divisions, two motor-
ised divisions and a tank division ; had
badly mauled three more enemy infan-
try divisions and two tank divisions ; had
broken into the inner defences of Rshev,
unbreached during the winter; had
liberated 642 inhabited places, including
the towns of Substov, Karmanovo and
Pogoreloye-Gorodische ; had killed 45,000
Germans, captured 250 tanks and de-
stroyed 424, captured 775 guns and
destroyed 343, apart from the destruction
and capture of 3000 light guns and
mortars. The only ammunition men-
tioned was 32,000 shells.
There was no official report of
prisoners, but the 8.8. C. commentator
in Moscow spoke of roads “crowded with
hundreds” of them.
It is a good sign that the Russians are
capable of attacking in a region so im-
portant ; but it is too early for cheering.
None of the towns detailed as liberated
suggests anything like a 30-to-40-mile
advance in the sector. Some which are
larger and which should have been over-
swept by such an advance are not men*
tioned. But the Russian forces on the
Rshev front must be considerable, as
witness the naming of eight generals
besides the C.-in-C.—all men at least
qualified for corps and four for full army
commands.
What happened before Moscow last
year, when the enemy withdrew along the
Yartsevo-Yelnia line, should not be for-
gotten. Then the Russians advanced too
far. In the result the Germans encircled
most of them, bared half the defences of
Moscow and reached the Moscow-Volga
Canal on one side and the defences of
Tula on the other before winter stopped
mobile campaigning.
Much the same thing happened before
Kharkov in May of this year, when
Timoshenko made his offensive drive
across the Donetz ; and the effects were
worse. Timoshenko pushed into the
Kharkov defences with apparently little
resistance. Unfortunately his armies
were corralled by drives on his flanks,
which stripped the Donetz defences so
bare as to leave the doorway to the Don
country and the Caucasus wide open. Von
Bock was thus enabled to make the
tremendous advances with which he has
swallowed up an area 700 miles long in
under three months.
It will be time enough for cheers when
it becomes clear whether the main Mos-
cow road is part of the conquered terri-
tory. If that dangerous artery remains
in enemy hands all along the new Rus-
sian flank, and if Rshev cannot be taken
on the north of the advance, the Ger-
man retreat looks more like a new trap
and prelude to offensive, rather than a
fresh Russian victory.
If the Germans were strong enough to
take the offensive temporarily in the
Kaluga area further south they certainly
should have been strong enough to hold
out north of the main road, where the
country is more in their favor, and an
advanced front is of more importance
to them, since it menaces the Moscow-
Volga Canal, the main artery by which
Gorki and north Ural supplies are
brought to the capital.
If they have given up 2000 square
miles of country containing one of the
most valuable pieces of ground—to them
—along 1500 miles of line, the Russian
position in general becomes hopeful. A
real and continuing German breakdown
in the Rshev region could mean only
that German resources have dwindled to
danger-point, and that their whole front
has been stripped of material to provide
for the Caucasian offensive.
Front-line movements at El Alamein
have been livelier and more frequent.
Patrols included a major and successful
raid by Maorilanders and several fit e
but minor testing drives in the A.I.F.
sector. The greater part of the enemy
movement is in the southern part of the
line, and it looks seriously as if Rommel
contemplates dual action —against the
existing 30-mile British positions from
the sea and an outflanking thrust across
the Quattara depression. The bombing
of enemy supply bases continues.
* * * *
The marching of the battle-scarred 17th
Brigade of A.I.F. veterans through the
Melbourne streets was an immense suc-
cess and stirred every one of the
300,000 spectators who saw it. One dis-
play like that does more for morale than
all the hoarse spruiking of politicians
about “grim resistance” can do in a year.
One of the great troubles about estab-
lishing a right public attitude tow?
Australian soldiers is that most Aust
lians never see a soldier except in his
moments of relaxation. Britain, the U.S.,
Russia and Germany don’t make that
kind of mistake. The 17th are veterans
of veterans—they were in the first sweep
to Benghazi, and most of their senior
officers had seen two to four years’ fight-
ing in the last war.
* * * *
Last week the R.A.F. made several
raids on German cities and bases, includ-
ing Frankfort-on-Main and Wiesbaden,
where many fires were started. The Rus-
sians raided Danzig, Konigsberg in E.
Prussia and Berlin, where they claimed to
have fired the Central railway station—
Berlin has several main ones and started
several other blazes. These raids may
have been made from Britain; the Rus-
sian territory nearest to Berlin is distant
over 850 miles. There have been only
light raids over Britain, though Berlin
claimed the heavy bombing of Hull.
* * * *
One of the latest arrivals from the
Middle East is Squadron-Leader Clive
Caldwell, D.F.C. and bar and the Polish
Cross of Valor, who owns the record of
the pioneer R.A.A.F. squadrons of the
Mediterranean —25 enemy ’planes. His
wife is a daughter of A.J.C. chairman
Main.
* * * *
Japanese withdrawals in the Chekiang
area continue. Weather and the typhoon
season may be responsible in part; but
Chinese stoutness cannot be overlooked.
The Chinese now hold 165 miles of the
Chekiang-Kiangsi railway.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO PATRICK JOSEPH HARPER late of
Kennedy Street Armidale. —TAKE NOTICE
tl at THERESA MARION ELIZABETH
HARPER has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1472 of 1942 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance on your behalf on 91
before the 30th day of October 1942 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
E. A. CLEARY & COMPANY Solicitors 56
Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO EDGAR RICHARD SKEWES late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that ALICE MAY
SKEWES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1488 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance on or before the Twentieth
day of November 1942 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from PHILIP N.
ROACH Solicitor 160 Castlereagh Street Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ELIZABETH TUNNICLIFFE - BABER
late of Mosman New South Wales. —TAKE
'NOTICE that CLIFFORD HARRIS TUNNI-
CLIFFE-BABER has filed a petition for
Divorce No. 862 of 1942 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance on or before the 30th October
1942 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from HAROLD MUNRO Solicitor 81
Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C, K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
A change to Randwick was so greatly
welcomed by racegoers that on Saturday
there was an attendance of 43,800, of
whom 4350 were soldiers. On the corre-
sponding day last year the attendance was
31,333, and the tote turnover £47,243.
This time £74,243 went through the
machines, showing there is more ready
cash in circulation at race meetings than
for a long time past.
Yaralla’s (E. McMenamin) supporters
for the Warwick Stakes did not have any
cause for anxiety. In charge at an early
stage, it looked as if the only trouble
might come from Winnipeg, and he left
the latter after entering the straight.
Rimveil, who was not one of the early
leaders, did well from the turn to get
third, and Gold Salute’s fourth was a
sufficiently good effort to give him a
chance of picking up a race in the near
future. Katanga surprised by doing so
well at a distance short for him, and
Mildura, who was having his first race
since April and looked above himself,
also made a fair showing. Dewar, Veiled
Threat and Dashing Cavalier were the
whippers-in throughout, but very little
better could be expected of them in a
seven-furlong w.f.a race.
In the Campbelltown Handicap
Common Sense led into the straight from
Ensign, Soho, Romero and Flying
Knight, but when Soho took charge from
Flying Knight inside the last furlong
he appeared to have the race won. How-
ever, Grand Fils (E. Ross) fairly ran over
him just at the end, his performance
being a surprising one for a horse not
generally rated a sprinter. Prince, in
fourth position, rattled home in such
good style that he will not lack backers
when he next starts. Romero had no
luck when trying for a run on the rails
in the straight, but could not have won
even if he had secured it.
Amberspear, improving greatly on his
form at Ascot the previous week, made
a game attempt to win the Spring Handi-
cap all the way. He had a long lead at
one part, and a useful one turning for
home, but Moondarewa (J. Thompson),
who came from a long way back at the
half-mile, ran him down, finishing like
a genuine stayer. In the straight Moon-
darewa hung in, causing interference
with Abspear, who finished third. The
stewards told Thompson to be more
careful, Pantler and Shining Night were
disappointing, the former in particular,
and Two’s Company did not run up to
her recent form at Rosehill.
Sobersides (Aldridge) jumped indiffer-
ently in the Hurdle Race, but his pace
enabled him to dispose of Kinmar, who
was second to King’s Cross entering the
straight. Anpapejo, hopelessly placed
most of the way, made up a lot of ground
over the last half-mile to run a good
third, and the stewards subsequently cen-
sured Hynes for a bad ride. It looked as
if, with more use made of him earlier
in the piece, Anpapejo should have won.
Mag Mort, though never dangerous, ran
fairly, while Tea Denis again tired.
Hall Stand (Cook), the most stylish-
looking colt in the field, outpaced his
Hobartville Stakes opponents from the
first furlong. He turned for home ahead of
Riverton, Main Topic and Jungle King,
and then cleared right away, the other
places going to Main Topic and General
Smuts, the last-named finishing better
than anything except the winner. River-
ton’s backers expected him to run on
when they saw him prominent at the top
of the straight, but, so far from doing so,
he tired to nothing over the last furlong.
Angel, in running fourth, did better than
generally anticipated, while Panbranch
and Babillard were complete failures,
neither ever looking a place possibility.
Form did not say much for Adding-
ton_s (Gollogly) chance in the first
division of the Farm Novice, but after
Sir Galahad had made the early running
and Ronswalk had led into the straight,
a run on the rails enabled Addington to
beat Glendower, who was late on the
scene, after meeting with a couple of
checks. The last-named looked as if he
might overhaul Addington, but in the
last 50 yards did not make much impres-
sion on him. Still, he was unlucky to
lose. Twofold came home fairly, and
others well up at the finish were Barren-
joey and Brueghelier.
• • • * • •
Running up to his track form Easter
Time (Delaney), though not well placed'
at the turn, finished brilliantly to win the
second division of the Farm Novice
from the Constant Son colt Great Scot,
who, after leading most of the way,
looked a winner halfway down the
straight. Very little excuse was possible
for Tidemark, who was ahead of Easter
Time at the turn. Bonne Terre, Sand-
man and Gauntlet showed pace, but
Mabonga gave his backers a poor run.
Easter Time is a five-year-old gelding by
Ethiopian, and he added to D. Lewis’s
numerous long-priced winners. This was
his second success.
Opportunist was the only runner that
headed Tel Asur (Hughes) at any part
of the Glenlee Handicap, but the latter,
who led from the half-mile post, was
first into the straight and lasted long
enough to win by a head from Haripur,
who lost a little ground through jump-
ing the crossing in the straight. Starting
from the extreme outside, Pinero was
wide out for a long way, and did well
to dead-heat Indian Emperor for third.
Duke Cullen, as usual, was conspicuous
most of the way, but of the unplaced lot
Aralys and Rodborough did best in the
run down the straight. It’s Funny and
Thrax were not sighted.
From a spring viewpoint. High Road’s
fast-finishing second to Bevera in the
second August Stakes was an outstanding
feature at Mentone on Saturday. The
V.R.C. Leger winner, racing for the first
time since the autumn, came from last
near the three furlongs, and would have
won had the distance been a little farther
than six furlongs. His starting price of
33 to 1 reflected general opinion of his
chance. High Road comes to hand
quickly for a horse of his bulk, and
should account for Skipton, who has not
had the benefit of a race, if they meet in
the Memsie Stakes at Flemington next
Saturday.
Burrabil, Cantala and Futurity Stakes
winner last season, promises to be as
good as ever at the age of eight. Well-
backed for Bevera’s race on Saturday, he
was involved in a scrimmage and lost
ground immediately after the start, but
ran on strongly at the finish. His spring
engagements include the Toorak Handi-
cap and Cantala Stakes, but, if he shows
signs of improved stamina in his forth-
coming races, it would not surprise were
he given his chance in the Caulfield Cup,
for which he has been handicapped as a
non-stayer, Burrabil has never raced
beyond 10 furlongs, his four starts at
that distance having yielded a first and a
second.
Gay Roi, a candidate for the Derby
and Melbourne Cup, beat off a strong
challenge by Nalong in the second Ber-
wick Handicap. His nomination for the
Memsie Stakes, w.f.a., next Saturday was
regarded as a good tip by many backers,
who assisted in the plunge which forced
his price from sevens down to favoritism
at 7to 2. Gay Roi carried only 7.11 and
will have to show further improvement
before he enters seriously into Derby cal-
culations, but, by the same token, Mel-
bourne’s three-years-old do not look any-
thing out of the ordinary at the moment.
Nalong, who conceded Gay Roi 101 b. and
might have won had she had the advan-
tage of a prior race, attracts as a likely
Oaks prospect. Mermeran, reported on
Friday to be lame and an unlikely starter,
landed some substantial bets in the first
Berwick Handicap. The Valiant Chief
filly disputed the lead from the start and
battled on strongly to win from Haros,
who will be all the better for the race,
and Aggressor.
Mollie Con, who was not considered
good enough a stayer to be nominated
for the Cups, comfortably defeated
several Cups candidates in the Waverley
Handicap, lOf. Revelling in the heavy
going, she was second most of the way,
hit the front entering the straight, and
stalled off a challenge by Hathersage,
Lugano, third, was unlucky. He did not
get a clear run until the race was almost
over, and seemingly is about to reproduce
the form that enabled him to win the
Memsie Stakes last spring. Lugano was
most impressive of the Cup horses in the
Waverley Handicap field.
Art Union finished strongly to defeat
Industry in the first August Stakes, but
nothing ran on better than the Derby
and Cup candidate Home James. Last-
named recorded an excellent performance
to finish third in his first race since last
spring, when he was one of our best
juveniles, and considerable improvement
is probable. Aurania recorded his first
win since the Maribyrnong Plate of 1938
when he lasted long enough to defeat
the unlucky Portico in the second division
of the Welter. Aurania has had support
for the Caulfield Cup, but \\ mile might
be beyond him.
* * * *
Yaralla came out a little better than
any other of the Epsom candidates which
competed at Randwick on Saturday, but
it must not be overlooked that he has
61b. more to carry than in the Warwick
Stakes. Still he is up to weight. Of
course, if Rimveil continues to improve
at the same rate as in the week that
intervened between Rosehill and Rand-
wick, he will enter into calculations with
9.8. He had 9.11 when third to Yaralla
(8.3) and The Miller (7.12) in the Villiers
Stakes. Tel Asur is not overburdened
with 7.10, but, though a winner under
medium weights, it is possible he is better
at the welter than the ordinary scale,
Soho meets Grand Fils 91b. better, but
the extra two furlongs may trouble him.
Mildura and Gold Salute are likely to
improve, as is Hydra, who looked as if
he would need more racing to bring him
to his best. Pinero’s form was scarcely
up to the necessary standard, and there
is very little room for improvement in
his condition. Lo Dokes was unable to
get near the front in the Campbelltown
Handicap, but, though bright, a month
may do a lot for him. Despite all the
good reports concerning Evergreen’s work
his showing in the Warwick Stakes was
very indifferent. It would, however, he
unwise to condemn him at this stage.
Some that did not run on Saturday may
come into prominence during the next
three weeks, but of those we saw Yaralla,
Beau Fils, Rimveil, Tel Asur, Mildura
and Gold Salute, in that order, did most
to commend themselves to backers.
Grand Fils’s owner is said to favor the
Metropolitan for him, but that horse
scored in such good style against fast
sprinters at six furlongs with 7.8 in the
Campbelltown Handicap that he must
be conceded an excellent Epsom chance
with 41b. more. If he is specially pre-
pared with a view to distance races his
speed may suffer, but if it should be de-
cided first of all to run him in the
Epsom, and he fails, his Metropolitan
chance will still be good. He gives the
impression of being a natural stayer,
and it was not on a severe preparation
that he ran so well in the Summer and
Tattersall’s Cups.
* * * ♦
The additional two furlongs, as com-
pared with the Hobartville Stakes should
not trouble Hall Stand in the Canterbury
Guineas, and there seems little likelihood
of any he beat on Saturday turning the
tables on him. The extra distance will
help General Smuts, who is really better
than he looks. Riverton may improve,
but Hall Stand may have more to fear
from the latter’s stable-companion
Baroda, who continues to improve with
work, and impresses me as likely to stay.
Hobartville Stakes running discredited
Babillard, Aquatic and Panbranch, and
if Hall Stand is beaten next Saturday—
and that seems improbable—it may be
by Baroda.
* * * *
The form shown by Dashing Cavalier,
Veiled Threat and Dewar in the
Warwick Stakes did not throw any
light on their Metropolitan prospects.
None of them did even as well as Katanga.
and backers will have to await a couple
of runs in longer races before being able
to form a fairly definite idea as to their
chances. Moondarewa was seen to
greater advantage on Saturday than any
other Metropolitan candidate. Amber-
spear made the Spring Handicap a truly
run race, and Moondarewa finished
better than anything he beat. He will
meet Abspear and Pantler only 31b. and
Shining Night lib. worse, and that diff
ference would not have brought him
back to them on Saturday.
A four-year-old, his 7.8 should not
trouble him over the longer distance,
and he will meet Veiled Threat 151 b.
better than weight-for-age, and Dashing
Cavalier 191 b. A young horse, the odds
are in favor of his making as much
improvement as either of those during
the coming month. Shining Night did
not stay as well as expected last week,
and, in receipt of 31b., does not read as
well as Beau Fils. Two’s Company, with
the same weight as in the Warwick
Spring Handicap, is not, suggestive of
danger, and it will need marked improve-
ment on the part of others of Saturday’s
runners to give them much hope of beat-
ing either Moondarewa or Beau Fils.
* * ♦ #
Notwithstanding there is bound to be
a big local entry for minor races at the
Melbourne Cup meeting the V.R.C. is
restricting the programme to seven races
each day. When acceptances are too
numerous there will be a resort to the
ballot. This, in conjunction with trans-
port difficulties, may cause many Sydney
horses below Derby, Cup or w.f.a. form
to remain at home. The additional risk
of being eliminated by the ballot lessens
the inducement to take the trip with
horses that are short of first-class.
Miscellaneous
The first of the V.F.L. semi-finals was
fatal to Footscray. ’Scray tried hard, but
Sowth had much the better of a hard
third quarter, and finished with 13.13 to
7.22. ’Scray’s shooting was bad, but it
was unlucky in -hitting the posts four
times. Essendon v. Richmond next
Saturday; the loser plays Sowth; the
winner goes into the “grand” final.
* * ♦ »
Sydney’s Rugby Union “four” are Uni-
versity (22-6 against St. George) first,
Manly (15-11 v. North) and East (18-5 v.
Randwick) together, then Parramatta
(28-13 v. Gordon). Manly got second
place on percentages. Next Saturday it’s
Uni. v. Manly and East vi Parramatta.
The ’Varsity captain, Rutledge, put up
a new competition record by scoring 181
points for the season. But on Sunday he
turned out with a “City” team against a
United Services team of Union and
League players, and didn’t score a point.
Neither did any other City man. “Ser-
vices” ended with 57 points (13 tries and
nine goals) to nil!
* * * •
A tall, rangy southpaw like Fred Kay,
but not as clever, Laurie Petersen, from
Queensland, made an auspicious first
appearance at Leichhardt (Sydney)
against Bobby Clarke, stopping Clarke in
five rounds. It took Petersen a couple
of rounds to warm up, but his left had
Clarke very wobbly in the fourth. Con-
tinuing with the same treatment in the
fifth, Petersen shot Clarke against the
ropes with a solid solar-plexus punch.
Before the Sydneysider could escape to
mid-ring, the northerner sent a right and
left to the body. Out went Clarke.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before Acceptances.)
By “PILOI."
Three - year - old Handicap:
Niagara, 1 ; Mastery, 2; The
Somme or Display, 3.
Canterbury Stakes: Yaralla, 1;
Flying Knight, 2 ; Gold Salute, 3.
Flying Handicap: Common
Sense, 1; Air Link or Prince, 2;
Radical, 3.
Canterbury Guineas: Hall Stand,
1; Baroda, 2; General Smuts, 3.
Turf Club Handicap: Yours
Truly, 1; Abspear, 2; Shining
Night, 3.
Campsie Handicap: Plimsol, 1 ;
Haripur, 2; Bona Fide or Pall
Mall, 3.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances.)
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Doona Trial: Claudette, 1 ;
Liberal Knight, 2 ; Anthony, 3.
Whittier Handicap: Phoines, 1 ;
Tea Cake, 2 ; Reception, 3.
Warriston Handicap: Register,
1 ; Amazed, 2 ; Home James, 3.
Memsie Stakes: High Road, 1 ;
Skipton, 2 ; Tranquil Star, 3.
Sandringham Steeple: Solecism,
1; Warwickshire, 2; Trent Bridge, 3.
Heatherlie Handicap: True
Flight, 1 ; Velocity, 2 ; El Golea, 3,


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The Bulletin’s Melbourne staff will
have a front seat when on September 11
(Prisoners of War Day) at luncheon-
time mannequins will parade in Collins-
street wearing Hattie Leckie’s Used Hats,
which that imaginative woman has
decided to sell for the cause. Mrs.
Leckie, wife of the Senator, known as
well by her maiden name of Hattie
Knight, has found 20 milliners employed
by a wholesale firm who are willing to
give up their Saturday morning to retrim-
ming hats handed in for the sale.
Recently she gathered in the coin to buy
renovating ribbon by a party at her
home, admission to which was by used
hat.
Mrs. Leckie is being helped by the
Angliss lady, who has made the Red Cross
Appeals Office a depot for stocking the
hats till the day of the sale. Women
with some piece of discarded headgear—
such as the fright bought in a fit of
absentmindedness—are asked to trot it
along. The fact that in their renovated
state the nutcovers can be bought with-
out coupons should ensure a ready
market.
Fine stitching has served Miss E. W.
Richardson as well as paintbrushes, and
she has hung some landscapes and por-
traits of exceptional cleverness in the
Myer Mural Hall. She works largely
from photographs, and has been greatly
helped by those on which she concen-
trated for General MacArthur, of whom
she has achieved a speaking likeness.
This idea of using unconventional means
to get results seems to be extending.
Classes in first aid are told nowadays not
to forget their lipstick—it is used in fore-
head marking for such memoranda as
the time at which a tourniquet had been
applied. In a city fashionable shop, too,
dishcloths are being shown in the milli-
nery section. They make attractive tur-
bans.
Coupon parties are now suggested for
brides. It works this way. Bride asks
feminine relatives can they spare some,
and then communes with herself and
produces a list of the most imperative
needs. Fern. rels. then go into confer-
ence and decide what they can do about
it. Generally they make a small party
of it, and drink port or fruitcup, thus
drowning their grief at parting with
coupons. A really self-sacrificing family
can do lots to alleviate the bridal dearth
of clobber. But, of course, the party has
to be relatives, and mostly those of the
same name, so the idea can’t spread. But
the old adage about heaven sending us
our relatives has to be reconsidered in
the light of this new use for the clan.
Most sought after of our visitors was
Rear-Admiral Thierry d’Argenlieu, Fight-
ing French High Commissioner for the
Pacific. No ordinary seadog, this. The
rear-admiral’s years as a monk have
given him a curious capacity for silence.
Fighting French rallied round him with
a sherry party at the Lyceum Club, and
local hostesses went to terrific lengths to
try to entertain the strong, silent man.
At the Fighting French party many
friends of France, not French, turned up,
so that the conversationally inclined were
not restricted to the tongue of the hosts
and principal guest, though it is on such
occasions that one realises how many
fair linguists there are in Melbourne.
First night of “Robert’s Wife” brought
out a big company, not all vintage first-
nighters. Mary Ward was there, all
glamorous in white and white fox furs —
such a slim Mary, all swanlike. Dress-
ing was all sorts. Mrs. T. Allan Mac-
Kay, who used to be all trained frocks
at first nights, was in a natty short after-
noon frock and cosy fur bolero ; but Mrs.
P. W. Thring was still faithful to long
skirts, as were many other well-known
women, Edwin Styles’s fears that a Mel-
bourne audience might think his cassock
comic were set to rest a split second after
his first appearance, for he was raptur-
ously (but most decorously) applauded.
Marie Burke also got a big welcome.
Mrs. J. Bowen Pain was sporting one of
the new tight curl-all-over-the-head hair-
dos which are making a strong bid for
popularity. The Esmond Kiernans were
quite a bunch, the party including, be-
sides Mrs. Kiernan and her two most
attractive daughters. Dr. Pitt, fianed of
elder daughter, and his mother, Mrs.
E. R. Pitt.
An announcement interesting to a
wide circle of their friends is that of
the engagement of Ivie, youngest daughter
of the late Mr. and Mrs. John Bishop, of
Toorak, to W. G. Main, eldest son of Mr.
and Mrs. William Main, of Whitestones,
via Portland.
Infant prodigies have a way of fading
out, but two recently before Melbourne
audiences seem to be fulfilling early
promise. Philip Hargrave, who, his
guardian over from Adelaide tells, used
to be so thin that when first she saw him
he looked like a little bag of bones, has
grown into a sturdy, manly fellow of 19,
and looks every inch a soldier in his
khaki —he has already won corporal’s
stripes. His guardian, Miss Henriette
Garnaut, sat in the South Gallery of the
Town Hall with Frank Tait and Mrs.
Frank (Viola Wilson) for his concert the
other night. The other prodigy, Desmond
Bradley, is only seven, but he isn’t to be
spoiled or even brought out much till
he is much more mature. His father,
Reg Bradley, of Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra, and mother, known profes-
sionally as Eunice Garland, will see to
that. However, he played two concertos
at his first public appearance at Albert-
street Conservatorium, where his parents
were both once students.
The Junior Branch of the Army Medi-
cal Corps Auxiliary should have a good
fund-finder in its theatre night of
“Robert’s Wife” on September 4, as the
play has caused much discussion and the
first night was booked out well in
advance. The Junior Group is an offshoot
of the A.M.C. auxiliary, which has been
making life a good deal less worrying for
wives of men attached to medical units
by looking after their interests as well
as supplying needfuls to the men on ser-
vice. Juniors are all daughters of medi-
coes. Pat Talbot Hamilton, pictured here
by Broothorn, is ticket secretary for
theatre night and president of the group
jointly with Margery Shaw, whose
mother, Mrs. Gordon Shaw, is president
of the senior auxiliary. Pat, a science
graduate of Melbourne Uni., is in the
research department of the Common-
wealth Serum Laboratories.
For Joyce Greer’s appearance with the
Symphony Orchestra, which was a real
triumph, there was a huge audience, in-
cluding many Brighton friends of the
clever girl pianist. Some of those present
compared Miss Greer with Myra Hess,
whom they had heard in England. At
school (at Firbank) Miss Greer was a
splendid athlete, and probably the
school’s best runner. Her physical fit-
ness was much in evidence in the vigor
with which she tackled the Chopin con-
certo. Oldsters who remembered the
almost legendary strength of Madame
Carreno said that since that powerful lady
pianist’s time no woman had looked such
a master of the instrument or got more
of what she wanted out of it than Miss
Greer. Applause was terrific, and brought
back a smiling pianist time after time,
“Wife of a hero” is what Mrs. “King”
Cole’s friends are calling her, and they
might have added “heroic wife of a brave
man”; for Mrs. Cole has sat at home
for weeks knowing that her husband,
thousands of miles away, was engaged in
plans for a daring adventure, the nature
of which she could only guess. Then
came a cable from him telling of a
wounded jaw and hurt shoulder after the
Dieppe raid. Air Commodore Cole and
his wife are* cousins, the original family
being Western District. Elder daughter
of the couple has father’s name back-
wards —he is Adrian and she is Nairda.
Elder son, now at Geelong Grammar, is
Adrian, who could be told by masters
who were father’s contemporaries of the
doings of Adrian senior at Melbourne
Grammar. Adrian senior always knew
how to take worth-while risks, and
dropped a commission to go away in the
1914-18 war as sergeant with Captain
“Dicky” Williams, now air vice-marshal.
A sister is wife of Charlie Brown, former
Mayor of Geelong.
From Sydney
Australia will never, alas! know the
Duke of Kent as its Governor-General.
Just before the breaking of the storm
this country had looked forward to giving
a warm welcome to the handsome young
man and his graceful Duchess. At the
vice-regal residence in Canberra accom-
modation for the royal babies had
been provided. So this land mourns
with a more intimate concern than
even other outflung parts of the Empire
the death, in action, of the Duke. To bis
wife, Marina of Greece, lovely daughter
of a land of heroes, Australia extends
its sympathy. The Duke is said to be the
first member of the Royal family to have
been killed in war for over a hundred
years. He was buried in the chapel
of St. George at Windsor Castle.
Pretty Patricia (Patty) McGirr, third
daughter of the Greg McGirrs, of North
Sydney, is wearing a brand-new ruby
ring. This is an engagement token, and
is even more handsome than the ruby ring
her father bought for her in Paris just
before the war, when the heart of that
city, as the song says, was young and
gay. The young man in the case is
Grevor Chiltern Molyneux, an engineer
in the making. He is secretary of the
Sydney Uni. Engineering Undergrads.’
Association. His father is Captain Moly-
neux, of Mosman. Pattie, like all her
clan, is a believer in study. Her
subject at Sydney Uni. is occupational
therapy, and that seems to be a very
humane choice in this war-racked
world. One of her most cherished mem-
ories is that of being entertained by the
Duke and Duchess of Windsor when she
and her father were in Paris. Photo-
graph by Frederick, of the Waldorf.
According to knight Donald Cameron
the million shillings needed by the
Y.W.C.A. can be plucked in N. S. Wales,
and from women alone. With a Scot’s
instinct for figures he pointed out at the
Government House meeting, one morning
last week, that there were over one mil-
lion women in this State. Let each
woman give a shilling, and the silver tide
would run a banker. The Y-W.C.A. needs
the money to provide welfare huts and
recreation centres for women of the ser-
vices.
Lady -Gowrie read to the assemblage a
telegram of approval from Attorney-
General Evatt, sent on behalf of
Priminster Curtin. Lady Wakehurst, who
presided, read a cheery message from
Earle Page. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax sounded
the tocsin to every woman’s organisation
to leap into battle formation behind the
appeal. Squadron-Leader Opie, of the
W.A.A.A.Fs., and Major Eleanor Man-
ning spoke up on behalf of their sisters
in uniform. The campaign will be
launched on September 21,
Mrs. Lennox Bode, Mrs. W. Osborne
and Mrs. Venour Nathan raised the loud
clap of applause when they paraded in
the not-quite-new clothes which were dis-
played at the Opportunity Fashion
Parade at Prince’s last week. The Peter
Pan Free Kindergarten will be the richer
by the sale of the clothes and the buyers
none the poorer in the way of coupons.
Being second-hand the dresses and suits
are coupon-free.
The blonde good looks of Mrs, Bode
and Mrs. Osborne and the classic line
of white evening frocks made striking
alliance. Mrs. Venour Nathan, holding
the buoyant fullness of her black even-
ing frock outspread, attracted the eye of
the buyer. But the garments of good
tweed and other woollens were the most
highly priced and the most keenly in-
spected. Prince’s was crowded, and a
lucky competition for which smart cloth-
ing was the guerdon went with a bang.
Members of the Peter Pan Kindergarten
committee gave clothes from their own
wardrobes.
There’s a link of service to their coun-
try binding the oldest and the youngest
Latvian in Australia. The oldest, Mrs.
L. Andersen, of Stanmore, is ninety, pie
youngest, Sylvia Braklene Zarin, is just
six months, and her home is at Leich-
hardt. Mrs. Andersen has been decorated
for services to the Latvian Government
with the Latvian Order of Merit, First
Class. Sylvia’s mother, Mrs. Zarin, has
the Latvian Order of Merit, Second Class.
They are the only persons in Australia
on whom this order has been conferred.
The 250 exhibits which will be seen so
well displayed this afternoon in the
Society of Artists’ show were not wafted
into place by thought transference.
Their placing was accomplished through
the sweat (and maybe a tear or two) of
the man-power of the S.O.A. The stand-
ard of entries from the outside exhi-
bitors has never been higher or more
varied. Lots of figure studies, water-
colors and landscapes in oils clothe the
walls of the Education Department gal-
leries. Many pieces of sculpture have
been entered and will agreeably break
up the vistas of the long gallery. B. W
Hone, headmaster of Cranbrook, will
make the opening speech.
Friends of the Fighting French move-
ment are determined to make the dinner
dance on September 15 a very special
flutter. Guests will be limited to 150 at
one guinea each, and, of course, the
F.F. funds benefit. Chief Justice Jordan’s
wife is the patroness, Mrs. Bertie Kelly
the president. French names on the com-
mittee list are those of Mrs. Duplatre,
Mrs. J. Playoust and Mrs. J. Flipo.
Labor women, to mark the fortieth
anniversary of the enactment of woman-
hood suffrage in N.S.W., assembled at
Mark Foy’s on Thursday of last week
and drank tea to the glory of the fran-
chise. Alderwoman Pitt presided, and
Parliament was appropriately represented
by Mrs. Quirk, M.L.A., who, as a
memento of the occasion, was presented
with the poetical works of Henry Lawson.
The gift was appropriate, too, as Louisa
Lawson, mother of the poet, was a
pioneer in the movement which suc-
ceeded in giving her sex the freedom of
the ballot-box.
A high wind brought suits and furs
out to Randwick last Saturday. It was
Warwick Farm spring meeting, but that
spring feeling was mostly absent from
the temperature. The sun, however, was
bright and strong and sunglasses were
frequent and large. One or two pairs
were almost the size of saucers. Spring
flowers sprang to attention on the few
seasonal straws. There wefe daisies in the
field of Mrs. Lyn Vickery’s hat. Yaralla
was the beau of the day. It is reported
that he held levee for about 5000 ad-
mirers. Taken all in all, it was a pleasant
day patterned with men and women in
uniform, with fair girls (none nicer than
the Parsons sisters) and flying hooves.
Maorilander Eric Ramsden is going
back to settle in his native land follow-
ing a breakdown in health. With him
goes his pretty wife. Their arrival will
coincide with the publication of his
Busby of Waitangi. Lord Bledisloe wrote
the introduction. It will be recalled that
this former Governor-General gave the
old Busby estate at Waitangi to the
people of Enzed. Mr. Ramsden, whose
first book was Marsden and the Missions.
will be missed from the Pacific Islands
Group (which he founded), the Royal
Australian Historical Society and the
P.E.N. Club (of the council of which he
was a member). His wife Eve is a well-
known |nd -liked newspaper woman.
The Fighting French movement got
into action on Saturday. The man-
oeuvres were in the Pickwick Club. Rear-
Admiral Georges Thierry d’Argenlieu was
the hit of the party, and made a speech
full of Gallic fire that delighted one and
all. During the afternoon the admiral
was interested to meet attractive young
daughters of France who had dressed in
various provincial costumes for the
occasion. At mention of leader De
Gaulle’s name, the three hundred guests
were stirred to enthusiasm.
The Over Seventies did their bit for
the Queenslanders’ War Unit midway
through last week. The Nothing-Under-
Seventy Club has quite a bunch of talent
among its members, many of them con-
cert and stage artists of other days. These
gathered together and gave an afternoon
musicale in Farmer’s Oak Room to help
the Q.W.U. provide still more comforts
for the fighting men. The entertainment
followed the Queensland Association’s
monthly lunch, and there was a pleasant
informality about proceedings. The
audience sat around their tables and the
performers stepped up to the small dais
and sang, played and recited with spirit
and much charm. Mrs. G. S. Hawley,
sec. of the unit, arranged the entertain-
ment ; Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, the presi-
dent, made the speech of thanks.


How to make
Gillette Blades
last longer..
You can lessen beard resistance and save your
Gillette Blades by spending more time in
lathering. Cut out the rush! A longer lather
with plenty of water is the way to make your
Gillette Blades keep their fine edges twice as
long. And here’s another tip! Handle Gillette
Blades only by the ends and dry them care-
fully after use. It pays.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
AND SAVE STEEL
Ttie will to SAVE ll the will to win. Buy Savings Certificates
take more time..
over the lather..
Personal and Missing Friends.
CLARKE, John (son of William Clarke), for-
merly of Portland, later of Hamilton and Cas-
terton districts, Victoria, station hand, deceased.
—Anyone knowing whereabouts of any of his
children, Elizabeth Anderson, Caroline Tait,
Mary Quirke, Myra (or Maria) Clarke and
Bessie Musgrove—financial advantage—please
communicate with RIGBY & FIELDING,
Solicitors, 60 Market Street, Melbourne.
WOULD ALFRED WILLIAM RIGGS, a near
relative of the late Fred Riggs, of Adelaide
Road, Wellington, New Zealand, or any person
knowing his whereabouts, or ALFRED WIL-
LIAMSON MASON, please communicate with
the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Welling-
ton, N.Z.?
STORER, Arthur, who left Yarloop, W.A.,
about 1930. Will he or any person aware of
his address now or since 1930 please communi-
cate with the WEST AUSTRALIAN TRUS-
TEE, EXECUTOR & AGENCY, CO., LTD.,
135 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia?
r*
CHISM IST 31a Georse Street. Syuney.
Legal Notice.
JOHN HAUGH BROWN Deceased. —By Order
of the Chancery Division of the High Court
of Justice England dated 14th July 1941 and
made in an action In the Matter of the Estate
of JOHN HAUGH BROWN Deceased (late of
24 South Drive Harrogate in the County of
York England who died on the 9th February
1940) Beaumont v. Gilmour (1941) B. 912 the
following inquiries were directed viz.: (1) An
inquiry who were the children of William
Gilmour grandfather of the wife of the above-
named testator John Hatjgh Brown (2) An in-
quiry which if any of such children were living
at the death of the testator on the 9th Febru-
ary 1940 (3) An inquiry who were the issue of
such of the said children as predeceased the
testator and “which of such issue were living at
his death. (4) An inquiry if any of such
children or issue living at testator’s death
are since dead who are the respective per-
sonal representatives NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all persons claiming to be entitled
under the said inquiries are to send by post
prepaid to FREDERICK JOHN OLIVER
PRESCOTT of 6 Norfolk Street Strand London
W.C.2 England so as to reach that address on
or before 31st December 1942 their full names
addresses and descriptions and full particulars
of their claims or in default thereof they will be
excluded from the benefit of the said order
unless the Court or Judge on application other-
wise orders DATED this 22nd day of July
1942.— TREVOR C. NEWMAN Master.
Note: Information is sought regarding the
grandchildren of the said William Gilmour, viz.
(a) George Gilmour (son of James Gilmour),
lb) William Gilmour (son of John Murdock
Gilmour), or their issue. Both of them arc be-
lieved to have gone to Australia.
(Signed) FOYER WHILE & PRESCOTT,
6 Norfolk Street, Strand, London, W.C.2,
agents for HIRST & CAPES, of Flarrogate,
Yorks, England, Solicitors for the executors of
the will of JOHN HAUGH BROWN, deceased.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALTER THOMAS JOHN COLEMAN
late of 90 Great Buckingham Street Redfern.
—TAKE NOTICE that MERLE EUROMA
JULIA COLEMAN has filed a .Petition for
Divorce No. 924 of 1942 on the ground ot
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance by the 20th Novem-
ber 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from EMIL E. J. FORD & CO.
Solicitors 350 George Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE ALEXANDER FORBES late
of 13 Albert Road Strathfield.—TAKE NOTICE
that RITA IRENE LYDIA FORBES has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1519 of 1942 alleg-
ing that you the said GEORGE ALEXANDER
FORBES have been guilty of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you desire to defend the suit you must
enter an appearance by the Thirtieth day of
October One thousand nine hundred and forty-
two and obtain a copy of, the petition free of
charge from JOHN CHARLES PAYNTER
Solicitor St. James Buildings 109 Elizabeth
Street Sydney Dated this Twenty-first day of
August 1942.— (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO COLIN GEORGE GARDNER BREEZE
formerly of Wellington N.S.W. —TAKE
NOTICE that LILY BREEZE has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1554 of 1942 on the
ground of desertion without just cause for
three years and upwards You may enter an
appearance by the 17th November 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from J. J. KIELY Solicitor 17 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES HENRY O’DEA late of Ballina.-
TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS MYRTLE
O’DEA has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1550 of 1941 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance by 20th November 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from A. W. M. DICKINSON Solicitor 33-39
Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
STAMPS
100 New Zealand®, all different F/*
100 Australians, all different 4/*
■lO Taeifle Islands, all different v~
We buy all Australians for Cash, Retail and
Air Cists —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., It
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (£st. 56 Years.)
REDUCE
YOUR
WAIST
The GO VERNA BELT will reduce
your waistline and give a slim
athletic figure. Supports delicate
organs. By gentle, clianging pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
with every move you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will be
Sin. smaller ... Sin. of bulge
and strain gone . . . OR NO
COST 1 Write for full illustrated
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL
OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept, 8., 243 Elizabeth St.. Sydney
SMOKE-OH!
“Tiger Swallows Woman’s Handbag.”
—Paper heading.
Now someone will be letting the bag
out of the cat.
•I- *!* r
“Nobody could regard old Eb as a pleasant
character. Indeed, his conversation and his
personal habits were quite disgusting.”
—Magazine story.
A low ebb.
V v- d* v
The four stages in the public life of
a section of lost territory:
1. Serious.
2. Grave.
3. Critical.
4. Of no strategical value.
“Florence Duck recently married Paul Drake
in Taylorville, Illinois.” —“ World’s News.”
Naturally, when their offspring arrived
they got a quack.
“The foul odor of garbage is caused by a gas
known as hydrogen sulphide.”— Weekly paper.
Or by someone putting the bin out in
uC sun on a day that turns out not to be
a rubbish day after all.
v v v v
“Sweets for dessert.” — “Woman’s Mirror.
Good cooks are hard to get today.
They’d much prefer munition pay. And
so a cook will rarely stay. She soon
looks dour. Begrudgingly she’ll boil and
bake. She won’t waste time on things
like cake. And as for sweets — they only
make her very sour.
Yair.
•J# »£•
“Goebbels told Turkish pressmen that Hitler
had long ago decided against conquering the
whole of the Soviet Union.”
This makes the decision unanimous.
•»*
“Peter was an easygoing young man, but
Alf Summers, his maternal grandfather, had
never been good-tempered. Now, at 88, he
was worse than ever.” — Short story.
It was terrible to hear old Alf gnash
his tooth when put out.
“Accused was alleged to have fired two shots
at his wife’s brother, who was staying with
'them.”—' “Sun.”
No other extenuating circumstance was
mentioned.
The Diff.
“If a fakir's a fake, what’s a censor?”
—Correspondent.
A fakir sits
On show. On bits
Of sharpened steel sits he.
No fake there is
About his biz. —
The points are plain to see.
A censor, though,
Sits on a show
And cuts the show with glee.
And soon disjoints
The very points
The public longs to see.
LOO.
Harvest Moonshine.
“Harvest time always brings its romances.”
— Woman's paper.
She was a trifle green, but ripening.
May Stocks, her name was, and she had
a sheaf of good looks, cornflower-blue
eyes and a crop of maize-colored hair.
The young farmer who was stalking
around with her didn’t exactly have the
field to himself, but he used to pour into
her ears tales of love.
May, thrashing out her own plans,
didn’t at first glean that it would be to
her advantage to marry the husky young
agriculturist, but her mother asked her
didn’t she have a grain of sense to see
that he had stacks. So before the har-
vesting was over he congratulated himself
on bagging her.
Now he realises that she’s got him
all sewn up.
HAMER.
Murder on the Racecourse.
The title shown above has no
Relation to this poem, so
You might os well at once despair
Of finding why I put it there.
Just think, ere criticising me,
How film producers frequently
Use titles that do not apply;
Then tell me, why the hell can’t I?
T. W. NATHAN.
Too Flaming Right!
“The ideal form of co-operation is that exist-
ing in the fire-fighting service.” —Radio speaker.
This is particularly the case in the
country, especially among the volunteer
brigades, and the lengths to which co-
operation is taken there make that prac-
tised among city lire stations appear but
a pale simulacrum of the real thing.
When 1 was captain of the brigade at
Geebung Flat our pump and hose were
mounted on Jim Farrell’s old two-cylinder
Di Dion. And weren’t we proud of the
polish we got on the brass lamps and
leather straps! The best the brigade over
at Muckabout could manage was the
Shire Council’s old poison cart. It was
obvious that with our greater speed we
would get to a fire, if it occurred equi-
distant from our township, before theirs.
Here is where our perfect co-operation
was manifested. We arranged a schedule
of handicaps covering every farmhouse,
stack, shed and barn in the two districts.
Thus, should an outbreak occur closer
to Geebung Flat we were to give them
the requisite start, and vice versa should
it break out in the Muckabout area. Thus
we were assured, not only of lobbing
at the fire simultaneously, thereby
eliminating any jealousy and friction, but
of bringing the full weight of our com-
bined pumping power to bear on the con-
flagration.
The night Wally Marsden’s big feedshed
caught alight demonstrated eloquently
the true pitch of co-operation we had
evolved. The place was closer to Muck-
about, and we had, as per schedule, seven
minutes’ start. But within half a mile of
the fire the motor conked, and we were
sitting helplessly watching the blaze when
we heard the clip-clop of a horse walk-
ing swiftly. It was Fred Plunkett’s team
from Muckabout. They wouldn’t hear of
taking a mean advantage of us, but in-
sisted on giving us a tow. Although we
weren’t in time to prevent the wall&, roof,
floor and contents being gutted, we made
a brilliant save of the brick piers.
One day Fred’s team came over to
Geebung Flat’s ground for an inter-
brigade challenge football match. Just
after “lempns” there was a five-yards
scrum near our line, and just as the
“pigs” were packing down Sam, the
baker, came tearing down to the ground
yelling “Fire!” I was for abandoning
the scrum, but Fred generously offered to
go on until the next whistle, as he didn’t
want to deprive us of a possible break
up the field and a try.
After his half had scrambled over and
converted we rushed off. It was Sam’s
bakery alight. The co-operation of the
two brigades in the emergency was won-
derful. Without a second’s hesitation,
they started getting the knots out of the
hose while we mended the holes. We
saved one of Sam’s ovens. Fred said
afterwards it was splendid practice.
A month or so later we played a re-
turn match at Muckabout. With no score
and two minutes for the final whistle, we
were storming their line when someone
yelled “Fire!” We looked, and saw
flames leaping from the pavilion. We co-
operated immediately and efficiently in
organising a bucket brigade. Later as we
stood among the charred timbers, I ex-
pressed to Fred my puzzlement as to the
cause of the fire and my regret at the loss.
“Oh, that’s all right,” he said magnani-
mously, “Return match, return fire. You
were decent enough to put on a show for
us. The least we could do was to give
you blokes some practice here! ”
That’s what you call co-operation.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Hypnotic Phrases
New York “Times” has countered the
dictum about the folly of waging war
with too little too late by pointing out
that it might be much worse to arrive
on a battlefield with too little too soon.
But this was only one case. There are
others: Time is on our side ; we have
no quarrel with the German people;
totalitarianism can’t withstand the shock
of war : Germany hasn’t the oil to sus-
tain a full-scale mechanised attack ; Ger-
many can never train enough submarine
crews to worry us ; Japan will be a push-
over with her top-heavy ships, myopic
airmen and bogged-down army ; experi-
enced officers are a handicap in a modern
army..
Those phrases have blown themselves
out. Due for a show-down is the fre-
quent smug assertion that we repair our
shortcomings by frank and open discus-
sion. What does actually happen when-
ever some weakness is revealed? For a
week or so the air is thick with accusa-
tion and recrimination. Then someone
remarks how superior we are because we
face up to our shortcomings in open
debate, and we all pat ourselves on the
back and subside, complacently blind to
the fact that the spate of words has only
stirred up some mud, not cleared up any-
thing.—Roy Biv (S.A.).
One Army
The U.S. Defence Service Medal is
about to be issued to all Americans
who entered upon a period of active
Federal service of 12 months or longer and
served at any time between Sept. 8, 1939,
and Dec. 7, 1941, inclusive. Bronze stars
will be awarded for wear on the ribbons
of these medals in cases where men were
exposed to hostile attacks.
Would it not be all to the good if our
own Government were to issue a similar
medal for wear by Australian troops
under similar conditions? Then let all
wear “Australia” badges, abolish the
extra sleeve millinery for service in'
Middle East, do away with everything
which now divides our army into four
distinct organisations (“NX” nurhbers,
“N” numbers, militia and V.D.C.), band
the whole lot into one body, and gst the
necessary legislation passed to usd this
army wherever it may be required.—
Solidus (Home Forces, N.S.W.).
Maoriiand’s Effort
Maoriland’s engineering industry, which
was turning out locomotives and steam-
ships 60 years ago, is pulling its weight in
the Dominion’s war effort—mostly under
a thick veil of secrecy. A corner of the
veil was lifted by Supply Minister Dan
Sullivan lately when he told a public
meeting that various sea-going craft were
constructed in Dominion shipyards, in-
cluding composite minesweepers, 110 ft.
patrol ships of the Fairmile type and 72ft.
motor-launches for harbor defence.
Engines for the minesweepers, as well
as hulls, are made in M.L.; the motor-
boats are “more or less assembly jobs,”
but are being turned out in numbers
which, the Minister .reckoned, would sur-
prise his hearers if he were to give the
figures. “Splendid help” from Australia
and the U.K. in the way of steel and
other materials was acknowledged.
Maoriland factories are also busy on gun-
carrying vehicles —a capacity of 260 a
month is aimed at and nearly in sight.
On this job welding replaced riveting
months ago. And that isn’t half what
M.L. engineers are doing. The rest is
still “hush hush.” — Avon (M.L.).
Politicians and Fighting Men
The volume of speeches, radio chats,
conferences, missions and quasi-military
political appointments in this war has
been out of all proportion to successful
military action. A war in which all the
politicians are marvellous and nearly all
the generals are unlucky has something
wrong with it from the soldier’s point
of view.
Campaigns that fail might conceivably
fail because of the glorification of the
politician above the fighting man. Mili-
tary enthusiasm needs encouragement. At
the height of British military glory the
people of England figured on the walls of
their homes and carried in their hearts
the pictures of their sailor and soldier
heroes. The strident voice of the poli-
tician is a sorry substitute. —J. W. R.
(T:.s.).
The contributor placed first is paid
4|cL per line; all others per line.
Jockeys, Pugs and the War
I agree with one of your pabagraphists
that it is very nice for jockeys who are
in camp to be stationed close to Sydney
so that they can ride in the races on
Saturday. We hqve the same thing in
Brisbane. Jockeys exercise their mounts
in the mornings and ride in races on
Saturday afternoons. Some lads are
hardly in camp before they are whisked
off to distant places ; but then they are
not jockeys.
Another privileged class is profes-
sional boxers. Most of those who
appear in Brisbane have never seen a
camp, and those who have are stationed
close enough to the city to be able to
take part in contests at the Stadium on
Friday night. Perhaps theirs is an essen-
tial industry.
Again, there is supposed to be a prior-
ity travel regulation. Apparently it
operates for the benefit of professional
boxers, for they seem to be able to travel
to Brisbane and other capital cities at
will. —W. Graham (Q.).
Army Education
Have its critics ever tried to give in-
struction to the troops without the aid
of Army Education Service? I have.
First, I tried in vain to get men on H.Q.
staffs interested in my idea that all com-
batant units should be instructed in bush-
craft. At the end of several months 1
“Is this where We apply for an ammunition permit ?”
had got nowhere. Then I wrote direct
to camp C.Os. In every case 1 received
a prompt invitation to come along at
my earliest convenience, and upon arrival
I was given every facility to address the
men and give demonstrations. But 1 had
to do it all in my own time and at my
own expense, and there is a limit to
what my pocket can stand.
This state of affairs was ended when
A.E.S. roped me in. I now do the job
in style. First comes a talk outlining the
general principles, illustrated by an excel-
lent color film. Next, selected volunteers
go off with me to some scrub and salt-
lake country, where we live under active-
service conditions and where I give prac-
tical demonstrations, following which
every individual man has to do it all for
himself.
The A.E.S. may be a flop in other
States, but not in S.A., where I am but
one of several men doing this sort of
job. My only complaint is that we can’t
fit in the time to do more of it. — Boga-
duck (S.A.).
Puzzle
I’ve heard the cry of the economist
calling to its mate, and while they are on
the prqwl I should like some advice.
In peace-time, normal production plus
normal consumption supposedly provides
us with a state of affairs wherein goods
and services, national exports, etc., create
“wealth” —the more of all these, particu-
larly primary-products-p/wA-exports, the
more wealth. This makes sense to the
average man, who knows from his own
experience that, given the work, the more
he works the more he earns.
We are told that the only true national
“wealth” is represented by what the
country can supply in the shape of commo-
dities labelled wheat, wool, gold or what-
have-you. It should follow then that the
more active and numerous the various
avenues of production are the More
“money” there will be for all. That this
only occurs in very exceptional circum-
stances indeed—if at all —is explained by
all sorts of complicated theories, and
even by graphs, from which the average
man recoils, baffled. However, he does
realise, vaguely, that there still may be
something in it.
But in war-time a great number of the
“normal” items of production and con-
sumption disappear. Instead, completely
unreproductive activities get going full
blast—tanks, guns, ’planes, shells, etc.,
which cannot “produce wealth.” But,
despite the fact that the activities which
we have been led to believe actually do
create wealth have been thinned out to
vanishing point, the astounding fact re-
mains that there is more money than
ever there was.
Until someone explains otherwise, it
seems to me that our present world system
really depends upon wars to keep it
going. During peace-time, production
gradually increases, catching up con-
sumption and leaving it behind until a
period of dangerous stagnation looms
around the corner. A war certainly fixes
that.—R.H.G. (W.A.
The Vegetable Front
In a recent issue “Bumpkin com-
plained that the Government’s appeal to
people to grow vegetables seemed to have
received scant attention.
About the same day as that appeared
in print my sister realised the magnifi-
cent price of one penny per head for
cabbages averaging about 101 b. each on
the Brisbane market. About the same
time, too, a grower sent pumpkins to
Townsville ; he netted, after paying rail-
way freight and 10 p.c. commission.
Is. 3d. per bag, out of which he had to
pay for his bags, twine and cartage to
station.
Except potatoes (and seed is unprocur-
able locally) nothing in the vegetable line
is worth producing to those who seek to
make a living out of it. What’s wrong?
—P. T. Magee (Q.).
A Source of Brass
Brass is urgently needed for various
war purposes. I suggest that municipal
bodies and church committees take stock
of their monumental brasses. Permission
of interested families must be sought for
the donation of memorial plates, but sub-
stitution in some convenient form in hap-
pier times might be arranged.— Brasstax
(Vic.).
The Demon . . . >
Touching that alleged testimony in
favor of rum (B. 12 /8 / ’42), let me quote
the official army viewpoint:
Alcohol is a luxury, not a necessity. Up
to Uoz. a day can be used in the body as
a food, but in larger quantities it acts as
a poison. Although popularly classed as a
stimulant, its action is that of a “para-
lysant,” and it dulls the wits and reduces
the speed and precision of skilled move-
ments.
This is taken from Handbook of Mili-
tary Hygiene (1941), issued by the War
Office, and modified for Australia. Rum,
the Handbook says, should be issued
only on the recommendation of a medi-
cal officer: “If cocoa is available it is
definitely of more value than rum.” —
Hot Tea (N.S.W.).
An Australian Reading Public
The question is, how to get it? A
recent writer wants to reverse the whole
experience of history. He wants the
public first, then the writers —“even if
30,000 people out of the country’s six
million were to buy a particular book,
the author would secure a worth-while re-
turn and the publisher a substantial
profit.” No doubt they would, but how
are they going to do it? Nobody wanted
ideas in the theatre until Shaw starlet!
to write intellectual drama, but in the
course of his lifetime he has succeeded
in focusing millions of people the world
over on the thing on which he himself
happened to be focused. It always goes
that way. Everything comes from the in-
dividual, not from the many.
That writer would laugh if somebody
told him that The Bulletin was created
by Traill, Archibald and Macleod writing
to the Sydney “Morning Herald” com-
plaining that the Australian writer lacked
opportunity to flourish and what was
needed before they started a decent paper
was a reading public. Everybody knows
the way The Bulletin was started, and
it certainly wasn’t in that way. Its public
didn’t make it—it made its public.—
Lord Luvus (Vic.).
Ingenious
A wrinkle from Canada. A munitions
plant makes brass cartridges for heavy
guns. The size and shape of each car-
tridge left a certain space in packing,
it was found that the space would hold
two corrugated sleeves, each holding a
can of powdered milk the equivalent of
a quart of the wet stuff. Now that plant
packs two cans of powdered milk with
every cartridge that goes to Britain.
Since no extra shipping space is re-
quired, the powdered milk goes free of
cost and is unpacked at British shell-filling
plants and handed over to milk-distribut-
ing organisations. This one plant sends
2000 quarts a month, the powdered milk
being bought from a fund built up by
management and employees. Can’t we
do something of the kind?—C. (N.S.W.).
Victorian School-leaving Age
The Victorian Teachers’ Union for 40
years has fought to raise the school-
having age to at least 15. Four Directors,
commencing with Frank Tate, have con-
tinually stressed the need. A Lawson
Ministry prepared a bill, but interests ex-
ploiting child labor caused its withdrawal.
The union can now plead that in Ger-
many the age is 18; S. Africa recently
raised it to 16 ; six of the United States
have 18 and 11 have 17.
In Australia, N.S.W. and Tas. have
already given a lead. England in 1936
fixed ’39 for an extension of school life ;
but the war dislocated things. The Presi-
dent of the Board of Education, however,
recently assured a conference of teachers,
“When the time comes, I shall go as far
as I possibly can in raising the age, and
.1 shall do my best to remove all impedi-
ments to raise it eventually to 16.”
Raising the age one year in Victoria
would mean 20,000 more children in the
school desks. The union wants the Gov-
ernment to fix a date two or three years
ahead, and in the meantime to prepare
for the reorganisation of the whole sys-
tem of secondary so that the
extra year shall be made of lifelong im-
portance to the child. Surely not too
much to ask, when there is so much
public talk of preparing for “the brave
new world”!
Anyway, isn't it high time for the
Federal (government to take on the re-
sponsibility for education, instead of its
being left to six warring States, which
have been weighed in the balance and
found wanting?— B. T. Pearse (Vic,),
Tenancy Troubles
“Wart” (B. 12/8/’42) apparently has
not paid as much attention to the
National Security (Landlord and Tenant)
Regulations as he paid to his investments.
Firstly, he states that he is prohibited
from increasing the rents which he so
generously reduced. This is not correct,
for if the rents are less than the fan-
rental values of the properties, as deter-
mined by law, he has only to apply to a
Fair Rents Board (at no cost) to have
the rents increased to the maximum
allowed by law.
Secondly, he states that a munition
worker can refuse to pay his rent and
knock the place about, and not be ejected.
Fie, O “Wart”! Even a cursory glance
at the regulations should make it clear
that munition workers (and soldiers, etc.)
receive the benefit of the law in this in-
stance only when the rent is not more than
28 days in arrear and when they have
taken reasonable care of the premises.
A tenant who does not pay his rent, or
who fails to take reasonable care of the
premises, or who has committed waste, or
who has used the premises for illegal or
immoral purposes, or who has annoyed
the neighbors does not receive any pro-
tection whatever from the regulation.
And if the rent is in arrear without being
more than 28 days in arrear the tenant
can always be sued for what is owing.
So cheer up, “Wart!” Apply to the
Fair Rents Board and get the proper rent
fixed, and then take in the munition
workers as tenants. They earn good
money, and wages can always be garni-
sheed.— Macßopus (N.S.W.).


Qmottls
ff
Dear Sirs:
My grocer cannot supply some of my favourite
biscuits. Have you stopped making them?
Dear Sir or Madam:
Our factories are working at full capacity.
Arnott’s Biscuits are "On Service" on every
Australian battle front. We have removed many
lines from our lists to enable us to fulfil war
orders, and we look forward to that happy day
when supplies will onpe again be ample.
Grocers everywhere are assisting us to fairly
distribute our available supplies and avoid
disappointment to our many friends.
Lend to Doi*att
FAMOUS
m
BISQU IS
PLEASE RETURN ALL EMPTY TINS TO YOUR GROCER AS SOON AS POSSIBLE
