

PAR A
r A.lv/1
j40hi c Mhe -cf ,; iafi£ meUmme^mid.Ixxiq/iiet
The Bulletin
'The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3238.
Wednesday, March 4, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
NORWICH CATHEDRAL.
COR geographical and other reasons
A that section of England referred to as
East-Anglia, embracing the counties of
Cambridgeshire, Essex, Norfolk and
Suffolk, received particular attention
from the Luftwaffe during the Nazi-
created world-war. It is comparatively a
large section of country, so results of
enemy aerial bombing activities were not
equally distributed, again for reasons the
Germans considered adequate. This was
fortunate, at least up to the end of 1941,
for East-Anglia contains within itself
some of the most splendid ecclesiastical
and educational edifices in the Old Land.
All are aware East-Anglia was one of the
Saxon Kingdoms into which England was
divided, so on the purely historic side
Britishers must hold it in high regard.
Norwich possesses three great points of
interest—its Cathedral, its Castle and its
Hall. A fourth might be added —the
world’s largest fire insurance business;
and even a fifth, one of the best muni-
cipal air ports in England. Its chief glory
is its beautiful cathedral, in which the
greater portion of the historical interest
and importance of the town is centered.
Founded in 1096 by Bishop Herbert de
Losinga, it is one of the most exquisite
examples of Norman architecture Eng-
land has to offer. A salient feature in
connection with this great centre of
worship is its resemblance to the
Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris. The
tower and spire constitute the most im-
portant features of the exterior, the
former, with the exception of Salisbury,
being the highest in the Kingdom. The
cloisters are noteworthy for their great
size and beauty. The west front, nave
and aisles were altered in the Perpen-
dicular period, and to this latter style
belong also the magnificent vault, with
bosses representing scenes in Scripture
history, the clerestory and vault of the
presbytery, the choir-stalls. The cathedral
is 407 feet long and 72 feet broad, the
length of the transept being 178 feet.
The united height of the Norman Tower
and Decorated Spire is 315 feet. Near
the western door of the cathedral is the
Free Grammar School, notable as having
educated our great naval hero, Nelson,


“Slory Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’’
M;/ Name,
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
Aldous the Unannihilatable.
Aldous Huxley is all his new self in
Grey Eminence (Chatto and Windus;
Angus and Robertson), a biography of
the Father Joseph who was Cardinal
Richelieu’s friend, adviser and abettor
in the tortuous intrigues that caused and
prolonged the Thirty Years’ War.
“Society can never be greatly im-
proved,” he says, “until such time as
most of its members become theocentric
saints.”
In the prose, it’s to be observed, there’s
just a touch of the old Adam, or the old
Aldous, for Huxley always loved a poly-
syllable, particularly if it was so rare a
jawbreaker that the average reader would
be unable to translate it into English
without a dictionary. Wasn’t it Willie
Weaver in Point Counter Point who was
always fishing up from the deeps of the
language monstrosities such as “batra-
chian” and “trinitrotoluene”?
And in spirit, too, there’s a faint
reminiscence of the Huxley that was.
Surely there was a pale, weary smile, the
ghost of the old polished cynicism, when
he wrote that sentence about “theocen-
tric saints”? Surely a revival of the old
wicked desire to astonish the bourgeois?
But these, and the recording of a few
irresistible naughtinesses, debaucheries,
cruelties, indignities of the body, para-
doxes and oddities —Cardinal Richelieu’s
ailments or Father Joseph’s habit of
practising his mysticism standing on one
leg—are only rare and momentary back-
slidings. Essentially, Huxley is interested
not in the color or drama of the period,
but in the moral problem of a mystic who
turned to power politics. Even the jaw-
breakers are intended to be respectable ;
not the rumble of pleasant syllables in
Willie Weaver’s abdominal mind, but a
pseudo-scientific jargon to give weight to
Huxley’s theology: “theocentric” ; “one-
pointedness” ; “unannihilatable.”
In his youth, says Huxley, Father
Joseph was a true mystic as well as a
devout Christian. When he first began
to dabble in politics, his ambition was
to organise a last Crusade against the
Turks. Before the end of his life he was
trying to make an alliance with the Turks
against Catholic nations in Europe. He
believed that the advancement of the
Catholic Church was the will of God ; to
a Frenchman, naturally, it seemed that
the Church could best be advanced by a
Catholic French hegemony over Europe ;
consequently anything he and Richelieu
did to further the interests of the Bour-
bons was directly serving God.
Huxley’s account of the Turkish somer-
sault is a good example of the intrigues
that made up Father Joseph’s life:
This convinced crusader was now trying,
through the Prince of Transylvania, to
negotiate an agreement with the Turks, who
were to be subsidised to attack the Austrian
Hapsburgs by land and the Spanish Haps-
burgs with galleys and a military expedition
across the Mediterranean. To himself and
other scrupulous Catholics Father Joseph
justified his scheme by arguments similar to
those he had used in defence of the Protes-
tant alliances. A small dose of Turks, he
claimed, would prove an antidote, not
merely to Hapsburg power, but also (sur-
prisingly enough) to the power of Turkey.
How did Father Joseph expect to achieve
this feat of political homoeopathy? The
answer is best given in the words used by
Louis XIII in a statement to his confessor,
Father Gaussin. “I should like the Turk
to be in Madrid,” said the King, expound-
ing in abbreviated form the ingenious pro-
jects of his Minister, “so as to force the
Spaniards to make peace with me; and
afterwards 1 would join the Spaniards to
x make war on the Turk.”
Dubious intrigues such as this, and the
spectacle of the human misery caused by
his and Richelieu’s policy of prolonging
the Thirty Years’ War, weighed heavily
upon Father Joseph’s conscience, says
Huxley. To free himself for the religious
works he still carried on, and for the
practice of mystical contemplation, he
had a technique of “annihilation,”
whereby his political machinations were
to be forgotten. But the world, of
course —such a world as Father Joseph’s
—was “unannihilatable” ; hated by the
people, he died in guilt and misery, mut-
tering over and over again the three
words “Render an account.”
The historical value of Grey Eminence
is considerably limited by the deliberate
narrowness of Huxley’s theme, the bio-
graphical value by his horrified refusal
to allow psycho-analysis to enter at all
into the discussion of a character who,
believing that women were “wild beasts,”
is almost a classic case for the Freudians.
But, within those limits, it is a fine piece
of work. It achieves its object of demon-
strating tha( a mystic can’t dabble in
politics and remain untainted.
Philosophically, it leaves unanswered
the eternal objection to Huxley’s “non-
attached” position: that the “theocentric
saint,” practising his solitary mysticism,
is very likely to get knocked on the head
in this wicked world ; that very few Eng-
lishmen, even if they did choose to be-
come theocentric saints, would have the
opportunity at this present time of ren-
dering thanks, as Huxley does at the end
of Grey Eminence, to the librarian at
an American university; and that any
nation which chose to become theocentri-
cally saintly would simply deliver itself
up to the barbarians.
His restatement of the ancient truth
that the world will never be beautiful
until everybody thinks beautiful thoughts
is of some value as a counterblast to the
political perfectionists of the Left or of
the Right; but the implication that all
political and military action is therefore
useless is a fat lot oL good to a nation
with Hitler or the Japs on the doorstep.
From the purely literary point of view,
it’s a great pity that Huxley finds his
one-pointedness unannihilatable. When
he attacks “the false, ersatz, nature-mys-
ticism of Wordsworth” or scolds Mat-
thew Arnold for choosing the “mild and
respectable road of literary modernism”
instead of a “one-pointedness... .to
which there is no practical solution except
through some system of spiritual exer-
cises,” he is attempting to destroy litera-
ture at its roots. The complete theo-
centric saint, standing on one leg through
the dark of the night, or sitting detached
on his pole while the bombs fell, would
write no books. The writing of even a
Grey Eminence is, from tfie mystical
viewpoint, slightly impure.
A. P. Herbert's Balloons.
If everything else in A. P. Herbert’s
Let Us Be Glum (Methuen) were the
dullest doggerel that ever howled in print
—which it isn’t —the little vol. of war
verses would still have been worth pub-
lishing for the one glorious item “Lady
into Balloon.” The order went forth in
England that there were to be no more
silk stockings as the material was wanted
for the balloon barrage. Sang A.P.H.:
No more may Man uplift his horrid heart,
Or give his sense of form a private treat,
With shiny shins that dazzle and depart,
Or colored calves that twinkle down the street.
This is but one more sacrifice* to face;
And, here and there, the ban may be a boon.
Dear Laura’s legs (to take a single case)
Were always rather like a large balloon.
And many a sentinel, remote and cold,
Who longs to see his home again, but can’t,
Will look aloft and, comforted, behold
The lower limbs of some beloved aunt.
While others, poised on matrimony’s brink,
Will seek a sign from he'aven and be bold;
Will see the plump but pleasing shapes and
think
“Thus will my Mary be when she is old.”
As for my Ann, she must not knit that brow,
Though she will walk in cotton things that
chafe;
She won’t be much less dangerous than now,
And England, I suppose, will be more safe.
That is Herbert at his best; and his
best is pretty well as good as light verse
can be. He’s right at the top of his form
again in a verse about the intolerableness
of other people’s bombs:
When I am not escaping from
The blast of some gigantic bomb,
It seems I have to listen to
A list of things that threatened you.
And it is odd how full of fun
And interest I find the one.
But what intolerable bores
Are almost any bombs of yours.
I wish that I could make you see
The kind of thing that just missed me
Well, this thing whistled through my hair
And quite destroyed St. Peter’s Square.
It passed, I say, it passed my brow
As close as you are sitting now.
And Numbers One to Seventeen
Might just as well have never been.
I had, you know, a mole upon
My forehead. Well, the mole has gone.
And Mrs. Foster’s garden gate
There are no technical fireworks in
either of the verses quoted, but he turns
on a pretty display in the “Ode to an
Egg,” inspired by a waiter on a train
offering him an, egg for breakfast, and
finishing with the sublime couplet:
Young man, 1 am so moved by what I say,
I think 1 will not have an egg today.
If there’s any complaint to be made
against the book, it is that Herbert, find-
ing—as most of the humorists and car-
toonists in this war have found —that
German warfare isn’t funny, too often
dodges the problem of satirising Hitler
by taking it out on Musso. Still, he does
have a shot at Hitler from time to time,
and it’s not his fault that Musso happens
to be about the only thing in this war
that is really funny. With the exception,
that is, of Laura’s legs.
Art of the Dowser.
Radial Detection: A Guide to the Use of
the Radial Detector, Miscalled the Divining
Rod, by A. A. Cook (Angus and Robertson).
Mr. Cook justly observes: “The
scoffers, generally speaking, have no
knowledge of the subject, or the natural
laws that bear on it.” And not only the
scoffers, generally speaking. There are
those, without a scoff in them, who
only stand and gape, regarding the whole
business as high magic, no more to be
questioned or understood than Pros-
pero’s.
These might gape harder still on read-
ing Mr. Cook’s treatise. It isn’t just a
matter of some mysteriously gifted chap
being able to walk blindfold over a piece
of country and know through the re-
actions of a stick held in his hands
whether or not he’s over the catchment
area. It borders on a science, Mr. Cook
has “reached the stage where I recognise
its unlimited scope and possibilities.”
For correct work, Mr. Cook finds,
“one’s body must be sound and free from
any body scars, as well as from any
article or color whose radiation would
cause any influence counter to the one
sought.” If there are defects they can
be corrected:
A connection, to correct the wrong results
caused by an old wound, has to be made
between the sound nerves on each side of
a scar, as well as over a blind left eye. A
blind right eye does not seem to make any
difference. A piece of twine, a cotton or
linen cloth, makes a good connection for
carrying the ray or wave. To correct the
disadvantage of a blind left eye, connect a
piece of twine or cloth across the top of
the head to the neck on each side. An
easy way is to put a linen handkerchief
under the hat, and see that it connects with
each ear.
A normal operator, says Mr. Cook,
can find fresh streams only; some others
“get” any sort of stream they pass over.
“In some cases to define the fresh ones
from the salt, the operator puts copper
in his mouth.” Apropos of this, the
following picture of the dowser-author
scientifically at work:
I found that the man who put copper in
his mouth had a front tooth filled with
gold, a large blue-and-red tattoo on each
forearm, and the additional handicap of a
scar, from an old wound, at the back of
his left ear. When I put gold in my mouth,
rub blue and red pencil into the skin of
both forearms, and put a strip of sticking
plaster across the nerves at the back of my
left ear, I also find all streams and have
to define the fresh ones by putting copper
in my mouth.
Blonde or brunette makes a difference,
and there are other mysterious aspects of
the art. Mr. Cook has been told by a
diviner, “who knows an operator who
tried the experiment,” that the detector
won’t get on with the job during a total
eclipse of the sun. “I have not been
able, so far, to verify this myself, but
consider it would be correct.” Also,
“When one rolls up one sleeve, the de-
tector will not work ; but roll them both
up and it goes on as usual.” Since Mr.
Cook is convinced that it’s all “caused
by some natural power, with nothing
magical about it,” there would seem to
be no scientific significance in the fact
that Prospero worked with sleeves down
to the wrist, as also did Long Tack Sam.
S. H. PRIOR PRIZE
For reasons already stated, there
will be no competition inviting sub-
mitting of MSS. for the duration of
the war at least.
The Prize this year (£100) will
be awarded to the author or authors
of the book which the trustees con-
sider the most valuable contribution
to Australian literature published in
Australia between June 6, 1941, and
June 6, 1942. (“Australia” and
"Australian” for the purposes of this
award include New Zealand.)
No work that has already won a
monetary prize will be eligible.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
It’s an old lie that the Australian
public, in music, stage shows or talkies,
won’t \take the best. “The Man Who
Came to Dinner” is the best comedy the
Minerva’s ever had, and it has played to
packed houses night after night for weeks.
What the public won’t take—and with
reason —is anything arty or highbrow,
But there’s no need for anyone to sing
’em muck, as the Royal did with
“Thumbs Up.”
/
Experimenting for the 1942 season
with the best in plays, the A.B.C. has
started a series of Sunday night Shaw
plays and a once-a-month series of verse
plays. Eliot’s “Murder in the Cathedral”
is next on the list. Because Eliot tried to
revive the Greek chorus, which is too far
from realism to appeal to anybody
accustomed to the Elizabethan tradition,
“Murder in the Cathedral” could never
be a popular stage piece. But the unreal-
ism of choruses isn’t seen in radio pro-
duction ; what’s a defect on the stage can
be an advantage in a medium that de-
pends entirely on the weight and power
of the spoken word.
Milton wrote “Samson Agonistes” as a
counterblast to what he thought was the
vulgarity of the realistic Elizabethan
drama of character and said expressly
and with emphasis that the piece was not
intended to be performed. In spite of
himself, he created a magnificent charac-
ter in Samson, and the play, ideally con-
structed for radio representation, is sur-
prisingly lively on the air, as well as in-
tensely moving. The A.B.C. has done it
once already without being noticeably
haunted by the outraged author and will
perform it again in the series.
Also included on the list are Louis
McNeice’s vigorous translation of the
“Agamemnon” of /Eschylus, Yeats s
“Shadowy Waters,” and a revival of
“The Fire on the Snow.”
The A.B.C. is offering £lOO in prize-
money for Australian plays—£so for a
verse play and bonuses totalling £5O for
the best plays by Australians or New Zea-
landers bought in the ordinary way up
to June 30. The verse play competition
closes on September 30. There’s also £25
offered to playwrights by W.A. Drama
Festivals: details from the hon. sec., A.
J. Bishop, Second Floor, City Mutual
Buildings, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Entries close April 15.
National emergency has denuded Vic-
torian National Gallery of most of its
art treasures, so it was a good idea of
Keeper of the Prints Daryl Lindsay to
unearth a fresh collection of reproduc-
tions, replaceable if damaged and just as
instructive as the original paintings. They
comprise some excellent Cezannes,
Gauguins and Renoirs and some glowing
landscapes by Van Gogh. How on earth
did Australian “modernists” who worship
Van Gogh as if he were a god get it into
their heads that he was not trying to
paint Nature? Cezanne, too. How did
they get the notion from these unaffected
paintings that Cezanne was the high
priest of distortion? Behind all these
pictures is suggested a lifetime spent m
acquiring knowledge of Nature.
Schubert was an unsuccessful lover
who solaced himself with music, but there
is no evidence that he was a simpleton
who allowed his friend to do his wooing
for him. However, if John Fullards
notion of Schubert is suburban in the
presentation at His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
there is nothing suburban about his sing-
ing. As the traditional gone-at-the-knees
Schubert, complete with brown wig,
goggles and gollywog complexion, he is a.
pain in the neck, but when he opens his
mouth all is forgiven. The same may be
said of those roistering Bohemians Vin-
cent McMurray, Maxwell Oldaker and
Robert Healey.
New talkies include yet another serving
of Stevenson’s long-short story of Dt.
Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Seen at Sydney
St. James it’s a far better picture
on all-round grounds than most, and,
with Spencer Tracy doing the mam job,
it’s also a cut above previous servings ot
the doc. who not only offended late-Vic-
torian susceptibilities at large by tam-
pering with the soul” but unpardonably
offended Stevenson’s susceptibilities also.
The talkie people rightly dwelling on the
psychological rather than the physical
content of the story, the film amounts
to a decent sort of sermon. Ingrid Berg-
man’s natural acting helps to make it
also the most striking of recent screen-
ings.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every ac I
The Newest Styles
The Best Values . .
“THE SENIOR STORE’
. . The Biggest Varieties . . .
FOR THE WINTER
I
m
>s
S m:
ssA
:
H
\
Styled for Ease and Comfort
Suits to Measure from £6'6'-
Smartly tailored Clothes at a reasonable price are
becoming scarce. We have been fortunate in
having stocks to carry on, and you are advised to
place your order now, as these offers cannot be
repeated. Our expert staff of cutters give your
order their personal attention. Country and Inter-
state orders are handled by our special staff, and
your order receives the same care and attention
as if you shopped personally. Samples, tape, and
self-measure forms sent on request. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price .. • £6/6/- to £l4/14/-
Navy Gabardine £0 10-
Double-breasted Navy Gabar-
dine Overcoats, all Wool, best
quality cloth, specially proofed,
Raglan sleeves, all round belt,
vent back, vertical welt pockets,
accessibe to suit pockets, tartan
check linings, also
proofed. At Anthony Horderns .
Price £6/10/-
Oilskin Coats, 45'-
Oilskin Coats, guaranteed for 12
months, heavy v/eight cloth,
fully lined, cape shoulders,
double armpiece, storm fronts,
windproof cuffs, leather-bound
edges. Lengths, 48in. to 58in. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, 45/-
Sou'-Wester Hats. At Anthony
Horderns'. Prices, 3/11 and 4/11
• Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street.
Anthony Horderns'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
English "Dexter". filO'lO'-
English Raincoats by "Dexter,
Woollen Gabardines in Fawns
Mole, and Grey, check lined, Rag-
lan sleeves, step lapel, fly front,
vent back. These coats give years
of service and are always in
demand. At Anthony Horderns .
Price £lO/10/-


DALEY’S COW
By J. C. SHELLEY
ALL the long after-
no o n the old
man and the boy
were busy in the
lucerne patch. The old
man drove round the slowly diminishing
square behind old Blossom, watching the
horse, the chattering knife out to the side,
the falling of the heavy green growth
over the knife. Further out the boy was
raking up the cut crop.
Perched high on the spindly seat of the
rake he watched the lucerne roll up in the
tynes of the rake ; then when they were
full he would stamp on the little pedal
at his foot, the tynes would rise up, leav-
ing their load in line, and drop down to
rake up another load. The stifling, hot
afternoon was full with the cloying scent
of new-mown lucerne, the smell of it,
mingling on the hot air, making the cows
moan where they milled on the fence.
The lucerne paddock was a vivid green
patch in all that wilderness of stricken,
drought-scorched land that came down
on both sides of the river, crept in along
the lanes or through property where the
owner wasn’t able to secure water in his
bit of river frontage.
The farms that clung along the banks
and kept the encroaching drought at bay
did so by the brawn on their owners’
arms, their willingness to toil for hours
putting down wells in the sand in the
river bottom.
Back from those little green patches
along the river banks the land was almost
barren of grass, the topsoil loose and
dusty under the ceaseless movement of
the herds that clung all day long along
the lucerne paddock fences and the water
troughs, walked patiently and slowly to
the bails at milking time and back again
as soon as they could, for there was no-
where else for them to feed.
All along the fences round the lucerne
paddocks the topsoil was continually be-
ing trodden loose, the winds gradually
blowing it away in dust, so that along the
fences there were now shallow drains
and the cattle, standing with their heads
to the fences, seemed lower in the front-
quarters,' their rumps in the air.
Here and there in the bed of the river
was a little surface water, some few big
holes, but mostly soaks, a few inches
deep at the best —muddy, stinking holes
foul with stagnation and cow-droppings.
Cattle came down, stayed around the
water till they were driven back by stock-
whip and dog or wandered down river
till they found an easy path up, usually
into someone else’s farm.
It was an endless job, the lucerne cut-
ting. No sooner was one section cut,
raked, carted away to the continually
dwindling stacks than the men had the
sprays coupled to the pumps sucking the
life-giving water from beneath the sand
in the river bed, jetting it into the air
over the new-cut section. There were
some who wondered how long the
ground of the lucerne patches would last
like that; others who wondered how
long the water would last beneath the
sand and others who had already thrown
in the towel and gone off to Newcastle
and munitions work. But they couldn’t
all do that.
A ROUND about mid-afternoon one of
-'"'the girls came down from the house
with a billy of tea. The old man and the
boy carried it over to a shady tree on the
river bank. Straight opposite where they
sat was a farm the size of their own,
pretty barren and forsaken now, for the
share-farmer who had worked it had
chucked it and gone off to Newcastle.
The owner, Daley, used it now to run
any dry cows that his own farm, a mile
up the river, couldn’t carry—beasts that
existed on God alone knew what and
that came to water as best they could
down the steep bank, usually finishing up
by mooching down the river bed to the
other herds, a nuisance to every dairy-
man on the river.
Of and on somebody complained to
Daley about it, but he’d fob them off
with the explanation that times were bad,
labor so hard to get that his own wife
and daughters had to turn to at the bails
and he was so busy himself he was worn
almost to the bone. If the cow or two he
had down there got amongst their herds
would they put the dogs on to them and
chase them back to the forsaken farm
just to do him a neighborly turn? That
sort of cry was typical of Daley.
A commotion from down the river
caught their attention. The dairyman
next to them had found one of Daley’s
old crocks amongst his herd; he was
bringing it home in front of a galloping
horse, the heavy whip raising raw welds
along its hide, the dog bringing blood
from its heels. The old beast, gaunt with
poverty, her rump bones and ribs stick-
ing out through her hide, reeled on,
crashed wildly through the wire fence
into Daley’s property. The horseman
cursed loudly, let her go, drew the
broken wires together as best he could
and rode off to round up his own herd.
For a time the old beast stood with
lowered head getting her wind back;
slimy mucus trembled from her mouth
and nostrils and her legs shook be-
neath her. Presently she was able to get
her head up and began to seek the water.
A couple of times she tried getting down
the steep bank, then drew back to try
somewhere else. Hugging the lip of the
bank she moved along till a rotten patch,
crumbly with dry weather and erosion,
broke outward under her weight and she
toppled down the bank to fetch up on her
side. Several times she attempted to rise,
but she lowed in pain at each attempt,
and gave it up in the end to lie with her
nose stretched out towards the water.
The old man and the boy went across,
and while the boy carried water in his
hat to her the old man ran experienced
hands over the beast. There were two
ribs broken. There was only one thing
anyone could do —cut the old beast’s
throat. The old man was sorely tempted
to do it then and there, but when dealing
with a man like Daley it was better to
be on the side of law than justice.
They got an old tub from the house,
left it, full of water, where the beast
could get at it, and left her an armful
of new-cut lucerne. That evening the
old man rang up Daley and told him all
about it.
It was obvious that Daley was going
to be worried about the beast, for that
was what he said right from the word
go. In between his worry he sandwiched
plenty more ; he beat around the bush
like a little boy wanting to claim owner-
ship of the ball in his neighbor’s garden
and yet not wanting to be held respon-
sible for the broken glass over the toma-
toes. But in the end he promised to be
over and have a look first thing in the
morning.
MIDDAY came and went, followed by
the long afternoon, and the old beast
lay in the river bed where the sand was
burning. The old man and the boy kept
the feed and water up to her, built a
rough lean-to out of boughs to break the
strength of the sun. Although the boy
said a lot, the old man said never a word
about the cow, though towards sunset his
mouth was grim and there was a rasp to
the edge of his voice.
He rang Daley again that evening.
Daley was as full of excuses as a star-
ling’s nest is full of droppings, and swore
he’d be over for sure in the morning.
But the next morning passed without
a sign of Daley, and at midday the old
man rang again. This time he didn’t wait
to hear what Daley had to say ; he simply
told Daley that he’d report him to the
police if he didn’t turn up within the
hour.
Daley came all right. The boy saw him
coming down the lane at a gallop as if he
was trying to beat Time to the boundary.
But the old man eyed Daley’s horse with
an appraising eye, saw that it was just
beginning to raise a sweat, saw the
couple of fresh blood beads where the
spurs had raked and he shut his mouth
tight. Daley’s horse had been forced to a
gallop only from the other side of the hill.
A lot of things burned on the tip of the
old man’s tongue, but he held his say for
a more opportune time.
Daley was a fidget. He never could
stand still for a minute, joggling his long
thin frame from one foot to another,
walking about like a dog with a grass
seed in its ear, never giving the other per-
son a chance to use his tongue. He had
a habit, too, of getting off his answers
before anyone asked. He left the old
man yards behind when they went down
to the river, so that by the time the old
man got to the bank Daley had been
down, inspected the beast and was back.
“Sorry to have inconvenienced you,
Smith. Regrettable accident. I’m so
busy too. Valuable animal. Have the
vet. out straightway. You’ve been very
good about it all, Smith. Very good in-
deed. There’s no need to worry any
more.”
The old man got a bit tongue-tied. He
always did get a bit tongue-tied when
anyone tried to thank him for a neigh-
borly act. “It ain’t been any bother.
Gripes, the young feller did all the work.
Wasn’t anything at all.”
“Very decent of you all the same.
Appreciate it. Smith. Fine neighborly
action, and I’ll do as much for you some
day. Well, now, you mustn’t worry any
more. I’ll have the vet. here as soon as
I get home,” and Daley was gone, his
horse at a gallop.
The old man stood and watched the
horse and rider disappear over the hill.
After a time he scratched his head
thoughtfully and went off towards the
bails as if pondering a weighty question.
'"THE long, hot afternoon went by and
A there was no sign of the vet. The
night passed and the next morning, and
still the old beast lay in the river sand.
She was still alive, better fed and watered
perhaps than for many a day, but she
was doomed, beginning to smell, and
she’d lain there too long for any vet. to
do any good with her now.
At sunset the old man rang Daley
again. Daley was flabbergasted. He was
so busy that the whole thing had slipped
completely out of his mind, but he’d see
to it first thing in the morning, he’d
But the old man slammed the receiver up,
took the killing knife from behind the
pantry door and marched off towards the
river in the crimson glow of the setting
sun.
As he climbed back to the top of the
bank he turned about to look down at
the dead beast, and presently a great and
welling wrath surged up in his breast,
choked in his throat as the meanness
behind Daley’s actions began to dawn
on him. Three days the old beast had
lain there in the river bed and Daley
hadn’t attempted to do a thing about it,
never meant to, knowing in his own mind
that somebody else would do the job for
him. And now the beast was killed, out
of her misery, she’d have to be burnt,
and if Daley didn’t do that pretty soon
then someone would have to do that also,
for the stench would be terrible, the con-
tamination of the river soaks vile.
The old man knew that he’d be
able to rake up enough wood from
here and there. He’d have done it
too, and maybe some of the other dairy-
men would give a hand, but at the present
moment he was past giving a neighborly
hand —to Daley, at any rate. He was
suddenly sick of Daley. By the suffer-
ing cats he’d been tricked for the last
time! He went stamping up the paddock
towards the house like an enraged old
bull whom the years have made docile
but yet in whom lies dormant the hate of
being taken for granted too often.
He whirled the handle of the ’phone
in the hallway so hard that the flimsy
wall shook, stood spread-legged breath-
ing heavily into the mouthpiece while
exchange got his number, fumed while
women at the other end flew about look-
ing for father.
He didn’t waste any time with Daley
when he came. “Look ’ere, Daley,” he
said, “I’ve cut that beast’s throat, and if
you ain’t over ’ere before noon tomorrow
to burn her I’ll report you to the police
and the health inspector!” and he
slammed the receiver on its hook.
Out on the verandah with the loose
boards squeaking beneath his heavy tread
he gradually calmed down, boiled up
again when he thought of what he should
have said to Daley, annoyed with him-
self and the mild way he’d told Daley off
when he should have blown the socks
off him. Still, all that was a fire to his
wrath, and he began to piece together
things he was going to tell that low-down
Daley.
DALEY and a couple of men arrived
with a truckload of wood after the
morning milking. The old man, busy up
in the chaffshed, heard the truck, stuck
his head out the door to make sure.
watched from the dim-
ness of the shed the
men unloaded the
truck and Daley drive
off again.
After dinner the old man took a stroll
down to the river just in case the two
men there wanted a hand or something.
For a couple of hours they stood about
talking in the shade of the tree, catching
a whiff of burning flesh at times
as the breeze veered about, going down
now and again to throw more wood on
the fiercely-burning carcass.
Before the afternoon milking Daley
came back. He and his men picked up
the bit of wood that was left over, loaded
it on the truck and drove away home.
From the cowbails the old man saw
them go. He remembered all that he
had intended to say to Daley and put it
aside. After all, talking didn’t get a man
anywhere.
Old Iron.
There are no instructions here for that dazzling
man.
So frail in front of the engine, who one fine
day
Will leap to the track and switch the points,
they say,
And save the time from disaster, set the great
wheels
Roaring at last on the true, the only way;
No more than a lump of iron for that man
to look at
As I am looking while the crabs scuttle and
hide
And the backs of the limpets dry as the sea-
weed has dried
To the stillness of stone, and the wrack cast
up by the sea
Rusts in the sun and awaits the returning tide.
One of those weathered and very mad old men
Who live alone in their humpies, outlaws alike
From the holiday crowds who snatch at the
waves and shriek
Like gulls at a meatworks, and whatever goal
or disaster
Or mere receding distance our time will strike,
One of those withered and very mad old men
Concerned with their own slow rusting in
natural leisure
Should be here with me, is here in my mind
to treasure
This twisted bit of a ship, this battered junk,
And stretch his hand to the iron with a cry of
pleasure,
Though nobody else, unless some wandering
boy.
Is likely to spare it a glance. If a dumb
yearning
Calls iron, after the hammering and the burn-
ing.
Back to its native earth, this has its wish;
Seabird and fish accept it as rock returning,
And as flesh and bone of the earth it takes
the sun
And glows with life, or receives the sea and
crumbles.
And now as always when the mind’s old mad-
man stumbles
On some such rock, and pauses, and fills with
light
At an apparition of Earth, his hand trembles
And stretches out to the simple touch of the
iron
As towards another hand, or to warm spring air,
Water or tree or stone, in a gesture of prayer
And sweet communion with things that accept
in peace
The rhythms of earth beyond our control or
care.
Lava on Egmont, shellrock at Mangamingi,
There were always sacred rocks and sacred
trees,
And beside the breakwater cutting the violent
seas
At far New Plymouth like a searchlight thrust
in a storm,
A gigantic rusty anchor took its ease;
And far away back into childhood at Opunake
Was a shaft of iron in a rock, so deeply thrust
No giant could shake it though spray had flaked
it with rust;
And no one could tell us why it was driven
there
By the old mysterious men, themselves now dust.
What shall we say, old madman, of this old
iron,
Meteorite on a lonely Australian reef
From the age’s whirling planet of hope and
grief?
Iron that stands like the earth’s accusing ghost
Id city buildings, iron that without relief
Roars on the rails of the world, both track and
engine
For the whole adventure and drive of the urgent
mind,
Lies calmly here, forgetting tormented mankind
In the older life of the earth where the simple
creatures
Obey their natures and the rock is dumb and
blind.
And likely enough, one of those mad old men
Will creep from his hole when the age has
crashed at last
And stare at the wreck of iron and mutter
aghast
“So the blind rush came to this; the earth
has gqt them.”
But the old man hides in a hole; we thunder
past.
Committed to high adventure, and what we have
seen
Who cannot see our far-off stopping place,
Of the life of the earth glowing or crumbling
in grace,
Is half a meeting in joy and half a good-bye,
Like seeing in the rain at night a woman’s face.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


THEIR MASTER’S VOICE.
“While I take constitutional responsibility for everything done or not done, I, of course, do not conduct this war from day to day. It is my practice
to leave the Chiefs of Staffs alone to work, subject to my general supervision, suggestion and guidance. —Mr. Churchill.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K, Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
"CO-ORDINATING" IT.
“For want of high-explosive shells, Brit-
ish soldiers died in heaps on Aubers
Ridge.” That appeared in the London
“Daily Mail” in May, 1915. It was true,
but from Whitehall and even Westmin-
ster came indignant protests that mention
of a fact so unpleasant was “not cricket.”
To the same objection, made by an Eng-
lish opponent after he had felt the impact
of a clenched fist in a scrum, an Aus-
tralian footballer retorted “Who’s play-
ing cricket?”
The “Daily Mail’s” answer was in the
same vein. Along with other Northcliffe
papers, it insisted that the army was try-
ing to fight a splendidly-equipped enemy
with Boer War methods, in particular
using shrapnel instead of H.E., and when
Mr. Asquith declared that there was no
H.E. shell shortage it attacked him
fiercely. It even tackled the nation’s idol
Lord Kitchener, and after that a copy of
the “Daily Mail” was solemnly burnt on
the floor of the Stock Exchange. But
the paper pegged away and, public
opinion becoming thoroughly aroused,
the Government was forced to set up a
Ministry of Munitions, charged with the
particular duty of producing high-
explosive shells in sufficient quantities.
Under the energetic administration of
Mr. Lloyd George, this was done.
Since it became evident that Malaya
and Singapore, militarily considered, were
dreadful repetitions of Norway, Greece
and Crete, with the loss of an immensely
productive region, a great naval port, a
fine army and British prestige in Asia
added, the “Daily Mail” has shown some
return to its 1915 form. But how
different the attitude of other journals, in
Britain and Australia alike!
In many newspaper offices in this
country it seems to be considered a crime
to criticise Mr. Churchill. Though its
own war correspondent has reported that
the campaign which ended in the surren-
der to Asiatics of the most numerous
British imperial army to which catastro-
phe ever came was a dark and bloody
blunder, brightened only by the bravery
of the outnumbered and ill-equipped fight-
ing men, Australia’s oldest and most re-
nowned morning paper had a fit of
Churchill-mania on the sixth day of the
Japanese conquest, letting loose a cataract
of nonsense about Mr, Churchill’s “wis-
dom and imagination,” his “greatness,”
his “bold and generous reconstruction” of
his Ministry, and “the genius and experi-
ence which fit him above all others to
hold the office of Minister of Defence.”
This when Mr. Forde was sadly announc-
ing that “there were 18,231 members of
the A.I.F. in Malaya at the end of
January,” and that “the chance that any
escaped from the island is slender”—
which meant that the Japanese had taken
nearly five times as many Australian
prisoners as were lost to the Germans in 31
months of fighting on the Western Front.
And the other Sydney morning
paper, which demanded the Churchill
touch in Australian leadership when
Malaya was as good as lost, let an Ameri-
can correspondent exhaust the thesaurus
in praise of Mr. Churchill 11 days after
the fall of Singapore. The opening slab
of sycophancy, which was carried into
two other issues, read; “If Churchill
brings his country victorious out of this
war he will, without a doubt, go down
as the greatest man in English history.”
Though the Australian Government
has sins of its own to answer for, sins of
commission and omission, it is free
from this insensate and dangerous
idolatry. It has repeatedly shown that it
has no confidence in Mr. Churchill as a
military dictator, and it has done what
it could to place the control of the war in
the Pacific in other hands. Though Mr.
Churchill agreed to set up a so-called
Pacific Council in London, “at no point
whatever does any representative of
this country meet any representative of
the United States in any council, com-
mittee or strategic body directly con-
cerned in controlling the war against
Japan or, for that matter, the war
against Germany or Italy.” The Minister
for External Affairs made this statement
to a presumably astonished House of
Representatives, and he went on to deliver
a powerful argument for the setting up of
“a true in ter-Allied body... .an authority
which can dispose of divergent, conflicting
or competitive claims or arguments,” after
consultation with the representatives of all
the Allies.
With the hearty concurrence of the
Australian Government, General Wavell
has been named Supreme Commander in
the south-west Pacific. But when the
general requires “guidance or direction
about the supply of reinforcements and
the like,” this is the procedure:
(a) He telegraphs his question to a Chiefs-
of-Staffs Committee in Washington, repre-
senting the U.S.A. and the U.K., and to
another in London, representing the U.K.
(b) Both in London and Washington the
telegrams are remitted to joint planning
staffs for examination.
(c) The joint planning staffs submit
reports to the C.-0.-S. Cs. in London and
Washington, and they proceed to resolve
any points of difference between them.
When this has been done, the British
C.-0.-S. C. submits a report to the Far
Eastern War Council in London.
(d) Any differences of view between the
members of the Far Eastern War Council
and the C.-0.-S. C. (U.K.) are argued out
in the F.E.W.C.
( e ) The agreed views of the F.E.W.C. are
telegraphed to the C.-0.-S. Cs. in Washing-
ton. If members of the F.E.W.C. differ,
the Prime Minister is to focus the diver-
gent views and to communicate with Wash-
ington.
( J ) If the C.-0.-S. Cs. in Washington
accept them, they are presented to the
President, who issues the necessary execu-
tive order.
( g ) If there is a difference of view be-
tween London and Washington, the Presi-
dent informs Mr. Churchill, who submits
the matter to the Pacific War Council.
(h) Then, presumably, the whole matter
returns to ( e ) and is thrashed out again.
Such is “the present co-ordinating
machinery,” and though Mr. Churchill
and “S. M. Herald” are delighted with
it “it would be idle to pretend,” Dr.
Evatt said, “that Australia regards it as
satisfactory.” He used the word “circum-
locution,” and he might have added that
the “co-ordinating machinery” seems a
perfect adaptation of the practice, if not
the principles, of the Circumlocution
Office.
No public business of any kind could
possibly be done at any time without the
acquiescence of the Circumlocution Office.
It was equally impossible to do the plainest
right and to undo the plainest wrong with-
out the express authority of the Circum-
locution Office. If another Gunpowder
Plot had been discovered half an hour
before the lighting of the match, nobody
would have been justified in saving the
Parliament until there had been half a
score of boards, half a bushel of minutes,
several sacks of official memoranda and a
family-vault full of ungrammatical corre-
spondence on the part of the Circumlocu-
tion Office.
“The statesman at the head of the Cir-
cumlocution Office” was “usually coached
or crammed by Mr. Tite Barnacle,” who,
“as a Barnacle,” had, of course, put other
Barnacles in the office. To an inquisitive
stranger, a young Barnacle gave an ex-
position of “the great study and object
of all public departments and professional
politicians. How Not To Do It.” It was
first necessary to “find out what depart-
ment” any particular transaction was “in”
—“ask till they tell you.”
Then you’ll memorialise that department
(according to regular forms, which you’ll
find out) for leave to memorialise this
department. If you get it (which you may
after a time) that memorial must be en-
tered in that department, sent to be regis-
tered in this department, sent back to be
signed by that department, sent back to be
countersigned by this department, and then
it will begin to be regularly before that
department. You’ll find out when the busi-
ness passes through each of these stages, by
asking at both departments till they tell you.
When the business is regularly before that
department, whatever it is, then you can
watch it from time to time through that
department. When it comes regularly be-
fore this department, then you must watch
it from time to time through this depart-
ment. We shall have to refer it right and
left; and when we refer it anywhere, then
you will have to look it up. When it comes
-back to us at any time, then you had better
look us up. When it sticks anywhere, you
will have to try to give it a jog. When
you write to another department about it,
and then to this department about it, and
don’t hear anything satisfactory about it,
why then you had better —keep on writing.
Try the thing and see how you like it. It
will be in your power to give it up at any
time if you don’t like it. You had better
take a lot of forms away with you. Give
him a lot of forms!
After this explanation of the mysteries
of the Circumlocution Office, the inquisi-
tive stranger was taken to Bleeding Heart
Yard. To Dickens, who wrote with the
insight and prescience of genius:
Bleeding Heart Yard was no inappro-
priate destination for a man who had Been
in official correspondence with my lords
and the Barnacles Britannia herself
might come to look for lodgings in Bleed-
ing Heart Yard, some ugly day or other, if
she overdid the Circumlocution Office.
Mr. Churchill has no such fear. He
has appointed a civil servant Secretary for
War. The new Minister, like the other
service Ministers, is not in the War Cabi-
net. The War Cabinet and the service
Ministers and the service chiefs will con-
tinue to be dominated by Mr. Churchill,
who, unlike Mr. Lloyd George, insists on
being Minister of Defence.
A Real "People's Army."
Turning a cold shoulder on the “people’s
army” proposals, Mr. Forde sensibly
pointed out that Australia had a people’s
army already. A.1.F., R.A.A.F., militia,
universal trainees, V.D.G, N.E.S., muni-
tion making and other war production,
nursing and various women’s auxiliaries
—somewhere among these the “people’s
army” enthusiasts could find something
to suit.
In cities and towns there is yet another
opening—or there would be if Authority
looked on one aspect of modern war as
realistically as it merits. Fire is as much
a weapon of total war as bullets, shells
and bombs are weapons. It is well
enough known that London had its lesson
in that; not so well known, perhaps, that
London did not need the fire Blitzes to
teach it.
What happened to London is instruc-
tive enough ; it is all the more so in view
of what was done in London before the
event. A report by Michael Wassey,
organising secretary of the British
National Union of Auxiliary Firemen
and full-time member of the London
A.F.S. since the war, could be studied
with profit.
Unlike the bright idea of giving all
sorts of people lethal weapons to take
home and use at their own discretion,
without responsibility, the fire-fighting job
involves as definite responsibilities as the
real army and just as hard bullocking
work. In London it was prepared for,
and when the time came it was done, by
men and women in all walks of life and
all sorts of occupations—by the very
people who would make up a “people’s
army” where this was anything but a
political or sentimental stunt.
London did not wait for its Blitz to
come. As early as December, 1937, an
Air Raids Precautions Act was passed,
and the Home Office at once made it
clear to all local authorities that they
must arrange for additional pumps, or-
ganise a recruiting scheme on a voluntary
basis, and in every possible way get
ready for the approaching war and its
certain accompaniments. Orders were
placed for trailer pumps ; there was a call
for civilian volunteers prepared to train
in their spare time and be ready to give
their full time to the fire-fighting job as
soon as the anticipated incendiaries began
to arrive.
The recruiting went on through 1938,
and 48 hours before the war was even-
tually declared London’s A.F.S. was fully
mobilised. When the call was broadcast
the already-trained volunteers poured in
from all over London. Equipment was
ready, emergency taxis and cars were in
place. By sunset on Friday, September
1, 1939, every emergency station and fire-
alarm post was fully manned.
In normal peace-time London ran to
59 land fire stations and three river ser-
vice stations, with fewer than 2000 regular
firemen. Overnight the war-time expan-
sion brought the numbers to nearly 400
stations and centres, with a total mixed
strength of over 20,000 fire-fighters.
London and provincial England together
had by April, 1941, a total of about
300,000 fully-trained fire-fighters— not in-
cluding the enormous band of supplemen-
tary fire-fighters, the “stirrup-pump
squads” in each street, the street fire
parties, the wardens, the roof “fire-
scotchers” and others. Today the A.F.S.
men outnumber the full-time regular fire-
men in London by nearly ten to one. “It
is the A.F.S. which has borne the brunt
of the attack, assisted by the handful of
regulars who may be on duty and avail-
able at the time.”
The courage, devotion to duty and
trained ability of that true people’s army
to do their difficult and dangerous job
have become proverbial. It has had
praise previously reserved for front-line
troops, and
If one knows the speed with which the
A.F.S. of London leap to their appliances
when the bells go down in an intensive
Blitz and they must rush through the black-
out under enemy fire to attack their own
enemy, fire, as ardently and bravely and ruth-
lessly as any fighter pilot attacks a bomber,
one knows that the praise is deserved.
Set this report by one who has been
through a number of Blitzes as an active
fire-fighter against what is known to have
been caused by those Blitzes, and there
should be a lesson here for a lot of people
in Australia’s cities and large coastal
towns. There is nothing surer than that
the Japs will try to emulate their German
masters in fire Blitz tactics as soon as
they are able to do so. This report suggests
what could and should be done here now.
The stunt press failed in its silly
attempt to impose a romantic amateur
“people’s army” on a country that already
has as true a people’s army as any of
the countries the stunters specially admire
ever had. If it wanted to do something
useful and practical for a change the
press could turn its energies, as the Lon-
don press successfully did, to the job of
helping to get established here this same
sort of organisation that London and
other British cities and towns established
in advance on a large scale. When the
time came —as it will here—the strength
of London’s A.F.S. proved to be little
enough, but nevertheless invaluable.
The McKell Regime.
The Sydney “Parliament” met on Febru-
ary 25, listened to Premier McKell and
a few other gentlemen and adjourned
before nightfall—the Assembly to April
8, the Council to April 24—because “Par-
liament” House hadn’t been blacked out.
That same day a Mosman man was fined
£2O because he hadn’t put out a light dur-
ing a McKell Government blackout. On
the following night, “in flagrant breach” of
the Government’s own brownout regula-
tions, the top floors of the Government
Printing Office and the Education De-
partment and “the windows of the mem-
bers’ rooms of Parliament House” were
“a blaze of light.”
That kind of thing has been character-
istic of the McKell Government all along.
And its N.E.S. Minister seems to be
always wrangling with someone—his latest
argument was with the Federal Min-
ister for Home Security, who should be
in full control of N.E.S., and should have
been all along.
During the election campaign last year
Mr. McKell undertook to give cow-
farmers more for their milk and charge
consumers less. After trying to fob off
the cow-farmers with a subsidy, he is
giving them more and charging con-
sumers more.
Mr. McKell undertook to abolish
wages tax. His way of honoring the
undertaking in the case of income-tax
payers was to tack wages-tax on to in-
come-tax rates, plus penal rates for
receivers of dividends. The resultant con-
fusion is illustrated in part by the crowds
besieging the Taxation Department.
Mr. McKell undertook to help the
national war effort in every way. His
first notable action was to “demand”
from the Loan Council prodigious
amounts for “works.” When his
“schedule” was cut down he returned to
Sydney muttering. He had refused to
recognise the urgent national need for
a uniform tax. Returning to the Loan
Council, he got nearly as much loan
money as the other Premiers put together.
Relieved of child-endowment and un-
employed-relief by the Commonwealth
Government and with his income-tax and
transport revenue leaping, Mr. McKell
found himself at the end of seven months
of the financial year with £2,855,000
more than his predecessor had had on
January 31, 1941. And he doesn’t seem
to know how to spend it all—the idea
of remitting taxation never occurs to
him —though prodigal departments are
doing their best.
Mr, McKell’s Education Department
extended the school holidays for a fort-
night to allow of shelters and protection
being provided at schools. When scholars
resumed they had to depend on hurriedly-
organised working bees of parents to dig
slit trenches and protect windows, being
given practice meantime in sheltering
under desks. During the extended school
holidays the Minister had to contend some-
how with outbreaks in Government re-
formatories by larrikins of both sexes. He
had urged the inmates to “be individual-
istic and lead their own lives.”
The McKell Traffic Department refuses
to reduce motor registration fees, in-
creased since the war began, though other
State Governments have done so, and
though vehicle-use is restricted enor-
mously. Many private cars have gone
off the roads. Many more would be laid
up if it were not that the owners had
obeyed a Commonwealth plea to keep
them running in case of a sudden and
large-scale evacuation. And N. S. Wales
owners of commercial vehicles, ordered
by the Commonwealth Government to
install gas-producers, can’t get charcoal
because the McKell Government has made
an unholy mess of the charcoal business.
Near the end of the second year of
the German war the McKell Minister for
Mines introduced pensions for coalminers
at 60. These, he alleged, would “allay
industrial unrest”: they have greatly in-
creased it. Moreover, 2000 miners cap-
able of working were put off while Japs
were possessing themselves of N.E.I. oil-
fuel regions and bases off Australia s
north coast and raiding the Australian
mainland, and while an Australian army
was lost in Singapore.
As a sequel to an old quarrel between
the Police Commissioner and the Police
Association, 17 members of the latter
were transferred to country stations.
Then there were yells about “Fascism’
and “threats to unionism,” and Mr. Mc-
Kell had the 17 brought back in the
process of taking “control” of the depart-
ment himself. Whatever the rights and
wrongs of the quarrel, a very bad im-
pression was created by the statement of


the Police Association secretary that
policemen objected to being billeted in
“dangerous areas.” In any case, the
action of the Premier is a blistering
commentary on the McKell policy of
compulsory unionism—the police have
a union of their own, and so, of course,
have all the workstopping miners.
A great deal more could be said about
the McKell regime, particularly in rela-
tion to its lottery, its holiday race trams
and trains put on when the P.M. was
asking men to work, and its grandiose
schemes to deprive the west of water to
the advantage of the city. But enough
has been set down to show the kind of
regime it is. Yet its leader has the face
to claim “an intense and determined acti-
vity on the part of this Government to
assist the Commonwealth authorities in
the tremendous tasks with which they
are faced”!
PLAIN ENGLISH
Gold from the Sea.
Coming as it did when armchair strategists
and “sunshine patriots” had gone all
gloomy, the story of the salvaging of the
Niagara’s £2,379,000 of gold bullion was
a real tonic.
The ship was mined and sunk off the
Maoriland coast in June, 1940, going
down in 438 feet of water. The few
who knew of the gold she carried gave
it up as lost. But the Admiralty and
the Dominion Governments got hold
of Captain J. P. Williams, of Melbourne,
and he thought the stuff could be
recovered.
How financial backing was obtained,
how the derelict old coastal boat Clay-
more—-the only vessel available in a
world desperately short of ships —was
retrieved from Auckland mud, how
special gear was designed, a crew of 16
got together and the sunken Niagara
located is an epic in itself. In the suc-
ceeding 11 months of risks, when Tasman
storms almost swamped the tub, when
enemy mines fouled the divers’ gear and
scraped the vessel’s bottom, when the
Claymore had to retire for shelter and
then start all over again, enough hap-
pened to fill volumes. The courage, skill
and enterprise displayed put fiction in
the shade.
Captain Williams and his crew won,
and to the lone newspaper reporter with
the outfit was given a story to ring round
the world. As an example of what men
of our race are capable of, it should be
an inspiration to all those whose faith
has been weakened, not so much by events
as by the squealing of small-minded and
easily-frightened chroniclers who set up
josses and then belt them when things
go wrong.
The story of the recovery of the
Niagara gold reveals the gold of our own
racial character as vividly as did the
bombing of England, the fight of the
Jervis Bay and the defence of Tobruk.
So does the story of the escape from
Singapore of Major-General Bennett and
his companions ; they, too, are gold from
the sea. How can a British Common-
wealth rich in such gallant and resource-
ful spirits be conquered?
Second-Front Lunacy.
There has been a sudden and suspicious
renewal of the agitation for a Second
European Front. It was thought that
Mr. Churchill had said the last word on
that subject on January 27. He said then
that if his Government had yielded to
the agitation “every ton of our shipping,
every flotilla of aeroplanes, the whole
strength of our army, would have been
fighting for its life on the shores of the
Low Countries.”
These troubles in the Far East might
have sunk into insignificance beside an-
other and far worse Dunkirk.
Words as wise he has seldom uttered,
and they silenced the Second-Front
gentry for a week or two. They became
vocal again when one of Mr. Churchill’s
own Ministers came out with a Second-
Front speech and was not dismissed or
even rebuked. And last week demands
for a Second Front were heard in several
countries —from General de Gaulle, of
Dakar notoriety ; from the Polish General
Sikorski; from Litvinov; from Kurt
Offenburg, of A.8.C., who will be deso-
lated to the depths of his nose if this
“chance” is “missed again,” and, of
course, from “Australian” Communists.
Their cry is that “the main demand in
Australia’s defence is the necessity of a
Second Front in Europe”!
Litvinov spoke in New York to
members of the Overseas Press Club and
through them, of course, to this hard-
pressed Empire. He asserted that “the
United Nations can knock Hitler out this
summer by simultaneous offensive action
on two fronts.”
The struggle will reach its peak this
spring, and all Allied forces should be
put into action. There must be no immo-
bile armies, navies and air forces Russia
desires legitimately that forces which cannot
be used at present should not be kept idle.
Australians have been wanting to know
for three months why the great forces
assembled in Siberia have been kept idle,
but their curiosity has not been gratified.
They have seen Malaya and Singapore
lost, and a great part of the A.I.F. with
them, because British aircraft which
could have saved the situation had been
sent to Russia. They have since read
Mr. Churchill’s admission that sinkings of
shipping in the past two months have
been “very serious.” They know that the
enemy, already in possession of rich parts
of the Dutch East Indies, is invading Java,
and that Britain’s Asian empire and Aus-
tralia and Maoriland are in danger. They
cannot believe that, in a situation which
has changed so much for the worse, any
British Government would risk every-
thing on a venture which its leader him-
self has condemned, and failure in which
would mean the certain loss of the war.
The deadly risk should not be taken
even if a Japanese attack forces Russia
to become a belligerent in the Pacific.
Mr. Badly's Contribution.
King Coal and his clumsiest servant:
“Some of the recent regulations,” the Prime
Minister said, “may have been hastily issued,
some may have been faultily drafted and some
may have produced anomalies; but they had
an overriding purpose.” He was referring to
the regulations prohibiting sales of land and
shares, which have been “modified” daily, but
his remarks were equally pertinent to the two
sets of coalmining regulations issued this year
under the National Security Act. The overriding
purpose in each case was to put down strikes.
The first lot of regulations was effective for
a few days. Miners were then under the im-
pression that the Government really meant to
enforce them and ask for imposition of the
penalties—£loo fine and six months’ imprison-
ment was the lowest —and they worked astonish-
ingly well. But as soon as it was discovered
that enforcement was not intended work-
stoppers returned to their knavish tricks. They
were narks and nuisances in the last war, and
they have been narks and nuisances in this war,
with the situation 50 times worse.
All the same, it is agreed at Canberra on
both sides of the House that the man most
responsible for the latest litter of strikes is
Minister Baddeley, hereinafter called Mr. Badly.
He it was who conceived the idiotic notion of
pensioning miners at 60, at the cost of taxpayers
and consumers, when Australia urgently needed
the labor of every man fit to mine coal. He
introduced this imbecile piece of legislation in
August, 1941, saying he “did not propose to
force 2000 men out of the industry immediately
and place them on pensions,” his intention
being “to introduce the scheme gradually over
a period of three years, and so avoid disloca-
tion.” He repeated this assertion: “It is
not proposed to grant 2000 pensions immedi-
ately; they will be granted gradually; say, a
few hundred the first month or so.”
Amid bursts of congratulations from the
blind and the one-eyed, the Act was passed.
It provided for the setting up of a tribunal to
deal, among other things, with applications
from miners who didn’t want to retire on pen-
sion. Mr. Badly became chairman, “because I
wish to insure that the scheme operates
smoothly.” Just how “smoothly” it has worked,
the public, sickened by the repeated spectacle
of the ugliest stoppages in Australia’s history,
knows only too well.
The sections of the Act dealing with com-
pulsory retirement were to come into operation
on a date notified by proclamation in the “Gov-
ernment Gazette,” and February 21, 1942, was
so fixed. Contrary to the terms of his own
Act, Mr. Badly took upon himself to
promise that pensions would be paid as “from
January 5. Some hundreds of men voluntarily
retired and were paid pensions without Parlia-
mentary authority. Others decided to stay on
until February 21. On this account there was
strike after strike.
Many applications for exemption from com-
pulsory retirement came before Mr. Badly s
tribunal. Though limited exemptions were
granted to a few members of other coalmining
organisations not one application by a Miners
Federation man was approved. And when
members with exemption certificates presented
themselves for employment at half a dozen mines
on February 23 their “mates” refused to work
with them, in effect going on strike, not only
against the nation in its dire need, but against
decisions of Mr. Badly and his tribunal. Two
of the men willing to do their bit for then
country were surface hands. Their “mates
held a pit-top meeting and “advised” them to
go home; and home they went or were sent.
This when the national Government had sum-
moned the people to their battle stations.
Even before the Pensions Act became law
2000 men had been granted pensions. Two
thousand; one-eighth of the average number
of men employed in N.S.W. coalmines! That,
of course, amounted to “dislocation of the indus-
try,” and Mr. Badly must be held responsible.
The “Parliament” in which Mr. Badly cuts
his clumsy capers was in session for a few
hours last week. It dispersed before Mr.
Badly was asked why he had broken his defi-
nite undertaking to grant pensions gradually,
“say, a few hundred for the first month or so,”
and by what authority he had agreed to pay
pensions from January 5 instead of from Febru-
ary 21. Not that it would have made any
difference if “Parliament” had sat for a month
or two months, being the sort of “Parliament”
it is .
NO LIGHT TANKS FOR HIM!
“Standing in the water holding planks over their heads, Japs in Burma formed a living bridge over which light tanks
passed.”—Cable.


idii-
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager W. G, Bulfm
S&4SSSSask E i.
IBBiBSBI
BBIBIH9
B I
END CONSTIPATION TO-NIGHT
If you suffer from constipation, take one
or two NYAL FIGSEN tablets before
retiring. There is no griping pain, no
stomach upsets. In the morning Figsen
acts . . . thoroughly, effectively, yet so
gently and mildly. Except for the pleasant
relief Figsen brings, you would scarcely
know you had taken a laxative. NYAL
FIGSEN is a pleasant-tasting, natural
laxative that is just as good for youngsters
as it is for grown-ups. Figsen is sold by
chemists everywhere. l/2i a tin.
i The next best thing tc ; Nature, .. s
Nytti Figsen
FOR CONSTIP RTIOH
POLITICAL POINTS
A Sydney man, musing bitterly on the
tall of Singapore, found an official letter
on his desk next morning. It was a noti-
fication from the department with which
he had been trying to do business that
he had landed the contract and would be
expected to forward the goods to Singa-
pore by the first available boat.
Scullin is back in harness as Curtin’s
guide, philosopher and friend. He is to
sit on a committee with Spooner and
Prof. Mills to “explore the field of
income-taxation and draft a plan for a
uniform scheme.” No committee is re-
quired. It should be a case merely of
the Commonwealth Treasurer bringing in
an income-tax that will give him what he
thinks the nation will require and what
the State Governments honestly need.
Need, not want —they always want the
earth.
The N.S.W. Parliament met in Sydney
on 25/2/’42. The new Chief Commis-
sioner of Police, a Mr. McKell, outlined
the war situation; there was a bit of
discussion and then the Commissioner
left —to raid an s.p. joint or something.
To the appointing of boards and com-
mittees there is no end. One of last
week’s litter is “an all-party committee,”
which is “to examine the economic regu-
lations recently gazetted.” Some of these
regulations have had to be altered
already, public reactions having been dis-
tinctly unfavorable. Others may share
the fate of the two sets of regulations
which were to have compelled coal-
strikers to work.
“At this stage” Churchill “will make
no attempt to pass any judgment on our
troops and their commanders in Singa-
pore.” The troops and their commanders
may not consider it premature to sit in
judgment on the Churchill Government.
They have first-hand evidence that the
“air support” they were promised con-
sisted of a few Hurricanes and two or
three old Wildebeestes; second-hand
evidence that the Churchill Government
had aircraft and crews enough, but sent
them to a country not at war with the
Japs.
Denying that his executive was opposed
to billeting in principle, the secretary of
the N.S.W. Police Association made a
point of letting all and sundry know
that “the executive drew the attention
of the Chief Secretary to the fact that
some of the billets were located in dan-
gerous areas.” In dangerous areas.
Play ford, the S.A. Premier, seems J:o
think there’s a war on somewhere or
other. He’s banned racing in his State
and closed betting shops “because of the
demand for man-power to fill essential
requirements.” The same Mr. Playford
gave motorists a 25 p.c. cut in registra-
tion fees and urged the Premiers to cut
their Loan Council “demands” by 25 p.c.
Peculiar fellow, Playford!
For the year to June 30, ’4l, the
“A.B.C. Weekly” lost £32,Bo7—over £630
a week. It’ll soon have some of the
State Treasurers envious.
Though it is not yet a crime to be
thrifty in Australia, it has long been an
offence punishable with extra taxation.
In comparatively sane Victoria rates of
tax on property income are double the
rates on income from personal exertion,
even the personal exertion of book-
makers. Now the Curtin-Chifley limita-
tion of company profits to 4 p.c., exclu-
sive of taxes, means that many small in-
vestors who lived lives of self-denial when
they were capable of working will have
their modest incomes reduced by half.
Which means that they will have to do
what they have always hated doing—take
the old-age pension.
“There are still people in Australia,”
said Minister Ward to a N.S.W. Aid-
Russia gathering, “who put profits before
patriotism.” True, and if they don’t get
what they want they strike for it, despite
the pleas and threats of Ward’s Govern-
ment.
At his first appearance as Dominions
Secretary, Attlee, the British Labor
“leader,” announced the signing of a
Lease-Lend agreement providing for “the
elimination of all forms of discrimina-
tory treatment in international commerce
and for reduction of tariffs and other
“Hey, Mr. Minister Ward, I know you’ve never been in the Army, but there is a
war on.”
trade barriers.” This is interpreted to
mean that “Imperial preference has vir-
tually vanished,” and the possibility of
“hardships” for a “few primary indus-
tries” is suggested. They are not likely
to be the only consequences. Nevertheless
Ward and his friends are still blithering
hard about “a new order,” which indus-
tries exposed to the blasts of world com-
petition will be expected to finance.
Victoria’s Dunstan says there is no
necessity to call “Parliament” together to
discuss war or other measures, as all
State war matters are being efficiently
handled by the War Advisory Council
and the various A.R.P. committees.
Dunstan expects that the talking shop in
Spring-street will meet again in May or
June. Why in May, June or any other
month?
A very select State Parliamentary Com-
mittee has finished its “inquiry” into the
administration of the Government abat-
toirs at Homebush, Sydney. The “in-
quiry” had its genesis in a wrangle be-
tween the chairman and the abattoirs
manager, and it resolved itself into a long
series of wrangles, to which members of
the committee and witnesses were parties,
closing appropriately in a wrangle be-
tween the chairman and another “investi-
gator.” The other “investigator” retired
shouting that “the matter must now be
investigated by another select Parliamen-
tary Committee or by a royal commis-
sion.” So runs the world away, the mad
world of State politics.
A few days after Queensland’s Labor
Government had fixed union secretaries
in their jobs for a year, Federal Labor
came out with a revised reserved-occu-
pations list, removing therefrom legal
men, journalists, bank officers, “except in
the Commonwealth Bank” (that’s one of
Mr. Ward’s pleasantries), and “working
principals” in primary and secondary in-
dustries. Did somebody in Queensland
get the straight griffin beforehand? Is a
union secretary more “essential” than,
say, the manager of a flour-mill?
“Blackout” Heffron was still muttering
threats about prosecutions —Trades and
Labor Councils presumably excepted—at
the week-end. At the same time the
Federal Lazzarini and Sydney’s Lud
Mayor Crick were in holts with him and
Heffron had been given extraordinary
powers over city property and plant.
powers that fly right in the face of the
Commonwealth Constitution. They may
be necessary, but should be exercised,
like the rest of A.R.P. control, by the
Commonwealth. Until proper Common-
wealth control does operate, A.R.P. will
continue to be the hopeless muddle it is
and the Heffrons will continue to be the
hopeless persons they are.
It is a trifle over 88 years since the
American Commodore Perry imposed on
the Japanese the treaty in which they
abandoned their isolation from the world,
an isolation which had lasted 214 years,
and which was so strict that the lives
of all foreigners, a few Dutch excepted,
found in Japan, and even those of Japs
proved to have sojourned in foreign parts,
were forfeit. Why did he wake them up?
So much has been written about the
deadly inertia of the whites in Malaya
that it was refreshing to read what Aus-
tralian airmen who got away to Batavia
said of members of Malaya’s Volunteer
Air Force. Some went up in Tiger Moths
carrying two 401 b. bombs. Two others
took a Tiger Moth out to sea, and their
obsolete machine was being shot to pieces
by fighters when the second man relieved
his wounded mate and managed to side-
slip to land. Had that spirit been prop-
erly supported by those whose business
it was to put Malaya in the way of de-
fending itself, the Japs would have had
no cakewalk to Singapore.
Sydney “Sun” had a war correspon-
dent in Singapore, and the young gentle-
man has explained, to his own satisfac-
tion, what lies ahead of us.
We have got to struggle to reshape the
destinies of 900,000,000 people, of whom
99 per cent, are Asiatics and a fraction of
one per cent Australians.
But suppose the 99 per cent, decide to
“reshape the destinies” of the fraction of
1 p.c.? They could count on being sup-
ported by Corns., and might draw encour-
agement from the lucubrations of “ad-
vanced” writing boys. Sly digs at the
White Australia policy can already be
read in Sydney squib-papers.
The “famous” John Gordon has been
billed as “the journalistic discovery of
this war.” Australians can only judge
him on brief cabled extracts from
the Sunday paper in which he per-
forms, and they suggest rather that
he is a marvel of conceit and misinfor-
mation. When the Japs came in the
“famous” one was as positive as Land
Admiral Alexander that, once the Empire
had time to attend to them, it would soon
polish them off. And of the German
“retreat” from Russia he wrote: “Hitler’s
armies are about to be destroyed” in “the
greatest military disaster in world his-
tory.”
Politicians are the same the world
over. When the Singapore base was first
mooted the Dutch States-General became
excited. Some members argued that
Japan was the potential menace. Others
maintained that Britain had designs on
the Dutch East Indies, and the question
agitated the public mind of Holland, as
well informed by its newspapers as the
public mind of Australia, for a long time.
Small nations hold great empires not by
their strength, but by their weakness, but
it was suggested that the Dutch Navy be
increased so that the colonies might be
defended. Dutch politicians didn’t see
the force of this proposal.
Written on the margin of a brief:
When N.S.W. Police Commissioner Mac Kay
banished 17 policemen to the country, Sheehan,
M.L.A., and Weir, M.L.A., were loud in their
protests against “this attack on the basic prin-
ciples of unionism.” The spectacle of these gentle-
men, both barristers, as stalwart champions of
“the basic principles of unionism” has caused
not a little amusement amongst their fellows at
the Bar. For neither belongs to his own union,
the N.S.W. Bar Association.
From Molongloside:
Dr. Evatt’s second speech on foreign affairs
was even better than the first. He was par-
ticularly effective in showing how a Wavell
request for information or instructions has to
run the gauntlet of the Chiefs of Staffs at
Washington and London, two other staffs in
the same cities, the Far Eastern War Council
in London, the Pacific Council in London,
also Roosevelt and Churchill, with references
back to most of the gentlemen m cases of dis-
agreement. Even so a critic protests that 1 1
doctor’s explorations didn’t go far enough, ue
didn’t mention his own Government s pro-
cedure. As the critic works it out. Dr. Page,
after a “consultation” with Churchill, is ex-
pected to send a cable to Curtin, who places
it before the War Cabinet, which passes it on
to the Advisory War Council, which perhaps
calls in the Chiefs of Staffs. Then, if the com-
munication concerns the U.S.A., it goes to
Casey at Washington, then to the two Chiets
of Staffs there, then to the President, then to
Casey again, then back to Curtin, then back
to the War Cabinet, and so to the War
Advisory Council. Finally, the position might
be disclosed to the executive of the Miners
Federation and revealed in strict confidence to
a pit-top meeting by way of effecting a -4
hours’ “settlement” of the strike.


mm.
mm.
I
THE FLEETS of the DEMOCRACIES use
BATTERIES
Still keep going when the rest have stopped
AT LEFT: American battleships in
formation with gun turrets raised.
AT BIGHT: One of Britain’s most for-
midable battleships patrolling the seas.
d
PERSONAL ITEMS
Back in Australia looking pretty fit
after his remarkable escape from Singa-
pore, Major-General Gordon Bennett
highly praised Major C. J. A. Moses for
his hand in the escape: “Moses did a
great job. Three times he got through
the Jap lines. He and Captain Gordon
Walker are safe in Java.” Moses is the
ex-Rugby Union A.B.C. manager, his
appearance anything but what his name
might suggest —he is not of the Chosen.
A big, masculine-looking chap, he was
putting on weight in his A.B.C. job at
the time the war was looming up. To
get into fighting nick he did “road work”
striding out down William-street and up
the hill through the Cross to his A.B.C.
office in the city. There he was a first-
rate man in his job ; thoroughly com-
petent, keen and a great chap to work
with. The Captain Walker mentioned is
A.D.C. to General Bennett. Originally
from England as a youth, he got himself
a couple of thousand acres out Coota-
Major-General GORDON BENNETT.
mundra way, called it Magunyah, and
made it one of the best holdings in N. S.
Wales. With Major Moses and the few
others in the small party, he did good
work in the great escape.
Says a recent biography: “Edward
Wood’s war record.... should help to
dispose of those catchpenny cliches that
have typified him as a saintly quietist, ill-
adapted to the ruthless demands of
modern war, or an innocent apostle of
appeasement.” Instead, “we find a mili-
tant Major Wood commanding his regi-
ment in the thick of terrible battles, men-
tioned in dispatches,” and, temporarily
back from the front, telling Parliament:
“I think that in after years it will be
thought extraordinary.... that we should
still up to the last moment have been
making frenzied efforts in the cause of
straightforward voluntary recruiting, and
that we should have been having one
recruiting statement after another.” Not,
as it happens, any A.I.F. Major Wood,
but —surprisingly—the man who is now
Lord Halifax, Britain’s U.S. Ambassador.
The very toughest of spots, were already
commonplace to Lt.-Col. J. M. Twhigg,
of the N.Z.E.F., before he was reported
missing in Libya. He commanded the
Fifth Field Ambulance through the hard
going in both Greece and Crete, and took
it once more into action when Auchin-
leck launched his Libyan advance. A
very well-known Maoriland medico,
Dunedimborn, he was in practice in Wel-
lington when this war broke out.
Murray, S.A.’s late Chief Justice, was,
like King George V, an ardent stamp-
collector. A quiet and home-loving
bachelor, he could give much attention to
his hobby. He specialised in Australian
issues, of which the elder ones are now
really valuable. Further, in the years
before Federation, S.A. not only had its
own stamps, but each Government de-
partment surcharged them with its own
initials, thus making a bewildering variety
of specimens. The Murray collection is
probably the most complete in existence,
outside the G.P.O.’s own museum.
“El V.” on Sir Stafford:
Seems to me that when the revolution arrives
the Corns, and New Orderers will find their
toughest job in deciding how to deal with their
British Messiah, Stafford Cripps. He is an
“honorable” in his own right and in the line
of succession for a peerage. Therefore, he is
undoubtedly qualified for “liquidation.” He is
“old school tie” —Winchester, like his pa and
grandpa before him—which places him beneath
proletarian scorn. He, his father and grand-
father are or were all deep in the more aris-
tocratic councils of the Church of England
grandpa was Chancellor of Oxford diocese;
pa (Lord Parmoor) was Vicar-General of Can-
terbury and Chancellor of York. Stafford, an
ecclesiastical law authority, was reputed when
in practice and at the height of his “militancy”
to earn £20,000 a year—the basic wage in
Australia of about 100 honest toilers. He is
a large landowner. But I think the cream of
the joke is the proletarian cheers at his selec-
tion as the Commons spokesman of a War
Cabinet headed by the grandson of a duke, in
which six out of seven are “old school tie”
of the rarest vintage—Bevin is the exception —
and five out of seven crusted Tories by socialist
yardsticks. Sir Stafford’s thoughts must often
turn with apprehension to the coronet-collared
ostrich’s head which forms his family crest and
hope that it will not drop the lucky horseshoe
which it holds in its beak.
When 68 enemy ’planes passed over
to bomb Rabaul, only 40 miles away, the
last of the diehards of Namatanai pro-
visioned a 42-footer with liquids and
solids from the local pub, got a map from
a geographical mag. for a chart and set
sail for Tulagi in the Solomons. None
of them was more than a fishing-trip
seaman, but Jim Kenny, the publican, a
very sick man, skippered from a chair
lashed on deck. Sid Pasley was mate ;
A. Prieve, A. Eilitz and R. Schultz, with
four natives, did deck work; Bert Brere-
ton was cook and ship’s surgeon, with the
Rev. G. Flatten as offsider when he
wasn’t aloft at lookout. In place of the
customary water doled out in thimble-
fuls on such voyages, they drank cham-
pagne, vermouth, cherry brandy and
assorted liqueurs and lived on Vienna
sausage, tinned peas and bully beef, all
from the Kenny pub, for which the crew
honorably signed chits. In case of wreck
on any of the numerous reefs, they made
rafts of coconuts, thus providing drink,
food and flotation in one effort. On the
seventh day out they mad,e Tulagi, and
after some shots across their bows at the
entrance they succeeded in showing that
they were not a hostile sampan, and got
alongside just in time to
catch the evacuee steamer
for Brisbane.
Strolled with a flower in
his buttonhole past the
eightieth milestone, James
A. Burke, Swan pens dis-
penser. A onetime Bulle-
tin contributor, he was a
stalwart friend to many of
the earlier writers. He has
a permanent pew at Sydney
• Cricket Ground, with a
special leaning for Rugby
Union. A son lately col-
lected a commission in
Malaya.
Arthur Jones, M.L.A.
for Charters Towers, has
been promoted to double-
barrelled Cabinet rank by
the Queensland Caucus-
Minister for Mines, with
the Education portfolio as
a sideline. Jones was first
elected as member for
Burke in 1929, as a coun-
try rep. of the A.W.U.
That seat was wiped out
in the 1932 redistribution,
and until 1939 Jones was
an inspector in the Depart-
ment of Labor and Indus-
try. Then he got in for
Charters Towers at a by-
election.
Rev. Stanley R. Hayward has been
brought from England to take charge of
Leigh College, the Methodist Training
College at Enfield (N.S.W.), in succession
to Principal Bennett. A brilliant academic
career at Leeds and Cambridge and prac-
tical experience in important circuits
should serve him well in his new post.
Another official war artist has been
appointed—this time to Darwin. He is
Roy Hodgkinson, of Melbourne, mainly
notable for an interest in the Russian
ballet. While in London he took to mak-
ing backstage sketches of the premier
danseur and ballerina, and when Colonel
de Basil’s entourage came to Melbourne
continued his explorations, with the re-
sult that the Taits gave him the freedom
of the foyer walls of His Majesty’s dur-
ing the season for an exhibition. He has
lately been working for the “Herald.”
The less studied and elaborate his work
the better, so he might do better work
than the more accepted painters under
Darwin conditions.
J. E. G. Martin, youngest (37) of the
four temporary brigadiers, A.1.F., lately
appointed in the Middle East, is an old
Toowoomba (Q.) Grammar boy and an
engineering graduate of the Queensland
Uni. A keen soldier from schooldays, he
was C.O. 42nd Battalion of Militia while
in charge of the City Electricity Depart-
ment at Rockhampton when the war got
going,
R. S. Rogers, a Commonwealth author-
ity on orchids, who joins the ranks ot
Adelaide’s octogenarians this year, has
had a remarkable scholastic career. Adel-
aide-born, he became B.A. (Adelaide) at
20, M.Ch. (Edinburgh) at 25, M.D. and
M.A. (Adelaide) at 35, and D.Sc. (Adel-
aide Uni.) for research and a thesis on
orchids at the schoolboy age of 74. He’s
been a member of the Adelaide Public
Library Board for more than 40 years.
Frequently, when a big flying job has
been done, the name of Captain P. G.
Taylor crops up modestly in the news —
he’s a naturally modest man, with no
flair or liking for publicity. Actually he
is one of the top-flight Australian airmen,
his experience including a term with the
R.F.C. in the last war; co-pilot and
navigator with Kingsford-Smith in the
1934 Pacific crossing; the Australian
Government’s representative in the Guba
flying boat in the first air crossing and
survey flight of the Indian Ocean ; and
(his latest) N.E.I. Governor van Mook’s
pilot across the Pacific and back. Also
to his credit are several remarkably
accurate long-range solo flights; the
ferrying of Catalina flying boats from
America ; and his saving of the Southern
Cross and crew in May, 1935, when he
went out on to a wing to make engine
repairs. In his spare time he has written
Captain P. G. TAYLOR.
(Modelled by Frith.)
one or two very readable books and an
excellent volume on navigation.
Judging by the commercial travelling
experience in his career it would be ask-
ing for the gag to tell new N.R.M.A.
president A. M. Graham to “stop me if
you’ve heard this one before.” After
Cleveland-street (Sydney) his education
included a period with the A. U. Steam-
ship Co., then Vacuum Oil (commercial
traveller and later assistant manager), five
times president of the Commercial
A. M. GRAHAM.
Travellers’ Assoc, in N.S.W. and once
C.T.A. Australian president. Member of
the N.R.M.A. council for 16 years, he
has got rid of a lot of surplus energy on
the tennis courts and cricket fields, repre-
senting various country towns, including
Goulburn (N.S.W.) at cricket,
“C. 8.” farewells a literary figure:
I shall always remember Frank Wilmot (just
dead at 62 in Melbourne) with gratitude for
the poetic brickbat he threw into the pompous
flood of oratory about the city’s nobility and
dignity which was poured out during the cen-
tenary celebrations. Melbourne’s city fathers
had offered a £5O prize donated by Mrs. Jimmy
Dyer for the ode which best depicted the splen-
dor and importance of the occasion. Masefield
had just written a particularly sloppy string or
verses, and leading citizens were spouting the
conventional platitudes from every platform.
To the astonishment of all, the quiet, unobtru-
sive man who occupied the position of man-
ager of the Melbourne University Press and
wrote poetry under the pen-name Of “Furnley
Maurice” won the prize with a poem which
talked about kebs, Whelen the Wrecker, cafe-
terias, cranes, drills, Chevrolets and Cadillacs,
Miss Burton’s cottage, the slums and other
tiresome controversial matters which unques-
tionably existed in the Queen City of the South
but at such a time were best left unmentioned.
Forgetting Whistler’s “Battersea Bridge,” the
critics were beside themselves with indignation,
and the bumbles, who always think that these
things can be done away with by banning them
from poetry, felt that a horrible mistake had
been made by someone. They forgot that,
although the poet had an important university
appointment, was president of the English Asso-
ciation and a member of the Commonwealth
Literary Fund, he had also had a father who
was a pioneer of Socialism in Victoria. Per-
haps there was a little too much of the official
and not enough of the poet in “Furnley
Maurice,” however. Fie published a dozen
volumes, but after 1920, except for his cen-
tenary outburst, the fire seemed to have gone
out of him.
Into the silence:
At Sydney, aged 87, A. W. Juncker, known
as a conductor and composer of light opera.
He composed the song “I Was Dreaming,’
first sung in public by Nellie Stewart, and still
with a vogue.
In Brisbane, at 83, Ernest Geard Schlencker,
who made Congregational Church history.
Honorary organist of the Vulture-street (S.
Brisbane) church for 60 years, financial secre-
tary for over half a century and treasurer for
35 years, he had been in the State public service
for 52 years when he retired in 1927. He was
described as the last link with the Treasury
of the Colony of Queensland.
In Brisbane, Robert William Turner-Jones, at
85; a Londoner; first secretary of Brisbane
Fire Brigade Board and associated with it for
47 years; also associated with banking, account-
ancy, stockbroking and insurance interests; in-
structor at Rockhampton and Brisbane Tech-
nical Colleges; and for almost half a century
one of the leading church organists of Bris-
bane and Rockhampton.
“Bohemian”: The passing of John Payne,
who defeated ex-Minister Fowlds, at one time
member for Grey Lynn, removed one of the
most picturesque political figures in Maonland.
While barman in the Criterion Hotel at New
Plymouth (Taranaki), Payne in his spare time
studied economics and English literature, and
used to go down to the beach of an evening
and make speeches at the seagulls. He entei ed
Parliament as an independent Labor-Socialist.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“ Um-m , you'll have to give up smoking."
“Mac Hoots”: Why my friend Gogar-
ty, who is tall and slim, wears a tooth-
brush moustache and never cooked a
budget in his life, should have been mis-
taken for Tubby Stevens, I cannot
imagine. Yet Mr. Gogarty has unques-
tionably been sloshed in the face with a
rotten tomato. He was travelling through
the brownout in the Bondi-Bellevue Hill
tram, he tells me, thinking about love,
when everything from dead cats to prime
Egg Board eggs was hurled upon the pas-
sengers from the darkness. He took his
own nutritious offering fair on the
smacker. The conductor told him that
some young gentlemen known as the
Five Ways Push” were making a habit
of bombarding trams in the brownout.
It is possible, of course, that the “push”
is simply amusing*itself without a thought
of Tubby ; yet, even so, I feel that a
man who has long-established rights as
a tomato-target should come back to
take his own. Mr. Gogarty, naturally,
agrees with me.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Neither bombs, food-ration-
ing nor reverses can shake the British
sense of humor. A London friend who
lost his home in the last-year Blitzkrieg
writes that most of his income has now
gone in Malaya, “But,” he winds up,
“we are still able to keep ourselves warm
and reasonably comfortable. Not like
the little North Country youngster who,
after sitting for several hours in a wet
trench during a winter air-raid, com-
plained to his mother: ‘Bah goom,
Moom, boom’s noomb! ’ ”
« « * *
“Caballer”: “Wodgil” (B. 18/2/’42) is
right in saying that “Datas the Memory
Marvel” was a good showman. His con-
fident “Am I right, sir?” after giving the
population of Manchester or the number
of miles between Norwich and Birming-
ham was a lesson to anyone who has to
undergo an oral examination. He had
lots of tact, too. In Southern Ireland, at
a time when things were very strained, a
large and hostile crowd turned up to
bait him. He was doing his best, but
the audience was getting more and more
out of hand when a voice above the cat-
calls and singing boomed out “When
was Oliver Cromwell born?” There was
a second’s silence and then Datas, with
a disarming smile, answered “I’ve never
heard of the gentleman!” Thereafter
they fed out of his hand.
* * * *
“A Major”: “Advance, Australia Fair”
having displaced “British Grenadiers” as
prelude to a broadcasting “session,” there
has been some newspaper discussion of
the relative merits of these patriotic
ditties. My sympathies are all with those
who back the “Grenadiers.” Of the Aus-
tralian “anthem,” about the best that can
be said of it is that it holds the field.
Identity of its composer is obscure. Only
edition I have seen ascribes both words
and music to “Amicus,” and I have heard
that this nom de plume was used by a
one-time organist of a Sydney church,
named Craven. “Amicus,” I think, de-
rived his inspiration from a half-forgot-
ten memory, for all the thematic material
of “Advance, etc.,” is to be found in an
old part-song, “Ye Mariners of England.”
And that patriotic-sounding origin does
little to endear “Advance, etc.,” to me,
because I have to remember that “Ye
Mariners” is the work of Henry Hugh
Pearson, who was born at Oxford and
educated at Harrow and Cambridge. But
he studied music in Germany and liked
that country so much that he made it his
home, married a German lady, and
changed his name to Henry Hugo
Pierson. However, he was a first-class
musician, and “Ye Mariners” has a snap
and sparkle not shared by the rather
dreary, trudging tune “Amicus” derived
from it.
sji #
“C.Q.”: The registration of refuges
doctors reminds me. Not so long ago
two Collins-street surgeons operated on a
patient in one of Melbourne’s big hos-
pitals for a disease of the spine. The
patient was 1\ hours under the anaesthetic,
and during that hours the two sur-
geons performed miracles of manipula-
tion. A third man, an insignificant-
looking chap who might have been a hos-
pital attendant, looked on, directing
operations. Anybody watching would
have wondered why two such eminent
sawbones so respectfully followed every
instruction he gave them. They were in
the position of pupils again. He was a
Viennese specialist under whom they had
both taken a postgraduate course in pre-
cisely this kind of operation.
* * * *
“C.H.S.”: Finding a young friend of
mine in a bitter mood I asked him what
was up. “Tried to join up,” he said,
“but got stopped by the heads. They
reckon I’m a key man.” He is in the
civil service. Later, I fell to contemplat-
ing this “key man” idea and concluded
that it’s so much tripe. There never was
a routine job done by one man that an-
other couldn’t do as well if not better;
there never was a cog in a machine that
couldn’t be replaced by another. And
even a “key man” must die some time, so
then what?
* * # ♦
“Hamfat”: “It may surprise some
Sydney people to be told that Melbourne
has always had some attractions not
possessed by other Australian capitals.”
Reading that comment brought to my
mind a dancing mistress of former days
known to all her friends as “dear old
Sally.” I used to take my friends to
watch her classes. Sally didn’t know why,
but it was so that they might hear her
say: “Now, gels ; put your ’eels together
and ’old your ’eads ’igh. Put your ’ands
on your ’ips and ’op ’igh while I ’um.”
Sally’s pupils acquitted themselves well in
many an Australian show, but Sally her-
self remains one of my brightest Mel-
bourne recollections.
* * * *
“D.E.”: I wish cable editors wouldn’t
maltreat the second Roosevelt’s quota-
tions. They are always apposite, but the
effect is spoilt when they are translated
into cable-editors’ English. In his latest
“fireside” chat he quoted a fine passage
from Tom Paine, written in 1776:
These are the times that try men’s souls.
The summer soldier and the sunshine
patriot will in this crisis shrink from the
service of his country....
A Great Daily ruined it, for me, by leav-
ing out the definite article before “times,”
“summer” and “sunshine.” I know this
is fashionable among contemporary news-
papermen, but then Paine and his con-
temporaries wrote much better English
then they do,
* * * *
“Jurumudi”; When I was in Bali the
population was countering a different in-
vasion from the present and they did it
with great astuteness. The characteristic
of the temples which dot the island is, or
was, the porcelain and china plates and
saucers which are cemented all over the
carved facades and make a rich
decoration. American tourists
discovered that many of them
were genuine antiques that had
been brought by voyagers from
the Flowery Kingdom centuries
before the Dutch occupation, and
they started prying them off with
their penknives. To the horror
of the natives their cherished
temples began to look as if a
violent attack of scab was raging.
As the temples are quite un-
attended the natives could do no-
thing about it until somebody
thought of an ingenious solution.
They didn’t want to antagonise
the free-spending Americans, so
the valuable antique pieces were
removed and cheap modern speci-
mens, bought in the local markets,
substituted. The tourists never
knew the difference, so everybody
was happy.
“Palette”: Despite what cynics may
jay there are perfectly sound reasons why
the work of a painter of reputation
should, in so many cases, be worth more
after his death than when he was alive.
For one thing, the value of his work in-
creases with every year that his name
and achievements are before the public
and continue to enjoy some sort of popu-
larity. For another, death puts a limit to
the supply and (in some cases) accentuates
the demand, A case in point was pro-
vided by an auction sale in Sydney last
week when, despite adverse war condi-
tions, minor paintings by Elioth Gruner,
Penleigh Boyd, Hans Heysen and W. B.
Mclnnes brought prices which would
vastly have surprised those gentlemen in
their lifetimes. A Norman Lindsay
painting also sold at a handsome figure
as an exception to prove the rule. He
isn’t dead or anywhere near it, and his
yearly output of pictures is amazingly
large. A Sydney dealer who once toyed
with the idea of a corner in Norman
Lindsays came to the conclusion after a
brief survey of the field that it might be
easier to corner wheat. But a great out-
put, in this case, is matched by a world-
wide reputation.
* * * •
“Tuart”: The übiquitous compiler of
“records” has discovered that “for the
first time in 1345 years” the son of an
Archbishop of Canterbury is to be a
“Cantuar” himself. This is true to the
extent that Dr. Temple’s father was Arch-
bishop of Canterbury for seven years,
1896-1903, but “1345 years” is stretching
the thing too far. Married archbishops
came in with Cranmer (1533-1556) and
more than one bachelor was primate of
all England afterwards: Laud, for in-
stance. The church historian will note
rather that Lambeth Palace is to return
to the oppressed English after a Scotch
conquest which had no parallel even in
Stuart times. The retiring Cosmo
Gordon Lang, “son of the late Very Rev.
John Marshall Lang, D.D.,” went to
Oxford from Glasgow. His predecessor,
Randall Thomas Davidson (1903-28), was
the son of an Edinburgh man and a
Kimmerghame woman.
* * * ♦
“Zake”; What I like about these fam-
ous correspondents is their knack of
dropping into their dispatches irrelevant
asides that get the reader guessing. The
one and only Knickerbocker, in the
middle of a lurid account of an air raid,
broke off to remark, “Here in Java we
are on the other side of the globe from
Chicago, almost mathematically.” The
same might be said of Topeka (Kan.) or
Kalamazoo (Mich.), but anyway Knicker-
bocker goes on to embroider his pro-
found thought;
Now it [the war] has reached out and
embraced this huge Pacific area, with about
two-thirds of all human beings in the world
today directly menaced, if not actually
wounded or killed.
That’s a very wild generality, and if it
is symptomatic of Mr. Knickerbocker s
statistical methods I’m inclined to reduce
that estimate of Nazi funk funds on
which his fame is based from £1,500,000
to Is. 7id.
“Go and get those A.R.P. instructions , dear."
DOG EATING DOG.
“Melbourne bookmakers complain that so little
public interest was taken in Newmarket and Aus-
tralian Cup doubles that their best customers were
fellow-bookmakers.”
Dog doesn’t eat —at least he’s disinclined to
Devour—another of the canine breed.
A proverb tells us that he wasn’t designed to.
And. save in dire extremes, he’s little mind to
Engage in such a feed.
But wolves and sharks have no such “inhibi-
tions”
(To borrow Curtin’s phraseology); _
They find their relatives, in most conditions,
As valuable mealtime acquisitions
As you or I might be.
We’ve better manners than the brute creation
In this regard, and other things like these.
Attorneys, whatsoever be their station,
Advising clients of their own vocation
Refrain from charging fees.
Doctors prescribe the sort of pill or potion
Most fitting for a colleague’s hurts or ills,
And tend him with professional devotion,
But none would entertain the faintest notion
Of socking him with bills.
It’s tough on Ikey Mo that war should spike his
Guns, and his pitch so definitely spoil.
How few, how singularly few, would like his
Plight, forced to lay the odds to brother Ikeys
To keep his pot a-boil!
n.s.w.
PIPARDS.
HANDS OFF LOTTERIES.
“Lotteries are still run in the four States witn
Labor Governments, and the prizes are not taxed by
the Government which has the sole responsibility of
financing’ the war.”
Leave us our lotteries! Let other gambles
Be pruned, with no regard for the chagrin
Of whilom revellers in racecourse rambles
Among the books, or devotees of scrambles
By jealous greyhounds after hares of tin.
To wallop Hitler and the Japs we’ve heaps
Of things to sacrifice—but leave us sweeps!
With stock exchanges putting up their shutters,
And shares with none to quote or buy or sell,
With brokers wond’ring whence their bread and
butter’s . , _ .. „
To come, remember these commercial flutters
Are far from being indispensable.
But wagering on marbles in a churn
Remains a quite legitimate concern.
There’s many a thing that makes existence
rougher , ,
We must submit to, for our country s good.
Let beer grow thin, the price of whisky
tougher , _ „
Than e’er before —such jolts as these we suiter
With proper patriotic hardihood.
Smokes must be rationed, belts be taken in
A notch or two, when there’s a war to win.
But to debar a body from “investing” .
Five and a thrummer in a sweepstakes bnet
Would surely raise vociferous protesting.
Hence it’s a step that’s hardly worth suggesting
To any Government whose aim-in-chief
In such economies as it promotes
Is gaining, not antagonising, votes.
Pile on the taxes, none may fault it rightly;
Demand your cuts on all we have or earn;
We must endure it, gloomily or brightly.
But bear in mind the bow that’s strung too
tightly . .
Will snap, and trodden worms are apt to turn.
Take toll of everything else you please,
But vou must spare out licensed lotteries.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“'E signed the pledge all right, but I 'ad to get 'im drunk to make "im!"
“Bernard Hacksaw”: At an A.R.P.
meeting in our suburb the chairwoman
was explaining the mysteries of bomb-
penetration, earjh shock, suction, blast
and fragmentation, also the various
sizes of earth craters for 20001 b.
monsters and 1001 b. babies, the area of
danger and of maximum destruction.
Having listened intently, a member of
her audience got up and suggested that
it would make the matter clearer if some
sort of practical demonstration could be
given, not necessarily lethal. “Certainly,”
said the lecturer brightly. “Miss Smith,
go and get the bomb. It’s in the store-
room.” Her secretary went out and a
few minutes later put her head through
the door to say “Sorry, Mrs. Jones, the
bomb’s out.”
* * * *
“Nakh”: Since Keith Murdoch be-
came one of the sponsors of the exhibi-
tion of “modern” art at Melbourne Town
Hall and a National Gallery trustee, Mel-
bourne “Herald” has become a whale for
aesthetics. After the Darwin air raid it
icily remarked: —-
Civil Darwin has nothing of value —ex-
cept the lives of its inhabitants —which the
Japanese can destroy. Indeed, much of the
unplanned architectural growth of years
would have had to be razed anyway in any
proper architectural scheme.
Very true, no doubt; but while Aus-
tralian architectural eyesores are under
review the gaunt barn that houses the
“Herald” in Flinders-street shouldn’t be
overlooked.
* * * *
“Mulga Jim”; A military expert was
addressing a group of the V.D.C. in a
large country town. There was more
than a sprinkling of hard-bitten Diggers
of 1914-18 amongst them. He dealt with
all aspects of attack and defence rela-
tive to the work expected of such groups
—aerial attack, dive-bombing, tank
attack, etc. Then he threw on the screen
pictures of a small tank and the methods
to be used in skittling such, a larger
one and how not to run away from it.
Then came one of the leviathans —an 80-
tonner. “Now, just how would we deal
with a stampeding mass like this chap?
What would stop this fellow?” he asked.
From the back seat came the reply: “A
armistice!”
* * , * *
“El V.”: This famous Mr. Knicker-
bocker who has just set flapper-press
hearts beating in Sydney seems to be an
even saltier reporter of ourselves and our
country than the late Sir Harry Johnston,
who believed that Long Bay was the habi-
tat of Sydney society. Mr. K., in his
hurried flight across the continent, sum-
marised the local inhabitants of the Never
Never as “in the gathering dusk, like
gypsy brigands from medieval Spain.”
He wrote:
They wore capes and flopped Texas hats,
and they walked with the easy swagger of
desert Moors. Their faces were hard as
hatchets and their eyes looked coolly—
not in any unfriendly manner, for they’re the
friendliest people on earth —but their eyes
are cool with the appraisal of the desert....
When we walked into the hotel bar we
realised this was the real Wild West ana
that there is nothing like it left in the United
States, except maybe in Montana.
1 turned eagerly to the next paragraph,
expecting to read: “A coyote howled in
the distance. The mesquite stirred. A
shot rang out somewhere. Black Ben had
got his man.” But Mr. Knickerbocker’s
famous attention had evidently been
diverted from the scene by homesickness,
for his next irrelevant remark was that
“Aussies seem convinced that, somehow
or other, the United States is going to
win this war.”
* * * *
“Yair”: We were yarning about lazi-
ness in a not-too-energetic way when
Lying Leonard sprang this one: The
laziest man in the world was washed up
on a tropical island. Rather than gather
his own food from the many near-by
trees and shrubs, he gradually starved to
death. One day, very close to the end,
he lay beneath a banana-tree, staring up
at the luscious fruit. “Alas!” he sobbed,
“must 1 die of starvation ? Life is cruel,
At that moment a banana fell down just
within reach of his outflung arm. He
looked ravenously at it for a second,
made a slight gesture as if to pick it up,
then murmured “No good! I’d have to
peel it!” so turned over and died,
* * ~ * * , ,
X.S. : The horse thief has come back
to Victoria. At 11.30 the other morning
a milkeart was deprived ot its_ equine
motive power while standing in front ot
The Bulletin office m Collms-street. A
frenzied police hunt failed to track down
the urban Ned Kelly.
* * .* * ,
Hamer : Inteiest in the good o
British sport of hanging seems to hav
faded completely. Even when the sus-
pension took place out of public view
crowds used to assemble outside Sydney s
Darlinghurst Gaol to get a thrill out o
the last few minutes and the dong ot
the Ml announcing that the condemned
had been finished. And Ketch could
always find buyers for a piece of the
e . p j eces Q f t j 3 one that did for
Sutler brought a guinea a toot. I knew a
—quite a decent citizen and law-
abiding—who was proud of a hanged
unde who had d j ed like a spor t.” Alas
for the good old days! Y ou can’t meet
anyone today who is proud of an uncle
wh ° ha "B ed .-
“Laodah”: Touching that London
“Xi m es” post-mortem (B. 25/2/’42). When
j drst wen t to Singapore I asked a friend
bow to go about meeting a few English
p eo p| e “Oh,” he laughed. “Put on a
black suit, hire a gharry, put a parcel
visiting cards in your pocket, drive
round Xanglin and drop the cards in the
i ed er-boxes with ‘Not at Home’ on
jbem.” “It doesn’t sound much like meet-
j ng p eo pj e me,” I said. “No, it
doesn ’t 5 but it’s the system,” he said,
£ ew days j a ter all the people you have
dropped your cards on will drop their
cards on you g U £ you won’t meet them.
you gd j n £ Q an Englishman’s house in
Singapore I’ll boil my helmet for soup
and drink it.” 1 tried it and it resulted
exactly as he predicted. Individual Eng-
lishmen, when you met them, were
pleasant enough fellows, but the system
stood between them and everybody but
h } kith and kin. An Englishman
exduded
even fellow-white men
f ro m his society couldn’t be expected to
know any thing about the natives. And
. f a native . f ee l s that you don’t even
regard bim as a human being why should
“take steps to ensure a continuance”
Q f SU ch a humiliating relationship?
* * * *
“Craiser”: Williamstown (Vic.) Muni-
cipal Council decided to dig slit trenches
for the safety of the children at the North
Williamstown State school. Five days
later the council was informed by the
Education Department that it hadn’t
asked permission to dig trenches, had no
authority to come on departmental prop-
erty and dig trenches, mustn’t dig any
mo re trenches and must place barriers
round the trenches already dug. In the
meantime, Premier Dunstan was heard
appealing for volunteers, particularly
parents, to dig trenches in and near
school grounds. The disgusted council
filled in the trenches.
*** . * ,
Colonel Bungstarter . It isn t only
the lm §° < B - 11/ 2 / 42 ) which sets Japan
so antipodeally apart from white-man
customs. On our standards Nipponese
books begin at the end, footnotes are at
the top of the page, newspapers put the
full stop at the beginning of the sen-
tence. Horses are stabled head-out and
mounted from the right side. Boats are
hauled up stern-first; oars are pushed
standing, not pulled sitting. Saws and
planes are pulled, not pushed. In build-
ing a house the roof is built on the
ground, taken apart into numbered sec-
tions, and fitted on when the walls are
up. Women needle the thread instead
of threading the needle and push the
material on to the needle. Accounts are
made up by writing the figures first and
the items afterwards. When leaving an
inn you tip the proprietor, not the ser-
vants. In jiudo, the first thing taught is
how to fall. At a formal dinner all the
speeches are made before it begins and
the sweets are eaten before the main
dishes.
» * • *
“S.T.S.”: That was quite a good
Bulletin joke lately about a champion
weight-lifter, unknown, who had “lifted
half a ton of wood out of my yard.” But
how long has the double meaning been
recognised? My dictionary says firmly,
“lift: to elevate, to raise in the air,” and
only as an afterthought “to remove.” The
latter meaning seems to be in origin
purely Scotch, as in the old-time Border
“cattle-lifting,” or (in a more respectable
association) “lifting” the collection in
church. It does seem a pity not to keep
the word —in English—for the raise-in-
air idea. Yet our big stores seem content
to drop the one-syllable “lift” for the
American four-syllable “elevator”; and to
call the stealing from a shop, a hanging
matter with our ancestors, by the trivial
name of “shop-lifting.” So no wonder
there is confusion.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “When Elizabethan Eng-
land was threatened by the Spanish
Armada, her population was just that of
Australia today”—l quote from the “S.
M. Herald (19/2/’42). It’s a fairly wild
assumption—especially the “just that” —
about a period when censuses were un-
known and estimates differed widely. But,
taking the population of Australia today
as seven millions, the “Herald’s” dog-
matic assertion is pure guesswork, with
scant support from historians. Green
in his History of the English People tells
us that the whole population of Eliza-
bethan England can hardly have exceeded
five or six millions. Macaulay, writing
of the state of England in 1685, exam-
ined all such authorities and computa-
tions as he could find far more closely,
and arrived at the conclusion that when
Tames II reigned the country contained
fewer than five and a half millions. And
that was a century after the Armada.
% * * H*
“Pawang”: “An extraordinary feature
was the quietude of the children, who
hardly uttered a sound,” said a “Daily
Mail” correspondent in describing the
behavior of the children during the con-
stant shelling, machine-gunning and
bombing that preluded Singapore’s fall.
No' doubt; but the effects can be long-
standing and may last through a life-
time. 1 was standing in the vestibule of
a Melbourne hotel one afternoon when
one of our own ’planes flew over. Play-
ing about were a number of refugee
children who had been bombed again and
again in Malaya, and their behavior was
pathetic. The moment the sound of the
“Sometimes I think you joined up just to get away
from me!”
’plane penetrated into the hotel they be-
came intensely agitated and the younger
ones started screaming. Some of the
mothers reproved their offspring for act-
ing like babies, though it was obvious
from the expressions on the adults’ faces
that a sound which has no particularly
unfortunate memories for most Mel-
burnians yet had the most painful asso-
ciations for them.
* * * *
“Si Anu” remembers a colorful legend:
The renaming of Singapore reminds me that
its old name was Temasek and that it was the
furthest point reached by Iskander Shah (Alex-
ander the Great) in his march to conquer China.
According to Malay annals he was countered by
as smart a bit/ of diplomacy as has ever been
recorded. The Emperor of China, alarmed at
Alexander’s approach, was in despair when a
small boy at the Court piped up and offered to
repel the invader, asking only for the oldest
junk in the kingdom and six of the oldest
men and six of the oldest women as his crew,
a cargo of rusty needles and a fully-grown
plum-tree in a tub. The Emperor provided him
with this equipment and the lad set sail for
Temasek. Reaching the port he was duly
seized and taken into the presence of King
Alexander and immediately arrested that great
general’s attention by announcing that he had
come from China. On being further questioned
as to the distance China lay from Temasek he
pointed to his crew of senile decrepits, his cargo
of needles and the plum-tree and explained that
the old men and women had been children,
the rusty needles bars of iron and the plum-tree
a seed when they started; he had himself been
born on the voyage. His Greek intelligence not
being equal to Chinese profundity, Alexander
decided that it would be bad strategy to ven-
ture so far from his base over all this interven-
ing ocean. So he returned home to bully the
Macedonian House of Commons into giving
him a renewed vote of confidence.
* * * *
“Cruiser”: A small boy playing in a
suburban backyard in Melbourne suddenly
started screaming. His mother, coming
to the backdoor, perceived her son swing-
ing on a wire fence adjacent to the laun-
dry and making a noise for no apparent
reason. “Come off that fence and come
inside,” she shouted. “I can’t! I’m
frozen to it,” bawled the infant. Irri-
tated, the mother rushed over, grabbed
her son and started to give him a belt-
ing, when she found she was frozen too.
A wire to the electric washer, swinging
in the wind, had made contact with the
fence. Mother and son were flung off
with great force when the connection was
broken.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui” summarises the Saga of
Bali:
There have been many invasions of the
island. Hindus fleeing before the fanatical
Moslem conquerors of Java about the seventh
century overran it, an incursion that resulted
in one of the most remarkable artistic renais-
sances in history. The newcomers covered the
island with temples, palaces, carved stone
bridges and shrines literally swarming with ex-
quisite decoration, produced a national theatre
and ballet, filled the land with priests who were
more artists than theologians, introduced
widow-burning (but also a sexual morality m
which jealousy was taboo), and pioneered irri-
gated rice culture. Their social organisation
made the island the most prosperous in the
archipelago. The second invasion was the
Dutch one, which was proceeding when I first
saw Bali. The Dutch fell in love with Bah,
and to their credit tried to preserve what they
admired in the native institutions. They sup-
pressed widow-burning but not those healthy
customs which send every man, woman and
child down to the rivers in the evenings to
bathe under the spouts of water gushing from
the carved dragon mouths of the public foun-
tains ; and they forbade Christian missions. The
island remained an
almost unspoilt oasis
of art and culture for
20 years. Then Europe
and America heard
about it, and the third
invasion started. It
was easily the most
disastrous. Artists,
authors and tourists
swarmed on to the
island, and Bali art,
Bali dancing, Bali
styles of hairdressing
became known all
over the world. Oil
salesmen followed,
and when I last saw
it the island was on
the way to becoming
like all the others.
Now, whenever a
bare-breasted native
woman, walking like
a queen, with an im-
mense pagoda of fruit
or a plaited temple
offering on her head,
sees a European
approaching she drops
a sort of curtain over
her naked bosom.
When I first visited
Bali almost every-
body was a crafts-
man, and there were
carving and batik-
making going on in
every village. The
last time I was there
I saw workmen in a
rajah’s palace pour-
ing Tasmanian cement
into a wooden mould
to reproduce dozens
of copies of an an-
cient carved fresco.
They had got the idea
from the Dutchmen’s
concrete culverts, and
I wondered how long
it would be before the
last stone-carver laid
down his chisel in
Bali.


ABORIGINALITIES
“ Don't you know you're not allowed to use cars for pleasure trips?”
“Old-timer”; Short, swart, pigeon-toed
—dammit, this comes of studying the new
journalese—Ocker Torney was the hero
of our little Mallee school. He was rising
14, and though his educational prospects
, ’ . . , - . _ . t •
had long since ceased to interest his
teachers, his inventiveness, daring and
leadership of his contemporaries were
never in doubt. If a hunger went off in
school, if the tethered ponies outside sud-
denly stampeded up the track, if, in short,
there was any undue excitement or devil-
ment in progress round that school, you
could bet Ocker was its inspiration and
fount. The fact that he could do the
drawback with cigarettes had been long
accepted, but when at school one day
he smoked a whole cigar without ill
effect we felt that we had unearthed a
lineal descendant of every swashbuckler
in history or fiction. We had a see-saw
at that school, and Ocker, still with cigar
fumes in his innards, entered into a con-
test to see who could ride the see-saw up
and down the fastest. Ocker set up a
furious pace, his face suddenly lost its
swartness, his eyes protruded startlingly,
his complexion changed through several
hues till it finally reached a saffron tint
and he rolled off that fixer-of-cigar-
smokers and sought the shade. Let us
be merciful and imagine rather than
describe the closing scenes of a reign
that had lasted fully two years.
* * * *
“Jesmond”: When a koala was found
the other day on a buoy a mile from
shore in Westernport Bay (Vic.), all the
Flinders-street naturalists rushed in to
say that koalas cannot swim and it is
a mystery how he got there. Actually,
Billy Bluegum will take to the water
without hesitation when necessary, just
as he will have a drink just to demon-
strate that F.--S. ns. are wrong in that,
too. I’ve seen many a koala marooned
on a sandbank by the incoming tide, and
when the water reached him he came
ashore. It is a common sight on Phillip
Island to see them squatting on piles
entirely surrounded by water. On one
occasion a koala was
found on a Sydney ferry.
* * * m
“The 0.D.”; That flapper who fell to
the Digger yarn about digging up frogs
and squeezing them to get water (B.
25/2/’42), alleged to be the abo. way, has
an illustrious contemporary, none other
than Albert Richard Wetjens. In no less
a journal than the “Saturday Evening
Post” Albert ran a story in which a South
Australian “mountie,” “trailing” some
outlaw abos., makes the same discovery.
Albert differs from the Digger in that
Albert probably believes the yarn.
* * * *
“Taddy”: The annual miracle is with
us in S.Q. The rains have come ; swamps
which have been dry for months are
teeming with life. Most wondrous of
all are the frogs. Since the tail-end of
last summer there hasn’t been a croak
among ’em. Early one morning the first
rush of water arrived. A minute later,
from what had been cracked, hard earth,
there came a mighty chorus of voices in
all notes of the octave. It was good to
hear ’em again. And inside 24 hours
those frogs which had been given up for
dead had picked up the threads of life,
had mated and begun to multiply , every
hunch of reeds had bundles of spawn
cluttered among its stems. Now, less
than a week later, taddies are wriggling
eve here and the frogs have come ,„io
thei / ow in
* * * *
“g K er”: “As silly as a rabbit”
become a universal expression, but
jt slanders bunny. In some respects the
furry pest shows unexpected cunning,
Once saw a Choom set string snares
over the mouths of three burrows. They
were, of course, a failure; although
rabbits popped in and out of the adja-
cent holes almost continuously, the snared
ones were shunned. Furthermore, bunny
is a first-class engineer. Note the way
a “pop-hole” is cunningly concealed in
the heart of a bush or behind a stump as
an emergency exit. Man’s underground
railways are insignificant jobs of tunnel-
ling compared—in proportion—with a
rabbit warren; and the rabbit’s only
tools are physical ones. Incidentally,
although I hate to spoil a standard joke,
a rabbit doesn’t “dig a hole and bury”
the dirt he excavates ; a close watch will
reveal that he kicks the earth out behind
him, then levels the mound down by
spreading it with his chest,
* * * *
“N. Sylvester”: What puzzles me
about those worms attached to that
Murray trout (B. 21/1/ ’42) is how the
tiny beasties got to Australian waters,
The process was that gravid female trout
were milked, the spawn being hatched
out under ideal conditions calculated to
preserve the maximum number of fry.
Placed in specially constructed and
aerated cans, the fry was then trans-
ported to Australia, to be liberated in
waters that can hardly be imagined as
containing that particular trout-parasite
worm. So where through the process
did the germ of the parasite leak in?.
Perhaps its microscopic eggs, attached to
the skin of the mother trout, were swept
into the receiving pail along with the
spawn. If any ichthyologist can offer a
better explanation, I’m listening.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”; Big Joe’s first camp
stood close to the Great Boulder mill, then
sporting only ten head of stamps; but
Joe was a good sleeper. The ten head
grew to fifty. Most of his neighbors
moved further out, but Joe slumbered
undisturbed. Even when the mine started
a couple of boilermakers and he had to
work night shift he never let the noise
trouble him. The mine grew; stamps
were discarded and ball-mills installed,
with the clangor now terrific. But still
Joe slept well. Then in the fullness of
time he married and, being now “on
the staff,” was accommodated in a neat
cottage built on the site of his former
camp. His wife complained, but Joe
still reckoned the noise was nothing. Then
in the small hours one morning I found
Joe exploring his roof, clad only in his
pyjamas. “It’s a piece of loose iron
somewhere. No sooner do I get into bed
than it starts. Nearly drives me crazy.
I’ve been up here a dozen times trying
to find it, but directly the roof gets my
weight the noise stops.” Inside at Joe’s
invitation I listened to the disturbance.
When the gusty wind blew there could
be heard, thinly amidst the roar of the
near-by mill, a whistle where some loose
end of the roof iron acted as an seolian
harp. “I’m going to ask the mine to take
the roof off and replace it; that ought to
stop it and let a man get a bit of sleep.”
But the mine wouldn’t. So Joe shifted —
to a cottage a mile away. Now he com-
plains that missing the roar of the ball-
mills keeps him awake.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “Yair,” said Big Mat
to the circle of bagmen camped under
the Wagga bridge, “there’s heaps o’
things want alterin’ in this flamin’
country.” “Yair?” said the usual smarty,
“and what would alter first, Big-
’un?” Mat thought a moment. “Well,”
he came back, “the first thing I’d alter
would be the distance between pubs on
these country roads. I’d shorten it be
at least half.” And there was not a
single dissentient.
* * * *
“Joe the Glut”: When I read of the
numerous ways in which the Australian
wastes the precious vitamins I wonder
how it is that as a race we haven’t become
mere shadows long ago. I for one prefer
my potatoes peeled and boiled ; my long-
haired partner consistently pours the
vegetable water down the sink; we eat
white bread ; in fact, we commit every
one of those culinary sins that move the
vitamin economist to wailing. Yet at
close to 60 the l.h.p. still has her full set
of teeth, and I have sufficient to chew
tough Kimberley steak —if the world
knows any tougher it would do as a war-
time substitute for rubber. Fact is, with
the diet the average Australian has en-
joyed in the past, and still enjoys, the
waste of a few calories of vitamins
doesn’t matter a darn. It’s those races
that have to fill up day after day on the
same monotonous diet of a handful of
rice and a spoonful of butter and suchlike
that have to worry about vitamin con-
servation. With the exception of a few
favored parts of U.S.A., the Australian
enjoys the richest and most varied diet in
the world. He literally has vitamins to
pour down the sink.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: At least part of the answer
to “K.l.N.’s” query (B. 11/2/’42) is that
the horse is too familiar with man to
be tricked by any visual camouflage. It
had me tricked for a long time that, when
I went out shooting in a khaki shirt and
trousers, feeding rabbits recognised me
at 200 yards, whereas dressed in the same
pants and a navy-blue athletic vest I
seemed almost invisible unless I moved
quickly. I found the answer finally:
that, dressed all in one color, I presented
the definite shape that means “man” to
the bunny. In the other rigout I was
only a collection of color-patches which
the rabbit’s scanty experience could not
classify as dark-blue singlet, fawn hat,
khaki pants and brown arms. The horse
is used to close-range inspections: he
probably recognises garments, because a
colt will fail to recognise its rider when
he appears in unusual dress. And his
rider is certainly represented in his mind
as a complex pattern made up of appear-
ances, including ways of walking and
other individual mannerisms, smells and
sounds. Man, on the other hand, has
allowed his senses to get lazy and depends
too much on sight.
* * * ♦
“Zend Avesta”: We were droving
wethers through an unfenced stock route
which ran for close on five miles through
a big south-west Queensland station pad-
dock. On our being sighted the station
sent out an “escort” to meet us. And
didn’t that escort give us hell! No
sooner did we fan the sheep out so as to
get ’em on the dinkum feed than he was
on them with whip and dogs, and back
to the road came the sheep. We would
have tried to engage him in conversa-
tion so as to take his mind off his work,
but we couldn’t get him away from the
wing. Finally we landed the hungry
sheep at the boundary gate and old Tom
started getting things off his chest. “Of
all the blanky lousy station slushies,” he
roared, “you’re the lousiest blank of the
lot! S’welp me” “Now, then, Buf-
falo Bill,” said the “escort” sharply,
“you’re speaking to a lady, remember.”
Yair, and she off with her big hat and
she was the squatter’s daughter, all right.
Old Tom never smiled again until we
hit Cunnamulla and the pubs.
* * * *
“Jason”: “Sirius” (B. 11/2/’42) can
set his doubts at rest, for Robert West
Mayne’s line “The shepherds with their
white umbrellas raised” rings true. In
the- early ’seventies at Ellangowan and
Yandilla, on the Downs, it was a com-
mon sight to see Ah Ling and his com-
rades performing their shepherding duties
in the comfortable shade of a big brolly.
And if my memory traces back truly
white seemed to be the common choice
of the Celestials.
* # * *
“Aratta”: Answering the front door-
bell, the housewife found a truculent-
looking individual with a case standing
on the doormat. “Nothing t’ day,
thanks,” she said, and made to shut the
door, but the hawker got a quick foot
in. “Come on,” he said menacingly; “y’
can find a coupla bob somewhere.” “Go
away,” said the lady, “or I’ll call me
husband.” The other guffawed. “That's
an ole gag,” he scoffed. “Come - on.
I” There came a bellow from some-
where inside, fifteen stone of brawn and
muscle appeared, and a fist the size of
a football caught the visitor on the jaw
and sent him and his case hurtling on to
a flowerbed. As he floundered about
among the plants the woman turned, a
shrieking fury, on her lord. As her nails
clawed for his face he twisted round
and, grabbing her, shook her hard. “What
the devil’s the matter with you?” he
roared. “Matter!” the lady shrieked.
“Look at me flowerbed —smashed t’ bits.
Y’ great clumsy brute, why couldn’t y’
have socked him on to the path?”
* V * •
“M.U.R.”: Tell “N.” (B. 25/2/’42) to
keep a close watch on the duck hollow
when he reckons the ducklings are about
due to face the grim world. He’ll see
the mother come to the opening with the
younkers about her, he’ll see her push
them off one by one, and he’ll see the
downy things flutter down, land on the
water, right themselves and paddle to-
gether. Then the old lady will join up
and proudly lead the covey in the direc-
tion of the nearest reeds or other handy
cover.
“Blast it! Now well have to turn around and go back.”
A SWEET REVENGE.
(A call has gone out to all old-time shearers who
tun lend a hand to replace younger men in the
shearing- season.)
We’ve sent Grandaddy shearing.
Though he was old and bent.
We oiled his joints and greased his limbs,
Ignored his wild lament.
We knew he was a ringer—
He always told us so.
We washed his neck and patched his pants
And lent him cash to go.
We’ve sent Grandaddy shearing;
He’s in a Bogan shed.
We bought him teeth and stuff for corns,
A nightcap for his head.
He shore back in the ’nineties
From Louth to Pretty Plain;
We dressed him up and trimmed his beard
And put him on the train.
We’ve sent Grandaddy shearing.
He shed an ancient tear;
We wiped his face and shook his hand
And warned him off the beer.
We know it seems hard-hearted,
But our regret is light.
You weren’t forced for thirty years
To hear the old cow skite.
N.S.W.
T. McNARK.


“Sur Cingle”: We took Tom’s mail
out in the buckboard, went on ten miles
to inspect a new fence and called back
at the hut on our return. The old chap
was waiting at the saddle rail with his
swag rolled. “What’s the matter, Tom?”
the boss asked. “Not pullin’ out, are
you?” “Too flamin’ right I am,” rumbled
from Thomas’s beard. “One o’ me papers
reckons it’d be a good idea t’ put up high-
tensile wires on long poles a chain apart
over all open paddocks an’ grazin’ land t
stop aeroplanes an’ gliders cornin’ down.
There’s 3000 blanky square mile in this
run. An’ that’s too big a flamin’ fencin’
job for an ol’ bloke like me.”
* * * *
“Mac Moses”: A suggestion for “Dad”
(B. 11/2/’42) and others too soft-hearted
to kill possums which eat their peaches.
Our peach-tree was raided every night,
and we could hear the commotion as the
ringtail family enjoyed the feast. Then
Pop ran about 50 feet of wire through
the window from our radio to the tree
and fitted the speaker to a branch. We
listened at the window until the ring-
tails arrived. Then we switched on the
radio and turned the knob to loud. As
the Parker Sisters made the peaches
knock together with their raucous song
there came terrified squeaks as the ring-
tails scrambled to safety. The next night
they arrived an hour late and were
greeted with massed bands. We haven’t
lost any peaches since.
m * * *
“Nor’-west”: That yarn about stand-
ing a stick upright in the fleece so that
the ticks should climb and break their
necks (B. 28 /1 /’42)—well, I’ve seen a
practical application of the same prin-
ciple. Up around Broome (nor’-west
W.A.) prodigious-sized cockroaches
abound. Out on the luggers, when seek-
ing change from the monotonous diet of
oyster scraps, they’ll start on a man’s toe-
nails. By the time the annual “lay-up”
arrives they own the boat. Brought close
inshore the lugger is emptied and the
bilge plugs opened. When the 30ft. tide
rises the hull fills. As the water creeps
up, so the cockroach army moves ahead
of it. Up the ladders, all oyer the deck ;
then, with the water still rising, up the
masts. Still the water creeps up until at
last only a few feet of the sticks stand
above the flood. It’s a wonderful sight
then to see the packed insect bodies,
inches thick, the strongest climbing over
the weaker in the endeavor to reach the
extreme top. At that juncture the crew
arrive in the dinghy, armed with a few
sugarbags ; not to collect the catch but
to knock the brutes off into the sea. But,
oddest of all, the fish seem to know of
the impending banquet. As the ’roaches
drop so the water seethes. Astute per-
sons then run a deep net around the spot
and so reap another harvest. For myself,
though, I never fancied fish just filled
with cockroaches.
» * ♦ •
“Ye Olde Crusty”: “Fernie” (B.
18 /2 / ’42) is right about jolting not affect-
ing the potency of booze. But it is a
fact that a warm alcoholic beverage is
more potent than when the same liquor
is chilled. “F.” also states he has not
struck Australian ale or beer “over 10
p.c. absolute alcohol” (10 p.c. absolute
alcohol is equivalent to 17.5 p.c. alcohol
expressed in terms of proof spirit). Excis-
able beer contains a minimum of 2 per
cent. p.s. Cost of such extra materials, etc.,
to make beer 17.5 p.c. p.s. would render
it unprofitable at current rates. Aus-
tralian lagers average 6 p.c. p.s,, bulk beers
8 p.c. p.s., whereas Australian light table
wines, such as hock and chablis, are
about 20 p.c. p.s. A white wine of an
identical strength to a red wine is more
exhilarating on account of its higher
ethereal and aromatic constituents.
* * * *
“Billy See”: Although the abo. was
expert in the spinning of cord and could
weave it into all kinds of nets, fishing and
otherwise, he never rose to the invention
of the fishing line and hook. As a con-
sequence all deep-water fish were lost to
“Good morning, sir!”
him. Shallow-swimming fish, such as
mullet, catfish, garfish and others, he
speared or caught in fish-traps of several
kinds. He even approached close to the
hand dip-net by taking a long-stemmed,
leafless but thickly-twigged bough. With
this, working among those cloudlike
shoals of tiny fish, kindred to the sar-
dines, he could throw them in hundreds
up on to the beach, where the gins and
piccaninnies gathered them before they
had a chance to flap back again. With
the hardwood kylie, bent almost to right
angles, he could score pretty well off
schools swimming past in water down to
about three feet deep, both the kylie and
the struck fish floating to the surface.
Yet when he, and especially she, became
acquainted with the angler’s tackle, the
abo.’s enthusiasm for the pursuit could
hardly be exceeded. Have sat on a W.A.
bridge with a score or more anglers sport-
ing all the refinements of both bait and
tackle, yet have seen the day’s honors go
to old Black Susan, who fished with an
old cotton line, well knotted, the hooks
tied on with a few plaited horse hairs.
Tenseness of the abo. hunting instinct,
which made the old girl aware of the
faintest nibble, was the probable expla-
nation.
* * * *
“Zake”: Neatest bit of amateur
groper-fishing I’ve seen for a long time
was provided by four coves who came
to our backwater of the Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.). They knew the right possie,
anchors out fore and aft 30ft. offshore
in deep-green water, and they slung their
lines —copper-covered aerial wire with
the hooks soldered on—inshore. Blue-
bottle crabs were the bait, and they bur-
leyed with the same reduced to frag-
ments. The groper’s favorite method of
diving under a rock they countered simply
by getting a good leverage with a foot
on the gun’l and skulldragging them
straight in, confident that their lines
couldn’t be cut. Only once did one of
’em have to resort to other means, and
that was when an outsize blue fellow of
fine strength defied human muscles. Then
did the angler slip the top half of a shat-
tered beer-bottle over the end of his line,
jagged end down. This was slid down
the line, and a succession of good
“bumps” convinced the finny rebel that to
hang beneath a rock was to suffer an in-
creasingly lacerated dial. Within an hour
the quartet had hoisted several hundred
fish, in sizes from 161 b. up.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Cupping a boil by means
of a steam bottle (B. /28 /1 / ’42) is a mere
trifle compared with the Woodlark Is.
(New Guinea) method of preventing
them. In that tropical spot boils, which
usually become carbuncles, are of every-
day occurrence. A person unable to en-
dure the preventive method may be
carrying half a dozen at a time. So the
old-timers take a splinter of bamboo,
fire-harden one end and then sharpen to
a needle point. This, dipped in the
strongest carbolic acid, is thrust deep into
the flesh all round the incipient irruption.
The carbolic then burns the germs out of
the seat of the disorder. Takes a bit of
enduring, but extra-heroic souls believe
in thrusting the bamboo right down the
heart of the pimple. Lacking carbolic
acid, the druggist’s carbolic oil makes a
passable substitute, though it lacks the
kick of the straight stuff.
■ * * *
“Bo”: Ned Ragtag is the last of his
tribe in Upper Blackbutt, the only one
of the district’s cockies who has con-
sistently refused to be measured up and
cut to the pattern of modernity. “Them
an’ their karersene refrigerators an’
sleepin’ tinder muskeeter nets!” —thus
does he voice his scorn of the younger
farmers roundabout and their pappy
ways. In Ned’s bachelor humpy the
blowflies, in perfect safety, keep up their
day-long imitation of a sawmill in action,
and at night, even if a mossie penetrated
the facial jungle stuck out from the grey
blanket, it would have bent its barb on
his tanned-leather skin. He roams his
150-acre selection in laceless boots, mole-
skins, Crimea shirt, shapeless felt and
ancient vest in which he keeps tobacco
and matches, and he makes no conces-
sion to sartorial convention when visiting
the Upper Blackbutt Arms. Lobbing in
one Saturday afternoon, he breasted the
bar to hear Arthur Swan, from over the
ridge, saying to a stranger, “The best
wav for you to get to Mr. Skinner’s is
to 'go straight down the Grong Grong
road and take the second turning on the
right.” Ned barged in. “Half a mo,”
"I'll lick the stamps , Admiral if you make the tea!”
he said. “Y’re sendin’ him to blazes out
of his way! Here!” —Ned dipped a
tobacco-stained forefinger in Arthur’s
foam-tipped mug and sketched on the
bar. “Y’ make straight acrorss Hogan’s
paddick here till y’ come to the big dead
messmate with two arms stickin’ out. Y’
bear over to the left to the skeleton o’
the steer caught between the two stumps,
then y’ll see a bit to y’r right a burnt log
restin’ against an outcrop. Don’t take
the pad leadin’ to the ti-tree —make f’r
the big ironbark here be the sliprails.
On y’r way up the rise keep the leanin’
wilga an’ the rusty square tank on y’r
left till -f see low over the hill a gal-
vanised roof —that’ll be old Skinner’s
chaff-shed. Y’ can’t go wrong.” “And
how far would you say it was?” asked
the stranger. Arthur’s half-opened lips
closed again as Ned glared at him. “Well,
mister,” said the last of the old-fashioned
beer-finger explainers, “I took me sled
over yest’day to the crick near there,
filled me tank and got back home an’ it
took no more’n an hour an’ a half. So
now y’ know!”
“Bohemian”: “Bughouse” (B. 14/1/’42),
referring to primitive man’s inventing fire,
forgets that, according to Frazer and
other authorities, the discovery was made
by accident, Frazer points out that
the primitive fish hook was also the
result of accident, guided by experience.
It is also contended that the first boat
was a log that Homo sapiens grasped
(after tumbling into the water) to save his
life. From experience he would prevent
its rolling by staying it —and thus the
outrigger was invented. Then he flat-
tened the log on top to give him security
of foothold. Next he dug two holes for
his feet. The transition to a dugout can
readily be imagined. Man used fire a
long time before he used it to cook his
food. Its warmth would immediately
appeal to him, and he warmed up his
cave with it. The accidental dropping
of a fish or bird into the flames was re-
sponsible for realising the improvement
in the taste of the “cooked” animal.
* * * *
“Snowy”: We were camped at the hut.
Jack and I were lying down while Ginger
read bits from The Bulletin out to us.
Choom was critically examining an old
shotgun. Presently Jack rose, stretched
himself and walked outside. He is a
yodelling fiend (Australian style) and we
were all used to his breaking out any
time, except Choom, whose first night it
was with us. Jack fidgeted about outside
for a few minutes and then let ’er go.
Nothing was left out; kookaburra frills
and all went into the effort.' Choom
turned a horrible color, whirled the shot-
gun in the door’s direction and half-
whispered two words: “Wild blacks! ”
» * * •
“Murlonga”: Twenty-odd years back
there was a tarweena (usually called a
piccaninny) born on Pituri Creek, a tribu-
tary of the Georgina (W.Q.). This fellow
had no sign of hair anywhere on his
body, and at three years of age there
was still not a trace of it. He wasn’t a
deformity. Half a dozen or so other
tarweenas in that area were hideous freaks,
perhaps owing to congenital disease,
but this bald bloke was perfect in every
way. In due course, in common with
others out of the ordinary, the little
fellow was taken “walkabout.” He never
returned. The same thing happened to
“Nugget,” an apelike boy on Lake Nash.
I made inquiries about the bald fellow.
: There was a rumor, a long time ago, that
a tribe of hairless ones used to live on
the Georgina. They were accursed:^
• “Debbil-debbil sit down belong-it tha’
■ one.” They were hounded out of the
district as untouchables. Half a century
or more back a tribe of hairless blacks
were on the Balonne River, in the St.
George district (s.-w. Q.). They died out
—the others would not mix with them.
* * * «=
“Gryllus”: The Moreton Bay figs are
ripe on the big tree, and every night the
flying foxes come to gorge and squeal and
flap creakily from one laden branch to
another. To my banana-growing neigh-
bors they are a costly pest, as yet ineradi-
cable and uncontrollable. Yet, setting
aside mere prejudice against their smell,
vermin and satanic appearance, there
should be some way of putting them to
commercial use. Their flesh is not only
edible but of excellent flavor, much like
wild duck. A fine glove leather can be
made from the wings, although much
care is needed for getting it away from
the wing bones in one undamaged piece.
The fur is of fine texture and the hide tans
well. A dozen well-matched skins make
a handsome fur-choker, one to gladden
the heart of any woman who didn’t know
what it came off, and at least one woman
who does. Half a dozen species, ranging
from Gippsland to New Guinea in count-
less millions, provide an inexhaustible
supply. I visualise a time when the
C.S.I.R. will convert Pteropus into a
great Australian industry.
STEAM-SHOVEL SONG.
Fashioned like a mastodon,
Mighty, black and dutiful.
Bite the cliff we’ve blasted on —
Greedy-guts, my beautiful!
Let men hear your hollow song
From your insides thundering;
Sing your hungry swallow-song
While the hills loom. wondering.
From what far-off lunacy
Were you born, grim alien,
To rush your importunacy
At our calm earth Australian?
Who devised your cunning grab,
Made your snout your funnel’s end.
Taught you that low, running grab,
Leading to each tunnel’s end?
Modern black monstrosity,
Like an ore-ship foundering—
With your blind ferocity,
Ignorant and floundering,
You are just a greedy guts,
Prehistoric hairy fool!
Dirt will fill your needy guts —•
Get your Little-Mary full!
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


HITS
LYS
PROOF
MWM Hrnml
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
'
r:-*
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A Sheepyard.
“Rom Ney”: A. Newcomen, of Ensay
(Vic.), has designed a sound sheepyard
lor the man who’s in the business in a
small way.
Using a scale iin. to 1ft., plan
a rectangle 96ft, long and 50ft.
wide. On the long sides mark off 8ft.
panels ; on the short, 6ft. panels. Lay
the plan down with the long sides run-
ning across the paper, the short sides up
and down. On the bottom right-hand
corner (bottom side) mark a 6ft. gate,
then an 8ft. gate at the top of the right
side, 6ft. gates at the bottom, middle
and top of the left-hand short side.
At a point slightly more than halfway
from the left corner along the bottom
side mark a post inside the fence. From
that post mark a fence straight across
the yard for 19ft., add 6ft. for a gate.
From the upper gatepost, i.e., 25ft. from
the bottom side, mark in a post, and 10ft.
directly left of that another. Opposite
them will be two other posts, and the
space between will be the drafting race,
16in. wide on the inside. Come straight
in from the second post up the left side
of the yard to allow for a 6ft. gate, then
rule a line from there to the nearest
drafting-race post. Mark in four 7ft.
panels along this line, leaving space at
the drafting race for a 4ft. drafting gate
and post. Go to the second post down
the left-hand side and repeat, coming
into the drafting race on that side.
Now go to the top right drafting-race
post, and from it run a fence —two panels
—16ft. straight towards the top right
corner of the yard. From the 16ft. point
run a panel 7ft. straight towards the right
side of the yard, then go back to the
16ft. point and run another 16ft. fence
towards the top of the yard at such an
angle as will bring the 16ft. to a point 6ft.
from the top. At this point a 6ft. gate
will go in. From where that gate would
swing to a point about 2ft. 6in. from the
top fence will be the first post of a race
—2ft. 6in. wide on the inside —running
parallel with the top fence towards the
top left corner for 30ft., ending in a
2ft. 6in. gate. Four panels will cover
this race, which is for drenching, class-
ing, etc.
Now back to the bottom wall of the
drafting race, and from the right-hand
post carry a six-panel fence 42ft. towards
the third post up in the right-hand outer
fence ; the gap represents a 6ft. gate.
From the dead centre of this line a ver-
tical line should take you across the tip
of that 7ft. piece that was left above.
That vertical line should begin and end
with 6ft. gates and be 16ft. long between
them. That’s the issue.
In building the yard, make the end
posts of each line, round ones preferably,
each exactly 3ft. 3in. above ground.
Stretch a line from the top centres and
put in the other posts with their faces
along the line and their tops an inch
above it. Then drop the line 3in. to
get the scarf to be taken out for the cap
rail. Let the cap Hin. into the “between”
posts and mortise about 3in. into the
end posts. Fit caps, nail and saw off pro-
truding ends. Use 3in. x 3in. timber for
the cap and 6in. x 1 Fin. for the rails,
which should be at 4in. intervals, down
from the cap, not up from the ground,
leaving about a 6in. space between
bottom rail and ground. Cover joins in
rails with a piece of 4in. x lin. and clamp
with two bolts to posts. Make sure the
gates will swing flush with the fence.
Timber quantities needed are: For
bottom side, six 15ft. 3x3 and 18 15ft.
6 x H rails; top side, six 16ft. 3x3
and 18 16ft. 6 x 1|; left side, two 16ft.
3x3 and six 16ft. 6 x If ; right side,
three 14ft. 3x3 and nine 14ft. 6 x I|.
Drafting race, two 10ft. 3x3 and 12
10ft. 6 x H; two 30ft. lengths off draft-
ing race, four 15ft. 3x3 and 12 15ft.
6 x H ; for 19ft. length, one 19ft. 3x3
and three 19ft. 6 x \\ ; for two 16ft.
angle fences, two 16ft. 3x3 and six
16ft. 6x1); for 7ft. length, one 7ft.
3x3 and three 7ft. 6 x H ; for 42ft.
length, three 14ft. 3x3 and nine 14ft.
6 x H; for 16ft. length crossing 7ft.
“You and y'r blasted tank-traps !”
length, one 16ft. 3x3 and three 16ft.
6x 1|; for drenching race, which should
be 3ft. high, use eight 15ft. 6*X ly, the
cap being 6 x 1| on the flat and useful
as a shelf. Make the gates of 4 x 1
timber.
Sowing Sub. Clover.
“Ex-C.G.”: Surface-sowing is the
cheapest way to establish sub. On the
day of sowing the seed is mixed with
super, and spread on the paddock
through any implement that will spread
super. If there is a short cover of barley
grass or other herbage so much the better.
March, April and May are the best
months, according to the weather. A
pound of seed an acre should give a plant
every square yard. If the seed can be
covered by harrowing a better strike will
follow.
In irrigable parts of northern Victoria
a crop of oats or barley is sown on the
worked ground at normal depth for
cereals, then sub. clover mixed with the
super, is spread on with something drag-
ging behind the machine to cover the seed.
In the sub. clover’s first season the
extra feed may not be greatly noticeable,
but if it is given a chance by light grazing
it will make enough seed to assure a
good stand in the following and subse-
quent seasons.
After sowing, water right to the end of
October, if the weather doesn’t get too
hot. In the second season, if February
be cool, growth can be started by water-
ing then. Topdress regularly, water care-
fully and graze leniently for three or four
years and there should be a strong sward.
Good grazing is necessary where irriga-
tion is to be used, with a proper layout
of channels, banks and drains. Early
sowing on a moist seed-bed, with a heavy
seeding of up to 71b. of sub. clover and
a light seeding of not more than slb. an
acre of Wimmera rye seed, and subse-
quent careful management should pro-
vide a pasture that will stand for several
years and give hay or silage as well as
grazing. The heavy sowing rate may
appear expensive, but it will save a year
in establishment.
Orphan Foals.
“Huxave”: W. D. Shew, senior vet.
of the Victorian Department of Agricul-
ture, has some advice on artificial rear-
ing of young foals.
Given the right care, the foal gets a
good start on cow’s milk. An ordinary
nursing bottle with a large teat serves
until the youngster learns to drink from
a bucket by being allowed to suck the
fingers. See that the utensils are care-
fully washed and sterilised before each
feeding.
First milk given should, if possible,
come from a newly-calved cow, and
should have a low fat content. To make
it up take four tablespoons limewater
and one tablespoon of sugar dissolved in
a small quantity of warm water and add
fresh milk to make one pint. Warm to
blood heat and give the foal soz. of the
mixture. It needs this at one-hour in-
tervals for the first four days. Six feeds
a day will be sufficient; later come down
to four. Over this time gradually in-
crease the quantity and substitute whole
milk.
When the foal is about one month old
reduce the sugar ration but keep the lime-
water going. At six weeks put him on
skim-milk and at three months give him
as much as he likes three times a day.
A little cod-liver oil added to the daily
ration is excellent. If diarrhoea sets in a
dose of two to four tablespoons of castor
oil and olive oil —equal parts —shaken up
in milk, rights matters. Hold up the milk
feeding for a few hours and give the
animal sweetened warm water with lime-
water.
Foals require solid food —oatmeal,
bran, crushed oats, chaff, lucerne or hay
—as early as possible, plenty of exercise
and fresh air.
Train ’em young to let you lead them
with a halter, to allow you to handle their
legs and to stand tied up.
Pig Mange and Lice.
“Large White”: Better than spraying
or painting with oil or kerosene (B.
25/2/’42) is complete dipping. For smali
pigs a dip may be made from a 44gal.
drum or cask cut vertically; for large
pigs, build it of wood, with seams treated
with bitumen, pitch, concrete or the like.
Sump oil, kerosene and water are
needed a gallon of kerosene to
every five of waste oil. In a dip for
pigs of all sizes 12in. to 16in. depth of
water is first put in, then sufficient oil
and kerosene to form a layer 6in. deep on
the water.
The pigs are held by the legs and put
into the dip upside down. While strug-
gling to a standing position they become
well coated with the oil. A ramp will
allow them to walk out unassisted.
Ears, eyes and mouth are not affected
by the oil. Oil that remains after dip-
ping should be sprayed around walls,
fences, etc. One dipping is usually suffi-
cient to banish both lice and mange—
the latter caused by a small skin mite—
for a considerable time. Provide shade
and shelter for the animals immediately
after dioping.
Impaction.
“Huxave”: Sufferers
are restless and go
off their feed. Pro-
duction of milkers
drops suddenly. Some
go sick for two or
three days, then re-
cover without treat-
ment. Lack of atten-
tion may prove costly.
If not relieved, normal
motions cease, gases
collect and symptoms
of bloat often follow.
In extreme emacia-
tion or weakness
avoid purgatives and
give the animal a mix-
ture of ioz. of pow-
dered nux vomica and
loz. of powdered
ginger. Divide equally
into six powders.
Give one powder
mixed with treacle
night and morning for three days, plac-
ing it on the back of the tongue to make
sure of its getting down.
Animals not weak from emaciation
should be given a drench of 11b. of
Epsom salts and 2oz. of ground ginger
dissolved in 14 pint of water. Enemas
of soapy water are good.
Where the condition is weak but not
to the point of emaciation, prepare
powders of \oz. powdered nux vomica,
\oz. of powdered ammonium carbonate
and loz. of powdered ginger. Dose with
this night and morning for three days.
Fairly strong patients should first be
treated with loz. or 2oz. of oil of tur-
pentine in one or two pints of raw lin-
seed oil. Follow this next day with a
drench made of lib. of Epsom salts in
lj pint of water.
“Y. Dent”; Hybrid maize is making
tremendous headway in U.S.A. —37 p.c.,
or about 33,000,000 acres, of the coun-
try’s maize acreage this season was
sown with hybrid seed. In the cornbelt
proper there was a marked increase,
hybrid acreage jumping from 26,000,000
in 1940 to 31,000,000 in 1941—from
about 52 p.c. to 62 p.c. of the total. In
some parts of the area farmers went in
for 100 p.c. hybrid sowings.
“Bundalinga”: Tom Moad, Spring
Hill, Orange (N.S.W.), uses hedges of tree
lucerne as shelter for lambing ewes. In
most of his small paddocks Moad has


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £ 1/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
iiil
SPEED THE
#
v>x-.V
- !? sV s . s \Os gSS&S&ftI TO '-: <
s s rnWsmM MH N TO
■Pliilll
y :KVv£sy:
iiliill
ill
■■■IMHP
.
■:>:xx'x:-;;xx.
X :Xi:
llillll
m
iPPiiiiliil®*##'
<&A
■H
;s :
mm
MmM
m
> ssg
i*
:;. ■■ ' ■
FILL THE
LIBERTY
LOAN
Subscriptions may be made at any
of the 430 offices and branches of
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
or at any other Bank, Post Office or Sharebroker.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
QvniVFV OFFICE: A M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLE VILLE, BUENOS AIRES. LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
tree lucerne planted in rows in 16ft.-wide
strips, which are fenced. The trees form
a thick wall right to the fences, where
they are trimmed back by stock. Fences
are essential to prevent stock from de-
stroying the trees. Some of the shelter
belts are 40 years old. Tree lucerne sheds
a lot of seed, and it is not hard to expand
the area of shelter.
Outback Occasions.
No. 25.
A DEPARTURE.
Our brother was 18 when he got a job
as shed-hand on a shearing run. It was
the occasion of the good year, when we
had a lot of wheat and a good harvest
and Father was able to employ a man.
“We want t’ take a rest when we can get
it,” said Father, “an’ with most o’ the
fallowin’ done we ought t’ be able t’ sit
back till seedin’.”
Our brother told me he was going to
the shearing and threatened to break my
neck if I said anything about it until he
was ready. “If I spring it on ’em,” he
said, “they won’t get a chance t’ do any
hummin’ an’ hahin’ an’ I’ll be gone be-
fore they wake up.”
So we dodged about the place for a
few weeks until one night our father
said we might as well be doing something
and we’d run a subdivision fence across
the top paddock and our brother and I
could take the wagon next day and go
out and get some posts.
“Not me,” said our brother, “I’m off
shearin’ tomorrow and we’re leavin’ at
four o’clock.”
Nobody took any notice for a minute
or two. Father just went on talking about
the fence and Mother went on with the
ironing. I looked at our brother: He
seemed wild and was about to say some-
thing when Father suddenly looked at
him and asked, “What didger say about
shearin’?”
Our brother repeated it. You never
heard such a fuss! Father pointed out
that our brother wasn’t 21 yet and
Mother said he was far too young to go
gallivanting about the country with a
lot of drunken, gambling, swearing
shearers and anyhow we weren’t in the
position where our children had to go
out and work for their living like that.
She had a lot of high ideas about our
status, did Mother.
Then our father wanted to know what
put such a silly idea into our brother’s
head and did he know what he was up
against and hadn’t he any idea of how
much different it was working for a boss
than with an easygoing, kindly, indul-
gent man like his own father. Moreover,
he couldn’t expect to have his mother
with him to comfort him every time he
got the toothache and who’d do his wash-
ing and what sort of tucker did he ex-
pect to get and so forth.
But our brother dug his toes in and
they could see he was determined. Then
Mother started to cry and said he might
have given her more notice ; there were
all his clothes to get ready and he needed
a couple of new singlets and everything.
Father, asking Mother what good crying
would do and being told he always was
heartless about the children, started to
recall his own shearing days and was
putting up some wonderful tallies before
it was all over. There was a lot of talk
about different things—it was the first
time any of our family was going away
alone—and every now and then Father
would break in on the talk with “That
reminds me of the time we shore the
Multhuggera wethers,” and off he’d go
again.
Well, what with the fuss and the talk,
our brother started to swagger about and
give me orders about things to look after
and do after he was gone. But that night,
after we’d gone to bed, we lay in the
darkness for a bit and then he said, in
a funny voice, “If anything goes wrong,
kid, you let me know at once.” I couldn’t
answer him because—well, because. And
then he said, “You keep an eye on the
old man. You know, he tries t’ do too
much.” I nodded in the darkness. Then
he said, “An’ if you start bawlin’ when
I go I’ll pass you one.” Then we both
had a bit of a whimper and after that I
got a surge of strength and mentally
swore to carry on the farm, come what
may. I was 15.
Mother was up before dawn that
morning, washing our brother’s things
and fussing about. She had us all out
early, and after breakfast she and our
sister turned to and “did out ’ the entire
house —why, heaven knows. There was
a strange air about the place that day.
You’d have thought the dogs and chooks
and crows knew our brother was going
away and it wasn’t safe to say anything
to Father for fear he’d fly into a rage.
Somehow the time dragged by. A car
was to call for our brother at four o’clock.
By one o’clock our mother had a stack of
rugs, blankets, cushions, towels, sheets,
soap, shirts, socks and other gear enough
to start a small shop, and when our
brother tried to tell her he only wanted
a few old clothes, he’d be working in
grease and dust and wool, she sat down
and cried again, and one thing and
another led to a first-class row all round.
As four o’clock came closer our brother
started to look a bit worried. He got me
on one side and said, “Look, when that
car comes it’ll be full of blokes. I don’t
want them to see Mother and you kids
blubberin’ all over the place. Here’s a
zac. Soon as the car comes you grab my
bag an’ heave it in, see.” I saw,
The car came. It whirled up to our
front verandah and a lot of strange faces
looked on our agony of parting. I
grabbed the bag and stumbled towards
the car, but the bag flew open and every-
thing fell into the dust. With all those
eyes boring into me and our brother
hissing savagely into my ear I scrabbled
the things back somehow, shut the bag
and hurried round the back of the house,
There, with Rusty, our brother’s dog, I
sat down and waited, comforting the
hound and being comforted by him.
Presently I heard our mother calling,
pulled myself together and went back
and held out my hand and said Ta-ta,
y’ silly cow.” And all the eyes in the car
looked at me and all the mouths grinned,
Our brother got in the car. kj°P
bye” called Mother in what the writer
blokes call a broken voice. Hooray,
missus! ” roared the car load and away
they went in a cloud of dust, with our
dogs chasing them. Then we went back
into the silent house and our Father said,
“I told that lazy young cow t let the
horses out before he went. Wait till he
comes home!” But he had a queer, lost
look about him.


food flavour... f)
with new-style efficiency ..
je.:
a ‘yssS : . ■■ ■* i' -•'• 'tiStovt. . ■■ ;^T~'
when you cook with an
AGA
It wasn’t much fun .. . cooking in the
good old days ... too grimy, too tiring,
too wasteful of fuel for modern tastes.
But what delicious flavour old-time
cookery gave!
You can prepare delicious old-time meals
without hours of drudgery in a hot
kitchen simply hy installing the most
efficient, economical, easiest-to-use cooker
ever invented ... a beautiful, modern, in-
sulated AG A. The AG A Cooker burns
continuously. Hot plates and ovens are
instantly ready for scientific flavour-
retaining cooking ... fast or slow ~. by
STORED heat.
An AGA Cooker requires very little atten-
tion. A rub with a damp cloth keeps its
beautiful, vitreous-enamelled surface clean
as a china plate. And the AfiA’s insula-
tion keeps the kitchen cool.
TRADE MARK'/
JkOndnclikatStoiXuK
COOKER ,
MADE IN. BR IT* I H A
LEVIN & CO., LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and at Wellington, N.Z.
The AGA is almost unbelievably
economical. For instance, fuel cost of the
AGA Model C (illustrated) for city or
country homes is guaranteed to be less
than £3 in a whole year (with coke at
30/- per ton) in the city. (Freight in-
creases price in country, but annual con-
sumption is so low that amazing economy
is possible anywhere in Australia.)
Now, let us show you an AGA Cooker, or
if you cannot call, write for illustrated
AGA Catalogue 8.3.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sous, Ltd., Hobart.
Agent for Western Australia: Malloch Bros., Ltd., Perth.
Agent for Queensland: Queensland Primary Producers
Co-operative Association, Ltd., Brisbane.
the Keystone of NATIONAL EFFORT
The serious conditions of the times make it necessary
for all people to contribute as fully as possible to
the National effort. This can be done by avoiding
unnecessary spending and by using money saved to
buy War Bonds and War Savings Certificates. Also
it can be done by improving efficiency and keeping
the machinery of production at work for 24 hours
a day. A necessary factor is the full co-operation
of industry, trade and finance. Throughout the war
period the banks have actively co-operated with the
Government and the business world, thus positively
assisting towards the rapid expansion of Australia’s
war-time industries.
THE NATIONAL BANK
84 years
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
experience of Australian
Banking
4/16/42'
Our Service Department
Wants.
Any books by Price Waning.—3243.
To buy copies of American “Ladies’ Home
Journal,” preferably 1939 or 1940.-3244.
lo buy September, 1937, copy of the Ameri-
can “Modern Mechanix.”—3245.
Information Sought.
Are civilians or soldiers permitted to wear
(on the right breast ) the medals and decorations
of deceased parents ? If so, in what circum-
stances ?
The R.S.S.I.L.A. rules that decorations and
medals may be worn only by the person on
whom they were conferred, and that in no case
does the right to wear decorations and medals
or their ribands devolve upon the widow, son
or cither relative when the recipient is dead.
Similarly, when a posthumous award is made
and the medal or decoration is handed to the
next-of-kin it may not be worn. Relaxations
of the rule are permitted only in connection
with Armistice and Anzac Day ceremonies, when
relatives may wear the medals and decorations
on the right breast.
3j- Jjc !£ 5£
(1) Is there a charcoal burner on the market?
(2) Cost? (3) Best wood for charcoal? (4) Is
river-gum suitable? (5) Where can I obtain
further information ?
(1) Presume you mean a charcoal kiln.
These are not on the market, but are built as
required. Various types are used, including
that shown in the N. S. Wales Forestry Com-
mission’s pamphlet on producer gas, a copy
of which has been forwarded. (2) Price of
320 cub. ft. capacity kiln is about £50. (3)
Any of the denser hardwoods are satisfactory.
(4) River red-gum produces a satisfactory chax - -
coal. (5) From the Wood Technology Division
of the N. S. Wales Forestry Commission, 96
Harrington-street, Sydney.
* at % %
(1) What unions constitute the Federated Iron-
workers’ Association of Australia ? (2) Are any
of the constituent unions State unions ? Of
those that are State only which are registered
in N. S. Wales? (3) Which are connected with
wages boards in Victoria?
(1) There is only one Federated Ironworkers’
Association and it is registered in the Com-
monwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitra-
tion. (2) The Queensland, S.A. and N. S.
Wales sections of the union are registered under
the Arbitration Acts of the respective States.
(31 The Victorian section of the union has been
responsible for the creation of and has repre-
sentatives on a number of wages boards in Vic-
toria. The only other union which could be
confused with the Victorian section is a Vic-
torian union, the Amalgamated Iron Foundry
Employees’ Union, which has no Federal regis-
tration.
* * * »
Is there a Welsh word longer than the German
schu tze ngrabenvernichtungpanzerkraftwagen ?
Also, what is the meaning of the Welsh word?
Certainly—Llanfaerpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrn-
drobwllllandissiliogogogoch. Translated, “the
church of St. Mary in a hollow of white hazel
near to the rapid whirlpool and to St. Tysilio’s
church near to a red cave.”
* * * *
(1) Any openings in the A.B.C. for youths to
train as announcers? (2) What qualifications
am necessary? (3) What opportunities? (4)
To whom should I apply?
The A.B.C. has a scheme to engage youths
from 16 to 18 to train as cadet announcers,
effects operators and continuity writers. The
scheme is more or less in abeyance at present
because youths of about the prescribed age
are all being called up for military training.
(2) An education equivalent to leaving certifi-
cate standard, special qualifications either in
literature or foreign languages and a voice suit-
able for broadcasting. (3) Plenty—at present
two of the principal news readers are young
fellows under 21 who have been trained for the
job. (4) By written application to the Staff
Office, A.8.C., Sydney.
* # * *
What treatment of cancer is most favored
nowadays—surgery or deep-ray therapy? Has
a serum treatment been developed ?
The measure of success of surgical or deep-
ray treatment of cancer varies with the stage
of progress of the disease, with the type of
cancer (whether of a rapidly-growing type, such
as sarcoma, or slow-growing, such as rodent
ulcer), on the site or accessibility of the cancer,
and on the radio sensitivity of the particular
cancer. A basis of comparison is only avail-
able when the surgical and deep X-ray treatments
are used as alternatives. For example, cancer
of the neck of the womb in the early stage has
a five-year cure rate in Australia of 41.7 p.c.
by surgical methods and 20 p.c. by deep X-ray
therapy. Intravenous injections of metallic com-
pounds and antisera have been used in the
past without avail, and the use of radioactive
substances prepared by the cyclotron is under
consideration now.
T. * * *
When should waratah seed be sown and soil
most suitable?
Sow seed between March and May in boxes
of poor soil containing plenty of charcoal or
grit. Fresh seed will germinate in about four
weeks. When seedlings are sturdy enough to
lift, set them out in well-drained earthenware
pots or tins of sandy loam. Avoid overwater-
ing, and should the soil in the pots harden on
the surface mix in some coarse sand. The
plants will be ready for the open garden in
about two years.
* * * •
(1) What were the attendances and gate re-
ceipts at the five Test cricket matches in Aus-
tralia in 1932-33 ? (2) Date of birth and death
of F. Spofforth and J. Blackham ?
(D-
First Test, Sydney .. .. 158,193 £14,683
Second Test, Melbourne .. 200,635 16,722
Third Test, Adelaide .. .. 172,346 16,241
Fourth Test, Brisbane .. 93,143 10,909
Fifth Test, Sydney .. .. 136,790 11,797
Totals .. 762,107 £70,352
(2) F. Spofforth was born Sept. 9, 1853 ;
died June 4, 1926. J. Blackham was born May
11, 1853 ; died Dec. 27, 1932.
«• *
Methods of growing strawberries: (1) Soil
suitable? (2) When and how to plant?
(1) Friable loam is most suitable. Trench
at least 2ft. deep, and mix through the soil a
big helping of lime. A month later add a big
helping of stable refuse and a dusting of blood-
and-bone or superphosphate. (2) Between May
and August is planting-time. Set plants in
double rows 12in. each way to permit of easy
attention and weeding. Remove most of the
foliage, and when planting leave the red sheath
just above the soil surface. When plants flower,
place straw, grass or hessian on the soil under
the runners to keep the fruit from contact with
the soil.
Information Supplied.
E.SJ.: From many inquiries up to 1915 I
am satisfied that C. J. Dennis’s “Austral
-aise” had not been set to music, at any rate
in published form, up to then. But it goes
perfectly to the air of “The Merry Widow”
waltz, and an R.A.A.F. friend wrote that the
combination has made a tremendous hit in
Canadian training camps.
Brief Answers.
R.G.: Bugler F. Ashton, of the 11th Battalion,
was the first Australian captured alive by the
Turks R.F.: Depends what you want the
camera for and what you consider to be ad-
vantages. Broadly, a small camera with lens
of short focal length would be suitable for most
work; a lens of longer focal length is useful
when distant objects are wanted... .G.P.R.:
The World Almanac, quoting a bulletin of the
New York Public Library, gives the following
story: “In this country [U.S.A.] excitement
was intense as The Old Curiosity Shop neared
its tragic conclusion. When the ship bringing
the final number arrived in New York it was
met by a crowd at the pierhead, and as soon as
voices could reach a cry went up Ts Little Nell
dead?’” W. 8.: Air Chief Marshal Sir
Charles Portal is 48; he served through the
1914-18 war and has played an important part
in the growth of the R.A.F D.N.D.: King
Edward instituted the Order of Merit in June,
1902 P.R.: Britain’s national debt before the
1914-18 war was £650,000,000; by the end of
the war it had increased to £7,800,000,000
T. 8.; “Punch” made its first appearance on
July 17, 1841. Its first editor was Mark Lemon.
. ...5.8.R.: Walter Ramsay McNicol was
M.H.R. for Werriwa (N.S.W.) from 1931 until
he resigned on August 2, 1934. On the follow-
ing day he was appointed Administrator of New
Guinea. He embarked with the A.I.F on
August 28, 1914... .T.N.G.: Write to the Royal
Australian Historical Society, 8 Young-street.
Sydney T.P.: Latest figures available are for
1939-40, when the total value of sawn timber
produced in Queensland was £2,859,799...
H.L.R.: The Writers and Artists’ Year-Book
available from .any large bookseller, should suit
you 8.H.W.; It seems that the attitude of
your C.O. decides the matter R.S.T.; Re-
ports of Federal Parliamentary debates can be
had for 4s. a year from the Government Printer
Canberra G.J.: How to Read a Book, by
Mortimer J. Adler 8.R.P.: Try the Mines
Department, Perth D.R.: The “Times” pub-
lished the first radio press message in 1903....
8.N.R.: Home treatment not advisable; pack
the dog off to a vet P.R.M.; They are:
Afternoon watch, noon to 4 p.m.; first dog
watch, 4 p.m. to 6 p.m.; second dog watch,
6 p.m. to 8 p.m. ; first watch, 8 p.m. to mid-
night ; middle, midnight to 4 a.m.; morning,
4 a.m. to 8 a.m.; and forenoon, 8 a.m. to noon.
G.B.: The Fabian Society was founded in
1883... .8.G.: W. M. Hughes was member for
West Sydney in the first Federal Parliament.
F. W. Holder was Speaker.'.. .8.G.R.: Austra-
lians and Canadians together attacked Mouquet
Farm on September 5, 1916 F.H.A.: News-
papers published in Darwin are the “Northern
Standard,” published twice weekly by the North
Australia Workers’ Union, and the “Army
News,” published twice weekly by the A.M.F.
C.R.W.W.: He has returned to Australia.
. ...J.8.T.: The idea of parachute troops is
not new; about 16 years ago there was a display
by such troops in England, and about 19 years
ago an article in an English magazine outlined
the possibilities of the scheme J.E.: An en-
rolment of 2300 at Bankstown public school
last year was the largest in N. S. Wales. Popu-
lation of Bankstown at December 31, 1939, was
28,400; of Manly, 25,860 W.L.T.: A copy
of the regulations governing the award of
bursaries under the Bursary Endowment Act
(N.S.W.) has been posted to you E.M.; The
efficacy of anti-cancerous sera has not been
established. Latest method of attack in cancer
research is by neutrons and by temporarily active
radio-active substances X.Y.Z.: Physical
education instructors in schools controlled by
the N. S. Wales Education Department are
trained at the Teachers’ College as general
teachers and specialise in physical education
during the third year of training, leading to the
Certificate in Physical Education. For those
outside the department who wish to obtain the
certificate the course provides for three years’
training, fees being £l5 a year for two years
and £25 for the third year. Can’t say what
positions are likely to be available Inter-
ested: No officer is detailed to deal with such
cases. If any member of the Australian forces
is offered a commission in tile Indian Army he
knows the conditions before he accepts. All
armies have pay allowances, pension rights, etc.,
and these would be explained when offering the
commission. A defaulting husband is not a
matter for the army. For further information
write H.Q., Indian Army, India (the address
changes with the seasons).


Position Vacant.
SOLWAY GIRLS’ COLLEGE,
MASTERTON, NEW ZEALAND.
Applications from University Graduates,
men or women, are invited for the position of
Principal of the above school.
Established in 1916, Solway College, all the
pupils of which are boarders, is one of the
leading schools in the Dominion. It comprises
Primary and Secondary departments. Fully
equipped, it is beautifully situated in spacious
grounds that provide facilities for all sports.
Living-in accommodation is provided.
The school is under the control of the
Wairarapa Presbytery and the successful appli-
cant must be an active communicant member
of the Presbyterian Church.
Salary according to qualifications and experi-
ence. Applications, accompanied by testi-
monials, will be received up to 31st March, 1942,
and should be addressed to —
The Secretary, P.O. Box 63,
Masterton, New Zealand.
Are you
watching
his health?
If your dog’s
coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts—
start him now on
a course of
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
lively and eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole system.
d
f
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors—W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; F. E. Bpxton, Esq. ;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ; E. E. D. White, Esq. ; H. C. Morrow, Esq.
General Manager—D. S. FORBES. „ .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and itecexv n
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also re P^". ta ,
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia the World, ims
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking busmes .
■ ■nyyn.i.l 1.1. W"
* ;
m
<r\
mm
XT
N-<
x:
"We give them the t 0015...
s?*ssl
Above the thunderous tumult of War, from the
very core of the fast-moving drama, comes the
clarion call of Churchill for more tools, so that
the job may be finished and victory be won.
Swiftly the wheels of industry are turned from
peace-time pursuits, and the factories of Aus-
tralia move into the front line.
Tuned to meet the nation's need, rich in experi-
ence. and with men and machines capable of
turning out equipment of the greatest technical
and scientific integrity, E.T.C. is mobilized for
war.
And the watdhword is accuracy. Just as the
men of Anzac give their best, so the factory
front is manned with those who are anxious,
with courage and determination, to do a job
worthy of their race.
lecnico
And we too are proud as each
tested unit passes into the line
bearing the hall mark—"A
feenico Product."
E. T
CNR.
C. INDUSTRIES LSMITE
CARRINGTON RD. AND REN WICK ST„ MARRICK V I L L E, N. S
D
. w.
4-33-41
El 868
10 for lid.
20 for no
CRAVENA
..aie so
■mg?
PREVENT
33
T H R
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
G.A.P.:
Awake, my love! Nay, rest asleep!
For inilkless is thy morning cup of tea.
And cold thy bath and just four inches deep,
And petrol we have none to reach the sea.
C.A.: —
He was only a kitchen saucepan,
No longer spick and span,
But, along with his fellow-pots,
He proved himself a man.
Soaring aloft, a bright bird of prey,
Scorning the tasks of humdrum day.
Carrying the Future, high in the sky.
My kitchen saucepan is winging away.
... .D.McC.: Thanks, but we don’t reprint.. ..
G.L.M.; “Out-quipped” hardly means the same
thing as “out-equipped” C.S.: Would you
have spoken of dust being “thrust” from a vol-
cano if you hadn’t been stuck for a rhyme?
....J.P.: The “morn-dawn” rhyme can’t be
bawne... .C.V.T.; “Shovel Song” nearly dug
itself in 8.5.: Some fight; but it’s nothing
to the one you must have had with your Muse.
, ...JJ.M.M.: Do you honestly believe that
trees wave their weird, attenuated arms be-
cause they object to the moonlight? J.W.C.;
Literary value? Nil. Commercial value? What-
ever you can get for it S.G.: Even the
weariest “River” winds somewhere to its end....
W.E.D.; All right then, get it off your chest:
“Australians, arise!”... .P.K.: All right then,
get it off your chest: “Awake, Australia!”
8.C.J.: All right then, get it off your chest:
“Australians, arise! Awake!” 8.E.: The
birds are amiable birds; that’s all W.T.:
Indistinguishable from a dozen others on the
same theme S.K.C.; Elementary M. 8.:
Keep at it E.G.: What, another? Come
in, then: “Awake, Australia!” R.W.H.:
“ ’Tis short, ’tis very short.” Nay; ’tis long,
’tis much too 10ng... .K.E.C.: It smacks of
“We Are the Music-makers”... .N.N.: Much
charm, as usual; but still no bite M.A.L.:
Try elsewhere K.W.; Give 90 per cent, of
’em credit for sincerity... .W.M.W.; “Lian,
appease!” is a poor conclusion.... C.A.; Tried
it backwards, but even then it didn’t seem to
mean anything in particular E.S.: “I do
not like me this at all.” We do not like us that
at all W.R.8.: “This War” is he 11....
F.E.C.: We cannot find a match for it; but
you might... .F.W.; Didactic... .G.D.: Ah,
here’s an original note! Come in: “Awake,
ye men of British blood!”... .A.S.; Suitable
for the women’s mags., perhaps W.M.; Idea
all right; try it elsewhere... .W.A.M.; That
one not so near J.C.: Well enough done
of their kind; an evening daily could use them.
W.H.C.: Yours, too, perhaps G.D.;
Thin J.T.: One glance at The Bulletin
should show you how far off our beat it really
is D.S.M.: Elsewhere... .L.L.: Can’t help
that “lanky knight of tramphood” with his swag.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.J.G.: Out with those miniatures in faint
pencil G.M-: Sketch of cadaverous, crepe-
bedecked undertaker drinking beer while sitting
on coffin went to the office crematorium....
8.M.: You seem to be partial to children with
arms longer than a gorilla’s and egg-shaped
heads—or are they the only kids you’ve seen?
... .P.T.; You earn the camel-wielders’ V.C.
for boning a joke from a two-weeks-old
Bulletin; most corsairs deem it decent to wait
at least a month... .R. 8.; Iron out the bumps
on your bathing belles and they may be pass-
able J.8.W.: “I hope you can place this
sketch.” We did, in a woven-cane receptacle two
feet to the left of our chair P.C.K.: Linework,
not wash, is your medium... .L.J.W.; He-she
jokes depending entirely on forced malaprop-
isms, misplaced aspirates or the play on words
not wanted... .Joe G.: The joke made no
mention of the reason for the swaggie’s weari-
ness; then we looked at the boots you d g' ven
him, and understood 8.C.5.: Drawing suf crs
badly from an overdose of Chinese white a
cross-hatching.


V
V
>•
★ power
TRANSMISSION
ENGINEERS
Ludowiei’s engineering work-
shop — largest of its kind in
Australia—produces a com-
plete range of Transmission
Equipment.
d
Since 1858 IUDOWICI’S
have provided Australian Industry
with the finest leather belting.
The quality of Pioneer Leather Belting is the result of years of con-
tinuous specialisation in tanning and belt making. Constant chemical
control of raw materials and tanning processes, routine inspection of
every stage of manufacture, ensure that uniform quality essential for
long term dependability.
Not only our Tannery and Belt-making Factories, but our Engineering Plant is the
largest of its kind in Australia producing Pivot and Torque Drives, V Belt Drives,
Pulleys, Bearings, Shaftings, a complete line of Power Transmission Equipment.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
11Z YORK STREET (NEAR MARKET STREET), SYDNEY
20-26 QUEENS BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and forpign patent.— Advt,
* * * «
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated ny
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
fd
W£4K MfM AND WOMfN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
821
GLAND
TONIC
TABLtrS
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Australia
r~ Divs. Towards
Net Pref. Re- De-
June, Profit.* 6 p.c. Ord. serves, flcit.f
!937 54,894 24 £ Q0 10 p.c. = 21,410 \ . „ .
Underwriting exes., £6799 .. j
Added goodwill, etc., £11,954 .. .. 40,459
Reserves new subsidiaries, £3301 . . 37,158
Unexplained addition, £1419 .. .. 35,739
1938.. 60,376 2400 10 p.c. = 47,464 10,512 25,227
Added goodwill, £1205 .. .. .. 26,432
Net additions reserves, £6616 .. .. 19,816
Reserves, t
1939. . 94,184 5983 10 p.c. = 57,899 1 0 „ „ - nr
Share-issue exes., £6981 . . j 28 ’° 21 3 ’ oo£>
Additions reserves, £24,068 .. ~ 27,573
Added goodwill, £18,129 .. .. 9,444
Establishment accounts w/o, £2157 .. 7,287
1940. .160,153 14,400 10 p.c.= 61,058 84,695 91.982
To tax reserve, £20,000 .. .. 71^982
Net reserves capitalised in subsidiaries,
£20,137 51,845
Goodwill disappears, £7670 .. .. 59,515
1941.. 156,674 14,400 10 p.c.= 74,723 67,551 127,066
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interest.
t After deducting goodwill, now £223,170.
Capital has expanded tenfold in five
years, and, with its associates and sub-
sidiaries throughout the Commonwealth,
Maoriland and S. Africa, the co. now
forms the largest self-supporting, comple-
mentary industrial group engaged in
manufacture of felt piece-goods, carpets,
footwear, wool tops and yarns, etc., in
Australia. All phases of production are
undertaken, from treatment of the raw
material to the finished article. In a host
of ways, the co. is now an important
direct contributor to the defence effort,
both in clothing and equipping the ser-
vices, while its wool-scouring and -car-
bonising plants are making further in-
direct contributions, both on behalf of
the Australian and British Governments.
At the same time, the enterprising board
has been able to push further its exports
of felted goods (as distinct from wool
tops, now under Government control),
both to its own benefit and that of the
Commonwealth.
All this and other things called for
£314,539 of new ord. capital (one for
two) in the year to June last. Consoli-
dated balance-sheet figures of the group
show where the new capital and other
moneys went;
1936. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. .. £119,930 £869,247 £1,183,786
Outside interests .. 1,000 342
Overdraft . . . . 110,984 805,959 970,609
Sundry creditors, etc. 194,396* 292,083 343.484
Tax provision.. .. 91,144 146,650
Inter-co. balance . . —•— 4,127
Freeholds .. .. 82,017 265,886 351.136
Plant . . . . 149,068 462,913 573.219
Shares other cos. . . 18,849 18,882 25,882
Stock 133,269 1,060,784 1,313.211
Debtors . . . , 124,846 345,498 534,123
Cash, etc 3,649 34,256 25,445
* Including tax provision.
The conspicuous item is stock, now the
big sum of £1,313,211, but £345,558 of
that, and hence an equivalent amount
of the outside debt, is in respect of wool
purchased but undelivered on be-
half of the British Government —a
gilt-edged security, the board says.
Including stocks, the improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£358,686) was £216,190. To strengthen
the position further, and at the same time
provide for fresh extensions for mili-
tary purposes, 235,968 new £1 ords. were
offered and snapped after the close of
accounts at a premium of 10s., one for
four. When it comes in, the new money
will lift paid capital to £1,419,839
(£240,000 of it 6 p.c. preference) and add
£117,984 to reserves.
As for the year’s trading, taxation
(£113,405, up £33,580) accelerated at
record speed, and after writing off
£15,448 more for depreciation (£54,246)
net earnings for the group declined from
£160,153 to £156,674. That takes no
account of £20,000 underprovided in
respect of the previous year’s taxes, nor,
under the Chifley Budget, of another
£20,000 to £25,000 later estimated to
be required to meet the next tax
bill when it arrives. On average
capital the £156,674 of profit claimed,
however, represented 19 p.c., allowing
for pref. charges, compared with 23.8
p.c. for the previous year and 15.2 p.c. for
each of the two preceding terms, and the
dividend stayed at 10 p.c.
Allowing for the new capital, etc., 4
p.c. on shareholders’ funds would permit
of a 5.3 p.c. payment all round on capi-
tal alone, before allowing for any finan-
cial requirements of the business. Visibly
£29,250 of last term’s income came from
ex-Australian sources.
Carreras, Ltd. (Melb.)
/ Dividends x To
Net Pref. Re- Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1932.. 8,292 4800 Nil 3,492 37,242
1933.. 11,273 5800 25 p.c. = 2,500 2,973 40,215
1934.. 18,558 6800 43.7 f „ 4,379 7,379 47,594
Bonus scrip issued, £40,000 .. .. 7,594
1935.. 21,720 6800 12} p.c. = 6,250 8,670 16,264
1936.. 31,823 6800 20 „ „ 10,000 15,023 31,287
1937.. 45,130 6800 33} „ „ 16,666 21,664 52,951
Obsolescence reserve taken in, £10,000.. 62,951
From contingency reserve, £25,000.. 87,951
Reserves capitalised, £75,000 . . 12,951
1938.. 81,452 6800 33} p.c.= 41,666 32,986 45,937
Carreras and Subsidiary.
1939. .119,707 6800 33} p.c.=66,667 46.240 98,229
1940. .156,404 6800 52} „ 105,000 44,604 142,833
Oct.,
1940 f 54,369 2267 70.5 „ „ 47,000 5102 147,935
1941. .153,226 6800 71 „„ 142.000 4426 152,361
* 10 p.c. on ord. capital and share premiums
combined, f Four months.
Public interest is confined to the 68,000
prefs., which haven’t been above 40s. or
below 375. over a period of years. The
ords. are owned by British Tobacco,
which gave £1,463,335 in shares for con-
trol some 18 months back. The share
consideration was worth rather more than
double face value at the existing market
for B.T. scrip, so the old English Craven
A management, which in less than a
decade had wrought miracles with a busi-
ness that had previously done little but
lose money, drove a shrewd bargain. For
its part, B.T. is visibly earning 10 p.c.
on its investment. How much more per
cent, elimination of competition and other
savings have meant is an untold story.
More money went up in smoke than
ever before last year, although restrictions
on imports from non-sterling countries
caused the quantity of cigarettes and
tobacco levied for excise to fall this way;
Cigarettes, Tobacco, Total,
Year, Pounds. Pounds. Pounds.
1928-29 . . 6,357,779 14,116,648 20,474,427
1931-32 . . 4,084,046 13,557,325 17,641,371
1934-35 .. 4,770,064 14,088,562 18,838,626
1936- . . 5,733.307 14,997,391 20,770.698
1937- . . 6,204,114 15,751,695 21,955,809
1938- . . 6,891,258 15,776.449 22,667,707
1939- . . 7,148,053 16,019,834 23,167.887
1940- . . 6,90},954 15,417,335 22,319,289
While the activities of hoarders hastened
a drastic rationing of supplies to the
public, defence canteens at home and
abroad have been huge consumers, and
Arcadia factory worked to capacity. The
taxgatherer, however, garnered any extra
revenue cost-increases didn’t, and profits
declined £3178 on the comparable 1940
period, for what that comparison may be
worth in the changed circumstances now
appertaining. On ord. capital the £153,226
(less pref. divs.) represented 73.2 p.c.,
against an annual rate of earning of 78.2,
73.3 and 72.5 p.c. for the three preceding
terms.
Despite greater use of Australian leaf
in the blend, tobacco was becoming diffi-
cult to obtain towards the end of the
year, when Carreras was drawing upon
reserves accumulated against that contin-
gency. Lend-Lease hasn’t noticeably
eased the position:
Carreras and Subsidiary.
( June , ——October ,
1939. 1940. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £268,000 £268,000 £268,000 £268,000
Creditors . . 63,648 190,503 244,505 170,814
Taxation, etc. 53,330 59,819 95,956 128,175
Freeholds . . 57.970 67,470 69,016 68,964
Plant, etc. . . 38,008 38,551 45,283 41,373
Stocks . . 315,504 397.438 447,618 395.536
Book debts . . 106,968 141,874 145,269 161,258
Cash, etc. . . 1,489 19,222 49,210 52,220
The reduction of £55,082 in stocks, with
an extra £32,219 tossed into the basket
for taxation and other contingencies, was
helpful in reducing the outside debt by
£73,691, and the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£438,200) benefited by £40,608.
The position of holding cos. such as
B.T. under the new industrial control (if
those controls prevail) hasn’t been ex-
plained. But they would seem entitled
to receive 4 p.c. on the cost of those
holdings to themselves.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931 .. 1484 6} j).c. = 4758 16,492
1932 .. 5028 7 „ „ 5551 15,969
1933 .. 6257 7 „ „ 5551 706 16,675
1934 .. 4477 54,, „ 4362 115 16,790
1935 .. 4247 5 „ „ 3965 282 17,072
1936 . . 5957 74 „ „ 5947 10 17,082
1937 . . 7126 8 „ ~ 6344 782 17,864
1938 . . 6592 74 „ „ 5947 645 18,509
1939 . . 5627 7 „ „ 5551 76 18,585
1940 . . 8272 8 „ ~ 6344 1928 20,513
1941 . . 12,644 8 „ ~ 6344 6300 26,813
To “contingent taxation,” £3652.. 23,161
The board celebrates its half-century as
a public co. by chalking up far the best
profit yet. In other times, shareholders
might have been expected to participate
in the doings, too, but the management
believed its more urgent duty was to
support the Liberty Loan. Actually, the
concern is double the age of the public
co., J. C. Ludowici having in the late
’forties tanned his first bit of leather in
a business which he quickly came to
control.
The power belting and other leather
products which the co. turns out com-
mand widespread respect throughout the
Commonwealth and Maoriland, and a
substantial export business had been
painstakingly built up with southern and
eastern Asia and elsewhere, despite little
encouragement from home Governments.
It was this trade which largely contri-
buted to last term’s fine showing. So
did the previous year’s plant reorganisa-
tion in both the ieatherwork and engi-
neering sections and the introduction of
shift work. After striking off £6051 for
taxation, £12,644 (15.9 p.c. on capital,
against 10.4 p.c.) was still left, of which
a further £3652 has been tabbed by a
conservative management against tax
eventualities.
Movements in finances further indicate
the trend of the sales chart:
„ , 1935. 1937. 1940. 1941
Capital . . .. £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities . . 32,740 13,914 27,929 40,018*
Freeholds .. 50,88 1 50,88 1 58,9 7 8 59,028
Plant, etc. .. 6,895 5,859 10,391 10,944
Stocks . . . . 53.658 42,892 38,956 33,235
Book debts .. 18,398 13,037 17,918 38,171
Cash, etc. .. 2,177 2,498 5,584 8,840
* Including tax provision.
Customers’ accounts are £20,253 higher,
while depletion of stocks by £5721 sug-
gests that the old problem of suitable
hides hasn’t become any easier.
War developments have deprived the
co. of much of its export business for the
time being ; but important defence re-
quirements and Australian industrial
demands should ensure sufficient work to
earn the 5 p.c. dividend which the co.
will apparently be permitted to pay under
the new financial regulations.
Westralian Farmers. Ltd.
Bonus
to To Re- De-
July, Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, ficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 829 Nil Nil 829 49,504
Loss.
1934. . 567 Nil Nil 60,071
1935.. 126 Nil Nil 50,197
Profit.
1936.. 1,164 Nil Nil 1,164 49.033
1937.. 3,969 Nil Nil 3,969 45,064
1938.. 36,536 Nil Nil 36,536 8,528
Reserves.
1939.. 12,728 Nil Nil 12,728 4,200
1940. .103,477 sp.c.= 10,739 Nil 92,738 96,938
Taxation not previous paid, £75,032. .21,906
1941.. 26,112 5 p.c. = 10,774 Nil 16,338 37,244
*lncludes bad debts written off.
This is one of a group of co-operative
selling organisations, here and in London,
whose chief aim is to market farm and
other products at the best price and low
cost. Its activities cover all the most im-
portant branches of primary production
in its home State, as well as merchan-
dising, agency and chartering.
Last term a bad season affected wheat
(the co. handles most of the grain in the
State) and wool turnover, as well as sales
of merchandise, machinery and super-
phosphate. In the meat, butter, dried
fruit, produce and livestock sections busi-
ness was maintained, more tea was sold,
and a satisfactory result was reported
from the insurance department. The
chartering business has ceased for the
duration, and the staff has gone over to
the Federal Shipping Board.
Contraction in the year’s commissions
(£102,410) was £62,309, but other income
(£243,287) increased £14,493. Trade exes.
(£250,585) were pulled back £44,589-
most of the savings were connected with
wheat. After providing £70,000 for
current taxation, the net result (£26,112)
was 12.1 p.c. on capital. Little notice
need be taken of the 1940 profit, because
no allowance was made for taxation, for
which a bill amounting to £75,032 (£6206
of it in respect of 1939) was later re-
ceived. The div. was kept at 5 p.c.
Though seasonal prospects are better,
many commodities which the co. handles
are now controlled by boards, which pay
little more than cost of services. Also,
costs and taxation continue to rise. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) 4 p.c. is equal to 4.7 p.c. on
capital alone.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1933. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £213,790 £213,978 £214,029 £214,730
Debentures . . 107,730 124,371 123,866 117.256
Sundry creditors 693,434 672,991 255,779 290,823
Tax provision. . —•— 97,680
Freeholds, etc. 148,058 118,188 115,507 123,092
Plant, etc. . . 37,190 43,512 46,664 48,044
Shares in other
cos. . . 48,705 87,037 87,706 42,134
Loans . . 85,613
Stocks . . 119,311 122,432 97,760 118,749
Debtors . . 599,279 630,564 325,720 286,269
Cash, etc. . . 12,907 13,807 27,994 114,607
Leaving the tax liability out of account,
the outside debt increased £35,044. Still,


a scrap
of paper
. ... but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared —Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
. AND CENERAI INSURANCE CO LTD
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
appoint your executor and trustee now.
Security
Economy
Service
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
aaxiMn
‘vrivHxsnv .10
(Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
NSW DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ;
(Vice Chairman); Hon, Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C. ; James Kidd; A.
Robert 0. Wilson. Manager: J.
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G.;
G. H. Shipway.
IS.
*
!S
m#
THE ECHO OF
A HAMMER
BLOW.. \
ARDS
RIC
Crash! The R.I.L.
drop-hammer stamps
out a vital piece of
anti-tank gun mechan-
ism. Crash! The fin-
ished gun ends the fighting
career of an enemy tank and
brings Victory one notch closer.
Night and day the giant R.I.L.
factories swell the flood of
guns, ammunition and planes
that is steadily overhauling . . .
overwhelming . . . the Axis war
machine. Every man in the vast
army of R.I.L. craftsmen realizes
the importance of his service to
his country and its cause. Every
man has as his objective suprem-
acy for the Empire.
/MITIO
Drop-Forging intricate
Anti-Tank Gun parts
in the R.I.L. Factory.
RICHARDS
INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
KESWICK AND MILE END, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
R&M C R2
on the same basis there was an improve-
ment of £75,330 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£147,159, excluding share-
holdings).
A Westralian mining man’s views:
Curtailment of goldmining would be mad-
ness, and fail to benefit the Commonwealth in
extra production of base metals. Goldmining
capital is largely invested in equipment, power
and treatment plants and ore reserves. Ihe
plant can’t be used to any great extent m the
development of war metals or minerals with-
out radical alterations and additions. Apart
from antimony at Wiluna, no large quantities
of such ores exist close to any goldmining
plants in W.A. Mining engineers m the gold
industry usually have a general knowledge of
base-metal nroblems, but, in most metal mining
and treatment, each metal requires specialists m
at least some phases of production. Instead
of closing goldmines, work them to the utmost,
and at the highest possible grade, the extra
production of gold to be free of but
all such profits to be borrowed by the Com-
monwealth Government at ordinary loan rates
of interest and applied to the discovery and
working of industrial and war minerals and
metals—such application of these funds to be
under the general direction and supervision of
the cos. from which the money came. Cos. pro-
viding the funds should share any profits.
When the war is over these ventures would
remain of great value, both for their products
and for their labor-employing capacity. As
regards Kalgoorlie, the labor difficulty on the
Golden Mile could be overcome to some ex-
tent by the greater use of mechanical power,
particularly in cutting, collection and trans-
port of firewood.
* * * *
Burbidge Gold Mines has induced the
Westralian Government to bore its gold-
mining property, near Southern Cross, to
ascertain the sulphide contents of the
Great Victoria lode. Should the sulphide
content be high enough, the ore will be
smelted elsewhere for sulphur.
* * * *
London-controlled Hampton Gold
Mining Areas (W.A.), which has been
slipping financially for a long time, an-
nounces a £259 loss for the year ended
March, 1941. Debit balance is now
£19,359. Co., a third reconstruction of
Hampton Plains Estate, Ltd., owns
189,122 acres of freehold containing
patches of mineralised country at Hamp-
ton Plains, about 22 miles south-east of
Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
Apart from stepping up New Cobar
output (580 tons p.a.) to reduce Aus-
tralia’s deficit in copper production, New
Occidental (N.S.W.) will open its long-
idle Chesney mine provided the Com-
monwealth finds two-thirds of the £40,000
needed for unwatering and equipment,
etc. The Chesney area, from which the
old Great Cobar co. took out 307,000
tons, principally for their gold content,
contains two well-defined veins which are
the northern extensions of those known
in the Occidental. The western one is
the larger. Over a length of 800 ft.,
width of the ore-body averaged 40ft.,
assaying 3| p.c. copper (a bugbear in
those days) and 3.2dwt. gold, and the
same grade of copper was cut by a drill
core from No. 6 level on the eastern
vein, said to be Bft. wide. Available ore
was put around 650,000 tons.
* * * »
First full year’s dredging of Austral
N.Z. Mining didn’t realise backers’ an-
ticipations ; profit, after reserving £12,278
net for renewals, etc., was £37,912, of
which £24,647 has been used to eliminate
development account and the balance
written off the plant. The dredge dug
3,302,000 cy. at an average cost of 4d.
Gold yield was 12,3610 z., or I.Bgr, per
yard, whereas the prospectus mentioned
3gr. values in 28,000,000 c.y. definitely
proved, with probably not less than
100,000,000 c.y. of profitable ground
available in all. Whether results to date
will prove typical df the rest of the
property has yet to be seen. Meantime,
there is a debt of £109,875 standing in
the way of any payment to the 210,000
pound ords. or the 35,000 shilling de-
ferreds, all of which rank alike for divs.
* * * *■
“Strike Me”: Miclere Battery, on the
Clermont alluvial (C.Q.), will soon be
in its stride again, but December closed
with a recovery from alluvial of 8660 z.
gold, which must be a record since the
palmy days of the Black Ridges. It is
nearly all deep gold, most of it from
over 200 ft., so there’s no need to start a
rush. Venus and Mars are the bright ones.
As there is scarcely any machinery on
the field and a lot of the diggers are
over military age, there will probably
always be a Miclere while the war lasts,
even if established fields go over to
copper. The field missed the recent
heavy rains in Central Queensland, and
there is not too much water for crushing
at present.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.L.K.: Prospects for Caledonian Collieries
prefs. were improving at the time "Change
dealings were stopped. Strikes affected earn-
ings in 1940; results for 1941 should be better
when available. As the co. has paid no more
than 3 p.c. p.a. on its prefs. and nothing on its
ords. in recent years, the immediate outlook
for the prefs. should not be affected by a
4 p.c. limit on profits. There are years ot
arrears to be made up on the prefs. anyway.


THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
A THOROUGH, comprehensive and
efficient service—founded on traditions
of more than a century of sound bank-
ing combined with a progressive
policy and extensive organisation,
enables THE COMMERCIAL BANK-
ING COMPANY OF SYDNEY,
LIMITED, to offer every facility for
the transaction of all classes of Banking
business.
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.;
Robert Vicars.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
MYDUNC PEOPLE
LEARN TICKET AND SHOWCARD
WRITING—This Modern Way
The New H. & R. course gives you
thorough, up-to-date training for a
remunerative occupation. With H. & R.
tuition you can progress rapidly ... in
the comfort of your home. Start now.
Write for particulars To-day.
Department of Distribution
Hemingway & Robertson
38a Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
Offices in all Capital Cities, Newcastle
and Launceston. 38AA/TS3.
r let n
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
SsS)
's
\\W\
Established 1808 in Reign of George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Acting Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
Business, Rollery, etc.
We Have to Look Ahead
It may seem out of place at this stage
of the war to try to discuss what is going
to happen to the welfare of Australia
and Australians when peace comes ; but
it would be foolish to make plans for the
present without giving some thought to
war’s aftermath. There has been a lot
of preposterous saying and doing going
on for some time. The depression that
eventually followed the 1914-18 war was
just as big a calamity in the minds of
most people as the war itself had been.
During the depression, wars, except of
the Paraguay-Bolivia variety, were re-
garded by the multitude as nonsense the
like of which the world would never
again see. This attitude was just about
as fallacious as the now prevailing idea
that some sort of miraculous “new
order” will be ushered in with the next
period of peace. The old “financial sys-
tem” was “no good,” and the worker will
have to be given a squarer deal, and so
on. The working man may take it for
granted that in the “new order,” what-
ever shape it may take, he will be no
better off than the standard of his intelli-
gence and ability warrants. And his war-
time behavior will count. The political
outlook of the average Australian cannot
be very clear if the seven Parliaments
which in the main misgovern Australia
represent the best he can do in self-
government. If he wants to improve his
position, he will have to take a more
active and intelligent interest in politics
and those things which, for the want of
an optional word in more familiar and
precise use, are airily described as “eco-
nomics,” Nearly all the concrete rights
of man today are wrapped up in
economics.
More than ever, the welfare of the indi-
vidual depends on the state of the country
as a whole. Most people are specialists
today—they can only live by selling some
of what they make in order to buy things
that they don’t make. No family is self-
contained. The welfare of the “other
fellow” is as important to us as our
own. In order for the exchange of
goods and services to go on to the best
advantage of everyone, prices, profits,
wages, costs of production and money
management have to be given honest and
expert attention. One of the biggest of
these factors is the wages paid to workers.
Workers’ wages represent the largest
economic factor in this or any other coun-
try. Workers received by far the greatest
proportion of the national income. What
they have to remember is that they can-
not possibly get in wages more than the
total national income even if everyone
else is reduced to starvation point. And
in any ordered kind of society some
people are willingly paid extra for the
skill and knowledge they take the trouble
to attain in order to further industrial or
other progress. The cost to the many
of the extra paid to the few is not heavy
in Australia or Maoriland. Incomes are
spread pretty evenly.
Australia is not going to do any good
for itself if it indulges in class-conscious
obstructionism. The idea that benefits
can be gained for Labor by penalising
the bosses is mostly out-of-date in a
country where Arbitration Courts are
working overtime to regulate fairly the
relations between employer and em-
ployee. Economically, the well-being of
a country depends on its production, and
without smooth and intelligent co-opera-
tion a country’s production can be made
very costly, with a small output per head,
and that, obviously, in turn means a
lower standard of living.
What can Labor expect in any “new
order”? It mustn’t expect impossibilities.
The national income of Australia, spread
over the entire population, amounts to
less than £3 per head per week. Unless
we add to our production per head, that
figure is the “ceiling.” With regard to
everyday economics such as these, the
“Times Trade and Engineering,” London,
recently had this to say:
No part of Mr. Roosevelt’s great speech to
the 1.L.0. in November is more welcome than
the passage referring to the supreme importance
of economic questions. Economic considera-
tions are fundamental. Political aspirations,
social improvements, military strength, popular
culture—all are impossible without the means,
which comes from trade, to pay the piper. The
out-of-date affectation that gentlemen and
scholars are superior to such mundane con-
siderations as trade has been a source of weak-
ness to the nation and has not yet been com-
pletely eradicated As Mr. Roosevelt said:
“Social problems and economic problems are
not separate watertight compartments in the
international any more than in the national
sphere,” If the implications of this truth were
generally realised we should hear no more of
many brilliant schemes that are economically
impossible and can therefore never attain fulfil-
ment. It is peculiarly appropriate that the
speech should have been delivered to a Labor
conference. Labor leaders should earnestly
study economic questions in order to be able
to advise their followers as to what is possible
and what is out of the question. If Labor
concentrated attention on what is economically
possible it would achieve far better results than
by spending itself in efforts for the attainment
of objectives that are impossible under existing
conditions.
A lot of rough and sloppy economics
has come from Canberra, with more than
a suggestion of envy and jealousy in some
cases where reason and co-operation are
the things required. Political weaknesses
of this kind bring economic weaknesses,
just as, before the war and for too long
afterwards, we suffered from defence
weaknesses. Unless we get a saner and
firmer financial policy from Canberra
very soon we shall have difficulties that
may not wait until after the war to
develop. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment should realise that, since the lower
incomes represent the biggest economic
factor in the country, we cannot con-
tinue to pay for this costly war without
more help from the lower incomes.
War this year is costing Australia 25
p.c. of its national income. Yet the great
body of workers who are on £8 a week
and less (representing 70 p.c. of all in-
comes) are not paying out anything like 25
p.c. of their money in war taxes. The
reason why they are not is because other
citizens on higher incomes are paying up
to 18s. in the £ in total income tax, and
because borrowing and bank credit are
being availed of where taxation is the
obvious method to be used. But the £B-
--weekers can’t escape. What they don’t
pay in taxation they will lose in deprecia-
tion of their savings and life policies and
in “rationing.” It would be far, far
better if they paid their proper share of
the necessary taxes. Then they would be
no poorer than they seemed to be.
Because of the absorption of our man-
power in the fighting services and the
losses in battle overseas, there is extra
work to do in the home factories. Big
money is being made by many in the
home jobs because of the war and the
absence and loss of man-power. In fair-
ness to our fighting men and to the
nation most of this extra money should
be taken back by the nation. Others
besides soldiers and the “rich” should
pay for the cost of victory.
The fool’s paradise into which Can-
berra Labor is leading many thousands
of workers will not survive the peace
even if it survives the war. After the war
munitions industries will go, and it
will take some time for labor to switch
over to new occupations. In this re-
arrangement period the demobilised sol-
diers will be coming back to work, and
labor won’t be so scarce, even if there
are arrears of civil work on which to
catch up. If inflation has been allowed
to falsify our economic position it will
be difficult for Australia to resume its
normal and necessary export trade owing
to the high production costs that invari-
ably follow inflation. The greater the
war-time increase in the debt burden, the
greater, too, will be the difficulty of
balancing post-war Budgets and at the
same time remitting war-time tax levies.
Above the confusion will rise the old cry
about the Government being able to
finance a costly war, but unable to find
employment for men in peace-time. To
workers who made money out of the war
and paid little in taxation this kind of
talk might almost seem to have some
basis of sense in it, seeing that they
know so little about what war waste is
costing other people.
To prevent war-time and post-war con-
fusion of a very grave sort, Australians
will have to shape up to facts now. The
war is all-in in every sense, and living
standards can’t be maintained. War ex-
penditure is a national tax, and the wage-
earners, who are the big consumers, have
to pay their share like everyone else. If
all pay their whack there will be fewer
complications—depressions and the like
—to straighten out later.
It has been stated by the Government
that the intention of the “economic”
regulations is to prevent increases in the
cost of living. The biggest inflationary
factors in Australia, apart from general
misdirection of the war financial pro-
gramme, are the wage rates paid to
workers and the spending of those wages.
The earnings of company shareholders
are not inflationary; in the aggregate
they now actually show a reduction even
before allowing for personal taxation,
and not taking rising living costs into
account. The exploitation of the share-
holding class to subsidise the living
standards of the personal-income class
will not keep the forces of inflation in
check for long. The confiscation of the
whole of the £lOO million or thereabouts
of company incomes would scarcely offset
a rise of 2s. in the £ in living costs gener-
ally. And when inflation overflowed the
2s. barrier it would by then be a flood
instead of a trickle,
* * *
Because there are “obviously inflation-
ary forces at work,” the Westralian
Arbitration Court has refused a request,
based on living costs, for an increase in
the State basic wage. This is the first
occasion during the war that an Austra-
lian industrial tribunal has made such a
ruling, though in Maoriland cost-of-liv-
ing increases were recently refused. The
judgment may have value in bringing
other Australians to their senses; the
President of the W.A. Court suggested
that stabilisation of wages might “act as
a temporary brake” on inflation. More
than a temporary brake will be required
to stop socialisation-distracted Canberra
Ministers, but every little helps.
* v sit *
A member of the A.I.F. who goes
abroad and is killed within six months
of leaving Australia is liable to have his
estate taxed in respect of his army pay.
To be exempt he has to be a non-resi-
dent for over six months.
* * * *
A “committee” is to be appointed to
“examine the possibility of uniform taxa-
tion in Australia during the war,” Treas-
urer Chifley says. The Labor Govern-
ment did not consider it necessary to
appoint a committee to investigate the
position before it closed the Stock Ex-
changes and imposed a 4 p.c. economic
blanket over all industry. Yet six of the
seven taxation authorities are actually
standing dangerously in the way of the
war effort.
* * * *
The Prime Minister says the Govern-
ment’s policy in connection with gold-
mining will be to preserve the industry
but to restrict output and to prohibit the
investment of new capital. Labor short-
age through enlistments and the scarcity
of imported chemicals are already affect-
ing the position automatically. There
have recently been discussions as to the
economic necessity for continuing gold-
mining operations now that Britain and
the U.S.A. are united in war,
* * * *
The investor, who has been more help
to the development of Australia than
any collection of Government under-
takings, has received a bloody nose at
the hands of Governments over the last
12 months. McKell in N. S. Wales and
the Federal authorities have abandoned
every pretence of fairness in the double
taxation that takes place with regard to
all dividends passing into the hands of
shareholders. Shareholders as a class
were singled out for special penalties
borne by no other class of income-earner
in the Commonwealth. Now comes the
4 p.c. profits limit. And coalminers go
on strike and others continue to profiteer
where they work overtime. Neither
this profiteering nor the grinding-down
of investors will help win the war. They
are just further additions to past mis-
takes.


Divorce Notices.
TO ANNIE MAY EAST BURROUGHS wife
of HENRY WILLIAM BURROUGHS of
the City of Wellington in the Dominion
of New Zealand Waterside Worker.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
Wellington citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of HENRY WILLIAM BURROUGHS
of the said City of Wellington Waterside
Worker wherein he prays for a divorce from
you on the grounds of desertion and such Cita-
tion intimates that in default of your so doing
the Court will proceed to hear the said Petition
and to pronounce sentence therein notwithstand-
ing your absence NOW FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within Forty (40) days after the date of
this publication to attend in person or by your
Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at Wel-
lington and there to enter an appearance with-
out which you will not be allowed to address
the Court at any stage of the proceedings. A
copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same
at the Supreme Court Office Wellington, New
Zealand. , , T
DATED at Wellington this 9th day of Janu-
ary, 1942. (1. 5 .) G. R. HOLDER,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the said Annie May East Bur-
roughs are particularly requested to forward to
her the foregoing advertisement.
MR. WILLIAM JAMES KEMP is the
Solicitor of the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the offices of MESSIEURS IZARD,
WESTON, STEVENSON & CASTLE, Solici-
tors, 161 Featherston Street, Wellington, New
Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
AUSTRALIA — In Divorce.
TO JAMES KEITH HILL McWATERS, late
of Adelaide.—TAKE NOTICE that BEATRICE
SARAH McWATERS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 826 of 1941 on the ground of de-
sertion without reasonable cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you must enter an appearance in the office of
the Master of the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia within Forty days after the last publi-
cation of this advertisement otherwise orders
may be made against you in your absence. —
VILLENEUVE SMITH & HARFORD, Mutual
Life Chambers, 44 Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Public Notices.
L NICOLAI JENSEN-FRIIS, of Danish
nationality, born at Grenaa, Denmark, and resi-
dent 30 years in Australia, now residing at 229
Bridge Road, Forest Lodge, Sydney, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1930.
I, LAURE LEON IE CHAUTARD, of French
nationality, born at Tourzel, France, resident
40 years in Australia, now resident at San
Remo, Edgecliff, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1930.
I, PIETER VAN DEN BERG, of Dutch Nation-
ality, born at Rotterdam, and resident 28 years
in Australia, now residing at 83 Kent Street,
Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1930.
Missing Friend.
STUBBS, Hazel Julia Grace, daughter of Annie
Grace and James Stubbs. —Will the above-
named, or anyone knowing her whereabouts,
kindly communicate with the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, regarding
the estate of her late mother?
THIS SADDLE IS TOPS!
No. 163,
"TUMBA"
“PRIDE OF THE ROAD.”
*
Our
Catalogue
is Free.
Send for
One.
☆
£ll/8/6
(COMPLETE)
A high-grade
Saddle with
narrowest
possible grip
and comfort-
ab 1 e no n-
chafing seat.
First- class
materials used
throughout.
N.S. W. Freight on
Saddles Paid for
Cash with Order.
WALTHER * STEVENSON
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
n
PTYJ
LTD.
zm.
M
V
the *
RESPITE FROM
A MAJOR WORRY
The imminence of danger to every member of the community renders it more
advisable than ever to assure that the execution of your will and administration
of your estate are not entrusted to any one individual or small group of individuals.
The organisation of Burns Philp Trust Company Limited is such that continuity
of service cannot be interrupted by the death or incapacitation of any officer or
officers of the organisation.
By placing your affairs in the hands of Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
(whether for administration after death or during lifetime) you secure not only
the advantage of collective and experienced judgment, but the assurance of
uninterrupted attention to your Estate.
Two special booklets dealing with this vital matter will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
■'*lP
Vh
i^fe£
wi®ws
*mL
'-\'S
1
*/
m
3
m
is
m
* si>
m
'Jk
■■
3^l
fe«s
\
Ss ■■>
.
...^
%
IK
:.^gS
wr
£
>n
»
IbS^
s
-»«-
MOST YOU CAN i£ND- '
/S TNC HAST YOU CAN DO
The hour has now arrived when
WE DARE NOT FAIL
Subscribe
to the ...
Earn your
Subscriber's Badge
Apply a* once, at
any bank, money
order post office,
or stockbroker.
.6.
9
fa
loan
Interest is
for 4-5 years or
3i% for 9-17
years. Subscrip-
tions may be paid
by instalments.
“Rationalisation of banking business”
in country towns and suburbs, involving
the closing of some branches (always
excepting the Commonwealth Bank), is to
be discussed by Canberra Labor and the
banks Minister Dedman “believes that
men would be released for more essen-
tial work by such rationalisation.” Com-
petition has probably caused duplication
of branches in some places—two banks
in particular have vied with each other,
out Labor doesn’t like banks, anyway. It
hasn’t done anything yet to “rationalise”
the irrational, bloated and in many cases
obstructive civil services. These are par-
ticularly well looked
TaSon n Department could well do Ihe
work of the pr s .
The price of bottles made by Austra-
lian Consolidated Industries has been cut
6} p.c. by the Prices Commissioner and
sheet glass by 1\ p.c. Prices prior to
these cuts were substantially pre-war, but
increased output has made the reductions
possible. Glassware produced by Dott
and Co. has been lifted \l\ p.c.
* * * *
It was estimated in Sydney that up to
the end of last week the dividends with-
held by 10 cos. as a result of the economic
regulations amounted to £600,000, And
more than 10 cos. have withheld their
distributions.
* * * *
Mr. Curtin, who said he was “not un-
mindful of the Government’s obligation
to derive all possible lessons from any
bombing attack that took place anywhere
in Australia,” would please Australians if
he would say (and do) something positive
instead of negative for a change. All the
positive action appears to be coming
from the “bright boys” in the Govern-
ment —Messrs. Ward, Dedman, Cameron,
etc. —and some of this action is playing
merry hell with Australia’s economic and
industrial affairs. Even if the Prime
Minister’s positive behavior only aimed
at negativing the introduction of radical
party principles in the form of “war
legislation” he would be doing the coun-
try and the war effort signal service.


THE SERVICE MAN
Burma in Deadly Danger.
Ek Dum”: It has been obvious all
along that the Japanese High Command
recognises the value of time and presses
on with its invasion plans regardless of
risks.
The capture of Singapore released
troops, land and sea transport and large
sections of the air force. The enemy will
need them all.
The fight for Burma is proving how
close-run a thing a campaign can be,
even with all the advantages of prepara-
tion on the aggressor’s side. The Japanese
advance is being made in a series of ex-
hausting rushes over new fields of
Japanese dead from the border to
the Salween; from the Salween to
the Bilin; from the Bilin to the
Sittang and the Burma Road rail
route to Chungking, while new forces
continued to assemble at the northern
Thai railhead threatening the Shan States.
On Feb. 25 reconnaissance established
that the country on the south between
the Bilin and the Sittang was “black
with Japanese troops,” and Mandalay—
the new temporary capital—Maymyo,
Toungoo, Pyinmana and other towns
could testify to the increasing strength
of the Japanese air attack.
The gallant R.A.F. and Americans did
their best to keep down the bombing,
but their effort had to be divided by the
need to keep up an incessant attack on
the growing concentrations at Chiengmai,
and to ward off regular daily attempts to
cut the Burma-Chungking route.
All eyes, however, were on Rangoon,
the more important because control of
the capital would mean the end of the sea
route for Chinese supplies and open the
Irrawaddy to Japanese penetration. At
the midweek, attack from the sea was
expected to supplement attack from the
land, since the capture of Singapore had
opened the Malacca Strait to enemy war-
ships.
It seemed possible that a lull in the
Japanese push forward along the Sittang
was due largely to a wait for sea co-
operation. The Japanese already had
claimed to have made landings at the
Irrawaddy mouths; and these claims,
having regard to the reported convoy of
enemy ships off the Tenasserim coast the
previous week, were regarded as prob-
ably true.
Governor Reginald Dorman Smith, still
in Rangoon, broadcast that the city
would resist to the last, and, if necessary,
become another Tobruk. But the war has
long since taught that Tobruks can
happen only where there are no hamper-
ing civilians and where sea access to a
reasonably adjacent base port remains
open. Certainly, most of the civilians
had been evacuated —on Feb. 24, it was
reported that only the army and the
demolition squads remained ; but a city
without its population and in process of
destruction becomes largely meaningless.
Feb. 25 also brought news from several
sources that Chinese armies were moving
down the Burma Road in trucks at the
rate of 120 miles a day. It was a
question whether they could reach the
Sittang lines in time to affect the posi-
tion ; also whether, if they did reach the
front before a decisive battle had been
fought, their light armament and neces-
sarily sketchy equipment and supplies
could be effective.
On Feb. 26 fighting broke out afresh
and in its fiercest form along the Sittang,
but the squeeze on the burning city tight-
ened almost hourly, while wave after
wave of enemy bombers sought to whittle
it away round the ears of the defenders.
On Tuesday morning 24 enemy air-
craft had appeared over Rangoon, while
an aerodrome slightly to the north was
raided four times. Two bombers were
brought down, two “probably.” On
Wednesday further attempts were made
by the enemy to hasten from outside the
ruin which the demolishers already were
wreaking on the assembly plants and oil
refineries. By this time, the city was
“an inferno of flames,” according to a
U.S. airman who reached Chungking.
The water and electricity supplies had
ceased to function. The silvery temple
bells rang serenely over a charred ruin
through which dynamite squads and fur-
tive looters wormed their ways.
On Feb. 27 Rangoon lashed out for
the last time. It was plain that at that
stage the garrison was hanging out only
to destroy. About 100 Japanese ’planes
attempted to give the defenders their
coup de grace, only to learn that the
Hurricanes and Tomahawks still had
command of the air.
The enemy limped off certainly 27
machines and probably 34 short in
strength. British fighters dropped out
of the heights among the fighter escorts
of the attackers, drove through the heart
of the bomber formations and scattered
those which were not destroyed to the
four winds.
On Feb. 28 it was announced that
British and Indian forces on the Ran-
goon Delta had been withdrawn to posi-
tions 50 miles to the north, leaving , only
small holding forces in Rangoon itself.
Almost simultaneously the Japanese
claimed for the second time to have cut
the main Burma route to Lashio and
Chungking at Pegu, 58 miles to the
north.
They are getting support, some of
it murderous, from the natives. That is
one feature of an invasion which has
become a desperate matter for the de-
fenders.
Java Attacked
The centre of war in the Pacific, how-
ever, is not Burma but Java and the
adjacent islands of the Netherlands East
Indies.
Unfortunately there was no truth in
newspaper reports that a smashing naval
victory, “perhaps the equal of that previ-
ously won in the Macassar Strait,” had
been won by the Allied forces off Bali.
The enemy, on the contrary, appeared
to be in full possession of Bali and of
Bali Strait. Though fighting was still
going on in a dozen places round the
archipelagos, the Japanese had consoli-
dated their hold on southern Sumatra
and their airmen were busily raiding Java
from end to end, while the remains of
the Bali invasion fleet made rendezvous
with fresh forces for a series of attacks
on Java.
Here was the same tale as elsewhere.
They chose localities with low, sandy
beaches. They brought in their convoys
heavily escorted and landed regardless
of losses, but nevertheless landed.
There was the usual preliminary
struggle for air supremacy, but the weak-
ness of the air defence was shown on
Feb. 26 by the sad admission of the
Dutch Foreign Minister to President
Roosevelt that “even an additional 50
aircraft would make a lot of difference.”
But he told the President there was “no
question of abandoning Java.”
The Dutch C.-in-C., for his part, de-
clared on Feb. 27, when attack was im-
minent, that there was no reason either
for pessimism or foolish optimism:
A realistic view of the situation shows
us that the enemy is at the end of his lines
of communication and fighting desperately
for oil and food. Thousands of British,
Australian and American soldiers in Java
are at our side So far everything has
gone in accordance with our programme.
The Japanese will not get Java.
At that stage the Allied airhold on the
N.E.I. was confined to Java and Madura,
the small adjacent island which shelters
Sourabaya from the north. And whereas
the Japanese now had a semicircle of
bases from which bombers could operate
at comfortable distances, there was no
hope of outside bombing aid for Java.
The “Times” correspondent described
a typical scene in which a.-a. fire failed
to break the formation of 17 enemy
bombers which landed their pills over
their objective with a loss of only one
machine. He added that this incident
was repeated over other Javan airfields,
and would be repeated “until the Japa-
nese feel that they have sufficient superi-
ority to attempt an invasion.”
Before the end of the week the enemy
obviously felt that he had reached this
point. The N.E.I. armies had prepared
themselves a stronghold not far from the
western end of their island to which they
could retire in the event of being driven
from positions further to the east.
These defence lines surround the
plateau of Bandoeng (“Ban-doong”) and
are laid- between a series of mountain
peaks. But all that abundant labor can
do has no decisive value unless there are
numbers sufficient to man the defence
positions and a strong air umbrella over-
head.
The N.E.I. communique on Feb. 26
reported that U.S. submarines attacked
a Jap naval formation of cruisers and
destroyers, torpedoed two enemy trans-
ports, a naval auxiliary and a freighter
and were “believed to have torpedoed a
warship.” N.E.I. ’planes bombarded the
port of Oosthaven (southern Sumatra),
which was looked on as a likely jumping-
off place for a major attack on Java.
It, however, seemed by this time that
Bencoolen, on the west of southern
Sumatra, Banka Island, Tandjoftg Karang
and all other land both east and west of
Java were in enemy hands.
Short as they were of ’planes, the
Java armies were evidently better served
than was the army in Malaya, This was
advertised by the bombing of Palembang
and other enemy footholds on a savage
scale, as a counter to the continuous
attacks on Java, The heaviest of these
latter assaults up to Thursday was on the
aerodrome at Tandjong Priok, where, it
was admitted, two petrol tanks were set
ablaze. A large enemy formation
bombed Sourabaya.
Invasion Fleet Tackled
The chief naval fight which followed
seems to have taken place somewhere off
the Batavian coast. The main Japanese
convoy had originally consisted of 140
ships, of which 50 came west by Banka
Strait and the others by Macassar. The
exact number of ships had been reported
off Hainan a fortnight ago.
The spearheads of the Allied attack
were a gallant Dutch cruiser and a de-
stroyer, which weighed in against superior
odds. In the first phase, in daylight on
February 27, the cruiser was damaged
and the destroyer rolled under, but not
before a Japanese eight-inch cruiser—
there are three classes of them —had been
sunk, a cruiser of the Mogami type,
1935 vintage, which carried 15 6.lin. and
eight sin. a.-a. guns, had been set on
fire and three destroyers left behind burn-
ing and seemingly sinking.
There was some word of a Japanese
fleet retiring to the east, but it was fol-
lowing a deliberate course.
Fifteen Japanese transports were sunk,
but the remainder of the ships made for
their chosen landing-points without
slackening speed.
After nightfall two Dutch cruisers
tackled a vastly superior enemy forma-
tion off Sourabaya. Both were sunk.
They went down fighting.
The Japanese declared that a Dutch
cruiser and three destroyers had been
sunk off Batavia at dusk, and that U.S.
as well as Dutch vessels took part in the
engagement. A British cruiser of the
six-gun eight-inch Exeter class had been
put out of action.
The enemy claimed the sinking of a
U.S, and an Australian cruiser. He said
nothing of the two cruisers which the
Netherlanders admitted that they' had lost,
and with which he apparently confused
them.
After a second battle off Sourabaya,
the enemy announced, three Allied
cruisers and six destroyers had been sunk
and four other cruisers damaged heavily.
“Thus,” said Tokyo, “the two main
Allied fleets in the Indies have been anni-
hilated,” at the cost of damage to one
Japanese destroyer, which was still at sea
helping to mop up the remains of the
Anglo-Dutch-U.S. naval strength.
Whatever the truth about the sea action
or actions, Japanese soldiery soon began
to land in Java under heavy machine-gun
and rifle fire from British, Australian,
Dutch and U.S. troops. Allied air forces
operated throughout the night. Many
Jap barges were sunk, but all three
attempts at landing succeeded. The Ban-
tam landing was opposed by a gallant
Dutch destroyer, which was beached,
fighting furiously, by two Jap cruisers.
On the Bantam coast on the north-
west, around the site of the oldest
Dutch settlement' in Java, near Sunda
Strait, 14 transports decanted their
human gun-fodder in the face of
strong naval opposition. Not 200 miles
to the east, the well-raked cargoes of 12
vessels were put ashore at Indramajoe.
But Batavia was threatened from two
sides, and its north coastal railway con-
nection with Samarang and Sourabaya
was also threatened.
The third landing, from 20 transports,
was achieved 18£ miles east of Rembang,
which is slightly to the east of Samarang
and between it and Sourabaya. This
menaced the great oil refineries 35 miles
away at Tjepoe, and was aimed as well
to cut off Sourabaya from the rest of the
island and plunge into the heart of the
most intensive railway network of Java.
The oil refineries were promptly blown
up.
The Indramajoe landing had driven
straight for the main central defences
round Bandoeng. A few hours after the
first enemy set foot on Java a spearhead
had been pushed inland more than 70
miles to within 30 miles of Bandoeng
itself. Batavia’s direct rail connection
with the east seemed to have been cut.
The speed of the advance advertised
the strength behind it. Attacks on aero-
dromes throughout the island showed
that the invaders had aircraft in abun-
dance.
Australia's Own War.
P um _; Though Darwin had an-
other alert, Timor was the scene of the
most important operations in which Aus-
tralians were engaged last week. R.A.A.F.
machines harassed Japanese landings and
positions m the island, where a strong
naval force was reported to be escorting
transports into Dilli Roads. Dilli itself
was said to be burning on Feb. 25; the
Japs claimed that, despite heavy A.I.F.
resistance, it had been occupied.
At Koepang more Japanese naval
forces arrived, and Jap parachute troops
had been dropped. At the end of the
week the Japs claimed to have made
prisoners of 1500 Australian soldiers, but
fighting continued, according to 8.8. C.
Shipping in the Timor Sea was attacked
by enemy flying-boats.
A Portuguese contingent was due in
Timor on March 2, It is most unlikely
to do any fighting.
A Dutch report says there is every
reason to believe that Amboina has fallen
into Japanese hands. This should mean
that Australian artillerymen have been
taken by the enemy, but Australians have
displayed so much skill and daring in tight
corners that some may have got away.
There have been heavy bombing attacks
on Port Moresby, It is not clear whether
they were Japanese attempts to inhibit
a series of R.A.A.F. offensives against
Rabaul or whether the boot was on the
other foot.
Both showed that air forces in the two
areas were not negligible, and that if the
Japanese were allowed a foothold on the
southern side of Papua from which they
could operate, the heart of the North
Queensland sugar country and the Ather-
ton Tableland would find themselves
within range of a very formidable force
of enemy bombers.
The first move in the exchange of
explosive courtesies came from the
R.A.A.F., which on Feb. 23 braved the
a.-a. fire of Rabaul, and on the return
journey enemy fighters, to blast aero-
dromes, wharves and shipping. Weather
was unfavorable, as it nearly always is
over Rabaul.
The Japs retaliated with a 50-minute
raid on Moresby. It was made in the
afternoon by twin-engined Mitsubishi
navy-type bombers, which dropped 43
bombs, killed an R.A.A.F. man and
wounded a soldier and three natives.
On Feb, 25, while another force waded
into the landing parties of Timor, 2000-
odd miles to the west, the R.A.A.F. again
went to Rabaul, blasted Lakunai aero-
drome and saw a large fire spring up.
Over Moresby a big two-engined ’plane,
flying at great height, was driven off by
a.-a. fire.
From then onward the offensive against
Rabaul became continuous, despite heavy
rain and other unfavorable conditions.
On Thursday the attackers turned to night
raiding, and just before midnight bombed
wharves and shipping, while a few
machines went inland to Toma and set
fire to buildings and installations with
low-level diving attacks. It was believed
that they also damaged some aircraft on
the ground. They left for home by the
light of their own fires and saluted by
three heavy explosions. The enemy is
apparently well installed. His a.-a. fire
was a thing to be wary of.
Though the weather continued at its
worst the young R.A.A.F. crews —aver-
age age, 21 —kept at it night after night
over Rabaul, extending their operations
to Gasmata. They drove through fierce
a.-a. fire on Friday and Saturday at
Rabaul under conditions which an officer
who had seen service overseas described
as ‘TOO per cent, tougher than in
Europe,” where the game “was just a
holiday beside this.”
Moresby had another audacious day-
light raid on Saturday afternoon. Mitsu-
bishi O-type fighters came like a bolt of
lightning. On their tail were 16 heavy
bombers.
The attackers came in over the harbor
with a premonitory gust of fire on an
old wreck which lies near the entrance
to the port. The fighters went on hedge-
hopping expeditions across the harbor and
the hill with their machine-guns blazing.
A machine-gunner brought one of them
down in a straight dive. The pilot had
just time to bail out. He was the first
enemy prisoner taken on Australian soil.
Bombers climbed to 20,000 ft. to avoid
the accurate a.-a. fire. The attack sounded
like a heavy thunderstorm, and the red
dust for which Moresby is famous went
up in clouds. A bomber lurched ; the
formation scattered, and it was all over.
Damage had been little. Seven a.-a. men
and several civilians were injured.
Nothing has been heard of the Aus-
tralian forces in the heart of New Britain.
New Guinea has become an urgent prob-
lem, the danger of which many Aus-
tralians fail to realise.
The natives have no loyalties—-they
have been taught officially to have none


under the vapid League regime. What
they have been taught by several hundred
German missionaries nobody is sure. But
all who know them, and especially those
who saw them under German discipline,
are sure that some of them are good
fighting material. They can be turned
easily into good shots, and their allegi-
ance will go to whoever gives them orders
and ammunition.
New Guinea must be retrieved from
Japanese clutches before a ready-made
native army is recruited there.
The whole of the Northern Territory
has been placed under military control.
Gordon Bennett Escapes.
“Ek Dum”: Praised by the London
“Times” man as the best fighting general
on Singapore, Major-General Gordon
Bennett, Captain Gordon Walker, his
A.D.C., Major Charles Moses and other
military and civilian refugees have figured
in one of the greatest escape stories in
the history of war.
The capitulation was signed at 5.30
p.m. on Feb. 15, when the reservoirs had
ceased to be available and the two Singa-
pore hospitals had only 24 hours’ water
ration left.
Major-General Bennett was then at
Tanglin Barracks, west of the city. The
A.LF. lines were just to the north. With
Captain Walker and Major Moses, in
private life general manager of the
A.8.C., the G.O.C. Australians drove
across the city and through its busiest
and most frequented parts to the eastern
side, between the town and the civil
aerodrome, near the fashionable Seaview
Hotel.
There about 1030 p.m. he and his
party, with some British officers and
non-coms, who could not make the dis-
tance, started to swim out to a sampan.
They forced their company on the
master of a two-masted junk, were
joined by some more army men and
Malayan civilians and “persuaded” the
junk owner to leave the harbor. They
themselves set the sails, but next morn-
ing found them drifting back to harbor.
Putting things to rights, they resumed
their perilous voyage. They were three
days at sea, and Japanese ’planes passed
over them all the time. Once —according
to a statement published in Sydney
“D.T.” and attributed to the General —
they saw a sailing sampan manned by
a single Digger. When asked “Did you
pinch it?” he replied: “Not that you’d
notice, but the bloke who owned it didn’t
have much say,”
A launch picked up the voyagers and
they were landed in Sumatra and taken
to Padang, which is about 200 miles
across the island by car from Djambi.
Djambi lies about 70 miles from Malacca
Strait up the Hari River.
A flying-boat carried them to Batavia,
where they arrived on Wednesday. On
Sunday General Bennett reached Sydney,
having travelled in a Dutch ’plane, to
receive a rapturous reception from his
wife and daughter.
In Java, it was reported, Major-General
Bennett said that some Australian officers
had wept tears of rage when surrender
was mooted. He described the conditions
in Singapore on the last days of the cam-
paign as “just plain hell.”
The fighting spirit, however, was far
from dead. Some officers believed that
even a small counter-attack would be
possible and some of the General’s com-
panions declared that parties of the A.LF.
were still fighting in pockets.
General Bennett was reported to have
said that all Australian nurses had been
got out before Singapore fell. He sug-
gested that perhaps many other Austra-
lians might well have escaped from the
island.
The Japanese on Feb. 26 said nothing
about the escape. Earlier they had de-
clared that the general was a prisoner
at Changi, along with his fellow-Corn-
stalk, Major-General A. O. Callaghan.
Until he reached Sydney General Ben-
nett had had no direct communication
with the Government. For that, no
doubt, there is a good explanation. It
is sufficient for the present that he has
achieved a most daring escape and has
no doubt brought back information
which will be of great service to this
country.
In Russia.
“Ek Dum”: It is still impossible to
give anything like a precise account of
what is happening in Russia.
“S. M. Herald’s” London represen-
tative, quoting a German claim that the
Russians had lost “800,000 to 1,000,000
dead in their winter offensive,” wrote on
Feb. 25 that “this, for once, may not
be an exaggeration.” He added; “The
Soviet attacks, however, are not weaken-
ing.”
Newspaper correspondents declared on
Feb, 26 that “more than 96,000 Ger-
mans were trapped in a great encircling
action at Staraya Russa, at the base of
Lake Ilmen.” These were declared to
be “the remnants of the German 16th
Army smashed in what Moscow describes
as the first blow of Russia’s spring offen-
sive.”
The numbers' were a pretty large “rem-
nant” —practically the whole of a normal
German army. It was reported that the
Germans had been taken by surprise,
since the Russians advanced by stealthy
marches across 30 miles of frozen swamp,
moving up artillery on skis and muni-
tions on sledges. The Germans made
no mention of Staraya Russa, but spoke
of heavy fighting further north on the
Novgorod-Leningrad line. Moscow said
it was “exterminating” the trapped
German 16th Army round Staraya Russa.
Correspondents asserted that “eighteen
mechanised divisions” had tried in vain
to relieve it.
As for the centre of the front, it was
reported the same day that the country
round Dorogobul, about 70 miles east
of Smolensk, had been turned into a
shambles, that Red troops from there
had crossed the frozen Dnieper and that
the southern claw of a pincer was sweep-
ing northwards towards Petrovsk to meet
a companion drive from the Vitebsk
direction, whose front was at Byeloi. If
this information is reliable, a huge net
with a mouth only 60 miles wide engulfs
all the German forces on the Moscow
road east of Smolensk. But there is no
official confirmation.
On Feb. 26 an American broadcast-
network man in Moscow reported “a
staggering blow against the Germans and
Rumanians in the Ukraine, dwarfing even
the great victory at Staraya Russa and
wiping out 40 p.c. of the German
strength.” It is not easy to see how a
victory in which 60,000 men were in-
volved could dwarf one in which the
“remnants” amounted to 96,000, but the
arithmetic and mensuration of modern
war are beyond the ken of ordinary men.
Heavy fighting, with heavy losses on
both sides, was reported in the Crimea.
The time when heavy fighting will be
possible in the far south is just round the
corner. By the middle of March much
of the Black Sea and Azov country, will
be reasonably clear of snow. Across the
Bosphorus in Turkey there will be little
snow to be seen, and the road down to
Syria will be open.
Whatever the result of the winter
offensive, the Russians have made a grand
effort. If it is true that they have lost
“800,000 to 1,000,000 dead,” in addition
to what the summer and autumn cam-
paigns cost them, it shows that though
they may be beaten in war they cannot
be conquered. The case is different with
nations which cannot afford such losses ;
Australia among them.
There has been a sudden recrudescence
of the demand for the opening of a
Second European Front without any men-
tion of the opening of a Siberian front.
It must be regarded with grave suspicion.
"A Very Serious increase."
“Nobby II”: One of the unpleasant
features of Mr. Churchill’s speech in the
Commons on February 24 was his state-
ment about the destruction of shipping.
Our shipping losses since the outbreak
of war have been very heavy, and in the
last two months there has been a very
serious increase in those losses.
Very different from his last announce-
ment on Nov. 12. Then he said that
during the four months to Oct. 31 nearly
1,000,000 tons of enemy shipping was
destroyed, and he outlined the British
position as follows:
We lost just over 2,000,000 tons of ship-
ping in the four months ended June 30 —
an average of 500,000 tons a month. We
lost less than 750,000 tons, or an average
of 180,000 tons a month, in the four months
ended October 31 We must not count
that the danger is past, but the facts are
more favorable than those represented by
the actual reduction If we are able to
get through the year, we shall find ourselves
with a good supply of ships in 1942, and if
the war against the U-boats and against
enemy aircraft should continue to prosper
as it has done —about this there can be
no guarantee —it seems to me that the
Freedom Powers will be possessed of large
quantities of ships in 1943 which will
enable oversea operations to take place
utterly beyond the British resources at
present.
The review by Mr. Churchill’s First
Lord Alexander does not make the
situation look any better.
Mr. Alexander said that the Atlantic
battle had now become a Seven Seas
battle. U-boat construction was beyond
doubt on an unprecedented scale and was
increasing each month. Our losses of
convoyed ships were only .5 per cent., but
losses in the Pacific and Far East had
been considerable.
In the Crete operations, Mr. Alexander
proceeded, 5000 German soldiers had been
drowned and 16,000 British rescued; but
in me year’s operations, apart from the
total loss of Prince of Wales, Hood,
Repulse, Barham and Ark Royal, Nelson
had been twice damaged and Resolution,
Malaya, Illustrious and Formidable each
once, though they were standing up to
J
The fact cannot be baulked that actual
loss of British capital ships during the
year has offset new completions, though
the greater power and protection of new
ships must be allowed for.
It becomes clearer every day that the
battle of 1942 must be one for combined
air and sea-route supremacy—if we lose
it, we lose the war. Sinkings of tankers
off the American coasts have reached
considerable proportions, and this is a
matter that intimately concerns the Com-
monwealth
Australia might be doing a great deal
more in ship construction than at present.
Events in the Far East have shown the
value of swarming shoals of small vessels
which can operate as troop- and store-
carriers among the comparatively calm
waters of the islands. For years Japan
has been developing the motor sampan
as a war unit
Australia should be building large
numbers of small supply vessels. They
could be turned out by mass production.
The construction of their: engnes does
not present the same difficulties as m
larger vessels. down
U-boats will have to be kept down
somehow. The emergence of cr
can operate 5000 ™les from «
bases, as did the one which bombarded
A ™ ba ’t! n n t s e c Ca / lb n d if
which shelled Santa Barbara, on the Cali-
fornia coast, is an alarming development.
Though such raids have only a nuisance
value, they are disturbing. Australian
coastal towns are just as open to the risk
of them as American.
MacArthur and Wavell.
“Ek D.”: It was written by one of
those smart Sydney newspapermen whose
favorite theme is that Britain is an effete
nation of blimps in process of being
saved from destruction by Russians,
Chinese, Americans and Dutch:
On Bataan Peninsula, General Mac-
Arthur’s army of 20,000 is still holding
out against 200,000 Japanese. MacArthur
and his men are completely isolated, with-
out air or naval support. They have beaten
off attack after attack, fought day and night
for weeks. Nobody would have blamed
MacArthur had he surrendered to over-
whelming force, as the general in com-
mand of Singapore surrenders, but he per-
fers to fight. He knows that wars are not
won by honorable surrenders. So do Dr.
Van Mook and his tough, realistic Dutch
compatriots.
It amounts to a slur, intentional or
not, on the Australians in Singapore.
They alone numbered 18,000, and nobody
has ever suggested that the Japs em-
ployed 200,000 troops in that campaign.
MacArthur, grand general as he has
proved himself, is operating in prepared
positions, with a strong, heavily-gunned
rock fortress at his back and with none
of the problems of water supply and
civilian population which beset the com-
manders of Hong Kong and Singapore.
And, so far from his having only 20,000
troops, the A.A.P. correspondent at
Washington certifies that he has “about
200,000,” 150,000 of them Filipinos. The
correspondent mentioned that a brigadier
and a captain had been awarded the
D.S.C. for bringing an access of 20,000
Filipino troops into the Bataan lines from
southern Luzon.
The Japanese strength in the Philip-
pines is a matter of conjecture. It prob-
ably falls far short of 200,000 ; all the
same, the attackers are at a great advan-
tage, in that their lines of communica-
tion are open, they have command of
the labor resources of Luzon, and they
have naval and air support, which is
denied to the defenders. Moreover, they
can assume the initiative at their own
moments and give their men rest or
replace them at will with reinforcements.
Only the boldest general in command
of a large force, whose needs call for
vast quantities of armament, food and
ammunition and whose lines of com-
munication are thousands of miles long
and across the sea, would dare to immure
himself in a restricted fortress position
in which his aerodromes are under con-
stant enemy artillery fire and his rear sub-
ject to harrying from the sea. Only a
general of rare skill could have achieved
such a withdrawal into a confined space
swiftly and coolly against an enemy prac-
tising the infiltration tactics used by the
Japanese. ~ . ~
And MacArthur has proved himself as
generous as he is skilful and brave. Some
noisy person suggested that MacArthur
should be pulled out of Bataan, where it
was apparently thought he was wasted,
and given supreme command in
west Pacific —in effect superseding Wayeii.
About the same time Wavell, nursing
the “quadruplet” trials of the most wide-
spread active command in history, and
awaiting a threefold crucial attack on
the heart of his centres of resistance,
offered to fly to the Philippines if Mac-
Arthur needed a consultation. Mac-
Arthur’s reply was characteristic of the
man;
Thanks; but consider the life of the
Supreme Commander in the South-west
Pacific is too precious to be jeopardised.
It had been jeopardised when that was
published. On the day before Singapore
gave in Wavell had landed among the
falling shells and bombs and had coolly
appeared in forward positions during the
last desperate resistance, as he had
appeared before at Keren and in the
breaking of the Burmese front lines. He
had flown away, having made his de-
cisions and presumably given his orders.
He bore away a broken rib, suffered when
his ’plane was damaged by enemy fire as
he took off for Batavia, 600 miles away,
along a route flanked the whole distance
by established enemy posts and patrolled
by enemy air forces which were raking
the whole length of Java with bombs and
machine-guns.
It was recorded simply afterwards
that Wavell was “carrying on.”
Weather has continued to hamper
operations in Libya. 'There has been the
usual air-raiding on both sides, with
some artillery action at testing points and
the normal to-and-fro patrolling, es-
pecially in the south near Mekili. Tripoli
and Benghazi were both bombed late in
the week, and the Cathedral mole in
Benghazi was left burning.
* * * *
On Feb. 28 British parachute troops
were landed at Bruneval, 12 miles north
of Le Havre, under aircraft and naval
protection, to destroy one of the central
German Radio location posts of the
French coast. They did the job in dark-
ness, inflicted casualties and retired with
prisoners to waiting naval units which
took them off. Their losses were light,
though they were two hours ashore, but
they had a narrow escape. Just as they
embarked the first headlights of German
armored units on the hunt for them
appeared on the horizon.
* * * *
U.S. Navy on March 1 reported the
loss of U.S. tankers W. D. Anderson
(10,000 tons) and R. P. Resor (7451 tons),
sunk off the Atlantic coast, and of an-
other 7000-ton tanker burnt out in a
Pacific Coast port.
» * * *
It has been asserted that the Admiral
Tirpitz (35,000 tons), Admiral Scheer
(sister ship to the Graf Spec) and Admiral
Hipper (10,000 tons. Sin. guns) are
loose on the Norwegian coast. Tokyo
Radio said the Scharnhorst and Gneisenau
and the Prinz Eugen were on their way
to break up U.S. concentrations in the
Atlantic. As two of these ships were
supposed to have been heavily damaged
in their recent run for safety and all had
been in dock for months at Brest or
adjacent ports, they should scarcely be in
a condition for far-flung adventures, for
which there has been no time to com-
mission them in any case.
H.M. submarine Trident has hit a
10,000-ton German cruiser—probably the
Prinz Eugen, which escaped from Brest —
with a torpedo off the Norwegian coast.
* * * ♦
“Ek D.”: Twenty-three of those effete
mems and tuans escaped from the Japs
by traversing 600 miles of Borneo and
the 250-mile strait which separates it
from Java. Their route across Borneo
had only once before been tackled by a
European, so far as is known. They left
Sibu after a bombing and during food
riots, made the first 180 miles up the
Ragan River in prahus with Dyak guides,
and then went on foot on a route to the
Dutch border on which even native
guides lost their way. There was a final
stage to the coast by prahu. There were
three women, one 73 years old, another
with a three-weeks baby and another
whose baby was born en route. They
took 49 days.
s * * *
H. A. Rorke, who has done a very
good job as Publicity Censor in N. S.
Wales, has resigned. Under the terms
of his appointment, he was given the
right to devote an hour a day to his own
business as consulting engineer. This, it
seems, is objected to by the new regime,
though Rorke made up for it by working
as censor “day and night, seven days a
week.” He has been succeeded by
Horace Mansell, a Sydney pressman who
has done publicity work for four N.S.W.
Governments.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
What a fine word is Liberty! The
Government could not have chosen a
more stirring name for its new loan.
Every professional, every commercial
magnate, every boy and girl clerk worthy
of this land which is theirs has been
roused, and is putting his pounds, his
shillings or maybe his pence into this
fight for the freedom which is as essen-
tial a part of an Australian’s life as the
air he breathes. Last Friday, outside
the Commonwealth Bank, a redhead
and a platinum blonde were talking
earnestly: “Well,” said the platinum
blonde, “I’m just going to think of it
as a lay-by. I pay one pound now and
a pound a month for nine more months.”
The redhead nodded: “I was going to
get a new tweed costume for the winter.
But I’m getting a check instead —a check
to the Japs.” And both girls turned and
walked into the bond department.
Today Lilian Frost will embark on
another season of midday organ recitals.
This will be Lilian’s 1038th programme.
Elsie Findlay and Henry Staell are the
assisting musicians.
Lady Wakehurst, the president of the
committee which is working to make less
hard the lot of the women and children
who have been thrust by war conditions
from their homes in the pleasant isles of
the Pacific, welcomed another hundred
of our visitors last Wednesday. The com-
mittee (for some reason named the Far
East Welfare Committee, though this
area of strife is Australia’s Near North)
is doing all in its power to help in a
practical way the women so suddenly
bereft. At last week’s party each guest
was handed a badge by Lieut.-Col. R. O.
Wynne, the Governor’s A.D.C. On this
was written the name of the corner of
the Pacific which had been her home.
Children again enjoyed their games on
the lawns, directed by kindergarten
teachers.
Margaret Gillespie, who with Mrs.
Gordon Henty founded the Lunch-hour
Music Club last year, has ambitious
plans for the year 1942. The first pro-
gramme is dated for next Monday, March
9. The work chosen is “Bastien and Bas-
tfenhe,” a bit of Mozart charm. This
was performed by the small boys of the
Viennese Choir when they were in Syd-
ney in pre-war days. It was found that
there' was no orchestral score in Aus-
tralia, but from the piano part Sydney de
Vries and Charles Mackerras were able
to build up 12 orchestral parts. Charles,
a gifted musician still in his teens, will
conduct. Joan Mackaness (Mrs. John
Holmes) will sing the soprano, A. S.
Hamilton (whose voice glitters with
Eisteddfod renown) will be the tenor, and
Sydney de Vries will sing the baritone
part. If circumstances allow. Lady
Gowrie will be the guest of honor. His-
tory House, at 12.30, will see the gather-
ing of the musicianly.
Newly-engaged is Geraldine Gunn.
Geraldine, a teen-old, has given the right
answer to Lieut. Gordon Palmer, A.1.F.,
of Rose Bay. She is the only child of the
J. A. L. Gunns, of Etham-avenue, Darling
Point.
Gwillian Gale met and married Neville
Coulter one day last week in Pitt-street
Congregational. Gwillian had a special
reason for that choice, for it was her
great-great-grandfather. Dr, Robert Ross,
who laid the foundation stone, more than
100 years ago, and became the first
minister of the old church. The bride,
who is the only daughter of the Leslie
Gales, of Killara and of Bilbaringa
station, Wallendbeen, wore a frock of
white crepe and a flower toque from
which flowed a swathe of white veil.
Nan Bonnefin and Rona Burnett were
the ’maids, and were a nicely-balanced
color contrast in hyacinth pinks and
blues. Dr. John Mutton and Kenyon
King were the ’groom’s stand-bys.
Beauty Point, Mosman, will be the
Neville Coulters’ address,
Queenie Warby, staunch member of
the C.W.A., is very proud of the badge
just received from Mrs. Sheila Monks,
who is running the Australian Fighting
Forces’ Herbs Auxiliary in Melbourne.
The badge is a metal sage leaf. Miss
Warby is chairman of the C.W.A. Herbs
Auxiliary, and the C.W.A. units through-
out N. S. Wales are growing herbs for
Australia’s warriors. These are all sent
to Melbourne, post free if signed by the
C.W.A. From Boggabri to Katoomba
schoolchildren, Junior Red Crossers,
members of the C.W.A., young and old,
are busy over their thyme, sage and mar-
joram beds. The drying and storing are
important, but all instructions are sent
out by the C.W.A. Large parcels from
Boggabri and Katoomba have been
singled out for special praise. Now
that the rains have come in many coun-
try centres, this patriotic work has taken
on new stimulus.
During the war the growing of herbs
is a duty to the fighting forces. They
help to make the salt meats and the
tinned foods more appetising and nour-
ishing. But after the war this should
prove a profitable occupation for elderly
people with a garden ; for returned sol-
diers also. The seasoning of Australia’s
Christmas turkey, Sunday fowl or Aus-
tralian goose has mostly been imported.
There now seems no insuperable reason
why this country should not grow its
own.
The American Centre will miss the
smile of Mrs. Charles Brown, its vice-
chairman, when she goes off for a short
holiday. But that will not be till after
the exhibition of Australian Art for
Theatre and Ballet gets well into its
stride. The preview by Lady Wakehurst
last Monday and the opening by the
Minister for Education, Clive Evatt, yes-
terday were the social events so far of
this week. Gross takings of the pre-
showing and of the opening day went
to the American Centre, that cheery spot
in Phillip-street which welcomes the
American woman and child who have
fled the thunderbolts that Mars is hurtling
around our Near North. During the
remainder of the five weeks the show will
remain open, 50 per cent, net will go to
the Centre. Peter Pan photograph.
Tatlock (and that name’s a real bit of
Cornwall) Miller, who has arranged the
show with the co-operation of the De-
partment of Education, points out that
this is the first all-Australian show of
design for the theatre and ballet. Alto-
gether there are 800 exhibits. Many are
by Loudon Sainthill, who was responsible
for costume and decor of many of the
De Basil and Kirsova ballets. Bill Con-
stable, artist for the Minerva sets, is an-
other represented. Those two clever Mel-
bourne sisters Kathleen and Florence
Martin flew over towards the end of last
week to arrange their work. Particularly
striking are their sketches for “The Eter-
nal Struggle,” the Igor Schwezoff ballet
which the De Basil company presented
here. Thirty inter-State artists are show-
ing their work.
Every little Australian will soon know
as much as every little Russian about the
ballet. There are to be three sessions
daily when, under the shepherding of the
Education Department, schoolchildren
will listen to a talk on this art by Tatlock
Miller, who has the knack of making his
subject live. An idea of his that com-
mends itself is the showing of English
costume down the centuries. For in-
stance, alongside the posters showing the
ruff and farthingale, the cloaks, the knee-
breeches, the buckled shoes of Eliza-
bethan fair and gallant, will be the names
of the men famed in art and letters of
the times. Melanie Price Jones is organ-
ising secretary for the Department of
Education. Mrs. Randolph Kidder and
Mrs. Wilson Flake are active on behalf
of the American Centre.
The girls of the Mitchell and Public
Libraries since Japan dropped its first
bomb on these shores have been ready
to spring into action to cope with incen-
diaries. The girls, as well as the men of
the staffs, are by now pretty expert in
fire-fighting, and have been taking their
turns at night-time watches for weeks
past. They take two-hour shifts roof-
spotting, they “man” first-aid posts, they
patrol the premises. In short, they are
at their posts as they would be during a
regular Blitz. After a turn at roof-spot-
ting they can pop along and make a cup
of tea in their common rooms. When
die night’s duty is over for each relay
its members turn in and sleep on the
premises. From sundown to sunrise this
special duty is cheerfully undertaken.
Three cheers for the girls who are volun-
tarily keeping guard over the nation’s
historical records!
From Melbourne
After starting off as an almost com-
plete flop, the Summer Girl Quest has
ended triumphantly with a big sum for
Red Cross and Comforts funds and final-
ists who are able to say “I’m glad I did
it.” The secret of success was the em-
phasis laid on the fact that the quest was
for a girl with a record in war work who
was also intelligent and had personality
and could raise money by organised effort
among her friends; in short, a girl who
was a desirable citizen. At first, when
the bathing-beauty idea had not been
sufficiently dispelled from the public
mind, entrants were as rare as phoenixes
and general interest was nil. In fact,
it was made apparent that bathing-
beauty contests are as favorably regarded
as bushfires. All the finalists in the
quest were workers, and there was
recognition that the country, equally
with the city, counts in these drives by
the fact that the prizes were divided ’twixt
town and country. Three city winners
were, first, Jean Bateman ; second, Pat
Talbot Hamilton; third. Rusty Parkin-
son. Country winners were Marion Mat-
thews, Castlemaine ; Miss Gaunt, Trafal-
gar ; and Joyce Cayley, Werribee. Beryl
Theisz raised most money and was
awarded a special prize.
Already Heidelberg Military Hospital
feels that it can consider putting up an
honors board. When this week more
nurses trained there tell their story of
Singapore, there will be a feeling of
pride, and those who said “Good old
Forsyth” last week will be able to rejoice
again. Sister Gethla Forsyth was one of
the last three to reach Singapore from
Victoria, and after eight strenuous weeks
she is back again, and Heidelberg will
be able to congratulate her with a few
good pats on the back. Gethla had
nearly every sort of experience in war
calamities. The ship in which she sailed
from here went only to Sumatra, and
thence the troops and nurses proceeded
to Singapore in a Dutch convoy, and
would have been spotted by Jap ’planes
but for the merciful chance of a heavy
raincloud which hid them at the critical
moment from the skyriders. The convoy
thus blotted out reached Singapore in
time for Gethla to take her share in hos-
pital work and standing up to raids
before the nightmare trip back here.
Spencer Shier made this picture of
attractive Alison Grant Hay, who has
accomplished the switch-over from hunt-
in’ shootin’ and fishin’ to war-time in-
dustry without the usual fuss and bother.
Alison has come back from a holiday
at Flinders Island, where her companion
was Anne Martin, to take up again the
task of becoming proficient in typing and
shorthand so that she can tackle a whole-
time war job. At Flinders the flounder
responded to the two young fishermaidens
in a suitable manner, and life was alto-
gether simple and primitive enough to
satisfy the yearning for the wide open
spaces that comes to girls who have been
accustomed to plenty of riding and horses
and all that. The Grant Hay family, in-
cluding Alison, knows all the lore of
horsebreeding, and also likes to have an
interest in racing.
The twin facts that nearly everyone
has a war job and that almost all have
to travel by tram makes for a break-
down of that frozen hostility which the
accusing foreigner used to allege was the
average citizen’s attitude towards every
other citizen in British countries. Tram
life has become a sociable and jolly affair,
and last week a New Guinea woman who
related her experiences in a Malvern
tram had an interested crowd of perfect
strangers frankly listening in. She ex-
plained to her friend and, incidentally,
to the gallery of sympathetic hearers that
she had left all her furniture at Rabaui,
and that she supposed the Japs were sit-
ting on her chairs now. When she added
that had she been able to divine the
future she would have stuck a few pins
in the seats, the whole tram’s company
giggled. One of these days there may
be tram community singing!
With the announcement of the engage-
ment of Judy Wight, massage graduate,
and Dr. Thomas Owen Beatty, shortly
to join the A.1.F., another University
romance turns into the road that leads
to matrimony. This couple solved the
question of providing an engagement
ring without calling on a non-essential
industry. The ring in question will be
great-grandmother’s, set in platinum.
Plans, if any, are being kept dark, and
Judy, who has been very busy making
frequent trips to the country to see
evacuee children from city hospitals, is
likely to be kept pretty busy with her
massage work for the duration.
As chairwoman of the provisional com-
mittee which successfully launched the
Garden Army, Mrs. Hector Greig (Gwen
Varley, of radio, that was) had done
more than most Victorians to make cer-
tain that there will be fresh veges this
year. She, in turn, hands on the credit
to Mrs. Stuart Cowan, of the Y.W.C.A.,
whose impulse after the last war it was
to gather into a Guild of Helpers girls
who felt that with no war there was no
work of social alleviation to do, Gwen
Varley was not one of these ; but when
she left school she joined this guild and
has ever since worked with the Y.W.C.A.,
becoming this year Victorian vice-presi-
dent. Her persuasive eloquence has
brought into the Garden Army not only
eager young women but also such seri-
ous-minded and experienced gardeners
as Mr. Comeadow, of the Horticultural
Society, and Mr. Barnett, of the Vege-
table Growers’ Association, who will see
to it that the land offered to the Army
is fit to use before anyone begins on it
with pick and shovel.
With her fiance, Henry Ewart Spry, at
a R.A.A.F. training centre far from Mel-
bourne, Lorna Dorothy, the Harold
Woodwards’ daughter, made an an-
nouncement of their joint intentions at
the week-end, ably backed up by an
attractive hoop for the third finger com-
plete with diamonds. St. Michael’s, her
old school, showed becoming interest in
the affair, as did also the many admirers
of fiance Henry’s mother, Violet Ewart
Spry, who keeps the first two names for
her public appearances as one of Mel-
bourne’s most capable pianists and an
outstanding interpreter of modern music.
The Spry home in Heyington-place has
often been the scene of piano recitals,
for the drawing-room boasts two superb
pianos, and both Mr. and Mrs. Spry play.
Henry Spry, senior, is also a fairly regu-
lar racegoer, and has owned racing nags,
one with Eugene Gorman, now in the
Near North, as partner.
Mrs. Bright Parker doesn’t intend that
“What did you do in the Great Blackout,
Mother?” shall become an embarrassing
question. She called a conference of all
sorts of girls’ clubs and societies and dis-
cussed the how and why of the blackouts
and brownouts, and how the girls could
still pursue a more or less normal life
during them. Dances in the suburbs are
almost off and bridge has become an
afternoon affair. Many clubs which for-
merly raised money by these means are
now concentrating on more direct war
efforts. The women’s staff of one large
drapery establishment and a circle of
young people at progressive Malvern
have both decided that camouflage-net
making is the most worth-while effort
they can make, and have dropped every-
thing else for it. Result is thousands of
yards of the much-needed nets. Also
direct giving has received a boost.
Domestic problems created by the war
situation have submerged most other
social interests. One amusing develop-
ment is the number of young women
buying bicycles. A recent convert is
Shirley MacGregor, in pre-war times one
of this city’s most colorful junior race-
goers. She thinks the wheel great exer-
cise, and mother, Mrs. Don MacGregor,
has now been converted also, and uses a
bicycle for shopping. Cycling corps are
being attached to most A.R.P. units, but
as the members have to wear slacks when
on the job only the slimmer girls will be
game to mount and ride. Another war
development is the trench-digging party.
Everyone is discussing who could be
asked to afternoon-tea and a dig on
Saturdays. Not all are as lucky as the
daughter of a vicar of a bayside parish,
who explained to envious friends that she
had been able to conscript father’s choir
boys for the job.


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Kelos, hurdled off at the barrier and
starting at 33 to 1, revealed amazing speed
to defeat Fur Trader and Beauliyre in
the Newmarket Handicap at Flemington
on Saturday. She crossed from the out-
side to take the lead on the flat side little
more than a furlong after the start, and
her time for the six furlongs, 1.1 U, was
only half a second outside the record for
the race.
H. Wolters, trainer of Kelos, won the
Newmarket last year with All Veil, and
most backers considered the latter would
be the better of the pair this time. All
Veil, starting at 12 to 1, ran below his
winning form of a week earlier, but
Kelos improved on her display in the
Oakleigh Plate, in which she had finished
sixth to High Title. Kelos is a three-
year-old filly by Manitoba from Welosia,
and is raced on lease by the trainer’s
brother-in-law, R. H. Sang. She is the
first horse Sang has raced, and as a
yearling was chosen by Wolters in pref-
erence to another smart filly, Wheat
Sheaf, winner of the Wakeful Stakes last
spring. Kelos has always been regarded
as one of the most brilliant fillies in Mel-
bourne, but she is rather a handful at
the barrier. Because of fractiousness and
kicking at a recent Moonee Valley meet-
ing she has a threat of “banishment from
the metropolitan area” hanging over her
head.
Fur Trader did well to run Kelos to
a neck, and Beaulivre made up consider-
able ground to finish third, just ahead of
Burrabil. Latter began too slowly, and
was last with High Caste, Sun Flash and
All Veil at the end of two furlongs. Sun
Flash ran on strongly in fifth position,
but High Caste was never dangerous, and
High Title, who started favorite at 5 to 1,
notwithstanding his leg injury and the
fact that he had had only one gallop in
a week, failed to reveal his usual dash
and was beaten some distance from
home. Tea Cake struck trouble early,
and Phoines was never out of trouble in
the last two furlongs.
Regency’s 50-to-l defeat of the 13-to-8
favorite, Hesione, in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes was the signal for hoots from all
sections of the course. Demonstrators
could not reconcile his improved form
with his displays in his two previous races
at Flemington and Moonee Valley. An
apprentice had ridden him in both those
races, but W. Box, who had been asso-
ciated with Regency in his two wins
earlier in the season, had the mount again
on Saturday. According to the colt’s
trainer, H. Hilton, Regency is not an
easy horse to ride, and Box understands
him perfectly. Regency looked liked win-
ning decisively when he ran to the pace-
maker, Hesione, inside the last furlong,
but Hesione battled, on gamely under
pressure and was beaten only half a
head.
Regency has been a splendid proposi-
tion at his yearling price of 300 guineas.
His three wins and two seconds have
yielded £3045 in stakes, and, if transport
difficulties can be overcome, his owner,
W. R. Kemball, intends to send him to
Randwick for the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes. Blue Valley ran on strongly in
third place, but East End, Riverton and
Chatfield failed at the business end of
the seven furlongs.
High Road won the V.R.C. St. Leger
decisively from the Oaks winner Prima-
vera and the Victoria Derby and Mel-
bourne Cup winner Skipton. He hit the
front about two furlongs from home and,
never in danger of defeat subsequently,
won by \\ length. Primavera was
hemmed in on the turn, but, as the race
was run, High Road was the best horse
on the day. Primavera, however, ran
well enough to enhance her prospects
in the Australian Cup next Saturday.
High Road is not engaged in that race,
but his Randwick engagements include
the Sydney Cup. High Road, perhaps
the biggest colt in training, was bred by
his owners, B. and R. Grey Smith, and
is by Caledon from Scotch Melody, his
dam having been purchased for 40
guineas in 1935. He is not an easy horse
to train, and won the Leger on a public
preparation of three races over sprint
distances.
Heavy support for Skipton featured
betting on the St. Leger. Few keen judges
considered him forward enough to win
on such a light preparation, but weight
of money forced his price from fives
down to equal second favoritism with
High Road at 5 to 2. Primavera started
best at 9 to 4. Skipton looked dangerous
about a furlong and a half from home,
but weakened under the strain and
finished a moderate third.
Prairiedale, nine years old, followed up
his win of a week earlier by defeating
Togo and Similar in the Flemington
Handicap. Starting at 14 to 1, and carry-
ing 101 b. more than his original Aus-
tralian Cup weight, he fought off Togo
in a close finish, and, despite his penalty,
is almost sure to run well again next
Saturday. He is consistent, tough and
game. Velocity and Saul disappointed
their Cup admirers, but Similar’s fast
finish was a good trial. He was one of
the last four at the half-mile, and should
not be troubled by the extra half-mile
of the Cup. Renown ran on nicely in
sixth position, but England’s Glory, who
attempted to lead all the way, weakened
to finish fourth.
• •••••
L. Robertson, trainer of High Road,
also was successful with Legality in the
March Nursery and Neutron in the
second Brunswick Stakes. Neutron was
backed from 12 to 1 down to fives, and,
after meeting with several checks dur-
ing the race, shot through on the inside
in the straight to win decisively from
Queen Baccha, who contested this race
in preference to the Newmarket, and
Art Union.
The attendance at Ascot on Saturday
must have gone close to a record for the
course, and the restriction placed on
broadcasting from other States did not
adversely affect bookmakers who did
business on the Melbourne meeting.
Angus, who was disappointing in his
two races the previous week, finished
strongly to win the Ascot Handicap, after
being fifth at the turn, and gave the little
Chinese apprentice Doon his first suc-
cess. The youngster rode vigorously, and
received as great an ovation as if his
mount was favorite and not an outsider.
Angus is a brother to Remarc, and a
particularly good track galloper. Bel
Oiseau did better than in his recent races,
and though Hieron could only dead-heat
Cryon for third he is still worth follow-
ing. Mortine was never dangerous, and
it would seem that the only way to give
her a good winning chance is to get her
to the front as soon as possible.
• ••••*
Forward and Cradle Song had the
finish of the first division of the Flying
Handicap to themselves, and the former
was a little too good for the filly.
Exactor ran well, without ever being a
winning possibility, and narrowly beat
Metallic for third. The second division
of the Flying went to Romero, who was
behind St. Elmo, Penny Tan and Mary
Lou at the straight entrance.
*
Overbold, who dropped back third-
last soon after the start, did not make
up much leeway for the first quarter-
mile, but at the finish was level with
Petruchio and Mary Lou, just behind the
third horse. He will probably be better
suited by Randwick, where his recent
track work has been above the average.
Lagoon led at the leger in the third
division of the Flying, but could not
stall off Miss Pentheus, who, though she
is rising seven, appears to be improving
with age. Cable was first into the
straight, but again weakened, Chatham’s
Choice was one of the field, but, though
he shaped respectably, looked in need
of racing.
Over the last furlong of the first divi-
sion of the Two-year-old Handicap
Double Birthday was too solid for
Goletta and Oriole, who led him into
the straight. Queensland filly Movitta,
who is by Piccadilly, had a very easy
win from Mardevon in the second divi-
sion. She practically led all the way,
and made a quarter-second faster time
than Double Birthday. Sequel, in third
place, ran well, and the good-looking
Main Topic (by Talking) is worth
remembering.
Success of the Payten-trained two-
year-old Vanity Fair in the Fourteen-
two Handicap did not surprise any-
one who noted the good showing she
made when third to Te Rama and Little
Gundi at her previous start. Second to
Ohaeawai at the turn, she had no diffi-
culty in beating Lidworth. Vanity Fair
is by Brueghel from imported Corbiere,
by Le Phare.
* * * •
Everything happened in the Newmarket
Handicap that shouldn’t, taking recent
form as guide. Without any marked pull
in weight, three horses unplaced in the
Oakleigh Plate filled the places, the win-
ner being the outsider Kelos, stable com-
panion of All Veil, who was expected by
many backers to repeat last year’s suc-
cess. Fur Trader, second in the New-
market, met All Veil only 31b. better
than when beaten by the latter in the
Hawksburn Handicap; and Beaulivre,
though eighth in the Futurity Stakes and
meeting Burrabil 41b. worse, beat him for
third place. To further complicate mat-
ters High Title, who was leader through-
out the Oakleigh Plate, was outpaced by
Kelos in the first furlong, and Phoines
was always one of the rear division.
High Caste was again too slow in finding
his legs to have any chance. Manitoba
has received some good advertisements
this season, and Kelos’s win is the best
of the lot.
* * * *
The doubt as to Skipton being at his
best was correct, and the interval of a
week will have to do a lot to enable
him to win the Australian Cup. A drop
of 81b. as compared with her St. Leger
weight will be helpful to Primavera, but
in order to win the Cup it will also be
necessary for her to improve upon her
St. Leger form.
Prairiedale has incurred 101 b. penalty
for the Cup, but, as he will again meet
Togo on the same terms and Similar and
England’s Glory at a very slight differ-
ence, his chance on figures at least reads
as good as any of that trio. Nevertheless,
I think he will have difficulty in beating
Similar. The latter, according to all
accounts, was unlucky in running, and,
nearly last into the straight, finished in
a manner that indicated the extra half-
mile would be to his liking. The New-
market Handicap was another instance
of what can happen in racing, but the
recent moderate form of many horses
likely to run in the Australian Cup gives
them very little chance.
* * * *
It is anticipated that in Maoriland
restrictions will reduce galloping meet-
ings to 80 and trotting meetings to 20
days a year.
* * * *
The respective Premiers of Victoria,
Queensland and W.A. have expressed
themselves to the effect that they do not
see any immediate necessity for follow-
ing South Australia’s example in closing
down all racing. Racing people will
agree with them.
* * * *
Some Sydney bookmakers are allegedly
suffering severely through all-up bets
made at meetings wide apart. However,
they do not go so far afield as a Mel-
bourne bookmaker, who claims that an
all-up bet on last year’s German Derby
and Nippon Derby (Japan) cost him
several hundreds. An even greater worry
for him and his clerk was working out
the value of marks and yen in Australian
money.
• * * •
At the annual meeting of the Thorough-
bred Breeders’ Association in London m
December, Lord Rosebery said that the
necessity for a certain amount of racing
in war-time was now more generally
recognised even by those opposed to the
sport than it was a year ago. Relative
to other amusements he said:
I should say that far more people go
to the cinemas in England in one day than
go racing in the whole of the year. Equally,
I should say that far more people go to
football matches in the course of a weeK
than go to racing in the course of a year.
These amusements consume fuel just as
much as racing.
While horseracing had been cut down,
greyhound racing was going as strongly
as ever in England at the end of last
year. In some cities two rival companies
raced the same day.
♦ * * •
Three of the last four Ascot Vale
Stakes have been won by outsiders. In
1938 odds of 6 to 4 were laid on Nuffield,
but the winner turned up in Tactical, a
14-to-l chance. In 1940 Industry (15 to
1) defeated the 5-to-2 favorite, Halifax,
and last year High Road, 8 to 1, was too
good for All Love, on whom odds of 6
to 1 were laid.
* * * *
The Australian Cup has not been a
good race for heavyweights. The only
horses successful with over 9st. were
Malua (9.9), Highborn (9.4), Tartan (9.6),
Pilliewinkie (9.6) and Spearfelt (9.13).
Since Spearfelt, the most carried by a
winner was 8.5 by Heroic Prince, and the
only minor-place getter with over 9.0 was
Apostrophe, who had 9.4 when second
to Saul last year. Of the last 14 winners
10 carried 7.8 down to 6.10.
* * * *
Phar Lap’s dam, Entreaty, was repre-
sented by a colt by Nightmarch at the
recent Wellington (M.L.) yearling sales.
The youngster was bought by Dr. Grant,
of Auckland, for 375gns. As Entreaty
was foaled in 1920 she is rising 22. She
threw her first foal in 1925. Phar La^>
was thrown in 1926.
* * * *
In Perth the W.A. Trotting Association
is going to hold a series of charity meet-
ings in March. These take the place of
the ordinary fixtures, and so as to benefit
charities as much as possible stakes will
be on the small side.
* * * ♦
King George had experience oT two-
year-old luck last year. Early in the
season F. Darling, one of England’s best
trainers and judges of a racehorse, de-
clared Sun Chariot useless. Owing to
transport not being available she was not
then sent away. Awaiting transport she
was kept in work, and suddenly started to
improve, with the result that at the close
of the season the King had England’s
champion two-year-old.
« * * •
In stabling his yearlings at Newmarket
P, Miller generally indicates what he
regards as his best. This year he has
not yet made a definite selection, but
probabilities favor the first three boxes
being filled by the Midstream colts from
Valferre (dam of Pandion and The Jilt),
Ranier (dam of Pannade) and Superic
(sister to Hall Mark). The Midstream
youngsters are very strongly built. A
well-grown brown half-sister, by Young
Idea, to All Love is bound to sell well,
as is the filly by the same sire from Sil-
veroona (dam of Chatoona). The owner
of Kia-ora has taken up his residence
there.
* * * *
The South Australian Government will
be a big loser in revenue by the cessation
of racing and the closing of betting shops.
The latter have done a lot of harm to
S.A. racing, and their abolition would
be welcomed by many who would like
to see the sport restored to its old stand-
ing. It would be impossible to say that
people who sit in betting shops all Satur-
day afternoon have any real interest in
it. To them it is nothing more than a
gambling medium. When racing returns
in South Australia it is to be hoped the
betting shops do not come with it.
* * * •
A. E. Cooper said he regarded his sale
of last week as satisfactory, but it was
not exactly reassuring for those who are
offering yearlings and other bloodstock
at Randwick in the autumn. Bought for
£19,000 as a three-year-old and winner of
the AJ.C. and Victoria Derbies, Talking
was passed in at 750gns„ and, though his
stud fee was 100gns., the highest price
made by any of his five yearlings sold
was less than that sum. Cooper deserved
better.
♦ » * •
There were only five starters for the
Viceroy’s Cup at Calcutta, and Baqlava,
who beat Finalist in the King Emperor’s
Cup, was not one of them. Finalist, who
is a gelding, started at 7 to 4 on and won
comfortably. Theogundi (Salmagundi-
Ethian Lady) was third.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Leonard Stakes: Penaton, 1;
Duomint, 2; Murmuring, 3.
Ascot Vale Stakes; Hesione, 1;
Regency, 2 ; Baroda, 3.
C. M. Lloyd Stakes: High Caste,
1 ; Skipton, 2 ; High Road, 3.
Autumn Steeplechase: Cheery
Jack, 1 ; Highland March, 2 ; Giant
Killer, 3.
Australian Cup: Primavera, 1;
Similar, 2; Prairiedale, 3.
Gibson Carmichael Stakes: Regis-
ter, 1; Nalong, 2 ; Alterio, 3.
Farewell Handicap; Carpentier,
1 ; Neutron, 2 ; Mabson, 3.
AUSTRALIAN CUP.
By "PILOT:’
SIMILAR 1
TOGO 2
PRIMAVERA 3
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Trial Hurdle Race: Kenil Gem,
1 ; Rameo, 2 ; Shot Gun, 3.
Encourage Handicap: Breezy
Boy, 1 ; Dundalk, 2; Gauntlet or
Winnie, 3.
March Juvenile Handicap;
Minnamurra or Silver Crown, 1 ;
Davinia, 2; Afloat, 3.
Farm Novice Handicap:
Mutineer, 1; Brumaire, 2; Fox
Track, 3.
Flying Handicap: Overbold, 1;
Romero, 2 ; My Friend, 3.
Warwick March Handicap; Hari-
delle, 1 ; Malagigi, 2 ; The Squire
or Broadcaster, 3.
Sunnybrook Welter Handicap:
Alluring, 1 ; Angus, 2 ; Cacique, 3.


DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, under-
stand that all such fatal diseases as
Fistula, Ulcer of the Rectum, Fis-
sure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will
learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance
of this trouble. DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is unequalled for every form
of Piles—Bleeding, Itching, Pro-
truding, and Blind Piles, and hun-
dreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective
remedy right from the start, be-
cause at such times a single tin
has often effected a cure, while in
the old deep-seated, chronic cases,
several tins are sometimes neces-
sary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing,
antiseptic and soothing. That is
Why it is equally successful in over-
coming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get
DOAN’S,
BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA
Sleep Sound All Night.
The largest selling medicine for bron-
chitis and asthma in all of blizzardly
cold Canada is Buckley’s Canadiol
Mixture (triple acting)—sold in Aus-
tralia—a blessing to thousands.
There’s nothing so safe and sure in
the world—2 or 3 doses in sweetened
hot water just before bedtime and
many a sufferer from strangling, chok-
ing Asthma has found relief and a
good night’s rest —and that bad, old,
persistent, bronchial cough has left
you. Get a bottle at any chemist or
store. You can depend on it. Buckley’s
Canadiol gives definite quick relief from
that choking,gasping struggle for breath.
StuckUqi
CANADIOL
MIXTURE
A SINGLE SIP PROVES IT
STAMPS
100 New Zealand*. all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/.
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Lists—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.SS. (Est. 56 Years.)
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE ... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON. Manager.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Smokers are saying—
“l’m not cutting down
my smoking, Vm smoking
‘Hillmans.’”
The greatest tobacco value
in Australia—Specially Cut
for slow smoking— therefore
must be economical.
As perfect a tobacco nature
can provide and art can devise.
No throat rasps, cool to the
tongue however much it is
smoked.
LOOK AT THE PRICES,
TOO! From Manufactm rer to
you. That’s why smokers are
sticking to “Hillmans.”
PRICE LIST as from Ist Dec., 1941.
Per lb.
Four Square 10/
First Crop, mild 10/
All British, mild 10/
Riverhead Gold, medium ... 10/
Old Peter, dark 10/
Cavendish, strong 10/
Beech Nut, medium . 10/
Africanda, mellow and mild . . 10/
Soldier’s Own, mild 10/
Normandie, medium 10/
Winning Post, medium 10/
Three Bells, strong 10/
Bird’s Eye, medium 10/
Nigeroid, in pipe only 10/
Barlock, pipe only mixture . . 11/
Latakia, in pipe only 11/
White Lodge Medium 11/
White Lodge Light 11/
Cahill’s Special 11/
Union Leader, medium 11/
Tender Leaf, medium 11/
Imperial 14/
Premier 16/
Postage Extra.
When ordering please state whether
for cigarette or pipe smoking.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY
Tobacco Blenders,
Box 6, P. 0., Valley Nl, Brisbane.
Telegrams, “Comgrow.”
’Phone No. 84587.
SMOKE-OH!
Fulfilment.
Jack said to Jill: “Has it occurred
To you I crave but one small word
From you, my pet,
To send me forth with bounding heart ?”
Jill simply moved her lips apart
And murmured “Get!”
K. H.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lady Willowtree had said what she had
come to say. Then, giving the assembled com-
pany a defiant look, she gathered up her papers
and swept the room.” — Serial.
Nothing so common a thing as a
broom for that blue-blood.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A piece of shrapnel picked up at Port
Moresby after a Japanese raid was stamped
N.S.W.G.R.” — “D.T.”
Closer investigation proved it to be
a broken railway refreshment-room
sausage.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Tom had been one of those helpless men
who cling to their wives' skirts. He had never
made money and had died poor.”— Serial.
Consistent at least —living or dead, he
didn’t leave her much.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Count.
“You already know that the Count was
killed. But you do not know who killed the
Count, why the Count was killed or how the
Count was killed.” —Sydney paper.
As a great admirer of that masterpiece
of crime fiction “Who Killed Cock
Robin,” this who-killed-the-Count busi-
ness intrigued me.
Was this count in his counting-house
counting out his money when someone
called to settle an old account?
If the Countess was in the garden eat-
ing bread and honey, indicating a butter
shortage, we cannot discount the theory
of stern want driving the Count to account
for himself.
Or perhaps this count was a counter-
feit count and the real count counter-
acted his moves in some unaccountable
manner.
There is a countless number of no-
account counts in crime fiction and losing
count of one count doesn’t count for
much.
Blast the Count, anyway ; it’s time he
was counted out!
D. McM.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“At the slight click of the door June glanced
up and saw Derek, fit and bronzed, standing
before her. With a cry of delight she jumped
up and literally threw herself at him.”
—Short story.
Fortunately for Derek he saw her com-
ing and quickly dropped to one knee.
She passed harmlessly over his shoulder
and crashed against the wall behind him.
•J*
Dietetic.
This writing game would be more easy.
And we would be a lot more breezy.
If only we, while earning naught,
Could be sustained by food for thought /
T. W. N.
“Would you mind asking my wife, Brigadier
Twittle, if she took my singlets by mistake ?”
“From this tragic page of history we will
learn many lessons.” — “S. M. Herald.”
And, let us hope, turn over a new leaf.
•J* *i* *5*
“Stern Faces to the Enemy.”
“Courier-Mail” heading.
Sounds rather like a policy of retreat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Public servants mind babies.” —News item.
But it’s the taxpayer who carries them.
4* 4* 4*
“Egg producers confer.” —News item-
For a good cackle?
•!< 4* *1* 4*
“Lagging traveller wanted.” — “S.M.H.”
As he boasts, he takes orders from
nobody !
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lost, poppy, crossbred, Malvern, Sunday.
Reward.” — Ad.
Isn’t this a bloomer?
•F 4* 4* f
Many a filly looks a good thing till
she begins to go in for weight-for-age.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A shadow is a bit of space in a black
mood.
4> 4* 4* 4 1
“Scalded Baby Critical ."—Country paper.
It would have made us downright
annoyed.
i* 4* 4* 4*
“Petitioner was a wharf-laborer; respondent
was a packer in a factory. They had parted
eight times, according to the evidence.”
Marriage could never suit their book —
Some element was lacking;
For if he didn’t sling his hook,
His missus would be packing.
H. M.
The Civil Service Touch.
“Mr. Churchill has created a precedent by
appointing a civil servant Secretary for War.”
Sir Ponsonby Digby-Fitzthistlethwaite,
Permanent Deputy-Secretary to the Prin-
cipal Military Secretary to the Secretary
for War, adjusted his monocle and read
again the letter in front of him. It was
from General Sir Bloodwing Basewallah,
Hon. Adviser on Catering (Vegetable
Division). He glanced at the date, then
rose and, walking to the tasselled velvet
bellrope by the door, gave it two tugs.
In answer to the summons his principal
private secretary entered.
“Miss Wotherspoon - Dingwald,” he
said, “this communication from the Hon.
Adviser on Catering was written ten days
ago, yet the Hon. Adviser is in Room
451, only three doors along the passage.
Usually his communications reach us
within a week. Do you know of the rea-
son for the delay?”
“You will recall, Sir Ponsonby, that
the new Secretary of State has ruled that
a permanent alphabetical file must be
kept apart from the chief numbered file,
so as to give a cross-reference. We are
now to make a precis of the original
document, and it will be the assistant pri-
vate secretary’s duty to do this. For in-
stance, you see here”—she indicated with
her pencil the letter on the table—“the
Hon. Adviser on Catering has had the
suggestion put to him that turnips should
be scraped instead of peeled, and desires
the ruling of the Secretary of State. In
the alphabetical file it comes under
‘Vegetables’; sub-file, ‘Turnips, while,
army pattern, suggested scraping of.’
That had to be done as well as giving it
the numbered file 2381 /140320/42.”
“Oh, very well, Miss Wotherspoon-
Dingwald, thank you. And now kindlay
send in the deputy-assistant private secre-
tary to take a lettah.”
The communication was to the Prin-
cipal Military Secretary, recommending
that a sub-committee be set up to discuss
the proposal. Selection of the personnel
and arranging of demonstrations, etc.,
increased the yardage of red tape around
the now-bulging millboards, but the file
didn’t start to get really bulky until the
sub-committee, at last convened, desired
to know if the turnips were of the stone
or globe variety. For the Hon. Adviser
on Catering had to obtain information
from the various commands, and esti-
mates from the Permanent Financial
Secretary as to the saving, if any.
In anticipation of questions being asked
in the House, the Parliamentary Under-
secretary came into the matter. By
the time the Director of Public Relations
and the Director-General of Progress and
Statistics had put their quotas on the file
the Boys in the Back Room had only
half a back room to work in, the
other half having been taken over and
converted into a set of pigeonholes to
receive the various files into which the
original 2381/140320/42 Vegetables, tur-
nips, white, etc., had been split up.
Then one day, five' months after the
receipt of the original letter, Sir Pon-
sonby had a “follow-up” communication
from the Hon. Adviser on Catering
(Vegetable Division) asking that the
matter “be expedited.” Cursing “the im-
portunacy of some of these ballay fel-
lows,” Sir Ponsonby set the departmental
machinery in motion with the trusty tas-
selled bellrope. He requested production
of the file.
“Well, Sir Ponsonby,” said the princi-
pal private secretary, “you recall that you
had the file marked ‘Secret,’ and 'the
Assistant Under Secretary for Secret
Files, the Hon. Percy Cholmondeley-
Gocart, has just started his three weeks’
annual leave. He is the only person who
can handle the case, and we will have to
wait till he returns.”
Sir Ponsonby frowned. “Beastlay an-
noying, what? Still, hang it, Ai don’t
suppose the jollay old turnips are that im-
portant. I remember my old patah, when
he was a Permanent Under-Secretary,
saying that if they’ve waited six months
for a lettah what’s a few more weeks?
And, gad! the old boy was mostlay right.”
Miss Wotherspoon-Dingwald looked
rather diffident as she spoke. “The new
assistant private secretary, sir, made the
suggestion that you approach the Secre-
tary of State direct and get a ruling. She
says that’s what they used to do in a firm
she worked for.”
Sir Ponsonby’s monocle fell from an
eye that had opened from pure astonish-
ment. “The devil she did!” he gasped.
“Bai Jove, that’s getting close to revolu-
tion. A direct approach! Gad! Doesn’t
the woman know the ethics of the ser-
vice? Make a note to resubmit the file
when the Hon. Percy returns.”
Three months later Sir Ponsonby was
informed by Sir Coder Winkletwirp, sec-
retary of the special sub-committee, that
the measure had been rejected on the
ground that the time was not yet ripe
for such a change. Another month and
it would have been submitted to the great
man himself, but in the meantime the
Hon. Adviser on Catering wrote to say
that “no action need now be taken as
turnips have been cut out of army diet.”
As Sir Ponsonby remarked when the
ten-ton lorry and trailer were being
loaded up with the files for transport to
the Reclamation Branch, it just goes to
show that the old civil-service slogan is
right: “If you sit on a file long enough
it automatically answers itself.”
Bo.


HYGEIA Dissolvenator
THIS SELF-CONTAINED
PROVIDES THE SAFETY
SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT
SANITARY SYSTEM
AND COMFORT OF A
ANY WATER SUPPLY.
f
NO SMELL, NO FLIES, NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No emptying or other unpleasant
jobs. All matter is turned into a
sterile solution which automatically
runs off. Over 1700 in use.
Health Comfort Economy.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
£l7/17/6 f.o.b. Sydney, including 10% Sales Tax, plus
20/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. 81052. OR LEADING STORES.
Fully guaranteed
as to longevity,
efficiency and
mechanism.
It is not just a
modified closet
pan.
It displaces pans
and saves sanitary
rates.
The sterile solu-
tion soaks away
in the under-
ground sump.
Can be used where
septic tanks are
not practicable.
ANY HANDY-
MAN CAN IN-
STAL IT.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4%d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Landlord and' Tenant
Bad tenants in my State have welcomed
Eddie Ward’s Landlord and Tenant regu-
lations with open arms ; in fact, had they
drawn the regulations themselves they
could not have made them more to their
taste.
The regulations provide that a land-
lord may not apply for the eviction of
his tenant unless the rent is 28 days in
arrears, and before proceedings are com-
menced the tenant must receive notice to
quit of not less than seven days for each
six months of occupancy plus an extra
seven days. Even if these conditions are
fulfilled, the Fair Rents Board may
refuse an eviction order if it thinks fit.
In one case in my knowledge, a tenant
has been in possession for three years,
but has paid no rent since 1940 ; now the
owner, a widow, has found a good tenant
for the property, but must give the old
tenant seven weeks’ notice, and the
fellow is taking every day of it!
It is significant of these regulations
that the premises covered do not include
“the premises of any grazing area, farm,
orchard, market garden or dairy farm,”
so that the hardworking share-farmer who
is unfortunate enough to be in on a
weekly tenancy may be put off on a
week’s or month’s notice if only a few
days behind in his rent.
The principle of restricting the right
of eviction is sound in war-time ; but the
fairest thing for both landlord and tenant
would be to allow the landlord the right
at any time to apply for an eviction
order, and leave it to the Fair Rents
Board either to refuse the order or to
fix the time within which the tenant
must vacate, each case to be treated on
its merits.— Smilax (Q.).
It’s Time to Get Up!
Generally speaking, Australians have
responded to the call of duty much the
same way as young people answer
mother’s call to get up in the morning.
With a suspicious eye on the clock we
have been hovering somewhere between
sleep and wakefulness while the war train
has been thundering down the rails, ever
nearer to our station. With Singapore
fallen, the letters A.I.F. might well be
reversed to read “Fight In Australia.”
There is little doubt that every Aus-
tralian wants to do his utmost to keep
the enemy out. He will do that utmost
when he is told what to do. It is not
consistent with our patriotism or con-
ducive to a total war effort to have thou-
sands of citizens in the wrong jobs. For
every fit young man the issue is clear —
one of the fighting services is the place
for him. Every man with technical skill
should be manufacturing weapons to
place in his hands. When these two
groups have been organised to the fullest
extent, essential services should be tackled
with a view to deriving the greatest bene-
fit from our limited labor resources.
It is for the man-power authorities to
dispose labor in such a way that an
irreducible minimum shall be wasted. We
might just as well say all this in one word
—and it is good English—conscription.
Australians are not afraid of the word,
for they know that it is the first word in
the war programme of every other
nation.
For heaven’s sake, Canberra, tell us
what to do and tell us quickly, for we
must catch that Spirit of Progress.—
T. F. W. (Vic.).
The Real Culprit
Why do we Australians have to be
such gasbags? And why, every time we
suffer a reverse, is there such a feverish
search for the villain? There is only
one villain —the one who a few years
ago would have voted against a £lOO
million Australian defence Budget, and
he is 99.9 p.c. of the people.
The popular technique is to pour praise
on the soldier and abuse on the leader,
which is a pity because, being human, the
leader’s concentration on his job is
affected by the hail of invective.
Mr. Curtin recently said something
really great, that there must be “no con-
troversy.” Surely we can get behind him
and Mr. Churchill and all other authori-
ties and follow them with vigor and con-
fidence. It is the only way we can win.—
G. D. (N.S.W.).
Total War
A few weeks ago war developments in
the Near North left no doubt in the
minds of most of us that our turn had
come. Accordingly, our Governments,
State and Federal, still playing party poli-
tics, felt it incumbent upon them to do
something spectacular about it.
The Federal Government sought to
stem the yellow tide with a flood of
regulations specially framed to take us
a step nearer nationalisation of industry
and to deal with the boss in a, manner
which should meet with the complete
approval of ten or a dozen union secre-
taries.
Forgan Smith’s Government apparently
thought that the best thing to do about
it was to close schools, and for three
weeks all Queensland schools in coastal
areas were out of business. Little, one-
teacher schools far from road or rail all
came within the scope of the closure, and
the younger generation of the State when
not at the pictures was roaming the
countryside bored to tears.
To close schools in the city may have
been warranted, but Forgan and his
Ministers have not yet told us how we
are going to win the war by keeping
country kids from school. Perhaps they
derive courage from the fact that the
“ICE!”
little beggars play only one game these
days—soldiers. —T. G. M. (Q.).
Non-essentials
The only quarrel with Mr. Dedman’s
edict prohibiting manufacture of some
non-essentials is that it misses some glaring
examples. Men’s dress wear is taboo ;
but what of the greater expenditure of
labor, materials and money on women’s
evening frocks, etc.? Thousands of sen-
sitive and nimble fingers, trained to worjc
with skill, speed and precision, could be
released for work on munitions. It is
quick “precision” workers such as these
that are needed —many patriotic elderly
women’s services have been refused for
lack of just the qualifications that the
frock-trade hands possess.
But while spending power is at the
peak and trade unrestricted, those
workers will be sitting at the non-essen-
tial benches while munitions factories
comb the country for suitable hands.
The same thing applies to the ever-
growing “beauty” trade. The labor and
money involved in the hair-do-manicure-
face-treatment parlors are surely going on
“non-essentials.” Such luxuries and vani-
ties receive priority in many cases in the
budgets of the pound-a-day girls. The
trade claims in its defence that “hair-
dos help to maintain the morale of
women.” Rubbish!
“Business as usual” in the luxury trades
only throws more veils of illusion over
too many eyes. In any case, it’s not much
to give up in an all-in effort. Ask any
returned nursing sister. — Tinmuth (Vic.).
Paper Waste
Constant appeals to save paper seem
to be ignored by a large proportion of
our metropolitan population and the press
which caters for it. A particular instance
came under my notice when one of our
daily sheets came out with an issue of
16 pages instead of the usual six or eight.
The type space worked out at about 6160
square inches, of which about 3500 square
inches was occupied by advertisements—
mostly those of drapers and t.p. furniture
shops, etc. Another 530 square inches was
devoted to sporting rubbish and heavy
headline runners and irrelevant illustra-
tions.
Ragshops are the worst offenders. Why
should they be permitted to waste tons
of paper trying to entice thousands of
silly women to crowd into the city in
pursuit of “bargains reduced to 19s.
lid”?
Another aspect to be considered is the
heavy crowding of women and children
in the centre of the city and in transport
facilities —Darwin had only a couple of
minutes’ warning before the bombs fell—
to say nothing of the incidental waste of
money and lime which should be diverted
into war requirements. If ragshops, etc.,
can’t carry on their business without
these baits the Federal Government
should put a stiff tax on all such adver-
tising space.— Hardcase (Vic.).
Behind the Counter
Latest complaint against the retail trade
concerns the altered trading conditions
brought about as a result of the various
war privations. Goods, according to one
sheet, “are no longer elaborately wrapped
and packed and delivered over wide
areas.” Thus wrapping and delivering
costs are down, and therefore the thump-
ing savings should be shared by the public
in the form of reduced prices all round.
The other side of the question is com-
pletely ignored. One aspect of the matter
worthy of consideration is the shortage
of supplies in good or fair profit-making
lines. The retailer —I am speaking mainly
of the general type of retailer —finds him-
self without all sorts of articles that pre-
viously sold well and returned sound
profit margins, and on which he relied
for the extra percentage necessary to
“carry” stuff which, although turned over
rapidly, shows no margin at all.
Consider al?o, for example, tea. If
a retailer made 4d. a pound on tea when
it cost him, say, 25., he can now still
make his 4d., but the tea costs him 3s.
In other words, where he was working
on 16.666 p.c. he is now knocked back
to 11.25 p.c.
Then, again, delivery costs “savings”
can be disposed of in very few words —
increased petrol prices or cost of gas-
producer equipment, plus increase in all
parts, when obtainable, and services.
On top of all that, there is the increas-
ing burden of direct taxation.—R. H. G.
(W.A.).
Stability?
So far from 1776 have we moved that
the U.S. now occupies British bases in the
West Atlantic and takes the responsibility
of defending the Anzac Area of the
Pacific. America becomes by force of
circumstances the heir and backer of
British Imperial policy of the past two
centuries.
To say that this is a reversal of previ-
ous tendencies would be to mistake the
top currents for the deeps. In effect, it
is simply a necessary adaptation to
changed political and social conditions.
The predominant tendency in Anglo-
American activity will in the future con-
tinue to be individualism, even though a
stronger emphasis may be placed on re-
sponsibilities rather than on rights. In
other words, to realise the Atlantic
Charter may entail enforcement of self-
determination on a recalcitrant world.
Whatever revolutionary changes are
being made under the stress of circum-
stances in American, British and Aus-
tralian life, the fact remains that the
underlying political philosophy remains
fundamentally the same, dating back at
least to the radical thinkers of the seven-
teenth century, to John Locke and the
Bill of Rights, and all that followed there-
from, including the American and
Dominion Constitutions.
The mathematician Dr. Whitehead, in
his book Process and Reality, sums up
this position in more strictly metaphysical
terms: “The philosophy of organism in
its appeal to the facts can thus support
itself by an appeal to the insight of John
Locke,...The doctrine of organism is
the attempt to describe the world as a
process of generation of individual actual
entities, each with its own absolute self-
attainment.”
Such words, too, explain broadly the
process whereby the world’s democratic
societies may attain
to that unity in dif-
ference, as outlined
by Streit {Union
Now ) and others,
which. has always
been the secret of
British political
genius. W. A. T.
(Tas.).
War Finance
May I enlarge
upon the statement
(B. 11/2/ ’42) that
“any method of
finance other than
taxation is inflation-
ary”? There would
be little misunder-
standing if it were
pointed out that in
war-time, no matter
how much they
spend, people pan-
not buy as much as
before. Production
of arms and muni-
tions requires
materials and labor
formerly devoted to
making other things. If the fighting
forces are to have all they need civilians
must go short. The primary aim of war
finance is to effect the necessary change-
over in industrial output.
Taxation performs this task in the most
satisfactory way, by directly transferring
spending power from the people to the
Government. The more it spends on
war the less they have left to spend on
ordinary goods. In this way raw
materials, labor and productive capacity
are made available for military needs.
There will be no tendency for prices
to rise if the inevitable reduction in civi-
lian supplies is accompanied by a corre-
sponding reduction in monetary demand,
even if this is brought about otherwise
than by taxation. It is not, therefore,
inflationary to sell war savings certi-
ficates or to accept subscriptions to war
loans, provided that the money comes
from genuine self-denial, and is not
merely the proceeds of past saving or
expanded bank credit.
But if taxation and saving are insuffi-
cient, the authorities will be forced to
fill the gap with credit expansion or some
other form of “new money.” The people
will be left with too much money to
spend on the diminished flow of goods.
The result of their spending will be an
inflationary rise in prices.—Arc(N.S.W.).


H
A
THE BROKEN HILL ASSOCIATED SMELTERS
PTY. LTD.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED
PRODUCERS OF:
LEAD: OUR BRAND IS WORLD FAMOUS
GRADES : soft pig. assay, corroding, super-defined, and telidriom
BHAS lead is used in storage batteries, in white lead paints, in cables for
telephone systems, in pipes and sheets for plumbing purposes, in antifriction
alloys, printers’ alloys, solders, antimonial lead, and other products too
numerous to mention.
ANTIMONIAL LEAD:
Produced at Port Kembla on behalf of BHAS Pty. Ltd. by the E. R. and
S. Co. of Aust., Ltd. This antimonial lead is of a high degree of purity;
it possesses first-class casting qualities and excellent physical strength.
SELLING AGENTS for Antimonial Lead:
Mr. H. B. BARKER, c/o BHAS Pty. Ltd., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne. M. 4381.
AUSTRAL BRONZE CO. PTY. LTD., O’Riordan Street, Alexandria. MX. 1091.
SILVER: Refined (bar and granulated)
THE COMPANY PURCHASES SILVER-LEAD ORES. LEAD DROSSES. ETC.
ON SPECIALLY FAVOURABLE TARIFFS.
Head Office: 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Smelting Works: PORT PIRIE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
LONDON:
The Australian Ore and Metal Co. Pty., Ltd.,
95 Gresham Street, E.C.2.
ADELAIDE:
C. S. Stokes,
62 Brookman Building.
SYDNEY;
R. N. Kirk & Co.,
25 O’Connell Street.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING
COMPANY OF AUST. LTD.
BLUESTONE: “ESA” Brand
for Spray Mixtures for Fruit Trees and Vines,
for Treatment of Footrot in Sheep,
for Wheat Pickling.
Our booklet, “Better Yields by Spraying,” has been
of great assistance to Farmers and Orchardists.
Copies will be sent gladly on request.
Agents in all States:
ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD.
BEARING METALS: “Graphine” Brand
Highest Grade Cadmium-Base and Lead-Base Alloys
for all Engineering Purposes.
Our Antifriction Bearing Alloy Booklet is a practical
manual for Engineers. It says clearly and concisely
how to select the right alloy and how to run it up. It
also gives an account of the principles underlying the
use of bearing alloys. Copies of this useful book will
be sent gladly on request.
The Company’s technical experts will be glad to
advise customers on bearing metal problems.
FOR AGENTS SEE PANEL ON LEFT.
PRINTERS’ ALLOYS
BEST QUALITY
Agents for Bearing Metals and Printers*
Alloys;
Melbourne;
Mr. H. B. Harker,
c/o The Electrolytic Refining & Smelting Co.
of Aust., Ltd.,
360 Collins Street. M 4381.
Sydney:
Austral Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd.,
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria. MXIO9I.
Adelaide:
A. Noble & Son, Ltd.,
79 Grenfell Street. C 2231.
Brisbane:
Bell’s Asbestos & Engineering (Aust.), Ltd.,
156 Edward Street. 85025.
Perth:
Bell’s Asbestos & Engineering (Aust.), Ltd.,
336-340 Murray Street. 89791.
We Purchase:
ORES of Copper and Precious Metals
We Settle Promptly at the Best Available Rates
Write to our
Registered Office: 25 O’CONNELL ST.,SYDNEY. 86371.
Melbourne Office; 360 COLLINS ST. M43Bi.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
'Phone Port Kemblo 72.
