

s$M
mi
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3273
Wednesday, November 4, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S:W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
HEREFORD CATHEDRAL.
IT is fit and proper that one of the most beautiful cathedrals
in England should have a beautiful setting on the River
Wye, which, in turn, gives its name to the most beautiful valley
in the Old Land. The sacred edifice goes back a long way in
the religious history of the country, and has not been dis-
sociated with civil and social activities. In Saxon times Here-
ford was the capital of the Western Kingdom of Mercia, and
much of its early experience was associated with attacks made
by the ancient and turbulent inhabitants of Wales. Its position
as a border, garrison town explained this. The See of
Hereford was erected so far back as 673, and in 1189 the
town received its first Charter from Richard I. The cathedral
is built on the site of an older edifice of which Putta was the
first bishop. The removal of the body of the murdered Ethel-
bert to Hereford from Marden led to the foundation of a
superior church, reconstructed by Bishop Athelstan, but burnt
by the Welsh in 1055. In 1079 Robert of. Lorraine, the first
Norman bishop, began the, erection of a new edifice, work
carried on by Bishop Reynclm, and completed by Bishop R.
de Betun in 1148. That was the cathedral. The lady chapel,
clerestory of the choir and north transept date from between
1226 and 1269, while successive additions and reconstructions
extended over 450 years. In 1786 the great western tower
fell and carried with it the west front and the first bay of the
nave. Since that date two modem reconstructions have taken
place, in 1842 and 1863, in the last-named year from designs
by Sir Gilbert Scott, R.A. The tower pinnacles are 165 ft.
above ground. As Sir Gilbert pointed out, but for the fall of
the western tower, the consequent curtailment of the nave
and other solecisms, few cathedrals could offer as complete
a field of progressive architectural study from Early Norman
to Late Perpendicular. Among fine monuments in the cathedral
the most notable are St. Thomas of Cantilupe’s Shrine, in the
north transept, and Bishop Aruablanca’s Tomb (1245-68).
The visitor, especially from overseas, has found not the least
interesting “relic” preserved by the cathedral the “Mappa
Mundi,” constructed probably before the thirteenth century,
but almost certainly completed in the fourteenth. It presents
to the modem observer a rich record of errors upon various
topics—geography, natural history, and, above all, ethnology.
The three-quarters of the world to which the map is limited
are marked by illuminated names. Asia is correct, but
Africa stands in the place of Europa, Europa in the place
of Africa. In the Mediterranean the mermaid is shown, the
unicorn in Africa; flying dragons everywhere and all exact
prototypes of what now exist only in coats of arms; whilst
real animals —bears and monkeys—little known to our ancestors
of 500 years ago, are distributed promiscuously about the
earth. In ethnology the map carefully registers the headless
men with eyes in their breasts and the four-eyed, ever-waking
Ethiopians. Few greater cartographic curiosities exist. A
copy of this amazing work is in the British Museum.


•p^.hijnjateH
fll
uowr
This Book FREE to YOU!
OH ’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
800 kid explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
M : Name
Me Address
S.B. 142 ....
The Red Page
FIRST-PERSON NOVEL.
Though the device does not spoil it hs
an extraordinarily pleasant piece of read-
ing, warm in tone and mellifluous in
style, the use of the first person in
Frederic Prokosch’s The Skies of Europe
(Chatto and Windus ; Angus and Robert-
son) greatly weakens its drama as a novel.
Here, condensed from glimpses in various
chapters, is the portrait of Saskia, the
Russian girl exiled in Paris with whom
the “1” of the book falls in love:
A young girl, slender and blonde... .She
was quietly listening to her companion,
her head cocked attentively to one side;
wearing a simple sky-blue dress which fell
softly over her shoulder and arms. There
was a croissant in her little hand, which
now and again she raised to her mouth....
There was no expression in her grey eyes
except a grave, deliberate, watchful wonder.
She had enormous eyelashes and a tiny
mole on the side of her nose. But over her
face and amber hair hung a kind of radi-
ance; it occurred to me that she was the
first really beautiful, the first really dazzling
woman I had ever seen.
To Saskia, thinking was like a game, to
take her mind off the more serious busi-
ness of action—with which it had, for her,
no practical connection at a 11.... She would
stretch her arms and lean back, her fingers
slowly roving through the cat’s lustrous fur.
There, on her snowy neck, I imagined I
could see the imprint of alien, dissolute
kisses; her face, corrupt and beautiful as
that of an evil child, would seem to offer
nothing good, nothing real —only fruitless-
ness and desolation.
In the South Seas it sometimes occurs
that a pearl-diver, reaching out with his
hand or his foot through the midnight,
touches a giant clam which promptly closes
her shells on his naked body with a snap
of steel; and thus holds him imprisoned
even long after he has, drowned. Certain
women operate in the same way, precisely.
The mere presence of a man —almost any
man, but in particular a man of great
vitality—sets them into merciless, machine-
like operation. Delicately they expand,
electrically they surround, unerringly they
proceed with their perilous manoeuvres.
This, I saw in a frightful flash, was what
Saskia was very quietly doing.
So, stroke by stroke, daring the grand
manner but eluding melodrama, Prokosch
builds a most impressive portrait of the
blonde Russian girl. And then, in con-
flict with that vivid creature, he offers
only the vague, unreal “I” of first-person
fiction ; an “I” whose physical appearance
is not described in any way that fixes it
in the memory ; an “I” without charac-
ter ; an “I” whose emotions, being those
of a shadow, are never convincing ; an
“I” without existence except as a Greek
chorus, informing and recording.
Saskia’s other lovers, a chaotic Russian
and a helplessly enslaved German whom
the Russian eventually murders, are
clearly portrayed, and in their relations
with the girl there is drama. But the
stories of Alexis and Stefan are inci-
dental, important only as they affect
Saskia and the “I” ; and, as that central
drama is meaningless because of the ‘TV’
impersonality, they too lose significance.
The “I” falls in love with Saskia;
usurps Alexis’s place ; is dismissed for
Stefan ; wanders through Europe ; and
then at the end comes back to Paris and
is reunited with the blonde snake. It’s
the oldest pattern for a novel and it
always works as long as the reader can
be interested in both the principals. But
it can’t work when one of them doesn’t
exist.
For the fact that The Skies of Europe,
in spile of this central flaw, remains a
book of outstanding merit, there are five
good reasons. However hollow the “I,”
the portrait of Saskia is so good that her
story is still interesting even without true
dramatisation by the clash of personality.
And then, though Prokosch has used the
love story to hold the book together, it
is essentially an intellectualised picaresque
in which the principals can be ignored
for the wealth of minor characters and
incidents. There is the attraction of the
prose ; the spirit in which it’s written —a
warm, pleasantly sentimental nostalgia for
the Europe that has vanished with the
war ; and the excellence of Prokosch’s
picture of that vanished Europe.
The one quotation will illustrate both
the style and the spirit:
Now the dark clouds hung in great masses
over the horizon. The million stalks of
gold in the field trembled, glittered rest-
lessly beneath the hostile, heaving purple
of the sky.
Towards evening, after their afternoon
labor, the men lay down to rest once
more. Some of the lads went aqcf, bathed
m the stream, hanging their blue shirts
?rid grey breeches on .the willow twigs,
they leapt around in the water like por-
poises, splashing and frisking amid peals
of laughter. Their skin was white and firm
except for their faces and arms, and their
knees, which were burnt a brick red.
The storm clouds had moved (o the south i
not a drop of rain bad fallen after all.
The atmosphere grew clear and light once
more, full of the warm sweet scehl of hay.
And soon we were .walking. home again,
along the road to the Goldener Hifsch,
carrying the scythes on bur shoulders and
singing merrily away. The fields lay dim
and downy and the figures of the mowers
grew indistinct in the twilight; only their
voices, as they moved down the dusky lane;
still retained a lingering glint of sunlight.
Then the three bronze church bells began
to ring; evening flowed out from the sound '
of the bells in cool, sedate, concentric
ripples. We could see the chequered woods
and fields of Bavaria passing with almost
metrical regularity through one hue after an-
other —lilac, cherry, ultramarine —stanza by
stanza of color, as it were, reflecting the
moods of her inhabitants—dread, fegret,
meditation and slumber. We all sat around
the table —grim-eyed old Alois and Franzl,
Sepp and Rudi and I —draining our beer
mugs. No one said a word, but all the
while that the evening bells sent wave after
wave of traditional solace through the hills
we, too, in a kind of ruminative trance,
felt an encircling, widening melody flow
forth from our wine-stained table, filter
through the trees, ripple through Austria;
in fact, what was really so magical in the
sound of those three hells was their power
to create a timeless illusion which was not
wholly a dream, which sank roots and cast
shadows. All of us must have felt, as we
listened to the bells, something deeper
than happiness; all five of us must have
felt that the core of the world was still to be
found here among the voices of our friends,
the summer tranquillity and the baronial
hunting scenes—enough, at any rate, to
give our lives, for one more moment, a
certain sweetness and seclusion.
There is livelier stuff than that in the
book —a love affair in the remote village,
adventures in the Spanish War, travels
with a humorous rogue—but that is the
general tone: the last moment of sweet-
ness and seclusion in Europe. A desper-
ate tranquillity in the Old World while
both it and the New moved to war:
Through these the murmur of a deeper,
"sweeter, more savage America ever came
through— the incessant murmur of miles of
corn and cotton growing, of countless
rivers sleepily winding and flowing, of sleepy
voices and sleepy footsteps for ever going,
no one knows where, mile after mile,
through that edge of darkness —a darkness
loaded, if one only listened carefully,
with a gently gathering ferocity and power.
A poet of some repute, Prokosch has
both the virtues and the faults of verse-
writers who take to prose. Sometimes
thcri is a too great lusciousness of de-
scription ; pages are loaded with Sitwel-
lian bric-a-brac; love in the barn and
the hayfield is a little too good to be true.
Atoning for thi§, there are passages of
superb writing ; and, in the spirit, there
is a magnificent absence of bitterness,
True to its theme of vanished beauty,
The Skies of Europe never descends to
the political railing that has disfigured
so much of contemporary writing. It is
not another evanescent diatribe, but a
work of literature.
Homestead History .
Though the goldrush days still await
fictional re-creation by a ndvelist who can
appreciate all their color and vigor, and
though the bushranging epoch, except for
Rolf Boldrewood’s excellent Robbery
Under Arms, has hardly been touched,
the land-settlement theme has just about
been worked out by Australian historical
novelists. But there will always be a
welcome, if not for another fictional
Fortunes of Richard Mahony , for such
records of historical fact as A Homestead
History (Melbourne University Press):
“the reminiscences and letters of Alfred
Joyce of Plaistow and Norwood, Port
Phillip, 1843-1864,” capably edited by
G. F. James.
Most of the historical novels of the
land repeat the one theme: the immigrant
had a devil of a time of it, but gradually
developed a love for the new land. As
a statement of fiction, there’s no news in
that any more, but it remains interesting
to watch that process working out in real
life. When he came to Australia, Alfred
Joyce had very little money, had never
ridden a horse and his knowledge of
sheep “had been limited to the butchers’
shops or the Smithfield market,” In
middle-life hg was able to write:
A few years before t was married 1
reckoned up a few items that were to con-
stitute the sum of my ambition—viz., a
wife, a good house and garden, a good
table, to be placed above the necessity of
manual labor, to drive a gig with a good
horse, to have a few agreeable visiting
friends, to be out of debt, and to have a
constant moderate balance at my banker’s,
the whole of which, I am happy to say, I
have attained with the exception of the
last two. 1 am not quite out of debt
and the balance at my banker’s is rather
too fluctuating. I have, however, the
pleasures consequent upon the possession
of two children, which must compensate
me until the realisation of the other two
items.
He endured all the usual hardships of
the pioneering days. But when his father
wished him to return to England, he was
shocked and indignant— y l had not the
least conception myself, until the receipt
of your letter, that I had got so attached
to my adopted country” and he
summed up to his brother:
11 may seem strange to you perhaps that
I should not be looking forward to re-
turning fd-my native land to enjoy the
fruits of my labors, but I have been so
long here,- have acquired so many ties
of kindred add have become so accustomed
to this coJo|sf that I should not be happy
anywhere else. The climate, whatever
others may, say of it; is to me the finest in
the world. I find here a sphere of useful-
ness which I do not know I should have
in England, arid my endeavor now will be
to make this spot my permanent home for
me and men after me. The prospect of
English winters and long gloomy weather
would frighten me from going there. I
am too used now to the sunshine to be
able to be satisfied long without it.
There’s none of the Dostoevskian
gloom, fashionable among Australian
novelists, in Joyce’s self-portrait. The
attitude to the blacks and the convicts is
also worth examining as a counter to the
prevailing romantic sentimentality. Joyce
takes an evident pride and pleasure in the
rise to wealth of ex-convicts who found
Australia not the novelists’ hell of degra-
dation but a liberation from the hopeless-
ness of the English slums ; and, while
regretting the dispossession of the blacks
that colonisation made inevitable, he says
that their nomadic habits made benevo-
lence difficult and that their best chance
of preservation would have lain in en-
slavement —the free American Indian
decayed, the enslaved negro flourished.
Slavery being impossible, so also, he be-
lieved, was salvation.
Leacock Bowls Bodyline.
Before the Great War, says Stephen
Leacock, writers used to describe scenes
of violence somehow like this:
I was standing between Lord Kitchener
and General Roberts, looking through our
field glasses towards the enemy’s lines,
which were only a hundred yards away,
and laughing and joking as we always did
when the enemy were about to open fire
on ug.
Kitchener, whose wit is as keen as his
sense of fun, said, “Well, why don’t they
start?” To heighten the joke, he had
hardly uttered the words when a veritable
hail of bullets drove at us. The air seemed
absolutely black with them. General
Roberts, who has a deep sense of humor
which sometimes comes to the surface,
turned to Kitchener with a quiet smile and
said, “What do you know about that?”
“Yes,” said Kitchener, putting up his
eyeglass with the greatest nonchalance,
“let’s go.” We moved off, laughing heartily.
The joke was that, as we went, a volley
of grapeshot hit Kitchener in the stomach;
luckily it was sideways.
And then cam© Hemingway. Then
came Faulkner. Then came Steinbeck.
Then came the tough, hard-bitten realists
(who are still with us); and, given the
same scene, says Leacock, the new style
would render it:
As the first roar of grapeshot zoomed
past us my stomach suddenly sank. I walked
to the edge of the mound and vomited.
My stomach turned. 1 was sick, I threw
up. “Did you vomit?” asked Lord Kit-
chener. I said I had. “Well, I’m going
to,” he said. He went and vomited. He
was sick. “Did you vomit, Kitchener?”
said Roberts. “Yes.” “Well, move aside
and let me.”
That alone would make Leacock’s
latest volume of sketches, My Remark-
able Unde (Bodley Head), a delight.
Among the literary excursions, there’s
an interesting study of the convict as a
theme in English literature, with a
reference to Southey’s “Botany Bay
Eclogues”: “a sort of rogue’s gallery of
loneliness and misery—of souls broken
with crime and cruelty, finding at last
even in the ‘barbarous climes where angry
England sends her outcast sons’ the
‘saving hand of grace,’ the soothing
touch of eternal nature.” Leacock shows
some knowledge of Australia’s barbarous
clime by comparing (greatly to Austra-
lia’s favor) the output of historical novels
here and in Canada.
Having been so kind, he proceeds to
be extraordinarily unkind to us.
There was a terrible row a few years ago
in connection with one of the great Test
matches between England and Australia,
These, of cpOrSe, are the great events, the
big thing every year in the cricket world.
Well, a few years ago the Australians
started the idea of bowling the ball terribly
fast, and right straight at the batsman, not
at the wickets, so as to hit him on purpose.
Tut, Stephen! Tut!
And (while tutting is in progress)
there’s one other error at which Leacock
should bow his venerable head in shame.
All bad essayists, when they wish to be
funny, go to the dictionary for a defini-
tion of their subject (“Horses,” “Mer-
maids,” “Hydrophobia,” “Austerity,”
etc.), quote the definition and proceed to
be facetious about it. Instead of parody-
ing the trick, as he so beautifully parodies
Hemingway, Leacock uses it himself.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Mary Edwards, who has made a niche
for herself in Australian art as a por-
trayer of Polynesian and Oriental types —
she is also a very accomplished por-
traitist apart from her ethnological
specialties has a show of 60 pictures at
Farmer's Blaxland Galleries, Sydney.
Much of this work shows an advance in
facility, and some of it an enhanced
power of expression. As always, the
backgrounds to portraits are a notable
feature. The biggest picture on show.
“Javanese Dancer,” is a gift to East Java
Red Gross Society. Canvases that
specially catch the eye are No. 40.
“Samoan” ; No. 34, “Fijian Belle” ; No.
11, “Djauger Dancer, Bali”; No. 30,
“Thursday Island Minx” ; and the low-
keyed “Portrait of a Russian.” There
are some charming child-portraits, too,
and some Surabayan sketches that are
gems of decorative color. Fifteen pic-
tures of the interior of the Jenolan Caves
don’t appeal: they resemble whales in
butterboats too closely.
Roland Wakelin, Maoriland-born, and
a pioneer among Australian impres-
sionists, submits his recent work at
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney. Sydney
Harbor and its moods have been provid-
ing him problems of a kind which only
a very stout heart would tackle. “Morn-
ing,” “Morning Arrival” and “Winter
Light” are more or less successful solu-
tions. Some ritualistic still-lifes, an in-
terior, a nocturne and a rugged nude
keep the flag of revolt flying.
A show of Hawaiian prints at Sydney
Art Gallery demonstrates that the
students are torn between Occidental and
Oriental influences. A limner with the
fine Nordic name of Nils Larsen, for in-
stance, perceives a pagodaesque flavor in
the architecture of New York.
In the Charles Wheeler show at
Sedon’s, Melbourne, the nudes the public
look for from the National Gallery paint-
ing master are entirely absent, his extra-
ordinarily attractive models of the past
having presumably volunteered for the
duration in some women’s battalion.
Nevertheless, his landscapes show the same
somewhat monotonous texture which once
made a Bulletin critic remark that
everything in the artist’s pictures of un-
draped females looked like marble except
the marble. The Wheeler polish is not
in itself unpleasing, but it comes under
suspicion of being a formula when it is
applied indiscriminately to gums, grass
and hillsides.
Though poetry and history would never
have been the same if Helen had had a
face that sank instead of launching a
thousand ships, the eternal glamor of
the Hollywood face tends to pall. Maybe
for that reason, Gaumont British have
introduced, in a romantic leading role, a
girl who is frankly plain—severely plain.
The heroine of “Jeannie” (Sydney Em-
bassy) is Scottish and homespun, and her
efforts to see pre-war Vienna on a patri-
mony of £297 are abetted by Michael
Redgrave. The story has a dash of O.
Henry without the snap ending, and,
despite the lack of beauty—or perhaps
because of it—the film has considerable
charm. Among other talkie outbursts,
Conrad Veidt acts as well as ever in
“Nazi Agent” (G.U. theatres), though
he’s not aided by a plot that relies on
a twin brother apd descends into bellow-
drama. For addicts of dialect comedy,
the spectacle of the homely George
Formby flitting around Latin-American
countries as a ballet dancer in “South
American George” (Sydney Victory) can
be recommended.
“MacH.”: One couplet of Siegfried
Sassoon’s, contrasting the last-war battle-
field of Bapaume with the jokes in Eng-
lish music-halls, put me off military acts
in stage shows for life. Wherefore I sym-
pathise with Co). Hyman, of the N. S.
Wales R.S.L., in his objection to Tiv.
Lovelies running about with large re-
plicas of the V.C and other decorations.
Since the Tiv. rarely tries to be funny
about the war, Sassoon’s attack doesn't
directly apply ; blit I find stage patriotism
even harder to stomach than war jokes
or war lovelies. Nevertheless, unless the
act really is offensive to soldiers, I
couldn’t myself, after watching the audi-
ence on the opening night, take my own
objections as the only possible point of
view. As Lovely followed Lovely with
her decoration, the audience sat un-
moved ; when the V.C. at last appeared
in a carefully built-up finale, everybody
dapped as if genuinely (and patriotically)
moved ; and a last flash of a Red Cross
nurse was thunderously applauded.
Slowed if I don’t think my brother civi-
lians (about whose hearts the Tiv. knows
more than I do) went home feeling better
men and invested their savings in the
Loan,


ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Truth in Advertising
THE SENIOR STORE
119th Year ot Service
f
Unfortunately we can't all wear Uniform, there-
fore to-day, as in the past, Anthony Horderns'
can be relied upon to carry on their tradition
of first-class tailoring for civilians. Anthony
Horderns' specialise in economical tailoring
from All Wool Worsted Suitings that will give
you satisfaction in style, wear, and appear-
ance. Realizing that Suits must last longer
nowadays, we have concentrated on cloth that
we know will "stand up and take it." Linings
and interlinings are also our customary stan-
dard—THE BEST. Suits to order, from, £4/19/6
And 30 Coupons.
WE OFFER
QUALITY and VALUE
IN MEN’S WEAR
“DRIAZABONE”
WATERPROOF
COATS
Oiled Canvas and body lined.
These are ideal for country
workers, and are specially de-
signed for walking or saddle
wear. Storm fronts, cape
shoulders, double arm-piece,
and two pockets with flap. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, 99/6
And 4 Coupons.
\
\\
TOUGH. . . DURABLE
1
VI
Men’s Flannel
Undershirts
Natural shade only, all
Wool, made in our own
workrooms, full cut.
Sizes, Men's and O.S.
At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 10/6
And 4 Coupons.
Men’s Natural Wool and Cotton
Underwear
Extra strong stout weave.
Undershirts, short sleeves.
34 36 38 40 42 44 inches
5/11 6/6 6/11 7/6 8/- 8/6 and 5 Coupons.
Underpants, button front.
34 36 38 40 42 44 inches
7/9 8/3 8/11 9/3 9/9 10/6 and 6 coupons.
Trunks.
34 36 38 40 42 44 inches
6/11 7/6 7/11 8/3 8/6 and 5 coupons.
Buy Austerity War Loan Bonds
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
df
“Tree” Brand
Super Handcraft Shoes
Bespoke model, on the "Ace" Last, medium
or extra stout soles, wide welts, full and
half sizes. At Anthony Horderns'. Price,
pair 49/6
And 12 Coupons.
“Tree” Brand
Super Handcraft Brogues
Made in the finest grade imported Zug or
Zebu, medium or extra stout soles, wide
welts, full and half sizes. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, pair 49/6
And 12 Coupons.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Finding of the Solomons
OUT OF THE
PAST
The Chief Pilot.
J-H-M- ABBOTT.
THE story of the discovery of the
Solomon Islands by the Spaniards
was told me about forty years ago
by the Reverend Cecil Martindale,
chaplain to the Anglican Bishop of
Melanesia. Martindale was tall and wiry-
looking, with a broken nose set in a bull-
dog sort of face, and one of the most
charming men I have ever met. He had
an encyclopaedic knowledge of the history
of the islands and a love for his fellow-
men that makes his memoty —he’s dead
now —more than precious.
We sat on the deck of one of B.P.’s
steamers smoking and yarning and look-
ing across the moonlit beauty of the land-
locked harbor of Gavutu, and he spoke
of Melanesia and the Melanesians,
of thp traders, the missionaries, the
late “blackbirders” —whose business by
that time was only a matter of more or
less picturesque historical record—the
naval men and all the other kinds of
people who had connections with the
Solomons.
“There have been several great men
in these parts since white people had to
do with them,” he said thoughtfully.
“Men like Patteson and Selwyn and Com-
modore Goodenough and Charles Wood-
ford. But I doubt if there have been any
greater than one who came here over
three hundred years ago—Hernando
Gallego, Mendana’s Chief Pilot, or navi-
gating officer. Something a little extra
he must have been ; a man in ten thou-
sand.”
I sat back and listened, and he told me
of the Chief Pilot and of the first finding
of the Solomons, and after a while he
went down to his cabin for the little black
book containing the notes he had made
so that he could give me the story in
detail.
“nr HE discovery of the Solomons,”
* he said, “is a record of pluck and
seamanship and the overcoming of
troubles and dangers that must have
looked overwhelming. In the history of
civilisation it marks the limits of Spain’s
great era of colonial expansion, the high-
tide of her period of conquest. She had
made a huge continent, South America,
as well as a good bit of the north, her
own ; but the newer world was to push
her back. She was to find these islands
in the south seas —and then to lose them.
And when they were found again Spain
was becoming a back number.
“In 1566 De Castro, the Governor of
Peru, ordered the preparation of two
ships for the discovery of a continent
and some rich islands which it was be-
lieved existed to the westward of South
America. He appointed his nephew,
Alvaro de Mendana, leader of the expedi-
tion. There were a hundred people alto-
gether in the two ships—the Almiranta
and the Capitana—and they sailed from
Callao on Wednesday, November the
19th, 1566.
“What a day that must have been!
Immense crowds of all conditions of
people came to see them off and wish
God-speed to the bold spirits who were
sailing out into the unknown to find the
fabulous islands from which Solomon had
enriched the Temple at Jerusalem. Think
of those two old-time ships, with their
high poops and great stern lanterns,
standing out towards the western sea-rim,
beyond which lay what no one knew
anything about —great unknown realms,
perhaps ; new races of men. Whatever
it might be, it didn’t matter. Weren’t
these the ships of Spain? Spain was
about to establish a newer empire, and
who could doubt that valiant Spaniards
would do it? So the two ships sailed
away, and the Pacific swallowed them
up.
“They steered south and then westward
along the parallel of 15| degrees until
December the 16th. So far, they’d seen
no land of any sort. Then they altered
course, and ran west by north for 166
leagues, until they reached the latitude
of 13f degrees. After several more
changes of course they found themselves
in latitude 6| degrees—and still there
was no land. The crews and the other
pilots were despondent, but Gallego, the
Chief Pilot, was a stout-hearted lad, full
of faith in his destiny as a discoverer.
Here’s what he says about it: ‘The
pilots told me I was the only person who
was not disheartened after having sailed
so many leagues without seeing land;
and when I told them that they would
suffer no. ill, and that, with the favor of
God, they would see the land at the end
of January, they all kept silent and made
no reply.’
“They ran on for days and weeks, with
the water supply getting low and the
crews discontented and dispitited, and
Gallego lying valiantly as to his hopes of
making a landfall: ‘On this day [Janu-
ary the 12th, 1567] they signalled from
the Almiranta [the General’s ship] to ask
where the land should be. I replied that
it lay, in my opinion, 300 leagues away,
and that, at all events, we should not
sight it until the end of the month. At
this time some of the people began to
doubt whether we should ever all see
the land. But I always told them that,
if God was with them, it would be His
pleasure that they should not suffer ill.’
A good man, Hernando,
“Three days later they ran close to a
little island, but couldn’t find an anchor-
age, not being able to get bottom at 200
fathoms, so Gallego wouldn’t take the
responsibility of remaining there. The
soldiers broke out into open grumbling.
‘But,’ says our bold lad, 7 cheered them
and consoled them with the assurance
that I would give them more land than
they would be able to people.’
“South-westward they sailed, and on
February the Ist sighted some banks of
reefs with small islands inside them. They
named them Los Bajos de la Candelaria,
because they saw them on Candlemas
Eve. They were probably the reef islands
which Tasman called ‘Ongtong Java’ in
1643. At long last, on February the 7th,
they came to the Solomons,
<<T' HE land they sighted was Ysabel,
1 and Gallego left an account of the
Solomon Islanders’ first meeting with
white men.
“ ‘Shortly after we arrived,’ he says,
many large and small canoes came off
to see us, displaying signs of amity. But
they did not dare to come alongside the
vessels; and as we approached the land
they kept away. However, the General
threw them some colored caps, and being
thus assured they came alongside the
ships. The boat was launched, and in it
went Juan Enriquez, with eight musketeers
and target men, to see if they could find
a port to anchor in. The rest of the
natives became more confident, and some
of them came on board the ship. As they
behaved well, we gave them things to eat
and drink; and they remained on board
until it began to grow dark. Those who
had gone away in the boat, seeing that it
was getting dusk, returned without having
found any port. As soon as it was dark
we stood out to sea, and the natives in
the canoes returned to their homes. They
told us that for the sake of friendship we
should have gone with them, and
that they would have entertained us and
given us plenty to eat.’
After a while, Gallego in the Capitana
found a way through the reef, the
Almiranta, with Mendana, following him
in. Mendana and his soldiers went ex-
ploring in the interior of the island, and
Gallego, with the carpenters of the two
ships, set about building a brigantine,
felling trees and sawing them up into
planks for the purpose. The cutting of
the timber began on February the 10th,
and the little craft was launched on April
the 4th. When it was rigged and fitted
out, Mendana sent Gallego on a voyage
of discovery, manning his little craft with
eighteen soldiers and twelve sailors. They
sailed along the coast of Ysabel, and at
a place where they landed had a brush
with the natives which resulted in the
local chief receiving a shot wound.
“ ‘And as we sailed on, the mast
sprung and nearly fell on us. Seeing what
had happened , I ordered the sails to be
secured and the tackle to be brought to
the weather side, and in this manner the
mast was stayed. When the night over-
took us we were without knowledge of
any port, having much thick weather
with wind and rain. Guided by the phos-
phorescence of the sea, we skirted the
reefs; and when I saw that the sea did
not make the reefs phosphorescent, I
weathered the point, and entered a good
harbor at the fourth hour of the night,
where, much tp our ease, we passed the
night.’
“That was pretty clever. It’s not too
easy, on a dark night and in thick
weather, to find a gap in a line of coral
reef on an unknown coast. The only
possible way of doing it is to do what
Gallego did, but I wouldn’t care much
about trying it on myself.
“Gallego continued along the south-
east coast of Ysabel, and saw in
the distance the island of Malaita.
After sundry skirmishings with the
natives he rounded the south-eastern
point of Ysabel, which he called
Cape Pueto, on April the 16th. From
there he went on to the island of Florida,
passing by and recording in his log
several smaller islands. In Florida —he
gave it that name—he was attacked in
force, but beat the islanders off, inflicting
many casualties. Then he took a look at
the volcano Savo, which he named
Sesargo, and thence crossed over to the
large island of Guadalcanal which he
explored a little before sailing back to
Ysabel.
“When the ships had been refitted they
followed up Gallego’s discoveries in the
brigantine, and on May the 12th arrived
at the port where he had anchored in
Guadalcanal After a brief spell they
ran down the coast of Guadalcanar to
the south-east, and crossed over to the
southern end of Malaita, and from there
went on to make a pretty good investiga-
tion of San Cristoval. They put in a
good deal of time in this part of the
group. Finally, on the 11th of August,
they set sail from Puerto de la Visitacion
de Nuestra Senora on the return voyage
to Peru, They eventually got there, after
a pretty bad time of it, in the beginning
of 1568.
<*nTHE Almirapta and the Capitana
A had been about half a year in these
islands —but how the islanders of those
days regarded their visitors we’ll never
know. Every tradition of the Spaniards
has disappeared from the group. From
what Gallego tells us, the Spanish losses
in men during their stay in the Solomons
were less than a dozen, whilst the natives
must have lost at least ten times that
number. It’s true that the natives were
usually the attackers in the various en-
counters, but it wasn’t always so, and the
Spaniards seem to have done a good bit
of kidnapping and looting.
“However, if we’re going to sit in judg-
ment on Mendana and his expedition-
aries, we’ve got to remember the situation
the Spaniards found themselves in when
they arrived here —without any sort of a
base at all, and compelled to live on the
country. They had to bolster up their
prestige by any means in their power,
and to be careful that they didn’t show
anything that might be construed as
weakness. They had to keep bluffing all
the time —probably suggesting that their
little force was only the advance guard
of a really big show. Anyhow, whatever
they did, the great things that stick out
in the story of their visit to these parts
are their daring and resourcefulness.
They were pretty good men, those old
Dons—but I don’t think that any of them
quite measured up to our Chief Pilot.
There can’t be any doubt at all that our
stout-hearted Hernando was one of the
best men who’ve ever come into the
Solomons —and that’s to say a good deal,
in one way and another.”
Various Verse
Winter Steppe (1941).
God, there are dead men here enough to prove
Something! But what? That flesh has courage?
No;
That men could fight and die we knew of old.
The matter’s not so easy as all that.
No simple x equated to the known —
The mathematics of the Demiurge
Sets out in stark symbolic logic, here
The matrix of unreason, by whose terms
We may prove anything or nothing. Well,
Who knows, some transformation still may
serve
Some formless function, yet may integrate.
Each man runs naked to some winds of fear
And finds, be sure, some rag of bravery
To set against it, in his ultimate hell.
These shreds, these husks of burnt-out and
blackened flesh
Broken upon the wheel of agony;
This cold corruption, waiting for the spring
1 o melt again, in mitigating earth —
The problem of their pain, red-written here,
Cries from the blood-coagulated snow,
“Have we but died to prove that we were brave,
Before the blank face of Indifference?”
No! from their bitter steppe to bitterer stars
Spires over Death a still and silver flame
Made of the million candles of men’s dreams,
And not the cannon nor the cold could slay
Their fatal truth lapped in eternity.
None sees that flame, and no one understands.
The deaf and ice-clawed wind shrieks through
the pines,
“Siflce these are weak and mortal, let them die!
1 make my prayer to proud, unpitying things
That have no need of tears —the wheels of
guns,
Grinding indifferently flesh and snow
In the birth pangs of flame.”
The last wheels pass;
The spectral spire burns on, unstirred, unseen.
Some kindlier spring, maybe, when snow and
flesh
Alike have merged and melted into flowers,.
When Karl’s and Ivan’s skulls lie peaceably
And one wild poppy’s root binds each to each,
There shall be born a singer, who shall set
That flame within a lamp of crystal thought
Where fire is song, and song is fire, and both
Resound along the hollow centuries
Until at last the blind world sees and shrinks
In sudden horror from the slime-lipped Hate
That slays and slavers.
Then, poor tortured flesh,
Whose crimson laughs upon the poppy’s lip,
Your pain shall have proved something after all.
S.A.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Frangipanni.
Flowers such as these have bloomed at home,
And spent their sweetness in the evening glow.
And, knowing this, I scent again the loam
Of summer-time, discovering what I know
To be a treasure-house of gems more rare
Than any I have coveted. Compare
I must, because I’ve coveted the earth.
And quested for the happiness beyond
The dream’s horizon, letting go the worth
My forebears gave me in my birthright bond.
A rich experience my only gain
For loss of arrogance and joy’s domain.
Flowers like this I’ve seen gilding the fair;
Token of man’s extreme in thoughtless love;
Waxen and foolish in the staling air
Of crowded ballrooms. Memory can cove
Such things within the cluttered, lightless room
That holds the heart’s great hurt and beauty’s
doom.
Flowers of death; the jungle’s white and gold
Reminder of the cycle here on earth:
From death comes beauty thrice a thousandfold,
From rotting things a braver, newer birth.
I breathe their perfume in the tropic night;
I see them glowing, coolly, softly white.
A.I.F.
ERIC IRVIN.
Foreshore.
Here, at the harbor foreshore, the stone wall
Rejects the supplication of the waves
Which toss upon the shingle in disgust
The flotsam and the wrack of many days
And turn again to the oblivious deep.
The little ships at apron anchorage
Resent the lip and lap of waves, and rock
With petulant motion on the morning tide,
Shaking unanswered masts against the sky; %
While some like empty husks are laid to rot
(Once rigged and winged as seeds prepared for
wind)
Upturned and tragic on the sunburnt slips.
Do they feel anger all about who sit
And read, or slyly sleep beneath their hats;
Who punctuate the parks in twos and threes,
Spotting the green with points of colored light?
Or only I who idle at the pier
With nothing in my pockets but my hands,
Troubling myself that sky with empty cries,
Fast at my moorings—held against the tide?
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
The Reading Child.
Eager little hands, hungry little hands,
Grip tight the unexpected book,
And there she stands
Frozen in the attitude she took
When her first look
Upon the virgin page
Chained her, a dreaming slave,
Blind and deaf to outer sights and sounds,
While the strange life floods in, wave after
wave,
And bears her sporting soul beyond the bounds
Of the small nursery, her narrow cage;
And there, outside
Her trifling self, painfully posed, shell stay.
Gorging at high speed,
Though nurse or mother chide,
And will not heed
Summons to dinner or to tea
Because it is unheard,
Until, in ecstasy,
She gulps the final word.
Maoriland. Arnold Wall.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3273.
Wednesday, November 4, 1942.
“SCAB!”
“The Government’s attitude has been clearly defined. It is opposed to conscription for overseas service, and the introduction of the issue at this critical period does
a great disservice to Australia.”—Army Minister Forde.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
COUNTRY BEFORE PARTY.
A sickening business is this parade of
politicians claiming special virtue for
themselves and their party and their Gov-
ernment on the strength of Australia’s
defence.
What are they doing that is so mar-
vellous? What are they doing that any
similar number of elected representatives
would not also be doing? What are they
doing but furthering—as far as party
political restrictions allow —what their
predecessors set going? They are in the
grip of events, as their predecessors were.
The size of the effort now necessary
is nothing else but the measure of past
neglect. To call it “neglect” is putting it
kindly. In 1929 a Government of the
same political color as the present one
took positive action to wreck Aus-
tralia’s defence system. This was for-
given by the electors or the present
Government would not be in office. It
cannot be forgotten.
Politicians like Mr. Ward should never
be heard on the theme of special virtue.
But, sneering at “patriots” on the Opposi-
tion side for their war performance,
Mr. Ward said this:
A year ago there was not one Beaufort
bomber in Australia fit to take the air.
The only three at that time were grounded.
From drawing-board to assembly-line
it takes at least three years to put a
’plane into production. “For more than
two years,” Mr. Menzies said, “the estab-
lishment of Beaufort manufacture went
on in Australia, unassisted by Mr. Ward,
and in the face of incredible difficulties
of overseas and local supply, tooling and
training of personnel.” Another yard-
stick for measuring past neglect.
In the same attempt to shift all blame
from where the bulk of it belongs,
Mr. Ward alleged that the same “pat-
riots” had “intended to abandon an im-
portant part of Northern Australia with-
out firing a shot” —abandon it to the
Germans, presumably, for the “patriots”
went out of office two months before the
war with Japan. “A wicked invention,”
replied Mr. Hughes; and he should
know.
Until it became politically expedient
to appear otherwise, Mr. Ward was a
damaging influence in Australian defence
matters. He boasted of the part he did
not take in the last war. He opposed the
formation of an A.I.F. for this war. Not
only that, he tried to prevent the Menzies
Government from “arrogating to itself
the power to compel Australian troops to
go out of this country to defend those
territories” —that is, the defence bul-
warks up North where the staunch
mixed brigades of Diggers are slogging
away to keep the war out of Australia.
Even now the marvellous “defence
party” is “opposed to conscription for
overseas service.” Mr. Forde —as Minis-
ter for the Army, Australia’s most re-
markable paradox, next to Mr. Ward as
Minister for anything in a war —came
out with that open statement in the thick
of the U.S. Congressional election cam-
paign and when the situation in the Solo-
mons was looking desperate. Dr. Evatt
had previously complained that, despite his
Government’s efforts to obtain a “proper
assessment of the importance of the
Pacific theatre in the world war,”
In some powerful quarters in the United
States the strength of Japan was grievously
underestimated even after that country had
begun to occupy great segments of its new
economic empire in south-east Asia and
the Pacific.
No “quarters” in the United States
are against conscription for overseas ser-
vice. Australians in the United States
were notified last week that they were
to be called up, and if they are drafted
into the American Army (they are to be
allowed to join the Australian Army if
they can reach it) they will have to go
wherever they are sent, be it Iceland,
Liberia or the Solomons.
It S W^ S inevitable that this Govern-
ment’s limited-liability “policy” would be
questioned in America. A savage blast
on performance appeared in New
York “Times,” penned by its military
commentator W. Hanson Baldwin;
The normal difficulties of waging a coali-
tion war have been increased in Australia
by a labor problem. Labor’s general
attitude to the war has hampered the
full development of the United Nations’
war effort in Austrlia Our [U.S.] troops
in many instances have unloaded convoys,
replacing stevedores who were not re-
quired to work after the whistle. We
built airfields, roads and cantonments.
The Australians helped, but insofar as
labor is concerned their help has by no
means been what had been hoped.
Mr. Baldwin made the further statement
that
The Australian War Cabinet naturally
has continued to reserve a considerable
share of authority—military decisions have
not always been General MacArthur’s.
Describing these comments as “inaccu-
rate and intemperate,” Dr, Evatt made
the fair point that they were “second-
hand,” Mr. Baldwin never having been
in Australia. The Attorney-General
admitted “difficulties” in “stevedoring
and shipping,” but said these had been
“grossly exaggerated.” He did not men-
tion the coal strikes or his Government’s
miserably weak efforts to stop them, or
the extent to which war-factory em-
ployees have absented themselves with
impunity. He did mention the reference
to General MacArthur, which he dubbed
“inaccurate”;
General MacArthur is in supreme com-
mand, and has never on any occasion what-
ever been subjected to any direction or
control from War Cabinet or War Council
in respect of military, naval or air matters.
On the face of it, the legal limit on
the use of Australian troops is a definite
limit on General MacArthur. And
although General MacArthur in a char-
acteristically generous tribute to the Aus-
tralian achievement (“no nation in the
world is making a more supreme war
effort”) testified that Australia “has
unanimously and completely supported
me in my military command” this
cannot be taken to mean that he pos-
sesses powers in Australia equal to those
given to Foch in France, and has exer-
cised them. Nor can his glowing answer
to American criticism of Australia, men-
tioned before the Hanson Baldwin blast
by the friendly William Winter, be taken
to mean that such criticism will cease.
If worse befalls in the Solomons we will
hear more of it.
“Moderation in war is imbecility,”
and limited-liability defence of a nation
threatened with invasion—and extinction
—is that and more. To be worth more
than temporary respite, the defence of
Australia must mean not only preventing
(if possible) a Japanese invasion but
eventually the beating back of the Japs
far from these shores. On the invasion
part of this prospect Dr. Evatt has men-
tioned that Australia’s soldiers, sailors
and airmen are “fighting on almost every
front in almost every theatre of the
world war.”
It is they who have earned for Australia
the right to insist that their homeland
will not be subjected to the vile and un-
speakable disgrace of Japanese invasion.
“Vile and unspeakable disgrace” is
right. But foreign critics may choose
to infer from the Labor attitude
as stated by Mr. Forde that the Labor
party is at this day prepared to
risk that disgrace if preventing it
means sending conscripted Australians
to fight outside strictly limited boun-
daries —say, beside drafted Americans
fighting for this country’s protection. And
when Mr. Forde —resorting to a familiar
dodge—declares that the raising of the
issue “at this critical period does a great
disservice to Australia” how is this to be
interpreted other than that by “Australia”
Mr. Forde means “party,” and that party
comes first?
In one sense the issue should not be
raised —it should not need to be. In the
last war little New Zealand evolved as
a precedent for itself the principle
adopted by nearly all countries —that
modern war demands equitable conscrip-
tion of the fighting man-power of a
nation involved. The precedent should
have been set in Australia also. Sooner
or later —Fordes, Wards and whatnots
notwithstanding—it will have to be set
here. Apart from the pitiful lack of
principle in accepting the helpful protec-
tion of countries which use the method
(against countries which also use it), the
existing Australian arrangement means
a weakening of military strength and a
restriction on General MacArthur. This
is so evident and so indisputable that,
instead of its being a disservice to Aus-
tralia to raise the issue, it would be a
miserable disservice to this country to let
the matter rest where it is.
On Three Fronts.
These are stern days for the English-
speaking race. To the unceasing struggle
with the Axis Powers on the seas and
in the air, a struggle which is never
without its daily list of lives sacrificed in
the common cause, there have been added
land operations of the first importance
which, whatever the military result, will
bring sorrow into many homes. In the
furious struggles now raging many gal-
lant hearts have been stilled already,
and many more will cease to beat. On
those who are not fighting, those who
are leading sheltered lives, there rests
the solemn duty of proving themselves
worthy of the fallen and of their com-
panions on the fields of battle and in the
fighting and auxiliary services to whom
they owe their privileged condition, their
exemption from the horrors which so
many other peoples have experienced.
In the Battle of Egypt Australians and
Maorilanders are fighting, conscious of
what victory or defeat will mean to their
countries, as well as to those from which
their comrades—British, South African,
Indian —came. They knew when they
received their orders to go forward that
it would be no walkover. The ground
had become familiar to them; there was
no way round ; there had to be a return
to the tactical plan of a frontal attack
on a fortified line defended in depth.
Except for Rommel’s minefields, the air
cover and the tanks waiting for a way
to be cleared —instead of cavalry, held in
reserve for a break-through that never
came —Old Diggers must have been re-
minded of early days in France. With
no illusions they and the first World
War veterans among the Tomrilies, the
Kiwis and the Springboks and the hard-
bitten young soldiers of the present war
moved into a long, hard, bloody and
doubtful battle —still doubtful, though
all ranks in all the services are fired with
the determination to beat the soulcase
out of Rommel’s army and carry the
war to Mussolini’s doorstep, with Sicily,
perhaps, as a first stop.
In the Battle of the Solomons, Aus-
tralian seamen have shared in the perils
and losses of the United States Navy,
and airmen from both Dominions have
taken part in the bombing of Japanese
shipping and bases. The bombing has
been very effective, and in all the opera-
tions since the first week of August the
greatest gallantry has been shown by all
hands. But the naval losses have been
serious, and since the enemy heavily
reinforced all arms in the Solomons the
Marines on Guadalcanal have been very
hard pressed.
It was painful to read a dispatch sent
from the Solomons to the New York
“PM,” and reproduced in the Sydney
“Sun,” after publication had been de-
layed for 12 days. The dispatch told of
three days and nights in the lives of the
dead-game defenders of the beachheads
—three days of almost incessant bomb-
ing and three nights of almost incessant
shelling by “battleships, heavy and light
cruisers and destroyers”—an experience
so terrible that men could neither eat
nor sleep. Yet, after “huddling sleep-
lessly all night in shelters,” airmen took
up their “torpedo ’planes, dive-bombers
and fighters,” and were in action all day.
They were seen flying “ ’planes that
almost fell apart, patching them up with
spit and tin and going up again.”
I have been with these Americans on
Guadalcanal for a month; have flown and
gone hungry with them; have followed
them to battle, watched them living and
dying, cursed and laughed with them, from
general to private. Lately we have been
doing more praying than anything else.
We have not slept or eaten for three days.
The world has become a nightmare of
bombs and shells... .It’s incredible ; it’s
almost beyond belief; but we are still here,
alive, waiting and still ready.
Australians can imagine how the Ameri-
can nation must have been moved by this
story of the valor of its sons. It is not
for them to condemn American strategy,
but they may legitimately express the
hope and belief that the “Sock Hitler
First” school will no longer have things
all its own way.
The Marines and their Companions in
the Solomons, the Diggers and their mates
in Egypt are in truth defending Australia,
though the operations in which they are
engaged are parts of the grand project of
gaining command of the seas so that
all the Axis Powers may be defeated.
How can home-keeping Australians best
support and sustain them and those other
brave and loyal men who are standing up
and taking the war? In the first place, by
giving Australia and the United Nations
service as faithful in the jobs assigned to
them and in the callings from which, for
good or indifferent reasons, they have
not been taken. No more strikes, no
more absenteeism, no more profiteering
or black marketing, no more senseless
strife of class or party. In the second
place, by supporting war loans to the
limit of capacity, banishing for the time
being all objections to waste and extrava-
gance, all resentment at the impertinences
of this Minister and the imbecilities of
that, and remembering that bright lads
who would have laughed at these annoy-
ances are gasping their lives out on the
sands of Guadalcanal and El Alamein.
There is a hundred-million-pound loan
on the market now. It is asked for by
a Government which in this matter stands
above party, charged as it is with the
duty of preserving Australia not only
for this generation but for the genera-
tions to come. A hundred millions is a
lot of money, but Australians can find
it. Not to subscribe it fully would be
turning dog on the service men and
letting the reputation of Australia go
down the wind.
Twenty-six Years After.
One of the grandest episodes of the
present war recalls to Australians one of
the shabbiest episodes of the last war.
In September, 1916, when Mr. W. M.
Hughes was campaigning for conscrip-
tion, having decided to put it to the vote,
98 Maltese arrived in the P. and O. liner
Arabia. Anti-conscriptionists were “argu-
ing” that it would be bad business to
conscrib'e Australians at 6s. a day when
an unlimited supply of Russians—yes,
Russians —could be hired for 9d. a day;
but the “argument” was wearing thin.
They now professed to see in the coming
of the 98 Maltese a nefarious plot to
flood the country with cheap labor while
Australians concerned to keep the torch
of Freedom burning and racecourse flags
flying in their own country were sent to
the front.
Protesting that this was a foul lie, Mr.
Hughes sent indignant remonstrances to
the Secretary of State for the Colonies and
the Governor of Malta. The latter replied
that he was sorry, but he had never
thought Australia would object to the
annual emigration of a few hundred Mal-
tese, especially as some of the voyagers
were actually returning to the Common-
wealth. In any case, another party of
200 or so was on the way in a French
steamer, the Gange.
Mr. Hughes was distracted. Desper-
ately he tried to get in touch with the
captain of the Gange with instructions
to set a course for Suva, Samoa, Sheol —
anywhere but an Australian port. Like
Byron’s dying gladiator, the French cap-
tain heard but heeded not. He continued
on his way, and cast anchor in Australian
waters a week or so before the referen-
dum. In the meantime Billy had an-
nounced that the passengers would not be
allowed to land. At Australia’s expense
they were carried to New Caledonia and
kept there until the free and enlightened
had voted; then, also at Australia’s
expense, they were returned to Malta.
In August last a British convoy en-
tered the western Mediterranean to carry
war supplies to Malta, “sufficient to
ensure the life and resistance of that
heroic island fortress for a great many
months to come” (Mr. Churchill). For
a week it was engaged in battle with
bombers, dive-bombers, torpedo-carrying
aircraft, U-boats and surface warships,
and the Sicilian Channel had been sown
with mines. Losses were serious—an air-
craft-carrier, two cruisers, a destroyer
and an unstated number of aircraft and
merchant ships, with many officers and
men. But the bulk of the convoy fought
its way through.
And how did the Maltese behave?
“During the whole week of .the voyage,”
says the London “Times,” a paper not
addicted to sentiment, “prayers were
offered up for the safety of the ships and
men, who, it was realised, would face hell
in passing through the Mediterranean
narrows. The anxiety became more in-
tense when the loss of the aircraft-carrier
was announced, and as hour followed
hour the strain grew greater. Everyone’s
eyes were fixed on the horizon. When
the faint shadows of the ships appeared
in the distance the pent-up feeling broke
out in tremendous demonstrations of
enthusiasm. All the sea coast and every
point of vantage was packed with cheer-
ing crowds, who shouted themselves
hoarse as one ship after another slid into
the harbor, after a voyage which will live
long in the history of two navies.”
Heroic little people! In the light of
their constancy in suffering, their touch-
ing gratitude to the services and their
unshaken devotion to the Crown, how
tawdry seems that 26-year-old chapter
in our history! Whatever happens, we
can never shut our gates against Maltese
again.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Four!
This, with the probable blessing of St.
Andrew, looks like joining the cabalistic
numbers. There are, so far, two great
Fours —Mr. Roosevelt’s, and the Great
Four itself; that is, Britain, U.S.A.,
Russia and China.
Perhaps that order of precedence is
wrong. Anyway, of the Great Four, who
can read in Australian, American or
British journals a single word of carping
at China’s war effort? Who can read
anything but appreciation of Russia’s
effort? Who has read anything in which
Uncle Sam was held up as the villain of
the piece? And who has not read, here
in this part of the British Empire at war,
as well as in other countries, savage con-
demnation of I. Bull?
It is significant that in recent months
one British statesman after another has
had to protest against this campaign,
always with unanswerable figures. The
latest. Home Secretary Morrison, is inter-
preted as replying to “noisier American
critics, particularly Left-Wing intellec-
tuals and former isolationists,” though
he was also replying to Left-Wingers in
the Dominions.
Exonerating European “countries which
can clearly claim the right to urge Britain
on,” but which “do not make these plaints,
perhaps because they dwell among us and
can see Britain’s effort for themselves,”
Mr. Morrison insisted that the British
need apologise to no one. They have
thrown their man-power into the scale,
and are turning out war goods at a
greater rate in proportion to population
than any other country in the world,
Allied or enemy.
One Australian sheet which imports
the American variety of its home-made
tripe lately published this on J. 8.:
Differences between Britain and China
and Britain and Russia are becoming so in-
tense that it may become impossible to
put the world together again in some sort
of workable peace after the war.
As if that wasn’t enough for the day,
it had another, also from America:
... .the Manchester “Guardian,” which can
truly claim to speak for many more British
millions than can Britain’s held-over, light-
weight, Tory-loaded, war-time Parliament.
Which Parliament is, of course, headed
and led by one Winston Churchill—with
Stalin, Chiang Kai-shek and Roosevelt,
one of the Big Four.
“Billy” Hughes was properly jumped
on here for comments that should not
be exported—for one reason, because
from them could have been inferred an
attack on General MacArthur. But any
Left-Wing muck-slinging at I. Bull can
pass in without hindrance.
Before this singling out of J.B. from
the Big Four goes too far, shouldn’t
something like this be nailed up some-
where? :
(1) China, attacked, fought.
(2) Russia, attacked, fought.
(3) U.S.A., attacked, fought.
(4) J.B. (population 45,000,000, of
which a large proportion—far larger than
in any other country —is in the Royal
Navy, the Merchant Navy, the shipyards,
the R.A.F. and the aircraft and munitions
factories) came in fighting.
Apples and Magna Charta.
In the beginning the Apple and Pear
Board was appointed to establish a pool
of all apples and pears and from that
pool to make payments to the growers.
That is the fundamental idea on which
all pools are based, the fairness or work-
ability of the idea being another matter.
Where the product is of even quality and
value, such as f.a.q. wheat, the pool
principle has much to recommend it. It
is different with things like apples and
pears, of which there are many varieties
and qualities.
The judgment of the Full Court in
the Apple and Pear Board v. A. U.
Tonking should be sufficient to convince
the Commonwealth Government that this
particular board, whose operations have
already cost the taxpayers millions, and
have resulted in consumers being charged
famine prices, should be sent about its
business.
Chief Justice Latham.; Tonking’s apples
brought up to 20s. a case and averaged 10s.
He received from the board only 3s. It
seems impossible that the payment of £573
for fruit the net proceeds of which were
£l2BB constituted compensation upon just
terms.
His Honor found serious fault with
Regulation 17;
It contains no provision which entitles
the grower to even the most elementary
justice... .What has happened in the
present case is sufficient to show that Regu-
lation 17 does not give to the grower any
right to obtain fair and adequate compen-
sation.... [other than] what the board and
the Minister, without necessarily allowing
the grower to present argument or evi-
dence, agree to give him, if indeed they
agree to give him anything.
Justice Rich, after quoting Magna
Charta and lesser authorities, was even
more definite:
Each individual grower has a legal right
to be paid the full value of his fruit, and
some growers must not be underpaid so
that other growers may be overpaid. Any
regulation which allows this to be done
must be unjust.
Tonking won his case. In any country
governed by Parliamentary institutions
the judgment would be sufficient to end
the Apple and Pear Board. But Aus-
tralia has other things besides Parlia-
mentary government; it also has govern-
ment by regulation, and no man can say
which is boss, though many fear the
worst.
Rudolph and the Reds.
From “Tovarish Needlenose”:
“Hang Hess Now!” These are the first and
last words of an article in the “Tribune,”
“organ of the Central Committee of the Com-
munist party of Australia.” The comrades’
troubles about what might happen in the result
to Australian prisoners of war!
The Man They Want to Hang left Germany
five weeks before Hitler double-crossed Stalin.
Up to that time the attitude of “the Aus-
tralian Communist party” was that the struggle
against Rudolph and his gang was no “war of
democracy against fascism and against Hitler-
ism.” That was mere pretence; “falseness and
hypocrisy.” Whoever supported the Australian
war effort was merely “defending the interests
of enslavers and oppressors.” The “one cor-
rect stand” for the workers in the British
Commonwealth was “a struggle against the cul-
prits of this war [the British and French],
primarily in their own country, a struggle to end
this predatory war a determined struggle
against the regime of unbridled terror, oppres-
sion and plunder of the masses.”
The Allies were then “acting the most filthy
and criminal part of the blood-dripping slaughter
of war.” Workers were warned against slip-
ping into the position of “defending the father-
land in support of the fairytale about an anti-
fascist war.”
Uncle Sam was accused of “encouraging the
further intensification of the war, of becoming
an arms factory for Britain and France and
raking in enormous profits at the expense of
the blood of the peoples of the warring
countries.”
All this appeared in a pamphlet called “War
and the Working Class,” issued by the “Central
Committee of the Communist party of Aus-
tralia,” while the world was still dumb with
horror at the bombing of Warsaw and its de-
fenceless population.
The pamphlet said naught of that crime, but
it justified the German invasion of Poland as
having been forced upon Germany by the “bour-
geoisie of Britain and France,” who, “no
longer having any hope of war by Germany
against the U.S.S.R., turned the path of armed
struggle against their chief imperialist rival
under the pretext of defending their vassal re-
actionary-landlord Poland.... a prison of
peoples with its regime of reaction and terror,
oppression and plunder.”
The only specific charge of terrorism was
made, not against the Germans, but against
the French, who were “arresting revolutionary
[yes, revolutionary} representatives of the
French proletariat in Parliament.” For what?
Sabotaging the war effort of the nation which
in a few months was to be overwhelmed by the
Nazi invasion. This action by the French Gov-
ernment was described as “reviving the blackest
days of counter-revolutionary terror since the
days of bloody suppression of the Paris Com-
mune.”
A few extracts from this pamphlet would
have gingered up the debate in which the
N.S.W. Congregational Union discussed the
legal ban on the Communist party. The c<pn-
fiding gentlemen are in favor of removing it.
"Post-war Reconstruction."
It got an airing during the doings at
Canberra lately. Mr. Calwell (Lab.)
wanted a department, with a Minister
and Budget Estimates and everything,
to “give adequate attention to the sub-
ject.” Reminded by Mr. Holt (U.A.P.)
that when Mr. Holt was Minister for.
Labor and National Service there had
been “a division of post-war reconstruc-
tion,” Mr. Curtin said that it was being
continued: “there is an increased vote
of £lOO,OOO for salaries and the like in
that department.” At the head of “that
department” is Mr. Ward, who believes
that without compulsory unionism any
“new order after the war will only be
a myth.”
Nothing was said of immigration.
Yet without immigration after the war
Australia can have no assured future.
The problem of population and develop-
ment is one that defeat of the Japanese
will not solve. Within a score of years
after that defeat Australia will need to
have at least doubled its white popula-
tion if it is to survive as a white man’s
country, and a white man’s country it
must be in spite of the local Commo,
and his sneer that “Australia for the
Australians” is “sickening sentimentality.”
Immigrants will not be hard to find
after the war. In Britain and the rest
of Europe there will be myriads anxious
to get away from the broken lands and
make a new life. By that time the Labor
party should have been cured of its old
antipathy to immigration on the ground
that it is an attempt to reduce wages and
living standards. Labor must be con-
vinced of the folly of trying to maintain
a workers’ paradise with 7,000,000 people
in 3,000,000 square miles whiie teeming
populations to the north seek more room.
Not only European but, what is more
important, American eyes will turn this
way. The United States is discovering
Australia, not only through the press
and radio, but through the letters of
thousands of American service men who
will be spending months and years in
this country. To many of them, fresh
from an America that had millions of
unemployed a year or so ago, this country
must seem something like an answer to
prayer. It looks something like that to
Joseph Harsch, of the “Christian Science
Monitor”:
Australians have organised a civilisa-
tion and economy with one of the world’s
highest standards of living, in which
poverty and exploitation such as U.S.A.
knows in New York’s Harlem and Chicago’s
tenements do not exist. There is more
real economic opportunity left in Australia
than in U.S.A., so many American
soldiers will want to remain after the war.
Further on, Mr. Harsch remarks that
Australians’ “own complete faith in
their country and destiny will make of
Australia something really great,”
True, and an infusion of enterprising
Americans will be a great help. Mean-
time there is a war to win and there is
an Australian Government periodically
dreaming about “post-war reconstruc-
tion.” It had better begin thinking about
immigration when it can spare the time.
AT EL ALAMEIN.
“How’s it going, Dig.?”
“Fine, lad! Just like old times in France. And the old pals are there.”


DANIEL
CRAWFORDS
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
F. « !«»(«,-) “? D rllo B K DCKLASD JOHI^EWraa 00 ™
e' V T 3 ' WHITTLE Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL POINTS
“I am deeply grateful for the magnifi-
cent spirit of friendship and understand-
ing without which it would have been
difficult to go on.” Thus General Mac-
Arthur in the statement deprecating
American criticism of Australia’s
“supreme” and “universal” war effort and
attempts to play politics at his expense;
and it is agreed at Canberra that the quoted
words were an expression of his feeling
for Curtin. Though in origins, training
and life-work no two persons could be
more unlike than the soldier born and
bred in camps and the politician who was
anti-militarist from boyhood, they took
to one another from the beginning. Such
war-time friendships are exceeding rare.
Pursued in four continents and caught
in India (naturally when the N.S.W.
Police Department took charge of the
case he got away), Louis Brandei, alias
Woolcott Forbes, has been run to earth
at last—in Mexico. He says he wants to
have a go at the Japs, and it might be a
good thing to let him. Not that he would
skin ’em alive—the fellow is too fat to
fight—but put him anywhere within scrip-
range of the national treasure and he
would get it from them.
Three Queensland dairymen who’d
been supplying cream to a factory for
years were suddenly “requested” by the
State Dairy Control to supply milk to
another factory. They went on supplying
cream. Then a State inspector appeared
in all his awful majesty and went through
the motions of seizing it. The factory
manager interfered, and the inspector
retreated, only to reappear with a State
policeman, who stood glumly by while
the inspector “destroyed” eight cans of
cream. Thus was a State edict upheld
in a free and enlightened country which
has six State Governments and Parlia-
ments and another with —subject to
Parliament —full war-time powers.
The boss of the Man-power Depart-
ment has asked the police to rake in all
“idlers” and others not possessing identity
cards. This, presumably, is under the
authority of Minister Ward. As a private
member Ward joined the Communists
in banging the Menzies Government’s
national register. As Minister he took
one himself, threatening defaulters with
horrible penalties. There were legions
of defaulters, but the horrible penalties
have not been enforced,
“Uncle Clive” Evatt, as reported in a
newspaper which doesn’t so far seem to
have been corrected by his secretary or
the Director of Child Welfare:
I hope schools for parents will be dupli-
cated shortly in. suburban and country
areas. Parents need lots of education in
relation to children.
So, very obviously, does at least one
Minister of Education. How about a
school for Ministers of Education?
Wendell Willkie came back from “my
globe-girdling tour” convinced (I) that
“Russia, China and the Middle East want
the United States to join them in creat-
ing a new society free from the economic
injustices of the West and the political
malpractices of the East” ; (2) that there
must be a Second Front —no mention of
Dieppe or what would happen to Britain
if the flower of the nation, already
strained to the limit, perished in France
—und (3) civilian strategists must be
treated with respect. In other words,
“military experts, as well as our
leaders, must be constantly exposed
to democracy’s greatest driving power,
the whiplash of public opinion.”
Another way of putting it is that high
strategy should be subordinated to the
impulses of people wholly untrained and
necessarily ignorant of the material facts.
The greatest of all U.S. Republicans
was Lincoln. It was never his belief
that wars can be won by “the whip-
lash of public opinion.” At the crisis
of his war he placed Grant in supreme
control, giving him a free hand in
words which have become part of Ameri-
can history. Strange that Wendell Willkie
didn’t remember.
Westralian farmers are wild with Scully
for shoving J. S. Teasdale, the co-op.
man, and J. W. Diver, president of the
Australian Wheatgrowers’ Federation, off
his reconstructed Wheat Board. The
“Primary Producer” sees in his dismissal
of them another example of spoils to
the victors ; “though their services have
been of immense value to growers, they
were not of the right political color,” so
“they were not wanted.” Moreover, their
sacking was done in scurvy fashion ; they
did not know it was coming till they
“heard it over the air.”
One of Beasley’s jobs as Minister for
Shipping will be to allay the grievances
of Westralians. People in the P.M.’s
State complain bitterly that ships from
the eastern States not only arrive in-
frequently but as often as not are loaded
with goods which the West itself sup-
plies in large quantities, notably dried
eggs for the military and gas producers.
The West has fresh eggs in abundance,
and it pioneered the manufacture of gas
producers.
“Australia had only three Beaufort bombers....The patriots of the present Opposition
intended to abandon an important part of Australia without firing a shot...I have been
told that I should not make disclosures of this nature, but... ” —Minister Ward.
“Hurry up with that plan so’s I can disclose'it to my public.”
For quarter of a century Labor poli-
ticians have traded on their opposition
to conscription in the last war, main-
tained when the A.I.F. was in tragic need
of reinforcements. Now the whirligig of
time brings in its revenges.
It was Stevens who said, when parting
company with Weaver, that “the honor-
able member has enjoyed bad health for
some time.” Forgan Smith could “enjoy”
a bad quarter-hour reading a Queens-
land Chamber of Manufactures report:
For many years the development of
secondary industry in this State has lagged
hopelessly behind that of southern States.
This lag has been due largely to the inci-
dence of excessive State taxation on profits
and to the insistence of the State Govern-
ment [F. Smith’s] that Queensland was pre-
dominantly a primary producing State.
The concentration of taxation power in
the hands of the Federal Government
[F. Smith opposed it] has removed the
first obstruction, and the conditions
brought about by the war have decisively
demonstrated the fallacy of the second.
Unfortunately “the relief has come at
a time when shortage of materials and
of man-power cancels its advantage.” But
President Besley, a most sarcastic man,
finds a crumb of consolation in the
thought that “the royal commission to
inquire into the incidence of State com-
pany taxation, which presumably has
been deliberating since it was appointed
on Jan. 28, 1939, need no longer deli-
berate.”
A Cain-Dunstan brush in the Vic-
torian Assembly:
C. : Ministers’ second-reading speeches
on almost every bill introduced are pre-
pared by departmental officers.
D. You are talking through your hat.
C. : I am stating a fact.
D. : It is nonsense.
C. : It is not nonsense.
D. I have never heard you talk any-
thing else.
This to the leader of a party which,
though representing four or five times
as many electors as Dunstan’s group, kept
Dunstan and the Tweedledees, -dums and
-diddles in office for seven years. The
ingratitude of it!
“To emerge triumphant,” McKell said in
his Budget speech, “will demand of us, as
a Government and as individuals, greater
sacrifices and a greater ability to readjust
to meet changing conditions.” Precisely ;
and how about Ministers and members
setting an example by going back to First
World War salaries? They are getting
far more than Ministers and members
got then, and are not doing nearly as
much.
A quite unprecedented feature of Aus-
tralian Government finance is that State
debts were reduced last year. Though
it was the Commonwealth’s doing, not
that of the State Governments—had they
had their way soaring would have con-
tinued —there was a reduction of
£3,800,100 in N. S. Wales and of
£3,502,700 in Victoria. But N. S. Wales
still owes £365,094,800 and Victoria
£176,898,700.
“D.E.”: Menzies mixed irony with
exposition in his Statute of Westminster
Adoption Bill speech, which the papers
dismissed in a few lines. Referring to
Section 3 (“It is hereby declared and en-
acted that the Parliament of a Dominion
has full power to make laws having extra-
territorial operation”) he said it would
“put beyond doubt the power of this
Parliament to make laws for conscrip-
tion for overseas service.” Then he
added, shooting a glance at Dr. Evatt,
“No doubt that is what the Attorney-
General has in mind.” Bob had waited a
long time to get that one home.
Great psychologists, some of these
union bosses! One of them asserted at
a Melbourne Trades Hall meeting that
“the Government’s policy of pleading for
money to finance war and offering re-
wards for its use is revolting to the
worker.” He should try persuading the
worker to do a war job for lower wages
or to stop “investing” in lotteries.
There is now to be a Ginger Marketing
Board if a poll of growers decides on
one. It isn’t stated whether the whole
eight growers are to get a vote, but rolls
can be inspected in “ginger-growing
areas.” Anyone finding such an area is
required to report to the Commonwealth
Statistician.
In two recent instances wharfies have
shown admirably that they’re capable of
bullocking work and courage of the
highest quality when the instant need is
plain. In one port a record is claimed
for 26 heavy “lifts”—2o of them of 30
tons —from a ship to land transports in
eight hours, wharfies toiling enthusiasti-
cally with others to get the job done.
In another, wharfies formed a human
chain from a burning ship to the wharf
and swiftly removed the cargo, though
there was imminent danger of a frightful
explosion from petrol. The decks were
so hot that firemen’s feet were burnt
through thick boots. Ship and most of
the cargo were saved.
The N.S.W. Aid Russia Committee,
which Aided Russia to the extent of
fully £lB out of an expenditure of £2123,
has been “defended” in the Sydney Par-
liament by Abram Landa. It should
pray to be saved from its friends.
According to a Washington columnist:
How Stalin feels towards Britain over
the failure of the Second Front was re-
vealed at a banquet in Moscow. In the
presence of the British Ambassador, Stalin
said that the United States tried to send
Russia some excellent equipment, which
was stopped in Scotland, and inferior equip-
ment sent on. Stalin hoped that the United
States would not send war goods via Eng-
land any more. ,
Lie or not, it shows what Britain has
had to put up with from Second-Fronters,
and why Herbert Morrison, speaking for
the Government, has hit these gentry
hard.
Among other things, the Minister for
Customs has prohibited the export, with-
out his consent, of dichlorodifluomethane.
Anybody caught sneaking the stuff out
disguised as asparagus tips will be re-
quired to show cause, if any.
McKell, who promised to abolish the
wages tax and didn’t, collected £2,722,600
of income tax, due in 1941-42, in the
first quarter of the present financial year.
That means that his surplus for 1941-42
was at least £3,000,000, and if McKell
hadn’t spentilavishly when he saw it coming
he could have made it £4,000,000 at least.
A stung “S. M. Herald” correspondent
suggests that the McKell mob should
never be allowed to forget that it “de-
prived the people of millions more than
was required to finance the Budget by
a vicious extortion of income tax,” and
the advice is pertinent to the Common-
wealth Government also.
It is very plain from the MacArthur
statement that the C.-in-C. South-Western
Pacific objects to being a political issue
anywhere. Referring to a “Christian
Science Monitor” assertion that “political
Washington was largely responsible for
the establishment of two separate com-
mands in the Pacific, partly because of
the Conservative ‘MacArthur for Presi-
dent’ campaign,” he said definitely he
had “no political ambitions whatsoever;
I started as a soldier and I shall finish
as one.”
The only hope and ambition I have in
the world is for victory for our cause in
the war. If I survive the campaign I shall
return to that retirement from which this
great struggle called me.
Actually he retired from the U.S. Army
on December 31, 1937. He was Director
of Organisation of Defence for the Gov-
ernment of the Philippines when sum-
moned by President Roosevelt to take
command of “all the armed forces in the
Far East” on July 26, 1941.
Since the outbreak of the German war
the Senate has had 125 sittings. And
Senate sittings are briefer than a flapper’s
affection, except when a session is clos-
ing ; then a litter of bills arrives from
the other shop with the contemptuous
instruction (unspoken, but taken for
granted) “Shove that lot through and look
sharp about it.” The salary? A thou-
sand a year, with more for the President
and the Chairman of Committees, fees
and travelling expenses for members of
the Public Works Committee and travel-
ling expenses for Senators on other Com-
mittees and Senators assisting Ministers
—and few are excluded from these cate-
gories. Forward, Austerity!


HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidnefS contain 15 iniled
of tiny tubes or filters •which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons In your blood
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, head*
laches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
feet rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait! Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully)
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
55 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist
91 gi9£?;
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON £ CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders' Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Mentioning QXI, Gnr. John Archer, it
was here asked who held the No. 1
Digger honor in other States. Another
has been tracked down Lieut.-Col.
Ronald G. H. Irving, NXI.
Westralian Senator Latham has been
succeeded as leader of the State Country
party and Opposition by Arthur Frederick
Watts, the member for Katarining. Like
Ross McDonald, leader of the Nats,
(they have never called themselves
U.A.P.), Watts, who is 45, is a ,lawyer —
the first lawyer-leader the Cockles have
had. And, like Latham, he was born in
England.
Though Norman John Oswald Makin
must surely be the most benign Minister
in the War Cabinet, it isn’t for lack of
association with the Federal Labor
movement in all its phases. He has repre-
sented Hindmarsh (S.A.) without a break
since 1919, was Speaker in Jimmy
Scullin’s reign, and was picked for Muni-
tions immediately Curtin took office. He
Minister for Munitions.
. . T , * a
is the only S.A. Labor representative at
Born at Petersham (Sydney)
m 1889, he went to Broken Hill at the
age of nine and m his teens was repre-
sentmg the Shop Assistants Umon-he
had a job with a bookseller. His father
had a pohhcal bent and as there could
be only one brand of politics in the
Silver City it isn t surprising that young
Norman won a Barrier Truth prize
for an essay What Does the Union
P°A f ? r i -5 e W ° rke y ? ,£ 21 w ? nt
to Adelaide and entered the
trade. Soon afterwards (1915) he stood
for defeated and was beaten
agam for Wakefield m 1917 As
tions Minister he holds Essmgton Lewis
in great respect.
Whenever he sees a parcel of fish and
chips, Robert Woolcott, of Australian
Paper Mills, experiences a strong desire
to salute them, having himself been
wrapped up in waste paper ever since he
was 16. He has chased paper half round
the world, one section of the journey
under an armed guard. This was in
Chicago, where collection of waste paper
and salvage is an Italian concession,
Woolcott, about to go into the city’s more
disrespectful parts, found himself pro-
vided with “a couple of the boys” by his
Italian host. He was in no danger of
attack—it was just an “old Chi. custom”
of those days. Woolcott is now running
the large and complicated business of
waste collection for A.P.M. and thereby
playing an important part in the war
effort, the processed waste being an in-
tegral part of munitions. The company
employs 1400 hands, working three shifts,
in its Sydney plants, with a payroll of
£7OOO a week, and there are more plants
in Victoria and Tasmania.
Last Tattersall of Tatt.’s:
Tattersall’s sale ring in Brompton-road, Lon-
don, just by Sloane-street and the House-
hold Cavalry barracks, and handy to Rotten
Row, isn’t anything out of the way compared
with bloodstock sale rings elsewhere. It’s
small, with a bit of a tan track, and nothing
remarkable in accommodation. But it’s a piece
of English tradition, the name carrying back
in English turf history for 176 years—be-
fore Australia was founded. It’s also English
enough that the name of the last of the line —
Edmund Somerville Tattersall, dead at 80—
isn’t in Who’s Who, though for whole genera-
tions, until recent times, the Knightsbridge
ring not only held much of the bluest-blooded
English horseflesh but, on Sunday afternoons,
the bluest-blooded and best-lined of English
society. When the lease (for 99 years) was first
signed in 1766 the locality was mostly in-
habited by cows, footpads and partridges. In
time the house of one of the family was for
many years the h.q. of the Jockey Club. An
earlier member of the family was for a while
a partner with the Prince Regent—later George
IV —in the “Morning Post” ; the paper passed
into other hands after being socked £5OOO
damages for “a delicate Court disclosure.”
Unlike Shakspeare’s Prince Henry, who when
he took the Crown turned dog on old Falstaff
and the rest of his wild-oats companions,
George Guelph as King said to that early
Tattersall, “You’ve known all the men I’ve
known in my youth; when any of them ever
get into difficulties send me word.”
Whenever the office was given, the
royal cheque would arrive for sums up
to £5OO. Among other things in the
Tattersall tradition was far the largest
collection of horse portraits in Eng-
land. Lord Lonsdale’s great collec-
tion merged in it, and it dated back
to Sedbury (1734), Mambrin'o (fore-
father of some of the best American
trotters) and other once-famous ned-
dies. Latterly, until the war knocked
things a bit skewwhiff, Tattersall’s was making
the tidy rake-off of £70,000 a year out of the
auctioneer’s commission of a shilling in the
guinea.
A muster of all those at present wear-
ing the Government-attached label of
Director would produce an army just
about long enough to reach in column
of threes from here to the latest habitat
of Woolcott-Forbes —quite another sort
of “director.” A notable addition is
Director of Shipping Thomas Gordon,
representative in Australia of the British
Ministry of War Transport, as well as
being chairman and managing director of
he s Birt shipping concern, Australian
director of the Federal St eam Navigation
Co director of Cockatoo Dock and
Erjgineering of Bellambi Coal and of
Australian General Insurance. In his
post he has an outsize job on his
hands F he reckons Australia’s coastal
tfade is si through “a very difficult
iod „ £ nd th at the difficulties are likely
£ bec ;> me ater still
To details f an tmck right
for a recent cartoon Ted Scorfield was
maki some r 0 h u notes of one
when * Di r | river put h is head out
and asked it was for » Y ou’ll see
j n next wee k’s Bulletin,” said Ted. The
Digger has since writ ten: “You will
wonder who in blazes I am... .but I
bought last Wed. Bully, and, strewth,
man , how you could make a drawing like
that from the few lines you had on that
p i e ce of paper has me clean bowled.”
One of the reasons—also explaining why
Ted’s dogs make any dog-fancier want to
stroke them, or his Diggers make any
Digger admirer want to shout for them —
j s that Ted is probably the most careful
stickler for accuracy of all artists The
Bulletin has known. That comes in
pa rt from his early training in navy
draughtsmanship. As for Diggers, Tom-
m j e s and the rest, he knows them well
enough from having been himself one of
the 29th Div. on Gallip. and elsewhere,
Dogs he knows extra-well, too, having
practically always had one, from his
Tyneside days onwards. When doing
any drawing he immerses himself in his
subject, as a good actor does in a part:
he’s been heard quacking when drawing
ducks and seen registering facial expres-
sions in a mirror when drawing bulldogs.
All who ever came in touch with Angli-
can Archdeacon Charlton knew him for
one of the finest, most cultured and most
humane of churchmen. He had the
remarkable record of 58 years’ service all
in the one diocese, Sydney. About the start
of the century he was chaplain at Biloela
Gaol on Cockatoo Island (“Biloela” ?s
abo, for that place), acting also as chap-
lain for the old nautical school ship
Sobraon, which for years was anchored
thereabout. The island gaol was famous
for, among other things, having housed
Thunderbolt, though the bushranger
escaped from it. According to legend.
Thunderbolt swam from there to the
mainland in his irons—a feat that
couldn’t have been done even by world-
champion swimmer Charlton, who’s a
nephew of the just-dead archdeacon. A
pioduct of Moore Theological College
and Liverpool, Archdeacon Charlton did
fine service for poor folk round the
waterfronts. From his chaplaincy work
he moved on to St. Barnabas’s, where
Archdeacon Hammond hangs out his
slogans. Eventually holder of many high
positions with the Church, Archdeacon
Charlton was also on the council of
several denominational Great Public
Schools, with a special fancy for King’s.
Appointed Deputy Chief of Hobart's
fire-fighters, Donald Corker leaves South
Aus. with a broken heart at having to
say good-bye—a scene calculated to sub-
due a dozen fires—to his fine up-and-
coming patch of potatoes. With that
sort of hobby he should find some con-
solation in the Speck, which grew a bag
or two of the extinct veges in times his-
toric. For some reason (suggesting a
once-popular line of jokes), S.A. appears
to be producing extra-good firemen, this
being the second occasion inside a couple
of months that other States have taken
CORKER, Fire-fighter.
S.A. fire-fighters for high positions in
their brigades—the other was Jack
Stephens, now Chief in Brisbane. Both
were English originally—Corker a York-
shireman and Stephens from Devon.
Now 38, Corker was in turn a cocky in
Victoria and a timbergetter in Gippsland,
N.S.W. and Queensland before joining
the S.A. brigade in 1927.
In the Victorian offensive on the vege-
table front one of the most cultured ad-
visers, with the added quality of a keen
love of his occupation, is J. L. Provan,
B.Agr.Sc. He is principal of the beauti-
ful Burnley Gardens, which were laid
out by Guilfoyle, designer of Melbourne
Botanical Gardens. Provan is a citricul-
turist — i.e., a lemon expert—for which
he’s best known in his home State, Vic-
toria. A product of Melbourne High,
he studied two years at the Horticultural
College, and then was given a depart-
ment post as orchard supervisor, a roving
commission which tflok him all over Vic-
toria. He gained the first scholarship
J. L. PROVAN.
awarded in his subject, graduated from
Melbourne University and then became
horticultural research officer, with the
appointment of senior horticultural in-
spector on the retirement of C. E. Pres-
cott. From that he moved to Burnley.
There, at 38 and married, he has his
home in the dead centre of his gardens.
A member of the Garden Army com-
mittee, he has seen the organisation grow
to considerable proportions. At Burnley
there is a posse of Land Army girls being
toughened into agricultural commandos.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 81, James A. Burke, a one-time
Bulletin contributor and a stalwart friend of
many of the earlier writers. Later he was
widely known as a Swan pens rep., and also
as a staunch supporter of the Rugby Union. A
son collected a commission in Malaya.
At 64, in Melbourne, Charles Ridgeway,
known to 3DB (the “Herald” station) radio
listeners as Charlie Vaude. A Londoner, he
settled first in W.A. Discovering an unusual
line of patter, he established himself with Bill
Verne on the Tivoli circuit, then toured
Queensland with his own troupe. He joined
3DB when the 1930 Tests were attracting nation-
wide attention and enraptured the crowds by
importing humor into that solemn pastime.
His nimble tongue helped to raise over £60,000
for war funds.
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, has held a
special service in memory of Frank Wyatt,
a popular old-time master, who lived to over
70, in spite of many years of wretched health,
of which he pluckily made a jest. Collier Cud-
more, M.L.C., gave the memorial address.
At 68, Dr. Frederick William Hilgendorf, for
over 30 years professor of agricultural botany
at Lincoln Agricultural College (M.L.), and
for 14 years director of the MX. Wheat Re-
search Institute. Born in Otago, he obtained
his M.A. degree at Otago Uni. and his doctor-
ate in science at Auckland Uni.. He made
important contributions to wheat-breeding
research, and in association with G. N. Car-
rington did a lot of exploring of Canterbury’s
alpine region. A kindly man and a born teacher,
he endeared himself to two generations of
Lincoln College students. He died in retire-
ment at Wellington.
At Maryborough (Vic.), at 73, George
Clement Frost, Victorian Labor M.L.A., who,
apart from what he did for his electorate as
member, also did much for it in a business
capacity and as a borough councillor for
20 years and thrice mayor. A native of
Sussex (Eng.), he acquired most of his educa-
tion on his own, having left school as a nine-
year-old. He reached Vic. in 1889, when he
was 20, started in with a baker at Maryborough
and at 25 bought his boss out. Every Christ-
mas Day for 46 years he took local old-age
pensioners for a jaunt into the country and
shouted them a dinner. He also did much for
Diggers after the last war.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“MacHoots”: The concluding item of
the A.B.C. news broadcast was that, dis-
missing his second appeal, Mr. Curtin
had insisted that Premier Dunstan pay
his Victorian civil servants double time
for the Tuesday on which the Cup won’t
be run. The P.M., said the announcer,
had refused to vary his Government’s
policy that award rates should be paid
for all holidays worked. Then one of those
anonymous gentlemen who, over the
A.B.C., are continually urging me to sup-
port the Loan, join the Awas and be
a better man began to burble about Aus-
terity; “This country cannot afford to
waste one penny. Don’t spend.... ” In
an outburst of unpardonable vulgarity
I threw the cat at the anonymous gentle-
man and shouted at Mr. Curtin’s Gov-
ernment “’Ave a bit of commin! ’Ave
a bit of adjectival commin!”
****■■
“T. McNark”: It had to come, of
course, but I was hardly prepared for the
form it would take when my afternoon
paper announced that it had secured
“exclusive rights” to publish a life of
Paddy Finucane. Finucane will be re-
membered not only for his skill and
daring, but for his last words in the
’plane that crashed into the Channel,
“This is it, chaps”—as poignant as the
old horse-trooper’s “Between the stirrup
and the ground Mercy I sought, mercy I
found.” The life is by Sean O’Leary,
begob; an’ every now an’ thin the
O’Leary heaves in a bit of a brogue to
prove it. But the story is as about as
Irish as a Hollywood film,
He * * ❖
By mulga wire; —
A V.D.C. unit up north, needing communi-
cations, ran up a telephone line across 24 miles
of country in pretty good time. Then the usual
department butted in with a demand to know
on whose authority the line was run through
Crown lands. Promptly came the V.D.C.
reply, “Pearl Harbor.” The rest was silence.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Sydney’s suburb of the
Glebe provided the latest big fire, when
a five-storey building went up, adjoining
buildings were damaged and homes had
to be evacuated, the damage being esti-
mated at £75,000. Out came an even-
ing paper with a four-column headline;
“Looting at Fire ; Ghouls Prey on Home-
less Women.” Then in heartbroken
accents the reading world was told:---
The activity of looters was a terrible
feature Aided by the darkness, the
chaotic mass of furniture and household
belongings piled high in the near-by sheds,
looters stole clothing and other articles
and drained gas-meters of coins.
There was more of it, including personal
statements by victims of the alleged
looters and a picture of wrecked and
uninhabitable homes. Next morning the
sober “S.M.H.” remarked quietly; —
About 12 families which were evacu-
ated from small cottages adjoining the
building will be unable to return until some
of the walls of the damaged building have
been demolished It was thought at first
that there had been wholesale looting.
Detectives helped to sort out the property,
however, and their report subsequently was
that practically all the missing articles had
been traced.
But the evening journal had had its
sensation.
* & $ «
“Tuart”: One of the amiable charac-
teristics of the Americans is their affection
for the fighting man with a personality
as well as a punch. It was curiously ex-
hibited when Westbrook Pegler, their
most trenchant political writer (the order
of precedence in the Scripps-Howard
papers is Pegler 1, Clapper 2, Mrs.
Roosevelt 3), devoted a recent column to
an account of the "life and death of
“Chuck” Wiggins, who boxed in Sydney
23 years ago—with no conspicuous suc-
cess, though no doubt he improved later.
And one D. B. Chidsey has brought out
a biography of John L. Sullivan, with a
preface by the eminent novelist Mar-
quand. John L. visited Australia in
1891, not as a bruiser but as an actor in
a dreadful thing called “Honest Hearts
and Willing Hands”: and he was the
world’s worst actor. In his then condi-
tion —he confessed to Larry Foley that
he was “through”—there were three
Australian heavyweights of the period
who could have whipped him, Jackson,
“Certainly not! Bring your own bloomin' lunch!”
Slavin and Goddard, but he preferred to
lose his championship to Corbett in the
following year. He was a real “charac-
ter,” and before Johnson licked Jeffries
at Reno, where all the short-haired cele-
brities, past and present, were introduced
at the ringside (Tommy Burns and Bill
Lang were among them), he —as a London
“Times” man noted and the fight-pictures
testified—was the sole pug with a Pres-
ence. It was his proud boast for 20
years that he could knock any man out
or drink him under the table ; but on
March 4, 1905, when his friend Theodore
Roosevelt was inaugurated as President,
he swore he would never “touch it”
again. And till the day of his death 13
years later he kept his word.
**- * *
“Dhas”; A suggestion that some Army
men queried the stopping power of the
Owen gun strikes me as the only prac-
tical remark that was made during the
revived controversy about that weapon.
Though I pale before the editor of Syd-
ney “D.T,” in that I’m not a military
genius, I have had some experience shoot-
ing in Maoriland bush which the editor
may not have had in Castlereagh-street.
Superior in many of the graces and refine-
ments of civilisation to the Jap, the wild
boar of my native land had one char-
acteristic in common with him: a fana-
tical determination in the charge, a de-
plorable absence of Christian trustworthi-
ness until he was dead. To tackle him
with a pea-rifle was suicidal; a .32 wasn’t
safe; a .303 often passed through him un-
noticed ; only with a .44 could we dis-
pute with him with any degree of con-
fidence. Like the Owen and the Thomp-
son, our .32’s and .44’s were short-range
weapons ; and, as I gather that the calibre
of the Owen is close to the .32 and the
Thompson to the .44, I know which (as
a pighunter, though not, I repeat, as a
military genius) I’d prefer. Until I’d
realised that it wouldn’t have stopping
power, or the range when wanted, my
own recipe for the Jap in the jungle was
a sawn-off shotgun.
* * * *
“Hookey”: There has been a flurry of
truancy prosecutions in Melbourne subur-
ban courts, and one P.M. threatened to
have offenders “committed to a home
under Section 38 of the Education Act.”
Another frowned at a 13-year-old girl
who had got a job in a munitions
factory. “A scandalous thing,” said
the P.M. Can’t see it myself, but
I left school at 12, and one of my
most vivid memories is of a classmate
named John Smith. He was an inveterate
truant —I don’t think he averaged four
days’ attendance a month, and when he
did attend he sat at the bottom of the
class —quite happily, because that posi-
tion was nearest the fire. His teachers
promised a dire and ignominious fate for
John. At latest advices he owned half
my home town and was believed to have
mortgages on most of the other half.
* * * *
“H.M.F.”: The landing of American
troops in Liberia is a reminder that this
small black republic was also an ally in
the last war. I remember when H.M.S.
Bacchante, an old cruiser serving as flag-
ship on the West African station under
Rear-Admiral Shepherd, was directed to
pay a courtesy call at Monrovia, the
capital. She found on arrival a small
gunboat in the offing, the only excuse
the republic had to offer for a glittering
naval staff and full admiral, who was
piped on board the Bacchante with all
traditional ceremony. The exchange of
civilities was followed by an untoward
incident. For a quarter of a century
the old gunboat had neither been moved
nor dry-docked. She settled suddenly
into the placid waters of the Gulf of
Benin under the eyes of Bacchante’s
officer of the watch, who immediately in-
formed the admiral. “Frewen,” said the
admiral to his navigator, “I think this
should be reported ; will you draft the
dispatch?” And that afternoon a laconic
message was received at the Admiralty
which must have evoked some smiles
among naval brasshats: “At 2.7 p.m.
today,” it ran, “the Liberian Navy sank
at its moorings.” That navigator is now
Captain Oswald Frewen, R.N., King’s
Harbormaster at Scapa Flow. He is a
first cousin of Churchill.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I am always interested
when a new word (used seriously and
not a mere slang coinage) swims into my
ken, and I must acknowledge my in-
debtedness to “S. M. Herald” —and in-
directly, I suppose, to the State Minister
of Education —for the noun “abscon-
dences.” After all, “abscondings” is
rather an awkward-sounding word and
has been overworked ; a rest should do
it good. I take it that the “Herald’s”
innovation has been framed on the
analogy of “despondences” as an im-
provement on “despondings.” But
does “abscondences” appear in any
dictionary? I can find it in none
to which I have access, nor do I
think I have ever encountered it in print
before. No matter; our language is
always capable of being enriched or
supplemented.
“Van C.”: A trait of female tram
travellers in Sydney is the way in which
two of them, sitting one or more seats
apart, will discuss family affairs in voices
raised until they carry the whole length
of the tram. Two of them thus engaged
will babble on for miles, totally ignorant
of the interested and amused glances
from other passengers, and their physical
contortions when a conductor or stand-
ing passenger gets between them should
land them a vaudeville job anywhere.
Off the trams you can pick them in cafes
and shops by their sharp, metallic voices,
made so by the constant battle of their
tongues with the noises of the tram. It
was bad enough in normal times, but to
travel home on a wet night in a browned-
out vehicle and hear a couple of dis-
embodied voices loudly discussing some-
body’s operation, husband, clothes or
bridge party begins with eeriness and
ends in weariness.
* * * =1:
“Bohemian”: “Merri v a 1 e ” (B.
30/9/’42) refers to Dillon Bell’s igno-
rance of Maori. I remember also a M.L.
Governor’s wife who got badly off the
track. Their Exes, were on a tour
before the end of their term, and Native
Minister Carroll had prepared a few
words in Maori, typewritten, for the
Governor’s lady to read to the wahines
after she had addressed them in English.
But when her Ex. came to her exordium
she could not find the slip and had to
trust to memory. She noticed that her
Maori farewell termination caused all
the wahines and “braves” to smile
broadly. The English of it was “Farewell!
Farewell! I leave my heart with you,
great and noble women of the Maori
race!” But her ladyship got just two
little words wrong, and her
listeners went away with the
impression that she had said to
them “Farewell, you great,
well-fed pigs of the Maori
race! ”
* * *
“A.R.P.”: The notion,
which seemed to emanate
partly from Canberra and
partly from Minister Heffron
in Sydney, that N.E.S. per-
sonnel should get busy on prac-
tices on raceless Saturday after-
noons got a cold reception out
our way. The only member
of the post who was a racing
man refused to do night duty
—he’d been stampeded into
joining by the sub. shells and
resigned when the excitement
was over —and though the rest
might have a “coupla bob each
way” now and again, they’re
not racing addicts. They are
all in favor of the racing crowd
holding N.E.S. classes on
Randwick or Rosehill on race-
less days if they wish. But to
suggest that, because a bunch
of punters, jockeys, trainers
and odds-merchants are sud-
denly deprived of an after-
noon’s entertainment, the poor
old wardens should be pun-
ished by extra work implies a
shocking ignorance of logic.
When non-racegoers have forced on them
a gardenless, beachless or sleepless after-
noon, it may woqk. But not till then,
Mr. Heffron,
THE VOICE OF THE FIELDER.
“As a drastic blow against the squandering of
money and man-power on racecourses, Mr. Curtin
should delicense all bookmakers and retain the tote.
In M.L the voice of the bookmaker has not been
heard for years.”— O.F.M. (B. ZS/lO/’iS).
Know ye the land of the moa and Maori
With its flax and its fern and forests of kauri,
Where the myrtle clings and the ratas twine
In the loveliest settings this side of the Line?
Here’s one more item for him who compiles
Its claim to be dubbed the Fortunate Isles;
No more must you suffer, when racing you go,
The horrible hubbub of Ikey and Mo,
The storm of announcements yelled and pealed
From the throats of pencillers “laying the field.”
There are noises a-many borne on the air
Our kin t’otherside of the Tasman share.
Their folk, like ours, may be lulled to sleep
By lowing of cattle and bleating of sheep.
The ring of the axe and the click of the shears
May linger long on their listening ears,
Or in wind-swept cities the newsboy’s call
May echo shrilly at evenfali.
But at least they’re quit of one well-spared
thing,
In the blatant cries of the raucous Ring.
The restless radio’s blither and blare
Are just as much an infliction there
As anywhere else in this vale of woe
(As the parsons term it) for aught I know.
And their politicians, I hardly doubt,
Are as slick at paying chin-music out
And exercising their vocal chords
As our fluent Faddens and whirling Wards.
But who grudges credit to Maoriland
For stilling the din of the “Bar One” band?
Know ye the shores where the bellbird cheeps
Its chiming notes from the leafy deeps,
Where the mettlesome Maori put to rout
And woodened the Moriori out,
The land that holds in its far-flung bounds
The fairest sights and the sweetest sounds?
Well, it’s there that one discordant roar
Which once rocked the welkin may rise no
more.
From the tests of speed for their prads and
quads
They’ve banished the bloke who bellows the
odds.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
A MINER TROUBLE.
“Australia has its minor labor troubles, but no
worse than those of any other Allied country.”
—-Minister Forde.
“At the South Clifton mine, a wheeler who com-
plained that his trousers had been stolen from the
bathhouse refused the management’s offer of a spare
pair and went home. About 200 fellow-employees
came out on strike in sympathy.” —Daily paper.
No ruthless autocratic boss
It was that filled his cup
Of bitterness, and made him toss
His occupation up.
’Neath minor blows his self-command
He might have scorned to lose,
But oh! ’twas more than he could stand
When someone nicked his trews.
Round where he parked his duds he flings
A long and searching glare,
And to his dudgeon finds the things
Aren’t any longer there.
Who did the deed there’s naught to note,
But still it would, one grants,
Get almost anybody’s goat
If someone pinched his pants.
It laid a stress upon his soul,
As well it might and must;
The bare idea of wheeling coal
Occasioned him disgust.
For who can yakka as he ought
When through his mind there streaks
Ever and aye the harrowing thought
That someone’s boned his breeks?
He slung his job in anger hot
And resolution grim.
What were his obligations, what
His country’s needs to him?
The loss he had to bear was hard,
It soured him —and besides
Upon his principles it jarred
To graft in borrowed strides.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“D.E.”: Sometimes I wish I were a
Red or a Pink and had a passable talent
for narrative. Then I would write a novel
full of sex, Sovietism, Second Front and
ferocious contempt for everything Eng-
lish. A Red or Pink publisher would snap
it up, Red and Pink reviewers and
“columnists” would crack it up, and 1
would wake up one morning and find
myself a New Force in Literature, en-
dowed with insight, foresight, hindsight,
style, subtlety, genius, epic force, revolu-
tionary fire and all the rest of it. For
nowadays Reds and Pinks are to be found
in newspaper and magazine offices all
over the English-speaking world, and
their enthusiasm for extolling one an-
other runs second only to their abject devo-
tion to the Red gods. In Australia they
are outnumbered by the Labor journal-
ists who delight in changing the policy
of “Tory” publications, but they are be-
ginning to compete in that agreeable pas-
time. In a Sydney sheet, traditionally
“Tory,” a Red writing boy has been per-
mitted to shape the Policy of the Paper
on a ticklish subject which the editor was
obviously afraid to tackle.
4c 4< 4: 4=
“Hamfat”: A suburban parson being
doubtful about marrying a soldier and
his girl friend, both very young, required
them to produce some proof of identity.
As a result the manager of the suburb’s
picture theatre smiled on the nuptials and
gave the bride away. He was able to
say that he had known the parties since
they had toddled to the children’s “ses-
sion” at his theatre, frequently together,
and he had known the parents on both
sides. The incident illustrates the firm
anchorage the cinema business has ob-
tained in the social system. The old-
established suburban cinema proprietor
or manager has seen half the people of
his district grow up or grow old, knows
their birthdays and anniversaries (it is
often good business to know them and
offer concession prices for parties at his
show) and is known by them. He’s a
public institution, like Bung.
4c 4c 4c 4c
“Wodgil”: From a commercial station
came a well-remembered voice, naturally
sweet and admirably controlled, with
every syllable given the right articulation
and emphasis. It was the voice of Carrie
Moore, the toast of more than one Lon-
don season, a golden girl of the great
days of musical comedy, and Australian
by birth and training. The years have
dealt kindly with the Carrie Moore voice,
and, singing and speaking, it was a-
delight. In enunciation alone it would
have been a liberal education to A.B.C.
bosses and performers, particularly young
women who bawl Tin Pan Alley ditties
and make such a mystery of the words
that if you pick out one in ten you are
doing well; but probably these worthies
weren’t listening. Miss Moore was
grounded in a school in which actresses
had to be intelligent and intelligible. They
were taught to respect the human voice
and the English language, and shown
how to make the most of the combination
in song and speech. The Australian
stage in her day was a great educator;
from the actors and actresses of the
period even gallery girls learned that a
well modulated voice was “an excellent
thing in woman.” In abject surrender
to the movies the Australian stage was
slain; the old standards disappeared;
to the cultured race of actors and
actresses half-educated mimes and jazz
singers succeeded. In the result we have
a generation which doesn’t know a good
show when it sees one ; also a dreadful
impression among young females that the
art of conversation consists in screeching
crude slang in an excruciating voice.
4: * * *
“Bowery”: Old Bob was holding forth
to cronies at the pub on the team that
had taken the Cattle Creek Cup back
with it after the final match of
the season. “The roughest mob that ever
played here, they was,” said Bob. “One
bloke —that big streak they call ‘Lanky
Larry’ —was the dirtiest player ever I did
see. If that bloke was to come across
Ned Kelly and his brother Dan playing
marbles in the street, Mrs. Kelly would
call her boys inside.”
w * * *
“Bob Punter”; Some 150 youngsters
going into the R.A.A.F., bi\t still in ciy-
cies, were due to assemble on q, city rail-
way station. Waiting for one of them,
whom I was seeing off, I noticed that as
they strayed along nearing the appointed
hour the whole lot of them had one thing
in common by which it was easy to pick
’em. Their clobber was average of their
age —sports rigs mdstly, but a fair number
of full suits. Their luggage was mixed ;
small suitcases, Pitt-street swags and a
number of inherited kitbags. The bulk
of them were on the small side, but a
few were hefty or solid enough. That
which they shared in common was that
they were all hatless. Though I’ve always
worn a lid myself, neither of my pair
“I believe in personal sacrifice, Charlie, but THAT’S overdoing it!"
has ever done so ; but I hadn’t thought
to see a muster like that, all of them
no-hatters.
4: * 4: 4<
“Loo”: I often wondered what girls
in uniform talk about. Now I know.
Other girls. Two she-corporals behind
me in a George-street tram entertained
me thus: “But, Elsie, what was he saying
to her?” “I don’t know, May, but she
kept saying to him ‘l’ll knock your face
off if you say that again.’ ”
* *
“0.C.”: In the carriage were many
young men, one of whom bragged loudly
that he “never bought a ticket” because
“it’s easy to put it over the blokes at
the turnstiles.” A little late getting off
the train, I found the youth staring in
astonishment at a skirted ticket-collector
and mumbling that he had lost his ticket.
“Can’t help it,” said the young woman
firmly; “you’ll have to pay. Now where
did you get on the train?” Fellow-
passengers proffered the information and
enjoyed the smartie’s discomfiture.
« * * *
“Strict Veg.”: That the Royal Society
(B. 21 /10/’42) handed James Cook a
medal for “additions he made to hygienic
science and the welfare of seafarers”
doesn’t invalidate my argument. Long
after the event most universities have
recognised Freud; but at the height of
his researches and after his astonishing
successes with shell-shocked soldiers of
the last war Oxford refused to allow
him to lecture, and Cambridge only
admitted his pupil Adler by the back
door. The universities thought them
quacks because they didn’t conform
to the university conception of psycholo-
gists, and why wouldn’t, they think
the same of a sea captain who went in
for dietetics? Anyhow, if an institute of
“’ Ere's a fiver —give us the change in cigs. and bottled beer."
dietitians has to wait for a sea captain
to show it the new and revolutionary in
diet what is the use of an institute of
dietitians?
* * * *
“Mossy”: For the benefit of sticklers
for accuracy, let me remark that Can-
berra, F.C.T., ceased to be a proper-
address four years ago. By notice in
the “Commonwealth Gazette” (8/9/’3B)
the designation Federal Capital Territory
was altered to read Australian Capital
Territory. I mention this because hardly
one Australian newspaper recognises the
change.
“School Tie”: “A.M.D.G.” (B.
14/10/’42) says that Stonyhurst with its
seven V.Cs. “probably holds a record for
any English public school.” Nowhere
near it! My old school, Cheltenham
College, in Gloucestershire, for instance,
claimed 14 four months ago. And I
shouldn’t be surprised to hear that half
a dozen other English public schools
could beat Cheltenham.
4! * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Mention of Archdeacon
Hammond’s “private slogan machine” (B.
21/10/’42) recalls that when I was doing
a perish during the depression years those
weekly wisecracks on the signboard out-
side St. Barnabas Church gave me many
an inspiration for occasional verse. “You
married men, watch out! Booze makes
you see double but feel single” ; “God
help the rich —the poor can manage on
the dole” ; and “A concrete mind, thor-
oughly mixed and completely set, is a
calamity” are examples that stay in the
memory.
* * 4t *
“Surd”: N. S. Wales Teachers’ Federa-
tion members in a recent barney over the
curriculum said a lot of hard things
about mathematics —that it makes life
a nightmare for the children ; is taught
to them too soon, and too much
weight is placed on it. A little strange
all this, coming from the pedagogue class
that used to defend Latin, Greek and
Hebrew on grounds of “mental discip-
line.” The president said the most sen-
sible thing in the discussion: “If mathe-
matics were taught intelligently the fear
some children have of it would be re-
moved.” That recalls what a very great
physicist and mathematician, Sylvanus P.
Thompson, said in the preface to his Cal-
culus Made Easy —about the only mathe-
matical textbook that displays teaching
intelligence, plus a sense of humor.
Quoth Thompson: “The fools who write
the textbooks of advanced mathematics —
and they are mostly clever fools —seldom
take the trouble to show you how easy
the easy calculations are. On the con-
trary, they seem to desire to impress you
with their tremendous cleverness by going
about it the most difficult way.” To the
truth of that every student who has had
to struggle along without a tutor will
bear enthusiastic testimony.
41 ♦ 4= *
“Horse”: The American expedition to
Liberia recalls the first time Americans
did a spot of fighting on the African con-
tinent. It was in 1805 that William Eaton,
previously American Consul at Tunis,
started off with a band of 500 men, in-
cluding Americans, Greeks and some
Arab cavalry, to cross the Libyan desert
from Alexandria to Derna with the
object of restoring Ahmet Karamanli to
the throne of Tripoli. During the long
trek the camel men and Arab chiefs
mutinied, and the expedition ran short
of provisions. But Eaton struggled
through, took Derna and held it until
peace with Ahmet’s rival was concluded
by the U.S.A, He built a fort in Derna,
the ruins and rusty guns of which are
still to be seen.
* * » *
“O. Shooga”: As one of the world's
leading collectors of rejection slips I
can’t help wondering what on earth
fiction is going to do in the matter of
heroes after this war. Already it has
been clearly demonstrated, particularly by
the merchant marine and the ordinary
citizenry suffering air raids, that the world
is chock-a-block with heroes. We know
of thousands who have performed deeds
of daring, self-sacrifice and endurance
that leave the average fiction hero look-
ing as unimpressive as a tailor’s dummy.
And in nine cases out of ten today’s
heroes are commonplace blokes like you
and me, not above downing a few drinks,
flirting with a cheerful flapper or swiping
a potato on the sly. Handsome dials
and broad athletic shoulders are out.
Today we gaze with admiration on a
sawn-off runt from a freighter that’s
come through hell or hear some grocer’s
clerk mumbling over the radio his ex-
periences as a warden in a blitz. This
is to say nothing of the fighting services,
and even fiction’s most modern hero, the
airman, has been displaced by the real
airmen, chaps who a few months ago
were catching the 8.30 a.m. to the office
or yoking up a six-horse team out on the
Bland. Women, too, are going through
terrifying experiences and suffering loss
and disaster with a courage that no
bewchus heroine of novel or film could
hope to emulate. It begins to look as
though human courage and faith are
too big to be contained within the covers
of books.
* * * ♦
“Jayem”: Long Harry was having
family troubles. His eldest daughter
resented a tight parental rein, and showed
her determination not to be cheated of
such pleasures as Saturday-night dances
and tennis games a couple of times a
week. After an unusually heated session,
the long ’un discussed the matter with
his old cobber, Murphy the publican.
“Listen, Murph,” said Harry, “do you
think it’s wrong to keep a high-spirited
girl at home?” “Whether it’s wrong,”
said Murphy (who has daughters of his
own), “is beside the point, Harry. It’s
impossible.”
* * * ♦
“Bohemian”: Perhaps as a result of
the community spirit engendered by the
war, this occurred in Auckland (M.L.).
Kiddies found that the common on which
they played had been allowed by the
authorities to be overrun with long grass,
so that their ball repeatedly was lost.
They wanted to know to whom they
should go with their grievance. A citi-
zen directed them to the City Council
Chambers. The City Engineer rubbed his
eyes when the deputation of Lilliputians,
aged from nine to ten, trooped into his
office. They pleaded their case so intelli-
gently that the engineer promised that
the grass should be cut. And it was.
And, very courteously, at the next meet-
ing of the council, the kids sent a letter
of thanks to the City Fathers.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; A railway accident in S.A.
has ended in a trial probably unique in
the sympathy shown by all for the
accused. A boy of 13, while waiting to
wave to a soldier cousin in the train, put
two small stones on the line just to see
them get crushed ; but a curve began
just there, and the train left the rails,
with cuts and bruises for passengers and
burns for the driver. Damage, over
£20,000. Experts said that a hard stone
2iin. by Hin. would do it, and the
father argued boldly in court “My son
put the stones on the line, but the rest
was an act of God.” The Js.P. on the
Bench did not go quite so far as that, but
were sympathetic; “Boy very unfortu-
nate no malicious intent good
family, highly respected bond of £2O
with two sureties for good behavior till
16.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Betcha”; Was trying to sell Jim a
couple of dozen rams last week, but we
couldn’t agree about the price. “I know
they’re good stock,” he conceded, “but
it’s a lot o’ money when a bloke’s got a
partner to consider. If it was only meself
it wouldn’t matter, but when y’ve got to
divide the proceeds there ain’t much
over for fancy lines.” “Didn’t know you
had a partner!” I said in surprise.
“Bought in, did he?” “No, he didn’t
pay nuthin’.” “Why did you take him
on then? To do half the work?” “Well,
no, he don’t help ; fact, he don’t even
come near the place. Just gives orders
sometimes. Then, after I’ve paid the
bills at the end o’ the year we share the
profits—if any.” “H’m! And if there
aren’t any?” “Oh, well, I stand the
losses, but it hits him, too, because the
poor cow don’t get so much t’ spend.”
“See here, old man,” I quizzed confiden-
tially, “who is this cove that’s got you
by the scruff?” “His name's Curtin.”
* * * *
“Louden”: Natural grafts, is it (B.
2/9/’42)? There's one in a stand of
Eucalyptus restrata (river redgum) on
Brewarrina station, Narrandera district
(N.S.W.). Blown off by a gale, a limb
from one tree lodged in a high fork of
another, “took,” and is now a healthy
part of a healthy tree ; in fact, as the
abo. station hand said, “Y’d think the
plurry thing grew there!”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Long Lane ambled into
Ouyen (Vic.) late one night, dropped his
swag near the station and went up the
town. There was nobody much about,
and he filtered into a billiard saloon just
as a crowd had gathered round one end of
a table. Long had a couple of bob and
was always a willing goer at Murrum-
bidgee, so he threw a shilling on the table
and called “I’m in.” But instead of a
shake for the pool all he got was a
marble giving him his order of play in
a snooker game. Long tried to explain
that he couldn’t play snooker very well,
had never intended to enter a snooker
pool, had thought it was a Murium
school and demanded his money back.
The marker refused to listen. Long got
a stick and took his turn. As he said
afterwards “There were eight players;
if there’d bin nine I’d have run ninth.”
Still holding a shilling he left, got into a
pub and found some youths playing one-
draw poker for treys. Long joined in
and denuded them of 3s. before they
broke up. Making back to the saloon
Long found a real Murrum game on,
took a hand and won three pools, put-
ting him 11s. to the good after he’d lost
in a few more. He then withdrew. “That
11 deeners,” he said, “is 22 pots, or five
good feeds and 12 pots, or eight feeds
and six pots. It’s only 60 mile t’ Mil-
dura, but there’s no feeds and no pots
on the way. This is t’ celebrate me
at rival.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat decided to sample
town life for a bit, got himself a job and
boarded at a pub plentifully peppered
with lady schoolteachers. One night he
went to a church fete and won a portable
gramophone and six records in a raffle.
It gave those females their chance to get
sweet with the big bloke. He’d play a
record in his room, then hear a knock at
the door and find a couple of ’em giggling
and saying how they adored the music
and his taste, and would he play it again.
ATter a week or two of this Mat got
pretty silent and thoughtful, and the com-
petition among the schoolmarms got
pretty keen. He moved to another pub.
Two days later he came to lunch to find
three of them installed there. “Gripes! ”
breathed Mat, ate his lunch, went up-
stairs, rolled his swag and left for the
scrub. “Yair,” he told me, “I reckoned
it was time t’ go when they come after
me like that.” It wasn’t till that night
a bloke from the town told us Mat’s
former pub had been burned down that
morning.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “Lower Tops’l” (B.
14/10/*42) is right about the Bass Strait
mutton-birders being cool hands with
snakes. I recall a little expedition with
a “birder” in search of what he called
“pen-wings.” At one place he thrust his
hand into a burrow and pulled out a
rusty black-colored snake about 4ft. 6in.
long ; he bashed the reptile on the ground
and threw it aside, and was preparing
for another try when I intervened, urging
caution. “Gripes! ” he ejactulated. “Wot
sorta cove are you? W’en that damn'
snake was in the burrer y’ hadn’t a word
t’ say, an’ now that he ain’t y’ start
objectin’, How’m I goin’ t’ ketch them
pen-wings y’ want if I don’t shove me
arm inter the burrers?” Incidentally, the
mutton-birders didn’t travel in ill-found
whaleboats. They built their own boats,
“Lost something ?”
and no better found or more seaworthy
craft ever sailed the Strait. Some of
these boats were exceptionally fast sailers,
notably those owned by the Maynard
family.
* * * %
“Bughouse”: Reading that par. on
how Old Jack died in harness (B.
23/9/’42) led me to wonder just how old
a dog should be before rendering up the
ghost. From the professor I learn that
from 12 to 15 years must be regarded
as extreme canine old age. The drover’s
other companion, the horse, may live to
see 27 winters, though I have met owners
who averred that their steeds were still
going strong at 30. The sheep, hazed and
chivvied about by both, may, if he
escapes the butcher, reach 12 years before
Nature calls it in. The goat runs even
with the dog—l 2 to 15 years. The cow
may see 25 before senile decay claims
it, the somnolent pig the same, while
the cat sees 13 as its limit. Among the
outsiders the camel, often held to be a
centenarian, rarely lives beyond 40. and
it is comforting to know the rabbit lives
only five. Among the birds the barnyard
hen sees 14 years, the goose 50, the
canary 24, the parrot 60, the pigeon 20,
while wicked old Kelly the crow may
see 100, which age is also shared by the
eagle and the white swan. Ducks vary
with their breed, but a stout Muscovy
may last 25 summers.
4t ♦ * *
“Jeremiah”: To see real bird-dexterity
watch the swallow which, with soil in
beak, skims a-wing over water and damps
to “mortar” consistency the material to
build a house suspended from the rocky
clilf. 1 doubt whether any human plas-
terer could do the job to last as long
without using “reinforcing” strips or
stays. Finish your curiosity after the
brood has flown and examine the pest,
and you’ll marvel again at a job finished
off well enough to interest the ablest
potter.
“Naturala”: So there are commu-
nity wasps on the Murray (B. 30/9/’42).
Unlike the honey-bee, the wasp needs
only that a single queen should survive.
This lady, waking from her winter sleep,
carries the seed sufficient for a whole
colony of her kind. Stirred by the warm
days, she hurries around, scrapes off wood
fibre, manufactures paper and builds her
first cell. In this she promptly lays an
egg. By the time that egg is hatched, a
matter of about 21 days, 100 others are
housed and on the same road. Imme-
diately the young wasps hatch out they
are put to fibre-gathering, paper-making
and food-gathering, mainly flies and
grubs. Soon there are a thousand on the
job, after which the queen settles down
to steady brood-rearing. So it would
have been only necessary for one queen
to reach Australia; she may have come
in a bale of hay, in earth around a pot-
plant, in many ways. I had hoped the
calamity had not happened.
* ♦ * «
“B. A. Ker”: In popular fiction the
country constable is rarely credited with
outstanding mentality, but our bush John
Hop did a spot of deduction that
would have paralysed Dr. Watson. In-
vestigating a woman’s complaint that a
neighbor in the township had stolen her
white Leghorn hen, the cop accompanied
the complainant to the suspect’s little
place. Marching up to the fowlrun, the
plaintiff exclaimed triumphantly “There
you are — that’s my bird!” Sure enough,
amid 30 or 40 black Orpingtons, one soli-
tary white Leghorn moved. The Law
took one .steady look, then an-
nounced “Not guilty!” Shocked and
indignant, the lost fowl’s owner had just
begun to let herself really go when the
P.C. broke in wearily, “All right, all
right! Well, go home and bring me one
of your fowls —one that resembles the
missing hen.” The lady indignantly
obeyed. “Now watch,” the constable
ordered, and threw the chook into the
pen. Within ten minutes every fowl in
the run had attacked the stranger. “Satis-
fied now?” asked the big-footed Solo-
mon. “If that other fowl was a new-
comer it wouldn’t be allowed to feed
peacefully with the rest.”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: If scientists haven’t
been able to discover any organs of hear-
ing in bees (B. 14/10/’42) it doesn’t
necessarily follow that the insects are
insensitive to sound. As a matter of fact,
bees do settle when subjected to tin-
kettling, and I am inclined to believe
that they are affected more by the sound
than the sight of the performance.
“S.G.’s” statement that early settlers had
recourse to the banging of tins as they
had no bells is not correct. In the early
days practically the whole of the country
was unfenced, and every settler, teamster
or traveller was well supplied with the
loud-sounding “bullock” bell, otherwise
he would have been forced to put in the
greater part of his time hunting for
strayed animals. Whatever the pioneers
may have been short of it certainly was
not bells.
* * * *
“Betcha”: There’s a mob of mongs
round this place that take a great interest
in my car, and I’ve never known them
make a mistake. While it was the only
one of its type in the district their recog-
nition was understandable enough, but
when a neighbor bought one of the same
model so identical that only by their
number plates can we each tell our own
I looked for a canine lapse. It didn’t
happen. Their evidence can hardly
depend on sight or smell, and if there’s
any difference in the sound of the engines
it is too slight for me to detect. On
those occasions when the home car is
away for some time the pack often sit
and watch its counterpart out of sight
without enthusiasm, but when, after
several weeks’ absence, it again rolls into
view the sudden commotion among the
dogs is uncontrollable. In a frenzy of
excitement they charge quarter of a mile
down the road to escort it in.
♦ * * *
“E.C.”: The old man had finished
harnessing up for the trip to the township
when Mum handed him the list of goods
he was to bring back. He read it, and
exploded. “What’s this? Apples!
Bananas! Look here, Mum, it ain’t near
time t' git them things yet. They’ll go
bad before Christmas.” Mum looked
worried. “Cream cheese! Biscuits!
Cawfee! Dang it, woman, y’ ain’t never
acted ’stravagant like this afore. An’
what’s this? Piece o’ rump steak!
Gripes! Fish! Think I’m a million-
aire?” Mum trundled across, adjusted
h<s collar and breeching through force
of habit, then patted his shoulder in gentle
conciliation. “There, there, Dad! I
know it’s hard after all these years, but
there’s a war on, y’ know. It’s not that
I got any quarrel with the salt junk and
pumpkin, but we just got t’ fall in with
the rules an’ eat these austerity meals like
they tell us to.”
* * * *
“Arev”: Joe Blunt refused to have
anything to do with daylight-saving. It
was a political stunt, he said, and he
wasn’t going to change. It caused some
comment at the butter factory and the
railway station when Joe arrived an hour
late, but he stubbornly declined to alter
the farmhouse clocks or his watch. Day-
light-saving had been in operation—for
everyone else—for a month when Joe’s
neighbor called to say that Hogan had
a new supply of bottled beer which he
was doling out to customers. As soon
as he finished ploughing for the day Joe
harnessed old Nugget to the jinker and
set off for the township. When he
arrived the pub was shut. “What’s the
matter?” he called to a passer-by. “Some-
body dead?” The other shook his head.
“No, but it’s half-past six.” Joe spat
disgustedly into the road, turned old
Nugget and drove sadly home. A minute
after he had turned the horse out into the
paddock and stowed away the harness the
erstwhile critic of daylight-saving was
putting his clocks and watch on an hour.
* * * *
“Zake”; That par. on an outback hang-
ing (B. 21/10 / ’42) recalls the case of
“Sawny” Joe, who worked for Larkin at
Swinglebar. “Sawny” had long looked
ardently at Alma Larkin, but the damsel
treated him with cold disdain. He would
moon around chewing a straw and
admire her from afar while she did
the milking. When she untied Ettie’s
leg rope he would dash across to do the
gallant act, but she invariably beat him
to the buckets. “Sawny’s” lack of success
sent him deeper into the hypochondriacal
slough, and when one day he saw Alma
walking along the road with her arm
around the waist of young Peter Hop-
kins from over the ridge he rushed in,
grabbed a rope, slung it over the limb of
the old white-box near the stables, put
the loop around his neck and jumped off
a kerosene case. The limb snapped and
whacked “Sawny” over the head. They
carted him off to the cottage hospital
and put six stitches in. As soon as he
came out again “Sawny” took his em-
ployer to court and sued him for negli-
gence in having a tree on his property
that was a menace to life and limb, and
when he lost the case he fulminated
wildly against the crookedness of British
justice.
* * * *
“Bo”: The dingoes had been trouble-
some in Barnes’s place, but when one of
the boys came across a litter of pups in
a hollow log old Barnes forbade the
slaughter. He said he would use the pups
as a lure for the trapping of the parents,
for sooner or later they were sure to
come back. So he placed the kids on
sentry in a roster, and fed the pups with
milk. This went on for a week, without
any of the guardians getting a sniff of the
old dogs ; but Barnes kept them at it.
Then one day when young Tom was on
duty behind a near-by stump there came
a roar from his progenitor. Barnes ap-
peared on the rise with a bridle behind his
back to head off old Ginger, who was
streaking for the thick clump of wattles in
the gully. Tom left, headed him off and
was back at his post ten minutes later.
But it was enough. Warrigal, per? et
mere, had absconded with their offspring.
Barnes now belts all pups on the head as
he comes to them.
THE VIGIL.
By a campfire redly burning
Vigil in the gloom we keep.
Through the darkness ever turning
Eyes upon the troubled Deep:
When the hour comes and the night dies
What is it that we shall see
Driving ’twixt us and the sunrise
On the sea of Destiny?
Embers red to ashes turning,
Burns our campfire while we wait.
Thoughts of rest and comfort spurning
Through the long hours, chill and
late;
Wait through long hours and through
chill hours
While the darkness seems to be
Burthened with a sense of peril
And of tense expectancy.
Peering forth, but naught discerning
Past the ambit of its gleams.
By our campfire redly burning
Fear is ours and direful dreams;
Yet a hope lives that, when dawn comes,
Haply, haply we may see
Peace triumphant, homeward sailing
On the good ship Victory.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Hey, youse blokes, SMOKE-OH!”
“Wippegong”: Blossom-time in Can-
berra, gathered from and known through-
out the world, is over for another year ;
but, far from lapsing into drabness, the
place is even more beautiful now than
at the height of the carnival, for the
frame is better than the picture. Regular
rains have brought grass that ripples from
the willows lining the Molonglo right
out to the ’Bidgee and beyond. Red soil
not yet dusty splashes across the green,
rainbow birds returned to the river bank
add a flash of burnished copper and a
shot-green all their own, while day after
day great fleecy clouds drift in a sky
whose blue is excelled only by the tones
in Danny Delacey’s ranges, lying in wait
for the sunset. Best of all are the gums
—yellow-box and redgum mostly—clean,
strong and steadfast, yet with a "quiet
beauty and mature dignity surpassing
anything introduced. There is more in-
dividuality and character in one of these
veterans than in all the prunes and
peaches, all the oaks and poplars, tulips,
hyacinths and hedges in the Territory ;
and when those in charge use more
proven Australian material and depend
less upon importations, and apply that
principle not only to gardens but to ideas
and to men, her capital will be more
beautiful still and Australia will be miles
further along the road to self-reliant
maturity.
• * * »
“Lower Tops’l”: In my boyhood days
in Westernport (Vic.) a Norwegian boat-
builder did his wood-scratching with
nothing but leatherjacket skins. “All you
do,” he told me, “is youst tack de skin
wet on de sandpaper block and let it
dry de coarser de fish de larger de
grain.” And it was the perfect article —
it never wore out.
He H= * * ,
“Stringy II”: “Bad Australian’s” dingo
stiffener (B. 14/10/’42) took a risk in
using such penetrating stuff as goanna
oil on a saddle. A mate of mine cleaned
his hat band with some ; a week later he
died of softening of the brain.
♦ * * ♦
“Horseless Horseman”: I first wit-
nessed dive-bombing in formation on the
Walsh River, Cape York Peninsula. Re-
connaissance in the form of a Gould’s
giant kingfisher sighted one of our Eng-
lish game hens foraging with her brood,
and presently a bomber squadron of eight
kingfishers, supported by a couple of blue-
feathered fighter mates, came over. The
two fighters then broke formation, and
by low flying engaged Mother, all the
time enticing her (youngsters following),
as she ran at them, to the not-so-grassy
ground near by. There the fighters kept
up the strafing, while the bombers, now
in two formations on each flank, dived
singly over open ground, each never miss-
ing snapping up a chicken. And all this
before you could run 200 yards to send
up an ack-ack barrage of Irish confetti
and sticks.
H= * * *
“Aratta”: “Strongest cove I ever met,”
remarked Bogan Bob, “was a Swede
called German Charlie. There’s a sports
meetin’ on, an’ Charlie got tanked an’
started makin’ a nuisance of himself. It
took the six coppers, on duty t’ grab him,
an’ they tied him to a tree an’ left him
there t’ cool off. Some hours later
Charlie woke up sober. He couldn’t get
at the knots, an’ the rope itself was
new an’ looped round him half a
dozen times, so strain as hard as he
could he couldn’t break it. Then the tree
began to sway. He steadied up fer a
minute or two, gave a mighty heave,
an’ out came the tree be the roots. Then
he had a brainwave —he decided t’ take
the tree into the township an’ sell it fer
firewood. If he sold it dirt cheap the
people buyin’ it wouldn’t ask no ques-
tions ’bout him bein’ tied to it. It’s just
on dusk when he spots a woman pokin’
about in a garden. He asks her if she
wants some firewood cheap. She tells
him t’ wait a minit an’ rushes inside an’
comes out agen an’ opens a gate an’
leads him rou d the back, an’ her hus-
band comes out an’ unties the rope. But
it broke poor Charlie’s heart, that biz-
ness did.” “Strained it?” I inquired.
“No, broke it proper,” said Bob. “Y’see,
he struck the house of one of the Johns
who’d lumbered him, an’ he was charged
next day with bein’ drunk an’ disorderly,
escapin’ from custody an’ sellin’ firewood
without a license.”
* ¥ *
“Esk D.”: Met a dingo-trapper whose
several dogs had teeth worn down in
varying degrees relative to the age of
their owner. The pack hunted mainly
for wombats, favored bait for poisoning.
In the open they would pile in together
and pull their quarry down, but once
it went to earth in a burrow there was
little chance of making a kill. Never-
theless, they’d go down, as my dog
would, and spend fruitless hours trying
to dislodge the wombat, whose rump
was the only accessible biting place. And
wombat hide is not so easily damaged
and the canine teeth suffer from grit,
mud and’ leather. Incidentally, the per-
formance of a dog in a wombat burrow,
though mostly unseen, is well worth
hearing; the sounds of underground
scuffling, muffled snarls and yapping and
the subdued growling of the wombat
broadcast a lively programme until the
hound finally emerges, exhausted and
plastered with mud.
* * * *
“Wang”: “I wus mates once with a
bloke who wus the greatest dreamer I’ve
ever known,” related Dan. “Ev’ry
blarsted mornin’ he’d tell me of a dream
he’d had the night before, though I’ll
swear most of ’em he just made up. I
got fair sick of listenin' to him, so the
next time he started talkin’ of a dream
I wus ready fer him. ‘lt wus a most
vivid dream,’ he said. ‘I see you layin’
alongside the campfire an’ a foreign-
lookin’ bloke cornin’ creepin’ up with a
knife in his hand, an’ just as he
wus goin’ t’ stab y’ I woke up.’
‘Cripes,’ I ses, pretendin’ t’ be
amazed. ‘Mate, you’re uncanny. That’s
what akcherly happened. That Dago
bloke I socked at the pub last night
came sneakin’ up with a knife here
afterwards. Lucky fer me he woke me,
an’ I chased him ; but he got away! ’ Me
dreamin’ cobber’s eyes stuck out of his
head, an’ I turned on him savage. ‘Look
here,’ I ses ; ‘y’ never dreamt that at a,ll.
Y’ must’ve seen what wus happenin’ an’
wus too much of a dingo t’ do anythin’
to help a man. In future y’ can keep y’r
flamin’ dreams to y’rself.’ An’, by cripes,
he did. But he had a scared look in his
eyes for days after, wondering’, I s’pose,
whether he had akcherly dreamt or seen
what I tole him had happened.”
* * * *
“Mum”: It is odd that the Singapore
terriers imported to deal with the excess
of rats on the Cocos atoll (B. 30/9 / ’42)
should have got fat on such a diet. Cats
that feed too often on rodents go the
opposite, .get bone-thin and very often
go into a decline and die. A diet of
cockroaches, a favorite hors d’oeuvre
among domestic fummies, has much the
same effect.
* * * ♦
“Old Chap”: Twould be unkind to let
“Wodonga” (B. 21/10/’42) and others
go to bed believing the fable that Mr.
Kookaburra couldn’t get a meal of sand-
worms if the bird felt inclined for a salty
menu. He does just as hard a job every
day dragging out the unwilling earth-
worms from sloppy ground. It’s natural
for birdlife to have patience and a steady
pull, otherwise they’d starve. Anyhow,
it would be a decrepit kooka. that
couldn’t do the job better than 90 p.c.
of the smart alecks I’ve come across who,
armed with a piece of stinking fish, in-
variably end with a pair of pliers and half
an inch of worm and try to cover their
incompetence with bad language. If it
were possible to drag Mr. Kooka in my
bet of a halfpenny stamp would be on
him to do the job mirthfully.
* * * *
“Beamish”: Teddy always had some
new pain or ache ; his moans were as
persistent as they were profuse. We knew
him, and whenever his complaints were
given voice the boys deserted the scene
of agony. Then came a new hand to*
the station and Teddy cottoned to him
immediately. “I’m crook,” he announced
with a groan and a despaired look. “An’
I’m Crooker,” said the new hand. “Jim
Crooker,” and he grabbed Teddy’s hand
ahd pumped it heartily.
* * * *
“Yokel”: After reading “Pat Ater’s”
account of how he disastrously gave some
baby Muscovies a swim in a tub (B.
30/9 / ’42), I took a stroll down my poul-
try yard, and there were 14 little Mus-
covies, who saw the daylight only two
days before, having the time of their
infant lives swimming in the cut-down
tank that forms their swimming pool,
their ma looking on approvingly. There
are three points that may have militated
against the success of “P.A.’s” experi-
ment. The breed may have been poor—
the type of duckling liable to get the
“staggers.” The water may have been
toe cold, drawn from a watermain or an
underground tank; my ducklings swim
in water right out where the sun warms
it. And, lastly, given similar conditions
in proportion to their size, he could have
produced the same results with adult
ducks. Put a duck in a tub or tank, the
water too deep for the bird to find bot-
tom, the sides too high and steep for it
to clamber out, the area too circum-
scribed for taxi-ing for a flying takeoff,
and that duck will ultimately tire, become
waterlogged and drown. So around the
rim of my dockyard swimming pool I
lay a few roof tiles, slanting into the
water, so that when the ducklings begin
to tire they can readily climb out. As
for ducklings being taught to swim, Perth
has a couple of public parks where
mother Muscovies may be seen taking
their day-old flocks swimming at almost
all times of the year.
* * * ♦
“TVs Tank”: Those riders of “Propa-
long’s” (B. 28 /10/’42) go to a lot of un-
necessary trouble to muster their 2000
sheep on “60 or 70 square miles of sand
and mulga.” Out where I earn me
brownie and the right to have bindees
in the nap we simply run up a scrub yard
near each tank, then gather in the jum-
mies as they come to water, later rolling
them from tank to tank. But, then, ours
is merely a horse-paddock of 42,000
acres or so.
* * * *
“Bull Staff”: These young bush-
whackers ! One came in with a few days’
leave apd was shown around our dump,
which has been built many years and
depends for a lot of its support on tre-
mendous wooden girders, more than 2ft.
thick, of stringybark. Age has hardened
that timber till it looks like ebony. Well,
the lad from the Dorrigo was shown the
machinery, the processes, the staff and
other things, but hardly a gleam came
from him. Obviously he pined for the
great open spaces. Then somebody
pounded one of the girders and said
“Mow’d y’ like to have to chew through
that with a five-pound axe?” He perked
up at once, felt the girder, sized it up
and with a flare of enthusiasm on his
face and his muscles working convul-
sively he cried “Bring me a axe an’ I'll
ruddy soon show y’.” It took five strong
men to prevent him assaulting that beam
there and then.
* * , * *
“Padflogger”: In his list of dossing-
places “Zake” (B. 30/9/’42) misses out
the best. Rolled in bags, and with a bag
pillow, behind the canopy of a motor-
truck, truck being driven and bounced
100 miles or so along a corrugated road
by another bloke, who had to keep awake
to drive it.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: Old Mrs. O’Leary
could have taught Dad Conyers some-
thing in strategy when trying to catch
that egg-gorging goanna (B. 30/9/’42).
Finding her eggs disappearing, and sus-
pecting the gos., she laid out a few shil-
lings on Him mesh wire-netting and a
couple of dozen china eggs. The netting
went round the henyard, the dummy eggs
being sown both inside and outside the
fence, the idea being that the marauding
reptile would swallow the- outside china
first, then reach through the wire for
the next. It worked like a charm! Every
morning on going her rounds the lady
O’Leary would find at least a couple of
gos. caught round the middle by the wire,
held from going forward by the egg swal-
lowed first, held from backing out by
the egg swallowed inside the fence. The
ingenious dame in this way accumulated
such a supply of goanna oil that she was
able to set up as a rheumatics-cure prac-
titioner, treating the egg-production busi-
ness as a sideline, but necessary to the
securing of a continuous supply of oil.
“Could a couple of munition workers get a drink here ?”
THE THRUSH.
Far down the creek the native thrush
Repeats his bell-like call, and chime on chime
Measures the slow heartbeats of Time.
In these smooth fields, purple beneath the
plough
Or green with wheat, what history is told?
—Only the gum-lined creek is old,
Where bark is shed from curving boughs of grey
As silvery-soft as fur of kangaroo;
Where spring ignites the flame of blue
Bush-orchids, dusts the wattle-tree with gold,
Paints the pink heath, sets buttercups aglow.
And scatters the Christmas-bush with snow.
The English skylark soars above the wheat,
But down in the creekside gums—ah, long and
long
Ago, the thrush poured forth his song!
Before young Flinders came, or Barker climbed
The ranges thick with scrub; and_long before
The white-winged strangers sailed this shore,
That sudden liquid music would surprise
A lubra with young laughter in her eyes.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery
cloth to grinder discs is
DAVIS
LIQUID GLUE
specially recommended for shearing-shed use.
Obtainable in 4oz. t Boz., I6oz. and I-gallon sizes.
Hardware and general stores.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY. MOREE, TOWNSYILL ,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON. r TD
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN AS&URANOE CO.,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Salt and Sheep.
“R. Ney”: The C.S.I.R. has made
only one large-scale experiment with salt
as a sheep supplement. This was part
of a larger experiment at Penola (S.A.)
when ewe weaners were given a common
salt lick. The test continued for three
years and ended after the first drop of
lambs had been weaned. At no time did
the sheep on salt show any advantage
over a check group which had no salt.
The area is deficient in phosphorus
and carries from a half to a sheep per
acre. Records were kept of body-weights
at regular monthly intervals, of wool pro-
duction and of weight and growth of
lambs from the ewes. Average consump-
tion of salt was about 2gm. a day, though
it ranged from igm. to 4gm. according
to season.
The conclusions reached were that
addition of salt to the diet was unneces-
sary in that area, and that it is probable
the same results would follow similar
tests elsewhere. Some graziers have re-
ported that they’ve given up providing
salt licks without apparent ill effect. The
C.S.I.R. puts it this way: “We can say
that there is no evidence that a sup-
plement of salt is essential for grazing
sheep in Australia.”
But there is evidence to support the
giving of salt to other stock. High-
producing dairy cows give away a lot of
salt in their milk and it is necessary to
replace it. Heavily-laying fowls have
the same need, and the working horse,
which loses a lot of salt in its sweat,
needs a lick.
Fodder and Silage.
Man-power and transport
shortages make it necessary to store
fodder in districts where it may be
needed.
On the N.S.W. coast maize and sor-
ghum, cow and velvet peas and silage
are chiefly required. Either of the cereals
can be sown any time up to February \
legumes not later than December.
Japanese millet, a stand-by in the south,
should be sown from January to March.
Hay, oats and roots form prime fodder
on the tablelands. While oats is for
autumn sowing, turnips can go in from
January to March. Inland, nothing’s
so satisfactory as wheaten hay and oat
grain. In the central west concentrate on
grass hay and clovers and put down
silage.
Have lucerne grown and stored wher-
ever possible.
Maize makes good silage and its sugar
content is fairly high. Crops should be
sown in rows wide enough to allow inter-
row cultivation. Cut before the grain
begins to harden. Anyone with a maize
binder should use it for the silage har-
vest ; it does a good job cheaply. Sor-
ghum silage comes second to maize. The
crop thrives on poor soil that won’t grow
maize. Plant the saccharine rather than
the grain type ; the latter’s pithy and has
low sugar content. If broadcast, there
will be weeds to contend with ; sown in
rows the crop’s easy to handle and
develops full-length stalks that can easily
be stored. If sowing closer than maize
lock every second grain run; drills are
then 14 inches apart. Legumes alone
make better hay than silage.
Grain Feeding of Pigs.
“Doody”: Tests by Queensland De-
partment of Agriculture proved that pigs
can be raised on grain from weaning-
time with a fair measure of profit.
Fifteen litters were used —Large
Whites, Middle Whites, Tamworths,
Berkshires and their crosses. All were
reared from birth in the experiment
pens, weaned at eight weeks and placed
on the feed at nine weeks.
The ration was maizemeal 45 p.c., pol-
lard 40 p.c., meatmeal (protein supple-
ment) 8 p.c. and lucerne chaff 7 p.c.,
fed dry through self-feeders. Water
was laid on. At midday some lucerne
or other greenstuff was given. The pigs
made slow growth up to 12 weeks in
comparison with milk-fed pigs, but after
that did much better, probably because
9-12-weeks-old pigs were not able to get
“In this New Order, Bert, you and me'll he the ’Orderns and the
Baillioos of tomorrer!”
all the nutrients out of the ration with
their immature digestive organs.
Liveweight varied from , 88 , b . to 971 b.
Dressed X eight averaged 9o.n b . Food
consumption per pound of dressed weight
ranged from 3.161 b. to 4.031 b., probably
owing to the fact that some types are
able to utilise their food more efficiently
than others. The average of 3.611 b. re-
quired; to produce 11b. dressed weight is
less than the generally accepted figure
for meal-feeding.
In the financial aspect the following
factors must be considered:—(l) Capital
value of breeding sows: On the average
the cost of a sow would be about £4 45.,
and seven litters of eight pigs each could
be expected from her. Each pig, there-
fore, bears a cost of 18d. towards cost
of sow. (2) Cost of feeding sow: Pigs
must bear feeding costs of the mother
from conception to weaning. In the tests
each would bear a cost of 66d. for feed-
ing the sow. This could be considerably
reduced on dairy farms, where sows are
kept in open paddocks. (3) Cost of equip-
ment; lOd. was allowed for depreciation
on equipment much more elaborate than
on the average farm. (4) Labor Costs:
Variable, estimated in the test at 7s. 6d.
a pig under pre-war conditions. (5) Costs
of feeding from weaning to bacon-
weight : Most important item ; the test
results should give a fair idea of them.
Tomato Seed.
“B.”: Choose the pick of the tomato
patch for seed. The right plant will have
vigorous top growth and carry heavy
clusters. Plants with a fair number of
medium-sized, well-shaped fruit to the
bunch are better than those bearing two
or three outsizes.
Leaving the tomatoes till they’re red-
ripe guarantees seed maturity. Cut them
in halves on the flat and squeeze seed
and juice into a container. When large
quantities are needed, use a barrel and
leave it in a warm position. When the
mass starts fermenting stir it up every
morning from the bottom to keep fer-
mentation uniform. In cool weather it
takes four or five days to free the seed
of flesh ; in warm, 48 hours. When a
second batch of seed is to be fermented,
mix a few gallons of strained liquid from
the old batch with the fresh solution.
This inoculates it with live organisms and
speeds up fermentation.
Strain the mass through a sieve to
retain the pulp and fibre. Seed and liquid
pass into a bucket; seed sinks to the
bottom and odd pieces of rubbish float.
You may have to repeat this straining
five or six times before the seeds are
clean. Seeds that float should be tossed
out.
To control disease give the seed a 10-
minute dip—after washing, but before it’s
dry. A quarter ounce of corrosive
sublimate to 12i pints of water makes a
good solution. Following the dip, a
three- to four-minute bath in running
water is needed or germination will be
affected by the sublimate. Use an enamel
or earthenware vessel for the solution.
It’s a corrosive and a deadly poison. The
price for tomato seed runs from 20s. to
30s. per pound, according to variety.
Butterfly Pest.
“Myrrhee”; The cabbage white butter-
fly is a serious pest in Victoria. The
grubs feed on cabbages, caulis, turnips,
kale, mustard and horse-radish, and on
stocks in the flower garden. The butter-
fly is creamy white, with black markings
near the upper wing-tips. The caterpillar
takes the shade of green of the plant it
is eating.
For control spray or dust with arsenate
of lead as soon as the plants are well
established. If spraying is more con-
venient, loz. arsenate of lead powder or
2oz. arsenate of lead paste should be
used to two gallons of water. If dust,
it should be a 25 p.c. arsenate of lead
dust. Repeat either treatment every fort-
night. Derris preparations, non-poisonous
to human beings, show promise as a
control when used as a dust.
In Scotland, where they have three
varieties of the pest, they mix two to
three ounces of soap or salt in a gallon
of water and apply it with a knapsack
spray in quantity sufficient to drench
the attacked plants. I haven’t heard of
the treatment in Australia, but the recipe
was given out as late as 1941 by the
Highland and Agricultural Society of
Scotland.
Mulching Vegetables.
“Sarina”: When the weather warms
mulch the vegetable land with a layer of
dry grass, dry manure or anything that
will serve as a buffer between the sun’s
rays and the earth without keeping out
all light and air. The mulch slows down
evaporation, keeps the soil loose and
cool and prevents erosion. Cultivate
around the plants first, then, while the
soil’s still moist, spread the manure.
Vine-fruits like a mulch spread over the
whole area over which they’ll creep.
Strawberry plants need a mulch of straw
to keep the berries off the ground.
No mulch should be over three inches
deep. Deeper mulches defeat their object
by keeping out rain. Once a mulch is
laid, disturb it as little as possible. It
may need topping up a bit at times,
because of natural decay and water wash-
ing it into the soil, but it’s there to keep
the moisture in and to save cultivation,
and it can’t do either if continually dis-
turbed or buried.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jordan A.”: A home-made shower
dip that will put through 3000 sheep a
year needs to be about 30ft. long and
sft. wide. Ours is built of 6ft.-high posts
6ft. apart, carrying a railing on top with
battens on crosspieces fastened to the
underside of the railing. Into this space
fits a tray made of flat iron sheets riveted
and with the edges turned up about
6in.; the holes about 4in. apart. (We
used old troughing iron.) The floor below
the shower is concreted, and drains into
a dirt-trap and pit halfway along the pen.
The pit has a capacity of 350 gallons.
Vertical sheets of iron along the pen are
spaced to allow of inspection of the
sheep, and they stop the wind blowing the
shower about. A 2in. centrifugal pump
(it may be larger but not smaller) pumps
dip from pit to tray. Entrance and exit
doors to pen are on slides. Fit a wire-
gauze sieve as a dirt-trap. This outfit
takes the hard yacca out of dipping.
“Canbelego”: If you haven’t a jetting
plant try swabbing the sheep with calcium
arsenite solution. F. L. C. Fulloon, Long
Plain, Inverell (N.S.W.), swabbed 1000
ewe weaners a month before shearing,
and only about \\ p.c. were struck. The
mixture was poured on with a dipper and
worked into the wool with a flat board.
“Mullengah”: Brand wool bales on
the sides with bottom seams. Then the
bale can be cut on the seams for exami-
nation. The section of jute fabric with-
out seams is left intact and the pack is
thus stronger for shipment.
“Cobar”: Try early strain sub. clover
where dry winter periods recur. Dwal-
ganup will usually flower and form seed
in dry seasons when the mid-season strain
often dies before flowering. When
autumn and winter rain is satisfactory,
mid-season strain provides a greater bulk
of feed than does Dwalganup.
“Billy Can”: When using a hand sepa -
rator fill the vat to within a quarter of
an inch of the top. Then turn the handle
and get speed up. If you can do this
without the milk spilling over the vat you
axe doing all right, and it pays in less
wear and tear on the mangle and better
returns from the factory.
“Sarina”: When transplanting seedling
fruit-trees drive a stake into the ground
beside them if there is a possibility they


a scrap of paper
. . . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will prpvide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD 0
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It, V, PERKINS, General Manager.
SEJ
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
n
If
w
m
K.
m
m
TOUGH & TENACIOUS F|
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Aoslr«i:a> M 27 N S^ tlU ~o>] x
“BILL ABONG ”
TROUGHING
dan
Stable Door
f-D’ANKs
PATENT (Mo o
?176
S'YO'*
Cattle
■f* D ANKs' i
N? 2176 i
-r* 0 *" iwr
Sheep
A GOOD SUPPLY OF PURE WATER IS
ESSENTIAL FOR YOUR STOCK.
Write for Prices and Particulars to
&3
L-.TLD ■
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
TT'f?.
rs
m
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.O., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 11/- Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. —— Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: BW1531 (7 lines}. Box 3587S, G.P.O., Sydney. Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
will require support later. Vital roots
are likely to be damaged if stakes are put
up to established trees.
“E.W.”: When the rubber ring on the
separator comes asunder at the join, do
not throw it away. Dip the ring in boil-
ing water, and while still hot place it in
the bowl. Then press the ends firmly to-
gether and it seals itself.
“P.C.”: For passionfruit a light rich
soil in a position sheltered from high
winds is necessary. Plenty of moisture is
required, particularly during the fruiting
period. Plant strong seedlings 2ft. apart
during spring and summer. To stop
snails sprinkle lime or a little alum
powder around the plants. The vines
may be trained over a trellis, fence or
building. There are many varieties, but
the giant passion and the common pas-
sion are the heaviest croppers. Pruning
prolongs the useful life of a vine.
“Hortus”: On a N.S.W. North Coast
farm all arable land is ploughed at least
once every six or seven years. Maize
and sorghum are grown for not more
than two years in a paddock, then the
land is sown to rye grasses and red and
white clovers. This pasture is grazed for
a few. years, and the land is cropped
again. Super, is used with crops. Experi-
ments prove that Italian rye grass gives
more grazing than oats and is a better
butter-producer. Every big scrub farmer
should give this system a trial.
Outback Occasions.
No. 60.
FATHER’S COLT.
Old Dolly, our furrow mare, was pretty
well bred, and when she threw a foal
by a travelling Clydesdale that had col-
lected prizes all over the place Father
was full of excitement. The night the
foal was born he hardly went to bed,
kept getting up and lighting the hurricane
lamp and going out to see how things
were going and coming back with bulle-
tins of progress.
Just before dawn he came in, worn
out but with a grin a yard wide on his
dial, and said “A colt, and a beauty.
Could we have some tea, Mother?”
Mother got out and made the tea, and the
rest of us heard the excitement and got
up and had some and listened to Father.
Mother seemed to be secretly amused
about something and would look at me
and smile in a way that warmed me. At
last she said “My gracious, I wonder if
there was all this excitement when you
were born.”
I shuffled my feet and looked a bit
silly, and Father said “Aw, now, that’s
hardly the same thing.”
“No,” said Mother ; “he’s only a boy,
not a prize Clydesdale colt. I’m only
your wife, not a favorite mare.” She had
a funny look on her face, and left us
to the tea and went to her room. Well,
by cripes, it sat Father back on his heels
if you like. He gulped his tea and looked
terribly down in the mouth, then he said
“Women! ” and got up and went to have
another look at Dolly and her colt.
Well,«that colt turned out to be a
beauty. He was a rich bay, and you
could see by the legs of him and the new
hair on his fetlocks and his bold, clear
eyes and proud carriage that he was some
horse. Father got wrapped up in him,
and before the foal was weaned he was
a pet. He’d follow Father about and
look for bits of bread and nuzzle
Father with his nose.
He kept on growing into a splendid
horse. He was bigger than average, and
by the time he was rising two he was
fast and strong and graceful. And there
wasn’t a bit of viciousness in him. Plenty
of play, of course, and sometimes he’d
lean against you or come down with his
big feet and you’d know it, but he never
meant any harm. And he kept on follow-
ing Father about.
Father put him in the 18-months-and-
under-two-years class at the show, and
started to get him ready. He called him
Prince’s Pride of Mugincoble 23rd, but
we just called him Prince for short.
Father shoved special tucker into Prince
and groomed and polished him a treat
for the show. On show morning we
cobbed up his tail and plaited colors
through his mane with little rosettes, and
Father put on a special headstall he’d
bought with silver dildals and things all
over it. Mother surveyed the colt when
he was ready and then gave a funny sort
of laugh, and said “Nobody ever rushed
round buying pretty ribbons and jewellery
for me. But then, I’m only a farmer's
wife.” And she pressed her lips and went
inside, and Father sat on his haunches and
looked at the ground and muttered to
himself.
But he soon forgot as he led Prince
into the town and the showground.
Cripes, you should have seen Father’s
face beaming as he paraded Prince for
the judges, and when Prince won the
championship Father wouldn’t have
called the King his uncle. Mother, too,
bad got over whatever had got under her
skin, and she went down from the stand
and gave Father a kiss. It made us boys
feel silly to see our mother going on
like that in front of everybody, with the
ciowd cheering and clapping and laugh-
ing, and we thought Father would speak
to her about it. But he didn’t; just patted
her on the shoulders and looked as if he
were going to bawl or something.
Then he put Prince in his stall and
stood about while all our neighbors came
and congratulated Father and admired
the colt. After a bit several of them
took Father away to the booth. Prince,
who’d been slightly nervous of all the
fuss, didn’t like Father going away. He
must have felt that it was all right so
long as Father was there, but the moment
Father was out of sight the big hump
whinnied and pricked his ears and rolled
his eyes and got worked up a treat.
Father missed what happened next,
being over at the booth with the crowd.
Prince kicked the stall gate off its hinges
and went lumbering out of the yard,
about a ton of young horse anxiously
looking for Father. Men tried to catch
him, and he hit them with his mighty
chest and bowled them over. Women
and girls screamed and ran behind cars
and sheds, and the usual collection of
hounds gathered and tried to intercept
Prince. He tried to stamp on them or
bdot them, and he did chop a couple of
inches off one tyke’s tail. Horsemen
came and tried to round him up, but
Prince knew his strength, and simply
leaned on their mounts or surged straight
through them.
There was great excitement when the
big bay colt lumbered among the town
band, scattering it and more when the
two policemen tried to arrest him. Prince
baulked at sight of them, swerved side-
ways, sent a hoop-la stand and a drink
stall flying, then thundered through the
district pavilion, all among the cakes and
scones and honey and flowers and fancy-
work and cheese and women and kids,
Then he got out again and found him-
sell near the booth, and there was Father,
holding a glass and skiting. We boys
had just arrived, and we’ll never forget
the look on Father’s face as a large,
whiskery equine head thrust itself into
his face and whickered with joy. He d
only had two drinks, but he thought he
was seeing things. Then he pulled him-
sell together and gathered in his lost
and lonely pet.


SO CAN ;
\
X
m*
XSr
about
terrtY *f?«*
■a-Cw* °
,‘VbU=-
rSS^^ r :
Z?'
Z£X-^^.
a*jt A>
•Aj*. *U
?U>
the
torts
, Bonds are Bonds
of ne * d Savings Bank.
•»* Men«V Order
SL. . 1942.
ion ConT.T,fon n 3 , n .
of Ao*wJ^ B , maturrnqi
Stock or ®°" in yUed **>
th. ««• ferity Bond*
them into
INVEST ALL YOU GAN IN THE £100.000,000
AUSTERITY LOAN
ALSS-IS
REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
Personal artd Missing Friends.
ESTATE of WILLIAM SCOTT, late of Wel-
lington (N.Z.), formerly a laborer but latterly
a hairdresser and tobacconist (known in boxing
circles as “Nugget” Scott, and who at one time
worked on the N.S.W. Railways and the
Woronora Dam). Would the next-of-kin or
anybody knowing their whereabouts communi-
cate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand?
BRAN DAL ERrS
%
$
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BSAXDAPU * 00, 144, SIEUIHOHAM. EHO
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy Bastian’s Editing the Day’s News,
Warren’s Journalism from A to Z, G. B.
Dibblee’s The Newspaper and O’Dowd’s South
African Newspaper Reporting. —3319.
To buy all issues of the “Country Gentle-
man” from October, 1941, to date.—3320.
Information Sought.
Was the method of exterminating rabbits dis-
covered and used by Pasteur in 1888 ever ex-
tensively used in Australia? What germ-
methods have been tried?
In 1906, at the instance of a committee of
pastoralists of N. S. Wales (known later as the
“Rabbit Destruction Fund Committee”), Dr.
Jean Danysz, of the Institute Pasteur, was in-
vited to experiment with a virus containing a
micro-organism recommended by Pasteur. Ex-
periments were carried out on Broughton Island,
north of Port Stephens, and others were made
in laboratories in Sydney. The organism was
found to be similar to one isolated during
the occurrence of an epidemic among rabbits at
Yalogrin and Gundagai in N. S. Wales. This
“Yalogrin microbe,” as it came to be called,
produced the same effects as the Danysz organ-
ism. Chicken-cholera in rabbits became the
subject of investigation by a Royal Commission
in 1888 and by J. C. Pound, of Queensland,
the N.S.W. Government having offered a ■
reward of £25,000 for a method of extermina-
tion. But no “germ methods” have been tried.
» * * •
What are the characteristics of the bullrout
and the Queensland stonefish, and are they
dangerous?
The bullrout is capable of inflicting a painful
wound by means of spines situated in front
of the eyes. These spines can be erected at will.
Although they may cause sharp pain and some
local swelling, they are not regarded as serious.
The stonefish, however, is probably the most
poisonous fish in the world. Situated along
the back are 13 spines, each of which is pro-
vided with a venom gland. When these spines
enter the flesh venom is carried along grooves
in their sides and serious results are almost
bound to follow. The poison is a nerve poison
and there is no known antidote to it. Many
fatalities have been recorded as a result of
attacks by stonefish.
« * * •
Local-government instructions are that all
still water must be protected against mosquito
breeding. If a fish pond contains fantail gold-
fish and common fresh-water carp would they
devour the larvce so that other protection would
not be necessary ?
Goldfish and carp feed avidly on mosquito
larva; and should therefore provide sufficient
protection against mosquitoes.
* * * *
Method of making a fine gum suitable for
envelopes and stamps?
Take 2oz. dextrine, loz. acetic acid, soz.
water, loz. pure alcohol. Dissolve dextrine in
the water and acid, then add alcohol. Gum
arabic may be substituted for the dextrine, not
always obtainable.
V ♦ * *
Method of preserving and polishing harness?
A-good harness polish; Two ounces mutton
suet, 6oz. beeswax, 6oz. powdered sugar-
candy, 2oz. soft soap, loz. indigo or lamp-
black. Dissolve the soap in |-pint water, then
add the other ingredients; melt and mix well.
Add one gill turps. Lay it on the harness with
a sponge, and polish off with a brush. To
preserve harness: (1) Before oiling harness or
other leather, add a little kerosene to the oil.
This will prevent rats and other vermin from
attacking the leather. (2) Get a fresh shin-
bone, break it open and extract the marrow.
Melt the marrow down and add an equal quan-
tity of castor oil. Rub the mixture well into
the leather, first washing sweat and grease off
with warm water and soft soap. Never use
castor oil alone; it will perish any leather.
(3) To revive old, cracked harness, apply a
mixture of 2oz. beeswax, loz. lampblack and
a pint of oil. To keep harness in good con-
dition, wash it in potash water and when dry
apply harness blacking. To keep the leather
pliable, rub tallow, lampblack or waste oil on.
« » * »
(1) Result of Rugby League football matches
between N.S.W. and England in 1920, and the
teams ? (2) Scores and teams in the second
and third Test matches in Sydney in 1920 ?
(1) On June 12, 1920, N.S.W. defeated Eng-
land by 42-6. N.S.W.: C. Fraser; H. Horder,
Gilbert, V. Farnsworth, Vest; Johnson, Mc-
Gowan ; Schultz, S. Pearce, F. Burge, Townsend,
Gray and Latta. England: Thomas; Bacon,
Stone, Wagstaffe, Stockwell; Hurcombe, Rogers;
Cartwright, Clarke, Skelhorne, Cunliffe, Gronow
and Gallagher. On June 16, 1920, England
defeated N.S.W., 18-10. For N.S.W. Cona-
ghan, R. Norman, J. Robinson and A. Fraser
replaced Gilbert, . Farnsworth, Vest and
Townsend. England played Lloyd, Hilton,
Johnston, Reid, Rees and Milnes in place of
Cartwright, Skelhorne, Cunliffe, Gallagher,
Clarke and Stockwell. (2) On July 3, 1920, Aus-
tralia won second Test by 21-8. Australia: C.
Fraser; H. Horder, Gilbert, V. Farnsworth,
Vest; Thompson, Johnson; Potter, S. Pearce,
Schultz, Richards, F. Burge and A. Gray. Eng-
land : Thomas; Stone, Hurcombe, Wagstaffe,
Bacon; Rogers, Lloyd; Gronow, Miller, John-
ston, Hilton, Clarke and Gallagher. On July
16, 1920, England won third Test by 18-10.
Australian team same as in second Test. Eng-
land replaced Hurcombe, Wagstaffe, Lloyd,
Gronow, Miller and Johnston with Stockwell,
Parkin, Jones, Cunliffe, Skelhorne and Cart-
wright. ’j'
Brief Answers.
C.H.; To clean and preserve toothbrushes,
place once weekly in a glass of strong salt and
water. Dry in a draughty place, not in the sun.
. ...R.M.: Prod thin wire down each of the
borer holes, then pour turps down the holes,
and seal with beeswax. Later the holes can
be sealed with sealing wax, and furniture
polish will remove all trace of the h01e5....
Macville: N.R.M.A., Sydney, recommends the
Lucas drivirtg signal, which is electrical and
easy to operate. Obtainable from Bennett and
Wood, Sydney, 375. 6d., plus cost of fitting.
P.I.: If the documents are so badly
scorched as to crumble, there is no possibility
of restoratipn; a solution of potassium
chloride diluted with water would help in the
case of the not-so-badly-burned E.R.A.:
No college. Particulars regarding training can
be procured from the Merchant Navy head
office, York-street North, Sydney G.A.C.:
A Dictionary of Modern English Usage, by
H. W. Fowler; price, 9s. 6d 8.K.: All local
stocks of orange-juice have been taken to fulfil
service demands J.H.R.: Handy Hints for
the Farm, {from The Bulletin Office, 252
George-street, Sydney; Is., plus postage....
Dog Lover: jThe operation has a variable effect
on dogs. In the case under consideration his
disposition would be improved greatly. Dogs
so treated have a tendency to put on fat and
become lazyj but this may be controlled to an
extent by restricting the diet H.N.: Execu-
tors are not bound to furnish beneficiaries with
copies of their accounts unless they are paid
by the beneficiary requiring them. The execu-
tors’ annual accounts may be inspected at
the Probate Office, and will disclose the rate
of investments. The executors may also give
inspections of their accounts to a beneficiary.
Gilgai: A public function of the kind indi-
cated would be contrary to regulations. There
is no objection to a private presentation....
F.C.G. : The owner would be entitled to obtain
possession of the property on the information
you furnish. Consult a solicitor, giving him
all the facts... .A.F.D.: Dundee is on the
Firth of Tay, 50 miles north of Edinburgh
(Scotland).
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —
Ox:
Mary had a little lamb,
You’ve heard that fact before.
But have you heard she passed her plate
And couldn’t get any more?
G. 8.:
You can’t buy a razor blade, drink, or a smoke.
And when you have money it’s like being broke.
A.R.C.:
Mein Fiihrer, the Maoris don’t fight fair;
they roll their eyes and leap in the air.
... .E. 8.; Can’t pass an opinion on your master-
piece till we’ve seen it....K.C.: “Down and
Out’ is... .F.R.8.: We gave up weening about
fickle jades about three centuries ago... .G.W.:
And we have not kept “troth” since Great-
aunt Ermyntrude eloped with the coachman in
74... .M.J.R.: The slang in the last two
stanzas sounds more like Ginger Mick’s than
the R.A.A.F.’s S.S.: Leave it to the blokes.
FJ.T.: An old friend... .G.H.: Tut
F.C.A.: Rough.. .. W.8.A.: After three weeks
without potatoes we thought we had tasted
the full horrors of Austerity. We had yet
to read “An Austerity Alphabet” E.W.:
Crammed with outworn poeticisms, but there’s
a touch of the real thing in the last line of the
Canberra sonnet... .E.M.S.: Conventional de-
scription and nothing more... .L.M.: Chaotic.
. ...R.G.H.: Still remote with archaisms
J.L.: “Something vital slipped” in your Muse,
too E.M.: That should teach her what
comes of “harmless dalliance” with “patrician-
looking foreigners with dusky, eloquent eyes.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.C.N.: Your cold courage in signing the
atrocity deserves a civil V.C P.C.: A
brace of fashion-plates, with parish-magazine
brand of backchat H.L.P.: Had you put
the small boy’s arms akimbo instead of straight
down at his sides, we might have more readily
distinguished him from the drinking fountain.
M.C.B.: Freak styles are only for those who
have already mastered art C.T.: You have
yet to depict a dust-cloud that doesn’t look like
a blackberry bush or a floating mountain....
Bert C.: Dialogue between young curate and
well-shot old verger caused pain to the Religious
Editor... .S.H.: What you don’t know of
anatomy, human and animal, would fill several
encyclopaedias,.. .C.D.M.: Your neatly-deco-
rative sketches made a faint knock. Infuse
humor into them and the cashier may become
interested... .V.G.: If witless, at least your
beach girls are nicely shaped... .J.M.W.; They
look like three corpses just taken out of a
refrigerator... .W.8.J.: The wall would have
to be pulled down to get the 10ft. x 4ft. lady
out of the room.


■
HHHi
i ■
ri
■
aBHP
m
a
S MB
a I
"■fa
, M
m
m
ll'
KC> % ’. ;
'■•xxKf : : v &-
yy ,
■
yf fyf&f yf
iiilSi
■■■■
mm m
yyy
■■H
yfffffxfxyx
■ftii
y^ff'x
mTi
x:
■H
jH
H 1
■
. . y-
■ umm ■ -X!
ill
|K|»
r nrl
■
y
■
■H
HI
:
f' ff.
X:.- Miry ■
■ liSggMi
#
.
I
,y.y:-;y;
m
msm
■
■I
' 11
.
Mm
BBS
■
mmy&m
Tmmm
IW
m
. m
m&m
iISB
sraraßßj
RESPONSE
• • •
to the call for
WAR PRODUCTION
When war broke out we had a comparatively small
business engaged on the production of high quality
forgings for the Engineering Industry generally —we
were already supplying a certain number of compon-
ents to the limited Defence Programme then being
carried out. We were proud of our organization, the
quality of our products and the work we were doing.
Since then the requirements of a continually increasing
Defence Programme have made heavy demands on us,
demands that strained to the utmost our organization,
our financial resources and our staff. Demands that
have been very often exceedingly hard to meet.
Precisely how we have met them can be seen from
the graph below which shows comparative production
from the outbreak of war up to the present. Volume
alone does not tell the whole story there have been
innumerable technical difficulties in manufacturing
components never previously undertaken in this
country.
To-day we are more proud than ever of our work and
confident of our ability to further increase the present
large volume of our Defence Production. Loyal and
conscientious service and appreciation of the Nation's
need will keep the production barometer on the move.
I
■
m:
:
I
■;
W.
II fy 11
:■
■S:
' |p|i f
iiiiiii
x.,y
y—
\<#
»
The largest Steam Drop
Forging Hammer in Australia
which has recently been in-
stalled by us for special war
production.
COMPARATIVE PRODUCTION
I Defence Products
WM Civil Products
COMMERCIAL STEELS
PTY.
1
asd FORGE CO. (AUSTRALIA)
LTD.
INCORPORATING AUSTRALIAN DROP FORGING CO. PTY. LIMITED
STEEL & MACHINERY DIVISION, Bowden Street. Alexandria, N.S.W. MX 1191 (7 lines). • FORGE DIVISION. Parramatta Rood. Lideombe.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, Capel and Queensbury Streets. North Melbourne, Victoria. Phone
N.S.W. UX 7473 (7 lines).
F 3616 (3 lines).
——


What qualifications ==
should your trustee |
possess?
He should be thoroughly trustworthy, possess
sound business experience and have know-
ledge of the law relating to trusts. He should
be able and willing to undertake the some-
times very heavy and continuous duties
involved. An individual possessing such
qualifications is hard to find. Moreover, he
must eventually age and his powers decline.
Neither is he immune from misfortune, and
he may die long before the trust is completed.
To vest a trusteeship in an individual is to
leave the consequences mainly to chance and
it is a mistaken compliment to ask a friend
or relative so to act.
It is for these reasons that business men well
versed in affairs have for more than 63 years
appointed The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited to manage their estates.
The company’s services are devoted solely to
the care and management of the property of
its clients. Its Directors have wide experi-
ence and proved capacity and the duties
involved are not vested in one individual—
the company’s service “goes on for ever”.
Consult your solicitor or call or write for
further information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY. AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8. ; G. S. Colman, 0.8. E.;
Sir Alan Newton,
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder. —:
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. RusseU French. =-
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughe
mmi
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
r- Dividends N
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7i p.e. Ordinary. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 72,056 7750 15,234 5 p.c. = 30,000 381,784
1933.. 93,394 9000 18,750 8 ~ „ 48,000 399,428
1934. .109,163 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 60,000 420,841
1935. .121,777 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 454,868
1936. .146,148 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 513,266
Share premiums, £99,933.. .. .. 613,199
1937. .165,049 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 64,164 686,334
Share premiums, £67 .. .. .. 686,401
1938. .176,687 9000 18,750 10 p.e. = 79,750 755,588
1939. .172,563 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,000 819,401
1940. .207,053 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 81,000 917,704
1941. .130,667 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 81,000 939,621
1942. .148,462 9000 18,750 8 ~ ~ 64,800 995,533
First prefs. reduced to 5 p.c. and seconds to 5.8 p.c.
under Interest Reduction Act from Oct. 1, 1931,
till July 31. 1932.
A lot of nonsense is being talked about
the profit motive in trade. The fact is
that profit is as essential to health in
trade as nourishment is to health in the
individual. And, like individuals, most
businesses have their ups and downs.
Without proper nourishment the indi-
vidual will languish, and so will trade
without profit. Indeed, without profit
in business the standard of living would
steadily decline to low limits. It is the
abuse of the profit motive, not the profit
motive itself, that needs to be checked ;
and checked it is by legislation, and likely
to continue so.
For nearly a decade to the end of
April retailers generally enjoyed expand-
ing turnovers. The jolt came with quota
restrictions on sales, followed by clothes-
rationing ; but for some time before buy-
ing had developed into a scramble, owing
to the ill-kept secret of the step pro-
posed. D.J.’s turnover reached a record
£5.000,000-odd for its latest term, and
after setting aside £250,450 (20.6 p.c. on
paid capital) for the taxgatherer—he had
aheady made off with £27,030 in pay-roll
tax —allowing £57,030 for depreciation
and meeting extraordinary expenditure
on war-damage insurance and A.R.P.
requirements, net earnings were written
at £148,462. That was £17,795 ahead of
the previous year’s figures, which have
been adjusted for a delayed-action tax
bomb of £64,762. The £148,462 was
enough to meet pref. requirements and
show 14.9 p.c. on £BlO,OOO of ord. capi-
tal, as against 12.7, 22.1 and 17.8 p.c. back
to 1939. The div. dropped from 10 p.c.
to 8 p.c., an indication of difficulties
looked for ahead.
Clothes-rationing has bitten deeply into
Sydney trade turnovers:
Peucentage Change on Same Month, 1941.
Apparel—^
Piece- Men’s & Boots &
1942. goods. Women’s. Boys’. Shoes.
March .. +30.1 +41.7 +47.9 +45.2
April .. +56.6 +31.3 +31.3 +46.8
May .. —7.0 —18.6 —13.7 —9.2
June . . —26.9 —31.3 —34.9 —8.9
July .. —18.9 —25.5 —28.5 —25.4
The co. has already handled over
3,000,000 coupons, and a special depart-
ment has been set up to deal with them
and calculate selling prices to ensure that
gioss profits do not exceed the Prices
Commissioner’s margins. But the lay-by
section of the business, which was a big
help to turnover, shut down for the dura-
tion, thus releasing many clerical workers.
At the Marlborough-street factory over
415,000 separate articles were made for
the forces last term, replacing the fall in
civilian demand. The staff question has
presented many problems, as in all busi-
ness. Over 6000 names are on the pay-
roll, and 9897 changes were made during
the year, owing to enlistments and de-
fence call-ups, etc.; with the switch of
female labor to defence work, the posi-
tion will become more difficult still.
The extent to which traders and others
are now hedged in by economic controls
is not generally realised. Rationing limits
spending, the manufacture of many
luxury goods is prohibited, and style of
much essential merchandise is standard-
ised. Yet wages continue up and up ;
so to prevent a runaway movement in
selling prices these and profits are more
or less controlled. Man-power authori-
ties regulate employment, an import pro-
curement division grants licenses for
the few things that can still be got from
Britain, a Government set-up known as
War Organisation of Industry says what
shall be manufactured locally and how,
and various financial regulations control
capital and other expenditure. With
many items of overhead more or less
fixed, the problem of getting costs back
proportionately is now confronting large
traders like\D.J.’s. However, there was
a handy margin between earnings and
distributions last term.
A close-up of the financial structure
shows this encouraging position:
1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital . . £1,210,000 £1,210,000 £1,210,000
Sundry creditors.. 391,878* 721,022 676,353
Mortgages, etc. . . 652,215 602,007 581,923
Tax reserve . . 165,000 250,450
Freeholds .. . . 1,600,047 1,658,005 1,659,417
Plant, etc 488,262 383,244 357,165
Stocks .. . . 579,998 1,004,128 1,129,573
Book debts . . 433,962 575,575 483,653
Investments, cash, etc. 34,360 151,922 150,799
* Including provision for taxation.
The big lift in stocks (up £125,445) is
an insurance against rising prices and
the growing scarcity of goods for civilian
consumption. The money came mostly
fiom the reduction in debtors, reflecting
the war-time extension of cash buying.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£505,749) was £97,153.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Net , Dividends N To Re- Re-
July, Profit. r~ Pref.—Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
1932.. 15,881 8% 6% 6% 15,601 230 32,448
1933.. 15,725 8 „ 6„ 6„ 15,601 124 32,572
1934.. 21,078 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,051 3,027 35,599
1935.. 25.963 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ 20,502 5,461 41,060
1936.. 20,779 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 2,727 43,787
1937.. 19,715 9 „ 7 „ 7„ 18,052 1,663 45,449
1938. 20,838 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 2,786 48,235
1939.. 21,560 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 3,508 51,743
1940.. 20,833 9 „ 7„ 7„ 18,052 2,781 54,524
1941.. 23,359 10 „ 8 „ 8., 20,502 2,857 57,381
1942.. 27,580 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ 20,502 7,078 64,459
* Excluding depreciation reserves, £253,532.
The new No. 3 cement mill went into
operation about halfway through the
term, completing the programme of plant
modernisation begun three or four years
back and placing the co., the only one of
its kind in the North, in a position “to
handle the whole of Queensland’s re-
quirements of cement.” About the same
time, further improvements in efficiency
enabled another cut of 2s. a ton in selling
prices, making a reduction of 10s. a ton
since July, 1939, and that during a period
when traders generally have been busy
increasing theirs. So not only is the co.
physically able to cater for the whole of
its home market, but its costs are estab-
lished on such a basis that southern com-
petitors--—Goliath was the chief before
transport strictures —will find it difficult
to re-establish themselves in it. Share-
holders’ prospects have been given a
little more stiffening by the Common-
wealth’s uniform-tax measures, which, if
retained, may later prove no mean
stimulus to that industrialisation which
State politicians have done little to en-
courage.
Cheapening the production process in
the past five years has been the use of
coral from the co.’s own Moreton Bay
leases in manufacture of the whole out-
put, while the new and larger plant has
lately counteracted the tendency of other
costs to bite into profits. Last term out-
put was a record, owing to the special
nature of demand. The Federal Govern-
ment is now the biggest customer,
more than making up for the depleted
orders of the old State client and private
building, which, outside A.R.P. purposes,
has been forced practically to a standstill
in Queensland as in the rest of the Com-
monwealth. So in the post-war switch-
over cement-makers should encounter
nothing like the inconvenience other
heavy industry may.
After providing for taxation and con-
tingencies in unstated fashion, putting
another £lOOO into the staff fund and
visibly reserving an extra £5OOO for de-
preciation (£20,000), there was £27,580
to show to shareholders, or £4221 more
than in the year before. It was enough
to meet the minimum pref. divs. and 6
p.c. to the ords. and then show 4.8 p.c.
on the whole of capital, as against 3.2 p.c.
in the previous term. So, both classes of
prefs. being really preferred ords. advanc-
ing point for point with the ords, above
6 p.c., an extra 2 p.c. all round again
went out, making 10 p.c. to the first prefs.
and 8 p.c. to the seconds and ords.
That left the free lay-by at a moderate
£64,459 ; but a highly efficient plant is
the best reserve any manufacturing busi-
ness can have, and, as indicated, there
is no question of that here:
1936. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £245,061 £245,061 £245,061 £245,061
Creditors* . . 15,965 46,520 57,441 71,286
Freehold, etc. 30,710 20,976 20,976 20,975
Plant, etc. . . 321,644 401,309 440,931 446,965
Stocks . . 37,811 53,167 94,980 87,257
Book debts . . 23,741 40,111 41,327 54,030
Cash, etc. . . 97,491 49,346 16,705 47,613
* Including provision for taxation.
Since June, 1938, just short of £120,000
has been expended on the main asset, and
all found from the co.’s own resources.
Movements in liquids suggest that last
term’s rise in the debt is probably a re-
flection of tax allocations grouped there-
with, Cement is now going into new
uses, some of which may be more than
passing.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co. (S.A.)
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1933.. 10,213 10 p.c. = 9000 1213 50,504
1934.. 12,210 10 „ „ 9000 1 ooiO 52 514
Provident fund. £l2OO j 2010 5 ’
1935.. 12,186 10 p.c. = 9000 3186 55,700
1936.. 12,828 10 „ „ 9000 7 9598 53528
Provident fund, £lOOO } 2828 58,5
1937.. 11,337 10 p.c. = 9000 2337 60,865
1938.. 12,284 10 „ „ 9000 3284 64,149
1939.. 13,225 10 „ „ 9000 1 -, n9 K (57174
Provident fund, £l2OO j ’
Tax suspense taken in, £3OOO .. 70,174
1940.. 14,286 10 p.c. = 9000 1 aa* 1 74(595
Provident fund, £835 J 4451 74,625
1941.. 13,484 10 p.c. = 9000 1
W/o freehold, £2650 .. 1 930 75,555
Provident fund, £904
1942.. 13,460 10 p.c. = 90001
W/o freehold, £l5OO .. ) 2087 77,642
Provident fund, £873 J
On the one hand the co. handled its big-
gest business ever; on the other, it suf-
fered a heavy blow in the loss of T. E.
Barr Smith, foundation member of the
directorate in 1910, who had sat at
the head of the board table for 19 years.
Shortly after, death also claimed J. F.
Downer, his successor as chairman and
another old identity of the venture and
its pastoralist sponsor, Elder, Smith and
Co. Another T. E. Barr Smith has
stepped into his father’s seat on the
board, so the old associations continue.
Thanks to the 'nice slabs of new busi-
ness that came its way last year, the co.
was able to do better than most concerns
of its kind, which have found tax out-
goings and the increasingly intricate and
expensive nature of trusteeship more
than absorbing such extra commissions
as expanded connections and present
Government monetary policy have en-
abled to be earned.
More precisely, this is how Elder’s
fared:
Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Exes. Gross.
1919.. £3,217,760 £11,212 £7,671 68.4 p.c.
1931.. 10,545,284 40,502 28,738 70.9 „
1934.. 12,276,708 41,034 28,824 70.2 „
1936.. 12,950,598 43,952 31,124 70.5 „
1938.. 13.791,547 47,207 34,923 73.9 „
1939.. 13,992,312 50,874 37,649 74.0 ~
1940.. 14,088,070 52,942 38,656 73.0 „
1941.. 13,958,748 51,321 37,837 73.7 „
1942.. 16,234,719 53,746 40,286 74.9 „
Net value of new trusts put on the books
was a record £2,275,971, and recent in-
dustrial development in the grape-growing
State promises well for the future. The
resultant lift of £2425 in all income—re-
turns from the trustee and other sides of
things aren’t now segregated—enabled a
tax bill (£4521) heavier by £1232 to be
met, plus a similar growth in manage-
ment exes., without disturbance to net
eqrnings from the previous term’s 14.9
p.c. So the 10 p.c. distribution which has
been a feature since the last war was
again comfortably managed.
Chief sources of investment income
are £90,967 of Government securities and
£64,500 represented by the Currie-street
office property and equipment. Advances
amount to £11,412, and with cash, etc.,
of £6415 round off the assets, of which
only £2BO belongs to outsiders. Paid capi-
tal is £90,000.


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
PUT VOUB -
BUSWESS AWMW
IN SAFE HANDS--
m
TF anything happened to you, is
■*• it fair to burden your relatives
or friends with your business
worries? It is a task that calls for
specialised training and know-
ledge. For your own sake, and
for your dependants, entrust the
administration of your estate to
experienced trustees.
Smith, Boydeil 8C Company is an
organisation specialising in the man-
agement and supervision of estates
and personal business. The principals
*— H. Landon Smith and F. M.
Boydeil, A.1.C.A., A.C.1.5., person-
ally direct all transactions. Special
facilities are available for country
and interstate business. Write now
for free brochure explaining how this
service can assist you.
smimiovDiLieco
.MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
The Art of
Meeting
People
with chapters on
PUBLIC SPEAKING AND THE
ELEMENTS OF COMMAND
By
E. H. WELFORD,
Pelman Institute (O/Seas).
This book has been written primarily to meet
an Increasing demand for exact information
on the principles governing our relations with
other people. It is the fruit of personal
experience supplemented by acquaintance with
the needs of thousands of pupils of the Pelman
Course, and It covers all the ground honestly.
Each chapter is followed by an “Application”
to the reader’s own life and circumstances
of the principles discussed in the chapter.
The book is available to the public at 5/- per
copy posted. Address The Pelman Institute, 8
Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
per copy posted.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
WE in AUSTRALIA
are vitally concerned in the great struggle that still lies ahead—and must
maintain and intensify our war efforts, each in our particular branch of
the industrial life of the nation.
The important services being rendered by THATCHER & OBERG in
providing Timber supplies for Australia’s Defence preparations are a
vital and integral part of the war effort —an earnest and valuable
contribution to ultimate victory.
THATCHER & OBERG Pty. Ltd.
Timber Merchants - - - - Detail Joiners
Vat Builders - - - - Flooring Specialists
GARDENER'S ROAD MASCOT
’Phone:
MU1221
(5 lines)
For best performance on producer gas
from
This information on a problem inherent in the operation of
charcoal gas producers is given as part of Ford Company
and Ford dealer wartime service to owners.
The handling charcoal receives causes dust to collect in the bag.
It is a wise precaution to remove this dust before using charcoal,
otherwise dust will clog the cleaners and hamper the vehicle’s per-
formance. Even if one-tenth of the
original volume has been lost through
removing the dust, the remaining nine-
tenths will take you just as far as if th«
whole of the contents of the bag had
been put in the hopper. Further, you
will get better performance and
the filters will remain cleaner.
PUT IT THROUGH A SIEVE
—the garden sieve will do. Put the
charcoal that remains into the
hopper.
If you use a large quantity of
charcoal, or if you live in the
country and produce your own,
here is a dust remover that will
handle charcoal in quantity.
See sketch below.
fd
fd
f
F214-16-I
fOR HANDLING
LARGER QUANTITIES
It’s simply a wooden frame,
say 4ft. x 3 ft., with a screen
of wire mesh to hold the char-
coal but let the dust through.
Rig it against a wall or fence
as in the sketch. The charcoal
will roll into the box —minus
trouble-causing dust.
Ford Motor Company of Australia
P ty. Ltd. ( Incorporated in Victoria)
Buy Austerity Loan Bonds.
Mount Morgan
Mt. Morgan (Q.) reckons it has cracked
the back of its huge overburden pro-
gramme ] but capital expenditure goes
on and the mine isn’t yet in position
to increase the payout to shareholders.
These, indeed, have been bluntly informed
that it will be “unwise” to expect any-
thing further at all till a proposed new
and larger smelter, rendered necessary by
the growing output of copper, goes into
production. Cost isn’t mentioned, but
Government assistance is being angled
for Overburden removal reached the
new “high” of 2,450,000 tons last year.
While little less (some 2,300,000 tons) will
be stripped in the current term, the figure
is predicted to recede to 1,600,000 tons
in 1944 and to 1,300,000 tons the year
after that. About 600,000 tons of it p.a.
is expected to contain values worth send-
ing to No. 2 sulphide mill; the rest goes
to discard at a present cost of 2s. a ton.
What all this should mean in a future
when metal prices may be much below
present levels can be judged from the fact
that, whereas by June next 11,000,000 tons
of overburden will have been handled in
six years for extraction of only 1,100,000
tons of reserve ore, in 1945 the propor-
tion of remaining overburden to ore re-
serves will be down to 1.75 to 1. Just at
the moment mine earnings have tempor-
arily gone to pot because of the inclusion
of fire-damaged ore and badly calcined
old stope fillings in the mill feed.
In the Eldorado, at the Tennant, Cen-
tralia, pay-ore has been proved down to
300 ft., and W. J. Turner, whose faith has
been vindicated in most respects to date,
reckons prospects below “reasonably
hopeful.” Man-power shortage is now
holding up further exploration in a field
whose prospects once were regarded with
arrant scepticism at any depth. Changed
Federal attitude to goldmining has also
delayed erection of Eldorado’s new all-
slimes plant, all on the spot and which,
with the mine electrification scheme,
cost £25,000. Still, the fine-grinding
section was commissioned last term, when
8355 (up 410) tons gave a yield of
11.84dwt. over the plates, with s.4dwt.
left in the sands for later treatment. It
compares with a return of 11.6dwt. from
both ore and sands in the previous term.
Costs ran to 58s. 6d. a ton, and net profit
to £21,003 after charging development
of £4841. Because of enforced re-
striction of the latter, only half the year’s
ore extraction was replaced, reducing
proved reserves in the three ore-shoots
to 10,160 tons of improved 18.4dwt.
grade. Also there is a lot of 4-6dwt. and
12-15dwt. staff not yet blocked out which
should be profitable given a reasonable
scale of output in the new plant. In
conservative fashion the distribution was
kept down to 6d. a share (£7751) last
year, enabling all plant commitments to
be met without disturbance to the com-
fortable liquid position.
* * * *
News comes that Wiluna Gold Mines
(W.A.) has taken over the adjoining
Moonlight and Horseshoe Wiluna group,
owned by Gold Fields Australian De-
velopment, in which Wiluna holds 220,000
ss. shares. At Wiluna plant, the Moon-
light mine milled 122,952 tons in its latest
term for 26,09 loz. gold, some antimony
and a profit of £35,378 ; but the 150,800
tons of s.3dwt. ore in resep'ie, to which last
year’s development failed to add, suggests
a very short life. It paid a £12,000 div.
to Gold Fields Australian, which, despite
£5713 from its Yellowdine interest, saw
its own net earnings reduced from
£33,893 to £3370 stg. after much lighter
tax, and shareholders were passed by.
During the year an option was exercised
over Mt. Ida’s Menzies property, and
£2014 spent developing the new holding.
In consideration for “introducing” the
business, G.F.A. also has a quarter-in-
terest in Wiluna G.M.’s purchase option
over the Mt. Charlotte group at Kal-
goorlie, on which practically nothing can
be done in present circumstances.
* * * *
Latest March half-yearly estimate by
Paringa (W.A.) shows ore reserves main-
tained at 370,645 tons, grade 5.33dwt.,
or four years’ mill supply. And recent
developments look to have secured both
tonnages and values further ahead still.
Mill profit of £67,000 was earned for the
year to August, when recoveries im-
proved from s.2dwt. to s.sdwt. But
there was a contraction of 7 p.c. in crush-
ings (87,000 tons), downward continuance
of which has latterly reduced mill sur-
pluses to the order of £2OOO or so a
month. Apart from its own half-dozen
blocks, Paringa has a substantial interest
in Mt. Charlotte.
* * * *
London cables that Gt. Boulder board
and “Shareholders’ Resumption Group”
are doing their damnedest to remove con-
trol of the co.’s affairs from the liqui-
dator. The “Economist” says it is to be
hoped that the liquidator, after raising
independent shareholders’ expectation a
month ago, won’t be forced to admit that
his estimate was overoptimistic and that
no solution is at hand, but it would
be even a greater pity if the independent
shareholders abandoned the position they
have taken up.
* * * *
Shareholders of midget First Hit (W.A.)
get 3d, a share on November 20, a similar
distribution to that paid some months
ago. Of other small fry in the West,
shareholders of Ora Banda Amalgamated
haven’t had anything for some time,
while those of Central Gold and Blue
Bird are in mourning for the departed.
* # * m
Westralian gold divs. continue on skids.
Their aggregate for the eight months
ended August was £224,515, against
£414,925 for the corresponding period
last year. Only London-controlled Lake
View, South Kalgurli, Boulder Persever-
ance and Golden Horse Shoe and locally-
owned Hill 50 have paid out lately; be-
latedly, North Kalgurli now proposes to
do so.
« * * *
Westralian Mines Department is look-
ing after the soldier-prospector. When
the term of his area expires an agent or
friend can repeg it for him and so keep
jumpers at bay. His miner’s right, which
he must have, can be similarly renewed.
The department has his interests at heart
in other ways as well.
* * * *
From London:
Gold Exploration, Ltd., has paid off at
130 p.c. the balance of the £500,000 non-interest-
bearing bonds it issued in 1936. Some £300,000
had previously been repaid at a rising scale of
premiums.
Believing that the German platinum shortage
is critical, Uncle Sam is putting the metal under
Government control to prevent the Nazis get-
ting any via neutrals. The United Nations today
control the whole world production of about
650,0000 z. p a, which has trebled in the past
Sir&a C S da U nlra SMe SS
and Africa most of the balance. Platinum is
used in producing nitric acid for explosives and
for other chemical processes in precision in-
struments, fuses and fire-control apparatus.
Mining Trust, London, holder, among
other substantial interests, of 1,553,764
Mt. Isas (Q.), 843,147 New Guinea Gold-
fields and a 5 p.c. equity (£20,000) in
Big Bell (W.A.), showed a net revenue fall
from £79,202 to £58,839 stg. in the year
to December, owing to a late div.
declaration by N.G. Goldfields and the
drop in Big Bell’s payout from 27* p.c. to
2\ p.C.' Profit was applied in reduction of
big deficiency, now £679,309. New
Guinea Gold holds some £140,000 Aus-
tralian in cash and bonds but reopcnmg
of its Edie Creek mine, where 35,000 tons
ore j s measured up, isn’t likely to be
h candle when the Japs are
Qn other hand , Koranga
alluvial reserves have been recalculated
and stand at 8,000,000 c.y. of Is. wash,
and there is 650,000 c.y. of material on
the Bulolo and Upper Edie worth be-
tween 4s. and ss. Mt. Isa, besides ois-
posing of all its current production ot
lead and much of its zinc concentrates,
is now looking to big things from copper
in the Black Star lode.


fir*
gjii
VI»
■ «
l\
H
H s
EXPRt&’
■AmKfmsef
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £34,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,200,000.
M. O. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Envy Is Not Ability
Thousands of Australians have seen
Walter Lindrum play billiards. He makes
the game look easy. He just seems to
think of what he wants to do with the
balls, and the next thing that happens is
—it’s done. No matter how difficult the
shot, when he’s on his game Walter is
so good that he becomes almost boring.
His admirers would like to possess his
artistry, but most people forget that ex-
perience, practice and the cultivation of
skill figure in the Lindrum technique as
much as art. He is a master of the game
because he understands it and has given
his life to its study.
No member of the present Australian
Parliament would be so blindly self-con-
fident that he would back himself at bil-
liards against Lindrum—not even Senator
Darcey. Yet there are many members
who set themselves up as experts on
matters where they are out of their
element just as much as they would be
playing with Lindrum. They have seen
smooth-running factories, transport,
financial and judicial systems, and take
that smooth running for granted—any
alterations that can be made, they insist,
must be for the better. They don’t realise
that the building-up of anything entails
knowledge and experience as well as in-
dustry and wholehearted application.
The successful horserider has usually
been tossed off a horse at least once.
The successful industrialist or financial
man who has acquired skill with maturity
has usually seen mistakes as well as suc-
cesses. It is background of this kind that
makes some men so valuable that their
services are sought as advisers in many
different enterprises. We want men with
background and ability now; biased or
optimistic experimentalists can bring
disaster.
What looks all right on paper, or
sounds all right from a soapbox, is
a different thing in practice. No
enterprise that has to cope with human
behavior will run on solely theoretical
lines. No enterprise can be con-
ducted as a matter of sentiment without
regard to efficiency or consequences ; and
spite and ambition in themselves aren’t
enough to justify interference by politi-
cians in undertakings they know little
about. The requirements of war un-
doubtedly demand that all private activity
be subject to Government control, but
this control must not be of the political-
exploitation type; the most competent
organising and administrative brains in
the land should be in charge. This war
is too dangerous to allow essential
industries and services to be controlled
by any party politician whose interests
are divided between winning the war and
putting something over fellow-Austra-
lians whom he dislikes politically.
A number of Australian Parliamen-
tarians have been failures in science or
industry. That is often why they took
to politics. Among those who weren’t
failures there are many whose knowledge
is of a legal rather than an industrial or
financial character. It may be that the
industrial failure or the successful lawyer
can become the ideal statesman. But
if he is the ideal, he will know his
own limitations, and will shine as an
administrator rather than as an interferer.
Administration, as Pope has indicated,
is the essence of good government.
In the present Government at Can-
berra we have several know-alls, and
outside of it we have thousands more.
The latter are principally Government
supporters. Their representatives in the
Government are Mr. Dedman and Mr.
Ward, and in the Senate Messrs.
Cameron, Darcey and Arthur are the
most prominent. None of these gentle-
men is ever stumped for an answer, how-
ever wrong the answer may be, and none
of them ever learns by his mistakes. Mr.
Dedman has had the banks in the gun
all along, and though he has found that
it is impossible to make all the changes
he once threatened to make without caus-
ing a breakdown in the essential financial
services he is still “going for” them at
every opportunity, though pubs, brew-
eries, lotteries and bookmakers are
rarely, if ever, criticised by him. Mr.
Dedman is the clothes-rationing and
Victory-suit man of whom Prime Min-
ister Curtin said: “He has brought a
first-class mind to problems of great dif-
ficulty.” It is quite clear to most people
outside the Government that the prob-
lems were too difficult for the mind that
was brought to them, whatever its class.
Its chief cause of failure was that it did not
seek the co-operation of more experienced
minds irrespective of their political color,
Mr. Chifley, the Commonwealth
Treasurer, is a type different from Ded-
man or Ward. But he has shown little
sign of competence as a war-time finan-
cial administrator. Possibly “the party”
stood in the way of his doing a proper
job; in any case he does not possess an
extensive financial background, and,
though commonsense may be a better
recommendation for a Treasurer than,
say, a degree in accountancy, the trouble
in Mr. Chifley’s case is that he has on
occasions held himself out to be an
authority on finance, more particularly
banking. He used to be a railwayman.
His budgeting has been perilous for
Australia. All the old easygoing, weak-
kneed, put-the-unionist-on-a-pedestal stuff
has been tried and found hope-
lessly out of touch with realities and
desired results. After a year of infla-
tionary finance it looks as though the
Government will have to do exactly what
experts said it would have to do right
from the beginning—that is, regard the
burden of war as a real one, a present
one, and one that can be paid for only
by being spread over the entire earning
population. But the Treasurer and his
associates are finding these things out by
trial and error during a period in which
we cannot risk the delay and disturbance
caused by such methods. These men are
unskilled, unseasoned and dangerously
experimental.
It is sincerely to be hoped that we in
this country have finished with the idea
that we can do our best in the war effort
by blaming the other fellow or exploiting
him. We have had about 12 months of
class friction created by the Government
in power, and there has been a spoils-to-
the-victor attitude with an accompani-
ment of blackguarding of anything that
resembles industry or thrift. Decent
and industrious people, with their intelli-
gences awakened to the threat the Japa-
nese represented, have suffered persecu-
tion largely because they were big
enough in themselves to let it pass in the
seriousness of the real issue. Their tor-
mentors have had minds undeveloped ex-
cept in respect of political cunning, and
have been protected by the institutions
of their country for so long that they did
not realise the meaning of responsibility
when political power was placed in their
hands.
It is hard to build up a thing, very
easy to pull it down. Most efficient things
in Australia are the envy of the dis-
gruntled and unbalanced. All our indus-
tries and institutions are capable of im-
provement—we know little of perfection
—but improvement is hardly likely to
come from the jaundiced critic, the spite-
ful interferer, the perpetual dreamer, the
political adventurer or the go-getter.
Criticism should be constructive, impar-
tial, tolerant and based on knowledge.
Men who know their job should be left
to it, checked only in the public interest.
And a long view has to be taken of
the public interest, also a view broad
enough to see what is going on in other
parts of the world, which might have
a bearing on any changes we might feel
inclined to make here.
There is no such thing as a self-
contained or self-sufficient country; this
war has shown that we cannot stand
aside from the surge of world events.
Australia, to survive even after this
war is over, will have to recog-
nise the industries and services essential
to its existence, to respect ability and en-
terprise in management and administra-
tion generally, and to acknowledge that
rewards go with merit and hard work,
and are not automatic merely because
the person looking for a reward happens
to have a vote that is sought by a pari-
sitical politician.
It is a pleasure to record that the Went-
worth Hotel, on a quiet slope of
Church Hill, Sydney, has attracted enough
business out of the near-by hurly-burly
to announce record turnover and a div.
up 2 p.c. at 10 p.c. Profits weren’t quite
so good as in the previous year because
of increasing catering costs and taxation,
but the div. is the best since 1927, and
the recovery from the days when depres-
sion and the outbreak of night-clubs
knocked income sideways is decidedly
cheering. Once a rendezvous of
“society” and gay dancers in the heyday
of Mrs. Maclurcan, the Wentworth these
times is more of a comfortable and con-
venient residential hotel, with facilities,
nevertheless, to cater for dancers, and
frequently availed of. The increased div.
is not common to all Sydney hotels. There
have actually been some cuts, in spite of
the growth in the floating population.
* * * *
It looks almost as though the position
has been reached in Australia where some
people would sooner be charged more
by a concern that made a loss than
charged less by an enterprise that made
a profit. Envy rather than injury is the
basis of much political discontent at the
present time. And even then the com-
plaint is more cultivated (by agitators)
than spontaneous.
* * * *
Alberta, the Canadian province which
Douglas Creditors hold out as an example
of the beneficial effects of the Douglas
system, is still intent on bilking some of
its creditors of their just dues in spite of
the oil, etc., that Douglas Credit is alleged
to have brought to the surface as easily
as winking. There is a troublesome
matter of £2,000,000 or so of Alberta
bonds on which half interest only has
been offered by the provincial Govern-
ment for more than five years. The actual
rates payable vary between 4 p.c. and
5 p.c., but after diddling its creditors
of half of this (some refused to accept
the half tendered), the Government
offered 3£ p.c. for the future. British
bondholders are prepared to accept 4 p.c.
all round, plus recognition of unpaid in-
terest, but will not ask for interest on
the unpaid interest. Alberta is not agree-
able. If this is “Douglas Credit” it is
largely synonymous with “default.”
* * * •
An irresponsible individual named
Lamb, member for Granville (N.S.W.)
in the State Parliament, made charges
last week that “unscrupulous racketeer-
ing, corruption and roguery” had grown
up round workers’ compensation claims.
And it was the insurance cos. that
he charged, not others. He said that “on
scores of occasions unfortunate workers
have been robbed of their just claims,”
and that premiums charged were extor-
tionate. Private cos., he also alleged, had
made “enormous profit” out of workers’
compensation. Mr. Lamb is a politi-
cal humbug. Insurance cos. have been
robbed by “workers” with unjust claims
so often that it is possible that a worker
with a just claim occasionally has been
badly treated ; but it is in the “enormous
profit” stuff that Mr. Lamb is revealed
for just what he is. The N. S. Wales
Statistician, a Government employee, pro-
duces figures to show that over the five
years to June 30, 1941, for every £ the
insurance offices received in “comp.” pre-
miums they paid out 18s, lOd. in claims
and expenses, the figure for 1940-41 being
19s. 2d. The profits there are anything but
fat. And it is not the “worker” who pays
the premiums anyway; the employer has
to do that, as well as pay payroll tax for
child endowment and do a large amount
of free labor for the Taxation Depart-
ment. So far as the insurance cos. are
concerned, those that are licensed are
compelled to accept workers’ compensa-
tion risks. Others often won’t touch it.
The majority would sooner be without
it. Fundamentally a legitimate and
desirable social service, it is loaded with
trickery, “strained backs” and litigation
that is no fault of the offices.
* » » *
There is no abatement of the popular
frenzy for hoarding notes. The issue last
week was up to £ll4 million. On Sept.
28, when the issue totalled £111.6 million,
the public held £96.4 million and the
banks £15.2 million. The people do not
need anything like the quantity of notes
in their possession for ordinary currency
purposes. They are holding about three
times as much in notes as they did before
the war, and no country in the world
can parallel this. It can be taken as a
fact that the reason for all this hoarding
is as unsound as it is often unsavory.


DUNLOP shows you
fd
TO SAVE
YOUR TYRES
STOP SPEEDING
Hawaii
£
bqhh
STOP OVEHLOADIHG THIS RU,NS
TYRE CARCASES
STOP mmm on iino£B4kflat£o tyres
RUBBER WASTED 527<>
■
5S .
Tmxmw.
ISI
i .
STOP BUMPING KERBS
m
t
n OH CHANGING TYRES FROM„WHEEt
UU. TO WHEGI' EVERY 2000 MILES'
38°/.
0 i
O
29% *
PERCENTAGES
SHOW WEAR
ON RESPECTIVE
* 14% WHEELS
ON CHECKING WHEEL ALIGNMENT
UU AND BALANCING BRAKES . . . .
- ii
ISSUED IN THE NATIONAL INTEREST BY
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Save all your Rubber Scrap for the Official Collectors
H. 8.594-33
f
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
7^
A
m
m
m
10 for 1/1 20 for 2 J2
d
In respect of the year to June 30, 1940,
Bond’s Industries paid war-time company
tax of £45,283. If this was at the maxi-
mum rate of 60 p.c. applicable to that
year it would indicate taxable profits in
excess of £75,000. It is likely that the
rate averaged less than 50 p.c. and that
the profit for the purpose of war tax was
between £BO,OOO and £90,000. The fact
that until the end of 1940 the co. balanced
on Dec. 31 has made the comparison of
profits as shown in the published accounts
very difficult, especially as war-time com-
pany tax is not revealed until actually
paid. For the 12 months to June 30 last
the co. disclosed net earnings of £49,063,
subject to war tax. The rate of this tax
will be stiffen for the 1940-41 and 1941-42
periods, in respect of which tax still had
to be met at last balance. In view of this
and in spite of the substantial nature of
the disclosed “profit” in relation to the
£233,344 of paid-up capital, the div. to
shareholders has been reduced from 10
p.c. to 9 p.c. Most of the co.’s activities
are financed by £512,000 of debentures,
a relic of the old George A. Bond co.’s
failure. Holders of these went without
some of their interest during the hard
times experienced by the present co. until
just before the outbreak of war, and in
any case are subject to the 1931 statutory
cut of 22| p.c. It is proposed to offer
these debenture-holders pref. shares
carrying a div. “not exceeding 6 p.c.” in
place of their £5 Bs. 6d. per cent, mort-
gage.
* * * *
Knight Thomas Gordon, of Birt and
Co., takes over the job of Director of
Shipping under Minister Beasley. Ship-
ping problems on the Australian coast
have been growing steadily since Japan
became established in the Solomons, and
the shortage of space is indicated by the
restriction on the inter-State carriage of
goods announced by the Dedman organ-
isation last week. Even beer, which,
although it is brewed in every State, has
been freighted round Australia during
more than three years of. war, may
not now be shipped without special
permission. Tom Gordon is repre-
sentative in Australia for the British Min-
istry for War Transport, and his old
chief, Owen Cox, had a big shipping job
in the last war.
* * * *
Dunstan, Premier of Victoria, who is
not to be allowed to pay his civil service
ordinary “time” rates on Melbourne Cup
day—the Commonwealth insists on over-
time —is obviously fed up with some
Federal “war organisation.” Referring to
Mr. Dedman’s department he said that
much “war organisation” amounted to
dislocation of industry, and that effective
war reorganisation could best be achieved
by men with a practical knowledge of
the problems involved. These men were
as anxious as anyone to see a proper war
job done. But, as things stood, “unneces-
sary Government interference is caus-
ing irrigation and frustration among those
whose specialised training fits them
for the task of reorganisation to meet
the altered conditions of war.”
♦ * * *
For some reason or other Ezra
Norton’s Sydney evening paper is squeal-
ing for the deletion of the personal-
liability clause in N, S. Wales mort-
gages entered into since J. T. Lang wiped
the covenant out in mortgages transacted
up to his time. The “Mirror” makes a
great mouthful out of the mortgagor
having someday to pay his just debts out
of his pocket where the security granted
is inadequate. It is an old British prin-
ciple that debts must be paid, and
repudiation is an ugly thing and not to be
advocated.
» * * *
The Clyde Engineering Co., Sydney,
whose capital has long been large in re-
lation to its profits, has its overdraft
guaranteed by the Commonwealth Gov-
eminent. The Treasurer as a result has
had the right to appoint the managing
director. At a general meeting of the
co. last month it was resolved that the
Treasurer shall have the right to appoint
two directors, and that no person shall
be entitled to be managing director other
than one of these two directors unless
the Treasurer consents. These provisions
apply only so long as the Government
guarantees the overdraft.
* * * *
Queensland’s tobacco crop in 1941-
42 was 2,535,0001 b., compared with
2,281,0001 b. in the preceding season,
Efforts are being made to increase pro-
duction, but, as elsewhere, labor is the
big problem.
In Great Britain before the war in-
comes of under £5OO a year paid 7.4 p.c.
of the total income tax. In 1941-42 this
group paid 32.4 p.c. of the total. And
the total had grown from £3lO million
to £835 million, Canberra is all too reluc-
tant to reveal similar figures, but they
are definitely not flattering to the war
effort of Australians in that income class.


THE SERVICE MAN
Struggle for the Solomons.
“Ek Dum”: Press and radio ran true
to sample when the weightier phases of
the new battle for the Solomons opened.
The stern facts were presented com-
pletely out of balance. Judgments were
formed before there were any data on
which to form judgment.
The usual remedies were prescribed.
First, “unity of command” over an area
too vast for any one man to control in
detail, and over two strategies which differ
widely and each of which calls for a
specialist’s attention. Also a swapping
of horses in the middle of the torrent.
Naval strategy and the at present more
important lines-of-communication prob-
lem are one complete job. There are two
phases in every battle—Napoleon put it
that no offensive should be attempted
until the attacker had secured his own
defences to the point of having an im-
pregnable base. At the present stage it
is the function of the Pacific Naval Com-
mand and the Air Forces to see that our
attack base, which is primarily Aus-
tralia, is inviolate while it is made im-
pregnable. The lines of communication
across the Pacific must be kept cease-
lessly open and flowing ; shipping losses
from attack must be reduced to a mini-
mum. All this is quite enough to occupy
the attention of one command, and it is
purely a naval problem, best directed
from Pearl Harbor, a central position on
the communication line.
From Pearl Harbor, with its naval
facilities, even that part of the plan which
deals with keeping the enemy out of the
Solomons and other island chains from
which our coast and routes to America
could be menaced by air or submarine
bases can be best managed. We have no
major dock or base equipment.
General MacArthur’s main task is a
different one. His first function is to
place Australia in a state of internal
defence while it is being turned into an
effective offensive base, though this job
naturally includes the fending off of any
forces which come within reach of his
fists, and the keeping at arm’s length of
any enemy formation which succeeds in
coming close enough to the Common-
wealth to disturb or threaten its war effort
or morale.
His secondary but longer-term job is to
determine what occupation forces are
necessary to advance step by step against
Japanese-held territory, to organise and
equip and train and dispose those forces.
When the general has made the Com-
monwealth safe and he is ready, with
other agencies, to take the offensive, it
will again become the function of the
United Navies and Marines to clear the
seas for him and help him to secure foot-
holds in the Indies, or wherever he
feels it best to strike.
When the time comes for actual offen-
sives there probably will be more unity
of local initiative vested in one man.
The stage at which singleness of local
control can be arrived at is, however, still
distant.
The Storm Continues
The renewed mutter of heavy thunder'
in the Solomons was heard via Washing-
ton on Oct. 26. The day before, President
Roosevelt had called a command con-
ference in Washington, Then the U.S.
Navy announced that on the previous
Friday the enemy had made four
attempts, supported by tanks, to break
through the western defence lines of the
Marines on Guadalcanal.
The Army, Marines and artillery broke
up each attempt firmly ; but on the Satur-
day morning a further enemy concentra-
tion was dealt with in time by U.S.
aircraft.
That day a surface sea force was
noticed 300 miles to the n.-e. of Guadal-
canal. It contained several cruisers and
destroyers. The indefatigable air units
attacked and probably damaged a cruiser,
and next day further attacks were made
against cruisers and destroyers just north
of Florida, which may have been the
ones fired on and bombed the previous
evening. The enemy ships withdrew. But
in the meantime the strong Japanese
formations already on the island had
been strengthened again.
While N’York papers quarrelled about
whether U.S. commanders had been out-
smarted early in August, Japanese
ships appeared in various directions as
if they were bent on closing a steel ring
against the gallant little band of Tulagi-
area defenders. And a sober N.Y. “Times”
correspondent at Washington announced
that “the Japanese have begun their offen-
sive to recover Guadalcanal” and that,
jp Washington, military circles were
“grim and tense.”
MacArthur at Work
Aromd the S ° lomons and s - w ’ Pacific
military area, the only sounds of dispute
Came from the bomber and fighter forces
2‘Y*! 1 su f ndry Nipponese. General
Mm as anLt Snl* HtoS blmbl
'I.; 1 ,, ,!.! ?., 1 K ,’■ 1 , '° ,
S flf?" !?■ T shlpp k lng t fr <™ a >° w
Jf™ 1 ’ a £, er wi ?i ch a B™ b °at ™s seen to
S “J: ,™. e rarders looked back on three
a T
about 12,000 tons, all of them on fire
T ,h^ cnt iu/ 00mcd ;r
p , lp three “coring Ito the s-w.
“““unique, 80 000 tons of ships
had been destroyed or badly damaged in
K^aul^ a , °f* A .. , ...
. The battle had continued meanwhile
! n , Guadalcanal area. Jap destroyers
yf~ 2 n Sunday I T ori ) in g sun k a small
U.S. fleet tug, the Seminole, and a harbor
P near Tulagi. Shore batteries
5? ade three hits on the destroyer, while
Grumman Wildcats further bombed and
strafed. Two U.S. minesweepers and
Navy and Marine dive-bombers sank two
d 6 s l r °y ers off Guadalcanal,
That Sunday night the Japs on Guadal-
£ ana * attacked the Henderson airfield
. m a new direction the south. They
pierced the defences but were flung back.
while on tbe 1 west, in fierce fighting,
Marines were holding their own. _
, Tne cruiser and destroyer force which
bad beea v , l . ce stacked at the week-end
w as a § am followed up on Monday morn-
and . one |* s cru iso rs damaged. In
* be even mg Catahnas picked up an enemy
force 400 miles east of Guadalcanal.
That means that it was somewhere
between the Solomons and the Gilberts,
general naval and air battle seems
J° bave developed in the open sea
a ,tle further south-east of the small
Sb ®P b ' s tbe Stewart (Sikiana) Islands,
which are immediately to the east of
M a t a fla and the Tulagi-Guadalcanal area,
The Japanese placed the battle area as
uorth of Santa Cruz, which suggested
that their f° rce was a task fleet bound
011 a mission to outflank the Solomons,
perhaps to strike south to the Hebrides
or New Caledonia or even to the Aus-
tralian coast; in any case, to menace
P a cific communications in general,
Tokyo Has a Field Day
T . a j , , T . ~
. Ca f e eX^l dIy ’
, • , ty ’
_ • e red , tbat aircraft-
camerj ai ? d a batd f shl P bad be en sunk
* n or \ day i° nS bat^ e ’,. tbat ar \ otb
w arsbl P ofau unidentified type and 200
planes had been destroyed. Jap losses
they B av f. “*"1 and a
crais . er sb B b tly damaged and 40 planes
mi £^ n 2- , ,■ . .
rT^ e Navy s estimate of the score
01 ° ss and d & mage was:
Japan: Four to six heavy bomb hits on
the aircraft-carrier Zaikaku (14,000 tons);
two on another of same class; two heayy
?2°9,soo mnsjTone hiivfbomb
other battleship; three cruisers damaged
by bomb and/or torpedo hits; 100 ’planes
destroyed SOmoreprobably.
U.S.: One aircraft-carrier sunk by bomb
anc i torpedo on October 26, and one de-
stroyer—Porter (1850 tons)—and two
auxiliary vessels sunk,
The U.S. Navy had previously an-
nounced the loss by torpedo on Septem-
ber 15 of the aircraft-carrier Wasp, 14,700
tons, 77 ’planes, the newest carrier on
service. A few weeks previously it had
been helping to succor Malta,
Some fears were raised by a speech by
Vice-Admiral Edwards, second in com-
mand of the U.S, Navy, in which he said
that the Navy’s latest losses in the Solo-
mons were serious but not unexpected,
that the U.S. Navy was now strongly
outnumbered in the S. Pacific and that
people “must realise that the Japanese
Navy was the second-largest in the world
because of Britain’s heavy losses.”
The alleged admission of U.S. inferior-
ity at such a crisis seemed guileless. So
far, the higher officers of the U.S. Navy
command have not proved guileless,
except in the case of Pearl Harbor.
Tokyo, however, seems to think they
are, and at once extended a poor corn-
pliment to the Marines on Guadalcanal,
Did the Marines know (Tokyo asked)
that the most daring counter-attacks of
the U.S.N. had been completely crushed
by the unheard-of might of the most
powerful Japanese naval force yet en-
countered, and brought to a complete
end? Had they heard that four U.S.
aircraft-carriers and a battleship and 200
U.S. ’planes now slept peacefully at the
bottom of the Pacific Ocean? Tokyo
quoted our Mr. Forde as saying that his
Government has complete reports of the
battle for the Solomons, but “in the in-
terests of the maintenance of peace and
order” these reports could not be released.
The Marines were now marooned, the
announcer told those stout warriors
sadly, deprived of all connections with
Australia and America and of arms,
munitions and provisions.
“Your fate is doomed,” squeaked
Nippon. “Your useless resistance is only
leading you to a denial of your right to
live ; it is leading you to your deaths.”
By a strange omission the Tokyo mes-
sage to the Marines failed to mention
three cruisers and 18 other vessels which
the Imperial High Command claimed to
have sunk in the Stewart Islands battle ;
and in any case there was no explanation
from Tokyo as to why, if the triumph
of the Japanese Navy was real, Tulagi
and Guadalcanal were not at once
blanketed with an offensive backed by
heavy naval guns.
Admiral Nimitz at Pearl Harbor did
not seem depressed on Oct. 29 when he
told reporters that he felt confident that
the enemy would be driven out of the
Solomons and vanquished. But a Navy
spokesman in Washington issued a warn-
ing against overoptimism, though he in-
sisted that communications with Guadal-
canal w r ere still open.
The Marines on Thursday, surrounded
on three sides by a superior force,
seemed to be holding their own firmly.
The Navy reported that “enemy losses
in men and equipment in troop actions
since Oct. 23 have been very heavy com-
pared with ours.” But “no report has
been received of any other action in the
Solomons.”
The attacks on the devoted Marines
continued at intervals, but over the week-
end they were still holding their own.
Australia There!
From the Australian end bombers con-
tinued to give splendid support, and it was
told that R.A.A.F. Beaufighters and other
machines were in the S. Solomons play-
ing a gallant part in supporting the
Marines. On Wednesday night an enemy
bomber was destroyed and fires started
in the dispersal areas of Buka. At Rabaul
a heavy bomber formation drove through
thick defensive fire, hit an enemy war-
ship, on which an explosion was seen,
and another vessel, which was left on
fire. The intermediate ’drome at Gas-
mata was strafed by lighter units. And
all three expeditions came home intact.
On Friday three waves of General
MacArthur’s bombers* operating in the
Buin-Faisi area, hit a battleship or heavy
cruiser twice and made near-hits on an
aircraft-carrier and other vessels. In all
27 tons of bombs were dropped. On
Saturday before dawn another 18 tons
were directed on the same concentra-
tions. A heavy cruiser blew up, a light
cruiser was severely damaged, a mer-
chant ship was hit and another was set
on fire. All ’planes returned from both
raids. Two further waves of raiders at
the week-end dropped 33 tons of bombs
and seven ships are believed to have been
sunk or damaged. On Rabaul Harbor
on Saturday 21 tons of bombs were
dropped—and two ships were set on fire.
An Australian - based reconnaissance
’plane, attacked by 11 “O” fighters in the
Solomons, shot down three.
It was now clear that the enemy fleet
definitely had withdrawn to lick its
wounds. The U.S. Fleet was able to
bombard Jap positions on Guadalcanal
for several hours on November 1.
On Friday Colonel Knox had said that
“the first phase of the Solomons battle
is over; we are waiting for the second
to begin.”
It was certain, from the losses quoted,
that neither side had come near to the end
of its naval resources, though both may
have suffered embarrassing weakening in
carrier strength. To the Japanese this
would be the more serious. For the U.S.
and Allied defenders have heavy land-
based ’planes and aerodromes, each worth
a dozen carriers against naval attack. The
Japanese must depend for the time being
on sea-borne aircraft in the southern
Solomons. Their battleships are safe
from aerial torpedo attack by land-based
squadrons only so long as they have
enough aircraft-carriers in the area to
keep a fighter umbrella overhead.
In the Owen Stanleys.
“Ek D.”: The rains, which are about
the only punctual feature of the tropics,
have begun to arrive in New Guinea, and
for months ahead land fighting is likely
to be a secondary operation unless the
enemy is weaker in resources than he
seems to be.
The gallant Australian battalions are,
however, fighting on inch by inch. On
Oct. 22 it was reported that our forces,
having driven the enemy out of his en-
trenchments at Eora Creek, were only
about a mile and a half by direct line
from Alola, where there were still
stronger positions.
Bitter was the struggle last week. Our
land forces were backed by continuous
strafing of the enemy’s communication
lines beyond Alola and daylight attacks
as far afield as Lae, not only by bombers
but by Beaufighters. At Lae one machine
was lost.
Before the week-end it seemed almost
as if a temporary deadlock had been
reached. But the weather was bad, the
much-mauled communication line over
the Owen Stanleys was against quick con-
centration and the Australians were
naturally at a disadvantage in being short
of artillery—a sufficiency of 25-pounders
and mortars would soon have solved their
problems.
The attackers are up against established
mortar and m.-g. posts, well concealed
and usually covering three directions;
but they have the advantage in close-
quarters fighting. They also have the
cover to make it possible. They specialise
in the flank attack, even though this
makes progress slow because of the rough
terrain.
The enemy learns of their presence
through the sudden arrival of a hail of
grenades, and before he can dispose of
these he finds himself on the receiving
end of a fierce bayonet charge. He does
not like the bayonet, though he has the
Asiatic glee in quick-firing guns. “The
Japanese are brave,” an officer told cor-
respondents, “but, not once have they
stood up to the bayonet.”
One of these bayonet charges was deci-
sive in the drive on Alola village, the
capture of which was announced in
General MacArthur’s communique of
Oct. 31.
The village is 1\ miles from Kokoda.
G.H.Q. reported that forward elements
were still advancing. So it seemed
that, after five weeks from the beginning
of the advance, front-line troops are
almost back where they were before the
Japanese started their drive across the
range.
At the week-end the next objective,
Isurava, was taken and passed. On Nov.
1 the troops had reached a point at which
the land is sliding for the last six miles
into Kokoda, which is not much more
than 1200 feet above sea-level. How-
ever, with the capture of Alola, which
is on a commanding spur, the worst
strategic obstacles have been passed.
The enemy seems to have withdrawn
his interest from New Guinea. It is
reported that he has actually taken some
New Guinea mainland troops to rein-
force his landing parties on Guadalcanal.
Raids on Darwin
Light but abortive raids were made on
Moresby by reconnaissance units last
week ; but most of the activity by the
Japanese air forces was across the Timor
Sea. They again began to raid Darwin
in the apparent hope of mitigating the
ceaseless Allied assaults on their Dilli
(Timor) base.
The first raid was on the centre of the
town. ’Planes came over at 8000 feet —
much lower than usual —at high speed
and over an unaccustomed route, but
they left hurriedly after dropping half a
dozen bombs near the battle-scarred
Sacred Heart Church and the “Cafe
Blitz,” nee Don Hotel.
Three more raids followed on succes-
sive nights, the largest by nine machines,
which came over singly at half-hour in-
tervals, but little damage was done. Each
raid was made at from 8000 to 12,000
instead of the customary 20,000 to 26,000
feet.
The raids on Dilli were hampered by
cloud, but they were continued night
after night.
Old-war Methods in Egypt.
“Ek Dum”: Among all the troops in
the Egyptian battle the only ones likely
to feel at home are those familiar with
the desert fringes of the north of S. Aus-
tralia, the Bight area or the southern N.T.
round the central lakes.
The country over which the soldiers
have advanced is as dreary and feature-
less as any in the world. Even in normal
times it is mainly sand or rubble built
up into crusty, narrow ridges near the
coast and into the 350 ft. eroded, broken
and sometimes stony escarpment ridges
near the Quattara depression. Wind
sometimes alters physical features almost
overnight.
Under artillery bombardment, fighter-
suction, tank-pounding, lorry-rushing and
bomb-dropping, it must be something like
the inside of a shaken cement bag, with
flies and various species of insect life and


the pulverised residue of bombardments
thrown in.
At 10 p.m. on Friday night, Oct. 23,
the forces on each side had been living
in the murk of preparation for seven
days. At that moment the landscape went
up with a bang and a flash to announce
that the Eighth Army had hurled itself
bodily at the Afrikakorps, while the
R.A.A.F. and its satellite services clawed
at the Karps’s hair. The offensive went
off with such a solid explosion that even
Berlin Radio all last week seemed slightly
dazed and hushed whenever it spoke of
Africa. After nearly a week’s reflection
it explained to the German people that
the brutal British were using a million
men in their frontal attack, a modest esti-
mate which measures the impact as
the enemy felt it at the rate of two divi-
sions-muzzle-energy per mile.
Berlin has always sneered at this tech-
nique when employed by Famous Re-
porters of the Russian war. It seemed
to come naturally off Berlin’s lips last
week. And at any moment a German
Army spokesman may be expected to
remark that the fighting is more desper-
ate than at Verdun.
The fact seems to be, from the enu-
meration of divisions, that there may be
120,000 to 150,000 Germans and Italians
on divisional strength, plus air force, plus
ancillaries; and in the Eighth Army, in
addition to British divisions, one A.1.F.,
one N.Z. (partly armored), one S. African,
one Indian and one composed of Free
French, Poles and Greeks, plus British
armor and artillery —not counting rear-
ward reserves and naval strength and
communication troops.
On a 35-mile front, that probably
amounts to as many men as have
been used in the present war unless
in one or two assaults on fortified
positions such as Sevastopol. And
it is the first time that such a force in
such concentration has been used for an
infantry offensive against the Germans.
Piece by piece the story is beginning
to form itself. There were no smoke-
screens or code procedure about the
British onslaught. The sappers sneaked
forward, taping out a tortuous way
through the minefields for a full mile.
Then the soft brilliance of the desert
starlight was split open with an explo-
sion of flame from the guns. British
’planes threw out flares which illumi-
nated nooks and crannies and made the
hostile lines look like Luna Park on
Christmas Eve. The astonished enemy
looked up along the path of tracer bul-
lets at the novel spectacle of British and
U.S. dive-bombers hurtling down among
the flaming onions and Very lights and
other hell-fodder, and searchlights, seen
for the first time in the Western Desert,
nervously stabbed the sky in search of
targets.
The whole line moved forward to its
own set first objective in the din. The
51st Highlanders, re-formed after Dun-
kirk, sent their Dudelsacks ahead in the
old Highland manner. They were the first
to reach their objectives, which are next to
those of the A.I.F. and near the railway.
The first prisoners fell to the Austra-
lians on the coastal flank. Queenslanders
and New South Welshmen within an hour
or a bit more were sending back stunned
and dejected Huns. The Victorians were
the first A.I.F. whose flares told that
they had occupied their first enemy posi-
tion —at 11.50 p.m. It had been a slow
business through minefields, wire, booby
traps and forward posts served with
waspish and stuttering light guns ; but a
clean sweep had been made. The only
Germans behind the advanced battalions
were dead or wounded in the smoke-
screen or captive.
By midnight the whole A.I.F. line was
at the end of its first stage, after a neat
but bloodily-grim operation for the
enemy —Australian casualties were re-
ported afterwards to be “incredibly light.”
The advance had been topped off with
a savage smash through everything,
blind-and-hell-for-leather, by the flank
battalion of South Australians.
The A.I.F. artillery had helped the
advance with its biggest effort during the
present war.
At 12.5 a.m. the Diggers were now on
their way forward again. Dawn showed
a dreary spectacle of ruin all round —
broken strongposts, overturned vehicles,
burning ’planes, burning dumps, dead,
discarded weapons. But a lot of country
which had been looked at longingly for
months was well behind ; familiar hills
and ridges were to be seen from new
angles, and it was possible for almost the
first time in Middle Eastern battle to
take a quart-pot of tea without a Stuka
diving into it. The Stukas appeared to
have declared a five-day week in Egypt.
The gains for the first night of fighting
could be measured roughly by the High-
land division’s two-mile advance —they
tramped five miles to make it.
The week-end was spent in consolidat-
ing and mopping up, in moving forward
supplies necessary for the next move and
in prospecting, at nearer worm’s eye
view, the salient features of the land-
scape ahead. There was some tank fight-
ing on Saturday and Sunday. By Monday
night Berlin, sombrely and without en-
thusiasm, claimed to have stopped the
advance and to have destroyed 109
British tanks.
The Ever-present Air Forces
The one thing which never ceased was
the incessant passing over of the Imperial
Air Forces in an infinite variety, ranging
from heavy bombers soaring away to
Libya, escorted by long-distance fighters
in some cases, to all the species of fighter-
bomber and dive-bomber and ground-
strafer, which mingled with heavier flying
artillery nearer home, heralding and fore-
running every move by infantry. A
novelty was a complete U.S. long-dis-
tance squadron which attacked an enemy
convoy, shooting down four guardian
Macchis, and ranged across the Mediter-
ranean to lay eggs on Navarino.
One day 1000 sorties were made by
British and Dominion and U.S. aircraft.
It was not till Tuesday, four days after
the beginning of the attack, that
made their appearance in any numbers ;
but they were not very successful in their
support of the counter-attacks which
were launched that day.
The British air supremacy has never
been lost, and this is the more satisfac-
tory since the German air effort can be
by no means negligible. The Axis air
commander-in-chief, who was narrowly
missed by a stick of five bombs on an
aerodrome, according to German corre-
pondents is Kesselring, who commanded
the main Luftwaffe Air Fleet in France
during the battle for Britain.
“Snap, Bite and Digest”
The process by which the British line
was moved forward was inaptly described
as “nibbling.” Progress is achieved by
a series of snapping artillery attacks,
followed by grim, slow bites into the
German defences. After the gristly
morsel has first been rent to rags by
artillery and aircraft, and bitten off by
tfie infantry, a period of mastication
follows, in which sometimes the tanks
play the part of grinders.
When the defences have been well
fletcherised they are digested, and the
debris, in the shape of spoil and
prisoners, is spat over the shoulders of
occupying formations to be carted off to
the dumps or to prison camps.
Periods of apparent digestion are neces-
sarily fairly lengthy, and for the most
part the infantry are one-meal-a-day men
with a habit of eating at night.
The Germans Counter-attack
On October 28 the German com-
munique admitted that Axis operations
were defensive, though they were claimed
to be “heavy and successful,” with “bitter
infantry and armored fighting, particu-
larly in the north” —where the A.I.F.
were at work.
Berlin Radio summed the battle up
the same day as “furious, bitter and
bloody,” especially along the railway by
the slight dreary rise of Tel El Eisa, near
where Highlanders and A.I.F. sectors
merge, and where the enemy admitted
the driving of a wedge westward —
pinched-out, he asserted.
As the new week opened, tank battles
became more frequent. Again and again
the A.1.F., and, in fact, all the line,
down to the Indians and the Free French
and Greeks on the extreme southern
Quattara flank, suffered furious and
gusty counter-attacks, sometimes two in
an afternoon. These had to be repelled
from trenches in which a.-t. guns had
been hurriedly set down among the fresh
corpses of Germans and Italians which
there had been no time to remove. Twice
on Tuesday afternoon the tanks came as
near as a quarter of a mile in daylight,
propped under the withering gust of
high-velocity ‘ missiles spat at them and
retired out of range to cruise sulkily
along the horizon looking for a more
promising opening.
One of the strongest counter-attacks
was made against newly-taken positions
held by N. S. Welshmen that Tuesday
night, when mechanised infantry and
tanks pushed to within 100 yards of the
A.I.F. trenches.
Here the a.-t. guns caught the
marauders with a sudden blast. German
infantry leapt from their lorries and
charged. The A.I.F. held its fire, then
let loose a storm of bullets which
seemed to melt the oncoming German
wave. Without delay another German
rush followed. This met the same treat-
ment. The struggle went on for an hour
before the enemy called it a night and
made an attempt to retire.
At once the N.S.W. patrols were out
on a mustering expedition, rounding up
batches of enemy* troops and wiping out
those that resisted. It was gruelling
work for troops who had been fight-
ing almost solidly for five days, but
it was done thoroughly, and if the bag
was not heavier it was because there were
not so many Huns left to bag.
Back to 1918
On October 28 Lord Croft, Joint Par-
liamentary Under-Secretary for War,
spoke of the battle as “a frontal attack be-
cause no other course was possible.” The
advance, he said, was against a fortified
line widely protected by elaborate mine-
fields ; and a great depth of defences
must be cleared of mines and pierced by
infantry before the tanks could rush for-
ward to tackle the heavy enemy mobile
infantry in the rear and come to grips
with Rommel’s panzers.
Lord Croft said the infantry had made
good progress in the north; —A.1.F.-High-
land sector —where objective's had been
mostly gained and held. He added;
Last war’s soldiers know what bloody
fighting this involves, but there is no alter-
native if Rommel’s veterans are to be
shifted from the menacing positions they
hold so near the Egyptian capital.
It was, indeed, fighting comparable
with that of the last war in France,
though the development of minefield and
sky-lighting technique, aerial strafing and
intensified usage of quick-firing small and
medium arms and individualised defence
posts led to a much wider scattering of
forces.
Towards the middle of the week Vichy
announced that a British landing attempt
at Mersa Matruh had failed. The Ger-
man story followed —it said that the
attempt had been made in landing barges,
but when the foremost had been sunk
with the loss of all hands, the remainder
had turned back. It was admitted later
that two attempts' to land had been made.
The Germans said one party had reached
the railway line.
On Wednesday, following the two sharp
counter-attacks and continued night tank-
mechanised infantry attack on the A.I.F.
in the north, the infantry moved forward
to new objectives.
The official Cairo communique re-
ported that gains had been extended and
more prisoners taken ; but it spoke only
of “minor engagements” and added:
“Fighting continues.”
The German version asserted that
strong British infantry attacks, for which
the way was prepared by heavy artillery
fire and tank sallies, made some breaches,
but that these were closed by Axis troops
after a bitter struggle. The claim was
made that Maoriland tanks were isolated
from infantry following them, 30
destroyed or captured, and many M.L.
prisoners taken.
After the laying down of a barrage
heavier than that which opened the
battle, the second phase of the advance
began on Friday night and Saturday
morning (Oct. 31). At times the rate of
the fire was said to have reached 1500
shells per minute.
New objectives were attained more
quickly than the earlier ones. The A.I.F.
cut off a substantial German force by
driving at an angle north-easterly through
the enemy to the sea. Over 3000
prisoners had been brought back by
November 1.
These developments did not lift the
battle out of its preparative stages. De-
cision cannot come until the front de-
fences are broken up on a wide enough
front to allow the tanks to pour through,
manoeuvre and try conclusions with
Rommel’s three powerful armored divi-
sions and the artillery which he must
have arrayed for the inevitable tank
battles to come.
Confusion on the Volga.
“Ek Dum”: Mystery followed mystery
in the October reports of the campaign
in Russia.
Said “Red Star” on October 15: “Tie
decisive battle for Stalingrad is being
fought in a sector less than a mile wide
at a point where the Russians have least
room to manoeuvre.” Germans (the
report continued) had numerical superi-
ority in men and machines and over-
whelming superiority in the air. As
evidence of which they launched 1500
bombing sorties against this narrow sector
in one day—one to every yard and a
quarter of front in a flat terrain of fac-
tory buildings which also was being
assaulted by superior forces on the
ground.
On Oct. 22 “Red Star” stated that
“22 divisions are concentrated against
Stalingrad; 15 infantry, three motorised
and four tank, possessing 500 tanks, 1200
field guns and 1000 trench mortars, with
800 aircraft.”
On Oct. 29 Moscow officially reported
that the enemy had “massed huge infan-
try and tank forces of two infantry and
two tank divisions, about 50,000 men,”
and was “sending troops forward pro-
tected by 50 or 60 ’planes.”
The same day Moscow and several
correspondents there declared that a
“fresh German concentrated attack” had
been launched on Stalingrad’s factory
district, which was being churned up by
furious artillery and mortar fire. And
the Stockholm correspondent of the
“Times” remarked that the Germans no
longer believed that the Red October
works could be taken by small arms
alone.
On Oct. 21 the fall of the Red Barri-
cade and Dzerzhinsky factories had been
admitted, and it was stated that the only
section of the factory area remaining in
Russian hands was the Red October fac-
tory. But on the evening of Oct. 29
A.B.C. announced that the Germans were
still trying to penetrate the Stalingrad
factory district.
In a “Times” dispatch of Oct. 26
the correspondent marvelled at the tena-
city of the garrison, as well he might;
“How it manages to retain the city is one
of the war’s near miracles.” Twelve
hours later it appeared to another author-
ity that the garrison held a half-mile strip
along the Volga in the north. And still
another scribe discovered that the enemy
had a wedge along the Volga on the
north and was driving down it.
Throughout last week Timoshenko’s
relief armies, both north and south, were
represented as moving nearer every day.
An enemy version was that they were
being held off in the north by Italians
and Rumanians. According to the Rus-
sians a Rumanian division was anni-
hilated, and Berlin admitted that the
Italians had suffered heavily. But it said
on Nov. 1 that there had been no attacks
north of Stalingrad since Oct. 26 and
none on the south since Oct. 30.
Before the end of the mysterious month
the Germans declared that Russian H.Q,
had been withdrawn from Stalingrad 50
miles east of the Volga, where it had
been bombed. The “Times” man wrote
that the Germans were probably more
interested in consolidation than in gains
In Stalingrad.
It is fairly obvious that the enemy’s
main objective was to secure a throttle-
hold on the Volga and to lay down artil-
lery and bring up winter stores before
ice on the Don and snow and freeze on
the 1400-mile route to the nearest Ger-
man main base at Breslau inhibited heavy
traffic. To stop traffic on the Volga and
keep it stopped is a necessary preliminary
to victory over Russia in 1943.
So much for events in the Stalingrad
region. In the eastern Caucasus, to the
west of the furthest point of his advance,
the enemy drove southward along a
branch railway to take Nalchek, on a main
road to Grozny, which is the outpost
on the s.-w. of the Grozny region’s mam
defence system. He claimed 7000 prisoners,
with 66 guns and 38 tanks, “captured or
destroyed.” This is a development which
might suggest an attempt to gain a foot-
hold for an early-spring advance across
the Caucasus into Georgia to cut the
Batoum pipeline and attack Gori (Stalin’s
birthplace), Tiflis and Baku. To the west
another force might attempt to link hands
down the Georgian valley with the Ger-
man Units now on the outskirts of
Tuapse, and clear the remainder of the
Black Sea coast of Soviet resistance.
Though a lot may depend on the
weather, more fighting on a large scale is
scarcely to be expected in the U.S.S.R.
this year. Normally rivers freeze through-
out the country within the next five
weeks. -
The Luftwaffe has attacked ancient
Canterbury again, this time with 50
bombers —the biggest daylight raid on
Britain in two years. Nine of the
bombers were shot down. The raid
caught the streets full of shopping
crowds, and there were deaths and dam-
age, Other German aircraft machine-
gunned and occasionally bombed towns
in s.-e. England. Most of a big forma-
tion of FWl9o’s were turned back over
the Channel, but a few got through. Five
were shot down and four more bombers
during the evening.
* * * *
Three U.S. bombing raids on Hong
Kong were sourly referred to by Tokyo
Radio. There have also been U.S. raids
on Japanese iron and steel production
centres in China and raiding by both
sides in Burma and on the Indian border.
« * * •
Says Admiral W. D. Leahy, Mr. Roose-
velt’s Chief of Staff:
The British Navy throughout the war has
carried on a magnificent fight against the
Axis. It has sunk 65 warships. The R.N.,
assisted by the Fleet Air Arm, has sunk,
captured or damaged nearly 7,000,000 tons
of German and Italian merchant shipping.
The British Home Secretary places the
surf ace-warship sinkings at 125.
* * * *
Berlin surprised the world last week
by admitting that the Admiralty estimate
of 530 U-boats sunk or destroyed was
“not far wrong.”


Engagement Announcement.
WISDOM—FRENCH—The engagement is an-
nounced of Doreen Hilda, twin daughter ot
Mrs. Wisdom, of Rose Park, and the late Mr.
L. Wisdom, to Richard Stanley, youngest son
of Mr. and Mrs. R. A. French, of Ring Street,
Exeter, S.A.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
War, like poverty, makes strange bed-
fellows, or, say, roommates. It brought
about the meeting of as fine a posy of
grandmothers as any soil could grow
and Elmer Rice’s effervescing comedy
“See Naples and Die.” With great good-
will Whitehall directors Kathleen Robin-
son and Alec Coppel handed over the
Minerva and the takings of the first
performance of their new show to the
National Shilling Drive, and as the
grandmother contest was part of that
drive the crowning of the triumphant
matriarch was the afternoon’s finale. Not
with rose or hawthorn, but with £ s. d.
were the winner and her runners-up
rewarded. Each, with great promptitude
and good wishes to the service women,
handed her cheque back.
Each made speech into the micro-
phone. The Alexander Gordon lady,
who was runner-up to the Julius lady,
sparkled along gaily. Said she had
never dreamed that she would ever take
part in a grandmothers’ race, spoke about
herself panting breathlessly up the field,
only to be beaten by the better grand-
mere. Mrs. Arthur Eedy and Mrs. Scott,
from Newcastle (somebody whispered it
was the second time in her life she had
been in a theatre), were other contestants
on the left-hand wing of the stage. Radio
and Y.W. importants were in the group.
t Cameras, posies and Jane Bernays, active
' on the publicity side, joined in the
melee. The theatre was crowded to the
back stalls, and only there did a few
empties meet the eye. Lucky-number
programmes, a flag, in which might.be
dropped cheque or change according to
exchequer, and a flower stall added still
more shillings. A hat that must be men-
tioned in dispatches was that worn by
Mrs. Hamilton Kirkland. It was small,
brown and not at all demure. It is the
sort of hat that must make the shade of
Helen of Troy regret her pre-hat period.
Elmer Rice must have been exalted
by something other than aerated waters
when he wrote “See Naples and Die.”
Marjorie Gordon, all bravura and a per-
fectly-tailored suit of white linen that
remained uncrushed even after she had
been kidnapped into her own bedroom
and presumably flung down, gagged and
what all (she must have been gagged or
she’d have screamed), is the Sydney
heroine. There’s an innkeeper’s wife who
whisks about in buoyant organdies
worked with wool flowers. It, too, shows
no sign of crushing, although she com-
plains that she has all the work to do,
while an alluring nut-brown maid floats
about in poinsettia-red silks which are
gathered up thigh high on the right side,
presumably to give her a freer hand with
the feather-dusteY The whole is rather
like a non-stop display of minor fire-
works over which Vesuyius (seen in the
background) broods with a rather bored,
elderly air,
A rug made from bits of old neckties
(school and otherwise) was a harmonic
composition on the wall at the Salvation
Army’s display in Anthony Horderns’
gallery. Its chief rival was a more
colorful but equally artistic one made
from the tops of socks. The display
served the purpose of letting the world
know the activities of the women of
General Booth’s Army as applied to the
Allied war effort. It deserved the
applause it received.
Outstanding is the ingenuity that the
workers have shown in the use of scraps
of material. Padded and quilted bed-
covers are done in a patchwork design,
the many squares and oblongs fitted to-
gether with an eye to color and pattern.
Many of these were sent in by country
branches. Frocks for small girls show
the same attention to detail. Some
youngster in a devastated area will go
gaily striped like a wasp, in a yellow and
brown pullover and a jaunty yellow
beret, topping off a brown skirt.
Another outfit, with its water greens,
blues and a touch of brown, suggests sea-
weed in a coral lagoon. There are hun-
dreds of such garments designed to
gladden the hearts of the bereft. One
table is piled with baby clothes sent in
by first offenders in Long Bay. Interest-
ing are the small canteen, the kinder-
garten and the rest room, reproductions
of the Army C.A.S. centre at Waverley.
The Minister for Labor and Industry
and Social Services made the opening
speech last Friday afternoon.
To Malta and to Russia exquisite out-
fits made by loving and untiring hands of
the members of the Anzac Fellowship of
Women have been sent. The baby clothes
are the work of the Babies’ Kit branch
of the society, known to the A.F.W. as
its “war unit.” In the three years of the ;
war thousands of garments have been dis-
tributed in England, for this babies’ kit
movement has captured the imagination
of Sydney women. Business girls knit
and sew for it. One invalid in the Home
of Peace has stitched for it for three
years. Others at that institution also knit
and sew. Women members of the Braille
Library are regular workers in the cause.
It was they who, as a token of sympathy,
sent a particularly beautiful collection of
tiny garments to be distributed among
children whose fathers were in H.M.S.
Barham when she was sunk.
At the annual meeting last week presi-
dent Mrs, Forbes sounded justly proud
of the achievement of the branch. She
spoke in the small cardroom off David
Jones’s George-street restaurant to a
great assemblage. At the official table
sat Dr. Mary Booth, president of the
Anzac Fellowship, Mrs. Feakes, wife of
the rear-admiral, and many other friends
of the Fellowship. There was music
before and after the speeches, and before
tea was served Miss Herring, of the
A.8.M., told of the aborigine as he
really is.
Betty Hunt is the candidate for Guild-
ford in the “Miss Red Cross” stakes,
being run in conjunction with Red Cross
Day in December. This Guildford
girl had already polled 4000 votes from
tennis parties and bridge evenings before
the very successful dance organised on
her behalf last Wednesday night. Betty’s
great game is golf, but most of her days
are occupied with helping her mother,
who is president of the local Red
Cross Branch. It is the branch’s
ambition to see its popular nominee
mount the dizzy pinnacle of fame as
“Miss Red Cross” on December 4.
For the first time in its three years of
service to the fighting services, C.U.S.A.
has made a State-wide appeal for help.
Both money and helpers are needed that
the work of the recreation huts at mili-
tary camps, the canteens, the Navy Club
and C. U.S.A.’s other enterprises may be
kept up to the high standard already set.
Already £37,000 had been spent in estab-
lishing them, C.U.S.A.’s president, Mrs.
Hegarty, told in her recent broadcast.
There has been such a rush among the
younger members to become service
women that C.U.S.A. cafes and canteens
are threatened with labor shortage unless
women over 40 will volunteer to man
the coffee urns. The appeal will last till
the first week in December, when it will
be rounded off at a conversazione in the
Town Hall, when Lady Wakehurst will
be the honored guest.
A friend tells that her sister in the
North of England had a rude awakening
one night when a prowling Nazi bomber
visited the district. With a sort of in-
drawn roar the windows of the English-
woman’s bedroom collapsed, and through
the gaping aperture hurtled the body of
a dead cow that came to final repose on
the bed the lady had just vacated. If
there is a moral to this it is that cows
should walk warily under a bomber’s
moon.
The Polish and the Czech Relief Funds
benefit by £326 14s. 2d. each as a result
of the Ignaz Friedman concert in the
Town Hall last August. Instead of
bothering with a meeting to announce the
results, the concert committee has sent
out a neat statement of accounts. The
A.B.C. orchestra and Dr. E. Bainton, of
the Conservatorium, helped the success
and receive due acknowledgment. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly was president of the com-
mittee, banker Alfred Davidson and
C. Darvall were the treasurers and Mrs.
Walter Burfitt and Nan Garvan the secre-
taries.
An exhibition of paintings by Treania
Smith will be opened by Lady Gowrie on
November 28. This show will have for
setting a garden party at Ball Green,
Turramurra, the home of General and
Mrs. Anderson. The Administrator of
New Guinea, Walter McNicoll, will wel-
come the vice-regal lady. Gate money to
the exhibition will benefit the Friendly
Fund of the Society of Women Writers.
But the entrance money to the garden
Fete plus the profits from stalls and tea
go to the Prisoners of War Street Fund.
Dancing by the Bodenweiser Ballet will
further cheer the afternoon.
From Melbourne
If a post-war novelist wants a subject,
he or she should call in and chat with
women who work for the Travellers’ Aid
Society on their war-years’ experiences.
These show a cross section of life which
few know well. The comings and goings
of folk —refugees, soldiers’ sweethearts
rushing down to town to see the last of
the boys on leave, and women from the
country seeking town war jobs—all seem
to end troublously on railway stations,
and the Travellers’ Aid hut is the harbor
of refuge for these distressed wayfarers.
Among their stories was one of a country
family with a deaf father who, with all
the tickets in his pocket, failed to hear
the bell at Cattle Creek, while the family,
without tickets or money, came on, till
it was emptied out at Spencer-street.
Producing “Faust” for the University
Opera School at Union Theatre last week
was a big effort, but Daisy Pirnitzer (here
pictured by Horn) and Dan Hardy, who
are accustomed to going all out for re-
sults, were equal to the occasion. Miss
Pirnitzer earned gratitude by putting on
the incidental ballets, which even pro-
fessional companies sometimes leave out.
Give her a few willing maidens, a pair of
scissors and a bale of colored rags and
she’ll put on a ballet in no time. On this
occasion she has the able collaboration
of her friend Hanny Koln. The lighting
at Union Theatre helps, but the small
stage must have given the producers of
the opera more than one headache. Pur-
pose of the show is to bag more money
for the women of the University’s pat-
riotic effort and the Red Cross and Com-
forts Fund.
On a windy hillside girls who will cook
for the troops were being put through
their training last week. They have had
the way partially prepared for them by
former cdoking schools of men, and the
outdoor work is therefore not begun
quite from the beginning—from the
spadework of digging out a stove from
the sand, as the men did. However, it’s
realistic enough, with the stoves at
ground-level and the difficulties of out-
door cooking somewhat intensified by the
hot weather which arrived in time to be
present at the opening of the school.
One of the little sidelines of the school
is the study of charts of diets and food
values. Some lucky men should ulti-
mately benefit from this training when
the girls come home from service and
get married.
Week-end weddings included that of
Jacquelyn Elliott and Sergeant Air-Gun-
ner John Fellows at Christ Church, South
Yarra. Bride had planned ahead and was
able to appear in true wedding finery of
deeper-than-white satin, and the two
maids, Margaret Hain and June Kiel,
wore semi-period gowns of moire in an
effective sea-water shade, varying accord-
ing to the light from bluish to faint green.
All Air Force were the menfolk —bride-
groom, best man and groomsman, as
well as padre. Betty Just, who has been
raising her nice voice for various war
efforts, sang at the church. Col. Wood-
house gave the bride away and Mrs. G.
S. Elliott subsequently, with bride and
’groom, shook hands with friends at No.
9 Darling-street.
Here it is almost Cup Eve and still not
a soul has had to turn out the best bed-
room and air the sheets to make a happy
holiday for a country or inter-State friend.
Authorities are agreed that never in the
history of Melbourne have there been so
few Cup-time visitors. No big functions
are listed, and even charities are making
but a small show. A few auxiliaries are
giving their following the opportunity to
subscribe to worthy funds. One of these
is the Silver Wings, auxiliary to the Air
Force, whose vice-president, Mrs. Maurice
Patkin, will throw open her spacious
flat in Queen’s-road on Cup Eve for a
buffet tea, which will be a little outing
for people coming away from war work
as well as a method of raising more
money for a mobile X-ray unit.
The University, while not making any
effort to attract students even to its re-
served courses, is at the moment seeking
a little publicity for its new diploma
course in Social Studies, which fits the
student for social and welfare work, and
may be important in post-war recon-
struction. Some short time back the
Social Studies department moved into the
University orbit, and the Commonwealth
Government helped it by calling on it to
train men and women from industrial
concerns who were to do welfare work in
war industries. The result is that a very
worth-while course of lectures and train-
ing is open to young and not-so-young
people who have the urge to missionary
effort along those lines. Salaries of
almoners and welfare workers, while not
munificent, are not far from what the
worker would earn if he or she went into
some other profession.
The inclusion of H. G. Egremont, of
the Modern Languages School of the
University, in the cast of “Lady Precious
Stream” suggests that the acting and
presentation will be of high standard.
Mr. Egremont has always been a tower
of strength to Union Theatre produc-
tions in which he has from time to time
had a hand, his artistic training and
general knowledge of Continental pro-
duction making him a fount of infor-
mation. He will take the part of the
fierce old Chinese general who appears
almost as a matter of course in most
Chinese plays. This play will help the
Chinese appeal as well as R.A.A.F. acti-
vities.
Paddy’s Market at Melbourne Town
Hall this month promises to be a lively
affair. Some of our leading matrons
have promised to run a butcher’s shop,
and to do it with all the mannerisms of
the trade, such as slapping the side of the
sheep while commenting on its coverage.
There will be everything for sale at the
market, from peanuts to double-decker
beds, and, should the tea ration permit,
there may be tea and scones, though it is
more than likely that refreshment will
have to consist of cool drinks sucked
through a straw. The City Councillors’
wives and wives of officers of the council
are banded in an auxiliary, and it is this
which will see to the management of the
market and the garnering of the wares to
be displayed for the sale on November 12.
Town Hall minds are as busy creating
“atmosphere” as a band of Hollywood
producers. The Main Hall will be
encouraged to look just like those
hearty affairs that grandpa used to
go to when a boy. Live geese
and fowls are being brought in to make
the noise. Vegetable sellers are to wear
dirndls and kerchiefs to give a Continen-
tal touch, and flower-sellers will strive
after the old-lady-with-feathers-in-her-hat
tradition. As each stall is being run
independently by a particular group, the
“dressing the part” idea should give some
variety and fun. The Town Hall kitchen
will provide a continuous buffet of tea
and scones, and a hot-dog stall will satisfy
deeper needs. Puppies, kittens, bantams
and goldfish will appeal to the less-
serious-minded marketeer, and the leg-
weary may find a seat on the Town Hall
balcony.
Russians in our midst have given hearty ■
support to the Sheepskins for Russia
appeal. The Russian Ball at St. Kilda
last week was the most picturesque affair
of the kind Melbourne has gazed on for
many moons. Like other Continentals,
the Russians have the sensible habit of
making their dances bearable for those
who don’t dance, who are always in the
majority even at these functions. They
ran stalls of the kind one would see at
a market fair in Old Russia, and buffet
and other eating stands which reminded
the traveller of similar things in Turkey
and Asia Minor and even China. There
was balalaika music, and Mina Hessileva
sang. Doing deputy for Lady Dugan,
w’ho is patroness of the appeal, was Mrs.
“Willie” Slater, wife of the newly-
appointed Minister to Russia.


VICTORIA RACING CLUB
FLEMINGTON
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY CUP DAY
Saturday, 1 4th November. Saturday, 21 st November.
£7500 ADDED TO MELBOURNE CUP and
£5OOO ADDED TO THE DERBY.
Arthur V. Kewney, (-Secretary.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROSS JOHN MARMADUKE MANSON
late of Grafton New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that NOREEN GERTRUDE MAN-
SON has filed a Petition in Divorce No. 860 of
1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards.
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance by the Twelfth day of January next
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from FREDERICK McGUREN Solicitor of
81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
TO REGINALD ALVEY formerly of Grand
Hotel Mildura in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown Surveyor.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife JESSIE ADELAIDE
ALVEY has instituted proceedings against you
for divorce on the grounds of desertion AND
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court of
Victoria at Melbourne within twenty-one days
from the date of this insertion the case may
proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs. —J. lEVERS BOURKE,
141 a Chapel Street, St. Kilda, Proctor for the
Petitioner.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Caulfield Cup winner Tranquil Star
further enhanced her Melbourne Cup
chance by a brilliant win from Pandect
and Leahero in the W. S. Cox Plate at
Moonee Valley on Saturday. Dashing to
the front after going two furlongs, she
was not headed subsequently, and won
by five lengths. It would be difficult to
estimate her success in terms of pound-
age, but, meeting Pandect 91b. and
Leahero one stone better than Mel-
bourne Cup terms, she enjoyed a nice
pull in weight. Tranquil Star, however,
was never better than at present, and
her connections naturally hope she will
complete the Cups double. She was well
ridden on Saturday by the stable appren-
tice K. Smith, but no Cup jockey had
been engaged definitely at the time of
writing.
Pandect, although making no impres-
sion on Tranquil Star at the finish, ran
well enough to encourage his Cup
backers. He is a stayer, and impresses
as sure to improve. Leahero improved
on his Guineas form, thereby earning a
start for the Derby, and Grain Trader’s
fifth also suggested classic possibilities.
High Road was not particularly impres-
sive in fourth position, but he is a big
horse, and may be better suited by the
larger Flemington track.
Great Britain’s failure to beat more
than five home was the real sensation
of the Cox Plate. He was never within
coo-ee of the leaders, but, squeezed out
at the start, could not get a clear run
later, and, wisely, was not knocked about.
He pulled up well, and his trainer, H.
Freedman, is still confident he will win
the Derby. Unluckily for Great Britain’s
connections, a new Derby rider will have
to be found for him. Badger, who was
engaged for him in that race, and for
Pandect in the Melbourne Cup, was sus-
pended for a month after his winning
ride on Wheat Sheaf in the first Dun-
donald Handicap, and will miss the
V R.C. spring meeting. H. Morris, who
piloted Great Britain on Saturday, rides
Pickway in the Derby.
Dark Felt, who “hitch-hiked” from
Albury to Melbourne because of trans-
port restrictions, overcame physical dis-
abilities to defeat Gusher and Kooren-
been in the Moonee Valley Cup. He has
been racing under the disadvantage of a
split hoof, and, to make matters worse,
stripped his opposite foreleg for several
inches three days before Saturday’s race.
Frequent foments were necessary to
reduce the swelling to get him to the
post, but the injury did not affect him.
Behind Colonus and Portfolio at the half-
mile, he hit the front entering the straight
and won well, even allowing that Gusher
may have been unlucky. Dark Felt, a
five-year-old entire by Spearfelt from
Gallant Elsa, is now living up to the
promise contained in his Victoria Derby
third to Lucrative and Tranquil Star. He
was purchased by his present owner-
trainer, A. Cain, for 500gns., and, with
three wins in Sydney and two in Mel-
bourne, has been a rare bargain. Soft
tracks have helped him lately, but Cain
fears a hard track on Melbourne Cup
day would prejudice his chance in that
race.
Heart’s Desire and True Flight, first
and second favorites, let their backers
down badly. Heart’s Desire finished
second-last, and must have been feeling
the effects of her hard race in the Caul-
field Cup. True Flight dropped out over
the concluding furlongs. Son of Aurous
came from second-last to finish eighth,
and, as he is improving with racing,
must still be conceded a chance in the
Melbourne Cup.
After streaking away to a seven-
lengths win in the second Dundonald
Handicap, Industry was banned from
racing in the suburban area because of
fractiousness at the barrier. Heavy sup-
port from sixes down to threes preceded
his overdue success. Aurie’s Star was
fractious while at the barrier for the first
Dundonald Handicap, and after the race
his trainer informed the stewards that
the 10-year-old gelding had finished
racing. Aurie’s Star won a Newmarket,
two Oakleigh Plates, about £13,000 in
stakes and holds the Australian record
of 1.81 for six furlongs.
Maemanto, who cost only 85gns. as a
yearling, increased her earnings to £BOO
by easily winning the Greenvale Stakes.
She has raced three times for two wins
and a third. The Bohemian, a Lo Zin-
garo colt raced by his breeder, S. Green,
justified heavy support for the St. Albans
Stakes, Queen Baccha finished strongly
to defeat Royal Peter and Lilette in the
Phoenix Handicap.
♦ ♦ * *
With an attendance of nearly 15,000,
and a tote turnover of slightly more than
£32,750 —thanks to the large fields —last
Saturday’s meeting was profitable for
the Rosehill Club. It may be difficult,
but if possible an improvement should be
made in the tote payout arrangements in
the official enclosure. One window is in-
sufficient, making the collection of divi-
dends a wearisome business for many
who are lucky enough to collect them.
Setting a fast pace soon after barrier-
rise in the Cumberland Handicap War-
bird (Allen) started the back stretch with
a long lead and was not headed. Turn-
ing into the straight Merrimba and Jym-
jon were nearest him. Just after com-
mencing the last furlong Merrimba
looked like overhauling Warbird, but the
latter, though tiring, hung on long
enough to beat Merrimba a neck. Prince,
who was a long way behind Warbird
and Merrimba at the turn, was only a
half-length further off, and as the mile
and a quarter was run in 2.4 \ he looks
like making a stayer. Amberspear and
Two’s Company were the only others
reasonably close to the place-getters.
Dashing Cavalier and Veiled Threat again
ran without any dash.
Lagoon (Knox) made a one-horse affair
of the Flying Handicap, leading through-
out. From the turn it was merely a
matter of how much he would win by,
and he eventually beat St, Elmo very
easily by four lengths, with consistent
Flying Knight third. Fermanagh, who
was hopelessly placed after going three
furlongs, finished fourth, and of those
further back Overbold and Martheus did
well enough to suggest a win in the near
future. Romero’s fast track work again
went for nothing. He could not get near
the front at any part. Lagoon equalled
the track record of 1.12.
Last Bowl did the pace-making in the
Novice Handicap, but though he was
first into the straight from Qui Va La,
Fox Track and Valiant Garde, he could
not see it out. Valiant Garde (Cook) took
charge halfway down the straight and
had no difficulty in winning from Qui
Va La and Fox Track. Great Scot was
fourth, but was never dangerous. Duke
Cullen and Looter ran fairly, though
without ever quite being possible place-
getters.
Star Gold was a disappointing favorite
for the Two-year-old Stakes. He finished
third, but never looked a winner, and
after Van Eyck had shown the way to
the turn he was headed by St. Quentin
(Bartle), Halfway down the straight St,
Quentin looked a comfortable winner,
but Van Eyck came at him again, and
ran him to a neck. Urgent Rate (by
Marconigram) and Milford Sound (by
Midstream) did best of the others. Like
Estborough, the previous week’s two-
year-old winner, St. Quentin is a Queens-
land visitor, though he was sold at Rand-
wick last autumn for 390gns. His trainer,
W. A. Tucker, shares ownership with
W. A. Collins. St. Quentin is by The
Buzzard from Calculate (Caledon-Ash-
taroth).
A 71b. allowance for his usual rider,
Turner, made Guild Hall a well-treated
horse in the first division of the Three-
and Four-year-old Handicap, and he
started favorite. He was third to Arenessa
and Estralia entering the straight, and,
though he hung out in the run home,
defeated Chatham’s Choice by three
quarters of a length. In getting third
Steal On showed a return to form, and,
while Good Company and War Effort
shaped fairly, Jungle King was again a
failure. As this was Guild Hall’s third
win in a little over a month, he has done
well for his owner and trainer.
Magi, who had stable support when
she beat only a few in a big field in a
mile race at Randwick the previous week,
made amends for that failure by deci-
sively winning the second division of the
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap in
three-quarters of a second faster time
than Guild Hall recorded in his division.
Third to Makatha and Lord Pentheus
coming to the turn. Magi had the race
well in her keeping a furlong from home,
the minor places going to Linemond (who
again looks very well) and Silverelda,
Dundalk was fourth, but Queenslanders
Lord Spear and Sir Wyvern are better
worth keeping in mind. Knox was on
Magi.
In an exciting finish Haripur’s pull in
weight stood to him at the finish of the
Parramatta Mile after Tel Asur appeared
to have him beaten. Cadger, well placed
throughout, ran third, and Haridelle’s
fourth pointed to there still being hope
for her, Ron Rico and Goonee were also
prominent at the finish, and the latter,
who has a Queensland reputation, may
yet pay expenses in Sydney. Mary Lou
and His Lordship did well to the turn,
and Lord Valentine made up leeway m
the straight. Cook rode Haripur.
* * * *
Pandect is evidently improving with
racing, and, though easily beaten by
Tranquil Star in the W. S. Cox Plate, his
Melbourne Cup price has shortened con-
siderably. As a stayer, Pandect’s third
with 7.12 to Lucrative in the Sydney
Cup is to his credit, but with 8.13
(61b. less than weight-for-age) he will
need to be a really good horse to win
the Melbourne Cup. Still, though he had
no chance against Tranquil Star, he fin-
ished ahead of Leahero and Great
Britain on Saturday, and present proba-
bilities are that the longer distance will
give him a pull over both in the Mel-
bourne Cup. As a three-year-old Pandect
ran in the Cup, and, with W. Cook as his
rider, was ninth.
♦ * * *
Fields at Sydney meetings are larger
than could be wished, and that serious
accidents have been avoided says quite
a lot for the efficiency of apprentices as
a whole, notwithstanding that such an
opinion is not shared by all trainers.
When there is a mix-up in a race some
of the older riders are inclined to saddle
apprentices with the blame, but “tricks
of the trade” on the part of experienced
jockeys occasionally contribute .to
trouble. It is alleged that we have few
competent riders. That may be so, but
it would be possible to add that there
are not many trainers who aid appren-
tices in attaining efficiency.
Some trainers who, in the past, did
well with their horses were not equally
successful in making capable riders of
apprentices. It is fair to add they were
not always afforded the Opportunity-
Very few owned horses, and when their
patrons intended backing their horses
they naturally wanted jockeys and
apprentices (the latter often from other
stables) well in the limelight. In conse-
quence, some apprentices rarely got a
mount on anything supposed to have a
winning chance. However, most jockeys
who attained prominence owed more to
their own natural ability than to the
teachings of their employers.
* * * *
Tasmania wishes to be exempted from
some restrictions imposed upon racing.
While in Hobart recently the Minister for
Labor (Ward) was waited upon by a
deputation from racing clubs asking for
his intervention to that end. One thing
requested was the publication in Tas-
manian papers of entries for Melbourne
races. Such a request would suggest that,
among other things, the deputation kept
bookmakers’ interests well in view. The
Minister cheerfully promised that con-
sideration would be given.
* * * *
Tranquil Star is good, but it will be
necessary for her to make a weight-carry-
ing record for a mare in order to win
the Melbourne Cup with 9.3. If she
should win her performance will scarcely
equal that of Wakeful, even though the
latter was beaten. Wakeful carried 10.0,
and, in a field of 24, was defeated three-
quarters of a length by Lord Cardigan
(6.8), who, five months later, won the
Sydney Cup with 8.7. The following
season Lord Cardigan was second in the
Melbourne Cup with 9.6, which gives a
fair idea of the merit of Wakeful’s effort
when conceding him 3st. 61b.
# * * *
A fairly big field for the Victoria
Derby seems certain. There is doubt as
to how some horses that have done well
at a mile will shape over a longer dis-
tance, and that may tempt more owners
than at first anticipated to take a chance.
£3500 for first, £lOOO for second and £5OO
for third is a good bet to the £25 accept-
ance fee, and in the past Derbies were
won by horses that, on form, should not
have been successful. It can happen
again. The record for a Victoria Derby
field is last year’s 19.
* * * *
The old argument as to whether it
would not be for the eventual good of
horses if they were not raced as two-
year-olds until late in December at
earliest has cropped up in Melbourne, It
would be all the better for some horses
if no attempt was made to force them as
youngsters, while others would be wasted
as money-earners if they were not raced
as early as possible. However, present-
day trainers are not so severe in their
preparation of two-year-olds as were
some of a few years back. At the end of
July they could tell you all about the
“flying machines” they had in their care,
but as often as not these youngsters were
absentees from the spring two-year-old
races. Showing that early racing does
not adversely affect some horses it can
be mentioned that Yaralla, Tranquil Star
and It’s Funny, who have recently dis-
tinguished themselves, each raced in
October as two-year-olds. Maoriland’s
champion, Kindergarten, who appears to
have returned to his best form, made his
first appearance as a two-year-old in
September.
• > ♦ *
As excuse was possible for Skipton’s
Caulfield Cup failure, his early backers
for the Melbourne Cup have not lost
faith in him for that race. If he should
win the L, K. S. Mackinnon Stakes he
will start at a much shorter price than
the 8 to 1 at which he won last year’s
Cup, Still, though a proved stayer, it
cannot be overlooked that he has 61b.
more than he carried in the Caulfield
Cup, and will meet Tranquil Star a
pound worse. Archer is the only horse
with two successive Melbourne Cups to
his credit. Since then Lord Cardigan has
gone closest to that performance, win-
ning in 1903 and running second the fol-
lowing year. Peter Pan won at three and
five years, but did not start at four years
when weighted at 9.7.
* * * ♦
It can be said for Melbourne stipen-
diary stewards that they are not respecters
of persons. At different times some of
Sydney’s leading jockeys, who thought
they might risk taking liberties, had that
brought home to them. Nor are the
stewards any more lenient to their own
jockeys, no matter how high their stand-
ing. Badger found that out at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. It is difficult to
form any idea of how much that month’s
suspension will cost him monetarily, but
a Derby and Melbourne Cup would
have been possible for him, and those
two races alone would have meant nearly
£450 in bare winning fees. It was unfor-
tunate for some Melbourne owners that
Badger should have struck trouble, as
their choice of first-class local horsemen
appears to be limited, and seemingly
Sydney jockeys are likely to be barred
on the Austerity scheme.
Walker v. Rivers at Leichhardt would
have been a fine brawl in a bar-room, but
a ring was scarcely the place for it. Raf-
ferty rules prevailed from end to end of
12 rounds. Rivers did more fighting
than wrestling, and Walker more
wrestling than fighting. Rivers, on points.


In Sydney stay at the WENTWORTH
i'r,
mum
The Wentworth Hotel, noted for kindly hospitality, combines
a full measure of courteous service with modern appointments
that make for your comfort. Bedrooms with telephones,
private bathrooms and toilets.
TARIFF: Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-.
Our tariff remains constant the year round.
D. MACLURCAN: Managing
crp
Director,
Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man's earning-power, but matures
your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. Ihe
office directs attention to "The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/1/ 38). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., IiTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.O.A. Bounding, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, IS Bindley Street Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. Georges Terrace, Perth,
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States,
SMOKE-OH!
Even a fire-fighting instructor ~an be
baffled when it comes to handling an
old flame.
4* 4* 4- 4*
“When she appeared on the screen some
years ago several actors taking part in the same
film predicted a great future for her, but this
was never realised.” — Movie magazine.
But, then, you can never depend on
what the stars predict.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Clothes are the wild oats of many women.”
— Woman’s paper.
And they still sew them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
In the case of hotels which allow only
one bottle per customer, is there any
chance of a man getting two if he has a
dual personality?
“Austerity shirts.”—“s. M. Herald.”
For instance, the one you cant lose
because it’s a raceless Saturday.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It was found that another man, though not
fit for active service, had once learnt the trade
of dyeing, and as a dyer he was sent to a war-
production factory.”— “Sun.”
Called to the colors.
4* 4* 4*
“Hungarian invents a match that strikes 500
times.”— News item.
N.S.W. coalminers are perturbed at this
poaching on their preserve.
“Victorian Railways serve 1,544,016 pies in
a year.”
Railway sandwiches will soon be used
only as bookmarks.
4* *b 4* *b
“Two women wash 11,000 eggs in one day.”
Without a break?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I need a fresh background. I’ve always had
a yen to take a villa on the Dalmatian coats.”
-—“New Idea.”
He’d always be on a few spots anyway.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some popular expressions give food for
thought.” — Woman’s paper.
He was in a jam—in fact, in a proper
pickle—but he didn’t give his wife any
sauce. His words became honeyed and
his conversation was all sugary. His
whole attitude bespoke a man in whose
mouth butter wouldn’t melt. But, she,
whose peppery temper he feared, took
this all with a grain of salt, and knew he
was full as an egg.
After Effects.
“Commonsense is the cure for jealousy.”
—“SunN
She nearly had a fit, they say, when
she observed a blonde one day attempt
to lead her Jim astray. She stormed, she
raved, she wept. This jealousy soon
spoilt her life. She soon became a nag-
ging wife. She worried, swore and stirred
up strife and hardly ever slept. Then
commonsense brought back clear sight.
She studied him by day and night, and
saw him as a stranger might. Soon she
was sure of Jim.
Though she’s not jealous now, her eyes
arc just as wild, and oft she cries. Be-
cause, no matter how she tries, she can’t
get rid of him!
O’ Hell.
4* 4* 4* 4*
_ “Diplomatic baby girl.”—“Sun.”
Cries equally loudly no matter who
nurses her.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Tips Industry to Boom Here.”
— “Sun” heading.
The palms of drink waiters are begin-
ning to itch in anticipation.
4* 4* 4* 4* „
“Even though you live on a shoestring....
— Woman’s paper.
Don’t try to put in the boot.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sausage Skins Lure Burglars.”—“D.T.’
And that’s not boloney!
•b *b *b *b
“It is very difficult to concentrate on a book
while indulging in physical exercise.”
— Psychologist.
Nevertheless, some modern novels are
well suited to a combination of reading
and skipping.
4* * 4* -b
Business and Sport.
“Though sport is necessary for health and
happiness, be sure to take on some kind ot
sport which particularly pleases you.”
— Woman’s paper.
I knew a girl who found that right.
She used to skate a lot at night, but still
she didn’t feel too bright. So then she
tried with vim if not too much of skill
to push a bike, but took a spill. She said
that sport just made her ill. She nearly
cried. She then gave golf a shot, but
found she only ploughed up lots of
ground. She tried to swim, but nearly
drowned. She said “I’m done! No sport
seems any good for me.”
And then a sudden thought had she.
She solved the problem easily... she
married one. „
Elm.
•J* *l* *X*
“The house in which Stephen Foster lived
in Pittsburgh, U.S.A., has been purchased by
Henry Ford.” — “World’s News.”
Stephen Foster wrote “The Home.”
Henry specialised in getting the old folks
there.
Gardening Made Easy.
VI.
Vines.
No backyard gardener can ever escape
the insistent cry of “grow some water-
melons, Dad!” As a minority of one he
will eventually bow to the inevitable.
Selecting the poorest bit of ground
where nothing else will grow he jams
the seed in, fervently hoping they’ll be
infertile. A week or so later they’ll all
shoot up vigorously and the vines will
start rushing round the yard. As the
growth extends he will be kept busy steer-
ing them off the beds.
Where is he to run them? Where
else but along the top of the paling fence,
where nobody walks? Objection to this
on the ground that the weight of the fruit
will drag the vines down may be coun-
tered easily: provide platforms to take
the weight of the melons.
This need entail no constructional
work. As soon as the first melon appears
simply arrange the stepladder imme-
diately underneath it, so that the fruit
rests on the top rung. The fact that
simple adjustment of the legs allows the
ladder to be raised or lowered according
to the melon’s position makes it the ideal
supporting platform. As new melons
appear he can borrow stepladders from
his neighbors; when about 27 melons
come on and he runs out of stepladder-
owning neighbors subsequently-appearing
fruit can be filed neatly off the vine and
given to the fowls.
By this time the vines will have
travelled along the whole of the side fence
and over the laundry roof. They can
either be doubled back on their track? or
continued down the dividing fence to the
front garden, where they may be allowed
to roam around the front verandah or
explore the innards of the gasbox.
With the advent of hot, dry weather
the fruit will develop rapidly to the size
of mandarins. Thereafter they will slowly
swell until, about six weeks afterwards,
they are the size of an orange. Then
rain in sheets, day after day. A week
later the reluctant watermelon-raiser will
slosh up the yard to see a transfigura-
tion: the hirsute adolescent fruit will
have given place to ones swelling at an
enormous rate.
They will be beauties, and at the first
sign of the withered stalk which pro-
claims their maturity he will cut the big-
gest and bear it in triumph to the kitchen,
followed by his slavering-mouthed off-
spring. The knife rises and falls, the
fruit falls apart, and juvenile jaws drop
at the sight of the pale-green interior of
a jam melon! Yes, 17 outsize jam melons,
and the part that the grower takes in
the subsequent orgy of jam-making will
be the privileged one of cutting the fruit
up into microscopic cubes and removal
of the seeds (average 850 per melon).
The technique of pumpkin-growing is
different. This being a useful vegetable,
a choice bit of earth, suitably prepared
with manures and fertilisers —the pump-
kin being a gross feeder—is called for.
Much the same vigorous growth as char-
acterised the melons will obtain, except
that, as pumpkin leaves are about five
times as large as melon leaves, the den-
sity will preclude its being draped over
the fence. Soon the whole of the back
area will be a matted mass.
Home-grown pumpkins will be either
watery, bony or just right. On the law
of averages one, therefore, will be eab
able. This will be the one which, left
ripening on top of a shed, is torn to
pieces by the cockatoo next door.
Chokos are in a different category
altogether. The vines immediately make
through or over the fence to the next-
door side, seeking the sun. All the fruit
will bear on that side. The only thing
is to select good neighbors, who may
kindly pass one or two over now and
again.
80.
What’s in a Name?
“Christopher Columbus has joined the United
States Navy.”
Those men whose names are unrenowned
Will in the prefixed part essay
To make their monikers resound
With heroes of a former day ;
So Virgils and the like abound
In portions of the U.S.A.,
Where humdrum Hannibals repose.
And mute inglorious Ciceros.
But when with surnames they’re com-
bined.
It gains the flavor of a myth,
And William Shakspeares often find
Their appellation greeted with
A sceptic attitude of mind
That never troubles men called Smith.
What’s in a name ? It seems, alas !
A hero’s is an alias.
P. M. L.
Terror Stalks.
“A kiss-bandit is operating at night on
Watson’s Bay line trams.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
The women who travel by this line
are terrified.
They know the man by sight and fear
the worst. Last night young Gladys got
an awful fright. She boarded the tram
nervously, her eyes alert for the kiss-
bandit.
Suddenly she screamed. The conduc-
tor hurried forward. The bandit leaped
from the tram and disappeared. Poor
Gladys stood there trembling.
“Did the brute kiss you?” roared the
conductor.
“Yes,” breathed Gladys; “but I got
such a fright. For a moment I thought
he wasn’t going to!”
EVE.
True to Form.
Mrs. Naill tried to strike her husband with
an iron pot but instead struck his brother, who
had interposed.”
True to her sex is Mrs. Naill;
Her hurtling pot with poor aim sped.
Eternal Eve, she had to fail
To hit the right Naill on the head.
HAMER.
A Natural Flair.
“Women soon become adept at signalling.
They seem to have a natural flair for it.”
— “Sun.”
This was brought home to me the other
night clearly after we were out of ear-
shot of our host’s front door.
“You’re a positive fool, Aitchem,”
began Maria. “Fancy you bidding up
like that on hearts in that last rubber. Oh,
yes, I know I bid them in the first place,
but I said ‘a small heart,’ and that should
have warned you that I had a handful
of spades. And that time I twisted the
ring on my finger and said I thought I’d
have to get the diamonds reset you ought
to have known that I wanted diamonds.
“You were just as stupid over that
hand when they got a slam on no-trumps.
What do you think I spoke about your
having been digging in the garden—which
you know very well wasn’t the case —
unless I wanted spades?
“You’re absolutely impossible,
Aitchem! You pride yourself upon being
a good bridge-player, but you didn’t even
realise that when I spoke about having
five buttons on my new dress and none
at the top I meant to tell you that we
couldn’t go more than four, as I didn’t
have the ace.”
“Oh, well,” I said hopelessly, “I hate
pulling stunts like that at cards with
friends.”
“How dare you accuse me of cheat-
ing!” cried Maria passionately. “It’s a
thing I simply detest in anyone. But
surely there’s nothing wrong with signal-
ling one’s own husband? That’s different
altogether! ”
H.M.
Turned to Ashes.
“Nick laughed. A year ago I knew precious'
little about being a fireman, but I’ve learned,
and believe me it is no cushy job.”
—Short story.
He quickly lost his burning zeal.
And soon entirely ceased to feel
Enthusiasm for his lot.
It seemed an overrated game;
For, though he worked ’mid smoke and
flame.
The job, he found, was not so hot.
CAL.
Negation.
“The mere fact that she was married did not
deter him from making advances. But one night
he carried these so far that she lost her temper.
Indeed, she turned on him like a madwoman.”
— Novel.
There are women who waver and swerve
When by villains cajoled and caressed.
But this one, we’re pleased to observe,
Behaved like a woman possessed!
NAT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
A Cheer for the Salvation Army
Seated in a city theatre watching the
latest news-reel from the New Guinea
front, my memory slipped back about 10
years and I was in the Dalby (Q.) hos-
pital again, as a typhoid-fever suspect.
I was put in a bed well away from the
other inmates in the ward —semi-isola-
tion was my lot. Came Sunday and
visitors from churches. They paused at
my bed, one after the other, but after the
ward sister had whispered something in
their respective ears they smiled at me
and passed by bn the other side.
Then along came a Salvation Army
captain. To him the sister whispered,
too, but he just grinned and plonked
himself down on my bed. For a while
he chatted away cheerily about his let-
tuce and tomatoes, which he reckoned
were the biggest and best in the Dalby
district, and then I managed to get a
word in. “I’m a typhoid-fever suspect;
aren’t you windy?”
He smiled cheerfully. “I’m like you,
old man—in the hands of the Lord,” he
replied.
And so, 10 years later, and watching
the latest news-reel from the New
Guinea front, I wasn’t surprised in the
least to see a Salvation Army “comforts
hut” high up in the mountains, nice and
handy to the troops.
I don’t belong to the “Army,” but for
the last year or so I’ve been contributing
a couple of bob a week to its funds,
and will continue to do so for the dura-
tion of the war. They’re fine fellows,
these Salvationists, doing a grand job of
work. — Zend Avesta (Q.).
Too Young at 18?
So a sentimental Army Minister has
yielded to the clamor of parents and
has issued a ukase that lads of 18
are not to be allowed to do any front-
line scrapping. Reading that made me
think of the Navy and the thousands of
lads who have seen active service long
before they were 16, let alone 18. (Wasn’t
a ship’s boy one of the heroes of Jut-
land?) Reminds me also of a young
Australian I know who had been twice
round the world as stoker in tramps and
had hoofed it across South America from
Valparaiso to Buenos Aires long before
he was 18. (He had his nineteenth birth-
day in Egypt with the first A.1.F.)
Stalin has different views. He thinks
a lad of 17 is quite old enough to fight
for his country in its hour of need.
Some lads of 18 are grown men ; judg-
ing by the samples one sees on a visit to
Sydney, plenty of those of 28 are not,
or they would be in uniform.
Before Minister Forde issues any more
ukases of a similar nature, may I respect-
fully suggest to him to read a good naval
history, and then consult some of the
Navy chiefs. I can imagine the ribald
jeers with which his pronouncement was
greeted in the Silent Service.— Sandpatch
(N.S.W.).
Universal Military Training
In the present state of affairs every male
from 16 years onwards capable of doing
some training should be compelled to
report for duty at week-ends. The home
defence job should not be left to volun-
teer enthusiasts, such as the V.D.C.
The cost to the Government of train-
ing the V.D.C. is negligible, and the cost
of training the rest of the unattached
man-power' would be very little more,
but the advantages would be manifold.
Particularly because every man, natural-
born, naturalised or alien, would be
brought under direct control, where there
would be no opportunity for the spread
of subversive activities.—F. C. S. B. (Vic.).
The Uniform
I am glad to notice comment (B.
21/10/’42) on the uniform of the Aus-
tralian soldier. The question has been
treated from the beginning with an entire
lack of imagination. Many serving
soldiers would spend their own money
on essential articles of apparel (even to
the extent of buying uniforms that fit),
but their coupon issue does not permit
this.
Privates and n.c.os. get 25 clothing
tickets only, while the women privates
and n.c.os. get 35. Soldiers have given
away their books as useless to them.
I know warriors who wear the one
uniform every day without ever getting
it cleaned. When a man goes into hospi-
tal you might think the authorities would
have dry-cleaning facilities for the
uniform which the patient can no
longer wear. But no! There is not even a
laundry in the most up-to-date military
hospital in N.S.W. The soldier has to
do his own laundry in a basin! — Soldier
Patient (N.S.W.).
Smiling Aussies
“Adsum” (B. 7/10/’42) makes the mis-
take of comparing Aussies on the home
front with Russians, Germans and
British who are under actual battle con-
ditions. If he wishes to see equally grim
Australians under battle conditions in the
Near North, Damien Parer’s “Road to
Kokoda” will provide plenty. There
is only weariness on the faces of those
men who, only a few hours previously,
had been in contact with a desperate and
wily foe. Surely they have realised the
seriousness of the outlook, even if those
on the mainland whose homes and lives
they are protecting have not.
In any case the Russians in Moscow
throng to cinemas, theatres and opera
houses and remain cheerful and gay,
without criticism. Moreover, the sense of
"I can't help it, Sis! Remember how you laughed when I got my call-up."
humor of the British has meant a lot to
them in their resistance to the Nazis,
The outlook of an Australian is even
more cheerful than that of a Russian or a
Briton, and the unsmiling troops in the
Owen Stanleys soon regained their sense
of humor after a short rest. Take the
story told by Chester Wihnot in which
some troops falling back to a prepared
position find the lieutenant in charge
looking for some wire to repair some
broken telephone line. Qn asking the
men for some, one of them replied “Yes,
I’ve got some here, but it’s holding my
pants up.”—J. W. (N.S.W.).
Old-age Pensioners and War.
There are plenty of people drawing the
old-age pension who are able and willing
to do their bit provided they could avoid
the publicity of obtaining a permit to
work and also the risk of losing their
pensions.
If it is conceded that a person is en-
titled to a pension on reaching a certain
age why not give the money without
tying any strings to it? Present restrictive
pension regulations should be scrapped
for the duration at least and the indi-
vidual allowed to work whenever and
however he wishes ; it would be good
for his health, his self-respect, his pocket
and his country. — Onlooker (Q.).
Shoddy Soles
I agree with “Mark Pateh” (B-
--14/10/’42) that shoe manufacturers are
not to blame for having to use inferior
sole leather, but 1 cannot see why civi-
lians are obliged to pay top prices for
this shoddy footwear, sold as best quality.
Manufacturers should brand all foot-
wear made from the inferior grade leather
as such. This would be in the interests
of manufacturers and customers alike. —
Deb (Tas.).
Octopus
There is anew kind of centralisation
going on in Victoria. A Prahran coun-
cillor recently counted 200 little shops
closed in his district. A similar story
comes from the other suburbs; in Garden-
vale, for instance, 20 out of 83 shops
are shuttered
Daily newspapers started printing furi-
ous letters from their more ignorant
readers which asserted that the whole
cause of the trouble was the enemy alien.
Enemy aliens were cunningly ousting the
native-born from their professions and
they all ought to be interned or some-
thing.
Enemy aliens are under the same laws
as the shopkeepers who arc alleged to
have been ousted by them. They have
to go into the Labor Corps or show good
reason why they should not. Some of the
shops may have had to close because their
menfolk have been called up under the
man-power regulations ; but not many.
If a shopman thinks it is possible and
worth while to keep his small store open
he can usually find a mother or an aunt
or an exempted relation to do it for him.
The fact is that the little shops can’t
get supplies, so they would have had to
go under if there hadn’t been an alien
in the country. But great city estab-
lishments can get supplies.
The effects are far-reaching. For one
thing, while Premier Dunstan is implor-
ing people to keep out of the city, be-
cause of the possibility of air raids, it
is being made impossible for housewives
to do their shopping anywhere but in the
city. Almost everybody in the little towns
dose to Melbourne now works in the
city, buys in the city and regards his
village as a place to sleep in.
A town near Melbourne had its own
brickworks, tannery, brewery, wine in-
dustry, cabinet-maker, wheelwright, tile-
maker, stone quarry and stonemasons
and all sorts of other trades which created
a pride in the place. Now you can’t even
get a clock mended in it— Bernard
Hackshaw (Vic.).
Basic Wage Increase
Another three bob is to go on the basic
wage here in Melbourne (two in Syd-
ney) ! There is nothing wrong with the
bare fact, of course; on the contrary,
we are justly proud of this admirable
machinery of automatic adjustment
according to the cost of living.
But the application is totally wrong-
in war-time. Let the man on the basic
wage have his rise, and let the skilled
worker on an award rate also have his
—if he does not work overtime. But why
should men already earning £l2 15s, or
more (through penalty rates) get another
rise—the third this year? The same
applies to girls, of course. All such
adjustments in the basic wage should
taper away at, say, double the original
basic wage, which should be quite suffi-
cient for anyone to live and save on.
White-collar workers are, as usual,
again at a disadvantage. In most offices,
the adjustment applies only to those on
the commercial clerks’ award pay, or at
best to those under £350 a year.— Viator
(Vic.).
Big Families
“Business, Robbery, Etc.,” assures us
week after week that incomes under £8
a week represent three-quarters of the
national income. That means more than
three-quarters of Australia’s population,
and in that social sphere, I am happy to
observe, the birthrate is on the increase.
A different outlook is evident these
last few years, and young mothers are re-
garding four as the ideal family, where
previously it was one or two.
I would like to pay a tribute to The
Bulletin’s little sister, the “Australian
Woman’s Mirror,” for its healthy atti-
tude to motherhood and home. I think
it may take a little o'I the credit for
the improvement here noted. — CDbber-
lie (S.A.).
This Daylight Saving
On top of natural difficulties, which
are all too numerous, we now have the
unnatural blight known as daylight-saving
—daylight-wasting to those of us who
till the soil. What the clock says does
not alter the fact that the sun is our
clock on the farm.
The official mind appeals to us to pro-
duce more. We will be letting Australia
down if we do not, we are told. So we
struggle on in God-forsaken places, under
conditions in which we can hardly hold
our own. The official mind gives no
encouragement, but heaps every injustice
on us, apparently in the belief that what
is detrimental to us will be beneficial to
the privileged city classes.
We are cut off from entertainment.
Travelling picture shows, etc., are off the
road, and we have no petrol to go to any-
thing in any case. To cap the situation,
the radio features that are our only
source of entertainment are now put on
in the daytime, when we are at work.
Wc are expected to derive consolation
from the statement that the city man can
spend the extra time in his garden.— De
Bee ( N.S.W.).
“No Greater Sin”
Dropping in the other evening at the
King’s, Melbourne, I was surprised to
.find Brieux’s much-debated, much-banned
“Damaged Goods” in occupation in the
shape of an American adaptation brought
completely up to date by exhibiting the
ancient social problem in relation to
Uncle Sam’s war effort—scene, a U.S.
small town run by the usual crowd of
reactionary bumbles, suddenly turned into
an important munitions centre, with the
added complication of a military camp
adjacent.
The film goes further than Brieux's
play, inasmuch as methods of preven-
tion are suggested. Alarmed by the in-
cidence of v.d. amongst soldiers, the
military authorities approach the civic
health officer and ask him to help to
stamp out the centres of infection—
highly profitable local dance halls where
liquor is remarkably fluid. The bumbles
refuse to believe the evidence of their
senses, and when they can’t deny it
decide that a hush-up policy is in the
best interests of the city, so the m.o.
enlists the assistance of a more than
usually enlightened newspaper pro-
prietor, who makes the local menace
bigger news than Hitler or Hirohito.
Extraordinary powers are given to the
m.o. and the military authorities, and
they force compulsory blood tests and
treatment on camp, factory and dance
halls with a speed and an efficiency which
make the polite efforts of the Melbourne
City Council over the last 20 years look
infantile.
Interwoven in the story is the parti-
cular instance of a young
worker who, having contracted the com-
plaint, goes to a quack and gets the clean
bill of health which ostensibly enables
him to marry, with nearly disastrous
results to himself, hjs wife and their baby,
much along the lines of the play by
Brieux.
“No Greater Sin” is the title of the
opus, and it is well acted and sensibly
handled. It has just as much applica-
tion to Australia as America . and to
peace-time as to war-time. — Pawang
(Vic.). _ __
“Dedmanism”
“Dedmanism” is driving out the con-
siderable section of the community
engaged in small businesses, and a sub-
stantial source of taxation will soon be
gone with the wind. '
1 am a small businessman well past
military age and have subscribed as sub-
stantially as I could to war loans.
There must be tens of thousands of
such people wondering what is in store
for them. Probably the extinction of
the small business, the day of the big
concern, then —socialisation. And what
a mess the politicians will make of it!
Meantime I am trying to save some-
thing from the wreck caused by “control”
by a Government which has always pro
fessed concern for the welfare of the
underdog. —Mark Patch (Q.).


PEACE-
IN WAR
SERVING THE REQUIREMENTS OF
THE NATION WITH EVER-INCREASING PRODUCTION
Austral Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd., specializes in the manufacture
of
Sheet and Strip Copper, Brass, Gilding Metal, Phosphor Bronze and
Nickel Silver; Copper Rods and Bars, Busbar and Commutator Bars for
Electrical Work; Manganese Bronze in Rods and Bars; Muntz’s Metal,
Naval Brass, Copper and Brass in Round, Square, Hexagon and Special
Sections; Copper Plates, Rolled Copper Anodes; Gunmetal; Manganese
Copper and Manganese Bronze Ingots; Muntz’s Metal and Naval Brass
Condenser Plates; Muntz’s Metal, Naval Brass and Special Copper
Sheathing from Australian metals for
Defence, National Service and
Commercial Requirements.
.
■m
'v
■■• V
>
-
■ N?
P* , w .
*X.>
t.A8.4
AUSTRAL BRONZE COMPANY PTY. LTD
Branch Offices: Adelaide, Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth.
i
Works: Alexandria, Sydney.
