

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 63.~N0. 3265
Wednesday, September 9, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
ST. MICHAEL’S MOUNT. NEAR PENZANCE.
CROM its position crowning a pyramidal rock of
granite in Mount’s Bay, Cornwall, three miles east of
Penzance, St^3^hael’s. i *iitesents one of the
most remarkable edifices ip Great Britain. The chapel
and the id. posses-
sion of the St. 4pbin family since file sixteenth century.
The residence does not date beyond that period. Some
hold that here Christianity was first brought to Eng-
land about the fifth century. This, however, is at
variance with the pleasing legend that St. Joseph of
Arimathea, unde of our Lord, first introduced
Christianity at Glastonbury, the Holy Child accom-
panying him. The legend continues that the Wattle
Church, the first in Britain, was erected at Glastonbury
about the year 63. Certain it is that the church on
Mount St Michael occupies the site of a Benedictine
priory founded by Edward the Confessor (1042-1066).
The Mount bears a curious likeness to its namesake
on the French coast (Norman, by the way), though on
a smaller scale. The base of the Mount, which rises
to a height of 250 ft, is a mile in circumference. It is
connected with Marazion on the mainland by a cause-
way covered by the tide eight hours out of twelve.
The ancient portion Of the buildings comprises a hall,
a refectory, a perpendicular chapel and a tower, also
perpendicular, with a Stone “lantern” in the south-west
to ' •‘j .
angle. This is actually the remains of the stone name*
work of a beacon fire-holder. This appendage, known
as “St. Michael’s Chair,” is of great interest to the
tourist, who is asked if he or she would care to sit in
it. Such an attempt requires nerves of iron, though
the person making the effort is reminded of the legend
which gives a husband or wife who succeeds complete
rule in the future over his or her house. This story
would seem to be based on a keen knowledge of
humanity, for only a powerful will could force its
owner to “take the chair.” Tire panorama of land
and water as viewed from the Mount is of utmost
grandeur, one of the finest of the many noble coast
views Cornwall possesses.


m
irus liooK to luui
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Same
ly Address
1.8 H 2
MORE LOVE ON THE DOLE.
“On the first page of this new novel,”
said Mr. Gallagher, “there appear the
words ‘drab’ and ‘meagre.’ ”
"Then ten to one it is written by an
Australian,” said Mr. Shean.
"Right first time,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“It is The Go-Getter ‘by Leonard Mann,
published by Angus and Robertson.’
"Where is it set?” asked Mr. Shean. _
“Melbourne.”
"Then fifty to one Toorak or Balwyn
is not mentioned except with dis-
approval. Sixty to one it is not an idyll
about the Yarra winding among its
willows in the loveliest city in Australia.
Seventy to one the emphasis is not on
those evenings of green and gold when
the cicadas fill all the air with their joy,
but on the foul days of heat.”
“You are right,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“On the second page appear the words
‘dingy, dull and grimed,’ ‘worn drabness,'
‘drabness and grime,’ ‘sluts and slatterns’
and ‘dusty.’ Also the poetic thought:
“ ’Most of the spaces'between fences and
verandahs were so narrow that the
approaching man might easily have spat on
to the verandah boards.’ ”
“ATiundred to one,” said Mr. Shean,
“he is trying to reform something.”
“You appear,” said Mr. Gallagher, “to
have made a close study of the contem-
porary Australian novel.”
“I intend,” said Mr. Shean, “to write
a scurrilous and immoral pamphlet en-
titled Evangelism Is Not Art. I trust that,
some Sunday evening, it will be read to
the Fellowship of Australian Writers.
What does Leonard Mann wish to re-
form?”
“Trees,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“That’s a new one,” said Mr. Shean.
“I become interested in this novel. Please
demonstrate,”
“I refer you,” said Mr. Gallagher, “to
page 35:
“ ‘Although there was plenty of room for
trees along the roadway, there were none,
and the street was a stream of searing
light.’ ”
“Ah,” said Mr. Shean, “I thought he
could not be an Australian novelist if he
were not slating Australians. You mean
that it is the Melbourne City Council
he wishes to reform.”
“That is so,” said Mr. Gallagher. “I
hope he does. In reference to the lop-
ping of branches which get in the way of
telegraph wires there is a scathing note
on ‘sadism’ which should make every
councillor a better man from the day he
reads it.”
“You are not trying to tell me that
an Australian novelist can be satisfied
merely with reforming the Melbourne
City Council, are you?” said Mr. Shean.
“If he does not somewhere have a shot
at reforming the world I will eat my
clothing coupons.”
“Right again,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“There is a character—quite rightly, a
lunatic—who thinks everybody should
love everybody. And when the hero,
Chris Gibbons, calls at a Melbourne
newspaper office and listens to the
journalists discussing the sad state of the
world and the particularly sad state of
this sunny land of Australia, the novelist
reports:
“ ‘Chris had listened in long enough. He
looked around at the faces of these four
men and saw upon them a futile anger,
a hopeless disaffection.’ ”
“Ah,” said Mr. Shean. “A ‘futile anger
and a hopeless disaffection.’ But with
what, in your experience, are Melbourne
newspapermen usually filled?”
“Beer,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“You and I,” said Mr, Shean, “seem
to meet the wrong sort of people.
Is there anything else he says that is
likely to improve us?”
“Well,” said Mr. Gallagher, “a visit to a
newsreel theatre showed Chris ‘a world
that was hopeless and brutal.’ ”
“Strike me pink! ” shouted Mr.
Shean, “I am going to go away and
either hang myself or sit down and read
about Falstaff. I do not wish to hear
any more about The Go-Getter —and that
in spite of the fact that 1 liked Leonard
Mann’s Mountain Flyt always
admired his steady persistence in the arts
of prose and verse. But I cannot be re-
formed and I will not f I
“Stay,” said Mr.
novel is about the last’ Depression in Mel-
bourne. The gloom is justified,” *.-.,«*«*•>
“Justified or not,” said Mr. Shean,
“I will bet you two pounds of unhallowed
potatoes which I wickedly purchased this
morning in the Black Market that no
Australian novelist is game to write a
joyous novel about the present prosperity
of the masses.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Gallagher, “you are
assuming that The Go-Getter is drab and
reformist throughout. That is not the
case. Love {love, Mr. Shean!) comes
to the go-getter. His girl gets him a job,
the depression passes, and we take leave
of Chris Gibbons and his lass as they
hold hands in pleasant surroundings and
gaze hopefully into the future.”
“You mean to say,” said Mr. Shean,
“that Leonard Mann doesn’t want to re-
form the world after all? This novel is,
as a novel should be, a pure character-
study?”
“I’m stonkered if I know what it is,”
said Mr. Gallagher. “With that ending,
it can’t be one of those Scathing Indict-
ments of Australia we normally get from
our evangelists. And yet, if it’s not that,
it’s nothing very much at all; for, though
there’s a lot of sinister plotting and
counterplotting by big business, Chris
just slides out of it all and there’s no
point to that drama ; and though there
might be a theme in the reformation by
love of a go-getter whom the depression
had forced into go*getting, Chris seems
to have go-got long before the slump, so
there’s no point there. I suppose the
point is simply that an habitual go-getter
can be reformed by love: which, I am
afraid, I do not believe.” -
“No,” agreed Mr. Shean. “I wonder
if the Melbourne City Council codld
be reformed by love?”
The Red Page
From Here to Singapore.
Ghosts, a Yogi who could swallow
tacks and acid, tragic Eurasians, “the
Mad New Zealander,” a Gargantuan
Dutch doctor who ate a meal for six
men and who had a theory that the
“Java Man” was not a human skull but
an ape’s, taxi-dancers and dark light-
ladies, a woman who heard the baying of
spectral hounds on nights of the full
moon, riots in Chinatown and love
among the planters—once upon a time
R. C. H. McKie’s This Was Singapore
(Angus and Robertson) would have been
greeted with delight as a travel book as
entertaining as they make them.
It still is. But it would take a mind
as “detached” as Aldous Huxley’s to be
able to read it now without difficulty
or to refrain from passing judgment on
an imperialism run to seed. Paul
McGuire, in his Westward the Course
(Oxford University Press), attempting
not a defence but an explanation of the
Singapore that was, points out with jus-
tice that it was not in accordance with
human nature for the whites of Singapore
to see themselves as stewards of Empire:
they were there to make a living, they
made it, and they evolved the pattern of
life that suited them just as people do
all the world over. But even McGuire
can’t manage to be detached about Sin-
gapore. Nor, these days, could anyone
else.
Gilbert Mant, in Grim Glory (Curra-
wong Publishing Co.), is frank in con-
demnation, He decides:
To understand the background of the
“Tuan Besars” (“Big Shots” in other
words) of British Malaya, it is necessary to
recognise that Malaya, in common with
other British possessions in the Far East,
was an exploited country. It was exploited
commercially in the same way as the Dutch
exploited Java or the Australians exploited
New Guinea.
The Singapore he knew when he lived
and worked there as a journalist has
gone for ever, says McKie ; and, recog-
nising that Australians couldn’t read his
book simply as entertainment, he offers
it as a picture of that vanished life. As
such it is good, not only because the
descriptions are lively, colorful and well-
written, but because McKie lived in
Malaya and knows the country as no
tourist or travelling journalist could
hope to.
Gilbert Mant’s book is also first-hand
stuff —he was Reuter’s correspondent
with the A.I.F. —and, unlike McKie’s, it
hasn’t that “gone-for-ever” flavor to rob
it of topicality. The campaign, certainly,
came to its disastrous end, but the story
Mant tells of A.I.F. heroism is immortal.
He tells it well: it is not a masterpiece of
war history, but it is good journalism,
always clear and vigorous and in its high
moments stirring. It’s a story that has
been told in the newspapers, but it was
well worth while setting it down in the
more readily accessible form of Grim
short hook ..or a long pamphlet.
Gordon Bennett sums up in a foreword:
The star# pf the battle at Bakri and
jPjirit Siting is more khan the story of a
,battle, between a small tforce of under 2000
fighting Australians apd the Ist Japanese
Guards Division—in which the Australians
*4iekl*thfi enemy-iuLbay for five long im-
portant days. It is the story of indomit-
able courage, grim determination and un-
usual endurance.
It is the reporting of incidents that
makes a war story come to life, and
Mant’s history is packed with them —not
only the big stories of the first ambush
of the Japs by the Australians or of the
bridge at Parit Sulong, but lesser-known
incidents, such as the time the Australians
charged the Japs with axes, or the hero-
ism of the A.I.F. man who, walking alone
along the road while the others travelled
through the jungle on each side, offered
himself as a living target to discover
the Japanese ambushes. There is a note
of savage bitterness about Mant’s descrip-
tions that suggests that war books about
the Japanese war may be different in
tone from the books of other campaigns
and of the last war when between the
opposing soldiers there is little of personal
hatred recorded. He gives the enemy
this credit;
General Gordon Bennett has given his
opinion that the Japanese will treat their
Australian prisoners fairly, an opinion
shared by this writer. There was no evi-
dence of organised atrocities in the Malayan
campaign.
McGuire’s Westward the Course, the
American edition of which appeared to a
Canadian reviewer some months ago as
“probably the most interesting book in
the world at the present time for the
greatest number of people,” has struck it
unlucky in the same way as McKie’s This
Was Singapore, for he has a good deal
about Malaya and the best of his chapters
(because he seems to have spent more
time there than anywhere else on his tour
of the Pacific) are on the Dutch East
Indies.
Even so, Westward the Course looks
in the distance as if it might be what this
Page was looking for when, regretting
that Dr. Lambert’s amazing A Doctor in
Paradise stopped short in 1939, it said
recently “How valuable would be an up-
to-the-minute survey of the Pacific
islands.” Paul McGuire, whom The
Bulletin knows as a poet and the author
of Australian Journey as well as some
detective novels, covers Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, New Guinea, Timor and
Hawaii as well as Singapore and the
Indies ; he has a rare gift of style; a
philosophy that lifts him high above the
ranks of the globe-trotting journalists;
and the inquiring intelligence that can
write such a paragraph as this:
Through ages men have slowly moved
south and east from continental Asia
The last great wave, in progress now for
centuries, is Chinese; and to it, possibly,
the future of Indonesia belongs. As one
of several great waves came the Poly-
nesians. What set those great migrations
marching? Perhaps the pressure of popu-
lations or more vigorous peoples behind.
But who in Asia thrust out a people cap-
able of the Polynesians’ discovery of the
Pacific? One thinks inevitably of the fan-
tastic spirit of adventure which marks
man from the beasts. The tiger timelessly
paces his familiar 15 miles of grass and
brakes, but men are called from over the
hills and far away.
But Westward the Course suffers from
the inevitable disease of all books not
written by men who have lived in the
places they write about: superficiality.
McGuire says of the Australian record
in New Guinea, particularly praising the
medical services to the natives:
The Australian has shown capacity to
understand and work with peoples of other
bloods. His Administration in New Guinea
and Papua Has been admirably distin-
guished for its sense and sensibilities.
Gilbert Mant says that New Guinea
was another Malaya, an “exploited
country.” Probably neither McGuire nor
Mant has lived in New Guinea. But Dr.
Lambert, who has lived there, said:
The natives of the world’s second-largest
island, New Guinea, must inevitably fall
off in numbers and weaken in physique
unless their case is handled with more
honesty and intelligence than the home
Government has seen fit to give it.
Maorilanders, remembering Korora-
reka, would have some doubts about the
depths of McGuire’s knowledge of their
country’s past when he sums up the early
days: “Each vied with the other in what
you might call respectability. There
were no convicts in New Zealand as in
a place one could mention across the
Tasman. Here sons of peers dropped in
to tea, and workingmen united in Self-
Improvement Associations, and native
flora were found most suitable for trim
English hedges.” Nor, admitting all the
good that has been done but knowing
all that remains to be done, will New
Zealanders complacently agree with him
that, because the race has produced men
such as Maui Pomare and Dr. Peter Buck,
the Maoris as a people so easily “return
to their gfeatness.” That is tourist
writing, marring an otherwise excellent
book.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Having smoked the pipe of peace with
E. J. Tait, Marjorie Gordon is back at
Sydney Minerva in the good company of
Claude Flemming, Dorothea Dunstan,
Madge Aubrey and Aileen Britton for a
return season of “Susan and God.” A
minor flaw in Marjorie Gordon’s acting
is that sometimes (as in the opening of
the bedroom scene when the penitent hus-
band kisses her hand and she scratches
the spot in the manner of one bitten by
some unmentionable insect of the bed-
room) she works too hard for unneces-
sary laughs ; but it’s a small point and
the general impression, as in the earlier
season, is that she and Flemming are
both giving the performance of their lives.
In the production as a whole the only-
possible objection is that Leslie Victor
finds it difficult to be sufficiently repulsive
for his role of objectionable wealthy hus-
band of suffering actress. “Susan and
God” is a play of genuine quality: good
enough as a serious study of the Drunken
Husband problem to make the Religious
Editor swear off o.p. rum for life again;
biting in its satire of fakes in the Oxford
Movement; yet amounting, as a whole,
to a thoroughly good-humored comedy.
It was an unusual musical week in Mel-
bourne which produced two concerts
dominated in one case by an infant
prodigy scarcely out of the nursery and
in the other by an infant prodigy of
former years who was staging a come-
back as a young man of 20. Desmond
Bradley, the seven-year-old violinist, who
tackled Handel’s F Major Sonata and
similar works of the great composers,
amazed his audience even more than the
12-year-old Philip Hargrave did at his
first concert, and it will depend entirely
on his own development if he produces
the same delight and pleasure when he is
20. There is whips of talent in the world,
but only a small proportion ever comes
into full flower.
Some people think that giving concerts
early is a dangerous proceeding, and
Philip Hargrave seems to be one of the
few virtuosi who came independently to
the same conclusion. He gave up what
would have been a successful career as
a public performer to study law at the
University of Adelaide. Probably it
saved him. The war came and sent him
into the army, and for some reason or
other that seems to have been a better
university for his talent than public con-
certs. He might be described now as
a vigorous sapling. In the concert at the
Town Hall he shouldered all the burden
of a programme that included a Grieg
and a Beethoven concerto. The applause
wasn’t entirely due to his youth, the
uniform or his romantic history. His
facility was amazing.
Thomas Matthews, who made his Aus-
tralian first appearance in Sydney as solo-
ist in Elgar’s Violin Concerto, has the
hierarchic air of Mischa Elman and
shares that virtuoso’s dislike for squashy
sentimentality. Technically and intellec-
tually Matthews’s equipment proved
equal to every call made upon it by
Elgar’s many-faceted work. His tone is
warm, his manner virile and his style is a
delight to watch as well as to listen to.
From London: Cyril Ritchard and
Madge Elliott are together again in a
new Cochran show, “The Big Top.” The
co. is strong, with Fred Emney, Beatrice
Lillie and Patricia Burke, a daughter ot
Marie. Robert Helpman, from Adelaide,
has been declaiming lines of Milton in a
“Comus” ballet, and also playing the
straight part of a young Dutchman, a
Quisling for the invaders, in the big him
“One of Our Aircraft Is Missing.”
That sound character-actor Cecil Kell-
away does a good job in an Admirable
Crichton role in “My Heart Belongs to
Daddy” (Sydney Prince Edward)—whic.
is a bad title for a sparkling comedy-
Other talkie offerings include “A Close
Call for Ellery Queen” (Greater Union
Theatres), submitting ingenious crime
and a quartet of solidly American insti-
tutions—hot-dogs, Joe Di Maggio, me -
water and Ellery Q. himself. Lite
Begins for Andy Hardy” (Sydney
James)—in which Mickey Rooney dashfo
in and out of precarious filial and cat-
love situations with a grin. Joan o
Paris” (Sydney Embassy)—five R-A-r-
-fighter pilots shot down over France an-
trying to get in touch with British agents
in Paris and to get back into the war . i
makes a finely-balanced story and is
comparative rarity amone war films m
that the plot is feasible.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
.
n
A
"' T W
A*
wC-i
~7
; f
/ c >
mm
■
m
r
v ■
L
<•»/
V/
-4_ I
it
> -I- I >-'=r
/
COMFORTABLE, HEALTHY-FITTING SHOES are a national
necessity in these strenuous times, especially for men in the
Forces. "Tree" Brand Super Grade Shoes for Officers will give,
miles of extra wear because of the quality that is in them, and be-
cause they fit properly. Made in first grade imported Zug or Zebu
on a good fitting last, in full and half sizes, they have genuine
welted extra stout leather soles. Also stocked in Brogues with
extra stout soles and whole golosh models. All have extra wide
welts. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, pair 49/6
12 Coupons Required.
• Mens Footwear —Ground Floor, George Street.
ANTHONY H
dT m
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


S. H. PRIOR PRIZE
For reasons already stated, there
will be no competition inviting sub-
mission of MSS. for the duration of
the war at least.
The Prize this year (£100) will
be awarded to the author or authors
of the book by an Australian writer
which the trustees consider the most
valuable contribution to Australian
literature published in Australia be-
tween June 6, 1942, and June 6,
1943. and “Austra-
lian” for the purposes of this award
include New Zealand.)
No work that has already won a
monetary prize will be eligible.
EXTRA MONEY
By E. O. SCHLUNKE.
IN the lull after harvest
Charlie’s wife wanted
him to go out and earn
some extra money. He
objected that he wasn’t as
young as he used to be, but
she proved the necessity so convincingly
and frequently that be decided that it
would be easier to go out and work than
to stay at home and produce reasons for
not doing it. “I’ll go and look for some
dams to silt tomorrow,” he said at length.
Next morning he saddled his pony
and began a round of calls on likely neigh-
bors. He called first on Cook, because
Cook was a man after his own heart,
for whom it would be relatively pleasant
to do a job. Cook had a dam which
needed scooping out, but confessed that
he couldn’t afford to pay someone else
to do it. Charlie had morning tea at
Cook’s and warned for an hour or so.
Then he went on to McDougal’s. Mc-
Dougal had a dam to silt, but Charlie
decided there was still too much water in
it. He had dinner with McDougal and
yarned with him until the heat had abated
somewhat; then he went on to Hyde’s.
Hyde had a dam full of silt too, but
Charlie pronounced it too dry for the
scoop. He had a long yarn to Hyde.
He cantered home in the cool of the
evening, prepared to tell his wife he had
done his best, all to no purpose. But
when he arrived his wife told him that
Jenkins had been, and wanted him to
silt a dam. She had told him that Charlie
would be pleased to do it, and would
ride over first thing in the morning to
arrange details.
Charlie was not at all enthusiastic.
Of all the people he didn’t want to clean
dams for, Jenkins was the first and fore-
most. Charlie described Jenkins as a
man who had been born mean, and had
developed remarkably. He protested
that Jenkins would make him work like a
slave for a month, and at the end would
arrange things so that Charlie owed him
money.
“A man in your position can’t pick
and choose,” said Mrs. Charlie.
Even so, it took Charlie all night and
half the next day to decide to see Jenkins.
Jenkins was glad to see him, but only
because the shortage of man-power had
made it impossible for him to get anyone
else. “I was just going to send for another
man,” he said curtly.
“Don’t mind me,” said Charlie ; “plenty
other places I could go to.”
They looked each other up and down,
and each commented mentally on the
dirty trick necessity had played on him.
“I want you to clean out my big dam
in the ironbarks paddock,” said Jenkins.
Charlie was horrified ; the sweat began
to ooze from every pore in his body at
the thought of all the work that job would
entail. “I couldn’t do it,” he said ; “it’s
too big.”
“Come, come,” Jenkins protested. “A
big dam is always a better financial
proposition than a small one.”
“It’s not that,” Charlie said desperately.
“There’s tree stumps in that dam ; I’d
break my tackle.”
Jenkins laughed loudly and scornfully.
“My father wasn’t the kind of man to
allow a contractor to leave tree stumps
in a dam. Look here, I’ll give you five
pounds every time you get caught on a
stump.”
The harassed look left Charlie’s face,
and in its place came the expression of
a man who sees a sporting chance of
profiting greatly by taking a risk. “That’ll
do then,” he said carefully.
They went to have a look at the dam.
After much argument Jenkins beat him
down to £25 for the job, and then drew
up a lengthy document. Charlie let him
have his way with most of the conditions,
but insisted on the five pounds being
paid immediately each time he struck a
stump. Jenkins insisted that he would not
accept the scoop as caught unless the
cable broke. Charlie agreed, though with
some reluctance.
On the way home Charlie called on
Cook. He arranged that Cook should
help him with Jenkins’s dam, and Charlie
would later help clean Cook’s dam. The
formal business completed, Charlie
assumed a conspiratorial grin.
“This job is full of strings,” he con-
fessed. “We might make a lot more
money out of it than you’d expect; and,
again, Jenkins might shoot both of us
before it’s over, Jenkins has undertaken
to pay me a fiver every time the scoop
gets caught on a stump.”
“But there aren’t any stumps in that
dam,” said Cook.
“No,” Charlie admitted, “not yet. But
why shouldn’t there be some?”
Cook caught on instantly. They put
their heads together and worked out the
details.
“Ever since I’ve known Jenkins,” said
Cook, “I’ve wanted to see him shedding
tears, and, believe me, he’ll shed them
when we’re wringing those fivers out of
him.”
K/IRS. CHARLIE was delighted at the
AVI enthusiasm Charlie displayed for his
new contract. She had expected his' pre-
parations to be slow and reluctant, but he
bustled as if he was going to harvest a
ten-bag crop on his own farm. He had
the children running to find S hooks and
C hooks, bringing tools to mend harness
and collecting all the gear he needed.
Charlie and Cook arrived on the job
late in the evening. As an additional pre-
caution they had a tarpaulin covered over
a large awkwardly-shaped object in the
middle of the wagon. In the morning
when Jenkins came to see them start, the
object was no longer there.
HARLIE drove the big team which
pulled the loaded scoop by a long
cable through the dam and up over the
bank. Cook drove the smaller team which
pulled the scoop back through the dam
by another long cable attached to the
back of the scoop. Jenkins made a very
close examination of both cables to see
if there might not be some artificially-
created weaknesses in them. Each time
the scoop disappeared under the stirred-
up, muddy water he looked apprehensive
until it reappeared full of mud and slid
up the bank. At the end of an hour he
went away, looking relieved.
Next morning he was there again. He
looked at the still unbroken cables and
said to Charlie: “Don’t seem to be any
stumps after all.”
But Charlie had a worried look. “There
was a nasty jerk a few trips ago,” he
said ; then he yelled across the dam to
Cook, “Take care how you pull her back
this time.”
It could not have happened more
neatly. Charlie had the scoop pulled
halfway across the dam when suddenly
the cable tightened and sprang hissing
out of the water. Charlie’s horses were
game and flattened down to the job.
The cable snapped. Charlie’s swingbars
crashed to the ground and the horses
sprang forward in a fright. He got them
under control again by a great effort.
Cook came running round the dam.
The three men walked warily down the
slippery, muddy slope to where the end
of the cable reached out of the water.
“Gad,” said Cook, “your bonzer big
cable busted.”
“That’s not as bad as the scoop,” said
Charlie. “Only the crayfish know what’s
happened to it down there among the
tree stumps,”
“It might cost a fiver to get it out and
mend it,” said Cook.
“Yes, it might,” Charlie agreed, and
then his face brightened as he looked at
Jenkins. “Just as well I’ve got your fiver
to fall back on.”
“I can’t understand it,” Jenkins ex-
claimed. “If I hadn’t seen it with my own
eyes I wouldn’t have believed it.”
But there it was, and, acting in strict
accordance with their agreement, Charlie
refused to get on with the job until he
had his five-pound note. So Jenkins went
off to get it, muttering savagely to him-
self. Charlie and Cook had a good laugh,
but didn’t feel exactly comfortable about
the business.
It didn’t take them long to splice the
broken cable. Then Cook hitched his
team to the rear cable and pulled the
scoop out backwards. It was undamaged,
they made a great show of hammer-
ing it when they saw Jenkins returning.
They didn’t want him to feel that the
fiver had been too easily earned,
Jenkins handed over the money with
excruciating reluctance. “I give you
notice,” he said, “that if things are not
as they should be I will deduct that
amount off my payment for the job.”
“What’s biting you?” Charlie asked.
“I warned you there were stumps in this
dam. You can’t expect me to bear the
damage.”
But Jenkins looked far from reconciled
to the position.
When he had gone Cook said: “He
looks as suspicious as a dog that’s having
a tin tied on its tail.”
“We’d better not make it too hot,”
said Charlie. “Every time we break the
cable he’ll try harder to get out of pay-
ing.”
“Four times is about as much as we
can risk.”
“Yes,” Charlie said doubtfully, and
after a moment’s thought he added: “I’ve
got a funny feeling that we’re lucky to
have even this fiver. I think we ought to
go to town this afternoon while we’ve still
got a good grip on it.”
SO, it being Saturday, they went. On
the way in Jenkins’s big shiny sedan
swished past them, and left them choking
in its dust. “At least we’ll wash that out
of our throats with his cash,” they said.
While doing so they met
some acquaintances and
confided that Jenkins was
shouting. When they’d had
a few more they began
to hint that they were
putting it over Jenkins, and that
there was plenty more coming from the
same place. Everybody was greatly inter-
ested. As others entered the bar they
joined the group and were taken into
confidence. There was a a great deal of
laughter, and the name of Jenkins was
heard frequently.
Presently a young man with a towel
over his shoulder came in for a drink.
He couldn’t help hearing what was going
on. He looked vastly interested and soon
pushed his way into the centre of the
group. Men made way for him because
he looked like a man with something on
his mind.
“I say,” he said to Charlie, “you might
be interested to know what that man
Jenkins is up to now. He came into the
swimming baths about an hour ago and
stood watching a mob of us diving off
the tower. After he’d had a good look
at what we could do, he offered two of
the mob a 1 pound each to go out with
him and find out what is in the bottom
of one of his dams. They ought to fte
back any time now. What’s it all about,
anyway?”
The look which spread over Charlie’s
face told them the party was over, and
being men of understanding they ebbed
quietly away. Charlie took a long pull
at his beer to steady himself while he
looked at Cook, but now the beer tasted
like muddy dam water.
“HEY, JIM, GET THE MAP!”
By BRIAN FERNANDEZ.
JIM BOURKE’S map must be known
almost from Tasmania to the Gulf,
I think. It was, when I knew it, well
worn and heavily creased in its folds
and with two dirty green cover plates on
the outsides. It had been a good map in
its day and was originally mounted on
linen, but year after year had worn it
so much, and Jim was so constantly re-
pairing it, that it looked more as if it had
been mounted on brown paper. Jim and
I were shedhands together for five years
without a break, and we tramped over
most of the outback in that time. So I
saw a good deal of Jim’s map.
Sometimes I would get into an argu-
ment with some shedhand or shearer
about where some station was situated.
Perhaps I would argue that the station
was near Bourke; and the shearer would
swear that it was one of the White Cliffs
stations: “Hell, I ought to know; I’ve
got a cobber shearing there now.”
And. I’d say “Well, if your cobber has
gone to White Cliffs, he’ll be looking a
damned long time before he finds out
where Warrawina station is. Jim and I
worked in the shed there two years ago.
Hey, Jim, where’s Warrawina?”
“At Bourke, you dill!” Jim would say,
and go on writing his letter at the other
end of the mess table.
But the shearer would still argue that
his cobber had gone to White Cliffs —■
and even insisted on addressing a letter
to him “via White Cliffs.” That was
going as far as calling a man a liar, and
I’d get indignant. “Hey, Jim, get the
map!” I would yell.
Jim would stop scratching his head
over his letter and stump off to his hut.
He’d come back proudly opening his
map. He would spread it out carefully
on the table, run his finger up the Dar-
ling until he came to Bourke, then run
his finger straight out to Warrawina and
with a triumphant air say “There y’are! ”
Then the rest of the shearers and shed-
hands would crowd around to have a
look at the map ; and I would quietly
fold up my writing-paper and put it
away, for I knew that there would be no
peace in which to write.
Maps hold an infinite source of interest
to bushmen. Once they get their noses
on a map they’ll argue and wonder
over it well into the night. At last
Jim would sigh “Ah, well,” and fold it
up. Then someone or other would offer
him a price for his map ; but Jim would
never consider selling it at any price, I
know that he only gave two bob for it
at a second-hand bookshop; and he
used to tell with pride that he had been
offered a fiver for it.
Perhaps someone would ask Jim for a
loan of his map sometime, and they would
spread it out on the table and ask Jim
where this aqd that station was, or this
town. would sit like a general,
with the map spread out before him, and
the others all clustered around, leaning
on his shoulders and squatting on the
benches beside him, pointing out each
place as they asked for it.
First they would want to know where
the station was on which we were working
at the time, and Jim would find it and
solemnly underline the name of it with a
little blunt pencil. Then they would ask
him, one after the other, and carelessly, as
if they weren’t particular whether they
knew or not, where this town or that
town was, and where this or that station
was ; then marvel that it really was on
the map when Jim had pointed it out
to them. Those places were where their
homes were, or where they were born,
and as the year wore on and the time
would soon come for them to return to
their homes at Christmas they would
persuade Jim more and more often to
“get the map,” and point out their home-
towns, till in the last shed of the year
they would have Jim’s map out almost
every night.
They all had dozens of cobbers, of
course, and knew where they would be
working and where they would be going.
They would ask Jim for this station or
that, and tell how George Someone-or-
other was shearing there, and then he
was going on to Soanso and Somewhere,
then Somewhere-else, and then on to
another shed. And Jim would point
them all out and glow with pride as they
marvelled at his map.
All the time he would be keeping a
weather eye out for anyone who chanced
to be leaning oh the map, and perhaps
folding down the corner or creasing it,
or for anyone who was dropping cigar-
ette-ash on to it, or perhaps sparks from
a pipe. He would curse them roundly
for being careless fools, and he would
straighten out the creased corner with a
pained look or blow the cigarette ash and
sparks off, and rub the spot carefully as
if half of the map had been burnt. And
he would curse again and make to fold
the map up. Then someone would ask
him to “Wait a tick,' Jim ; don’t put it
away yet!” And Jim would look hurt
and sulky, and say that he wasn’t going
to have his map ruined because of a lot
of careless wool-pickers, and make to go
on folding, till they almost begged him
to let them look at it. But it wasn’t until
they all cursed the careless one profusely
that Jim was satisfied and laid out his
map again, with the air of one who*is
being condescendingly benevolent. It was
the pride of Jim’s life, that map.
I haven’t been tramping with Jim these
last three years, and I’ve lost track of
him and his wanderings ; but now and
then I hear from someone who has seen
him and his map within twelve months or
so. I suppose they are still settling argu-
ments in sheds with “Hey, Jim, get the
map!” And I suppose it’s still making
a lot of bushmen homesick and still
giving the walkabout disease to a lot
of young fellows.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3265
Wednesday, September 9, 1942.
END OF A JIU-JITSU ACT AT MILNE BAY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
JAPANESE BLUNDERS.
When the story of the comparatively
small and local, but none the less impor-
tant, engagement at Milne Bay was fully
told, it appeared that the Japs had badly
blundered. They were not the only
blunderers. On the eve of the good news
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” had supported,
with sneering ignorance, foolish attacks
on military leaders responsible for the
defence of New Guinea:
Allied aircraft at Moresby are supposed
to dominate these seas. Where were they
while the Japs steamed leisurely south?
There was, of course, no warrant for
the assumption that the Japs had
“steamed leisurely south”; but then
there was no warrant for any of the
sneering attack.
Where were the bombers —the only air-
craft of use in smashing convoys? Little
wonder that the Allied score—so far re-
ported—was one gunboat! Machine-gun
bullets don’t sink warships and transports.
And the same editorial column the
day after the news was out;
The Japanese were trapped at Milne
Bay for the first time effective planned
resistance met a Japanese landing force.
Incorrect; “effective planned resist-
ance” had most effectually met Japanese
landing forces in counter-attacks on the
Solomons. One of those landing forces
suffered the extraordinary casualties of
670 killed out of a total of 700 landed.
This speaks volumes for the savageness
of the fighting, in which there could
have been no quarter asked or given. It
says much, too, of the fanaticism of the
Jap forces and of the fierce fighting spirit
necessary to defeat them —in separate
engagements, like the Solomons and
Milne Bay fighting, and finally as a
nation.
Luckily, that spirit is present —in U.S.
and Australian fighting forces and their
leaders. Despite sneers of armchair ignora-
muses, the general conduct of the Pacific
war under American leadership has
steadily improved. For the Milne Bay
success General MacArthur paid an all-
round tribute to “the work of the Aus-
tralian combat troops, the able leader-
ship of their commanding officer, Major-
General Cyril Clowes, and the brilliant
support of American and Australian air
units.” So far from these defenders being
incompetents or asleep, they were respon-
sible for the Japs “falling into a trap care-
fully laid for them.”
This would be enough to silence for
the future ill-informed criticism of mili-
tary leadership—of which there has lately
been a great deal too much from non-
starter strategists—if any thing could
silence ignorance and folly. But the
breed is incurable; it will be heard from
again at the first setback. The answer
in that event to critics of the type heard
from just prior to Milne Bay is that,
because of past sins of defence omission
for which they are as guilty as anybody,
the military leaders and fighting forces
responsible for Australia’s continued free
existence have a colossal job on their
hands beating back an enemy who, while
this and other countries happily chewed
the lotus, was. building up a terrific fight-
ing strength. The answer to recently-
heard criticism —on the rare occasions of
its being at all on the mark —is that much
that everybody would like to see done
is simply not always possible with the
means available.
Without doubt there is still a long way
to go before all the means that military
leaders and fighting forces would like are
available to them. There will almost
certainly be setbacks and black days
before the tidal wave the Japs started is
turned back to destroy them. But there
are heartening features in the general
pfospect to go on with.
In the Coral Sea and Midway battles,
in the Solomons and, on a smaller scale,
at Milne Bay the Japs have already suf-
fered a series of definite reverses. At
Milne Bay, it seems, they blundered; it
is not yet clear how much blunders on
their part may have contributed to their
other defeats. It is very clear that they
committed one blunder for which they
have already paid something on account
and \yill be made to pay heavily in the
final reckoning. Beside it, the blunders
of Milne Bay, the abortive submarine
attacks on Sydney and Newcastle, and
any others of the meantime that history
may one day point out look of small
significance.
Their great blunder was, paradoxical!#,
one of their greatest temporary successes
—their treacherous attack on Pearl
Harbor. Any others they may have
made have been disastrous only to de-
tachments of their engaged forces. Pearl
Harbor was a national blunder. Remark-
able that it should have been committed
by a people who have long been noted
for the value they place on personal dig-
nity and pride. Either that pride had
become so inflated that it made them
reckless of consequences, or else they
were made recklessly desperate by the
prospect of economic embargoes defeat-
ing their plans of conquest in China and
elsewhere. They, of all people, must have
known that an affront to national pride
such as they committed at Pearl Harbor
could have had only one result among
such a proud people as the Americans.
If they thought that the damage they
might be able to do by a treacherous
attack on Pearl Harbor while their emis-
saries were talking peace in Washington
would be enough to decide the issue in
the Pacific, their blundering was so much
the worse. By its nature the attack was,
and remains, unforgivable, but it was
nothing like decisive, as later events in-
creasingly demonstrate.
Even now the full story of Pearl
Harbor is not available for publication,
but some of it has been told by an eye-
witness and published. Admiral Kidd
subsequently summed up the attack as
having done “more damage in one hour
than the U.S. fleet suffered in the entire
World War.” Taking everybody com-
pletely by surprise, the Japs tried to
ground every ’plane on the various fields
to prevent pursuit. Long rows of super
fighting ’planes were riddled on the
ground with incendiary bullets. Hangars
were left in ruins. A huge force of Jap
bombers swept down on the warships in
the harbor. Great ships were struck by
bombs and torpedoes. Bodies of the
men aboard them flew two or three hun-
dred feet into the air. The dead were
thick on decks, hanging from forecastles.
Men were running out of the flames,
falling, jumping over the sides. When
the attacks had ended
The Oklahoma had turned over. The
Arizona was lost. Flames were leaping
from the Downes, the Cassin and others.
Men were killed and wounded, dying on
every airfield, in Pearl Harbor, and in the
streets of Honolulu. Aeroplanes, ships and
homes were afire.
There were burials “until over 2500
American soldiers and sailors killed in
the surprise attack had been laid to rest
in Hawaiian soil.”
No doubt the Japs thought they had
been very clever little men. They had
been both clever and little. By that one
stroke they had made the war in the
Pacific the war of a great nation united
in a way that nothing else could have
united it. Inside the hour or two it lasted
the attack started the beginning of
changes in the whole vast Pacific area,
the end of which no one can foretell. It
is safe enough to say that, owing to the
supreme blunder of the Japs’ unforgiv-
able affront to America, they will never
be forgiven by America. The war against
the Japs will therefore go on until
America, Britain, Australia, New Zealand
and, it is to be hoped, Canada —what
wouldn’t our veterans of Germany’s
Black Day give to see Canadians again
on a flank! —have together wiped out
the memory of Pearl Harbor, and turned
that blunder into the starting point of a
great joint victory.
What may emerge eventually in the
Pacific can as yet be only guesswork.
Wars are invariably full of surprises that
carry over into peace. One thing seems
quite certain —America and Australia
will be very closely attached to each
other in the peace when it comes.
Jointly they have the job ahead of them
of winning the Pacific War; jointly they
will have a vast job still to do in the
peace. By that time the ties between
them —economic ties and others —are
likely to be very close-binding.
One other thing seems certain enough
—that, beginning as it did and demand-
ing a fully compensating ending, it can-
not be other than a very hard and long
war. It will be won by fighting forces
(not overlooking merchant seamen) and
their leaders, not by kite-flying or
ignorant armchair strategists. In com-
parison with the Japs’ successes what has
as yet been achieved against them is still
relatively small; but the Japs have shown
themselves not incapable of committing
blunders —small, as at Milne Bay; im-
measurably great, as at Pearl Harbor.
Whatever others they may make, their
first will remain their worst.
Austerity.
Mr. Curtin and Mr. Chifley have sum-
moned Australians to “the lot austere.”
Though their intentions are noble, their
brand of austerity, as outlined, would be
regarded as luxury everywhere in Europe.
For “a year of real austerity for ail,”
Mr. Chifley has budgeted for an expen-
diture of just on £549,500,000, of
which £440,000,000 is for war ; and lease-
lend transactions are excluded. Tax-
revenue earmarked for war expenditure
is expected to yield £140,000,000. Loan
subscriptions and bank credit are to pro-
vide the difference. If this is Mr. Chifley’s
idea of austerity, it is not that of people
in other countries, notably Canada, who
believe that war should, as far as pos-
sible, be financed on a pay-as-you-go
basis. It is altogether probable that pos-
terity, contemplating this “austerity” and
what it may lead to, will find another
name for it.
Mr. Curtin quotes with approval
Webster’s definition of austere: “rigor-
ous, stern, severe and strict in modes of
judgment and living; unadorned, un-
embellished, severely simple, hard and
rigid.” He asks the people to dedicate
themselves to austerity, in the first place
by taking a very long pledge. In the
new way of life, beer and spirits,
cigarettes, cigars, tobacco, playing-cards
and entertainments are to be dearer.
Newspapers are bidden to cut down the
reports of social and sporting news.
There are to be beefless days and
three-course meals, and State Govern-
ments, whose mountainous intellects
labored on the liquor question and
brought forth a mousy reduction of an
hour a day in hotels, wine bars and the
like, have been asked to curtail race
meetings, horse and dog.
For Sydney and Melbourne, “the aus-
terity pattern” is “race meetings” (horse)
“on alternate Saturdays.” When the
horses are not racing Sydney is to have
dog-races; also, no doubt, yard-by-
yard reports of the Melbourne horse-
races from national and commercial
radio stations and an increased multitude
of s.p. bookmakers to enable Sydney to
bet on Melbourne “events.” And for
those who do not care for s.p. betting,
there will remain the “lot’ries” in four
States. Unless measures are taken against
these useless and wasteful enterprises—
the waste is in human power as well as
money—a boom in lottery gambling is
certain. Yet the Austerity Government
doesn’t even propose to tax lottery prizes,
though they were taxed substantially by the
Commonwealth for years after the last war.
The bulk of the national income is
distributed among people who, in the
mass, make a very small contribution to
income-tax revenue, and the best way
of promoting austerity would be to bring
these people into the income-tax field,
giving them the benefit of a system of
post-war credits. But the Government
boggles at this commonsense method of
preventing useless spending. Its own ex-
penditure is by no means in the austere
tradition, nor is that of State Govern-
ments, though State politicians and their
retinues, whose jobs increasingly fend to
become sinecures, would be well treated
if they were put on half-pay.
People whose business takes them into,
Government departments and the like
smiled in a wintry fashion when they read
that in the latest edition of his man-
power proposals Mr. Dedman would take
“about 50,000 men” from finance and
commerce, and “about 10,000” from
“Federal, State and municipal instrumen-
talities.” Students of finance must have
been equally moved at the disclosure that
a special grant of £BOO,OOO is to be made
this year to the South Australian Gov-
ernment, which closed the last financial
year with a surplus of £1,287,000.
All the same, the Government at Can-
berra could learn a lesson from the South
Australian Premier. That Old Digger
didn’t only curtail racing-; he abolished
it and shut all the betting shops for the
duration. His public, through momen-
tarily shocked, soon reconciled itself
to the situation, and persistent efforts
of politicians, Federal as well as State,
to get the ban lifted, in one case by put-
ting it to the vote, have failed. It is not
here suggested that Canberra should
abolish racing throughout Australia. It
is suggested that Canberra should govern
and accept the consequences, whatever
they may be.
Invitation to a Row.
“If they want a fight they can have it!”
The scene was the Sydney Domain ; the
time, Sunday afternoon; the speaker,
Comrade Tannock. Comrade Tannock
is one of the hierarchy of Federated
Ironworkers and “joint secretary” of the
N.S.W. Aid Russia Committee. He also
figures on the list of Labor Legislative
Councillors pledged to support the
measures “they” introduce—for “thev”
are the State Labor Government, How
did they” come to make Tannock as
not as a bannock from the griddle? Bv
°* Ut . “ me inte resting details of
JN.S.Vv. Aid Russia Committee finance
The central fact of N.S.W. Aid Russia
Committee finance was that Russia had
received or was to receive the sum of
£lB out of £2132 raised by various de-
vices in six months. The same amount
was lost in running a physical-culture
show—an odd way of Aiding Russia,
though not so odd as issuing and post-
ing 500 Christmas cards. A great
deal more went in “functions” (specifi-
cally, a lunch, a dinner, a “rally” and a
congress); in salaries, office and travel-
ling expenses (among those listed as re-
ceivers of travelling expenses were Mrs
Katherine Susannah Prichard and Mt
Rupe Lockwood); above all, in “litera-
ture” Demanding a Second Front in
Western Europe Immediately; principal
author, Mr. Rupe Lockwood, who is 34.
The war-note of the fiery Tannock
was heard by the clan McKell. Did
“they” give an answering snort and rush
to battle? “They” did not. Scouts had come
in with reports that Comrade Tannock’s
organisation, its membership and finances
bloated by the war effort and by ugly
forms of compulsory unionism and extor-
tion, was rising to a commanding posi-
tion in the N.S.W. labor-union world.
Mr. Lang’s paper mentioned that it had
recently paid up A.L.P. affiiliation fees
for 12,000 N.S.W. members, and threat-
ened to become a very important if not
a dominant factor in A.L.P. pre-selection
ballots, from which the only means of
escape for a Labor Minister or member,
State or Federal, is to be “in with the
mob.” And “the mob” has already sworn
fealty to Mr. Ward.,
“They” decided on an appeasement
policy. A £750 p.a. job on the Milk
Board being vacant, “they” gave it to
Mr. H. L. Denford, another member of
the hierarchy, as Federated Ironworkers’
—no, consumers’—representative. Pres-
ently Mr. Carlo Camillo Lazzarini, one
of the Assistant Ministers, volunteered or
was deputed to attend the annual meet-
ing of the Aid Russia Committee and
proffer the olive branch or the whole
tree. No doubt this will mean that Carlo
Camillo will f be billed as a Second-
Fronter. The' Second-Fronters have
already claimed his brother, the Federal
Minister for Home Security “and Assist-
ing the Treasurer,” as one of themselves,
and his brother has not publicly denied it.
Neither of these Lazzarinis attended the
last war when the country of their ances-
tors was an ally. In 1917, the year of
the Great Strikes and of the Final Defeat
of Conscription, Carlo Camillo found
a cushy job in Parliament, not Polygon
Wood or Passchendaele. He and his
brother should be the last men in Aus-
tralia to join with brass-fronted and
terrazzo-hearted non-starters in an agita-
tion which, if successful, would mean
the shedding of rivers of the best British
Commonwealth and American blood: the
Dieppe tragedy, in which the four sons
of an anguished Canadian mother are
“missing,” multiplied a thousandfold.
The Fighting French Admiral Thierry
D’Argenlieu has suggested that a Second
Front may be opened in Italy. Perhaps
someone will now start a branch of the
Aid Russia Committee to whoop for a
Second Front in Italy and ask the
Lazzarinis to become president and
secretary.
In spite of the readiness of N.S.W.
Labor politicians to fawn on them, last
week was a bad one for the comrades.
Their effort to get the “Australia-Soviet
Friendship League” blessed instead of
banned by the Victorian Labor party
was a failure. While members of the
A.L.P. were authorised to associate with
A.-S.F.L. members in activities above
suspicion, the delegates passed a resolu-
tion which, as H. L. Cremean, M.L.A.,
put it, “directed public attention to the
attempts of members of the Communist
party to capitalise for their own pur-
poses the magnificent effort of the Rus-
sian people; warned A.L.P. members
and the public against Communist sub-
sidiaries, declared the A.-S.F.L. to be
dominated largely by persons having
political objectives contrary to the
A.L.P., and banned membership of the
A.-S.F.L.”
A day or two later the comrades held
“rallies” in Sydney and other capitals
(in Sydney, as usual, they had the use
of the Town Hall) to Demand the legali-
sation of the Communist party and press.
Unfortunately for them, the “rallies”
coincided with a British Labor warning
to “all affiliated organisations against
subversive activity by the Communist
party.” Recalling that the May Labor
conference had rejected, by a card vote
of 1,899,000 to 132,000, a proposal for
co-operation with Communism, the
national executive reminded members of
the Labor party that they “must not be


led astray by the expensive propaganda
of a very small political organisation
mysteriously commanding very large
funds.”
The Communist party is supporting the
war effort, not because Britain is or has
been in danger, nor because freedom and
democracy are at stake, but solely on ac-
count of Russia. Members of the Labor
party must remember that many nations
are fighting on Britain’s side, some of which
have as great claims on our generosity as
Russia.
An admirable and unanswerable bit
of debunking. Printed on page 4of a
Sydney daily, it spoilt the effect of a
report, printed on page 6, of the Town
Hall “rally,” at which Comrade Wells,
of the Miners’ Federation, while bespeak-
ing support for the Government, scolded
it because “it had not lifted the ban on
the Communist party,” and because
“some Left-Wing leaders had not been
taken into the Government to strengthen
it”!
PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr. Forde's Language.
Nothing could have been stronger than
the language used by Mr. Forde, as Min-
ister for the Army, in March to justify
the internment of 16 persons said to have
been associated with an “Australia First”
movement in N. S. Wales. “Quislings”
was one of his gentler terms. There was
mention of “Fifth Column activity of the
worst kind,” “elaborate plans of sabo-
tage,” proposed “assassination of promi-
nent people,” and much more.
Nothing could have been milder than
the language of the same Minister facing
criticism of his words and actions at
Canberra. Mr. Calwell (Labor) declared
that “there had been no foundation for
the assassination charge” ; he suggested
that “the charges had been levelled in a
moment of hysteria.”
Something should be done to satisfy the
public mind. Either people must be
brought to trial or should be released, and
if they had been wrongly arrested they
should be compensated.
Mr. Brennan (Labor) “associated him-
self with Mr. Calwell’s remarks.” For
the Opposition, Mr. Spender said that it
was “apprehensive” that “the views ex-
pressed some months ago by Mr. Forde
had been expressed in extravagant lan-
guage,” and that “people had been kept
in internment without very much evi-
dence.”
To all this and other criticism the best
Mr. Forde could manage was the weak
defence that the statement he had made
“was prepared by Military Intelligence.”
Mr. Forde thus sets, or follows, the
wretched example of a responsible Mini-
ster trying to shuffle out of responsibility.
In other days a responsible Minister so
exposed would have shown his sense of
responsibility by resigning. The present
fashion is to blame others, however
weakly, and cling to office at ail cost.
"Til See Eddie."
In two of an astonishingly large number
of desertion cases heard at Victoria
Barracks, Sydney, it was stated that
Minister Ward had tried to get the
fellows out of the army. One was a
militiaman, aged 27, who “sought a dis-
charge for compassionate reasons.” The
other was an A.I.F. man, aged 22, who
said his wife had been “trying to have
him discharged for about 12 months.”
This seems to be an old game of
Minister Ward’s, On April 22, 1940, he
protested in the House that “when I have
pressed for the discharge of certain indi-
viduals the Minister [Mr. Spender then]
has adopted the attitude that they cannot
be discharged.” He had previously shot
up as a protector of conscientious ob-
jectors “on other than religious grounds,”
and had moved that the Government
should be legally prohibited from send-
ing conscripts to New Guinea and Papua.
All this after the outbreak of war. In
pre-war days, when Australia hadn’t suf-
ficient men and equipment to cope with
an invasion from Siam, he was a bitter
opponent of increased Defence expendi-
ture.
Yet nowadays, in his most audacious
moments, Minister Ward poses as a
thwarted champion of preparedness who
would have rivalled Carnot as an
organiser of victory if the “Tories” had
let him. It would be nearer the truth to
say that if he had had his way Australia
would have entered the war with a
shadow army and with an air force com-
posed of a few-score Hawker Demons,
Avro Ansons and Wlrraways.
"Chockos."
“C.H.S.”: “Chocolate soldiers,” shortened
to “Chockos,”. the lads of the A.M.F. were
called by hoodlums and yobs after poli-
ticians had skittled the citizen army based
on compulsory training. They were all
the soldiers we had when editors,
radio spouters, Communists and “fellow-
travellers” were demanding wars without
preparation in three continents, for pref-
erence in Spain, They were all we had
when the German war broke out, and
from the “Chockos” came many young
officers who made good in the new A.I.F.
When the call-up began the term was
revived by way of drawing an in-
vidious distinction between A.I.F. volun-
teers and men who had become sol-
diers by law. At first it was resented,
especially by the large proportion of
“Chockos” who were denied official.per-
mission to join the A.1.F., and there
were fights. Later, the “Chockos” ac-
cepted the inevitable, and soon half-
humorously applied the expression to
themselves.
There is no contempt in it now. As
was to be expected by anyone who knew
Australians, “Chockos” showed that they
had their issue of courage and apti-
tude for war. Dumped down in tropical
spots in a hurry, half-trained and jerked
violently from comfortable civilian jobs,
they accommodated themselves to their
tough surroundings. Sent to battle
stations in the north, they stood up to
bombings and resisted enemy landings
with manly fortitude.
No leave, no picture shows, no girls,
Only hard work and bombing raids, mos-
quitoes and heat and fever have been
,he o£ R T n r y ‘ :ch ,°?° s ”o£ r o
months. But Gavin Long, one ot
best of the war correspondents, after see-
ing the A.I.F. in action from Bardia to
Syria, has written enough to show that
the nation can be proud of them.
Of one a.-a. battery on the hills of
Moresby Long wrote in “S. M. Herald”
and the “Age” :
Uil , • on ate unt n “rhnrko”
battery. I know ofotfiy one A.I.F. “ack-
ack” battery that has fired so many rounds
or scored so many hits or been in action
so long, and that is one that served at
Tobruk during the siege.
mu *u trtirl o niimo
When the full story is told a name
bestowed m thoughtlessness and cont P
will emerge from the battles in our nortn
fit to stand beside the name of Anzac.
Militarv and Political.
1 _____
Quoting Lord Chatfield, an Imperial
Policy Group memorandum points out
that “in nearly every instance our mili-
tary failures have been due to the fact
that we have been forced to pursue cer-
tain policies for purely political reasons.”
On the other hand, “Germany’s sue-
cesses are in a large measure due to
the fact that Hitler has never yet
been forced into a campaign for political
reasons only. He has always chosen his
campaign for positive strategic reasons,”
and “has never been afraid to break off
an engagement for fear of political re-
actions. Hitler
realises that he is fighting a war and not
conducting an election or engaged upon
rz " rs
t ar y po |j bcs bie war a t whatever political
risk This is perhaps the ma i n secr et of
me enemy’s success.
... ,
The Groupi criticises the British Gov-
“nment / or b « n B constantly overcome
by ill-informed political pressure,
We may co-ordinate the policies and
operations of the fighting forces as closely
as we will. We may bring into bemg the
most brilliant staff which the whole Empire
and the United States together can pro-
vide. We may appoint a superman as its
chief but we shall never succeed in prose-
cuting this war as we wish while we allow
uninstructed public opinion to push
the Government into campaigns which are
ill-advised and premature.
T r * * * t .u
Unfortunately the position appears to
be that, whereas the ideal control sug-
§ested seems to be nowhere , in si § h L
“pressure groups” and stunting poli-
”e*sPaPers are as loud and
insistent as ev r - ,
One thing to Uncle Sam s credit and
very much in Australia s favor is that
the war in the Pacific, at least, is now
being conducted strictly on strategical
and not on political grounds. Political
attempts in Australia to interfere have
been promptly and properly silenced.
ENTHUSIASM IS NOT ENOUGH.
“Give it a belt with this, cobber!”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
COMPANY, LTD. •
‘♦THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds *.o meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1 /’3B.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney,
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindi, ey Street, Adf.laide.
Western Australia; Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
CATHOLIC Assurance
IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note a
Blowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to be expected to a de-
gree, if passage is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting. Nature
may be warning that there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste out of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffl-
ness under the eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don't wait I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 1!>
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACK*
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a
enecial remedy for the kidneys and will give
oulck and lasting benefit. Old and young
alike can take DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNLX
PILLS with perfect safety.
POLITICAL POINTS
No one who remembers what hap-
pened after the last war wants to see the
dreadful story of divided control, wasted
wealth and broken lives happen again. It
will be necessary for the Commonwealth
to have full power to guide the country
through the repatriation and reconstruc-
tion period. That will mean a referen-
dum, but it need not be taken this year
or even next year ; and if, as hinted at
Canberra, this Government has notions
of an election-cnm-referendum in a few
months, it should expel them instanter.
For a long time to come everything
required can be done under the war
powers, which, as interpreted by the High
Court, have no limits.
In another unfortunate moment Ded-
man put up for election as one of the two
Victorian delegates to the Federal Labor
executive. He finished a bad third.
Perhaps delegates who would have voted
for Dedman were away buying things for
Mother-in-Law’s Day.
Milne Bay ought to be the end of
W. M. Hughes as U.A.P. leader. His first
reaction to the landing was another
crack at “our military leaders,” and his
newspaper friends were all ready to sup-
port him with horse, foot and artillery.
Then the MacArthur communique came
out and made Billy look supremely
foolish. No one will now take the U.A.P.
seriously until it drops him.
Defendant in a series of taxation cases,
and threatened with bankruptcy if he
failed to pay a tremendous amount this
month, Westralian Senator Johnston has
made a tragic exit in Victoria. M.L.C.
for Williams-Narrogin for 17 years, 1911-
28, and a Senator since, Johnston had
served only 14 months of his third term.
He was Speaker in the Perth Assembly
for a few tumultuous nights, and his
dealings in pubs were for quarter of a
century a stock subject for club chatter
in Perth. More than once in conversa-
tion at Canberra he threatened to speak
out, but he never did.
C. G. Latham, M.L.A. for York, is
expected to be poor Johnston’s successor
in the Senate. Latham, a Country-party
man, has been leader of the Opposition
since 1933. In ordinary circumstances,
he would have a fair prospect of becom-
ing Premier, but the no-election party is
now the strongest party in the House. It
has already “amended” the Triennial Act
by prolonging the life of Parliament for a
twelvemonth, and may go on repeating
the process till the war is over. Latham
was a secessionist, but is believed to have
recanted.
At the instance of Labor-member
Calwell, the House discussed the Aus-
tralia First cases in a very critical spirit.
There will be another discussion when
Dr. Evatt delivers the statement he has
promised to make; meantime Calwell
and other Labor members have made it
clear that they are ashamed of what has
been done in the name of Labor. Forde
weakly pleaded that his sensational state-
ment of March 25 was “prepared by
Military Intelligence.” An abject excuse ;
but it will lead to the House wanting to
know more about Military Intelligence
in respect of its dealings with civilians.
Writing in the New York “Times,”
which has, with some warrant, been de-
scribed as “the greatest daily paper in
the world,” Edwin L. James, a big man
in the office, stated on July 5 that “the
Russians last year declined the offer of
the British to send troops to the
Caucasus.” They have no reason for
declining it this year. Here may be the
secret of Churchill’s visit to Moscow.
With the Ward-appointed Women’s
Employment Board fixing wages—in one
case at the same rates for women as for
men —and with at least one State Gov-
ernment setting aside a basic-wage
judgment, arbitration and industrial-
court Judges must be wondering what is
going to happen to the system which is
the result of their exertions over many
years.
Justice Dwyer, once Labor M.L.A.
for Perth, refused an application
for an increase in the Westralian
basic wage. The State Government
stepped in and ordered increases—4s, 6d.
a week for males and 2s. sd. for females
in the Metropolitan area ; 4s. for males
and 2s. 2d. for females in the South-
west land division. It had the face to
do this under a National Security regula-
tion. Mr. Dwyer’s icy comment on this
intrusion was that “it would be regretted
by many that fixation of the basic wage
has left the judicial chambers and been
thrown into the arena of party politics.”
Right on top of Curtin’s appeal for
austerity the Victorian Cabinet appointed
another royal commissi time to
“In pursuance of our austerity campaign, we’ll have you roast today, cold to-
morrow, curried Tuesday, hash Wednesday and what’s left the dogs can
have!”
inquire into allegations made by Hollins,
M.L.A., on abuses of the liquor laws. It
could learn all about liquor abuses by
taking a half-hour walk around Mel-
bourne.
It is the practice of Labor members
for N.S.W. coalmining distracts, Federal
and State, to crawl to the Reds, whether
they have Leftist leanings or not.
McKenzie, Labor M.L.A. for Wonthaggi
(Vic.), is different. McKenzie was a dele-
gate to the Victorian A.L.P. conference,
and when the question of the Soviet
Friendship League came up he intimated
that he had no use for that organisation:
“I firmly believe that it is a subsidiary of
the Communist party and anti-Labor.”
Unlike N.S.W. coalmining districts rep-
resented by political crawlers, Wonthaggi
hasn’t had a strike for a very long time,
and the credit is largely due to McKenzie.
Before Dunstan presented his Budget
H. M. Cremean, M.L.A. for Clifton Hill
and Labor’s deputy-leader, was spied in
a new place, his party being now in
Opposition, and there was an interval
for congratulations, Cremean having been
ill for months. At the State Labor
conference he showed that his mind was
as vigorous as ever, pitching into the
Communists in pungent sentences.
Much as it respects Maurice Blackburn’s
principles and moral courage the Vic-
torian A.L.P. hasn’t seen fit to readmit
him to the fold. The ban on the Aus-
tralia-Soviet Friendship League was
lifted, to the extent that Victorian Labor-
ites may bespeak philanthropic support
for the Russian people in association
with A.-S.F.L. chinwaggers, but they are
still forbidden to join the A.-S.F.L. Con-
ference rounded off its work by re-elect-
ing the old executive with resounding
majorities over members of a so-called
trade-union political committee, one of
whom rent the atmosphere with his
squeals.
In the case of a person without depen-
dants, Commonwealth tax on income
from property or investment is £lO6 on
£5OO, £320 on £lOOO, £3702 on £5OOO and
£17,202 on £20,000. But if a flutter in
a lottery brings a person without depen-
dants £5OO, £lOOO, £5OOO or £20,000, he
gets the lot without paying the Common-
wealth a penny. This is utterly unjust
alike to the taxpayers from whom so
much is taken and to the nation. Par-
liament should rectify the wrong if
Chifley won’t.
Rents have been pegged for the dura-
tion, and so have valuations for Corn-
monwealth land-tax purposes; but im-
provident and voracious municipal coun-
cils and “semi-Government” concerns
like Sydney’s No-Water Board are still
permitted to increase their rates. In
N, S. Wales the oracle is worked per
medium of Valuer-General’s Department
assessments, and these have been bumped
up in different places. One effect is that
the Commonwealth will lose something in
income tax, since rates paid are still
deductions from taxable income. Though
mugs choose here and there to give
fancy prices for land, there can be no
such thing as an actual increase in land
values in a country at war and threat-
ened with invasion. All land valuations
should be pegged at 1939 levels.
It is by no means certain that Lang
will get the party nomination for Reid, as
a sixty-sixth birthday present. Morgan,
the present incumbent, won’t give it up
without a struggle. He is young as poli-
ticians go, and by talking hard in the
House and at A.L.P. branch meetings,
and by striving to become known as a
good local member, he has established no
mean following. And the odds against
him, now pretty considerable, may
shorten considerably when it becomes
evident in Reid that the Opposition would
love to see Lang get in.
That dreadful defeat in Lang (sinister
name!) didnf quench the fire of Stevens’s
federal ambitions. It was suggested last
week that he would be charmed to stand
lor Parkes, represented since 1919, with
a break of two years (1929-31), by
Cha-hailie Marr. When Cha-harlie heard
of it he hit the roof.
Last financial year, the Commonwealth
Grants Commission -recommended gifts
of £1,400,000, £630,000 and £520,000 re-
spectively to the Governments at Adel-
aide, Perth and Hobart, but graciously
allowed that £250,000 of the gift to Adel-
aide might stand over till 1942-43. The
Adelaide Government made it look
foolish by producing a surplus of
£1,287,000. Now the commission recom-
mends that Adelaide and Perth should
each get £BOO,OOO this year and Hobart
£575,000. If Parliamentary control of
the public purse has not become the
hollowest of jests, there should be stern
opposition. The amounts are outrageous,
and a Government which has to shoulder
the whole burden of the war and is
shouldering much of the burden of State
expenditure can’t afford to make such
huge presents of easy money, especially
when it anticipates a deficit of
£300,000,000.
“Notwithstanding Mr. Churchill’s visit,
all dispatches from Moscow contain
strong hints of Soviet bitterness against
the Western Powers.” So says George
Warnecke, an Australian newspaperman,
in a message from New York to Mel-
bourne “Herald.” He quotes “P.M.” as
declaring that “American stocks are some-
what higher than Britain’s in Russia, but
that is not saying much”; also Major Field-
ing Eliot, who suggested in the New York
“Times” that “Georgians”—Stalin’s own
people—might aid the Nazi advance to
Transcaucasia. Though “the notion of
Soviet defection is officially discounted, '
some writers are of opinion liiat “effective
Russian resistance may end this year,”
and “newspapers here note the mention
from Moscow of Fifth Column activity
for the first time.”
Fremantle City Council has recently
passed a resolution congratulating its
Federal member on his conduct of the war
effort and wishing him health and strength
until the task is consummated. Then,
emptying the contents of the salt-cellar
into the butter, the councillors demanded
to know, in effect, how much longer their
Federal member was going to stand
Ward.
Makin, to his electors in Port Adel-
aide, subject being the loss of H.M.A.S.
Canberra:
[ am determined, if I remain Minister
of the Navy, that for every ship we lose
by enemy action we will build two, and
possibly three, in its place.
Splendid, but belated. Makin was a mem-
ber of Caucus in 1924, when it opposed
the building of H.M.A.S. Canberra and
Australia on grounds stated by Anstey,
then deputy-leader: (1) Australia cannot
be effectively invaded, the sea distances
being too great; (2) Australia never will
be invaded, Japan having “honored her
agreement when Britain had her back
to the wall.” On the same occasion
Lazzarini, now one of Makin’s 18 col-
leagues, said! the two cruisers would be
useless: “the money might as well be
thrown into the sea.”
State Governments never give up. The
one in Sydney, having lost the chairman
of its Films Commission, a sinecure worth
£5OO a year, is appointing another. What
on earth is a Films Commission and
what does it do?


BRANDAUERS
•r*
wt
o**
gdf
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BEAMDADKE A CO, Ltd, BIEMINOHAM. ENO
FISH* jnG TACKLE FOR EVEkY
NiIED
Write,
TROUT FLIES. —Here’s a large and highly specialised range
or call and see them.
NETTING NEEDLES.—AII sizes. We have just received large new
stocks.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
i- L
win
OCO
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine .glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate vou. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
Bit!
T. JONES t CO.
CHEMISTS. 319 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
When in Brisbane the P.M. renewed
an almost lifelong acquaintance with
Jack Hanlon, editor of the Queensland
“Worker.” Their parents were neighbors
in Creswick (Vic.), and the two Jacks
were helped into the world by Dr. Lind-
say, father of Australia’s most artistic
family—Norman, S’Lionel, Percy and
Daryl Lindsay are also natives of Cres-
wick. The “Worker” got Hanlon from
Perth (W.A.), where he was a daily-paper
man, though not in Curtin’s time.
Prominent in taxation departments since
1917, Herbert Magee is mainly known
for his 18 years as chief income-tax man
in the northern State, where he amalga-
mated the Federal and State departments
in 1923. In 1941 Artie Fadden picked
him for the chairmanship of the Board
TAXATION CHIEF MAGEE.
of Referees, War-time Company Tax,
much against the wish of Forgan Smith,
who hated to part with one of his best
civil servants. Magee is also a member
of the Capital Issues Board. For a man
just over five-foot-four, he has a substan-
tial right hand; he developed it, not
from Jjauling in taxation, but as a boxer
at Sydney University and elsewhere as a
youth, when he was also a keen rifle-
shot ; his clear blue eye has caused many
an erring taxpayer to tremble at the
knees. Born in Manchester and brought
up in Glasgow, he became an Australian
at the age of 12. A son is a lieutenant
in the R.A.N.
Believe it or not, the author of the
first book ever published by Angus and
Robertson is a regular visitor to that
firm’s bookshop in Castlereagh-street,
Sydney. He is H. Peden Steel; the book,
a slender verse tome, A Crown of Wattle.
It was published in 1888. A. W. Jose’s
Sun and Cloud on River and Sea, pub-
lished in the same year, ran it close (Jose
then wrote as “Ishmael Dare”). Jose,
like the rest of Steel’s contemporaries
(and many later ones, among them
Lawson, Paterson and scores of others),
has long passed on.
In the current fashion of booming up
the transcendent merits of youth, in mili-
tary leadership, a Sydney sheet described
Major-General Cyril A. Clowes, leader-
hero of the Milne Bay setback to the
Japs, as a “virile young Australian.”
Major-General Clowes is 50, so young-
sters in their advanced forties should feel
flattered. Who’s Who mentions him as
“one of the first batch of graduates from
Duntroon.” There’s no question about
the virile part of it. Commissioned back
in 1914, the Milne Bay leader won D.S.O.
and M.C. in the last war, and was a
captain by 1920. Military merit being
at a discount in the meantime, he did not
get his colonelcy till a month before the
present war started, but he was a briga-
dier when he left soon afterwards for
the Middle East. He added the Greek
Military Cross to his decorations, and
was brought back to Australia to be
given further promotion. One of the
most remarkable things about his fine
leadership in the close jungle fighting at
Milne Bay is that he is, by training and
previous active service experience), an
artilleryman.
Mungo MacCallum, K.C.M.G., M.A.,
LL.D., D.Litt.:
Before Sydney University professors became
newspaper columnists and radio uncles Mungo
MacCallum was one of a whole batch of that
Uni.’s profs, every one of whom was out-
standing—in scholarship, and in other respects,
too. Edgeworth David was another of the
band; others included Wood
(History), Scott (Greek), Butler
(Latin), Threlfall (Physics), Liver-
sedge (Chemistry). For all his
shortage of inches (about five-foot-
nothing), MacCallum —born in
Glasgow, and now passed on in
Sydney at 89 —was a leading figure
even in that company. A noted
Shakspearean scholar, of his string
of publications, on Tennyson,
Meredith, German literature and
other subjects, his Shakspeare’s
Roman Plays and Their Back-
ground, published by Macmillan,
London, remains, with Bradley,
a standard textbook. Prof, of
Modern Literature (Sydney, from
1887); knighted (1926); Chancel-
lor when he retired (1936), he was
associated with Sydney Uni. for
half a century. He laid the foun-
dations of a wide and deep
learning at Glasgow High and
Glasgow University (with M.A.,
and the Luke Fellowship for
literature, philosophy and classics),
and at Leipzig and Berlin.
Neither Germany nor anything
else ever affected his guid Scots
accent, perhaps heard at its best
when he taught Anglo-Saxon to
another generation. One son, the
late M. L. MacCallum, was an
early Rhodes scholar (1906); the
other is Col. W. P. MacCallum,
D. 5.0., Deputy Director-General
of Medical Services.
Thomas Matthews, the English violin-
ist now in Melbourne to play for A.8.C.,
must pretty well hold a record in mixing
musicianship with bombing. He was
leader of London Philharmonic Orches-
tra, which was reported during the Blitz-
to have just left the Albert Hall after
a concert when that edifice was laid in
ruins. Of his varied fiats in London
three were blown to bits. Later the liner
on which he was travelling to a broad-
casting appointment in Malaya crossed
the line of the Jap attack on Pearl Har-
bor. When the ship steamed in bombs
were dropping all around, but those
aboard thought at first it was the Ameri-
cans conducting a realistic practice. When
Singapore fell Matthews turned his atten-
tion to Australasia. His musician wife
is an Australian.
The H. G. Smith memorial medal
granted annually by the Australian
Chemical Institute to the one who has
contributed most signally to chemical
science goes this year to Dr. E. Heyman,
of Melbourne Uni. He won the Grim-
wade prize early this year.
The Gilsullivanites lose one of the
finest opera singers J.C.W. has imported
for a long time, and the Navy gains a
recruit, John Fullard having been ac-
cepted for the Silent Service. Most
singers of the Savoy operas are special-
ists, as awkward as baby elephants if
they have to sing outside the sacred
canon, but Fullard has given some public
concerts in Melbourne which show him
to be a natural singer.
“Pambo” the Snake-catcher:
Few men have run greater risks for science
than the man Melbourne knew as “Pambo,
who died the other day through the cumulative
results of snake poison. His real name was
Thomas Fades, and he looked like a typical
Australian bushman, though Maoriland was his
birthplace. Without Eades’s aid Dr. C. H.
Kellaway’s world-famous researches into anti-
venoms would hardly have been possible.
Armed usually with nothing but a sack,
“Pambo” would disappear into the s crub
the most serpent-infested parts of Victpru
and emerge with a sackful ot the wrigglers wit
which he kept the Walter and Eliza Hall m
constant supply. Copperheads and tigers weie
his special quarry, and the invalidism llo m
which he suffered for the last seven years wa
due to the number of times he was bitten.
He served in the last war and was a member
of the V.D.C. in this one.
Geoffrey Cox, lately appointed sec. of
the Maoriland delegation at Washington,
has crowded a lot of lively experience
into his 30 years. Born at Palmerston
North, he annexed a Rhodes scholarship,
went to London, later joined London
“News-Chronicle,” was sent to Spain to
“do” the civil war, saw the fall of Madrid
and wrote a book about it all. When
things began to simmer in Central Europe
London “Express” sent him to watch for
the boilover. After the occupation of
Austria he went there ; he was in Prague
in the hectic days prior to the invasion,
and witnessed the Russians invade Fin-
land. His other hot spots have included
Dunkirk and Crete.
Claimed to have had a 105th birthday
in Adelaide, Abdul Kraus, a Moslem
from India. He has been in Australia
for 70 years, arriving as a ship’s fireman,
remaining as a hawker in Queensland
and finally settling down in the grounds
of the Mohammedan mosque at Adelaide.
When Michel Fokine was directing his
own dances during the Australian season
of the De Basil Co. four years ago, he
was part of the show. He would sit in
the stalls at His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
watching the umpteenth performance of
one of his opuses. The instant the cur-
tain descended he would rush backstage,
his artistic soul outraged by some slip.
Basil Burdett, the “Herald” critic, would
be close on his heels. Fokine (passed on
in N’York at 62) created Pavlova’s Swan
Dance and a whole string of the more
popular and voluptuous ballets. “Paga-
nini,” his last, in which he tried to depict
his own artistic perturbations, had its
premiere in Melbourne, but he was not
there to see it.
At 28, Major Richard Henry Car-
michael has the extensively labelled job
of Director of Heavy Bombardment on
the Allied Air Staff in Australia. A
Texan, his toys are the Boeing Flying
Fortresses. Graduating from West Point,
he spent one and a half years in
“pursuit” ; then, passing into heavy bom-
bardment,, he rapidly became operations
officer of Uncle Sam’s 9th Squadron and
ended up as C.O. Task Force operations
in one of the Australian areas. In the
States he was a noted pilot and operator
Director of Heavy Bombardment.
of Flying Fortresses. A strapping six-
foot lad, he looks a good testimonial to
the Texan climate.
In the past the Melbourne Lud Mayor-
ship has carried an odor (if not a sanctity!
of beer. Lud Mayor Nettlefold is strong
in cement; in fact, a recital of his busi-
ness connections gives an effect of rein-
forced concrete. He’s director of Goliath
Cement, Cement Distributors, Woodall-
Duckham, the Mutual Store and other
big concerns, and is president of the Aus-
tralian Industries Protection League.
He’ll need to be solid. Beaurepaire
finished his term £lOOO out of pocket, and
previous Lud Mayors have found the
prestige and dignity of the civic office
required upwards of £ 10,000-worth of
lubrication. Some suburban municipali-
ties have abolished the “wet” cupboard ;
the new Essendon Mayor (H. J. W. Gyles)
has compromised with a cupboard
which will be both “wet” and “dry” ;
but the Melbourne cupboard has always
Lord Mayor of Melbourne.
been “wetT and has customarily run
away with up to £5O a week of the
allowance. Interested in art and a pro-
lific buyer of Harold Herberts and other
painters, Lud Mayor Nettlefold stands
six feet one in his spats; he’s one of the
last wearers of those adornments.
When Lyons was alive the P.M., the
President of the Senate and the Speaker
of the Representatives were Tasmanians,
Lyons and Hayes by birth as wHI as
residence: Bell was born in Gippsland.
Now two Tasmanians who joined the
annual emigration to the mainland are
Lud Mayors of its two principal cities:
Stanley Sadler Crick (Sydney) and
Thomas Sydney Nettlefold (Melbourne).
Before going to Melbourne in 1916
Nettlefold was an alderman in Hobart,
which, like Sydney and Melbourne, has
had a municipal centenary this year. He
and Crick, a native of Launceston, had
their schooling at Hobart.
Into the silence:
Senator Bertie Johnston’s financial troubles
had a tragic ending; on Sunday morning he
was found drowned at Black Rock (Vic.). He
was a son of an old-time Westralian Surveyor-
General and was a politician for just half his
62 years. Even as a young member he made
money easily—too easily. This success led him
into transactions which became too ambitious
and complicated for one man to handle.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 80, Walter Green,
who joined the Union Co. 58 years ago as
cashier in Wellington and ended as a director.
He served the U.S.S. Co. in many places, in-
cluding Levuka and Sydney. He held director-
ships also with the P. and O. Colonial Stock
Trust and Union Airways of N.Z.
At Caulfield, Melbourne, at 81, John Vail,
Government printer in the Speck from 1899 to
1931. He learnt his trade from his father in
London, came to Australia, went to manage the
“Times,” Suva, transferred to Brisbane
“Courier,” and for several years printed Mel-
bourne’s “War Cry.”
In Sydney, at 80, Frederick William Weirter,
an Edinburgh Scot who in his time played many
parts —studied, first, music, and then medicine;
joined the British Army and served in India
and South Africa, including a dust-up with the
Zulus; fought on the Boer side in a native
rebellion, and on the British side against the
Boers; came to Australia in the ’eighties and
was a church organist in South Australia and
Victoria; then became composer of songs and
pantos, for the Williamson people; was back
in uniform in the 1914-18 war as a drill in-
structor, and after all that took to journalism
on the “S. M. Herald” staff, later editing the
“Scottish Australian.”
At 62, in Melbourne, Alfred Eliel Pizzey,
head of the tannery firm of Pizzey and Sons,
which he founded 50 years ago. Melbourne-
born, he was a foundation member of the
A.N.A. There are five grandsons in the A.T.F.
and another in the R.N.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Macaw”; I got out of bed (I am a
country doctor) prepared to talk the
ringer into postponing what was without
doubt a request to hie me abroad in the
early hours of the morning during the
heaviest rain the oldest inhabitant could
remember. A gipsy greeted me. “You
will come quick, doctor, pliz,” he urged.
"Rosa, she is going to have the baby.”
On the way out to the showground, where
he informed me he was camped with
other gipsies, I chided him about leaving
these things until the last minute. He
smiled wryly and said “We do not expect
the baby so soon.” Interested to learn
my chances of a fee, I inquired what work
they followed. “Rosa, she tell the for-
tune,” he said. “You do this for her,
maybe she tell fortune for you.” “What!”
1 shouted. “Tell my fortune and she
couldn’t even predict when this would
happen to herself!”
* * $ *
“Pontoon”: “X.S.” (B. 2/9/’42) is
dead right about the “aura that surrounds
anybody who caters for the betting in-
stinct in Australia.” The wilder of Syd-
ney’s two evening newspapers runs a half-
pint short story daily. I’ve only read
one of these. It was about a fellow who
went to the races and was given sure
things by a bloke who looked like a tout.
They all failed, and the fellow at the end
turned on the supposed tout and de-
nounced him. Up rose a noble book-
maker and in terrible tones thundered:
“That man is John Tinhorn, the greatest
punter in Australia. He has lost more
this afternoon than ever you are likely
to see. You have three minutes in which
to leave the course.” And even as 1
quote this balderdash I have an uneasy
feeling that perhaps I am the only person
in Australia who can see anything funny
in it.
* * * *
“D.E.”: The word “intercept,” used as a
noun,, has figured in bulletins issued from
General MacArthur’s Headquarters or in
newspaper versions of said bulletins —“by
a brilliant intercept, our fighters engaged
the enemy,” and so on. It is a term
familiar in countries where Rugby* foot-
ball is’*played, an “intercept” being a pass
grabbed by an alert player from the oppo-
sition ; and perhaps in this acceptation it
is equally familiar to followers of the
American game of football, of which the
general doubtless has pleasant West Point
memories ; but devotees of the Austra-
lian brand of. football must find it strange.
I am not carping at the Supreme Com-
mander’s English, which, in all the pub-
lished addresses I have seen, is as classic
as Canning’s. Indeed, he gives the im-
pression that he could write the heads
off a great many people who have made
writing their profession.
# * * ¥
“Oxmead”; It must be well over 20
years since a financially-embarrassed
Westralian M.L.A. sought refuge from
threatening creditors and prowling process-
servers in Parliament House itself, taking
with him a stout heart and an adequate
supply of bedclothes. But my recollection
doesn’t support “Tuart’s” (B. 2/9/’42) in
the statement that he “held the fort” for
a couple of weeks and was pounced
upon by writters on unguardedly emerg-
ing. I fancy that two or three nights at
most saw the end of his adventure. His
dramatic expedient, when it became
known, was at first treated*as a huge
joke, but it was also felt as something of
a scandal by his party, and the leader of
it—the then Premier —came to the
debtor’s assistance and helped to relieve
him of his most pressing liabilities. He
disappeared from Parliament at the next
election.
* * * *
“Waaafer”; I can’t pass Frith’s depic-
tion of the W.A.A.A.Fs. (B. 26/8/’42).
The field-service cap is not part of the
uniform ; the girls wear a visored cap.
Moreover, hair is not worn at shoulder-
length. There’s a regulation about that.
ThTd point—high heels were discarded
with civilian dress.
“Just getting in a stock of ice before they start rationing it!”
„ X; S - : Man-power authorities m
Bendigo (Vic.) felt a shiver run down
their spines when they received this
epistle:—
Dear Sir. —l regret that 1 am unable to
call at the Town Hall, Castlemaine, on Sep-
tember 4 as requested, as I died on March
22. I wish you the greatest success with the
war. (Signed) The late .
The address was Chewton Cemetery.
™ „. ,* * . , * .. f
T-C : Brisbane, most easterly city of
Australia has the least cause for complaint
against the daylight-saving regulation, as
it gets its sun 12 minutes ahead of the
E. standard meridian. With the sun
capering ahead of meridian time in
spring as much as 16 minutes, and Bns-
bane 12 minutes ahead of that, the
Queensland capital saves little more than
“I'm not getting out of the bath till you turn over
the page.”
half an hour of sunshine by putting its
clock forward an hour, while in early
autumn, with Sol gradually lagging to 14
minutes behind meridian time, Brisbane
is still less affected. Poor old Melbourne
has to give away its beauty sleep all the
time. Twenty minutes west of the stand-
ard line, it never catches up to sun time
and just gives and gives. As for the
Wimmera —well, my heart just bleeds for
its people. In autumn the district gives
not one but two precious hours of blan-
ketrtime.
* * * *
“Corned Beef”: “Strict Veg.’s” claim
(B. 2/ 9/ ’42) that he saw somebody guzzle
seven pots of beer in five minutes and
achieve drunkenness in that period is
the best story since David slew Goliath
with a pebble. A hogger who so rapidly
swilled that amount wouldn’t be “awash”
in five minutes —it would take half an
hour to act. More likely the only after-
effects of the soakage would be that the
glutton would be very sick —and still
sober.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: Owing to the war-pro-
moted influx from all the world the
“Once a Year Jew” has been more in
evidence in Australian capitals, especially
in Sydney, and the New Year “overflow
services” which, in any case, have to
be provided by all congregations have
created a tax on halls and the supply
of Hebrew scholars capable of officiat-
ing. The newcomers have brought
schisms or near-schisms into Australian
Jewry. The “Liberal Synagogue” has
arrived ; and as a makeweight there are
those for whom the prevailing customs
are not sufficiently rigid; while right
on the New Year meetings were con-
vened by agitators who demand a “demo-
cratic Synagogue.” The “Once a Year
Jew” possibly is not much concerned
about these cross-currents of Synagogue
politics. He attends his traditional ser-
vices and observes Yom Kippur right
down to its joyful break from fasting to
feasting; then he forgets all about it
for another year. A curious thing is how
many non-Jewish, or very fractionaliy-
Jewish, people manage to crowd into
these essentially Jewish services.
* * 'i. *
“Chevroford”: Mr. Curtin’s austerity
campaign is up against sartorial preju-
dices in Melbourne. The two-piece suit
is unpopular—tailors say the public
won’t have it —and the fear has been
expressed that, unless the authorities
modify their ruthless decree and allow
a man his waistcoat, the war for free-
dom may be lost on the vest-front. You
can't expect a man who all his life has
been used to looking “dressy” (as K.
Parlon, president of the Master Tailors’
Association, puts it) to throw his whole
soul into the struggle for liberty when it
is being filched from him in this way. I
lived with a man in the tropics for 14
years, and during all that time I never
saw him once without a stiff white collar,
a tie, tweed coat, vest and trousers. He
sweated ; but he attributed his immunity
from malaria, blackwater, dengue, dhoby
itch and Singapore elbow to the fact
that he never once allowed the climate
to influence his attire. Probably he was
right—morale is a matter of standing by
one’s principles—and there may be some-
thing in Mr. Parlon’s plea that if the
vest must go a double-breasted coat
should be permitted.
* * a: *
“Mac Hoots”: What a queer place
Sydney is these days! I was laughing at
a young woman for being afraid to go
out at nights, even in the city, and airing
the theory that, the
novelty having worn
off even for the larri-
kins, the brownout
crime- wave had
passed. “Maybe,”
she said; “but if
you saw what I saw
the other night you
wouldn’t go out in
the city; a black
man, wearing only a
loincloth and carry-
ing a banjo under
his arm.” “What!”
I said. “Where did
you see him? What
was he doing?”
“Don’t ask me what
it was all about,” she
said. “All I know
is that there he was,
a black man wearing
only a loincloth and
carrying a banjo
under his arm, walk-
ing down Lower
George - street.”
’Struth!
* *
“A Lawyer” on
the Law’s discour-
agement of lawsuits:
The nearly forgotten word “champerty” has
had an airing in S.A. Supreme Court. It
means merely a lawyer’s taking up a court
case on an agreement that he is to get a share
in whatever he may recover for his client; and
such a share (one-fourth) had been agreed on
here. To the outsider, it seems as if this might
often be a fair thing, on some such argument
as “Your case may or may not succeed; and
it will cost you a lot either way. Can’t risk it?
Well, I’ll take it up, and stand in with you on
the result.” But the Law has always frowned
on this bolstering-up of lawsuits, right from
the Norman-French days which gave it the
name Champerty (“a part of the land”). As a
Judge said long ago: “The counsel shall charge
a proper fee, and for it shall give of ifis best.
He is not to be a commission agent.” And the
law still stands. Thus the S.A. Judges said, at
great length, that this Gent. One’s act had
not been at all fraudulent; no suggestion of im-
proper means used to influence the client; moral
misconduct not great; not a case for suspen-
sion ; but the practice is forbidden by law, and
is therefore “unprofessional.” A formal cen-
sure recorded, and 25 guineas costs to be paid
to the Law Society, which had spotted, objected
to and reported the unusual but sporting
gamble.
THAT TELEGRAM.
There’ve been messages written and letters dis-
patched
To which something of mystery’s always
attached,
Like the one that a certain Zinoviev penned
Which brought Ramsay MacDonald’s regime
to an end.
And was roundly denounced as a fake and a lie
By scores of his party who suffered thereby.
The pros and cons of that little affair
Are hardly of interest now, I’m aware.
But I wonder if history will ever record
Who ’twas that indited that message to Ward.
’Tis clear that the name which so large on it
loomed
Was one for a definite purpose assumed,
A method of dealing a blow for the Cause,
A plan for evoking a burst of applause,
A present for Eddie, to warrant belief
He was held in the highest regard by his chief—
Which he may be, of course; but it’s hardly the
game
When someone annexes another man’s name,
And banks on the weight that the same may
afford
To furnish the punch in a message to Ward.
Was it just the idea of a practical joke
Conceived and put through by some humorous
bloke?
Or the culpable zeal of some partisan friend
Who held that the means were excused by the
end?
And where is the office from which it was keyed
And what in the world has become of the screed
(If it ever existed)? ’Tis useless to ask.
Solution remains an impossible task
Of the riddle inherent, the mystery stored
In the tale of the wire that was welcomed by
Ward.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
DIPLOMACY.
“At the pre-session meeting of the Opposition
parties, members generally took the view that the
liquor question needed close watching except in their
individual electorates, which they almost unani-
mously described as the most temperate in Australia."
—Canberra item in “S.M.H
If legislative perks you’re rightly prizing
And on retaining them are firmly bent,
Don’t ever miss a chance of eulogising
The folk who’ve put you into Parliament.
Never neglect a word your tongue can utter
That deep conviction of their worth denotes.
The more profusely you apply the butter,
The greater your reward will be —in votes.
Your hold on your supporters will be tightened,
Their pride be flattered to be told they’re tar
More sensible, discerning and enlightened
Than other chaps’ constituencies are.
To spurn such bouquets would be less than
human, ~
Nor need you mention —though of course it s
true —
That further evidence of their acumen
Lies in the fact that they elected you.
Show that you have them ticketed and labelled
As meriting particular acclaim,
Those through whose agency you’ve been enabled
To fasten M.H.R. behind your name.
And if your task is managed circumspectly
And tactfully, I venture to affirm—
Although they only hear it indirectly—
Twill boost your prospects of another term.
And when the topic is the liquor question.
On which so much deliberation’s spent,
Tis well to ridicule the bare suggestion
That the electors whom you represent
Were ever guilty of those derelictions
Involving patronage of boozing-kens
That warrant the imposing of restrictions
Upon less law-abiding citizens.
Just make it clear the free and independent
Whose votes have placed you in your present
sphere
Need no protection from the ills attendant
Elsewhere upon illicit grog and beer.
The tribute to their temperance you throw them
Will be repeated by approving tongues
In many a bar and, if I rightly know them,
Keep you persona grata with the Bungs.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Hamer”; He was at the local man-
power office, called to explain a whole
series of lapses and offences. There
were more prosperous men who quailed
before the bullying of an official dressed
in a little brief authority; but Horatio
Hamfat had a tradition behind him. We
heard him speaking in ponderous anger
almost directly he had entered the inner
sanctum. “Sir-r-r! I be-long to a noble
and dignified pro-fession—l am an
act-or; and I expect to be treat-ed with
the re-spect that is due to my call-ing.
I intend to with-draw. I shall call again
on the morrow, when per-haps you will
be in a mood to dis-cuss the mat-ters in
dis-pute with calm-ness and court-es-y.
I bid you good morning, sir! ” He got
away with it We could hear the official
who made others tremble gasping in
astonishment and baffled wrath, but, re-
placing his hat nicely on his head, the
mummer made a stately, leisurely exit
worthy of Irving himself.
* * * sf
“Ramona”: Brazil, latest recruit to the
Allied side, has a very old link with Aus-
tralia. This country’s first Governor
(Phillip) called in there on his way here
with the First Fleet and took on a supply
of cochineal insects, as he wanted a home-
made red dye for the uniforms of his
soldiers. With the insects his Ex. also
took a number of cactus plants (prickly
pear), on which the insects fed. The
insects were lost on the journey hence,
but the prickly pear survived and spread
over millions of acres of Australian land.
However, it was in Brazil that Australian
scientists found Cactoblastis cactorum,
which has reclaimed vast areas of pear-
infested country,
* * * #
“Spokeshave”; Mention of The Bul-
letin competition for an Australian
national anthem reminds me that the
“Lone Hand” offered a prize for the best
Australian slogan. It was won by a
Melbourne journalist now doing Federal
rounds in Canberra. Those were the days
when the White Australia measures were
comparatively new; and his effort ran,
as far as I can remember: “May Aus-
tralia keep her face white without the
use of powder,”
=s * * *
“Taniwha”; Refreshing in a world of
compromises and apologies is the whole-
hearted advocate. Such a one is the sec-
retary of Wellington (M.L.) Tobacconists
and Hairdressers’ Association. The Fern-
land barbers have recently put up the
price of a shave, and the secretarial gent,
was put up to justify the up-putting. He
did so by quoting statistics to show that
the costs of shaving have advanced 51
p.c. in the last four years, and that shav-
ing became so unprofitable that most
barbers were on the verge of giving it
up altogether. He wound up thus:
Only 10 per cent, of men now shave
more or less regularly in saloons. These
could be referred to as “the survival of
the toughest,” beards which refuse to suc-
cumb to the efficiency of the safety razor,
and they present a difficult and time-taking
problem to the barber. It would be a more
simple procedure to skin them than to
shave them.
A really magnificent piece of special
pleading.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The sole occupant of the
carriage stirred, blinked himself awake
and beheld the ticket examiner bending
over him. “Oh —ticket,” he mumbled,
slipped his hand in a pocket, withdrew
it, felt in another and another, at first
sleepily, then anxiously, and finally fever-
ishly. The official eyed the proceedings
grimly. “That stunt’s too old,” he was
beginning, when his eye followed the
direction of the traveller’s glassy stare.
On the floor lay an open purse with
four halfpennies obviously spilled from
it. Quickly the passenger dived for his
property, glanced inside and groaned a
hollow “Robbed! ” Officialdom was
coldly sympathetic, but still inclined to
be sceptical about the lost ticket. Sud-
denly light dawned in the traveller’s eye.
“Wait a minute,” he mused to himself.
“I go to sleep in an empty carriage ; I
wake up and find I’ve been ‘ratted.’ The
carriage is still empty —except for a
ticket-snatcher who is bending over me,
quite likely after my watch.” “You’re
not insinuating” roared the railway-
man. The other rose to his six-feet-two:
“No,” he''snapped, “I’m accusin’! ” After
ten minutes of honeyed persuasion the
big ’un grudgingly consented to give the
“snapper” the benefit of the doubt. And
that’s how Big Joe scaled his way back
home on a capital of twopence.
♦ * * *
“Loo”: Goats may have eaten a few
hundred tons of tinware in their life-
times, but the Japs seem to have cleaned
up the lot. “It’s the war, you know,” is
the laconic chorus from tinless shop-
keepers. A search around Sydney for a
billycan reduced our suburb’s dentist to
hobo level—that is, he pounced eagerly
at last on a treacle-tin which his nurse
had bought for fourpence-halfpenny. A
loop of wire for a handle and the tin
was used as a steriliser. “All that day,”
he says sadly, “I had my ears laid well
back, waiting for a patient to discover
my tin. I’d tried to hide it, but it was
fairly well in view. At last I heard a
comment A patient went out to the
waiting-room and whispered to her
friend ‘Now, Lizzie, treacle can’t be bad
for the teeth after all. Why, the den-
tist’s got a big tin right there in the
surgery.’ ”
» * * *
“Tomsea”: I’d like to see more atten-
tion paid in Australia’s own war news
to a description of the types of Japanese
opposed to us in various engagements.
Posters and cartoons —all I have seen
since I returned from the North —all
show the Jap as a plump, short, gorilla-
headed, toothy runt, a near-miss to an
animal. But there are three different
types—(a) slim, rangy type, up to 6ft. in
height, with unslanted eyes, a good
fighter and often a sport; (b) naval
men, short, stocky, well-proportioned,
generally with slit eyes but not very fear-
ful-looking fellows ; (c) the peasant type,
something like the “hate” pictures, defi-
nitely a runt but not exactly a moron.
We ought to be told which sort
is involved when fighting is reported.
And isn’t it time some authority told
“Aw, who cares? I'll be in the labor corps next Week!"
us how to distinguish between a Chinese
and a Japanese?
* * * *
“Zake”: The public barney in which
the N.S.W. Deputy Director of Personnel
for the Allied Works Council (whew!)
engaged with the secretary of the Builders’
Laborers’ Union over conditions in out-
back camps must have been painful
to Council boss E. G, Theodore, a once-
ardent champion of the boys with the
dinner pails. Among other things, the
men complained about the meathouse
being open to the flies. When the D.D.
of P. replied that the meathouse had
been fitted with a flydoor the union sec.
dryly retorted that the door was devoid
of' gauze. Similarly, when the D.D. of
P. stated that there was a window in
the men’s sleeping quarters the secretary
replied that it was glassless and had to
be covered with a bag. Regarding tucker,
the D.D. of P. said “Meals for men and
supervisors are cooked under similar
conditions,” but the comeback was that
the toilers’ scran is stew while the panni-
kin bosses qualify for bacon and eggs.
Moral seems to be that departmental
czars new to the business shouldn’t in-
dulge in public controversy. Old d.ps.
never do it.
.1= * * *
“Avon”: That very shrewd old sea-
dog Admiral Jellicoe (better appreciated
by the R.N. than by the G.P.) occupied
some of his term as Governor of Maon-
land in compiling a report on the naval
problems of the Pacific. Read in the
light of the events of the last nine months
some portions of that report sound very
prophetic. He saw clearly that the
motives which made Nippon an ally of
Britain in 1914-18 no longer operated;
that Japan’s policy was now one of
conquest; that she must strike as soon
as she had accumulated what she
reckoned sufficient sea- and air-power,
and that (encouraged by the success of
such tactics in the war against Russia)
she would commence her new war by a
surprise attack on “the most important
naval base in the Pacific’" —Pearl Harbor,
though Jellicoe didn’t name it.
* * # *
“Boulvardier”: Sydney has always been
a city of queues—it was always neces-
sary to stand in one to buy a postage
stamp at the G.P.O. or to see Greta
Garbo in “Hearts Afire” —and the cus-
tom seems to be spreading in war-time.
It has reached the banks now, and receiv-
ing tellers (especially) cope with files ot
depositors whose tempers, usually, are
just a little bit chippy. What narks them
is the office-boy or -girl who arrives with
several passbooks, various bags of coin
and bundles of cheques, and takes up
20 minutes before the bullion is counted
and the cheque endorsements scrutinised.
There’s a feeling on the part of clients
whose accounts are simple* and whose
transaction occupies less than five seconds
that there’s a flaw somewhere in the
queue system —it wastes so much of busy
people’s time. But, as the French used
to say, “ C’est la Guerre.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Our outer suburban station is
a terminus from which the most popular
morning train starts for the city at 8.21.
Most of us regulars, patterns of digni-
fied punctuality, were ensconced in our
usual seats when, a couple of hundred
yards down the road, a familiar figure,
coat-tails flying and attache case jogging,
was observed tearing along. It was
Blorkins, who hadn’t been known to
walk to the train in the 10 years he’d
been our fellow-citizen. It was then 8.21
and the orange lights were showing. It
looked as if Blorkins would miss the
train, but he kept the pace up, went up
the steps of the overhead three at a time,
tore through the barrier, down the steps
four at a time and almost fell into the
carriage. As he mopped his streaming
brow and inhaled and exhaled great gusts
of air from his straining lungs the man
who owed his seat in the train to its
driver, who had waited for him, glanced
at his wrist watch and gasped: “What...
the hell’s . . . stoppin’ . . , the boneheads
. . . from . . . shovin’ off? They’re
runnin’ ... a minute late . . . already!”
* * * *
“Tarry Rope” remembers the palmy
days of the Sydney Ferries:
The death of the last of the pioneer ferry
skippers recalls curious changes in Sydney’s
ferry-waterfront. Fifty years ago buildings on
Circular Quay came down in a semicircle to
within about 40ft. of the jetties. The Quay was
decorated with bunting on holidays and the
whole crews of the ferries touted amongst the
holiday-makers for passengers. They raucously
urged picnickers to go to Neutral or Mosman’s
Bay as places where wildflowers could be
gathered wholesale—North Sydney itself was
a picnic-ground. There was a cable tram that
finished at the top of the hill (where St.
Leonard’s Park now is). Beyond was bush.
Since those days, despite the efforts of the
Harbor Foreshores Preservation League, most
of the land bordering the harbor has fallen
into private hands. A more recent change on
the Quay-front was brought about by the arrival
of the Bridge. The time when the Quay was
a seething mass of people seeking their home-
going ferries or leaving them in the morning
is now almost as faded as the period when it
was a sort of Paddy’s Market, its then narrow
approaches filled with buses emptying out or
loading up their passengers, and spattered with
hucksters shouting their wares or the advan-
tages of various picnic resorts.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Victorian educationists
are concerned about the increase in
truancy at the State schools, ten-bob fines
having proved to be no deteirent. My
explanation is that the youngsters are
merely copying their parents. I know
one family which in peace-time was a
normal stay-at-home domestic unit, with
mother always to be found in the kitchen
and father going off to his job and re-
turning in the evening at the same hour
daily. Now the mother is working in
‘munitions and the father on camp con-
struction, and between them they draw
more money than they ever hoped to
see. The pleasure with which the wife
gave up the drudgery of the kitchen was
only equalled by the delight of the hus-
band when he was sent outback to build
aerodromes. Naturally, if boys or girls
find employers ready to overlook the fact
that they are under school-leaving age
and see a prospect of drawing relatively
handsome wages, they follow the parental
example.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I rise to second “Etiwanda’s”
praise (B. 5/8/’42) of De Garis of
Mildura, and especially as to his comic
opera. It was first staged in Adelaide,
and I gave it high praise, but hardly any
other critic did so, and not even Frith's
acting could make it a financial success
elsewhere. “Murray Moon” and “The
Road to Omeo” linger in the memory as
fine ballads. But the first time one seemed
to foresee De Garis’s future failure was
when he launched some new sweets,
Mildura crystallised fruits covered with
shredded coconut. They were delightful,
but he gave them the incredible name ol
“Little Normey,” a compliment to
a young relative of his own. To handi-
cap a likely winner with a name that the
average buyer would shy at calling for
seemed to show a failing in business
instinct.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Anent the liquor controversy,
which seems more important to some
people in Melbourne than winning the
war, I seem to remember that while a
similar controversy was raging in Eng-
land Priminister Churchill remarked:
“Britons must have their beer!” And
they brewed it all through the Blitz.
• » « *
“Roy Biv”: Surely there is more to be
said for “modern” art than that it novv
attracts a fair number of sightseers (B.
19/8/’42). So does the tattooed man at
the show —and people pay to see him.
Anything unusual, particularly if it is
gruesome or “sexy,” as so much
“modern” art is, will attract people, as
witness the circulation enjoyed by the
illustrateds which purvey that sort o!
muck at second-hand. Let “Cauboy’
issue free invitations to a nude ballet —it
he can gain the censor’s approval —ana
he’ll start a rush that will make a
modernist-art exhibition look like Fed-
eral Parliament at the week-end. If Mel-
bourne people are suddenly flocking to
see modernist art, it’s because they've
just discovered there is such a thing.
% * * «
“Frosty”: War’s a horrible business,
and there’s no room for romantic illu-
sions about it at this late stage of the
world’s history ; but in various directions
it seems to be having a salutary effect
on Australian character. There is once
again something like unity of purpose, as
there was in the pioneer communities and
in the 1914-18 war period. And, as every
youngster who goes into a military camp
discovers, in most cases not without some
astonishment, the old Australian cardinal
virtues that may be summed up in the
word “mateship” are flourishing again
as they have always done in the bush, but
not so noticeably of late in shop, office
and factory. The Diggers of last war
demonstrated that spirit while earning
the world’s respect as fighters. Ameri-
cans call it the team spirit. Whatever
it is, it is a darned fine leaven to have
working in any nation.
$ * * *
“F.S.”: A distinguished Australian
artist used to say that he was >a thinker
who sometimes painted, not a painter
who sometimes thought. Reading quota-
tions from the foreword to the 1942 cata-
logue of the Royal Art Society of N. S.
Wales (R.P. 15/7/’42) I can’t help won-
dering which category the members
would wish to belong to when they say
that they stand for “sanity and love of
the beautiful.” Would anybody say that
he stood for the reverse? Would any-
body say he stood for insanity and hatred
of the beautiful? Nobody would; and
no modernists of my acquaintance, even
those who put buckets of real whitewash
in frames and hang them in exhibitions,
have ever told me they thought their art
was mad or ugly. They all think it much
more sane and certainly more beautiful
than the work of the Royal Art Society.
The trouble begins when you ask either
of the warring parties “What, then, is
beauty?” If all they can do and all
the R.A.S. men can do is severally to
point to their own pictures they are
merely making their feelings the criterion.


ABORIGINALITIES
“X.T.1.E.”: On Periwinkle station in
far-west N.S.W. we had an abo. rouse-
about who was a cut above the average
of the species, and we suggested to him
that he start a savings bank account.
Next payday he paid a visit to the bank,
but came home much disturbed and still
with the 30s. he had intended depositing.
It seemed that he had seen the bank man-
ager walking about the office with his
hat on. “Gotter watch that pfeller, boss,”
he remarked shrewdly. “Seems to me he
just about to start for some pfeller other
place.”
“C.G.C.C.”; The old abo. who wan-
dered into the stockyard of our Mallee
(Vic.) station was presented with a cattle
pup, there being a surplus. When asked
what he was going to call it he replied
Tink I’ll just keep on callin’ ’im all
the names I know of, and if I find one
that he takes any notice of that’ll do.”
* * * *
“Wool Away!”; “5.8.” on “flashing
your Dover” (B. 26/8/’42) reminds me
of another old-time bush expression: the
boss over the board in a woolshed being
said to send a shearer a “telegram” or a
“wire” when reprimanding him. It once
recoiled on me in a somewhat tragic
fashion. A boy had come from the
homestead with a telegram for Jerry
O’Toole, who was by way of being our
best blade expert. I took it along the
board, and stood for a moment or two
looking at the sheep Jerry was bartering,
with the envelope behind my back. Then,
with subtle humor, I said “Well, Jerry, I
never thought I’d have to give you a
wire! ” All hands stopped work in aston-
ishment as I handed over the message.
He opened it, and gasped heartbrokenly
as he stared at me with a white face I
didn’t forget for years: “My Gawd,
mister —me wife’s dropped dead!”
* * *
“Narrin”: Where there was clear green
water with patches of red duckweed and
crepe-paper water-lilies; where the peli-
cans held solemn discussions on the grey
logs, and fleets of coot and duck dis-
turbed the stately manoeuvres of the
swans, there is now in our lagoon a great
muddy expanse of water with a few dis-
consolate dead trees peopled by a few
down-at-heel shags. . A flood on the
Murray must be a universal holiday in
the avian world and in piscine circles.
Just now there are smart young cod
who’ve grown up in some root-bounded
pool jostling their way upstream with the
crowd, slinging off at the catfish, ogling
the scallop and acquiring bad habits and
broad minds, while drakes whose world
was bounded, say, by Waikerie and Lock 2
are now becoming sophisticated under the
••tuition of smart young flappers anywhere
between Murray Bridge and Albury. The
bald coots and the pelicans have gone.
The ibis and the cranes remain; follow-
ing the spreading waters they gather a
rich harvest. And the old river, itself in
holiday mood, has come to life, racing
across bends, doubling back in the eddies
and laughing at itself.
# Hr * ♦
“Fitz”: At Eriksson Bros.’ sawmill at
Wingham (N.S.W.), a 60ft. tallow-wood
“stick” was recently brought in from the
bush. Put under the saw the barrel,
which had a girth of lift., yielded a
“flitch” 10ft. 6in. long and 9|in. in width,
and clearly visible in this were “toe-
holts” evidently made by some long-dead
abo. climber. They were well in toward
the heart, having been overgrown by
new growth.
# * ♦ *
“Scuta’ 1 : The habit of biting off more
than can be chewed is not the sole prero-
gative of humans. Walking along the bank
of the Campaspe River (Vic.) recently I
picked up a dead owl lying in shallow
water. Protruding from its bill, like the
tongue of a goanna, was the tail of an
outsize in water-rats. I had to use con-
siderable force to remove the corpus
delicti. The rat was as big as the owl,
and its flanks were deeply scored where
the bird had made frantic attempts to
“We re going on a mopping-up stunt”
“ Good-oh, Surge! Will you wait till I get a mop ?”
drag it from its maw with its sharp
talons. Judging by the number of gashes,
the bird’s efforts were well sustained
before it choked. It is remarkable-, by
the way, how fish, snakes, birds and
animals always swallow their prey by
the head. No matter how a live bait
is attached to a fishhook, whether through
the lip, the back or the tail, you can bet
your bottom dollar that it will be grabbed
by the head. I suppose the most vital
end is engaged first to make sure there
is no escape.
* * » *
“Sur Cingle”: Old Barney, the station’s
pensioner and leather carpenter, has a
strange collection. On one wall of his
hut are hung spurs galdre. Long necks,
short necks, big rowels, little rowels,
cross rowels and Mexican: there’s not a
matched pair among ’em. Some, indeed,
have one side broken off, but Barney has
been gathering them for years, and he
swears by ’em. “Whatever I want t’
sew, whether it’s a ’roo-hide purse, a
buggy trace or a pack-bag, I got a spur
roller there the right size t’ prick out the
stitches” —and no machine can beat
Barney’s sewing for evenness, let alone
strength.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The cocky had taken
a shine to the big fellow, possibly be-
cause of the five walloping great daugh-
ters he was keeping. “A bloke like you,”
he told Mat, “ought t’ take up land.
You’d be a cert, t’ do well at it.” Mat
thought it over, then replied, “Aw, I
dunno. I bin takin’ up land all over this
country since I was a kid an’ I never got
anythin’ out of it. Here I am now, work-
in’ f’r wages like a blasted bullock. Don’t
talk t’ me about takin’ up land.” The
cocky looked surprised. “Gripes, y’
must’ve had. a lot o’ bad luck,” he said,
and left it at that. “Listen, y’ flamin’
skite,” I said, “where’s this bloomin’ land
y’ bin takin’ up?” Mat grinned. “All
over the place,” he said. “On roads an’
ditches an’ fencin’ lines, I bin takin’ it
up an’ puttin’ it down, a banjoful at a
time.”
* * * *
“Arev”: Fred Matthews looked out of
the kitchen window and said “Blast it!”
Joe Thompson was coming to borrow the
plough, of course. And Fred intended
to do that ten-acre paddock as soon as
he got back from the township, for
which he was now dressed ready
to go. Quickly Fred drew his over-
all over his best suit and crept
out of the front door; and by the
time his neighbor got to the yard Fred
was harnessing the horse in the paddock.
Mrs. Matthews watched Thompson
standing undecided in the yard, his eyes
on Fred, who was now starting to plough.
She went to the front of the house and
began to make the beds, ignoring a
knock on the back door: Fred could fix
Joe up with what he wanted. Five
minutes later she heard the jinker being
driven out of the yard. Evidently Fred
had seen Thompson depart and had left
the plough to make trip to the town-
ship. Another five minutes passed, then
there was a familiar step in the kitchen.
Mrs. Matthews went out, to see Fred
slipping off his overalls. “What did you
come back for?” she asked. Fred stared.
“Come back!” he exclaimed. “Why, 1
never started.” “But,” said his missus.
“somebody did.” It was then that Fred’s
eye fell on the note that had been pushed
under the door. He picked it up and
read; “Dear Fred, came to see if you
was going into the township. Saw you
was ploughing, so I’ve borrowed the horse
and jinker.—Joe.”
* * * *
“Tambak”: A universal Polynesian
word is just now getting a fresh vogue
in the Solomons, where hundreds of
thousands of dusky onlookers are specu-
lating as to whether the mana of the
white or yellow men engaged in fierce
contest throughout the group will pre-
vail. This is what the Rev. Dr. Codnng-
ton, the best authority on Melanesian
ethics, had to say about it: “There is a
belief in a force altogether distinct from
physical power, which acts in all kinds
of ways for good and evil, and which it
is of the greatest advantage to possess
or control. This is mana.” Disembodied
souls and supernatural beings have it
and can impart it, though it may act
through the medium of some material
thing like water or a stone. All Mela-
nesian religion is bound up in getting
this mana for one’s self or getting it used
for one’s benefit.
* * * *
“B. 4”; Outstanding among snake-
killers is the goanna. Loathed alike by
Mrs. Cockychaff and Cowbanger, fre-
quently chivvied and chewed by their
canines, the go. warily snoops around
the homestead; occasionally rising on
his hind legs and tail for a quick glimpse,
then scurrying rapidly from cover to
cover, this super scout furtively ap-
proaches the hen’s stable. Ignoring out-
raged pecks, he quickly packs the setting
inside his shirt and then bolts for the
bush to an accompaniment of cackles,
yells and yelps from the outraged domi-
cile. When he spots a slitherer from aloft,
a different technique is applied. Rushing
headlong down the tree he charges
straight at the coiled reptile, but
just beyond striking range. He keeps
rapidly circling, then reversing, until
a dust screen is raised, out of which
he plunges at Joe’s neck. Both twist and
roll in a body scissors from which the
monitor breaks and mooches off for a
nip of antidote weed. Drooling green
saliva, he hurries back to the stadium,
where Joe politely waits to resume the
argument, which usually ends in his
demise and a dinner for Cudgerie.
His reward—goanna salve! He ought
to be protected.
♦ * * *
“Sam”: “Bo’s” claim that the unami-
able nature of the greyhound is due to
excessive development of the feral in-
stinct in the breed isn’t quite convincing
(B. 26/8/’42). The Scottish deerhound,
Afghan hound and saluki have been bred
for the same purpose—the pursuit of
game by sight—yet all are friendly-like.
Beagles and bassets are generally good-
tempered and make excellent companions.
Others of the breeds that hunt by scent
have the same characteristics, notably
the otterhound and the elkhound. Aire-
dales, bull terriers and Kerry blues were
long used for dogfighting, and the bull-
dog both for that and the brutal sport
of bull-baiting, but all are breeds noted
for good nature and devotion to their
masters.
% sj; %
“Aratla”: Dad and Dave were arguing
again. “I think you oughter give
in to y’r father, Dave,” Mum said,
“instead of both of you gettin’ so heated.
Anyway, I think it’s a real silly argu-
ment y’re havin’.” “Silly or not,” bel-
lowed Dad, “I ain’t goin’t’ let any young
cock-sparrer tell me he knows more than
I do —me, thirty years older than he is!”
“Boloney!” retorted Dave. “What’s that
gotter do with it? The thing we’re argu-
in’ about only happened six months ago.
So where does yer extra ’sperience of life
fit in there?” Dad clawed at his whiskers
as though seeking inspiration from them.
Then triumph shone in his eye. “Jest
this way, me smart aleck,” he said. “The
same thing could have happened thirty
years ago, so where would you be, eh?”
“Bah!” replied Dave derisively. “That
don’t count worth tuppence. For that
matter, it might’ve happened a hundred
years ago, so where do you come in
then?” Dad banged the table hard. “Got
y’! ” he shouted exultantly. “Y’ve
proved my argument y’rself. I’d have
thirty years’ more knowledge of it than
you.”
* * * *
“N.”: Blue’s camp, walled on three
sides by orange-golden cliffs, shaded by
native willow and box and facing a broad
reach, had excited the comments of a
lady tourist —and evoked Blue’s indig-
nation. “Reckoned me life was a real
idle, she did. Blarst ’er Tr a knowall,
that’s what I say. Idle! And here’s me
busy all flamin’ day, mostly, with me lines
an’ me drum nets, takin’ fish in t’ the
train, or makin’ new nets or lobster pots
or tarrin’ me gear. Strike me! Some
sheilahs’ve got a weird idea of idleness!”
* # # *
“Old-timer”: It’s “The Outlaw’s” yarn:
’Way back in ’93 we knocked off ring-
barking the Euston (N.S.W.) common
and went to the Royal for refreshment.
Mick the Nark was there, behind his
yard and a half of whiskers, and, invited
to join the festivities, did so, not saying
much till something we said brought
from him the comment that “you young
blokes don’t know much ’cos y’ve never
travelled.” “Travelled!” I snorted. ‘T
bet I’ve travelled as much as you, Mick.”
Mick pondered this, and then came back,
evidently preparing a trap, “Yair? Well,
just where ’ave y’ travelled?” I made a
grand gesture and said “Oh, I’ve been
to Oxley, Balranald and Swan Hill.”
Mick staggered back, spilt most of his
beer and collapsed on the bench, while
out of his face fungus oozed his awed
voice: “Oxley! Balranald! Swan Hill!
Well, strike me roan!” Then we helped
him down to the river, put him in his
boat and left him. As we went up the
bank the stricken voice followed us,
“Oxley, Balranald, Swan Hill!” A short
silence, then a disgusted “ ’Struth! ”
echoed across the water.
* H: ■ * #
“Esk D.”: “Gumsucker’s” par. (B.
19/8/’42) recalls the case of the missing
plumstones. After the jam was strained
a few pounds of stones were left outside
—and very mysteriously disappeared.
Speculation changed to amused wonder
when a bloated hound came trotting up
with a rumbling rattle somewhere inside.
He’d liked the jam-coated stones, liked
the flavor and wolfed the lot. Strangely,
he showed no ill-effects or signs of dis-
comfort, but for a couple of days the
rattle was evident whenever he stirred.
SEPTEMBER PASTORAL.
The swallows are back, and already they pros-
pect for gold,
For grains of clay in the smooth, muddy
pans of the creek.
The wind is bitter down there, and the water
is cold
As splinters of ice; but still the small fos-
sickers seek
As gaily as though this were summer with
never a trace
Of the leprosy of snow on the mountain’s face.
But the wall-clock of winter is rapidly running
down;
Its weights and chains are rusting and falling
apart;
And the groan of its ticking is lost in the joy
of the brown
Lark, caught in a rush of rapture to heaven’s
heart.
Wattle-birds come—with their beautiful rip-
pling flight
That for ever conjures bush water teased by
the wind—
To swing in the lucerne branches, and thrust
with their light
Flickering dark tongue-brushes in the sweet
honey-blind
Eyes of the white weeping blossoms. At dusk
* and morn
Cuckoos are twisting the heart with the aching
despair
Of their anguished crying “For-lorn, for-lorn,
for-lorn! ”
While they dream thrushes’ nests and their
own blood fostered there.
Hie great roan mare, that has helped to turn
many a long
Dewy furrow', has taken time off from the
rocking plough
To mother an ebony foal where a tremulous
throng
Of wattles drip golden blessings from every
bough.
Cherry-plums fling up their delicate whispering
clouds
Of flowers as frail as nautilus. Green lire-
plades
In the orchard grass flame yellow with leaping
crowds
Of daffodils burning with beauty, while the
piquant faces'
Of primroses stare like lost children into the
gloom
Of the dark sloe thicket, as though it were
Bluebeard’s room.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Bo”: A long, skinny individual with
a brick-red face, he shuffled up to the
ticket clerk at Bungawaddy railway sta-
tion and stood there shifting awkwardly
from one foot to the other. The clerk
looked up. “Where do y’ want to go
to?” he asked. The other shuffled again,
took a bite at the end of his walrus
moustache and drawled “Aw, I don’t
want t’ go anywhere.” “Well, what the
hell do y’ want?” snapped the clerk.
Walrus hesitated, as if chewing over
whether he should divulge his awful
secret, then said “Is there a parcel here
for Joe Dawkins?” The clerk went over
to the parcels bay, took a quick look
at the few there, came back and said
“None for that name.” “Well, it oughter
be,” pursued Walrus ; “it was supposed
to have bin here Tuesday’s train.” The
clerk impatiently grabbed his parcels
book, flicked the index over to D, ran
down the page and said “No parcel for
anyone o’ that name.” Walrus shuffled
again, pushed his shapeless felt back off
his forehead, scratched his head again
and said “Aw,, it must've lobbed be
now. I got a letter sayin’ it was
leavin’ Jewkes’s sawmill down at Brigalow
Siding a week ago.” The clerk heaved a
sigh like a cocky after the mortgage
interest bill comes in and said in a flat,
hopeless sort of voice “How big was
the parcel and what was in it?” Walrus
hesitated for several seconds and then
drawled “Well, y’ see, p’raps y’ mightn’t
exactly call it a parcel—it was a truck-
load o’ sawdust!”
* * * *
“Ngaio Pa”; We were discussing the
earthquake damage in our Maori! and dis-
trict. Dan had always been a bit of a
skite, and it was just too bad that he
had the better of us this time. “Got the
wood on you fellows this way,” he
boasted ; “I made up my mind after the
1934 shake that I’d have no more brick
chimneys, so I built my new one outside
in ferro-concrete, and there it is today
as good as new.” We stared in envy at
the man with an intact chimney. “So
it didn’t break, Dan?” we asked, “Not
even a chip off it,” he said proudly.
“But the only thing that’s got me beat
is how the hell I’m going to get it up-
ended again!”
* * * *
“Naturala”: Westralia possesses a car-
nivorous bit of flora similar in appetite
to the Venus flytrap of the Carolina,
U.S.A., mossbogs (B. 5/8/’42). The
Albany pitcher-plant has a little green
jug equipped With a hinged lid. The lid
is the lure, its underside being covered
with fine bristles that carry some sub-
stance enticing to most insects. The
pitcher may be half-full of a watery
fluid, which is really the plant’s gastric
juice. The inner rim of this pitcher also
carries bristles and a lure. When seek-
ing a meal the plant opens its lid. Any
insect will do—ants, flies, midges. The
slightest touch on the bristles and the
lid snaps shut. The rest of the story is
of the hapless insect drowning and being
slowly digested in a kind of soup. The
plant grows on swamps and bogs, in
nooks half-hidden from the sunshine.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: Why does “R.H.G.”
(B. 5/8/’42) speak of “the old fallacy of
night-riders on watch singing to the
cattle” when he so excellently describes
what happens when cattle are not sung
to? It’s a long time since I padded
behind the cow’s tail, and for all I know
modern beef conductors may have
evolved a newer technique. But in my
day you sang, and if you couldn’t sing
you howled, failing which you merely
talked. And before my day the old hands
did the same. When the Duracks drove
their 5000 head from the junction of the
Cooper and the Thompson in s.-w.
Queensland right across to the Ord in
"I had to do something, George—no rubber, you know."
the WA Kimberleys they “sang” the
cattle at nigh t. They had to, since once
jfi ey entered the Territory the myalls
seldom left them, and the scent of wild
abo . on the night wind—well, it took
some strenuous singing at times to keep
those herds from stampeding—beg
par don, rushing, though I do think the
American term by far the more descrip-
tive. Knew one old-timer who couldn’t
s j n g and disdained to howl, so, having a
be nt for politics and political economy,
he lectured. Around through the night
he wou i d c i rc i e giving the resting beeves
the benefit of Adam Smith, John Stuart
Mill, Herbert Spencer and a dozen others,
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Rifle work is dependent on
self-confidence, and that’s one reason
why no man can have a few drinks and
shoot well (B. 12/8/’42). Alcohol makes
you feel self-confident; it also weakens
judgment. You go out with a nobbier
under your belt feeling able to blow the
headlights out of a mosquito. You miss
the first thing you fire at and the next,
The consequent feeling of self-distrust is
cumulative, and usually you go home
empty-handed and sore-headed,
* „ * _ * , * ,
Old Camp : One of the hardest of
Australian woods is a kind of mallee that
grows fairly plentifully on the East Cool-
gardie (W.A.) goldfields. It really isn’t
a eucalypt, though its finger-thick stems
do spring lancelike from a sort of malice
"No Wonder you're lazy —I feed you too Well!"
butt. These stems, which grow to about
6ft., seem to be concentrated wood:
broken from the living shrub, they make
the finest kindling. Instead of snapping
square, the stem breaks obliquely, giving
a spear blade as sharp as a knife. This
scrub was extremely hard on the heavy
draught-horses that were once worked so
extensively on the fields. Driven across
country at night a loaded horse might
step into and break down a clump. One
such misadventure and his hoof-frogs
would be full of splinters like the blades
of a pocket-knife. Soon these would
fester and, unless attended to, the animal
would perish. Attention took the form
of putting the invalid in a crush and
going over the affected hooves with a
shoemaker’s knife and a pair of forceps.
I have seen poor old nags fairly weep at
the relief thus obtained. A few hot pig-
weed poultices completed the cure.
4 * * *
“The 0.D.”: On the first Sunday he
was there the jackeroo came down to the
hut and borrowed a .32 rifle and some
cartridges. “Y’ know how t’ handle a
gun?” asked old Sam the rabbiter. “Of
course I do,” answered the young man
loftily. “Why?” “Aw, nothin’,” said
Sam. “Me an’ me dawgs’ll be out round
the burrows this afternoon, an’ I just
wanted t’ be sure, that’s all.” “Is that
all!” snorted the jacky, and headed up
the rise. Later Sam called his herd of
tykes and went off on his rounds. He
was back an hour later, the maddest and
most scared rabbiter in the land. “That
bloke’s a flamin’ menace,” he panted.
“Look at me dawgs, look at me hat!
Gorblimey, it’s a wonder a man’s alive,”
We looked. There was a hole through
Sam’s hat, one of his hounds had lost a
half-inch of its tail tip and a cdck-eared
mong had one ear notched and hanging
over. Presently the jacky came back.
He was unmoved by Sam’s outburst.
“You wanted to know if I could handle
a gun,” h© said coldly. “Well, now you
know.” And he threw up the rifle and
blew to pieces an eggshell on the rubbish
heap 50 yards away, then snapshot the
head off a shag sitting a good 100 yards
out in the lake. He handed the rifle
back to its dumb owner, went up to the
homestead and brought back some of his
trophies for marksmanship. We talked
quietly about shooting on that station
after that.
* * * *
“B. 4”: While our camp cook was
down at the creek the three assorted
mongs from Cockychaff’s neighboring
farm paid us a visit. One elongated brute
gulped the hot eggs out of the frying
pan on the fire; another tore open a
suitcase, gobbled three pounds of steak
and streaked off with a loaf; and the
third thief scraped the coals off the camp
oven lid, knocked it off and, dripping
tears and gravy, scoffed the Sunday roast.
Next day Cockychaff and his mongs
ambled up and sniffed around. The
black brute grabbed and gulped Joe's
greasy hanky, which he used as a com-
bined bank and paw-wiper. Thinking
quickly, Joe offered to buy the brute for
five bob, but had to raise the bid to a
pound. To Cockychaff’s amazement Joe
raced to the tent, grabbed a rifle and shot
the gulper. Opening him up, he produced
a cleaner hanky with notes intact. “By
cripes,” drawled Cockychaff, “you
wouldn’t’ve got ’im for a quid if I’d ’a’
known he was a blanky millionaire! ”
sf: % * #
“Solitude”: “I wus thinkin’ o’ gettin’
a noo suit o’ clo’es for young Mary’s
weddin’,” murmured Seventyfiver thought-
fully. “But I reckon tha’s all knocked
on the head. It ain’t right splashin’
money aroun’ wasteful like jus’ now, an"
anyway it’s not as though the suit I got
ain’t real good. Solid stuff in them
duds. Why, me daughter Polly wus on’y
sayin’ the day she got young Mary chris-
tened that y’ can’t git material like that
nowadays. An’ she oughter know. It
wus Polly that took them beer stains
out o’ the coat tails afore she got spliced,
an’ Polly that brushed it up when we went
t’ that kids’ concert. She reckoned the
sprucin’ she give it’d square f’r the ink
she’d spilt on the pants when she wus a
bit of a nipper startin’ school. Yair,
these ration blokes reckons we has t’
make our clo’es last twice as long, so I
guess mine’s gotter do for a bit yet.”
* * * *
“Wang”: “Talkin’ of stiff luck,” re-
marked Dan; “me an’ a mate is workin’
on a fencin’ contract ’way out in the
ranges. One day we hear the mailcar
has been stuck up a few miles from
where we’re workin’, an’ the payroll for
a railway gang twenty miles off, mostly
notes, has been stolen. Well, a coupla
days later, as we’re havin’ crib, we see
our dogs rootin’ excited at a hole in the
bole of a tree a bit away, an’ the next
thing we know they’ve dragged out a
canvas bag. We rush up an’, on openin’
it, find it’s got near five hundred quid
in notes in it, ’Course it might have
been some of the holdup loot, an’ then
agen it mightn’t have. But we ain’t
goin’ t’ take any risks with the p’lice
busy round about. We don’t fancy bury-
in’ it, ’count of the rabbits or dingoes
rootin’ it out. Then I have a brain-
wave, We wus jist about t’ make up a
batch of damper, so we sticks that bag
inside a casin’ of damper an’ bakes it fast
so’s it’ll get hard on the outside. I’d
set it on a log t’ cool an’ was grillin’
some chops when I hear me mate give
a yell, an’ look up just in time t’ see
a seven-foot goanna spirallin’ up a huge
gum with our five-hundred-quid damper
in his mouth. A thunderstorm’s been
brewin’ all the day, an’ as we go for
our axes to get busy on that tree the
storm breaks. Lightnin’! We’re in iron-
stone country, an’ y’ never seen such
lightnin’! After one extra-big flash
there’s a crash that near deafened us, an’
we see the tree with the go. in it splinter
t’ smithereens. No, we never found as
much as a corner of a note, only the
go.’s head with a piece of the crust still
in his mouth!”
“H.H.8.”: Reference to
Abdul Wade (B. 12/8/’42)
brought back memories. Thirty-,
odd years ago he was a frequent
visitor to a Sydney stock and
station agency. One of the
principals, H. J. Rayment, spent
many years at Bourke, where
Abdul had his camel-train head-
. quarters, and had rendered ser-
vices which the grateful Afghan
never forgot. Swart and stocky,
with a flowing black moustache,
Abdul was always well dressed,
carrying a cane and sporting a
heavy gold watch-chain and
signet ring. He was kind and
courteous to us underlings. He
owned Wangamana station, a
Western Lands lease of about
92,000 acres, which he was
trying hard to sell, with its 300 wild
camels. As a. youth the idea of owning
300 camels appealed to me, but as they
could neither be eaten nor shorn I could
never get a prospective buyer to see eye
to eye with me. Abdul had an Australian
wife, and I remember seeing his eldest
son, lighter-skinned and softer-featured
than his father.
THE WOLVERINE.
Since from yonder rocks I fished
With my boyhood mates,
Many tides have ebbed and flowed
Through the Harbor Gates.
Come from far, or bound afar,
Ships and ships I’ve seen
Since, safe-moored off yonder point,
Rode the Wolverine.
There, a shapely craft, she lay
Trimly on the tide,
White of deck with shining rails,
Guns on either side.
Gently rocking when the wind
Set the waves astir,
First of all our ships of war
Thus we counted her.
Sight of her, so bold and brave,
Wonder in us wrought—
Thinking of wide waters sailed
And red battles fought.
Queen of all the Harbor craft,
Reigning lone and proud,
Every ship that came to port
At her biddance bowed.
For, when boomed her sunset gun
Over cove and town.
Every flag on every ship
With a run came down.
And as rose her riding lights
When the day was gone,
Riding lights on every ship
Through the twilight shone.
Vanished now and vanished long,
Gone I know not where,
Rides no more the Wolverine
Off Macquarie’s Chair.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


HELP SUMMER PRODUCTION—FEED
r/S\JL Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TRI-CAL-OS is Sterilised BONE FLOUR, a pure bone product
without admixture of any other substance, and having a guaran-
teed minimum of 33 p.c. phosphoric acid and 40 p.c. lime. It is
specially processed to ensure maximum digestibility and assists
stock to make the most of dry summer fodders. Tri-cal-os is the
most reliable form of calcium and phosphorus for all stock
feeding.
Obtain all particulars about Tri-cal-os from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O Box 3583 S
S^ney; G.PO. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane;’ G.P.O. Box
712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLB, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Minerals for Sheep.
The only times when sheep
need minerals —apart from salt —is when
they’re likely to suffer from coast disease
or ataxia, when wool is lifeless or dur-
ing long drought periods.
In the first and second cases there’s a
deficiency of either copper or cobalt —
perhaps both —in the animal’s diet. Pro-
viding these minerals in a lick with salt
forestalls trouble. In the third case,
when cereal grains and their by-products
form the bulk of the rations, the animals
often show retarded growth, loss of
weight and poor wool. This is because
the cereals are deficient in lime. If the
cereals are fed for a lengthy period a
heavy deathrate from malnutrition may
occur. Add one per cent, of finely-
ground calcium carbonate (limestone) to
the ration and you prevent the whole
condition. For the lick, mix limestone
and salt in equal proportions.
The C.S.I.R. has looked into the feed-
ing of phosphate rock in all States and
found that it’s of no benefit.
Lumpy Wool.
“Huxave”: It’s easy to overlook lumpy
wool {Mycotic dermatitis ) until the wool
begins to lift. Then most likely you’ll
find it over the loins or somewhere along
the back of the sheep. When the case is
a bad one, the whole fleece is affected.
The disease is infectious. It’s caused
by a mould or fungus in the follicles of
the wool and the wool fibres get glued
together in a hard, brittle mass anything
from -|in. to 3in. in size. The germ is a
long liver. Scab masses that fall to the
ground get mixed up with the dust and
are carried to other sheep. When the
sheep’s condition suits it, the fungus gets
going quickly ; when it doesn’t it remains,
inactive in the wool and waits its oppor-
tunity.
There’s little danger in a dry season.
It’s those times when rain comes every
day and the fleece is kept wet that sheep
need watching. Sheep in wool are more
likely to be attacked than those off-shears,
since the longer wool holds the moisture.
You may strike only one or two cases
in the flock, or you may have from 5 p.c.
to 20 p.c. of the sheep affected.
The disease is hard to treat. It’s im-
possible to penetrate the thick scabby
mass with any dressing, and repeated
applications can’t be carried out when
many sheep are affected. Isolate the in-
fected sheep from the flock. When the
case is very bad, it’s wiser to destroy
the animal and burn the carcass. Mild
cases can be shorn with hand shears. Do
the job outside the shearing-shed and
burn the pieces and disinfect the place.
If the disease strikes a number of sheep
they can be kept in isolation and fat-
tened. Scabs lift in the wool as the dry
season comes in and you can often shear
the sheep within a few weeks.
Conserving Fodder.
"Kanyapella”: You should have a
fair idea of what the pasture will cut to
the acre, and on that basis allow 350 cubic
feet of stack space to the ton of fresh-cut
hay. Very dry hay in a small stack may
need 600 cubic feet to the ton. Baled
meadow hay will also vary greatly
according to dryness, but from 200 to
250 cubic feet of well-pressed stuff should
go to a ton.
After settling, silage goes about 40
cubic feet to the ton. In a quickly-filled
pit the stuff will usually settle to about
a third of its original height at 6ft. deep ;
at 12ft. deep about half. Average pasture
cuts about 30cwt. of hay or six tons of
silage an acre, though twice as much may
come from a good paddock in a good
season.
In Victoria it costs around 10s. a ton
to make grass silage. Loose hay costs
around 21s, and baled grass hay between
225. 6d. and 30s. This allows for wages
and costs. At 30s. a ton. the nutrients in
grass hay cost less than id. a pound to
store. To buy.the same nutrients in a
dry spell would cost at least Id, a pound.
Silage costs less per ton to make but more
per food unit because it takes three or
four tons of it to give the same amount
of nutrients as hay and nearly four times
“This time last year it nearly dried up on us."
the weight of silage has to be handled
to get the same quantity of dry matter.
The convenience of baled hay out-
weighs the slight difference in costs
between it and loose hay. Wire will be
hard to get. Straighten out all the old
and spare wire about the place.
The Dairy Herd.
“Yeno Ham”: Herd improvement is
the basis of profitable dairy production.
Fodder conservation and pasture im-
provement are just so much wasted effort
if the cows lack the ability to respond
to good feed.
Increased production can be achieved
by planned breeding and severe culling,
using herd testing to judge whether a
cow is to be kept or culled. It’s better
to slaughter heifers from low-producing
dams ; they can never be a profitable
proposition on the farm.
In breeding, the only plan is to use a
bull from a cow which has proved her
ability to produce butterfat. Her yield
should not be less than 3501 b. of fat for
nine months, and Tor preference her male
and female ancestors for several genera-
tions should be from good producers.
Heifers sired by bulls with such backing
should be kept for herd replacements,
but only when they are from the highest
producers in the herd. For heifers, the
dam’s figures should exceed 2501 b. of fat
for nine months.
It’s possible with planned replacement
of low-producing cows each year to get
an average of 3501 b. to 5001 b. for the
herd.
Crushed Barley for Pigs.
“H.C.”: Tests by the S.A. Department
of Agriculture showed that, while pigs
fed crushed barley consumed more grain
daily, they developed better and at a faster
rate than those fed whole barley.
The tests covered two lots, each of
six well-grown weaners averaging 471 b,
at eight weeks old. First week saw each
pen given a full feed of crushed barley
and skim-milk to carry the pigs over the
weaning period. In the second week pigs
were gradually changed over to trial
rations, which were fed for the follow-
ing 10 weeks. While both pens were
given skim-milk and green lucerne. Pen
A was placed on the crushed barley and
Pen B on the whole grain. A mineral lick
of two parts bonemeal, two parts lime
and one part salt was supplied all round.
When the youngsters were in the sucker
and weaning stage, they got 31b. or more
of skim-milk to each lib. of grain. The
plan to feed approximately 21b. of milk
to each lib. of grain—quantity being
varied according to the amount eaten the
week before —worked all right with those
on crushed barley, but it slipped in the
case of the pigs on whole barley, and a
greater proportion of milk had to be fed
during the early weeks of the test.
Once the ration reached 71b. per head
per day the milk increase stopped, and
they were fed only 71b. until they reached
1601 b, weight. After that the daily ration
was reduced for a week, and all milk
was cut out for the last two or three
weeks, when the animals developed from
1701 b. to 1901 b, For most of the trial
green feed consisted of lib. lucerne daily.
This was doubled for Pen B in the last
two weeks in an effort to whet the
animals’ appetites.
On the average the six pigs on crushed
grain consumed 3.831 b. of barley and
5.351b 1 . skim-milk per day, and the six
on whole grain 3.471 b. of barley and
4.761 b. of skim-milk. The pigs on the
crushed grain increased at the rate of
1.31 b. daily and those on the whole grain
by 11b. only.
The pigs on crushed barley developed
from weaners to heavy baconers in 107
.days, while those on whole barley took
136 days to reach the same live weight.
It was also estimated that the pigs fed
whole barley produced approximately
31b. per head less in weight.
Among the pigs fed crushed barley the
quickest grower developed at the rate
of 1.631 b. per day and the slowest at
I.llb. per day. On the whole barley
the best development was 1.161 b. and the
slowest 0.851 b. daily. The two pigs that
developed slowest on the crushed grain
put up about the same performance as
the two quickest growers on whole grain.
In the result it’s found that pigs make
greater use of crushed barley at all ages,
whether three, four or five months old,
that it’s just as valuable to pigs nearing
maturity as young ones, and that in all
cases crushed barley is more economical
than whole barley.
Cost of crushing barley is about '’d
per bushel.
Sick Horses.
‘'Huxave”; Their appetites need
humoring. Trying to force food down
a horse’s throat when it doesn’t want it
only upsets the animal.
If a sick horse is touchy over its food
you may have to try out several
before you find out what it fancies
Bran mash, hay tea, oatmeal porridge
and gruel, linseed and bran mash, linseed
tea, roots such as carrots, scalded oats
and chaff and green grasses are all good.
While the bran mash hasn’t much nutri-
tive value, it’s a good laxative. To 31b.
of bran and loz. of salt add 2\ pints
boiling water and allow it to cool before
feeding. The addition of two or three
raw eggs „or a little molasses makes it
more palatable.
Horses like hay tea and it stimulates
the appetite. To make it, fill a bucket
with long hay and pour boiling water
over it. Then cover with a bag; let it
stand till cold and drain off. Sick horses
need plenty of fresh pure water —particu-
larly in cases of high fever.
In respiratory diseases such as
strangles, pneumonia, sore throats, etc.,
avoided drenches as far as possible. Best
and easiest way of giving medicines is
to mix them with molasses, honey or
jam and smear over the tongue. This
disguises the taste of the drugs, the horse
is not exhausted by violent struggling,
and it also cuts out the danger of the
medicine entering the lungs.
It’s important to prevent constipation.
You can ensure bowel action by using
laxative foods or liquid paraffin. When
these don’t act, give mild purgatives.
When good stabling is
available and the horse is
likely to be down some time
a thick bedding of straw
prevents bed sores. If the
stable is badly ventilated
and draughty, the animal’s
better off well rugged and
out of doors. See that the
rugs are well fastened. Rugs
that are too heavy cause
sweating and exhaust the
animal.
Keep any sick animal as
clean as possible. Groom-
ing usually stimulates the
skin and helps the horse to rid its body
of various poisons. Where the illness is
a respiratory one, grooming only raises
dust and tends to irritate the animal.
Nostrils and eyes should be washed out
regularly ; and burn the rag to prevent
the spread of disease.
Exercise needs careful controlling.
Hints for the Farm.
“Hux”: Lamb sickness is caused by
a temporary lack of calcium in the blood.
The ewe is smitten suddenly, and once it
goes down is unable to get up again.
Treat with injections of calcium boro-
gluconate solution —the same treat-
ment that’s used for milk fever in cattle.
For the solution, mix half an ounce of
the calcium in of boiled water.
Stir until dissolved and bring to boiling
point. Then cool down to blood heat
and inject into the jugular vein. When
the animal has a short fleece shave an
area of the neck before you make the
injection. Where the fleece is long, part-
ing the wool will give a spot clean and
big enough for the needle point.
“Bundalinga”; Grow millet for green
feed from late spring to early autumn.
With sufficient rain it grows well on any
soil, responds quickly to showers and
gives successive grazings. Early and
thorough soil preparation is necessary.
Seed can be sown from after frost danger
to end of January. It gives green feed
earlier than any other crop.
“Ninety-nine”: After a horse has been
staked it is advisable to control the swell-
ing. Get 2oz. of oleate of mercury oint-
ment 20 p.c. strength and rub a little over
the swelling for a few minutes every two
or three days. Always finish on the
downward stroke so as to keep the hair
lying flat. In addition, a good doing with
neat Stockholm tar helps. Apply it fairly


FOOD
WILL WIN THE WAR
AND WRITE THE PEACE f
Claude R. Wickard,
U.S. Secretary for Agriculture.
To feed our fighting men and our civilian population it is
essential that we shall grow hundreds of thousands of acres of cexeals
and vegetables. It is the urgent need of Australia... NOW I
The ploughing, discing, harrowing, sowing and harvesting of these
hundreds of thousands of acres can be done more economically with
Caterpillar Diesel Tractors. It will save manpower, valuable time
and fuel. It will answer the Nation’s call for speed and more speed
in preparing for victory now and prosperity in the future.
In this as well as every other vital job .. . Caterpillar Diesel Tractors
have enlisted for the duration and for the progressive days to come.
The light track-type tread of a Caterpillar tractor beats time and
weather. It enables work to continue even after heavy rain ... if
necessary on a 24-hour a day basis . . . gaining important growing
days. Crops yield better from being planted on time in
properly prepared seed beds. Whatever job there is to
do Caterpillar diesel power will do it more economi-
cally and more efficiently.
ti
7*
m
m
v-
{>. ik
m
&
m
...
ye
M
*>*r
&!*'■
Caterpillar
Sgsg
s
H
*1
Mi
ma
m
CATERPILLAR Offset
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS AND WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH-MOVING
EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
& OaTis* X.Ta. njJSf S&ffiQ
South Grafton; Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie. 'Phone; Port Macquarie 81; Mr. O- McDoug ,
96 Kincaid Street, Wagga. 'Phone: 2886; 102 Melbourne Street, South Brisbane: Phone. J 1456,
Rankine Street, Innisfail, 'Phone: Innisfail 475
r*r
-
M
- •
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms fropi 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED
Single
Double
& BREAKFAST
Rooms from 7/6
Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date
Telephone: 8W1531
Dining Room
(7 lines).
—All
Meals a la Carte. Banquets,
Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney.
G. C. C. McKAY,
Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
Manager.
warm, working it well in for 10 to 15
minutes. Repeat the next day, and on
the third day apply it cold. This will act
as a bandage for several weeks, when, if
necessary, the treatment may be repeated.
“B.”: On a fairly good holding 1000
breeding ewes may cut about 71b. per
head and 20 cheap rams about 121 b. per
head. If the price of ewe wool is 15d.
per pound and ram wool lOd. per pound,
the income will be £447 10s. With rams
of the better class which cut about 181 b.
each, returns from the start would be
£452 10s Allowing four years for the
influence of the better rams to show up
in the flock, wool production per head
would be increased from 71b. to 101 b.
and bring approximately £640. That’s
well on towards another £2OO a year.
Outback Occasions.
No. 52.
A Narrow Escape (2).
The fly stock and station agent who had
induced Father to ask £15 an acre for a
place which he didn’t want to sell, and
which was barely worth £10, dug up a
prospective buyer. And here we were
glumly waiting for agent and buyer to
arrive.
The buyer turned out to be a man of
50 or so, fat as mud. He had his son, a
fellow about 25, with him. Neither of
’em looked as if he had ever done a
hard day’s work in a paddock, and their
clothes were the sort you see the smart
businessmen wearing in moving pictures.
We gathered that the father had an idea
of setting his son up as a gentleman-
farmer or something and that money was
no object—or not much of an object,
anyway.
It frightened us a bit when we found
that out. We boys weren’t interested in
the money side of it, but Father called
himself a businessman as well as a farmer,
and if people came along ready to
pay half as much again as the place was
worth he could hardly be blamed if he
fell for it.
Well, the agent and the father and our
father started off to look the place over.
Our brother signalled to me, and we
dropped back a bit put our heads
together, and then hurried up and walked
along with the young fellow. Our dogs
came up and smelt about. They must
have felt the same way as us, because
we had a bit of a job to stop them having
a piece of the young fellow.
“Y’ know,” our brother said to him,
according to our plan, “farmin’s a rotten
life. I bin at it all me life an’ I oughter
know.”
The young man looked interested.
“Yes, is that so?” he said.
“Too right,” said our brother enthusi-
astically. “Y’re up before the flamin’
crows every mornin’ an’ still toilin’ long
after they’ve gone t’ rest. Sundees, too.”
“Oh,” said our companion. “Of
course, if Father buys the place I’ll 7
merely manage it. The hands will do
the work.”
“Hands?” said our brother scornfully,
looking him over. Our brother’s idea
was that a man should work his own
place.
“An’ then,” I put in, hurrying to do
my bit, “y’ get the Barcoo rot.”
“The which?”
“The Barcoo. This place is lousy with
it,” I exclaimed, feeling I’d made a hit.
“Breaks out once a month, all y’r hands
an’ the back of y’r neck in sores. Talk
about pain.”
The young man stopped and fixed a
cold eye on me.
“That is a condition,” he said, “brought
about by eating too much meat and not
enough greens. Take a dose of salts,
next time, my boy.”
The “my boy” dashed me. Our
brother looked hard at the visitor and
said “Y’ know a bit, don’t y’? Know
anythin’ about soil?”
“Well, not very much. Why?”
“Y’ve heard of land bein’ wheat-sick?”
A lot depended on the answer. Up
ahead that agent was talking 19 to the
dozen to the buyer, and Father wasn’t
saying anything.
“Yes, I’ve heard of it,” said the young
man, walking on.
“Well,” said our brother loudly, “this
place isn’t only wheat-sick, it’s sheep-
sick, too. Take years f get it right. Y’d
have f stop growin’ wheat an’ not let
a sheep on it. Y’d have” He broke
off. The three men had stopped and the
agent was looking back in a queer way
at our brother.
“What on earth are you talkin’ about?”
roared Father. “No land o’ mine ever
got wheat-sick! Or sheep-sick either.
Y’ must be mad. Anybody’d think I
didn’t know how t’ work land.” He
turned to the buyer. “Don’t take any
notice of him,” he snorted. “These kids
get queer ideas. Wheat-sick!” And he
glared at us.
We shrank back and let the young man
join the others. We felt that Father had
let us down. We dropped further and
further back, and presently we turned
and went back to the house and told
Mother about it.
She didn’t say anything, but her lips
tightened. We went out to the machinery
shed and sat down and thought about
Father and whether we’d be allowed to
take our dogs with us when he sold out.
Then Father and the rest came back.
We followed them into the drawing-room
and our mother and our sister brought
in tea and cakes and everybody talked.
Then the ’phone rang and Mother
answered it. She came back and looked
at Father and said, “It’s Mr. Thomas,
Says if you’re selling he’ll go to sixteen
pounds an acre.”
Father nearly fell off his chair. He
rushed out to the ’phone, but came back
at once. “Must’ve got cut off,” he said.
We saw the agent and buyer looking at
him. The ’phone rang again and Father
got up, but Mother beat him, talked a
bit and then came in. “It’s Mr. Morgan, ’
she said; “he’s offering sixteen five.”
Father did fall off the chair that time.
Then he got up and looked hard at
Mother and said “Gripes!” in a slow way,
like a man waking up.
The buyer stood up, his face red.
“Look,” he said, “no rural smart aleck’s
going to put it over me. This place may
be worth twelve, but I’ll be darned if it’s
worth sixteen pound an acre. Your little
scheme,” he said to Father, “of arranging
telephone calls and fictitious bids was
old when Noah sold the first lots on
Ararat.” And he grabbed his hat, his
agent and his son, bobbed a little bow
to Mother and swept out.
As we heard the car depart, Father
looked under his eyebrows at all of us.
Then he, too, went out.


r
$
m
i-:
m
Pi
US
ill
<fO*
\
rSi
1
tj
'll
fi
3
W
atcn
- . VSk
tAef a££*st&ed
If you find it more
difficult than
usual to buy
Masonite . . . there’s
a ready explanation. First
call belongs to the Services,
where Masonite is being used at
sea, in the air, and on land for a
thousand vital and urgent purposes.
Steel-strong, splinterless, easily worked, Masonite is
solving a hundred defence problems . . . just as it will
solve your problems of home modernization when war
requirements become less pressing. Because they
wear like iron yet can be worked with ordinary tools,
because they take any type of finish, because they look
luxurious and are yet economical, Masonite boards
have no substitute in war or peace.
Manufactured by Masonite Corporation (Aust.) Limited from Wood Fibre
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD . . . PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE . . . QUARTRBOARD DE-LUXE
DISTRIBUTORS
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. {Building Material* Division)
SYDNEY . . , MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE , . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
MA 62-42
“FORRERS”
Self-Oiling Pump
MOTOR OR ENGINE DRIVE
100 LB. PRESSURE OR
230 FEET ELEVATION
CONTINUOUS PERFORMANCE
24 HOURS A DAY WITHOUT
ATTENTION.
df
We are Sole Distributing Agents for
Forrers Pumps in every State in the Commonwealth except
Queensland.
John Danks g,Son PfrW
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
' MELBOURNE.
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy Journal Under the Terror, by F. L.
Lucas, new or second-hand. —3303.
Information Sought.
(1) Definition of the term “Panzer division ’ ?
(2) How does a Panzer division go into action ?
(1) llie word “Panzer” means armored. A
German Panzer division is made up of eight
sections, each depending for its success upon
the co-operation of the others. Its mission is
to act as the spearhead of attack against weak
points in the enemy’s position. In actual prac-
tice a Panzer division behaves like a stream oi
water poured on the ground, which, seeking
its own level, runs round obstructions and finds
its way over the easiest part of the ground,
(2) First come motor-cyclists with tommy-
guns and light cars; next, a motorised heavy
machine-gun battalion and an anti-tank bat-
talion ; then about 500 light, medium and heavy
tanks. Close in their rear is a brigade of in-
fantry, carried in motor lorries, whose job
is to mop up. Finally comes a force of motor-
drawn artillery. There are also a battalion of
engineers to clear away ’and mines and other
obstructions, an ordnance workshop to repair
broken-down tanks on the spot and medical
aid units to deal with casualties. The com-
mander of" the division controls operations from
an armored car, and has at his disposal an
aeroplane for personal reconnaissance. Be-
sides the troops already mentioned, each
Panzer division is supported in its attacks by
dive-bombers controlled by the commander of
the division.
(1) Jeans in “The Stars in Their Courses” stales
that “the moon is so tightly held in the earth’s
gravitational grip that it cannot rotate, and
so always presents the same face to the earth.”
J. N. Lockyer in his “Primer on Astronomy”
on the other hand states: “The same side of the
moon is always turned towards us, for as the
moon goes round the earth it slowly turns on
its own axis, and makes one revolution in
exactly the same time as it takes to get round
us.” Which of these two statements is cor-
rect ? (2) Where in Sydney can I obtain infor-
mation regarding the location of the various
planets in the sky during the next few weeks?
(1) Both statements are correct. It can be
seen that if the moon is moving in such a way
that it always presents the same face to the
earth, it must, during one journey round the
earth, turn once on its axis, and this is in agree-
ment with the second quotation. (2) The
Sydney “Morning Herald” publishes the times
of rising and setting of the planets, and these
should give a good indication as to where they
are in the sky.
$ $ $
I have heard that boys can learn tool-
making and other trades in a Government air-
craft factory. Are the lads apprenticed? To
whom should a boy apply for a position?
Commonwealth training scheme for the
training of fitters and turners is limited to appli-
cants of 21 and over. C.A.C. has classes
in toolmaking for employees. The usual pro-
cedure in learning toolmaking is: Seek employ-
ment in the mechanical trades; attend the Tech-
nical College for three years in fitting and machin-
ing to obtain the lower trades certificate, and
to specialise in toolmaking during the next
two years for the higher trades certificate.
Although an apprenticeship is preferable in
many ways, it is not a necessary requirement
for entry to the Sydney Technical College
trades course in fitting and machining. The
Sydney Technical College does not undertake
to find employment for intending students. In
this respect application should be made to
Mr. Benson, Juvenile Employment Officer, De-
partment of Labor and National Service, 53
Martin-place, Sydney. Leaflet on Sydney Tech-
nical College trades courses has been posted.
» m * •
Was Marx the author of the phrase “Religion
is the opium of the people” ? Does it appear in
bis “Das Kapital” ?
Not in Das Kapital or in any other work of
Marx. The sentiment expressed was current at
the time of the French Revolution and earlier.
New Russia, by Demonzie, and other books on
the Russian Revolution refer to the phrase.
* * . * *
(1) What is the name for the structure found
in most cemeteries, usually situated at the
main gate, and built to allow a hearse to pass
through ? (2) Is it true that the graveside
service was once conducted in these structures
if the weather happened to be adverse ? If
not, what was its intended use?
(1) It is called a lych-gate, and was origi-
nally intended to afford shelter to the coffin
and mourners whilst waiting for the clergyman
to conduct the cortege into the church. Most
old churches have a lych-gate, and cemeteries
prior to the opening of the more extensive
space set aside in Australian metropolitan areas
for burial purposes were to be found in church-
yards. (2) Only guide to Australian practice is
the arrangement that existed at Rookwood
Cemeteries (Sydney) some years ago for the
coffins to be placed in a resthouse, where the
burial service would be read. No hearse was
used, the coffins being carried from the trains
by bearers, placed on trestles and after the
service taken to the graves. ,
How can a leaking concrete sheep dip that
has not been used for many months be made
serviceable again? There are a number of
large cracks in the concrete wall. Would it
be a good plan to line the inside of the dip
with pitch, after filling the cracks in with
cement ?
Lining with tar or pitch is not recommended
as the chemicals used in dipping sheep may
affect the tar, and then affect the Wool. Best
plan is to clean out and repair cracks, using
as mortar one part of cement to two parts of
fine sand. Before applying mortar wash the old
concrete clean with water and then with a
grouting of cement and water. Should this
treatment not stop the leakage, alternatives are
anew dip or the complete lining of the dip
with cement mortar to a thickness of at least
half an inch. Apply to the Australian Cement
Manufacturers’ Association, Sydney, for free
pamphlets nine and ten.
* » * •
Method of destroying cockroaches?
Mix one tablespoon borax with three table-
spoons fine oatmeal, place little heaps of the
dry mixture on floor and in cupboards, and a
few inches from each heap place a tin lid full
of water (tin lid of a pepper tin, for instance).
The ’roaches eat voraciously, get thirsty, drink
the water and die of acute indigestion. Here
also is a very good trap: Bait a wide-mouthed
bottle with stale fat and put sticks against the
bottle to help the pest to climb up; you can
catch as many as 50 in the one night with this
simple trap.
SK # *
(1) What books has W. H. Hudson, the
naturalist, published? (2) Some account of
Eve Langley?
(1) Who’s Who gives the following list: The
Purple Land (1885), Argentine Ornithology,
jointly with Dr. P. L. Sclater, F.R.S. (1888-89),
The Naturalist in La Plata (1892), Birds in a
Village (1893), Idle Days in Patagonia (1893),
British Birds (1895), Birds in London (1899),
Nature in Downland (1900), Birds and Man
(1901), El Ombu (1902), Hampshire Days
(1903), Green Mansions (1904). (2) Eve Lang-
ley, born in Australia, has lived for some years
in Auckland, M.L. Some of her poems have
been published in The Bulletin. She was the
writer of the novel The Pea Pickers, which won
the Prior Memorial Prize’ in 1941 as the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature
for that year.
(I) Chief products of the Netherlands East
Ittciics and British A*f cilciyci prior to their capture
by Japan ? (2) Percentages of world production
in comparison ?
(1) Netherlands East Indies: Petroleum,
sugar, essential oils, fibres, tapioca, copra,
coffee, tea, cinchona bark, pepper, tin and tin
ore, hides, rattan. 8.M.: Rubber, tin, motor
spirit, copra, rice, pepper, areca nut, preserved
pineapples. (2) Three main exports of the
N.E.l.—sugar, petroleum products and rubber
—compare as follows with world figures: Sugar,
17,600,000 tons,, as against 173,500,000; petro-
leum, 7,939,000 metric tons, as against
293,850,000; rubber, 545,000 tons, as against
1,411,000. Two main exports of the Malay
States: Rubber, 549,000 tons, against 1,411,000;
tin, 86,800,000 tons, against 240,000,000.
* * * *
Method of tanning foxskins?
The wattle-bark solution (for tanning any
skin) is made in this way: Crush wattle bark
as fine as possible, .put in a wooden, earthen-
ware or concrete vessel and fill with boiling
water. When cool, pour off into a similar
container, add boiling water to cover and leave
to cool. Pour off water, and repeat. These
three fillings, all mixed in the second container,
are the right strength. Soak skins till soft in
fresh clean water (24 to 48 hours), scrape off
all fat, put in a tub and soak in solution for
four days to a week, airing each half-hour of
each day. Dry in a draughty shed, rubbing
now and then to soften. Trim with a sharp
knife.
* * * *
(1) What weight of feathers would be neces-
sary to make a single-bed mattress? (2) How
are feathers sold; some idea of price per
pound? (3) How are feathers prepared for
use as bedding?
(1) Not less than 201 b.; you can use more if
you desire a thicker mattress. (2) Anything from
Is. to 6s. per pound, according to quality. (3)
The feathers are rolled out well to remove
natural oil, after which they are passed through
water to which has been added a good sterilising
agent. Then the feathers must be thoroughly
dried in the sun or by a fan in a room, fol-
lowed by careful grading, in which large
feathers are separated from the small. Small
are best for pillows, large for mattresses.
♦ Jjt ♦ *
(1) Method of preparing crystallised ginger?
(2) Recipe for preparing chokos along the lines
of tinned pears in syrup?
(1) Wash ginger root, scrape off outer skin.
Make a syrup with |lb. of sugar to one quart
of water, bring to the boil and when boiling
drop in the ginger and cook till soft, testing
with knitting needle. Remove ginger and dry,
in the sun or a slow oven with the door ajar.
Sprinkle with sugar between each layer. (2)
Cut 31b. choko in pieces, add two lemons,
thinly peeled and sliced, and pour over all
31b. sugar and 2oz. ground ginger. Leave over-
night; next day strain off liquid, boil up and
add choko, etc., and cook till clear.
* * * *
Recipe for home-made tomato sauce that
will keep for 12 months?
Take 121 b. tomatoes, 21b. onions, two cups
vinegar, 2oz. cloves, cup sugar, gib. salt, loz.
ground ginger, half-teaspoonful red pepper (cups
are breakfast cups). Boil together the fruit,
cloves and onions till thoroughly soft, then
rub through colander. Return to clean pan and
bring to boil. Add sugar, spices, etc., well
mixed with the vinegar, again bring to the boil
and then simmer till quite thick (about four
hours longer). Bottle when cold and seal
with wax.
* * * *
(1) What is the distinction between the militia
and A.M.F. ? (2) Are all militia and A.M.F.
conscripted for service? (3) Is the A.I.F. en-
listed only for overseas service ?
(1) None. The A.M.F. consists of permanent
forces, voluntarily enlisted militia and universal
service personnel. (2) Not all. There is a large
body of men who’were serving voluntarily be-
fore the present war commenced. These were
automatically called up for full-time duty.
Many desired to join the A.I.F. but were not


Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD ALFRED WILLIAM RIGGS, a near
relative of the late Fred Riggs, of Adelaide
Road, Wellington, New Zealand, or any person
knowing his whereabouts, or ALFRED WIL-
LIAMSON MASON, please communicate with
the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Welling-
ton, N.Z.?
STORER, Arthur, who left Yarloop, W.A.,
about 1930. Will he or any person aware of
his address now or since 1930 please communi-
cate with the WEST AUSTRALIAN TRUS-
TEE, EXECUTOR & AGENCY, CO., LTD.,
135 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia?
THOMSON, A. H., or TRIMBLE, Albert
Edward. Sixty years, bom near Kyneton, Vic-
toria. Believed lived Redfern, N.S.W., 1929-
1935, on Government work. Anyone knowing
whereabouts please communicate THE TRUS-
TEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY CO., LTD.,
Box 389 D, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ELSIE MAY HANSON late of Maclean
N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that ADOLPH
FREDERICK HANSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1621 of 1942 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance on your
behalf on or before 30th October 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from N. J. BELL PHILLIPS & CO. Solici-
tors 117 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
lljmfWlL sss
m/i
tn
l* ,S t , *!sfo»J
It takes the equivalent in rubber of 76 pairs of Dunlop Tennis shoes to
make ONE tyre for a Beaufort Bomber and over 90% of the world’s
rubber producing areas have been overrun by the enemy . . . Two facts
which show why rubber for tennis shoes and for practically all other
civilian articles has been diverted to war production.
SIX REASONS WHY THERE IS A SHORTAGE OF CIVILIAN ROBBER ARTICLES
2, (6.00 x 16) Dunlop Motor Tyres 1 Inflatable Reconnaissance boat
18 prs. Dunlop Knee Boots = 1 Tyre and Tube for 25 pndr. gun
510 Dunlop Hot Water Bags = 1 Mooring Buoy
76 prs. Dunlop Tennis Shoes 1 Tyre and Tube—Beaufort Bomber
11 Dunlop ‘65 9 Golf Balls Rubber for Gas Mask
1 Dunlop Garden Hose (60 ft.) ~ Rubber for I Tank Wheel
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
WORN-OUT RUBBER ARTICLES
URGENTLY WANTED FOR RECLAIM
Tyres and tubes, hot tfaler bags, bath mats, rubber gloves,
milking machine rubberware ANY rubber article, except
flooring can be reclaimed. So don’t waste an ounce of this
precious commodity save it for reclaiming.
CRAVENA
..ate so
m.
A
ElB6B
10 for lid.
20 for 110
/
Ssft Ss
■ ■
smm
I
PREVENT
then permitted. (3) The A.I.F. are volunteers
for service at home or abroad.
* * * *
Method of removing perspiration stains from
an all-woollen suit?
Shake together in a bottle equal parts of
methylated spirit and ammonia and apply to
the suit with similar material or a fluffless
pad. Go over every part of suit with mixture,
then press and air. If stains have taken out
color there is no chance of restoring.
Brief Answers.
C.S.: K.v.a. stands for kilovolt-ampere....'
Lieut. H.C.G.: Have referred your question to
the .Australian War Memorial Museum, Can-
berra, which will reply directly... .M.R.W.:
As long as the surface is untouched, Bon Ami
or kerosene will remove stains. Once the actual
polish has been removed from enamel it can
never be restored. The dye stain can be
removed by abrasives such as pumice powder.
.... R.M.C.: Try Angus and Robertson, Castle-
reagh-street, or G. Tyrrell, George-street, Syd-
ney J.H.: Send stamped envelope and
address will be forwarded to you J.F.: Crest
and arms are not correct, according to the
Highland Society, Sydney. Nearest to that sub-
mitted is the crest and arms of the Macrae clan,
which has the lion rampant at the base of the
shield and a band in the centre on which are
two stars, but which omits the cross and rosette.
College of Heraldry, London, might be able to
help y0u.... D.H-: No express information
about existing conditions. The country is
neutral, and all accounts agree that the people
have been very hospitable to refugees. Let it go
at that... .Inq.: The White Russian Soviet
Socialist Republic is a constituent member of
the U.S.S.R. Other questions too contro-
versial. This is not a political column.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
M.R.:
Oh, the men' who have never held a gun,
Who write of the war as though it were fun —
Odd rot the lot,
And shrivel the drivel
Of slackers who stay at home and then
Knock Hitler cold with a, blasted pen.
E.G.:
Oh, would that there were more of those
Grand students who at any price
Before the world have thought and chose
To follow Art instead of Vice.
What tender silent melodies,
IVhat joy and perfect harmonies
Could be derived, in any tefit.
From Human Nature at its best!
M.F.: “I Was a Fishmonger” would not
amuse an intelligent limpet N.C. (England):
,Static, in spite of the drama of the theme
G.J.8.: Pome written “for and on behalf
of William Shakspeare” demonstrates that even
the greatest ghosts should chuck it W.M.8.:
Try again C.C.; Its merit depends on its
{Continued next column .)
genuineness M.E.F.: For a woman’s paper,
perhaps R.1.K.: Pleasant, but slight
J.M.: “The beardless Muse” writes amusing
piose C.E.: Lightweights R. 8.: We
know it’s hard to find original rhymes, but
“earth-birth,” “death-breath” all in the one
stanza is a bit too thick K.E.C.: Where did
you get the idea that that’s how a ballade is
made? N.W.: Meeting between the Atheist
and the Ecclesiastic on Broadway. No.
J.S.: Keep the boy reading for a few more
years A.W.J.C.: Still not in our line.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.8.E.: You’ve forgotten to give legs to the
shearer sitting under the tree R.M.S.: Your
last eight drawings have all depicted men stand-
ing with hands in pockets; what will happen
when you have to draw their hands? ... .0.W.:
That same foreman’s had so many bricks fall
on him he rivals Speed Gordon in indestructi-
bility F.J.T.: A drawing which necessitates
a forest of explanatory labels rejects itself.


tan yon
rely upon
an individual ?
A Trustee should administer your Estate to
the greatest advantage of your beneficiaries,
a task needing business wisdom, constant
devotion of time to the duties involved over
a considerable period, and sound technical
knowledge. He must be completely trust-
worthy. Should you find a friend possessing
all these qualifications and appoint him
Trustee—he may die before completing his
duties—age may sap his wisdom—misfortune
may befall him.
But should you nominate The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited,
these circumstances cannot arise. Consti-
tuted under Act of Parliament, and answer-
able to the Courts, it is absolutely trustworthy.
It devotes its whole time and energy to the
administration of Trusts. It has the necessary
knowledge of the t technicalities relating to
Trusts, is controlled by Directors of proved
capacity, and ... the Company “goes on
for ever”.
Charges are moderate. For details write or
call upon:
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY. AND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled') and Reserves and
rr„ jT nr,n ftOO
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chaiman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E,; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Kewton. »
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
r N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French. r
j= Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes J
and Agency Company Ltd,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
Undivided Profits, £ 959,622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
gd
fg
df
gd
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,*
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. W ritten
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Premiums on new shares, £76,600.. 2,332,149
1932.. 199,670 5 p.c.= 100,000 10,000 2,320,312
1933.". 213,634 5 ~,, 100,000 20,000 2,329,252
1934.. 209,154 5 „ ~ 100,000 20,000 2,333,712
1935.. 228,458 5.8„ „ 116,667 20,000 2,340,809
1936.. 234,481 5.8„ ~ 116,667 25,000 2,348,929
1937.. 6.6„ „ 133,333 25,000 2,353,337
1938. 262,384 7.1„ „ 141,667 30,000 2,359,360
1939. . 262,910 7.1„ „ 141,667 30,000 2,365,909
1940.. 264,157 7.1„ „ 141,667 35,000 2,368,705
1941.. 258,110 7.1„ ~ 141,667 35,000 2,365,454
1942.. 241,813 6.6„ ~ 133,333 25,000 2,364,240
* Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
Japan’s seizure of Malaya, the Nether-
lands East Indies, part of New Guinea
and other Pacific Island groups, the
bombing of our northern outposts, the
appearance of enemy submarines off our
coasts and the consequent menace to
shipping threatened slowly to place Aus-
tralia in a state of siege economy. But
the British occupation of Madagascar and
the successful Allied naval action in the
Coral Sea, foiowed by the thrust of
U.S.A. Marines in the Solomons and the
brilliant counter-attack of Australians at
Milne Bay, have done much to relieve
the threat and mean more from the
economic point of view than most people
seem to realise.
Still, war developments have made
Australia dependent mainly upon its own
productive, distributive and man-power
resources for both war and civilian re-
quirements. And quick expansion of
our fighting forces and Allied services
has produced a lot of problems involv-
ing adjustments of production, consump-
tion, transport and man-power between
defence and civilian needs. In the net-
work of controls created for the pur-
pose of policing regulations and ironing
out difficulties, too much political inter-
ference has resulted in muddling, over-
lapping and bureaucratic concern with
petty detail, especially in the war organ-
isation of industry and man-power sec-
tions. Yet events suggest that the grow-
ing pains of war-time economic controls
might become worse before they get
better.
As for the banks, they were the earliest
among traders to be regimented, but
most of the restrictions imposed had been
already put into practice voluntarily. The
trading banks follow Government policy,
expressed through the central bank, in
granting credit, buying securities and fix-
ing interest rates —the upper level for
advances is 5 p.c., irrespective of risk.
They have also to deposit with the central
institution their surplus investible funds
(growth in Australian assets since
Aug., 1939) at a rate of interest —now
less than 1 p.c. —designed to ensure that
trading profits don’t exceed average pro-
fits for the three years to the end of
August, 1939. The formula takes no
account of Commonwealth income tax ;
hence the difficulty of most managements
in maintaining the div.
This freezing of part of the trading
banks’ assets helps to prevent any ten-
dency there might be from that quarter
toward inflationary credit, and makes a
lot of cheap money available to the
Government. It has been hinted that
release of these special accounts, or part
of them, will provide post-war credit for
the stimulation of trade. Experience of
the early 1930’s showed that markets, not
bank credit, were the primary need in
such times. One way of stimulating post-
war activity would be to provide the
public with spending power when it is
wanted. This could be done with im-
mediate benefit to the war effort by com-
pulsory savings in the form of a percent-
age tax on all incomes, credited as sav-
ings deposits repayable after the war.
Now consider the C.B.A.’s balance-
sheet figures:—
1940. 1941. 1942.
Notes .. .. £6,184 £6,184 £6,182
Bills, etc. . . 1,463,054 1,606,203)
Free deposits.. 15,178,855 17,861,800 \ 42,953,708
Fixed deposits 18,380,299 17,857,925 J
Liquid assets.. 14,093,623 15,502,597 23,994,444
Advances . . 26,274,023 27,141,333 24,239,231
Premises . . 1,281,593 1,313,001 1,316,820
Last term a growth of £5,627,780 in
deposits, etc., was accompanied by
a contraction of £2,902,102 in ad-
vances and an expansion of £8,491,847
in low-interest-b*earing liquids. These
liquids include a special deposit with
the central bank of £3,578,000. The 5
experience is a general one, but won t 1
help earnings, j
Whatever gains there were from a
growth of £3,305,660 in total assets 1
appear to have been gobbled by a lift 1
of £19,146 in ordinary trading exes. -
(£891,509), despite closure of 85 of the 1
co.’s branches and receiving offices dur-
ing the year. The tax bill was £230,387
—previous year’s figure not disclosed
or £12,000-odd more than shareholders
received in divs.. Net earnings (£241,813,
down £16,297) were 7.8 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal ; 3.7 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined). Half a point
was chipped off the ord. div., reducing it
to 6.6 p.c. It is worth only half that rate
on most of the ord. capital, which was
gathered at a premium of 100 p.c.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
. To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
i- £ £ £
1932.. 66,195 9 p.c. = 45,000 21,195 268,209
Loss.
1933.. 6,627 6„ „ 30,000 231,582
Profit.
1934.. 63,168 7 „ „ 35,000 28,168 259,750
1935.. 65,123 8 ~ „ 40,000 25,123 284,873
1936.. 72.364 9 „ „ 45,000 27,364 312,237
1937.. 57,569 9 „ „ 45,000 12,569 324,806
1938.. 59,437 11 ~ ~ 55,000 4,437 329,243
1939.. 62,640 11 ~ „ 55,000 7,640 336,883
1940. . 65,420 11 „ „ 55,000 10,420 347,303
1941.. 62,168 11 „ „ 55,000 7,168 854,471
1942.. 63,162 11 ~ „ 5F,000 8,162 362,633
Stability of those figures is in contrast to
the showings of most sugar cos. last year.
Indeed, the result is closely comparable
with the peak-production season 1939,
notwithstanding a 20 p.c. slump in
aggregate output and the opposite trend
of taxation in the interim. Over a period
Australian sugar production and prices
have behaved this way —recent reduction
in the basic home price reflects increas-
ing costs between miller and consumer;
Purchased, Export, Australian Average
Season. Tons. p.c. Price. Price.*
1932.. 538,000 37 £25 2 3 £l9 6 1
1934.. 642,000 51 24 0 0 16 10 11
1936.. 782,000 54 24 2 0 17 1 4
1937.. 810,000 55 24 0 0 17 11 0
1938.. 822,000 56 24 0 0 16 19 1
1939. . 928,000 59f 23 12 6 16 19 7
1940.. 806,000 50f 23 1 0 17 11 9
J 941. . 745,000 44f 22 7 0 17 6 3
* Excluding excess sugar. fNot actually exported in
period.
In Queensland crushing was compul-
sorily restricted to mill quotas (737,000
tons) last year; but Nature and man-
power took a hand in many areas and the
figure wasn’t realised. Still, it was all
that could be done to find shipping for
the 328,000 tons available for export.
Internal transport is also war-strained,
and this and the desire to build up
reserve stocks outside cane areas are
behind last week’s rationing. “Neither
producers nor the Queensland Govern-
ment will suffer financially,” assures Mr.
Curtin.
Milling is the backbone of Millaquin
earnings, helped by a wad of outside in-
vestments valued in the books at £461,917
and worth more. Refining of the small
portion of the crop not handled by the
C.S.R. also assists in a moderate way.
Co. doesn’t disclose the quantity of cane,
from either its own Bundaberg or sur-
rounding plantations, put through the
rollers in turning out last term’s per-
mitted “mill peak” of 29,000 tons of
raws. It is equally silent about its tax
allocations. But after charging £19,081
(down £3963) for depreciation, a £lOOO
improvement in profits was exhibited.
The £63,162 was 12.6 p.c. on capital,
compared with 12.4 and 13 p.c. for the
immediately preceding years. Div. and
bonus were maintained at 11 p.c., making
the past decade’s average 9.4 p.c.
Fixed assets are in a fine state of effi-
ciency, and being constantly improved.
1937. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000 4,500,000
Creditors* .. 102,814 104,617 156,515 162,892
Freeholds, re-
finery, etc. 333,580 829,360 338,786 339,466
Plantation, etc. 58,036 58,181 35,980 36,515
Railways, etc. 33,213 32,542 35,514 35,776
Stocks .. 88,541 89,143 96,872 123,385
Book debts.. 9,909 10,085 19,016 47,874
Investments .. 426,762 396,562 454,946 461,917
Cash .. 7,579 63,127 67,372 18,092
* Including taxation.
Moreover, the co. now has interests out-
side the business nearly as big as those
in it. It is from these investments that
the 4 p.c. bonus is apparently coming.
They consist as to £396,572 of Govern-
ment securities and as to £64,951 of
shares in Bundaberg Distillery (paid
capital £150,000, and equally well off
financially), taken in at 60 p.c. of par.
Despite “substantial difficulties,” “the
forthcoming season has opened with
prospects of the co. harvesting its ‘peak’
tonnage,” says chairman Hamilton Hart.
In general, however, Queensland crush-
ings will be lighter.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends A To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1932.. 2,625 Nil Nil - 2,625 91,603
1933.. 3,230 3 p.c. Nil 3,000 230 91,833
1934.. 14,492 12 „ Nil 12,000 2,492 94,325
1935.. 16,910 15 „ Nil 15,000 1,910 96,235
1936.. 18,625 6 „ 4 p.c. 14,000 4,625 100,860
1937.. 20,282 6 „ 4 „ 14,000 6,282 107,142
1938.. 20,398 6 „ 5 16,000 4,398 111,540
AND ARIELL, LTD., AND SUBSIDIARIES.
1939.. 14,292 6 p.c. 2-1 p.c. 11,000 3,292 93,704
1940.. 22,147 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 6,147 99,851
1941.. 22,137 6 „ 5 16,000 6,137 105,988
1942.. 24,548 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 8,548 114,536
The best showing for the last 15 years.
Over a long period keen competition and
difficulties associated with plant and costs
kept both earnings and distributions to
shareholders moderate. But emergency
rations for the fighting services, includ-
ing the Allied forces in Australia, and
canteen and other requirements have
placed a heavy demand upon biscuit
manufacturers, while Christmas activities
of the Australian Comforts Fund have
helped to swell turnover in the plum-
pudding section of this co.’s business—
for many years these plum-puddings have
sold all over the Commonwealth. Ser-
vice requirements also helped to bump
up turnover of the co.’s dehydrated fruits
and vegetable offshoot, and for the same
reason another subsidiary, which turns
out ice-cream, benefited, too.
During the second half of the 12
months covered by the latest accounts
all these demands put such a strain on
the business that a reorganisation of
manufacturing and trading activities had
to be undertaken. And the experience
was a more or less general one through-
out the trade, as suggested by establish-
ment of the Biscuit Industries War-time
Advisory Committee, whose job is to
assist the Government in equitably farm-
ing out biscuit orders and to help re-'
organise the domestic side of the in-
dustry.
The spring in gross earnings of the
co. and its subsidiaries combined
(£208,516) was £36,781. Exes. (£183,968)
ran off with £34,370 of the increase,
mainly on account of taxation (£39,285,
up £22,748); an extra £632 was provided
for depreciation (£22,482). On pref. and
ord. capital combined the £24,548 (up
£2418) of profit was equal to 8.1 p.c., as
against 7.3, 7.3 and 4.7 p.c. for the three
preceding terms. Prefs. are entitled to
participate with the ords. beyond 6 p.c.
The ord. div., however, was kept at 5 p.c.,
and surplus net earnings and a lot more
besides were used to reduce the outside
debt, a policy with which discerning
shareholders won’t quarrel.
For several years previously allow-
ances for depreciation had been directed
mainly to improving the standard of
operating efficiency, on which competi-
tive power partly depends:
Consolidated Figures.
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £BOO,OOO £300,060 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft .. 35,575 27,495 ' 29,840
Creditors .. 36,731 51,216 54,629 53,308
Tax reserve .. 7,953 11,450 16,307 39,432
Freeholds . . 206,373 203,088 201,941 198,236
Plant, etc . . 155,456 146,341 146,728 139,607
Stocks . . 51,532 72,558 85,819 77,970
Debtors - . 60,482 73,362 , 65,252 73,342
Cash, etc. . . 3,625 3,662 15,023 26,120
Excluding tax reserve, the year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£124,124) was £42,499. It is a long
time since the co. has been able to show
such healthy movements in its figures.
As for the current term, contracts for
the supply of biscuits to the armed forces
have been supplemented by orders for


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
*** . *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £34,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,200,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors.
F. N. Y AII WO 00 (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCK LAND CECIL H. DOYLE
A. E BOND F. IV. HINSON JOHN EWING
E, V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
S
m
m
m
m
V.
: S
S&gS
*4PF
®»?
**
n
1
Im **
t®
m
mi
i
JAS
LIM ITtO
FORESHADOWS A
GREATER PEACE
The exigencies of war
have evolved new, high-
precision machines and
improved production
methods. . . . Richards Industries
Limited has enthusiastically adopted
the best of these to speed up
production of vitally needed war
munitions . . . and to be ready
to serve in the great work of recon-
struction following the war.
B®
RICHARDS
When to-day's armaments are but
relics, skilful R.I.L. craftsmen will
use their experience to produce,
efficiently and economically, peace-
time requirements.
RICHMIS
INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
R&M e R 3
Section of Richards Precision
Tool Room, where tools are
being manufactured for Air-
craft and various munitions
projects.
emergency supplies for civilians. Though
.the programme is within plant capacity,
the board says the staff is below the
strength required to carry it out, and
man-power regulations won’t make solu-
tion of the problem an easy one either.
In view of the circumstances to which
direct war needs have reduced Australian
goldmining, no change in the present
basis of taxation is proposed. The Mills
Committee had recommended that the
gold tax on production be jettisoned
and gold ventures be considered in the
same light as other metalliferous mining
—the revenue yield in both' cases to be
roughly the same, the incidence, of
course, differing. Legislation implement-
ing the decision to exempt mining cos.
other than coal and gold from Federal
tax in respect of a fifth of their taxable
mining income is also due to come up
in the Budget session. The concession
relates to all taxes —ordinary, undistri-
buted profits, super and war-time (com-
pany)—and there is provision for adjust-
ment where a board of referees is con-
vinced war depletion of properties isn't
adequately allowed for,
* % * *
The Alluvial Gold group of active
Maoriland dredgers—war has held up the
Taramakau project—present mixed pros-
pects at the moment. Arahura is the
fleet-footed one, on working account
earning at the rate of £120,000 p.a. for
the past three months of its current term.
Kanieri’s earning rate for the same period
has slipped to £28,500 p.a., while Barry-
town is having difficulty in making ends
meet. But in all cases it is average rather
than immediate returns that should be
looked at. Certainly, past performances
and bore indications ahead appear to
justify a better market for Kanieri than
the 11s. now established. Encouraging
values are still showing up in the monthly
returns ; it is the restrictive influence of
tight wash that has caused the present
setback. The Dominion has about 400
employed in goldwinning, annual produc-
tion per employee averaging 2300 z.
♦ * * *
Slab Hut Creek Dredging Co. (M.L.)
commenced digging its 7,000,000-c.y.
block (grade 11.7 d.) in May. Returns
are now showing average weekly yields
of 570 z. and costs of 30oz. gold bullion.
Co. is the last hope of ill-dogged Mataki
Junction, in the Burma-Malay stable.
Mataki own.s only £B5OO of Slab Hut’s
£37,000 capital, however, whereas its own
share-register totals £49,800.
$ * St »
Past development had placed ore re-
serves so far ahead of the mill that Wattle
Gully, star Chewton performer and one
of Vic.’s two most productive quartz
mines, has partly been able to beat man-
power diversion by switching all available
labor to sloping. Still, throughput fell 25
p.c. in the six months to June ; it meant
higher unit costs, too, though these were
all recovered by the pennyweight lift in
grade (B.3dwt.):
All-in
Six Treated,Real’n, Costs, Net
Months, Tons. Ton. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
June,’4l.. 14.166 77/4 34/-£31,294 3/-£27,000
8ee.,’41.. 16,709 71/10 83/3 32,603 3/- 27,000
June, ’42. . 12,279 81/8 39/1 26,386 3/- 27,000
“The labor position can be expected to
become progressively worse,” the board
says. Meantime, the monthly 6d. divs. of
the past two years or more have been
discontinued, including stores, £22,500
is available in surplus liquids. Capital
of £38,500 has been repaid seven times.
♦ * • ♦
Three Sons of Gwalia’s directors —
A. W. Bolden, knight David Barker and
David Buttle —have died in the past year
after long associations with the co., and
A. G. Hunt and R. Holmes have stepped
on to the board in their place. At the
annual meeting chairman Captain A. H.
Moreing pointed out that in the deeper
ground developments have been gradu-
ally centring on future operations from
the new internal shaft which will serve
the mine below No. 30 level. Work
on the upper levels was mainly connected
with the satisfactory reopening in depth
of the South Gwalia ore-bodies, while
ordinary development of the main lode
at No. 30 level also contributed to the
ore reserves. Driving from the 31st level
has disclosed only fair to low values, but
until the ore-body has been fully de-
veloped and stripped prospects here can
not be determined. Crushing (owing
mainly to shortage of labor) a rather
smaller tonnage of lower-grade ore, co.
was successful in restricting the rise in
costs to under 3d. a ton last year, exclud-
ing development.
* 8= * *
Compulsory withdrawal of labor is
giving Westralian goldmining towns a
bad time. There is scarcely one where
mines have not been closed or are about
to shut down. Some centres have gone
back to the dreary stagnation that existed
before the revival which followed first
the payment of the gold bonus ar i then
the rise in the price of the metal.
* * * *
Westralia is hunting for metals and
minerals urgently needed in war-time.
Deposits previously considered not worth
i *. 1 . • „ occic
having are oemg prospected, and a . -
tance is being given to those Who Claim
that they have got hold of something,
On several fields dumps of gold-ore resi-
, ... . . *7, ° ■ 1o
dues which contain Other minerals ait
being sampled. Two are at Edna May,
Westonia, and Fraser’s Southern Cross.
* *• * *
r.. m r .
i torn .Loncion .
Shareholders of De Bernales companies are
again complaining at the delay in bringing
things to a head. Recently F. J. Bellenger, a
Nottingham Labor member, asked in the House
of Commons whether the Board of Trade had
completed its consideration of knight William
McClintock’s somewhat critical reports on eight
De Bernales concerns, and whether any further
action was proposed. Hugh Dalton, Minister
for Economic Warfare, replied that civil pro-
ceedings had been instituted by certain share-
holders against the directors of the companies
an( j other persons, and that the progress of these
proceedings was being watched and might reveal
further evidence. At an earlier sitting of the
Commons Bellenger asked whether Claude Albo
de Bernales and/or the private cos. of which
he and his family are the shareholders had been
taxed on the profits which they made on the
flotation of the aforesaid eight cos., and what
unpaid taxation assessments were outstandmg
thereon. Kingsley Wood, Chancellor of the
Exchequer, replied that to divulge the infor-
ma[jon would be contrary to his statutory obli-
uatjons of secrecy.
~ “
axtchiedc
BRIEF ANbWERb.
G.F.: Normally, yes. But Dominion legisla-
tion made conversion compulsory in Maonland
cos.; in other cases it would depend on the
agreement as to whether or not acquiescence by
a specified majority were binding on the rest.


m
m
I
PIBASE
EXPRESS
H
SC!
- sa
1 9S9D-9 .41
How to make
Gillette Blades
last longer..
lather longer
use more water.
For the sake of national economy, join the
army of blade savers by spending a few extra
minutes in lathering. Stop the shaving rush!
Take more time in lathering and use plenty of
water. This will soften your beard in great
style and save your Gillette Blades needless
punishment. Another tip for helping Gillette
Blades to last longer is to dry them carefully
after use and handle them only at the ends.
TAKE CARE OF VOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
AND SAVE STEEL
H«lp by saving, save by buying Savings Bonds or Certificates.
Business, Rollery, etc.
From Bad to Worse
The Federal Government in its £549
million Budget has produced another gut-
less wonder. While national-minded Aus-
tralians are giving their lives, their ser-
vices and their money in order to keep a
barbaric enemy away from their land and
their people, Canberra is playing with
politics, angling for votes. Having viewed
with awe the mountain which the problem
of war finance represents, clouds of infla-
tion already obscuring its peak, Mr,
Chifley seems to have chosen to walk
round it in circles rather than tackle the
ascent. All sorts of side-tracks are being
availed of to evade the real issue—the
rationing of money, by direct taxation,
in the hands of lower-income-earners
who consume so much of Australia’s pro-
duction
t-v ■' ~ ro , , ,
.TnVf T ~1 ? a ? d ri r
n * re f- fo, S ths o£ aU ,‘ h '
mcoraes earned in the Commonwealth.
This class of people represents an even
greater consuming factor ; and control of
consumption is no less important than
increase of production in this war of
lavish material waste. You can add to
your munitions stocks either by cutting
p™7uch:nrbuTr y on Pt mSoE r oSrgoodf
mo?e r ftafhalf d do%r n T P Wh Th "°
™ ra t E " “f a ’ W Et n ‘, hoSe
goods were created, money, m the form
of wages, etc was also created This
money too should be rationed, by taxa-
tion. In fact, taxation is the obvious,
automatic way of enforcing rationing But
it calls for political resolution and forth-
rightness in order to take the first step.
Under present conditions of labor
shortage, when munitions are created
not only is money also created, but an
extraordinary amount of it is created,
Without regard to Australia’s external
and internal dangers the present Govern-
ment has actually introduced a shorter
working week in the maritime industries
since this war began, and in most other
industries overtime rates are heavy. At
the same time per capita output has fallen
in too many instances Australians in the
mass h ave pockets full of money dan-
gcrous money. It has inflation and poten-
t,a* motion in every shilling of it.
The Budget presented in Canberra last
week is the master plan to which all
other financial and economic plans, public
an< l private, must conform. It represents
the mobilisation and allocation of a very
targe part of our resources. Restriction
°f the initiative of the individual applies
particularly to finance and industry at the
present time, especially as war expendi-
ture in 1942-43 is estimated at about
s - hi the £ of the national income,
• Government outlay at 10s. to
\* s * National business is therefore more
*£ an p.c. Government business, and
the remainder is largely controlled by
National Security Regulations. It follows
that if Government financial policy is
largely wrong, then the whole national
fln J n( f es are endangered. That is pre-
cisely the nt position . Even the
priv ' te ban £ have been deprived o{ , heir
usual caut ionary influence, the Common-
Bank and the Treasury having
taken from them nearly all discretion and
economic control
, »» «40 million
Australia, 7nd°"other"Commonweahh
Government outlay is put at £109.5 mil-
]ion ( £8 mi|[io J ) he dj .
ture K £ £440 mi ’ uion vitaily £ ces .
sary as it is> js entirely expense t 0
this country; it excludes any lend-
,ease he , us when the „f oney js
s , we H sha il have Ht , le or nothin | , 0
show £or it except weapons and mate Ti a ls
of war, not peace-time factories and liv-
ing requirements. Yet Mr. Chifley in his
Budget proposes to treat most of this
war expenditure as something that will
have a permanent capital value, and on
which we must pay interest now and for
all the years after the war. In short, to
finance the entire Budget he proposes to
borrow £3OO million (up £9O million) and
to ask the taxpayers for only £249 mil-
lion (up £39 million). In 1941-42 the
Budget was financed 50 p.c. from taxa-
tion and 50 p.c. from loans, and a poor
thing it was. This year no less than 54
p.C. of the Commonwealth expenditure is
to be met from loans and only 46 p.c.
frnm rpupnnp J - *
ii urn revenue. .
The Government, notwithstanding
the evidence before its eyes of a
20 ti c war-time inflation in onr
Z n x war time innation in our
economy already, is more addicted to the
inebriating borrowing bottle than ever,
It preaches austerity, but indulges in
weak-willed and intemperate financial
methods. No Empire country during the
present war has offered its people any-
thing to compare with this disgraceful
Budget which is inflntinrmrv tn -T Hpittp?
auaget, wmen is inflationary to a degree
and the creation of miserable political
expedience.
Of the proposed increase of £39 mil-
lion in taxation revenue,, none will come
from increased rates of direct taxes. Some
of the indirect taxes, where they enter
into living costs, will provoke further
inflation. Having taxed the higher in-
comes and companies at a terrific rate,
the Government is leaving this small
voting body alone out of necessity, but
trembles at the idea of doing the right
thing that is, asking for more help from
the voting multitude who at present have
more money and income than they ever
possessed in their lives. The Victory suit
hasn t enough pockets in which to stow
this money. Savings-bank deposits have
soared £46 million in two years, and there
has been an unsavory hoarding of
millions in notes over the same period ;
at the same time the national debt,
owed largely to Australians, has
expanded by over £275 million, reaching
£1629 million. What an absurd picture
our national accounts paint—a people
growing “richer” and a nation growing
poorer because of the same thing—war
waste! A people cannot be any richer
than the nation they represent, and the
false situation we now find ourselves in
is directly the result of not paying for
war—in money—as we go. We know
from the rationing of essentials as well
as luxuries that we are paying in
materials as we go. Our money position
should keep step with our materials posi-
tion. It hasn’t; we have an excess of
money, and with it inflation.
Mr. Chifley said in his Budget speech:
Whilst relying to a large extent on the volun-
tary efforts of the people, the Government is
T e J ol Y eci * hat Payment will not be evaded,
“ pulatio " n is th?]S st V“S“e kS?
in the forces, many of the nation’s sons, pay
the supreme price of all. No financial price
i u ,- , ,
, there are some people who think the war
should be financed entirely by central bank
credit. The Government is convinced that in
that way lies grave danger. I have made it
clcnr that the further expansion, of war activity
means further reductions in the things that will
remain for civil use. Expansion of bank credit,
therefore, without a corresponding capacity to
ex P an d production, would create purchasing
and Services 01 * increasing the supply of goods
increasing the volume of money without in-
creasing the supply of goods for civil consump-
d°n not only creates the danger of inflation, but
jt sets up sen °us competition between demands
for civil goods and demands £or war require .
ments. Clearly then, as further physical re-
sources are provided by the nation for war so
must further financial resources be similarly
STSg IndWduK^slSd
contributes to the utmost of his capacity,
The sentiments there expressed, mostly
commendable in themselves except that
there is an emphasis on “voluntary” con-
tributions, form no part of the Budget
framework. Mr. Chifley’s words have
no relation to Mr. Chifley’s facts and
figures. In their setting they represent
humbug and camouflage,
The kindest thing that can be said of
the present Government is that it knows
nothing about finance. But it cannot at
the same time escape the charge of wil-
ful ignorance, of incredible irresponsi-
bility. Every member of the Govern-
ment was alive at the time of the
last depression, yet the Government is
inviting a bigger and worse depression;
even now it is gravely obstructing the war
effort with delusive and ineffective finan-
cial methods based on wishful thinking,
Set alongside the “austerity campaign,”
the Budget is an affront to the intelligence
and conscience of the people.
The Prime Minister revealed last week
that in return, or part-return, for lend-
lease aid in the form of aeroplanes, tanks,
guns, tools, tinplate, raw cotton, railway
rolling stock, motor vehicles and petro-
leum products, Australia was giving the
U.S.A. “reverse lend-lease” aid in the
form of small coast and harbor craft,
repairs and docking, food, clothing and
other requirements of all the U.S. forces
in Australia, camp accommodation and
stores, hospitals, office headquarters,


SB*
Only
a scrap of paper
. . . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO:LTD A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wlngello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PKBKINS, General Manager.
fg
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Commonwealth of Australia
How to Get
Your Sugar
"B" Coupons must be used
1. From Monday, August 31, you must give up coupons
marked “B” from your Ration Book to obtain supplies of
sugar. This means all grades of sugar whether raw, brown,
white, castor or icing sugar and icing mixture.
2. Each coupon will entitle you to obtain two pounds of
sugar and only one coupon will be made available during
each fortnight. Thus coupon 8.l may be used at any time
on and after 31st August, 1942, coupon 8.2 may not be used
until 13th September, and so on.
COUPONS NEED NOT BE USED IN THE FORTNIGHT
DURING WHICH THEY FIRST BECOME AVAILABLE;
THEY WILL REMAIN GOOD FOR SUBSEQUENT
PERIODS AND CAN BE ACCUMULATED IN ORDER TO
MAKE A LARGE PURCHASE AT A LATER DATE IF
DESIRED.
It is intended at a later date to make available an additional
allowance of sugar for domestic jam-making and fruit
preserving. The amount of this allowance and the coupons
to be used will be announced at a subsequent date.
THERE IS NO NEED TO REGISTER WITH ANY
RETAILER.
In no circumstances must coupons be cut into pieces.
The retailer only must cut out the coupons from your
Ration Book except in cases of Household Purchases, Services
Personnel and Group Users, when conditions listed below
must be observed.
3. Household Purchases:— Coupons may be presented
for the purchase of sugar in either of the following ways:—
(1) The Ration Books of members of the household may
be presented to the supplier by one person and coupons
detached by the supplier in the ordinary way; or,
(2) The leaf of “B” coupons may be removed from the
Ration Book and the name, address and book number
of the owner entered in the space provided; when this
is done a receipt should be given for the leaf on the
inside or outside back cover of the Ration Book. The
leaf may then be presented to the supplier, who will
detach the necessary coupons and return the balance of
leaf to the Purchaser.
4. Services Personnel; —Members of the Forces who
are on leave for periods of six consecutive days or more,
and those who receive a subsistence allowance to live outside
camp areas, will be provided through their respective Service
Authorities with an unnumbered coupon marked “Sugar
Special Half Coupon.” Each such coupon will entitle the
holder to obtain one half of the weight of sugar which can
be obtained by means of an ordinary coupon, and may be
presented if desired with other coupons when making the
household purchases.
5. Group Users:—a person representative of a group
of persons, wishing to acquire sugar for use during working
hours or of associations of a voluntary or social nature or of
establishments such as Boarding Houses, Hostels, Boarding
Schools, Residentials, and Residential Hotels, Institutions,
etc., may be supplied without the retailer cutting the coupons
from the ration books, provided such person presents coupons
to the retailer pasted on sheets of paper 8 in. x 10 in. in rows
of 10 with 35, 70, 105 or 140 on a sheet, and with the name,
address and designation of the person who has been
authorized by such establishment or association of persons
to acquire sugar supplies, written clearly across the coupons.
6. Persons Living in Outback Areas:— if a person
lives a great distance from a supplier so that he cannot
make purchases of sugar at short intervals, he may apply
to the Deputy Director of Rationing in his State for permis-
sion to register with a supplier in order to obtain sugar for
several ration periods in advance. Where such a person
has a reasonable stock of sugar at the present time, however,
he should not apply for this special permission but should
accumulate his coupons so as to purchase a large quantity
later on.
7. Hospitals:— Special Sugar Permits will be issued for
supplies to Hospitals upon application to the Deputy Director
of Rationing. Patients will be expected, as in the case of
tea, to surrender coupons for periods in hospital in excess of
9 days.
8. As retailers are expected to assist in ensuring the
proper use of Coupons and Ration Books, they are entitled to
ask a purchaser to produce his Identity Card or Aliens
Registration Card—so, if you are asked to produce it, do it
graciously.
CUT THIS OUT FOR REFERENCE
munitions (including artillery), airfields
and help in constructing further airfields,
repair depots and workshops, while the
whole of the transportation of the U.S.
personnel and stores by rail, sea and air
is being provided on a reciprocal basis.
It is obvious that a substantial part
of Australia’s £440 million war expendi-
ture this year will be on account of the
American forces operating in this part
of the world.
Bulls, Bears and' Kangaroos
Australia has been treated to the spec-
tacle of a kangarooing sharemarket for
the past month or more. It is part of
the Federal Government’s “plan” to pre-
vent speculative activity in stocks and
shares. In a market where sellers have
been scarce at the low prices offering
since Japan entered the war and a 4-p.c.-
profits policy was proposed—and aban-
doned as “administratively impossible”
—the practice of putting . trading limits
on share prices and adjusting them fort-
nightly has had much the same effect on
demand as all other forms of rationing.
On the last two fortnightly adjustment
days it has been a case of “sold out”
immediately at top prices permitted for
nearly all first-class industrial stocks. The
price recovery now attained is not to be
criticised. It is the way in which the
recovery has been made.
Take B.H.P. The August 18 adjust-
ment produced a rise from 31s. 9d. to
345. 3d. in one day—from the old limit
to the new. The Sept. 1 adjustment
brought a leap from 345. 3d, to 375. 9d. —
again from the old ceiling to the new at
the first ’Change call. In the fortnights
between very little dealing goes on in
such stocks as B.H.P. because of un-
workable limits.
The Labor Government was very con-
cerned about gambling on the Exchanges.
In particular it frowned on bulls and
bears. In their place it has bred the
kangaroo. This fellow puts in his order
to buy, and, when frustrated by the
price ceiling, he leaves the order “on,”
to be executed immediately a new price
is made. He and his fellows all leap
together on that day, and the price
reaches a new high limit.
The Government blundered into all
this nonsense when it stopped normal
trading on ’Change on February 19. At
that stage only dealings sanctioned by the
Treasurer were permitted. Later, acting
on the advice of an all-party committee,
it was decided that a seller would be
allowed to dispose of shares if he had
held them for five months or more. The
Treasurer reserved the right to fix maxi-
mum and minimum prices, but the duty
was delegated to the Stock Exchanges,
whose officials have carried out the work
up to the present.
At the time of this relaxation of the
first drastic share-dealing restrictions the
rules relating to land sales were also
modified greatly. But the 4-p.c.-profits
limit was left on the statute book, and
for over four months the sharemarket
languished in the Valley of the Shadow
of Four-per-cent. Prices sank to stagna-
tion point, a “low” of 93.76 being regis-
tered in the Sydney index of ord.-share
prices, which compared with a “low” of
109.69 and a “high” of 131.26 in the pre-
ceding year. When the 4-p.c.-profits
policy was definitely abandoned there
was no immediate response from share-
buyers. Recovery was almost furtive —
until the last few weeks. Now, in just
over a month, the Sydney index of prices
has risen from 103.7 to 114.05. Almost
half of the jump occurred on one day
last week. And sellers were still very
scarce.
Fears of inflation —already 20 p.c.
since the outbreak of war, and more
imminent —are said by some to have
attracted attention to equity shares,
especially in view of their deflation in
comparison with last year’s share quota-
tions and costs and prices of most other
things. If persons buying scrip as a
hedge against inflation are doing so with-
out worrying about the immediate future
they are probably on sound ground. But
it is not usual for fears of inflation to
give an Australian sharemarket any real
stamina. Part of the increase in prices
lately has been clearly due to ordinary
recovery, partly to inflationary factors
and compulsory-loan fears, and partly to
the odd conditions created by the Gov-
ernment’s “plan” to stop speculation.
Ideas about the £lOO million loan have
become rather confused in the public
mind. Actually it doesn’t open until Nov.
4, but subscriptions (except those on the
instalment plan) will be accepted imme-
diately. And £lO bonds, 3 p.c. for 10
years, may be obtained at all times for
cash or monthly instalments ; war-savings
certificates can always be bought. It
doesn’t much matter in what shape or
for what loan the money is put up so
long as it is there to finance the growing
demands of war.
* * * «
In financing its war expenditure last
year the Government discounted £78.4
million of Treasury bills with the Com-
monwealth Bank* For 1942-43 the figure
threatens to be at least £lOO million. This
method of financing war waste is the
most desperate and dangerous of all.
Compare it with taxation and direct
borrowing from the people. In the case
of taxation you recognise war waste for
what it is—a levy on the individual for
national defence. It is honest and
straightforward, with no hangover, and
it has the effect of rationing the spending
of the citizen automatically. With borrow-
ing you deprive those who volunteer to
assist the Government of some spending
power; in ordinary times, the lender
can take his securities to the bank
and borrow on them, which partly de-
feats the rationing effect of the loan to
the Government. At the present time,
however, loans by banks on the security
of Consolidated Loans is prohibited, and
for the time being there is a rationing
effect, though it all comes from a
small voluntary section of the people.
With borrowing to pay for war waste
you have a hangover, too, and that
portion of war’s cost that has been
paid for in loans is eventually borne
indiscriminately by the people, not
equitably, as in the case of taxation.
Coming now to bank credit, the Com-
monwealth Bank pays the bills of the
Government by a process of book entries
among the banks, and no one is deprived
of any purchasing power thereby. But
the Government is depriving the people
of goods and services thereby, at the
same time putting an excess of credit
into circulation. Bank credit at the
present time is money created on the
foundation of war waste. It is the essence
of inflation, and is one of the factors that
have made our pre-war five-pound note
worth only £4.
« * * *
A feature of the Prime Minister’s atti-
tude towards the respective war-time
sacrifices of “the classes” is his tight-
lipped refusal to say one word in praise
or recognition of the high tax paid on
incomes above £l5OO a year. It is some-
thing that will not be forgotten if it per-
sists. Australians on the higher incomes
pay tax heavier than in Britain, which
has been in the fighting line for three
years and which taxes the lower incomes
(when post-war credits are taken into
account) on a scale heavier than in this
country. Mr. Curtin’s aversion of his
eyes from the very substantial sacrifices
being made by some Australian income-
earners (in contrast with thousands of
his own followers who are, on balance,
making none) apparently is dictated by
political considerations—a knowledge of
the churlish attitude that many Labor
politicians and unionists take so far as
the “capitalist” is concerned. “Capi-
talists” can “live on their fat” ; they are
“profiteers” notwithstanding price-control
and excess-profits tax; but no one in the
present Government will do them the
justice of coming forward and simply ex-
plaining the relative contributions of the
various income classes and leaving the
people to judge for themselves. It all
helps to illustrate the point that we have
a Labor party in power instead of an
Australian Government, and that party
politics continue to obstruct the war
effort. By treating with contempt the
almost total taxation of some incomes
and the severe taxation of others the
Federal Government is defeating its pur-
pose of enlisting greater loan-money aid
from the lightly-taxed masses. Support
to the £lOO million loan to be floated
cannot be expected on the usual scale
from the traditional “investor” class ; it
is a section that has been taxed into
impotence. But until the truth is told
to those wage-earners whose incomes are
exceptionally robust at the present time
they will continue to believe what they
prefer to believe—that the “capitalists”
can quite easily handle war loans, and
such things are not for the wage-earner,
even if war has brought him more in-
come than he ever before enjoyed. It is
up to the Prime Minister to state pub-
licly who is principally paying for this
war, even if it does involve giving a little
credit where credit is due.
* * * *
The price of cement to all Government
departments has been reduced by order
of the Prices Commissioner, and with
costs rising the outlook for shareholdeis
in Kandos Cement is not so secure as
it was, the co.’s chairman says. The diy.
may not stay at 12y p.c. But the co. s
shares are still keenly sought.


THE SERVICE MAN
Kicked Out of Milne Bay.
“Ek Dum”: Though no more than a
major skirmish by Libyan standards, the
fight at Milne Bay had a significance far
beyond its magnitude.
It was in a different category from the
Solomons battle. In the Solomons, the
enemy had established himself. This
establishment cost the South-western and
Southern Pacific commands many worried
hours, many lives, valuable ships, includ-
ing H.M.A.S. Canberra, and one of the
world’s largest aircraft-carriers, the Lex-
ington, though Japanese losses were
heavier. To regain what had been
lost, a large and carefully - planned
expedition of some of the best trained
troops that the United Nations pos-
sess in the Pacific, the U.S. Marines, and
precious transports, ’planes and equip-
ment had to be risked.
Milne Bay was the enemy’s first
complete failure on land since Decem-
ber 7. He had had misfires on land and
heavy losses by sea and air ; but he had
usually known what he was about. His
intelligence had been especially good.
Where he was attacked at Midway, in
the Coral Sea and in the Solomons, he
was able to avoid ship-to-ship combat,
largely because of his information ser-
vices, which sized up the situation in time.
He had failed to turn the left flank
of the Moresby zone defences from
Salamaua-Lae, but rain, terrain and local
conditions were against him. That failure
did not cost him any great loss of man-
power and did not loosen his hold on
his acquired ports on the N.G. coast.
But at Milne Bay he was blissfully un-
aware of what was waiting for him. He
landed with a small though competent
force, entirely inadequate for its purpose,
and with only enough immediate naval
help to back a modest raid. Yet the ex-
pedition took with it heavy equipment,
tanks, all the appurtenances of an organi-
sation come not to raid but to stay, with
the objective of forming the nucleus of
a movement to outflank the Owen Stanley
defences and open a way along the
south-east coast of Papua, which is as
passable as most other “impassable”
routes.
Instead he met a force which had been
assembled secretly, put together in an
incredibly short time, much of it carried
at incredible risks, along with equipment,
by civilian Qantas flying-boats. The
enemy apparently had control of the
fine harbors of islands not more than
100 miles from East Cape. When the
full story of what was done comes to
be told, a few Australian civilian flying
men —Captains Brain, Hussey, Denny,
Sims and Thomas —will get. extra haloes.
Many of their 16 trips were made into a
wall of black rain.
So when the enemy landed on the
rough north peninsula which ends in
East Cape, doubtless expecting a repeti-
tion of Buna-Gona, he came up against
a formation well disposed .for defence,
under a determined artillerist, Major-
General Cyril Clowes.
Within three days he had achieved
so great a respect for the defence
that he hurriedly mustered eight de-
stroyers and a cruiser to evacuate his
remnants, a flotilla of remarkable strength
for such a purpose.
These went away ignominiously in the
night, while Flying Fortresses, usually
birds that like the near-stratosphere,
came down and clawed at their decks
with vicious talons.
The enemy seemed to be able to take
very little away, but was lucky in point
of bad weather and wretched visibility,
which did not allow the bombers to
follow and keep track of him.
The battle had been opened by a
swoop of “O” fighters on the patrolling
Kittyhawks of the Milne Bay region and
Papuan eastern coasts at the beginning
of the last week in August. The attackers
received a savage mauling and lost four
or five ’planes.
For two days the fray raged in the
hearing of watchers oh the foothills of
the Owen Stanley Range to the east,
which rise 2000 feet around the bay. They
saw little save bursting shells and a burn-
ing Japanese hulk in the bay.
On Monday, August 24, Flying For-
tresses and medium bombers were seen
at work in flights and double flights,
and bombs were heard bursting around
Kabule Mission, with occasional spurts
of fire from a.-a. guns and breath-
less aerobatics by fighters of both sides.
On Tuesday a Japanese force was left
marooned on an island when the
R.A.A.F. Kittyhawks destroyed all its
launches.
The same day a couple of Jap cruisers,
a destroyer, two transports and mine-
sweepers approached the bay. Early in
the evening, in darkness, they landed
men, tanks and mortars.
The invaders wasted no time. The first
half-battalion ashore made for Gili Gili
along the margin of the bay by the
Kanaka tracks. They were evidently con-
fident that there was nothing worse to
worry them than aeroplanes. Australian
patrols heard their arms jingling, and
their laughing chatter advertised their
sense of security and their ignorance of
the presence of an Australian land force.
They were led by tanks.
Suddenly rifle and machine-gun fire
struck them in a gust. The tanks used
their searchlights to blind their attackers.
The Jap infantry, well-equipped and
-trained jungle fighters, melted in a
moment into the dank tropical scrub.
Kabule beach was a busy scene next
day, landing barges coming regularly
ashore. They were a continual tempta-
tion to the ’planes, which bagged nine
of them. The R.A.A.F. Kittyhawks filled
the treetops and whatever Japanese
snipers had climbed into them with arti-
ficial hail. Three tanks were wrecked ;
satisfying columns of smoke advertised
the whereabouts of burning beach
dumps,; bursts of machine-gun chatter
in the jungle followed the discovery
of fresh nests of prowling Nipponese,
who appeared to have at least some
Papuan guides—the Papuan is an oblig-
ing cuss when wild. The enemy seemed
to have infiltrated about 10 square miles
of scrub, swamp and jungle.
The cruisers which had left Milne Bay
just in time —the bombers dumped a stick
across one of their transports at dawn —
returned that night, landed further sol-
diers and battle gear, pumped shells into
the outraged jungle for a few hours and
made off again. There seems little doubt
that they have a base in the D’Entre-
castreaux, a few miles off the north
Papuan coast, which boast some fine
bays.
This activity was varied by the efforts
of the infantry to trap Australian land
forces into ambushes by shouting orders
in English, In the morning the enemy had
made progress—he was beyond Gili Gili
wharf. Air fighting increased in intensity.
On Saturday rain poured down as
solid as only tropical rain can be —a dis-
appointing act of Fate, since reconnais-
sance had established that the flotilla of
a cruiser and eight destroyers was ap-
proaching. Well on in the evening they
entered Milne Bay. The defenders had
anxious moments, since their coming
seemed to presage heavy reinforcement
of the landing parties. There was no
shelling. Dead silence fell over the
waters, but in the rain fog of the forest
the machine-guns chattering in bursts sent
muffled echoes ringing round the hills.
Morning brought an eerie experience.
The bay was seen to be silent and de-
serted. There was no trace of smoke to
tell whither and when the powerful visi-
tors had gone. An A.I.F. unit which
learned its fighting and acquired its grim-
set jaws in Libya and Syria, and which was
sent down the Kabule road prepared for
a heavy engagement, found nothing to
do battle with, A couple of tanks were
bogged in a sago swamp ; dead lay negli-
gently in the foetid mud, a dozen here, a
dozen there- There were smouldering
dumps, abandoned stores, all the jetsam
of desertion moving with the tide among
the mangrove shoots, broken corpses
floating slowly with wind and tide, land-
ing barges and boats stove in.
Nothing remained of the enemy but
his debris and his tracks, save for hap-
less fugitives hidden in the scrubs of the
northern peninsula, who walked pussy-
foot or snuggled down into the rotting
jungle detritus while specially-trained
troops systematically combed in search
of them.
The fate of most of them was only a
matter of time.
Physically, the enemy may not have
been badly hurt by the Milne Bay affair,
though his casualties were much heavier
than our own. But there is at last a
very black eye in that mysterious and
almost physical attribute of Oriental
armies and Governments—“face.”
At Milne Bay Japan lost quite a piece
of “face.”
In the Islands.
“Ek Dum”: The affair of Milne Bay
was followed by a return to the routine
trial-and-error method of the South
Pacific war.
Renewed clashes at Kokoda advertised
the enemy’s eagerness to know what the
Owen Stanley defences are made of, while
avoiding uneconomical engagements
pending further preparations. On Sept.
2 it was reported that forces were in
contact on a wide front and that fighting
at times was not merely sporadic. A
great jungle hunt, its intensity often gov-
erned by the condition of the weather,
is going on there, but, unless the Japanese
find themselves forced to withdraw in
view of events in the naval zones of the
Solomons and elsewhere, the hunt must
before long develop into solid warfare,
and large forces become involved. Before
that happens the enemy probably will
make another attempt to secure a posi-
tion at Milne Bay or some other point
in Eastern Papua from which Moresby
could be approached along the right flank
of its defences,
Washington on Sept. 4 reported several
attempts by the enemy to insert small
units of troops into reconquered territory
in the southern Solomons, but Allied air-
craft from Guadalcanal attacked the
transports which carried them and scored
many hits. Other ’planes blasted the
bases from which the expeditionanes
came—Kieta, Faisi and “Buka,
The Solomon positions are being rein-
forced steadily and solidly, and whispers
are abroad of a continuation of the offen-
sive to take in Bougainville and wipe out
enemy bases in the north Solomons. This
will come in time; but all the way
through the desperate six months now
past Admiral Nimitz and General Mac-
Arthur and Blarney have taken time to
make every job a solid achievement. Each
move will bring them nearer to Japanese
main strength ; hence, also, each will need
more power behind it.
A feature of the week’s air fighting
was the lack of enemy attempts to inter-
cept Allied attacks.
The gist of a week’s communiques
from Anzac Area H.Q.:
September 1: Only reconnaissances in the
north-west. Allied bombers heavily damaged
aerodrome installations at Lae, with 10 tons of
bombs dropped among grounded aircraft,
buildings and installations. Five large fuel
dumps and many aircraft destroyed. All raiding
’planes returned. Land clashes between forward
forces occurred near Salamaua. Low-altitude
attack by heavy bombers started fires and shut
off a.-a. guns at Buna. Fighters, co-operating
with active ground forces at Kokoda, machine-
gunned enemy positions. Mopping-up at Milne
Bay continued. A weak enemy attack on
’drome beaten off without damage.
September 2: Jungle fighting took place
against increasingly strong enemy thrusts at
Kokoda. Sporadic jungle fighting at Milne Bay.
September 3: Allied bombers, facing no in-
terception, again dropped bombs in the target
area at Lae. Four bombing and strafing raids
on enemy positions and communications at
Kokoda. No ground fighting. Five tons of
bombs were dropped in the target area around
the aerodrome at Buka (Mandated Solomons).
Forces at Milne Bay continued to round up
isolated enemy groups.
September 4: Bombs were dropped on aero-
drome target area near Salamaua —no intercep-
tion. Two bomb-and-stra/e attacks on Jap
troop communications at Kokoda. Guerrilla
fighting continued at Milne Bay. Bombers in
a dawn attack made four hits on dumps at
Buka, starting large fires. Results of a
medium bomber attack on Kieta (north Solo-
mons) unknown. Two enemy flying-boats
damaged at Faisi (Solomons).
September 5: An Allied unit destroyed an
“O” fighter over Lae. South-east of New
Guinea an Allied medium-bomber unit attacked
an enemy cruiser with unknown result.
September 6: Allied ’planes followed bomb-
ing of Buna with a heavy machine-gun attack.
Grounded aircraft and a fuel dump caught fire;
huts, motor vehicles, landing marges and boats
were destroyed. An a.-a. position was silenced.
There was no enemy attempt at interception.
During close support of land forces at Kokoda
the Allies lost one ’plane. At Milne Bay our
men were still engaged in destroying the rem-
nants of Japanese guerrilla forces.
Another Ship Torpedoed
Two months after the event news was
released that another freighter had been
attacked and damaged off the N.S.W.
coast, five lives being lost and eight men
injured.
The ship was struck by one of two
torpedoes about 5 a.m. one morning
—the second torpedo missed. The crew's
quarters were wrecked —22 men were
asleep there. One of those killed was so
completely wrapped in a sheet of steel
that a blow-torch had to be used to re-
lease him. The rudder was destroyed and
parts of the propeller driven through the
hull.
The submarine surfaced and the crew
were amazed at her size. She came
so close that a stone could have been
thrown on her, and an officer ordered
the crew to abandon ship. One shell was
fired over the vessel. The men took to
the boats and the submarine left without
attempting to sink the vessel, which was
afterwards retrieved by volunteers and
brought to port.
Apparently, after looking her over, the
Japanese thought that she was bound to
sink and therefore worth no more ammu-
nition.
Mars Wakes in Egypt.
“Ek Dum”: Rommel spent part of
the past week in operations which
looked much like limbering up com-
bined with a military soup-tasting ex-
pedition, or like a thrust to dislocate
an apprehended British offensive.
After gulping in a few mouthfuls of
Montgomery, he found it even solider
tack than the old Maconochie and drew
back from the concoction wiping scald-
ing drops off his whiskers with artillery
and Panzer.
His first essay was to the north of the
left British flank about El Himeimat
and south of the central backbone of the
British positions—El Ruweisat ridge.
After the flurry of movement which
had been noticed among the enemy
forces near the Quattara Depression end
of the line the previous week, advanced
British mechanised cavalry and tanks
frequented no-man’s-land, which is
several miles wide and well strewn with
traps and minefields.
A little before sundown on August
31 heavy German tank forces were re-
ported by British armored advance
patrols. They were about 1100 yards
from the core of the British forward
frontal forces, having a careful look-see
and sniffing for opposition, which was
not easy to locate, because of the low
ridginess of the landscape.
They moved east, waddled slowly for-
ward for a time, then wheeled north and
resumed their course towards the sea,
which is 35 miles from the southern end
of the line.
British General Grants, their crews
loath to waste the waning daylight,
opened up from behind ridges and
mounds or moved to engage at close
quarters, and Allied six-pounders began
to cough in unison. The fray became
savage. Before long, the first real tank-
to-tank battle since the settling down of
the lines at El Alamein was in full swing.
Several German Mark Ill’s and IV’s
seemed to have been at least bent, though
not necessarily destroyed.
Darkness fell. A tank in darkness is
merely a vulnerable junk of armor, prey
of anybody who can sneak up on it with
a sufficient quantity of explosive. As the
curtain dropped on the short, sharp en-
gagement, the enemy retired in force to a
depression, supported and covered by the
swarm of motorised vehicles which had
trailed behind his expedition.
Before midnight, eager F.A.A, ’planes
had nosed out his motor transport park
in a sandy, depression, and a little judi-
cious skylighting revealed an unobtrusive
lair full of tanks further north, with
their worn-out crews asleep beside them.
The Wellingtons spread their wings over
them, and put a fiery sword or two
through their ranks.
Theirs was afterwards declared to be
the most successful night raid for several
months.
Forward, the Footsloggers!
After midnight, a soft moonlight
spread itself over Egypt. At 12.50 a.m.
German and Italian troops began to
advance in the best movie style, hopping
over in extended order and racing for
their objectives.
The attack was general along the
whole 35 miles of the main line. It was
pulled up short by a withering blast of
m.-g. and light-arm fire in general. This
phase of the fighting was not the
monopoly of the defenders. The Ger-
mans, under cover- of darkness, had set
up many m.-g. posts a few hundred yards
from the British lines, some even in the
middle of minefields. Some were only
30 yards from the British trenches ; some
only ten yards apart. The Germans had
crawled forward through the minefields
in the dark, dragging their guns and am-
munition boxes. They had then scooped
out shallow depressions for cover.
It did not take long for the 37mm.
machine-guns, the mortars and some
heavier stuff to stamp these posts into
the ground. And while all the vicious
shindy went on British patrols were actu-
ally out raiding the enemy lines, and,
wonderful to relate, most got back safe.
The melee on the front line did not
last long. Tommy-gun, automatic, gren-
ade, artillery filled the desert with pande-
monium for a quarter of an hour. Then
the first wave of attackers withdrew.
At 4.30 a.m. a second wave arrived,
but the enemy units had reason to feel
glad that they had brought smoke gren-
ades with them to cover a hasty retreat.
Next day the German advance was
renewed. The tanks with their mobs of
attendant motor vehicles waddled on
cautiously against the mine-sown no-
man’s-land. The rear of each army
showed all the symptoms of heavy and
hurried reinforcement.
Wary, but looking for chances, the
enemy used as much as possible the dry


HAVE THAT PHOTO
COPIED NOW!
We cannot come to you, but you can
send to us. Send your photos, to us
to be copied. We enlarge, color and
frame. We will be glad to give a
quote on any work and the greatest
care will bg taken with your originals;
pack your originals in cardboard.
Our address is:—
PROGRESS PHOTOS,
MIDWAY ARCADE,
356 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
watercourses and little ridges and hil-
locks to shield his movements. The
British screen fought a delaying action,
making at first no attempt to halt the
push, but slowing it up and pouncing on
any luckless formation which found itself
stationary or in difficulties.
Thus, .when the sore-tried 90th Ger-
man light division, which has had its
trousers torn by more varieties of Briton
than any other German formation in
existence, found itself frozen in a mine-
field, it was soon being heavily pounded
by shellfire, while grinning infantry ap-
peared on its fringes and had twisted
its ear pretty badly before it got out of
the impasse.
Rommel’s was no light reconnaissance.
The enemy came in sufficient force to
test the strength of the British, with
spearheads which would have done credit
to a major battle. Despite the nuisance
of rising sand, there was heavy and con-
stant air activity as far back as Mersa
Matruh, and the German columns were
supported by the heaviest artillery in
Egypt, including some 10-inch guns.
By Tuesday night tank and infantry
fighting had died down to nothing.
only signs of large fighting were the roar
of the British artillery barrage, which con-
tinued to beat up the German lines, and
the thump of bursting bombs. The Ger-
man armored forces which had remained
in the El Ruweisat sector, nearest the
centre of the line, were catching it hot.
By Wednesday Rommel had eased his
forces almost to original positions.
Lieutenant-General Montgomery re-
marked; “Apparently the whole of the
Afrikakorps was operating in the
southern sector, but the enemy did not
penetrate our organised defence areas at
any part of the front.”
It was a brisk series of engagements,
and if the enemy intended to reconnoitre
the British main strength, he at least had
a taste of it. If he intended to bring
in prisoners as part of his preliminaries
for a full-dress onslaught he failed again.
He has a very powerful force, far more
powerful than any enemy army yet seen
in Africa: the 15th and 21st armored
divisions, the 90th and 164th light armored
divisions, the Italian Ariete and Vittorio
armored divisions, a German parachute
battalion, the Afrikakorps auxiliary
forces and five Italian infantry divisions
—total, four armored, two light armored
and about six other divisions. On a
front of similar length at the height of
the fighting north of Kalinin in Russia
last November, the Germans used two
armored divisions, two motorised divi-
sions and an ordinary infantry division
against seven Russian divisions and four
tank brigades. Some of the enemy forces
in Libya are in reserve, but are readily
available.
The enemy has built a hard road about
12 miles west of the front line into the
Quattara Depression, and the cliffs which
divide the escarpment to the north and
north-west from the depression are being
hurriedly fortified. The purpose is guess-
work, but it seems defensive against sur-
prise attack from the Fayum-road on the
enemy’s right flank.
A.I.F. Gallantry
The A.I.F. and Maorilanders were not
left out of the excitement. At dawn on
Tuesday they were launched on their
respective fronts. For five or six hours
a stalwart Queensland unit went rabbit-
ing in great style among the enemy dug-
outs, bayoneting or blasting out the occu-
pants. Sappers had gone before marking
passages through the minefields with
white tape.
The Queenslanders, with a little
armored support, penetrated 1200 yards
beyond the enemy’s forward posts and
came home behind a smokescreen for
smoke-oh droving a mob of fast-moving
Huns before them.
Some parties reported the enemy dug-
outs so full of dead that it was impossible
to get into them. Corporal McLachlan,
a horsebreaker, had a day out. He hails
from the writer’s native district along the
south-west border—it used to be a rough
place where the Moonie codfish were re-
puted to swallow sliprail posts and
legend had it somebody once sold a
local wild pig to a circus as a spare ele-
phant.
Two Germans sprang at him. He
bayoneted them. Finding a wounded
tommy-gunner, he left his bayonet stick-
ing in the sand to guide the stretcher-
bearers. Taking the wounded man’s
tommy-gun, he bowled over half a dozen
more Germans, apart from an incautious
Afrikakorps who grabbed him by the
legs and was knocked out with the butt.
Next, he purified a dugout with a
grenade, then stood off waiting for
the contents to raus for the open.
Bullets kicked up the sand round him.
He was disappointed. No Germans
emerged. His ammunition having run
out, he joined a couple of Brisbane
privates in a grenade hunt among the
trenches until artillery fire buried them
in sand to the shoulders. After this,
running the gauntlet of m.-g. fire and
plentifully sprinkled snipers, they went
home.
A lieutenant from Cairns raced 200
yards through direct fire towards an m. g.
post after having knocked out a heavy
Spandau. He was seen to fall. His feat
was probably not marked by colder
nerve than that of Sergeant M. Me Vicar,
who wandered casually before the battle
into a German strongpost, where he
mingled with the enemy, whistling loudly
every time he thought there was any
likelihood of anybody talking to him.
He had got there by crawling through
minefields and wire and between stacks
of mines piled ready for laying. When
he had finished his observations, he re-
turned casually and still whistling to his
patrol, which then blotted out every
German who showed himself against the
skyline and heaved a parting hail of
grenades.
The Australian casualties were reported
as being one-tenth those of the enemy,
and German tank losses along the whole
front were said to be three times those
of the Eighth Army, which is now pre-
dominantly of U.K. troops. In general,
British casualties were “surprisingly
light.” English units were unleavened
by Dominion or Indian units on the south
of the line in the positions which bore
the main brunt of the enemy onslaught.
Rommel’s forces, after another slight
withdrawal, were still in concentration
and mobile at the week-end, so that the
crisis was far from over.
The R.A.F. and long-range artillery
were doing their best to make them even
more mobile.
On September 6 the enemy line was
still being drawn backward.
Crisis in the U.S.S.R.
“Ek Dum”: An important change of
Russian command was announced in a
very brief message:
London, August 28: Moscow Radio an-
nounces that General Zhukov, Commander-
in-Chief of the forces on the Moscow front,
has been appointed by Stalin as his Chief
Deputy-Defence Commissar.
This meant the supersession of Timo-
shenko and others. At the outbreak of
war, Zhukov ranked eighth in the Soviet
command as C.O.S.
Removal of Timoshenko as Deputy
Chief Commissar did not necessarily mean
his demotion. It may mean merely that
the High Command believed that, with
the enemy throttling Volga traffic, and
with the Caspian oil supply cut off or
on the verge of being cut off, his was the
all-important job. Gr, again, it may mean
that Stalin apprehended that the central-
front fight would become almost at once
the front which would decide the fate
of Russia, and resolved that his right-
hand man must be the main planner and
organiser of Moscow’s defences.
Germans on the Volga
Most Moscow correspondents were
convinced that the main drive on Stalin-
grad was that across the Don at Klets-
kaya. A prediction here ventured (B.
12-19/8/’42) about the importance of
the Kotelnikovo movements south of the
Don proved correct. Here the German
armies, fed over a river-crossing at
Tsymlyanskaya, well behind their front
lines, and unharassed as they were at the
Kletskaya crossing, during the week
reached the Volga 15 miles from Stalin-
grad.
As this pressure had increased Red
troops seem to have been sucked from the
centre of the Don Bend front to stem
the attack.
The Germans then bridged or forded
the shallow river in the centre of the
Bend against the weakened holding forces
and consolidated at Kalach, 40 miles
from the city. Across the plain separat-
ing them their Panzers then moved for
some distance as fast as the minefields
and resistance would allow.
Meanwhile Vichy reported a spearhead
flung, across the river in the Kletskaya
area, which reached the Volga at Pit-
chuga, a few miles up-river from Stalin-
grad. These advances were confirmed
from Berlin. They were important since
each of them actually placed German
spearheads to the east of Stalingrad,
which sits on a westward-pointing elbow
of the Volga. Here the river is five miles
wide. Retreat across it between the two
enemy forces north and south of the city
could only be a desperate affair.
Ten days after the real battle for Stalin-
grad began the situation was extremely
critical. The one mitigation, of which
much was made, was a gallant but hope-
less essay by the defenders to create a
diversion or take the enemy in the rear
and cut his supply routes by crossing the
Don at Kletskaya, This move was de-
scribed as having “exposed the flank of
the Germans streaming across the Don
and almost isolated the northmost spear-
head drive to the Volga. But the status
of the position where the break-through
was said to have occurred was defined
by the fact that it was held by Italians.
In the air the Germans appeared to
have complete command. Some reports
declared that there was no Russian re-
sistance to air attack save from the
ground. The Russian High Command
placed the German strength at 26 divi-
sions. Berlin made it 200,000 men with
2000 tanks and 1000 ’planes.
On September 4, when the Russians
had made five withdrawals in 48 hours
on the south, the fighting seemed to have
reached its final phase and Stalingrad
or rather the remnants left by a fort-
night’s almost ceaseless aerial battering—
seemed doomed, short of a miracle.
The Germans who had advanced to the
Volga were only 75 miles from the
border of Asia. They had progressed
since June 22 last year 1100 miles from
the nearest point on the German border ;
and 400 miles from Kharkov since
June 25.
Further south the battle for the Terek
River and the approaches to the Grozny
oilfield was over. The river had been
crossed by the enemy.
On the Black Sea two heavy drives
had closed on the Novorossisk naval
base —one along the coast, taking the
subsidiary port of Anapa in its stride ;
the other down the railway route from
Krimskaya, through the hills.
The Germans on September 6 claimed
that Novorossisk had fallen. Moscow
did not confirm the claim.
Japan and Siberia
The coming week threatens to be a
black week for the U.S.S.R., especially
since there are signs in the Far East that
Japan, if not bent on an attack on Russia,
is at least aiming to distract portion of
the Red Army while the Germans com-
plete their campaign in European Russia.
It is tod late in the season to start a real
campaign in east Siberia.
These signs are to be found in the
appointment to the Manchukuo com-
mand of General Yamashita, the entre-
preneur of the Malayan-East Indian cam-
paign ; the sudden withdrawal of divi-
sions from the Chekiang and Kiangsi
and the resignation of the Japanese
Foreign Minister, Togo, who has always
expressed friendly sentiments towards
Russia, and his senior henchman.
Optimists built hopes that Russia would
be able to draw supplies for the Central
and Northern European fronts from Asia.
Inflated stories were told of the develop-
ment of Siberian resources. Moreover
the Russians have some fatal disadvan-
tages to contend with, notably length
of haul and climate. Winter will close
its grip on Siberian supply routes much
earlier and for longer than in European
Russia. The Don is frozen for only 100
days in the year; all the Siberian rivers,
even down to Caspian latitudes, for at
least 140 days ; most for from 160 to
180 ; some for over 200.
Thus, where last winter supply advan-
tages were with the Russians, this winter
they will be wholly with the enemy.
Where but in Britain could burghers
conceive the idea of celebrating the close
of the third year of a war which has de-
vastated their cities, cut their rations and
sunk their shipping, and in which some
of their colonies have been temporarily
lost, by holding a luncheon? London
did it, and A. V. Alexander, First Lord
of the Admiralty, took the opportunity
of announcing that more U-boats had
been destroyed in July and August than
in any other two months of the war.
Australians have a strong interest in his
remark that, “despite losses in the Far
East, Britain has a powerful fleet in the
Indian Ocean,” and there is an Axis re-
port that a strong American squadron
has been diverted from the Atlantic to the
Pacific,
* * * *
British sea and air forces have sunk
1,479,000 tons of Axis shipping in the
Mediterranean, apart from ships dam-
aged—another 887,000 tons. In the area
in 1942 the enemy lost or suffered damage
to 548,000 tons. Italy’s naval losses include
one battleship, four out of an original
seven Bin.-gun cruisers, five out of a pos-
sible ten 6in.-gun cruisers and about 50
destroyers, t.-bs. and other small craft,
as well as about 30 p.c. of submarine
strength. Four other battleships have
been damaged.
* * * *
For what it is worth, Berlin claims to
have sunk 125 Allied merchantmen! total-
ling 808,000 tons in August and
23,000,000 tons since the outbreak of war,
including 5,600,000 tons in 1942. Some
of it must have been destroyed three or
four times over.
« * * «
The Air Ministry reports that 13,000
tons of bombs were dropped over Ger-
many in June and July; yet little more
than 10 p.c. of British operational air-
craft was used. Fighters during the third
year of the war shot down 600 enemy
machines over German-held territory in
.daylight and about 40 at night, besides
bagging another 60 over Britain to add
to the a.-a. gunners’ list of 200 night
raiders. The R.A.F. itself lost fewer than
700 fighters. In three years, 8985 Axis
aircraft went south—permanently—in
combat with British forces, against 6231
British.
* * * *
Karlsruhe, a Rhineland industrial city
with a population of about 148,000, was
raided heavily by the R.A.F. on the night
of Sept. 2. Much damage was done to
the inner city, and the German High
Command admitted civilian casualties.
Eight bombers were lost. On Sept. 4
11 bombers were lost in a heavy raid on
Bremen. U.S. Flying Fortresses blasted
French towns, and the Russians made
their first raids on Budapest and Konigs-
berg.
* * ♦ *
A Canadian bomber crew has illus-
trated the altering perspective of the
world. It raided the Saar, flying about
700 miles, returned to Britain to report
and then hopped off on a 2500-mile flight
to its native land. It reached Ottawa 24
hours after it had been engaged over
German targets.
* * * *
The first award to an Australian soldier
for bravery in fighting on the Australian
continent has been made to Bombardier
Richard William Rankin, 23, of Fre-
mantle (W.A.), for devotion to duty
while in charge of a light a.-a. post dar-
ing the first raid on Darwin on Feb. 19.
He received the C.-in-C.’s Certificate of
Commendation.
h' 'l*
A corvette of the type of which Aus-
tralia is building a useful number dis-
tinguished itself in the rough North
Atlantic in a bow-to-belly slugging match
with a U-boat. First, with gunfire, the
pest was driven down, then forced up
with depth charges. During 19 minutes
which the commander declared in his
official report “could be described as
lively,” the small vessel rammed the
U-boat four times. At the fourth ram,
the U-boat reared over the corvette’s
forecastle and crashed down on it. Then
it disappeared.
:js # Jfc #
“E.D.” witnesses a march:
The heart of the 16th Brigade, A.1.F., came
from Sydney. Most of the men who marched
through its streets on Saturday morning had
taken part in the first marcfli through the city
before they embarked for abroad; so there
was a standard of comparison. Some of the
originals rest in the soil of Greece, Libya,
Crete, Palestine with the warriors of the ages.
Raw troops no longer, but veterans sure of
themselves and proud of their record, the men
marched in threes in modern formation, with
tommy-gun sections to the fore, the infantry
with fixed bayonets, the ancillary units with
rifles. These ancillary units are no longer
camp followers. Many a mother in the crowd
owed her son’s life to them. Like the marines,
they became, in Greece, the men of all work;
and one of their works was to turn their hands
to motor transport. Their evacuation of thou-
sands of weary front-line fighters under con-
tinual blasting from the Stukas and enemy
artillery earned them many decorations.
One of the features of the brigade was the
lean uniformity of countenance and the look
of ageless sternness which battle had set upon
them, giving each man, as it were, a family like-
ness to his fellows. There was no gaiety about
them, none of the careless laughter of unblooded
civilian units, but a grim tenseness of soldiers
who are on the job. They looked like men who
had burnt out their capacity for excitement;
though some of them reacted with a jutted chin
or a smartening of step to the recitals of their
deeds and decorations by the loudspeakers—
a good innovation —as battles were recalled in
which they lost comrades but found a plaice in
war history at Verria, Servia Pass, Larissa,
Crete, Damascus and among the deserts and
mountains of Libya.
One lesson which the march might have
driven home was the immensity of organisation
which is needed for modern war. This seem-
ingly ceaseless stream of bayonets filled only a
brigade, say, 3000 men.
There should be more of these marches to
bring home to the civil population the need
to provide an amplitude of arms and equipment
before the major clash in the Pacific arrives.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
There were cheers and clamorings, con-
fetti and bright faces welcoming the 300 D
soldiers of the A.I.F. from the Middle
East as they marched through Sydney last
Saturday morning. Above all this surged
to the marchers the wave of gladness
from member;: of their own families,
from small sons and daughters perched
high in windows along the route, from
wives, from mothers and fathers. Some
of the buildings put out a forest of flags.
Girls in the various office windows and
rooftops waved millions (or so it seemed)
of miniature Union Jacks, of Australia’s
flags. In the streets flag-sellers did big
business. The saluting base was at the
Town Hall. Here on the dais the Gov-
ernor-General took the salute while thou-
sands of onlookers cheered themselves
hoarse. Sydney was welcoming her own
sons, and the heavens echoed to the
sound.
Memories of Greece, Libya, Crete and
Syria are stored in the minds of this
famed 16th Australian Infantry Brigade,
but as they stepped along, led by Briga-
dier Lloyd, they revelled in the present.
The march started at Alfred Park, and
here Mrs Keith Miller and her 16 helpers
served every man with a cup of tea from
an array of shining mobile canteens.
Noted at the Town Hall were Premier
McKcli, Army Minister Forde,Lieut.-Gen-
eral Iven Mackay, General Blarney and
his lady—in her Red Cross uniform —•
Cutler, V.C., the beaming Mayor Crick
and his Mayoress, and the wife of
Genera! Fewtrell. It was a morning elec-
tric with excitement.
Mayors, mayoresses, aldermen and
their wives are now putting their strength
behind the Y.W.C.A. drive for a million
shillings. They were the guests at a
meeting and tea-party at Government
House last week, when the case for
special recreation huts for girls of the
services was put to them very neatly.
Lady Wakehurst presided. General Few-
trell, Major Eleanor Manning and Flight-
Officer Opie gave an outline of the
important job the army girls were doing.
A vivid description of a group of girls
(from every branch of the service),
dressed in giggle suits, armed with buckets
and brooms, marching to a new home to
scrub and rub it to the shining cleanness
of army standards and then, still in the
dark of the moon, returning beating a
tattoo on their buckets, their brooms at
the slope, singing marching tunes, was
given by Flight-Officer Opie. From
Parkes, Lismore and Newcastle and the
shires in between and closer to hand
the guests came. The Frank Alberts, too,
were there. Cablegrams from the Queen
and Mrs. Winston Churchill were read
cheering on the work.
The really new thing about this year’s
Society of Artists’ show was the air-raid
warning which sounded at a quarter to
three. Though this was only a rehearsal
warning, nevertheless wardens were on
the spot to see that visitors to the S.O.A.
opening went down to the Education
Department’s shelter. Crowds on the
stairs, crowds in the lifts descended to
sanctuary ; then, after 15 minutes or so,
climbed aloft again.
The society’s president, Sydney Ure
Smith, made announcement of the post-
humous presentation of the S.O.A. medal
to Basil Burdett for “service to art.” This
is being sent to Mr. Burdett’s mother in
Brisbane. Headmaster Hone, the very
young-looking principal of Cranbrook,
made an interesting speech about art
and the young mind, and then declared
the show open.
The long galleries were crowded. Well-
dressed women were everywhere, and
not a frippery among them. This may
have been austerity or just the cold, cold
blast. Sculptor Lyndon Dadswell, back
from the Middle East, was there with his
wife. Talking to them was the good-
looking Mrs. Neil McEacharn. The
Charlie Lloyd Joneses have been digging
for victory at their Moss Vale home, and
the result shows in a fresh little canvas
by him. In time to come the water-color
drawings of Sydney Ure Smith will be
snapped up for their historic as well as
their beauty value. Already Melbourne
has quite a collection of his passing
Sydney.
Dr. Tom Bateman and his wife, with
Mrs. Roy Buckland (her tweeds topped
off by a tiny upturned cornelian hat),
were discussing sons and landscapes.
Mrs. Tom’s baby is live months. Two
of Mrs. Buckland’s are now warriors,
one in the Air Force, one in a corvette.
Sculptor Fleischmann talked to Oswald
Cheeke. Eric Wilson and Adrian Feint
were among the congratulated. So were
Maude Sherwood and just-budding artist
Freda Robertshaw. The Jordan lady
was there; so were Lute Drummond
and Ruth Bedford. America was repre-
sented by Mrs. Ely Palmer; Greece by
Mrs. Vrisakis. '
The David Knoxes, now settled at
Sorell (Tas.), write of a busy life. The
doctor’s practice covers a wide-flung area.
Mrs. Knox has become adept at netting,
and, working with the C.W.A. netting
centre, has learned to make nets on the
back of a dining-room chair.' But her
ambition is to emulate the secretary, who
can do this netting round her foot. Red
Cross and Comforts Fund work fill day
and evening, Mrs. Knox’s mother, Mrs.
Browne, who came to Australia from
South Africa just before war broke out,
is now in Hobart. News also in the letter
of Marie Ney, now in Johannesburg re-
covering from the shock of her last days
in Singapore. She has had a contract with
the S’African Broadcasting Corporation,
and she and a Dutch actor, Mynheer
Hardt, won renown for a potted version
of “Hamlet” at the Prince’s Theatre.
When Isador Goodman plays with the
symphony orchestra in the Town Hall
on the 17th, the A.B.C. staff war funds
will benefit. This war fund helps not
only the A.B.C. men in the services, but
opens its purse wherever the need arises.
Invalid chairs and mobile canteens have
already been supplied to aid the war
effort. The money from the concert,
which is expected to fill the Town Hall,
will go to the building of a recreation
hut at a military hospital. The girl
behind the concert is Dorothy Redmond,
secretary of the fund. She is in the
Federal Programmes Department of the
Commission, and is notching a name for
herself as an organiser. The concert will
be at night-time (quite an event these
matinee days) and every seat in the hall
can be reserved. Russell Roberts photo-
graph.
The Foyer du Marin is the latest
amenity in the life of the Fighting French
in this city. The club is at 330 George-
street, just below Martin-place. It has a
great floor space which is being turned
into recreation rooms, and a dining-room
where the men can eat the light refresh-
ments most of them will prepare them-
selves in the adjacent kitchen. In charge
is Mr. Brudo, who before the hurri-
cane of bombs hit the Pacific had his
home on an island north of Milne Bay.
Last Saturday night the club was gala.
There was a dance for which Pierre, of
Prince’s, provided both band and supper.
The Friends of France Club has had
to take larger rooms in Endeavour House.
Mrs. Ivy Moore, president, was an after-
noon hostess. The groups were sprinkled
with writers and artists, and (crowning
achievement these ration days) there was
tea or coffee for all.
Priminister Curtin’s Austerity Cam-
paign does not frighten the middle-class
woman nor her sister of the working
class. Life for them has always been a
matter of doing without something. How
often has mother given up the idea of
that new hat she longed for so that
daughter could have the fur tippet her
souf craved! How has she twisted and
contrived her housekeeping accounts
when H.C.L. jeered at her! How many
holidays has she ever taken'away from
the family? No, she has the armor of
years buckled on. If it is a question of
saving this land for their children, then
there’s a whole army of mothers back
of Mr. Curtin.
From Melbourne
There’s only one question a girl asks
another when they meet on Collins-strect
now, and that is “What are you going in
for?” It always means the one thing —
“What form of everyday war work are
you proposing to take up?” The call for
more women is being answered even by
those home girls who have been doing
volunteer jobs at various war-work
centres. Some of the most satisfied are
those who have gone in for post-war
reconstruction and factory research. They
have the feeling 6f building up something
to make the after-war years better.
The Originality War Funds Group is
finding it difficult to arrange get-togethers
for its latest project, the raffling of the
American doll’s house, as so many of its
members put in full time on war service.
Mary Lundquist (who was one of the
contesting queens in the Queen Carnival
drive for war funds) and Catherine Neylon
are transport drivers for the A.W.A.S.
Guelda Pyke, one of the most original
artistic workers in Melbourne, who can
design anything from masks to hats, is
doing rehabilitation work at a military
hospital, where she teaches patients to
work with felt. Olive Stenning and Polly
Pyke are driving about city and suburbs
collecting junk for the waste products
centre. The doll’s house, which is being
raffled for war funds in general, instead
of a particular object, is a perfect minia-
ture of a well-appointed American home.
The donor's parents (donor is an anony-
mous small girl) described the fun of
assembling it suite by suite in a big
American department store.
The recently formed Council of
Women in War Work, with Mrs. Kath-
leen Fitzpatrick as president, has earned
gratitude by doing its first public bene-
fit job well. Many women’s societies
worried about young mothers at factories
all day, and babies in consequence miss-
ing their care. Wrote to Ministers. No
reply for a while. Passed resolutions.
Then the C.W.W.W. came along and
wrote the Minister so tactfully and
cleverly as to elicit a reply which placed
the matter outside argument. In effect,
the Minister ruled that young mothers
with children at home wouldn’t be taken
save as a last resort. Marjorie Coppel,
the lawyer, is secretary of the council.
A betrothal which has given their
friends something to chat about be-
sides the war is that of Betty
(Lucia Elizabeth) Wardrop and Lieut. T.
J Rose, A.1.F., returned from abroad.
Lieut. Rose is son of the Thomas Roses,
of Huntingtower-road, Malvern, and has
known Miss Wardrop for a matter of
years. Miss Wardrop, whose parents
live at East St. Kilda, has been using her
skill as a black-and-white artist in map-
drawing and the like. She spent two
years helping in the office of architect
father J. H, Wardrop, who was largely
responsible for Melbourne’s Shrine.
Antoine made this picture of Miss
Wardrop.
Daffodils, rhododendrons and massed
flowers in low bowls stood on a table
in front of a collection of Elma Roach’s
pictures, below Dora Wilson’s painting
of her, when the Independent Group
opened its show at the Athenaeum Gal-
lery. It was a loving gesture, and a suit-
able one, for “Dinah,” as her friends
call her, was able to put herself into
her work, and her pictures are as full
of life as is the portrait, which Dora Wil-
son did when they were Gallery students
together. The portrait catches Miss
Roach’s smile, and is a fascinating study
in greens and browns. On the opening
day of the show quite a number of the
exhibitors were about greeting their
friends. Dora Wilson and Madge Free-
man, in, fact, most of the “old Gallery
crowd,” as they call themselves, came
along.
Ballet seems to be on the verge of a
revival. This is attributed in some quarters
to the better physical condition of so
many girls who are engaged in war work.
At the first night of the ballet season
at the National Theatre the women's as
well as men’s services were well repre-
sented, and Americans also showed
interest. One of the dancers changed
back into a well-known uniform and sat
in the audience after her ballet was over.
Find of the present season is Betty Corri-
gan, a lass with not only dancing and
miming ability, but also with a flair for
comedy. This last is left out in most
dancers’ make-up, they being usually very
solemn folk.
When Joan Joske danced “The Pines
Among the Catacombs” at the National
Theatre last week-end she sent shivers up
and down most of the spinal columns in
the packed audience. She wore two
masks, one on the back of her head, the
other on her face ; and what with the
shroud she carried and the grave clothes
she wore, hands like baby shovels and
a long grey-green net over her hair, she
struck a gruesome note. For her “Pavane
on the Death of a Child” she danced
before two altar candles, which later were
extinguished by a ghostly figure in grey,
with weird scarlet touches here and there.
Yet in “The Dancing Lesson” she used
metal grey and scarlet again to make a
perfect dancing mistress of the period
of tight bodices and bustles. She un-
doubtedly has talent, though her macabre
dances are not to everyone’s taste.
If Professor Bernard Heinze has his
way children’s concerts will continue,
and the orchestra will play for them both
old and tried and new and strange music.
To go to these concerts is to be curiously
informed as to children’s differing re-
actions to music. At the last one in the
Town Hall several alert small boys beat
perfect time to the orchestra’s playing.
Others put pins in the seats of those un-
fortunate to sit in front of them. A
great majority maintained a polite silence
from Which it was not possible to decide
how far they were there and how much
of them was over the hills and far away.
Still, if only one in three got pleasure the
concerts would be worth while.
Gweneth Alexander and James Hen-
derson Tuck (Leading Writer, R.A.N.)
have announced their engagement, and
are standing up well to the barrage of
congratulations. Miss Alexander passed
her childhood in lovely East Gippsland,
where her home was Rosenook, Gypsy
Point. Later she was at school at Fir-
bank, and then went through a mother-
craft nursing course. Leading Writer
Tuck has served in various ships, and
at one time was a member of the Can-
berra’s personnel. The engagement an-
nouncement was followed by a big
gathering of the pals of both parties.
Previously Miss Alexander had flown to
Launceston, where the Tuck family
home is. There are no immediate plans
for the future, and the bride-to-be will
continue in the city job she has taken
on lately.
Commencing the Victorian drive for
a bob from each for women of the ser-
vices, the vice-regal lady has let it be
widely known that she is not asking for
money for frills which women are pre-
paring to forgo themselves. What is
needed is a big extension of the week-
end leave hostels and huts at battle sta-
tions where girls in the services may put
in their leisure hours without having to
spend too much money or endure noise
and crazy conduct. The office of the
national drive is at 325 Collins-street, and
to that address shillings should be
addressed. At a meeting of representa-
tives of women of the services and the
press last week the need for hostels
where girls, compelled to “live out,” could
stay was emphasised.
When he hunted in the voluminous
sleeves of Katisha’s red robe for her
hand and wrung it at the conclusion ot
the first night of “The Mikado’s” latest
season, Pauli Fiddian, the new Ko-Ko.
was saying thanks a lot to a splendid
pal, for Evelyn Gardiner was a tower
of strength to him, and his duets with
her went better than any other portion
of his long and difficult part. As Mr.
Fiddian is well known to all the Gilsulu-
van society he had an audience which
was to a man with him in stepping into
an Ivan Menzies role. So had Max
Oldaker, who was playing the part John
Fullard used to take. It was hard to
recognise Viola Wilson under the dark
wig of Pitti-Sing; but the men, apart
from the kind of schoolboy cap that
gave them the necessary shaved forehead
look, were just themselves, a little yel-
lowed, and the guise suited them all.


Public Notice.
I, ALEXIOS CHRISTOS KYRIAZACOS, of
Greek nationality, born at Vouna Peloponisos,
Greece, and resident 54 years in Australia,
now residing at 211 Oxford Street, Darling-
hurst, N. S. Wales, intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-36.
Divorce Notice.
IN~ THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD THOMAS ALLEN late of
Tamworth.—TAKE NOTICE that FLORENCE
MAY ALLEN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1735 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance on or before the 30th day
of October 1942 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from J. J. LYONS Solicitor,
Tamworth or his city agents E. A. CLEARY
& COMPANY 56 Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
It is almost unnecessary to write that
at Canterbury on Saturday a large crowd
showed its appreciation of an afternoon’s
racing. As seven of eight favorites were
beaten it is reasonable to suppose most
of the books found it thoroughly enjoy-
able.
Six starters for the Turf Club Handi-
cap was a poor return for a £5OO prize,
and either we are decidedly short of
middle-distance horses or there is not
such crying need for an increase in the
value of stakes as some owners and
trainers contend. It was not an interest-
ing race, as Salivant (Mulley) took up the
running before going three furlongs, and
then, after being eased slightly a couple
of times, led into the straight from Yours
Truly and Abspear, and won comfort-
ably from Two’s Company. He carried
7st., against his Metropolitan weight of
6.8.
Recent form scarcely warranted St.
Constant’s short-priced favoritism for
the first division of the Flying Handicap,
and he was never dangerous. Nor was
the second choice, Air Link, though after
being some distance from the leaders in
the early part he subsequently made up
leeway, finishing fourth. Triad (A.
Thompson) led from barrier-rise, and
was not troubled to win from Duke
Cullen and Magi, the last-named being
second into the straight. Dashing Cava-
lier, who is being given a sprint prepara-
tion for his longer engagements of the
spring, beat three of the other runners.
Goose Boy (F. Shean) as a sprinter
was a surprise in the second division of
the Flying Handicap. Fourth to Diadem,
Chatham’s Choice and Rylstone into the
straight, he went on to win from Gunda-
gai, whose strong finishing run gives him
a winning chance when he starts in a
longer race. Merrimba was never in a
winning position, and anything less than
a mile is probably short for him in a
race, no matter what he may show from
a moving start on the training track.
Yaralla (McMenamin) duly landed the
odds laid on him for the Canterbury
Stakes, but after appearing to be com-
fortably holding Flying Knight halfway
down the straight he had to be ridden
out to defeat the latter a head. Flying
Knight was the early leader, while Winni-
peg, who ran third, was actually a little
closer to the first two at the winning-
post than at the home turn. In finishing
a good fourth after getting away badly,
Gold Salute shaped really well. Mildura
was outpaced from the time the field
settled down, and Kingsdale, who looked
above himself, was a pronounced last.
The favorite, Baroda, made a good bid
for the Canterbury Guineas, but after
being hard ridden to hold fourth posi-
tion at the half-mile he just lacked the
necessary dash to carry him up to San
Sebastian (Hughes), who headed General
Smuts shortly after entering the straight.
Silver Crown showed lots of pace, lead-
ing to the turn, where General Smuts
headed him. Neither Angel nor Babil-
lard ever appeared like justifying the sup-
port accorded them. The winner, who is
trained and raced by J. Booth, is by a
good English stayer, Assignation (Son-
in-Law-Tryst). San Sebastian is one of
the oldest of his progeny. The colt’s
dam. Lady Cormita, is by Corban.
Good-looking Brueghelier (Knox) won
the first division ©f the Three-year-old
Handicap almost from start to finish, and
as he went away from his followers in
the straight he may be a staying possi-
bility. He is by Brueghel from Intuition
(Valais or Moabite-Egalite). The minor-
place getters, Modulation and Peter’s
Pence, ran fairly, though unable to
trouble the winner, and Deneith and
Karaset, who followed them, were a long
way, ahead of the remainder.
Queenslander Grand Prodige led from
the half-mile to the turn in the second
division of the Three-year-old Handicap,
but War Effort (A. Thompson), who was
his nearest attendant most of the way,
had his measure halfway down the
straight, and won easily. Glenfort’s third
was a good effort, and nearest him were
Chatamore and Afloat. Well backed on
the strength of their good track form,
Camacho and Orderly were never sighted,
and Mon Fere, favorite at 9 to 4, was
never closer than seventh.
Kimbell (A. Gollogly), an early leader,
won the Campsie Handicap, but was
probably lucky to beat Tel Asur, who
struck a full share of trouble. Beau
Frere and Take Care did best of the
remainder? Haripur, after being in a for-
ward position up to the six furlongs, was
then squeezed back, and another squeeze
at the half-mile sent him to a hopeless
position. Broadcaster, though backed,
did not improve upon his recent efforts,
and Gallop never had his backers on
good terms with themselves.
* * * *
David Innis, who would have been put
to hurdling last winter had his flat form
deteriorated —he has schooled over jumps
and was entered for the Grand National
Hurdle —staggered most backers by de-
feating several of Australia’s best horses
at w.f.a. in the Memsie Stakes at Flem-
ington on Saturday. He had never previ-
ously started in w.f.a. company, and his
failure in the Ascot Thousand two weeks
earlier said little for his chance against
High Road, Skipton and co. On Satur-
day, however, he led throughout the nine
furlongs to win from two other handi-
cappers in Velocity and Tuhitarata, with
the recognised w.f.a. horses beaten out
of a place.
A section of the crowd voiced its dis-
approval of David Innis’s improved form,
but owner-trainer W. Burke said after
the race that the win did not surprise
him. He argued that his gelding was
more seasoned than most of the other
runners, and that it would hardly be
worth while persevering with him for the
Caulfield Cup if he could not hold his
own with them. As a Caulfield Cup
trial, nothing better could have been de-
sired. David Innis drops from the 9.1
he carried on Saturday to 7.11 in the
Caulfield Cup, in which he will meet
Velocity 111 b., Tuhitarata and Burrabil
131 b., Skipton and Tranquil Star 141 b.
and High Road 181 b. better. He cannot
be rehandicapped for his Memsie Stakes
win, and, although tiring rapidly at the
finish of that race, has won over lj mile
at Flemington.
High Road, favorite at 9 to 4, per-
formed ingloriously for a Melbourne Cup
favorite. He showed no real dash at
any stage, and finished last. High Road
has a doubtful leg, but he appeared to
pull up soundly enough. Burrabil, second
favorite at 7 to 2, did very little better
than High Road, but Tranquil Star, who
weakened into fourth position, will be all
the better for the race. Great Britain, a
Derby candidate, shaped like a potential
stayer, and Skipton, looking well but
above himself, ran on strongly enough to
justify the confidence of his trainer that
he will reach top form again this spring.
Lugano recorded his first win since the
Memsie Stakes last year, when he de-
feated Rex Buzz and Heart’s Desire in
the first Heatherlie Handicap. He won
decisively, but carried 41b. less than his
Caulfield Cup weight, and his perform-
ance was no more impressive than that
of El Golea. Latter came from last to
finish fourth, and had to make his run
round the outside of the field. He met
Lugano 191 b. worse than Caulfield Cup
terms, but Lugano, being four years
younger, probably will improve more.
Sun Valley enhanced his Caulfield Cup
chance by easily defeating Saint Warden
and Wilson in the second Heatherlie
Handicap, lOf. He had never previously
won beyond a mile, but had been placed
up to a mile and a half, and, judged by
Saturday’s performance, is more solid
now. Sun Valley carried 41b. less than
his Cup weight, and neither he nor
Lugano can be rehandicapped for their
Heatherlie Handicap wins. Intentions are
that Sun Valley shall contest the Toorak
Handicap a week before the Caulfield
Cup. ......
Derby candidates in Lone Wind (Wind-
bag-Lonicera) and Leahero (Hellespont-
Mirambeek) won the divisions of the
Warriston Handicap, 1 mile. Lone Wind
was backed from 50 to 1 down to tens,
but he carried only 6.12, and his per-
formance was not as impressive as Lea-
hero’s with 8.12. Leahero, who gave first-
class promise last season, was not fancied
greatly, but battled on gamely to with-
stand strong challenges from Register and
Mating Call. He survived a protest for
interference nearing the finish.
• . . • • *
Phoines, back to the form that enabled
him to run second in an Oakleigh Plate
and Newmarket, easily defeated Millais
and Tea Cake in the Whittier Handicap,
He is engaged in the Caulfield Cup, but
shorter races such as the Toorak Handi-
cap and Cantala Stakes probably would
be more in his line. Millais shaped well
in his first race for' almost a year, and
may be about to live right up to the good
promise he gave before going amiss early
last spring. If so, he may have to be
considered in the Caulfield Cup with 7.1.
On Monday Yaralla held his place as
Epsom favorite, the order of the most
fancied candidates for that race and the
Metropolitan being as under:
Yaralla.
Rimveil.
Evergreen, Grand Fils.
Freckles.
Prince, Kingsdale.
METROPOLITAN.
Veiled Threat, Grand Fils.
Moondarewa.
Katanga, Shining Night, Pantier.
* * * *
It cannot be claimed that Yaralla’s
Canterbury Stakes win emphasised his
chance of success in the Epsom. With
61b. less than his weight in the latter it
was only in the last two or three strides
he beat Flying Knight, and he did not
look as if there was any room for im-
provement in his condition. It was the
reverse with Kingsdale, who is now a
very stylish horse. The distance was
short for Mildura, but Gold Salute im-
pressed, and is now worth following. He
should shortly pick up a race, even
though it may not be the Epsom.
* * * *
Though beaten, Baroda impressed
most of the Derby candidates that ran
in the Guineas at Canterbury Park. He
was a shade burly, and the race should
do a lot for him. Excuse was made for
General Smuts on the score that he was
not ridden to most advantage. Still,
though he came from a long way back,
it seemingly did not cost him much effort
to get to the front at the turn. Then
he was outstayed by San Sebastian and
Baroda, and he does not look a colt that
would be benefited by another 51b. at an
additional three furlongs.
Of the Derby colts that did not run at
Canterbury, the Chelmsford Stakes next
Saturday will give a better idea as to
Riverton’s chance. It is probable he will
do better than in the Hobartville Stakes,
but at present it appears as if his stable-
companion Baroda may prove the better
stayer. Hall Stand has had an easy time
on the training-track since the Hobart-
ville Stakes. Many keen judges of racing
hold that he is too brilliant to stay, but
to my way of thinking his easy action
will carry him a long way.
* * * *
Last week’s announcement that the
Federal Government proposed to restrict
racing in Sydney and Melbourne to once
a fortnight on alternate Saturdays was
an unpleasant surprise to everyone con-
nected with the business. The idea is that
Sydney would be able to listen in to
Melbourne one Saturday, and vice versa
the next. Thereby racing needs would be
satisfied. An even greater shock was
that dog-racing should be regarded as of
equal importance as horse-racing, and
should also be granted a meeting every
second Saturday. It is remarkable that
the Prime Minister and his advisers
should have shown so little knowledge
of the relative values of the two.
Without stressing the extent to which
horse-racing has benefited State revenues,
patriotic funds and charities, it is a busi-
ness in which a tremendous amount of
money is involved in breeding, and
which, directly and indirectly, has given
employment to thousands.
Dog-racing is a minor affair in every
way. Even as a spectacle it has not a
great deal to recommend it, and little
more can be said for it than that it mainly
gives “something to bet on.” Opponents
of horse-racing contend there is little
difference between the two sports in that
respect. However, dog-racing is of no
practical value. When a galloper or trot-
ter has finished its racing career it can
still be turned to some use. Not so a
greyhound. As bearing on the alternate
racing days of racing—Melbourne and
Sydney not to clash on Saturdays—Pre-
mier McKell was correct in saying that
the proposed new order would tend to
a great increase in illegal betting. Where
there is demand there is generally supply.
Nearly everyone recognises that an all-
out war effort is necessary, but it is diffi-
cult to visualise anything being gained
by administering a knockout blow to
such a big business as racing.
’* * * *
The repeated failures of Epsom favor-
ites of recent years will, on the average
basis, be regarded as improving the pros-
pects of this year’s favorite. At present
probabilities favor Yaralla or Rimveil be-
ing backers’ elect. In the last six years
favorites have not even gained a place,
those heading the quotations being as
under: —
1936 The Marne .. .. 4to 1 Unplaced
1937 — Talking .. ~ 7to 2 Unplaced
1938 Nightguard .. .. 7to 4 Unplaced
1939 — Adios .. .. 3to 1 Unplaced
1940 — Beaulivre .. .. Evens Unplaced
1941 — Freckles .. .. 9to 4 Unplaced
* * * #
Eleven hurdle races were run at Rand-
wick last season for a total of £3llO
prize-money. Starters totalled 97, double
figures for a race being reached only
once, that being when Royal Sceptre won
in a field of 14 last October. Difference
in prize-money between Melbourne and
Sydney in hurdle races is frequently
stressed, but it is questionable whether it
can be claimed that Sydney owners
have gone out of their way in the sup-
port of jumping races.
Miscellaneous
Dogged defence by both sides kept the
scores low and even in the first half of
the semi-final between Richmond and
Essendon. The Tigers had the wind again
in the third quarter, and finished nearly
four goals ahead after a wild and woolly
last quarter marked by speeches from
the umpire and the dying groans of the
’Dons. Richmond, 11.12; Essendon, 8.8.
Richmond will play the winner of Essen-
don v. South Melbourne for the premier-
ship.
* * * *
In the Sydney Rugby Union competi-
tion University will play off for the
premiership with the winner of Manly v.
East. Parramatta is out. Uni. v. Manly at
North Sydney was fast and exciting. The
Students began the second half with a
good lead, 14 to nil, but Manly made a
great effort, only to be beaten by a
penalty goal (17-14); the Villagers scored
four tries to three. Parramatta paced it
with East during the first half, 6-all;
but went to pieces afterwards, East
making it 20-6. An Army team of Union
and League players was beaten 20-9 by a
strong side from Duntroon, coached by
the veteran Bosward. The Duntrooners
played excellent football.
* # * *
Said to be from the same stable.
Tommy Colteaux (11.54) and Ron Mc-
Laughlin (10.8|) didn’t suggest it by their
manner of fighting at Leichhardt. “Fight-
ing” is the word; not for months had
such a crowd-pleasing contest been wit-
nessed in Sydney. The pugs hit each
other with every punch they could call
into play. A left to the body made
McLaughlin’s knees sag in the sixth, and
he lost the next four rounds, but, re-
covering, he was the better man in the
last two rounds and was declared winner
on points. Old hands disagreed with the
decision, but it was a McLaughlin
“house.”
FOR TATTERSALL’S MEETING.
(At Randwick.)
(Before acceptances .)
By "PILOT. "
Hurdle Race: Kinmar, 1 ; King's
Cross, 2 ; Anpapejo, 3.
Tramway Handicap: Prince, 1 ;
Grand Fils, 2; Soho or Romero, 3.
Novice Handicap: Tidemark, 1 ;
Louano, 2 ; Royal Lancer, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Streamford, 1 ; Pall Mall, 2;
Kimbell, 3.
Chelmsford Stakes; (In the
absence of Yaralla) Rim veil, 1 ;
Riverton, 2; Main Topic, 3.
Spring Handicap: Shining Night,
1 ; Moondarewa, 2 ; Salivant, 3.
Welter Handicap: Glendower, 1 ;
Pinero, 2 ; Bona Fide or Duke Cul-
len, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Boomerang Hurdle: Bluebeard,
I; Harley, 2 ; Sligo, 3.
Corroboree Trial: Anthony, 1 ;
Quixotic, 2 ; Isambard, 3.
Mount Cottrell Steeple: Dorset,
1 ; Warwickshire, 2; Spirak, 3.
Moonee Valley Stakes: Leahero,
1 ; Home James, 2; Great Britain,
3.
Budgeree Handicap: True Flight,
1; Rex Buzz, 2; Art Union, 3.
Daffodil Handicap: Phoines, 1 ;
Industry, 2 ; Reception, 3.
Nulla Nulla Welter: Sir Locket,
1 ; Director, 2; Aurania, 3.


HII -C - V.
iwiiliiiii I I
m
m
mm®
ml
a
&
i
vm
■■■■>■?
M
*
iii
ii \
mmm
*
r-,
, -
-*& i
SiS
S
u
THE WORLD'S QUALITY OIL
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
FULL OF LIFE
YOUR children, too, will be full of life
if you keep them free from constipation.
When they are constipated, give them
NYAL FIGSEN, the gentle, natural
laxative. Children love to chew Figsen.
It’s kind to sensitive tummies. It’s
so dependable and thorough. Its action
is so easy and comfortable—no nausea,
no pain. NYAL FIGSEN _ tablets are
good for grown-ups too. Figsen is one
of the 168 dependable NYAL FAMILY
MEDICINES. Sold by Chemists every-
where. 1/3 a tin.
The next best thing to Nature . r .
MyaiFigsen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
SMOKE-OH!
Milestones of History.
“At a Hobart City Council meeting Aider-
man McCann suggested that a bottle of whisky
could .be preserved with the record of a speech
by the Mayor intended to be played to the
aldermen of Hobart 100 years hence. The sug-
gestion was not adopted.”
Flippant the alderman’s suggestion
That Hobart should preserve a sample
Of wit and whisky, portions ample.
Both for posterity’s ingestion.
The project, though, was deemed too
risky ;
Our great-grandchildren might agree
To rate the Mayor’s soliloquy
At lesser value than the whisky.
Some stalwart son of Prohibition,
Besides, might stumble on the cache
And zealously proceed to smash
Both demijohn and disquisition ;
And yet a sympathetic tear
Would have bedewed the finder’s eye
If with the bottle there should lie
The legend drear: “No bottled beer.”
P. M. L.
“Two escape in shirt-tails.”
— “Argus” heading.
They probably pulled up in short pants.
dr dr dr dr
“The boy of today grows two inches taller
than he would if he lived in 1883.”
— “World’s News.”
He needs to, in order to see over the
pile of forms he has to fill in when he
becomes adult,
dr dr dr dr
“Female Spotters (3), urgently required.”
— Advt. in “S.M.H.”
They must, of course, be over 21.
“Rupture. A Free Trial.”— Advt. heading.
Well, there’s no excuse now for anyone
being without this delightful complaint.
“B. S. B. Stevens Not Retiring.”
—News heading.
He never was, very.
•J*
“The director added that the question whether
women were better or worse off under the new
scheme could be answered with a definite
‘yes.’ ” — “Truth.”
Diplomacy for ever!
* *F *i* *i*
“These middle-aged men doing heavy out-
door work for the Allied Works Council are
drawn from all walks of life. This particular
camp contains several former stage hands.”
— “D.T.”
Still doing scene-shifting.
dr + -I*
“A terrific hotel brawl between two men, both
weighing around 15 stone, took place on Satur-
day afternoon.” — Newspaper item.
Another of those giant tank battles?
dr dr dr dr
“The shortage, has forced me to smoke any
brand of tobacco available, but one I struck
recently was the foulest imaginable. It was
simply cruel.” — Correspondent in daily.
This was the most unkindest cut of all.
►Jc
“Womack was then starched personally, and
among the articles found on him was a bunch
of keys. But Womack was still obstinate.”
—Weekly paper.
Well, wouldn't he be stiff-necked?
dr dr dr dr
“Army now growing own vegetables.”
—“D.T.”
Sergeants are now roaring up the cab-
bages for not holding their heads at the
correct angle, and spuds for ignoring the
“eyes-right” order.
Current and Chronic.
“Ills That Bloom in the Spring.”
—“ Sunday'* Sun.
Poets.
Victory suits.
Calf lovers.
Blancmange.
Picnics,
Relations,
Bookmakers.
P. O. M. C.
4* *I 4
“Specialty of U.S. Marine Corps. ‘Trained
for Landing for 167 Years.’ ”
—Adelaide ‘‘Advertiser.
Now who says that only young men
are any use in modem war?
•F 4* dr dr
“Public Notice.—V.D.C. Belts Only to Be
Worn on Sunday.”
—Barrier (Broken Hill ) “Daily Truth.
Civvies ought to complain about clothes
rationing!
To a “Strategist.”
When I hear you prate of military mailers
In your armchair sitting blissfully at
ease ,
I consider it unseemly, for you re igno-
rant extremely
And incompetent to speak on such as
these.
1 suggest that you reserve your wild
opinions
For a subject in your own restricted
line.
For your views on war are merely utter
nonsense, being clearly
Diametrically opposite to mine !
T. W. NATHAN.
The Wetness of Water.
“By means of a synthetic chemical known
as Aerosol OT-100 per cent., water can now
be made .so much wetter that its commercial
value is greatly increased.” — “Daily Mirror.’'’
Professor Boris Abittnutz turned off
the Bunsen burner over which he had
been trying to break up the molecules in
T.N.T., and looked across at his assis-
tant, Gilbert Globule. “And how was
that water this morning, Gilbert?” he
asked.
Ever since the announcement that
Aerosol had been instrumental in ren-
dering H2O wetter, the professor’s pride
had been stung, and he was determined
that from his own laboratory would
come the great secret of making water
wetter still.
Gilbert brought over a bucket filled
with a colorless liquid. “I soaked a
blotting-paper in it,” he announced, “and
when it had absorbed this water to its
fullest capacity it only sank to the
bottom. Proof enough that it was wet,
but no criterion that the H2O was wet
enough, for if it had been the extra
weight carried by the paper must have
made a dent in the bucket. Will I add
a few grains of Hl2 C 22 Oil?”
Professor Abittnutz shut the door,
closed the blinds and held the bucket
up against where the light used to be.
“H’m! ” he commented critically. “It
still needs to be a fraction more color-
less. Try a dram of sodium chloride.
I once fell into the sea and it struck me
then that the water was rather wetter
than that in which I washed at home. An
even greater proportion of salt may yield
the desired result.”
After thoroughly stirring the newly-
-treated water the professor said “Bring
Horace.”
Gilbert went to a cage and came back
with a mouse, which he dropped into the
bucket. Soon the prof, and his assistant
were as absorbed in the natatory activi-
ties of the rodent as the mouse was with
water. After half an hour the professor
said “That should be enough. If he takes
longer than the usual 13+ minutes to
dry it is irrefutable proof that the water
is getting wetter.”
Gilbert took out his watch and as
best he could without going cockeyed
kept one eye on the mouse and the other
on his timepiece. At last he looked up.
“Dry in 12+ minutes,” he announced.
The prof, sighed disappointedly. “We
must be attacking the problem from
faulty premises,” he said gloomily. “I
have suspected it all along. lam
now convinced that it is a question
of aqueous time-curves in correlation to
atmospheric pressure. Keep it in a
strong draught at a temperature of 28
degrees centigrade and note any changes
of viscosity, malleability and texture.
Meanwhile I shall experiment with its
reaction on whisky.” '
But the results still proved that it still
hadn’t attained the correct degree of wet-
ness. Angrily the professor pulled on
his overcoat, then his cardigan and lastly
his vest, and grabbed his assistant’s hat.
“I’m going home to breakfast,” he an-
nounced. “It’s getting dark and I’m late
already.”
Next morning, as Professor Abittnutz
entered the lab., his assistant rushed up
to him. “We’ve got it, Professor,” he
shouted exultantly. “It’s the water. Look
at it!”
The man of science tested it, tasted it
and was partly satisfied. But the big
test was to come. Stripping off to his
singlet, he got his assistant to pour the
fluid over him. As it cascaded down his
spinal column he gave a shriek of pure
joy. “It’s it!” he cried excitedly. “As
wet a sample of water as I have ever en-
countered. How did you light upon this
great discovery, Gilbert?”
Gilbert Globule blushed modestly.
“Well,” he said, “I just got the idea of
leaving it out in the rain all night!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Aid to the United Nations
Those who have been clamoring for
aid to Russia ever since Germany
attacked in June, 1941, seem to have
missed advocating the most material and
essential way that Russia could be aided.
Introduce Stakhanovism, or some
degree of it. It is in the trade-unions’
hands ; they have the power to initiate it.
It would be an effective “Second Front”
right here in Australia.
Stakhanovism has the approval of
Stalin, who says:
The basis of the Stakhanov movement
was first and foremost a radical improve-
ment in the material welfare of the workers.
Life has improved, comrades; life has be-
come more joyous. And when life is
joyous work goes well. Hence the higher
rate of output If people in our country
lived badly, drably, joylessly, we would
have no Stakhanov movement. What is
to be done if the standards of output no
longer correspond to reality and our work-
ing men and women have managed to ex-
ceed them five or ten times?....ls it that
we have not the courage to smash old tra-
ditions and allow free scope to the new
forces of the working class?
Something over a million of the dlite
industrial workers of Russia are Stak-
hanovists. There were at the last Congress
of the Soviets (December, 1936), 430 stak-
hanovist delegates. From the Russian
standpoint there is no lack of authority
for Stakhanovism.
• As an aid to Russia, and an assistance
to our own war effort, any increase in
our industrial output would be of the
greatest benefit. It is not suggested
that our workers are so slack that their
output could be increased five- or tenfold ;
but in a multitude of cases it could be
increased. This is no mystery ; everyone
knows it.
In Russia a Stakhanovist is a worker
who is able to increase his output beyond
the general average, is honored by the
State and held in high estimation, and
is, of course, paid for his output beyond
that of his fellow-workers.
Can one imagine a N.S.W. coalminei
being carried shoulder-high and cheered
by his comrades for doubling his daily
output?—A. C. (N.S.W.).
Recognition
Let me thank The Bulletin for recog-
nising the existence of the ordinary, decent
man and woman (B. 26/8/’42). With
all respect to Mr. Menzies, it is not the
middle-class or any other class but the
ordinary, decent people who are the for-
gotten people, not only of this war, but
of this generation. But the time when
we are just “lightly amused” is growing
short.
When the decent bloke heard his Prime
Minister announcing clothes rationing,
he got that funny goosy feeling he gets
when he thinks that a chap he rather
likes is making a fool of himself, but
decided to follow Mr. Curtin’s advice.
When he realised how many of his
fellows weren’t decent blokes, he shrugged
his shoulders and avoided going near a
clothing shop even to get something he
needed and would have been buying
about that time in the ordinary course.
He didn’t know then that he was to be
the mug, as usual.
It is the ordinary, decent bloke and
his missus who join the local A.R.P. In
the city on the eastern coast in which I
live the warden, notwithstanding the pos-
sibility of an air raid at any time, had,
until a couple of months ago, a warrant
card and a whistle for protection against
bomb splinters and blast. Even now
he probably hasn’t got a gas mask and
is reckoned lucky to have a tin helmet
several sizes too big.
The ordinary bloke is easy to bamboozle
because, on the whole, he thinks other
people, even political parties, are decent
like himself. His views don’t get into
the papers, because he isn’t a vocal sort
of chap like the highly-organised minori-
ties, at least one of which is highly
unpleasant. Because he is a good-
humored sort of cuss, nobody has
ever bothered about him much. To any-
body with an axe to grind he really
hasn’t mattered. He is still “lightly
amused,” but his grin is becoming cyni-
cal ; and when the day of reckoning
comes his grin may have changed to such
a snarl of anger as this country has never
yet seen,—A. B. (Q,).
Tailoring Economies
The statement that a pair of knickers
can be made out of the saving in a suit
length cut according to the Dedman “Vic-
tory” formula is utterly ridiculous.
There are occasions, such as when a
cutter is dealing with a small man, on
which the knicker saving might be pos-
sible, but here other economic factors
enter, such as waste of time in departing
from the usual layout of the patterns on
the cloth. And if the material has been
saved, who benefits? The tailor is now
not permitted to make the knickers to
order, and order tailors do not make
them up for stock.
Probably the most serious oversight in
the new clothing regulations is failure to
recognise that the linings, trimmings, etc.,
used in the low-grade suitings are the
same as those used in the medium-class
suit. The most serious shortage that
exists in Australia at the moment (and
is likely to continue so) is in trimmings.
In this regard we are almost entirely de-
pendent on overseas supplies.
Further,- one pre-standard medium-
quality Australian worsted will give at
least double, and probably treble, the
length of wear that the standard cloth
will. — Tailor (S.A.),
Firewood Shortage
Here in Queenstown (Tas.) there is an
extreme shortage of firewood, so much
so that the authorities have thrown open
“There’ll be a compulsory parade next Sunday. Hands up all those
who can attend!"
a considerable number of firewood blocks
to enable the residents to get their own
fuel.
In this part of the globe warmth by
the way of fires is most essential for at
least six months of the year, and apart
from that outdoor workers have to dry
their working clothes. There must be
considerable inefficiency somewhere
when men at work in the metal indus-
tries on their off days, including Sundays,
have to go out in the bush and cut and
carry to the road firewood for their own
requirements. Their homes are neglected
in the way of renovations and home
gardening.
Here is an opportunity to make use
of internees and war prisoners.—Water-
logged (Tas.),
Ignorant Criticism
Ignorant criticism has become so pre-
valent in Australia that it is an actual
habit with some people, and in all of
us it needs to be checked by conscious
effort.
The motive is not vicious. It is usually
an attempt to appear superior, which ui
its worst form is the refuge of the victim
of an inferiority complex. Again, the
motive may be only the entertainment
value of the story —a mere subject for
conversation or for leading articles.
Recurring examples of ignorant criti-
cism arc the stories of misfits, industrial
or military—of the trained electrician
working at camouflage or the regular-
army sergeant-major who can’t get a job
as drill instructor. How many people
pause to consider whether the stories
are true at all, or whether the electrician
has concealed his skill, or whether the
S.M. is a chronic alcoholic or in gaol?
Such yarns are mostly accepted at face
value. Passed on with glee, they add
slowly to the impression that we are led
by a lot of nincompoops.
My own job is essential and exacting—
neither Army nor Government—and the
best I can do is to concentrate on it,
ignoring matters of which I am, and
must remain, ignorant.—G. D. (N.S.W.).
Credit Where It’s Due
Supporters of the present Government
stress the great progress made in arma-
ments since the Curtin Administration
took over, and they point with righteous
horror to the state of affairs before this.
It is overlooked that there must have
been a fairly long “tooling up” process,
without which the present progress could
not have been made. It is easy enough
to turn out armaments if the necessary
machinery has first been installed. In
any case, the real credit belongs to the
professional men in industry and to those
workers who have carried on and done
the actual toil, and not to the political
heads, whose technical knowledge of de-
partments under their “control” is often
pretty scanty. The time they spend in
calling attention to one another’s short-
comings must carve sizable chunks out
of their useful working hours-. —R. H. G.
(W.A.).
Medical Treatment
Is not “M.” (B. 26/8/’42) inclined to
contradict himself? He says “Of course
she [a patient of small means] will receive
excellent professional treatment.” Further
on he says, “Many a lodge patient can
give instances of having been treated by
his doctor with less interest than was a
here’s-a-guinea bloke.” There’s a con-
tradiction here unless by “interest” “M.”
means social chatter and handshaking,
which do nothing to cure a patient,
I have been to one doctor both as a
lodge patient and as a paying patient, and
there was not the slightest difference in
the treatment I received. Everyone whom
I have spoken to about experiences as
outpatients has praised the doctors at
general hospitals in glowing terms.
Good workmen in any walk of life are
more concerned about turning out a
good job than they are about payment. ’
Doctors are much the same as everyone
else —smiling when they have fixed up a
difficult case and glum as owls when
things are not going as they would like
them.
Sick folk resemble people who have
been in the Blitz, in that their statements
are not always reliable. —M. C. D. (Q).
“Class Distinction”
The facts as stated by “C.S.” (B.
26/8/’42) in regard to the burial of a
soldier are not in harmony with Army
Headquarter instructions.
Permission for next of kin, relative or
other person to arrange for the disposi-
tion of the remains of any deceased
soldier is granted, on approval of the
Director of Graves Registration (L.H.Q.).
When permission is sought the person
who wishes to arrange for the disposition
of the remains must give assurance that
he or she will defray all costs (including
rail) in connection with such burial. The
applicant must also be aware that
economy is necessary, both in the use
of transport facilities and of metals re-
quired (for coffin embellishment), even
if he or she proposes to defray all costs.
There is no army regulation which
says that a soldier must be buried where
he dies.
It should be realised also that burial
of a deceased soldier, when effected by
the Army, includes the erection of a suit-
able memorial over the grave. Further,
the grave is cared for and maintained in
perpetuity at public expense.
I do not see bow “these tragic matters”
could be arranged any more satisfactorily
to the wishes of the bereaved.—-Fair
Play (Home Forces).
The New Order
Members of trade-unions prate glibly
about a New Order. By the living jingo,
it’s overdue. A check chemist at a sugar-
mill is a seasonal worker. He isn’t skilled.
But, as a seasonal worker, the Court sees
that he gets enough in six months to keep
him for the whole year, though other
jobs are offering and other money may
be earned.
But his employer, the canegrower, the
man who finds him the money and the
job, has to work like blazes all the yeas
so he can get enough credit at the store
to keep him going for six months.
Here’s another new order. Blank was
a pig-farmer, and a pretty good rearer
of hogs, too. What with a bit of a dry
time, the vagaries of the market and one
thing and another, in addition to unfore-
seen expenses, he took a job in a bacon
factory. He’s still there. He intends to
stay there. In his own words: “While
the award’s what it is, a man’s a mug
to get back to producing. The pig-man
supplies the wealth ; but we fellows in a
protected industry get all the cream
while the producer gets the muck.”
That New Order, whatever it is, must
be about overdue. —J. (Q.).
Farm Housing
“K.L.M.’s” remarks (B. 26/8/’42) con-
cerning accommodation provided by em
ployers of farm labor are doubtless true
enough, but if the provisions of the
Rural Workers’ Accommodation Act
(N.S.W.) were properly enforced there
would be a great improvement in the
conditions of rural workers.
Under the Act, inspectors (usually
police officers) are appointed for speci-
fied districts. They have the right at
any reasonable time to inspect the ac-
commodation provided for rural workers,
and if necessary they may be accom-
panied by a health inspector. After an
inspection an employer can demand a
certificate that the requirements of the
Act have been complied with. If there
are any shortcomings the inspector can
by notice call on the employer to remedy
them.
Irrespective of the number of persons
employed there must be not less than 480
cubic feet of air space for each person
in sleeping compartments and not more
than two persons in a compartment,
upper bunks being prohibited. Where
' more than five persons are employed the
, Act requires the provision of certain
’ sanitary accommodation, baths, etc., and
prohibits cooking in sleeping premises.
; It also stipulates the distance of sleeping
’ premises from stables, etc.
The workers are required to keep clean
buildings occupied by them. If 20 or
more are employed a hutkeeper to clean
the buildings must be provided by the
employer. —Gyx (N.S.W.).
The Money Problem
In the Great Depression we were told
“There is plenty of goods but no money.
The people have not power to consume
without money.”
Your contributor “Solong” (B. 8/7/’42)
and many other reformers make the same
mistake in blaming the monetary system
when the economic system" is at fault.
Money is simply the yardstick of value.
We have made money a commodity when
it is simply an abstraction. We have
grasped the shadow instead of the sub-
stance. Money follows the production
of wealth; it doesn’t precede it. Let us
take a “no-man’s-land” like Stewart
Island. There are no banks. Let a gold
reef be discovered in that locality. Im-
mediately population would follow, and
then the banks would start to operate.
Our economic system permits money
to be used as a brake on consumption
and at times on production. In a logical
economic system the shadow would be
relegated to its proper place, and simply
used as a barometer. '
We do not consume money, which is
never destroyed. I have in my hand an
English shilling 70 years old. It is
still good legal tender in M.L. I wonder
what it has earned during that period.—
Herbert Mulvihill (M.L.).
Growth of Country Towns
If “Nark,” who is so sarcastic about
the bloat of Sydney (B. 12/8/’42), had
made the trip which official duty threw in
my way recently he would have been as
astonished at the growth of N. S. Wales
country towns as I was. The Govern-
ment’s declaration that the munition
works after the war are to be turned to
ordinary manufactures and stay where
they have grown may be taken as an
honest intention. The war and an un-
usual Governmental vigor have worked a
miracle. A year ago successful coastal
raiding by an enemy might have robbed
us of the means of fighting on. Today
conditions are different. — Ike Holler
(N.S.W.).


~y
j
.if?*!
m%
f£A
mm
‘tia
w‘i
Kfii
r
L •
SIN'
: V?a
sw«
8*
r.o
hit WITH 6
'
f >'it. l '* , .<
j
WSsB
<V,
fS3<
TTihj7% -J
ok r
ript
A
AND
.RE
sax
HA
2s»
k Y B
M
ou
F 1
IS
r A<
flue "> Vt* .'■<■:
■MS
m
■ ~. •
„ ygf
A«*4
1
r .oft* °*
BtJW-
-8
not
ffssssi
9 i>^ t -* lv ‘ Bap
Asland^
■>-X
*
xiS
BlißiWn 0 t hi®- sanK. »“ was wo rse ohlca
I S»h W has £** ® .When ««* d over the sea
the
Whr
■" Isanh
(fell ot hii
ffl
mu ■
mmm i
il
P '
Tl
viftt 6th \
Tsniaiohi&ulsht
wvmbsW xa\
over
: 5W
A-
*£Ms
<*£ti'
mt*>.
‘Sat the
t Vi-r
R» get so
D 1
v-a
-,v;v
lag »
tthe ptahe
:/■>
m
■f&i
&
m
f<*&
W
: i
<tM
m
mm
■■p
im : :
m
mr
*.
hki
.
Ill*
fell!
i
'■■' ■ r
••'.I; ■• • :
,
ffl
£-•1
■■
T v -
Wi
3. ■-V
V':/ -
'• .•■•
BppSii
WM-
SllJili
ill*
§33M
*
. .
WiPM
m
Worn
mm
ft?
wm
' ... :.'
I-W
1m
h>A
mmym
mm
mm
i
ii
transit- bases and
CREDIT for the gratifying successes reported above
belongs to our air force, whose keen vigilance and
skilled attack resulted in seven submarines being spotted
and promptly destroyed with Australian-made bombs.
The airmen’s triumph is shared by the industries which
provide the weapons for victory.
Many months ago, the deadly bombs which proved so
effective began to take shape in Australia’s munition plants,
for their manufacture (illustrated at right) steel was the
first and major material.
Bombs were only one of the many armaments, such as tanks,
guns, shells, ships and aircraft, whose urgent production
required steel in augmented volume and variety.
Due to the far-sighted efforts planned to give increased steel
productivity, for which The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.,
Ltd., was primarily responsible, the Australian steel industry
has been able to successfully meet war-time’s swollen
demands, prices at the same time being kept at levels sub-
stantially lower than those prevailing overseas.
Such is the sound basis made possible by B.H.P. service and
efficiency which give Australia an assured supply of quality
steel for the development of our munition effort and the
maintenance of essential civil undertakings.
At Right ; Calibrating the wall
thickness of a 2501 b. bomb.
Below : Internal inspection of
partly-completed bomb.
mm
■MNn
m
■ :if-
y y
\
■
1*4. ■:•:■
1
i &
£ £
i
A.
& W W
...
B
fif :
•
>«41
I 1 ' w
yrW
2£
'
At Left: Giving
a B.H.P. open-
hearth furnace a
“drink” of
molten iron.
®.p;
,U-i
% * &
•r- <* se R-
i
u.
u.
1
12
V
The Broken Hill
rii
MM
m
t saS*
m
*
gitf:
ms
mr.
B&is|
Ml
Iron and Steel Masters . Mine and
M
tery?.
m
V
VTel
Head Office: 422 C
Vorks, Newcastle.
/roh awe/ S/ed
