

GRAPE VINEGAR
No Finer Vinegar For All Usage
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3246.
Wednesday, April 29, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
DURHAM CATHEDRAL.
t T is not disputed that Durham Cathedral, “superbly
1 set upon a rock,” is perhaps the most admirably
proportioned of all the English cathedrals. The
contention that it exceeds all “cathedral structures”
in legend, romance, historic and literary fame is not
likely to produce equal unanimity of opinion. It may
not, nevertheless, be disputed that it is exceeding rich
in all three attributes. Before coming to the “most
noble building” let a glance be made into the past
as revealed by tradition, “part legend, part fact.” To
begin with, as the late John Peddie wrote more than
half a century ago, to visit Durham,-or even to sec
the three great square towers rising in stern and severe
majesty over the weir, and the masses of houses and
foliage clustered beneath, is to feel that the age ol
miracles is not yet past, or, if the ancient phases
of faith and life be indeed dead or dying, there has
nowhere in England been left a more solid and im-
pressive memorial of their former strength than the
Cathedral of Durham. “The Apostle among the
Angels,” dead these twelve centuries, seems to haunt
his ancient face and to cast the influence of his
austere spirit over the narrow streets and lanes of the
venerable town. The spell by which these stately
arches and massive towers rose and which, in other
centuries, drew towards Durham great crowds of
pilgrims, and wealth and secular and ecclesiastical
power unequalled in the North, is not yet wholly
broken. To this day the town stands somewhat aside,
with an air of proud seclusion, from the rush and
din of the great highways of commerce so near. It
is a centre of academic culture and learning and has
its thoughts not infrequently cast back into a darker
but splendid past. St. Cuthbert’s body may follow
the way of all flesh, but his will and his character
are still living and acting powers in Durham. Readers
of Scott’s “Marmion” are familiar with the references
to St. Cuthbert and the legends concerning his final
place of sepulture and the sayings of the monks;
“His body’s resting-place, of old,
How oft their Patron changed, they told.”
The resting-place of the remains of the Saint was
discovered so recently as May, 1827, 1139 years after
his death. Under a blue stone in the middle of the
shrine of St. Cuthbert, at the eastern extremity of the
choir of the cathedral, there was found a walled
grave and in it the coffin of the Saint. The first (or
outer) coffin was that of 1541, the second of 1041
and the third (or inner) one, answering in every par-
ticular to the description of that of 698, was found
not to contain, as had been averred, the incorruptible
body, but the entire skeleton of St. Cuthbert. The
bottom of the grave was perfectly dry, free from
offensive smell, and without the slightest symptom
that a human body had ever undergone decomposi-
tion within its walls. The skeleton was swathed in
five silk robes of emblematical embroidery, the orna-
mental parts laid with gold leaf and these again
covered with a robe of linen. Beside the skeleton
were deposited several gold and silver insignia and
other relics of the Saint. The cathedral occupies the
summit of a peninsula overlooking the weir. Its
aspect is peculiarly grand and impressive. The general
character of the lower portion is Norman of a bold
style, with insertions in all the English styles. The
magnificent and elaborately ornamented towers sprint
from the body of the building, founded by Bishop
William de Canlepho, assisted by Malcolm, King of
Scotland, in 1093. St. Cuthbert’s Shrine was established
in 995. Good Bishop Aldune erected on the site of
the present cathedral, a roof divine to worthily cover
the bones of Holy Cuthbert,” a labor which inspired
the monkish rhyme, freely translated:
“Arch follows arch ; o’er turrets, turrets rise
Until the hallowed cross salutes the skies
And the blest city, free henceforth from foes,
Beneath that sacred shadow finds repose.”


Storu Writing
\3W l y ' nt HOrtE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. tii
The Red Page
THOMAS MANN'S COMEDY.
Lotte in Weimar, Thomas Mann’s
last novel, was built in three strata: on
the surface, a satirical comedy ; below
the surface, a profound analysis of
human character and human relation-
ships (Lotte and Goethe, once romantic
young lovers, meeting in middle age,
the one vain and silly, the other pompous,
and the old love only an irritating
ghost); and, at its deepest, an exploration
of genius along the, path of its ruthless-
ness towards its mysterious sources of
power: comedy, humanity and an adven-
ture towards the Absolute. His new
novel, The Transposed Heads (Seeker
and Warburg; Moore’s Bookshop) is
similarly made, but is shorter, more com-
pact, and, in contrast to the rather heavy
satire of Lotte in Weimar, astonishingly
light and gay.
Illumined throughout with a fine wit,
The Transposed Heads is uniformly suc-
cessful on each of its three planes. Taken
simply as a story, it is irresistibly funny.
Based on an Indian legend, it is meant
to have—and has —exactly the flavor of
the best of Balzac’s Droll Stories or the
Arabian Nights tales; bizarre and yet
earthy, deliberately “risky” but redeemed
by a humor that ranges from witty meta-
physics to the broadest farce.
On a journey through India, Shrida-
man, the merchant’s son, and Nanda, the
cowherd, friends from their boyhood,
are given an enchanting glimpse of one
“Sita of the Beautiful Hips” as she is
bathing. Shridaman falls in love with
her ; Nanda arranges the marriage ; and
in a year or two the eternal triangle
makes its appearance. Sita still respects
Shridaman’s beautiful mind and wishes
to be loyal to her husband ; but Nanda’s
strong shoulders are somehow more
beautiful than either wifely loyalty or
Shridaman’s beautiful mind. The ordi-
nary triangle, interesting only because
of the quaintness of the style in which
Mann presents it. But there’s nothing
ordinary in the solution.
When Sita of the beautiful hips,
Shridaman of the beautiful mind and
Nanda of the excellent shoulders, all ex-
tremely unhappy because of the situation
between them, go on a journey together
to Sita’s parents and halt at a wayside
shrine devoted to Kali, the great Mother,
Shridaman releases himself from his
misery by elegantly cutting off his own
head in the dark shrine of the goddess.
Whereupon, out of loyalty to his friend,
Nanda also decapitates himself. Where-
upon, out of loyalty to them both, and
generously putting aside her irritation
with Nanda, Sita prepares to hang her-
self. Which, though she is the goddess
of death as well as of life, is altogether
too much of a good thing for Mother
Kali.
She manifests herself in a state of great
annoyance to Sita, orders her not to
hang herself and gives her instructions
how to replace her lovers’ heads on their
bodies and restore them to life. “But do
the business properly,” the goddess
warns.
“Do not put the heads on wrong way
round in your haste so that they have to
go about with their faces backwards and
make people laugh at them! ”
Sita of the beautiful hips and addled
mind goes one worse than even the
goddess had imagined she could: she
puts Shridaman’s head on Nanda’s body,
and Nanda’s head on Shridaman’s body.
From the argument between this new
Shridaman-headed Nanda and this
Nanda-headed Shridaman as to which of
the two is now Sita’s legitimate husband,
Mann makes the richest of his comedy.
Was Sita married to Shridaman’s head?
If she was —and it is logical to think so,
since it is the mind that decides to take
a wife —she has now, by an accident so
happy that it’s to be suspected that it
wasn’t completely accidental, made for
herself the Perfect Husband, Shridaman’s
beautiful mind plus Nanda’s sun-browned
shoulders. But was she not married to
Shridaman’s body? If she was —and
again it seems logical to think so, for
many cogent reasons which the Shrida-
man-body, abetted by its stupid but affec-
tionate Nanda-head, does not fail to
assert —then Sita is the lawful wife of a
weakling with the intelligence of an ox.
The wise man to whom they appeal in
their perplexity awards the prize to the
Shridaman-head on the Nanda-body, on
the ground that, even if Sita married the
body of her husband, the head is the
chief and noblest limb ; so the Nanda-
head on the Shridaman-body goes
gloomily away to become a hermit, and
Sita and the perfect husband go home
to enjoy the perfect marriage.
Which, naturally, soon becomes much
like any other marriage. Extraordinarily
like her original marriage to Shridaman,
Sita reflects bitterly as she slips away
through the forest to join the Nanda-
head for which she now yearns.
In the bare outline of the story, both
the comedy and the deeper sympathetic
satire of human relationships are
apparent. In the still deeper metaphysic
underlying the whole novel, Shridaman
is a symbol of the spirit, Nanda of
physical beauty, and Sita is the whole
of humanity—sometimes yearning for the
one, sometimes for the other; blindly,
unknowingly, confusedly but eternally
seeking for the union of the two:
The world is not so made that spirit is
fated to love only spirit, and beauty only
beauty. Indeed, the very contrast between
the two points out, with a clarity at once
intellectual and beautiful, that the world’s
goal is union between spirit and beauty,
a bliss no longer divided but whole and
consummate. This tale of ours is but an
illustration of the failures and false starts
attending the effort to reach the goal.
After all that his repudiation of the
Nazis has cost him, no contemporary
writer would have had a better excuse
than Thomas Mann for silence during
the war ; no one would have had a better
excuse for diverting his creative impulse
into the sterility of reformist politics. To
have produced creative fiction at all must
have been agonisingly difficult to him ;
not only to have written a new novel,
but to have made The Transposed Heads
the light, graceful, altogether captivating
comedy it is, is proof of artistic integrity
of the highest order.
Shelley and Some Australians.
Shelley on a topic still very much alive
—the matter of fashion in poetry:
I have avoided, as I have said before, the
imitation of any contemporary style. But
there must be a resemblance, which does
not depend on their own will, between all
the writers of any particular age. They
cannot escape subjection to a common
influence which arises out of an infinite
combination of circumstances belonging to
the times in which they live; though each
is in a degree the author of the very in-
fluence by which his being is thus pervaded.
In this view of things, Ford can no
more be called the imitator of Shakspeare
than Shakspeare the imitator of Ford.
There were perhaps few other points of
resemblance between these two men than
that which the universal and inevitable in-
fluence of their age produced. And this is
an influence which neither the meanest
scribbler nor the sublimest genius of any
era can escape; and which I have not
attempted to escape.
To two new books of Australian verse,
Joseph' O’Dwyer’s Poems (Hawthorn
Press) and T. Inglis Moore’s Emu Parade
(Angus and Robertson), that fine piece of
critical analysis has considerable rele-
vance. To Mary Gilmore’s The Dis-
inherited (Robertson and Mullens) it has
hardly any. In saying that a writer must
(and perhaps should) be influenced by
the spirit and fashions of his time, Shelley
forgot to observe parenthetically that liv-
ing writers whose work is a survival from
a “movement” of the immediate past are
perfectly justified in continuing to reflect
that period instead of the present.
It is possible to read into The Dis-
inherited some contemporary signifi-
cance ; for anything to do with the soul
of man is, of course, timeless, and Mary
Gilmore may have meant to shoot this
particular piece of timelessness at the
present:
Storm is the root of man, or man
Were but a flower that drank
Its hour of sun and rain, and then
To dust forgotten sank.
And it is even possible that contemporary
influence, deliberate or accidental, is re-
sponsible for the fact that the story of
the linked lyrics, though easily enough
discernible, is never clearly stated.
Essentially, however, this poem is based
not in the present but in the Australian
romantic tradition created by Daley, Rod
Quinn, Hugh McCrae, Jessie Mackay,
and by Mary Gilmore’s own earlier poetry.
Technically, the influence is that of
medieval balladry. The story is not stated
plainly because, if it were, it would seem
sentimental and would certainly not be
original: the wild young man committing
some crime or other and becoming a fugi-
tive.
Man as the Outlaw —that’s the eternal
theme that justifies the worn “props” ;
passages with the depth of the quotation
“Storm is the root of man,” some beauti-
ful descriptions of ice and moonlit bush
—those are the incidental merits.
Although a contemporary technique is
not to be expected from Mary Gilmore,
some touch of modernity would certainly
be expected in T. Inglis Moore’s sheaf
of verses about life in an A.I.F. camp
in Australia and about Australian and
world politics. Should one then dismiss
as “dated” such simple lyricism as
Cool broad brow and pool-brown eyes
Guard your gentleness, and wise
Innocence whose morning zest
No day undews, no evening west
darkens....?
And should one approve only of such
strongly contemporary writing as
Impaling a doomed world on horns metallic,
Machines stampede, panicked by war, and
trample
Men’s lives with their hard hooves, till not one
relic
Is left unbroken of old joys in simple
Greenlings of nature. Drills and picks are
gouging
Ribs of the earth for their hid ores, while
clangor
Seethes in the workshops, where the cogs
engaging ?
To do so, when the first quotation is
plainly poetry, and the second is plainly
mere versifying, would be to make non-
sense of Shelley’s criticism. But it is
the fine love-lyric, in reality, that is con-
temporary in Shelley’s sense —its purity
of outline and simplicity of imagery are
its modernity ; and the elaborate contem-
poraneity of “Metal the Master,” not due
to the subtle influence of the age but
the result of laborious striving after
modernity, is what Shelley would dis-
approve as “the imitation of a contem-
porary style.”
In Emu Parade, as in his Adagio in
Blue, Inglis Moore is two poets. One, the
straining modern, is responsible in tech-
nique for such odd examples of machine-
age jargon as “the clanking separator of
this war” and “Night, the inflexible turn-
cock” ; responsible in philosophy for the
conventional Leftism that, logic to the
winds, can associate jn an equal hatred
the German who wanted war and the
Englishman who wanted peace;
If, then, there must be blood taken,
Surely it were wiser to start with the
Chamberlains,
Stop breeding of their progeny of Hitlers,
So ending the line of tyrants and wars
But the other, the natural singer, writes
the sturdy, humorous camp items ; the
movingly patriotic “Unquickened” ; the
neat self-satire of “Possum Casualty” ;
the occasional lyrics ; and the flashes of
genuine poetry that frequently appear
among the experiments in contemporary
fashions.
Joseph O’Dwyer is another in whom
the subtle influence of the age and the
direct influence of contemporaries have
both been at work. Almost every line
of Poems, in technique and in spirit,
could have been written by T. S. Eliot:
What can we hope for from our generation
but the hair greying about the temples
of an old frustration, the locks
thinning on top, falling awry
to the futile ears, and the hands
playing their sonata to an empty hall.
Eliot himself would probably have
been pleased to have written the
Australian’s long poem, “The Trojan
Doom.” Yet if O’Dwyer had done
no more than faithfully to have
echoed the master, his work would soon
fade. What is needed, to break through
both the direct imitation and the more
subtle contemporary influence, is the sense
of a strongly original poetic personality.
When that is present, it doesn’t matter
that Shakspeare and Marlowe both write
the Elizabethan idiom.
O’Dwyer has that originality. “The
Trojan Doom,” in spite of its imitation
of Eliot, is an original poetic achievement
and a pretty considerable one. Man the
social being, Man the Adventurer is
Ulysses in this mythological reconstruc-
tion of the fall of Troy ; his city is con-
tinually being destroyed, is being de-
stroyed now in war and in social injus-
tice : —-
When he who has watched mornings and even-
ings with a midwife’s care
forgets the pulse of day, is born the aborted
need,
burden of compulsion, that the terror-stricken
flight
from the bombed and blazing Troy and the
fierce wandering
have produced. Never to know sanctuary, never
to find homeland, rest from the waves, even
on the lotus-eaters’ shore, the death in life,
are we who have connived at the adultery,
the profiteer, the sweated trade, and the employ-
ment insecure
and treacherous that raped our Troy, built
on the seven-fold heaped-up ruins of ancestral
Troys.
Our rotting planks lie at their harbored anchor-
age
awaiting the dream’s desistance to harry us on;
one only ship sails the centuries
bearing us home.
That one ship is the spiritual life ; love :
Steel to the magnet, the flung stone to earth,
the planet to its star, star to its constellation
irresistibly is drawn. Why should the soul
alone resist absorption into her source
or sufler its resistance?
Ulysses, the adventuring man, comes
home to Penelope his soul; and, what-
ever happens to the soul, the poet finds
himself
certainly knowing at length how the calm
pure joy of this Penelope watching her Ulysses’
return
runs deep beneath the blood that sacrifices her
estrangement.
In this one book, O’Dwyer has run
through the whole gamut of Eliot’s emo-
tional range, telescoping into perhaps
three years of poetic life the development
from cynicism to despair to mystical faith
that took Eliot 30 years to accomplish.
He can imitate Eliot no further because
there is no more to imitate. That leaves
him free to make his next book entirely
original, retaining from Poems the tech-
nical ability he shows throughout, the
imagination and constructive ability
shown in “The Trojan Doom” and that
contemporary influence which, on Shel-
ley’s authority, is both inevitable and
desirable.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Rupert Bunny’s show at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, consists of landscapes,
flower pieces and figure-subject mono-
types in his latter-day mode of presen-
tation, which gives the effect of pastel
sketches seen through running water.
Very atmospheric and all that, but Mr.
Bunny’s high reputation as an artist rests
on more easily-appreciated performances.
In his flight from so-called academic
encumbrances he seerhs to have thrown
away more than he has picked up.
A show of George Finey’s portrait
caricatures at David Jones’s new store,
Sydney (admission silver to the Red
Cross), surprises even those who know
Finey’s capabilities in this line. It is cus-
tomary that he should produce clever
exaggerations of the features of men he
knows, and at the same time do a lot
more character delineation than can
be found in a photograph; but he has
gone beyond that and produced portraits
just as fantastic, just as character-reveal-
ing and just as instantaneously identi-
fiable of overseas men and women “in
the news,” working from photographs or
at best from news-reel glimpses. Stafford
Cripps, General Percival, General
Marshall and Rudolf Hess stand out.
N. S. Wales Travelling Art Scholarship
entries this year were few, but the stand-
ard of work sent in was rather higher
than usual. Most promise is shown by
Freda R. Robertshaw, whose full-length
nude in oils is a remarkable technical
achievement. Bruce McF. Cousin shows
a well-composed, well-lit figure piece. He
also should continue to develop. The
prize goes to Harold T. Greenhill, whose
stylised, very sophisticated figure study
suggests not the beginning but the end
of the path.
“F.S.”: Harold Herbert’s exhibition at
the Sedon Galleries, Melbourne, of Middle
East pictures certainly doesn’t give any
indication that Mars in all his grimness
is anywhere in the vicinity. Herbert took
to the Middle East those formulas and
conventions which had stood him in such
good stead in painting Australian land-
scape and which have gained him enor-
mous local prestige. Except in terms of
those conventions, he was unable to see
the desert; precisely as the first
Australian landscapists were unable
to see Australia except in the con-
ventions of English landscape. If
he was to see the desert stark — i.e.,
with a completely unprejudiced eye—he
would have had to change overnight and
it takes the Rembrandts and Corots a
lifetime to do that, and even they do it
so inadequately that they are filled with
despair at their pictures when they look
at Nature. So it is a moot question as to
whether Herbert has ever seen the
Western Desert, though he certainly
painted industriously in it and thus ful-
filled his contract as well as any authority
could expect an artist to do.
Three players—Jenny Howard, Rebla
and Eddie Gordon —make the current
bill at Sydney Tiv. the good show it is
—Miss Howard because she tackles
everything she does with an enthusiasm
that extends to the audience and brings
her back on the stage as often as shell
come, Rebla because he’s an excellent
juggler and comedian at the same time,
and Eddie Gordon because he’s a clown
in a hundred and can keep the audience
roaring from the moment he looks at
them until he goes off.
Adelaide Repertory dodged the short-
age of men by playing “Ladies in Retire-
ment.” The eccentrics were well played
by Margery Irving, Ruth Anderson,
Beryl Roberts and Mimi Mattin.
Thomas Nave was the producer.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —justifies public confidence
MAKE LISTENING A PLEASURE
Ns
■
1
52
:
VP
wr.+r'i
•S’i
ii
m
m
v :
tv
.r.
%
•v-i
S •"
p$
:
U'
w
’ :4
: M
M
A v® e ,
„^’ V d-®^
A
*1 >vf< • • ■
\o 1 o<l .•■
5 , c <’^
c s>>
HS
s
a*
I
v oV *V*
\ *
o--“t>'V 0 >
S<-f^ 4
■o<
.0
A©'
,o
W3P <C P vi
j, 00 .• • -j(S
>v® .■
v©
Y
<*<V
Ao^
6- 0 '
"Uni" 5-Valve Dual Wave Console Radio, with
12-inch dynamic speaker, latest type dual pur-
pose and frequency spaced edgelit dial.
Modern Console cabinet. Deep, clear tone,
overseas reception assured. Guaranteed 12
months. Installed and serviced free within the
Metropolitan area. Valves guaranteed 90 days.
Anthony Horderns' Price, each, £23/10/-.
SPECIAL PRICE £2l/10/-
AVAILABLE ON EASY TERMS.
by installing a reliable Radio ... a
necessity in these times of stress
and anxiety.
WSSS,
m
m
mi
il
■
m
m
m
A splendid radio with alHhe mod-
ern improvements. "Uni" 5-Valve
Console Radio, with 12-inch dy-
namic speaker, straight line,
frequency spaced Dial. Guar-
anteed and serviced free for
12 months within the Metro-
politan area. Valves
guaranteed 90 days. At
Anthony Horderns'.
Price, £24/10/-. Special
Price .... £22/10/-
EASY TERMS AVAILABLE
• Radios —Ground Floor, Pitt Street
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night).
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.


BLOW CARSON, I SAY
By ALAN MARSHALL.
WHEN night
came I heard
him again. I
swore and
lit my pipe, then
walked to the door of the hut
and looked towards the river. The
red gums that fringed its banks made
twisted scrolls on the sky’s edge. The
stars were coming out and I could
smell the breath of the lignum and reeds
that spread back from the river in a pro-
tecting barricade of shadowy growth.
Plovers cried going across the sky. I
listened, but he was silent. I waited a few
minutes, then went back into the hut.
Surely, he won’t cross the river again, I
thought.
He was an old scrub bull, a brindle
with snaily horns who roamed the tim-
bered hills beyond the Murray. I had
one of Carson’s Shorthorns running with
my herd, and though I paid only a tenner
for him Carson said he was a champion.
“He’s a champion, I’m telling you,” he
used always to say. The old scrub bull
used to spend a lot of time trumpeting
challenges across the river, but I did not
think he would swim across again to fight
it out.
I had driven him back a week before,
and that morning I gave him Larry
Dooley across the bend after I had found
the two facing each other in a clearing.
I drove him through the reed beds at
a gallop. Near the river the water be-
came deeper and I drew rein. He slowed
down then and began to bellow. I
cracked the stockwhip and yelled at him.
He moved forward, a low, sullen rumble
coming from his throat.
He was a big bull and he sank deep in
the mud. He plunged violently as his
hind legs failed to find a solid footing.
A spray of muddy water shot above the
reeds and splashed against his sides. A
frightened water hen shot from a clump
of lignum and hurtled across the river
with its feet scratching furrows on the
smooth water. The bull suddenly slid
into deep Water between the submerged
river banks. It curved in a tumbling roll
around his chest. He lifted his head till
the level plane of forehead and nose was
parallel with the surface and struck out
for the other bank. I watched him wade
ashore with water streaming down his
flanks and mixing with the mud clinging
to his legs.
|\j EXT morning I saddled up and rode
1 N along a pad skirting the reeds. Even
then it must have been touching a hun-
dred. Just above the ground the air shim-
mered in waves and in the distance cattle
had the appearance of being submerged
in water.
I heard the old bull trumpeting across
the river. He lowed menacingly, then
sucked in his breath in a high-pitched
challenge. I rode towards the bend and
saw him standing on the opposite bank.
He was silent now and stood with his
head rigidly still, the muzzle pulled in
towards his neck. His tail was held away
from his hindquarters. His stillness was
an alive and ominous thing.
On my side of the river billows of
dust were rising from beyond the reeds
beside which I had reined my horse. The
young Shorthorn was expressing defiance
of the old bull’s challenge by savagely
pawing the brown earth and tossing the
dust into the air. It fell upon his
shoulders and spilled to the torn ground.
He buried his short horns into the soil
and flung lumps of grass and earth above
his head.
I was proud of that bull. Carson said
he was a champion. “He’ll improve your
herd out of sight,” he had said. But this
day I had no sympathy for him in his
quarrel. I suddenly felt sorry for the old
campaigner who was fast losing his right
to the country he had ruled over for so
long. Where he had wandered without hin-
drance, barbed wire fences now barred
his way. Men were pushing their way
further and further into the hills that
sheltered him. One by one the sleek cows
that had borne his progeny were rounded
into cattle yards. Milling and crushing
against each other, their lifted heads sup-
ported by the flanks of those snorting
in front of them, they surged forward
to escape the savage attacks of wall-eyed
heelers. They blundered forward in
droves, urged by shouting men along the
stock route that led to the railhead and
to trucks dirty with the smoke of cities.
The old bull’s hocks still bore the teeth
scars of dogs. The calloused ridge of a
stockwhip cut slashed his flank. Carson
had told me of the furious charge that
shattered a six-foot post-and-rail fence
and earned him the freedom he alone en-
joyed.
He had warned me about him too.
“Don’t let him get with your herd. He’ll
ruin your stock. Now, my bull, he’s a
champion”
I tied the horse to a yellowjack and
crept towards the river. I crouched be-
hind a log and watched the old warrior
slide stiff-legged down the dusty bank.
He waded through the shallow water,
then, snorting, launched himself forward.
My champion waited for the chal-
lenger. He moved his hindquarters,
using his firmly-placed front legs to pivot
on so that he faced the old bull as he
clambered up the bank. The old chap
shuffled sideways towards him. The
Shorthorn changed his position so that he
stood at right angles to the older bull’s
approach. Both their heads were drawn
sharp down. When the scrubber was
within a few yards of the youngster he
stopped. They both stood very still, their
small, black eyes gleaming with a cold,
calculating fury.
“My champion Shorthorn,” I kept
saying to myself. “Don’t be a fool. Car-
son says he’s a champion, but if he gets
one good rip he won’t be worth two bob.
Hop in and stop them.” But then I
thought of the old fellow’s horns. He
couldn’t do any arm with snaily horns
like that, and, anyway, the Shorthorn had
youth on his side.
J_J E had youth all right, and the im-
-1 f petuous courage of youth. He sud-
denly lowered his head and, whipping into
position, drove for the old bull’s shoulder,
but, quick as a dingo, the veteran leapt
round and met the powerful head of the
champion with his own.
Head to head they dug their hooves
into the ground and struggled to force
each other back. With enormous
shoulders bulged with straining muscle
they pivoted around their locked heads,
tearing the earth for a foothold, each
striving for a quick, evasive leap sideways
that would leave him free to drive a rip
to the other’s shoulder. I was shaking a
little as if it were friends of mine that
fought together. I repeated softly to
myself: “Carson says he’s a champion.
Carson says he’s a champion.” And then
“You old beauty,” I cried.
The old bull had made a savage lunge
forward. He drove the youngster back
with a swift rush. The Shorthorn bellowed
with surprise and rage. He leaped side-
ways, evaded a side toss that the old chap
aimed at his shoulder, then hurled himself
at the other’s exposed side. One of his
shining horns slid into the thick flesh
behind the warrior’s shoulder and he
tossed his head, tearing his horn through
flesh and muscle and then wrenching it
free in a savage twist.
The red blood gushed down the scrub-
ber’s brindle hide. It stained the cham-
pion’s horn with crimson and trickled
among the close-curled hair between his
eyes. I had expected a roar of pain from
the old chap, but, save for a deep grunt
when the horn sank home, he was silent.
He twisted away in a quick leap and
turned to face a rush from the champion.
The impetus of the drive forced him
back. His hindquarter scraped across the
jagged end of a broken limb projecting
from a stump. He bellowed with rage
and stayed his backward run with a con-
vulsive thrust of his back legs that scat-
tered the dry leaves and sticks behind
him. Step by step he forced the champion
back.
Suddenly with the skill learned in a
hundred fights the old bull gave ground
in a leap backwards. The Shorthorn,
freed from pressure, blundered forward
to lock horns again. But the old bull was
not there. He had whirled to one side
and, bellowing savagely, he now drove his
lowered head at the other’s side. His
thick-boned crown slid beneath the young
bull’s body. He reefed his powerful neck
upwards, lifting the Shorthorn from his
feet and throwing him floundering to the
ground, and then drove in again, sinking
to his knees the better to bury his snaily
horns in the other’s soft body.
The champion bellowed and kicked in
anguish. He rolled, half rose, fell again.
Strands of tenuous saliva blew from his
mouth. The silver threads clung like cob-
webs to the old bull’s head. The old
scrubber crushed his plated head against
the champion’s ribs, shaking it to and fro
in a savage mutilating of his fallen an-
tagonist. The Shorthorn rolled clear and,
springing to his feet,
fled, with the old
bull in pursuit.
The scrubber did
not chase him far.
He stopped and pawed at the earth, toss-
ing lumps of soil shoulder high and low-
ing triumphantly. I made a beeline for
my horse.
“Back over the river he goes,” I said,
but when I returned I reined the horse
and looked at him. He was grazing
quietly amongst several of my best
heifers.
I swung my stockwhip, then slowly
looped it again.
“The Shorthorn might be a champion,”
I said to myself, “but so is this fellow.
Blow Carson, I say.”
I turned my horse and made for the
hut, and I felt better somehow.
Beauty.
Drugged by the autumn-bearing South,
She drifts on winds whose wild air quakes
With thunder screaming from the mouth
Of Earth whom war’s old tumult shakes.
Is this the Hour of her retreat,
Whose crutches are split trees —
Which, like her, limp on wounded feet
On ground that knows no ease
That man or bird or tree might seize?
Yet she will sing to some far sense
Even when life holds breath
In men who hold her innocence
A bayonet point from death.
And Beauty roves too far for Death
To follow everywhere,
For —hear the Silence of her breath
Flow on this evening air
Free from the screams that deafen her
So still the Hour commands the sense
To measure her in rhyme,
For she is the one permanence
Whose pause we feel in time.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN HENDERSON.
MOTOR-BOAT PATROL
By “BUNGAREE BOATMAN.”
(The writer is an Australian serving with the R.N.V.R. in English coastal
waters. He describes a typical night’s work of one of those speedy sea-going
motor-boats that do most of the Navy’s shore-patrol duty these days.)
I AM dreaming of life ashore, horses
and dogs, and the peaceful things of
life when the quartermaster’s voice
breaks in: “Warm up immediately
and stand by.” I sit up half asleep. “Are
you awake, sir?” “Yes,” I say, more by
instinct than to answer a direct question.
“Three M.Ls. [motor-launches] to pro-
ceed to sea immediately, sir.” And with
this scanty information the quartermaster
disappears.
I get up, wake our cox’n and chief
engineer. First-class men these. Cox’n is
a naval petty officer ; knows his job back-
wards. Chief engineer is a garage
mechanic in civil life. He knows engines.
In 15 seconds he is up, wakes up his
greasers and disappears into the bowels
of the ship to deal with his “grinders,”
as he calls them.
I dive into the chart room ; there’s a
lot to be done before we reach the open
sea. The captain comes up murmuring
bad words: “Why can’t they fight this
damn’ war in daylight?” is his mildest
query.
The crew start pouring out of hatches
like rabbits out of a warren. They know
what to do without being told. Guns are
uncovered, ropes uncoiled, hatches
screwed down, everything secured. There
is a south-easterly blowing outside and
we are going to get a dusting. I start to
work out our tides.
Suddenly the quiet of the port is shat-
tered by the roaring of our exhausts. The
boat quivers like a racehorse at the starting
post. Ten seconds later other masses of
machinery break into life. The captain
appears with our sailing orders and dis-
appears again to finish clothing himself
for a night in the North Sea. Ten seconds
later I am on the bridge. We come astern
and clear the wharf without touching
any paintwork. In a year the R.N.V.R.
has become as skilful at boat-handling
as the rest of the Navy.
The night is as black as the ace of
spades, and we hang on with both hands
and duck every time she heads into it.
But we don’t get a winner every time ; the
North Sea always catches you sooner or
later. You look up just a trifle too soon
and you get soused.
A little later and a doubt becomes
a certainty as we search in vain for a
certain buoy to check our bearings.
We cannot be doing 20 knots; sea
and wind are acting like a brake
and all calculations must be done
again. “Only making eighteen knots,
sir.” “Give her another 100 revolutions,
No. 1.” Will she stand it? Already we
had taken a few wrong ’uns. Can the
two ships astern keep station in the dark?
But there’s little need for worry. The
three teams of men have been shipmates
together for the last six months, and are
now teams in the truest sense of the
word.
Then, suddenly; “Engine-room signal
for No. 1.” “Slip aft and see what’s
wrong.” I know what that means—2s
yards of North Sea spray—and hang on
like hell at every yard. I get there to see
our Cockney chief engineer with his face
smothered in oil, one greaser being sick
in the bilge. I wonder just how long I
would stick it down here. Speech is
difficult; the shriek of three reduction
gears and three superchargers has to be
heard to be believed. “What’s wrong,
Chief?” “The bleeding oil pressure in
the centre motor’s dahn, sir. Nobby there
is spewing ’is guts aht, and Bill is ’avin’
a go at the pump.” “Can you keep the
revs, up. Chief?” “All right, so long as
she don’t get no ’otter, sir.” “Well, ring
through to the bridge if you have to
throttle back.” “Orl right, sir. Well
do our best.”
I return to the bridge.
“Slip into the chart-room and let me
know how much longer before we are
there, No. 1,” says the captain What
a shambles! The chart is soaked ; a pot
of gum, a red-ink well and the parallel
ru i e r and divider are rolling about the
floor like players in a football match
final. I gather them up, and with one
shoulder on a bulkhead, one foot on a
settee and one hand under the chart table
endeavor to work out our time of arrival
at our rendezvous. “Half an hour to
go, sir,” is the report to the captain,
A ND in just on half an hour we can
see why we were called out. It is
a moonless night —it always is when
the Hun crawls out to wait for
his victims. There lies a merchant ship,
torpedoed and well and truly down by
the stern. She cannot last much longer.
We are too late to catch the Hun, but
we are not too late to pick up the bits,
“Flash astern. Reduce speed, No. I,”
and when we get the reply we ring down
for slow ahead. “Flash Charlie and Bob
to close me,” and the M.Ls. astern close
up on our port and starboard beams,
The captain then gives detailed orders
through the loud-hailer, and Charlie and
Bob “carry on.” We begin to snake
round the doomed ship looking for sur-
vivors. Comes a hail. “Oi, there y’ are,
sir,” from aft, and we can see an oil-
skinned arm pointing to our port quarter,
Four shapes are hanging on to a Carley
float.
By this time the M.L., with the
wind on her beam, is rolling like no-
thing on earth. There is danger that
these poor devils may hit their heads on
the rubbing strake. Slowly the Carley
float is pulled in. It is evident the sur-
vivors are too cold and numb to
scramble up the net themselves, so we
pull them up like sacks of spuds with
running nooses round their bodies. Their
duffle coats are sodden with water and
oil, and they are as heavy as lead, but
somehow we get them aboard. “Down
below into blankets,” from the captain,
but we all know the drill, and soon they
are as comfortable as is humanly pos-
sible in the circumstances. But there are
no hot drinks for them. No galley fire
on earth could be induced to light with
our motion, and we must continue the
search till dawn.
Later, when that atmosphere of grey
desolation known as “dawn in the North
Sea” appears, we set a course for home,
The merchant ship has disappeared; no-
thing is visible except wreckage and odd
pieces of wood. We can just see the
other two M.Ls. through the haze. “Flash
them to return to base, No. 1,” is the
order, and later in line ahead we pro-
ceed for home with the wind astern
and the motion a lot easier. The
ships astern flash us that they have picked
up ten more survivors. I go down to the
mess deck to tell our lot that ten of their
mates are safe. They are eating bully
beef and bread, and have been provided
with smokes by our crew,
Alongside our base, the ambulance is
waiting for the survivors. The admiral
is also on the jetty. The captain makes
his report, three M.Ls. are squared up
ready for sea again, and as we crawl
between the blankets we wonder if we
will be allowed to finish our night’s rest.


SOLD!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London ; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
"RIGHTS" AND WRONGS.
The Australian politician and his ways
and Australian methods of government
must puzzle the Americans among us
whose business or pleasure it is to con-
sider such matters.
Those with a bent for constitutional
studies do not require to be told that the
Commonwealth Constitution is a blend
of their own Federal system (our Federal
movement began when their Civil War
was a recent memory, and the Fathers
were greatly influenced by the noble
figure and speeches of Lincoln), the
Swiss referendum and the British Cabinet
system, and that the Constitutions of the
States preserve old colonial features;
hence the six Government Houses and
Governors, five of whom are British.
What they may not yet understand is that
the Commonwealth Constitution is weak
where it should be strong ; that in im-
portant fields of government there is
no dear separation of powers; that
there are indeed fields of government in
which there can be no effective legisla-
tion and administration.
These facts have been recognised for
many years, but Commonwealth Gov-
ernments are rarely moved by the reform-
ing spirit, especially as proposed consti-
tutional amendments, when presented to
the electors in the tedious manner pre-
scribed (they require majorities not only
in the Commonwealth but in four States),
have nearly always been refused. Be-
cause the people have an instinct for
self-government, the seven Constitutions
work after a fashion, but government in
Australia is inexpressibly clumsy, con-
fused and incomplete and the cost is
terrific.
It is an ironical fact that the Common-
wealth Constitution has failed at points
where the Fathers thought that their in-
tentions were clear and' their language
simple and precise. They had great
expectations of Section 92 (“Trade, com-
merce and intercourse among the States,
whether by means of internal carriage
or ocean navigation, shall be absolutely
free”), but it has failed to stand the racket
of High Court judgments and hostile
State measures, particularly Transport
Acts, and “trade, commerce and inter-
course among the States” are not “abso-
lutely free.”
Nor, because relevant clauses have been
riddled in the interpretation, has Aus-
tralia ever had satisfactory national laws
for the control of companies or the regu-
lation of industry. Lucid as it looked
in 1900, “conciliation and arbitration for
the prevention and settlement of industrial
disputes extending beyond the limits of
any one State” (Section 51, subsection
xxxv) led to the downfall of two Gov-
ernments in 1904, and in the process of
years, partly because of the procedure
required (an employer in Kalgoorlie may
be made a party to litigation directed
against an employer in Sydney), it
has bred industrial disputes instead of
preventing or settling them. It has also
led to an incessant and very injurious
competition in the industrial-arbitration
business. Dissatisfied trade-unionists
have patronised the Federal arbitration
tribunal or the State industrial tribunal
(“the two shops”) according to their
judgment of the brand of goods on offer
at a particular time. The result is that
industry is governed as to wages and
working conditions by a medley of
awards (scores in many cases) having the
force of law, as well as by Parliamentary
enactments, when the party in power
chooses to be generous with other
people’s money and, in recent weeks, by
the decrees of a rank partisan, Mr.
Ward.
In 1928 the electors approved of the
Commonwealth taking over the States’
debts, and that was a real reform. Un-
fortunately, as it has proved, there was
tacked on to it a provision for a Loan
Council, with representation of all the
State Governments, in respect of future
borrowing. There had grown up a
tradition that the Prime Minister and
his Treasurer should periodically meet
the State Premiers and their Treasurers
in conference; and, though the State
Governments have no direct responsi-
bility for any part of the war effort, the
Premiers’ Conference was most unwisely
continued after the outbreak of war.
Mr. Roosevelt runs his war without
gathering 48 State Governors about him
in Washington, nor does Mr. Churchill
bring the chairmen of a hundred county
councils to London for war consulta-
tions. But the Prime Minister of Aus-
tralia, whoever he may be (there have
been three in the last six months), feels
obliged to surround himself with State
Premiers, as well as to delegate powers
to them which should be exercised by
his own Government. Because of the
“system” under which they were bred
all our Prime Ministers and Premiers
have become experts at passing the buck.
There was a Premiers’ Conference in
Melbourne last week. There are 10
Australian income taxes (there used to
be 15), and the Prime Minister had asked
the Premiers to meet him to concert
measures for the reduction of the
10 to one —the Commonwealth’s own
tax, simplified for the taxpayer (only a
paid expert can find his way through
the existing labyrinth), made equitable as
well as intelligible, and with savings in
administrative expenditure and the em-
ployment of unnecessary officials,
mostly of military age, which would be
of substantial benefit to the war effort.
The case for one income tax has been
published in The Bulletin many times.
It has been brought up to date by a
committee composed of a former Prime
Minister, a former N. S. Wales Treas-
urer, and a professor of economics.
These gentlemen recommended that uni-
form taxation should be imposed by the
Commonwealth from July 1 on income
received for the year to June 30, and
that the States should be compensated
to the extent of their average collections
for 1939-40 and 1940-41, State Govern-
ments to have the right to ask for more
“in exceptional circumstances” and
the Commonwealth to claim more where
it “relieved the State of a service”—such
as child endowment and widows’ pen-
sions.
The committee’s report did not go
into matters which are standing griev-
ances with taxpayers, such as the im-
possibility of framing domestic budgets
to meet taxes which are imposed in
different months, and rarely until the
financial year is well advanced; the
iniquity of double State taxes on divi-
dends and of State taxation of income
from other States, already taxed by the
Governments of those States and by the
Commonwealth, and the swindle of con-
tinuing to exact unemployed-relief tax
under different disguises where unem-
ployment has ceased to exist. But it was
a good report on the whole, and these
were its main features:
Income is the main source of revenue
from which the Commonwealth finances
war expenditure, and that source is limited.
The varying rates and conflicting prin-
ciples of taxation applied throughout the
States create anomalies that operate to the
detriment of Commonwealth revenue and
to the confusion of taxpayers.
Under the present system rates of taxa-
tion would rise above 20s. in the £ for
many taxpayers but for the fact that State
taxes paid in the previous year are allowed
as deductions in determining Federal
taxable income. Despite this, total taxes
payable can still rise above 20s. in the £
in some cases. [The N.S.W. Taxpayers’
Association has mentioned cases in which
235. in the £ has been claimed.]
This difficulty and others can be over-
come by a single uniform taxation system
administered by the Commonwealth. A
sole taxation authority would open the way
for more simple and efficient machinery
for the raising of revenue. It would
release 1000 Federal and State public ser-
vants for war duty, there would be large
economies in paper and £250,000 a year
would be saved in wages.
The committee’s report was placed
before the Premiers, and the Prime Min-
ister and his Treasurer, Mr. Chifiey, plied
them with other facts and arguments
which would have convinced even State
politicians not blinded by prejudice and
provincialism.
At present, they said, taxpayers with
the same income and the same interest
in winning the war are paying different
amounts of war tax according to whether
they live in this State or that; and that
is wrong. With lessened obligations, the
State Governments are rejoicing in in-
creased revenues because they are taxing
vast multitudes whom the Commonwealth
Government has put in work or provided
with the means of earning more; the
N. S. Wales Government, they might have
added, by various tricky devices is bleed-
ing taxpayers in certain groups for more
than was extracted from them last year
in income tax and unemployed-relief tax,
and as a result of this trickiness
the Commonwealth will get less from
these taxpayers next year. The States
have no need to worry about unemploy-
ment or child endowment or widows’
pensions; the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, on the other hand, will have a
deficit of £70,000,000 by June 30, and is
faced with the necessity of finding
£1,000,000 a day, perhaps £360,000,000
for the year. By spreading the burden
equally and simplifying company taxa-
tion (with the present shoal of company
imposts companies don’t know where they
are) the Commonwealth Government
could get another £12,000,000 to
£15,000,000 and must have it. It has
nothing more in mind than securing suffi-
cient war revenue in the fairest and most
economical way; it has “no political
platform to realise or objective to reach.
But the Premiers couldn’t think of any-
thing but their alleged necessities and
constitutional “rights.” Mr. Dunstan
did mumble something about the Vic-
torian taxpayer having to pay more
(family men on £3OO p.a. and under
and on £6OO and £lOOO and upwards
would actually pay less, and those who
would pay more would find compensation
in being delivered from the agony of fill-
ing in unnecessary forms and, in the case
of employers, from the burden of acting
as unpaid collectors and assessors for
the State Government), but his chief
grievance was that uniform tax would be
“the first and final step towards unifi-
cation.” Mr. Willcock screeched that
“the States created the Commonwealth”
(which shows how little he knows about
it), “and never expected to see it de-
velop into a Frankenstein monster. ’
Mr. Forgan Smith declared that to
r-r-r-rob the State Government of its
right to tax would be unconstitutional;
it would be “a step towards totalitarian-
ism” ; the States would become vassals
of the Commonwealth. And, after a
brush with Mr. Chifley, he shouted
“These powers might pass into the hands
of Labor-r-r hater-r-r-rs, and Ah’m not
going to ha’e it.”
But it was reserved for Mr. McKell
to give the most sickening exhibition.
Mr. McKell repeated his snuffling assur-
ance (made so often that at times he
believes it himself) that he was “pre-
pared to give all the co-operation that is
needed in the interests of the nation,
but he was aghast at the thought of being
deprived of the power to tax people
through the nose to pay for services
which county councils attend to in Eng-
land inexpensively and to maintain an
immense establishment, with 90 politi-
cians at £875 p.a., who are idle most of
their time, and a lot more for 13 Min-
isters and officers of both Houses and
gold passes for the whole crowd, plus 60
present Ms.L.C. and about a hundred
more who were retired when the House
was “reformed.” “The proposals are
revolutionary,” screamed Mr. McKell.
What mandate have 1 from the people
of my State to hand over to the Common-
wealth the very heart and the very basis of
government in New South Wales? Even
if I wished to do so, and even if I thought
I should, would it not be accepted as a
betrayal of the trust imposed on me at
the last elections? If the compensation
were double it would not in the least
affect my attitude.
At Premiers’ conferences there is
always an army of secretaries, financial
advisers and so forth. Among these
persons there must have been some who
know all about Mr. McKell and the
way he has discharged “the trust im-
posed on me at the last elections”—how
on his first mission to Canberra he
demanded immense loans from the hard-
pressed Commonwealth Treasurer, alleg-
ing that they were for purposes (provin-
cial dirt-jobs) equal in importance to
the war effort, how he promised to get
dairy-farmers more for their cows’
milk and reduce the price to the con-
sumer, and how he swore that when he
'“abolished” the unemployed-relief tax
less would be taken from taxpayers than
they paid in relief tax and income tax.
It says much for the good manners of
these persons that they restrained them-
selves from bursting into laughter,
“Well,” said Mr. Curtin, winding up
the discussion, “I presume you are all
opposed to the uniform-tax principle.”
And all the Premiers said they were.
It remains for the Prime Minister to
ask Parliament to give effect to the prin-
ciple as a thing warranted by necessity
and equity, not only in these times but
for all time. Though Premiers talk of
taking him to the High Court and thence
to the Privy Council (it would be a foul
proceeding at such a time), his powers
are such that he can despise such threats.
Even if there were no limits to what he
can do in a national-security measure,
he could make State Income-tax Acts
unworkable by invoking Constitutional
Section 109 (“where a law of a State
is inconsistent with a law of the Com-
monwealth, the latter shall prevail, and
the former shall, to the extent of the
inconsistency, be invalid”) and adapting
k to the emergency,
PLAIN ENGLISH
McKnell's Heroics.
After a pedestrian interval, Mr. McKnell
returned to the top of his form as an un-
conscious humorist in one of the week-
end articles he “writes” for a Sydney
newspaper.
Mr. McKnell’s subject was high
strategy. Premising that “I do not par-
ticipate in the councils which decide high
strategy” (an unpardonable omission), he
condemned the high strategy of the Allies
—so vehemently that he exhausted his
vocabulary and repeated himself. Begin-
ning with “woolliness, lack of clear-cut
decision and general uncertainty,” he
passed on to “indecision,” “inability to
come to conclusions” and “a fobbing
off to some far distant tomorrow of dif-
ficulties which must be settled eventually
and which should be settled as they
arise” ; thence to “slovenly action and
slovenly thinking”; finally to “the
uncertainty, the muddle and the lack of
definite clear-cut thinking and action
which have characterised Allied strategy
up to date.”
At this stage, it became necessary for
the remorseless critic to pass the buck
to someone, and who more accessible
than Mr. Curtin? That gentleman, having
been praised for “his aggressive and
statesmanlike line,” was bidden to remem-
ber that much remained for him to do.
Mr. Curtin “must protest” against the
woolliness, the uncertainty, the inde-
cision, the lack of clear-cut decision, the
slovenly action and slovenly thinking, the
lack of definite clear-cut thinking and
action, and the fobbing off to some far
distant tomorrow of difficulties which
must be settled eventually and which
should be settled as they arise. Mr.
Curtin “must” —but this “must” calls for
a separate paragraph:
He must demand in the higher Allied
councils whatever reorganisation may be
necessary to give to the fighting services
the positive, dynamic and confident leader-
ship without which the best fighting men,
the most up-to-date equipment in the world
are thrown away.
Poor Mr. Curtin ! Like Mr. McKnell
he has never heard a shot fired in action.
Himself an old trade-union secretary he
tried for four months, passing from
honeyed words to invective and threats,
to induce a parcel of rebellious miners
to hew coal for the nation in its ex-
tremity without indulging in their lawless
strikes, and tried in vain. Yet with no
more knowledge of military matters than
is possessed by a peaceful tuckpointer or
a McKnell he is ordered to demand “in
the higher Allied councils whatever re-
organisation may be necessary to give to
the fighting services positive, dynamic
and confident leadership”—at the risk of
being asked to explain what he means
by “reorganisation,” giving details, and
to produce his nominations for positive,
dynamic and confident leadership, if any.
And ordered by Mr. McKnell!
But Mr. McKnell’s heroics had an
exquisitely ridiculous anti-climax. Three
days afterwards “S. M. Herald” an-
nounced, on his authority, that his
Cabinet had on the previous day “decided
to defer making a decision on the pro-
posal that picture theatres should be
opened on Sundays for the entertainment
of the troops”—“decided to defer mak-
ing” the “decision” until after the Pre-
miers’ conference had “discussed the
matter.” . ..
So this stern and unbending critic of
high strategy ; this scorner of war leaders
who have to organise transport and all
manner of supplies for and direct the
movements of millions of men in five
continents and on and above the Seven
Seas ; this hater of woolliness, slovenly
action and slovenly thinking, uncertainty,
indecision, inability to come to conclu-
sions, and fobbing off to some far distant
tomorrow of difficulties which must be
settled eventually, and which should be
settled as they arise ; this provincial Pre-
mier, in short, couldn’t make up his own
mind and give his own Cabinet a lead
on a trumpery question of Sunday pic-
ture shows.
Beasts on the Prowl.
In Sydney 55 years ago four young
ruffians concerned in what is still known
as the Mount Rennie case were hanged
on the same gallows for rape. Because
of their youth and the loose character
of the woman, efforts to secure a reprieve
were made until they had almost mounte
the scaffold. The infliction of the death
penalty startled an age that was m no
way squeamish where criminals were
concerned, but it had a most salutary
effect. Many years elapsed before an-
other rape case came before a Sydney
“Nowadays,” the Commonwealth Statis-
tician records, “juries are reputed to e
loth to convict on this charge owing to


the uncertainty of whether sentence of
death will be pronounced.” Sentence of
death is occasionally pronounced, but is
never carried out. In two horrible cases
tried in Sydney recently—one may have
suggested the other —each of the victims
was a child, and she was not only out-
raged but murdered. One monster
escaped the rope, and it is certain that
the other, though his fate nominally
remains to be decided, will continue to
pollute the earth ; for the Labor Govern-
ment is against capital punishment.
For a variety of reasons, among them
the decline of parental control and the
vogue of pornography in magazines and
plays, and of aphrodisiac illustra-
tions in newspapers, rape is one of the
increasing crimes. U.S. Department of
Justice statistics for 223 cities with a
total population round 30,000,000 show
that, whereas cases of murder, man-
slaughter, burglary and theft of auto-
mobiles have steadily declined, the
number of rape cases increased from 1657
in 1931 to 2487 in 1939. In N. S. Wales
in 1939 there were 17 arrests for rape,
10 for attempts to commit rape, 99 for
indecent assaults on girls under 16 years
of age and 24 for indecent assaults on
females, though in 37 of these cases the
prosecution was withdrawn or the
accused was discharged.
The number of prosecutions notoriously
forms only a small proportion of the actual
offences committed. Because the defence
is nearly always that the girl was a con-
senting party, and is very often success-
ful, victims shrink from exposing their
shame in court or parents refuse to let
them go into the box. And, of course,
there are cases in which evidence of iden-
tity is unobtainable, especially where silly
girls allow themselves to be picked up
by ferocious degenerates in cars.
The brownout has made this class
of criminal more daring than ever,
especially in Sydney, With the streets in
semi-darkness, decent girls going home
from work are insulted and molested by
obscene ruffians, who know that there is
not one chance in a thousand of police
interference—since constables became
traffic cops, electoral department can-
vassers and the like, the policeman with
a regular beat seems to have disappeared.
To protect girls and women against the
beast on the prowl he should be brought
out of his retirement, and juries and
Governments should harden their hearts.
Mr. Curtin and Mr. Ward.
At the beginning of the week, with Par-
liament about to meet again, almost
everyone was asking what Mr. Curtin
was going to do about Mr. Ward, and
it was certain that the question would
be repeated in the House, with some
asperity, if the interesting pair had not
by that time parted company,
Mr. Curtin is Prime Minister and Mr.
Ward is Minister for Labor and National
Service. As Prime Minister, Mr. Curtin
gave the people a precise and detailed
account of the position brought about
by the coalmining strikes in N. S. Wales,
and, generally speaking, absolved the
employers from blame, stating that
miners had struck time after time for
frivolous reasons. On these points Mr.
Ward publicly contradicted him. Another
party of coalminers having absented
themselves from work without good
cause, Mr. Curtin announced that
Statutory Rule 77, which authorises the
drafting of such persons into the military
or a labor camp, would apply, having
become “the law of the land.” Mr. Ward
thereupon said that Statutory Rule 77
would not be enforced by him as
Minister.
For three days last week there were
no stoppages in N.S.W. coalmines, and
friends of Mr. Ward asserted that this
was due to Mr. Ward’s pilgrimage to the
coalfields, during which he appealed to
the miners to be good boys and attacked
the mineowners. Another theory is that
it was due to the miners having a case
before the Coal Reference Board for a
10 p.c. increase in pay. The chairman
of the Coal Reference Board is Federal
Arbitration Judge Drake Brockman, and
it is not the habit of Federal Arbitration
Judges to hear wages claims in which
strikers are concerned. A beginning was
made with the hearing of the claim, and
a representative of the employers pro-
tested that Mr. Ward had interfered on
the side of the men in disputes which
should have been sent to the Coal Refer-
ence Board. Thereupon Judge Drake
Brockman said: “I prefer not to discuss
Mr. Ward or his actions or to criticise
the Government, but I am not going to
have the Minister set up as a Court of
Appeal over me. If anything like that
happens I shall simply walk out on it.”
The bearings of the Judge’s forth-
right observation don’t apply merely to
the coalmining industry. As part of a plan
to get better work done on the water-
front, concerning which lamentable facts
have tardily come to light, though not
all the facts, a Stevedoring Commission
has been set up, with the Chief Judge
of the Arbitration Court as chairman
and representatives of the employers and
the Waterside Workers’ Federation, three
in each case, as voting members—there
is also a Federal public servant who has
no vote. Admirers of Mr. Ward have
gleefully announced that any decision
arrived at on the casting vote of Chief
Judge Piper may be vetoed by Mr. Waid
as Minister. This veto, if the Chief
Judge can be imagined as acquiescing in
it, might lead to difficulties with valiant
and most welcome allies to whom Mr.
Curtin has promised “support to the
limit.”
Australia has had some queer Govern-
ments, but it has never before had one
in which a Minister publicly contradicted
and defied his Prime Minister and got
away with it. Even Mr. Scullin dis-
pensed with the services of Mr. Anstey
when the presence of Mr. Anstey in
the Scullin Ministry had become em-
barrassing. And Mr. Scullin is now Mr.
Curtin’s confidential adviser.
Dedmcm's Slur.
Mr. Ward is never tired of bragging at
meetings of trade-unionists —N. S. Wales
coalminers preferred—how he caused
Commonwealth Bank employees to be
placed on the reserved-occupation list
and trading-bank employees to be struck
off it. And Mr. Dedman has made no
secret of his opinion that the trading
banks are superfluous luxuries —though
he has querulously objected to branches
being closed without his permission.
Referring to enlistments from bank
staffs he indulged in an unworthy sneer:
It is recognised that [trading] banks have
lost large numbers of their male staffs by
enlistments. This may have been due to the
generous treatment in connection with
salaries, pensions and other rights which
some banks have accorded members of
their staffs whose enlistment they approved.
An indignant reply came from the Bank
of N.S.W. branch of the Returned Sol-
diers’ League, . The branch pointed out
that 40.6 p.c. of the ’Wales staff enlisted
in 1914-18 without pension rights, and
that 81 p.c. of the staff employed at
4/ 9/ ’39 enlisted for this war, 90 p.c.
of them having no pension rights.
A matter of special concern to our mem-
bers is that our officers enlisted with the
knowledge that, if they are spared to return
fit for duty, positions in the bank’s service
would be available. If the Government’s
demands that “trading banks reduce the
services they give to the public and close
a large number of branches” are met, it is
obvious that at the end of the war the
bank will have a substantial surplus of
staff for whom employment must be
found.
The branch informed the Prime Minister
that it took strong exception to the state-
ment that enlistment “may have been
due to” what Mr. Dedman apparently
thought a stronger call to danger, hard-
ship and death than love of country.
There is a case for “rationalisation” —
rationalisation of the performances and
utterances of Ministers Dedman and
Ward so that they may be prevented from
proceeding on their theory, and spitting
insults in the process, that “the war can't
be won under the present system.”
"Over the Fence."
Tolerance has long been a British
characteristic —too long, some people
aver with reason —and to nobody has
the tolerance been, extended more than to
the irresponsible and ill-balanced type of
newspaperman who writes about the war.
But tolerance has its limits, and those
limits were clearly passed by the kind of
thing which the British Minister for
Information found it necessary to squelch.
Some of the offending passages, when
republished by Mr. Brendan Bracken,
had an all too familiar ring in that part
of Australia upon which the cackling of
the noisy birds is inflicted. Neil Grant,
a South African journalist in London,
was able to state that the offending mes-
sage to his country—
Anxiety is rising here as evidence
accumulates that the Government’s offer to
India is merely political trash —
was sent by a correspondent to a weekly
paper, both “unknown to responsible
South African journalists in London.”
Unfortunately, Australia couldn’t say
the same about either Mr. F. Ehrenfried
Baume or the weekly paper which carries
the emanations from his pen. A mes-
sage from Ehrenfried which was too
much for British tolerance ran, as printed
in Australia,
the manager of one of London’s most
exclusive and famous restaurants who,
after his internment, now greets his clients
with the same urbane bow as before
The collection of German, Austrian and
Italian waiters, with a Turk or two, and a
few Spaniards and Hungarians thrown in,
are able, if they so desire, to hear from
crowds of drink-befuddled men in uniform
secrets which might cause the loss of
British lives, and, indeed, could lead to
the nations defeat....
There was more, about “admirals and
air-marshals” getting tanked and “talking
loosely” and how they could get away
with it while poor old “Private Bloggs,”
boozing in Soho, got the blame for every-
thing.
It came out as part and parcel of the
anti-British sentiment which reared its
ugly head in sections of the Australian
press a few weeks ago ; and the British
could have selected other bad examples,
Ehrenfried is lucky that his credentials
weren’t withdrawn and that indignant
service men didn’t catch him, in which
case there would have been no peace in
Palestine that night.
EXCELSIOR!


J
p:±y y :
: :; ; tr-
ip
v
FULL OF LIFE
YOUR children, too, will be full of life
if you keep them free from constipation.
When they are constipated, give them
NYAL FIGSEN, the gentle, ‘natural
laxative. Children love to chew Figsen.
It’s kind to sensitive tummies. It’s
so dependable and thorough. Its action
is so easy and comfortable—no nausea,
no pain. NYAL FIGSEN tablets are
good for grown-ups too. Figsen is one
of the 168 dependable NYAL FAMILY
MEDICINES. Sold by Chemists every-
where. l/3i a tin.
The next best thing to Nature . . .
NyalFiffsen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £ 1/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STKEJET, S¥DNE¥
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
STAMPS
100 New Zoalands, all different 8/-
100 Australians,- all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Lists—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Bst. 56 Years.)
&
9i.
dsf
T J 0 N E 5 E CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
THE
“BOULIA”
BIG DIP STOCK SADDLE
N.B.W.
Freight
Saddlea
Paid for
Cash unth
Order.
£l5/15/-
(COMPLETE)
Has plenty of
dip in the seat
and the pads are
high. It has the
popular short
panel with
leather facings at
back. Built on a best
“Fouright” Tree. the
materials are first-class
throughout.
Come and inspect our
range of Genuine True-
tOr-LabelWieneke Saddles.
M-
POLITICAL POINTS
Curtin to the Six Narks:
The Commonwealth is pegging wages
and pegging profits for the period of the
war. Why shouldn’t it peg State taxation?
To that there is no answer, so the Six
Narks took refuge in bluster and blither.
“Special Grants. Claimant States
Perturbed,” says Melbourne “Age.”
Shouldn’t it have been “Clamant”?
Referring to strikes and to work-shy
wharf-laborers (“men on A.R.P. jobs
were at it with their coats on, but the
wharfies decided it was too wet to work”)
a Labor P.M. held forth in this strain:
That sort of thing is defeatism of the
worst kind. It is stabbing the country in
the back. I am not going to occupy the
position of Prime Minister and see the
country betrayed
Curtin? No; Fraser, of Maoriland.
Fraser is still P.M.
A Communist in uniform got 6890
votes at the Port Melbourne Assembly
by-election, and Corrigan’s majority was
only 3266. The Corns, are jubilant,
but though there are Corns, in Port Mel-
bourne, as in other waterfront electorates,
most of the 6890 voted for the uniform.
Others were against Corrigan because they
are tired of seeing Labor meekly support-
ing a minority Agrarian Government
which stands for a cockeyed distribution
of electorates.
Hoarse cry of Westralian Premier
Willcock, objecting to one income tax,
such as they have in Britain, Maoriland
and South Africa and are to have in
Canada: —
The States created the Commonwealth,
but never expected it to develop into a
Frankenstein monster.
The States never created the Common-
wealth. It was “the people of New South
Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
Queensland and Tasmania,” who “agreed
to unite in one indissoluble Federal Com-
monwealth,” and “the people of Western
Australia,” who “agreed thereto” (by
44,800 to 19,691). These elementary
truths are expressed in the Common-
wealth of Australia Constitution Act.
Willcock should read it some time.
In a survey of the winter war on the
Russian front, Fletcher Pratt wrote
shrewdly that two expert propaganda
rhachines, as well as two armies, were
battering at each other there. The expert
propaganda machines had a great time
on Hitler’s birthday. One bombed his
headquarters, “killing 28 staff officers” ;
the other annihilated a Russian army—
“ 11,000 prisoners, 57,000 killed,”
If Judge Lowe’s report on the bombing
of Darwin can’t yet be published in de-
tail, something ought to come out in
Parliament about Ward’s much-advertised
mission to that port to organise wharf
labor there and the results. Some inquisi-
tive member might ask why the Steve-
doring Commission may be accounted
a sequel or whether it is a sequel
to something else. Apropos, the
“Wharfie,” still appearing surreptitiously,
exultantly remarks that “any decision
given on the casting vote of the chair-
man” (Federal Arbitration Judge Piper)
“may be vetoed by Ward.” Is there any-
thing in which Canberra is concerned that
may not be vetoed by Ward?
The age of miracles has returned—“for
three days of last week there were no
N.S.W. coalmines idle.” Ward claims the
credit; “S.M.H.” attributes it to Curtin’s
decision to enforce Regulation 77, which
Ward said he wouldn’t enforce. Another
theory is that the fellow who was to put
the water in the other fellow’s boots went
fishing instead,
Tully, McKnell’s Lands Minister, is
“planning to bring down in the State
Parliament soon a measure for closer
settlement,” and hopes to “have areas
ready to absorb members of the fighting
services immediately they return to civil
life.” This knowledge should be kept
by Old Diggers from “members of
“Where the Government considers Rule 77 applicable it will be enforced.” — Mr. Curtin.
“As far as I am concerned, Rule 77 never will be used against the workers.” — Mr. Ward.
“I believe in one law for the capitalist and another for my cobbers, so I WON'T
help you, Sergeant Curtin.”
the fighting services” ; it is essential that
their morale should be maintained.
“This country is in deadly peril, and
I intend to oppose every application for
exemption from military service.” State-
ment by a sergeant appearing on behalf
of the military in a Queensland Court
of Petty Sessions. Carry on, sergeant!
Told that a ship had been held up
for a month because of a dispute over
the ownership of her cargo, Minister
Badly said it was “a very serious matter;
I shall certainly investigate this report
and make representations to the Prime
Minister. Badly might mention at the
same time that he has heard of two (or
57) coalmines being held up, but perhaps
he is hard of hearing in these cases, being
Minister of Mines.
Getting about in rural N.S.W. is to be
made harder than ever. Added to petrol
rationing is the decision to reduce country
train services by about one-third. Rail-
way receipts for the nine months of the
financial year were £19,725,945, up
£1,889,688, but the increase must all be
metropolitan, since the Commissioner
says several country services are to be
cut “because of insufficient patronage.”
Earlier reasons were “insufficiency of
rolling stock,” so much of which McKell
sent to the Russians, and “depletion of
coal stocks.” Ward denies that there
has been any depletion of coal stocks.
Grateful for small mercies, N.S.W.
motorists felt a bit less gloomy when the
Sydney Government, after a display of
reluctance, gave them a 20 p.c. cut in
motor registration fees. Then somebody
remembered that registration had been
increased p.c. since the war, though
not by McKell’s Government, and
motorists resumed their habitual harried
expressions.
Ward has repeated his charge that
newspapers don’t give fair reports of,the
causes of coal-stoppages. But what does
Ward consider a fair report?
Reviewing his mission to India at one
of the largest press conferences since the
outbreak of war, Sir Stafford Cripps said
that the outlook was not gloomy, and
not as encouraging as it might have been,
but it was more encouraging than it
would have been if his visit had not been
made. He might have added that it
would be more encouraging if it were
less discouraging, and less gloomy if it
were more bright.
“S. M. Herald’s” Canberra corre-
spondent has found the right title for
Ward—“ Minister for Labor and National
Disservice.”
“As far as I am concerned” —Ward
speaking—“ Statutory Rule 77 will never
be used against workers.” It was never
intended to be used against workers;
only against workstoppers.
As “S.M.H.” sees it;
The State Premiers’ perverseness.... has
strengthened popular opinion in favor of
unification, but any move in this direction
at present is quite out of the question.
The stress of war rules out major con-
stitutional changes.
Does it, indeed? “The command in chief
of the naval and military forces of the
Commonwealth” (Section 68) “is vested
in the Governor-General” no longer.
After that suspension of State Parlia-
ments for the duration should be easy
when uniform taxation becomes a fact.
One of the first things Corrigan,
M.L.A. for Port Melbourne, told his
constitutents was that his party (Labor)
believed in abolition of State Parliaments
and that his “efforts would be exerted
in that direction.” Another “One-way
Corrigan”!
Dunstan predicts that a storm of pro-
test will sweep Australia from one end
to the other if the Commonwealth de-
cides to proceed with the uniform tax.
If the six State Premierships were abol-
ished there would be a storm of protest
from six State Premiers,
At the week-end Lazzarini, as Com-
monwealth Home Security Minister, and
the Premiers were arguing about brown-
out and blackout, and Laz.’s defini-
tion of a brownout was as clear as mud.
He finally threw the onus of defining
what is or is not a brownout back on
the A.R.P. wardens, who are wondering
how they’re going to reconcile official
demands with the advice that they must
“gain the friendship and confidence of
residents in your patrol.”
Dunstan, who is making such- a
song about his “right” to impose two
income taxes —one being for the “relief”
of “unemployed” who don’t exist —leads
a small party of Victorian Agrarians, and
has, with Labor backing, completed seven
years as Premier. In all that time Mel-
bourne, with just about half the popula-
tion of the State, has been without repre-
sentation in the Ministry. This sort of
thing could never have happened if most
Victorians had not lost interest in State
politics.
Queensland Taxpayers’ Association
has advised the Prime Minister that it
“views with concern a press report re-
garding the proposed appointment of a
tea commissioner at a salary of £l5OO a
year.” It should, as the association
pointed out, have been easy to obtain
from Customs and tea merchants an effi-
cient voluntary control as it was to
obtain it from insurance companies with
respect to war-damage insurance. But,
somehow, Federal Labor is just as heavily
cursed with the theory that commis-
sioners can control everything as are
State Governments. The bad part is that
these gentlemen are always appointed,
never selected from applicants on a com-
petitive basis, which would give some
guarantee of qualifications.
If anything happened to Curtin Beasley
would probably succeed him if the party
remained in office (Dr. Evatt has other
ambitions), but P.Ms. from Beasley’s
state have been unfortunate. Though
there have been six (out of 14) not one
lasted a full Parliamentary term as a
Ma State member. Certainly Hughes
was P.M. from October 27, 1915, to
February 9, 1923, but he ceased to be
M.H.R. for West Sydney on March 26,
1917, and at the election of December,
1922, which witnessed his flight from
Bendigo to North Sydney, his Govern-
ment was wrecked. Barton’s period of
office ran from Jan. 1, 1901, to September
24, 1903, Watson’s from April 27, 1904,
to August 17, 1904, Reid’s from August
18, 1904, to July 5, 1905, Cook’s from
June 24, 1913, to September 17, 1914, and
Page’s from April 7, 1939, to April 26,
1939. The doctor, of course, merely filled
a gap.
“Once upon a time,” a Tasmanian
writer notes, “Tasmania apparently con-
tained other things than just tax-col-
lectors and politicians,” This claim that
tax-collectors and politicians are just
only in Tasmania is another example of
puffed-up State pride.


\ Sis, > * !> fi?
. ...
WORLD FAMOUS SHIPS
including the “Queen Elizabeth,” 85,000 tons (illustrated);
“Queen Mary,” 81,250 tons; “Mauretania,” 35,000 tons, use
Exide batteries for essential equipment. You, too, can depend
on Exide for your car, radio or home lighting plant.
Exide batteries
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
PERSONAL ITEMS
Dr. Charles Halliley Kellaway now
a colonel —who has returned from a
special mission to parts abroad to study
developments in medical research, knows
and is known in those parts quite well. He
visited Johns Hopkins University (U.S.) in
1936 to deliver the Dohme Lectures, and
his findings on snake venom are familiar
to physiologists the world over. He won
the M.C. while serving as an A.A.M.C.
major in the 1914-18 war; in this one
he has done invaluable work in systema-
tising blood-transfusion methods for the
A.I.F. Director of the Walter and Eliza
Hall Institute at Royal Melbourne, and
director of pathology on the Army
Medical Directorate, he is 53.
Found dead in a bath at Parliament
House, Sydney, George Alan Lachlan
Wilson, of Lake Cowal (N.S.W.), farmer,
soldier and M.L.A. for Dubbo since 1932.
A Melbourne Scotch College boy, he went
off to the 1914-18 war and came back
with injuries (he lost a leg) which told
against him in middle life and contri-
buted to the seizure which ended in
death. There was no better-known or
better-liked figure in the Forbes district
or in Macquarie-street, Sydney. Big,
quiet and straight, he did a lot of solid
work for land men.
Municipal controversies on Thursday
Island can be promptly settled by the
Mayor, Town Council, aldermen and
town clerk—all that need happen is
that the town clerk, W. S. De’Arth, put
a motion to himself and carry or defeat it
as the spirit moves him. Since evacuations
have deprived the council of a quorum,
a Public Safety Regulation has given
De’Arth all the powers of the Mayor,
T.C., a. and t.c. He is empowered to
“exercise all the powers of a local
authority” and “to carry on all works
now authorised or begun by Thursday
Island Town Council.” Thus war, while
unmaking kings, makes them.
Lieutenant-General George Howard
Brett, Chief of the U.S. Army Air Corps,
has, like General MacArthur, been a sol-
dier all his life. In 1909 he graduated
from the Virginia Military Institute, one
of the two or three military schools
equivalent to West Point, and was posted
to the Philippines as second lieutenant
the following year. He passed through
LIENT.-GEN. G. H. BRETT.
the cavalry into the aviation section of
the U.S. Signal Corps, the baby which
grew into today’s huge Army Air Force ;
was in France with the A.E.F. ; and was
transferred to the just-formed U.S. Army
Air Corps in 1922. In 1934 Brett became
lieut.-colonel; he was brigadier-general
two years later and in command of the
19th Wing, Albrook Field, Panama; and
in 1938, as Assistant Chief, Army Air
Corps he took charge of the Materiel
Division Wright Field, Ohio. From
there he* stepped up to his present posi-
lion Bretfs flying; hours.run mto thou-
and South Atlantic ferry services were
fofmed tQ take rein f orceme nts to Britain,
Bom clevelands Q hio, in 1886, he is
married and has two sma n children.
j John A Robenson> who has
American A comman d in Aus-
began hjs army career 36
years ago as a cadet in the noted
y & ppmmnnt nt rhev-
9th a U ’^ v^! ry tanned and
enne, Wy 8- 1 ' , .
wiry, hes a typical cavalryman,
COLONEL J. A. ROBENSON.
carries in his outfit a box of three well-
cared-for saddles with bridles and halters.
In 1916, in Mexico, he rode days and
nights with General Pershing’s men after
Pancho Villa; after that he went to
France with the A.E.F. and saw service
with the artillery. Robenson was on his
way to the Philippines (he was there in
1914-16) when he received orders to pro-
ceed to Australia, and arrived here with
the first detachment of U.S. troops.
Latest Australian to be promoted from
the R.A.A.F. to an important job in the
R.A.F. in England is Acting Squadron-
Leader Robert Wilson Iredale, of Heidel-
berg (Vic.). He commands a section of
Blenheim bombers which forces night-
closing on German aerodromes. Before
he joined the R.A.A.F. Iredale was man-
ager for Vacuum Oil in New Guinea.
Eighteen years ago, at Roma (Q.), Con-
stable C. B. Bright tried to arrest an armed
man who’d already served a sentence for
murder. The quarry aimed a revolver at
Bright and pulled the trigger. Nothing
happened and the quarry ran, with the
constable after him. As he ran the man
loaded the gun, swung round and dropped
the policeman with a bullet through the
arm —his watch chain stopped the bullet
entering his stomach. Pulled in later, the
gunman got a second life sentence.
Bright got the King’s Medal, became a
sergeant and received a medal and ten
guineas from Roma citizens. Now at
Mackay, he has been promoted to sub-
inspector at Bundaberg. On his watch
chain is the bullet that started it all.
Henry Alexis Kauper, dead in Mel-
bourne at 54, was the kind of man who
couldn’t hear a door slam without think-
ing of some way to make it close more
discreetly. He did more than think, how-
ever, and during a lifetime prolific in
inventions helped to develop the pedal
wireless; discovered a method (the
Kauper-Sopwith) of firing machine-guns
through ’plane propellers ; invented an
electrical nose for smelling out mineral
deposits (it started scores of people
searching in Gippsland for the
£20,000,000 reputedly buried there by
Peruvian pirates); pioneered sound effects
in radio broadcasts (a Japanese invasion
he staged in Adelaide in 1925 produced a
minor panic); was the first person in the
world to broadcast animal heartbeats ;
erected several Australian radio stations
and helped to build aircraft. When this
war started Kauper was working on air-
craft production, and last year he was
technician for 3DB, the “Herald” station.
He flew with Harry Hawker in the
1914-18 war.
In between juggling ledgers and balances
at the Hobart branch of the Bank of
Australasia, young J. S. B. Davis juggled
halyards and jibs aboard yachts on the
Derwent, or trained to stroke the Uni-
versity eight—he collected a Diploma of
Commerce there. When war came he
slammed shut the ledgers, poked his oars
under the house and got into khaki. As
a lieutenant of signals he was given the
job of grouping the first Tasmanian
A.I.F. men to leave for the mainland,
and was a captain by the time he arrived
in the Middle East. He got into, and
out of, Greece, was made a major and
has returned, a full-blown lieut.-colonel
and not yet 27.
Charles Kretsinger Gamble, chairman
and managing director of the Vacuum
Oil concern since 1938, has been ap-
pointed American Red Cross delegate for
Australia. He has been in this country
for 15 years, knows its people well and is
known by a good many of them. Since
the outbreak of war he has figured
prominently in the Victorian division of
the Australian Comforts Fund as well as
being liaison officer in Australia for the
Anzac Relief Fund of New York. Born
at San Mateo, California, Gamble was
with the A.E.F. in France. He will be
53 this year.
Back in Australia after mixing it
willingly with the Nazis is Flight-Lieut.
Frank Coker, a 28-year-old Sydney man
who has been fighting with Finucane’s
Spitfire squadron. Coker has 500 flying
hours to his credit, 200 of them in Spit-
fires. He figured in the attack on the
German battleships when they sneaked
through the Channel; took part in the
raid at Bruneval; has written off two
German ’planes and has had some narrow
squeaks, including a crash landing on the
English coast after a piece of shrapnel
had torn through his oil pipe. He trained
in Canada and finished his operational
training in Scotland.
“U”: The death of Sir Hamad bin
Tsa, ruler of Bahrein in the Persian Gulf
and a good friend of Britain, recalls that
he owed much of his wealth to pearl-
fishing in his State and to the persistence
of a Maorilander, Major Frank Holmes.
Holmes sought the right from the sheik
to bore for oil, but Hamad bin Tsa was
not enthusiastic —what he wanted, and
what his country needed, was water. So
Holmes bored for water and, to the
sheik’s delight, found it. The rest of the
proposition followed. Despite the adverse
reports of geologists, Holmes went to
London and New York and eventually
persuaded an offshoot of Standard Oil
to examine Bahrein. A tanker with the
first shipment of oil sailed in 1934, and
in 1940 1,200,000 tons was shipped, with
prospects of an increased output.
The flying Tasmanian Harold Gatty,
whose exploits were noted in B.
18/2/’42, is now “Director of Air Trans-
port with the U.S. Air Corps in Aus-
tralia.” He has been on the job for three
months or so with the rank of group
captain, and has been responsible for
the air transport of men and material
from the N.E.I. Experience in round-
the-world flying as a Pan-American Air-
ways pilot and representative and as a
widely-read writer on air navigation
fitted him for his present job.
Two vacancies on the Adelaide Uni-
versity Council —caused by the recent
death of T. E. Barr Smith and Frederick
Chapman—have been filled by a lawyer
and a professor. The lawyer—George
Coutts Ligertwood, 53, a graduate and
Stow Medallist of the University, and
K.C. since 1930 —is the son of a
mon frae Aberdeen. The professor —
Alexander Killen Macßeth, 52, Angas
Professor of Chemistry at the University
since 1928 and author of Organic Chem-
istry for Students —hails from Belfast.
Into the silence:-
The death, at 66, of Montague B. Were,
proprietor of Were’s Mercantile Agency in
Adelaide, breaks a link with the early days of
Melbourne. His paternal grandfather _ started
the real-estate business when Batman’s Mel-
bourne was still the village he envisaged. That
was in 1839. Montague’s father was the
“Son” of H. B. Were and Son when he joined
the firm. He left to become manager of R. G.
Dun and Co. in Adelaide and then started out
on his own. He has two parson sons, one an
R.A.A.F. chaplain; a third son is an R.A.A.E.
pilot.
At Lismore (N.S.W.), William Thomas Care,
editor of the “Northern Star,” one of the best
dailies in Australia. An Englishman, Care
came to Australia after service in the 8.E.F.,
1914-18, graduated into journalism via the
“Tweed Daily” and joined the “Star” as a
reporter in 1924. He contributed short stories
and articles to many journals, and while abroad
in 1931 looked into dairying and marketing
movements, giving the North Coast the benefit
when he got back. He was 48.
In Sydney, at 82, Captain F. W. Whitton,
a blue-water man from Launceston who sailed
the Tasman under canvas for 40 years as a
master in the Maoriland timber trade. A son
was killed in France in 1916, another is
lieutenant in the R.A.N. and a third was lately
appointed Maritime Services Commissioner.
In Sussex (Eng.), at 89, Reginald Bloxsome,
man-about-town in Sydney in the latter half of
the last century. He was private secretary to
three N. S. Wales Governors —Hercules Robin-
son, Augustus Loftus and Alfred Stephen —
and, later, secretary to the Metropolitan Water
Supply.
Theodore Fink, who died at 86 in
Melbourne last Saturday, was as well-
known in that city as St. Paul’s and
was known, too, in most of the world’s
capitals and innumerable country centres.
A Channel Islander (Guernsey), he came
to Australia as a toddler in 1860, took
up law, was in politics for 10 years
(M.L.A. for Jolimont and West Rich-
mond and an assistant Minister), but re-
signed to devote himself to law, business,
art and literature. After that Fink was
president or chairman of every kind of
council, board or conference in his home
city, and of many outside of it —one
steady job he held in that line for more
than a quarter of a century was the chair-
manship of directors of the Melbourne
“Herald and Weekly Times.” He had a
fine library, a valuable collection of pic-
THEODORE FINK.
tures and a store of good stories ; among
other services to art he supplied the
funds which enabled his friend Phil May
to study in Paris. One son was killed
on Gallipoli; two other sons and two
daughters survive the remarkable old
man.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre re-elected
The Bulletin’s old friend Talbot Smith
as president, and Tom Nave chairman
of the executive committee, which does
most of the work, authorising them to
give all or any of the year’s profits to
any war work. It has over 1500 members.
“C. 8.”: William Godwin Bailey, de-
clared a bankrupt in Melbourne, might
have become one of the city’s leading
magnates in happier times. He was its
original “Hamburger Bill.” Hitler spoiled
the business.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”; “Strict Veg.” (B. 22/4/’42) says
“even the righteous British, man, woman
and child, once drank small beer for
breakfast.” Probably they still do. As
an Australian whose parents would
have sooner given their offspring lysol
than beer, I confess it rocked me
back on my heels when I first saw an
English six-year-old gurgling happily
into a foaming glass at each meal.
Another custom that took an Aussie
time to get accustomed to was
seeing women breasting the bar with the
men and nonchalantly upending pints.
But the episode that most staggered Aus-
tralians of the “shouting” tradition was
when three natives came into a Mid-
lands pub and ordered a pint of beer.
One took a few sips, then passed it to
the next with a “soop oop, choom,” and
the pint kept moving among the trio
until the last drop had gone. Then they
all trooped out. We were obliged to
have an extra round to get over such
a sight.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Though the event was
somewhat obscured by the background
of war, most of the newspapers found
some space to record the 16th birthday
of the King’s elder daughter. Many a
flapper doubtless wished she were the
princess and entertained visions of the
splendors of Court life, with handsome
officers of noble birth paying homage,
scads of servants ready and eager to obey
her slightest wish and the welling cheers of
millions of loyal subjects to burst on her
ears every time she made a public appear-
(Mich.) a former Brisbane woman who
is co-heiress to a Brisbane estate worth
£ll,OOO. The Queensland Public Curator
made a search for an heir to the estate,
left by the Detroit woman’s stepmother,
and a clue that led to France on the trail
of a doctor had to be abandoned when
the Nazis swept in. The story is that the
co-heiress first married a ship’s doctor on
the Atlantic run. After his death she
came to Australia, ran a millinery busi-
ness and married a clergyman in the
“Joyful News Mission.” Within a year
he had left her and gone “with his
four daughters” to Denver (Col.), may-
hap to carry “joyful news” to other ears.
The other heiress is yet to be located.
* * * *
“K.”: Townshend’s sketch (B.
22/4/’42) of three air-raid wardens is cer-
tainly true to life in one particular aspect
—each had his tin hat with the chin-strap
under the chin. I have not struck a
warden yet who wears it otherwise. But
that way of wearing it was not always
popular. I recall a raw reinstoushment in
our unit who appeared on parade wear-
ing a tin hat for the first time, with the
strap tucked right under his chin. The
W. 0., w'ho liked his talent for sarcasm,
was brief: “See if you can get it back
under y’r chin a bit further,” he said,
indicating the strip of leather, “and at
the first shell-blast near y’ y’ll enjoy a
beautifully dislocated neck.” For that
reason we wore the strap at the back of
the neck. But perhaps a new theory
has now been evolved.
“Oliver Filter”: Several days ago, to-
gether with 16 other wardens, I donned
gas-mask, tin hat and old school tie and
sallied forth to protect our suburb against
the horrors of Mr. Heffron’s air-raid test.
For two long hours we wandered about
the streets expecting Mr. Heffron to
spring one of his “incidents” on us at any
moment, but a combat between two over-
fed lapdogs was all that occurred. Of 17
irritable wardens, my friend O’Stewart,
who has gout and the longest patrol, was
the most indignant. So he jumped at the
opportunity to repay the slight when he
was on duty at the wardens’ post a couple
of nights later and the control centre
rang through asking him to report within
20 minutes an imaginary “incident.” Five
minutes later O’Stewart telephoned con-
trol and reported that one (1) incendiary
bomb had fallen down the chimney and
was burning nicely in the fireplace, and
what were they going to do about that ?
“A.R.P.”: Since I’ve become a warden
in one of Australia’s toniest suburbs —a
good many of the tony have left it for
the greater security of inland parts —
it’s part of my duties to keep a house-
hold register of the people in my patrol.
Houses are being filled again—by munition
workers and other toilers who, suddenly
enjoying high wages, have decided to give
their families a taste of life among “the
heads.” Our streets, formerly the pre-
serve of small boys and girls mostly clad
in school uniforms or the apparel of the
progeny of the well-to-do, now echo to
“ Didn't you hear me say ‘Dress by the right!’?”
ance. But there is one thing about being
a princess of the blood which no woman,
especially those over 16, should overlook,
She will never be allowed to forget her
age.
* * * *
“Norther”: There seems to be material
for a novel in the claim that an Ameri-
can radio programme which goes in for
missing heirs has located in Detroit
the shout of kiddies in football guernseys
and other democratic regalia. One thing
these workers can show our suburb points
in is how to populate the place. Old
residents with their families of one or
two now feel overwhelmed by fours, fives
and sixes—there is one eight. But we
haven’t become a good hunting-ground
for the Labor politician because nobody
is more conservative than the wageplug
who suddenly finds himself in plutocratic
surroundings.
* * * *
“K.L.”: From an R.A.A.F. friend in
the North:
One bright youngster in our crowd, accord-
ing to the reports of his mates, goes out with
a sort of deadly boredom on the stunts. Being
confined to the ground, I don’t see anything
of the real thing, but there’s nothing to stop
me using the old imagination when a flight
heads for distant parts with racks loaded and
guns primed. After one such foray I heard
from others about this youngster. He’d run
in pretty low over the target, ignoring both the
flak and the interest of a couple of Zeros,
dropped his eggs, then climbed and circled
back, still amongst the flak, to give his observer
a chance. Then he came home. I struck him
that night and my admiration got the better
of me. “Gosh,” I said, “it must be great
to be you fellows, goin’ off on those stunts.”
“Yair?” he said. “Adventure, that’s what it
is,” I said. “Real adventure. And look at the
memories you’ve” But he walked away.
A few minutes later I came across him read-
ing a book, and, struck by his look of absorp-
tion, took a peep at the title. It was Tarzan
of the Apes.
* * * *
“Zake”: Oregon, once the Australian
carpenter’s best-known timber, is now
getting mighty scarce, which is why Syd-
ney citizens see countless acres of a pal-
ish yellow wood carrying umpteen knots
to the square foot where once plate-glass
"Get a move on; there's three more to have a go at."
“I know. But there's three more shells on the way up!"
gleamed. And a very serviceable timber
cypress pine is, grown on Australian soil
and shunned by termites if there is any
other fodder in sight. But a memory
has set me thinking. In a mid-west
N.S.W. district I saw the result of an
overdose of blasting powder applied by
a mug to a cypress stump. Hundreds of
long needle-pointed splinters flew, one
piercing the leg of a sheep a couple of
hundred yards away. As a splinterer
cypress is in the championship class, and
its splinters are unhealthy things to be
pricked by. Also the high resin content
of cypress makes it a fierce burner. Of
course plate-glass, the biggest killer of
all in an air raid, must be covered, but
cypress doesn’t seem to be the ideal
covering.
w * * •
“Tummas McNark”: Nobody riles me
more than the well-meaning person who
sees altruism in everything. For example,
an innocent M.A. who, in my afternoon
paper, lets himself go on the subject of
women and war. “Many thousands of
Australian women,” says he, “are eagerly
awaiting a chance to enter war factories.
Theirs is a spirit totally unselfish. They
have no wish to displace men from jobs
which are rightfully theirs —they simply
demand the right to fall in behind their
fighting men and work for the future of
Australia.” Very nice sentiment, no
doubt, but how many women would be
“eagerly awaiting their chance” if all
they were offered was the same rate o£
pay, with tucker and clothes, as the fight-
ing men get?
* * * *
“Hamer”: Most of the suicides of my
acquaintance having been pessimists, I
question “Spasebo’s” assertion (B.
15/4/ ’42) that “the most sanguine types
who have had few reverses” provide the
bulk of self-destroyers. I think his pre-
mises are all wrong. The average opti-
mist has to face many times the amount
of trouble endured by his opposite; he
takes risks which the pessimist would
shun and suffers the penalty-winning
some rewards also. But while the opti-
mist, sustained by the hope beyond, may
treat his trouble with levity, the pessi-
mist grouches about minor trials and is
ever obsessed with the fear of troubles
to come. It is true that among stage
people most of the tragical endings have
come to comedians; but offstage the
comedian is too often a sombre indivi-
dual and the worst of pessimists: the
prophecies of disaster to any show come
invariably, first of all, from the comedy
merchants.
* * ♦ *
“F.S.”: After the 1914-18 war circum-
stances compelled the cable cos., hitherto
enjoying a monopoly of international
communications, to amalgamate with the
pioneers of the new device of signalling
through the ether which had been so
enormously stimulated by war-time con-
ditions. The cable cos. did not actually
take to wireless themselves, but they
pooled their finances with the Beam and
borrowed its chief device to more than
double the speed and capacity of their
cables. It looks as if a somewhat similar
development will come about after this
war, and that the shipping cos. will either
have to take to the air themselves or
combine with the cinemas. By the time
the present shindy is finished statesmen,
diplomats and businessmen won’t even
consider lumbering through the Atlantic
in a ship, with the chance of hitting an
iceberg or a mine that has broken away
from its moorings. Journeys from Mel-
bourne to London, Moscow, Peking or
New York in three days, nonstop, ought
to be commonplace, with inclusive round-
the-world tours, taking in the Taj Mahal,
the Pyramids, Hollywood and the prin-
cipal war-wildernesses, occupying a fort-
night.
FRANKENSTEIN.
“Westralian Premier Willcock said that the States
had created the Commonwealth, but they had never
expected to see it develop into a Frankenstein
monster.” [“Frankenstein” — any creation that
brings trouble, anxiety or disaster on its authors. —
Dictionary .]
A quite intelligible word,
Albeit a trifle out-of-date,
Thafs regularly disinterred
When politicians perorate.
Though few of Mary Shelley’s book
Have read enough to quote a line,
It keeps a quite imposing look,
The growl about a Frankenstein.
A hardy annual, if you please,
That public speakers love to voice,
Same as the sword of Damocles —
Or Buckley’s chance or Hobson’s choice.
When anything you think you’ve made
Runs- counter to your own design,
You rummage through your stock-in-trade
And label it a Frankenstein.
Our Canberra cannot always be
A sort of fairy godmother
Disbursing handouts lavishly
To all who make a claim on her.
She’s got to show she holds the purse
And to be bounced or bluffed decline,
Though seekers for her favors curse
And ban her for a Frankenstein.
They fashioned her, the States may say;
Still, there’s one point they shouldn’t shirk:
Where would Australia stand today
Had she not been their handiwork?
What trials and troubles they’d have met,
What tribulations more condign
Than those for which they sourly set
The blame upon a Frankenstein!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
OUR DAY OF GLOOM.
You worthy folk who have ever stressed
The Seventh Day should be one of rest,
A proposition that none contest,
A vholesome doctrine that none repel
In theory, though in practice—well,
It isn’t always practicable,
For a Day of Leisure there’s surely room
Once in a sennight, but why assume
It must be also a Day of Gloom?
A Day when a grave and solemn face
Is vaguely reckoned to fit the case
And a peal of laughter sounds out of place?
A Day when a fellow must needs forgo
As impious and malapropos
Amenities of the passing show,
Sane recreations of body and brain
That yestere’en were as right as rain.
And will be the same tomorrow again?
Does it help religion, the atmosphere
So drab and dismal and scant of cheer
Which comes to warn us that Sunday’s here?
That, I suppose, is the way it’s viewed,
The immemorial attitude
Of the holy Wullies, the unco guid,
Who’re wont to tell us with frowning phiz
What a shockingly obnoxious biz
The Continental Sabbath is,
Though I doubt if many of those who claim
That sort of Sunday’s a thing of shame
Know anything of it—except the name.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


"Ike Hollar”: Ours is what The
Bulletin in bygone days used to call a
top-hatted subbub; its chief warden,
however, though a most competent chap,
mishandles his aitches. Recently he lec-
tured to a gathering of wardens and told
them “When the siren ’owls, ’op into
your hattire. Don’t worry whether you
look helegant or hinhelegant, ’urry to
your hobservation post. Helectrify
yourselves!” The tail-end of that speech
has swept the district. The milk-oh tells
his horses to “helectrify” themselves ; in
shops, in the hotel bar and in homes the
same instruction is given. While I was in
the little corner shop the other day the
Chief Warden came in in a hurry, for
tobacco. “Come on, Joe, get a move on.
‘Helectrify yourself,’ as the saying is,”
he said jovially. The good chap had
caught the general habit of the district,
apparently quite unaware that he was its
only true begetter.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Seekers of smokes in Mel-
bourne since the tobacco shortage set in
have been thronging the shops in such
numbers and using so many tricks and
subterfuges that the harassed assistants
have evolved a code to deal with the
situation. A middle-aged woman smoker
went into a shop and asked for a packet
of gaspers. “Are you an R.C.?” asked
the shopman. “I am not,” she snorted.
“How dare you ask me such a question?”
“I wasn’t asking you your religion,
madam. ‘R.C.’ stands for Regular Cus-
tomer,” replied the shopman.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I have just come across some
authors I suggested in The Bulletin 30
years ago for reading by prominent Aus-
tralians and people of certain localities.
They read oddly today. Douglas Mawson
(who was away in the Antarctic):
Strange Winter. Vernon Ransford;
Fielding Swift. Yass-Canberra (new then,
and regarded by The Bulletin as liable
to run short of water): Dryden, Wells.
For the paper-bag cook (it was a fad of
the moment): Lamb, Browning, Burnett.
For Mclntosh, who had a fondness for
importing negro boxers: Black, Blackie,
Blackmore. For Bill Lang and Bill
Squires, then past their best: “Punch”
(back numbers). Foreign capital ;
Exodus, London. The Electric Co.: Lyte,
Lytton. The Gas Co.; Hazlitt. Fcr the
yachtsman: Hugo Sterne. King O’Malley
and George Reid: Noyes Daley and
Fuller Tucker. The bookmaker: Watson?,
the Hebrew prophets. But I had one
prophetic success—for the White Aus-
tralian: Locke, Newbolt, Browne Mann
Gumming.
$ * *
“R.H.P.”: A few weeks ago the Tas-
manian Institute for the Blind, Deaf and
Dumb staged a trial air raid, and, as an
experiment, left the factory workers to
their own devices for the rehearsal.
When the siren sounded the blind
inmates stamped their feet on the floor.
Their deaf and dumb mates picked up
that signal, and, downing tools, led their
sightless cobbers to a place of safety.
I’m as deaf as a beetle, but I can feel
a pin drop on a wooden floor. Vibration
does the trick, of course. Apropos, a
“Ti e that end up or you'll be tearin' somebody's clothes!
teacher at the Tas. institution tells me
that as a rule, the blind children don’t
have their friends among the deaf and
dumb and don’t mix with them. Each
group pities the other and says it wouldn’t
swap afflictions on any account.
* * * *
“Fernie”: Too right that the Maori-
land hotel customer has no legal rights
(B. 22/4/’42). One of my most vivid
recollections of several years spent in
one of the dullest of M.L. cities is the
face of one of its most ponderous and
respectable citizens, a K.C., a pillar of
the Anglican church and a hobnobber
with bishops. He used to walk home
from his office on pleasant summer even-
ings, and never failed to call at a pub
on the way—always the same pub—for
half a pint of bitter. I was going in
as he was coming out one evening. His
face, always rubicund, was a deep purple,
and he was making choking sounds.
“Damned young puppy” seemed to be
the general tenor of those sounds.
Advancing to the bar, I spotted the
reason. The barkeep, a young man of
about 23, had been sampling the bottles
on the shelves unwisely. “No liquor for
you,” he snorted before I had time to
speak ; “you’re drunk! ” Evidently he
had said the same thing to the K.C. But
I don’t see why the same thing couldn’t
happen in N. S. Wales. A prohibitionist
Sydney parson declared a little while ago
that a publican has a right to refuse to
serve anybody. There used to
be a common-law obligation on
an innkeeper to provide refresh-
ment and lodging for man and
beast, but I’d like to see some-
body get accommodation for a
bullock team at the Australia.
It would be as ridiculous as to
expect the Plaza to provide a
bed.
“Eve”: “Zake” (B. 15/4/’42) says that
when the advertising of cosmetics returns
after the war “flapperdom will rush the
chosen shade with the usual avidity.”
Let me tell him that advertising plays a
minor role in the paint-drama. We fall
for very few ads., because we find out
pretty early just which shade is “our”
shade; then it’s “No, no! I simply
can’t wear any make-up that hasn’t
a touch of blue in it. I always
come back to this one and I
wouldn’t waste money on others. I’ll
experiment with my clothes but not with
my face.” Still, what really gets on our
nerves is that you men grin at us for
being concerned about our faces, but the
minute we aren’t, the minute we neglect
that “unnecessary” mascara or that
“waste-of-time” shampoo, you growl
horribly or —worse still —make eyes at the
first made-up girl you can find.
* * * *
“Slobart”: The suggestion mentioned
by “Avon” (B. 8/4/’42) that the inspira-
tion for “Scenes That Are Brightest” came
to Wallace while he gazed from the bal-
cony of Barret’s Hotel, Wellington, I will
challenge as a true Tasmanian, also the
claim of a Devonport pub. The spirit
moved Wallace while he was staying
at the Bush. Inn, New Norfolk, over-
looking the tranquil upper reaches of
the River Derwent. Wallace’s signature
is in the visitors’ book to prove it.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Every time I listen to a
Digger yarn told on the wireless, I seem
to hear the voice of Gil Emery, who
made a hit as Ginger Mick, the rabbit-
oh pal of “The Sentimental Bloke,” over
20 years ago —he went to Hollywood
afterwards and did well. Tal Ordell,
stepping into the part in subsequent re-
vivals, put in some good work of his
own, but adopted the hoarse gorblimey
voice, and used it later in radio plays
and stories told over the air when Aus-
tralian rough-as-bags types had to be
depicted. Now other broadcast per-
formers are unanimously imitating Ordell
for a type of Digger tales. The voice is
b ecoming monotonous. My main irrita-
tion rises from the feeling that it indi-
“Beg to report, sir, striped marlin sighted off the starboard quarter."
cates how satisfied Australians are with
imitative work.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The first case of an indi-
vidual being identified by his identity
card has occurred in Melbourne. A
young textile worker was found in a lane
off Little Bourke-street with a fractured
skull, having fallen from a window. He
died. The only evidence of who he was
was contained in a Commonwealth
civilian registration card found in his
pocket.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”; “If girls in munitions
plants ceased flying round the city in the
daytime when on night-shift they would
be able to stand up to their work,” writes
a Victorian mother to Melb. “Herald” ;
and she goes on to say that her daughter,
who has been working three shifts for
three months, looks fit and well and says
she loves it, though her work is heavy
and constant. I worked night-shift for
many years at a monotonous occupa-
tion and loathed sleeping in daylight.
So did most of my colleagues. Between
three and four in the morning was, for
some reason or other, always the zero
hour when everybody became depressed
or bad-tempered. Those were the times
when mistakes and accidents happened.
Then, for some reason or other, every-
body recovered, spirits rose and by
knock-off time, when our reliefs turned
up, sleep seemed a superfluous institu-
tion. Only a few disciplined themselves
to get a proper sleep issue. Some levied
toll on their physical resources to such
an extent that breakdowns were fre-
quent. It was an abnormal condition
which very few ever really got used to,
though the amount of sickness occa-
sioned was surprisingly little.
» * * 9
“Spokeshave”: The shortage of pota-
toes after last year’s glut is acute, and the
usual board is to be appointed to fumble
with the matter. A Victorian potato-
grower of my acquaintance made the
aptest comment on the situation when
he had to see an official about “releasing”
some equipment. “What are you doing
now on your property?” asked the
official. “Oh,” said the spud-producer,
“I’m building a pigsty out there at
present and I want one more board to
finish it’”
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: There has been a sad
change for the worse in the after-office-
hours ferry discipline of once-blameless
harborside residents. Instead of stepping
staidly aboard the ferry in the imme-
morial fashion they now make a black-
guard rush, half of them leaping across
a few feet of water to get aboard before
the boat is moored. The reason is
simple: all the globes have been blacked
out except for a small circle about the
size of a shilling on the bottom of each.
Through that small hole filters a beam
of light barely sufficient to illuminate a
couple of inches of evening newspaper.
So gents whose manners used to be irre-
proachable jostle for a position under the
light. At least half a dozen of them con-
gregate like sardines in each circle of illu-
mination ; and some, who can only get
places on the dim outside of the beatp,
stoop to such base acts as scratching a
spot of paint off the lamp to direct its
feeble gleam on to their news-sheets. I
tremble to think of what wild lawlessness
may ensue if ever the ferries are com-
pletely blacked out.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Another thing “every
schoolboy knows” (B. 15/4/’42) is that
if you put your hat on the ground and
then walk round it “widdershins” — i.e.,
contrary to the course the sun takes in
the heavens —every Chinaman in the vici-
nity will go off his rocker with rage and
fury. I tried it on our vegetable John
one day, but he only gave me a banana.
This confirmed me in the belief that this
infernal modern rationalistic education
has destroyed the best Chinese traditions.
« * * *
“Oxmead”: “Dipper,” coming in for
a final gnaw at the “morn-dawn” bone,
tells us in effect (B. 15/4/’42) that the
Australian ear is deaf to the difference
between “or” and “aw” —which, gener-
ally speaking, may be true —and inters
that the difference wouldn’t be perceptible
to anyone who hadn’t been brought up
to roll his “r’s,” which is far from the
truth. I think any capable teacher of
elocution could soon convince him that
the “r” in a word like “morn” could
be given its full value, and a perfectly
distinctive one, without any suggestion of
the “rolling” characteristic of certain
parts of the British Isles and the U.S.A.
A line from Keats seems worth quoting
in this connection:
Forlorn! The very word is like a bell.
Would “Dipper” think “fawlawn,” which
according to his argument, would give
him exactly the same sound picture, any-
thing like a bell? And Keats wasn’t of
Hibernian stock or a West Countryman.
He was a Londoner and noted the bell-
like sound without any “r”-rolling.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The controversy raging in
Melbourne and other cities over Sunday
entertainment for troops has its comic
aspect because one set of contestants
obviously doesn’t understand the other.
The Americans have their view as to
churchgoing and theatregoing on a Sun-
day and we have an entirely different
view. In the U.S.A. people have the
Continental fashion. When I was in
Paris I noticed the lads and lassies in
their thousands setting out from their
apartments with picnic-baskets on a
sunny Sunday morning. When they
came to a church they would pop
inside for a minute or two and
then go off to the railway station
and catch a train to Fontainebleau
or Versailles to spend the afternoon in
a pleasant country fashion. If anybody
had told them they were acting in an
impious manner they would have been
astounded. If people behaved in a
similar way in Melbourne parsons
would be shocked. They would be
equally shocked if they were asked to
return to the manners of the great age
of faith in Scotland, when sermons lasted
13 hours on end and preachers occupied-
the pulpit in relays.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Aratta”: Home from the township,
Dad told the family he had been made a
J.P, “Ole Ben White’s been the on’y one in
these parts for twenty years,” he said, “an’
he’s gettin’ too old for the job, with his
ten-bob fines when they oughter be five
quid. In future the scales of justice in
my hands will be handled properly.”
“Looks ’s if y’r first case oughter be
ole Ben up fer givin’ light weight on his
justice scales, eh?” remarked young Joe,
grinning. Dad glared at the humorist,
and Mum interposed hurriedly, “Em sure
Dad will make a good J.P.” A few days
later Dad heard his first case, and in the
course of a speech intimated that, while
he intended to see that justice was done,
he would temper it with mercy if he
thought any case demanded it. He had
just handed out to a drunk two pounds
or seven days when shouts outside the
courthouse sent the township’s lone
copper hurrying. A few minutes later
he came back grinning. “Y’r Worship,”
he said, “you have been guilty of an
offence. You left your buggy standing
outside without locking the wheel, and
your horse wandered up the street.
Strictly speaking, you should be prose-
cuted, y’ know.” Courthouse loungers
laughed, and Dad looked sheepish. Then
he said, “Yes, yes, I should be, an’ I’ll
deal with the case right now. The de-
fendant is convicted, but as it is a first
offence he will be let off with a caution.”
& He He #
“Scuta”; While snapper-fishing off the
Southward Reef, Portarlington (Vic.), I
noticed a bluish shadow a few feet under
the boat. It was a 16ft. shark. My
mate, a professional, wanted to up-anchor
at once ; he reckoned it was of a kind
that would chase a hooked fish right into
the boat. I persuaded him to remain
for a while. Except for an occasional
short cruise the monster stuck close
alongside but made no attempt to grab
the redfish which we pulled up almost
over its carcass and under its snout. My
mate’s explanation that it was a female
in the throes of labor still leaves me
wondering.
* * * *
“Slick”: Meeting Sandy, I asked after
his wife and new-born daughter. Sandy
admitted they were yerra weel, and then
confided that the wife was naming the
bairn Wilma. “Scotch?” I asked. Sandy
explained that the child was being named
after the Queen of Holland, in honor of
the Dutch forces. I asked why the baby
could not be called Wilhelmina. For a
moment Sandy looked surprised, then ex-
claimed : “Are ye no thenkin’ o’ the
in pencil and ink it’ll be for the
lass, mon?”
* # * *
“Youanmi”: That cure for a jibbing
horse (B. 15/4/’42) reminded me of a
fellow who reckoned that the best treat-
ment for such an animal was a hot potato
carefully applied to the right spot. I’ve
never tried that, but as a youngster I
did derive a good deal of feral amuse-
ment from feeding hot murphies to pigs.
The idea was to pinch the spuds from
the kitchen, heat them as much as pos-
sible by boiling or roasting in the ashes,
throw them in the pigs’ trough and cover
them with cold water before Denis could
get to them. Denis, an intelligent fellow
up to a point, would rush the trough,
plunge his snout into the water, grab a
spud which would be cool on the outside
and then bite it. Denis’s imitation of a
single-furrow plough as he drove his
snout through the earth for yard after
yard was considered by us youngsters to
be funnier than anything we ever saw
“And just fancy you people throwing TEA into Boston Harbor !”
at the Saturday-afternoon picture show.
Still, the old man caught us at it eventu-
ally, and Denis had the last laugh.
* * * #
“J.H.H.”: Here’s a record for con-
sistent horsemanship that will take a lot
of beating. In 1903 one F. J. Darch
started carrying the mail from Perth to
Wanneroo district, and he carried it for
14 years, riding about 50 miles a week.
Thereafter he did the Gingin-Moore
River-Beermullah run, also aboard a
prad, the easiest day’s riding being
Wednesday with a bare 15 miles, rising
to 42 miles on the Tuesday. He has been
doing that for 24 years, which, less his
holiday periods, would total over 175,000
miles. Over the 38 years he has there-
fore ridden a minimum of 211,000 miles,
or almost nine times the circuit of the
globe, and that minus a hand which he
lost in an accident 45 years ago. The
6ft. 2in., 72-year-old veteran, moreover,
is still at it! «
* * £ *
“B. A, Ker”: Other cars might pass
unchallenged, but the mail-car was
always received and dismissed with a
running fire of canine profanity from
Red, the kid’s mong. Then Dad’s prog-
nostication was fulfilled. In a bedlam of
screeching brakes and blood-curdling
yelps the car came to a halt, and from
under the rear wriggled a dusty, dis-
hevelled hound with the last three inches
of his tail hanging bloodlessly by the
sinew. It was obviously a case for ampu-
tation, but the snarling mong. was defying
Dad to approach him when young Bill
came rushing up, cuffed his pet across
the threatening mouth, fondled him
when the animal doggily apologised, and
tried vainly to perform the operation
with a pair of scissors. After the third
attempt the kid led the dog to the wood-
heap, placed the tail on the block, took
good aim with a tomahawk, and the next
minute Red was frolicking about with
the pruned rudder in his mouth —liter-
ally a dog with two tails. Did it cure the
tripe-hound of chasing cars? No! Next
day he was waiting by the gate at the
usual time —business as usual.
# # * *
“P.0.M.C.” : “Simon Slater” is wrong in
suggesting that horses take scant notice of
colors other than white (B. 11 /3 / ’42). Even
the quietest bottle-oh’s hayburner is apt
to “see red” when he sees red. Day after
day, the same horse or horses will shy at
the same scarlet tool-cart used by P.M.G.
linesmen, and four out of five neddies
require persuading past a newly-painted
fire-alarm standard. Actually, white
seldom puts the average utility nag on
his toes unless it takes the form of a
flying newspaper or fluttering tarpaulin,
skirt or sheet, and then it’s the move-
ment of the object rather than the color
that distresses him. I have yet to observe
the horse even mildly surprised by the
blackout precaution of whitewashed
poles, kerbs, steps and such in suburban
streets.
« «
“Flight”: To me one of the marvels
of Queensland’s dry west is the way the
little zebra finches—waxbills to you —
find their way about. In endless thou-
sands they are never seen more than half
a mile from water ; perishing men have
used them as an indication that a drink
is near. Yet if a new camp is formed
eight or ten miles or more from water,
and if a bucket of it is left standing in
the open, a pair of waxbills will be on
the spot. I’d defy any man to say he
ever saw them in transit; but they get
there.
• ♦ » *
“Tasmaniac”: I had always accounted
the spur-winged plover the gamest of
birds—one I saw challenge an oncoming
car with beak and claw while protecting
her young—but apparently the urge to
protect each other isn’t so strong.
Watched three fully-grown birds feed-
ing in a paddock when a brown
swamp hawk swooped upon one, an old
veteran with a gammy leg. There was an
ear-splitting cry from the victim as he
attempted to rise and was struck down ;
a flash of brown uppermost and then a
glimpse of grey as a furious battle took
place in the grass. Through a puff of
feathers his mates rose screaming, and
without a backward glance lit out for the
nearest bush belt. Apparently they share
the magpies’ motto of “never stick by a
pal.”
Hs * * *
“Emraeter”: While Mr. Roosevelt has
been interesting himself in finding a name
for the war in which his nation recently
became a full participant, I have been
considering the question of a little em-
blem for the Australian at war. I must dis-
card the kangaroo, though he has proved
himself a fair scrapper; also the emu,
because I have discovered a much more
terrible and courageous beast the
creature known in this land as a bull-ant,
the black fellow who in spring assumes
the iridisoent sparkle and bloom of a
blackberry. In the eyes of a bull-ant I
tower higher than Sydney’s harbor bridge.
I outweigh him 100,000-fold. Yet he will
attack me for no more reason than that
I come between the wind and his high-
mightiness. Stung by him once beyond
endurance I joined battle. My heavy
boots cut him into four pieces, but each
piece continued furious activity. Artemus
Ward, who declared “We’ll fight till
there’s nothing left of us but our little
toes, and even they shall defiantly
wiggle,” merely expressed the slogan of
the bull-ant nation. But bull-apts aren't
of Australian origin, you say. Maybe,
but you can’t prove it.
* ♦ $ H«
“S.T.S.”; I found this (a rough trans-
lation) in the German of Morgenstern,
a poet who died in 1914. “A boomerang
flies through the evening clouds, a golden-
yellow boomerang. And I think to my-
self: An Australian blackfellow must
have hurled that out of the Happy Hunt-
ing Grounds, perhaps by mischance. Per-
haps a cherub is set to prevent his climb-
ing over the walls of heaven.” Come
to think of it, it’s a wonder that no Aus-
tralian bard thought of the neat metaphor
for the crescent moon.
* * # *
“R.W.”: Tess, usually the best behaved
of dogs, had been making the night
hideous with her howling and deep-
throated baying. Dad, driven in despera-
tion from bed, went down in pyjamas
and bare feet, but after one hearty kick
retired cursefully with a damaged toe.
Mum, ever the peace-lover, sallied forth
with an offering of bread and dripping.
Joe started slinging things, but as soon
as the barrage was lifted the howls broke
out afresh. Then Grandpa took a hand.
AH he requested was some “real hard
drippin’.” Then, after some preparation,
he took it out to Tess, and presently a
beautiful peace descended. The family
had to accept Grandpa’s claim that he
“had a way with dorgs.” Next night Dad,
a bad sleeper, was searching on the
mantelpiece for his sleeping tablets. As
he cursed various unknowns who “go
shiftin’ things” Grandpa leaned back and
filled his pipe. “Aw, they must be
around somewhere, son,” he said without
batting an eyelid ; “d’y’ think the blasted
dawg et ’em?”
* * * *
“T.McN.”: I see the old yarn about
digging for frogs and squeezing water
out of ’em in drought-time hath its dis-
ciples (B. 22/4/’42). Personally, I’d
sooner tackle sheepdip than water from
a frog’s gizzard after the convulsions our
cat went into when a flying tree-frog
squirted water into her open mouth. As
for saying that frogs don’t come down
with rain, I wish the sayer had been with
me in Langtree-avenue, Mildura (Vic.),
one summer afternoon in 1919. They
couldn’t have come out of the ground,
for the ground was hidden under
a crust of asphalt and concrete that not
even the blokes who bore into the Abo.
pages could have got through without a
jackhammer. And who wants to dig
up frogs and squeeze them for the sake
of a teaspoon of water in the middle of
a blazing drought? How many frogs
does it take to a gallon of water and can
you keep sheep watered on good frog
country?
* * * *
“Pisces”: “Zake” (B. l/4/’42) men-
tions stingrays of varied sizes. Five-
footers may be a good size for the
southern part of the continent, but on
Whitsunday Island (Q.) the average is
between 7ft. and 10ft. That ton-weight
object “Z.” saw landed at South Keppel
beach was no stingray ; it was a sun-fish,
diamond ray or devil-fish.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Me and Mat struck
Dead Finish at the end of a long, dry
stage and dropped our swags just outside
the town. “Fve heard o’ this joint,”
Mat remarked, eyeing it, “an’ they say
it’s the toughest place t’ battle between
here an’ Mick Daley’s pub in South
Adelaide. Still, I s’pose we better give
it a go.” He took the top half, I the
bottom, and when we met I had a small
packet of dry sandwiches and Mat had
half a quid. He’d been drifting along a
street when he saw a bloke dodging about
the front garden of a house and spoke
to him. “Are you a local man?” in-
quired the bloke. Mat took a chance.
“Well,” said the bloke, pointing to a
thick growth, “I’ve just moved in here
and I’ve been wondering what them blue
flowers are.” Mat eyed it thoughtfully.
Then he said gravely “Look, y’re new
here an’ it’s just as well I come along;
I’m the noxious-weeds inspector. That’s
Patterson’s curse, an’ you, bein’ the occu-
pier, are liable t’ a heavy fine f’r havin’
it growin’.” The bloke stormed, of
course, but Mat pointed out that the law
was the law and the grazing interests
and primary production had to be pro-
tected, and he had his duty to do and so
forth, and the upshot was the passage of
the half-note on Mat’s promising to for-
get his duty foi 24 hours. As we headed
out of town that night we saw the inno-
cent newcomer rooting out the finest
stand of lupins in the west.
THE DIVER.
I was master aboard the lugger Fram in the
season of thirty-two,
When we beat into Broome from the north-
ward grounds with a member short in our
crew.
Young Mishi, the Jap, had been “dipping/’
below and jerked up “Danger ahead!”.
And we guessed that the tangle of weed on our
beam dropped right to the ocean bed.
We staged him up, too fast to be safe; though
our tender had little to learn;
But his lines whipped taut as the kelp closed
in, and we slacked him away astern.
Through a blazing noon we shuttled the Fram;
we toiled on into the night.
But Mishi still lay in the grip of the weed at
the end of that hopeless fight.
In the emerald arc of a starboard lamp we
watched his bubbles “blow”
As Jim, the tender, bent to the pumps and
quickened their sobbing flow.
“Fle’s hardly more than a fathom deep,” said
Jim, and he reached for his knife.
“I’m going down to cut him out. It’s a long,
slim chance ... but it’s life!”
We saw him go in the surging weed, and re
minute turned to three;
Then the straining rope fell slack in our hands,
and we knew that Mishi was free.
We laid him down on the fo’c’sle hatch and we
stripped him bare of his dress,
And he lisped his thanks through lips that bled
from the water’s ardent press.
But Jim of the sunny smile we lost, and sadly
we shook out our sail.
Turned our bows to the burning cast and
quitted that watch by the rail. . .
And today I thought of Mishi, the Jap, and I
thought of the friends he’d made,
And I wondered what part in this scheme of
hate the little man now played.
For today, at dawn, as the reef wind stirred to
a minor lullaby,
Came the first chill shock of a warning wail
and a pulsing drone in the sky.
They loosed their cargoes from heights unseen;
they savaged our straggling street;
They herded us down in the foul, grey ooze,
where the tide and the mangroves meet.
And when they were gone a Zero remained
and raked us with chattering gun;
Then wheeled away in a lazy roll and was lost
in the ball of the sun.
But we heard his engine cough . . . and die . ..
I laughed with a madman’s glee;
His wing-tip snatched at a long, green swell:
great God, he was down in the sea!
A broken body washed in with the tide, and
sodden it lay on the sand,
And I looked with scorn on a face I knew;
on one from an alien land.
We laid him to rest, but not v/ith our own,
and a rude wooden cross we set;
And its legend ran, “Here Mishi, the Jap,
returned and repaid a debt!”
N.S.W.
A. S. ALLISON.


“'Nlarrin”- The QiVlinn was holding a
euchre evening, and the usual inquisi-
lively polite group had gathered round
the new schoolmarm. “And how do you
like the country. Miss Newcome?” cooed
one old girl. “Oh, I think it's lovely."
came the reply. “ Eve n'‘ b “g’ s
mg. The farms and the animals
especially the sheep ;I think they’re pets,
Mr. Woolbale put some of those big-
horned sheep in a yard with some of the
other kind yesterday. They all seemed
so friendly and eager to make acquaint-
ances. A real lesson to humanity, 1
thought.” Old Woolbale has an increased
respect for his merino rams now ;
“Nordbo”: After two bouts with d.t.
a Far North fisherman was told by the
doctor to leave the stuff alone, or else
So he concentrated on tea, slaking h.s
fierce thirst with quarts of it at all hours
ot the day and night. Being in a reserved
occupation he was by-passed by the mill-
tary, so it was with some surprise I saw
him in uniform. “Them Nips got to be
good to’mel” 1 ° UnCe ° ( ‘ ea
a weeks no good * *
“Old-timer”: Old Dardy, a Murray
fisherman, ordered a motor for his old
pram-boat. The day the steamer de-
livered the engine we gathered in force
at his camp. Proud as Punch, Dardy got
S
down and the space it took up in the
boat but when all was completed Dardy,
silent and keen, filled the fuel tank,
pushed off and started her up. As he
let her into gear the boat almost flew
out of the water. Dardy made a wild
grab for the rudder, the boat evened
round in a wild half-circle, half-filled
with water, shot Dardy into the river,
and racing headlong into the bank drove
its nose in the mud, the engine roaring
and the propeiier throwing up mud and
water. We fished Dardy out, dried l?im
off baled out the boat and gave him an-
other go. This time the boat stood on its
heels and skated up the river at around
20 knots. Dardy managed to switch on
and drift back. All hands were still
pondering the problem when a message
came from Euston. Dardy had got the
12-h.p. engine intended for a pump up
the river with his own parts, while the
pump-owner, after desperately trying to
couple a 2i-h.p. engine to his parts, had
raced into town and traced the mistake
through the steamboat agent’s manifest.
But Dardy still talks of what might have
been if he’d only had a bigger boat.
* * * *
“Solitude”; War needs left us with
nothing more formidable than a fly-
swat to combat farm pests, so our
East Gippsland (Vic.) district decided
something must be done about it.
One diehard, after spending several
hair-tearing days watching the parrots
raid his orchard, made himself a
bow and arrow. Now he can kill with it.
Several others have gone back to the
catapult, and after practice have become
so proficient they seldom register a miss.
With selected missiles they can knock out
the squatting rabbit and hare. With no
fox-shooters out this year a troublesome
lambing season is expected, and there is
talk of enlisting the aid of spear and
kylie. Soon it will need only the intro-
duction of severe clothes-rationing for
our Australian bush to stage a real come-
back.
* * * *
“Sigsie”: Have noticed that the horse
world is not without its snobs. Among
station hacks you’ll come across an odd
one who’ll graze always a bit away from
the mob and is equally fussy at water,
never pawing at the water like the rest
of the vulgar mob. Always a good horse,
he does everything right, but never makes
familiar with his rider ; never rubs the
bridle itch off his cheeks on a man’s back
when freed, and no matter how others
may- rejoice always walks off quietly.
I’ve known one or two carry it so far
that they even scorn the head-to-tail
pair-up at flytime.
* * * *
“Zake”: Though abos., even if they
are a bit rough on horses, make
good stockmen, the female of the sable
species is not remarkable for her horse-
manship. Yet an exception is often
thrown up. I recall the case of one
Polly, whose youthful spouse was
arrested for pinching a horse. Remanded
to a distant Queensland town, accused
and the trooper had to camp at a way-
side pub for the night. Exhibit A was
put to feed in a small paddock, but
Charlie’s gin was well on the job. Pur-
loining the evidence, she rode, bareback
and without even a bridle, 130 miles
through wild scrub country to the coast.
Then she disposed of the evidence via
the axe and the fire, after which she
padded the hoof back to join her lord
after he was “discharged for lack of
evidence.”
* * *
“Wippegong”: Going on leave to the
old valley I thought of the folk
with whom its tale is linked ; but once
there strange faces passed along familiar
roads and new names claimed homes
where I had known others. That didn t
matter, for wanderers outgrow loneli-
ness ; yet the place seemed richer when,
pottering with Mum in her garden,
pioneering families came forward again.
The wistaria round the verandah and
the spreading guelder rose into which it
overflowed came from Forsyth s, the big
scented lilac from Browne’s and the
white one from Stevenson’s; the creeper
hiding the dairy was raised by Mrs.
Rogers ; the red geraniums were brought
from Kennedy’s and the rosemary from
Pitt’s —there was hardly a plant which did
not recall some person or place. Tower-
ing behind were the poplar grown from a
sucker from Barker’s trees and the sprawl-
ing willow which began as a branch we
nippers dragged home when the big tree
nearly fell on Walsh’s house. At my
sister’s place this horticultural history
took a different twist; her rockery held
chunks, slabs and gibbers representing
excursions from Bass Strait to the valley
of the Finke. I had never realised the
possibilities of a garden as a document of
record, and, with a view to constructing a
“Bein’ a warden's good-oh—gets you out o’ doin' the washin'-up at 'ome."
post-war garden path which will recount
the wanderings of these fretful years, I
must begin at once to save my bottles.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Every time an Aboliar
mentions animals going dry (B. 22/4/’42)
the Minduk wethers stride through my
dreams. Sixteen of them were missed
by the musterers when the tank went
dry, and as the drought kept us busy a
proper count wasn’t made for a month.
When the 16 were missed it was assumed
that only their ghosts would be on Min-
duk, since it had not been under 100 in
the shade all that month. Eight months
later the drought broke partially and put
a couple of feet of water in Minduk tank.
A bloke passing through from Prungle
reported sheep at the tank, so Curly and
I rode out. Sixteen gaunt and dusty
sheep, as wild as bandicoots, took to
their scrapers when they spotted us. Mar-
velling, we managed to round ’em up
and headed ’em for the homestead. There
the boss, pleased and proud, broke out
a bale of lucerne for ’em. They sniffed
it once, then walked disdainfully to the
woodheap, had a good feed of bark and
chips and lay down. That night we
noticed that every darned one of the 16
slept with his tongue out to catch the
dew, and that’s how we discovered their
secret. Yair, I often dream of the Min-
duk wethers.
* * * *
“J. Rilston”: Why do these artists
delight in picturing the Australian land-
scape as utterly barren ; soil parched and
grassless, trees just gaunt, dead things
standing on a lifeless horizon? Such
scenes are rare. Even in the indisputaole
desert there is herbage of a sort. In
the Murrinji, where
Keith Anderson and
Bob Hitchcock perished
when their ’plane made
a forced landing, there
was spinifex that
burned for days over
an area 20 miles square.
Around such places as
Coolgardie and Mt.
Margaret, reputedly
desert, there grew im-
mense forests of mulga,
, gimlet and salmon gum.
North-east from Mar-
garet almost to Hall’s
Creek, where 100 ft.
sandhills roll on for
near 1000 miles, there are still herbage
and trees, stunted black oaks, spinifex
and grass that grow in the depressions
between the sandhills. Even that long
stretch across the top of the Bight is not
treeless. When first traversed and for
80 years after it was well clothed with
thorn bush, quandong and sandalwood.
¥ * * *
“Seersucker”: “Gumsucker’s” pathetic
plaint (B. 22/4/’42) that beer ain’t what
it used to be may be put down to Anno
Domini. The beer isn’t so good as it was
when I was a boy, but neither is the sun
so bright, nor are the girls so luverly, the
sky so blue, the clouds so fleecy. The
strength of beer depends solely upon the
percentage of malt-derived alcohol it
contains, and never since the brewing of
beer began has it been found practicable
to cram more than 10 p.c. of absolute
alcohol into it. Commercial average in
all ages since quantity-brewing com-
menced has been about 5 p.c. What the
Britons of a century or so ago called
“small beer” ran about 3 p.c. Tobacco
in beer-casks was put there by certain un-
scrupulous brewers not to give the beer
“kick” but to color it. It improved the
beer’s efficacy as an emetic, but not as
an intoxicant. Neither have hops any-
thing to do with the potency of beer.
A theory widely held by studious brewers
is that the Puritans insisted on hops be-
ing put in beer as an anti-aphrodisiac.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: Queensland, too, has its
queer bush memorials. On a bank of
the Thompson River, below Stonehenge
(W.Q.), are two graves. The significant
memorial reads: “In flood-time this
crossing is dangerous.” At Walthro, on
Warbreccan, in the same a
rusted camp oven is parked on the last
resting-place of the station babblei, and
an old boundary-rider who died at
Waukaba, on the Georgina (W.Q.), had
a camp stretcher turned upside down
with its legs like bayonets over his grave.
* * *
“Ten Steener”: The knight of the road
mournfully thudded his bluey down and
peered wistfully over the fence. I didn t
mean to ask for tucker, boss, but a bit
of that there rhubarb would go fine.
Could y’ spare a bit?” The “rhubarb”
was the cocky’s carefully tended line of
flourishing young hollyhocks, but that
pathetic appeal opened wide the pantry.
Next place the knot-humper varied his
attack, “mistaking” a patch of young
rape for spinach. But for once the
student of psychology and horticulture
slipped ; he obtained his rape, with advice
gratis on how to cook it, with nettles for
dessert.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Oliver Filter”: Roaming Joe was
born and bred in the bush, and always
swore he’d never leave it, but eventually
the high wages for munition workers in
the city got him. He left his dogs with
Murphy. Exactly 13 days later he was
back asking Murphy for his dogs and
some tucker. “Whassamatter, Joe?
Murphy asked him. “Didn’t y’ like the
city?” “I didn’t mind the city so much,
said Joe, “though I did get a bit sick of
lookin’ at the sky through tram wires.
But when them munitions blokes told me
I couldn’t pitch me camp in the park
near me job —well, Wow could I stay?
* * * *
“Arev”: Wilkins the butcher had
brought in old Charlie, who scratched
for tin out in the ranges, for the Pioneers’
Social. It was obvious that a tablecloth
was a novelty to the old man, who sat
looking like some bearded prophet as he
took in the details of the lavish board.
Wilkins thought that he could guess at
the gratitude welling in the lonely heart.
As a serving of cold ham and tongue
was handed to him the guest s eyes
widened, but no word of thanks passed
his lips, and he stared motionless at his
plate. The butcher hoped the old chap s
feelings were not getting the better of
him. “Eat up, Charlie,” he said encour-
agingly. The old man looked up and his
long beard quivered. “Where’s the blasted
mustard?” he growled.
LAND GIRLS.
The land girls march with a manly stride
And their limbs are bare and brown,
But they’re just the same, deep down inside,
As they were when they lived in town.
They like the look of a handsome male,
They like to tease him, too —
As they watch the clouds in the heavens sail,
They’re planning what they will do
When they’ve planted the spuds and seeds in
rows
In the rich, warm, well-turned soil,
When they’ve made the peas and the French
beans grow
By sheer, hard, honest toil;
And if the farmers watch and grin
In a supercilious way,
I’m betting a fiver who will win
When it comes to settling day.
Picking the beans may not seem much
In money to you and me,
But a woman’s heart has a miser’s touch
When it comes to L.S.D.
They laugh and chatter as magpies might
When a silver toy they spot,
And talk of bargains, with eyes alight,
They’ll buy when they’ve picked the lot.
They’ve robbed the farms of their loneliness,
I’ll say that much for them,
As they tramp the furrows in rough farm dress
With a pretty lofty hem;
And slap the reins on Matilda’s rump
To speed the ploughing team,
And swear when the ploughshare hits a stump,
Interrupting a land girl’s dream.
The Water Boards may be clever guys,
But the land girls call their bluff —
For what is the use of land that dries
Till the fields are caked and rough?
So, turn the taps on full and wide . . .
Oh! who shall turn them down,
While the land girls are the same inside
As they were when they lived in town?
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


«Ssfc
NTS
LYS
IS
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
r*mm
mt
m
MR 9
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office; 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
War-time Shearing.
“Bungaree”: To cope with shortage of
labor in the coming season the wool
country of N.S.W. and Victoria
has been divided into eight zones.
All available shearing labor will be con-
centrated within the zones between cer-
tain dates, and no one in the zones may
employ shearing labor during the “close
season.” The scheme doesn’t take in
Queensland, where shearing is done all
the year round and the labor problem
is not so acute.
The regulations affect only those with
more than 1000 sheep. There is nothing
to stop an owner or his permanent em-
ployees shearing during “close season”
but he must not employ others to do it
for him.
Zones and their “close seasons” are:
Zone 1, July 5 to October 4. All N.S.W.
west of a line running from Mungindi
through Bourke down the Darling to
Menindee, to Broken Hill and west to
the S.A. border.
Zone 2; August 2 to October 31. Be-
tween Zone 1 and a line through Bogga-
billa, Moree, Narrabri, Coonamble, Gil-
gandra, Trangie, Condobolin, Ungarie,
Naradhan, Hillston, Pooncarie, Went-
worth and along the Murray to the S.A.
border.
Zone 3; August 16 to October
31. Comprises the Riverina and
part of Victoria. The area is inside
the line from the junction of the
N.S.W., Victorian and S.A.
borders, south down the Vic.-S.A.
border to above Serviceton, east
through Lake Hindmarsh, Birchip,
Boort,Kyabram, Shepparton,Wangaratta,
Wodonga. Thence southerly via Yackan-
dandah, Everton, Tatong, Merton, Marys-
ville, Healesville to Melbourne, thence
along the Gippsland coast to Cape Howe,
back along the border to Albury, thence
up through Henty, The Rock, Wagga,
Narrandera, Griffith, Rankin Springs,
Naradhan and along the southern border
of Zone 2 to Wentworth.
Zone 4: September 5 to October 31.
Central N.S.W. between the eastern boun-
dary of Zone 2 and a line through Texas,
Yetman, Warialda, along the Gwydir to
its junction with the Horton, Binnaway,
Cobbora, Yeoval, Peak Hill, Parkes,
Forbes, Caragabal, Milvale, Stockinbin-
gal, Temora, Coolamon, Millwood, Nar-
randera, Griffith to Naradhan.
Zone 5; June 1 to August 16. All
N.S.W. not included in Zones 1,2, 3, 4
and 6. Takes in the districts of Tenter-
field, Inverell, Bingara, Barraba, Tam-
worth, Hunter Valley, Merriwa, Coolah,
Wellington, Molong, Orange, Mudgee,
Cowra, Young, Boorowa, Cootamundra,
Junee, Gundagai, Wagga (east side), Hol-
brook and Tumbarumba.
Zone 6: July 1 to September 27. The
north, central and southern N.S.W. table-
lands. Northern section includes shires
of Severn, Guyra, Gostwyck,. Dumaresq
and Apsley ; the southern, the shires of
Lyndhurst, Abercrombie, Oberon, Crook-
well, Gunning, Mulwaree, Goodradigbie,
Tallaganda, Yarrowlumla, Monaro, Dal-
gety and Bibbenluke.
Zone 7: Sept. 27 to Nov. 29. In
N.S.W., Wagga to Jingellic to Albury,
and in Victoria west and south of Zone
3, but leaving out the Victorian Western
District.
Zone 8: Nov. 29 to Dec. 27. Western
District of Victoria, Melbourne to
the S.A. border, bounded on the north
by Zone 7 and on the east by Zone 3.
It’s a pity the scheme was not brought
out sooner. Apparently things like lamb-
ing have been ignored. On earlier notice
graziers could have joined their rams to
suit the conditions. Many may now have
to shear before lambing, probably with
only nine months’ wool on. It may be
necessary to have shearing labor released
from the military and other forces to get
the clip handled efficiently.
Zebus in North Australia.
“Graz”: An infusion of zebu blood
into herds in North Australia would bring
a lot of poor grass and tick country into
production.
Zebus thrive in the north —the 19 im-
ported in 1933 by Dr. R. B. Kelley for
the C.S.I.R. had 5109 descendants eight
years later. The best animal for the
country seems to be a 25 p.c. zebu hybrid
with short hair. Such a beast is reason-
ably tractable, troubled little by ticks,
“Just what a Woman WOULD do ?”
grows faster and is better nourished than
British breeds under comparative con-
ditions.
Shorthorns and Herefords nick well
with the zebu, best crosses coming from
bulls of either breed on half-bred heifers.
During long dry seasons the progeny of
such matings do well on the tall, rank
grasses left from the wet seasons, and by
helping themselves to scrub fodder they
hold condition longer. This would enable
meatworks to remain open for a longer
period. The quarter-bred closely re-
sembles his British-type sire, with a good
top line and only a semblance of a hump.
Both butchers and consumers have
reported favorably on the quality of the
hybrid beef. The zebu is wilder to handle
than the Shorthorn or Hereford, but so
were our Australian cattle until closer
settlement tamed them. It would take
many years of skilful breeding to pro-
duce a 25 p.c. zebu type equal to the
high-quality British beeves, but on hard,
rank feed and ticky country the hybrid
should be a paying proposition.
Antiseptics.
“L. Cove”: Since some animal tissue
is susceptible to injury antiseptic solutions
should not be used at more than the
recommended strength. Wounds should
be cleaned, then treated with disinfectant.
After shaving off hair surrounding a
wound the skin should be treated with an
antiseptic before any surgical operation.
Tincture of iodine is best for immediate
application to cuts. Methylated spirits
can be used undiluted. Permanganate of
potash added to boiling water till it’s a
deep pink forms a mild antiseptic. Boric
acid —two teaspoons to each pint of
water, allow the undissolved material to
settle, then use mixed with equal parts
of water —is a good eye lotion. Peroxide
of hydrogen should be used at a 3 p.c.
strength. The 30 p.c. solution should be
broken down by adding nine parts of
water to one of peroxide.
Reclamation Work.
“Koondrook Road”: Those who’ve
seen their land go off through irrigation
are watching the experiments to reclaim
partly-ruined soil in the Victorian irri-
gation district round Kerang, where over-
watering, overgrazing, lack of manure,
floods, droughts and seepage have helped
the accumulation of harmful minerals,
chiefly salt, in the surface soil.
On A. C. Kerr’s red plain country at
Kerang East a 10-acre block was marked
off. It had salt, crabholes, rabbits, Dillon
bush and weeds. Soil samples were
taken, bores put down to test salt and
free-water content, the Dillon bush
cleared, the block fenced and graded,
channelled and drained.
It was a big job. Grading was begun
in the 1939 autumn. There was heavy
rain in February and conditions remained
wet. Salty land gets sticky when wet
and takes longer to dry, and free water
near the surface added to the difficulties.
Grading couldn’t be finished, but it was
decided to sow cereals and pastures as
a guide to the future. Irrigation was
not practicable, and patchy growth re-
sulted. This was eaten off in spring, when
the grading was finished and the block
put in fair order for annual cropping and
irrigation.
In the 1940 autumn some sections that
had got special attention were sown with
Wimmera rye-sub. clover, lucerne and
permanent mixed pasture. Portion was
set out for watering and manure trials.
The sowings made good stands which
have persisted and increased, but the
annuals —oats and barley—were patchy.
A lot more work was done on • germi-
nation-counts, soil-samples and so forth
with an eye on the salt-tolerance of vari-
ous species.
In the 1940 spring there was further
grading of sections, and they were sown
to millet. The following autumn they
were regraded and sown in April with
permanent pastures. The season was dry
and irrigation was tried in late autumn
to force germination. The results were
disappointing except in bays which had
had summer watering when carrying
millet. Seepage between bays was shown
to be a serious fault; so much so on
the test block that differential watering
and sowing treatments had to be turned
in.
In the 1941 spring the area was sown
to millet without any great disturbance
of the cover of barley-grass, weeds, etc.,
and was frequently and regularly watered
as a whole. This autumn more pastures
are being sown and everything points to
a successful stand. The lucerne and pas-
tures sown in 1940 have done fairly well,
but are not up to pastures on salt-free
land. All the same, the 10 acres is
coming back to production.
Fertiliser and Potatoes.
“Tantanoola”: If organic manure is
to be used for potatoes it should be
mixed in the soil well before planting ;
too close to planting it may harm the
crop. At Mt. Compass (S.A.) schoolboys
got a yield of up to 6001 b. from lib. of
seed by freely mixing fowl manure in
the plot during the early working. But,
since most people can’t have loads of
organic stuff on hand, liberal doses of
artificial fertiliser are necessary.
Amount and type of fertiliser will vary
according to locality and climate. Phos-
phatic fertilisers, generally applied as
superphosphate, are almost a fundamen-
tal need,, but rate of application may range
from 3cwt to lOcwt. an acre; Nitrogen
in the form of ammonium sulphate
doesn’t vary much from the lewt. an
acre mark. In S.A. potassic manures
have hardly been worth while, though in
some N.S.W. districts lewt. an acre of
potassium sulphate, shoved in at the first
working, and with phosphate and nitro-
gen added at sowing time, has given more
spuds.
For light S.A. soils H. H. Orchard, of
the Agricultural Department, recom-
mends a 6-1 super.-amm. sulph. mixture,
coming down to 3-1 for heavier pad-
docks. Super, alone can be used for
early-sown crops if the grower is after
early maturity. Soils with a high nitro-
gen content, either from natural causes
or rotation crops, may grow good spuds
on super, without sulphate of ammonia.
Highly acid land will respond to a ground
limestone dressing.
The super.-amm. sulph. mixture is best
applied in the furrow at planting time.
In America they try to work it into the
soil at a level slightly below that of the
seed—never above it. This puts the fer-
tiliser where it will best feed the roots
and keeps it off the tuber, an important
item when amm. sulph. is being used.
Hints for the Farm.
“W.C.”; To get rid of cane-stools that
come up with the ploughing, cart them to
a selected spot and allow them to dry.
Drag a couple of dry logs together, lay
them parallel and make a large fire with
smaller logs between. Pile on the stools,
making the heap as sound and solid as
you can. Do not allow any fire to
escape. Rebuild and replenish every few
hours. If the logs are kept under a mass
of stools and nothing but smoke is per-
mitted to escape the burn will -be 100 p.c.
“Feline”: Try crotalaria as a new
green-manuring plant. Superior to cow-
peas, etc., it is a quick-growing bush that
yields at least two crops of herbage to
be turned under. Sow the seed in July
and August at 151 b. to the acre. When
the bushes begin to flower cut them down
and leave the herbage to rot. Another
crop will follow. Cut this down, then
plough the lot under,
“Louden”: When drawing obstinate
nails with a claw-hammer put a length of
piping on the hammer handle. The extra
leverage prevents breaking or straining
the handle and makes the nail-snatching
easier.
“Goulburn”: Don’t waste seed when
sowing lucerne. There are more than


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE : A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee. _„, Tvrc ,, rTT T
ALSO AT MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY HAY MOREL, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, Ig^DON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
HYGEIA DissolVenator
THIS SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM
PROVIDES THE SAFETY AND COMFORT OF A
SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
NO SMELL. NO FLIES, NO GERMS.
Approved By tKe Board of Health.
No emptying or other unpleasant
jobs. All matter is turned into a
sterile solution which automatically
runs off. Over 2000 in use.
Health Comfort Economy.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
£l7/17/6 f.o.b. Sydney, including 10% Sales Tax, plus
20/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
30 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. 81052. OR LEADING STORES.
"H intnui
A-
Fully guaranteed
as to longevity,
efficiency and
mechanism.
It is not just a
modified closet
pan.
It displaces pans
and saves sanitary
rates.
The sterile solu-
tion soaks away
in the under-
ground sump.
Can be used where
septic tanks are
not practicable.
ANY HANDY-
MAN CAN IN-
STAL IT.
Immediate
Delivery
Consider the
Unusual Features
of the
“FREDLINE”
Vertical Turret
Lathe
The “Fredline” Vertical
Turret Lathe is a
production lathe specially
suitable for non-ferrous
metals up to diameter
and steel up to I" dia-
meter. It can be used for
turning Nuts, Short Set
Screws, Special Parts re-
quiring Knurling, Counter
Boring and Recessing,
Special Washers up to J"
diameter. Clevis Pins, and
a thousand and one other
jobs in Brass, Bronze,
Aluminium, etc. Handles
Die Screwing and Tap-
ping work expeditiously.
Maximum speed, 2,250
r.p.m.
• The revolving turret ’has an eight-tool set up. * 6 speeds ahead 3
O Speed, feed, and work-control levers operated at high speed without
• The vertical feed saves space.
Ask us to send full details, specifications, etc .
reverse.
fatigue.
Sole Selling Agents All Stales—
WILLIAM ADAMS & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
Manufactured by
RAPSON & DUTTON PTY LTD.
MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURERS
General, Marine, Motor and Diesel Engineers
BRIDGE STREET VALLEY, BRISBANE
; PLEI'IK >nV B (3. LINKS)
IKi KC.K AMSI;; HAND. BRI^L
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
99813
01/I ■“>* 02 pU jo * 0T
&
1
w
200,000 seeds in lib., which, with perfect
spread and germination, gives five plants
to the square foot, too heavy for any
country. Allowing for loss, 21b. of seed
per acre is ample for grazing lucerne.
Thin parts can be thickened up with
additional seed next year ; if the seedbed
has been well prepared there won’t be
many.
“Bundalinga”: Move the cows after
they have eaten out a paddock and clean
up the pasture with “followers” —dry
cows, young stock or sheep. Run the
mower over rough feed rejected by the
“followers.” If the stock can’t cope with
flush growth, close the paddock and cut
the grass for hay or silage. Success of
finer pasture species depends on mowing
high-producing pastures at least once a
year. Use the grass harrows after graz-
ing to distribute droppings and increase
fertility. Tall, rank growths crowd out
clovers and finer grasses.
A fistula must be opened
right down to its lowest point to obtain
perfect drainage. The wound should be
syringed out daily, getting well into the
cavity with a warm, weak antiseptic solu-
tion such as 2\ p.c. Dettol. An occa-
sional injection of pure kerosene is help-
ful.
“Bundalinga”: In wet districts there
is a serious leaching of lime from the
soil. Agricultural Ume replaces the loss
and supplies calcium as plant food,
neutralises soil acidity and improves the
texture. Reduction of soil acidity makes
nitrogen readily available to plants.
Outback Occasions.
No. 33.
In Gate Country (1).
Ever been in real gate country? When
you leave a main road and have to drive
about 25 miles up side roads and across
paddocks to get to a place in behind four
creeks and three ridges and on the boun-
dary of two shires and where three P.P.
Board districts meet? It’s an occasion
you won’t forget.
Of course, you could have got to the
place by the main road, but the bloke
from whom you ask the way advises
against that. “You go out through Tom s
Tank and by Wantamagudgeon,” says
he, “an’ you’ll cut off eight or ten mile.”
Placing your trust innocently in his
geographical knowledge you set out for
the turnoff to Tom’s Tank.
You leave the road at the Tank, pass-
ing through what is in reality a decoy
gate, though you don’t know it. Decoy
gates are beautifully swung, well-oiled
and -latched constructions that open and
shut at the touch of a finger. Their pur-
pose is to lure you on.
You follow two ruts in the grass for a
couple of miles. Though the plain is
apparently straight and level, for some
unknown reason the track winds about
on it as though its original makers had
been trying to write their name with the
wagon. Most likely the first fellow across
it fell asleep and the horses just mean-
dered on and, in the imperishable tradi-
tion of the outback, every succeeding
traveller followed the tracks. For any-
one to cut straight across them now
would probably bring the whole district
up in alarm.
The second gate is a five-barred
wooden one built of sawn timber. You
see that bush cunning has been at work.
The chain and loop that once shut the
gate have been missing for years and the
enterprising owner has got over the prob-
lem by simply shoving the post inward so
that the gate jams against it. You realise
that all that is necessary is a quick shove.
You shove, the gate opens, you take the
car through, go to the gate, put both
hands on the top rail and shove again.
The gate groans, gives a sort of wriggle
and then starts to sulk. You shake it.
But it grips the earth with both feet and
refuses to budge. You now discover tue
signs of previous struggles, broken sticks,
dead matches, cigarette butts, a torn and
bloodstained handkerchief.
You attempt a stratagem. You turn
away from the gate, take a couple of
steps towards the car, then whirl sud-
denly and spring at the gate. Outraged,
it jerks violently away from you, then
rebounds and jabs you in the side. You
spend two minutes holding your side and
airing your opinions, then you say “Well,
blast y’, stay open! ” and get into the car.
As you start, a long, whining shriek makes
you stop. You look back. The gate is
swinging heavily shut and it clamps home
against its post with a triumphant leer.
It is only then that you see the trip-latch
in the ground that held it open.
Muttering, you drive rapidly up a rise
through pine scrub, round a sharp bend
and almost stamp your brake-pedal
through the footboard as another gate
rushes at the car. You get out and look
it over, wary from your previous experi-
ence. This gate consists of two pieces
of green timber, between which are
stretched somewhere between five and
nine wires, at least two of them barbed.
One piece of timber is tightly bound with
wire to a fence post, the other has its
foot through a wire loop and is held at
the top by a piece of wood attached by
a doubled wire. The wood is pulled
taut round the fence post and held
locked to the top wire of the gate with
a wire loop. You’ve seen this kind befoie.
Ir masquerades under the title of the
“Queensland” or “lightning” gate.
Not being a Queenslander, you are
unaware of insult and cheerfully take
hold of the piece of wood with one hand
and push the wire loop away with the
other. The piece of wood jumps from
your grip, whirls round the post and
knocks off your hat, while the gate flies
away at a tangent with the speed of a
racecourse barrier. “Lightning’s right,
you say, drive the car through, then
attempt to get the gate closed.
After a mighty struggle you manage to
get the foot of the timber in the bottom
loop ; then, hanging grimly to your gain
and blowing hard, you pass the wood and
wire round the top of the post and begin
to strain the gate up. You almost get
the loop over, go to change your grip for
a fresh purchase, the wood flies out and
round, off goes your hat and goes
the barrier. “Wow! ” you howl. Cats-
meat broke clear with a three-lengths
lead and I’m a ruddy, sunken hulk foi
ever cornin’ inter this blessed, splendid,
gorforsaken, flamin’ district. 1 hope the
blankard who made this beautiful gate
lives for two thousand years, like hell!’
After which you silently debate whether
or not to drive on and leave the ruddy
thing, but your better nature wins and
you fling yourself into the fray once
more.
A half-hour later you climb wearily
into the car and, without a backward
glance at the barrier of tangled wire and
sticks and bushes piled across the gate,
drive on. You cross a dry creek, skirt
a round hill and suddenly meet another
track which leads to the inevitable gate.
This has been made in a factory. It is of
moulded piping, subtly jointed and
angled. On it hangs a sign advising you
to “Shut the gate and use Quic-gro Fer-
tiliser.” The very perfection of the thing
makes you suspicious, and you hold your
breath as the catch slips open sweetly,
the gate swings away, you pass through
and close it with ease. You feel that it
the owner of that gate came along you
couldn’t suppress tears of gratitude.
On, then, with a glance at the sun,
for it grows late and you wish to be back
in the town by teatime. Across a gentle
plain, over a crest and down to a patch
of hopbush. In ambush lies a gate. You
haven’t a chance. Somebody has taken
the trouble to fasten it with at least 150
yards of No. 8 wire, wound round and
round the post in spirals. You are still
wrestling with the wire when the sun
goes down.


dsf
YOU
HELP to fight the enemy.
RELEASE men and materials for war.
ASSIST to control prices,
SECURE your own future.
FULFIL your duty as an Australian.
SAFEGUARD your families & homes.
ACCEPT sacrifice for victory.
YOU
WASTE money needed for the war.
IMPERIL your fighting men.
COMPETE for men and materials
needed to make war equipment,
PREFER pleasure and comfort to
sacrifice and security,
FAIL in your duty as a citizen.
FORCE prices upward.
NEGLECT your own future.
The new National Savings
Bonds carry 3% payable half-
yearly, and may be purchased
by instalments.
sf
Keep buying, and holding
War Savings Certificates.
Join or form a War Savings
Group.
mmi arm sum
AND
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
NIO
APPLY TO ANY BANK OR MONEY ORDER POST OFFICE
Our Service Department
Wants.
bl jy copy of Triumphant Pilgrimage to
Mecca, by G. F. Bryan.—3262.
To buy flat knitting machine for making
sweaters, etc. —3263.
Information Sought.
/ have been told the cost of State Parlia-
mentary government per head of population in
A'. S. Wales has decreased since the 1914-18
war. Is that correct?
Correct within the absurd limits of “Parlia-
mentary government” as officially defined. The
N. S. Wales Official Year-Book gives the cost
per head m 1915-16 as 2s. 2d.; in 1939-40 as
Is. 8.4d. Total cost as reckoned within the
absurd limits has not decreased —in 1915-16 it
was £202,001; in 1939-40 it was £235,354. The
increase in population was responsible. Cost of
departments added in the meantime and many
other consequences of over-government were
not included.
* * * *
Biography of Prime Minister Curtin?
Born at Creswick (Vic.) on January 8, 1885,
he was secretary of the Victorian Timber
Workers Union from 1911-15, editor of the
•Westralian Worker” from 1917-28 and M.H.R.
for Fremantle (W.A.) from 1928-31 and since
1934. In 1924 he was a delegate to the League
of Nations International Labor Conference; a
member of the Royal Commission on Child
Endowment, 1927-28; and a member of the
Joint Committee on Public Works, 1929-31.
He was leader of Opposition from October,
1935, until he became Prime Minister in
October, 1941. Married, two children, and
lives at Cottesloe (W.A.).
• * * *
How many libraries are there in Queensland,
and how many are maintained by the Govern-
ment ?
The only public library in Queensland which
is maintained by the Government is in Bris-
bane ; it contains over 40,000 books. There
are also in Brisbane many private lending
libraries, as well as 28 libraries attached to
schools of arts and containing altogether
155,000 books. Outside of Brisbane there are
165 libraries, containing 400,000 books and
operated in conjunction with schools of arts
and other organisations. In some towns they
have been taken over by the local authority and
controlled as municipal libraries, which, until
1932, received an annual Government grant.
* * * *
Particulars of Cook’s ship Endeavour ?
Originally called the Earl of Pembroke, it
was built at Whitby in 1764 and carried coal
for four years; it was bought for £2BOO and
another £2294 was spent in repairs and special
fittings for the voyage. Length was 105 ft.,
breadth 29ft., or half as long and not quite
as broad as a Manly ferry; depth amidships
was 20ft., draught 13ft. Bin., tonnage 366 tons.
The ship was sheathed with wood because
copper destroyed the iron work, particularly
about the rudder.
* * * *
Particulars of the Imperial War Museum in
London?
It was founded by the War Cabinet in
March, 1917, and established by Act of Parlia-
ment in 1920 as a memorial to the sacrifice
and effort made by the peoples of the Empire
during 1914-18, and to provide a record and
place for the study of that period. The scope
of the Museum has been extended to include
records of the present war. The collections,
to which additions are being constantly made,
include naval and military trophies and relics,
ordnance, small arms and ammunition, ship
and other models, paintings, drawings, sculp-
ture and commemorative medals, maps, war
currency and stamps, photographs (comprising
over 250,000 subjects, prints of most of which
may be bought), air photographs, lantern
slides and cinematograph films. There is a
reference library of 60,000 books and pamphlets
normally available for study to the public.
The Museum has been closed during the war.
* * * *
What is the meaning of the word
“bolshevism”?
It originated in its present sense in 1903,
when the Russian Social-Democratic party split
over the issue of radicalism or moderation.
The radicals, headed by Lenin, polled the
majority of votes at the party congress, and,
since the Russian for “majority” is “bol-
shinstvo,” the radicals were called “bolsheviki,”
or “members of the majority.”
* * *
(1) What are the chances of keeping flour
for any period by, say, sealing it in kerosene-
tins? (2) Any ingredients that might help to
preserve it? (3) Any possibility of expansion—
or combustion —after the tins are sealed?
(1) If the flour is free from insect infestation
when it is sealed away in the tins, it will
remain free. There is, however, a strong possi-
bility that, between the time the flour leaves
the mill and reaches you, some such infesta-
tion will occur. It may be so slight as to pass
unnoticed, but the insects would probably con-
tinue breeding despite the fact that the tins
are effectively sealed. There is also the proba-
bility that the bacteria responsible for ropiness
in flour will continue to multiply after the
tins are sealed. (2) Know of none that would
prevent the foregoing troubles developing. (3)
Know of no reason why that should happen.
* * * *
What is a “yellow-dog contract”?
It is an American description of a contract
in which the employee promises the employer
that he will not join a trade union. There
were about 1,500,000 such contracts when they
were forbidden by the Wagner Labor Relations
Act in 1935.
* * * *
What does “Kochel 332” mean after the title
of a Mozart composition ? Who was Kochel ?
Dr. Ludwig Ritter von Kochel was a botanist,
mineralogist and naturalist of last century who,
also interested in music, and being domiciled
in Salzburg with access to Mozart MSS., cata-
logued the great composer’s works under the
title Chronologisch-thematisches Verzeichniss
W. A. Mozart. Breitkopf and Hartel made
use of Kochel’s classification in their complete
edition of Mozart’s works.
* * * *
(1) Was Thomas Moore the composer of the
melodies of the Irish songs ascribed to him in
most modern collections? (2) If not, had he
any pretensions as a musician at all? (3) On
what does his fame mainly rest?
(1) No. He took the airs from such sources
as Bunting’s collection of Irish melodies, wrote
appropriate words, and, where he considered
it necessary, modified the music to suit those
words. (2) He was a fair pianist and an
indifferent singer. According to Dr. R. P.
Stewart, one of his biographers, “as an
educated musician he had no repute.” But
he did compose several songs, among them
“Canadian Boat Song.” (3) On his poetic
works.
Brief Answers.
M. 0.: Winter tomatoes are grown success-
fully on the north and central coastal districts.
Can’t say which is best winter-growing district
in the world. Coff’s Harbor (N.S.W.) compares
favorably with Bowen (Q.) as a tomato-growing
district, and quality of fruit produced in those
districts should be comparable with any that
could be produced elsewhere A.S.: Copies
of Rates Acts may be had from the Department
of Taxation —Federal 3d. and State 6d
V.L.C.: Forward the tax-instalment stamps and
certificate of exemption to the N. S. Wales
Taxation Department and it will be credited in
part-payment of your husband’s taxes. With
regard to payment of the balance, set out fully
your financial position and the fact that your
husband is in the A.I.F. and your case will
be considered. If, in the department’s opinion,
the circumstances warrant an extension of time
it will be given... .A.C.1.8.: The general-service
ribbon may be worn only by service per-
sonnel who have served overseas, but not neces-
sarily in an Allied theatre of war. On the facts
given you are entitled to wear the General
Service Medal, but not the Victory Medal
E.M.R.: For information regarding an allot-
ment for yourself apply to the R.A.F. Liaison
Officer for Personnel, care Air Board, Victoria
Barracks, Melbourne. The appropriate marriage
allowance is still paid to a wife during a hus-
band’s period of captivity. Any balance due to
the husband by the Air Ministry less the
amounts paid by the enemy country, is credited
f° the husband while he is a prisoner of war.
According to international law, prisoners of
war receive two-sevenths of their pay from the
country in which they are prisoners WR B •
Try “Repeater” papers; they might suit you
better than the full rice naners FG F •
“Ek Dum” means “at once” or '“instantly.”
It is a phrase used in giving orders to natives
ls familiar to soldiers who have served
in India... .M.C.: The Motor Traders’ Asso-
ciation keeps a record of the manufacturers’
identification numbers of motor-cycles made in
England. The information is made available
to members. For legal purposes it would be
advisable to write to the manufacturers of the
cycle and ask them on what date it left the
factory. Before any legal action the sales
agreement should be examined by your
solicitor—if the agreement states that the cycle
is a 1940 model and the manufacturer’s evi-
dence proves otherwise, misrepresentation
should be easily established The manufac-
turer’s address is the Enfield Cycle Company,
Enfield Works, Redditch England PG •
if the colony is established where it cannot be
exposed, the most practical way is to kill the
bees by fumigation Gases snrh as from
Cyanogas, carbon bisulphide or strong fumes
f rom burning sulphur may be used poison
gaS es should be used only by someone who
knows how to handle them....HSß- (1)
Storage in a cool, well-ventilated place, kept
scrupulously clean and free from all stale
waste flour and cereal debris, goes a long way
towards keeping flour nests in check S (21
Weevil infestoS in ma£ be dedt with
by carbon bisulphide fumigation and subsequent
storage in sealed containers R.C.G.: The
drs t Commonwealth Parliament was elected on
March 29 and 30, 1901, and dissolved on
,ove , ml ? c }' 23 > 19d3 -• •- R - T - : Mormonism was
touaded by Joseph Smith, who was murdered
?, n J une 27, 1844, and succeeded by Brigham
*°V. ng - *•: \ P S - : Lpndon, New York, Tokyo,
fy rin a od Moscow in that order... .R.G.L.:
Rai Uett, M.P., served on the “Daily
u • Re P^ er ® Agency and the “Times ’
before joining the “News-Chronicle.”
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor,
The Muse aroused;
L.RJ.:
The sordid blight of Nazi might
All Europe’s doom portended,
As, one by one, the ruthless Hun
Crushed nations undefended.
’Twas brutal war and, as before,
Australia’s sons elected
To stem this tide of homicide—
By Blarney’s lead directed.
T.R.:
Your dead, Japan, they’ll be very dead,
But will not pollute our place in the sun.
Your “scorched body’’ deeds will act; and ’twill be
said
“Well done, Aussies, you’ve yanked us and won!”
B.C.:—
Bombs on Tokyo! Bomb! Bomb! Bomb!
M here in the heck did the bombers come from?
... .M.R.: The poem, too, is “vibrant with the
airs enchanting vim” P.R.T.: The old-
school-tie joke is wearing thin... .K.S.L.: A
catchy tune might drag it up from the depths
where it now wallows... .L.C.: Lively, any-
how. .. .E.F.P.: “Toast” too thin. f.CB :
Good theme; but you haven’t worked on it
enough, and the refrain’s weak G.D.
(U.S.): Too many echoes of Kipling
C.W.R.H.: There’s a nice touch of drama in
the second stanza, but the verse generally is
1005 e... .J.F.: You can’t make immortal song,
or even plain commonsense, out of the parrot-
cries of the dailies W.J.: “Drinks” fuddled.
. ...E.T.G.: Get somebody to sing it....
H. 0.: It’s an old theme, and there’s nothing
new in the treatment... .E.J.8.; Pleasant;
that’s all W.S.F.; The descriptive passages
are the nearest; in prose, they might be nearer
5ti11.... S.C.: As a definition of the war,
“Humanity’s Golgotha-result of social ills” is
debatable; as a line of poetry, there’s no doubt
whatever about it J.H.: Amiable gas
L.J.D.: Both close. You need to work harder
on the humorous items Z.T.: A grin in
’em, but they’re only snippets A.C.V.:
He’s still running J.R.P.; Leave Rosalind
alone, and chase some more enterprising
rhymes.... J.C.G.; Lightweight P.F.: Neat,
but underweight... .J.W.: Send it to a woman’s
mag E.M.A.: Neither of those....
V.E.A.C.: Feeble... .D.L.F.: Try again when
you’re a little older F. 8.: It still doesn’t
qualify... .N.L.: Only a faint grin for
that “Tale of a Little Dog” M. 8.: Dull.
E.M.E.: Those poor birds are blamed too
often... .J.A.M.: “Murder, lust and love” are
a little too much for us all at once... .S.G.:
Not for u5....E.A.G.: Nothing but a fellow-
feeling for Brother Ralph J.H.-C.: Stodgy.
... .1.K.: Neat enough, but it’s not up....
Z.V.W.: A little too much sugar in those
home-made cakes... .D.W.8.; Long-winded.
F.W.O.: It’s tough going 0.R.A.:
Unexciting... .P.H.P.: It’s very nearly un-
decipherable and quite inconsequential.
10 ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.W.: It must have been some years since
you saw a dog... .G.8.D.: The drunk draped
around the lamp-post still saying the same
things to the indulgent john... .P. 8.: The mass
of cross-hatching in the background can’t be
faulted; it’s the figures in the foreground that
are all wrong H.A.C.: But why should the
wrestler have one muscle-bound arm and the
other withered, and be poised three feet from
the ground?... .E.H.: You appear to have a
plumber complex—the lady has gaspipe arms
and a face like a tap-heater... .J.G.A.: Your
caricature of McKell should hasten the urge
for abolition of State Parliaments... .L.G.; A
creaky idea illustrated by a lifeless sketch....
Bert C.: You have a draughthorse in a trotting
spider! E.S.A.: If you are under eight years
of age there is hope M.McD.: Poses too stiff
and linework not free enough... .D.S.J.; The
sergeant-major would be more presentable if
his arms were attached to his body C.D.V.:
Microscopic drawing showing a small crocodile
or a large lizard chasing a deformed miner
down a pit emphatically declined.


l ook Dad
WVi
there goes our
new gas pipe
f 99
■■
>'
-
*
wm
<*
M
m
\
* * Y
11
( *
L j
" ■:
3T-S&
o
IT’S more than likely
that every time your
wife puts the kettle on
the gas to heat it comes
through a pipe made
by the young Australian
industry of Stewarts and Lloyds.
We say “young” because it was only in 1934
that the plant of Stewarts and Lloyds
(Australia) Pty. Ltd. went into production
in New South Wales. Australia was coming
out of the dark years of depression —urgently
needing thriving new industries. Soon we
were producing everything from gas pipes to
boiler tubes for ships.
They were years of quick expansion. Many
other thriving new industries were contribut-
ing also to Australia’s prosperity.
Then, with 1939, Australia was again heading
into dark years—-years of War that are the
most, threatening of her history.
In those pre-War months she needed, far
more than most people realised then, fore-
sight on the part of her industries especially
in the production of iron and steel.
Acting on our own initiative, and entirely
without subsidy, we installed plant necessary
for the forging and rough machining of
ammunition shell bodies in sizes ranging
from the 25-pounder to the 60-pounder.
It was one phase of War production in which
Australia was off to a flying start!
The need for speed was the mother of inven-
tion. Right here in Australia the Stewarts
and Lloyds process made it possible to pro-
duce shell bodies in much the same way as
weldless tubes are turned out as part of our
peace-time production.
One of the main advantages of Stewarts and
Lloyds process of shell making is that the
inside of the forging can be made so closely
to size and with such a smooth finish that the
need for a costly and lengthy job of boring
the inside of the forging is eliminated.
Many a good story could be told of engineers
who worked miracles by changing over
machinery never intended for shell-making
rather than wait weeks, months or perhaps
even until to-day for special plant or equip-
ment from overseas. As a result, we had
shifts at work at one end of a new extension
before the roof was completed at the other
end.
Every month output of shell bodies shoots
up to a new record.
There’s no stopping and the men working in
furnace heat behind those shells are the men
who are breaking those records.
They are flat out to win this War and come
out of these dark years.
So when peace does come . . . and at last
you can build that house . . . remember the
great job that Australia’s workmen did in
this War when the plumber starts to lay
down your gas and water pipes from Stewarts
and Lloyds.
SteWcMTtiS and Lloyds
(Australia) Ply. Ltd.


•V' ■
■ I
if
if
★ power
TRANSMISSION
ENGINEERS
Ludowici's engineering work-
shop — largest of Its kind in
> Australia—produces a com-
plete range of Transmission
Equipment,
Since 1858IUDOWICIS
have provided Australian Industry
with the finest leather belting.
The quality of Pioneer Leather Belting is the result of years of con-
tinuous specialisation in tanning and belt making. Constant chemical
control of raw materials and tanning processes, routine inspection of
every stage of manufacture, ensure that uniform quality essential for
long term dependability.
Not only our Tannery and Belt-making Factories, but our Engineering Plant is the
largest of its kind in Australia producing Pivot and Torque Drives, V Belt Drives,
Pulleys, Bearings, Shaftings, a complete line of Power Transmission Equipment.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET (NEAR MARKET STREET), SYDNEY
20-26 QUEENS BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and "Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated Dy
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
ECZEMA
Sensitive people feel eczema
acutely. The continued irritation,
the unsightly eruptions and the
uncertainty where the trouble will
next spread makes them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact
that certain skins react badly to various
forms of irritation (internal or external)
and poor general health increases the
liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema
to spread and to become chronic, early
local treatment is imperative, and the best
salve for this purpose is DOAN’S Oint-
ment. It penetrates to the true skin where
the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and
healing and quickly allays the irritation.
DOAN’S Ointment is also good for other
itching skin complaints and for the relief
of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but, be sure
you get DOAN’S.
INIHINIQSNYOQ
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. 71 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ "£ £ £ £
1931.. 18,071 Nil Nil 18,071 240,163
1932.. 2,203 Nil Nil 2,203 242,366
1933.. 70,359 Nil Nil 70,359 312,725
1934. .120,774 37,500 Nil 83,274 395,999
1935.. 80,009 65,143 Nil 14,866 410,865
Loss on sale shares Southern Blue
Metal, £43,500 367,365
Patents disclosed, £57,651 .. .. 309,714
Loss. 5.8 p.c.
1936.. 29,734 58,125 Nil 221,855
Added patents, £974 .. .. .. 220,881
Profit.
1937.. 145,379 58,125 Nil 87,254 308,135
Added patents, £9OB . . . . .. 307,167
1938.. 213,884 58,125 Nil 155,759 462,920
29 p.c.
1939.-353,504 290,624 Nil 62,880 525,806
Patents disappear, £59,593 . . . . 585,399
5.8 p.c.
1940.. 382,417 58,125 Nil 324,292 909,691
7.5 p.c.
1941.. 78,641 75,000 Nil 3,641 913,332
Production figures are now showing the
benefit of the huge capital expenditure
since B.H.P. bought the ords. and there-
fore control in 1935. And, what is most
important, the expansion has been on an
economic basis that still permits Aus-
tralian steel in growing varieties to be
sold at little more than half the compar-
able cost in Britain and America. Though
war-time appetite for steel, the basis of
our fighting power as well as peace-time
industrial prosperity, has caused produc-
tion to outrun normal Australian needs,
there should be nothing embarrassing in
that. Brains and efficiency had deep-
rooted the seeds of a substantial export
trade even before hostilities caused a
diversion of production to Empire and
Australian needs, and the present price
advantage appears to assure a bright
future when world economies turn from
destructive to welfare ends again.
Commonwealth steel output is now
double the 1935 tonnage. Included in the
modernisation and extension of the
AT. and S. works have been a new
blast furnace with a daily capacity
of 1000 tons of pig, a new coke
ovens battery and several open-hearth
furnaces, the seventh of which began
production halfway through the last term,
when the flow of finished products
as well as the raw material for war
steadily increased. The unexpected turn
in profits appears to reflect the opening
up of a number of iron-ore deposits in
N.S.W. because of the demand on ship-
ping which previously brought high-
grade inter-State ore. These deposits,
however, are “only of interest as a war-
time measure.”
From the long view, too much atten-
tion, therefore, should not be paid to the
declared reduction of £303,726 in net
earnings, though it postpones the time
when B.H.P. shareholders can look for
any return from the Prop.’s largest in-
vestment. The £78,641 was struck after
providing £96,461 more at £669,400 for
depreciation, or 8.9 p.c. of the book
value of all fixed assets, so capital values
aren’t being permitted to grow top-heavy,
which is as it should be in view of the
quota of heavy plant installed for war
purposes which may find small space in
civilian life. For the first time for a
decade the million publicly-held prefs.
got their full contractual p.c., without
reduction under the N.S.W. Interest
Reduction Act, which survives although
the conditions it was enacted to meet have
become mere history.
In six years book value of fixed assets
has just doubled, reaching a figure very
near that of the heavily-written-down
B.H.P. steelworks, though capacity is
less: *
1935. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital . . £3,700,007 £5,700,007 £5,700,007
Sundry creditors* 649,937 2,931,362 3,453,271
Fixed assets ... 3,794.371 7,523,667 7,504,938
Shares in other cos. 391,809 386,498 386,497
Stocks . . . . 269,009 876,297 1,034,830
Book debts . . 317,722 765,679 1,151.746
Investments, cash, etc. 16,692 17,982 26,100
* Includes ord. div. ( £91,675) declared but not paid.
The money to do this and add £765,821
to stocks and £834,024 to debtors has
come by B.H.P. capitalising £2,000,000
of advances and putting up most of the
other £2,803,334 by which liabilities have
increased. Last term’s plant outlay was
met from the depreciation charge, the
excess of liabilities over more or less
liquids (£1,240,595) declining £30,809.
That excludes shareholdings, mainly scrip
in Southern Portland Cement, which has
transformed its position of recent years.
Combined with B.H.P.’s div. cut and
the opposite trend of taxation and costs,
to which the new 2s. increment in the
basic wage will add, the slender margin
between earnings and distributions has
disturbed the faint-hearts of the market.
Covered by net tangibles of £6 12s. 3d.,
AT. and S. pound prefs. recently sold at
235. 9d., against 255. 6d. a few weeks
back.
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
, Dividends : —Nominal
f —Pref.—To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
% £ £ £ £ £
’34+. 6,904 1027 500 6 p.c. = 2,749 2,628 21,420
’35.-15,199 2194 3000 8 „ „ 7,330 2,675 24,095
’36. . 22,626 2214 300.0 10 ~ „ 9,162 8,250 32,345
’37. . 25,100 2214 3000 10 ~ „ 9,162 10,774 43,119
’3B. . 25,626 2215 3000 10 „ ~12,075 8,336 51,455
’39.. 27,887 2215 3000 10 „ „ 12,827 9,845 61,300
’40.. 23,138 2214 3000 10 „ „ 12,828 5,096 66,396
Contingencies reserve, £20,000 .. 46,396
Underprovided taxation charged to
specific reserves, £9OOO.
’41.. 20,072 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 4,596 50,992
To contingencies, £5933 . . • . 45,059
* Subject to goodwill and trade-marks ( £15,934 at
Dec. 31). f Includes arrears. J Six months.
Profits in the past have been overstated
to the extent of £9OOO underprovided for
retrospective taxation. Contingencies and
taxation provisions, now lumped in one
account, were drawn on for the differ-
ence, so last term’s profit slip is probably
more apparent than real. Moreover,
£3500 was set aside to inaugurate a staff
fund during the year, and another £2OOO
placed in trust for soldier welfare. How
these amounts were dealt with in the
books isn’t clear, but the year may have
been better than it looks.
Certainly it was the busiest in the man-
agement’s history, despite the growing
of bare legs. War-time expansion has
provided the co. with two new mills, one
at Camberwell (Vic.), where production
of men’s hose is now centred, and the
Berkeley Knitting Mills (Sydney), on
which a lot of money was laid out bring-
ing them “into line with Holeproof
methods and standards” for the produc-
tion of women’s hosiery to meet N.S.W.
and Queensland custom. The main mills
at Brunswick (Vic.) have also shared in
the expansion.
That admitted earnings show no benefit
is because of the uprush of raw-material
and labor costs, part of which haven’t
been passed on in selling prices, and the
financial needs of war. There was a
further narrowing of gross margins last
term from £147,031 to £136,223. But after
charging a liberal £25,400 for deprecia-
tion and providing for taxes, solid-look-
ing economies in selling and administra-
tion offset £7742 of the smaller gross,
leaving the net balance only £3066 lighter
at £20,072 —sufficient to meet pref. obli-
gations and then provide 11.5 p.c. for the
ords., against 13.9 and 17.7 p.c. for the
two preceding years. Ord.-holders’ cut
was reduced to 8 p.c. after four years at
10 p.c,, and the balance of earnings, with
£1337 besides, was whisked off to contin-
gencies.
Reserves at £45,059, which is subject
to goodwill, etc., of £15,934, don’t appear
particularly robust. But visible reserves
aren’t all they may seem in a manu-
facturing business, where plant efficiency
is the chief measuring-rod of strength.
Consider these figures:
1936. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Ord. capital . . £91,621 £128,270 £128,270 £128,750
Prof, capital. . 77,085 77,685 77,685 77,685
Liabilities .. 41,749* 51,303* 116,888 148,354
Tax. prov. . . 30,500 35,000 f
Freeholds, etc. 70,787 81,297 85,176 86,053
Plant & fittings 65,349 64,308 64,190 51,408
Stocks .. 98,203 158,647 228,129 262,982
Debtors . . 2,862 6,017 33,355 23,607
Cash, etc. . . 2,033 2,659 3,258 2,121
* Includes tax provision. f Includes contingencies.
Despite the recent spread of activities
the total of fixed assets is less than any
time since 1936, and depreciation is on
a basis that anticipates only another two
years’ usefulness from plant. Certain raw
silk reserves were commandeered by the
Federal Government, but an impressive
stock of substitutes appears to have been
accumulated in which the association
with the American Holeproof organisa-
tion may have assisted. What will happen
when these run out remains to be seen,
though there will be the men’s side of
things, both civilian and defence, to help
earnings along.
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1931.. 7,910 3 p.c. = 8,463 69,124
1932.. 4,052 2\ „ „ 7,098 66,078
1933.. 7,017 2| „ „ 7,098 65,997
1934.. 15,662 5 „ „ 14,195 1,467 67,464
1935.. 16,141 5 „ „ 14,195 1,946 69,410
1936.. 16,400 5 „ „ 14,195 2,205 71,615
Royalty rights disclosed, £4143 . . 67,472
1937.. 16,550 54 p.c. =15,614 936 68,408
Goodwill, £19,026 49,382
Royalty rights' disappear, £3033 . . 52,415
1938.. 17,049 6 p.c. = 17,034 15 52,430
Royalty rights disappear, £lllO .. 53,540
1939.. 12,837 44 p.c. =12.776 61 53,601
Goodwill disappears, £42 .. .. 53,643
1940. . 6,410 Nil 6,410 60,053
Added goodwill, £1291 .. .. 58,762
Loss.
1941.. 12,474 Nil 46,288
Sydney’s milk distributors are still being
squeezed between the producer and the
consumer. The trade has long been sub-
ject to Government control, broadly the
aim being a reasonable return to the pro-
ducer while maintaining a low and steady
selling price to the consumer. One result
of this policy has been to make an Aunt
Sally of the distributor, whose affairs have
been probed by half a dozen royal and
other commissions, etc., of recent years,
while at the same time they have been
subject to supervision, control and exam-
ination by the Milk Board, a permanent
and expensive Government body set up
for the purpose.
An investigation by Judge de Baun
in 1940 into the cost of milk-distributing
showed that:
Under the present system of distribution
in the metropolitan area no reduction in
price is possible; the increased rates paid
to producers, as well as higher wages and
rising costs prevent it.
Almost all distributors, with the excep-
tion of the Dairy Farmers’ Co., which is in
a specially favored position, are operating
on margins only sufficient for the main-
tenance of their business. In most cases
profits are 5ma11....
A remedy suggested by the “Wild Cat”
at the time was displacement of the twice-
daily by a once-daily delivery. This is
only now being put into practice under
a system of block runs, with one trader
only to each block. Exactly what the
saving in distribution costs will amount
to remains to be seen. At any rate, 2d.
per gallon is to be chipped off the price
of milk to the consumer. Mean-
while, shareholders in distributing cos.
hope that the balance of savings, if
any, will more than offset recent heavy
increases in costs, including taxation. The
basic wage is now 9s. higher than it was
two years ago, with another 2s. to be
added, the cost of all essential materials
has risen considerably, and the payroll
tax alone has added £6OOO p.a. to the
F.F. and I. Co.’s outgoings.
An aspect of the problem which has
not yet received the consideration it de-
serves is that of basing returns to the
producer on the cost of feed —roughly
60 p.c. of the cost of milk production.
Last year, owing to seasonal condi-
tions, the co.’s turnover in ice and ice-
cream was lower and the subsidiary,
Byrne’s Exhibition Dairy, made a loss.
But sales of milk, cream, butter, bread,
fish, game, poultry, etc., all increased, the
improvement in gross earnings from all
sources (£435,092) being £16,210. The
leap in exes. (£447,566) was £35,094, leav-
ing the net result £12,476 on the wrong
side of the ledger. So for the second year
in succession shareholders went without.
For the decade before that they averaged
only 4.4 p.c.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1937 19'39. 1940 1941.
Paid capital.. £283,907 £283,907 £283,907 £283,907
Debentures . . 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
Other liabilities -69,208 163,814 181,248 192,846
Property . . 236,010 243,885 243,885 244,127
Plant.. .. 166,425 173,423 171,336 165.921
Rolling stock 38,204 38,589 39,277 35,286
Stocks . . 23,369 28,744 33,761 33,107
Cash, etc. . . 397 509 543 514
Book debts . . 62,485 73,278 86,021 85,584
Shares subsid. 13,149 13,156 13,156 13,156
Advances subsid. • 33,995 37,228 45,346
When the books last closed there was
17s. 9d. of outside money at risk in the
business for every pound belonging to
shareholders. Also the outside debt ex-
ceeded more or less liquids (excluding
shares in the subsidiary) by £128,295, up
£4600.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O'Connell Street. SYDNEY.
86371.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE..
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
appoint your executor and trustee now.
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
Security
Economy
Service
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
( Incorporated in Victoria )
3 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ;
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Craham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C. ; Janies Kidd; A.
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J.
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G. ;
G. H. Shipway,
m
■
*
*w
V
: ; < > xgwMfigsf
■
mm
I
■
«
mmmm
■ . .■
Mips:
V
!
■ Sgs3as
ms
Making final adjust-
ments to sensitive
detonating mechanism
on R.I.L. Land Mines.
■ - :
RICHARDS
In the starlight a Digger
working party plants rows of
R.I.L. mines in the path of
an expected tank attack.
Woe betide the steel dinosaur
that sets its blundering foot on that
plantation! Land mines are only
part of the mighty volume of muni-
tions produced by R.I.L. craftsmen,
who, every hour of every day, mag-
nificently adapt themselves to a
thousand new and intricate tasks,
and throw every ounce of their skill
and energy into backing up our
fighting forces.
RICHARDS
INDUSTRIES
limited
Gold and the War
Perth Chamber of Manufactures has
impressed upon the Federal Government
the need for serious consideration of all
phases of the proposed early contraction
of the Westralian goldmining industry.
It is urged that Westralia, with wheat
production seriously curtailed and the
wool industry still shaken by long periods
of drought, would face a critical financial
crisis. H. L. Brisbane, the chamber’s
chairman, adds a plea that at least suffi-
cient men should be retained on every
principal mine to keep it in working
order for the duration. With mines the
size of those operated in the West, how-
ever, that would be a costly job, and the
question arises: Who is going to foot the
bill the non-revenue-receiving mine-
owners or the Government? At the
week-end War Organisation Minister
Dedman said at Kalgoorlie that, while
he could not definitely state the Govern-
ment’s policy, “it is not the intention to
apply drastic restrictions to upset the
whole economic life of the goldfields and
the State,” and there is “no intention of
applying the complete closure of the in-
dustry.”
Minister for Munitions Makin and
Assistant Director-General of Munitions
Brodribb, in addition to Minister Ded-
man, skipped through the West last week
looking into the gold industry’s war pro-
duction potential. The prospect that the
industry there may possibly get off better
than in Victoria has brought loud protests
of “differentiation between States” —as
though that has not occurred in numer-
ous respects already—from the Cabbage
Garden, which has none of the peculiar
problems of the West and only 1200
men, as against 13,000, directly affected.
The practical issue is whether the labor
power affected is vital to the war
effort. If so, the question is settled. It
is owed to shareholders, though, that
everything reasonable be done by
Authority to protect the million and a
half invested in Victorian mines and
plant against the time when resumption
of,working is possible.
Paringa (W.A.) plans to conserve funds
for mill extension and vigorous develop-
ment of its wide areas when that becomes
possible. The likely effect, if any, on
immediate div. policy isn’t indicated.
Reserve ore as at the end of August is
shown at 368,760 »tons. The estimate 12
months earlier was 461,690 tons, the fall
reflecting elimination of 87,500 tons of
4dwt. material not considered worth
while extracting. The average for 316,570
tons is 5.2dwt., and recent high-grade dis-
coveries should improve on that figure.
During the year 55 acres was added to
the co.’s holdings south of and on the
extensions of the Mt. Charlotte lode
channels, and options are held on another
86 acres, which, if exercised, will form
these leases into a compact block.
After charging all but £579 of the
year's development (£14,628) and chip-
ping off £10,119 for depreciation, a rise
of 4s. Aust. in mining and milling costs
pulled net back from £41,401 to £30,566
stg., of which directors’ extra remunera-
tion takes £1570 and the unchanged 15
p.c. div. £28,976. Ore-reduction was
slightly greater at 93,655 tons, recovered
grade 4.55dwt., or 88.2 p.c. of heads.
* * * *
Wiluna (W.A.) reckons the Mt. Char-
lotte mines, over which it has a two-year
working option, may justify erection of
a 30,000-ton-a-month mill. In the event
of the option being exercised, Mt. Char-
lotte stands to collect £200,000 Aust. in
cash and certain rights to subscribe to
any working co. formed. Paringa,
through its Charlotte share interest, will
participate.
* * * *
Larger millings of both Boulder Per-
severance (W.A.) and its neighboring and
65 - p.c. - owned subsidiary, Kalgoorlie
Enterprise, offset the effect of increased
costs last year, leaving working surpluses
in each case practically unchanged. Still,
“owing to the spread of war and the
uncertainty of Australian legislation in
the near future,” final div. is being halved
to 10 p.c., making 30 p.c. for the year
and interrupting the 40 p.c. shareholders
have come to expect since 1937. Full
accounts will be two or three months
behind time. First-quarter crushings of
the current term have contracted 20 p.c.
* * * *
Ore treatment at Triton, Cue (W.A.),
came down from 101,266 to 79,220 tons
in the year to March, and the gold yield
followed suit with a contraction from
6.ldwt. to s.3dwt, About ’weights
is needed to meet costs. Three years’
ore was claimed in reserve 12 months
ago, but the co.’s foothold on the Wes-
tralian golden stairs doesn’t appear very
firm, and there are those who aver that
prospects are more likely to deteriorate
than improve.
From a leading Bendigo (Vic.) div.-
payer to non-profitable producer is the
record of Central Nell Gwynne over the
past 18 months. Still, capital of £25,000
has been repaid 6j times over since for-
mation, so those who got in at or near
the basement have nothing to wring their
hands over, though speculators who
bought at 60s. and higher no doubt hold
different views. The change in share-
holders’ fortunes is a combination of
war labor conditions and the absence of
new finds of pay-ore below 1080 ft.,
though “ample scope” here for develop-
ment is said to exist still if War Organi-
sation Minister is kind. For six months
to March treatment of 7375 tons (half
the quantity of the corresponding period
of 1941) yielded only over the
plates, costs went up to an all-in 38s. sd.
a ton and the balance came out £390 on
the wrong side, as against surpluses of
£10,245 and £26,831 for the two pre-
ceding periods.
* * * *
Arahura Gold Dredging, one of the
Pratten Maoriland ventures, hoisted im-
proved figures in the year to March,
gold yield going up from 13,7850 z. to
18,8680 z. (2.Bgr. a yard), despite a million
c.y. smaller turnover. Current term has
opened auspiciously with a return of
1090 oz. for the first half of April. Re-
moval of exemption on overseas-taxed
income has now brought trans-Tasman
mining income into both Federal and
Premier McKell’s revenue nets.
* * * *
Westralia hopes to include cadmium in
its list of metals mined before long. As
far back as 1919 the late Dr. Simpson,
when Government analyst and mineral-
ogist, reported that cadmium was present
in appreciable quantities in the blendes
of Northampton, and said it probably
existed in other zinc ores in tbe State.
British price for the stuff is fixed around
£5OO per short ton.


Are you
watching
his health?
•If your dog’s
coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
tvon’t eat or is
out of sorts —
start him now on
a course of
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
lively and eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog's whole system.
ds
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
jest
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager W. G. Bulfm
ml
a
9
iHisiiaßira
*
Jfc
»
fc
&3
I .aS
.w >«>
;«p
tnn I
MEfel
m\'\ t
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY 11. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E, V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
LEONARD PETTITT.
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
A Million a Day
The Prime Minister told the Premiers’
Conference that the war would cost Aus-
tralia approximately £290 million this
financial year ; for the first 10 months,
almost completed, the figure is about
£220 million. In the following term over
a million a day will be the cost, and Mr.
Curtin conservatively put the total for
1942-43 at £360 million. If these forecasts
are correct, it will mean that the proportion
of Australia’s national income absorbed
in war costs will rise from 29 p.c. in
1941-42 to 36 p.c. in 1942-43. It will
then be reaching a very critical figure,
though in other belligerent countries
greater proportions have been achieved.
Factors in attaining a maximum war
output will include the possibility of ad-
justing the nation’s financial mechanism
to the task in hand (such as enforcing
one income tax), and the question of
whether Labor, including the troublesome
coalminers, will see sense in regard to
the contribution required of it. A large
proportion of the national income like
36 p.c. overshadows entirely the incomes
over £8 a week. It is perfectly clear,
then, that the under-£B-a-week man will
have to suffer some loss of living stand-
ards, and even if he works overtime he
may not be fully compensated. It is
wrong to pretend to people that their
living standards can be maintained
without working harder. But rather than
suffer a drastic loss in living facili-
ties it would be far better from the
country’s viewpoint for the wage-earners
to try to maintain their standards
by doing more work. Only in this way
can the absence of man-power in the
forces be made up and the loss of in-
come to the wage-earner by taxation
overcome.
It is all obvious to anyone willing to
think, Mopey is the shadow, production
and service the substance. The idea of
financing the war out of bank credit
without imposing a burden on living
standards has died, but it has died hard,
and it has died only because Labor is in
office and doing its darnedest to find the
“easiest” way out anyway. It has used
bank credit to a dangerous extent indeed,
but it knows that you can’t lighten any
burdens that way even if you can
momentarily deceive the people about
where the incidence of war’s cost is fall-
ing. Now the squealers among the popu-
lation have another catch-cry: they are
all for making the other fellow pay.
People in the trade-union-wage class
are the biggest producing and con-
suming factor in the Commonwealth.
They can’t escape the burden of war,
and it is absurd to suggest that they can.
Even if the pill is sugar-coated to the
extent of rationing the substance and
magnifying the shadow, their living
standards fall just the same, and their
magnified money really represents infla-
tion. Where it happens that it is
impossible to spend magnified wages
owing to rationing there is no guar-
antee that they will be saved until
after the war —they may be wasted now,
and in the long run it may be shown that,
in respect of the year 1941-42, had the
Fadden post-war-credit plan operated,
the wage-earner would be more in pocket
after the war than he will actually be as
a result of the Labor party’s supposed
beneficence.
In spite of the heavy taxation now in
force on the higher incomes and lighter
taxation on all incomes down to £156 a
year, plus the assistance of the recently
oversubscribed public loan, the Common-
wealth has been relying greatly on the
banking system for finance. Up to April
20 the Commonwealth Bank had re-
ceived £37.5 million from the trading
banks under the banking regulation re-
quiring them to lodge war-time deposits,
and much of this has been lent to the
Government, which owes the central
bank £104.7 million, up £62 million in
12 months, but most of the rise has been
in the past six months. This bulge in
bank-credit finance availed of by the
Government has been almost alarming
even during a year in which the total
war outlay is estimated at £290 million.
But what is going to happen next year,
when war’s cost is likely to rise to £360
million? The position should by now
have become sufficiently serious for even
a Government of experimentalists to be
forced to its senses. Realities are in-
escapable, and bank-credit finance is a
futile attempt to escape from realities.
It has no other “virtues,” as at the best
it only defers taxation of some form or
other. And with deferment come addi-
tional costs.
The outlook for 1942-43 is plainly one
of further restrictions in our customary
way of life. Production and services of
£360 million taken out of a national in-
come of around £lOOO million mean a
vast reshaping of our ideas on what to
expect. As mentioned, it is a critical
figure, and in order to put it into effect
we may find it necessary to call on
woman-power more than has been done
up to the present. The position is that
unemployment among trade - unionists
and other male labor is now down
to an extraordinary low level, and
only misfits are out of work. The
physical tax on our capacity and
resources is becoming as obvious as the
financial burden.
It is up to the Government to see that
the one burden honestly reflects the
other. That is the secret of successful
finance in a case like this. Where money
figures do not honestly reflect the physi-
cal and material aspects of war, then we
can look out for trouble. The bumpy
economic experience following the last
war, culminating in the depression that
was alleged by many people to have been
worse than the war, was largely because
facts were not looked squarely in the
face during and after the war. The pre-
vention of something similar following
the present upheaval will largely depend
on how we shape up to facts now. We
have slipped considerably during Labor’s
first year of office, but it is still not too
late to put matters right.
The 4 p.c.-profits policy will be on the
menu when Parliament meets this week.
Whether it is going to be tough or tender
will apparently depend on the Senate, as
Government supporters in the Lower
House seem solid even unto Coles,
M.H.R., formerly known principally as
a chain-store director, now a prominent
war-damage insurance man in the Gov-
ernment’s service. Another chain-store
man —not in politics or the Government
service—is all against the limitation of
profits to 4 p.c. on capital and reserves
after payment of business taxation. He
is C. Scott Waine, a director of Wool-
worths. He described the proposed re-
striction, which is intended to take effect
from July 1, as “a most unwarranted and
harmful measure,” adding that where
businesses were in competition under
Government-controlled prices it was un-
fair to penalise those which earned more
profit through better management or
hard work. There is not a tittle of sense
in the Government’s economic “organi-
sation” regulation. It amounts to petty
tyranny by a weak Government that is
desperately anxious to please bullying
bodies of coalminers and similar Labor
troublemakers who, monetarily, have
never been so well off in their lives. Rigid
limitation of earnings of anyone is no
way to increase production, the real
essential of Government financial policy.
However heavy taxation rates may have
to be, there should always be left an
opening through which, by greater effi-
ciency, industry and production, the tax-
payer is given the opportunity of making
up some of the contribution he has given
to the nation. By this means he will be
able to give more to the war effort than
ever, since essential production, even if
it has to be partly paid for by the
country and not entirely by the maker,
is the real object of war-time industrial
organisation. But in Canberra we have
Government members whose minds are
stagnant pools of Labor politics. Even
the war hasn’t flushed their intelligence.
They have won their seats by playing on
class animosity, and a man’s trade sticks
to him all his life.
* * * *
Canberra Labor’s policy seems clear
enough. It would like to see every voter
a trade-unionist, a civil servant or
an old-age pensioner, so as to have
everyone under its thumb. It has
little time for an independent institution
like the press, and a fair idea of what it
considers Australians should listen to can
be gathered from the melodramatic “Can-
berra calling” session from the national
stations. Its economics are wild and raw,
and in argument it favors the diverting
“comeback” rather than the plain answer.
In Maoriland we have seen a Labor
Government complete the cycle of radi-
calism to comparative conservatism ; the
revolution took some years, which was
the period required to educate the Gov-
ernment in practical politics. Thousands
of people paid for the Government’s
education by trial and error, but fortu-
nately enlightenment had almost come
by the time Australia’s Anzac partner
became involved in the second world
war. Enzedders have got down to cases
quickly and willingly. In Australia eco-
nomic plans of a revolutionary and dis-
ruptive nature were announced by the
Government in very emphatic terms a
couple of months ago, but after doing
damage to the nerves of industry
and causing delay to efforts on all
sides the half-baked economic concoction
has for the most part been thrown out.
“Government” by experimentalism and
Labor politics with a ponderous lean
towards socialism are Australian tragedies
of the present war.
The basic wage has been lifted 2s. a
week in N. S. Wales, Queensland and
South Australia, in Victoria by 3s. a
and in 'Westialia and Tasmania by
ls - a . week - These increases conform
Wlth riBes ln tbe cost of , livin §- : £ n Syd-
Wales the new rate will be £4 3s Mel-
bourne £4 125., Brisbane, Adelaide and
Hobart £4 8s and £4 7s> The
inflation that has taken place in the basic
wage j n Sydney as a result of the in-
crease in living costs since war broke out
has been a shade under 15 p.c. The
latest rise in the average for the Corn-
monwealth has been steep, and it indi-
cates the strain being imposed on the
Australian economy by war conditions
and the methods adopted by the Govern-
ment to finance the war. The rise in
living costs has been accelerated since
Labor took office, though part of the
spurt has been due to Japan’s entry into
the war and the ensuing shortage of
man-power, plus dry conditions in many
parts.
* * * *
Hooey, the Americans call it. “The
£37.5 million called up by the Common-
wealth Bank from the trading banks
since the con trol regulations were
brought in last December is being frozen
b th Commonwealth Bank as a check
J M „.. „ T, - , , ,
a B ainst mflatlon ’ Nothing could be
more nonsensical It is being taken
fr ° m ivate banks «? d j? nvate
* Ol purpose of lending o
tbe Commonwealth Government for war-
finance P ur P ose . s - In ds new role the
mo ? e y 18 Paying a more inflationary
P art tba P d possibly could m its old
be c au f e djs really being used to bridge
n Budget deficit, seeing that war expen-
dlture, ca * scarcely be described as
capital outlay. The fact that the money
bas beeia found by the trading banks
principally by calling in advances to
industry certainly means that a deflation-
ai T force is at work there, and so long
as on ty non-essential industries are
affected no harm is being done at that
end. But the new use to which the money
is being put is another story. A weak-
kneed Government is availing itself of
this “cheap” money reputedly borrowed
from the trading banks at 15s. per cent.
—when it should either be fastening its
liability direct to the public, or, better
V’ • *
stlll > f rals . ln « a grea, “ P ro P? r >‘°“ ° £ > ,s
war funds b Y wa y o£ taxatlon-
* * * *
The effect of the Commonwealth’s
requisitioning of deposits at a low rate
of interest, the restriction of banking
activities generally, the adjustment of
interest rates and the heavier taxation
a re showing up in trading bank divi-
dends. The National has reduced its final
to 2\ p.c., making p.c. for the year.
The E., S. and A. is to pay an interim of
2+ p.c., compared with p.c. for the
sam3 per iod of last year.


Wanted.
WANTED TO BUY, OR LEASE WITH
OPTION TO PURCHASE, PROPERTY OF
200 OR 300 ACRES ON SOUTH COAST
OF N.S.W. Must be on sheltered bay and
with creek or continuous water supply
and preferably within 30 miles of a reason-
ably sized town; will take property either
wholly or partially cleared and suitable
for grazing.
To avoid unnecessary running around,
kindly reply stating exact location and
price to
“E.N.Y.,”
C/o McGILL’S AGENCY,
ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE.
'THAT'
/'HE
BROADER SHOULDERS
THAN YOUR OWN
You can place the burden of your business worries on the broad shoulders of
Burns Philp Trust Company. If you will call at the offices of this Company or
make a brief request in writing, you will learn of a plan whereby you can be
relieved of worry regarding the efficient conduct of your affairs during lifetime
and the administration of your Estate should death occur.
To those who have neither time nor liking for the complicated details of taxation,
rent collection, estate supervision, and other business matters which are rendered
doubly complex by current conditions, this plan has a special appeal. Further-
more, it is one which assures uninterrupted attention to your affairs no matter
what contingency may arise.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE “ “ e «c T , SYDNEY
PHONE; B 7901. Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
mobilisim mmi
Well may Britain’s Prime Minister say that the front line runs through
the factories.
Science has mobilized her forces and industry has heard the call of
Empire.
Ours not the clash of arms, for our weapons are the drawing board,
the furnace and the machine shop.
Ours not the scream of flying shells, but the whirring of the drills,
the humming of the lathe and the monotonous booming of the steam
hammer.
And behind the singing of the machines, stands the industrial army.
An army in overalls, harnessing the forces of industry—directing the
machines and producing equipment equal to the world's best.
In industry's front line the men of E.T.C. are holding their position,
producing essential materials, with a fine precision and accuracy
worthy of the company's hall mark—"A tecnico Product."
And away in the field of battle, where lives hang on the thread of
accuracy, men may be content that the job is being well done on the
industrial front.
lecnico
E. T. C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. AND REN WICK ST., MARRICK V I L L E, N. S. W.
5-33-41
Australian bonds have been showing
big gains in New York, indicating the
more hopeful view taken by Americans
of affairs in this part of the Pacific. Rises
were particularly pronounced on April
22, which was the best day for three
months. Biggest lift was in Queensland
6 p.cs., which rose from 60 to 68. But
over a week Commonwealth 5 p.cs.
lifted six points, mostly in one day, and
there were other gains of from four to
five points.
* * * *
Australian sharemarkets rallied again
last week. In particular, B.H.P. showed
strong recovery after the fall which pre-
ceded the cut in the final div. rate.
Almost all the loss of the preceding week
or more had been recovered by Saturday.
The possibility of one income-tax author-
ity coming into operation helped the
market generally, and the war news was
no worse. New York was more confi-
dent. Australian share values offering
were still attractive, on the whole, to
anyone prepared for lengthy holding.
B.H.P. and Bradford Cotton were among
the more interesting issues.
* * * «
The president of the Australian Rail-
ways Council, T. Moroney, has the bril-
liant idea that “the Government” should
“compel people to surrender all income
above a specified limit and reduce taxa-
tion on lower incomes.” He doesn’t men-
tion the “limit,” but he had better make
it a bit higher than a Federal Minister’s
salary if he wants it to come into force.
The more absurd side of Mr. Moroney’s
suggestion, however, is seen when one
considers its practical value. The highest
incomes in the land are now reduced to
a few thousands, and the people earn-
ing over £l5OO a year—the Labor party
has favored, or says it has, those earn-
ing less—don’t represent a great deal
when taxes already in force are paid.
Wiping out their incomes altogether
wouldn’t ease the demand on essential
supplies very much. It is the under-£B-
--weekers who represent the great con-
suming masses, and it is an unfortunate
fact that they cannot escape the burden
of war. The economic trouble into which
this country is drifting now is chiefly
due to the fact that the lower income-
earners haven’t been taxed in propor-
tion to the national wastage caused by
war. If all the incomes of the “wealthy”
were taken it wouldn’t make the position
permanently better for those on wages.
It would merely fake the books by creat-
ing the impression that, money is the
whole story behind war finance. We
have to wake up to the fact that our
problem really boils down to goods and
services available now or soon to be.
Money is only the bookkeeping—a sort
of floating, loose-leaf system.
* ♦ ♦ *
“James Watt” : Consider the chief engi-
neer of a modern motorship (B. 15/4/’42).
His position is comparative to that of the
superintendent of a substantial power-
house (which he often becomes later on),
with the disadvantage that he has to live
on the job 24 hours daily and seven days
weekly. His award provides for 10 p.c.
in addition to salary in lieu of all over-
time, the 44-hour week notwithstanding.
A minimum of 8j years is required to
complete his training. He certainly gets
81 days’ leave annually. A similar
appointee ashore gets 52 Sundays, 52
Saturday afternoons, 10 public holidays
and 14 days’ annual leave, and does not
carry his life continually in his hands.
* * * *
The price of waste newspaper has been
fixed at £l4 a ton by the Prices Commis-
sioner. Five or six years back reeled
newsprint cost no more. At £l4 a ton
old papers are now worth l|d. a pound.
It is estimated that by June 30 the
war will have cost Australia £515 mil-
lion, of which 1939-40 outlay represents
£55 million, 1940-41 £l7O million, and
1941-42 £290 million (estimate). Exclu-
sive of interest, the 1914-18 war had cost
Australia £572 million up to June 30,
1939. Adding interest, the grand total
was £877 million.
» * * *
A lot of Labor policy is so blatantly
illogical that momentarily it passes for
“energy” or “strength” or something.
Passing by the many obvious instances
where hard facts have made the party
eat words, platform and all during this
war, take Labor’s contempt of thrift or
saving. It has no time for the person
with a few hundred in the bank, in shares,
bonds, house property or life assurance.
Its taxation and other policy is aimed
against these folk, while it showers
benefits on the improvident. Yet savings,
especially organised savings, have been
the foundation of improved living stand-
ards throughout the world. Savings
represent a great financial force during
war-time. Even sections of Labor are
beginning to appreciate this. If Labor
continues to be disillusioned at the
present rate the party in its existing
shape may cease to be.


THE SERVICE MAN
From Maoriland to Mandalay.
“Ek Dum”: Optimism is a fine quality
so long as it has no relaxing effect on
morale ; but we have a long way to go
before we have cause to pat ourselves
on the back. It is foolish to put out
such headlines as “Enemy Baffled in the
North.”
Despite the strong and continued re-
sistance of the dispersed U.S. and Fili-
pino troops, the enemy is making head-
way in the Philippines, and he un-
doubtedly is pouring troops into those
islands and converting their resources to
his uses. The United Nations are
deprived of those resources and of access
for reinforcements to relieve the devoted
U.S. garrisons.
And Japanese progress in Burma is
being made at an alarming rate. Still
unless those Burmese and the Philippine
areas are cleaned up, their first campaign
cannot be regarded as completed.
At the end of next month the Indian
scene will be highly unhealthy for cam-
paigning through the wet season. Along
Australia’s north-east and north, with
the passing of the monsoon rains through
the East Indies area, the weather will
have become more suitable. So it is not
beyond the bounds of possibility that
when the Indian monsoon season breaks
the weight of the attack will be turned
against the South Seas.
One thing is certain, that no attack
will be made on this country unless it
is intended to be all out and decisive. It
will call for a much heavier, better-
backed effort than the attack on the
Philippines, and it will not now be safe
unless the enemy is prepared to stake
the success or failure of the whole war
on it. The Japanese command, as it has
shown, knows that in this kind of long-
distance expedition man-power and
mobility count. Its troops have been and
must be lightly armed by European
standards. They have had superior
mobility, through the use of bicycles and
other small vehicles, over the short dis-
tances of the Burmese, Philippine and
Malayan advances. But they have not
yet had to face a country of really long
distances on which a bicycle makes little
impression, which is not agricultural at
the points of approach, which has no
native population to be dragooned and
which, in itself, has a basic army of
200,000 toughened veterans from the last
war and some of the hardiest units of this
war, Australia can quadruple the num-
bers of men with actual fighting experi-
ence from its younger age groups, with-
out counting the unending stream of
Uncle Sam’s troops, who s*m to grow
taller and huskier with every consign-
ment.
Moreover, our enemies have yet to
pit their type of light armed mobility
against a highly motorised country, with
a highly motorisable interior. Australia
is one of the most highly motorised
countries in the world. And Nature
gave it an interior, behind its scrubby
border of eastern hills, which might have
been designed expressly as a playground
for large mechanised forces bent on travel-
ling hell for leather to any point at will.
MacArthur’s Command
The week marked the completion of
the South-west Pacific Command areas.
Their limitations and extensions are no
more clear than they were before. The
remarkable feature of the arrangements
is the complete manner in which, with no
obvious difficulty, the countries concerned
have welded themselves militarily into a
single entity.
General MacArthur holds a proud
position which no “foreign” general ever
has held before —that of a commander-
in-chief on British Commonwealth soil.
Only a perfect trust and understanding
could create that situation, more es-
pecially as all his supreme staff is Ameri-
can with the exception of some juniors.
The position is balanced on the other
side of the world in zones across the
Atlantic round the British Isles by the
submission of American forces there to
British command.
The merging of interests does not end
with General MacArthur’s control;
neither does the uniqueness of the allo-
cations of commands. For General
Blarney holds full command of the land
forces in the South-west Pacific. And
despite the fact that Uncle Sam has a
vastly greater man-power to draw on,
General Blarney’s staff and the command
of his individual armies and corps in his
groups are in the hands of Australians,
with a few American officers attached or
subordinate.
Blarney’s armies and corps will be
partly Australian, partly American, partly
Dutch and Free French, possibly in time
partly British.
The merging of the Free French in-
terests into the common stock was con-
summated by Uncle Sam’s undertaking to
defend French possessions in the s.-w.
Pacific and by the landing of a substan-
tial American force on New Caledonia.
That was a matter for relief. Noumea
is within bombing range of the Queens-
land coast.
Maoriland stands as the central focus
of a new South Pacific command, which
will be under the American Admiral
Ghormley, until recently U.S. Naval
observer in London. Strategic considera-
tions determined this disposition. The
wish of the Maoriland Government was
that the Dominion should be included
under General MacArthur’s command.
But there is a linkage—Brigadier-General
Goss has been appointed N.Z. liaison
officer on General MacArthur’s staff.
Like the rest of the naval zones, in-
cluding the south-west, Maoriland’s will
be subject to the supreme Pacific com-
mand at Hawaii and ultimately to the
U.S. Naval C.-in-C., Admiral King, and
the Allied Chiefs of Staff council.
General MacArthur announced the
names of members of his staff on April
21 —Major General Richard K. Suther-
land (C. 0.5.), Brigadier-General Richard
J. Marshall (Deputy C. 0.5.), Colonel
Chas. A. Willoughby (Intelligence), Briga-
dier C. P. Stivers (Personnel), Brigadier
Stephen J, Chamberlain (Operations and
Training), Colonel Lester J. Whitlock
(Supply) and Colonel Burdette M. Fitch
(Adjutant-General); the G.S.Os. include
Colonel H. F. H. Durant and Lieutenant-
Colonel J. D, Rogers (A.1.F.) and
Lieutenant-Colonel J. M. R. Sandberg
(Royal Netherlands E. 1.). That same day
the general issued his first communique.
It was terse, but it defined his immediate
area of operations clearly: Netherlands
East Indies, New Britain, New Guinea
and the Philippines.
It mentioned only matters reported in
the press in the Australian area from 24
to 48 hours earlier and dealt with desul-
tory operations in the Philippines up to
April 19 —intermittent shelling of Corre-
gidor with negligible effect and a new
enemy landing at San Jose on Panay.
Australia’s own War
Rabaul was raided on April 21, the
visitors scoring direct hits on buildings.
Rabaul shipping installations were
bombed on April 22, and next day a
combined Allied force went in again
under heavy m.-g. fire and attacks by
four “0”-type fighters and dropped in-
cendiaries and h.e. on barracks, ware-
houses, wharves and shipping.
Meanwhile, Moresby was attacked
three times. The first attack was made
at 10 a.m. by eight heavy bombers ; the
second was a swoop of fighters half an
hour later ; the third came in the after-
noon, there being two enemy fighters.
Little or no damage and no casualties.
The enemy has become sparing in his
use of bombers in New Guinea. Tropi-
cal wear and tear on his machines and
the difficulty in getting them off the earth
in comparatively primitive and well-
strafed landing-grounds, well mired with
New Guinea mud, must be a great han-
dicap to him. In an April 24 raid he
used seven “0”-type fighters, which were
warded off.
On Anzac Day 15 more fighters came
over Moresby and were driven away by
our own fighters. General MacArthur’s
H.Q. described the combat as “san-
guinary.” The small village of Komia-
tum, 10 miles s.-w. of Salamaua, had
been sacked by the enemy on April 24,
and the Solomons had a lone, but not
damaging, raid —eight bombers over
Tulagi.
Anzac Day, too, brought a fierce raid
on Darwin (the 14th altogether and the
first since April 5) by 24 bombers and
nine fighters. They were taught a severe
lesson ; eight bombers and three fighters
were destroyed.
The only damage reported was a cut
water pipe. The official communique
described the interception work as “bril-
liant.”
Brilliant it was if the unofficial state-
ment is true that one U.S. pilot, Lieu-
tenant James Morehead, of Oklahoma,
shot down three bombers and that three
other Allied pilots in his flight bagged
five. The enemy showed little skill in
his attack. He came in three close-
packed “V” formations which gave little
room for manoeuvre.
There was word about Timor in one
of General MacArthur’s communiques:
Fighting is still in progress, with elements
of Australian and Dutch detachments
operating jointly in the interior.
The sum total of the damage done in
the raiding of Japanese-held New Guinea
stations is fairly substantial by compari-
son with Japanese resources, though not
decisive. Tokyo jubilantly claimed dur-
ing the week to have shot down 140
Australian and U.S. machines over the
town bases up to April 20, 68 of them
during the first three weeks of April.
The yarn is about as valid as a com-
panion tale that the whole of Panay had
been occupied.
Bad News from Burma
The need to close the campaign before
the monsoon rains in India has forced
the Japanese to throw in stronger and
stronger forces from Thailand. Earlier
in the week Chungking reports were
optimistic. Actually the Japanese were
gaining momentum with their new forma-
tions, and, with 100,000 to 120,000 men in
the field, strongly supported by armor,
were driving into fierce battles east and
west across the spur railway systems and
the oilfield region, only 100 to 150
miles or so south of Mandalay. They
had reached the edges of the southern
Shan States, which are far more loyal
and dependable than Lower Burma.
One battle was in progress at the
eastern spur railway head at Taunggyi,
capital of the Shan States, which
Chungking claimed on April 25 to have
recaptured.
The front is further south on the Sit-
tang and to the west above the lower
oilfields. But the position was very
nasty at the week-end.
In spite of added air help, there was
danger that the British and Chinese
would be separated by a wedge and that
the heavy Taunggyi thrust would not
merely cut Chinese communications with
China and with the British to the west,
but get between the Allied forces to
the south and Mandalay, swing across
to the Chindwin and so to the Manipur
Road and the Upper Burma communi-
cations, via Bhamo. Help from India
by land is out of the question unless
roads have been improved very much in
the last few years. Until recently to
call them goat tracks would have been
flattery.
With the seas in their hands, good
roads from the south and the Salween
and Irrawaddy for highways, the Japa-
nese are in a strong military position. It
has to be recognised that they may cut
the Lashio railway and the Burma Road
to Chungking—if there is anything left
of it by the time they arrive.
The U.S. Bomber in Siberia
It would now seem that some of the
machines which bombed Tokyo on April
18 came from the Chinese mainland,
and Japanese bombers have been comb-
ing over such Chinese aerodromes as
appear to be within reach of the Japa-
nese islands. Late in the week Tokyo
Radio announced that large heaps of
debris from U.S. ’planes which had been
shot down during the raid had been
exhibited before a national shrine, and
that some of it had been branded “North
American, Inglewood, California.” If
true, it suggests the use of long-distance
Army B2s’s, such as General Royce em-
ployed in his recent expedition from
Australia to the Philippines. Tokyo
alleged that “none of the raiders had
returned to their base,” but this was in
conflict with a previous statement that
the machines had “fled” to Chungking.
On April 25 President Roosevelt con-
firmed the report that a U.S. bomber
had landed on Soviet territory after the
bombing of Japan and had been in-
terned with its crew at Khabarovsk, 375
miles from Vladivostok. Mr. Cordell
Hull said that the internments were being
dealt with according to international law
and that the Soviet position might be
determined by the non-aggression treaty
with Japan.
Moscow Radio said solemnly that the
crew had been interned because the
Soviets were neutral in the war in the
Far East.
Russia First newspapers and propa-
gandists apparently saw nothing unusual
in the happening, but some sarcastic press-
man at Washington asked Mr. Roosevelt
whether the ’plane landing would be
considered a Lease-Lend transaction.
Mars and His Spring Song.
“Ek Dum”; On most of the Russian
front the winter may be regarded as
over. The opening gambits of the second
(and winter) game of the German-
Russian war were played on Nov. 6, when
the enemy was beginning to withdraw his
aircraft from the Russian front.
From then onwards it seems clear that
the Germans’ objectives were: —
(1) To shorten their lines as much as
possible, so as to release large numbers of
men who could be rested or retrained in
Germany and the west. Subsequent events
shortened the lines by a quarter.
(2) To establish a series of strongly-
defended Ortschaften —fortress centres in
which men could be maintained in large
numbers as near to the extreme points of
the German advance as possible, so as to
have a complete series of springboards
from which to attack objectives when the
campaign was renewed.
(3) To use Russian labor behind the
front to reconstitute communication lines,
and bring up supplies before spring fanned
the war into full blast again.
(4) To manoeuvre the Russians into
dangerous positions in which they could
be attacked to the best advantage.
In some of these objectives the enemy
has succeeded. Schlusselburg, Nov-
gorod, Rshev, Viazma and the Gzaisk
lines, Smolensk, Bryansk, Orel, Kursk,
Kharkov, Stalino and Taganrog are still
in his hands. These formed the stable
front posts before the winter. Whatever
forces he had pushed beyond those
points were tied to them.
He has been driven out of some land
between them, but from no crucial roads,
river crossings or natural defensive
features. He still has Leningrad invested.
That is the bad side of the picture.
On the good side the Russians have
been able at least to mitigate the lot of
the gallant defenders of Leningrad,
because the freezing of Lake Ladoga has
opened a route on the north not con-
trolled by the Germans. They have
probably been able to send in substantial
reinforcements apart from supplies. They
have not allowed the Germans to slumber
in their Ortschaften in comfort, and
while the glowing accounts of major war
—which must have been impossible in
the sub-Arctic night and bottomless snow-
drifts of the northern and north-middle
sectors —were undoubtedly exaggerated
by correspondents, they have certainly
robbed the enemy heavily of equipment
and made him realise that the rent of
the 500,000 square miles of the U.S.S.R.
which he unfortunately has continued to
hold is not reduced on “winter terms,”
after the fashion of some German holiday
resorts.
The freeing of the Kalinin positions
must have been an immense advantage
to the Russians in rehabilitating the
outer ring of Moscow defences. But,
most of all, they have benefited by being
able to rest, overhaul their command and
train and locate vast new armies, besides
gaining five months’ ground in the re-
settling of armament factories and dis-
possessed populations, and replanning
strategy.
It is to be hoped also that they had a
chance to reorganise their railway sys-
tems, their most vulnerable weakness.
The Russians begin the spring cam-
paign with all the moral advantages.
They are fighting for their own soil. They
have the incentive that success or failure
means the difference between continuance
and national destruction. They are strik-
ing immediately for the return of 500,000
square miles of German-held Russian and
Polish territory in which, at the best, the
inhabitants must have had a ghastly time.
They have been in the war only 10
months, instead of 2\ years, as have the
Germans, and they do not have to fight
with half a dozen unruly prisoner nations
handcuffed to their wrists. They have
no dead-albatross allies like Mussolini
round their necks.
The dividing line between the winter
campaign and the summer campaign of
1942 can probably be written down as
round about April 20. At that time all
observers reported a general movement
of German troops from France, from
Germany, from the Balkans towards the
Russian line, and mainly towards the
Ukraine front. The Russians reported
the appearance of new Panzer divisions
in the south, of movement in farthest-
north Norway and along the Svir,
between Lake Ladoga and Lake Onega.
The Baltic and Gulf of Finland showed
strong signs of unfreezing themselves, a
necessary precondition to mutual
German-Finnish action north of Lenin-
grad.
Firing on the Donetz
On April 23 the Germans reported that
the Rumanians had been in action heavily
in conjunction with German troops s.-e.
of Kharkov, and that Russian patrols
had been driven to the Donetz and had
tried to make their escape in boats.
Increasingly heavy actions in the Kerch
Peninsula, in some of which Russian


Divorce Notice.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS HANKINSON late of Moree
New South Wales—TAKE NOTICE that
GLADYS MAY HANKINSON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 459 of 1941 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
before 9th July 1942 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from J. R.
THOMAS Solicitor 39 Martin Place Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notices.
I, EMANUEL ARNFELT JOHANNESEN, of
Norwegian nationality, born at Arendal, Nor-
way, and resident 20 years in Australia, now
residing at 16 Bucknell Street, Newtown,
Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-36.
I, HELEN EILEEN ELSNER FROCHLICH,
of German nationality, born at Glen Innes,
N S Wales, and resident 26 years in Australia,
now'residing at 19 Court Road, Double Bay,
Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-36.
I MIRIAM ONISHE, of Japanese nationality,
born at Richmond, N. S. Wales, and resident
all my life in Australia, now residing at 39
Wisdom Road, Greenwich, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-36.
Panzers were reported to have been in-
volved, also were mentioned by Berlin.
The existence of fighting in these
areas was confirmed by the Russians. On
the Donetz it was 100 miles on the wrong
side of the points from which, according
to daily-press reporters, the Red Army
was supposed the week before to have
been engaged in the “imminent” capture
of Dnepropetrovsk, the big city of the
lower Dnieper. It was also east of the
point at which the Russians were sup-
posed, a few days before, to have pierced
the heart of the Kharkov defences.
The Russian version of the fighting
was that it involved a great tank battle
in which the Germans had lost 126 tanks
and 3000 dead and had been defeated.
“Red Star” declared that Russian
reinforcements were streaming to the
front and that Marshal von Bock, who
apparently has taken over the southern
command from Marshal von Rundstedt,
is concentrating 20 armored divisions on
the Dnieper Bend. ’Planes, too, were
streaming over from both sides.
On April 23 Losovsky told the
reporters at Kuibyshev that the first
German thrust was expected south of
Kharkov and that the German armies
were being reinforced by 1,900,000 re-
serves, of which 900,000 were youths be-
tween 17 and 18 years. He said that the
enemy proposed to use “nine-tenths of
his total strength” on the Russian front,
but that the Russians had “sufficient men
to crush the Germans decisively.”
Both German and Russian command
areas are now nebulous.
The Soviet Government stated on Dec.
22 that Marshal Voroshilov had been
appointed to command the Red Army in
East Asia. With the move came unifica-
tion of the command along the
whole Russian front —Timoshenko was
appointed C.-in-C. under Stalin. His
sub-commander on the central front con-
tinued to be General Gregori Zhukov,
with Colonel General Konev in charge
of the area directly round and south of
Tula.
It is unlikely that there was any con-
tinuous front along the combat line dur-
ing the winter —merely the well-separated
Ortschaften of both sides between which
the game of raid, decoy and pounce went
on freely and without shape amid wastes
feet deep in snow, over frozen swamps
and through eerie, wolf-haunted forests
hidden in the gloom of sub-Arctic night.
The Front on April 21
When the first shots of the Donetz
reconnaissances were fired on April 21
the picture of the front south of the two
lakes of Ladoga and Onega was some-
what as follows. A strong German line
held the Neva River from behind Lenin-
grad to Schlusselburg on Ladoga, sand-
wiching the old capital in between the
Baltic shore, the gradually unfreezing
lake and the Finnish lines of the Karelian
isthmus and the Svir. Below that Rus-
sian-held or -penetrated territory swept
across the Moscow railway to Chudovo,
75 miles from Leningrad, Thence the
borderline of Soviet-held country went
s.-e. another 40 miles down the eastern
bank of the Volkhov River to a point
on the Russian side of Novgorod, still in
German hands. Lake Ilmen sits balanced
between Novgorod and Staraya Russa,
where the German 16th Army has been
allegedly locked up for two months,
though actually a passage has been open
just near the s.-w. extremity of the lake.
The Russian front line sweeps along
past Kholm, after threatening the Mos-
cow-Vitebsk railway. German-controlled,
further north, and on through Toropetz,
70 miles west of the Volga, across the
Moscow-Riga line near Pokrov, 40 miles
or so n.-w. of Viazma —there are two
Pokrovs in the region, one nearer Rshev.
Here the German front bends sharply
north and east to form an island which
has its apex at Rshev, still firmly in Ger-
man hands, and bounded on the east by
a line running through the Gzatsk-
Borodino defence positions across the
Moscow-Smolensk road.
At Gzatsk the German front is still
only about 85 miles from Moscow and
15 miles from Mojaisk. The reason why
the Germans have taken the pains to
keep this absurd-looking island is evident
from its contents. It contains the Rshev-
Viazma railway, north-south, and the
main Moscow-Smolensk road, east-west.
This completes the mid-northern sec-
tion of the front. The German-occu-
pied territory has a spearhead on the
north at Chudovo, a much larger,
better and more easily served one in the
Rshev “island” and an incipient bag of
Russians in the difficult country of the
Volga headquarters in between. The in-
ability of the Russians to pinch off the
Rshev-Gzatsk island is disturbing.
From the Moscow road southward
there is another sector of a circle of
Russian penetration reaching west per-
haps 40 miles at its deepest on the north
almost parallel with the Moscow-Smol-
ensk highway, but not controlling it. It
ends on the south on a German spear-
head of great depth whose eastern-front
stretches rest across Orel-Kursk-Byel-
gorod and curves slightly westward to
Kursk.
The Russian drives have scooped some
of the country of the Donetz out of
German claws. But below, along thd
Azov shore, is still another German
spearhead reaching further than any of
the others to Taganrog and beyond. This
was the starting-point of the Russian
winter offensive, where Von Kleist’s
armies were pushed back 20 miles from
Rostov perhaps a good many more
miles temporarily, but they regained
much of their loss.
Thus the front has reassumed its
November shape, roughly; three great
sets of claws reach out to envelop three
great Russian westward bulges, with the
difference that the enemy claws are not
so extended as when the German retreat
began.
Then the Chudovo spearhead was
extended in a narrow thrust eastward to
Tikhvin, 70 miles ; the Rshey claw, 70
miles and a little more to Kalinin on the
Moscow-Leningrad line and beyond; the
Orel-Kharkov claw to Yeletz, 70 or 80
miles; the Taganrog claw, 20-odd miles
to Rostov.
All the Crimea, save a bit of country
in the Kerch Peninsula and round Sevas-
topol, is in German hands.
It remains to be seen whether the Rus-
sians have the strength and the materials
to turn their wide bulges into spearheads
and the German spearheads into bags.
Exit Vampire—Fighting.
“Nobby II”: She was a war : battered
little craft, rolled off the stocks in 1917 ;
1090 tons with a great streak of speed
for those days. She was commissioned
just in time for the final amenities of
the last war.
In 1933 she was taken over by the
R.A.N. with her sister, Waterhen, now
at the bottom of the Mediterranean.
Vampire herself was one of the first
covey of Australian ships to invade Mus-
solini’s Mare Nostrum in December,
1939. There she was soon noted as
death on submarines. She was in the
screen in the Calabria fight. She was the
first Allied warcraft to reach Crete.
Tobruk knew her as well as Sydney
knows its Manly ferries.
Last June she was seen in Australian
harbors, but not for long. On January
26 she turned up in the battle of Endau,
off the east coast of Malaya. She and
H.M.S. Thanet sent an enemy destroyer
to call on Davy Jones, and damaged
another, but Thanet, too, was sunk.
On April 22, Mr. Curtin announced
that Vampire had been lost in the action
in the Bay of Bengal. Her gallant cap-
tain, Commander W. T. A. Moran,
R.A.N., whose naval career had been
about as long as her own —he entered
Jervis Bay in January, 1917 —and a
signalman were “believed killed.” Six
men, all stokers, were known definitely
to have been killed, and Petty Officer
R. A. H. Macdonald, of Perth (W.A.),
died of wounds. The rest of the crew
were saved.
In the same action the R.N. and the
R.A.N. lost two eight-inch-gun cruisers,
Cornwall and Dorsetshire, two destroyers
and two sloops, and 1612 officers and
men.
Australia’s naval loss since 1939 is
heavy—two cruisers, Sydney and Perth;
two destroyers, Waterhen and Vampire ;
and two sloops, Parramatta and Yarra —
all save Waterhen since Nov. 19 last.
Hitler and the First Front.
“Ek Dum”: Though sections of the
British and U.S. press whooped up a
landing at Boulogne, officially described
as a “small reconnaissance,” it paled in
significance compared with the R.A.F.’s
continued blasting of German and
German-occupied ports and towns and
the awakening of the vital sea war —
almost forgotten in the idiotic campaign
for “a second front to help Russia,”
except, of course, by the R.N. and the
Merchant Navy, always in danger,
The air war last week consisted of
sweep after deadly sweep over the French
and adjacent coasts and bombing which
spread from Le Havre to thnce-devas-
tated Rostock, one of the old Hanseatic
cities, eight miles from Warnemiinde up
the estuary of the Warnow, which flows
into the Baltic about 25 miles from the
Danish islands. Rostock is 80 miles
from Liibeck, previously bombarded, 106
miles from Copenhagen, which had a
visit earlier in the week, and about 900
miles from Leningrad.
Apart from Rostock port, the large
aeroplane works of Heinkel in the vicinity
were blasted to pieces,
The Germans mentioned these raids
repeatedly, and claimed reprisals at the
expense of Exeter and Bath. The Air
Ministry admitted raids on s.-w. British
towns in which there had been fairly
substantial casualties.
Hitler, speaking in the Reichstag on
April 26, “warned Churchill” that if
bombing of German civilian cities does
not cease “I shall once more deal blow
for blow.” But there was no repetition
of his old boast that he would drop 100
tons of bombs for every ton dropped on
Germany.
The sea war is still causing heavy loss
and damage. Sinkings, reduced to about
120,000 tons a month in July to October,
have reached 600,000 tons a month since
Japan came into the war. In Washington
it was reported by “naval experts” last
week that the figure might “be reaching
the April, 1917, peak of 882,000 tons.”
That would amount to four-fifths of
Britain’s building last year.
Britain and Canada this year will pro-
duce about 2,500,000 tons of mercantile
ships. The U.S. scheme calls for the
production of 8,000,000 tons in 1942.
Said Hitler in the Reichstag;
The climax of the war was reached in
the winter My principal weapon
against Britain will be, and is, the sub-
marine. Churchill has said he has mas-
tered the submarine. I tell him this menace
will master him. He was deceived by my
reduction of the submarine campaign; I
made it only to avoid the possibility of a
conflict with America Construction has
never stood still and the submarine is a
very different weapon from that in use at
the beginning of the war. From now
onward the losses of our enemies will
increase progressively month by month
until all their ships are destroyed.
He claimed that the Axis had sunk
16,000,000 tons of merchant ships since
the outbreak of war. A characteristic
exaggeration, but the truth is serious
enough. It is not a second front on
which the Allied nations must concen-
trate ; but the first and vital front —the
sea. In no battle area can they win
without control of it. Unless they have
sea supremacy, their armies are power-
less, their air forces immobilised for lack
of materials.
Our Prisoners of War.
“Ek Dum”: The feelings of unfortu-
nate relatives of Australian prisoners of
war in Japanese hands have been need-
lessly harrowed by the publication of
unverified stories of torture and murder
of captives.
The tales of any person who has been
through the strain of heavy bombardment
and bombing need to be taken with
caution. The writer has seen a number
of refugees from Darwin. Some he has
known for years. Normally, they are
solid, trustworthy citizens. But some tell
stories which are very difficult to believe,
though firmly convinced of the truth of
what they say.
Isolated accusations of atrocities
against the Germans were made after
the Greek and Crete campaigns. The
enemy made counter-accusations of
atrocities and threatened that the culprits
would be “dealt with.” It sounded like
a warning.
Red Cross reports and letters from
prisoners show that German treatment
is fully in accord with the Geneva con-
ventions. In Italy, the conventions are
interpreted on the liberal side. One U.S.
writer who has seen both declared last
year that the two best prisoners’ camps
in the world were the alien internees’
camp on the Isle of Man and the Italian
camp for British civilians near Florence.
When the war broke out Tokyo Radio
made a great parade of its treatment of
both war prisoners and civilians. It said
that American soldiers and civilians taken
in China were merely restricted to par-
ticular areas such as legation compounds.
It was emphasised that prisoners “would
be treated well.”
It was noticeable that when the
Repulse, Prince of Wales and other ships
were torpedoed the survivors were not
machine-gunned, as they would have been
by Germans. Tokyo announcers gave
information about the safety of the first
two or three fliers who fell into Japanese
hands and of the Wake Island garrison,
and complimented them on their gallan-
try. Relatives were assured that the brave
lads were “well and being well treated.
After the accusations of atrocities at
Hong Kong the tune changed. British
were accused of atrocities at Ipoh, Ameri-
cans of the massacre of Japanese at
Cebu and Davao. And there seems to
be a direct connection in time between
the repeated deferments of the announce-
ment of the name of prisoners in
Japanese hands which seem to follow the
successive publication of Australian
stories of atrocities and hate propaganda.
The only authentic information about
the treatment of war prisoners in Japan
was received in Washington on Feb. 21
by the American Red Cross from the
International Red Cross at Geneva. It
comprised “detailed reports” concerning
the 502 prisoners from Guam and had
been cabled by Dr. Paravicini, the Red
Cross delegate in Tokyo—he is a Swiss
along with a report from the Japanese
Prisoners of War Bureau. Dr. Paravi-
cini said that he had received a letter
from Captain MacMillan, former Gov-
ernor of Guam, telling him of the condi-
tion of 355 prisoners with him at Zent-
sugi;
The Japanese soldiers’ ration provided
for prisoners of war and the treatment ot
the prisoners is good. The only request
is for more tobacco and toilet articles.
The Japanese Prisoners of War Bureau
wrote to the Red Cross representative:
For the entire duration of the present
war the Japanese Government will apply
the articles of the 1929 Geneva Conven-
tion on Prisoners of War, also to non-
combatant internees of enemy countries.
A list of proposed rations was included
and approved by the Red Cross. The
Japanese Legation at Berne advised
Geneva that the provisions of the Con-
ventions were being “applied gener-
ously,” and that so soon as arrangements
were made final prisoners would be
allowed to “receive provisions and cloth-
ing from third persons” as well as being
given “the possibility of reading Japanese
newspapers, using the radio and going out
if the required conditions are fulfilled.”
It is unlikely that names of prisoners
taken in Malaya will be announced until
they have been installed in a permanent
camp in Japan and until there is no
chance of further escapes. The existing
camps at Zentsugi are in an excellent
locality. Thousands of visitors have seen
the district on their left hand from the sea
as they have passed through the beauti-
ful Ku Channel at the north-eastern end
of the Inland Sea on their way into Kobe.
There are cases of atrocity and ill-
treatment in every war, but they are
almost invariably the work of individuals.
Governments do not court reprisals
against their own nationals in enemy
hands by setting a bad example in their
treatment of war captives.
About 350 A.I.F. men from the Middle
East arrived in Sydney on short leave
last week. Some went on to Queensland.
Palestine training and three campaigns
seemed to have agreed with them; it
would be hard to find troops looking in
better trim. Yet some had served up
to 10 months in Tobruk.
« * * *
The Wirraway age of air warfare is
receding fast. Last week one of General
MacArthur’s officers announced that 16
types of American war ’planes were in
service in the South-west Pacific?,
* * * *
Hitler made significant excuses and
admissions in his speech on April 26:
We were suddenly faced with the most
terrible winter for 140 years. Within four
weeks the temperature suddenly dropped
47 degrees. We had intended to withdraw
to a general line when we found ourselves
struck by this fearful blast of cold. We
could not stay where we were, but it was
with the greatest difficulty, though success-
fully, that we ultimately withdrew to a
general line which runs from Taganrog to
Lake Ladoga. I sometimes wonder how we
succeeded. The lightning onslaught of the
icy blasts almost paralysed our whole
organisation momentarily. Not only men
but machines threatened to congeal. It
was impossible to consolidate a line; we
could only man one at point and point.
Between those points we could not keep
men lying out in the cold waiting for
attack, since they would have been frozen
to solid blocks. Against our defences and
between them the enemy hurled his savage
Asiatic hordes, but when he succeeded in
penetrating past our defence posts he sacri-
ficed men in hundreds of thousands. I can
never forget the heroic efforts of Dr.
Todt’s units who laid down new railways
which we vitally needed at a time when the
rails had become so brittle from cold that
even the passage of a single train was
enough to break them.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Old soldiers kept rendezvous with their
dead comrades at the Cenotaph as the
dawn broke last Saturday on another
Anzac Day. They placed wreaths amid
{he flowers and laurels that were already
banking up. And they proclaimed their
article of faith in immortality: “Age
shall not weary them, nor the years con-
demn —we will remember them.” In
the Savoy Theatre there was a dawn ser-
vice arranged by the Australian Legion
of Ex-Service Clubs. During the morning
the Governor placed his wreath, and
soon flowers and wreaths from all Aus-
tralia’s Allies were adding to the bright
carpet that spread on each side of the
Cenotaph. For the first time in a quarter
of a century there was no Anzac march,
but all day long Martin-place echoed to
the sound of feet as man, woman and
child paid tribute to the dead whom they
had loved and who had loved this land.
A great stickler for tradition is Dr.
Mary Booth. Just as in last war’s Sol-
diers’ Club days, she organises, every
year, with the help of the Anzac Fellow-
ship of Women, an Old Soldiers’ Re-
union. This is a tea party, to the accom-
paniment of the soldier songs of other
days. It is scented by rosemary, of
which every man and woman wears a
sprig. This year the party was not held
in the Town Hall, but was in an annexe
of St. Andrew’s Cathedral. W. E. Lewis
conducted the singing, and Dorrie Ward
brought along her friendly smile and
sweet voice.
The U.S.A., Free France, Holland and
China were all at the Anzac matinee
arranged by Clement Hosking. This was
to benefit the Red Cross, and the Con-
servatorium was crowded by half-past
two. The programme embraced the songs
and dances of the Allied nations, and
ended with a stirring parade of all to
the accompaniment of their national
anthems. In the crowded rows were
citizens and representatives of these far-
flung lands, and maybe they felt a little
closer to their home as the programme
unfolded.
The newly-formed Red Cross Appeal
Squad acted as ushers and programme-
sellers. They were smart in their white-
spotted navy frocks. The patriotic note
was completed by red buttons. The
Grail Choir in its flowing robes ; Clement
Hosking’s folk-song choir, in costumes
as gay as a bed of tulips ; tenor Charles
Nicis ; Raissa Kousnetzova, the handker-
chief that bound her pretty head and
her vivid dress both from Minsk;
cleverly posed and costumed groups
representing Chinese jades and glazes;
Valeri Shaievsky, Edward Sobichevsky,
Lucille Bruntnell, reciting her own verse,
and Gwen Selva, singing old English
airs, helped the composition of the color-
ful entertainment.
Lady Wakehurst, just back from her
country tour, made a speech in defence
of the “home front” at the meeting of
the Memorial College of Household Arts
on Friday. This, for the first time in the
life of the college, was held away from
the Kirribilli fastness. The Bible Hail,
opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral in
Bathurst-street, held not only those con-
nected with the college, but many sup-
porters. The college, owing to war con-
ditions, now has only day students, and
its revenue is to be helped out by the
group called “the good companions.”
There was a strong feeling expressed by
several speakers, among them Mrs.
Beveridge and Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, of
the C.W.A., that the work should
continue, and should be assisted in
these days when, as it were, the spit
is obscured by the Spitfire, Dr. Mary
Booth, who founded the college, pre-
sided at the meeting. In the end there
was tea for all, the cakes and savories,
of course, being the work of the
Memorial’s students.
Colonel Beale, of the U.S.A. Army,
comes from New Orleans, which brought
the culture, the gracious manners of the
Courts of Europe, to the Mississippi
when that river was the great highway
of the Americas. The past is as alive to
Southerners as it is to the Irish ; so if
the colonel is in the mood, as he was
at the Australian American Movement’s
party last Friday, he will give a thumb-
nail sketch of those far-off plantation
days when the Mont de Ville of his day
was lord over three thousand slaves. As
he talks the American Civil War will
seem even more a reality than the civil
war in Spain. Colonel Beale is fair and
spare, and looks so young it is hard to
believe that he was a major in the last
war. He was one of many U.S. Army
and Navy officers who were guests of the
A.A. Movement committee.
An officer of the Navy who brought
an array of decorations to the party was
Commodore Muirhead-Gould. A dazzle
of bronze-gold sequins was the deep,
flat collar of Mrs. E. K. White’s brown
frock. It was the perfect “brownout”
equipment. Black velvet were Mrs. Ted
Scorfield’s frock and wide hat. Mrs.
Brice and the sparkling Mrs. James
Mint© were other hostesses. Sylvia
Purves wore a round collar of ermine
on her black velvets. The Halse Rogers
lady was busy murmuring plans for help-
ing at the new American Centre. Two
red roses on its bandeau and three on
its coy little crown drew the gaze to
Mrs. Geary’s hat. Shortly after six there
were 100 in the clubrooms, which are in
the basement of the Prudential building ;
and Australian and American Army and
Navy men were still streaming down the
stairway topped by the flags of the two
countries.
On Saturday, May 2, at the A.B.C.’s
second matinee in the Town Hall, pianist
Eunice Gardiner will play with the Sym-
phony Orchestra. The work chosen is
the Delius Concerto in C Minor. The
conductor will be Percy Code. Eunice
is the wife of Captain Robert Curtin,
now in camp. Following her Australian
studies Eunice went to the Royal Aca-
demy of Music in London, where Vivian
Langrish was her first teacher, then the
Russian Nicolai Orloff. The Sydney
pianist gained experience in tours with
Paul Robeson and Richard Tauber. She
was televised by the 8.8. C.
Tall Margaret Dovey of the direct gaze
became Mrs. Edward Gough Whitlam at
St. Michael’s, Vaucluse, last Wednesday.
Margaret’s father is Dovey, K.C.,
Edward’s father is Crown Solicitor
for the Commonwealth, and he him-
self is associate to Justice Max-
well. He is also a graduate of Arts of
Sydney University, where he is in his
final year as a law student. The bride
and her maid, ’groom’s sister Freda, and
Mrs. Cedric Ashton were traditionally
festive. White satin and tulle were Mar-
garet’s choice. Hyacinth-blue velvets
were worn by her attendants. Reception
was at the W. R. Dovey home at Vau-
cluse. The ’groom is on the R.A.A.F.
reserve. Margaret is in her final year
of social science at Sydney Uni.
Novelist Vance Palmer has succeeded
Frank Wilmot better known to Aus-
tralia as poet Furnley Maurice, on the
advisory board of the Commonwealth
Literary Fund. Dr. George Mackaness,
lecturer in English at the Teachers’ Col-
lege, well-known writer of books on the
history of his own land and the com-
pleat anthologist of Australian poetry,
now takes the place of H. E. Boote, for
many years editor of the “Worker” and
a lover of literature, on the board of
trustees of the Public Library.
The board meetings of the Public
Library are held in the Shakspeare
Room. The illuminated windows here
tell in vibrant colors the Seven Ages of
Man. Here, too, the woodwork is richly
carved with Shakspeare subjects. The
windows in the reading-room are a sort
of bright serial of the pilgrims in The
Canterbury Tales, and there is a large
Caxton window showing the printer read-
ing from the first printed book to his
queen. In the lower part of the windows
below The Canterbury Tales the martyr-
dom of Thomas a Becket is shown.
There are also illuminations from the
Book of Kells and the Book of Durham.
To reach all these beauties you first step
across a foyer on which is laid in colored
marbles and blond strips the old Tas-
man map of Australia.
From Melbourne
Melbourne’s Anzac Day ceremony
brought a big concourse to the Shrine of
Remembrance. Priminister Curtin repre-
sented the Government and General
Blarney the Australian Army. General
MacArthur, in his new uniform and
wearing all his decorations, was attended
by 30 American officers. The generals
laid wreaths on the Rock of Remem-
brance. To a great dinner in New York,
celebrating Anzac Day, General Mac-
Arthur cabled : “From Australia I send
you the affectionate greeting of an old
soldier who is a comrade in arms of
yesterday, of today and of tomorrow.”
At the Edith Cavell memorial service
a bereaved mother, Mrs. Thomas, whose
daughter, Matron Thomas, was killed in
the Middle East, was another reminder
to those present that sacrifices did not
end with the Great War. Many nurses
returned from overseas in this war were
there also, and two Americans, who laid
a wreath at the base of the Edith Cavell
shrine. At the Returned Army Nurses’
reunion Captain Clement, in charge of
U.S.A, Army Nurses, was a welcome
guest. In spite of the times a big turn-
out showed that army nurses do not
forget Anzac Days.
Luminosity has a new meaning for
Melbourne. Some kind-hearted men have
discovered that, plan as Melbourne host-
esses may, they nevertheless cannot
always be sure that the American soldier
boys know what their plans are, and, in
particular, where temporary beds have
been put down for them at week-ends.
So a body of stout-hearted men will be
luminous guides round the streets at
week-ends, and, indeed, any other time
they are needed. It’s a good idea, and
owes its origin to an Irish-American who
prefers to be anonymous. Someone has
also suggested that the luminous ones
might extend their services to taking to
the city stations parties of late workers
at city hostels, to whom the darkened
streets, some quite unfamiliar to them,
are a trial. The jokers have already
made up their minds that the luminous
guides should be called “Kathleen’s
boys,” from an old Irish song. But the
guides don’t mind, being sensible men.
Lorna Doman, pictured here by
Spencer Shier, is compulsorily enjoying
our Melbourne climate and comparing it
these days with Adelaide’s sunshine. She
is an old girl of Presbyterian Girls’
School, S.A., and in her pre-war days
rode a good deal. Nowadays she drives
a quill and does a steady job in the
W.A.A.A.Fs. Before she joined up in
the service she had prepared herself by
a period of volunteer aiding, and had
also had experience in transport volun-
teer work. It is girls like Lorna who
make the W.A.A.A.Fs. such a stalwart
body that their leader is now reaching
the high rank of Group-Officer Claire
Stevenson, for her command is the most
extensive one of women in our continent.
Irene Mitchell, one of the stalwarts of
the National Theatre Movement, was
luckily available for its performance of
“As You Like It.” She plays Rosalind
opposite David Reid as Orlando, and
both admit their indebtedness to Mayne
Linton as producer and in the role of
Jaques, melancholy as ever. The schools
“do” the play for examinations, conse-
quently the young crowd the perform-
ances, though their views on the Bard
of Avon (judging by bits and pieces of
their conversation between acts) remain
far from 100 per cent, friendly. That, by
the way, for Irene is a splendid Shak-
speaream actress, and since she first
played Rosalind for the Movement has
been assisting Brett Randall with his
Little Theatre activities, designing set-ups
and stage-managing in collaboration with
Brett. She has been interested in the
National Theatre since its inception.
A career opened up by war-time emer-
gency gives girls another chance to make
their mark in the world. One girl has
already been appointed manager of a
suburban picture theatre. She is Betty,
daughter of the James Barrie Sheehans,
of Elwood. Betty came through a stiff
general knowledge examination at the
head of many dozen girls. No one doubts
the ability of women to fill these jobs,
for already Australian girls in England
have done so with astonishing success.
It is on the cards that many more Mel-
bourne women managers will be
appointed to picture theatres.
As the war has halted the overseas
joiirneyings of young musical students
it is all to the good that some of them
are to have their chance in Australia.
Among the first to benefit this way is
Joyce Greer, one of Melbourne’s promis-
ing young pianists. She will play with
the A.B.C. Symphony Orchestra in July
and has already started practice, putting
off a trip to Sydney to get down to work.
Joyce says that no work comes amiss to
her. She was very bucked the other day
when a pictorial journal featured a rising
young economist in a jumper she had
knitted for him, and she can run a house
with any girl. She has also given some
recitals and appeared on sundry concert
programmes, notably the Lyceum Club’s
half-hour of music, a Friday date that
club members much appreciate. Joyce
is an old girl of Firbank, which school
watches her progress with interest.
How many of the military highups
who go dashing past in cars driven by
serious-faced women in uniform realise
their good luck? Some of these girl
drivers are among the best in the State,
men and women included. Take Hope
Kellow, for instance. This fair daughter
of Charles Kellow, of cycling and later
of motoring fame, was carefully taught
by her father to be one of the most re-
liable drivers in Melbourne. Now she is
in khaki and at the wheel of a car which
does hundreds of miles a week in the
course of its military duty. All their
superiors speak in glowing terms of the
women drivers, whether in the services or
the Red Cross, and dozens of the girls,
who formerly didn’t have to lament so
much as a crumpled roseleaf, are taking
pot luck in billets without a squeak. And
more are needed ; so young women who
know one end of a car from another
should take a few more lessons and
answer their country’s call.
The Maurice Parkins are kept busy
these days answering inquiries from their
and his friends about son Leo, who left
business to be an airman, and is now in
England, having sped through all his
exams. Recently he was Hying a Welling-
ton bomber over Germany, and had
promised his father to drop a bomb with
father’s name attached over the Huns.
But just the other day came the thrilling
news that Leo was now a commando
pilot in an Airborne Division, and had
earned high praise. Probably at the
same time as his big news broke Leo
would be hearing from home of the
strenuous work done by his mother in
collecting for a Tiger Moth with the
Silver Wings Auxiliary, of which she is
senior vice-president.
Many friends puzzled over the an-
nouncement of the wedding of Colin
Macfarlan and Eileen Ward, two of our
popular young people, on a day later
than the date announced for the cere-
mony, Cause was not far to seek. Eileen,
who has worked consistently on war jobs,
found herself completely exhausted with
it all and the wedding preparations, so
the young couple wisely postponed their
marriage at a few hours’ notice ; and the
next day, rested and looking as lovely
as ever, Eileen donned her white Chan-
tilly-lace gown and became Mrs. Colin
Macfarlan. Colin, who, like most other
men on the Inky Way, joined up early,
is a son of Mr. Justice Macfarlan, and
nephew of lan, who has had a long and
meritorious political career.
Agonies of jealousy are being endured
by every woman who sees her at the
sight of Mrs; Melville Jacoby, Annalee
to her friends, in the dashing uniform
of a United States Army accredited press
correspondent. The fact that Mrs.
Jacoby is young and chic only adds to
the pang. She was a sweet girl graduate
of an American university when the urge
to go to Hollywood took her in its grip.
Once there she evinced skill in polishing
up scenarios, and soon found herself in
the Philippines on a literary trail. She
married there Melville Jacoby, also a
writer, and the two were at Bataan.
When Mrs. Jacoby first wore her
uniform last week she aroused the en-
thusiasm of the entire press conference.
The uniform is all khaki, both skirt and
jacket, with the correspondent’s “C” in
white on a green ground on the right
arm above the elbow.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The attendance at the Wagga Diggers’
meeting proved that not only in the cities
but outside them people want racing.
Five-year-old Bragger’s defeat of a good
field at Rosehill pointed to him as the
winner of the Wagga Diggers’ Cup, and
he duly scored, being a little too good for
Pannett. A present from the late C. M.
Sawyer to T. Smith, Bragger did not race
until this season, and his record for seven
starts is four wins, a second, a third and
once unplaced. He is by Windbag from
Demostress, by Demosthenes from
Vauntress, a half-sister to Silk Stocking,
dam of Millieme, a Williamstown Cup
and A.J.C. Sires’ Produce and St. Leger
winner. Before he was raced Bragger
was schooled over hurdles.
» * * *
Beau Vite’s return to New Zealand
and the retirement of High Caste lower
the standard of the coming season’s
w.f.a. horses. In addition, doubt attaches
to Beaulivre’s soundness, Mildura’s
autumn form was disappointing, and in
his recent races Dashing Cavalier did not
show himself as good as in the spring.
Yaralla may win the shorter w.f.a.
races, but up to the present a mile and
a quarter appears the length of his
tether; and even It’s Funny’s best form
this season scarcely puts him in the w.f.a.
class. Turning to Victoria, Tranquil Star
is a w.f.a. winner, but is not exactly
reliable, and, though Laureate was an
absentee in the autumn and Skipton was
“off,” a return to earlier form should see
them on top in the longer w.f.a. races
of the spring.
* * * *
Melbourne Cup and Cantala Stakes
entries are to close on the first Tuesday
in June, but the A.J.C., being in the dark
as to whether Randwick will be avail-
able in the spring, has not yet decided
upon prize-money for the Epsom and
Metropolitan, and will take entries for
those races at a later date than usual.
Of Sydney’s courses only Rosehill, Can-
terbury Park and Ascot are at present
definitely available for gallopers, and
Harold Park for trotters, so one cannot
help wondering what the position will be
by the commencement of next season.
* V * •
The current season will try out many
owners. Increased taxation will hit some
very hard, and even those who might be
able to stand it may find reason for
dropping out of racing. Some trainers
recognise they have a “slippery hold” of
owners when luck is against them. It
is not difficult to recall owners of the
past who were “good sportsmen” (news-
paper brand) when they were winning,
but there was a different tale when their
luck turned. They either changed
trainers, greatly reduced their expendi-
ture or retired altogether. Lucky is the
trainer who gets hold of a patron cap-
able of taking the bad with the good over
a long period. With reduction of meet-
ings and of prize-money, it will be in-
teresting to see what this season brings
forth.
» * * *
The decision of the Federal Govern-
ment to call in field-glasses falls heavily
on racing pressmen and stipendiary
stewards, to whom their glasses are
almost as necesssary as saws, hammers
and nails to a carpenter. Admittedly
nothing should be withheld that might
strengthen our war effort, but journalists
will now be unable to form individual
opinions as to the running of races. The
voice of the broadcaster will be that of
the whole press.
• ••••♦
No matter how capable a broadcaster
may be he cannot avoid missing incidents
that might mean a lot in a result and,
with a greater number of glasses in use,
would be noticed. At times some trainer
or other may reckon it an advantage that
the running of his horses cannot be too
closely scrutinised, and, while disquali-
fications are now unusual, they will be
almost out of the question unless stipen-
diary stewards have superlative eyesight.
Jockeys may also be able to indulge in
a little more rough riding than at present
without being seen and punished.
* * * *
Doubt as to whether Skipton will
return to his spring three-year-old form
will naturally give his owner and trainer
something to worry over during the winter,
The uncertainty of most things asso-
ciated with racing is further emphasised
by the fact that Laureate, Skipton’s rival
of the spring, was unable to compete at
the Melbourne autumn meetings, and will
not be again heard from for some time.
Trivalve was an instance of a high-class
three-year-old suddenly deteriorating. In
succession he won the Victoria Derby,
Melbourne Cup, V.R.C. St. Leger, Gov-
ernor’s Plate and King’s Plate ; but on
coming to Sydney in the autumn he was
last in a field of three in the A.J.C. St.
Leger won by Winalot. He was beaten
by Valamita in the Cumberland Stakes ;
and on being taken to Adelaide could
only get third in the S.A.J.C. St. Leger,
Burnaby winning from Some Quality. He
did not race again, and, like many other
Australian classic winners, was not a
success at the stud.
* * * *
Few owners are lucky enough to own
the best two-year-old colt and filly of one
season, but King George was in that
happy position last year. His filly Sun
Chariot (Hyperion-Clarence, by Dili-
gence) was rated best of both sexes, and
his Big Game (Bahram-Myrobella, by
Tetratema) was given first place among
the colts. Watling Street (Fairway-
Ranai), owned by Lord Derby, was
reckoned next to those two, and then
the Aga Khan’s grey filly Mah Iran
(Bahram-Mah Mahal). In addition to
Sun Chariot two others by Hyperion in
the leading division were Hyperides and
Eleanor Cross. King George is not going
to races during the war, but it is reason-
able to expect he will be very close to
the wireless while the Derby and Oaks
are being run.
* * * *
Sires nominated for the A.J.C, Sires’
Produce Stakes of 1943 total 67, which
at £5 each means £335 added to the
prize, announced as £3500, but that may
be reduced. Forty-two of the sires belong
to the imported division, and the Aus-
tralian classic winners nominated are
Allunga, Hall Mark, Hua, Peter Pan,
Pentheus, Palphar, Talking, Peerage,
Spearfelt, Sylvandale, Veilmond, Theo,
Young Idea and Nuffield.
*,♦ * *
At one period in Australia it was un-
necessary for a horse to have a name at
time of starting. Malta appears in the
list of Epsom Handicap winners, but the
“Australasian” Turf Register shows that
when, as a four-year-old, he won that
race in 1876, and the Craven Plate at
the same meeting, he merely figured as
an unnamed brown horse by Kingston
from Valetta. The fact of racing with-
out a name did not prevent backers
making him favorite for the Epsom.
Later in the season he was known as
Malta, On the day Malta won his
Epsom the A.J.C. Derby was also won
by one of the unnamed division, the
Angler-Chrysolite colt who was later
known as Robinson Crusoe.
* * * *
In number of two-year-old wins at
Sydney and provincial meetings, Double
Remove has done better than any other
sire this season, but, thanks to Bangster,
Pentheus leads in prize-money. Double
Remove, Brueghel, Midstream and Hall
Mark are others who have done well in
that respect. Stallions whose progeny
have won three or more races are as
follows:
Double Remove (imp.): Battle Dress (3),
Double Birthday (3), Angel.
Equator (imp.); Fervent Orderly (2).
Hua: Miss Hua (2), Takarangi (2), Hugette.
Harinero (imp.): Jungle King (3), Era.
Hall Mark; Hall Stand (2), Silver Crown.
The Marne: Easy Mark (2), Mardevon,
Marquesan.
Midstream (imp.); Riverton (2), Current,
Niagara.
Brueghel (imp.); Hesione, Bluebell, Minna-
murra.
Pentheus; Bangster (2), Sir Neith.
Beau Pere: Belle Desiree (2), Mon Pere.
*
Lightweights considered capable of
riding well at two miles were much more
numerous in the late ’seventies than
nowadays. One reason was that young-
sters commenced much younger than is
now allowable, and after a couple of
years’ experience some lads were still
featherweights. When Briseis won the
1877 Melbourne Cup she carried only
6.4, while Sibyl, who ran second, had
6.0.’ In addition to those two there were
three runners with 5.7, one with 5.9, one
with 5.10, one with 6.0, one with 6.1, two
with 6.4, one with 6.6, five with 6.8, one
with 6.10, one with 6.11 and two with
6.12. Chester’s year was another in which
lightweights were much in evidence, 16
of the field carrying from 6.12 down to
5.7, but there was only one with the
latter weight.
jj: * * *
The B.A.T.C. (Brisbane) has an-
nounced its intention of running the
£3OOO Newmarket and £2OOO Doomben
Cup on the six furlongs 40 yards Albion
Park track. Distances are changed, that
of the Newmarket being seven furlongs
and of the Cup ten. A plucky venture,
but it sounds like a losing one, seeing
that a 10,000 attendance will crowd the
course. It is to be hoped not, but it
would not greatly surprise if, with reason,
the club decided to reduce slightly the
value of its two big races.
V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle Race
and Steeplechase are of the same value
as last year —£2000 and £2500 respec-
tively, The Melbourne Cup is again
£7500 and a £2OO trophy and the Cantala
Stakes £2OOO.
* * * *
A few years ago one of America’s
most celebrated jockeys was Silvio
Coucci. He suddenly dropped out, and
was unable to effect a comeback. Last
year he joined the army, and in De-
cember he ended everything by jumping
off the fifth story of a hotel.
* * * *
Few horses that raced as yearlings
went on to attain fame as stayers. Mor-
peth, owned by Hon. J. White, was an
Australian exception. In the Princess
Stakes, a three-furlongs yearling race,
run at a special meeting of the A.J.C. in
July, 1881, Morpeth was third to Mistake
and Alice McGregor, the time being
37 3-10 sec. Early training did so little
harm to Morpeth that, as a three-year-
old, he won Tattersall’s Cup, two miles,
and the Anniversary Handicap. At four
years he was successful in the Australian
Cup, in which he had 8.5. The idea of
running yearling races was not perse-
vered with in Sydney.
* * * *
In the English House of Commons
racing has some strong opponents. One
member recently asked the Home Secre-
tary to prohibit all betting transactions
on racecourses, on the score that they
were inconsistent with the Prime Minis-
ter’s appeal for a total war effort.
* * * *
The highest-priced yearling sold in
England last year was Hyderabad, by
Hyperion out of Castle Gay. The Aga
Khan gave 8200gns. for him. Next was
a Cameronian-Clarence colt at 4000gns.,
and then a Nearco-Hallow filly at
3000gns. Fourteen yearlings made from
8200gns. down to lOOOgns.
* * * *
An English authority says that, though
trainers in that country have to pay from
25 to 50 per cent, more for feed, wages
and incidentals, they have not passed on
the additional expenses to owners.
Although that suggests the position is
worse for trainers than owners, it is
anticipated that many of the latter, owing
to reduction in fixtures and prize-money,
will be forced to drop out.
* * » *
There is no shortage of trainers of
jumpers, nor of jockeys, in England. For
the recent season 123 trainers and 142
jockeys were licensed under National
Hunt Rules (jumping). Some well-known
men train jumpers as well as flat-racers,
but flat riders of note give a miss to the
jumping side of the business.
* * * •
Racehorses in training are rationed in
England, the idea being to prevent too
many moderates being raced. In reply to
a question in the House of Commons
recently as to the number of horses
rationed under National Hunt Rules
(jumpers) it was stated there were 100
stallions, 525 geldings and 102 mares.
One member, who is evidently not
fond of racing, suggested that the rations
allotted mares and geldings would serve
a better purpose if they went to cows for
the further production of milk. He was
assured that the total amount consumed
by those 727 horses was negligible by
comparison with the supplies available.
* * * *
Golden Fawn, the horse on which E.
Britt won India’s richest stake, the Eclipse
Stakes, at Bombay, is a five-year-old
horse by Bahrain from Mah Mahal, He
raced in England as Bashir and was not
of much account. India agreed with him,
and though he had 9.4 he was made an
even-money favorite for the Eclipse
Stakes, and won comfortably. First
money was Rs. 50,000 (about £A4400, at
present rate of exchange), second
Rs. 17,000 and third Rs. 8000. Golden
Fawn is a half-brother to the English
Derby winner Mahmoud.
* * * *
It is announced in Indian papers that
the Calcutta T.C. has taken up a collec-
tion of binoculars for the army. Contri-
butors will get a receipt, and after the
war a pair of glasses—not necessarily
those they gave —will be returned to
them. Which means that some donors
may be lucky and others not.
s* * * ♦
Warren Wright was not only on top in
the winning owners’ list in America last
season, but led the breeders in money
won. Horses bred by him won $528,211
(approximately £A 160,600). In races won
he was beaten by several other breeders,
W. S. Kilmer being first with 256 wins,
and he was followed by B. B. Jones 241,
A. Hancock 225 and Mereworth Stud
200.
« * * *
Many Australian horses have improved
in remarkable fashion in India. Maikai’s
six-year-old half-brother Pooh Bear (by
Christopher Robin) is the latest instance.
Bred at Kia-Ora in 1935, and sold for
700gns. as a yearling, he won the first
two-year-old race in which he started in
Melbourne, but subsequently was of so
little account that, though he did win
another race, he realised only lOgns. when
he was bought for India in*July, 1940. The
change agreed with him, and from the
beginning of last September up to early
in January he won seven races of the total
value of about £2380. Pooh Bear is an
all-rounder, one of his wins being the
Burdwan Cup, a hurdle race, at Calcutta.
Many other Australian-bred horses won
in India in November, December and
January, and only for the war standing
in the way there would now be a particu-
larly good market for our horses in that
country.
* * * *
In prize-money Belmont Park was
the leading club in New York last
year. Its daily average for 39 days was
$25,537 (approximately £A7765). As
Santa Anita’s average was not far behind
that amount, it is not surprising that
some winning owners ran into big totals.
United States prize-money last year was
$17,987,935 (a little over £A6,100,800).
* * * *
Yearlings sold at auction in America
last year totalled 1072 and the average
worked out at $1215 (£A369). An
exchange says there are 178 breeding
farms in Kentucky, 127 in California, 98
in Texas and 85 in Virginia. It added
that there were 167 stallions at the vari-
ous Kentucky studs, 142 in California,
102 in Texas and 74 in Virginia.
* * * *
Americans are seemingly much more
enthusiastic than Australians where great
racehorses are concerned. The manager
of C. S. Howard’s stud farm in Cali-
fornia reported that the guest book at
Seabiscuit’s stall contained the names of
33,072 visitors for the 212 days ending
August 1 of last year. On some days
there were as many as 1000 visitors. It
must be added that it is doubtful whether
any Australian studmaster would appre-
ciate so much attention being paid any
of his stallions.
* * * *
At any big meeting in America most
of the horses are stabled on the course
at which it is being held. This means
there is a regular township of stable-
hands. Although the Santa Anita meet-
ing was declared off a few days before
the advertised date of its commencement
very few trainers had moved on towards
the end of December, and on Christmas
Day the Los Angeles Turf Club enter-
tained over 1000 stable employees at a
turkey dinner.
Seldom taking a backward step, Harry
Cohen (9.21) was too fast and too per-
sistent for Harry Fields (9.3) at Leich-
hardt last Thursday night. Fields
attacked at times and landed a few long
right leads, but Cohen’s snappy straight
lefts to the face made most of these de-
liveries miss. Though obviously a beaten
boxer in the fifth, the Victorian fought
on gallantly. A right to the body and a
left to the chin knocked him down half-
way through the ninth and the referee
intervened.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Trial Stakes: Nemesis, 1 ; Alert-
ful, 2 ; Breezy Boy or Qui Va La, 3.
Nursery Handicap; Afloat, 1 ;
Sandman, 2; Minnamurra, 3.
Flying Handicap: Guild Hall, 1 ;
Soho, 2; Lagoon or Astrid, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Trigger-
man, 1 ; Beau Frere, 2 ; Early Bird
or Alluring, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Happy
Bay, 1 ; Melvale, 2 ; Tyrannus, 3.
Campsie Handicap: Happy Lass,
1 ; Fearless Fox, 2 ; Brazen Lad, 3.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
(Before acceptances .)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Trial Hurdle: David Spear, 1 ;
Belvoir, 2 ; Allanius, 3.
Charlemont Trial: Philfred, 1 ;
Clare County, 2 ; Martinez, 3.
Montrose Handicap: Hunting-
dale, 1 ; Audacity, 2 ; Haros, 3.
Imperial Handicap: Chatsbury,
1 ; Tuhitarata, 2 ; Penaton, 3.
Ascot Autumn Cup: Velocity, 1 ;
Tranquil Star, 2 ; Sir Richard, 3.
Jeffcott Welter: Sun Belle, 1 ;
Pannade, 2 ; Mollie Con, 3.


AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company, Limited.
Incorporated in Queensland, 1895
The Metropolitan is lending itself whole-
heartedly to every purpose in which it can
assist the National War Effort.
Practically the whole of its savings after pay-
ment of Claims and Expenses is lent to the
Government for War and Defence needs.
At the close of last year 52.5 per cent, of the
Company’s Assets was represented by loans to
the Commonwealth of Australia.
Inquiries with regard to the need for Life Assur-
ance in War-time should be addressed to any
one of the Company’s Offices in—
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN THOMAS STUART late of Lismore,
—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHEA MARY
STUART has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
584 of 1942 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance on your behalf on or before
30th June 1942 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from E. A. CLEARY
& CO. Solicitors 56 Hunter Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR HENDERSON formerly of 39
Vernon Street Woollahra New South Wales.—
TAKE NOTICE that MARY HENDERSON
has filed a Petition in the Supreme Court of
New South Wales (No. 113 of 1942) praying
for a divorce on the grounds of your desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
or upwards You may enter an appearance on
or before the 17th July next and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from Messrs.
A. R. BALDWIN & CO. Solicitors 11c Castle-
reagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
SMOKE-OH!
Once Bitten.
“Rail man says wife bit him on the ear.”
— “Truth.”
You’d think a rail-man’s wife would be
Well trained; but then, of course,
Though knowing all the signals, he
Won’t interfere because, you see,
She is the driving force.
E.
*r -I* -p
“Sundays may not be so gloomy after this.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Why not? The wife’s mother still
makes that her visiting day.
v -h -I*
“Another curious conjunction of names was
a Mr. Day who married a Miss Dorn.”
— “World’s News.”
That would be the break of day.
*1*
“British furriers use 1,750,000 catskins a year,
mostly as trimmings to coats.”
— “World’s News.”
Birds of a feather will flock together.
And cats protect cats in the chilly
weather.
•i" 4* •b *i*
“A new U.S. invention is a wrist-watch
radio.”— Weekly.
Even if you pay cash for it, it’s still on
tick.
b b b
“U.S. People Feel Pinch of War. No More
Rubber for Women’s Corsets.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Last year’s figures of women employed
in war work are expected to increase.
*1* b *]• *1*
“One of his nature stories, a biography of
an octopus, is intensely interesting.”
—Book review.
Certainly a gripping subject.
b b b
“Deceased clothing bought.”— Advt.
Knocked down stuff, presumably
•F *J*
Too True!
“Marriage has been the making of many a
man who has been slovenly about his appear-
ance. Wives teach their husbands to take a
pride in their ‘turnout.’ ” —Dorothy Dix.
The careless dresser well may pause
Before he lets his heart
Take him too far, since he’s been warned.
A wife will make him smart.
Hamer.
Repetitive.
“From Our Special Correspondent.—Fresh
German threats made against Vichy as the
political crisis in Vichy reaches a crisis.”
Official circles state that it is believed
in official circles that the Germans are
preparing a huge spring offensive against
the Russians in the spring. It is authori-
tatively alleged by these authorities that
large numbers of armored vehicles are
being concentrated on the eastern front,
where hundreds of tanks are being got
together in readiness for an attack, which,
it is believed, will take place in the spring.
Ah Me.
“Doctor says bachelors are social misfits.”
But married men are made to order.
*|#
“Tobacco manufacturers meet.”
—News item.
At a smoke-oh?
b 4. •£>
“All stupid women are blondes.”
— Puzzle-corner, “Sunday Telegraph.”
For confirmation of this, just ask any
brunette.
'I* *1- •£•
New Quiz.
“Popular radio quiz sessions.”
— Woman’s paper.
Quiz: Are you tired of quiz sessions ;
all radio sessions; the radio; paying
listener’s license?
If all answers have been “Yes,” now
answer this one: Are you a goat?
Anyone answering “No” wins the quiz
and is given the prize of five minutes’
examination by a lie-detector.
Yair.
Maria’s Idea.
“Kitchen meals are a bad habit. At least
a tew meals during the week, for the sake of
the children, should be taken off the dining-
room table.”— Woman’s paper.
That seems to be Maria’s idea;
although it may not have been the table
we had the other night, there was a cer-
tain leathery consistency that suggested
that one of the chair-seats might have
supplied the meal. I made a few
guesses, at which Maria was not amused.
“You have always made fun of my
cooking! ” she flamed. “Even the very
first dinner I cooked”
“I told you,” I said placatingly, “that
the gravy was tender. And so it was.”
Still, there are people who have harder
fare than we do. Maria knows a woman
who has lived on her sewing-machine for
five years ; that beats all the records of
the boardinghouse-keepers I have known,
who serve a leg of mutton first as lamb,
then as cold mutton, then as stewed lamb,
then as fricassee and finally as curry,
hash or minced-meat balls.
And there is a man down our street
who lives on racehorses. Some of those
I have backed have been so very dead
that I would prefer to live on our dining-
room table,
H. M.
b b 4*
Transformation Scene.
“Old faces at the Tivoli.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
There are many revues where you wake
up
That “old faces” are what the game
breeds.
But they put on some make-up;
In spotlights they bake-up ;
And then they are juvenile leads.
Stalls.
Brain-racker.
“Sometimes we encounter problems to which
there is apparently no solution.”
—Science article.
E.g., a dog lies on its back
And points to heaven all its four paws,
While holding, by some happy knack,
On each of these a dozen pawpaws:
If this were in a far oasis,
Please state with attitude objective
If certain unrelated cases
Are co-extensive or collective.
T. W. NATHAN.
The Art of Wardening.
11.
I hurried back to the Warden’s Post.
The S.W. was talking on the ’phone.
Putting down my stirrup pump, torch,
scones, thermos of tea, rattle, umbrella,
etc., I began a furious search through
the papers on his desk. The S.W. came
off the ’phone in a tearing rage.
“Here! Don’t get screwing up that
crossword puzzle, you idiot,” he shouted.
“I haven’t finished it. And put that
comic supplement down. I haven’t read
Popeye yet. If you want a pad of report
forms say so.”
I told him it was my authority card
I had misplaced.
He groaned. “What! Haven’t you
finished the McGoogan report yet? The
test’ll be over before you start. It’s after
4 o’clock now”
“What!” I said aghast. “Afternoon-
tea time! ” Rapidly gathering up my
stirrup pump, scones, thermos, rattle, etc.,
I turned to my tormentor, “You shall
get your report, never fear,” I said fimly.
“And it will be something to make your
ears flap. It will be at once realistic,
crystal-clear, a model of what a
warden’s report should be. More-
over, I shall take appropriate action im-
mediately to save the McGoogan family
and their home from the effects of the
supposititious h.e. bomb that has been
dropped on it” —and with a withering
look at him I left.
Perhaps I may have lingered slightly
in a near-by paddock over the enjoyment
of the scones and tea, without which I
doubt if I could have carried on the
strenuous afternoon’s work. Whatever
it was, when I got back home, where I
was now convinced I had left my author-
ity card, the wife greeted me with
“Fancy! Home so early! Why, the
all-clear whistle has only just gone.”
“Tch!” I exclaimed. “Surely it can’t
be that time yet. Anyway, I must find
that authority card.”
The wife eventually found it sticking
out of a novel in a lounge chair. I
remembered then using it as a bookmark.
Now many another fellow would have
succumbed to the temptation of spending
the rest of the afternoon reading Agatha
Christie. But when I start a thing I
always believe in carrying it through, no
matter what inconvenience I may have
to suffer personally. Gathering up my
stirrup pump, rattle, torch, tin helmet,
pad of forms, etc., I left for the McGoo-
gans’ house in Mary-street.
My knock was again answered by Mrs.
McGoogan, whose dishevelled hair gave
her, I thought, a rather blowsy appear-
ance. Arms akimbo, she surveyed me
and my paraphernalia with unmistakable
disapproval.
“Here’s the pest again,” she remarked
to nobody in particular. “A woman
can’t enjoy a lie-down of a Sunday after-
noon but what some quarter-witted ape
with a tin dish stuck up on his melon
rnust come around continually disturb-
ing her. What do y’ want now ?”
There was only one attitude to adopt
towards a householder so patently un-
willing to co-operate in the great national
work. “I am invested with wide powers
as a warden under the N.E.5.,” I said,
“and you will do well not to flout them.
I have already informed you of the
grievous results of the bomb that was
supposed to have dropped on your house.
You are forbidden to leave the place
until I say so. If the gas leak gets any
bigger you’ll have to all hold your breaths
until I can arrange for the gas company
to cut off the supply. The casualties will
be removed as soon as possible. Keep
calm until the ambulance arrives. The
other matters will receive prompt atten-
tion. Where is the nearest telephone?”
By the time I had finished the lady
was breathing heavily. “Git out of here
before y’ git shot out,” she said omin-
ously. “And take all this rubbish with
y’—go on! ”
Now I abhor vulgar altercations.
Gathering up my stirrup pump, rattle,
torch, umbrella, etc., I left. At the gate
I turned. “Just remember my instruc-
tions,” I said with dignity.
The sun was just sliding below the
horizon by then. Eventually I located
a public telephone on the corner of Mary-
street and Jonathan-road. I had suffi-
cient pennies in my pocket to ring the
Fire Brigade and report a fierce con-
flagration at No. 26 Mary-street, the
electricity and gas people for damage
to wires and escaping gas, and the
ambulance station for some shocking in-
juries. In a full-dress rehearsal such as
this one must be imaginative or it falls
flat. By the time I had hurried home
and opened Johnny’s money-box for some
more coppers and got back I had to use
the torch to dial the police for riots (I
made that realistic enough!) and to report
burst water-mains to the board.
It was with no little satisfaction at a
job well done that I strolled up to the
shopping centre to get a hard-earned
cigarette. By that time it was completely
dark. It was while I was yarning to
Smithers that the first fire-engines came
tearing along and turned on two wheels
into Mary-street. These were quickly fol-
lowed by two ambulances, a P.D. car
and several utility trucks.
As I groped my way along towards
McGoogan’s I reflected that a bonehead
like Jollup, the Senior Warden, or Parkin-
son could never have arranged things as
expeditiously and smoothly. As I neared
No. 26 I noticed that the place was a
veritable hive of industry. I had liter-
ally to fight my way through a tangled
mob of police, firemen and hoses,
ambulance men with stretchers, turn-
cocks, gas mechanics, linesmen with
reels and electricians, all cursing dread-
fully in the dark. In the midst of the
hullabaloo was the massive Mrs.
McGoogan, waving her arms about and
acting like one demented.
“Well,” I said cheerfully as I put down
my stirrup pump, rattle, torch, etc,, “is
everything going all right?”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
45d. per line; all others per line.
“The Interests of the State’’
An old-age pensioner called on me
recently bringing with him the will of
another o.a.p. who had died, leaving
my client the whole of his property.
It consisted of a one-roomed hut, erected
on what is called a suburban holding of
two acres. My friend had found a buyer
for the lot at £6O and came hopefully
to me to put the deal through. “/ sup-
pose you can do it for a coupla quid,”
lie said.
What he must do is:
Lodge an application for probate of the
will. This has to be supported by exactly
the same affidavits as if the estate were
worth £60,000. The scale costs allowed by
the Court are £lO.
The application must be supported by a
certificate of the Valuer-General of the
value of the “estate.” This must be paid
for.
Then we have to get the certificate ot
the Crown Solicitor that the executor is
entitled to sell. One would have thought
that the production of the probate, which
is the Supreme Court’s “certificate” that
the will has been proved, would be suffi-
cient, but this is not sufficient for the
N.S.W. Lands Office.
In support of the application lor the
Crown Solicitor’s certificate we have to
produce a certificate from the Common-
wealth Treasurer, authorising the sale under
the National Security (Economic Organisa-
tion) Regulations, and the consent ot the
Minister for Lands to the sale, (The
object of this last consent is to prevent
the accumulation of large estates in the
hands of one man, and naturally the addi-
tion of two acres of village land to any
man’s holding might upset the delicate
balance of the “home maintenance area. )
This consent also has to be paid for.
Before the Commonwealth Treasurer will
issue his certificate he requires another
certificate of value from the Valuer-
General, not in the same form as before,
but in another form that has been invented
in the Treasury.
Most of these except
the Treasurer’s —have to be paid for. My
client would have to do no more and
no less if the property were worth
£60,000 instead of £6O, but when he
found that £2O would not cover his bill
he could think of nothing better than to
call me a shark and walk out. I could
not persuade him that the interests of
the State required certificates from, and
fees to, five different Government offices
and the lodgment of some 20 forms,
apart from legitimate legal work. Fnz-
william (N.5..W.).
New World
I’d like to tick off some of the com-
pensating factors discernible through the
apparent commercial disruption, uncer-
tainty of outlook and feeling of personal
“uprootedness” that besets many minds.
There is a vast deal written on the credit
side of the ledger, and, while the harvest
can belong only to the future, the seed is
so widely and well sown that the harvest
is a certainty unless we prove to be the
worst blunderers on record.
I refer particularly to the fillip that
has been given to the engineering, manu-
facturing and scientific worlds, as my
contacts in a variety of spheres have
revealed to me. Details cannot be set
down, but to those who are “in the
know” the fields that our technicians,
research workers, industrialists and long-
sighted organisers and administrators
have opened up, sometimes against
“impossible” odds, are amazing.
Projects have been tackled that no
commercial firm, even of some standing
and experience, would have hazarded in
peace-time. National need has furnished
the market and the opportunity to in-
vestigate, experiment and dare. There
has been a call for stout courage in the
industrial field as well as in the military,
and triumphs just as vital and spectacular
will be recorded-—when the story can be
told.
When war is ended we shall be on
the threshhold of an immense new world,
teeming with problems and opportuni-
ties. 1 only hope that it is going to be
a brave new world of self-confident
industrial enterprise; an adventurous
new world, meeting the challenges of the
times with the resolution, daring and
good humor of our fighting men; a
stimulating new world that has no room
for nostalgias and disillusion; and a
harmonious and tolerant new world, in
which commonsense will replace the
blind, adventitious sabotage of industrial
friction.
“When we win the war we shall have
to start winning the peace” has become
as trite as a cliche, yet the truth of the
matter is there. And for us, at any rate,
winning the peace extends to other fields
besides that of international politics.—
Keel Row (Vic.).
War Effort
At Easter some of our locals who had
gone to the city for war work came home
for the two days’ spell. All of them,
both men and women, told the same
story, no matter what the work was—a
stepping-down rather than a stepping-up
of production. They all started full of
enthusiasm, and were surprised to find
they were doing more than the older
hands, but they were soon told what was
their limit and there would be trouble if
they exceeded it. All admitted they were
working long hours, but they could do
as much in eight hours as they were
doing in 10 or 12. No one seems to
know who is responsible for this braking-
down on production.
I’m inclined to think that, better than
’planes and guns, would be a shipment
of American efficiency experts with full
power to weed out and transfer to the
fighting battalions all those not making
the most of their time. —E. R. S. (Vic.).
State Defence “Projects”
Queensland Treasurer Frank Cooper
has been worsted in controversy, “Ex-
plaining” expenditure of the State
“Did you know John had joined the V.D.C.?"
“Not so loud, dear —the enemy may be listening."
Deve i opment tax-money, he gave pay-
ments on “developmental projects” as
representing 13s. 4d. in the pound. A
f ormer Government audit inspector dis-
pUted this assertion, giving ss. 6d. as the
correct ra ti o .
Tbe Hon p ran k immediately shifted
ground by stating that he had spent
£250,000 on “Defence projects.” The
re pjy was that refund of this amount
s h ou id be claimed from the Common-
weaph, as taxpayers had already paid
p e d era l taxes and should not be specially
taxe d locally for a further war effort.
So f ar t he Hon. Frank has not claimed
tbe quarter-million and taxpayers are
more worried than ever. For the spend-
jn g 0 f re fief taxes on pet Defence
sc hemes of the Hon. Frank is to go on;
j n d e ed, he threatens to double the dose
next year.— Candid Friend (Q.).
“R a Hon Jjsation”
Ba ” k Kat onaiisat
As a resident of a solid little N.S.W.
town which has had two banks lot 70
years and one for 80, I saw the spec-
tacle of the older (and larger) oi the two
close its doors under Mr. Dedman s
rationalisation scheme It matters no-
thing to that individual that hundreds ot
farmers have to pay hundreds ol poun .
in registration fees on securities or else
bank in another town and pay exchange
on every cheque they draw,
I thought of the city of Sydney and
made a list of the city and suburban
branches of the various banks. Here it
is: Commonwealth 117,’Wales 95, Com.
of Sydney 40, E., S. and A. 28, Com. of
Aus. 25, ’Asia 17, Union 16, National
nine ; total, 347. If there is any real neces-
sity to close superfluous branches, Syd-
ney is the place to start and the Com-
monwealth Bank the institution to com-
mence with. It will come as a shock to
country folk to learn that that bank has
117 city and suburban branches, but they
are all there.
The list is interesting. Take four at
random; Bondi, Bondi Beach, Bondi
Junction and Waverley, all within a
stone’s-throw of one another. In the
same locality there are eight other
branch banks, making a total of 12 for
the Bondi-Waverley area. If a city or
.suburban branch is closed, apart irom
the inconvenience to customers of taking
a tram perhaps two blocks to another
branch of the same bank, no hardship is
caused. It is vastly different in the coun-
try, where exchange has to be paid on
all cheques other than local.
Still, I suppose we country folk have
to pay for the privilege of being bossed
by Mr. Dedman. Most of us would wel-
come a chance at the polls of showing
what we think of him and his party.—
Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
All to Blame
“L.L.” (B. 15/4/ ’42) produced some
horrible logic. Disarmament is the policy
that has brought us near disaster, and for
that we are nearly all equally to blame.
Possibly a courageous Prime Minister
could have forced us out of our lethargy,
but his chance of survival as P.M. during
and after the attempt would have been
very thin. And can we blame the indi-
vidual for not wanting to commit poli-
tical suicide? . „ .
The moral is that, especially in time
of adversity, there should not be the
irresponsible and ignorant criticism of
Authority that is now too familitr. “Fel-
lowship” is the crying need. Without it
leadership is bound and gagged.
“L.L.” ineptly “applies the principle’
to murder, and says that “everybody
can’t hang everybody.” The sad part
of it is that he, like so many others,
seems determined to hang somebody if
only to prove that it wasn’t his fault
anyway.—G. D. (N.S.W.).
Women-power
Isn’t it time that first things were
placed first and women put into women s
jobs? A general hospital in a large
Queensland country town has recently
been staffed by some 130 “A”-class men,
including many fine lads of 18 years of
age upwards. They did not volunteer for
the A.M.C.-—they had no trade test—
but they were willy-nilly dumped in
hospital service as medical and general
orderlies.
These young men should and would
be in the fighting services were they
allowed. Instead they are doing kitchen
and mess duties, scrubbing floors and
performing other women’s work in a
town where women are available.
P. B. I. (Q.).
Marginal Areas
Many settlers in the Victorian Mallee
are worried about the term “marginal
areas,” fearing that it marks them and
their country as poverty-stricken. A few
years ago, when the flour tax was intro-
duced, many believed that the money
thus obtained was to go partly in finan-
cial assistance to Mallee wheatgrowers,
whose trouble was not so much failure
of crops as failure of prices. But because
the Victorian Government didn’t declare
its marginal areas, it didn’t get any of
the money. This year it declared much
of its northern Mallee to be marginal.
It was then suggested that settlers
under the Closer Settlement Act who
wished to get out could do so by advis-
ing the Lands Department, whereupon
they would receive £320 as compensa-
tion for walking off the block. This
applied only to Closer Settlement Act
men. The proposal hasn’t been hailed
with enthusiasm. Settlers who have
labored for years mostly intend to stay
and aren’t willing to see values reduced
by having the land branded with the mar-
ginal-areas tag. A great many regard
the £320 compensation as simply a bribe
to relieve the Government of the respon-
sibility of doing something for the
Mallee.
It is wheat and sheep country, and
faith in it is still strong. We believe that
good years and good prices will come
again and we’re against depopulation,
with its dreadful effects on towns, trans-
port and social amenities, as a way out.
Some look to the promised Mortgage
Bank as a means of help. But whatever
happens the settlers believe that the land
can produce mutton, wool and wheat if
given a fair go, and it wouldn’t be a fair
go to brand it as “marginal area,” thus
advertising to the world that it and the
people in it are economically useless.—
O. T. J. (Vic.).
Timber Workers’ Boots
Worker’s Compensation Insurance
regulations in Westralia compel timber
workers to wear special boots for their
work —boots with hard toecaps to pro-
tect their feet. If a man cuts his foot
while wearing unsuitable boots or shoes
he may be barred from obtaining com-
pensation — in fact, he almost certainly
would be.
Today, although we have been in-
formed that military boots would be
available for civilian use, fallers and
sleeper-cutters are swinging the axe
above feet clad most inadequately in
sandshoes. Besides the danger of nasty
gashes, severed toes, etc., there is the
chance of no compensation.
It’s a problem that needs attention.
R. H. G. (W.A.).
Propaganda
No official report of our air raids up
north seems complete today without a
reference to the Japs who ran squealing
for cover ; the inference being, of course,
that they panic under fire.
Isn’t it foolish to make so much of
that? The Japs possibly think it odd that
our chaps dive swearing for a slit trench
when the bombs start to fall. When
Japanese warships were in Australia
some years ago it was a common sight
to see a pair of their sailors walking
around holding hands like schoolgirls,
but anyone deceived into thinking they d
be easy meat because of that has been
bitterly disillusioned.
Our propagandists don’t seem to have
found out, even yet, that we need no re-
assuring about our superior fighting
qualities. We underrate the enemy too
much as it is, without being encouraged
to do so.— Roy Biv (S.A.).
White-elephant Subjects
“J.W.” (B. 1 /4/ ’42) cites algebra, trigo-
nometry and Latin as “white-elephant”
subjects, “all of which are of little use
to the majority of students who take
them.” Obviously he shares the common
misconception of people not directly con-
cerned with education —that the sole
value of each subject lies in the extent
to which it can be used in later life.
If that were the case we might as well
restrict our curriculum to purely utili-
tarian subjects, specialising for each child
in the trade or profession for which
psychological tests showed him to be best
fitted. This would produce wonderfully
efficient human machines, all sorted out
into their watertight groups, but they
would be nothing more than machines,
They would neither enjoy nor be inter-
ested in culture, which would once more
become the exclusive privilege of those
who were able to live without working
at all. ,
But, culture aside, all the subjects con-
demned by “J.W.” have their own utili-
tarian values. Algebra and trigonometiy
are just as important for training the
mind in two different types of reasoning
as muscle and lung exercises are for
training the body. One develops the
ability to choose the relevant few from
a number of facts, the other to reason
step by step from one truth to the next.
Latin, that most maligned of all sub-
jects, is really one of the most immedi-
ately utilitarian. Apart from the greatly
enriched English vocabulary that comes
with a knowledge of Latin words, the
mere fact of searching for an equivalent
English word develops a valuable educa-
tion. — Array (N.S.W.).


“WERE IN THE ARMY
NOW
o
1
p/tLIVf
ENAME
SPRAYING
LACQUER
llllililltlil
nuiuiiiiiiiifiiuiiiii
milium
* ilium
RA U AN t BAO
S Y . LTP.
AC
lillllllKlK
r
Sorry we can’t help you on your
"peace" jobs at the moment, because
the services of our raw materials
have been enlisted for defence
work.
It was known that "we had what it
takes" so we were "conscripted” and
HA L-M
SECS
LACQUER
Ihe Beautiful Durable Finish
for Motor Cars
\
f
r*
s
WMm
Balm
finish
P fiRS£DING ENAMEL
*ICH • CREAM
393 - 7622
5u£0H22221E
IT)
/
I
1
we are thus instrumental in helping
Australia’s war effort.
That’s a great compliment to "Duco”
and "Dulux” quality!
BUT—WE’LL BE ON THOSE JOBS
WITH YOU LATER!
BALM
THE SYNTHETIC FINISH
SUPERSEDES ENAMELS
and VARNISHES
i ■ • ■ ' ■ V■ ■ \ ■ V • .1 ’
Products oj British Lead Manufacturers Pty., Ltd., Sydney, M elbotirne, Adelaide
