

ROYAL
g ©j
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3269
Wednesday, October 7, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
NEWQUAY —A FAMED CORNISH RESORT.
MO section of England possesses more links with
Australia than Cornwall, described accurately in
an old gazetteer as “A Maritime County of England,
forming its s.-w. extremity, bounded by Devon on the
east and washed on all other sides by the sea.” It is
the ancestral home of the Commonwealth’s “Cousin
Jacks,” whose industry and enterprise have exerted
such a profound effect in the advancement of Aus-
tralia’s goldmining activities. Cornwall is a Celtic
county, whereas Devonshire is English, but it is a land
of prehistoric hut-circles, of holy wells and superb
granite churches, having a coastline of wondrous
grandeur, jagged and fierce, with a legion of sandy
coves and tiny harbours, coupled with a climate
so mild and sea so Jblufi as ia become possessed of the
designative, “The Cornish Riviera.” There is no
more delightful spot than Newquay in this favoured
realm, the centre of the pilchard fishery. Located on
the north coast it is guarded by a noble and sweeping
stretch of rocks. The great charm of Newquay is its
sands, some of (he most extensive and unbroken in
England. At Porth, the bay adjacent to that around
which Newquay is built, the sands at low water stretch
half a mile from high-water mark. Here are several
remarkable caverns, that termed the Banqueting Hall
being the finest. It has much the appearance of a
Gothic interior, while its neighbour and rival, the
Cathedral Cave, boasts some five water-worn columns,
A favourite resort for Australian visitors, especially
those possessing “Cousin Jack” connections, is an out-
standing natural feature just to the west of the town—
the great promontory—The lowan-—jutting far out
into the sea. The point of lhe lowan is composed
of a fine mass of broken black rock which the sea has
through the ages worn into strange and even eccentric
forms. On the left of Towan Head may be seen some
remains ol a massive breakwater built practically a
century ago in an endeavour to form a harbour for
the fishing craft of North C ornwall when caught m
westerly gales, which rage with terrific fury, bringing
from the Atlantic mountainous seas, which proved the
undoing of the breakwater. A smaller artificial harbour
has been built in a more protected place and admirably
serves the requirements of the fisher folk, also of the
devotees of yachting and boating in the summer months.


fetanccJouTOig
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 142
The Red Page
Good-bye to the Wreckers,
That daring young man T. S. Eliot is
now 54; a prominent member of the
Church of England; and has recently
been on a cultural mission to Sweden
for the British Government. The daring
young men of the Adelaide University
Arts Club, headed by Max Harris, are
still, in the third number of their sur-
realist “Angry Penguins,” stuck in the
bog of The Waste Land.
Thirty years behind the times.
That daring young lady Gertrude Stein
is now 68. Hailed by his publishers as
“A new author! With a new style!”
A. Gwynne-Browne offers in FSP
(Chatto and Windus) a straightout imita-
tion of Gertrude.
Forty years behind the times.
But that daring young man on the
flying trapeze William Saroyan, endeavor-
ing in The Time of Your Life (Faber;
Angus and Robertson) to wreck the
whole tradition of the theatre, has hit on
a stunt that can’t be called dated. T. S.
Eliot (Whitman, really; but the English
Muse managed to ignore that impertinent
young American till Eliot and Pound
crossed the Atlantic in person) wrecked
the whole structure of the English poetic
tradition. Joyce, Miss Gertrude and
Hemingway wrecked the novel. Sache-
verell Sitwell in Primitive Scenes and
Festivals, though he did not quite suc-
ceed in making the essay incomprehen-
sible, had a fair shot at wrecking belles
lettres. Saroyan himself did his best to
make a mess of the short story ; many
before and many after him have ignored
De Maupassant.
But nobody, nobody at all until The
Time of Your Life, had seriously
attempted to make a shambles of the
drama. The Russians, it’s true, played
all sorts of tricks and tried to mix up
audiences and actors in one great caul-
dron of edifying emotion: but those were
propaganda plays and always, if not art,
made sense. Saroyan offers in The Time
of Your Life the magnificent achievement
of three plays which from start to finish
are chaotic nonsense. That they are also
entertaining and lively, and that the title
piece cautiously approaches the verge
of intelligibility, rather spoils the pure
beauty there would have been in offering
an audience absolutely nothing for three
nights on end.
How curious it is that in an age pas-
sionately devoted to smashing with revo-
lution or with bombs everything that has
been established by tradition and valued
by mankind, the artists, too, set out to
smash and destroy. Yeats in poetry,
Charles Morgan and John Cowper Powys
in the novel —a few men stood apart
from the “aggressors” and made their
reputations by challenging the great
names of the past within the arena of
tradition, talent against talent, original
mind against original mind. But nearly
all the contemporary “names” are
wreckers: Joyce, Hemingway, Eliot and,
as Saroyan modestly suggests, Saroyan.
It’s true that every age has called its
new names wreckers; once that daring
young man William Wordsworth was
regularly accused of incomprehensibility.
It may be that in a couple of centuries
little children, amazed at its simple
lucidity, will recite passages of Finne-
gans Wake as they now recite (Lord
help them!) “We Are Seven.” But it
doesn’t seem very likely. As far as a
contemporary mind can judge, our age
stands supreme in lunacy. There were
nuts and cranks and wild-eyed prophets
in every age ; always, in D. H. Lawrence’s
phrase, “the lost lugubrious howl of
idiots howling their nowhereness” ; but
such delights as Blake’s Prophetic Books,
for example, were (very sensibly) largely
ignored until our own age exhumed them
as masterpieces.
Have the wreckers been necessary?
Have they served any good purpose?
The proof of that pudding’s in the
eating. Out of Ulysses there was more
profit than the raising of Mr. Harrison’s
hair. The stream -of - consciousness
method, which is only the traditional
soliloquy carried to its logical extreme,
is a legitimate and possibly profitable
fictional device. Out of Finnegans Wake
there has been nothing so far except
headaches: its great purpose, perhaps,
is to warn all other writers never to
reduce the English language to a private
mumbo-jumbo.
Out of The Waste Land has come the
liveliest writing in modem English and
American poetry. Having smashed the
cathedrals of tradition, Eliot set to work
to rebuild them. He wrote Murder in
the Cathedral and out of that has come
the wholly admirable revival of the verse
play: Auden’s plays. Spender’s, Mac-
Niece’s and the radio dramas of the
American Archibald Macleish.
Out of Gertrude Stein’s babble of the
nursery has come FSP, which seems
undoubtedly the worst war book ever
written. Gertrude’s method is quite good
fun when it is applied to the mind of a
young girl, preferably half-witted. And
so it’s interesting to see what becomes
of it when applied to sterner subjects.
A Gwynne-Browne applies it to himself
and the rest of the B.E.F. in France and
at Dunkirk;
As we reached the corner where the
dunes began we heard more planes,
we did not wait we just rushed below to
where we could. It was horrid. It was not
, much below and thin walls and everything
I do not know what it was it was horrid and
squalid. The planes went over and then
more planes and then the screaming again
There was an awful noise. Three soldiers
came tumbling from somewhere, they
looked shaken. We were crouching in
bottles and then more screaming and it got
louder much louder and we knew it was
coming and we could feel it coming much
nearer and. I shut my eyes. The ex-
plosion shook everything. It was horrid,
but we were alive. It was horrid. We
waited and then we got up. We swallowed,
it did make us dry this sort of thing of
course it was the shock. The three soldiers
they were so young and so good, they
were rather white and so young they were
being so steadfast and plucky. They said
they had not eaten since yesterday. I
said I had and luckly I had some bananas.
They had them.
No profit there from the good Gertrude.
But also out of the Stein-stutter, as Wynd-
ham Lewis has demonstrated, came the
Hemingway grunt. And there, perhaps,
is some profit. Much bad writing,
especially by Hemingway’s imitators;
but, compared, say, with the devitalised
novels of the school of Hugh Walpole,
Wells and Phillip Gibbs, a Hemingway
book is certainly lively.
What happened to Hemingway, when
he took up the Stein-babble, was that he
had to find a character who talked that
way. Finding nobody on earth, he in-
vented the great dumb Strongman who
appears in all his novels and sent him
prowling over the earth in search of blood
and death: to Africa for big game, to
Spain for bullfights and war.
Why was it always to scenes of car-
nage that Hemingway took his grunting
oaf? Hemingway has admitted that he
himself is preoccupied by some mysticism
of death and violence. Since the brief
experience of the last war recorded in
A Farewell to Arms, he has been chasing
war all over the earth. It is, maybe, the
great theme of our age. The most inter-
esting speculation in the world of fiction
at the moment is what Hemingway will
do with the present frenzy of destruction.
Here’s a war vaster than the one Tolstoy
wrote War and Peace about, and the
author of For Whom the Bell Tolls will
have to write something pretty big about
it if there’s to be any great profit found
in his particular revolution in style and
theme.
Because of that problem—what are
the tough guys going to make of a world
gone really tough at last? —John Stein-
beck’s The Moon is Down (Heinemann ;
Moore’s Bookshop) is of extraordinary
interest. Steinbeck carried the Hemingway
preoccupation with violence to almost
the extreme limit, short of penny-dread-
ful horrors, when in Of Mice and Men
he explored the mind of a half-witted,
sadistic sex pervert. In Grapes of Wrath
he explored the grime and miseries of
America’s “migratory workers” —to the
delight of the sentimental perfectionists
of the time; and to the great amusement
of Saroyan, who satirises him in the third
of his plays, “Love’s Old Sweet Song.”
In The Moon is Down, Steinbeck has
thrown the whole cargo overboard. Not
ope character is pathological ; neither
his heroes nor his villains are seen
through the spectacles that say the poor
are always miserable and the rich always
wicked ; ■ there is violence, but there is
no lingering on violence.
In its opening passages, The Moon is
Down is as simple and natural, as
human and as humorous as De Maupas-
sant or Dickens. Then it fizzles. It’s
nothing. No answer to the problem of
the tough guys. In purpose it’s a propa-
ganda novel: which is why it fails.
Set in one of the Scandinavian coun-
tries, Norway or Denmark, it’s about the
inhabitants of a village under Nazi domi-
nation; at first puzzled, soon resentful,
and at last rebellious. The characterisa-
tion, both of the Scandinavians and the
Germans, is excellent. The central charac-
ter, the Mayor who refuses to be a
Quisling, is the conventional heroic
burgomaster, but he’s also a human being,
and his ultimate death as a martyr gives
the short book unity and drama. But
instead of leaving it at that, a human
story with a plausible political moral,
on the lines of De Maupassant’s stories
of the French under the Prussians, Stein-
beck has turned it into a political Mes-
sage, demanding the dropping of dyna-
mite to aid European revolt against the
Nazis. Maybe it’s sound politics, the
natural way to deal with the Germans ;
maybe it’s unsound, an invitation to the
Nazis to begin the worst Terror against
civilians Europe has seen since the
Spanish invasion of the Netherlands;
but, sound or unsound, it ruins The
Moon is Down as a work of art. It
begins as a likeable novel of character ;
and ends as a leading article.
Yet, if the detached, humorous realism
of the opening chapters means that the
novelists are returning from the explora-
tion of pathology (which is the doctor’s
job) to their eternal task of interpreting
human character within the framework
of sanity, Steinbeck’s novel is important.
The wrecking of letters preceded the
wreck of the nations ; after the war, if
things are not to fall into utter anarchy,
there must be a great age of construction,
and it seems likely enough that the first
signs of returning sanity will be a turn
in the wheel of art back to form, nor-
mality and intelligibility. The wreckers
have done their essential work of libera-
tion ; the task now is to take the new
tools and new materials they have pro-
vided, and to build.
Eliot began rebuilding years ago. His
concern now is to win an honorable place
in the great English tradition. Eliot’s
publisher Geoffrey Faber, publishing his
own (minor Georgian) verses recently
under the title The Buried Stream, an-
nounced with beautiful solemnity that
Faber and Faber had decided that, the
revolution having served its purpose, it
was now safe and laudable to publish
comprehensible poetry.
Saroyan still clings obstinately to the
straws in his hair. The attack on the
drama is belated ; but maybe it is neces-
sary. Before The Time of Your Life is
thrown to the dogs, the reader would have
to decide whether or not a stage domi-
nated by Noel Coward and Shaw would
not be all the better for an earthquake.
Saroyan is an Armenian, and the Arme-
nian seems to be very close emotionally
to the Russian. He is a chaotic young
man. He is profound. He awaits a
Messiah who, he suspects, may very well
be William Saroyan. He debunks the
Steinbeck sentimentalism, prefers to paint
his tramps, drunks, children, prostitutes
and maniacs as happy ; and yet he always
manages to convey, with Dostoevski, the
impression that he could sit down and
weep without pausing for 24 hours. Of
one of his three plays he shyly declares:
“I believe ‘My Heart’s in the Highlands’
is a classic. It is surely impertinent for
me to believe that the greater and truer
American theatre shall begin its life after
the appearance and influence of this play,
but God forgive me, that is what I
believe.”
God forgive him, “My Heart’s in the
Highlands” is an awful piece of tosh.
But his picture of an American honky-
tonk in “The Time of Your Life” is so
lively, so directly from the life of the
people, and so much in the Shakspearean
tradition that one feels that Saroyan
might one day create a Falstaff. And
one does not feel that about either Shaw
or Coward.
It’s possible to read all sorts of sublime
meanings into Saroyan’s plays ; just as
it would also be possible, if a bunch of
thistles were put on a stage for three
hours —the curtain being lowered for an
interval at the end of every hour —for an
audience of a thousand donkeys to dis-
cover that Thistles Are Everything. But
it’s evading the whole burden and
adventure of art to leave creation to the
audience: form and intelligibility are
everything, and there is also common-
sense. If Saroyan does manage to blitz
the theatre (these plays seem too slight
to amount to “beautiful bombs”), it
mightn’t be a bad thing; but then he, or
somebody else, will immediately have to
begin rebuilding among the ruins. After
an age of chaos comes an age of creation.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
In the foyer of Sydney Minerva for
the opening of “You Can’t Take It With
You” was erected a mural by William
Constable, who does the scenery. Show-
ing a head split in two, adorned by vari-
ous sublimities from the subconscious, it
should be worth at least a column from
“S. M. Herald’s” art critic, now that
Granny has gone schizophrenic. For the
crowds at the intervals it had all the
fascination of a good street accident.
Though the three young ladies who
play the piano, violin and thingumabob
were dressed as ghosts, there is nothing
overwhelmingly surrealistic about “You
Can’t Take It With You.” It resembles
William Saroyan’s plays, in that it ques-
tions and laughs at the American dream
of Progress; but it makes good sense.
And, on the whole, good fun. Unlike
that other Whitehall success by the same
authors (“The Man Who Came to
Dinner”—Moss Hart and George Kauf-
man) this play, instead of calling for
dazzling efforts by the one man with the
rest of the cast comparatively unim-
portant, demands first-class comedy-work
from everyone. It’s a whole Yankee
family who have decided to give up the
commercial struggle and just enjoy them-
selves, and everybody has to be funny.
Eric Reiman was extremely funny;
Claude Flemming and Aileen Britton
were capable as always in the more .seri-
ous roles. But the others were uneven:
some burlesquing and others not funny.
Because Hollywood took care that all
the minor roles were rich, and because
it didn’t turn the comedy into farce, “You
Can’t Take It With You” was better as
a talkie than it is on the stage. “The
Man Who Came to Dinner,” on at Syd-
ney Century, seems the reverse —thinner
than the play. The stage and talkie ver-
sions so closely correspond, even to ges-
ture and inflexion, that it seems likely
that the Whitehall cast had an opportu-
nity of studying Woolley, Bette Davis
and the rest; but, even if that was the
case, Edwin Styles did a magnificent job.
For those who didn’t see the stage show
there’s a good laugh at the Century, and
it’s pleasant to see Bette Davis as a
human being again instead of a dark,
sinister, sorrowful, slightly-mad lady with
eyes like mill wheels and a penchant for
murdering her husbands.
On quality, “Mrs. Miniver” (St. James)
is the best of Sydney’s current talkies.
Mrs. Miniver is the Great White Duck
again—the Matriarch of all the other
talkies, plays and novels in which this
Page has noted a conspiracy to make
the housewife, instead of the soldier, the
hero of this war —but it comes from a
fine novel by Jan Struther, and it’s excel-
lently played by Greer Garson, Walter
Pidgeon and May Whitty. Showing
round the town, there’s an excellent Dept,
of Information short, photographed by
Damien Parer —“The Road to Kokoda.’
All fireside fusiliers should see it.
The Melbourne Symphony Orchestra
and the Philharmonics under Heinze’s
direction staged Coleridge-Taylor’s “Hia-
watha” —one of the most interesting con-
certs of the season. The negro com-
poser’s music and Longfellow’s poetry
are pretty well a perfect combination.
The metrical monotony of Longfellow’s
opus has been the sport of parodists the
world over, but it was not in the least
apparent in the singing of Harold Wil-
liams, Anthony Strange and Thea Philips.
Mayne Linton Productions, a new Mel-
bourne organisation, marred an attempt
to apply methods for restoring the appar-
ently downed to legitimate drama by
choosing “Grumpy.” The irascible old
gent, who goes in for minor crime de-
tection may have delighted our grandmas,
but everybody knows that his bad temper
is bunkum and at heart he is a dear old
sentimentalist —and, anyhow, the talkies
have exploited the fake character time
and again. Producer Gaston Mervale
and actors Marie Balfour, Frank Dunn,
Claude Thomas and Mayne Lynton did
their jobs well.
“F.S.”: The nearest equivalent to
Feliks Topolski, the official Polish artist
in England, whose drawings are on show
at the Myer Mural Hall in Melbourne, is
Will Dyson, who was one of Australia’s
official artists in France in the last war.
Most artists become overawed by an
official appointment and try- to please
their employers rather than themselves,
but Dyson went on illustrating what he
liked and lampooning what he didn’t.
Topolski being similarly independent,
there is a universality about both artists
which is generally absent in official art.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’’
Expend your Coupons wisely by buying Quality
goods and making them last. To-day, more than
ever, the conservation of materials and man-
power is important—Victory depends a great deal
upon what can be conserved "behind the lines."
We on the "home front" should buy carefully,
avoiding the waste and inefficiency that come
with inferior merchandise. Anthony Horderns'
quality goods will provide longer service the
basis of economy and of Coupon-saving.
NAVY DRILL COMBINA-
TION OVERALLS, cut and
made in our strongest
manner from sturdy Eng-
lish Drill, double sewn,
all strain points bar-
tacked. Sizes, 4 to 8,6 i to
Bi. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 23/6
And 8 Coupons.
‘THE SENIOR STORE”
119th Year of Service
&
'sr.
PENNY-A-PLANE Stamps and Cards
may he obtained at the Savings Bank
Counter—Ground Floor. Pitt Street.
w
MEN'S WHITE DRILL
TROUSERS. Strong and
durable British Drill, made
with three pockets, belt
loops, hip straps. Sizes,
30 in. to 44 in. waists. At
Anthony Horderns'. 15/6
And 12 Coupons.
MEN'S NATURAL WOOL
AND COTTON UNDER-
WEAR, light weight
Undershirts with short
sleeves, closed front (with-
out buttons). 34-44 chest.
Price, 6/11 (5 Coupons).
Underpants to ankle.
Price, 7/11 (6 Coupons).
MEN'S SPORTS SHIRTS.
made from White Art Silk
in a heavyweight weave.
Collar attached, pocket,
sleeves, button at wrists.
14i to 17 inch collar. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price,
each 12/6
And 12 Coupons
9 Men’s Clothing and Mercery —
Ground Floor, George Street.
MEN'S FANCY BROAD-
WAY TIES, in season's
designs in all the latest
shades, stripe patterns,
and scroll effects. At
Anthony Horderns'. Prices,
each 4/6 and 4/11
No Coupons Required for
Ties.
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Mean Value lor Your Coupons
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


WINGS
By OLAF RUHEN.
I SWITCHED the tailwheel to “swivel,”
turned off the runway and tipped the
wheel-brakes and the crate rolled to
a stop. I leant over to switch the
flaps up, and glanced quickly at Pilot-
Officer Layton—Tori Layton, who was
one of the kids when I was senior at
Otago High, back in New Zealand ten
years ago. Tori was looking straight
ahead out of the window. When the red
light flashed to green he reached out a
hand and grabbed the throttles and said
in a routine sort of voice “I take con-
trol.” I answered him, “You take control.”
He taxied the Cessna back into the
line and went through the drill, and I
undid the ’chute straps and was getting
out of the seat when he said suddenly
“Don’t be a bloody fool, Jack. You know
you can fly; you’ve got a good report
from Elementary. What the hell’s wrong?”
“Just I can’t fly them, I suppose,”
“Holy Joe! Is that any reason for a
circuit like you did? You can’t fly them!
But you don’t have to climb a couple of
hundred feet before you lift your wheels ;
you don’t have to start your climbing
turn at 600 instead of 500 ; you don’t
have to make a circuit five miles long;
you don’t have to”
“All right, Tori,” I said. “I was there.
You don’t have to tell m^.”
I got out of the seat and picked up my
’chute and climbed down the wing and
waited for him on the ground. He climbed
out and looked at me, worried, and he
said “Eight hours up in Cessnas, and
you’re worse than when you started.
You’re two hours overdue for a test. You
can have it this afternoon.”
“Yes, sir,” I said. There were other
chaps around.
“That’ll be all for this morning,” he
said. “You’ll get your test this afternoon
from Flight-Lieutenant Hampden.”
We were over by the hangar door
before I spoke to him. “Can 1 see you a
minute, sir—privately?”
He nodded, and went in first to put
away his ’chute and sign the authorisa-
tion book. That was a mistake, my ask-
ing him when I did, because my nerves
were jumping when he came out.
“Better cancel that test, Tori,” I said.
“I’m through.”
“Through?”
“Sure. I hate these damned two-
motored crates. I wanted fighters. I
wanted Harvards to train on. And I’ll
never be able to fly these.”
“First thing you’ve quit, isn’t it?” He
knew how to sting, all right.
“I’m not quitting. I’ll make an
observer. Or I’m not too proud to sit in the
tail of a Wellington. But 1 can’t fly these.
They’re just street-cars to me. And it’ll
be months before I get into Operations.
There’s no thrill in them to keep you
going.”
“You can still go in for fighters,” he
said.
“Yes?” I said. “I’ve been recommended
for them once already. You know as
well as I do I’m too old.”
He didn’t say anything for a long time,
and I had to talk. “You remember Red
Marlin. He’s in Egypt. And Billie, and
Blue Davis. Did you hear last week the
Maoris went into action with bayonets?
And I’m doing nothing.” •
“And me?” Tori wanted to know.
“That’s different. You couldn’t help
where they put you. And you’ve trained
a lot of good fliers.”
“And I haven’t had many washouts,
Jack. I’ll tell Mr. Hampden.”
“I’ll tell him myself,” I said, and tossed
him a salute for no reason at all.
But F.-L. Hampden didn’t have much
to say. “No use trying to fly them if
you don’t want to.” He left it at that.
I hated to tell the boys, but that was
something else to get over. “I’ve washed
out. Did it myself,” was all I said, and
all they could say was “Hard luck” and
look awkward.
I SHOULD have been over at the han-
-1 gar with the rest of the boys that after-
noon, even though I wasn’t flying. But
I was lying below the bank that lined
the edge of the field, and the hot Alberta
sun couldn’t make me drowsy. They
could rumble me if they wanted to, or
put me on charge. I didn’t want to see
the others. I kept trying to tell myself
“Hell, that wasn’t flying,” and I still had
the little Tiger Moths fresh in my mind.
That first solo spin. Climbing carefully
till the altimeter needle crawled to 5000.
Flying sedately round in a gentle medium
turn, looking for craft below, though the
hollow below my stomach told me I was
only putting off a job I wasn’t sure I’d
like. Then pulling on stick and throttle,
and when she lifted, strangely and sud-
denly silent, to point her nose to the sky
and labor, halt and stall, kicking on rud-
der, and clinging tight to the joystick
until the earth swooped upward, pinned
itself to a wall in front of me and pivoted
on the farmlet, the trees and the haystack
in its centre and jazzed in accelerating
revolution ; until I did what I had to do,
and were gliding quietly along again
over a normal, never-moving plain.
And that first loop, when I swung down
into my shoulder straps and the world was
below the top of my head and my feet
were searching hungrily for the feel of
the rudders that were somewhere out of
reach above them. I knew things shouldn’t
have happened that way, and I didn’t
think quickly enough what I should do
with my stick, and did the wrong things,
so that after my motor spluttered and
stopped I stalled the little craft upside
down till the airscrew stopped swinging
with a little double jerk as it passed the
contact breaker points. Then suddenly
I was cool again, and thinking, and I put
her nose down, pushing hard down until
she was vertical, and the airspeed needle
went round from zero to 160 quicker
than anyone would think it could. And
I said to myself “Danger at 170 where
the red line is on the glass. Remember
the wings. Pull out slow.” And my air-
screw was swinging again, a bright arc
of transparency tinted at its orbit’s edge,
and I was pulling out of the dive in a
long graceful curve, skimming a few hun-
dred feet above the bright blue, sparkling
bay, and I was laughing without thought
and saying this is the life for me, and I’ll
always have wings.
I lay beyond the bank at the end of
the ’drome, and all above me golden
Cessnas were lumbering into the air like
laden bumble-bees, and here and there
an Oxford amongst them, and once a
Harvard,
They were good boys, those up there in
the Cessnas. First of all when we met on
the boat at Wellington wharves we didn’t
know each other very well. And we left
unexpectedly, so we didn’t have time to
say good-bye to people. We were going
half a world away and people were ex-
pecting us back for lunch, for a couple
of beers, for a last kiss —and we weren’t
coming back. We were away, for ever or
the duration. When the ship was already
moving, someone opened the wharf gates,
and a little crowd, half a dozen mothers,
some sisters, a dozen sweethearts, came
running to cry farewells; “Keep them
flying” and “Write lots” and “Best of
luck” and “Aroha nui kitoa.”
They were a good bunch of boys.
Everything they did they put a punch
into. And they stuck together, and all
they wanted to do was fly and fight, and
fight flying.
Lying there on the grass beyond the
field I remembered the day Sonny Kirk
and I flew on a solo cross-country,
wingtip to wingtip, and played at
being aviators. And sometimes the
wings were too close, but we were
riding on an edge of excitement. But
then there were the Cessnas, with bank
over bank of instrument panel, a million
things to remember, and a million
things to do that were just drill. And a
frantic sort of feeling that I couldn’t fly
them.
And I might as well face it, I was blue
as deep water now because I’d tossed it
in. Tomorrow I’d be a Grey Wolf, a
flier who couldn’t make it, and I’d be in
good company at that, but, hell! I wanted
to fly, and couldn’t. So before it was
time for the others to go back to barracks
I got up from the grass and went and
had a shower and changed my clothes.
And then I went down to the post office
and there was a New Zealand mail and
one, just one, letter for me, and that the
one I’d been waiting for.
It began “Oh, my darling, it took me all
day to know that you had gone,” and it
said, “When the war shall finish and you
shall come home to me, that day will be
my happiest,” and “Wear my heitiki
always,” and many other things I had
been waiting to read. And some of the
things it said weren’t perhaps well said,
but it ended: “I love you always, dear.
Maybe you are lonely, too, sometimes.
Bless you, dear; your mates as well.”
I WENT back over to the hangar. F,- L,
1 Hampden was in the Instructor’s room.
I threw him a salute. “I want to start
back where I was this morning, sir. I
came over to see when I can go up for
that test.”
He looked in the assignment book.
“Get 6584 started. We’ll go up now.”
I hadn’t expected that, but he didn’t
give me much time to sweat. He was
in beside me as soon as the motors were
roaring, and he watched me through the
cockpit drill.
First round I was full of confidence, I
made a good tight circuit, but on the
downward leg there were some aircraft
about a couple of miles off course.
“Shall I cut them out, sir?” I asked him,
but he only said “You make your circuit.”
So, like a mug, I cut in, and got too
close behind the crate ahead of me and
decided to go round again. I couldn’t
get airspeed, and I was halfway round
before I realised I still had flaps and
wheels down. Then I started to worry,
Next time down—and I made a good
approach—the ’plane ahead of me did a
groundloop on the runway and the duty
pilot fired a red star at me so that I had
to go round again without landing. F.-L.
Hampden whistled a little tune between
his teeth, just loud enough so I could
hear it above the roar. 1 looked at him,
but he was looking straight ahead out
the window. I flew a bad circuit, then put
her down nicely, but she seemed to float
like hell, and I had to use my brakes
hard, and finished up off the runway on
th = f a “ h . „ „ „ „ „ v
One thing, said Hampden, You
don’t have to stop to put the flaps up.
Still you’re supposed to know how to do
a fla pless landing. Yours was a bit un-
orthodox. You landed at 90.”
“Yes, sir,” I said. “Don’t rub it in, sir.’
He’d flown without a ’chute, and now
he got out of his seat. I began to undo
my straps, but he shook his head,
“You got time to take her round once,”
he said. “Good luck, boy.” He jumped
down.
I made another poor circuit alone and
a worse landing. I parked the Cessna
away, and met Tori.
“Thought you couldn’t fly, Jack?” he
said, and held out his hand,
“I can fly anything,” I said.
OLDEST INHABITANT
By BRIAN JAMES.
Grandfather was an institu-
tion, and Summerlea was proud
of him. At ninety Grandfather
began again to celebrate his birth-
days, and his ninety-eighth occurred last
April. All who were worthy and noted
in Summerlea came to do him honor.
The “Argus” said it was “one of those
great occasions that will go down in the
annals of Summerlea, though the Japs
thunder at our gates.”
Jack Hayes travelled up from Sydney
to be present, and so did Simpson Butler,
M.L.A., though the House was sitting.
Two daughters came from Sydney
also—the youngest of the family, old
women really, though they managed
to hide the ravages of time, as it behoved
women of their social status, one being
the wife of a solicitor, and the other the
wife of a doctor. The only other
daughter came over from Running
Stream. That was Mary. She had mar-
ried a teamster ever so long ago, and
she looked her seventy years. But you
couldn’t leave her out, though the Sydney
sisters found her a bit of a trial, gar-
rulous and friendly.
The two “boys,” Jack and Tom, came
from their farms on the rich Cooka-
bundy flats. Jack could never forget,
even on such occasions as this, that
he had worked for the old man till
he was nearly thirty and got mighty little
for it. Jack grew quite bitter about it.
Jack’s eldest son said the same thing of
Jack, and his son was now saying the same
thing of him, and spoke darkly of enlist-
ing—“reserved occupation or not,”
All the morning the three daughters
and Miss McCreadie, the housekeeper,
put the house in order. The garru-
lous Mary and Miss McCreadie did
the real work. As the social scale ascended
the less real work was done and the greater
advice given as to taste and decorum.
The long verandah was decorated with
the “fruits of the good earth,” the wall
adorned with sheaves of wheat and stalks
of corn, half-husked. Pumpkins and pie-
melons were piled in the corners. Grand-
father liked it so, and he spent his time
inspecting these exhibits, chuckling
derisively “So these are what you call
melons and pumpkins these days!” and
getting much satisfaction out of the grain
of the corn being “a bit pinched,” and
the wheat being “a bit heavy in the flag.”
Jack and Tom arranged the woodheap
and saw and maul and wedges, so that
the photographers could take pictures of
Grandfather cutting wood. Grandfather
pursued them all the time, and asked them
to remember the corn he grew in ’76 or
’92. Also he rejoiced in the failures of
“that Jersey bull” Jack would buy at a
fancy figure, and the Suffolk Punches
Tom would persist in breeding. The
“boys” gave only unfilial grunts.
Mary and Miss McCreadie were per-
spiring over the cooking and had plates
of sandwiches and cups of tea ready. This
was lunch only. After Which Grand-
father was groomed and a white front
and stiff cuffs were fitted to his old
speckled blue shirt, and Tom and Jack
changed into what looked like their wed-
ding suits, and then mooned about the
backyard and talked of taxes and “Gov’-
mint boards” in a grieved sort of way.
Peggy and Jenny arranged themselves as
receptionists.
MARY’S family arrived first, as is the
habit of poor relations. Mary’s
daughter, who had married the rabbit
inspector, sniffed at finding her mother
in the kitchen, but she kept out of the
kitchen herself lest she lose caste. Her
little son Pat wished “dear Grandfather
many happy returns of the day,” and
wanted to see the “old cow with the big
sock.” He was hurried off before there
were awkward explanations, and then
went out to dig a hole under the orange-
tree in search of hidden treasure that the
same “old cow” was supposed to have
buried “in Lang’s time.”
Relations and friends arrived in in-
creasing numbers. The children greeted
Grandfather according to pattern, and
Grandfather was quite ignorant of any
one of them. He made pleasant chuck-
ing noises and pretended to be a lion, and
he asked them if they remembered things
that happened fifty or sixty years ago.
Jack and Tom led him into the spare
room to “stiffen him up a bit” with a nip
of rum. Though Grandfather was a lead-
ing “Rackerbite,” as he called it, it was
decided that this hardly mattered at
ninety-eight. Grandfather often ascribed
his long life to the complete absence in
it of drink and tobacco, which made the
continued existence of Dinny Day some-
thing of a mystery. Dinny was ninety-
six, and thanked unlimited rum and the
“sthrongest thwist” for it. Still no one
ever celebrated Dinny’s birthdays, and
he hadn’t a penny to his name.
At length Peggy and Jenny marshalled
the guests to their places at the table,
with the Mayor and Simpson Butler one
each side of Grandfather. There was a
huge birthday cake with one very big
candle.
There was much speech-making, and
all agreed that Grandfather was a won-
derful old man. Jenny lit the candle,
and Grandfather blew it out. Everyone
clapped and wished Grandfather the
reaching of the century, and declared
more or less melodiously that he was a
jolly good fellow.
Then Grandfather made a “very happy
speech” to which there were about ten
conclusions —something else always com-
ing to mind. He swam the flooded Mac-
quarie three times, and three times quoted
his father’s words on that historic occa-
sion: “A bloody big gutter for any
horse to swim!” Each time this was
greeted as rare humor, and the Rev. Dr.
McNair compromised to the extent of
smiling in a slightly shocked fashion.
Grandfather spoke of the Government
nowadays “and their taxes,” He
became confidential: “They stung me
once for £10.” That, it appeared, was
quite a few years ago. But it hadn’t
happened since. That was because he
divided much of his property between
Jack and Tom —“all legal, too. Got a
good solicitor to do it for me.” Then
he made his articles of faith in Ayrshires
and Clydesdales, and grew a lot of big
pumpkins that made the specimens on
exhibit look just what they were.
The press interviewed Grandfather
again, and the photographers “took” him
at least twenty times. When the guests
departed they hoped to be there again that
day twelve months. Grandfather could
see no reason why they shouldn’t be —if
they were still alive. Then Jack and Tom
took him into the spare room for an-
other nip of rum “to help him get over
things,” and Grandfather thought it good
rum, though it was a shame to waste
money on it. Jack muttered something
about someone being “lousy with cash,”
and gave Grandfather another nip in
case Grandfather heard him.
After that they cleaned up the veran-
dah of the exhibits, put a pumpkin and
a melon aside for Mary, and arranged
for the rest to go to the Red Cross.
Grandfather protested strongly against
this, but was consoled by the fact that
the wheat and corn would go to his fowls.
At eight o’clock in his long white
nightshirt he went off to bed. Mary and
her family, as befits poor relations, were
the last to leave.


ANOTHER GHOST ON THE BATTLEMENTS.
“During the controversy on the Women’s Employment Board it was made clear that neither Mr. Curtin nor Mr. Fadden wants an election."
“Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damned,
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Thou com’st in such a questionable shape
That we WON’T speak to thee.”
("Hamlet,” slightly altered.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (.opp
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THE FRONT THAT MATTERS.
Visits to Moscow have had extraordi-
nary effects on elderly gentlemen with
Conservative histories.
From the Beaverbrook mission the
Canadian-born peer returned not only a
rabid Second-Fronter but an enthusiast
for the cession to the U.S.S.R. of Latvia,
Estonia and Lithuania, the political in-
dependence and territorial integrity of
which Britain and the Dominions have
guaranteed. Sir Stafford Cripps, another
missioner, had already advocated this —
er —rectification of frontiers in a maga-
zine article written in the first person, and
American papers allege that if Lord
Beaverbrook had had his way cession
would have been provided for in the
Anglo-Russian treaty of alliance —that
singular instrument which refers only to
the struggle against “Hitlerite Germany”
and to arrangements for the future in
Europe; the war that is deciding the
fate of China and these Dominions is not
even indirectly mentioned. Mr. Roose-
velt, the story goes, rejected his Lord-
ship’s representations, and under the
treaty as signed and sealed—Mr, Eden,
an honorable man, has certified that there
are no secret clauses —the Little Repub-
lics may still entertain hopes, an indul-
gence for which no charge is made.
The Moscow air has gone to the heads
of distinguished Americans also. The
latest is Mr. Wendell Willkie. Going
to Russia with credentials from the Presi-
dent, and touched by its immense losses
and sufferings, evidently greater than
propaganda and newspaper fiction had
prepared him for, Mr. Willkie, who is
generous to a fault, let sentiment run
away with him. In a broadcast from
Moscow, he declared himself convinced,
from what he had seen of “Russian
mobility, military precision and the
strength of Russian soldiers,” that “Ger-
many has no chance of winning.” But this
conviction did not prevent him from
“appealing vigorously for a Second Front
this year,” and he went on to suggest
that “too much prudence has entered the
military councils of Britain and the United
States: perhaps some British and United
States military leaders will need some
public prodding.”
Having delivered himself of this amaz-
ing stuff, Mr. Willkie set out for China,
where the embattled people, whose losses
and sufferings in their war against Japan
far exceed those of the Russians in their
war against Germany, have their own
ideas of a Second Front, very different
from his. Before he cast up in Chung-
king, Mr. Willkie had become a> long-
distance target for very unflattering
remarks. Arthur Krock, the Washington
correspondent, wrote that “the traveller
under the tegis of the President” had
embarrassed the service departments and
the White House and harried Britain,
“America’s chief ally,” adding to its
domestic problems. The Scripps-Howard
papers were sarcastic: — f
This is no time for innocents abroad.
Mr. Willkie’s several expressions on mili-
tary subjects during his present tour have
bordered on the sophomoric. We doubt
whether any public figure since the out-
break of war has uttered a statement so
ill-advised or advocated a course so
weighted with danger and possible dis-
aster such an ill-timed move would con-
demn hundreds of thousands of British and
American soldiers to purposeless slaughter,
and might even mean the loss of the war.
Happening to be in Canada, Mr.
Attlee, Mr. Churchill’s deputy, took the
very unusual, but in this case amply
warranted, course of replying to Mr.
Willkie direct. “The Allied leaders,” he
said bitterly, “don’t need prodding to
open a Second Front”;
Public prodding suggests lack of will.
There is no lack of will. Public prodding
cannot force us to disregard carefully-laid
plans. “A Second Front” has become
something of a catch phrase. All the fight-
ing that has been done by the Allies is part
of a Second Front. The fighting on all
fronts affects it.
And, asked in the Commons whether he
would “impress on all persons with access
to inside information the need to exer-
cise greater restraint in public statements
or published speculations about Second-
Front possibilities,” the Prime Minister
said he welcomed the opportunity of
doing so, “even though such statements
or speculations are based on inference
and not inside information.” “Will that
be conveyed to Mr, Willkie?” a member
asked.
While the Willkie discussion was pro-
ceeding, the Dieppe business came into
the picture again, by accident or design.
A Montreal “Standard” reporter who
was with the Canadians described the
tragic affair as an “invasion rehearsal,”
and energetically denied stories, con-
cocted by the enemy and swallowed
whole in North America, that British
troops had not shared in the perils and
sacrifices. “Why, they flanked the Ger-
man artillery,” he said; “and the Navy,
too, was wonderful; you could see sea-
men carrying on with gaping wounds in
arms and bodies.” Canadians had formed
the spearhead of “this invasion re-
hearsal,” because they and their General
McNaughton had so “insisted.”
There followed a debate in the
Commons. “Our losses at Dieppe,” said
Mr. Churchill, “were very heavy—very
nearly half the total force.” He was
reminded that this did not tally with his
statement of September 8, when he said
that the Canadians, whose admitted
losses were 2770 killed or missing and
580 wounded out of 5000 engaged,
“formed five-sixths of the assaulting
force.” His reply was that “I referred
on September 8 to the assaulting force
as a whole, the greater part of which
the Navy brought back.” He denied
any inconsistency, but refused to give
total losses.
Mention of tanks brought the explana-
tion that “they were held up by the alto-
gether unexpected strength of blocks at
the end of streets which it was thought
our guns would destroy.” The enemy
alleged that all the tanks taken ashore —
“30-tonners, equipped with all kinds of
invasion gadgets”—were knocked out or
captured, and that some of the prisoners
were taken because their landing barges,
of which hundreds were used, were
bombed and burnt to the waterline ; also
that “two transports, fully laden with
troops,” were sunk. In the first report
from Combined Operations Headquarters
it was admitted that all the tanks had
been left behind, orders being that they
were to be blown up before re-embarka-
tion, and that a destroyer and “a fairly
large number of landing craft” had been
lost.
And all this in nine hours at the most!
What would have happened if, instead of
an “invasion rehearsal” with a time limit,
there had been an actual invasion on the
grand scale, designed to assault the
enemy’s positions, hold them against
counter-attacks and move forward ; “to
fight it out if it takes all summer”? Can
anyone doubt that soldiers, ships and
crews would have been involved in a
frightful disaster? Has anyone the right
to demand so vast a sacrifice from a
nation with less than a fourth of Russia’s
man-power, a nation which has suffered
so much and has lost so great a part of
its magnificent Navy, Royal and Mer-
chant, on which victory still, in a large
measure, depends? No one has. Neither
that poisonous creature the Communist
agitator nor any other variety of non-
starter, nor any foreigner, whoever he
may be.
One of the really great newspapers,
perhaps the greatest of all, is the New
York “Times.” Nearly all of its millions
of readers must sympathise with Russia,
and not a few of them are Russia-Firsters
—for the breed exists everywhere, even
in this Commonwealth, threatened with
the horrors of Asiatic invasion, which,
if successful, would spell extinction.
No doubt great efforts have been
made to induce the New York “Times”
to join the Immediate-Second-Front
band. Its statement on the subject is
unanswerable, a shining example of
reasoned and responsible journalism;
Russia’s insistent demands for a Second
Front call for plain speaking. We are not in
this war to save Russia. She is not in this
war to save us. She did not try to save
Norway, Denmark, Belgium, the Netherlands
and France in 1940. She did not lift a
finger when an invasion of Britain seemed
imminent Self-preservation is Russia’s
first law. It is also self-preservation that
dictates that Russia shall not risk permit-
ting us to use the Siberian bases against
Japan, though we might save thousands
of American lives and billions of dollars
thereby. Self-preservation dictates that
Britain and America shall not vainly sac-
rifice half a million men because we admire
the defenders of Stalingrad.
Our “S. M. Herald” agrees that “the
Western Allies must reserve the right of
final judgment as to how best to dispose
of their available forces, a right Russia
herself is exercising in relation to the
‘second front’ which Japan has opened
against Britain and America.” Its morn-
ing contemporary, a persistent croaker
about the position in New Guinea,
screeches for “a Second Front against
Germany now”
Self-preservation must be Australia’s
first law. In its imperilled situation, Aus-
tralia cannot afford to be altruistic in
respect of Europe. Its Government is
charged with the solemn duty of saving
the country, and in saving the country it
will help to preserve the British Com-
monwealth. In its preparations for the
defence of Australia, it owes a great deal
to the officers and men of the Royal Navy
and the Merchant Navy, and it is ac-
quainted with the cruel losses they have
suffered and with the frightful gaps that
have been made in the shipping register.
Gratitude and humanity, as well as duty,
should impel it to throw the weight of its
influence against a Second Front in
Europe, which, with Dieppe as a bloody
warning, could only be another and more
terrible Dunkirk. On the positive side, it
should support by every means in its
power those American commanders
whose motto is that “the Japanese must
be destroyed,” and whose Admiral
Leahy, now the President’s Chief of Staff,
is credited with regarding the Solomons
push as the beginnings of a Second Front
—the only one that can be justified on
every principle of strategy and high
policy.
Canberra Squealing.
Before the situation changed in Papua —
causing convulsive hedging by news-
papers which had previously been damn-
ing Australia’s military organisation root
and branch —there were some crowded
minutes of something very like panic at
Canberra as well as in newspaper offices.
Speaking in “a white-hot rage,” Mr.
Abbott was heard declaiming that it was
“madness to send raw youths from Syd-
ney and Melbourne to tropical jungles,”
adding, somewhat illogically, that these
same men (presumably) were “the salt of
the earth” and that there must be some-
thing wrong when they had to retreat.
Mr. Marr swelled the chorus:
In the early days of the New Guinea
fighting the troops were untrained. Each
man should have at least six months’
training before being sent to battle.
Mr. Martens wanted to know; “If the
Japanese could get their war machines
over the Owen Stanley Range, why was
Australia not on the job before them?”
He repeated the bit about taking men
straight from Sydney and Melbourne,
describing it as “stupid.” Mr. Marr
shouted a correction, “Not stupid—it is
criminal.” Mr. Harrison demanded “a
new strategy —modern technical methods
of fighting with men prepared and trained
to jungle warfare.” Mr. Baker voiced
thoughts that others jibbed at uttering:
Our generals stated it was impossible to
cross the Owen Stanley Range, but this
has happened The trouble is some of
our leaders are physical impossibilities.
As near as he had the courage to go to
it, he named General Blarney as one of
these. Mr. James wanted Ministers to go
to the spot and fix things; “if they
haven’t the guts,” then “let us send a
delegation.” Sending a Minister was also
Mr. Hughes’s recipe for winning the war
up there: the Minister for the Army
should go without delay, at “the next
week-end.” He should take with him,
said Mr. Hughes, “a soldier of experience
from his own staff,” specifically “not a
general,” generals seemingly being at a
discount.
Something pertinent in reply emanated
from Mr. Coles;
Members who question the courage of
Australian troops are, I believe, actuated
by fear because we have had a slight re-
verse in New Guinea. They cannot take it.
It is time these so-called representatives
of the people recognised that we will never
get a decent spirit into this country while
they knock everything that is being done,
particularly with assertions that go out
to the world about the courage of our men.
As Minister for the Army, Mr, Forde
rebuked the attacks on the military
leaders: “One would think our men in
the islands had nitwits in charge,” He
added the rather needed assurance that
the Government was “not going to be
stampeded into making scapegoats of our
leaders.” Not by panic inpersonators at
Canberra, nor, evidently, by such noted
scapegoat-hunters as Sydney “Sun,” bawl-
ing that “General Blarney’s reassuring
statement on his return from the islands
does not reassure,” and
Why has this deterioration been allowed
to go on in Papua? Are those respon-
sible for it still there? Should they be?
It might be asked of the “Sun” and
such sheets, and of Canberra’s panic
fraternity, what any of them did towards
the defence of Australia and its territories
between the wars. It would be hard to
uphold that, of those heard in the panic,
anyone was more culpable in that respect
than Mr. Hughes—the loudest and most
persistent squealer of all. But who is not
to some extent culpable?
The position of Australia when this
present war broke out —having to impro-
vise armies and send them inade-
quately trained and ill-equipped into the
fighting—was the reflection of a long-
sustained national mood. While that
lasted it suited no politician’s book to
try to educate the nation at large on de-
fence needs. It would have put the politi-
cian’s career at stake, so widespread was
the notion that Australia was secure under
such protection as the League of Nations.
It was only as recently as 1938 that Syd-
ney had its 150th anniversary celebra-
tions, with the A.I.F. excluded from the
March of Nationhood on the ground
that the procession should deal only with
“Australia’s peaceful development and
progress”!
It would have taken a politician of
rare courage to risk his career on the
defence issue with that sort of mood pre-
vailing. There was no politician of the
requisite courage. As a search of files
will show, there was no paper, either,
except The Bulletin. There was no un-
usual merit in this, the strong defence of
Australia having always been one of this
paper’s leading lines of policy. Addition-
ally, it was here several times urged that
some of Australia’s few military leaders
should be sent to places where wars were
in progress—China, Spain, Abyssinia—in
the role of observers, so that their country
could eventually have the benefit of their
experience in modern war.
Needless to say, not one was sent. Nor
was national service—consistently advo-
cated here—reintroduced, until it was
too late to ensure by this means that the
young men of the nation, who always
have the fighting to do, would at least be
trained. Mr. Mepzies was right enough
when he chimed in on the recent panic
bawling to the effect that “we have had
defeats in New Guinea from people who
know more of the arts of war than we
do.” The period of defence neglect is
the measure of that difference ; of the
leeway that has still to be made up.
Perhaps this is something beyond the
understanding of the squealing fraternity,
political and press. They seem incapable
of learning that it takes time and experi-
ence to weld together a strong fighting
force. Their memories must be painfully
short if they cannot recall the tragically
defenceless state of Australia when this
war loomed up. Not one of the squealers
has shown appreciation of the painful
fact that the means available are also a
vital factor in fighting performance. In-
stead of any of them yelling for heads,
they should all be hiding their own heads
in shame for past sins of omission. A
crime has certainly been committed —at
the expense of those who now have to
do the fighting with such training and
equipment as it has been possible to give
them.
There is another sorry aspect of the
recent squealing performance. However
the fighting may develop, it is now
clear that the squealing arose over
what the squealers were pleased to
regard as reverses, not over a disastrous
defeat. What sort of a squealers’ chorus
will arise if the war swings closer? So
far it has been kept to the outposts—
thanks to the courage of the defenders
and to their leaders, and to nobody else
but these. Certainly no thanks are due
to any of the squealing fraternity. But
it can come closer. The huge ’planes
that are taking havoc into Germany, the
greater ones being constructed in America
for the bombing of the Japanese,
wherever they may be —these and other
modern war weapons are not going to
be all on one side. If the war lasts, Aus-
tralia will feel the effect of their kind,
even if nothing worse happens in the
meantime.
What sort of a row might the squealers
■ make then? If they can squeal so much
over “a slight reverse,” what will they
do in the threat of worse? Most impor-
tant, what effects might their prospective
squealing be calculated to have? Would
it be beneficial to public morale? They
pose—political and press squealers alike
—as representatives of the people. It
would be a sorry thing if they were any-
thing of the kind. It would signify public
morale in such a state that, under pres-
sure, it would collapse in panic.
Nobody accepts that for a moment.
But a bad feature of the recent squealing
is that it represented a considerable in-
crease in volume over the previous squeal-
ing of Mr. Hughes, Sydney “Sun” and
other performers. This shows it to be
definitely contagious. Carried further it
could, in a dangerous extremity, be a
vicious contribution to defeat.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Not Too Much Zeal!"
Backed by a Caucus which is under-
standably grateful to him for the good
work he did abroad, and for the ex-
cellent job he made of the uniform-
income-taxation case, Dr. Evatt has asked
Parliament to adopt five clauses of the
Statute of Westminster, and to pass a
Constitutional Alteration (War Aims and
Reconstruction) Bill, the latter, of course,
as a necessary preliminary to a referen-
dum.
Adoption of the five clauses, the Minis-
ter said, will “remove a number of
restrictions which have caused doubts,
difficulties and anomalies, especially since
the outbreak of war.” These restrictions,
he explained, are imposed by Imperial
enactments such as Colonial Laws
Validity, Merchant Shipping and Colonial
Courts of Admiralty. Those he men-
tioned seem trifling compared with the
restrictions imposed on the war effort by
strikes, absenteeism and the epidemic of
waterfront robberies, for the prevention
and punishment of which the Common-
wealth Government has powers which
no Imperial Act impedes.
It seems to be a case of a necessary
thing being done at an unfortunate time.
The enemy is sure to make it an occasion
for venomous propaganda, and to recall
that the Hertzog Government availed itself
of the adoption of the Statute of West-
minister by the Union Parliament to try
to keep South Africa out of the war.
The other measure seeks “full power”
for “the Parliament” to make laws for
“the peace, order and good government
of the Commonwealth, its territories and
all places under its jurisdiction or control
for the purpose of carrying into effect
the war aims and objects of Australia as
one of the United Nations, including the
attainment of economic security and
social justice in the post-war world and
for the purpose of post-war reconstruc-
tion generally.” That is only one clause.
There is another in which “economic
security and social justice” are mentioned
again, and there follows a catalogue of
other pious aspirations, from the four
freedoms to national fitness.
All very pretty; but experience sug-
gests that it will confuse many electors,
and confused electors are very apt to
vote No. Is anything more needed
than the addition of a few lines after the
word “control”? Say, “with respect to
any matter that it shall deem to be con-
nected with the peace, order and good
government, etc.; and these laws shall
be supreme and unchallengeable.”
Who Are Our Masters?
Though, partly as a result of the High
Court judgment on uniform income taxa-
tion, this Commonwealth Government is
in a stronger position than any previous
Government has occupied, it has gone
in weakly for delegation of powers to
provincial Governments, with the result
that fantastic tricks have been played or
are threatened.
In Perth a Labor Administration took
the opportunity to fix the State basic
wage itself, in contempt of an Arbitra-
tion Court judgment and of the Com-
monwealth Government’s assurances that
wages have been pegged.
In N. S. Wales the provincial Premier
closed a number of night clubs. Most
people may agree that, on social grounds,
they should have been closed ; but that
is not the point. The case was carried
to the Full Court, where extraordinary
claims were made:
Mr, Holmes said National Security Regu-
lation 35a gave full powers to the Premier
to take any action he thought fit.
Justice Halse Rogers: Do you mean
to say that if the Premier ordered the
slaughter of all blue-eyed babies the Court
could not restrain him?
Mr. Holmes; I admit it is startling, but
it must go as far as that.
Justice Halse Rogers: Then, under a
regulation directed to a particular purpose,
the Premier could alter the whole system
°^Mr. V Hkdmes :°That IT The tact .ha,
such powers might possibly be abused does
not limit the powers.
The Court upheld the appeal of a night-
club proprietor, and the order closing
his establishment was quashed, with costs
against the Crown. “I am of opinion,”
said Chief Justice Jordan, “that there is
nothing in Regulation 35a which jndi-
cates intention on the part of the Federal
Executive to vest in the Premier of a
State power to legislate in terms of the
clauses of the Premier’s order.” There-
upon the Commonwealth Attorney-
General intimated that new regulations
would be issued.
Provincial Ministers, notably Mr. Hef-
fron (N.S.W.), periodically threaten to
conscript men for N.E.S. work. If neces-
sary, there should be conscription for
such duties, but patently it is a direct
Commonwealth Government responsi-
bility to enforce it. The fact that en-
forcement would represent a departure
from the existing Government’s hollow
faith in the “voluntary system” can make
no difference
In short, the more its performance on
these delegating lines is looked into the
more support there is for the Cameronian
quip on “Governments that will not
govern.”
Tax Lottery Prizes *
*
Doting the war subscriptions to State
. . , ~ U, , .
(°« e " ea have considerably exceeded
£5,000,000 a year. This statement was
made in the House by Treasurer Chifley,
and it should have been followed by the
imposition of a 20 p.c, tax on lottery
prizes. Instead, Mr. Cooper, the Queens-
land Treasurer, said in his Parliament on
the same day that he had received an
assurance that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment would not tax lottery prizes.
How can this exemption of lottery
gamblers be justified? In the case of a
taxpayer with no dependants, Mr. Chifley
j s taking £B4 from “earned” income of
£5O «- £ “»°' from £5OOO
and £16,874 from £20,000, shillings and
pence omitted. Property rates are higher
—£lo6 from £5OO, £320 from £lOOO,
£3702 from £5OOO and £17,202 from
£20,000. This severe taxation may be
held to be warranted by the national
emergency, but it gives those subjected
to a legitimate grievance when lottery
jzes f £5OO £lOOO £5OOO and £2O 000
£ untaxed f ’ war ’ rnose „
gpp * .
pitiful excuse has been made in
Canberra that if lottery prizes were taxed
“the hospitals would suffer.” This is
not true of the hospitals in Victoria and
South Australia, which have never run
lotteries, nor is it true of the hospitals in
Westralia, which has for years imposed
a hospitals tax and is to receive the
equivalent from Commonwealth income-
f ax revenue £275,700 this year. Neithei
is it true of the other three States, which,
common with their partners in
superfluousness, are receiving excessive
a mounts of Commonwealth revenue. In
an y case > the pretence that the care ot
Ei h^fheen
lot, " y , punters 18 and always has been
1 ® ra u ‘ . . ,
By wa y °f promoting Austerity, the
Government has banned racing on the
first Saturday in each month. To be
consistent, it should introduce no-
lottery weeks as well, but the Austerity
programme doesn’t touch lotteries. Yet
the Government's object will be de-
feated, m part, if there is a large
drift mo *; ey ’ from racecourses and
s p shops to lotteries, and this is
on ]y mo likely to happen. Perhaps a
study of lottery finance consequent upon
the new dispensation will induce Mr.
Chifley to reconsider his exemption of
lottery prizes. It is hard to believe that
he has not been influenced by the fact
that all the lotteries are run or controlled
by Labor Governments. Be this as it
may, he had no right to give that promise
to the Government identified with the
Golden Brisket.
CHEERFULNESS KEEPS BREAKING OUT.
“How are things up the line, Dig.?”
“Good-oh! This war’ll be a stone certainty if the non-starters don’t drop their bundles.”


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £34,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,200,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
fat, flabby
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAD OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST 1 Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
Jk2y
3
BRANDAUERS
;l
M*
6<r.v
;
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitationa.
a beakdaoee * co„ lu, ■ieuibuham. eno
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Federal Opposition’s “fight” against
Ward’s Women’s Employment Board, on
which a Trades Hall lady represents the
Commonwealth Government as employer
and wage-payers have one (1) vote, was
mostly sham. The Senate Opposition
began it, but when amendments to the
Government’s measure came on the aged
Crawford was missing, and the bill was
passed without them. In the result
Australia is presumably to have a flock
of new wage-fixing tribunals appointed
on Ward “principles,” and arbitration’s
other name will be chaos.
Appointed Director of Amenities at
£9OO p.a., plus allowances. Colonel
Harold Cohen, M.L.A., has asked the
Treasury to keep the money for war
funds. As a company director in a big
way, the Old Digger can afford it; all
the same, the gesture is worth noting.
During the same week it came out that in
July and August £503 was paid in tax-
free expenses to 13 members “assisting”
Ministers, in addition to their £lOOO p.a.
Austerity, is it? Curtin admitted that
each of the five Opposition members of the
Advisory War Council was provided with
a private secretary, Fadden, as Oppo-
sition-leader, having also two typists
and a “press relations officer” (at £750
p.a.), and Hughes a typist, a messenger
and a chauffeur. A typist was also taken
on the strength to help Martens to “per-
form his duties as secretary, A.L.P.,” and
Conelan to “perform his duties” as Whip.
Dr. Evatt is asking Parliament to adopt
five clauses of -the Statute of Westminster.
As a Constitutional authority of some
tonnage, he should know what he is
about, but it seems a queer time for such
a performance. When the Statute was ex-
tended to the Union of South Africa, the
Colonial Laws Validity Act ceased to
apply to the Union, and if the Evatt bill
goes through it will cease to apply to the
Commonwealth. But will it cease to
apply to Dr. Evatt’s State?
The fierce light of publicity is again
beating on N.S.W. Police Commissioner
Mac Kay. His appointment as Common-
wealth Director-General of Security was
savagely criticised in the House at Can-
berra. Before he “accepted” it he fell
out with the Police Association, and,
siding with the association. Premier Mc-
Kell took control of the Police Depart-
ment himself. Returning recently to
police headquarters, the Commissioner
sacked a constable who, having qualified
as an A-class civil pilot, was permitted
by Man-power to join the R.A.A.F.
Mac Kay was promptly told by Bellemore,
the Man-power man, that he had acted
illegally, the force being a protected
establishment.
Beefless days are to be fixed this week
after “the personnel of the new Meat Com-
mission is selected.” Beefless days, when
scarcely any Australian family has beef
more than three days a week! It’s typical
of Canberra to indulge in such a stunt
and to appoint a new commission to
run it.
Discovering that increased production
of wool and cotton textiles is necessary,
Dedman has “taken steps” to bring it
about. He has appointed a committee.
The coalminer has become a headache
almost everywhere except —the irony of
it! —in totalitarian countries. In Britain a
coal crisis has been reached because out-
put is 14,500,000 tons p.a. short of con-
sumption. In Maoriland six Opposition-
ists have left the new War Adminis-
tration because, as they say, the
Government has not only refused to
enforce gaol penalties against coal-
strikers, but has placated them with Gov-
ernment control of mines. In Australia
there have been so many strikes in con-
tempt of the Government’s fourth or fifth
set of “prohibitory” regulations and its
delegation of “control” to the Miners’
Federation that newspapers have now
ceased to report them.
From a contemporary:
A high tribute was paid to the people
of this country by Brigadier-General Hurley
when he remarked in Washington that we
had “come to a full realisation that the
present challenge cannot be met by words,
and that we must attack, defeat and de-
stroy our enemy ourselves.” No doubt
he was referring to the recently-disclosed
decision of the War Cabinet to supply
forces for any theatre of war in which
their services may be required.
Australia’s War Cabinet? Nonsense;
Maoriland’s.
WARD MAKES A SACRIFICE.
“As one who gets more than three times as much, I say nobody should be allowed
to draw more than five hundred a year. I am most emphatic about this,
because I know it will never be enforced."
When Hollins, a Victorian M.L.A.,
made sundry wild charges about the
drink business—he alleged that police
weren’t policing, as it were—a first-class
row was staged in the parish Assembly,
and it ended in a royal commission being
appointed. More days passed while the
R.C. took evidence. Then, when Ham,
K.C., assisting the commission (Judge
Clyne), wanted Hollins called, Hollins’s
advocate said the evidence wouldn’t be
of any assistance since it was “only hear-
say.” Then what’s the royal commission
about?
Having used the A.I.F, as an “argu-
ment” against one army, with the same
obligation to fight the enemy anywhere,
Forde has found another argument in
the achievement of the militiamen fight-
mg in the territories. They deserve all
the praise this Minister gave them ; but if
his P a [ty had had its way, there would be
no ALF nor would there be any militia-
men fighting m the territories.
Tasmania has two Senators, Lamp and
Darcey, whom it should retire to private
life at the earliest opportunity. If it has
any doubts it should read their
“speeches.” On September 16 Lamp
came out with a venomous attack on
British rule in India, “supporting” it with
extracts taken, Foil suggested, “from
some Leftist magazine.” Presently Darcey
alleged that his aversions, “the banks,”
had stopped the publication of articles
in “a diocesan paper” by coercing first
the writer and then Dr. Mannix. Darcey,
dreariest of credit cranks, is given to
whining that newspapers don’t report
him. “Hansard” has to.
Menzies on compulsory unionism: -
Some of the biggest unions, particularly
those in the very heart of war work, are
dominated by Communists; men who en-
gaged in miserable, subversive, unpatriotic
activities until Russia came into the war.
Because Russia is making a gallant fight
there is no reason why everyone should
suddenly believe that Communists in Aus-
tralia have changed in any way.
No reason whatever. But why doesn’t
Bob or one of his young men call for
a list of (1) Communist - controlled
unions; (2) their income from subscrip-
tions and levies for the last full year,
with averages exacted from individual
members ; (3) their expenditure for the
same period on (o) administration, ( b ) all
forms of propaganda, (c) strike pay, and
( d) benefits, if any? It is information
that the public has a right to have,
especially those who have been blud-
geoned into joining Communist-controlled
unions.
Explaining that they had been mis-
reported or misunderstood or something,
the Sydney “D.T.” publications were re-
admitted to press privileges at Canberra,
after some months on “the outer.” One
of their young lions celebrated the occa-
sion by reviewing the Labor record for
a twelvemonth, the Allied Works Coun-
cil, a “D.T.” show, being one of
the few things mentioned with appro-
val. Of the Cabinet he wrote that “it
comprises half a dozen good men, half
a dozen mediocre triers and half a dozen
dim-witted diddlers who wouldn’t get a
guernsey in a prep, school mock parlia-
ment.” No mention of the nineteenth,
Blue-pencilled, perhaps.
Dragged like a vulture from the prey it
attacked with income-tax talons and
beak , the Sydney Labor Government
threatens a land tax and “the transforma-
tion of the Legislative Council into a
body elected b the p eople » which can ’ t
be done without a referendum. Apart
from the obvious fact that the whole
State Government business is doomed,
one of these measures would take and
the other squander money on which the
Government charged with the preserva-
tion of the country has first call. Both
should be vetoed.
Five motions for the abolition of State
Parliaments were on the business paper
at the annual conference of N.S.W. local
governing bodies. By a large majority
conference decided to ask the Common-
wealth Government to put abolition of
the Excrescence 3 to the vote. It did this
while Dr. Evatt was asking Parliament
to support his proposals for securing full
Commonwealth powers in respect of post-
war reconstruction and everything related
to it.
“What is the holiday all about?” Judge
Drake-Brockman asked when stating
that the Arbitration Court would sit in
Sydney last Monday. It’s a question
that a lot of people would like answered,
especially those who didn’t knock off
work for the day up in the Owen Stanley
Ranges, at sea and in the air, and who
didn’t get double time for it. It was
called “the Six-Hour Day” holiday ; and
of course all the State departments
took it.
Invited by Clive Evatt, the N.S.W.
Minister of Education, to “investigate”
results of “individualism” at Parramatta
and Gosford, a Sydney “Sun” man turned
in a progress report:
Twenty-seven escapes by 'girls from the
Parramatta Industrial School occurred
during September. Twenty-two were over
a 12ft. wall. Five girls absconded last
Wednesday. Eight escapees are still at
large.
Six boys escaped from the Gosford Farm
Home for Boys this week. There have
been at least 160 abscondings this year,
and of the 157 inmates 55 have absconded
at least once.
Uninvited by Clive Evatt, W. J. Peake,
who was in control at Parramatta, asserts
that Evatt’s prescription for the treat-
ment of refractory girls was “pictures”
and “lipsticks.” He admits the pictures,
but denies the lipsticks.
The honorable and gallant Brand, in
the Senate:
In conversation with several American
officers, I said “What do you think of
our country?” After mentioning the hos-
pitality and friendliness of the people and
the progress made, they ventured the
opinion that we cannot expect American
capital to assist in the development of Aus-
tralia after the war unless there is indus-
trial stability.
Not compulsory unionism and a new
order and nationalisation of B.H.P. and
socialisation of this or that, but industrial
stability. Australia should remember the
words, though the Wards and Fordes will
forget.
Jolly, the member for Lilley (Q.), an
accountant by profession, is a perti-
nacious critic of that gross waste of
money and paper the “A.B.C. Weekly.”
In his latest blast. Jolly described the
sheet as a libel on Austerity, bought by
only 3 per cent, of listeners. Address-
ing the Government, he said “Bring
A.B.C. under budgetary control; losses
of £7OO a week on this journal have been
hidden under Other Expenses.” Not only
in respect of the “Weekly,” A.B.C. is a
very bad example of squandermania.
People with indisputable claims on the
nation who were excluded from all the
lavish distributions of benefits —the list is
as long as a prize-fighter’s arm —have
been remembered at last, and at that by
a Parliamentary Committee. The Parlia-
mentary Committee has recommended a
20 p.c. increase in Repat. pensions, to-
gether with compassionate treatment of
widows and children who have been de-
prived of pensions through no fault of
their own. The recommendations, it
seems, have been in the Government’s
hands for “some time” and are not to
be considered for “at least a month,”
those concerned not being unionists who
vote the ticket.


Queensland
insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders* Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO . LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney,
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria: A.O.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Thrcmghout the States.
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 miles
of tiny tubes or filters which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your blood!
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and, energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, pufiiness under the eyes, head-
aches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
feet rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don't wait! Ask
your ch°nrst or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully!
the world over by mPlions of peonle. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 UTILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist
pr gtore s
PERSONAL ITEMS
Described by a Reuter man aboard his
ship in the great fight to get a convoy
through to Murmansk last month as the
“best anti-aircraft gunner I have seen,”
Hugh Cassidy joined the R.A.N. as a
naval gunner, volunteering under a
yachtsmen’s scheme from his Queens-
land home at Bardon. He joined the
convoy flagship last May. A product
of Brisbane Grammar and the State High
School, he showed early that there was
adventurous gameness in him by taking
on and accomplishing the feat of climbing
the Tibrogargan peak in the Glasshouse
Mountains on a moonless night and hang-
ing a lantern on the top of it. He has
two brothers in the Navy and two in the
Air Force.
Here depicted by Coventry (without
the mo. he used to wear), Major Charles
Everard (“Nip”) Pellew was known
to thousands of cricket followers after
the last war as one of the nippiest and
safest cover fields ever seen on Austra-
lian grounds. It was a safe bet that the
MAJOR “NIP” PELLEW.
snowy-headed “Nip” would stop ’em, no
matter how hard they came at him. He
was then a member of Herbie Collins’s
brilliant A.I.F. XI, and also (1921)
played for Australia in Tests against
England, scoring in these 116 at Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground and 104 at
Adelaide. In Egypt and France in the
last war, ending as captain, he’s now
C.O. at a S.A. military camp which
handles all soldiers entering or leaving
the army. His son has almost completed
training as an R.A.A.F. pilot.
Old-timers interested in boxing have
pleasant memories of George Dawson, a
great Australian ten-stoner, who went to
the U.S.A. in the early ’nineties, and,
after distinguishing himself against the
best Americans in his division, was
appointed boxing instructor at the
wealthy Chicago Athletic Club. Always
a steady fellow, and so honest that out
of the proceeds of his first fight he repaid
Sydney men who had helped him with
his passage-money, Dawson became a
favorite with members of the club, and
under the patronage of the head of the
Wrigley concern invested his savings
wisely. He married an American girl,
and, retiring to California, gave his
children university educations ; one, since
called up, was at the Harvard Law
School. Australians with whom he has
kept up a correspondence over the years
treasure his handwriting, which was beau-
tiful. “Was” is unfortunately right, for
George Dawson, prince of good fellows,
has lost his sight.
Allied “Sports,” and Others:
A representative of the Allied Works Council
was first in with a request for Scorfield’s car-
toon (B. 30/9/’42) depicting, on the authority
of Ms.H.R. Rosevear and Rankin, “a day in
the life” of the Theodore-Packer-Howard-Cruise
council. Others thus done by have also had the
sense of humor to secure cartoons in which they
figured, among recent ones N.S.W. Premier Mc-
Kell, Eric Spooner and Percy Spender (the one of
himself and comedian Jim Gerald as Spender-
appointed lieutenant-colonels). But Frith struck
one snag. What was considered a kindly draw-
ing had been done, and, because of its kindli-
ness and the fact that the subject had just
won a charity Ugly Man competition, it was
thought fitting to present him with the original.
The Ugly Man winner took one look at it,
shuddered, and tore it up! A block had been
made, with the idea of giving him and the cause
some more publicity, but, not wishing to offend his
sensibilities further, it wasn’t used. The block lay
about in the comp.-room for months. Then a
drawing came in of quite a handsome chap
in S.A., and a block was made. Next chapter
was a laudatory par. about the South Aus-
tralian, decorated on this page with the Ugly
Man block, somehow slipped in by mistake.
Sequel was a tolerant note from the South
Australian conveying thanks for the par., but
saying that, though the drawing possibly
flattered him. none of his friends could see in
it any likeness whatever.
Lord Nuffield used to say that Hugh
William Bell Cairns, the Adelaide sur-
geon, inspired the benefactions he made
to Oxford. The world-famous brain sur-
geon has amply justified the motor mag-
nate’s appreciation. The diarist of a
London daily was recently told that 94
p.c. of the patients that pass through
Cairns’s magical hands recover. Cairns
was born at Port Pirie and educated at
Adelaide High School, Adelaide Uni-
versity and Balliol, Oxford. After serving
in the A.A.M.C. in the last war as a
private and a captain, he went to England
as Hunterian Professor at the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons. Followed a long series
of medical honors and positions, ending
with the Nuffield Professorship of
Surgery.
In the reshuffle among Hobart
Anglicans following the appointment of
Dean Fewtrell (B. 16/9/’42), Archdeacon
H. B. Atkinson becomes Vicar-General
and Administrator of the Diocese and
Canon W. R. Barrett is Archdeacon of
Hobart. The Vicar-General is Tas-
manian-born, was educated at Launces-
ton Grammar and Tasmanian University,
and has served in pretty well every part
of the island, with a break to the other
extreme at Darwin. He is senior member
of Synod and the Diocesan Council.
Archdeacon Barrett arrived in Tasmania
in 1915, got first-class theological honors
in 1917 and has trained a large number
of Anglican clergy now serving in Tas-
mania. Two books on Tasmanian history
stand to his credit.
An artist by chance:
It took chance and a war to turn A. T.
Mockridge (just dead in Melbourne) into an
artist. Intending to be a singer, he fell in
with Dr. Leach, who was looking for an illus-
trator for his huge work on Australian natural
history. Mockridge knew more about birds,
beasts and wildflowers than about the pencil,
but he tackled the job of drawing the 2500 pic-
tures and was on it when the last war broke out
and he enlisted. While in camp he finished the
job, went overseas and found fresh subject
matter in his fellow-soldiers. In 1935 the
Vic. Nat. Gallery bought his Centenary pic-
ture “Batman Meeting the Native Women at
Gellibrand Harbor.” Mockridge enlisted again
in the present shindy and was drafted to the
camouflage section, which uses a new type of
model landscape he devised for training.
First Australian accredited woman war
correspondent, Mrs. Harley Stumm, of
Brisbane, was Lorraine Streeter when
she did an arts course at Brisbane Uni.
Later she joined a London daily, and
married Harley Stumm, Queensland
Rhodes scholar, who joined the R.A.F.
while at Oxford, escaped capture at Sin-
gapore and is now a flight-lieutenant
stationed in Ceylon.
When Department of Information
cameraman Damien Parer made his very
striking newsreel shots of Digger
wounded being carried down from
Kokoda (B. 30/9/’42) he had already
done first-class work as a war photo-
grapher. In the Libyan fighting he took
hundreds of close-ups of Diggers in
action, and he was on the spot when
commandos landed at Bardia. A show
of official photographs at Myer’s,
Melbourne, includes some Parer took
at Efogi.
Made an officer of the Order of
Oranje-Nassau in the Queen Wilhel-
mina honors list a few weeks back,
Lieut.-Col. Henry Wright, Consul in
Victoria for the Netherlands, is Mel-
bourne-born. He had a State school
education, then entered the Batavia
Insurance Co., one of the oldest in-
surance companies in Australia. He
is now manager or chairman of half
a dozen others. He served on Galli-
poli with the 14th Battalion.
When Brigadier Dittmer, the white
commander of the Maori battalion
serving overseas, returned to M.L.,
Colonel Love, a Maori, was given
temporary command. He was sub-
sequently confirmed in the position,
the first Maori to attain leadership of
the battalion. Recently he was re-
ported killed in action in heavy fight-
ing in which his Maori warriors
played a most distinguished part.
Sailing overseas with the battalion as
captain, he fought with his fellow-Maoris
in Greece, and for a while was among
the missing but eventually rejoined the
unit. His widow is the paramount chief-
tainess of the Makea Nui Ariki tribe of
Rarotonga.
New Court-martial President in
N.S.W. Major A. C, Elliot adds to the
extensive list of Digger officers given
“Bull” for an extra handle, though with
him it dates from his football days. Now
reluctantly back from the Middle East,
Major Elliot hailed originally from Eng-
land. He came to Australia early enough
to enlist in the ranks with the first A.1.F.,
was gassed in France, and finished as
adjutant of the 53rd Batt. After 1918
he went to Port Macquarie (N.S.W.) as
a solicitor, became the 13th mayor of
the town, and held that office for 13
years. Just before the present war he
gave up his private practice and took a
job with the Crown Solicitor in Sydney,
Court-martial President.
joining the forces later with the rank of
captain. Passing his 50th milestone in
Egypt, he returned to Australia a major.
An only son is in the army.
Air Vice-Marshal Thomas Ernest
Victor Hurley, Director of R.A.A.F.
Medical Services, is as vigorous as Couni-
han’s picture indicates. Under his admin-
istration, a highly specialised medical
service has been built up, based on exten-
sive research into all aspects of aviation,
men when they took to wings having
created as many problems for themselves
as when they took to industrialisation.
Air Vice-Marshal Hurley has an enor-
mous organisation to attend to. In the
last war he was with the Second Field
Ambulance, A.I.F. An honorary surgeon
and member of the management com-
mittee of Melbourne Hospital, whose
AIR VICE-MARSHAL HURLEY.
floor he walked as a student, he is the
son of a school inspector. Born in Mel-
bourne in 1888 and educated at Wesley
and Melbourne Uni., he became Stewart
Lecturer in Surgery at his Alma Mater.
He has long been a force in surgical
teaching in Australia, and in 1938 visited
the leading sawbones schools of Europe.
He was chairman of the Australian Red
Cross until his R.A.A.F. appointment. In
1940 he was made honorary surgeon to
the King.
Into the silence:
F. J. Bryan, 69, who came to Australia for his
health 32 years ago and became one of Bris-
bane’s leading art and musical critics and chief
leader-writer of Brisbane “Telegraph.” He
was Queensland president of the AJ.A. for
five years, held the association’s gold badge
for meritorious service and was a staunch
worker for the Anglican Church.
At 68, Dr. Frederick William Hilgendorf,
Director of Maoriland’s Wheat Institute,, for-
merly Professor of Agriculture and Botany at
Canterbury Uni. College, Lincoln, and also a
prof, of the University of N.Z. He wrote
a stack of publications on his special subjects;
did a good deal of useful exploring in the
Canterbury Ranges; in his youth was a promi-
nent footballer.
In Sydney, at 53, Rupert Noel Beale, the
Independent who beat Harry Bate for the South
Coast seat in the N.S.W. Assembly last elec-
tion. A son, Gunner W. S. Beale, is in the
A.I.F.
In Adelaide, at 40, Jack Owens, who began
his football with West Broken Hill, but soon
moved south and played for S.A. in the car-
nivals of 1924 (Hobart), 1927 (Melbourne) and
1930 (Adelaide). In club play be captained
a premiership team, Glenelg, and kicked about
830 goals.
At Frankston (Vic.), Ellis H. Davies, highly
praised for his work as director of mechanical
equipment and materials supply in the Allied
Works Council; formerly chief engineer with
the Charles Ruwolt mining machinery firm.
Born at Warwick (Q.), he was for some years
a mining engineer on W.A. goldfields. No
society light or publicity-seeker, his name was
barely known to the public at all, but those
who knew him in his work recognised him as
one of the biggest men in his line in Australia.
In Brisbane, at 80, John Hardcastle, first
president of the old Queensland Ifiawarra Society,
and first Queensland breeder of A. 1.5., having
graduated to farming from the railways. He
was a founder of the Masonic Lodge at his
birthplace, Corinda, helped to found the Rail-
way Rifle Club, the Farmers’ Co-operative and
the Queensland Co-operative Bacon
tion. His one attempt at Parliament failed.
At 88, Vigor (“Vigorous”) Brown, who rep-
resented Napier in the M.L. Parliament for
24 years from 1908, and was mayor of the
town for 10 years from 1907. Emigrating as
a youth to Australia, he was educated in Mel-
bourne, crossed to M.L. in 1875, and held many
positions in sporting and business circles, in-
cluding the managing directorship of the White
Swan Brewery.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Arfarf”: Strange how powerfully
even the most farcical of assertions will
affect the public mind if sufficiently re-
iterated. The strength-giving virtue of
spinach, insisted upon in the Popeye
comic strips, is a case in point. Dave
Fleischer’s ham-armed mariner was origi-
nally designed to bolster up the claims
of one of ’those chopped-hay breakfast
foods, but outgrew his frame, so to
speak. Something had to replace the
“cereal,” and Fleischer, looking for some-
thing ridiculous, seized on spinach. Yet
when a couple of elderly Sydney tram-
mies undertook a six-mile running-match
(they covered the distance in 43min.; the
record is under 29min.) it was recorded
of them by an appreciative newspaper
that “they ate hardly anything but
spinach while in training.”
* * * *
“Taniwha”; Globe-trotting prima-
donnas and the managements that cope
with their temperaments will be glad to
hear that at long last the stage arrange-
ments at Wellington (M.L.) Town Hall
are going to be overhauled. The hall
was sevefely strained by the earthquakes
of some weeks ago, and at time of Writing
is closed pending repairs and alterations.
The feature of the Town Hall that
moved Melba, Clara Butt, Rosina Buck-
man, Toti del Monte and, more recently,
Lotte Lehmann to say harsh words is
that to mount it involves toiling up two
long ramps. As Miss Buckman declared,
they “took the puff out of one.” About
the only great singer who didn’t cuss
those ramps was Galli-Curci, but she
weighed no more than a bird. There’s
a half promise that the whole of the
hall’s back-stage arrangements will be
civilised, and a proper dressing-room
provided dressing-room arrangements
have been makeshift for donkey’s years ;
so much so that orchestras and choruses
have to use the catacomb that houses
the organ-blower.
$ * * *
“D.E.”: So Jessie Bond is dead (B.
23/9/’42). She was the heroine of a Savoy
story which the years have not staled.
One night D’Oyley Carte took Albert
Edward, Prince of Wales, behind the
scenes and introduced him to the ladies
of the company, Jessie, who had a high
notion of her dignity as an actress, re-
sented this as an intrusion, and resented
still more the ardent gaze of the heir
apparent. Presently he said in his most
ingratiating style “I should like to visit
you at your apartments tomorrow. Miss
Bond.” “What for?” the lady asked.
At this stage D’Oyley Carte hurriedly
mentioned that Grossmith or somebody
was waiting with his humble duty or
something.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maorilanders, always very
practical people and now made more so
by war pressure, are questioning their
educational methods. For example, a
member of the Southland Education
Board objected to French being re-
(-urnecj as a matriculation subject.
said that 18 of his office staff
had matriculated, passing in French, yet
when letters in French came in not one
of them could make a translation. He
, , , , . , . . . .
wanted to know why a boy who wished
to study engineering should be barred
from the University because he failed in
F «“ h or , s . ome oth = r f? rei S n £»*“<•«*
which would never be the slightest use
to him. Some study of French is
part of almost all education—even in
primary schools—in M.L., and has been
so for at least half a century, but it is
sa f e to say that not one in 10,000 of
pupils acquires sufficient interest in the
language to follow up the study, while
certainly not more than one in 100,000
finds it of any commercial value.
* * * *
“Jachris”: It was quoted on the Red
p a ge, and, though the identity of its
author is forgotten, the verse itself lingers
j n memory
, can > t st ‘ and the family Stein .
There is Ep : there is Gert ; there is Fin.
Ep’s statues are junk,
Gert’s writings are punk,
And nobody understands Em.
Ep has taken to writing, and his Let
There Be Sculpture has gone into a cheap
edition. One of our Great Dailies praised
11 ? s „ the autobiography of Jacob Em-
stem Einstein has a message for the
world of art.” Poor old Ep didn’t get
a mention anywhere,
* * * *
“T.McN.”: Australians have to stand
up to a lot of abuse for being allegedly
inveterate gamblers, but has anybody
ever noticed the foreigner in our midst?
Nine out of every ten of him not only
bets but bets big. A Portuguese of my
acquaintance is the most reckless and
prodigal bettor I know, and though I’ve
a lot of Australian acquaintances who
bet the next three places are filled by two
Greeks and a Chinese. And the English-
man transplanted to these climes runs
them close.
* * * *
“Bob Punter”: “Nakh,” joining the
swelling wowser chorus, asserts: “In
France you seldom see a person drunk.”
Perhaps a misprint for “parson”! Any-
way, it is miles from the truth. Then,
next, a visiting Russian journalist declares
(after he’s been here about 24 hours) that
there seem to be “too many people
drunk” and: “The Russians have too
much on their hands and on their minds
to think of getting drunk.” If the war
has really worked this miraculous refor-
mation in a nation which has always had
its share of solid drinkers —and of one
of the most potent of all beverages at
that—then I can see Hitler yet becoming
the patron saint of all wowsers. “Nakh”
trotted out the argument that they have
a very light hock in France, “and one
can be drinking it and yarning all day
without getting under the weather.”
There are some excellent light wines in
Australia, too, of which the same could
be said, depending (as it would in France)
on the proportion of yarning to that of
swigging. They have also some deadly
potent concoctions in France, as in
Russia. Both vodka and absinthe—to
name only two —are banned in Australia
as too potent.
* H* jfc sic
“Pitt St.”; My Sydney paper, probably
as an example to me, published quite a
s .t° r y °f how austerity was being prac-
tised in Westralia. I was quite impressed
until I read “Cigarettes and liquor have
been rationed by the Perth City Council.
Each councillor gets 20 chits a fortnight,
and each chit entitles him to a packet
of cigarettes or a drink, but not both.”
Soon as I can get my priority fixed up
for the Transcontinental express I’m leav-
ing for the West to get on a local council
there and practise this austerity. Twenty
packets a fortnight!
* # * *
“Yurnga”; Veneration for foreign
names still exists in some quarters in
Australia. A case occurred recently in
Melbourne when Amelia Scarce (winner
of this year’s “Sun” aria—and many say
a second Melba) was announced over
the wireless as “Madame Amm-ell-iya
Skarkay.”
*
“K.T.”; Our local paper got slewed
about it somehow, and announced “Time
marches back tonight,” adding that at
2 a.m. all clocks would be put back an
hour to usher in “Australia’s third day-
light-saving scheme.” It caused 17 em-
ployees of one factory to turn up for
work two hours late.
* * * *
“El V.” in contradiction;
“J.H.M.A." (B. 30/9/ thinks that the Aus-
tralian wars began in 1788. Tut, and again
tut! The British invasion was resisted from
the word “go,” and the first shots were fired
at Kurnell at 3 p.m. or thereabouts on April
29, 1770. When Cook, Banks, Solander,
Tupia of Tahiti and young Midshipman Isaac
(“Jump-out”) Smith essayed to land with a
boat’s crew a body of natives came down to
oppose them. The main body was soon driven
off, .but two bold warriors remained hurling
spears and imprecations against the landing
force, many times their number, even after
the first musket balls fired in New South
Wales had passed over their heads. Eventually,
before young Smith could be ordered to set
the first white foot ashore, the defenders,
game to the last, had to be driven off with
two volleys of small-shot, to the first of which
they replied with spears.
* * * «
“Oxmead”: “Latin, or a form of it,
was once a universal language in Europe”
(B. 30/9/’42). True, and I wonder how
many people know that the tongue of
Cicero and Virgil, or a form of it, once
supplied the only means of communi-
cation between a Prime Minister and his
sovereign. George I had no English ;
he didn’t even understand it; Walpole
was in the same position regarding Ger-
man. Neither apparently knew French,
but each is believed to have had some
smattering of schoolboy Latin and, it
being regarded as inadvisable to employ
an interpreter, they had to exchange ideas
as best they could in that language. It is
a pity we haven’t some record of those
quaint dialogues,
* * * *
“Wester”; Happened to strike Sydney
on a recent week-end and bought tickets
for one of the only three flesh-and-blood
shows current. We settled ourselves in
the seats and I opened the programme
and read:
THE WILLIAM CONSTABLE MURAL.
We feel sure there is no need to call our
patrons’ attention to William Constable’s
mural in the entrance foyer. After so many
recent examples of modern art, whose only
distinction lies in the obscurity of their
sleepless, subconscious embryo, it is re-
freshing to find an essentially surrealist
work by an artist of William Constable’s
calibre, which is so unobscure, so simple
and so self-explanatory.
Out here in the west, if you did that to
anybody who came to your theatre
they’d never come again.
* * *
“Strict Veg.”: A youth rally at the
Town Hall, Melbourne, was interrupted
by the request of a member of the audi-
ence to be given three minutes’ use of
the platform. When he said that alcohol
was the same as any other commodity
the Master had sent into the world —it
was the abuse of the commodity and not
the commodity itself that was the fault —
there was an uproar. When he went on
to say that he could mention a hundred
other things in this world which have
destroyed homes, including religion, when
abused, there were yells of derision. When
he proceeded to’remark that persons who
claimed that God sent into the world a
commodity to be a curse to little children
were guilty of blasphemy, there were
screams of dissent. It seems that nobody
is more intemperate than the temperance
reformer.
* * *
THEY KNOW.
“Introducing' the Women’s Employment Bill, the
Prime Minister said that women were just as efficient
as men in serving a glass of beer.
“A Labor member: ‘And they add to the flavor
of it.’ ”
These rugged democrats, for ever waiting
Fresh thunderbolts against their foes to forge,
Can’t be eternally assimilating
John Stuart Mill, Karl Marx and Henry
George.
In intervals of plying their vocation
And earning their emoluments, it looks
As if they gained, first-hand, some information
Not to be found in books.
One may assume that in their minds there
lingers,
While they’re engaged on legislative tasks,
A pleasant memory of fairy fingers
Moving among the bottles and the flasks.
Of rounded arms that lend a soft and gracious
Touch to the liquor-laden atmosphere,
And yet are quite as deft and efficacious
As men’s, for pulling beer.
These tribunes! Mild amazement it arouses
To find the heads we thought among the stars
Wise to the witcheries of public-houses,
Au fait with the interior of bars.
We deemed that weightier duties would prevent
them
“Good on you, son! Just in time to give us a hand with the shearin'.”
From giving tavern ways a closer view:
And seems, they know as much anent
As chaps like me and you!
They sense a Hebe’s worth. They won't be
r,„ w
By vain assertions that it s not her job,
And none — except, perhaps, Archdeacon Ham-
mond—
Will heave a sigh thereat or choke a sob.
Evm'our Labo? SllSSrtsSeSmd
That any tiddley tastes a bit the sweeter,
Served by a woman’s hand.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
SEEKING NEW PASTURES.
“Mr. Lang is a candidate for the Labor nomination
in the Federal electorate of Reid.”
You’d hardly liken him to Alexander,
Who for fresh worlds to conquer vainly cried.
The crowd that once acclaimed him as com-
mander
Has elbowed him disdainfully aside,
And now that luck’s removed the faithful
Gander,
On whose co-operation he relied
For easy, transfer to a higher shelf.
He’s got to battle for the change himself.
Shoved back into the ranks by old adherents
Who for whole years before they turned him
down
Hailed with delight his every appearance,
Basked in his smile and trembled at his frown,
A fallen joss “may well desire a clearance
From scenes of vanished power and lost
renown,
And welcome any chance of cutting loose
From where unkindly Fate has cooked his
goose.
Does he anticipate with quiet complacence
The bright beginnings of a new career,
A sort of resurrection or renaissance
In new surroundings and a wider sphere.
Till fickle souls who did him once obeisance,
But ultimately put his pot on here,
Seeing him starring in a bigger show
Shall groan “What chumps we were to let him
go”?
Who knows? Or who can say in what direction
His future lies? One may be overthrown
To rise again. But still, in this connection.
The fable comes into my mind, I own,
About the dog deceived by the reflection
Who made a grab at it and dropped his bone.
Heav’n send you, Lang, like other kings dis-
crowned,
A better spin than that deluded hound!
N.S.W.
IFORD.
“ Don't argue — give him fifty to one. Why , he's our man-power officer!"


“Ear Punisher”: Melbourne “Age”
reports that a Big Businessman, ordering
a plate of oysters, soup and a grill,
purpled and blustered when the waiter
pointed out that all that would cost much
more than ss. However, he ordered his
oysters and soup and ate them. Then
he paid his bill and left the dining-room
—returning a few minutes later to trium-
phantly tackle his grill. I struck an even
better example of Austerity-flouting in
Melbourne. I met two of the new
ascetics, obviously very jolly, walking
briskly as if on a mission of some im-
portance, and asked them if they had
dined. “Partly,” one answered. “We have
had our soup and fish at one joint,
and now we are off to have our
entree at another. We will have our
joint and sweets at a pub, and perhaps
finish up somewhere else. There’s nothing
like exercise to keep up your hunger,
and it’s a way of putting in the evening
these days.” And they sped swiftly into
the brownout, leaving me wondering how
Mr. Dedman supposes he is going to
police such determined sybarites.
* * * ♦
“Changsha”: Japs and the smaller-
sized Cantonese Chinese certainly re-
semble each other, but the northern
Chinese, who are up to 6ft., are easier
to distinguish. During the civil wars of
1919-27 1 saw many bodies being exam-
ined by Chinese officers. They looked
at the space between the big toe and next.
Any showing a callus were Japanese, as
the Chinese wear their sandals differently.
What those officers were looking for was
Japanese fighting on both sides and act-
ing as agents provocateurs. Moreover,
it was well known that Japanese money
and munitions were given to each fac-
tion. The object, of course, was to keep
the various provinces disunited and so
make eventual Japanese conquest easier.
Speaking broadly, there is no way of
distinguishing Chinese from Japanese
without some such detailed examination.
Chinese medicoes with U.S.A. degrees
have told me that under the microscope
Chinese hair is different from Japanese,
and that there is also a reliable
blood test, but I have had no con-
firmation from Western medical men.
“M.”: A Melbourne paper has dis-
covered that the Japs are six-foot giants"'
with the physique of a Dempsey. When
I was in Nippon my impression was that
the average height was several inches
below that of Europeans. Squatting
on the floor at a theatre, I got a
clear view of the stage, whereas Japs
behind found me an almost insur-
mountable obstacle to their enjoyment ;
yet I am not a tall man. After I had
been in the country for a while every
tall Japanese immediately arrested my
attention, even if he was only an inch or
so above the local average. They looked
like giants because I had unconsciously
adjusted myself to Japanese standards.
Tall men are exceptional in Nippon, just
as are fat men. The fat ones are usually
wrestlers, who have a special diet and a
special training.
* * * *
“P. Cuts”: The cruiser was just finish-
ing a convoy run across the Atlantic,
and as it was approaching England a
sharp lookout was being kept for ’planes.
The man on lookout was connected to
the bridge by means of a loudspeaker,
and so most of the ship heard when he
reported unidentified aircraft off port
quarter. A few seconds elapsed, and he
was heard again, this time reporting
“Aircraft identified as friendly.” How-
ever, events in a few minutes’ time proved
him wrong, for the ’plane dropped a
stick of bombs about fifty yards ahead
of the ship. The cruiser let fly with all
her a.-a. and other small ordnance, and
consequently as the bomber made a
second run there was a fair amount of
noise in the air. But the man in the
crow’s-nest was not deterred, and his
calm voice came over the loudspeaker
above the roar of the ’plane and the
chatter of m.-g. fire, “Friendly aircraft
now dropping friendly bombs.”
“Avion”: Tell “G.J.S.” (B. 23/9/’42)
that the number of men who have flown
in cu-nimbs is being added to almost
daily up north. When the boys find
evasive action temporarily necessary
they head for the nearest cloud, and since
in tropical latitudes cumulo-nimbus and
its equally vicious blood-brother the
towering cumulus are about the only
clouds seen it is usually one of these
that they go into. It’s not that the
boys don’t appreciate the dangers of the
racing air currents inside the cu. clouds
—it’s a matter of tactics.
* * * *
“Kayk”: I haven’t noticed anybody
rushing to back up the claim of “Nakh”
(B. 23/9/’42) that Australian beers have
a greater kick than European beers. My
experience of nearly 20 years of English,
German and Danish beers is that their
heavier ales have very much more kick
than the Australian. Just after reading
“Nakh’s” par. I picked up W. J. Brown’s
Very Free Speech and found therein a
blistering comment on Sydney beer-
unfair, but evidence against “Nakh’s”
contention. I would have supported
“Nakh” if he had confined his remarks
to French and Belgian brews, which are
very small beer.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Will this war finally lay the
ghost of poor old Guy Fawkes? It
looks like it. Among the reasons are
that the Japanese lie between the Aus-
tralian kid and his chief source of fire-
works supply; war regulations prohibit
bonfires at night; Chinese patriots have
given up their stocks of crackers to the
authorities for war purposes, and the
boys who used to go from house to house
dressed up as guys and wheeling a ragged
baby in a dilapidated pram are now col-
lecting salvage for the Red Cross or
otherwise engaged. Fireworks makers
in Melbourne, too, are now on sterner
jobs. And, after all, poor old Guido’s
frustrated attempt is completely outshone
by the more spectacular and daring
attempts of the Nazis in the last couple
of years.
* * * *
“G.J.S.”: Agree with Gavin Long and
“Wodgil” (B. 23/9/’42) that the stereo-
typed “comic-paper Digger” is overdone,
but you can’t deny that Australia’s fight-
ing men have a flavor all their own.
Experience in two services has shown
me that the Australian soldier detests
ceremony, red-tape and tradition. He
abhors senseless discipline, but responds
warmly to leadership and is often just
insensible to danger. These traits arise
“Better treat this fellow with respect, Prendergast. He 's got a brother
on the Allied Works Council."
not from any natural waggishness, but
out of strong commonsense. Hence the
air runs hot when a visit by some mogul
is planned and time is taken off for spit-
and-polish jobs. The feeling is that that
sort of thing has nothing to do with
winning the war.
« * * *
“Uramao”: To the Churchill Auctions,
initiated by Pat Lawlor for patriotic pur-
poses in M.L., a Dunedin woman,
widow of a grandson of James Hogg,
the “Ettrick Shepherd,” sent the original
of the “Chaldee M.S.” published in
“Blackwood’s.” A satire on important
people of Edinburgh, it was written in
Biblical phraseology by Lockhart (Scott’s
biographer). Professor Wilson (“Chris-
topher North”) and Hogg. Such a bother
amang Scots as a result of the “Chaldee
M.S.” never heard since the Mac-
pherson swore to exterminate the Clan
MacTavish.
“S.T.S.”: As to all this talk about find-
ing treasures among cheap old books, it
•all depends on the hunter’s training. The
Institute at Port Adelaide is of ancient
standing, and early in this century it made
much-needed space by banishing to a
basement most o # f the less famous three-
volume novels of the Victorian era. Much
later there came along as secretary a
young literary lawyer, who has since
risen to the Bench. He surveyed the
junk and, being aware of London’s fancy
for first editions, dug up a lot of them,
which in England realised for the Insti-
tute anything from 10s. up to £5. And
the most valuable of the lot, he told me,
was a failure of Anthony Trollope’s.
Being a failure, it had fewer copies exist-
ing, and is now “scarce,” and worth
money. So much for first editions.
* * * *
“Gyx”: “Cauboy” (B. 23/9/’42),
attempting to explain “modernist” art,
suggests that, to appreciate it, all you
have to do is throw yourself into the
feelings of the painter, try to understand
his feelings, feel as he was feeling when
he started slapping paint on canvas. He
doesa’t explain how anyone is to set
about identifying himself with the feel-
ings of the painter, seeing he is painting
“an idea, a dream or image.” How is a
person to arrive at what the different
objects depicted are meant to represent.
It seems before a person can appreciate
the picture he must know the artist s feel-
ings, so presumably the artist must be on
hand at all times to state his feelings ; m
short, to explain his work an obvious
impossibility. To my mind a painting
should be self-explanatory. Remember
the music-hall artist who was asked to
explain a joke? “I tell ’em,” he said
stiffly. “I don’t have to explain ’em.
« * • *
“Looby”: What I like about women
is that they’re so quick to come to a
decision. For example, the two flappers
I overheard outside a Sydney newsreel
theatre. One said “Shall we go m?
The other said “No ; I hate films about
boxers or wrestlers.” I looked up. The
sign said “Kokoda Front and Owen
Stanley Fighting.”
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: Having endured a large
number of Cecil de Mille’s super-super-
billion-dollar spectacles, I am rejoiced
to read that American war emergency
regulations have reduced the amount
Cecil is permitted to expend on new
material for a set to 5000 dollars. 1
should expect the result to be a distinct
improvement in the quality of the fillums,
even if poor Mr. de Mille has to quit
the business. Generally speaking, the
more costly a film the more boring. I
have heard and verily believe that the
best picture Hollywood ever produced
was made by a rank outsider who bet
one of the “great” perdoocers that he
could turn out a successful film for
£3O if he were given a loan of the per-
doocer’s apparatus. The excellence of
the picture is no doubt the reason why it
was never shown in Australia.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: What galaxies of badges
have appeared on our coats since it be-
came desirable for those of us not in
uniform to proclaim our faith or our ser-
vice! The modest metal (it should be a
medal) that says a man is of the Merchant
Navy ; the slightly larger but still incon-
spicuous “V” they hand to men who
have volunteered for the A.1.F.; the
ornate emblem of the N.E.S., and first
A.I.F. badges by the score, retrieved
from the lumber-room and worn with
pride again. I saw the whole lot flourish-
ing in the smoking compartment of a
tram, plus a Red Star and hammer-and-
sickle ornament, worn by a watery-eyed
gent, who kept agitatedly chewing his
tongue. And to all of ’em, except the last,
I mentally dipped my lid. I could dip my
lid gladly to a Russian soldier wearing
his national emblem, but I’m bio wed if
I can associate an Australian wearing it
with anything heroic: only strikes, im-
pudent posters, meetings of non-starters
to demand the sacrifice of other men’s lives
in a Second Front, and the shameful
months of opposition to the “imperialist”
war.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A houseowner was fined at
Williamstown (Vic.) for advertising
“House to let, no children,” the first case
of its kind under National Security Regu-
lations. The defendant expressed amaze-
ment that such a charge should be pos-
sible. Victoria has been in business for
140 years, has always wanted population,
and has always been governed by poli-
ticians who told the people on every pos-
sible occasion that it was their public
duty to fill the national quiver. Yet it
has taken a world war and the interven-
tion of Federal authority to put the anti-
population usages of Melbourne under
a stigma.
“Nakh”: I see that the Alien Prop-
erty Custodian in the U.S.A. has can-
celled the American copyright of Hitler’s
Mein Kampf and his royalty contract
and seized £30,000 royalties accumulated
since 1939. A fellow-author, I had
more luck than Hitler. After long
consideration and perusal by the Nazi
Censorship Bureau, a book of mine was
translated into German, and a contract
was sealed, signed and delivered. I was
awaiting advance royalties when the news
arrived that Britain had declared war on
Germany. Almost simultaneously a
cheque from my London literary agents
turned up. Probably my book is now
on the Naxi index, but at any rate I have
the 15 quids.
• * * •
“Bohemian”; The completion of the
railway line connecting Westport and
Reefton, M.L. (it has been hanging fire
for 63 years), will remind oldsters of the
port’s one claim to historic fame —it was
the scene of the kidnapping of a British
admiral. In 1890 the cruiser Orlando
visited the West Coast. Her draught pre-
vented her crossing the Westport bar,
so the township prepared to bring the
admiral ashore in a small chartered
steamer and give him a hearty reception.
On the morning of the proposed recep-
tion a small steam fishing-launch steamed
out to the flagship and took the admiral
on board. They landed him at the end
of the town, and took him and his en-
tourage to a small pub frequented by
sailors. The official steamer then left
the wharf, and with band playing and
all flags flying hailed the Orlando. The
Mayor and party frothed with indigna-
tion when they found they had been
anticipated. Two hours after the steamer
returned civic sleuths discovered the
admiral surrounded by a motley crowd,
enjoying a tot of grog. Indeed, he en-
joyed the whole affair immensely, though
afterwards he professed disappointment
and horror. The affair was characteristic
of the Westland of Seddon’s day, which
had a vast contempt for ceremony and
boiled shirts.
He *
“J.H.M.A.” remembers a squabble that
shook early Sydney:
It was in 1807 when a firm of shipowners
refused to obey Governor Bligh’s order that
all vessels coming into Port Jackson should tie
up to wharves and pay wharfage duties. Then
the heavens fell —as might have been expected.
The “Sydney Gazette” of August 16, 1807,
chronicles the event: “On Tuesday, 11th
August, a bench of magistrates was conveyned
[«c] for the purpose of receiving under con-
sideration a letter on the evening before
addressed to his Excellency the Governor by
Messrs. Lord, Kable and Underwood, which
was couched in improper terms, and highly
derogatory to his Excellency’s high rank and
authority. The Bench, after; a long deliberation,
thought it proper to pass a censure on the
same, and to order the subscribing parties
should be imprisoned for one calendar month,
and each pay a fine of £lOO to the King.”
They were promptly jugged, under the follow-
ing order to the gaoler; “To Daniel McKay.
Receive into your custody Messrs. Lord, Kable
and Underwood, committed by a Bench of
Magistrates for one calendar month from this
date. For which this shall be your authority,
11th August, 1807. Rich’d Atkins, J.A. ’ Less
than six months afterwards the bibulous Judge-
Advocate was himself very much in Queer-
street.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”; All the newspaper
fuss about drink in Melbourne has in-
creased interest in drinking, and a lot
of people who never bothered overmuch
about whether they had a drink or didn’t
now seem obsessed with the sub-
ject. It was the same with cloth-
ing. Apropos, I was queuing for
my ration book at the Town Hall,
and an old man of 70 was com-
plaining bitterly of having had to leave
his humpy by the side of a creek and
come all the way into Melbourne to get
coupons. “I haven t bought clobber for
ten years,” he announced to all and
sundry, “and I don’t see why I should
have to now.” “But you don’t have to
use your coupons,” expostulated one of
his hearers. “I thought I had to,” said
the astonished simple-lifer.
* * * ♦
“Tonsillitis”: I don’t agree with “L. de
Rideau” (B. 2/9/’42) that people get
bored with an artificial language because
the words have no associations. Words
gather associations just as soon as people
begin to use them. Associations are not
inherent and fundamental. Words such
as electricity, geography and holiday
have very definite associations for us, in-
terpreted respectively as that magic stuff
that flows along wires and gives us power
and light, what we learn from maps at
school that gets us all muddled about
where places are, aad the period we get
each year in which to do what we like.
But the fundamental meanings of these
words are “something pertaining to
amber,” “diagrams about the earth” and
“a holy day.” Where most attempts at
popularising a universal language fa(J flat
is because of the widespread delusion that
the acquisition of any language save one’s
mother tongue is a matter of such tre-
mendous difficulty that only giant intel-
lects can tackle it.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Loo”: Tall tales were being told,
and Mick White had just finished recount-
ing the story of the big cyclone at Dry-
rot Siding that I fled the rails clean off
the sleepers, dogspik.es and all. “I remem-
ber that time,” drawled Big Ned Summers.
“It happened early one mornin’, didn’t
it?” “That’s right,” conceded Mick.
“But you weren’t up at the Siding then,
were y’?” “No,” said Big Ned steadily.
“I was down the line a bit at Flytrap
bend. Your cyclone petered out in the
afternoon, if I remember, didn’t it?”
Mick agreed. “That’s right,” said Ned.
“It was blown clean out o’ the district
by the real blow that started that after-
noon where I was! ”
• * * *
“Yair”: Bert, the leather-faced farm-
hand, has only one choice if the question
of meat is brought up: “Beef and plenty
of it.” When the eat-more-lamb cam-
paign started, he used to listen to the
radio yap with a stricken look in his
eyes. Then one evening he came to table
with a crudely-cut halo of white card-
board on his head. “Well,” he drawled
at the starers, “the Beefeaters at the
Tower of London dress the part. So this
is what I reckon I am for becoming a
sheep-e ater,”
* * * *
“Aratta”; Dad had set the new hand
splitting fencing posts. He stood for a
minute or so watching the hand awk-
wardly manipulating the implements of
toil; then he said, “Y’ ain’t got the hang
of it —I’ll give y’ a lesson.” But the wood
happened to be springy, and one of the
wedges jumped out and hit Dad on the shin
—hard. With an agonised yell he dropped
the mall and went hopping about, rubbing
his leg and cursing lustily. The hand
stood calmly watching the performance;
then as Dad eased a trifle in his acrobatics
he said, “Well, boss, it may be the right
way t’ do it; but all the same I don’t
think it is.” “Whatcher mean it ain’t
right?” yelped Dad, still massaging his
shin. “Well,” said the hand soberly,
“look at the time wasted in hoppin’ about
an’ rubbin’ y’rself. An’, besides, there’s
the extra loss of energy in the swearin’
part of it.” Dad limped off, mumbling
something about “no use tryin’t’ teach a
blanky fool.”
* * * »
“B. A. Ker”: The train puffed away
from the one-carriage platform leaving
me in complete darkness. It was nearly
five years since I last visited my old
mate, but I was confident that I could
find the little farm. Twenty minutes
later I realised my shortcomings as a
navigator. Fortunately at that moment
a figure emerged from the gloom, and
in answer to my inquiry informed me that
he was going past my destination. The
way that chap kept on the track was a
revelation, while every now and then the
warning would come “Look out for this
dip here,” “Mind this stump,” etc. When
I marvelled at his eyesight the guide
chuckled and remarked “I’ve been travel-
ling this road in darkness for twenty
years.” Presently he stopped at a gate,
pointed up the dark paddock and asked
“Is there a light in the window?” There
was. “But,” I said incredulously, “don’t
tell me that you can’t see that!” My
benefactor was highly amused. “I can’t
see at all,” he laughed. “1 was born
blind.”
* * * #
“Old Chap”; I suggest that “Roy Biv”
(B. 23/9/’42) is off his perch. Is there
anything quicker than Willie Wagtail
catching his tucker on the oval during a
wearisome cricket match when he flut-
ters over the turf to disturb insects and
gets a three-course, non-austerity meal?
Or watch the cumbersome kookaburra
perched seemingly asleep on a fence or
stump: if a worm or grub shows a
whisker a dozen yards away he’ll see
it —and get the morsel. Again, what of
the slickness of the bat at dusk when he
darts out of a seemingly barren sky to
nab supper? Winged life has to catch
a meal, and nature has imbued it with
resourcefulness —a happy contrast to
critics who have it brought to them on
a platter.
♦ * * «
“Esk D.”; It certainly is remarkable
how “Scuta’s” fish, snakes, birds- and
animals always swallow their prey by the
head (B. 9/9/’42). Tail-first is the usual
method when disposing of an outsize
dinner in one piece, as this way makes
fbr easier disgorging if necessary. Animals
mostly chew their food to a pulp before
swallowing, while snakes, with their
peculiar jaw structure, are able to get
outside proportionately larger prey with-
out worrying if it be head-on, tail-on
“Blast these one-sided matchboxes!”
or sideways. In the case of a large live
or spinning bait fish almost always tackle
from behind and take their meal straight
down. But the shining example is the
cormorant. Gorged to the point of being
too heavy to fly, the bird dives to give
up its dinner and is then able to take
to the air. As sometimes a half-pound
or larger fish is hurriedly disgorged, fin
and scale reversed against the swallowing
muscles must give the birds a few nasty
moments.
“R.H.G.”; “Padflogger” (B. 9/9/’42)
didn’t quite get my meaning about the
old “fallacy” of warbling to cattle on
night-watch. This has been made to seem
the only way to keep the beasts calm. It
is merely necessary to make some sort of
noise. I suppose we will have to hand
the belt to the chap who lectured on
night-watch, but there was another fellow
on a Murchison (W.A.) station who used
to charm the kine with a mouth-organ.
* * * •
“Albany”: “Naturala’s” remarks (B.
9/9/’42) on the Albany pitcher-plant do
not tally quite with my own observations.
I have never seen the lid shut. Albany
has many types of insect-eating plants,
and the mechanism of the bladderworts
( Utricularia ) makes our engineering in-
ventions appear crude. One variety grows
on sludgy depressions in carpets of small
pink bonnets on hairs two or three inches
high. Each has on its roots as many as
100 bladders as small as one-fiftieth of
an inch. They are selective feeders, re-
sponsive only to certain types of minute
animal life. The bladder, when closed
and empty, is in partial vacuum, with a
suspended door doubly bolstered both
sides and carrying several fine hairs on
its outside. When the desired prey dis-
turbs these, the door flies inward, draw-
ing in water and prey. The door then
promptly shuts and the bladder pumps
water out through its skin, absorbing the
prey into itself. Pumping completed, the
bladder is again in vacuo and ready for
further business.
* * * *
“H.E.R.”: Rock formations (B.
23/9/’42)? In the Grampians (Vic.)
there are the Whale’s Head, Croco-
dile, Wolf’s Head, Lot’s Wife, Coro-
nation Chair, the Balconies, Grand
Canyon, Silent Street, Venus’s Bath,
Natural Stairway, the Battlements,
Barney’s Chimney, Barney’s Castle, the
Sundial, Edinburgh Castle and so on. But
Nature’s masterpiece, in which she used
miles of ranges as medium, is Red
Indian’s Head. The headdress and fore-
head are formed from Major Mitchell’s
Plateau and Mt. William, the aquiline
nose from Red Man’s Bluff, and the lips
and chin from a series of minor peaks.
* * * *
“Butcher-bird”: Kerrigan was cursing
loudly as I entered his milk shed. In-
quiry revealed the trouble. “It’s that
good-for-nothin’ daughter of mine. Here
1 am up to me ears in work, an’ she
decides to get flamin’ well married today.
She can walk to the church—l’m not
drivin’ her. Fixin’ the time at the hour
milkin’ begins! Anythin’ to dodge work! ”
* * * *
“Sam”: The placing of early N.S.W.
towns as far up coastal rivers as they
were navigable for ships (B. 23/9/’42)
was done specially to aid small farmers
rather than squatters. Canal construction
was not practicable in early N.S.W., so
the next-best thing was done—planting
townships as far up coastpl rivers as pos-
sible. Macquarie proposed to reserve the
land along the banks for freehold farmers
working holdings of about 50 acres, pas-
toralists to be confined to the back coun-
try. His recall ruined the scheme.
♦*# » ,
“Bogaduck”: Someone doubts whether
you can graft one species of eucalypt on
another. You can. Cut off a young, vigor-
ous specimen of the species on which you
wish to make the graft, and from the
stump knock off all suckers bar one. In
cool weather bare wood on sucker as well
as that of selected potted seedling that
you intend grafting on, quickly bind both
together and cover the spot with grafting
wax. Watch it thereafter from day to
day; when the seedling shows a sudden
and vigorous growth you will know that
the graft between the two stems has
united and is now being fed by the root
system of the sucker. Then cut off the
sucker above the graft; when there is no
longer any doubt about the growth of
the seedling, cut it off below the graft—
and there you are.
* * * *
“Old Bill”: Parker’s Range (W.A.)
was never much of a goldfield, but it had
one advantage, a water supply. Greater
fields mostly relied on condensers that
turned the brine of desert lakes and mines
into drinking water. But a drought de-
prived the Range of its pool and made
it a question of getting another supply or
leaving. Two square 400-gallon tanks were
on hand, suitable for boilers, but where
was the sheet-iron for the hundreds of
feet of tube necessary for cooling and
condensing? Well, like every W.A. gold
camp, the Range was littered with thou-
sands of empty tins. They were gathered.
Rusty ones were burned for their solder.
Bught ones were deprived of their
bottoms and laid end to end to form a
tube, a run round with the soldering-
iron completing the job. Two thus joined
made a foot; 20 made 10 feet; a couple
ol thousand provided sufficient tubing to
get the condenser working. The camp
survived. It takes something to beat the
dmkum digger.
* * * *
tf Gumsucker”; “Naturala’s” missing
community wasps” (B. 23/9/’42) are
here all right, and I think they’re natives.
Along the Goulburn and Murray they
build their “nests” under house verandahs
and in outhouses by the score.
* * * *
cw’ tQ k a ” : “Doubting Thomas” (B.
16/9/ 42) has taken me up wrongly on
the tin-kettling question. Driving out by
means of noise the ghosts of the dead and
the evil spirits blamed for disaster, sick-
ness, drought, failure of crops, a wife’s
delinquencies, and so on, is a custom too
well proved to be disputable. Down
through the ages it has been resorted to
in many lands, and for the purpose
everything from drums, bamboos,
trumpet shells, hideous yells, gongs, sticks
beaten on floor and walls to tin cans
and buckets has been used, for natu-
rally the instruments have changed as
new methods brought more efficient
noise-makers. Weddings were among the
events deemed especially subject to
spirits, hence the precautionary measures.
If, as “D.T.” claims, tin-kettling is
merely an excuse for the bridegroom to
shout, how does he account for the
infernal racket? Further, if originated
as a thirst-quenching orgy, I bet drinks
they’d have staged a bucks’ party, in-
stead of considering it necessary for the
whole female and juvenile community to
add its weight.
* * * *
“T.V.”: Have never tried a “pigweed
poultice” (B. 9/9/’42), but I do know
that, for a sore on the wither, a treacle
plaster takes some beating. Merely coat
a piece of rag with the stuff and clap
it on ; it’s guaranteed to draw a man
with four aces out of a poker school.
The old hands speak of the same remedy
being used for sandy blight.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Accounts of the terrain
where the A.I.F. is fighting in New
Guinea suggest a kind of jungle resem-
bling the forests of Borneo, but there is no
mention of a device similar to what the
Bornean native uses to make a highway
through the terrific thing. He fells the
tallest trees with his primitive instruments
so accurately that they fall more or less
end to end above the dense secondary
undergrowth. There are three worlds
in the jungle, and the denizens of
each are quite distinct from the
denizens of the others: there is the
almost impenetrable lower layer, then
a middle world of towering trunks,
through which it would be easy to travel
if there was any kind of path, then the
upper roof of leaves where most of the
gorgeous flowers and fruit grow, and
where there are birds the lower strata
never see. It is through the central
stratum along the fallen trees that the
native hacks his rends or timber track.
Slippery with damp and greasy with
lichen, it requires skill to traverse, but
the natives slip over it with ease. A
planter of my acquaintance slipped or
was pushed off it when taking a short
cut from his plantation to the nearest
white settlement. He struggled out of
the undergrowth four days later 40 miles
away, stark naked and so covered with
cuts that, when we had finished putting
sticking plaster on his wounds, there was
none of the original planter to be seen.
He was right again in a week.
» * * *
“Scuta”: Most animals, including
Homo sapiens, will eat their kind when
driven hard by hunger; but they don’t
make a hobby of it. Some members of
our finny tribe are not so fussy; given
half a chance they will eat their sweet-
hearts, wives and in-laws without a
tremor. That imported curse the Eng-
lish perch or redfin hasn’t a shred of
family pride or affection; our native
Murray cod runs neck and neck with
him in the cannibalistic stakes. A two-
inch baby redfin is a certain lure for
his greedy elder. Many a big Murray
cod owes his appearance on the break-
fast table to his overpowering love of his
little grandchild dangling from the hook
end of a crossline snoozing. When col-
lecting tethered cod I’ve often been
pleasantly surprised to find a 10-pounder
on the tether, choked in trying to swallow
its original 21b. occupant. In the ordi-
nary course of nature this family
slaughter must be slight. It takes a finny
Phar Lap to catch his near relation on
the wing. The wary snapper shark is
no sportsman, but he certainly knows his
ekker; he waits till you hook a big ’un,
then grabs him while you’re hauling up.
He prefers a sitting shot.
THE POOL.
Last noon, not caring how things might go,
And minded, like to a thriftless fool,
To sjiirk all work for an hour or so,
I mused alone by a forest pool.
As there on its reedy marge I stood,
Tall trees and silver fronds among,
Said I, “I’ll capture the wildwood mood,
The mood that was mine when I was young.”
I watched the dance of the glancing leaves
And silken flowers on stalk and stem,
Till, moved by the spell that Fancy weaves,
My thoughts took feet and danced with them.
As hither and yon strayed singing birds
From branch fo branch, winged wanderers,
1 sought to turn into tuneful words
The joy of those winsome choristers.
Heard often in youth and heard again.
To me, though long years lay between,
There came the voices of sylvan men
And woodland women, who sang unseen.
“We Folk of the Forest,” they sang to me,
Or seemed to sing to me in truth,
“Here dwelling in greenwood secrecy
Appeal alone to the ears of Youth.
“Though scenes may change at the will of man
Yet naught he does our music mars;
Today we sing as when Earth began
And first were fashioned the singing stars.”
Sunlit, the pool like a mirror blazed
Within its frame of rush and reed.
But when, anon, in its depths I gazed
What glimpsed I there?—ah, what indeed?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Gen[?]emen, I regret to say that the Austerity smoking circle has exceeded
its Weekly quota by half an ounce."
“Arev”: “Be careful of the matches,”
said Mrs. Jupp as Bill lit his pipe and
settled down to read the paper. “I’ve
made some spills so you can get a light
from the fire.” “Think a man’s going
to bend down to the fire every time he
wants to light his pipe?” Bill snorted.
“Well, I’m telling you,” Mrs. Jupp re-
plied ; “the storekeeper will only let me
have a box a week.” “Well, there’s sixty
matches in a box,” Bill came back.
“That’ll be plenty,” and he ignored the
spills. At the end of the week, however,
he was looking for matches. “All gone,
Mrs. Jupp said. “You used the last.
And you’d better see about cutting some
more wood —I daren’t let the fire go out.
Bill, scowling, got to work with the axe.
Before going back to his ploughing he
lit his pipe from the fire and took a few
glowing coals in a tin “so’s I can get a
light when I want one.’ But a gust of
wind sprang up ; over went the tin and
soon the long dry grass in the next pad-
dock was ablaze. Bill jumped from the
plough and raced to the fire, but by the
time he got it out a chain of fencing had
been charred. That evening Mrs. Jupp
had the week’s supply of groceries, in-
cluding a box of matches ; but Bill used
the spills.
* * * *
“Beamish”: A rival to “kick in ver-
satility is “go” (B. 23/9/’42). Admired
of his mate is the man who will have a
go” at anything. He’ll “go” halves with
the cobber without ever trying to “go one
better.” Never a “go-between” for the
boss, he will “go on record as a
who always gave a “fair go” to all. Ana
if he doesn’t “go to pieces,” “go west
or “go mad” he’ll most likely lead a
peaceful life until he really does “go.”
* * * * *
“Ear Punisher”: The first morning of
daylight saving in Victoria found dairy-
men in revolt, their objection, supported
by Premier Dunstan, himself a farmer,
being that the cows couldn’t be got to
adjust themselves to the new timetable.
Well, they did last time. A farmer told
me that on the morning of the first day
of the innovation he was astounded to
see Strawberry and her sisters all moving
up towards the milking sheds, not at the
customary hour, but exactly according to
the new dispensation. He would have
been inclined to attribute the phenome-
non to a supernatural cause if he hadn t
been a fourth-generation Gippslander.
After a moment’s reflection it occurred to
him that the early-morning shouts and
laughter of his children had always been
the signal to the cows in the past, and
the kids were performing their morning
ablutions at the pump and making a great
noise about it an hour earlier than usual.
# ♦ * *
“Ophir”: Who told a recent Abo. con-
tributor that snakes ate only defunct
birds, being unable to catch live ones?
Excepting eggs, everything that an Aus-
tralian snake eats it kills itself. Many
of our smaller scrub pythons make birds
their main item on the menu. Joe is a
night-prowler, and day birds are as help-
less as stunned carneys at night. I doubt
if they offer the least resistance. Any
man who has had a fowl run on the
edge of scrub country knows whether
snakes take birds. It’s next to nothing
for a ca|pet-snake to make a meal of
the setting hen and top it off with the
clutch of eggs.
* * * *
“Up-river”: The Darling is having a
try to look like old times this season.
The Renmark (paddle steamer) and the
Ukee (barge), at any rate, have got their
wool down the worst part of the voyage
and are now at Wentworth, the Murray
junction, from which it is easy going
either up to Mildura, for Melbourne, or
down to Morgan, for Adelaide.
* * * *
“Narrin”: The scenery near Blue’s
camp is now under several feet of Murray
water, and the old chap has to get fire-
wood from a patch of high land a mile
upstream. He loaded up the pram the
other day, worked himself into a com-
fortable position among the logs and
settled down to float with the current.
He had drifted a fair way when a move-
ment near the bows caught his eye and
he became aware of four feet of tiger-
snake oozing towards him. Divided be-
tween apprehension and a desire for a
suitable waddy, the old bloke started up,
only to find one of his feet was well
jammed between two logs. By the time
he fully realised his predicament the
snake was close and Blue froze. The
wriggler was in no hurry. It stopped,
had a look round, slithered past Blue’s
foot, stopped again, poked its head into
a hollow, considered, and then, fairly be-
tween the old bloke’s legs, it stretched
out for a sunbath. Blue stayed quiet and
sweated. Presently Joe stirred, oozed
over a denim-clad leg and made for the
stern. Blue’s patience snapped. With
a mighty jerk he freed his boot and
“ ...And Dad said it's all ours when We clear the mortgage and the
prickly pear!"
plunged forward. Within half a minute
he’d found a waddy and settled the stow-
away. Feeling a bit shaky, he sat down
to smoke and, as his nerves stopped twit-
tering, to rehearse the mighty yarn he’d
unreel at the Bend pub that night. Then
for the first time he looked at the banks.
And then he woke up to the fact that he
was a mile and a half below his camp
with a loaded pram. That was the attei-
noon the water boiled in the Muiray.
* * * *
“L de R”: Faithful hounds? Two
years' ago an Echuca (Vic.) man took
his kelpie up to a Queensland station
and left him there. The dog has turned
up at Echuca again.
* * * *
“Pick”: Wild horses wherever they
roam seem to keep in mind some obstruc-
tion in their usual line of flight whereat
by a safe crossing they might throw off
pursuit. Before the runs of the N.o. _
Southern Tablelands were permanently
leased by stockowners, they were heavily
stocked by herds of wild horses the pro-
geny of animals let loose when the popu-
lation of the adjacent colonies converged
upon the goldfields of Kiandra. Splen-
did horses whose breeding had been im-
proved by the intrusion of a classy bay
colt which absconded from a Monaro
breeding station, they wandered down the
rivers until a section of them took up
their homestead selection in Bayliss Glen,
a verdant sppt in the valley of the Snowy
River. mob had for their escape
obstruction an acre of flat rock on t * ie
slope of the mountain side, and they were
the brumby fugitives chased by
Paterson’s “Man from the Snowy River.
The flat rock was continuously wet and
slippery from a seepage at its upper end,
but the horses fled across it at a mad
gallop and jumped the wide cleft across
its middle to land on the lower edge with
outstretched legs, whence they slid like
palings falling down a rool.
* * * *
“Flight”: Chase an emu or a flightless
brolga and, desperate, it will take to
the water in its final defence. Hunt a
duck or a diver and it may take to the land.
Why? It can’t be that fear has robbed
them of reason. The emu will bail up
like a ’roo with his back against a rock
and fight in the water when it would
only try to escape on the land. The
duck, instead of lying like a water-
logged weed among rubbish, seeks its
last sanctuary at the base of a clump of
cane-grass or lignum. It’s a thing Ive
not been able to solve.
* * * *
“C.E.”: One section of our V.D.C.
was to defend a certain bridge against
the remaining sections, letting no
member cross. We had chosen an
hour when traffic was quiet; arrange-
ments were completed and the de-
fenders stationed. From Mac’s posi-
tion behind a stump he watched a
swagman on the river bank complete his
meal, shoulder his bluey and approach
the bridge. Then private worries over-
came caution. “Hey, you!” he called;
“are you looking for work?” The wan-
derer admitted it. “Used to fencing ?
Before the stranger could reply a head
appeared from under the bridge. “Look
’ere, mate, can y’ milk? I’ll give y’ 12
bob a day, an’ y’ can start in the
mornin’.” “You milk your own flamin’
cows, Steve,” yelled a voice from the top
of a yellow box. “I need a man worse n
you do.” Then rustlings from a patch of
briar and a hollow log heralded new
arrivals offering bigger wages and better
conditions. The bewildered sundowner
began backing across the bridge
mumbling excuses and refusals. Mac
glared at him. “I don’t believe the coot
wants work! ” he growled to the others.
“No, the lazy cow!” “Man oughter
chuck ’im in the river, loafin’ round the
country when every man’s needed! ” With
a return of patriotic fervor the mob re-
tired to their former positions ; and after
the stunt t&e hobo returned to the head
of the attacking force. He was the dis-
trict leader.
* * * *
“0.C.”: “Wippegong’s” camp (B.
2/ 9/ ’42) has little resemblance to the
mining camps of which Bret Harte wrote.
A mining camp such as California had,
and Victoria and Westralia, was the place
where Dickens got a hearing. In the
West around many a campfire and on
more than one mine plat I met men with
the deepest appreciation of literature.
Almost the first thing a new-born mining
camp acquired was a public library. And
there would be lectures in the Workers’
Hall on everything from the evolutionary
theory to Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason.
In the mining camps, with their leaven
of hard-working, hard-thinking men, the
present crop of hysterical newspapers and
politicians could never have flourished.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were camped out
of Echuca (Vic.) and not holding too
well. We’d had a long, hard tramp down
from Rutherglen, and Mat thought it
wouldn’t be a bad idea if we went up
the town and had a good square feed at
some cafe or other. This much we con-
veyed to a sort of local inhabitant in a
tin humpy near by. “Y’ can get,” said
he, “a three-course meal f’r a deener at
So-and-so’s.” Mat eyed him thoughtfully,
then whispered to me “You stay here
an’ watch our gear. I’ll slip up, sample
that three-courser an’ come back an'
watch while you have a go. Don’t trust
this bloke.” Off he went, to return about
40 minutes later. “Was it dinkum?” 1
asked, “about the three-course feed f’r
a bob?” “Too right,” said Mat; “the
coarsest three-courses y’ll get anywhere.”
1 spent my bob on chops and grilled ’em
at the camp.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Because they lived in a
land naturally deficient in fat —the ’roo
and the emu had little, the goanna being
the only standby—Black Brother and
Sister were always short on vitamins,
which, supplies the reason why he and
she ran so much to the resemblance of
birds about the legs. Given plenty of vits.
in the form of beef and mutton, and
especially the inward parts and the head,
8.8.’s recognised share, couldn’t the abo.
put on weight! Roving through the
Murchison (W.A.) I got an introduction
to Molly Riley, a gin who tipped the
woolshed scales at 24 stone. The owner’s
wife, herself a nine-stoner, averred that
Molly’s avoirdupois was mostly due to
lack of exercise—an opinion that roused
Molly to scorn. “All right her talking
about eggersise ; but me, I can’t go any
pinki—them damn’ pfeller bucks just
waiting to get me in the bush to eat me.”
The eyes of hungry spinifex blacks, who
occasionally drifted into the station,
used to glisten when they fell on Molly—
so much luscious fat going to waste in a
land where the whites had coined the
phrase “As lean as a spinifex rat.”
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad was hanging over the
side of the pigsty moodily scratching the
back of Princess Alice, the brood sow,
with a stick, when Jimmy Lynch from
the next farm draped himself alongside
and remarked “Well, how’re things?”
“Rotten,” replied Dad. “I’ll be dashed
glad when this weddin’ of Mary’s is over,
what with the place overrun with women.
Yours, too.” “Don’t I know it! ” rephed
Lynch feelingly. “Got
to get me own tucker
half the time.” “S’pose
they mean well, rally-
in’ round givin’ the
missus an’ girls a
hand,” conceded Dad;
“but a man’s practically
got no home these days.
Got to snatch a scratch
feed on the back veran-
dah ’count of the
kitchen bein’ turned
inter a flamin’ cook’ry
school; and if y’ poke
y’r nose inter another
room y’re hunted out
of it be more women,
dollin’ an’ decoratin’ it
up or up to their eyes
dressmakin’. Enjoyin
themselves like one
thing while their men-
folk is treated as if
they don’t count tup-
pence —not only me, 1
mean,” he added hand-
somely, “but you an’
all the other blokes.”
As Jimmy nodded in sympathetic agree-
ment Mum came out and started gather-
ing sticks. She looked across at the idle,
misused pair and remarked with a smile
“Aren’t men lucky when there’s a wed-
ding coming on? Nothing to worry
about; leave all the bother and incon-
venience to the women,” and bustled off
inside. If she heard them at all she
probably mistook the sounds from the
pigsty as coming from Princess Alice.
NEW GUINEA GROUSE.
Get much rain in Sydney Town? <
Here the rain comes madly down
In what look like passing showers
But go on for hours and hours.
Useless trying to keep dry;
Better stay wet. By-and-bye
The sun will shine like Pluto’s forge;
Will it be hot? Mis qudis, George.
We’ll be steamed like someone’s dinner,
And three gills of water thinner.
(Just a tasty dish for skeeters.
They were never fussy eaters:
Anything’s a meal with skin on.)
But, maleesh, that’s what we’ll win on,
Liking it. whatever goes:
Belly-aching’s on the nose.
T’ ~ „ Tr,x n\T
A.I.F.
ERIC IRVIN.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery
cloth to grinder discs is
DAVIS
LIQUID GLUE
specially recommended for shearing-shed use.
Obtainable in 40z., Boz., 16oz. and 1-gallon sizes.
Hardware and general stores.
M
iw.
M
EGELABR
MERINOS
H. E. KATER & SON, Warren, N.S. W.
Tel : Warren 10. *
You pan improve the quality and weight
of your clip by using Egelabra Bams.
One user writes: “We are now getting the
benefit of using Egelabra Bams. The 6-
tooth Ewes have cut 1021 b. and reared a
lamb as well; the Wether Hoggets have cut
over 131 b.”
BAMS now available from sgns. to 13gns.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
No Salt for Sheep.
“Bungaree”: A war regulation has
wiped out manufacture of all mixed licks
and lick concentrates for sheep. Supply
of stock salt for sheep has been stopped.
Salt content of stock foods has been fixed
at not more than 30 p.c. Reasons given
are (1) that recent experiments by
C.S.I.R. and Agricultural Departments
show that under normal conditions sheep
get no benefit from salt or mixed licks
(B. 30/9/’42) and (2) shortage of trans-
port.
In districts with a recognised mineral
deficiency a lick composed of salt with
copper and cobalt may be supplied under
permit from the district stock inspector.
When hand-feeding becomes imperative,
salt and/or a plain calcium lick may be
obtained, also by permit. Salt imported
into N.S.W. alone amounts to tens of
thousands of tons per annum, and some-
thing must be done to ease the call on
trucks. The position is more likely to
deteriorate than to improve.
The part of the regulation aimed at
control of advertising and canvassing of
stock foods, medicines and remedies will
be welcomed by people On the land.
Advertisements are henceforth limited to
the name, purpose, price and maker or
distributor of the product. There is to
be no canvassing, demonstrating or lectur-
ing. The regulation may be read as pro-
hibiting the issuing of printed instructions
for the use of foods, licks or medicines.
These are usually compiled to save writing
letters to each client, and a ban on them
may be unfortunate;
“Stringy’’ Wool.
‘W. Aust.”: “Doggy,” “slippery” or
“straight-steely” wool mostly means cop-
per deficiency in W.A., but, using the
right supplements, good merino wool can
be grown on deficient country.
The stringiness usually follows a few
months’ grazing on the copper-deficient
country. The fleece loses bulkiness and
goes limp and floppy. The trouble shows
up more often in flush than in dry-
periods, and renovation and pasture im-
provement sometimes seem to induce it.
H. W. Bennetts, a W.A. veterinary
pathologist, proved that changing sheep
over to healthy country or treating them
with copper supplements sets matters
right. When a flock can’t be moved, let
it have the copper in lick form or
drenches or get it into the pastures by
topdressing—bluestone at 51b. to 101 b.
per acre mixed with super.
Sub. Clover.
“Lee”; Sub. clover as a self-seeding
perennial green manure crop in orchards
(B. 26/8/’42) will save labor right
enough, but, though successful in the
M.T.A., difficulties arise under non-irri-
gation conditions.
Earliest strains of sub. clover do not
seed much before November. If the
normal spring ploughing is delayed till
then so as to ensure a fair seeding for
the following season, trees and crop are
brought into competition for moisture
during a most critical period. The only
apparent alternative is to plough the crop
in (one way) at the usual time, leaving
the clover to mature on the tree strips.
A cross harrowing will help to distribute
the seed.
Where erosion is causing concern it’s
worth a trial. Clover-sown strips left
across the slopes will help to hold the
fort till more energetic measures can be
taken.
Holding the Mallee.
“Willen A. Brina”; What the Victorian
Mallee farmer has to watch for is the
start of a blow. Judges in the erosion
control competition sponsored by the
State Rivers and Water Supply Commis-
sion came on a number of instances
where, had the blow been checked at
once, soil loss may not have occurred.
On three separate farms blows had
started from gates into the fallow. Sheep
“Will youse quit leavin this blasted gate open ?”
passing through the gates had chopped
up the soil, the wind followed, the
abrasive effect spread into the fallow and
in no time big bare patches showed up.
A deep ploughing of the gateways or a
filling up of the depressions with straw
or rubbish would have stopped the rot.
On another place a blow started on the
spot where the wheat wagons concentrated
for their loads, but a few rounds with the
plough broke up the ground and the
clods held the drift.
A farmer bringing a combine down a
sandhill let the tynes in lightly as a brake.
By the following summer there was a
gash down his track. Another, sowing
oats on fallow, didn’t open the seed run
back and across the paddock. It eroded
badly but was checked by roughening up
with a plough. On another hill rabbits
were dug out and the trenches carelessly
filled in. Away it went in the first strong
wind.
Thousands of; miles of Mallee roads
are impassable because of the sand drifted
on to them from cultivation paddocks.
Many farmers, but not enough, are leav-
ing two-chain strips of grass along
boundary fences and between fallows and
channels. Paddocks worked right to the
fence often have the third and fourth
wire covered.
Average annual cost of removing drift
soil from S.R. and W.S.C. supply chan-
nels is £72,000. This year some channels
won’t be able to run water, man-power
not being available to clean them out.
In one water district of 24 square miles
there are ten farmers with 18 tanks to
be filled. Cost of clearing channels to
supply that area is £7OO a year, plus £l6B
for pumping and other costs —a total of
£B6B.
The Commission has adopted a scheme
of resuming land adjacent to its channels
in erodable districts —cost £lO,OOO in the
past three years—and has fenced the
strips and sown them with ryecorn. It
has stopped the channel-filling and given
a saving of 27 p.c. on the capital cost.
This method of planting non-fallow crops
on strips close to roads, etc., is one the
Mallee farmers could well emulate.
Quick Summer Catch-crop.
“Hortus”; If other spring-sown crops
fail for lack of rain broadcast 81b. to
121 b. of Jap millet seed an acre. Then
work it into the ground. It’s a cheap,
profitable substitute for Sudan grass, is
just as succulent and nutritious and stock
thrive on it. •
Jap millet is a quick grower and can
be taken off in plenty of time to allow
of working for autumn-sown crops. It
grows easily, and seems to do well even
on ground which has recently grown a
crop. A surface-rooter, it will benefit
from lewt. of super, to the acre, harrowed
in before sowing. Sow to the end of
January and even later. Jap millet is
susceptible to frost. Sow the seed con-
tinuously every two or three weeks for a
constant supply of summer green fodder.
It makes good grazing for sheep and
cattle and can be fed off when quite
young. It is best, however, to wait until
the crop is at least six inches high. Take
the stock off after it has been well eaten
down and a new growth will shoot
quickly.
Sown in drills less seed is needed and
there is a chance of cultivation between
rows if the soil “cakes.”
Cotton in N.S.W.
“H.C.”: N.S.W. farmers are invited to
grow as much cotton as they can. In
Queensland plots of five to ten acres are
harvested by the family. Cotton’s record
in N.S.W. has not been spectacular.
Yields on the Murrumbidgee Area have
been insignificant. Experimental plots
went under to drought. This year larger
plots are to be planted on the North
Coast, north-western slopes and Upper
Hunter, where soil and climate are most
similar to those of the cotton-belt of
America.
In Queensland, farmers on the Burdekin
may start large-scale cotton production.
Except for 2000 acres in the Dawson
Valley, the Queensland crop is grown
under rainfall, mostly in districts averag-
mg 30m. to 35in. per annum. In good
t^le lar §e r growers harvest from
12001 b. to 15001 b. per acre. Average
return over five years is from £7 10s.
to £lO per acre.
Estimated consumption of Australian
mills last year was 70,000 bales. Queens-
land supplied only 15 p.c. of this. Its
1941 cotton crop was 15,869,1591 b. of
seed, which produced 5,631,3791 b. or
11,437 bales of raw cotton lint.
The Commonwealth has guaranteed
12yd. per pound for raw cotton and 4|d.
per pound for seed cotton for the dura-
tion. This is for cotton of a certain
standard, and, since machine-picked cot-
ton is usually from one grade to a grade
and a half lower than hand-picked, man-
power may become a problem.
On the Form Front.
“23-4” ; If The Bulletin has been
considering the making of an award,
prize, trophy or monument to the author-
ity producing the most striking example
of a form-that-must-be-filled-in for the
year the decision should go to the form
for “Agricultural and Pastoral Statistics,
Queensland, 1941-42.”
This form, folded double, measures
16in. by 10yin. The front page is closely
typed with instructions under 22 head-
ings, plus a “special note —seeds” and the
advice that extra copies can be had and
that the filling-in and return of the form
'are “obligatory.” The back page has
headings and neatly-printed spaces for
76 answers, ranging from
“Mill where cane crushed”
to.“ Numbers of deaths of
sheep and lambs” from
“drought, dingoes, fly, all
other causes.”
It’s when he opens her
up the farmer sees why
the thing merits the prize.
Before him is a page 21 in.
by 16in. full of small type
and ruled lines and shaded
spaces and reference
letters. A man put on to
count the spaces for
answers did less than a
fourth of them, reported
that he’d reached 307, then
fled because he was seeing
double. There are spaces
for molasses and mill
mud, beeswax, other fruit
or nuts (name), all hay not
already specified, mangel-
wurzel used for house-
hold or for sustenance of
employees and many,
many more.
It should keep hundreds busy in the
department and call for tons of ink and
paper.
Hints for the Farm.
“Doody”: This table from Queensland
Department of Agriculture is useful for
estimating the tonnage of stored hay
(numbers refer to cub. ft. required for
one ton):
■ Oats -—Wheat—■
Sheaf. Loose. Sheaf. Loose. Lucerne.
Freshly
stacked .. 350 400 400 500 400-500
One month
after stack 35() 350 400 350.400
One year
after stack-
ing .. 300 325 325 350 300-350
“Goulburn”: If there’s not enough
separated milk give calves eight parts
of oatmeal (by weight) and one part of
ground linseed. For each calf scald 2*lb.
overnight, with five pints of boiling water,
boil for 10 minutes next morning and
add five pints of separated milk with
\oz. of salt and 2oz. of sugar. A mixture
of oats, bran and linseed cake can be
given when the calves are three to four
weeks old, and they’ll do well on about


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL* FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, WAGGA, HBNTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
m
a
i \
\ \
<5
/ s
r,
Y
MASS-42
/
It isn’t only in the big things of the war that
Masonite plays a part ... it isn’t only in Army huts,
munitions plants and other huge undertakings. There
are humble roles as well. In the making of camouflage
nets, for instance, a handy little gauge is necessary to
ensure accuracy in mesh-measurement. The ideal
material was found to be Masonite. To-day thousands
of Masonite gauges are in use . . . thus proving that the
“thousand uses” of these “wonder Boards” can
become a thousand-and-one overnight!
*
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD . . PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE . . . QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY , . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
I?
m
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals ala Carte. —— Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney. Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
__ G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
ilb. of the mixture daily when about six
weeks old.
“Ninety-nine”: Try to prevent abor-
tion in cows. Where there’s been a case
isolate the affected cow at once and
completely destroy—preferably by fire —
all afterbirth and dead foetus. The patient
needs good attention. Keep the genitals
thoroughly clean by washing with an
antiseptic, and inject a mild solution into
the uterus each day until it is certain all
discharges have ceased. Affected animals
should not be allowed to breed again
until the vaginal discharge has completely
ceased. A special serum worth a trial
is obtainable from the Queensland De-
partment of Agriculture.
“B.’s Offsider”: These things reduce
the returns from cattle sent to market:
Overfeeding and -watering before truck-
ing, rough handling ; overcrowding, lack
of supervision on the railway journey,
sharp corners, protruding nails, sharp
horns and mixed consignments.
“Ben Cubbin”: You’ll have to use a
lot of old bags for the wheat this year.
Go through ’em now, throw aside all
with holes in them, hang the good ones
on wires or stack them where mice can't
get at them, then repair the old ones.
“Ninety-nine”: Empty a worn-out tank
and scrape the inside to remove caked
dirt or mud, then cover the rusted areas
with alternate coats of waterproofing
paint and cheesecloth. After painting,
stretch a covering of cheesecloth evenly
over the worn-out part, then give another
covering of paint and another covering
of cheesecloth and a final coating of paint.
When the patching is complete a coating
of the paint should be applied all over
the inside of the tank.
“Jim Kelly”; Ever notice how a sick
beast tries to get away by itself? That’s
to avoid being disturbed. Have some
place where a patient can be isolated.
“Blaiway”; Before you buy a new
horse get near its head and make a sudden
movement. If it jumps away or throws
its head up you can bet its previous
owner has been belting it about the head.
The effects are permanent; don’t buy.
“Hux”: When there is a large litter
of pups supplement the mother’s milk
with cow’s milk after the third week.
Make it lukewarm and push the pup’s
muzzle into it till he learns to lap it up.
If he wanders away, bring him back. For
a litter of six to eight pups, a pint of milk
a day is enough for the first three days,
then increase it to a quart. Wean them
at six weeks on to cow’s milk and solid
food; solids night and morning, milk at
noon. A growing dog needs the same
amount of food as a mature dog that
weighs three times as much.
From H. Hanslow, Commissioner of
the State Rivers and Water Supply Com-
mission, Victoria:
In B. 16/9/’42 “J.W.” mentioned the pre-
sentation of prizes in a “Soil Erosion Preven-
tion” competition in a Victorian Mallee town
and complained that no information was given
as to the ways and means of preventing soil
loss. The judges’ reports both for last year and
this year were published in all Mallee papers
and Melbourne weeklies, and 1500 copies
were distributed. “J.W.” or anybody else can
get copies from the State Rivers and Water
Supply Commission.
Outback Occasions.
No. 56.
THE LITTLE HEN.
Old Tom Browdy brought another
riddle down to our place one night. He
and Father had been mates in what they
called the “old days,” and,when either
of them heard a new yarn or puzzle or
something like that he’d call on the
other and expound it. Our mother never
took part in these discussions. She’d
give a bit of a sniff when old Tom heaved
in sight, lay out some supper and put
the teapot ready on the hob, then she’d
retire to bed or go to visit a neighbor.
Old Tom had never married. He used
frequently to up and away for months
on end, and when he’d come back he’d
come and tell Father where he’d been
and what he’d seen, and Father used to
get a far-away look in his eyes and say
it was a pity they weren’t mates again
like in the “old days,” and old Tom
would look at Mother and us kids and
give a bit of a supercilious grin and
murmur that maybe the “incumbrances”
were big enough to look after themselves
for a bit. Which was why Mother re-
fused to associate with old Tom Browdy ;
she feared he might seduce Father away
from home and family to go gallivanting
round the country with him.
Well, this night old Tom came over
and we sat outside on the verandah in
the moonlight, and he and Father yarned.
We boys used to sit dead quiet and listen
to ’em, not only because we liked the
yarns, but to store up discrepancies in
our minds and laugh over them later.
Our brother had long since worked it
out that, if old Tom and our father had
done and seen all they claimed, each of
them must be close to 150 years old.
There had been a little silence, then
old Tom said: “Heard a newy in at the
post office t’day. Listen: If a hen an’ a
half lays an’ egg an’ a half in a day an’
a half, how many will she lay in a
week?”
Our brother sat up and stared at old
Tom. Father took his pipe out of his
mouth and said “What are y’ givin’ us?”
“That’s it,” said old Tom. “Y’ gotter
work it out.”
“Aw, it’s easy,” said our brother.
“Ten,”
“Ten!” snorted old Tom scornfully.
Father, who had a regrettable habit of
backing old Tom up against us young-
sters, said reprovingly “Don’t be silly.”
“What’s silly about it?” our brother
demanded, “If she lays one an’ a half
that’s three in two days, ain’t it, an’ y’
got t’ substract for the week.”
“How do y’ mean: y’ gotter sub-
stract?”
“Well, y’ gotter allow f’r the half a
egg, see!”
Silence, while we thought it over.
Old Tom said “Look, I’ll tell y’ again.”
And he told us again.
“Gripes,” Father said, “it’d be funny
t’ see half a chook runnin’ about after
layin’ half a egg. I reckon she’d only
give half a cackle, eh, Tom?”
“Y’ could make it harder,” our brother
said thoughtfully, “if y’ added somethin’
about sellin’ the eggs at a penny ha’penny
each to one an’ a half people.” Our
brother was a great one at adding to
things.
“It’s too flamin’ hard for you blokes
as it is,” said old Tom triumphantly.
“All right,” I said, “I give up.” I
hadn’t tried to work it out up to then.
Father and our brother also gave up.
“Eleven,” said old Tom.
Father slapped his thigh. “I thought
it was 11,” he said, “but didn’t like t’
say so.”
I couldn’t see it and wanted to know
how it was arrived at. “Well,” said old
Tom Browdy, “if she laid two a day
that’s be 14, wouldn’t it? Then y’ got
t’ take three away for the halves.”
“What halves?” asked our brother
coldly. We believed in supporting each
other against the two older men.
Old Tom launched into an explanation,
but the further he went the more bushed
he became, finally subsiding in a forest
of “halves” and “allowances” and so
forth. He brooded a minute or so, then
stood up and said “What’s the good of a
feller givin’ y’ puzzles if y’ won’t believe
him when he tells y’ the answers? In
my time little kids were seen an’ not
heard.”
“Little kids !” That rocked our brother
and me to our foundations. Our brother
snapped “All right, we’ll go inside and
work it out. He’ll work it out an’ show
y’ it can’t be 11.”
That meant me. Eager to show my
mathematical ability, I rushed inside, lit
the lamp, got pencil and paper and got
down to it, first making old Tom care-
fully repeat the formula.
Swiftly I covered the paper with figures
and then I said “Y’ gotter reduce it t’
halves because y’ gotter have a common
denominative, see. Then y’ find the
lowest common fractive, or somethin’,
an’ use that as a guide. Y’ could do it
in decimals, but it’s easier be fractors,
because y’ might get a point nine re-
peatin’, which has t’ go on an’ on.”
“There y’ are,” said our brother, proud
of me. Father was proud of me, too,
and this combined pride convinced old
Tom, along with my figurds and explana-
tion, that he was up against something.
“Go ahead,” he said, a bit proud of me
himself.
“There’s three halves by three halves
in three halves,” I said. “Then y’ have
seven, which is 14 halves. So y’ have
three threes, nine, by three, which is
three, an’ that into 14 gives y’ four an’
two-thirds.” I stood back, waiting for
their approbation. Our brother looked
a bit staggered. Our Father looked at
old Tom Browdy as though to say
“There’s brilliance for you.”
Old Tom pursed his lips. “It’s 11,
§ee. Them figures is all me eye. IY7
can’t have thirds.”
There was a proper barney then, and
it ended when old Tom flung off in a
huff and our father ordered us to bed.
When we got there our brother said
“The answer’s seven. It come t’ me in
a flash. The halves are only put in t’
trick y’.” I saw it after a bit, and asked
why he hadn’t said so to old Tom.
“What,” he said, “knock y’ back in front
of them old know-alls? No fear!” We
were very loyal to each other.


VACUUM
DUALITY PRODUCT
ALWAYS USE
%
ywm
Th Mrttdi Gua/tfo 0U
and
BUY
Ik
gH
CERTIFICATES
with the money you save
VACUUM OIL COMPANY Pty. Ltd.
(incorporated in Australia)
M 217
Our Service Department
Wants.
Will George Windeatte Stevens please write
to Justin Stevens, Prisoner of War, 92417,
Stalag VILA., Germany?
To buy How to Treat Eye Diseases Without
Operation, by Dr. William Lustig.—3311.
Information Sought.
What. is the constitutional position in Aus-
tralia concerning the sending of troops abroad
for service?
Section 49 of the Defence Act states:
“Members of the Defence Force who are
members of the Military Forces shall not be
required, unless they voluntarily agree to do
so, to serve beyond the limits of the Common-
wealth and those of any Territory under the
authority of the Commonwealth.” “Territory
under the authority of the Commonwealth” is
defined by Section 17 of the Acts Interpretation
Act 1901-1937 as including, unless the c con-
trary intention appears, “any territory governed
by the Commonwealth under a mandate.”
* * * *
(1) What was the maximum effective range in
miles of the largest gun used in the 1914-18
war ? (2) In the present war? (3) What was the
range of “Big Bertha’’ ?
(1) The heaviest naval gun was an 18in.
weapon which fired a 33201b. shell capable of
piercing ordinary armored steel at 30 miles;
15in. naval guns had a maximum range of 20
miles, but no action is on record at which
opening range was much above 20,000 yards or
11-L miles. At this range or thereabouts Jut-
land began. The longest ranging normal land
guns used in the last war were probably the
British Min. rail-mounted weapon, which fired a
14001b'. shell a little less than 20 miles, and the
German 15in. gun of 1918, which threw a 7851 b.
shell roughly 28 miles. (2) Ranges have changed
very little in the present war, but the Germans
have dropped shells across the English Channel
at ranges up to 70 miles. (3) About 75 miles.
* H= * #
Meaning and origin of the term ’‘the Un-
touchables” ?
The origin is in the Indian caste system. In
Hinduism, an “untouchable” is a person of the
very lowest caste, contact with whom defiles any
person of a superior caste and particularly a
Brahmin.
* * * *
(1) Are diamonds a good investment now ?
(2) Any hints on buying diamonds? (3) Do
jewellers charge for makings a valuation of
gems ?
(1) Diamonds have always been looked upon
as a sound investment as a market is usually
available. Being portable and imperishable
there is no depreciation when stored away. (2)
Diamonds to be valuable must be double-cut,
flawless and free from marks. In cutting, the
stone must be properly proportioned, and the
whiter the color the better the gem, the most
attractive stone being known as a “blue-white.”
(3) A small charge would be made by a
jeweller for the valuation of gems submitted
by a private customer.
* * * *
Has the N. S. Wales Forest Commission
any forests of Finns insignis? If so, what is
the dxtent of the forests, and where are they
situated? Also, what is the age of the timber,
and is it being used by sawmills?
(1) The Commission controls approximately
39,000 acres of exotic softwood plantations.
Two-thirds of this area is planted in Finns radi-
ata (similar in character to Pinus insignis),
situated mostly in the Central and Southern
Highlands of the State. These plantations are
mostly up to 23 years of age and are now being
extensively exploited for the supply of soft-
wood sawlogs.
* * * •
I have recently owned what I understand to
be an old-type fox terrier, large in size and
build, white mainly, with black and fawn mark-
ings. Head shorter and broader than in the
modern type. {My dog stood nearly 19 in. high
at shoulder.) Are there any breeders of this
type in or near Sydney, and could you supply
names ?
The old-type fox terriers of N. S. Wales
nave not been of the best and were not up
to standard. Nobody is breeding them now.
Breeders stick closely to a standard lighter
type which can be seen at all shows.
SJ« sjc #
Asa potato-grower I am compelled to sign
a •contract with the Federal Government under
National Service Regulations. Can the N.S.W.
Government compel me to take out a license
{fee 10s.) under the State Potato Growers’
Licensing Act ?
Yes, if you are growing over one acre of
potatoes.
* * * *
(1) Method of making barley sugar? (2)
Most suitable material for making a waterproof
overcoat, method of coloring and water-
proofing ?
(1) Boil together 11b. loaf sugar and 3-cup
of water till mixture whitens and bubbles.
Stir for a few moments, and add the juice of a
lemon. Test in cold water, and if it cracks it is
done. Pour on to greased tins and twist be-
fore it hardens. (2) Make coat of unbleached
calico as if it were to be worn without further
preparation, finishing neatly, then give it coat
after coat of boiled linseed oil, applying with
a soft brush and working well into seams; each
coat should be thin. After each coat of the oil,
hang on coathanger in open air. Raw oil
makes coat more pliable but takes much longer
to dry.
* * * *
Method of preparing sheepskins for rugs?
Dissolve in hot water one cake of Sunlight
soap (one section) and mix solution with
enough cold water to cover skins. Leave soak-
ing for 12 hours, take out and squeeze out
the dirty water. Make a fresh lot of suds
with another cake of soap in the same way and
repeat the process. Squeeze skins as dry as
possible and leave to drain. Boil two packets
of any good boiling dye in small quantity of
water, add enough 'cold water to cover, place
skins in and leave for six hours, working them
about occasionally, then drain water off. Be-
fore skins are dry (about 36 hours after taking
out of the dye) rub into the flesh side jib.
alum and 31b. saltpetre (pulverised finely and
well mixed). Rub in with hands in leather
gloves or use a pad. Leave a day or two,
rubbing occasionally, shake off and finally work
up back with a piece of pumice-stone till it is
like soft leather, then comb the wool and trim.
Cut the skins in oblong shape, “tie” length
to length and sew topside with linen thread,
using a sharp needle. Buttonhole stitch is the
best. Line rugs with any material to hand.
Recipe for a good floor polish in solid form?
Slice jib. beeswax into y-pint pure (not
mineral) turpentine, stand container in boiling
water (do it outdoors —vapor is inflammable),
stir till wax melts, then add one pint boiling
water, one teaspoon soft soap, a piece of wash-
ing soda as big as a walnut, two tablespoons
methylated spirits and two tablespoons liquid
ammonia. Stir well, and leave for two days,
drain off water and store polish in tins or
jars. Apply thinly with fluffless rag and rub well
in, using very little —only a smear at a time.
* * * *
Method for eradicating borer pest from a
room panelled in silky oak ?
A thin wire run into each orifice will usually
locate the pest. Push wire as far as possible,
then inject pure turps or kerosene. If the
borers are working from the rear of the wood,
fumigation will be necessary. Health Depart-
ment, Brisbane, will advise you on that subject.
* * * tf
Half a dozen times a year, on an average,
correspondents ask for the words of Pater-
son’s “Stockman’s Last Bed.” Here they are:
Be ye stockmen or no, to my story give ear!
Alas for poor Jack, no more shall we hear
The crack of his stockwhip, his steed’s lively trot,
His cheery loud voice, his jingling quartpot.
For we laid him where wattles their sweet fragrance
shed
And the tall gum-trees shadow the stockman’s last bed.
Whilst drafting one day he was horned by a cow;
“Alas!” cried poor Jack, “it’s all up with me now;
I never shall spring to the saddle again
Nor bound like a wallaby o’er the plain.
I shall lie where the wattles their sweet fragrance shed
And the gum-trees will shadow the stockman’s last
bed.” i
His whip now is silent, his dogs sadly mourn,
And his steed looks in vain for his master’s return,
No friend to bemourn him, unheeded he dies;
Save Australia’s dark children few know where he lies.
For,we laid him where wattles their sweet fragrance
shed
And the tall gum-trees shadow the stockman’s last bed.
Now, stockmen, if ever on some future day,
You’re after wild cattle that roam far away.
Tread softly where gum-trees and sweet wattles grow';
It may be the stockman is sleeping below.
For we laid him where wattles their sweet fragrance
shed
And the tall gum-trees shadow the stockman’s last bed.
The poem has been set to music by Louis
Lavater and is included in “Swagmen’s
Treasure,” a collection of five such songs pub-
lished by Allans, Melbourne, 2s.
Brief Answers.
J.M.: Write Dairy Expert, Queensland Agri-
cultural Department, giving particulars of pas-
ture, weeds, etc. Meanwhile, add a pinch of
borax to each pound of butter. Stock Inspector
should see cows and pasture if bother continues.
Full instructions on butter-making will be
supplied by N.S.W. Agricultural Department.
Cream should be kept in cool (not cold) room;
24-hours-old cream is best; add loz. salt to
each pound butter... .R.E.: Ask the firm which
sold the coat to advise treatment A.T.: No
details are available of a charcoal cooler. A
simple iceless refrigerator is described in
Twentieth-Century Book of Recipes, Formulas
and Processes, by G. D. Hiscox, 1907 edition.
Charcoal is an excellent insulating material,
and the walls of ice-chests and refrigerators
are usually packed with this substance....
R.J.S.: Correspondence schools can help, but
they don’t substitute for a lot of reading and
writing 8.W.R.: Foundation of such a
library should be Jose’s or Scott’s short history
of Australia, supplemented by the Australian
Encyclopaedia (two vols.) and works by such
travel writers as lon L. Idriess and Frank and
George Clune.... Subscriber: Mission to
Moscow, by Joseph E. Davies (obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney). This book will
shortly be reviewed on the Red Page.... Roche:
To preserve eggs, warm the vaseline from a six-
penny jai, stir in one tablespoon of boracic
acid and cover each egg with a thin coating;
store in a cool place.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
M.H.: —
The great man of Britain, so safe and so sound.
Decided he’d like to fly a bit round.
He got in his ’plane and flew like the crow.
Then landed quite safely in Russia’s Moscow.
Then this wonderful man, once more in his ’plane.
Half over* the world flew back home again.
J. 8.:
Those A.I.P. and Militia men
Fight as with the strength of ten.
They made the Celestial sons of Nippon
Make a very decided hurried run on.
And Clowes, the man who ruled that day,
Smiled a while in his quiet way.
He’d caught the Japs of Nippon napping
And given them a frightful whacking.
J.H.: Sounds young... .K.M.: Doesn’t
live up to the promise of the first stanza
E.J.C.: “How’s this?” 0ut....P.5.: Ele-
mentary. .. .D.D.: What on earth do you mean
by “The moon is rising awe the sky”?
M.S.K.: Don’t “doth”... .N.T.: Begins well,
then dwindles... .G.W.: True poetry in the
thought, but little in the execution B.MacD.:
Keep at it M.R.; Bury it darkly at dead
of night... .N.S.L.: J. Alex. Allan had^a
better one on the same theme... .P.C.: “A
tiny seed.” “A little twig.” What about trying
a poem on an enormous cow?. —J.K.H.; Why
write as if you were living in the eighteenth
century? ... .M.8.C.: There’s a first-class par.
in the execrable verse about the wombat
S.W.: Praise the Navy by all means, but don t
rhyme “saw” with “war”... .R.M.: For Aus-
terity, the Religious Editor and the sake of a
grin—two lines of it:
There’s nothing can a man beguile
lake fresh young girlhood’s beery smile.
W.T.T.: One good phrase—“the torture of
the inexpressible”—and the rest just words....
R.McG.: If it’s your first, it may also be your
worst... .N.H.: Try a woman’s paper....
J.J.L.; Those compounds—“sea-heart, bush-
silence,” “night-music”—make your lines tall
flat C.M.0’8.: “So a song I can t help
singing and my stride I can’t help swinging.
But couldn’t you refrain from the natural order
of your words inverting? B.B.: Why ’ em-
bittered”? ... .F.R.8.; Sing-song; and full ot
outworn poeticisms... .E.V.K.: Sorry, but we
can’t abide butterflies... .L.M.: s in
“Australians, Awake.” but about 2000 other


Public Notice.
I, JOHN VICTOR STENLUND, of Finnish
nationality, born at Raumo, Finland, and resi-
dent 36 years in Australia, now residing at
Bedford Street, Aberdeen, N. S. Wales, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-36.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ERIC CLYDE CHERRY late of Tamworth.
—TAKE NOTICE that EMILY CHERRY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 810 of 1942
on the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
by 30th November 1942 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from R. F.
DUDLEY Solicitor 9 Martin Place Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
We disappointed
510 Dunlop hot water baq buyers
to make this moorinq buoy!
SIX REASONS WHY THERE IS A SHORTAGE OF CIVILIAN RUBBER ARTICLES
2, (6.00 x 16) Dunlop Motor Tyres
18 prs. Dunlop Knee Boots
510 Dunlop Hot Water Bags
76 prs. Dunlop Tennis Shoes
11 Dunlop i 6s > Golf Balls
1 Dunlop Garden Hose (60 ft.)
= 1 Inflatable Reconnaissance boat
= 1 Tyre and Tube for 25 pndr. gun
= 1 Mooring Buoy
= 1 Tyre and Tube—Beaufort Bomber
= Rubber for Gas Mask
= Rubber for 1 Tank Wheel
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
This special rubber buoy ,is de-
signed especially for mooring flying
boats. Rubber is used because any
other material would tend to injure
the lightly constructed hulls of
these aircraft. Dunlop Factories are
fully engaged in making these and
thousands of other war products.
WORN-OUT RUBBER ARTICLES
URGENTLY WANTED FOR RECLAIM
Tyres and tubes, hot water bags, bath mats, rubber gloves,
milking machine rubberware ANY rubber article, except
flooring can be reclaimed. So don’t waste an ounce of this
precious commodity save it for reclaiming.
H 8582
'
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
For greater
smoking enjogment
CRAVENA
m/wd 1 '
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
m
/
2817
""
bards have already gone off like alarm-clocks
on that theme... .G.L.W.: The matter has been
mentioned in Parliament E.W.R.: Would
advise you to get a typewriter; but on closer
inspection you’re probably wise to keep ’em
undecipherable A.H.P.: A lot of words for
a small quip A.P.M.: Vague.... J. 5.8.: “My
heart does surge with the age-long urge.”
Your pen does bound on some difficult ground.
... .C. 5.8.: History never wrote as gory a page
as you have... .G.T.L.; It goes with onions.
....H.R.W.: Not far off... .E.L.McC.:
“Begone, you silly fowl!” Begone C.H.J.:
Feeble J.S.: Much too sweet R.N.: Not
interested in who done it... .T.C.A.: Answer
is “N 0!”... .T.F.: Try a daily... .J.J.L.:
Read the stories we do use A.ZJ.: Neat,
but it doesn’t quite get there. Try it elsewhere.
. ...G.F.: We don’t republish, not even trans-
lations.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.H.P.: Your efforts are more successful as
yawn-producers than any radio serial could
ever be F.J.; Seriously doubt if sharks do
have eyebrows... .C.W.C.: That sparsely-clad
couple have been saying that on a 100-yard-
circumference island since the early days of
sail.... Bert C.: Absentminded dogman made
a clean descent into w.p.b J.S.D.: Figures
stiff and badly grouped.... P.T.: Interested to
learn that Chiang Kai-shek has sidelevers,
Churchill is horse-faced and Stalin almost bald.
.... G.H.: We are slowly recovering from the
effects of your apparition.
It had to come, though this time it is
slightly varied. Premier Dunstan on a
proposed referendum:
Surely at a time like this, when the Prime
Minister is emphasising the seriousness of
the war position, the Federal Government
will not persist in holding a, referendum
that would divide the people at a time when
unity is essential.
It’s a wonder Albert has never thought
of getting a gramophone record made
of it.
* * * *
With the Democrats divided, Thomas
Dewey, Wendell Willkie’s rival for the
Presidential nomination in 1940, looks
sure to become Governor of New York,
and that will most probably mean that
he will be the Republican candidate for
the Presidency in 1944, for Willkie's
stocks have slumped. At the last election
for Governor, the party votes were
2,326,892 for Dewey and 2,391,286 for
Governor Lehman, now retiring, and
universally respected for his ability and
character. The Democrats were then
united, and Lehman had powerful sup-
port from the White House, which has
now failed to secure the nomination of
Senator Mead.
* * * *
From one of the Communist rags pub-
lished regularly in Sydney in defiance of
the law:
During his invasion of Russia, Napoleon
had a second front to fight in Spain. There,
an army of Napoleon nearly as large as
the one sent into Russia was pinned down
by the fighting Spanish people.
Well, perhaps it is as well to forget
Wellington. The fellow was British.
* * * *
There was once an Australian who
arose one morning and went about his
lawful occasions without hearing or read-
ing of a strike of coalminers, war-workers
or anybody else in his native land. His
name was Wyayulgum and he belonged
to a Murray River tribe dead these 200
years.
The ladies and gentlemen who look
after Federal Opposition interests in Vic-
toria should long ago have had a seat
marked out for F. R. Lee, the man who
nearly beat Curtin in Fremantle and,
going to Kalgoorlie, polled far better
than any non-Labor candidate had done
in that electorate since 1901, running
Johnson, a very popular A.W.U. man,
to within a couple of thousand votes.
That performance even more than the
one in Fremantle convinced Laborites
that Lee, for a U.A.P. man, had a unique
appeal to an electorate, and they privately
marvelled that his party didn’t immedi-
ately pick out a suitable Victorian elec-
torate for him to nurse —he is a Vic-
torian by birth as well as long residence
as secretary of the Associated Chambers
of Manufactures. Lee ought to be sent
against Coles in Henty. If he could
nearly unseat Curtin in an electorate to
which he was a stranger —and he failed
only because a thousand or more careless
anti-Laborites voted down the ballot-
paper—he would have an easy time
against Henty’s first and last Independent.


cannot bequeath
your Judgment
or experience
The judgment and experience a man accumu-
lates in his lifetime cannot be passed on to
his dependents. For this reason it is doubly
important that he should take the necessary
steps to ensure that his estate is managed with
competence and fidelity.
For more than 63 years The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited has
provided* the impartial advice and assistance
of a permanent corporation as Executor,
Trustee, Attorney, Agent, and in other capaci-
ties of a fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the company ensures
continuity in the execution of a trust, which
cannot be provided by a single individual.
Charges are fixed and moderate and ample
security is provided. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for full information,
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
1 BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled ) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray ; Sir Claude Reading, K.0.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, O.B.B.; G. S. Colman, C.6.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.O.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French-
and Agency Company Ltd .
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Minager; K. M. Hughes
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
West Australian Newspapers, Ltd.
Nominal
Net , Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. TotaL serves, serves.f
£ £ £ £
1932.. 61,369 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 38,160 23,209 111,205
1933.. 47,515 8 ~ 8 „ 38,160 9,355 120,560
1934.. 52,979 8 „ 8 „ 38,160 14,819 135,379
1935.. 68,616 8 „ 10j „ 47,585 21,031 156,410
1936. 69,884 8 ..101 ~ 47.5851 18 2go 174 690
Prelim, exes, written off, £4019 j ’
1937.. 74,177 8 p.c. 10J p.c. 57,387 16,790 191,480
1938.. 74,439 8 „ 10* „ 63,419 11,020 202,500
1939.. 71,565 8 „ ~ 56,821 14,744 217,244
1940.. 56,259 8 „ 7 „ 44,946 11,313 228,557
1941.. 62,806 8 H ~ 66,821 1 985 229,542
Superannuation fund, £5OOO .. j
1942.. 44,849 8 p.c. 7 p.c. 44,946 229,445
+ Subject to goodwill, £298,931.
The year was no easy one. The Westra-
lian economy has undergone big changes,
relying substantially on primary produc-
tion and mining, and newsprint ration-
ing, which helped in the previous
term by reason of the economies
it enabled, is now operating in re-
verse in its present stringent form. On
the basis of present consumption, existing
paper resources are down to about two
years’ supply, so rationing has become
tighter still since the close of accounts
and a pool is to be formed. All
this has meant a reduced volume of
advertising, the lifeblood of newspapers.
Some matter, too, is now under ban,
while the price for all, like any other
commodity, is rigidly controlled. Man-
power, moreover, has been busy culling
out already depleted staffs, while there
is a certain hard core of overhead costs
which it isn’t possible to make much im-
pression on. All things considered, share-
holders should feel very satisfied, says
chairman Jackson, indicating the seem-
ingly inevitable when predicting lighter
earnings to come.
Since 1935, the co. has had the
Swan city’s daily field to itself. It
then acquired the issued capital of
Perth Newspapers, so bringing the even-
ing “News” into the same stable as the .
“West Australian,” morning daily with
century-old associations. Also housed
are two weeklies, the “Western Mail” and :
the “Broadcaster,” while a half-interest
in W.A. Broadcasters shows the manage-
ment is up with the times. A couple of
well-let freeholds also contribute to
things, and a share-interest is held in the
newsprint venture on the Norfolk (Tas.).
In the 16 years the present co. has been
in existence, it has accumulated visible
reserves £69,486 short of the £298,931
paid for goodwill, and that after distribut-
ing average divs. pf 9.8 p.c. and heavily
depreciating plant. The contraction in
last year’s result was a sharp £17,957
after providing £42,000 (down £10,278)
for taxation. Allowing for the prefs., the
£44,849 of profit left 7 p.c. for the ords.,
against 10.3, 9.1 and 12 p.c. back to the
last pre-war year, and ord.-holders’ in-
come was reduced from 9\ p.c, to 7 p.c.
What, if any, credit has been taken by
the parent for “News” earnings isn’t
apparent; “rents, interest, etc.,” is the
wording of the manner sundry income of
£18,652 appears.
The board is similarly uninformative
of the exact nature of the assets repre-
sented by shares in this pup, which
account for some £90,000 of the invest-
ment item below:
Paid capital— 1936. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Pref, . . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. . . 377,000 527,800 527,800 527,800
Debentures, etc. 152,251
Overdraft .. 71,002 29,694
Other liabilities 7,385 23,764 24,259 22,638
Tax reserve . . 20,559 28,992 42,949 42,000
Freeholds . . 299,033 314,682 314,682 324,220
Plant, etc. . . 107,385 60,023 46,883 34,388
Stock.. .. 27,159 93,801 49,657 63,187
Shares . . 96,754 121,311 137,651 141,932
Sundry debtors 42,004 47,012 40,190 30,314
Consols, cash, etc. 60,125 28,159 87,821 53,745
During the year the co. set up an emer-
gency plant outside city limits. Only indi-
cation in the accounts is an expansion of
£9538 in property; machinery, etc.,
dropped £12,495 net.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£* & £> £>
1933.. 41,017 6 p.c. = 30,000 11,017 163,624
1934.. 48,638 7 „ „ 35,000 13,638 177,262
1935.. 46,034 7 „ „ 35,000 11,034 188,296
1936.. 57,884 8 „ „ 40,000 17,884 206,180
■ 1937.. 65,089 8 „ „ 40,000 25,089 231,269
1938.. 50,047 71 „ „ 41,240 8,807 240,076
1939.. 47,910 7',, „ 38,500 9,410 249,486
1940.. 53,226 7 „ „ 38,500 14,726 264,212
1941.. 43,908 7 „ „ 38,500 5,408 269,620
1942.. 37,732 6 ~ „ 33,000 4,732 274,352
In war as in peace, the jumbuck is
proving one of the main supports of the
Australian economy, thanks to the British
wool deal, which, an average 13.4 d. per
pound for three years, goes up another
2d. for the fourth and subsequent year
of hostilities. The increase comes at a
handy time for growers, brokers and,
seeing the way other primary exports
have slumped, for the Commonwealth’s
sterling balances, for wool is paid for
whether shipped or not. And the local
controlling body, the Central Wool Com-
mittee, is an example of efficiency which
other departments of war administration
might well copy.
While operating in Queensland, Winch-
combe’s is stronger in N. S. Wales,
where three-fourths of its wool business
is done. Of this, 35,744 bales last term
passed through Newcastle, fast becoming
the consignment centre for north and
nor’-west producers and where the co. put
up a fine new woolstore the previous year.
Despite the influence of the dry season
on sheep yardings, expanded clientele is
apparent in the lift of 2725 bales of wool
handled in the two States :
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1934 206,277 442,078 20,447
1935 ~ 233,840 426,674 25,457
1936 .. 210,640 365,724 28,736
1937 .. 238,473 458,439 32,725
1938 .. 213,801 423,573 44,919
1939 ~ 207,354 395,256 29,272
1940 .. 259,596 434,870 28,500
1941 . . 239,856 504,617 17,346
1942 . . 242,581 493,326 18,931
The produce section again recorded
“gratifying turnover,” too, and the
machinery department, where supplies
are a difficulty, “contributed satisfac-
torily.” Problems of management and
storage added to costs, but, as in the pre-
vious year, the contraction of £6176 in
net earnings is declared due to larger but
undisclosed tax reservations. These re-
duced the earning rate on capital to 6.8
p.c., compared with 8, 9.6, 8.7, 9.1 and
13 p.c. back to 1937, prosperous days for
industrialists and pastoralists alike. A
point was chipped off the div., reducing
it to Depression’s minimum: Deprecia-
tion charged was £4267.
Good war clips and prices, with prompt
settlements therefor, have reduced the
demand for accommodation:
1937. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Capital . . £500,000 £650,000 £550,000 £550,000
Liabilities . . 510,121* 568,622 513,336 479,390
Freeholds . . 200,624 200,624 257,173 255,901
Plant.. .. 10,108 16,452 17,493 15,618
Stocks . . 37,474 65,775 71,642 77,821
Advances, etc. 1,001,552 1,107,380 989,041 944,045
Investments land
cash .. 11,321 11,851 16,856 26,856
Consignments . 310 - -
* Including £6190 share moneys in advance.
As a war measure, growers are to be
tied to their customary broker. More-
over, to relieve the strain on internal
transport, deliveries into store are to be
staggered, and all consignments must go
to the nearest appraisement centre. The
new procedure commences with the com-
ing shearings, which look like being
heavier, though tighter pressing to save
packs may reduce the number of bales.
As for the less-immediate future, the
British contract continues for a season
after cease-fire and thus provides some
sort of breathing space for adjustment
to whatever conditions may then prevail.
Meantime, American arming is sending
more of the staple into consumption than
was previously anticipated.
Trustees, Executors & Agency Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 8,552 6 p.c. = 8,400 152 132,697
1933.. 9,882 6 „ „ 8,400 1482 134,179
1934.. 11,342 6 ~ „ 8,400 2942 137,121
1935. 12,510 6 „ 8 400 \ 2no 139>231
To provident fund, £2OOO j
1936.. 13,844 7 p.c. = 9,800 4044 143,275
1937.. 15,131 8 „ „ 11.200 3931 147,206
1938.. 15,204 10* „ ~14,000 1204 148,410’
1939.. 15,305 8„ ~ 11,200 7 __ 147 515
Written off, £5OOO .. )
1940.. 14,005 8 p.c. = 11,200 2805 150,320
1941 14,039 8 „ „ 11,200 2839 153,159
1942.. 11,363 7J„ ~10,500 863 154,022
* Including 2 p.c. diamond jubilee bonus.
War has added to the burdens on the
trustee’s shoulders, and introduced some
nice points of law —for example, the divi-
sion of A.R.P. and similar exoenditu’-e
between income and corpus. The T., E.
and A. is the oldest and second-largest
of its kind in the Commonwealth. It set
up in Melbourne under the guidance of
Colin Templeton in 1878, and is now
established in N. S. Wales as well, where
business is coming along particularly
nicely. But, despite growing business,
war-time restrictions and the caution of
investors have tended to slow up realisa-
tion of estates, while in forcing down in-
terest rates, etc., monetary policy has
also bitten into income commissions.
Taken into account with the trend of
taxation and the way legislative compli-
cations, etc., have added to outgoings,
it explains the down-turn of profits since
1939.
Rates and taxes on the Melbourne and
Sydney office premises and the co.'s
property investments have been par-
ticularly onerous; £6628 in 1940, they
mounted to £11,195 in 1941 and to
£15,094 last year. Hence most of the
addition to costs shown in this analysis:
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income.* Exes. Income.
1920.. £13,533,081 £41,924 £25,538 60.9 p.c.
1930.. 23,574,354 76,260 54,373 71.3 „
1933.. 27,009,070 69,260 58,378 86.0 „
1935.. 28,328,553 73,818 61,308 83.0 „
1936.. 28,879,927 76,540 62,696 81.9 „
1937.. 29,399,725 86,672 71,541 82.5 „
1938.. 30,615,311 87,913 72,709 82.6 „
1939.. 30,283,146 94,375 79,070 83.8 „
1940.. 31,379,997 93,550 79,545 85.0 „
1941.. 31,952,948 97,453 83,414 85.6 „
1942.. 33,019,984 99,892 88,529 88.6 „
* After providing for contingencies.
Exes, now include nothing for income
tax, which, with provision for other contin-
gencies, is deducted before declaring gross
earnings. The profit of £11,363 slipped
£2676 to 8.1 p.c. on capital, against 10,
10 and 10.9 p.c. for the three years before.
A half-point was lopped off the div.,
making it p.c., and the difficulty for
the moment will be to keep it there. The
expansion of £1,067,036 in the volume of
trusts on the books, however, is encourag-
ing, and the movement can be expected
to continue.
Finances show this solid disposition of
funds:
. 1936. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £140,000 £140,000 £140,000 £140,000
Liabilities . . 1,129 6,463
Freeholds . . 120,000 171,735 127,650 127,650
Fittings . . 1,100 4,800 9,000 12,000
Mortgages . . 21,767 6,500 •
Investments,
cash, etc.*.. 149,008 157,211 163,239 165,436
* Including unstated property investments.
Consols and property, lumped together
at £129,000, comprise the investments
portion of the last line of the table ; all
but £3727 of the rest is cash or Govern-
ment deposits.
Berlei, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£/ £/ £ £ £»
1932.. 15,650 4000 8 p.c. = 9,985 1665 39,766
Unexplained reductions, £2300 .. .. 37,466
1933.. 14,675 4000 8 p.c. =10,362 323 37,789
Unexplained additions to reserves, £l5OO. . 39,289
1934.. 19,645 4000 8 p.c. =11,005 4640 43,929
1935.. 19,245 4000 8 ~ ~ 11,005 4240 48,169
Bonus scrip M.L. subsidiary, £2560 . . 50,729
1936.. 25,182 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 7426 58,155
1937.. 25,463 4000 10 „ ~13,756 7707 65,862
1938.. 26,282 4000 10 „ ~13,756 8526 74,388
1939.. 21,278 4000 10 „ ~13,756 3522 77,910
1940.. 23,206 4000 10 ~ ~13,756 5450 83,360
1941.. 28,052 4000 10 „ ~13,75610,296 93,656
To staff fund, £lO,OOO 83,656
Unexplained additions, £2600 . . . . 86,156
1942.. 27,370 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 9,614 95,770
This co. and its associates have given a
good account of themselves, and, subject
to war developments, there is no reason
to suppose that they will not continue to.
The parent and its two Australasian
affiliates —one in Maoriland and the
other in Vic., and both good profit-
earners —supply the women of the Com-
monwealth and the Dominion with most
of their corset and brassiere requirements,
etc. And they have done so for many
years, thanks to the efficiency and enter-
prise of the management and to a little
assistance from the tariff and exchange
in meeting foreign competition. The sub-
sidiary at Slough, near London, which
set up in 1929, hasn’t yet paid a div.,
though the business continues to expand
and profits have been earned. Its greatest
value to the parent to date has been as
buying agent on the supply side, especially
since Japan’s entry into the conflict.
Though war has enabled the co. to
consolidate sales, it has introduced
complications. Some materials used have
to be imported from Britain and the
U.S.A., and the fact that rubber is in-
cluded in their manufacture means that
they will become more expensive and in-
creasingly difficult to obtain, and quality
might suffer, too. In these connections
a glance at balance-sheet figures provides
a little comfort in the stocks item, over
50 p.c. greater than in 1939. Another
difficulty has been depletion of skilled


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COH.ISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
gm
YESItUy
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND CENEHAUNSURfINCE CO LTD.
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. ¥. PERKINS, General Manager
The
"Curvilinear” Concentrating
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
asgwyfe.
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees anu manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
S f water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
L
sn
z
ATTIIIWED TO WAR
Action Stations! The dramatic staccato cry
cuts the silence, and Changes the regular
routine of the ship of war into a war ship—and
the dim grey smudge on the horizon becomes a
definite target to be attacked and destroyed.
So with industry—with all the dramatic tension
of the battleship's order, comes the command
to produce the nation's needs.
One by one the cluttering activities of peace-
time production are laid aside, until the great
ship of industry has cleared her decks for war-
time production.
And E.T.C., famous for the integrity and pre-
cision of its technical products, moves into
industry's front line, and an ever-increasing
stregm of equipment for the nation's need
flows from the machines.
E.T.C. are proud of their share in the national
effort, and to know that each unit produced is
worthy of the company's hall mark —"A
iecnico Product."
lecnico
E. T. C. INDUSTRIES
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. AND RENWICK
LIMITED
ST., MARRICKVILLE &
staff, owing to absorption of both men
and women into war services of one
kind and another. But the position in
this respect is steadily improving, thanks
to the co.’s training department.
Last term, the co. was “engaged on
large war contracts for the fighting forces,
but the policy of the Contracts Board
in fixing prices without reference to our
cost of production or the quality standard
of our products results in all such con-
tracts being unprofitable,” the chairman
says. To fulfil these contracts and con-
serve materials and man-power, the co.
had to limit supplies to the retail trade.
So Government rationing of retail pur-
chases under the coupon system may not
seriously affect turnover.
Savings in exes, largely offset rising
costs, and declared net earnings were only
£682 short of the previous year’s. That
was after deducting staff profit-sharing
divs. but leaving out of the reckoning
an unexplained addition of £2500 to re-
serves. The £27,370 of profit was enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 16.7 p.c.
on ord. canital as against 17.2, 13.7, 12.5,
15.9, 15.3, 15.1 and 11 p.c. back to 1935.
So last year's net earnings could shrink
by over a third and still cover the 10 p.c.
to the ords.
There is nothing to worry about in the
financial structure:
1935. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £190,057 £190,057 £190,057 £190,057
Overdraft .. 32,133 43,023 51,815
Sundry creditors* 9,571 19,194 36,828 40,235
Freeholds . . 60,863 62,792 62,662 62,587
Plant.. 10,563 10,964 11,539 11,084
Investmentsf.. 80,383 89,854 92,367 90,761
Stocks . . 58,848 105,757 133,112 161,778
Book debts . . 34,680 54.507 70,517 53,588
Cash, etc. . . 9,961 4,297 2,254 17,005
* Including- taxation, f Shares in associated cos.
When the books closed more or less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities by
£140,321, up £14,289. Plant, a very im-
portant item in a manufacturing business,
is reported in good condition.
Financial resources of comfortable
dimensions are at the disposal of the
Austral Malay Tin group. So far as they
can be separated, here are available
liquids at June 30 before allowing for
small outside commitments:
Shares
f —Govt. Loans Cash and Austral
Company. British. Aust. Sundries. N.Z.
£ £ £ No.
Austral Malay.. 22,300 4882 41,250*
Austral Amalg... 112,790 27,000 7851 17,500
K. Kamunting.. 39,225 12,000 3122 6,250
Pungah.. ... 136,759 28,000 7575 12,500
Thabawleik .. 133,931 22,000 9944 12,500
* Shares in timnining associates, par value
£188,030, also owned.
All figures are in sterling, and hence sub-
ject to 25 p.c, exchange adjustment when
converted to Australian currency. In
addition, large slabs of F.M.S. and
Straits Settlement war loans are held of
problematical future value. Where these
securities were issued in London, Britain
has promised to keep up interest pay-
ments, but all the Austral Malay group’s
holdings were, unfortunately, taken up in
Kuala Lumpur and Singapore. In a
broad way Britain has also undertaken
to render what assistance she can in re-
building her war-damaged empire, and a
preliminary claim has been lodged with
the Colonial Office. Eventual resumption
of operations will partly depend on the
damage to equipment; in some cases
dredging reserves may not make the costs
of reconstruction worth incurring.
* * * *
Abrupt shrinkage in earning power is
recorded by Edna May Amalg. at Wes-
tonia (W.A.) in the year to June, profits
coming down from £42,021 to £11,392,
and nothing was sent out to keep the
initial 6d. div. in the previous term com-
pany. Reduced throughput and mineral
content of the ore combined to send gold
yields toppling by £42,000, and in both
directions the position has become worse
since the close of accounts. Latest return
over the plates was down to 4^dwt.
* * * *
On its capital of £70,000, Adelaide-run
Snowy River Gold Dredging (M.L.)
netted £39,612 in the year to June. It
compares with £9213 for the initial 51
months, and reflects a sharp lift in recov-
eries from 1.63 gr. to 3.1 Igr. Four 6d.
dividends absorbed £28,000. With a
1,000,000-c.y.-p.a. plant, co. is one of the
largest of the “mosquito fleet” on the
South Island’s west coast. The area with
which it began was estimated to contain
121 million c.y. of mostly Bd.-12|d. wash
(gold at £7 10s. an ounce), and was sub-
sequently extended by a fifth. The pros-
pectus spoke of annual profits of £30,000
for the first six years, and £14,000 p.a.
for the next half-dozen.
* * . * *
After a half-century of working,
Maude and Yellow Girl at Glen Wills
(Vic.) is producing on a larger scale than
ever. Battery capacity was increased to
20,000 tons last year, but insufficient labor
was available to lift throughput to more
than 14,880 tons (up 75 p.c.). Though
there was a reduction in yield from
10.6‘dwt. to 7.3dwt., profit went up from
£6BOO to £14,146 owing mainly to re-
stricted development (£5225, down
£6230). Development footage, in fact, was
some 60 p.c. less, but ore reserves were
well maintained at 83,000 (down 4100)
tons. Despite the labor position, the size
of these raises hopes that the battery may
continue to crush on a two-shift (900-
1000 tons a month) basis by concentrat-
ing on sloping, and, whatever depletion
now takes place, the proving of the ore-
carrier down to No. 9 horizon is the
encouraging thing for the future. A first
interim of sixpence a share goes out this
month; the corresponding payment last
year, when the full rate was 2s. 6d., was
a shilling.


STATE
*
I:
m
EXPRtS*
m
>S:wf:
EEEEC
a few less in your case
ft/pr
It doesn’t need many
“smokes” to be saved to
provide a few more bullets
for the men who are de-
fending you and all you
possess. Cut down on un-
necessary expenditure . . .
be proud to deny yourself.
This is your war ... so
save all you can to savo
all you have!
Subscribe NOW to the
£100,000,000
AUSTERITY LOAN
Advance Subscription* may be made new.
Interest accrues from Date of Subscription.
OR BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
“ "»*■
Business, Rollery, etc.
“Social Security’*
Australia’s latest “Lasseter’s Reef” is
the search for “social security.” It is
something that has been wished on us
by Labor politicians, and it had a great
impetus from the activities of the Labor
Government in Maoriland. The catch-
cry of “social security” is mainly sales-
talk for the security of politicians’ seats,
It is good political camouflage. Maori-
land, after several years of indulgence
in a “new social order,” has realised its
shortcomings and is facing up to the
realities of war and its probable after-
math far more realistically than Australia
is doing under the present Government,
There is no such thing as absolute
security—never has been and never will
be. The greatest problem of the rich man
is how to equip his sons to carry on
where he left off. However much wealth
he may be able to pass on to his children,
their destiny will be largely controlled by
their character and upbringing, not by
any financial arrangements that may be
made for them in advance. The Ameri-
cans have a saying: “From shirtsleeves
to shirtsleeves in three generations.” It
is not always so, but it is rarely money
that makes it otherwise. It is the essen-
tial character of the breed that counts,
The rich have these problems equally
with the poor. Where children of the
poor have incentive without advantages,
the rich may have advantages without
incentive. Nature and human nature
have the laugh on us always.
Financial security is known by those
associated with finance to be mostly a
myth. Few men can retire from work in
security however well they may have pro-
yided for just that event. Money invested
in a successful enterprise may disappear
when the progress of events causes the
enterprise to be unsuccessful. In the past
it was customary in N. S. Wales to put
money into gas cos. for safekeeping and
a moderate rate of income. Political in-
terference has ruined N. S. Wales gas-co.
scrip as a trustee security; dividend
rates have fallen and so has the value of
shares,
There is uncertainty in every invest-
ment, in every class of employment,
Money in the bank and in life-assurance
policies has lost 4s. in the £ of its value
by inflation since the beginning of the
present war. There has been a rush to
buy property as a result, and the Gov-
ernment has announced that it is taking
action to prevent speculation in real
estate. Of course, it is only a few years
since property was a drug in the market
and a moratorium introduced to protect
property-owners from foreclosure by
mortgagees. At this period mortgages
slumped into disrepute, too, especially
in N. S. Wales, where the personal-
liability covenant was deleted by statutory
action on the part of J. T. Lang’s Gov-
ernment. Shares in industrial companies
go up and down in price, and their profits
and dividends fluctuate. At the present
time shares are subject to the burden of
Government restriction on dealings and
to heavy special taxation. What holders
of these shares expected a couple of
years ago has all been changed by war
and internal political developments since,
In successful investment a great factor
is quality, as intelligent and skilled men,
of the management of the investment
selected. A company doing an essential
job that is well managed by men awake
to the realities, the snares and the delu-
sions of the world is a better thing to
invest in than, say, a business that was
good once, but the management of which
has since run to fat and lacks initiative,
In a world of men and women it is active,
intelligent men and women who are the
great force. Their intelligence, their
character and their energy are the best
guarantees of their security, economically
and otherwise.
If there can be no such thing as
assured security for the “rich,” it is
equally true of the “poor.” Australia has
very few of either of these extreme social
conditions, but the people in between are
in the same circumstances. The Govern-
ment cannot by any redistribution of
wealth, by any new order, guarantee free-
dom from want to anybody. A “want-
less” man is a dead one.
Australia has spent a lot of time on the
question of giving its citizens a fair deal
as amongst themselves. It has an elaborate
system of industrial arbitration, in this
respect being more advanced than any
other country in the world, but, having
achieved this, representatives of “the
workers” are no longer satisfied with
arbitration-court decisions; they want
more and more. What has happened is
that the natural desire for improving
their living state has been diverted, by
virtue of the lack of individualism in
our present way of life, into an unreason-
ing craze to squeeze out of the “bosses”
all the things they feel they are missing
even where rigid trade-unionism (such
as the prohibition of piecework) is prob-
ably the real cause for the dead-end at
which they find themselves.
It is entirely futile for Australians to
be given the idea that by a stroke of the
pen or by legislative assent they can get
more living essentials and comforts out
of Australia than Australians themselves
produce. The “wealthy,” in total, extract
very little more than their share out of
the national production pool, and to
spend much time or to risk economic
revolution merely in order to get a re-
shuffle of “rights” and call it a “new
order” is largely an unreasoning and un-
profitable waste of time.
There never was a worse time than
now to propagate theories of improved
living standards at the expense of others
or to encourage the idea that “social
security” can be given to people. Aus-
tralia is engaged in a desperate fight
with alien enemies, and the burden
on the entire community is enor-
mous. It is inevitable that all shall
suffer; immediate “social benefits” can
now be conferred only at the expense of
the war effort and the future stability of
the Commonwealth. The war effort and
economic stability are things that must
not be risked if even present standards
of life are to be maintained. In chasing
the shadow we risk losing much of the
substance.
It was R. G. Menzies who said “I
weary sometimes of talk about the new
world which appears to assume that it
will be a world in which we shall cease
to be red-blooded men, and shall become
tame mice, feeding on the communal
grain.” Any Australian worth his salt
will, like Menzies, turn in disgust from
any such a picture after a little thought.
But our trouble today is that we don’t
think enough along straightforward,
human lines. All sorts of false doctrines
and false friends assail us; there is no
employment for paid champions among
a people who are reasonably contented,
so, like the shyster lawyer who eventu-
ally convinces a perfectly well person
that he has been extensively damaged by
a bump from a motor-car, the profes-
sional agitator convinces unionists and
other voters that they have a grievance
against the “bosses,” however vague and
uncertain those “grievances” and “bosses”
may in fact be.
The harping on “social security” falls
into the category of political agitation
and eyewash. Social conditions can be,
and will be, improved, but improvement
can only come from the people as a body.
It will come from development of char-
acter and intelligence more than any-
thing else; from the cultivation and en-
couragement of self-expression. There is
nothing in the idea that social conditions
will be improved by the creation of mil-
lions of parasites. When the Australian
is able adequately to express himself poli-
tically and industrially he will be getting
somewhere. At present he is being kidded
up a gum-tree.
The opening date of the Austerity loan
has been fixed for Nov, 3. It will close
not later than Dec. 15. It is to be a par
issue, with optional types of securities —
a five-year issue will carry 2\ p.c,, and a
16-year stock will bear 3i p.c. These
terms are identical with the previous loan.
For the duration of the uniform taxation
plan a rebate of 2s. in the £ of interest
received will be allowed by the Federal
authorities. Application for either type
of security offered may be made now,
and £lO bonds are available.
• # * *
While a bill authorising the raising of
£2OO million of loan money this year
was passing through the House last week
Mr. Fadden said he hoped the Treasurer
would “be successful in convincing the
people to subscribe expeditiously to the
loan.” This produced a yap from Cal-
well, who is becoming as aimlessly talka-
tive as Ward and Falstein used to be,
to the effect that “it would seem that
some Opposition members hoped to see
the loan fail in order that compulsory
loans might be introduced.” To which
Fadden replied; “We do not hope tha:
it will fail.” But if anything should go
amiss with the tremendous task of bor-
rowing £3OO million it can be taken as
read that anything except the witless and
gutless financial policy of the Govern-
ment itself will be readily blamed by
members of the Government who pander
to the wishful thinking and self-indul-
gence of their constituents.
« * * «
“Beardy”: In a tram ride westward
out of Sydney one passes seven pubs in
the last stop to the railway. Around the
corner there are again seven pubs, plus
a wine bar by the time the next stop is
reached. Man-power? Bank branches
closed; pubs still open.
H* * * *
For October (and later) ration tickets
Pool Petroleum Pty. will restrict bulk
deliveries of petrol to industrial users to
those taking at least 200 gallons a month.
Minimum delivery to service stations will
be 500 gallons at a time. Conservation
of transport facilities, including rubber
tyres, is the chief reason.


IN HIS BUDGET SPEECH
the Treasurer of the Commonwealth said:
‘Wo selfish thought of personal comfort
should divert us from the grim task that
lies ahead. By vigorous self-denial every-
one can play a useful part in winning the
War. The Government calls upon all
Australians for a maximum contribution .”
Life Assurance premiums are a big factor in War Finance.
Practically the whole of this Company’s income after providing
for necessary outgo is made available for War purposes.
Every premium payer is an indirect subscriber to Loans raised
for the prosecution of the War and the defence of Australia.
Policyholders can help by prompt payment of premiums in
order to avoid the expense of second Notices.
The Australian Metropolitan certainly plays a useful part,
for 54.2% of its Total Funds is invested in Common-
wealth Stock.
Australian Metropolitan Life
Assurance Company Limited.
(Incorporated in Qld. 1895.)
Sydney Brisbane Melbourne Adelaide.
BEHIND THE WHEEL#
S
m
x;
m
INDUSTRY
Australia's remarkable development in Industry—the
huge production of ammunition —tanks—planes—guns—
ships and all the essentials of a country at war, stands
behind the men in the battle zone.
For efficient operation, the wheels of Industry must be
protected against wear, and for this purpose special oils
and greases have been developed Industry depends on
Lubrication —Scientific Lubrication.
Shell plays a vital part in providing these essential
Lubricants that keep the wheels of Industry forever
turning.
YOU CAN BE SURE OF
SI£LLt""OIL
7 i's Diafr-Tbee
IHt JHUI COMPANY OP AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorpora led in England) iq^27E
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
Because of speculation in land, flats
and houses, regulations to restrict trans-
fers of real estate have been gazetted.
“Very good reasons” will have to be
given for any sale, but bona fide pur-
chases of homes will be allowed. The
onus of obtaining consent to a sale has
been placed on the buyer instead of the
seller, but both will have to approach
the Treasurer. It will be remembered
that a bah was placed on land sales on
February 19, subsequently relaxed to
allow transactions in country lands where
the selling price was not more than 10
p.c. above a “fair and reasonable price
on February 10, 1942,” with the addi-
tional provision that in the case of city
and metropolitan properties the vendor
must have owned the land for at least 12
months. The Treasury now announces
that “valuations will be subject to close
scrutiny, and the present system of
appointing approved valuers, which has
not proved satisfactory, will be amended.”
Many “approved valuers” are to be
“weeded out,” and only those holding a
certificate of approval will be allowed
to act under the regulations.
* * ♦ *
The Federal Ministry has agreed to
accept the recommendations of the all-
party committee on recent income-tax
legislation. Clause 9 of the Income Tax
Assessment Bill allows a deduction for
loss on sale or revaluation of buildings
erected or acquired for war work. The
committee recommends that losses by
taxpayers in vacating old premises for
new in pursuance of the war effort be
also allowed. Clause 12 allows deduc-
tions for A.R.P. expenditure except where
the outlay results in enduring benefit. It
is recommended that the Board of
Referees (Company Tax) attend to dis-
putes in this connection. In calculating
the undistributed-profits tax of a public
co., taxes allowed as a deduction in
future may be taken as either paid or
payable at the election of the taxpayer,
as in the case of private cos. In view of
the abolition of State tax (as such),
where the “payable” provision has been
availed of it is to be the practice to allow
4s. in the £ as a deduction for 1942-43
only in lieu of the usual allowance of
State tax paid.
* * * •
Anthony, M.H.R., formerly Minister
for Commerce in the Menzies-Fadden
period, brought up the matter of increased
prices for butter in Canberra last week.
He asked for at least 3d, a pound more
on Australian and overseas sales. He
added that “whatever is done needs to
be done quickly, and whether the in-
crease is made by way of price to the.
consumer or Treasury subsidy, unless
help comes quickly it will be too late.”
Man-power difficulties were also stressed.
During a period in which costs generally
have risen by about 20 p.c. and in which
seasons have been mostly adverse the
price of butter in Australia has been
lifted by 6 p.c. or so and the export price
has not been revised at all. The wages
of city workers have been raised 18 p.c.
since war began.
The wholesale price of butter in N. S.
Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Tas-
mania is at present 1665. lOd. a hundred-
weight, or Is. s|d. a pound. South Aus.
and Westralia fix their own prices under
an equalisation scheme, with minor varia-
tions from the figures of the eastern
States. The present price in eastern Aus-
tralia compares with 140 s. per hundred-
weight (Is. 3d.) fixed in May, 1934, There
was a lift in June, 1937, to 1495. 4d.
(Is. 4d.), and another a year later to 158 s.
Bd. (Is. 5d.). On March 6 this year the
Prices Commissioner granted an extra
-g-d. a pound, making the hundredweight
price 1665. lOd. Exports to Britain since
October, 1939, have been on the basis of
110 s. sterling (1375. Aust.) f.o.b, Aus-
tralian ports.
Latest estimate of Australian butter
production for 1941-42 is 3,389,000 cwt.,
against 3,875,000 cwt. in 1940-41. A steep
decline has taken place from the figure
of 4,239,000 cwt. in 1939-40. On the aver-
age, 77.6 p.c. of Australia’s recorded milk
production is turned into butter, 5 p.c.
into cheese, 3.6 p.c. into preserved milk
and 13.8 p.c. is used in its natural form.
♦ ♦ * *
Man-power difficulties and costs-
inflation are bearing heavily on producers
in the country areas, and the fact that
dazzling rates of overtime are being paid
to city workers has made the difficulty of
getting help even worse. The big city
vote has always made conditions harder
than they need to be for the farmer.
* * * #
Under the war-time company tax pro-
visions the minimum on which tax may
be levied in the case of airline cos. is 6
p.c. on capital and reserves. In respect
of tinmining cos. the minimum is 8 p.c.
The general exemption fate for the tax is
5 p.c,< on capital employed.
* * * *
Mr. Dedman’s department will shortly
require applications to be made for a
permit before new manufacturing opera-
tions of any kind may be begun.
* V » •
There has been a further big addition
to the Federal Government’s bank-credit
debt. During the week to Sept. 28 the
inflation was just under £5 million, and
that followed an expansion of £6.6 mil-
lion in the preceding week. These figures
must be of an abnormal nature, possibly
in anticipation of relief by public-loan
receipts later; otherwise about £3OO mil-
lion a year is the present rate of going-to-
the-bad on Commonwealth Bank loans.
The total owing at Sept. 28 was £136.1
million. At the same date the note issue
stood at £111.6 million. War-time de-
posits by the trading banks with the
central bank are now up to £43.4 million.
* * * *
Money is still being rushed into the
savings banks. During August there was
a rise of £7.5 million, taking the total to
the record figure of £290 million —up £3l
million (12.1 p.c.) compared with a year
ago. In the last five months of the year
the lift accounted for £3O million of the
total rise. But subscriptions to war-
savings certificates remain miserably dis-
appointing. So much for the “voluntary”
system of getting war funds from highly-
paid war-workers.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton’s Victorian sub-
sidiaries have come into full and satis-
factory production. The co. has raw-
material problems and costs are rising,
but skilful management is helping in
maintaining the 10 p.c. div.
* !S * *
Div. of Australasian Paper and Pulp
for the year has dropped to 6 p.c. on the
ord. shares. In the preceding term the
rate was 8 p.c. The operating co. has an
extraordinary demand for its products at
the present time, but raw material is
scarce and waste paper is dear, with the
result that full advantage of the available
market cannot be taken. Taxation at
present rates means that unless gross
profits are greater than before the war
net earnings must be considerably lower.
The future of the Australian Paper
Manufacturers group is quite solid-
looking, and buyers are eager but sellers
difficult to find.
$ 3{C 9{C $
Huge and growing war carryover
stocks are a feature of the wheat situa-
tion. In Australia, where acreage has
been cut 25 p.c., these were not very
much below a normal harvest at 122
million bushels in July, and that figure
was dwarfed by the combined 1253-
million-bushel accumulated surplus of
the U.S., Canada and the Argen-
tine, in aggregate up from 249 million
bushels since the same period of 1938.
Uncle Sam alone is faced with the pros-
pect of adding another 280 million
bushels to export and carryover balances
from the harvest now being gathered, and
because of the insignificant level of
present exports the Commonwealth looks
like having to foot an immediate
£18,000,000 deficiency on the marketing
of its 1942-43 crop. The«recent restric-
tive agreement between the four pro-
ducers mentioned, with John Bull present
as consumers’ rep., is seen as a first step
towards the comprehensive international
co-operation that appears called for.
? $ ♦
At the annual meeting of the New
Zealand Insurance Co. the chairman
stated that “the yield on recent issues of
New Zealand Government stock is on
the average 18s, per cent, net of tax to
the company.”
• * * *
The Mortgage Bank is to be referred
to a joint Parliamentary committee. Mr.
Curtin says the committee will be asked
to do its work “as quickly as possible.”
* * * *
The name of F. Kanematsu (Australia)
Pty., Ltd,, has been changed to J. Gunton
(Australia) Pty., Ltd. Jack Gunton, an
Australian with 37 years’ association with
the old co. (it set up here in 1890 in the
general merchandising business, includ-
ing woolbuying), is managing director,
and F. T. Woods and L. E. Hill (both
with about 30 years’ service) are the other
directors. When Kanematsu died he be-
queathed the Australian business to his
employees, and there have been other
changes of associations since the war with
Japan. The Maoriland subsidiary will
henceforth trade as J. Gunton (N.Z.),
Ltd.


THE SERVICE MAN
Advance from Moresby.
“Ek Dum”: The results of last week’s
operations in Papua are in keeping with
General Blarney’s statement of the posi-
tion on September 15. They are
highly encouraging, though thus far
there has been nothing decisive about
them, nor has their full nature been
revealed.
The Japanese made synchronised
moves to establish themselves both facing
Moresby and on its eastern flank at
Milne Bay. It was hard to believe that
they intended to play for a main stake
at this time of year, bringing up heavy
supplies over mountains impassable in
places for even mules. Their objective
may have been to test Allied strength,
command the road to Moresby
approaches during the wet season and,
regardless of loss and suffering of coolie
labor, build something like a road or
roads before April brings better cam-
paigning weather. By that time, they
might expect to have carried sufficient
supplies for a major campaign, if their
sea war did not go wrong.
It is also on the cards that the enemy
proposed to draw strong bodies of Aus-
tralians over the foothills, while the
powerful naval forces known to be
around the Coral Sea, Bismarck and
Solomon areas acted in concert with his
land forces. The two or three sharp little
lessons which the Nipponese Navy re-
ceived may have made its leaders
cautious.
The known facts are that, so soon as
the Japanese reached the crucial point in
the defence of the ranges, they found
advance morrsntarily impossible or at
least inadvisable. They found, in fact,
something which they had never before
faced in the Philippines, Hong Kong,
Malaya or Burma battle-seasoned
troops well supplied on the ground,
backed by 25-pounders and generally
superior artillery, served with experi-
enced tommy-gun detachments. They
found these troops for the first time sup-
ported by a proper quota of aircraft of
the right kind, including a squadron of
the new Beaus, Britain’s double-engined
Bristol night-fighters, which have proved
themselves over France and in Libya.
The Beau is a machine which, in size
and range, compares with the light
bombers of the Beaufort type, but which
has the manoeuvrability and speed of a
front-rank fighter of Hurricane level. It
is not an easy machine to handle save
for experienced men, but it has shown
itself one of Britain’s finest war weapons.
It is a pretty good bomber which can
either run successfully from or fight a
Beau,
The Beau’s presence was supplemented
with that of an even more important
weapon—R.A.F. Australians, who have
faced the best of the Luftwaffe and sur-
vived. One has a growing feeling that
the dying down of much of the Japanese
raiding has specifically been due to losses
inflicted by newly-arrived and experienced
Australian personnel.
Twenty-nine Miles in Six Days
The first move which proved that the
Australian forces had the initiative in
the Moresby area was the advance at the
beginning of the week in the loribaiwa
ridge section. This was on a spur round
the village, and had been as strongly for-
tified by the Japanese as could be done
with the material at hand. They had dug
trenches, laid down log barricades and
set the usual traps. The position was
strong in defence possibilities, as inces-
sant probing for a fortnight by Austra-
lian patrols showed.
It was, however, a forward position ;
not a main one by defensive standards.
On September 30 South-west Pacific
H.Q. announced:
loribaiwa Ridge has been captured by
our troops. The enemy is retiring in the
direction of Nauoro, 10 miles to the north.
Quantities of supply and equipment were
abandoned by him and are in our hands.
The position was one of natural strength
and had been prepared for defence with
barricades, obstructions and field trenches.
Allied medium bombers attacked enemy
rear positions near Manari.
The Australian force, heralded by
considerable bombing and strafing, of
which it was difficult to see the results
because of the nature of the country,
then moved forward the 10 miles to
Nauoro.
Here it was expected that the enemy
would make a main stand. Attack
bombers and fighters fired over 35,000
rounds, most of heavy ammunition, and
dropped 250 bombs in the area a few
miles behind the Japanese apparent front-
line, around Menari, Kagi and Efogi.
Bombers also continued their attempts to
destroy the Wairopi bridge—seven heavy
wooden spans—which the enemy had
built across the Kumusr River halfway
between Kokoda and Buna,
But a bomber which explored the
whole of the track across the ranges re-
ported little enemy activity on the route.
All the movement seemed to be behind
Nauoro, which was captured without a
fight and without contact with the main
body of the enemy.
The enemy had abandoned more sup-
plies and equipment, though not in any
heavy quantities. He left behind some
of his dead as he retired to Menari,
where fires advertised the activities of
Australian bombers. The return of a full
complement of R.A.A.F. squadrons
proved that there was not much in the
way of air resistance.
By the end of the week Australian
troops had captured Menari and had
gone on past Efogi to the mouth of the
Gap, having moved forward about 27
miles in six days. The latter part of
their advance was up steeply rising
ridges, but they found no defence posi-
tions and met only enemy stragglers.
Raids and More Raids
While the advance continued air forces
were able to hammer both the Owen
Stanley communication lines and the
enemy-held ports without reprisal or
even effective resistance. The strafing of
the supply lines can be no joke for the
enemy—apart from the Beau squadron,
Airacobras, which carry .37mm. cannon,
are being used, in conjunction with For-
tresses and other heavy bombers.
Buna, Salaraaua, Buka and other north
Solomon enemy bases, and particularly
Rabaul, have been attacked again and
again. Rabaul Harbor has long been
full of shipping, which makes a
tempting target. The main raid of the
past week was reported in the commu-
nique of Oct. 3. Allied heavy bombers
attacked the shipping in Blanche Bay
(Rabaul) by night on an uproarious scale.
Two transports, one of 15,000 tons, the
other of 7000 tons, were set on fire by
direct hits —the larger one collected two
bombs fairly and squarely and was last
seen belching smoke for 3000 feet into
the air. Ships of this size are scarce in
Japan—the largest Jap liners are in the
region of 17,000 tons.
A cruiser and another vessel were be-
lieved to have been hit, and an ammuni-
tion dump on the aerodrome was blown
up. A second cruiser was attacked,
though with unknown results.
Beauforts dispersed and apparently hit
three cruisers and some transports off
Faisi (Solomons) on Saturday, and on
Monday and Thursday cruisers and de-
stroyers had been attacked.
So far so good, but the whole situa-
tion in the north needs to be viewed with
caution. There is no doubt that the
enemy has large naval, land and mer-
cantile marine resources in the Bismarcks
and Solomons. Some American sources
say that there are still 10,000 of the
enemy on Guadalcanal.
North-west
Off the north-west, Tokyo reports new
landings at Saumlakki and Larrat in the
Tanimbar Islands, only 200 miles from
the Australian coast; at Dobu, on the
Arus, less than 200 miles from the s.-w.
Papuan coast, and the Kei Islands close at
hand. The communique added: “Occu-
pation of the entire area of the Arafura
Sea is now complete.”
In Tokyo there seems to be a growing
preoccupation with the affairs of Asia.
A new advance has begun against
Chinese-held areas in Chekiang.
Hitler has awarded New Guinea to
the Japs. He said in Berlin a week ago
that they would take it. Mere idle brag-
ging no doubt. All the same, any think-
ing which fails to realise that the Pacific
war is only in its initial stages is loose
and dangerous thinking.
Mr. Curtin’s Summary
Mr. Curtin made it clear in his radio
speech on Oct. 4 that the Allies in the
Anzac zone are still on the defensive.
He said; —•
They [the Allied commanders] are hold-
ing on; the men in New Guinea are holding
on; the men of the Air Force are holding
on with far below the numbers of fighting
power and aircraft they would like to have;
the men of the R.A.N. are still holding on
while mourning the Sydney, Perth and
Canberra. The enemy strikes now at
Moresby. We are staging a holding fight,
and must hold there, and wherever else
the enemy strikes us, for at least six
months the period which has been
placed upon the span between our position
today and a situation in which —should
events be favorable —we can look forward
to an accretion of strength that will enable
us to start the march that must go on
unhalted to victory.
He reminded his hearers that, though it
was seven months since Singapore fell,
the enemy had not progressed beyond
the islands north of Australia.
In the North Pacific Area
The week saw considerable activity in
the North Pacific. U.S. submarines in
Far Eastern waters sank five more Jap
ships, probably sank two and damaged
another, and in the Aleutians a sub-
marine and two ships were probably
sunk, two damaged and six “O” fighters
shot down.
U.S. forces have established themselves
in the Andreanov Islands, 250 miles from
Kiska, without resistance, and it is from
here that the attacks on the enemy bases
to the west are being made.
The landing was made in very strong
force, and the convoy which made it
was described as probably the largest
war fleet of American ships ever to sail
the North Pacific.
Dead-game Stalingrad.
“EM Dum”: “We are going to take
Stalingrad—on that you may rely.” Thus
Hitler in a September 30 speech at the
Berlin Sportspalast, his first for a very
long time. “Rest assured,” he added, “that
once we are there nobody will ever get
us out” ; and he said other things which
suggested to sober editors that the Nazis
mean to hang on to their Russian con-
quests —if they can.
At the week-end, however, a section
of Stalingrad was still holding out.
Though their city was to all appearances
doomed, the heroic defenders disputed
every yard of ground, killing Germans
and gaining time. And there were corre-
spondents who saw hope for them in the
developing situation.
One wrote;
The Soviet relief army pushing south
along the Volga has made a new advance.
Morley Richards says it has 10 or 12 miles
to go before reaching the Stalingrad gar-
rison.
Again:
One heavily-armored Russian force is re-
ported to have reached Kachalinskaya, cut-
ting off an important German bridge-
head on the Don.
Unfortunately, Kachalinskaya is about 40
miles from the outer fringes of the city,
instead of 10 or 12 miles from the garri-
son.
A second relief drive was said to be
coming up the Volga from Astrakhan.
The real movements can be pieced
together somewhat as follows: The main
German drives have come from the south
(Kotelnikovo) and across the Don in the
centre of Kalach. These two points have
been remote from the chance of inter-
ruption either from the north or across
the Volga. Doubtless, the Germans have
been using the Don itself as a highway
on a fairly large scale, transporting barges
all the way from the Black Sea or the
Azov Sea or from Tsymlyanskaya.
Their operations in Stalingrad have
been in the nature of breaking down the
Russian resistance section by section.
On Sept. 26 12 days after the inner
defences of the city were first pierced,
all that remained in Russian hands was
part of the northern industrial area. This
was surrounded on three sides, cut off
from the ruined remains of the city itself
in the south, which were in German
hands.
A deep German wall lay across its
road and railway communications with
the north. Its only communications with
the outside world were by air or across
the Volga ferries.
On Sept. 29 the enemy claimed to have
captured the vast Red October Tank
Factory, the principal works in the north,
after ferocious hand-to-hand battles.
Moscow reported that “the workers’
settlement in the north-west is firmly
held,” though it was admitted that on
the previous day “violent battles were
raging for the top of a hilly street which
would bring the Volga ferries under Ger-
man artillery fire.” The Germans claimed
at the week-end to have won the strategic
height.
The last phases of the fight for the
extreme north-western extremities of the
city, the only portions still in Russian
hands, were being entered upon at the
week-end.
In the Caucasus
Elsewhere the situation was no better.
Along the Black Sea coast, the Germans
were advancing slowly. Their own story
was that they had reached the suburbs
of Tuapse. The Russians claimed to have
broken into their line of communications
nearly 80 miles north, near Novorossisk.
The enemy was well south of the Terek
River, pushing on through timbered
country and strong fortifications towards
the Grozny oilfields, near the Caspian.
But here, as everywhere else, the Russians
were stoically resisting, though on Oct.
4 they admitted a German break-through
in one sector.
Leningrad
In the north and central sectors the
Russians claimed to have made further
conquests north-west of Rshev ; some of
their forces were even said be west of
the line of the town. The terrain north-
west of Rshev is mostly bog lands.
The enemy claims 12,000 prisoners and
approximately 28,000 Russians killed in
the Ilmen sector. The main interest in
the north centres in Leningrad.
For a year Leningrad has been ringed
save for a period in winter, when a trail
across the ice of Lake Ladoga allowed a
limited communication with the outside
world. The sufferings of the population
must have been terrible. An inside
correspondent has been allowed to say
that cold and starvation have killed
1,000,000 poor inhabitants of the city
founded by Peter the Great.
Fresh German movements have been
reported in the Leningrad area, with an
increase in the divisions in use there and
the replacement of Marshal Von Leeb by
Marshal von Kuechler. The fall of
Leningrad would certainly be an im-
portant factor in releasing from the army
large numbers of Finns, who must now
be hard put to it to find man-power for
their essential industries. It would spell
the end of the Karelian campaign.
Hitler Plans Defensive
Hitler said in Berlin that when he had
completed his programme in Russia (“we
launched the offensive to capture grain
and coal, to capture oil sources or close
them against the enemy, and to cut the
Volga”) he would go on the defensive
in Europe.
Our programme for the next year is,
firstly, to hold on to what we have, and,
secondly, to wait and see who is exhausted
first.
Last year, outlining his plans (Nov. 8),
he said the objectives of his campaign
against Russia were twofold —“the de-
struction of enemy power—that is, enemy
fighting forces—and the occupation of
enemy bases for armament and supply.”
Then, he declared, Germany would
“choke off” Russia; and would defy
Britain to attempt an invasion in the
west, whether in Norway, the Low Coun-
tries or in France.
Referring in his latest outbreak to delay
in the choking-off programme, he pleaded
that “there are only a few months of the
year in which it is reasonable to wage
war in Russia,” and that “immense efforts
have been required to make our supply
lines secure ; everything was destroyed.”
He claims that 75 Russian divisions were
“annihilated” in the Don break-through.
Burma as a Front.
“Ek Dum”: General Wavell being a
mere British general, his remarks in New
Delhi last week were ignored by “com-
mentators.” Perhaps if he had not said
something about Russia and a Second
Front he would not have been reported
at all.
The generalities which he spoke on that
subject were given* pride of place:
“Second Front Soon Possible —Promise
by Wavell.” But all he said was that
“whatever happens, the Russians will
hold out,” and that the Allies are going
to open a Second Front “as soon as pos-
sible,” though he could not tell “when
or where.”
Nobody is more anxious for a Second
Front than we are. It is a biggish prob-
lem to start on the Continent. We will
have very considerable casualties before
we get back on the Continent, but we
will get back.
The real meat of the general’s state-
ment was in his references to Burma.
For here is a battle area for which he
himself is responsible, and in which suc-
cess might have effects greater than even
the establishment of Anglo-American
armies in France. -
Difficulties in Europe
What the Second-Fronters fail to vision
about an invasion of northern Europe is
that at best it could be the beginning of
a Continental war comparable in length
and severity with the Great War of
1914-18, and with new disabilities operat-
ing on a colossal scale against the Allies,
because of the vast growth in weight and
variety of the paraphernalia of armies, the
vaster amount of shipping necessary to
carry it and the infinitely greater diffi-
culties due to the development of air
aggression.
The nature of German defences is
known. The month before war broke


out German magazines published startling
photographs of those fronting the Rhine.
They boasted that every half square
kilometre along the Rhineland road had
its heavy-gun position. Photographs in
“Der Adler,” the official flying paper,
showed vast tank bunkers and air-
and road-defence towers built all along
the highways to guard against strafing
’planes, and to strafe invading traffic in
turn.
Even if the European front could be
established by a miracle this year, it
could not become a real offensive
front till next year, and every month
of delay would place more of Russia’s
resources and more Axis troops from the
U.S.S.R. at German disposal.
There is no room to quarrel with Rib-
bentrop’s grim figures, quoted last week,
which deal with the overrun Russian ter-
ritories. It js beyond dispute that
90,000,000 Russians are under the Ger-
man yoke, along with the whole of the
Russian sugar output areas, two-thirds of
the country’s grain and meat supply, 60
per cent, of coal and 75 per cent, of
metals, while main oilfields are virtually
cut off from the rest of Russia, and by
next year may be yielding for the Axis.
A German victory against Russia,
however, is not triumph in the world
war, though it is alleged that “if Stalin-
grad is lost the world is lost.” All that
Hitler has won in Russia and other parts
of Europe are supplies for the carrying on
of the capital and decisive war, which is
the sea war —the ultimate war against
the British Commonwealth and the
United States.
Hitler must win this sea war or
he is done. If he can’t win it,
and that next year. Allied training of
armies and building of ships and ’planes
will reach such a stage that he might find
Allied control of the Mediterranean and
the Middle East complete and his back
door invaded by land. Germans are not
likely to forget what happened when the
Allies stove in the German rear in the
Balkans in the last war, This time it
might be Italy.
Japan’s Part
The vital nature of the sea war is
recognised in Japan, and a note of anxiety
is creeping into official references to it in
Tokyo, along with boasts that Jap subs,
are operating in the South Atlantic and
the Red Sea.
It has to be admitted that all Japan’s
far-flung campaigns are admirably suited
to Axis strategy.
By maintaining a war in the Middle
East, Germany can keep large quantities
of Allied shipping employed on the long
voyages from Britain and U.S.A. to Suez,
while the Continental Powers can carry
their supplies over only 250 to 400, in-
stead of 12,000, miles of ocean. The
maintenance of war by the Japanese in
a dozen places, each less remote from
Japan and its mainland Asian depots than
from British and American supply
centres, cuts down the usefulness of every
ton of Allied shipping, naval or other-
wise, anything from 30 to 80 per cent.,
as compared with the efficiency of every
ton of Japanese shipping.
The first step in Allied strategy, there-
fore, seems to be to get rid of the
Japanese or to pin them down to a single
main area of combat, at the same time
whittling down Japanese shipping or
making the enemy increase his usage
of it.
A corollary need is to rob the Japanese
as quickly as possible of as many vital
resources which they possess, particu-
larly those resources which they have
taken in their recent campaigns tin,
rubber and oil —before they can build
up stores of them.
These two objectives must be achieved
with the minimum possible usage and
dispersal of Allied shipping—that is, pref-
erably on a land front on which progres-
sive advance means regular military
movement towards the heart of Japan’s
empire and conquered territory.
To Regain Burma
The Burmese front is a logical starting
point. The heavier the drive against
Burma from India, the greater sea, air
and land forces the enemy will be com-
pelled to use in Burma, the easier it will
be to drive him back from Australian
shores or to hold him off while we reach
full striking strength.
It is in the light of this that General
Wavell’s remarks become important,
especially since the supplying of India
and the Middle East and of Australia
and India can be done very largely along
two united channels of sea defence —the
U.S. line to India is only an extension
of that to Australia ; the British one of
that to the Middle East.
Geneivl Wavell sums up the position:
We do not know what Japan is planning,
but she has got her hands full at the
moment. She is like a boa constrictor that
has swallowed a big goat and needs time
to digest it. I do not think Japan wants
to take on anything big at the moment
like an invasion of Australia or India.
The Japanese have been hit heavily in
the Solomons and on other fronts. They
have lost heavily at sea, and I do not
think they are strong enough in the air to
take on a campaign on three fronts —India,
China and Australia—while having to guard
against a potential enemy in Siberia.
From a strategical point of view Burma
is one of the most important bases, since
it opens on to China. It must be retaken
in order to obtain positions from which to
take Japanese bases and also for a drive
on the Japanese themselves.
He concluded that in spite of shipping
losses he was “getting the stuff and build-
ing up the show as quickly as possible.”
The move which would have most im-
mediate effect on the general situation
certainly would be the swift reconquest
of Burma, followed by the reconquest
of Malaya and/or of the region south
of a line through Thailand and Cam-
bodia, from Tavoy to Camranh Bay.
With this achieved or even begun, it
would become a very different war for
Japan and for Australia. The Indian
Ocean once more would fall almost fully
into Allied control, and all enemy commu-
nications southward of Indo-China would
be grimly threatened on the flank. Native
peoples everywhere would be assured
that Japanese brag about invincibility is
mere hot air. Jap “face” would suffer
seriously.
The mean dates for the ending of the
Bengal monsoon are from Oct. 15-30.
Then the dry season begins. This does
not mean that conditions immediately be-
come ideal for campaigning. The Assam
border approaches are terrible country —
largely tropical evergreen forests and
the climate is humid and sticky, much
like that of New Guinea ; but in Novem-
ber and December conditions improve.
And January and February can be
reckoned as comparatively good months.
Campaigning from India at that period
is best. At that period also it is least
easy for the enemy to interfere with
shipping.
Rommel In Germany.
Rommel was at the Sportspalast when
Hitler spoke. He was in a seat of honor
next to Marshal Keitel and was cheered
for seven minutes. While this was going
on a British attack whaled into posi-
tions held by his sorely-tried allies in the
Deir el Menassib sector of the El Alamein
front, south of El Ruweisat Ridge, The
attackers filched two strongpoints from
the enemy, whose Rome spokesman ex-
claimed shrilly that the foe had been
“beaten back gloriously” and that 200
more British prisoners would grace Italian
triumphs! But the British certainly re-
tained the strongpoints.
Rommel protested against British use
of “foreign” troops like the Maoris, who
“simply killed every man they met in
fury.” This had resulted in “unorthodox”
methods of warfare, since the only reply
to this type of fighting was the sternest
kind of action. He declared: “ We are
within 60 miles of Alexandria and hold
the fate of Egypt in our hands. We shall
act presently and will hold on to what
we have. There will be no retreat to
Benghazi.” Rommel asserted that 2500
Allied tanks had been destroyed in North
Africa since July.
Troops in the Middle East.
In a special article “S. M. Herald’s” very
capable correspondent Gavin Long put
the responsibility for various operations
in the Middle East in arithmetical per-
spective :
First Libyan Advance: Wavell took Sidi
Barrani with the 7th British Armored Division,
an Indian Division (brigaded with Scots) and
two brigades of regular British infantry. Bardia,
Tobruk and Derna were taken by Iven Mackay’s
6th Division, with British artillery, tanks and
m.-g. companies, and with the British 7lh
Armored Division on the southern flank. This
7th Armored Division provided the Hussar
force which whacked across the desert 130
miles in a night and cut off the retreating
Italians south of Benghazi, thus ending the
campaign.
Greece: The A.l.F.’s 6th Division, the N.Z.
Division, a British armored brigade and almost
equal parts of British and A.I.F. artillery were
used. Anzacs contributed three parts of the
fighting troops, but only a little more than half
the total .when communication troops were
taken into account —and some of the communi-
cation troops played as heroic a part as any.
They bore as much strafing as the front-liners,
hundreds of whom owe them their lives.
Crete: There were 13,500 Anzacs and 14,000
British troops.
Tobruk: At the outset there were 12,000 Aus-
tralians —residue of the 9th Division after the
retreat from Benghazi, plus a 7th Division
brigade; also 5000 British troops, nearly all
artillery (four regiments) and a.-a. units. There
were 10,000 communication troops, but 4000
were removed in the first two months, during
which an A.I.F. artillery regiment arrived.
During August, an A.I.F. brigade and a British
artillery regiment were relieved by a Polish
brigade group. Troops then were mainly 9000
A.I.F. infantry, 6000 British (chiefly artillery
and tank personnel) and about 6000 communi-
cation men, mostly British.
In November, all the A.I.F. save Lt.-Col.
Burrows’s 13th Battalion, which came out by
land in the end, was relieved by the glorious
British 70th Division.
Syria: The invading force on June 9 was
approximately 10,000 A.1.F., 6200 British and
Indians, 7000 Frenchmen. An Indian Division
of 14,000 attacked northern Syria along the
Euphrates. In three weeks 5300 more A.l.r.
were added; by July 6 there were two more
British brigades of 5000 total.
After July last year, except for the Rats or
Tobruk, only handfuls of Australians took part
in Middle Eastern fighting.
Many of these figures had been pub-
lished before, piecemeal; some in Aus-
tralia and on these pages, but more in
America.
Dieppe.
“Ek D”: Mr. Churchill said on Sept.
8 that most of the assaulting force had
come back. Tackled last week on this
statement, he said he had referred to
“the assaulting force as a whole, most
of which the R.N. brought back. Very
nearly half the total force” was lost.
In effect, the few hours of futile effort
cost something under 7500 gallant men,
among whom were 2770 Canadians killed
or missing. The Canadians carried back
580 wounded—their total casualties were
3350 out of 5000 men.
Little Mr. Shinwell (“Second Front”)
asked whether the report about the per-
formance of tanks had been “encourag-
ing.” The reply was that our tanks “had
been held up by altogether unexpected
strength of blocks at the ends of streets
which, it had been expected, guns
would have been able to destroy.” In
other words, the tanks were no more
successful than the Japanese tanks were
at Milne Bay. The tragedy about such
ventures as Dieppe is that losses cannot
be gauged merely by a statement of
casualty numbers. Those left behind are
the flower of the army—picked men,
every one.
The Cost of Heavy Bombing.
“Ek Dum”; Announced during the
week that heavy raiding over Germany
had been resumed with another attack
on Flensburg after a lull of nine nights.
Submarine plants there were again
attacked. Krefeld in the Rhineland next
had a heavy raid; then Flying For-
tresses and 400 fighters made one of the
biggest sweeps France has seen. The
new Mosquito bombers again were active
and successful in raids over Belgium,
Britain had been free from attack for
six nights in succession, but there was
some light and desultory day raiding. In
one attack in the South of England, a
bomb crashed into a school and killed
28 children, their headmaster and a
woman teacher.
The appearance of one of the new
Heinkel 177 so-called stratosphere
bombers was hailed with a chorus of
wonder and exaggeration. In air circles
a good deal has been known about it for
a long time. According to “authorita-
tive” press information, it operates from
over eight miles high, out of range of
fighters and a.-a. fire, can carry six to
eight tons of bombs and fly to N’York
and back non-stop.
The R.A.F. must be praying that the
enemy will concentrate on this type of
machine instead of building low-altitude
bombers or counters to the Spitfire,
Beau, Mosquito, Typhoon and Hurricane
or torpedo bombers.
Statistics unfortunately continue to
prove that the heavy bomber on any con-
ceivable scale is not likely to win wars,
and that the military damage which it
does scarcely compensates for losses.
The raid on Flensburg cost 17 heavy
bombers. The R.A.F. lost 271 aircraft
on offensive actions in August and 194
in September, when raids decreased in
numbers and scale, including 155
bombers brought down at night.
Axis losses were 25 over Britain and
20 over western Europe. In the Middle
East the R.A.F. lost 91 machines —106
in August; the enemy, 109, against 86
in August.
Those who pin their faith on the sub-
jugation of Germany by air bombing
alone can rule the possibility out. The
supposed “economic” level of loss, five
per cent, of machines, becomes un-
economic when applied to persistent 1000-
bomber or even 500-bomber raids.
Every large-scale 1000-bomber raid
calls for something like 4000 tons of
petrol, which for a month of such raid-
ing works out roughly at 30,000,000
gallons of the highest octane fuel. Loss
of personnel on a 5 p.c. basis for a month
of daily 1000-bomber raids with heavy
machines would work out at round
10,000 highly-skilled airmen per month.
This form of attack is likely to continue
to be confined to specially-important objec-
tives. The Germans apparently found it un-
profitable over Britain when defence was
elementary, compared with what it is to-
day. Yet Britain presents a highly-con-
centrated target which, as to area, is
eight to one in favor of the Germans
when compared with Germany and im-
portant German-occupied territory as a
target for R.A.F. bombing.
So much space is given to the glorifi-
cation of another country that news-
papers haven’t room for appreciation of
the British effort. Still, if it was merely
by way of answering ill-informed and ill-
conditioned squealing and preparing for
the expected advent of Beaufighters, they
might have found a few lines for McEwen,
especially as McEwen was Minister for
the Air. In the early days of the German
war, McEwen said, Britain undertook to
give Australia aircraft running into four
figures, and kept on sending them even
during the blitz. And “if a ship was sunk
on its way to Australia with, say, 40
bombers,” the British
counted the 40 bombers as not having
been supplied, and “the workers of
Britain bent to their task with new energy
and put 40 more bombers on a boat.”
The Old Man has made mistakes in
foreign policy, and has been rather too
prone to let a vague internationalism
dominate his strategy, but no Australian
can ever accuse him of being ungenerous.
* » # ♦
In reporting shipping losses, the enemy
makes mendacity a rule, and this test
must be applied to a Berlin claim that
161 merchantmen of 1,011,700 tons were
sunk in September and 22 more damaged,
together with a large flotilla of destroyers
and other warships. But it is admitted
in the U.S.A. that since December 7 500
Allied merchantmen have been sunk in
the North Atlantic alone, and that number
exceeded a twelvemonth’s U.S.A. con-
struction —“nearly 500 ocean-going cargo
vessels of nearly 5,300,000 tons,” accord-
ing to Churchill.
* * * *
Berlin came out with a declara-
tion that in an attack on a U.S. convoy
in the Atlantic the Viceroy of India
(19,627 tons), Reina del Pacifico (17,702
tons) and Derbyshire (11,660 tons) had
been sunk. Berlin said that the ships
had been equipped to carry 13,000 men,
and U-boats picked up “some prisoners.”
A lot of circumstantial but varying detail
was given. The Admiralty remarked that
the tale was “quite untrue.” It was
pointed out that one lie gave the whole
yarn away—“hard attacks and pur-
suit battles lasted several days.” Even
had they stayed on the surface the Ü-
boats could not have kept up with fast
liners for several days; and below sur-
face their speed would be less than half
that’ of their supposed victims.
* * * *
The Italian mainland has been attacked
104 times by the R.A.F. So Mr. Churchill
revealed last week.
* * *
British air-raid casualties for the first
three years of war included 47,305 civi-
lians killed (20,000 in Greater London)
and 55,658 wounded (26,000 in Greater
London). On all available figures, it
seems that the R.A.F. has already made
Germany pay the price in full and is
now beginning to exact compound
interest.
* * * *
Young Lord Lovat, who commands the
special forces drawn from 58 regiments
which press boys and boyish politicians
hail as “commandos,” took a fall out of
the limelighting Strabolgi, who is nick-
named “Bullfrog.” Strabolgi had been
selling to “Collier’s” his view that British
generals and professional soldiers are a
poor lot (it doesn’t prevent his yelling for
Second-Front slaughter), and Lovat
remarked:
If any tub-thumping politician came
round and attacked my men’s leaders there
would be only one answer —the nearest
horse trough.
Lovat had an ancestor who, in the
days of Jamie the First, coaxed the whole
boiling of troublesome Hebridean chief-
tains into a ship, half filled them with
usquebaugh, suborned a bishop to preach
them to sleep and then kidnapped the
lot on behalf of the Crown. He might
well be invited to visit the Common-
wealth—and bring his horse trough.
* * * *
Negley Farson, casting up in London
from Moscow, “still actively pro-Rus-
sian” but convinced that the Russian
refusal to permit front-line reporting was
“rendering Russia a great disservice,”
wrote that he was fed up with the for-
mula “Sssssh! you mustn’t say a word
against Russia ; people simply won’t have
it.” Then, paying a tribute to the Rus-
sians’ “terrible sacrifice and suffering,”
he wrote;
But I also believe that if the Royal Air
Force had not fought the Battle of Britain
the way it did there would have been no
more Russia.
You never hear anything about the
R.A.F. or the Battle of Britain from our
Second-Front-in-Europe gang.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Sydney survived its first raceless Satur-
day very well. It went to the beaches, to
the Cricket Ground, to the Coogee Oval,
and some even were studious and, accord-
ing to the newspapers, went to two-up
schools. So everybody was busy, and
Satan couldn’t find any idle hands to do
his mischief. The earnest A.R.P. worker
(heaven bless him) was busy on his job
of getting prepared. Suburban gardeners
shook their heads sadly at the torrid sky.
People got married, or gave parties for
others about to be married. One such
was Mrs. Tom Bateman, who gave an
“Austerity hint” party in honor of sister
Pat, who is to marry her Grevor
Molyneux next month.
And if you have not chairs enough to seat
a ladies’ school.
You find that one must do without or use the
music stool.
The rhyme from childhood days came
to memory while 300 or more business
girls were being seated at Government
House last week. The occasion was a
late-afternoon party given by Lord and
Lady Wakehurst to say “thank you” to
the girls who had been working for the
National Shilling Drive. However, mem-
bers of the G.H. staff, the Hon. Henrietta
Loder and Peter Lubbock got busy, and
there was a chair for everybody. It was
just as well, for the music stool was
needed by the pianist. This party started
with tea on the terrace, but a rather chilly
twilight alfresco was gladly exchanged
for the ballroom and the strains of Victor
McMahon’s flute.
Lady Wakehurst, with her usual good
touch, presented the speakers on the right
note of easy gaiety. Miss Oldfield,
Federal organiser of the Shilling Drive,
made a speech that was a neat balance
of eulogy and “let us do even better.”
Another speaker was Captain Stella
Swinney, of the A.W.A.S. She voiced the
thanks of the women of the services for
the effort to soften the rigors of their
camp furnishings. The Butters lady, presi-
dent of the Y.W.C.A., the Alexander
Gordon lady (one of the popular grand-
mother contestants), Elizabeth Tucker,
O. D. A. Oberg and Jane Bernays were
among the noted.
President of the Water-colorists J. W.
Maund looked as pleased as the king in
Barrie’s “Kiss for Cinderella” as he
looked down at the assemblage of water-
colorists and their admirers, “all eating
and drinking at his expense.” The after-
noon tea was distributed in the long gal-
lery, and Mr. Maund was the host. He
had also given an orchid of surpassing
beauty (and great price, if he doesn’t
grow them) to Helene Kirsova, who read
a neat little speech declaring the show
open. In spite of Saturday afternoon’s
sirocco, the Education Galleries were
comfortably filled. Committee member
H. W. Grace, whose “Coastline” irresis-
tibly drew the eye to the bottom wall of
the long room, looked more than ever
like a youthful Winston Churchill.
Lion of the afternoon was H. J. Tim-
perley, recently of Chungking. His loan
collection of Chinese paintings adorns
the outer room. Secretary Dora Jarret
looked cool in beigy silks. Her “Sydney
Skyline” was among admired work; so
was Maude Sherwood’s “Flowers.” Car-
nival is the note struck by Mary Edwards’s
chrysanthemums. The show is a small
one —only 93 exhibits —but it is a place of
light and cheerfulness and grace to
be recommended to the frayed of nerve.
Norman Lindsay’s “Through the Savan-
nahs” caught the Gallery’s purse. It was
much admired.
There’ll be orchids for Miss Sydney if
grower John Bissett and fellow-lovers of
the always lovely, if sometimes sinister,
blooms know anything about it. Thou-
sands of orchids flaunted their quality in
David Jones’s auditorium last week for
the benefit of the Red Cross. Here were
sprays palely green, lilac beauties lipped
with velvet-like magenta. Here were
fronds of beigy pink curled back from
a cup embossed with scarlet spots. Here
were dainty white flowers fit for bridal
spray; near by a subtle beauty that
seemed to hold the secrets of the Amazon
deeps. Amateur growers put up a striking
display, Florence Burt among them. Some
of her orchids had been sent to her by
Jeremiah Coleman, famed among English
growers and a constant exhibitor at the
Chelsea flower show. Each day of the
show a lucky number competition, the
prize an orchid plant, helped to raise
money. Jimmy Bancks did a roaring
trade as auctioneer on the closing night.
Messages of good cheer and flowers
are flowing in to Tusculum Hospital to
brighten Mrs. E. P. Houghton’s con-
valescence. The popular couple have
had a double issue of ill-health. While
Mrs. Houghton was in Tusculum, hus-
band was part of the time in St. Vin-
cent’s and then spent a week or two in
the same hotel of healing as his wife.
Now well enough to leave hospital, he is
staying with his sister at Darling Point.
Tusculum was the haven sought by Roy
Buckland also last week.
Berenice Montgomery, popular with
radio listeners, is small and fragile look-
ing. With her pale-gold hair and pink
and white complexion she suggests a
sugar-plum fairy. But when Berenice
really uncoils herself at a concert grand,
as she is constantly doing at camp con-
certs to entertain the troops and at
functions for war efforts, the audience
finds that she packs a virtuoso style plus
a sensitive interpretation. The pianist is
a Queenslander, her home town being
Atherton, where father is a well-known
solicitor. From All Hallows’ Convent
Berenice went to London with a Royal
Academy scholarship. Later she was a
pupil of Mathay. The late Duchess of
Rutland took an interest in the young
Australian, and it was at one recital in
her home that the lamented Duke of Kent
and the King of Greece were among the
player’s listeners. Berenice also played
in the Queen’s Hall with orchestra, John
Barbirolli conducting. Noel Rubie photo-
graph.
Qne hundred and fifty guests, each rep-
resenting one guinea for the cause, dined
and danced at Romano’s last week. The
tables of this particular group were set
at the lower end of the restaurant, and
the whole had the friendly atmosphere
of a private party. Spring came to the
table of Mrs. Bertie Kelly, the president,
in the shape of three roseate blossom sun-
shades. Near by, the Moxham lady
strewed pansies on her board, and added
a posy for each of her women guests.
Mrs. Sidney Field brought a party, Mrs,
Walton, of flying renown, a star among
them.
Chief Justice Jordan’s wife was
patroness of the dance, and she and Mrs.
Charlie Lloyd Jones joined forces, Peter
Lubbock being in their group. Mrs.
Marcel Dekyvere and Mrs. Reg Betting-
ton were hostesses. The Andre Brenacs
and the Duplatre couple presided at a
table for 24. There were no competi-
tions ; nothing was sold. Guests paid a
guinea, and there the matter ended. The
dinner was a three-course one. A sub-
stantial helping of fish was followed by
chicken and ice-cream. At midnight,
when the untiring dancer was again feel-
ing. need of restoring the tissues, two eggs
on bacon, plus bread and butter, were
served to everybody. The money from
this pay party goes to provide comforts
for the Fighting French.
Instigated by the Thursday Red Cross
sewing circle, the Royal Sydney Golf
Club is bursting into a fete of fetes on
Saturday, October 17. Mrs. Charles
Rundle, Mrs. W. E. Roberts, Mrs. Chick
Bouvet and Mrs. Roy Buckland are
whizzing around, and the afternoon
promises to speed along as though
charged with a full swag of petrol and
fitted with a gas-producer. “Professor”
Wallace is expected to be a high-
light in rolling in the money. The
professor does the most eye-blink-
ing conjuring tricks, and there will
be two or three sessions of his skill.
A special corner for the tinies will be
featured. Mothers can leave their small
ones in charge of Pat Thomas, Jill
Roberts and Marcelle Poate. Marcelle,
it will be remembered, is a fully-fledged
kindergarten teacher.
The women’s committee of the Aus-
tralian-American Co-operation Move-
ment gave a late-afternoon party last week
to surround speeches by J. C. Wong and
A. E. Heath. Both had much to say that
was courage-inspiring about the Allied
cause, and the Historical Society’s club-
rooms echoed with applause. A sign that
summer is just around the corner was the
run on the fruit drinks instead of the glass
of sherry. Mrs, Florence Taylor, presi-
dent of the women’s committee, mingled
dignity and humor with her hostess-ship.
Mrs. Ted Scorfield and Mrs. E. K. White
were others active in the afternoon’s suc-
cess. Allied service men were thick
among the guests.
From Melbourne
As most members of the C.W.A. have
been practising austerity all their lives,
they have ideas on the subject to give
away. Some of these were aired at an
exhibition held at Heidelberg Town Hall
by the local branch, Sugarbags figured
prominently in the dress display, and
hessian, used for furnishing, was also in
favor for coats and skirts. Quite the most
interesting notion that has yet come to
light is the proposal to convert rugs
made of skins into coats for children next
winter. Many women say that they are
glad of an excuse to get rid of these as
floor coverings. When cleaned and pos-
sibly shaved close they make fascinating
little coats for juniors. An attempt to
use stringybark this way has not yet
yielded results, but, in spite of loud
laughter from the sceptical, experiments
on this line are being conducted by deter-
mined women.
Concerto festival at the University
Conservatorium has just reached the end
of the first stage. Out of 56 contestants
six finalists have been chosen to play
with the Melbourne Symphony Orches-
tra on November 14 at the Town Hall.
They are Mary MacLeod, Estelle Coady,
Poppe Olsen, Pauline Ward, Linda Vogt
and Shirley Paton, all girls, for young
men have been called to sterner work.
This year there will be no second contest
to decide which is best of the six. It’s
a great chance for them all, and for one
is something more than that. This is
Mary MacLeod, who last year was a
finalist but had the crushing disappoint-
ment of finding at the last moment that
the orchestral score of her concerto could
not be ready for the great night. How-
ever, she’s here this time, and Ballarat,
her home town, is very proud of her.
When the Melbourne woman open-
ing her letters over her breakfast
toast and tea finds one signed “Bena
Angliss” she knows that there’s some-
thing afoot that will bring victory nearer
as far as the woman’s front can do it.
The wife of knight William Angliss, pic-
tured here by Spencer Shier, reaches her
office at the Town Hall each morning
at 8.45 and leaves it at 5.15 after a day
in which she may have presided at ump-
teen committee meetings and done every-
thing else from licking her own stamps
to settling knotty points about Red Cross
appeals. And at the week-end, when a
quiet drive to the farm home in the
country or a bit of reading in the garden
of her Auburn home would seem to be
indicated, she sets herself out to cover
all the jobs and appointments that fall
to the lot of the wife of an active member
of the Legislative Council. Yet she is
never flurried and has a judicial approach
to all questions. She is just collecting
a few well-earned congratulations on her
management of the street collections for
the National Shilling Drive for women
of the services.
This street drive was one of the major
successes in bringing in the money for
the appeal. It meant hard work. The
£lOOO obtained in the streets took as
much getting as did the similar collec-
tions for the Prisoners of War Fund, for
which the Angliss lady was largely re-
sponsible, and which all told netted
£15,000. All sorts of folks give their ser-
vices on these “days,” including bank
clerks and accountants, who count the
money as the box collections roll in, leav-
ing oft work to carry bricks. The collec-
tors deserve more than a passing men-
tion. It takes some fortitude to stand on
a street corner rattling a collection-box
on a north-wind day in Melbourne, and
even in beautiful golden sunshine there
are many little criticisms and rebuffs
which aren’t easy to laugh off.
An unusual audience crowded to the
exhibition of slogans and posters at the
Athenaeum Gallery opened last week. The
exhibits were the work of students of
Victoria’s technical schools, and were
designed to advertise the National Sav-
ings Campaign. On the opening day
visitors were hundreds of senior boys
and girls from schools who had seen the
work being done. Their comments, their
excitement and their abounding vitality
were positively infectious. No man with
a chequebook in his pocket would have
hesitated in their presence to buy a poster
or a war bond or allow a slogan to be
parked around his neck. Whatever this
country can’t raise, it certainly raises
some very bright youngsters.
The Emily MacPherson College of
Domestic Economy can usually produce
suppers of merit, which is not surprising,
but this last week-end the austerity note
in the table decorations at suppers which
followed presentations of plays there
were more than meritorious, they were
the talk of the two evenings. The foun-
dation of these was a collection of egg-
shells left empty after their contents had
gone into cakes. The shells were built
up into shapes, and each was set off by
a service hat, Army, Navy or Air Force.
Faces were painted under the hats, and
gave just that light touch to proceedings
which is so helpful to the hostesses, in
this case senior students of the college.
“The Sword of the Spirit” has a fine
sound as a phrase, and Inez Sexton, who
has seen the attempt to produce a spiri-
tual front to the war in England, made
it the subject of her talk to St. Joan’s
Alliance. In Great Britain the move-
ment’s first endeavor was to link up with
similar groups in other branches of the
Christian church, so that no charge of
sectarianism lies against it. The speaker
has an engaging personality and is at
home with her subject. The Alliance holds
its meetings in various places, but this one
was at the Paraclete Arts Group’s club-
rooms, where men and women of the ser-
vices are made very welcome and pro-
vided with the amenities of a comfy club.
Following the lead set by her sister
Susie, golfer Shirley Tolhurst chose a
fellow-sportsman for a husband. She
became last week Mrs. Lisle Ernest
Nagle, wife of Lieut. Nagle, A.1.F.,
known all over Australia as a cricketer
in Test and inter-State matches. Sister
Susie, now Mrs. Sloane Morpeth (her
husband is as much a golfing identity as
his wife), was hostess for the quiet recep-
tion which took place at the Sloane home
at Mornington. Chief roles after the
bride and ’groom were played in the
ceremony by Meridie and Adele Tolhurst,
daughters of brother Keith Tolhurst, who
gave his sister away, and by little Simone
Morpeth. They were all bridesmaids.
The experiment of inviting anyone
who had a bob to spare for the National
Drive to spend an afternoon in Govern-
ment House grounds succeeded beyond
financial and social hopes. Women with
babies in prams, women with the family
shopping in string-bags, men with baby
cameras, sailors, soldiers and airmen and
the fern, ditto, women in sable capes and
300-guinea coats (a tribute to the occa-
sion rather than to the weather, which
was warmish) —all came. The only sign
that the gathering had not been sum-
moned by gilt-edged card was a certain
curiosity about the rooms, which led the
curious to stand in bunches and gaze in
at the state drawing-room and the suite
in which royalty was couched when it
visited these shores. And the curious
weren’t a sixth of the gathering, which
otherwise sat round the lawns to hear
the two bands or wandered round the
tennis courts and enjoyed the wonderful
view of the distant hills and near-by
bays. Bits of it met the Dugans, and
said they were nicely, thank you, in
answer to vice-regal inquiries.
Pageants have a terrific appeal to this
city; reason not known. “Hiawatha”
drew its hundreds of thousands, like foot-
ball. Now “Lady Precious Stream,” the
Chinese fantasy, is proposed, with, it is
hoped, Minna Shelley as producer and
big-scale effects. The committee which
is undertaking it met last week and seems
to be getting under way, but a lack of
copies of the play makes things a bit
difficult. From Tasmania came an offer
of help in this way, and other States
are hereby appealed to for copies in
first-, second- or any-class condition.
The wife of tennis knight Norman
Brookes is chairman of the designing
committee, and RA.A.F. Welfare and
Chinese relief workers are falling into
line to give the affair a big push.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT ERNEST ALMOND late of
Newcastle.—TAKE NOTICE that THELMA
MAUD ALMOND has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 49 of 1942 on the ground of
your desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards. You may enter
an appearance before the Thirtieth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
forty-two and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from A. ALISTER JOHNSON
& McDonald Solicitors 17 Boulton Street
Newcastle. —C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
TO ROY OSWALD SCUTCHEON formerly
of Nerrina in the State of Victoria but now
of parts unknown Labourer. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife ROSA ANN SCUTCHEON
has instituted proceedings against you for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of de-
sertion UNLESS you enter an appearance in
the office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court Melbourne within fourteen days from the
publication hereof the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs AND FURTHER if you intend to
defend this suit you must within ten days from
the date of entering such appearance cause an
answer to be filed in the said office. —This
advertisement is inserted by C. M. S. POWER,
of 283 Queen Street, Melbourne, Public Solici-
tor for Victoria, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO HENRY KENDALL also known as Harry
Price formerly of Hill Street South Melbourne
in the State of Victoria but now of parts un-
known; —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
JANET ELIZABETH KENDALL has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the ground of desertion
A sealed copy of the petition and copy cita-
tion herein has by order of the Court been
served upon your brother Arthur Kendall of
394 Park Street South Melbourne UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court Melbourne
on or before the 7th day of November 1942 the
case may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs AND FURTHER if
you intend to defend the said suit you must
cause an answer to be filed in the said office on
or before the 17th day of November 1942
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that a copy
petition and copy citation herein may be in-
spected at the office of the Public Solicitor for
Victoria 283 Queen Street Melbourne. —This
advertisement is inserted by C. M. S. POWER,
the aforesaid Public Solicitor, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
{Importing Notions
(Conducted by "PILOT")
No certainty yet attaches to what will
start favorite for the Epsom Handicap.
Most bettors incline to Yaralla or Rim-
veil as the probable winner, and though
the owner of the former is credited with
saying that his intention of withdrawing
him was to give the others a chance, it
is worth remembering that not one of
the last five favorites gained a place,
and Beaulivre started at even money.
Incidentally, it is unusual to hear of self-
sacrificing owners imbued with a desire
to benefit others.
It would be impossible to deny Yaralla
a great chance, even though in 9.6 he
has more than any four-year-old has
successfully carried in an Epsom. At
the same time, taking a line through
Flying Knight, he will be troubled to beat
Freckles for one if the extra furlong
does not again prove too much for the
latter. In the Canterbury Stakes Flying
Knight, in receipt of lib., ran Yaralla
to a head, and in the Quality Handicap,
run three weeks later at Rosehill, Flying
Knight had no chance against Freckles
when conceding him 81b. Yaralla is
giving Freckles 221 b,, and it did not
appear as if the latter would have found
a mile beyond him at Rosehill, The last
bit may, of course, again be the trouble
at Randwick, but it does not seem as if
any of those he beat in the Quality Han-
dicap will be too good for him at the
longer distance.
Rimveil has only 61b. more than when
he won the last Epsom, but he took so
long in overhauling non-sprinters in
Dewar and. Main Topic at nine furlongs
in the Chelmsford Stakes that his effort
left a doubt as to whether he retained his
earlier nippiness. However, his trainer
and rider (Bartle) are satisfied he will
not be found wanting in that respect.
Evergreen’s second in the Hill Stakes
was a good performance. Improvement
in his condition is certain, and he will
meet Yaralla 91b. better. Gundagai has
gone on the right way since he won with
8.1 at Tattersall’s meeting, and the addi-
tional furlong will be in his favor. A
soft track will not trouble him. Mil-
dura cut up badly in the Theo Marks,
but since then his work has been
thoroughly satisfactory, and as in win-
ning his second Doncaster he carried 9.3
he cannot be lightly passed over.
Sixth last year with 7.3, Merrimba
could not be in better condition than at
present, but there is the doubt whether
he will commence smartly enough. Fer-
managh is meeting Freckles 101 b. worse
than at Rosehill, and Tel Asur did not
shine at his latest appearance. Grand
Fils seems a trifle uncertain, having re-
cently run two indifferent races after each
of two wins; and, though Soho is bril-
liant, a mile appears a trifle far for him.
Freckles has 71b. more than last year,
but it is not the extra weight so much
as the distance that may trouble him.
Nevertheless, his Quality Handicap run
suggested improvement as a stayer, and
he may make amends for last season’s
failure when he was a 7> -to-V favorite and
led to within a furlong of home.
Hall Stand was so little troubled by
nine furlongs at Rosehill that there is no
reason why he should not get 12 in the
Derby as well as any of those he has
beaten this season. He did not pull at
his last outing, and it should be helpful
to him if Grand Prodige runs. During
the past fortnight Riverton has made
greater improvement than his stable-com-
panion Baroda, and is sure to improve
upon his Chelmsford Stakes form. Re-
garding Baroda as a doubtful starter.
Main Topic and Panbranch may be the
best of the others.
The Colin Stephen Stakes should de-
termine the respective Metropolitan
chances of Dashing Cavalier, Dewar,
Veiled Threat and Katanga. Evergreen
may also be one of the field. At the time
of writing it was said to be uncertain
whether he would start in the Epsom.
Sticking to Metropolitan figures. Dash-
ing Cavalier has a pull over his Colin
Stephen Stakes opponents. His Hawkes-
bury Handicap showed that he was
rapidly improving, and if he should win
on Saturday his favoritism for the Metro-
politan is more than probable.
Although the Hawkesbury Handicap
result may be slightly against it, a win
by Veiled Threat will not be surprising.
His finishing run in the race mentioned
was impressive, and it is probable he is
better now than when he won the Sydney
Cup. That would be necessary, as he has
131 b. more to carry. If he should win
the w.f.a. race he is likely to go on to
success in the Metropolitan, though in the
latter Moondarewa, in receipt of 201 b.,
will be one of the tough nuts to crack.
* * * *
H. Badger’s decision to ride Great
Britain in preference to Leahero in the
Caulfield Guineas and Victoria Derby
is noteworthy. Leahero became a popu-
lar choice for both races after his deci-
sive win in the Moonee Valley Stakes,
but Badger, who rode him in that race,
apparently does not consider him the
best colt of the season. His selection of
Great Britain is surprising, in view of the
fact that the latter finished a long way
behind Leahero in the Valley Stakes, but
he was forced to race wide almost
throughout that race. He had shaped
like a stayer in the Memsie Stakes at his
previous start, and H. Freedman, who
has trained the Derby winners Lucrative
and Laureate, has always maintained that
he would stay.
Some critics ar6 inclined to doubt Lea-
hero as a stayer, but he has revealed the
happy combination of brilliance and
stamina in each of his two successive
wins, and is bred to get a distance. His
trainer has no fears in this respect, and
Leahero, who earlier in his career was
inclined to fall away after a hard race
or gallop, is much more solid now. His
appearance cannot be faulted, Chatfield
and Haros, second and fourth in the
Moonee Valley Stakes, look best of the
other Guineas candidates. V. Ryan,
trainer of Haros, considers his colt will
not be beaten again among horses of his
own age this spring, but, although ample
excuse was possible for him at the Valley,
winning form is generally the best form
to follow.
Skipton probably will have two more
races before the Caulfield Cup. An im-
pression is growing that he will not be
at his best until Melbourne Cup time,
but his trainer, J. Fryer, hopes to have
him fit enough on Caulfield Cup day to
make the most of his favorable weight.
The severity of Skipton’s track trials was
increased last week, and Fryer is appre-
ciative of the extra week’s training pro-
vided by the first raceless Saturday and
the consequent deferment of the Caul-
field Cup from Oct. 17 until Oct. 24. An
attack of colic several nights ago was
not expected to interfere with his prepa-
ration.
R. Cameron, who rode The Parisian to
success in the Melbourne Cup, looks to
have one of the strongest Cup teams this
spring. Tranquil Star attracts as his prin-
cipal Caulfield Cup hope, but it is prob-
able also that he will saddle Wise Coun-
sel and the three-year-old Amazed for
that race. Wise Counsel has not raced
since he won the Australian Cup, but
he comes to hand quickly for a stayer,
and has done well since his return to
Melbourne. A better idea of Amazed’s
chance will be obtained after he tackles
the best of his age in the Caulfield
Guineas. He has shown stamina in all
his races, and Cameron expects him to
be up to Derby standard. Last three-
year-old to win the Caulfield Cup was
Palfresco in 1935, and before that Whit-
tier in 1922.
What constitutes a no-chancer? In
theory the answer is simple, but facts
will have to be considered if the V.A.T.C.
committee adheres to its intention to
eliminate the no-chancers, rather than
resort to ballot or divisions, if the Caul-
field Cup acceptance numbers more than
the safety limit. Melbourne trainers do
no consider that anyone is competent to
grade a field. They point out that Wise
Counsel, now seven years old, had won
only one small race in S.A. before his
Australian Cup success, and that Bally-
cummins’s only win before the Williams-
town Easter Cup was a Novice Handi-
cap at Ballarat. They are only two of
many horses that improved beyond pre-
conceived ideas. Further, the 100-to-l
Melbourne Cup winners Old Rowley
and Wotan and the 66-to-l Caulfield
Cup winner Northwind were no-chancers
according to bookmakers and backers.
A lot of headaches will be prevented if
the Cup field fines down to normal size.
IS * * *
The following youngsters still in the
Breeders’ Plate made 200gns. or over as
yearlings:
King Hua, Hua-Silver Pom .. • • 800
Red Robby, The Marne-Bonny Margaret 700
Turakoo, The Buzzard-Culfort .. • • £75
The Beacon, Brueghel-Lady Canberra .. 500
Paratroop, The Buzzard-Seredel .. • ■ 400
St. Quentin, The Buzzard-Calculate .. 390
Montano, Nuffield-Desdemona .. .. 390
Air Lord, Spearfelt-Lady Bine .. .. 3-5
Kurramulla, Hua-Probably Not .. • • 300
Haddon Hall, Hall Mark-Queen Balak .. 280
Goya, Fresco-Figure 270
The Swell, Silver Standard-Chandu .. M 0
Peerless Lad, Pentheus-Pearl Clare . • 210
Moorland, Felcrag-Bower Belle .. • • 210
Massena, Genetout-Sally .. . • • • uu
* * * *
Winooka, winner of a Doncaster Han-
dicap with 9.13, and other good races,
and also successful in America, dropped
dead at his owner’s stud at Peak Hill
last week. He sired some useful horses,
but nothing of his own class.
♦ * * *
In the Sydney area from November 1
to December 31, 1942, horses six years
and under will be eligible to run in
Maidens, Novice Handicaps, Encourage
Stakes and Trial Stakes under A.J.C.
rules. From January 1 to July 31, 1943,
only horses five years and under will be
eligible for such races. Bookmakers are
now barred from betting on races other
than those run at the Sydney meeting
they are attending. That will be a blow
to some men who have worked up a
profitable business on Melbourne fixtures,
and will boost off-the-course illegal
betting.
» * * ♦
Among Sydney owners and trainers
general satisfaction is expressed at the
restoration of sweepstakes, but they must
keep in sight the fact that they cannot
have it both ways. The loss of acceptance
fees will affect the revenue of all clubs, and
will, in itself, be a reply to any demand
for increased prize-money.
* * * *
Prior to meeting the deputation from
Sydney, the Prime Minister must have
had peculiar ideas concerning men at the
head of racing. In commending the co-
operation of the A.J.C. the Prime Minister
said: “The members of the deputation
impressed me as men of high integrity.”
What did he expect? Parliaments, Fed-
eral or State, do not monopolise all the
men of “high integrity.”
# * * *
E. Arcaro, who is America’s best
jockey and has had a great innings in
important races this season, is not par-
ticular in his methods. In New York
last week the Jockey Club stood him down
until next year for rough riding. That
will be nothing new for Arcaro. Last
year he was twice suspended for a similar
offence; the second time from September
until the close of the season, and some
American papers reckoned he should
have been more severely punished.
Arcaro is the jockey who, after winning
the Belmont Stakes on Shut Out, at Bel-
mont Park (New York) last June, gave
£436 of his winning fee to war relief
organisations.
♦ * * • *
At its annual meeting last week it was
disclosed that during the past year the
Victoria Amateur T.C. distributed
£60,730 in stakes, and £2,393,284 since
its formation in 1875. Since the com-
mencement of the war the club has given
£31,252 to patriotic funds, subscribed
£32,250 to war loans and is investing
£lO,OOO in the Austerity loan. This year
the Caulfield Cup will again be run at
Flemington, and it may be started from
the mile and five furlongs post; this in
order to avoid the very short run from
the mile and a half post to the first turn.
Consequently, a temporary judge’s box
will have to be erected a furlong further
back than at present, and the prospects
of some horses will be improved by
having to do a little over a furlong in-
stead of more than two in the run from
the straight entrance to the winning-post.
However, the proposal is merely tenta-
tive.
« * * *
An accident in May put Gordon
Richards out of action for the remainder
of last year. This season he is going as
strongly as ever, having ridden 59 win-
ners, and he needs to ride only 12 more
in the remaining 11 days to beat Archer’s
aggregate of 2746. Richards’s first win-
ning ride was in 1921.
« * * *
In the last twenty-five years only two
winners of the A.J.C. Derby have been
successfully represented as sires in that
race. Heroic (Hall Mark and Nuffield)
and Prince (Richmond Main, dead-heat
with Artilleryman) are the exceptions.
Hall Mark, Nuffield and Richmond Main
were raced by their breeders, but most
Derby winners were sold at auction, and
Bob Ray (owned by D. O’Brien, of Car-
bine fame) realised only 35gns. as a year-
ling. His two-year-old wins included the
Champagne Stakes.
* * * *
The occasional week’s respite from
racing will probably be beneficial to many
horses. A little less fast work will enter
into their preparations. When a grass
track is available some trainers seem un-
able to refrain from making use of it,
and even though a horse has had a hard
race on Saturday its portion may be a
fast gallop as early as the following Tues-
day. It may be contended that a trainer
should know what is best for his horse,
but at times that is difficult of belief.
**. * *
Maoriland stallions fully booked ior
the current season are Foxbridge, Robin
Goodfellow, Kincardine, Battle Song
and Nizami. A Wellington writer says
that interest in breeding was never
keener.
* * * *
Among the winners of important
three-year-old races now at the stud in
England are: Derby—Hyperion, 400gns.
fee last year; Midday Sun, £l9B ; Bois
Roussel, 250gns.; April the Fifth, £9B ;
Felstead, £9B; Trigo, £9B; Pont
I’Eveque, £9B ; Windsor Lad, £9B. St.
Leger—Fairway, 300gns.; Singapore,
£4B ; and Chulmleigh, £4B. Two ITiou-
sand —Le Ksar, £25 ; Pay Up, 75gns.;
Colombo, £l4B ; Flamingo, 18gns. ; and
Craig an Eran, £l9. Irish Derby and
Two Thousand Guineas winner Phideas
commands a £25 fee, and Baytown, who
also brought off that double, 15gns. Next
year Big Game (Two Thousand) at
250gns. and Watling Street (Derby) at
£l9B will be added to the number. The
former goes to the National Stud in
Ireland.
* * * *
In Melbourne a little while ago Skip-
ton was backed for the two Cups. Recent
winners of that double were The Trump
and Rivette, each carrying 101 b. penalty.
That did not send either very high in the
weights. It will be different with Skip-
ton if he should win the Caulfield Cup.
Weighted at 9.2 —61b. more than in the
Caulfield Cup—for the Melbourne Cup,
he would probably be penalised at least
71b. At 9.9 he would not have to put
up a winning record for a four-year-old,
as Phar Lap—a gelding—scored with
9.12, but he would need to be an excep-
tional horse to win with only 31b. less
than the latter,
Colteaux v. Rivers at Leichhardt was
lively while it lasted. A body punch
floored Rivers before they had been fight-
ing a minute, but he rose at “eight” and
pegged away. Indeed, he had rather the
better of things until a right to the ribs
in the sixth made him grimace with pain.
Going to his corner, he complained that
his ribs were too painful for him to
continue. Colteaux wants to meet
Richards. Tenders for the funeral will
be received after the signing of articles.
FOR RAND WICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT."
Trial Stakes: Lambeth, 1; Glen-
dower, 2; Louano, 3.
AJ.C. Derby: Hall Stand, 1 ;
Riverton, 2 ; Main Topic, 3.
Epsom Handicap; Freckles, 1 ;
Yaralla, 2; Gundagai, 3.
Colin Stephen Stakes: Veiled
Threat, 1; Dashing Cavalier, 2;
Dewar, 3.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALTER ALEXANDER BOYD late of
217 George Street Bathurst. —TAKE NOTICE
that LILLIAN EDNA BOYD has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1304 of 1942 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance by the
Fourth day of December 1942 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
WARRINGTON CONNOLLY Solicitor for the
Petitioner 12 O’Connell Street Sydney.—C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE RAYMOND LOBBAN.—
TAKE NOTICE that EDITH AMELIA
LOBBAN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1236 of 1942 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards. If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance by the
Thirtieth day" of November One thousand
nine hundred and forty-two and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from A. J. P.
Hall Solicitor 44 Martin Place Sydney—C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
“BILLABONG” Centrifugals
PUMP
BYiTHE ACRE
t<l-h
,C7A VJ r
WRITE
TO
THE MAKERS
JOHN BANKS 8 SON Pty. Ltd
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
m
85,000 NEW HAIRS
GROWN!
THE ageing effect of baldness
upon one’s appearance could
not be more strikingly depicted
than in these pictures.
WHAT MURCHISON
DISCOVERED ABOUT
HAIR
IT does not matter if your hair is falling
out, if you are fast going bald —or
what you have tried. You have not used
the RIGHT method. Hundreds of people
who had tried all kinds of “tonics” found
their hair falling out in handfuls, and
were fast going bald. But now their hair
is thick and lustrous —thanks to the im-
portant discovery that —
TONICS WILL NEVER
GROW HAIR
THEY never have—because it is impos-
sible while the scalp remains in a
choked condition. There is one under-
lying principle that stimulates New Hair
Growth —that principle is involved in the
New Murchison Treatment. It’s a new
way entirely different and successful.
It approaches baldness, falling hair, etc.,
from a new angle. AVlth It you can stop
your hair troubles overnight, or it won t
cost you one penny! POST COUPON
AT ONCE!
1500 TRIAL
TREATMENTS
for
Men and Women.
Test It Yourself
NOW you can test it your-
self try this famous
treatment in your own home
—under any conditions you
like, and if it doesn’t grow
new hair, rid you of dan-
druff or any other hair
troubles you suffer from
within 30 days, it COSTS
YOU NOTHING! not one
penny! But you must
hurry: this offer may never
be repeated. It places you
under no obligation; all
you have to do is to post
that coupon NOW!
“HAIR GROWING LIKE
WILDFIRE”
“1 COUIrD have told you after one appli-
* cation that your treatment would cer-
tainly grow hair. It lias completely changed
the color of my hair; it has turned it from
its dry, dead, straw-looking color hack to
its original shade of brown, and now, after
about three weeks’ use, 1 have a lot of
new hair growing all over my head. It’s
growing like wildfire. I mention that I
never gave your treatment a very fair go
either.”—E. J. KKYHOLUS, M.
SEND NO MONEY
J. KEESO MURCHISON,
DEPT. !)4, WAYNE HOUSE,
CEAKENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
NAME
ADDRESS
Enclose 3d. in stamps.) 7/10/ 42.
SMOKE-OH!
“Gandhi again changes front.” — News hem.
He’ll soon be running out of safety
pins.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In Brisbane’s first competitive air-raid dis-
play Torwood defeated Rosalie by 310 to 288.”
— ‘‘Courier-Mail.”
Casualties or points?
4* 4* 4* ,4*
“Once when he came home late his wife
threw a basin of starch over him,”
—Divorce report.
He was stiff!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Unions Want Royal Commission.”
— Heading.
They can have every commission—
royal or otherwise —as far as we’re con-
cerned.
“With a gasp, she clutched at her heart.”
— Story.
You have to be quick at the butcher’s
these days.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She wanted to marry Arthur Rich as soon
as she could, before Myra could return and
exert her fascination over him. She decided
to get her mother’s help.”— Woman’s paper.
Another get-Rich-quick scheme.
•I* 4* 4* 4-
“Melbourne has 60 women bread-carters.”
The dough must be all right.
“Trousers lost, left in 5.20 train, Picton.
Reward.” — Advt in “S.M.H.”
A traveller in underwear.
4* •S 1
“Sydney racing man books accommodation
at a private hospital for Melbourne Cup week.”
Handy if the result of the race makes
him feel sick.
Plain Food for Fancy Folk.
“Minced meat, plus a few culinary frills, is
fast rising in the social scale.” — Woman’s paper.
For the hoi polloi there is plain mince
rissoles with an accompanying groan of
resignation from the younger members
of the family. Mrs. High Suburbia favors
“mincemeat casserole” and a look' of
polite defiance. Mrs. Social Climber
calls it “Manhattan mince d la Duchess
de Flabbergust” and follows it up quickly
with any dessert rich enough to take your
mind off it.
But you must wait till you’re very, very
social before you can serve plain mince
and get away with it. But wirereas Mrs.
Hoi Polloi’s mince is simply eaten and
forgotten, Point Piper’s culinary daring
gets into the social columns in this form:
“And our most amusing socialite at the
moment is Mrs. Snob, who relieves our
boredom by throwing delightfully dif-
ferent dinners at which, audaciously
charming, she serves —you’d never guess
—mince !”
Elm.
“Owing to the vegetable shortage many
vould-be buyers are compelled to wait in early-
morning queues for week-end supplies.”
'Sun.”
'‘Peas, perfect peas, I’ll get some yet!”
/ told the wife. “And that’s a bet.”
Dawn came and passed, but, lapped in
snooze,
I quite forgot my peas and queues.
Brian Bureau.
•5* 4*
Gardening Made Easy.
11.
The Compost Pit.
It is an axiom among gardening
experts that what you take out of the
ground you must put back. This is not
meant to be taken literally, of course,
for it might, for instance, be unwise to
pull up the broad beans which you planted
too late, and bury them straightway,
together with the black aphis which are
clinging ten deep all over leaves and
stems; the unhindered procreation of
their species would mean that next year,
instead of only two million aphides, there
might be ten times that number to infest
the place.
By “what you take out” is meant the
equivalent of plant food extracted by
the last crop. Fertilisers can give the
best results only when urged on by the
wogs present in humus, which is decom-
posed vegetable matter. Humus is at once
the gardener’s joy and despair, as essen-
tial to the success of his work as is Next-
door’s mattock or the wife’s constant
urging to get out and do something in-
stead of loafing in a verandah deckchair
ingesting a thriller.
The compost pit, then, is to be the
gardener’s source of humus. The first
problem is where to put it,
A well-laid-out backyard garden has
the beds in net rows, with the rest of
the available space given over to lawns
and shrubs. Where, then, to put the pit?
Obviously it would be wasteful to use a
bed. A bit of lawn then it must be.
The least-used, of course. And that por-
tion, naturally, will be the strip between
the clotheslines, used only once a week.
Dig a hole about 6ft. in depth, length
and width. Into it tip all weeds, grass
clippings and any other vegetable sub-
stance obtainable. If, say, there is a glut
in cabbages or peas, buy a big quantity
up cheap and tip it in. The wife’s co-
operation will be necessary to get the
most out of the kitchen refuse.
Leave an old bucket outside the kitchen
door for this purpose. When it is full
first time take and empty it, but not
straight into the pit. Tip it out on the
grass and extract from it all the dead
matches, broken crockery, curls of hair,
baked-bean tins, soap, coke ashes, bits
of dough, etc.
Next time, confident that your request
for co-operation has been met, you dive
your hand into the bucket to pull the
stuff out and go up to your wrists in the
porridge which she burnt the morning
her sister Emily kept her talking on the
’phone for 35 minutes. Dripping the
glutinous mess you can, if you like.
engage in a verbal joust. It’ll go some-
thing like this:
“Bertha, I thought I asked you only to
put vegetable refuse in this bucket. Look
at all this damned porridge!”
“Oh! Porridge, eh?” (Sweetly.) “Is
that made from mineral or animal sub-
stance.”
“Don’t be silly. You know it isn’t!”
“Oh! So you admit it is vegetable
matter, then —a product of grain from
the soil!”
After that she’ll accept your apology
and you can start scraping the mess off,
and thereafter you can expect everything
in the bucket from the rest of the tripe
to dress clippings, in the full knowledge
that she can easily prove that it had its
origin in the vegetable kingdom. Sling
it all in the pit.
You will find that with all the weeds
you’ve got to pull out the pit will be full
in a week, with decomposition scarcely
started. Dig another pit alongside the
first one. By the time you’ve dug about
seven pits, which is about the width of an
average suburban holding, the stuff in
the first one will be about ripe for use
(say, 2| million bacteria to the square
inch). Sprinkle this evenly over a newly-
dug-up bed and trample it in. This may
injure some of the top bacteria, but
there will be plenty of others to carry
on the good work.
Forget all the trouble there may be
with the wet washing of a windy day
falling in the pits— you’ll be at work.
But one pitch-black night the wife will
look up and say “Do be a dear and get
those stockings I left on the line. I don’t
like to leave them out all night.”
So you grope your way up the lawn,
and as you reach up to unpeg them you
suddenly step into nothing and lob
among a mass of corrupting vegetation.
Next day you’ll order a bale of peat
moss, tanbark or other “roughage” and
start filling in the compost pits—that’s
if you can find the earth you originally
took out.
f 80.
Programme.
In my austerity campaign
I’m buying no more sweets for Jane,
And not another cigarette
Will I procure for darling Bet;
While as for luscious, laughing Fleur,
I’ve no more theatres for her!
And so I say, with heartfelt glee,
Hooray for this austerity !
T. W. N.
The Slave.
“A wife is a mere slave!” stormed
Maria.
The outburst followed my mild remark,
after she had complained of being
trodden all over in the crowded train,
that housewives had been asked to get
home from town before 4 p.m.
“How could I get home earlier any-
way?” Maria went on. “The pictures
don’t come out till nearly five. I sup-
pose you think a wife shouldn’t have
any pleasure —that she is there just to
work her fingers to the bone for a man
who doesn’t appreciate her! And there
is no need for you to say she never seems
to do any work, either,”
“I didn’t say a word,” I protested.
“Don’t you think I can’t see what you
are thinking, Aitchem!” retorted Maria.
“It’s all right for you, spending all day
with your friends in hotels while I’ve just
got the four walls around me all say
long.”
“As far as I’m Concerned” I began.
“Why will you make an argument,
Aitchem?” demanded Maria. “Just lay
the table for tea and open that tin of
camp pie. And put the kettle on. I’ve
got a fearful headache. Oh, and you’d
better give me the money for the laundry-
man. He’ll be here in the morning with
your shirts.”
Helping herself liberally to the cash I
held out, the slave departed to remove
her street warpaint at leisure, whilst an
alleged dictator proceeded to get to work.
H. M.
Hot.
“Although he gave her all his money his
wife was very mean. All he got for breakfast
was toast, sometimes without butter.”
—Divorce evidence.
This is not strange. Though some their
lives
Find eased by ample grill or roast,
By the fixed policy of wives
Husbands are always kept on toast.
HAMER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Soldiers MUST Save
It may help some of the new-rich to
forget their resentment at being asked
to save a little if they can be made to
realise how much our soldiers are com-
pelled to save. The Australian private
has a cash income of 6s. 6d. per day and
a right to deferred pay amounting to
2s. 6d. In other words he is compelled
to save 28 p.c. of his income.
Mainly because it was done during the
1914-18 war, no one seems to question
the equity of deferred pay for soldiers.
And yet it is not deemed reasonable to
apply the same principle to civilians.
Surely if a man who is in constant danger
and will be fortunate to be alive at the
end of the war is forced to saVe, com-
pulsion can also be extended to civilians
who have larger incomes and are assured
of a normal span?
Opponents of compulsory loans say
that compulsory savings would dis-
criminate against the lower - income
groups and impose an unreasonable
burden on them. But the fact is that at
present there is an unfair discrimination
against the men who receive the lowest
incomes of ail.— Walter Ives (N.S.W.).
Our Defence “Oddity”
In the All England Law Reports of
1942, Vol. I, p. 236 (re J, J. Amand), is
reported the case of a Dutchman, sub-
ject of Queen Wilhelmina. He was called
to the Queen’s colors in England in 1941,
deserted, was arrested and promptly in-
voked the aid of his Majesty’s King's
Bench to show that (1) the royal decree
under which he was called up was illegal
in England ; (2) his status as a person
living in England under the protection
of the Crown could not be affected by
foreign legislation; (3) the decree was
invalid by Netherlands law.
It was argued that the Netherlands
Constitution permitted conscription for
service only within the kingdom and that
no decree could require either recruit-
ment or service abroad. In brushing aside
this contention, Wrottesley, J., said: “It
is an error to say that by Article 192 of
the [Dutch] Constitution conscripts in the
army cannot be compelled to serve out-
side the Netherlands. It would, indeed,
be an odd article if it so provided. An
army which disintegrates at the moment
that it succeeds in driving the enemy
across the frontier would not be of much
service to defend its country.”
“Odd” is good, but “disintegrates” is
superb. Picture an army in full panoply
—tanks, horse, and foot —hurling the
enemy over the frontier and then, poof!
it disintegrates, while the enemy a few
miles off reorganises and breaks in again.
The army, it may be hoped, immediately
reintegrates, and drives him out again—
that is, of course, if its disintegration had
not reached the stage of putrefaction. Be
the frontier a barbed-wire fence, an Eng-
lish Channel or a Pacific Ocean, the idea
seems just as odd.
A similar oddity will be found in
Section 49 of our own Defence Act, which
limits compulsory service to Australian
territory. There should be no room for
such oddities in “total war.” — Odd Man
Out (N.S.W.).
Racing and Relaxation
When Parliamentarians and others talk
about continuing racing because people
must have relaxation they are speaking
with tongue in cheek.
The dictionary defines relaxation as
ease from effort or attention. The coun-
tenances of racegoers show no signs of
this ease. Greed is depicted on the tense,
drawn faces of the men while waiting
for their favorites to come home.
Anxiety, often followed by almost tearful
disappointment, is stamped on the faces
of the women. All the physical exercise
racing affords is walking from the stands
to the bookmaker or tote.
Having lost money they can ill afford,
many racegoers return home tired and
ill-tempered, destroying the harmony of
the home.
Bowls, golf, tennis and even marbles
provide health-giving relaxation, but
racing does not help a man physically,
and demoralises him mentally.— Plain
Jane (Q.).
This Austerity
Here is another Austerity suggestion:
Cull the racehorses and greyhounds. Of
the former, all geldings which cannot pass
the vet. and those which have not been
placed in, say, two starts should be con-
verted into leather and fertiliser, unless
a useful place can be found for them in
industry. The same with the dogs ; only
the best should be kept for breeding. They
are beautiful movers, and it is thrilling
to see their speed and keenness in chas-
ing the hare, but they are useless for
anything else and unreliable as pets.
It would be no bad thing, too, to thin
out dogs of other breeds and cats,
which are kept only for pets and show.
They all consume valuable food. —
S. O. S. (Tas.).
Antithetic Austerity
I’ve always been sceptical about lack
of shipping space being responsible for
shortages of this and that. My doubts
are confirmed when I can go to
any bookstall or into a dozen shops in
my town and find I can buy a cartload
of sloppy novels which, in numbered
series, are “printed in England on the
first Thursday of each month.” A glance
at any one of the series reveals a full-
page entreaty to readers to “Order now”
the next number; while on the opposite
page is an appeal “not to waste paper,
as every scrap can be used.” This appeal
“Better join the union—or else ”
asks: “Why should we [Great Britain]
employ 25,000 tons of shipping to bring
our paper across the Atlantic? The ships
ought to be taking munitions to Russia.”
The publisher’s blurb goes on to say
how many shell containers, fuse compart-
ments, mine assemblies, aero-engine dust
covers, cut-out targets and aero cannon
shells a ton of paper will make. After
cursing the small type in my four-page
daily, I ruminate on the wear and tear
of my kids’ shoes while they scour the
neighborhood for waste paper for our
war effort, and I can’t suppress the feel-
ing that old John Bull is absurdly easy-
going when he permits a London pub-
lishing house, after three years of war,
to squander so much precious paper and
to utilise so much shipping space to retail
its sentimental rubbish throughout the
Empire.
Each of these sob-thrillers contains
approximately 100 pages. I mentally cal-
culate how many tons of badly-needed
newsprint could have been shipped to
Australia in the space taken up by these
books of gushing tripe. And I feel that
austerity appeals are of doubtful earnest-
ness when the nation goes without lots
of wholesome things for which there is
no shipping space, while minds shrink
through ill-nourishment from devouring
literary garbage for which there is ship-
ping space.—N. H. (Q.).
Money and War
The “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” of 5/9/’42
sums up admirably Australia’s economic
position in its relation to war finance.
If the matter set out therein were studied
carefully by the financial quacks they
should do nothing else but remain silent
in future.
Twenty-five years ago Stephen Leacock
(in his capacity as a Professor of Econo-
mics) said of similar conditions:
How comes it that if war is mere de-
struction it brings an apparent prosperity
with it? The explanation is a perfectly
simple one. War prosperity is merely the
same phenomenon as that of a bee suddenly
determining to eat up its store of honey;
or that of a frugal man suddenly turning
to a spendthrift. It means nothing else
than the rapid and wasteful consumption
of commodities laboriously saved. In a
banker’s phrase, it means living on capital.
The Government takes recklessly and spends
lavishly. Everybody is either selling his
labor at high wages or selling his com-
modities at high prices; which, being in-
terpreted, means that, as a result of the
Government’s war finance, everybody is
dipping his hands deep into the supply
of accumulated goods, without making new
ones fast enough to replace them. What*
looks like prosperity is in reality ruin.
Across the false sunlight of war-prosperity
there must presently fall the long shadow
of a rising price of food and necessities
that must, sooner or later, starve the world
into peace.
The foregoing provides also a partial
answer to your puzzled correspondent
“R.H.G.” (B. 2/9/’42). For a full answer
he should read Inflation, by J. Shield
Nicholson— Student (W.A.).
The Statute of Westminster
At union the power to alter our polity
was placed almost entirely in the hands
of the electors. It is only reasonable to
suppose that adoption of the Statute of
Westminster will alter our polity by addi-
tion to it. It should therefore be referred
to the electors,
Mr. J. H. Thomas, then Secretary of
State for the Dominions, was in charge of
the measure in the Commons. He
admitted that “certain States” had
“expressed some doubts.” This was
scarcely candid, since he had in his pos-
session an “emphatic protest” from W.A.
and protests from S.A. and Tasmania
(see “Hansards”). Both Mr. L. L. Hill
and the late Mr. A. G. Ogilvie told me
that they had lodged protests.
If the Curtin Government acts fairly
it will refer adoption of the Statute to
the electorate and, to my mind, under
the provisions of special amendment. If
it considers that under the Statute it pos-
sesses no power to refer adoption to the
electors, then it has only got to ask for
it. The power will, of course, be
granted.—J. R. L. Brinkley (W.A,).
Army Pay for Students
The suggestion that, in order to get
the best brains to the universities during
the war, the Government should give
students soldiers’ pay and dispense with
fees is not a very good one. It is to
apply only to the reserved faculties, medi-
cine, science, agriculture, etc., during the
war, but afterwards all students would
be so treated.
The fact that Air Force and Navy men
as well as munitions trainees are paid
while studying to do war work is put
forward as an argument in favor of the
scheme. It is to be remembered that these
people are under a certain amount of
discipline and are available to the
war effort much sooner than univer-
sity students are. If the plan be
introduced, the courses would have
to be pruned seriously so that only
subjects directly connected with the pro-
posed war work would be studied. This
would enable trained war-time techni-
cians to be turned out at a much greater
rate, but would hardly equip the student
for a post-war job any more, say, than
an Air Force man’s course in radio loca-
tion would. It may be some help, but
to be properly equipped the student would
have to return to the university after the
war and finish the whole course at a
more leisurely rate.
This would then almost put the student
on the same level as the service man,
except for the fact that the service man
works at his subject from 9 to 5, five
days a week, and the-university student
works on an average only 25 hours a
week. The student, moreover, attends
lectures for only 27 weeks in the year,
and this situation would have to be
altered.
Consequently the plan resolves itself
around the question whether the courses
should be pruned and the student’s
general education spoiled, or whether
trained specialists in one field should be
turned out as quickly as possible. It
cannot be denied that the trained special-
ists are urgently needed, but our leaders
must decide whether they are more
urgently needed than the student, trained
more leisurely and on a broader scale,
will be in post-war schemes of recon-
struction.—!. J. W. (N.S.W.).
Tinplate Collection?
Powdered milk, treacle and other com-
modities are being put up in cardboard
containers because of the acute shortage
of tinplate. Why doesn’t the Government
begin a scrap-tin collection on the lines
of the highly successful rubber salvage
drive? I know a lady who has over 100
clean powdered-milk tins, but no one will
look at them in the near-by large country
town. Scores of householders must like-
wise have a mine of tinplate they would
willingly get rid of. — Gip (N.Q.).
Smilers
A number of newspaper illustrations
before me indicate that Australians are
a happy crowd in all circumstances. One
is of some school lads being shown the
production of a piece of war plant; all are
smiling. Another shows women under-
going instruction from a military man;
every one is happy. Still another shows
some soldiers wading through a marsh
to get an idea of landing on a hostile
shore ; every one has a grin on his face.
Contrast —a number of Russian women
assisting their guerrilla men, all of the
grimmest countenance ; another of truck-
loads of German infantry men, not a
scintilla of a smile among them ; another
of girls at work in an English munition
plant, every one doing her job seriously
and intently. Perhaps this vein of cheer-
fulness is all right, but isn’t there just
the chance that it arises out of failure to
realise the seriousness of the outlook? —
Adsum (W.A.).
A Word for Oscar Walters
I can’t understand The Bulletin’s
Red Page quoting various fair to
mediocre writers of topical verse and
never mentioning one of its best contri-
butors, Oscar Walters.
What Australian poet ever gave us
anything as good in Digger verse as “A
Road in France” (subject of Walter
Jardine’s best cartoon), “Winter in
France,” “At Bemafay,” “In a Staminay
in France” or “I Must Cultivate My
Garden” and some of his philosophical
verse before his well dried up?
Thousands of men have Oscar Walters’s
verse cut out and put away, and they
haven’t worried to do that with any, other
since Lawson and Paterson.
Let me quote a stanza:
Marching through a shattered village,
Plodding down a sunken road.
With ihe company cookhouse limber
Sinking ’neath its precious load,
Then of life the present moment
Was the total and the sum,
And we thought not of the morrow,
For the morrow might not come.
You may say that this is simple stuff —
but there’s no doubt of its appeal. Neil-
son, Inglis Moore (bar his “Song for
Lovers”), Baylebridge or Brennan —bah!
Go back to full-blooded verse. —S. Lee
Collins (Q.).
The W.A. Mall«T
Break it down, J. Rilston (B. 19/8/’42)!
Where’s this mysterious no-man’s-land a
“couple of hundred miles long, east of
Northam”? Take a look at the map
showing name-places, and run your finger
along the towns that span the gap from
Northam to Merredin, from there to the
“Cross,” from there to Coolgardie. After
Southern Cross the country is pretty
hopeless, but it’s only about 115 miles
to Coolgardie by road (which pretty well
parallels the line).
As far as Merredin, it is all good
country: Northam, Grass Valley, on
through Walgoolan, Noongar, Moorine
Rocks —the last-named had the largest
tally of wheat for any W.A. siding a few
years back.
The W.A. mallee country is due south
of Coolgardie. From Coolgardie to Wid-
giemooltha and Norseman and thence
down through the last of that gold-bear-
ing strip you hit the Esperance mallee
country, about 80 miles from the coast.
Salmon Gums used to pride itself on
being the “capital.” Thirty miles of
coastal sand-plain country intervene be-
fore reaching the beach at the bay. We
saw rip-snorting days down there in the
late ’twenties, when the Agricultural Bank
was tossing a few hundred thousand
about. There are still battlers at every
siding, though it is only a ghost of what
it used to be. —R. H. G. (W.A.),


METAL MANUFACTURES LTD.
PORT KEMBLA
MAKERS OF:—
N.S.W.
mm*: ** '2l*
of Non Ferrous
Metals and Alloys
e
> S'*
«MWt~
■MMI - T-K-
■i
>
m '' £^£Ss»r;
%«*
ifß .&&&&&:
* |
aa
H
rv r ;
5
I
-I
U
. y
- p
GENERAL VIEW OF PAPER LAPPING SECTION.
For the manufacture of
local and trunk type
paper-insulated lead-
covered telephone cables
for the Postmaster-Gen-
eral’s Department, special
lapping and quadding
machinery is installed.
CABLES
TUBES
T
JL HE story of the Company is
broadly one of steady progress, and
it has made a substantial contribution
to the development of Australia, Com*
mencing with the assistance of rela-
tively high protective duties, it has
brought itself into a position where it
is able to carry on with a considerably
less degree of protection. The reputa-
tion of its products has always been
carefully guarded, and its trade-mark
“Kembla” is an asset of which it may
be justifiably proud.
:
up “ Jj
t
' ■
...
v
i
tm
A FLYER ON A TELEPHONE CABLE LAYING-UP
MACHINE SHOWING LAY-PLATE AND CLOSING DIE.
INTERESTING FACTS ABOUT
TELEPHONES
There are about 39 million telephones
in use throughout the world, using
about 168 J million miles of telephone
wire,
Australia has about three million miles
of telephone wire in use, and about
nine telephones per 100 of population,
occupying seventh place in this respect
amongst the nations of the world.
In the large cities of the world, Wash*
ington, with nearly 39 telephones per
100 of population, heads the list. The
numbers per 100 people in the Aus-
tralian capitals are: Melbourne 12.45,
Sydney 11.73, Adelaide 10.75, Hobart
10.67, and Brisbane 10,49,
