

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63,—N0. 3256.
Wednesday, July 8, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
OLD MILL AND ABBEY, TEWKESBURY.
JHE Abbey Church at Tewkesbury, in
Gloucestershire, is one of the most
ancient, likewise most noble, of those
ecclesiastical memorials in England which
unite the twentieth century with centuries
long past. The towers seen over the old
mill, the latter a comparatively modern
erection, rise over the transept of a build-
ing, tradition tells, that marks almost the
spot where Theocus, a Saxon missionary,
established himself on the banks of the
Severn and built a church at the end
of the seventh century. The Abbey
Chronicle, written in the sixteenth cen-
tury, a copy, it is believed, of some more
ancient document, relates this. In the
reigns of Ethelred and Ethelbald, two
Kings of Mercia, there flourished two
Saxon nobles, Odda and Dodda, distin-
guished for their eminent virtues, high
rank and piety, who in 715 founded a
monastery on their own estate, near the
Severn where Theocus made his abode,
dedicated to the Blessed Virgin and en-
dowed with possessions sufficient for the
maintenance of four br five monks, under
a prior of the Benedictine Order. How
much of this is fact or fable has not been
established, but it is not disputed Tewkes-
bury represents a mosfr ancient ecclesi-
astical foundation, and it is established
that an Earl Odda, of the time of Edward
the Confessor (1042-1066), was a liberal
benefactor of the Tewkesbury Monastery.
The Great Abbey, a cruciform church,
317 feet long, 124 feet across the tran-
septs, with the tower, 123 feet high,
was restored in 1875-79, and, while in
the main, Norman, has Early English
Decorated and Perpendicular features,
the West Front being especially notable.
The murdered Prince Edward, son of
Henry VI, was buried here, and to modern
visitors not the least interesting monu-
ment is the elegant one commemorating
Mrs. Craik, more popularly known by
her maiden name, Miss Mulock, and as
the author of the admirable work of
fiction “John Halifax, Gentleman,” the
scene of which, it will be remembered, is
laid in Tewkesbury and on hillsides not
far distant. With many tourists the Old
Mill by the river is a popular centre.


drg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 242 ...
The Red Page
ELI OT AND KIPLING.
When Bernard O’Dowd’s collected,
poems were reviewed here recently, the
suggestion was made that, because poets
who have spoken for a nation are needed
in a time of national emergency, Rudyard
Kipling’s verse might be brought to the
fore again in England as O’Dowd’s has
in Australia. That turned out to be true
prophecy, for Faber and Faber have just
published a new edition of Kipling,
selected and introduced by (of all
people!) T. S. Eliot.
There never was any need, of course,
to revive Kipling for the great majority
of readers. Like “Banjo” Paterson in
Australia, he always has been, and always
will be, popular. Indeed, nine readers out
of ten would be much more interested in
an essay by Kipling on Eliot, demon-
strating that Eliot is readable, than in
Eliot’s defence of Kipling.
But for the tenth reader, who, knowing
in his bones that “Banjo” was not a poet
in the high sense, is always liable to for-
get that “The Man from Snowy River”
is one of the greatest ballads that have
ever been written; for the tenth reader,
who, knowing that Kipling is only rarely
and then as if by accident a poet, has
certainly forgotten, during the past ten
years when poetry has been so “high”
that it almost vanished from sight, that
Kipling was not only a great balladist
but a political thinker of the rarest quality
—uncompromisingly realistic, unvaryingly
honest, bitterly satirical, profoundly
strong and sane —this belated resuscita-
tion was well worth attempting.
Because he believed in England, in
the Empire, in the White Man, in the
Soldier (how right he was no one would
question today!) he has been derided
for twenty years while all the great minds
who believed in the odd gods of Inter-
nationalism and Disarmament brought
England, the Empire, the White Man and
the Soldier to the very brink of disaster.
And while he was the lonely “Blimp,”
the laughingstock of all that was pink
and pretty, it was forgotten that England,
the Empire, the White Man and the
Soldier had no more savage critic than
this man who made them his ideals.
A popular poet, a leader of the people,
he wasn’t exactly currying favor with his
audience when he told them (in 1902!)
that only by compulsory military training
for every man in England, only by un-
remitting military effort, unremitting
military preparedness would their free-
dom be preserved:
But ye say, “It will mar our comfort.” Ye
say, “It will mimsh our trade.”
Do ye wait for the spattered shrapnel ere ye
learn how a gun is laid?
For the low red glare to southward when the
raided coast-towns bum?
(Light ye shall have on that lesson, but little
time to learn.)
Will ye pitch some white pavilion, and lustily
even the odds,
With nets and hoops and mallets, with racquets
and bats and rods?
Arid, aloof, incurious, unthinking, unthanking,
gelt,
Will ye loose your schools to flout them till
their browbeat columns melt?
Will ye pray them or preach them, or print
them, or ballot them back from your shore?
Will your workmen issue a mandate to bid
them strike no more?
Will ye rise and dethrone your rulers? (Because
ye were idle both?
Pride by Insolence chastened? Indolence
purged by Sloth?)
No doubt but ye are the People; who shall
make you afraid?
Also your gods are many; no doubt but your
gods shall aid.
Idols of greasy altars built for the body's ease;
Proud little brazen Baals and talking fetishes;
Teraphs of sept and party and wise wood-
pavement gods—
These shall come down to the battle and snatch
you from under the rods?
When ye are ringed as with iron, when ye are
scourged as with whips,
When the meat is yet in your belly, and the
boast is yet on your lips;
When ye go forth at morning and the noon
beholds you broke,
Ere ye lie down at even, your remnant, under
the yoke?
How terribly apt it is to the Australia
of, say, six months ago! With what clarity
of mind, what merciless exactitude Kip-
ling could examine the democracy, the
England, the people that he loved:
No doubt but ye are the People—absolute,
strong and wise;
Whatever your heart'has descried ye have not
withheld from your eyes.
On your own heads, in your own hands, the
sin and the saving lies!
Line after line of this extraordinary
poem, “A Song for the People,” at once a
satire and a hymn, still flashes with truth,
cuts through at one blow all the nonsense
that is now talked by Kipling’s old
deriders about “ the old school tie” and
the “Blimps” as the causes of those
troubles that sprang from the pleasant but
dangerous lethargy of the whole people.
And here, for those who are willing to
accept “A Song for the People” now, but
who in their dream of an impossible
“New Order” after the war are already
preparing to go soft again and lose the
next peace as they lost the last —here
are the “Gods of the Copybook Head-
ings” (the warning that went unheeded in
1919): —
As it will be in the future, it was at the birth
of Man—
There are only four things certain since Social
Progress began:
That the Dog returns to his vomit and the Sow
returns to her mire,
And the burnt Fool’s bandaged finger goes
wabbling back to the Fire.
Whatever it is, verse or poetry, it is so
good of its kind, so pure and economical
in style, so brilliant in epigram, so techni-
cally accomplished in rhyme and rhythm,
that it passes beyond criticism. Kipling’s
verse must, as Eliot points out, be appre-
ciated for what it is, not criticised for
what it is not.
As to what it is not, that is very plainly
discernible when such a verse as “A
Song for the People” is placed beside
Eliot’s own writings. One of the great
choruses from Murder in the Cathedral,
for example, where Eliot, too, is writing
about the People:
We have not been too happy, my Lord, we
have not been too happy.
We are not ignorant women; we know what
we must expect and not expect.
We know of oppression and torture,
We know of extortion and violence.
Destitution, disease,
The old without fire in winter,
The child without milk in summer,
Our labor taken away from us,
Our sins made heavier upon us.
We have seen the young man mutilated,
The torn girl trembling by the mill-stream.
And meanwhile we have gone on living,
Living and partly living.
Picking together the pieces,
Gathering faggots at nightfall,
Building a partial shelter
For sleeping, and eating and drinking and
laughter.
God gave us always some reason, some hope;
but now a new terror has soiled us, which
none can avert, none can avoid, flowing
under our feet and over the sky;
Under doors and down chimneys, flowing in
at the ear and the mouth and the eye.
God is leaving us, God is leaving us, more
pang, more pain, than birth or death.
Sweet and cloying through the dark air
Falls the stifling scent of despair;
The forms take shape in the dark air;
Puss-purr of leopard, footfall of padding bear,
Palm-pat of nodding ape, square hyena
waiting
For laughter, laughter, laughter. The Lords of
Hell are here.
Why is Kipling’s song for the people
great “verse,” and Eliot’s song for the
people great “poetry”? Eliot in his in-
troductory essay to Kipling’s Verse
evades a discussion of this old mystery
by declaring that Kipling is a “verse-
writer” and then proceeding to discuss
his great virtues as such —stressing, inci-
dentally, the odd fact that the best verse-
writers are very often more technically
skilful than the greatest poets. Which
suggests that the problem of what is
“verse” and what “poetry” is not a tech-
nical matter but a spiritual one.
As surely it is. Kipling, generally
speaking, is dealing with man as a social
or political being; but Eliot, in Murder
in the Cathedral, is dealing with man as
a spiritual being. Sometimes Kipling’s
patriotism crosses the borderline into
mysticism; sometimes Eliot’s spiritual
drama merges into social criticism ; but
the distinction remains generally true.
Despite the fact that they are written in
prose, it could be maintained that the
Jungle Books (which Eliot does not men-
tion) have a pantheistic magic which
brings them closer to the mystery of
poetry than anything Kipling wrote in
verse.
Preacher and He-man.
Following the careers of such readable
novelists of the second rank as A. J.
Cronin and Louis Bromfield, it is pos-
sible in each case to regard their “de-
velopment” as the gradual surrender of
originally independent minds to the
fashions of the time: Cronin to perfec-
tionism, Bromfield to primitivism.
Cronin’s Hatter’s Castle, years ago, was
pure character-study, and, because of the
intensity of the study, a moving and
powerful novel. But Cronin’s The Cita-
del, though character still came into it,
was fundamentally an attempt at the
reformation of the medical profession ;
and Cronin’s latest novel, The Keys of the
Kingdom (Angus and Robertson), is in-
tended to reform the whole of mankind.
Bromfield’s The Strange Case of Miss
Annie Spragg was pure character study,
a delightful fantasy of spinsterdom; his
Jater novels have gradually “toughened”
'until the new one, Wild Is the River
(Cassell; Dymock’s), is Hemingway at his
he-manliest.
Because each novel is at the very ex-
treme of the fashion into which it has
fallen. The Keys of the Kingdom and
Wild Is the River contrast about as
strongly as any two books could possibly
contrast. Offering a symbol for the
regeneration of humanity, Cronin por-
trays a Scottish Catholic priest who be-
comes a missionary in China. Offering
an image of the unregeperacy of
humanity, Bromfield gives a picture of
the worst of the bad old days in New
Orleans after the American Civil War.
Cronin has too much to him as a
novelist to surrender altogether to the
reformist fashion. His priest is an appeal-
ing study, and a good one; dour, paw-
kily humorous, awkward in his relations
with the dignitaries of the Church, happy
with Scottish fishermen or Chinese peas-
ants, tolerant, inclined to be sceptical of
all dogmas yet firm in his faith, a man
of peace and kindliness but able to battle
mightily when civil war in China forces
him into action to defend his flock. A
sample of the general style :
Monsignor Sleeth frowned censoriously as
he turned the pages. “Here is an incredible
remark you made during Holy Week.
‘Atheists may not go to hell. 1 knew one
who didn’t. Hell is only for those who
spit in the face of God.’ And, good
gracious, this atrocity: ‘Christ was a per-
fect man, but Confucius had a better sense
of humor!” Another page was turned
indignantly. “And this incredible inci-
dent.... when one of your parishioners,
Mrs. Glendenning, who cannot of course
help her extreme stoutness, came to you
for spiritual guidance you looked at her
and replied, ‘Eat less. The gates of Para-
dise are narrow.’ ” Decisively, Monsignor
Sleeth closed the gilt-edged book. “To say
the least, you seem to have lost your com-
mand of souls.”
“But ” Calmly: “I don’t want to
command anyone’s soul.”
A philosophy of tolerance and kind-
liness ; some humor and some adventures
in China ; and a moderately interesting
character-study: that’s The Keys of the
Kingdom. Having a sermon to preach
usually leads a novelist into false inter-
pretations of character —into presenting
economic man, political man, social man,
instead of just living man: Cronin has
too much sense to do that, but he does
overstress the world’s blindness to its
saints. That Father Chisholm is a lov-
able Christian of the very finest type is a
secret between Cronin and the reader,
everyone else, especially his colleagues in
the Church, being totally blind to his
most obvious goodness. Which, though
a compliment to the reader’s perspicacity,
is absurd.
Almost the only thing Cronin has in
common with Bromfield is an affection
for aunts. Father Chisholm, for no par-
ticular reason except that Cronin doesn’t
want to leave his characters behind, totes
a dear old lady into the wilds of China.
And Bromfield, for no particular reason
except that he wants to prove that dear
old ladies have minds like garbage-tins,
has quite a flock of ’em in naughty New
Orleans.
It occurred to him that everything had
become immensely complicated, that in this
sultry, half-tropical country the slightest
thing might lead to changes and passions
and incredible complications. Here every-
thing—even daily life —had a kind of
theatrical, melancholy, overwrought quality.
It was not at all like New England, or even
Virginia or New York. Here there was too
much rdmance; it was laid on thick like
the plaster from a mason’s trowel. Every-
thing was romance and love and duels and
assassination, carried on always in an
atmosphere in which the smell of fertile
mud and disease and the scent of jasmine
were equally mixed. And he had again the
sense of having been carried away like
a swimmer caught in a riptide beyond his
depth.
That is Bromfield’s own summing-up
of his New Orleans atmosphere, and it is
devastatingly accurate. It will occur to
the reader, as it apparently did to Brom-
field when he was halfway through the
story, that “here there is too much
romance.” The smell of fertile mud will
also be noticeable. The complications
are profoundly incredible. And it is
very true that one has the sense that
somebody or other has been carried away
like a swimmer caught in a riptide,
beyond his depth.
Two things have swept Bromfield
away. One, Hemingway or Faulkner ;
the other, Hollywood. His hero, who is
exactly Hemingway’s “dumb ox,” irre-
sistible to women, “animal-hipped,”
animal-brained and gifted with all the
eloquence of the larger bovines, simply
does not exist.
Some wise man once said that, nine
times out of ten, adventures in a novel
should be summed up in the one sen-
tence, “And then they had adventures.”
But Hollywood says: “Put the girl and
her aunt on a fever-ship, make the crew
mutiny and abandon them, send ’em up
the wide, lonely crocodile-haunted river
in a small boat with their faithful nigger
Caesar, who, more full of wonderful
things than even the Swiss Family Robin-
son, will have thoughtfully brought along
every necessity and luxury from a tin-
opener to a hatrack.” And Mr, Brom-
field, having hearkened to the voice of
Hollywood, has sent ’em up the river
with the faithful Caesar; and he has had
the wicked overseer flogged by the slaves
and tied to a stake in the river to be
devoured by the crocodiles.
Wild, wild is the river; wild, wild are
the he-men ; wild, wilder than wild is
the colorful influence of Hollywood.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The simplest method of solving film
murder mysteries is to eliminate all pos-
sible suspects and select the criminal
from the few remaining characters. By
that modus operandi the mystery of
“Shadow of the Thin Man” (Sydney St.
James) is no more difficult to solve than
a five-minute crossword puzzle ; compen-
sation comes from the droll humor of
William Powell and Myrna Loy. Simi-
larly, although the whole pattern of
“Design for Scandal” (Victory) is obvious
five minutes after the start, the antics of
Rosalind Russell, as a woman Judge in
divorce, and of Walter Pidgeon, as the
press photographer trying to lead her off
into injudicial behavior, are sufficiently
amusing to carry it over the allotted
running-time.
Percy Code wrung a lot of the strange
beauty out of Wotan’s Farewell and the
Fire Music from “Valkyrie” at the third
symphony concert at Melbourne Town
Hall. Arnold Matters ably sang the
touching solo. The highlight of the after-
noon was the “Paris” of Delius, a first
rendering in Australia. It might have
been any city anywhere or no city at all,
but it was full of lovely sounds, and Code
got several rounds of handclaps for his
conducting of it. Brahms’s vast Sym-
phony No. 4 concluded the proceedings.
It is reported of a sad-faced comedian of
many years ago that one night he walked
on to the stage and gazed mournfully at
the audience for a moment or two. A titter
in the front seats set a fuse of laughter
through the theatre, and the house
shook with mirth. The comedian walked to
the front of the stage and, as though the
weight of the world were on his shoul-
ders, gazed silently at the bellowing audi-
ence ; the laughter rose to greater heights.
For five minutes the comedian sorrow-
fully surveyed the customers, and for
five minutes they were convulsed with
laughter. Then, bowed with sorrow and
still in silence, he wandered off the stage.
There is no doubt that “Mo” is capable
of moving his audiences at Sydney Tiv.
in the same fashion. He is the backbone
and half the framework of the current
Tiv. show, “Mirth of a Nation,” and
everything he does, from his entrances to
his exits, including one moment in which
he might be suspected of being serious,
lifts the roof. With him are the usual
string of good Tiv. Artists —Sadie Gale,
Alec Kellaway, the comic “Crazy
Builders,” etc.
In “Beauty on Parade,” Melbourne
Tivoli management is giving the nation
a lead in economy of clothing. Nothing
could be more inspiring than the gigantic
absence of wool, flannel, cotton, silk •and
other material essential to the fighting
services in which the performers brave
the rigors of the Melbourne winter.
Mrs. J. R. Price and Ina Gregory have
been showing a queer, mixed collection
at the Athenaeum, Melbourne. If they
have any particular viewpoint it is not
discernible, for their pictures vary from
hard, brittle, factual still life to land-
scapes enveloped in a mist which is not
of Nature’s making.
A show of old prints at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, contains such interest-
ing items as William Blake’s engraving of
one of Hogarth’s “Beggar’s Opera” paint-
ings, a couple of J. W. Giles’s hand-colored
lithographs of early Adelaide, and one of
Garden’s “Cries of London” designs, in
stipple. The exhibition’s raison d’etre
isn’t very clear.
A show of drawings by Harold Herbert
—most of the slightest texture and
others mere notes and comments —has
been opened by General Blarney at Koz-
minsky’s Galleries, Melbourne. Egypt,
Palestine and Syria, with all their sin,
sand and sore eyes, are suggested in
these sketches, which have been thrown
off with the same formularised ease as
the artist uses in his water-color paint-
ing. About 20 similar drawings have
been acquired for the Australian War
Memorial at Canberra. The remainder
on show have sold like hot cakes.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —always protects you.
‘THE SENIOR STORE’
V ■. A
Jfe-
/■
I g
JPT
wr
Nlii
%
i
i*
&
Ns
. Roister, 4lt. 6in. size, trimmed
ofin Bedspreads with moo colours of Blue, Rose,
Hordßrn s'. Wee.
Ireen, and Gold. At 55/-
omplete
m „ nde sets comprising
Shadow Tissue Curtains, readv ae \ a \an attached In
Sh Gm tains 6ft. long, with cent At Anthony
two Curtains m orange , and Green 19/6
shades of Rose, blue,
Horderns'. Price, set
i
o>lam
&
p
mm\
mm
*¥.
c
JrSfSi
‘V
V':'
W-.
mt
A
mm
m
t-M
m
'■y'y>yy.
A —4 Bin. wide Heavy-
weight Colton Brocade
for Curtains, Loose
Covers, etc. .In shades
of Blue and Cream, Rose
and Cream, Fawn and
Cream, Green and
Cream. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, per
yard .. . 9/11
B—4 Bin. wide British Tapestry :or re-
covering Chairs and Settees. Fawn and
Green grounds, with contrasting
colours. At Anthony .Horderns'. Price,
yard 17/6
C 48in. wide British Colton Weave,
small all-over design effect, for Loose
Covers, Curtains, and Bedspreads. In
shades of Fawn, Orange, and Green.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price, yard, 8/11
D —4sin. wide Striped Cottage Weave
for Curtains, Bedspreads, and Cushion-
ing. In shades of Green, Brown, Blue,
and Tango. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price, yard 4/11
E—36in. wide Two-toned
Colton Curtain Net, fade
less floral and conven-
tional designs in colours
of Blue, Gold, Green,
and Rust. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, per
yard 3/11
• Soft Furnishings —
Third Floor.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
HORDERNS’
LOW PRICES
Post to Box 2712 C/ G.P.0., Sydney


AFTERNOON WALK
By MARGARET TRIST.
OUTSIDE the
Sunday noon
was hot and
sunny. In-
side the air was
close and laden with the smell of food.
On the stove a steamed pudding warmed
in a saucepan. A limp white cloth cov-
ered the round table. Stearp rose from
the three plates. Mayrah slipped into her
place. At the stove her mother waited
for the kettle to boil. She held the tea-
pot in her hands, her white, thin fingers
spread outward over it. Her mouth was
caught in a tight line.
Mayrah strained to catch the click of
the front gate, the sound of her father’s
heavy footsteps. They did not come.
She glanced anxiously at her mother.
Her mother’s face showed nothing at all.
“You may start, Mayrah,” she said. She
set the third plate on a saucepan on the
stove and then sat down to begin her own
meal. There was resignation in the lines
of her face, weariness in her movements.
“She’s going to sigh,” thought Mayrah,
watching her covertly. She gritted her
teeth and waited. Her mother did not
sigh. She ate in thoughtful silence, isolat-
ing herself within a wall of self-pity.
“Please, father, come home for your
dinner,” Mayrah breathed. Not that it
made much difference now. There would
be bother whichever way. If, as had hap-
pened before, he wandered amiably home
some time tonight, the battle would last
all the week. If he came before the meal
finished and apologised in approved
fashion a few hours might clear the air.
But if, as was more probable, he refused
to eat the meal and flung himself out of
the room, feverishly rolling a thin, dank-
looking cigarette, a fortnight or a month
might pass before anything like peace
descended on the house.
Mayrah’s heart fluttered as the gate
clicked. It rose suffocatingly into her
throat. Her father came in quietly
enough. His dark face was flushed ; his
eyes had angry depths; his mouth hung
loosely. His hands were big, covered
with fine olive-colored skin, the fingers
slender and sensitive. He glanced down
at the food his wife had placed on the
table. Mayrah watched him. She felt
terror mounting within herself. Sickness
of heart made her tremble uncontrollably.
“They’re going to fight,” she thought.
Her wide, dark eyes, her white face
were turned towards him. They came
into his line of vision. He looked at her
astonished. It was almost as if he had
never seen her before. An overwhelming
sense of his own failure robbed him of
his anger. He sat down and ate his
dinner meekly. He had the pleased air of
a small boy who has been going to be
bad, but is patiently refraining.
Silence lay heavily over the meal. On
the stove the kettle fretted. Mayrah
pushed her plate away and waited, hoping
to be given permission to go. The palms
of her hands grew warm and moist.
Her father looked across at her. “How
old are you now?” he asked. She winced
at the sound of his voice. “Good God,”
he thought, “she thinks I’m an ogre.”
Concern sat oddly on his dark face.
“Ten,” she told him, her eyes glancing
at him, wavering and looking away. “You
remember —last May—you gave me a
book—poetry.”
“Oh, yes,” he said. In his attempt to
be pleasant a fatuous tone came into his
voice. “And did you read it?”
“N-o-o. N-not yet.” She did not feel
it was quite the time to tell him that her
mother had taken it away from her be-
cause of the illustrations.
He nodded. “I’ll read it to you some day.
So you’re ten. How old do you think I am?”
She had no idea. She shook her head,
frightened to speak lest she said the
wrong thing.
“I’m thirty-two,” he said.
She made a little clacking sound with
her tongue, such as she had heard her
mother do when words evaded her.
Conversation flagged. Mayrah fixed
her eyes self-consciously on her plate. At
last her father finished and took out his
tobacco. Her mother got up and started
clearing the table. Mayrah helped her,
taking sugar and pepper and salt to the
cupboard.
Having rolled his cigarette her father
got up. “I’m going for a walk,” he said.
“Are you coming, May?”
In her surprise his wife nearly dropped
the pile of dishes she was carrying. She
set her mouth obstinately. “How can I
got out on a Sunday afternoon? I’m too
tired. 1 sew all the week.”
“Do you have to?” he asked.
“Do I have to?” she blazed at him.
“My child has to be fed and clothed,”
“Surely my salary should cover that.”
“Well, it doesn’t. You know it doesn’t.
You drink and smoke too much.”
“All right, all right,” he shouted, “Do
what you like. I’m going for a walk.
I’ll take Mayrah.”
MAYRAH wiped the dinner things,
then went to tidy herself. Her
mother said good-bye to her coldly. It
was good to get out into the lighter atmo-
sphere of the afternoon. It was hot but
not oppressively so. , The air was sweet
with sunlight. At the gate her father was
waiting. As usual a limp, damp cigar-
ette drooped from his lips. His hair was
straggling, his collar crumpled and soiled.
His trousers bagged at the knees. He
pointed back at the house. “Needs paint,”
he said, “but your father smokes and
drinks too much.”
He opened the gate and they went
through. The footpath was covered with
little brown pebbles. They went in silence
past the quiet houses and the flat, weed-
covered vacant lots.
“Well,” he said at last, “what do you
think of your father?”
She stared at him and stammered pain-
fully. “I don’t think about you,” she
managed at last.
“Oh!” They turned into a side street.
Below them a small white bridge spanned
a dribble of muddy water. They went
towards it. “Well, what do you think
about?”
She frowned. It was difficult. “The
girls at school” She hesitated.
“Go on.”
“Lessons. Books we read.’*
“What books?”
“Schoolgirl stories.”
He broke in on her. “We’ll remedy
that. You’re old enough to have read a
number of things. You learn poetry?”
“Yes.”
“Say some for me.”
She chose some lines at random.
He frowned, “Whoever taught you
that rubbish?”
“The teacher,” she answered.
“Come,” he said shortly, “we’ll go and
tell the teacher we won’t have any more
of that sort of thing.”
They had reached the bridge. He went
striding over it. Mayrah trotted breath-
lessly after him. “Oh, please, father!
Please, don’t! She wouldn’t like it. I
know she wouldn’t.”
He snorted indignantly and shook off
her imploring hands. Once over the
bridge, however, he forgot his bold inten-
tion. He sat down on the grassy bank
beside the creek.
“Peace dwells in blessing o’er a place
folded within the hills to keep
And under dark boughs seawind-fray’d:”
he recited, his eyes on her face. His voice
flowed on endlessly. The cadences rose
and fell. Slowly her heart began to swell.
He recited for half an hour. Mayrah’s
attention wandered,. Her fingers plucked
at the sparse, green shoots of coarse
grass. At the creek bend a gum-tree
sprawled against the sky. Its limbs were
twisted and gnarled; its trunk creamy.
Naked roots went to the water. From
the topmost branch a magpie, sleek,
audacious, wicked-eyed, watched them.
Mayrah watched it and instinctively
clutched her hat. The girls from the con-
vent went by in twos. As they passed
over the bridge the reflection of their
black-stockinged legs in the water grew
to enormous length. Two nuns followed
them, their black umbrellas bobbing
against the sunlight. A couple, holding
hands and giggling, wandered along the
opposite bank in the direction of a group
of willows. Her father, soothed by his
own voice, took his handkerchief out of
his pocket, covered his face with it, and
dozed.
WHEN he woke he was in high good
humor. He took Mayrah’s hand and
they set off towards the main part of the
town. He looked about him reflectively.
“What beats me,” he said, “is why I
stay here.”
The wide main street stretched before
them. A group of boys hung listlessly
around a corner. A tethered horse
shifted its hooves and swished its tail.
A dog, its head sunk on its paws, slept
peacefully in the middle of the road. A
car went carefully around it.
Her father bit at his cigarette and
squashed her fingers absentmindedly in
his hand. Their footsteps rang on the
concrete squares of the footpath. Out-
side the newsagency a group of people
waited for the car that would bring the
papers. George, the Greek, stood at the
door of his shop, a white canvas apron
shielding his Sunday clothes. Behind
him the shop yawned cool and vast and
dark, its air rich with tempting odors.
Mayrah looked expectantly at her father.
He had stopped and was gravely con-
templating a cooked fowl in the window.
Its plucked skin was brown and dry. Its
long neck stretched blackly out of its
body. He roared with laughter. Echoes
reverberated through the street. Idlers
looked round curiously. George’s face
puckered into something halfway between
astonishment and amusement.
When he had stopped laughing he
turned to Mayrah. “Ever see your mother’s
eldest sister—your Aunt Susan?”
Mayrah thought hard. “Not that I
remember,” she said.
Along the street they passed the news-
paper office. It was in here that her
father followed some unspecified and
mysterious calling. He passed it without
looking. He started to tell her about her
relations. She heard a great many
astounding things. Neighbors, friends
and acquaintances were dealt with in
turn. She had the desolate feeling that
the world was made up of a great num-
ber of unsatisfactory people.
Outside the town they came to the
lower part of the creek. Soon the water
gave way to mud. That disappeared too,
leaving a grassy hollow. There were
things she would have liked to have
asked him, but the words would not form
in her mind. She wanted to know why
they did not go to the pictures of a
Saturday night and sit with a rug tucked
over their knees. Or why the three of
them never went out
together? To her
the most perfect
thing in the world
would have been to
have walked along, a hand clasping hers
on each side. Security would have sur-
rounded her then, keeping away from her
the loneliness of living. She looked at
him, but his face was heavy and dark
and remote from her.
They came suddenly upon the prickly-
pear. It marched relentlessly upon the
town. Acre after acre it stretched before
them, taller pieces etched unevenly against
the paling afternoon sky. The fruit was
heavily maroon among the green. Her
father shrugged his shoulders. They
turned to retrace their steps.
On the outskirts of the town her father
dropped her hand. He looked at her
oddly as if he had been dreaming and had
woken to find her unexpectedly there.
“Know your way home from here?”
he asked.
She nodded.
“Buzz off then!” he said. “Tell your
mother to throw my tea in the pig-
bucket,” he called after her.
She went slowly, the oppression of the
silent house ahead reaching out to her.
Turning once she saw him striding in the
opposite direction. He went buoyantly,
his hands deep in his pockets, his head
thrown back, as if he had discharged
satisfactorily a necessary obligation.
LIBYAN MEMORIES
By R. J. SEARLE.
L_J E was right in the middle of the road
1 1 and Jack, who was driving, nearly
rammed him. Jack tooted the horn and
we all cursed and swore at the big truck
blocking our way. It pulled over after
a while and the driver jumped out and
signalled us to stop. We could see now
that it was a captured ten-tonner Eyetie
Diesel, nearly indestructible but very slow.
The radiator was steaming and the engine
was going “B-r-r-rp, B-r-r-rp” in a gasp-
ing sort of way. The driver was asking
us for a lift, but he had a pretty crook
idea of how to speak English, and
he was finding it hard to make Jack
understand.
“Ar, we can’t waste time,” said Mac, a
bit windy of Jerry behind us. But the Jew
had gone over to his truck and came back
with a pile of bedding and gear which he
slung aboard. We were moving again
before he’d finished scrambling on.
After we’d sorted out the extra gear
someone said “What about his truck?
Jerry will get it.” But we’d gone too far
to turn back. “It’ll seize up 0.K.,” said
the driver.
I slid forward to Jack and said “What’s
the strength of that bloke? He stinks.”
Jack chuckled like it was a great joke
and said “So do you.” He was driving
without lights or windscreen, which had
broken when we turned over back up the
road, so he couldn’t turn his head, and I
only caught snatches of “Palestinian
R.A.S.C.; get to Barce ; truck too slow ;
he’s scared stiff Jerry will get him.”
I scrambled back over the reserve
petrol, a souvenired bike, our rifles and
packs and gave the driver a cigarette.
The truck pitched and bounced and we’d
doze and jolt awake again. Once it
nearly turned over again when Jack fell
asleep and we ran down off the road.
Then we picked up a Choom convoy of
armored cars and a scammel or two with
I tanks aboard. It was the rearguard,
but they were kicking up so much dust
that we stopped and lay off for a few
minutes and took it more slowly.
About 2.30 in the morning we reached
Barce. Outside the pub an ammo, truck
was ablaze ; .303 I think it was, popping
like Guy Fawkes night. We pulled into
a side street to have a snooze until day-
break. No one was about except an
occasional truck rumbling along the Via
Vittoria, Tobruk bound.
The Jew got out, shouldered his gear
and started walking. He reckoned he
knew where his H.Q. was. We rolled our
smokes and watched him go out of the
glare. Then Jack drawled “I bet that
poor beggar will get a surprise when he
eventually finds where his mob was,” and
he fell asleep.
At first light Mac grunted, scrambled
over the side and slapped himself. We
all got out and yawned and scratched.
Mac always had been a fussy sort of a
bloke, but no amount of slapping would
ever get that dust out of his clothes. We
looked pretty crook —red-eyed, yellow
with dust and black with grease and
dirt. None of us had shaved for two or
three days.
We topped up the tank, started the
engine and climbed aboard. Barce had
been a lovely town when we first went
through six weeks back, but it was a
wreck now. The demolition gang had
done a beautiful job.
At the turnoff out of the town a Six
Divvy Engineer bloke hailed us. “Better
hurry, chaps; ferry isn’t far away now,”
he said ; “you’re one of the last through,”
“What about you? Want a lift?” asked
Mac.
“No, I’m set”
Before he’d finished, we were moving.
We turned on to the macadam and the
speedo touched the 50-mark. I turned
round to have a last look at what was
once the loveliest town in Cyrenaica and
wondered what had become of the Jewish
driver.
* * * *
THE trucks stopped at Acroma, and
we all fell out, dusty, sore-eyed and
stiff. There were a few holes dug in the
sand during the advance a few months
ago. With an Eyetie ground sheet over-
head for shade we settled down to work.
At once the cable truck moved off, and
in no time a maze of wires was twist-
ing and tangling over the sands to the
forward units. I was on the switch at the
time, copping a lot of abuse from the
brig, because reports weren’t coming in
fast enough. Up the wadi Snowy the
cook was boiling up—tinned sausages
and pineapple from a dump we’d raided
—while in a corner our primus was
spluttering and hissing under a pannikin
of tea. Everything seemed peaceful and
happy and I dozed on a petrol case think-
ing maybe this desert business wasn’t too
bad, and scratching and rubbing my leg
where a cramp from the truck still lin-
gered. Then away in the distance came
the plop-plop-plop of a Bofors.
“Something doing,” said Chris, and we
peered over the edge of the hole to watch
the excitement. There were two MellO’s,
travelling fast and low, and diving right
on to us with the suddenness of a traffic
accident. There was the angry whine of
their engines, the screaming of the air,
the angry chatter of a ground gun, with
its tracers making an arc right on to
them, but most of all I was fascinated by
the spurts of dust like an invisible sew-
ing machine as the guns raked the ground
in a direct line with us. Then I was
crouched, terrified, in the comer of the
pit next to Chris as the two ’planes
roared so low that it seemed we could
reach up and pull them out of the sky.
Then suddenly the sky was clear. We
crawled out and looked around. The
desert was the same, the sun was still as
blindingly white in its glare as ever; ex-
cept for a burning truck behind us, no-
thing seemed altered, but over near the
cookhouse someone was bending over a
body, while two more men were being
bandaged up. I felt suddenly very empty
in the pit of the stomach.
We buried Snow there, wrapped in an
army blanket and with a cross made from
a bit of wood and a bit of wire. As we
turned away, someone muttered “Well,
he wasn’t much of a cook, anyway.”
Next night we headed back for Tobruk,
but before we left I think everyone
went and stood by Snow’s grave for a
few minutes.


THE SHAPE OF THINGS TO COME.
“Creeping on the garrison at Salamaua, New Guinea, Allied soldiers killed or wounded 60 Japanese and captured a quantity of equipment, their own
losses being two men wounded.”


The Bulletin
National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Wehh
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; *Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
"I AM THE MAN."
“If we have not got large forces in the Far
East, it is I who am responsible. I am the
man whom Parliament and the nation have
got to blame for the general way in which
they are served.” — Mr. Churchill, Jan. 27.
“I willingly accept constitutional responsibility
for everything that has happened. I consider
that I have discharged that responsibility
by not interfering with the tactical handling
of armies in contact with the enemy.”
— Mr. Churchill, July 2.
“No nation can afford to risk its future
on the infallibility of one man, nor can
any nation afford to submerge its right
of speaking for itself because of the
assumed omniscience of another.” Mr.
Curtin said that when what was left of
the army in Malaya was pouring into
Singapore island; and Australia has
cause to remember with gratitude that
his words were accompanied by action —
action which delivered this country, to
the extent to which prior events and
current engagements made deliverance
possible, from the disastrous dictatorship
of Mr. Churchill.
“Mr. Churchill wins debates but loses
(battle after battle.” A Labor member,
Mr. Aneurin Bevan, said that in the
House of Commons last week while an-
other debate and another battle were in
progress. The debate was on a motion
challenging the Churchill Government —
for the first time ; the battle involved the
existence of the British army in Egypt
and of British sea-power in the Mediter-
ranean ; and without an army in Egypt
and a battle-fleet in Alexandria British
power in the Middle East would be “a
mutilated structure, soon to fall.” Mr.
Churchill won the debate by exactly 19
to 1 (475-25). The - battle remains
undecided.
One of those newspapers whose devo-
tion to Mr. Churchill, like that of the
House of Commons, is proof against ail
the calamities his self-sufficiency and
methods of making war have brought
upon the Empire was sure that he would
“enjoy every minute of the Parliamentary
fight.” And perhaps he did, for in that
sort of “fighting” he has no peer, and,
however grim the hour, he delights in
making the House laugh, as well as cheer.
Laughter was his portion when he
described the history of the “Churchill”
tank, invented “after I called a meeting
of experts in June, 1940,” and “put into
production after many defects and teeth-
ing troubles had been overcome” ; but,
though “sent to Egypt to be tested and
made desertworthy, not yet arrived at the
stage where it can be used in battle.”
Mr. Lyttelton, the Minister for Pro-
duction, had tried to defend the employ-
ment in North Africa of “tanks armed
with two-pounders against heavier tanks
armed with heavier guns.” He made
such heavy weather of it that Mr.
Churchill had to effect a diversion, which
he did by saying that “we have sent
more than 2000 tanks to Russia.” Men-
tion of that country always brings a
cheer and, since there have been no com-
plaints from Russia about the quality and
fire-power of British tanks, it must have
received only the best.
“To the Middle East,” the Prime
Minister said, there had been sent “from
Britain, from the Empire and, to a lesser
extent, from the United States more
than 950,000 men, 4500 tanks, 6000
’planes, nearly 5000 pieces of artillery,
50.000 machine-guns and more than
100.000 mechanical vehicles.” When the
battle in Libya began, we had “numerical
superiority”—loo,ooo to the enemy’s
90,000, of whom “50,000 were Germans”
—and were “perhaps” seven to five in
“numbers of tanks” and “nearly” eight
to five in artillery, “several regiments”
having “the latest 55-pounder howitzers.”
To the beginning of July the losses
amounted to 50,000 men, chiefly
prisoners, a great mass of material and
large quantities of stores.
Mr. Churchill has fallen into the habit
of believing what he wants to believe at
the moment and out of the habit of re-
reading his speeches. On January 27,
referring to the operations then in pro-
gress in Libya, he told the House that “we
have had in action more than 45,000 men”
—a number irreconcilable with “the more
than 950,000 men” now declared to have
been sept to the Middle East, allowing
that “Middle East” is a comprehensive
geographical expression. Rommel, Mr.
Churchill insisted, had forces “much
more than doubly strong,” and had lost
“exactly 61,000” in killed, wounded and
prisoners—36,soo, “more than double the
number” (about 18,000) “of our casual-
ties in killed, wounded and prisoners.”
That “battle,” the P.M. proceeded,
“would have been lost on November 24
if General Auchinleck had not changed
the command and ordered the attack to
be maintained without regard to conse-
quences.” With Mr. Churchill’s consent.
Sir Alan Cunningham, who had distin-
guished himself in East Africa, was dis-
missed and succeeded by General Ritchie.
After the fall of Tobruk General Ritchie
was dismissed. General Auchinleck tak-
ing over the command himself. It is now
“widely believed,” Melbourne “Herald’s”
London correspondent records, that Sir
Alan Cunningham “doubted the wisdom
of taking the offensive because the guns
and tanks, particularly the two-pounder
guns on the Matildas, Crusaders and
Covenanters, could not cope with those
of the Axis.” Mr. Churchill’s own belated
story is that “in the second Libyan
battle we tried to make up in numbers
[he was speaking of tanks] for admitted
inferiority in quality”; so the belief
seems to be well founded. In other
words. Sir Alan Cunningham was right,
just as Admiral of the Fleet Lord Fisher
was right when he objected to Mr.
Churchill risking the bulk of the Grand
Fleet in the Gallipoli adventure.
Lord Fisher resigned and Sir Alan
Cunningham was relieved of his com-
mand. So dangerous it is to be right
when Mr. Churchill, who wants only Yes-
men about him (witness his appointment
of a Whitehall civil servant to the War
Office), is of another opinion. As was
written a year ago:
Mr. Churchill is Argus with his eyes
on everything. He is an octopus with his
hands on everything. His War Cabinet
does not formulate policy; it merely imple-
ments the policy that Mr. Churchill formu-
lates. The War Cabinet, instead of being a
dynamo of drive and ideas, becomes a
rubber stamp.
A rubber stamp it still is and will be
to the end, unless Mr. Churchill is dis-
missed or forced to give up the Ministry
of Defence and admit the service Minis-
ters to his War Cabinet; and this he will
never do voluntarily.
On June 27 the people of the Empire
were informed that Mr. Churchill, then
in Washington, had in talks to Congress-
men and members of the Pacific Council
given a reassuring account of the situation
in North Africa. “The Libyan phase
was covered in detail,” said the Speaker
of the House of Representatives, “and I
came away feeling very hopeful.” So did
the Chairman of the House’s Foreign
Affairs Committee (“very enlightening,
very satisfactory, very encouraging”) and
the leader of the Republican group (“Mr.
Churchill indicated that Britain was in
no danger of losing Egypt of Suez”).
All this five days after the loss of Tobruk,
with nearly all its garrison and a great
deal of equipment and stores. Had the
gentlemen been “in Mr. Roosevelt’s
study” on June 21 they might have found
Mr. Churchill a prey to very different
emotions.
When I went into Mr. Roosevelt’s study
on, June 21 I was greatly shocked at a
report of the fall of Tobruk. I found it
difficult to believe, but my own telegram
soon confirmed the news. I hope the House
will realise the bitter pang it was to me.
My feelings were aggravated by newspaper
accounts of feeling in Great Britain, with
headlines such as “Commons Demands
Churchill’s Return to Face Accusers” and
“Churchill Returns to Supreme Political
Crisis.”
On the other hand, he might have
assumed the mood in which they found
him on June 25. To such a consum-
mate actor —and in this respect there has
never been a Prime Minister like him —
anything is possible.
This he demonstrated, with swift
changes of make-up and sentiments, in
the tragedy of Malaya and Singapore. In
the opening scene he said, with the world
for audience, “We have our great pre-
occupations here in Europe, but at the
same time everything of our resources,
everything that forethought can do, has
been done to prepare for this long-
threatened storm in the Far East which
has now broken upon us.” January 27
found him “explaining” the destruction
of Prince of Wales and Repulse by
shore-based aircraft, to whose attacks
there was no defence because aircraft
which might have saved them had been
sent to Russia. The “explanation” was that
the battleships had been used as “spear-
points,” to which Admiral of the Fleet
Lord Chatfield replied that only a lay-
man could employ such a term; “Battle-
ships are not spearpoints; they are not
forwards in the game but fullbacks.” On
the same occasion Mr. Churchill asked
the House to declare that the Govern-
ment had been warranted in surmising
that the Japanese would not attack, and
in deciding “to use our limited resources
on the actual fighting fronts.”
The outstanding question on which the
House should form its judgment is whether
his Majesty’s Government was right in giv-
ing a marked priority in the distribution of
forces and equipment to Russia, to Libya
and, to a lesser extent, to the Levant-
Caspian front, and whether we were right
in accepting for the time being a far lower
standard of forces and equipment for the
Far East than for these other theatres.
The judgment of the House was in
the Goverfiment’s favor. So it was when
Malaya and Singapore had been captured,
and with them all the surviving defenders
and all the tremendous resources of the
peninsula from which the British Com-
monwealth and the United States drew
most of their rubber and much of their
tin, and when the Japanese were gobbling
up the Dutch East Indies and establishing
themselves in New Guinea and the Solo-
mons and threatening Australia and New
Zealand with the horrors of Asiatic in-
vasion. “How,” he pleaded, “could we
have provided for the safety of the Far
East against such an avalanche of fire and
steel?”
I have been most careful all these many
months not to give any provocation to
Japan. I shall frankly state to you [the
people of the Empire] that I did not be-
lieve it was in the interests of Japan to
burst into war both upon the British
Empire and United States
The author of these self-contradictory
utterances was at Washington in August,
1941. While there, according to a writer
who claims to have White House
authority, he suggested a Churchili-
Roosevelt ultimatum to Japan. It is
probably true, for in that month, on his
own responsibility, he issued a warning
to Japan that war with the United States
would find Britain on the American side
from the firing of the first shot, and it
is unlikely in either case that he com-
municated his intentions to the Prime
Ministers of the Commonwealth and
Maoriland. His dictatorship had not
then been challenged. Whatever he
personally decided, whether it was
the transfer of most of the forces
victorious over the Italians from Libya
to Greece, the attempt to hold Crete
without aircraft, the alliance with Russia
or the diversion to that country of
precious equipment needed in Malaya,
Burma and the southern Dominions, was
done. And though from Narvik round
to Khota Bahru his “planning” and dis-
position of forces and equipment have
resulted in dreadful losses in ships and
crews and brought upon the Empire in
almost unbroken succession since First
Libya (and that was a soldiers’ cam-
paign) the worst defeats it has ever suf-
fered, his immense authority, exercised
with the valor of ignorance, has never
once been questioned by an idolatrous
press.
Standing at bay 50 miles from Alex-
andria, the sorely-tried Eighth Army, re-
inforced as it has been and ably sup-
ported in the air, has put up a grand
fight. Give the British Commonwealth
soldier equality in numbers and equip-
ment and he can hold his own anywhere.
With sea-power and air-power developed
to the limit, the British Commonwealth
and the United States can beat the Axis
if it takes 10 years. But it will be neces-
sary to remove every vestige of control
of strategy, forces, equipment and opera-
tions from the incompetent hands of Mr.
Churchill.
America and Australia.
By one of the oddest twists of historical
irony on record the British Common-
wealth in general and the Australian por-
tion in particular have for the first time
joined in celebrating with unmixed
mutual feelings—actually with a sense of
thanksgiving for its—the day honored
above all others in the U.S.A. as mark-
ing that country’s beginning as an inde-
pendent nation, forcibly self-severed from
British control.
The ironical twist finds Uncle Sam
working in much closer collaboration
with John Bull than some renfaining
parts of J.B.’s estates have reached, or
seem likely to reach. It also finds Aus-
tralia —historically, to a large extent, an
outcome of J.B.’s loss in America —vitally
dependent on the breakaway ex-partner,
well aware that but for the prompt and
generous help received from Uncle Sam
it would now be waging a desperate war
within its own shores against savage in-
vading hordes. Mr. Curtin’s blunt state-
ment a few weeks after the war in the
Pacific started —
Without any inhibitions I make it
quite dear that Australia looks to America,
free of any pangs as to our traditional
kinship with the United Kingdom—
turns out a fair enough appraisal of the
position as it has developed. The
developing has not finished, and no one
can say now what it will finally look like.
But already it has gone far enough to
leave no doubt whatever that, though
the British connection is independent of
the caprices of time and war, Australians
will look more and more to America
henceforth, not only for the rest of this
war, but afterwards.
In these seven months since the
Japanese launched their war of conquest
in the Pacific the new relationship has
visibly opened out widely and strength-
ened enormously. It is not one-sided ; it
is soundly based on mutual self-interest.
The war has served to quicken the pro-
cess, but actually it was on the way
before ever the Japanese broke loose.
Pearl Harbor turned a natural slow
development into a rapid movement.
Among other things it did, that most out-
standing strategical blunder of this war
demonstrated to both Americans and
Australians how completely their interests
lay together. Apart from all the lines on
which the growing relationship will
develop in peace, the two countries are
vitally necessary to each other in Pacific-
based war, and must remain so at least
until an answer is found —as no doubt
one will be in time —to the bomber
’plane.
From the moment Pearl Harbor was
attacked the vital importance of each of
these countries to the other in war
became unmistakably self-evident. With
the loss of the Philippines, of U.S. sources
of supply and of Australia’s protective
outposts, the importance of one to the
other has gone on increasing, on both
sides. No doubt Australia’s need of the
American assistance that has poured into
it has been by far the greater from the
point of view of immediate survival, but
without this country as the base it has
become, avenging Pearl Harbor and re-
claiming American interests in Asia must
have been an extremely long, if not a
hopeless, job.
It looks as if it will be quite long
enough as it is ; but there are precedents
attaching to the day lately celebrated, and
to be found elsewhere in American his-
tory, which augur that the job, big as it
now looks, is anything but hopeless.
John Bull, proverbially, if inaccurately,
reputed to lose all battles but the last,
has a rival for that curious reputation in
Uncle Sam. In one war at least —the
one leading on to America’s Indepen-
dence Day—J. Bull practically reversed
the process. In the first battles of that
war the Americans suffered setbacks that
make Pearl Harbor look almost like a
small incident in a time-honored course
of events. The first real battle, fought
along the ridge of Long Island, ended
in such a victory for the British that only
Washington’s generalship in getting what
was left of his forces out of the position
prevented the war from ending there and
then. The escape, via Brooklyn, from
total destruction was as close as the
British Army’s escape from Dunkirk. On
his way inland, leaving New York to the
British, Washington brought off useful
minor victories at Trenton and Prince-
ton, but, making a full-scale stand, he
was again defeated. From the point of
view of the local forces, the war couldn’t
have had a worse beginning ; but it ended
with the Declaration of Independence an
established fact, and the way clear for
the building, on the inspiring terms of
that declaration, the front-rank nation
the U.S.A. has become.
In the other war fought on American
soil towards that same end the eventual
winning side started off with just as disas-
trous a beginning. The battle of First
Bull Run ended with the Union side as
severely defeated as Washington’s troops
were on Long Island. For the best part
of two years the Union armies went on
mostly losing. The tide did not begin to
turn in their favor until Gettysburg, and
there was still more bitter fighting ahead
before the side which began so badly
came out the victor.
Anyone who knows the great strength
of the country that has grown out of the
result of those wars —the vast army that
has been building there for over two
years, and the flooding output of war ma-
terials now reaching hitherto unheard-of
peaks—can feel confident that the grim
story begun at Pearl Harbor will have an
ending similar to those of America’s own
early wars, Australia —by yet another
turn of the good fortune that has always
stuck to it —is in the handy position of
being the one country to make that pros-
pect possible. From pre-war hopeless
defencelessness, it has, through its own
great efforts and American arrivals and
supplies, become the * secure base from
which its own and America’s interests can
be reclaimed and safeguarded together.
The ultimate outcome of this arrange-
ment can only be closer and closer col-
laboration in the peace to follow; and
the harder and longer that peace is in the
winning the closer and stronger will the
ties become.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Two Second-Fronters.
When the enemy was 70 miles from
Alexandria, Moscow Radio announced
that “Britain’s undertaking to establish
a Second Front” would be “honored
soon,” and Lord Beaverbrook, after deny-
ing that there was “any shortage of equip-
ment in Libya” (he issued the same denial
after Singapore), proudly declared that
“tanks” had been “sent to Russia in con-
siderable numbers.” Of course, they were
—the best tanks, the best guns and the
best ’planes.
“Two years ago,” Lord Beaverbrook
said in a previous speech, “we lost every-
thing we possessed, save only our
soldiers.”
The biggest disaster was our naval
losses. Forty-seven warships were sunk in
the operations off Norway and Dunkirk,
and when the evacuation was over half
our destroyer fleet lay awaiting repairs in
our shipyards.
It would scarcely be thought that a
gentleman with such memories of that
dread hour, and with such precise know-
ledge of the losses in merchant ships and
crews then and since, as well as the losses
of Empire armies and territories, would
want to risk “another and worse
Dunkirk.” Yet his lordship has consti-
tuted himself head and front of the
Second-Front agitation in Britain. The
Second Front is the latest and worst
Beaverbrook stunt. In other days this
newspaper baron stunted for Empire free-
trade ; but he seems to have forgotten
the Empire now.
Lord Beaverbrook has become a bad
case of Russomania. The gentleman has
evidently caught the contagion from the
1 “famous” John Gordon, who edits his
Sunday paper. The “famous” John
Gordon wrote in January that “Hitler’s
armies in Russia are about to be com-
pletely destroyed; Hitler is on the edge
of the greatest military disaster in world
history.” On June 28, after the usual puff
for Russia, he burbled that “if we blew
up the Suez Canal, took out our fleet to
block the Gibraltar end, and left the
Mediterranean for the Italian and French
fleets to cruise upon, we should not be
worse off but better off.” All this by
way of demanding “leadership, the key
to success.” The man must be as mad
as a hatter.
A Wheat Agreement.
It has been signed in Washington by Aus-
tralia, the U.S.A., Canada, Britain and
Argentina. Declared objects are control
of production to keep down big carry-
overs during the war and creation of a
“relief pool” of 100,000,000 bushels for
feeding distressed peoples immediately
the war ends,
Mr. Curtin describes the agreement as
“a first step towards the conclusion* as
soon as circumstances permit, of a
comprehensive international wheat agree-
ment.” Unfortunately it offers no more
hope of curing the Australian wheat head-
ache than previous agreements. Long be-
fore the war some countries had wheat
indigestion and others wheat deficiency;
and Governments, though they produced
all sorts of tricks, failed to find means
of overcoming the causes of the ill-
balance, perhaps because the means were
mainly political.
Attempts at controlled production have
never succeeded, largely because Nature
never reveals her intentions. Cut down
acreage, as Australia did last year, and
the Dame sends big crops.
Early in April it was reported in
Chicago that normal weather thence to
the American autumn would give the
country the largest store of wheat in its
history. In July, carryover of old U.S.
wheat was reckoned at 630,000,000
bushels, compared with 385,000,000
bushels at July 1, 1941. On April 4 a
private estimate of the American winter
wheat crop was 646,000,000 bushels, and
a Chicago comment ran:
Should that figure be attained and a
spring wheat crop of 164,000,000 bushels
be produced on the smallest acreage since
1919, the total in sight for the 1942-43
season would be 1,440,000,000 bushels.
Normal annual domestic requirements are
less than half of this.
To this was added the statement that the
U.S. Government, under its “ever-normal
granary” programme, would very likely
offer high loans to farmers prepared to
co-operate in keeping their wheat off the
market. If the figures are right, the
U.S.A. itself could supply that 100,000,000
bushels immediately after the war.
Dr. Evatt assented to the agreement for
Australia, doubtless believing that any-
thing was better than nothing. Neither
he nor Mr. Curtin can be condemned for
that. But Australian growers have no
particular cause to be jubilant.
"Unreasonably and
Capriciously."
Last week the questioning of a couple
of Sydney “Sun” reporters, in the name
of “public security,” took on the sem-
blance of a first-class political and jour-
nalistic sensation. Having, as Attorney-
General, looked into it, Dr. Evatt
found that “the great powers vested
in Security officers” had been “used
unreasonably and capriciously.” Mr.
Fadden declared that “action was needed
to restore public confidence.” Senator
Ashley attacked the Army Public Rela-
tions Bureau, which is headed by Mr.
Knox, of Melbourne “Argus.” Mr. Knox
did not reply.
Sundry others were heard, all on
variations of the theme of monstrous
threat to the liberty of the subject.
Dailies ran these and their own views in
column-long serial form from day to
day. The public may have inferred that
the reporters were in danger of being
hung, drawn and quartered, and every-
body could have gathered that it isn’t
healthy to interfere with the liberty of
the subject in democratic Australia.
At least that would appear to be true
when the subject is employed by a power-
ful newspaper. No doubt the “Sun” re-
porters were, as Dr. Evatt said in effect,
the victims of people decked in a little
brief authority. However, they \yere not
gaoled, nor seemingly in any danger of
being gaoled. No doubt what happened
to them should never have happened ;
nevertheless, the mountain that has been
made of the affair looks like an Everest
of humbug, seeing that other matters, far
more important to the liberty of the sub-
ject, have been ignored by the news-
papers publishing the serials, though the
facts must he within their knowledge.
Paper for War.
In one field of the war effort there is
vast room for improvement, and that is
in the collection and delivery of waste
paper to the salvage authorities. In
N.S.W. alone 800 tons a week is urgently
needed —collections amount to barely 600
tons.
Paper, being a commonplace, may not
appear to be important. But waste paper
plays a tremendous part in modern war.
The “World’s Paper Trade Review” puts
it this way:
One newspaper makes three 26-pounder
shell cups; one popular magazine makes
interior parts for two mines; six old books
make a mortar shell carrier; soap packets
make aero engine gaskets; 60 large cigar-
ette packets make a shell container; 20
breakfast-food packets make an anti-aircraft
shell case; one 'old envelope makes one
cartridge wad; 12 old letters make a box
for rifle cartridges.
The list could be extended. Every
time an Australian warship leaves port
her shell supply is housed in cardboard
containers made from waste paper ; with-
out them she could not leave. Every anti-
aircraft battery’s shells are in containers
made from waste paper. Yet waste
paper is still being destroyed by the
thoughtless. All sorts of patriotic people
are trying to save paper, but it isn’t suf-
ficient. There is room for a mighty
national effort, and this applies also to
the collection and delivery of scrap
rubber.
TRUTH STRANGER THAN FICTION.
“‘The Power to Win,’ a Department of Information film showing N.S.W. coalminers working like beavers, has been exhibited at every picture theatre on the
N.S.W. coalfields."
“Isn’t it a bonzer excuse for another strike?”


QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., LtJ.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m I. i
111
in
m
ill
Hi
il
ml
if
Mi
m
Modern high-cfcss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- P er night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 tulles
of tiny tubes or filters -which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most peopla
pass about; 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your bloodi
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, head-
jaches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
jget rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait I Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILES . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out tha
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist
oc store*
POLITICAL POINTS
When the High Court Justices had re-
tired to consider their verdict in the
uniform-income-tax case (it may not be
delivered for a week or so), the Easy
Money Boys announced their surpluses.
There had been royal spending in May
and June, particularly in N. S. Wales,
and the figures presented were: N.S.W.,
£880,000; Victoria, “about” £150,000;
Westralia, £1768 ; South Australia,
£1,287,000; and Queensland, £63,772.
Most of the easy money came from in-
creased railway revenue, peak employ-
ment on war jobs and Commonwealth
benevolence in the form of subventions.
In other words, Commonwealth taxpayers
made the surpluses, but they can’t claim
refunds.
Victorian Labor’s alliance with
Dunstan’s C.P. Government is at an end.
After denouncing Dunstan’s opposition
to uniform income taxation, on motion
for adjournment, Cain is to lead his
party to the Opposition benches, leaving
the Ministerialists in a minority for the
first time since April, 1935. Dunstan is
not expected to resign. He is expected
to say that “It seems dreadful that such
a contentious matter should be brought
up at a time like this when unity is so
essential.”
Three years’ (Bullock) and two years’
(Williams) were the sentences imposed in
the Westralian conspiracy case, which was
represented in Parliament by Forde and
others as another Cato-street affair. In
passing sentence, Northmore, C.J., said;
Assisting a public enemy is treason and
is punishable with death. You have been
fortunate that actually you have not done
any act to implement the conspiracy.
Far different things were alleged in Par-
liament and given as reasons for intern-
ing 16 N.S.W. people who deny any con-
nection with Bullock and Williams.
Hughes, M.L.A., counsel for those per-
sons, is appealing on two grounds: (1)
the verdict was against the weight of
evidence ; (2) the sentences are too severe.
It has been more or less seriously sug-
gested that anybody wishing to travel
between Sydney and Melbourne can beat
the priority system by disguising himself
as a racing greyhound and offsiders as
greyhound trainers.
At last something has been found for
the N.S.W. State War Effort Co-ordina-
tion Committee. It is to handle, the
return to owners of boats immobilised
earlier in the year. This should relieve
country shires of N.S.W.S.W.E.C.C. visits
in high-powered cars not burning char-
coal.
On the front page there was the Fall
of Sevastopol, and the Fight for Egypt
had become a Battle to the Death. After
taking all that in, what a comfort it was
to turn to the second-page feature;
BADDELEY ATTACKS FISH AGENTS.
Fortunate is the belligerent with a Bad-
deley who can bend his immense intel-
lect to the subject of fish.
Sir John Wardlaw-Milne, who chal-
lenged Churchill on a no-confidence
motion, made some excellent points but
spoilt the effect of them by suggesting
that the Duke of Gloucester should be
c.-in-c. The House broke into scornful
laughter, and the Speaker had to Call it
to order. The discomfited challenger
could have told it that after the Boer
War the Balfour Government put the
Duke of Connaught at the head of the
army by way of “reforming” it; but a
great many things have happened since
1903.
Contemporary history rewritten by
Rupe Lockwood, president of the “Aus-
tralian” Friends of the Soviet:
Dunkirk was no miracle, but the result
of intelligent and courageous guerrilla
action by Britons and Spaniards.
And Spaniards —Red, of course. Price-
less!
Soviet item, dated April 15, which did
not come over the cables:
A 10,000,000,000-rouble bond issue has,
been announced as a method by which the
Government will finance the war against
Germany. It is a combination loan and
lottery, with tickets as low as 10 roubles
and as high as 1000 roubles.
Before the war the lottery loan was a
favorite form of “capitalist” finance in
many European countries. It would suit
the Australian temperament, and Curtin
should try one.
On a population basis Maoriland’s
first Liberty Loan, put on the market in
May, was a more successful operation
than the Australian one which followed
it. The Government asked for £15,000,000
and a few hours after closing time the
P.M. announced that 64,855 persons had
subscribed £17,131,610, “with some re-
“After seven years Victorian Labor has withdrawn its support from Premier Dunstan.”
“ALLEZ oop—I mean, down!”
turns still to come.” A great showing
for a country which (Maoris included)
has only 1,600,000 people, many of whom
are abroad.
Results of Curtin’s appeals for war
funds:
November, 1941: Of £72,722,000 to be
converted, 69,000 persons converted
£66,000,000 ; 80,000 subscribed £34,000,000
of new money (£30,000,000 sought).
March, 1942: 243,388 subscribed
£48,300,000 (£35,000,000 sought).
June, 1942: £35,000,000 asked for;
£37,250,000 subscribed by 192,000 persons.
An eleventh-hour rally made the June
loan a success, but the laggards had to
be appealed to in a most expensive
fashion. Launching a loan in a month
when so much income tax falls due was
a mistake which should not be repeated.
In Maoriland it is felt that Brigadier-
General Hurley did a lot to bring about
the transformation of the War Cabinet,
in which there are now seven Laborites
and six members of the Opposition. En-
tertained by the Trades Union Council
on the score of his having in youth been
a coalminer and one of the United Mine
W’orkers, the U.S. Minister made a speech
which moved the Trades Union Council
to “thank him for his most eloquent, in-
structive and inspiring address” and to*
“pledge ourselves to give the utmost
loyalty in word and deed to him and the
soldiers, sailors, airmen and technicians
he represents.” This was the most strik-
ing passage:
The responsibility for the war effort in
New Zealand is distinctly in the hands of
the Labor party. Now Labor is in a posi-
tion to exclude others from a voice in the
Government. If Labor leadership is wise it
will insist that every element of the citizen-
ship participate in the management of the
war effort.
Australian Labor will do the same, if
it is “wise.”
Brisbane’s Lud Mayor told the City
Council that, upon orders being issued
that municipal vehicles were not to be
used for other than municipal business —
penalty, instant dismissal —petrol con-
sumption dropped 4000 gallons in a
month. That order might be extended
with profit to all Government and “semi”-
Government departments.
The nominal strength of parties in Vic-
toria’s Assembly is 24 U.C.Ps., 21 Labor-
ites, 15 U.A.Ps., three Independents, one
Ind. Lab. and one L.C.P.; but they were not
all present when Dunstan entered upon
his eighth legislative year as Premier,
hoping to ride on the whirlwind and
direct the storm now bursting. Lamb
(U.C.P.) and Kent Hughes (U.A.P.) are
missing in action overseas, and Hollway,
the leader is among other U.A.P. men
on active service. In proportion to
numbers the U.A.P. record of enlist-
ments is better than that of any other
party in any of the seven Parliaments.
Young Mr. James Aldridge has dis-
covered what ails the Tommy in North
Africa —he is not “taught what Fascism
is.” The Russians have this knowledge—
“they hate Fascism passionately, and are
consistently reminded of what Fascism
means,”
Tell this to the Tommy and he would get
the speed and anger of hatred, the virility
of a new life; the toughness of a man
determined to destroy, if it means winning
the war.
Presumably young Mr. Aldridge possesses
this knowledge also. The marvel is that
he doesn’t get into khaki and show the
Tommy how to be speedy, angry, virile,
tough and all the rest of it.
Where the Allies failed in making the
peace after 1914-18 was in not compel-
ling Germany to be divided up, and re-
main divided up, into States, each with
two Houses of Parliament, a Governor
and a Premier. Never again would Ger-
many have been able to set the world
ablaze.
‘‘Utter humbug!” was Mair’s descrip-
tion of Premier McKell’s claim to have
relieved N.S.W. workers of £2,000,000 in
taxes. Two words that often apply to
things said by State politicians.
“You can expect the impossible of the
Russians” burbles young Mr. Aldridge;
and he expects the impossible of the Aus-
tralians.
Australia must one day send her expedi-
tionary forces back to Europe, because that
is where they will be needed. They will
have to take a part in any European in-
vasion, even though it has no direct bear-
ing on the local situation.
Obviously the young gentleman’s head
is in danger of bursting. Why don’t these
infants try to write like Forbes, Steevens
and Gibb, men with ten times their ability
and experience who stuck strictly to the
war correspondent’s job, instead of laying
down the law about high strategy and
policy?
Dunstan budgeted for a surplus of
£ll,OOO. The actual figure is expected
to be higher than in 1940, when it was
£142,000. In addition, the Government
will have the unemployment-tax receipts
of £600,000 to play with. “Ordinarily,”
says the “Age,” “this healthy condition
of State finances would give rise to a
natural agitation for big tax reductions."
It is much more likely to give rise to a
natural agitation for the reduction of the
number of Parliaments in Australia. No-
body would think a man was in a healthy
condition because ho was being bled by
seven doctors.
When, Churchill chooses to believe
what he wants to believe, his word is no
more to be relied on than that of the
second Charles. A blast of wishful
thinking on May 10 :
No one can say with certainty how many
millions of Germans have already perished
in Russia and its snows. Certainly more
have perished than were killed in the whole
four-and-a-quarter years of the last war.
Whitaker gives the number of German
dead in the last war as 2,050,466, and a
proportion of the Austro-Hungarian dead
(1,200,000) should be added. Kerch,
Sevastopol and Kharkov-Kursk, together
with Russian reports of enemy superi-
ority in numbers, have made the
Churchill calculation preposterous.
Scully seems to have persuaded wheat-
growers’ representatives to accept the
Roberton plan for payment of 4s. a
bushel for the first 3000 bushels and 2s.
advance on any surplus for future crops.
He is sticking to his guns in the matter
of the 3s. lOd. guarantee for 140,000,000
bushels of last harvest being spread over
the 153,000,000 harvested. Since there is
no export market, the money has to be
found by the taxpayer.
Nature and lucky drilling came to the
rescue of Alberta when, with Mr. Aber-
hardt as skipper, it seemed to be heading
for the rocks. A news-letter issued from
Ottawa by the Department of Trade and
Commerce explains the Aberhardt luck:
The principal petroleum field in Canada
is now Turner Valley, in Alberta, where
there are approximately 180 crude-oil wells
in operation. In 1941 Canada’s output of
crude petroleum reached a new high of
more than 10 million barrels, of which
approximately 98 p.c. came from Turner
Valley.
And, unlike “social credit” paper, crude
petroleum can be exchanged anywhere
for real money or real commodities.
For the year to March 31 the Canadian
National Government collected in direct
taxes, chiefly income tax, more than twice
the amount of the national debt at the
beginning of the last war. The national
debt was then only $340,000,000. It is,
of course, a great deal more now, but it
is still much less than that of this Com-
monwealth, and the provincial debts are
trifling compared with those which our
State Governments have piled up. This
prudence accounts in the main for
Canada’s very strong financial position,
illustrated by the fact that last year
$2,306,000,000 was subscribed to two
war loans and war savings certificates. ■- y


s, ,
■
<smmm. * x''*****®**'
WORLD FAMOUS SHIPS
including the “Queen Elizabeth,” 85,000 tons (illustrated);
“Queen Mary,” 81,250 tons; “Mauretania,” 35,000 tons, use
Exide batteries for essential equipment. You, too, can depend
on Exide for your car. radio or home lighting plant.
£xii)C BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
PERSONAL ITEMS
The fighting sons of W. A. Jolly, the
Lilley M.H.R, —four are in the A.1.F.,
spread between Moresby and the Middle
East; two are awaiting calls to the
R.A.A.F. —should thank their stars their
father was not mayor of some place like
Indooroopilly or Nindigully when they
were born. He was Mayor of Windsor
when Corporal William Windsor Jolly
was born and of Brisbane when the
seventh, Norman Brisbane, arrived. The
others managed to time their advent in
between mayoralties. Anyway, six fight-
ing Australians is a record any father
can be proud of, whatever phases of his
public life their names celebrate.
Home to N.S.W. from India, B. S. B.
Stevens. Reporting his return, Granny
“Herald” stated that “Mr. Stevens
travelled mostly by air,” a political wise-
crack for which she should be thoroughly
ashamed of herself. In 1940 the old soul
WHAT, NO DURBAH!
presented Mr. Stevens as a Federal Par-
liament aspirant possessing unlimited
“ability, courage, experience, vision and
administrative capacity,” the “most ade-
quate of N.S.W. thinkers on war and
post-war policy,” to which fair praise the
electors added a postscript rating him 7000
votes worse than Dan Mulcahy. After
that, knighthood, plus the reasonably con-
soling billet of Commonwealth represen-
tative on the Eastern Group Supply
Council, from which resounding job he
has just returned, to put his ebony
elephants, the chip off the Taj Mahal, the
strip of loincloth signed by Gandhi and
other trophies up on the Croydon mantel-
piece beside the N.S.W. long-distance
Premiership record and the unique collec-
tion of authentic scalps of J. T. Lang.
Only two nominations were received
for the by-election to fill the Vic. Leg.
Council vacancy caused by the death of
Archie Crofts —one from a lud mayor
and the other from an ex-lud mayor.
Both are knights and both directors:
Francis Joseph Edmund Beaurepaire and
Alexander George Wales. Incidentally,
not since the days of Augustus Frederic
Adolphus Greeves (1849-50) had Mel-
bourne had a lud mayor with three
given handles to his name till the exten-
sive baptismal label of the knight who is
“Bogey” to swimmers all over the world
spread itself out to take up the full width
of the official marble slab in the Town
Hall foyer. The first knight to hold the
job was Benjamin Benjamin, in 1889,
since when knighthoods appear, with few
exceptions, approximately every three
years.
Last week two Queenslanders, Foil and
Crawford, completed quarter-century
terms as Senators. Crawford, earlier a
journalist, took on cane-growmg at Moss-
man (Q.) in ’95 and did well at once.
Now called “the father of the sugar
industry,” he helped form the Australian
Sugar Producers’ Association, became its
president in 1908 and still holds the job.
He was Acting Minister for Trade and
Customs in the Bruce-Page regime. Foil,
an original Anzac, has been in five Minis-
tries. Now he’s a captain in the
V.D.C., on full-time as liaison officer
between V.D.C. and Army.
A broadcast under Japanese auspices
from Batavia by R. D. Rivett, son of
knight David Rivett, told another re-
markable story of adventures by flood
and field between Singapore and Java,
and, incidentally, gave news of two Vic-
torians, One was Qaptain James R.
Coding, the Melbourne doctor who left
last year as M.O. to a pioneer battalion,
served in Syria and was last reported to
be in Java, The other was naval chap-
lain Keith Mathieson, of Ivanhoe (Vic.),
who was a country minister until he
joined the Navy and was appointed to
the Hobart. He was aboard the Perth
when the Java Sea battle took place.
Rivett reports all of them well and finds
no fault with Japanese prison organisa-
tion.
Law and politics have been close mixed
in the life of Justice Joseph Alexander
Browne, who, in his mid-
sixties, has resigned his
presidency of the N.S.W.
Industrial Commission be-
cause of ill-health. When
for a while he took on
coaching legal aspirants
his pupils included a
future Prime Minister, the
one and only Billy, and
a future State Premier,
Holman. Having collected
his LL.B. at Sydney Uni.
in 1904, he had his first
brief from George Beeby,
at the time a rising figure
in the Labor movement,
subsequently Chief Judge
Beeby of the Federal
Arbitration Bench. Mc-
Gowen made Browne an
M.L.C. in 1912; the
Lang Government called him in to
represent it in the tussle with Lyons over
the Enforcement Act, and again to look
after its interests in the attempts to abol-
ish the Upper House. Then, in 1932 —till
when he’d remained an M.L.C.—Lang's
obliterator, Stevens, picked him for the
Industrial Commission chairmanship.
“Nakh”: Bendigo (Vic.) once had as
an inhabitant a subsequent controller of
the German Krupp munition works which
the R.A.F. has lately been pasting.
Friedrich Krupp migrated to Victoria in
1879, apparently, as far as history is vocal
on the subject, because of a row with his
old man. He lived in Bendigo for many
years, became leader of the local German
community, took an interest in mining,
and owned a racehorse named Krupp,
sired by Musket. In 1887, his father
having kicked the bucket, Friedrich re-
turned to Essen and the job of being the
greatest merchant of death in existence.
Today the works are controlled by
Goring, there being no masculine Krupp
alive to trouble the planet.
Anyone looking out for specimens of
typical Australian character, on the lines
of those enshrined in Thomas Wood’s
Cobbers, would have pounced at once
for Flight-Lieut. Robert N. Dalkin, after
reading reports of his comments on his
award of the D.F.C. There was the
authentic flavor both in his reference to
“the kick I know it will give the old
man; there will be big celebrations at
home, because my brother Leslie was
promoted from corporal to sergeant on
the same day,” and in his offhand re-
mark “The stunt for which I’m sup-
posed to have got this award was when
we went down low to machine-gun sea-
planes in Timor.” Despite which strong
circumstantial evidence Dalkin is Aus-
tralian only by recent adoption ; he was
born in Northumberland (Eng.), coming
to Australia in 1930, when he was 16.
The family home address is Newcastle
(N.S.W.).
Exit, Bland Holt:
Obit, writers agreed with the current Aus-
tralian Whc/’s Who in counting Bland Holts
fourscore-odd years from 1853, but Fred
Johns—always as careful with dates as a desert
Arab —repeatedly listed the King of Melodrama
as b. Norwich, Eng., 1856. , . ~ ,
Up to a year or two before his death in Mel-
bourne last week, friends wanting to have a
chat with the veteran would go down to
Flinders-street station, under the clock, where,
almost any afternoon, the little man was to
be found delightedly contemplating the passing
show for hours on end, preferring it to stage
productions that never came up to the spec-
tacular triumphs of his own great days.
A son of Clarence Holt—Shakspearean actor,
and, judging by stories of him still current
around what’s left of Poverty Point, as pic-
turesque a character as any ever represented m
his son’s productions —Bland Holt was brought
to Australia as a toddler of four; first looked
across the footlights at an audience when he
was six (in one of his father’s shows); and,
back in England, became a professional busker,
touring America, Australia and Maoriland tor
many years. , , .
The baptismal prefix of Joseph shed on the
way, he took to producing, formed his own
company, wrote or adapted his own plays, and
spared no trouble or expense in giving stage
realism to melodramas which, emotionally,
were of no great merit, but which made audi-
ences rock with delight by their superb in-
difference to physical difficulties. In one, “The
Span of Life,” the heroine had to escape from
the villain across a grim chasm on a human
bridge. Holt engaged three acrobats to span
the abyss. He had pigeons specially trained
for “In Sight of St. Paul’s,” and for “The Derby
Winner” he started off five racehorses in Little
B'ourke-street, whence they galloped flat out on
to the stage of the Royal, where a revolving
platform, driven by water power, kept them in
continuous view of the audience until the finish.
Probably the most popular and successful
actor-producer the Australian stage has seen,
Bland Holt retired in 1909, but was to witness
the decline and fall of the theatre from the
peaks of his own flourishing day; spectacular
melodrama, in which he had specialised, cap-
tured from the stage by the screen; and Mel-
bourne Royal, scene of some of his greatest
triumphs, turned into a haberdashery. With his
second wife (who survives him) and Miss_ Coppin
(daughter of the famous George), he lived be-
tween his pleasant home in Kew, where he
voluntarily taught stagecraft to crowds of boys
and girls, and his seaside home at Sorrento,
where he entertained old barnstormers regu-
larly once a year.
The reproduced Harry Julius carica-
ture of Bland Holt as the dashing hero
of “The Great Rescue,” wearing the
smile that dismays the villain, appeared
in The Bulletin the year the actor re-
tired. A look at it in the files recalled
to Percy Lindsay a drawing he himself
had made of Bland Holt in the distant
days of the old Melbourne Royal. He
had it in an early sketchbook somewhere,
and undertook, if he could find it, to
send it in next rngming. “I remember I
drew him down on his knees,” said
Percy. It sounded interesting. It was —
in a way neither Percy nor anyone else
had expected. Below the kneeling figure
in the pencil sketch was written “Bland
Holt,” not with the elaborate flourish of
the actual Bland Holt signature repro-
duced here with the Julius drawing, but
still legible enough not to pass for any-
thing else. That could not be said of
the drawing. Owing to a trifling over-
sight, it had the enigmatic quality
credited to the Mona Lisa smile, and
could just as well have been labelled with
the name of Hugh Ward, George Rig-
nold or any other ac-tah laddie of the
time. As Percy breezily explained in an
attached note, when he did the drawing
he “unfortunately left the features out”!
Sun-browned and muscled-up from
service up north, Pilot-Officer Thomas
Hollway looks capable of dishing out
stoush in any form. A Ballarat man
with his roots firmly planted in that
AIRMAN AND POLITICIAN.
district —his family arrived there in the
’sixties and his father was twice Mayor
of the leafy city—Hollway broke into
politics as its M.L.A in 1932, the
youngest member (25) of any Australian
Parliament. When Argyle died at the
end of 1940 Hollway was elected un-
opposed to lead the U.A.P.; 12 months
later he was in the R.A.A.F., tossing in
his salary as Opposition Leader. Out-
side politics he practises law —his LL.B.
was acquired at Melbourne Uni., where
some of his legal knowledge was im-
parted to him by W. K. Fullagar, K.C.,
and Professor K. H. Bailey, two members
of the legal team representing the Com-
monwealth in the uniform-tax case.
Retired from the job of C. 1.8. chief
in Melbourne after 39 years of police
work. Superintendent Robert Dower, one
of the most cultured men the force has
had. He moved on to Melbourne from
Sale, where he was Gippsland’s district
superintendent. During his metropolitan
tenure the crime squad was completely
reorganised, special training courses were
instituted, and Scotland Yard procedure,
brought out by Chief Commissioner
Duncan, was largely followed. That,
plus radio and mechanisation of the ser-
vice, has made Melbourne almost the
model of virtue amongst Australian cities.
Superintendent John Henry Wagener,
who succeeds him, was deputy chief of
the C. 1.8. in 1938.
Into the silence:
At South Yarra, Anne Box, daughter of David
Mitchell and sister of Melba. She lived a quiet
life sprinkled with charitable activities. Two
sisters, Mrs. T. Patterson and Mrs. C. Lem-
priere, and two brothers, Charles and Ernest
Mitchell, survive her.
At Scone (N.S.W.), at 96, Frank R. Eipper,
whose father, Rev. Christopher Eipper, was
one of the band of German missionaries brought
to Australia by Dr. Dunmore Lang. Another
son of the Rev. Eipper, Christopher Eipper,
was at one time editor of Maitland “Mercury.’
S.A. loses a sound but little-known artist
in Otho Hewett. He was on Gallipoli through-
out, and then with the 9th Light Horse.
His sketches appear in the Anzac Book; and
the drop-scene in the Institute Hall of his
home town, Tintinara, leaps out at one as a
contrast to the usual run of such things.
At Glenelg (S.A.), Isaac Haskard, an old-
time stalwart of Broken Hill, where he was
president of the Theatrical Employees’ Union,
also twice mayor of the city.
At 61, statistician and former crack rifle-
shot George Leslie Ardill. He captained the
Parramatta Rifle Club, and early in the cen-
tury represented at Bisley and in Canada.
Starting as a schoolteacher, all but a decade
of his 44 years with the Public Service was
spent in the N.S.W. Bureau of Statistics and
Economics, where he did an excellent job.
At Melbourne, David Joseph Lingard Cole-
man, “Sonny” to everybody even, when he was
old; probably the most picturesque and dandy
of Australian sporting scribes. Sonny wrote
reams of flippant, telling jingle and a few stories
in former days, as well as dishing out panto,
libretti on occasion. He acted as secretary
and offsider to Bob Sevier, and most likely
acquired his taste for sartorial splendor from
that spectacular sportsman.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne painter got his
grandmother, aged 97, to sit for her
portrait. She was an excellent sitter, and
while she showed great eagerness to see
the finished picture she refused to look at
the work while it was in progress. On
completion she looked at it, and, instead
of the burst of appreciation her proud
grandson expected, she looked dis-
appointed. “Aren’t you pleased with it?”
said the painter. “Certainly not,” she
retorted. “You’ve made me look like an
old woman!”
* * * *
“Wodgil”; Does anyone now remem
her Donald Hankey, the “Student in
Arms”? Member of a family with old
Australian associations, Hankey went to
Rugby and Woolwich, temporarily aban-
doning a military career to become a sort
of bush missionary in what he called
“the wide, thirsty desert of Westralia”
until the war recalled him to the army.
He wrote beautiful books about soldiers,
and made friends like Strachey, the essay-
ist, who weaved a “perfect wreath of im-
mortelles” in his honor. In A Student
in Arms Hankey wrote with deep insight
about the soldier on leave, giving a frank
account of his own reactions to loneli-
ness in strange places.
One spent a large part of one’s evening
wandering aimlessly about the streets,
bored and impecunious. If a fellow ran
up against “a bit of skirt” he was gener-
ally just in the mood to follow it wherever
it might lead. The moral of this is, double
your subscriptions to the Y.M.C.A., church
huts, soldiers’ clubs or whatever organisa-
tion you may fancy. You will be helping
to combat vice in the only sensible way.
Written in France 26 years ago by a man
who fell in battle, it is pertinent to the
lonely soldier’s lot in any Australian city
today.
*-* * *
“Pitt St.”: Bought a book of matches,
paid a penny. Next morning read an-
nouncement that Deputy Prices Commis-
sioner ruled price should be halfpenny
and any sale above that price was illegal.
Returned to kiosk and bought another
book. Was asked a penny. Showed
kiosker newspaper, at which he laughed
contemptuously. “Look,” he said evilly,
“a penny’s my price, but if you don’t
want my matches at that price there’s no
blanky law can make you buy ’em, is
there? It’s a free blanky country, ain’t
it?” Crushed, I crept away.
* * * *
“Oxmead”; Strange that the discussion
initiated by “S.T.S.” as to whether the
time has not arrived for “alright” to be
written as a single word should have pro-
gressed so far without any one quoting
the first verse of one of C. S. Calverley’s
delightful poems—surely nothing could
be more relevant;
Forever! Tis a single word.
Our rude forefathers deemed it two.
Can you imagine so absurd
A view?
Nevertheless, I don’t often encounter
“forever” nowadays.
“Clooter”: Every day between a
Friday and a Tuesday I read that Sevas-
topol was in its “23rd day of siege.”
Joshua had nothing on the contemporary
cable editor when it came to making the
sun stand still.
* * * S,
“Wester”; One of those pretty little
problems which legislators don’t foresee
cropped up in a western N.S.W. town.
Under National Security Regs, a muni-
tions worker cannot be ejected from rented
premises unless suitable accommodation
can be found for him at once. A muni-
tions worker bought a house in which
lived a chap who wasn’t a munitions
worker. The tenant was given notice to
quit, but meantime took a job on muni-
tions and thus came under the protec-
tion of the regulations. The munitions
worker-owner took the munitions worker-
tenant to court for an ejectment order.
He not only had the regulations heaved
at him, but was also told that, as no
tenancy exists after notice to quit has
been given, no rent can be claimed, and
he has little hope of obtaining the right
to live in his house unless he can find
suitable quarters for the other bloke. And
“suitable accommodation” is a phrase
full of snags, as the owner has already
“And did the little bear find out who broke his bed down?"
discovered. He ought to be able to call
on the framers of the regulations to find
a way out of the difficulty, but the Law
blocks that. It concerns itself with what
legislators decree —not with their inten-
tions.
* ♦ * *
“Sprat”: I wonder if Sydney’s No-
water Board noticed a photograph of
a racehorse being hosed down liberally
after a morning gallop. This sort of
thing is done every day and night in
horsedom; and yet the individual who
tries to grow a few vegetables mustn’t
be seen touching a hose!
* * * *
“Bo”: To the making of Gallup polls
there is no end. The very latest in
America was on what women talk about.
Thirty per cent, of chattering concerned
clothes and 12 p.c. was about men. Homo
sapiens should be crushed by the know-
ledge that his women consider that their
clothes are 2j times more important in
their eyes than the chaps who cough up
for them, but that’s a fact any journey-
man cynic could have vouched for. Social
activities, strangely enough, take up but
a bare 8 p.c. of the verbal out-
put. Organ recitals claimed 5 p.c.
and politics 4 p.c. (that seems a
ridiculously high assay). About a
quarter of the chatter ranged over triviali-
ties “from books to bow legs.” The
poll may have been conducted as accu-
rately as any such survey can be, yet
there is something fantastically absurd
about it —something vitally missing.
Why, there isn’t a word in the whole
thing about the percentage of talk about
other women! Or is it taken for granted
that this is an integral part of all the
various subjects?
“F.S.”; It was with the intention of
saving labor and material that Minister
Dedman banned large picture frames and
made no rule about the small ones sold
by the thousand in big Stores (B. 3/6/’42).
But, of course, the ban on the commer-
cial production of large frames, of which
mere dozens are made annually, won’t
save labor and material. The artist, if
he can’t buy or afford to buy frames, has
always shown willingness and ability to
make them, just as, if he can’t buy pre-
pared colors, he will grind his own, if
he can get raw materials (alas !* Mr, Ded-
man has banned the materials). He will
make his own brushes if he can get
bristles, and if he can’t make brushes he
will use a pencil. If he can’t get a pencil
he will use a rag or a charred stick or his
finger. This may sound fantastic, but
there are hundreds of historical examples.
* * * «
“Hamfat”: Bland Holt was a terror to
the actor new to his company. Standing
in the wings to watch how the newcomer
shaped, his face would express wrath
and agony; he would clutch his hair
frantically and uplift his face and a
clenched hand to the toplights as if im-
ploring Heaven to tell him why he
ever gave such a numskull a chance to
wreck his show. When the appalled
mummer went off, however. Holt as
likely as not would shake his hand
warmly and say “My boy, you did jolly
well!” Reason for this strange treat-
ment apparently was that Holt liked to
feel that people in his show could carry
on in the face of any sort of disaster.
Anyway, once the new member passed
the test he was set, for Holt hated chang-
ing his actors.
* * * *
“Pitt St.” surveys a public place:
In its new Public Library Sydney has an insti-
tution that will bear comparison with most others
of its kind in the world. From before the
great bronze doors there is a charming pano-
rama of the Botanic Gardens opposite, with
glimpses of the city, the bridge, the harbor and
the wooded heights of North Shore. The doors
themselves are massive records of aboriginal
life and white exploration—at once a monu-
ment to and an ethnological record of the
abo. that will exist long after he has passed—
and, like the splendid marble mosaic map of
Tasman’s voyages of 1642 and the stained-
glass windows and other decorations, all Aus-
tralian and all worthy of the country. All de-
partments of the Public Library are now under
one roof, though the Mitchell and Dixon gal-
leries are closed as an A.R.P. measure. The
transfer from the old Bent-street stand involved
the carriage across Macquarie-street of a
quarter-million volumes, every one of which is
now in its proper place and can be found
at once by Principal Librarian Metcalfe and his
staff, who have entered into the fulfilment of
the cherished dream of W. H. Ifould —a library
that a city could look up to. The magnificent
reading-room, the Shakspeare room, the stained-
glass records of early literature and printing in
England and Australia and other attractions
have already resulted in a 50 p.c. increase in
readers, and thousands are inspecting the build-
ing every week. It has a commanding position
and is a commanding structure; entry into it
at once disabuses-the mind of the old idea that
public libraries should be used only as refuges
on wet days. It remains to be seen whether
Sydney will value one of its few real treasures.
* * * *
“Filmer”: I’m worried about the hair-
do affected by all the glamor goils in
current American movies—portion of the
hair being screwed, bunched, clinched or
in some manner forcibly segregated into
clumps on top of the forehead while the
rest flows downward. About the time
this uncomfortable-looking coiffure came
into screen fashion it also became the
custom for glamor goils to behave like
homicidal maniacs. Should her young
man call, a g.g. heaves vases, plates, pic-
tures from the walls, telephones, cups and
saucers, tumblers and other objects at
the unfortunate fellow. Should he, unde-
terred by this barrage, approach nearer,
she kicks his shins and stamps upon his
toes. No matter what gainful enterprise
her young man undertakes the g.g. (with
hair screwed up on top) does her level
best to destroy, ruin, sabotage and gener-
ally disrupt such enterprise. This is not
surprising to me. I remember when, 40
or 50 years ago, the same hair fashion
made its appearance in my home town.
Woman, uncertain, coy and hard to
please, at once became so much more so
that the police were kept busy hauling
female bodies to the morgue. There js
a moral lesson in all this, and it applies
to the young misses who borrow their
fashions from the films.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: I expected that the
famous” correspondents who have
acquired their mighty reputations by
claiming to be able to assess all the trends,
cross-currents, influences and future ten-
dencies of every country from Kam-
chatka to Malaya would give us some
clear and consecutive account of Gandhi
as soon as they descended on India. It
seems they ignore him or dismiss him
as an incomprehensible old fogey. Per-
haps they mixed with the wrong people.
Englishmen in India get their ideas of
India, strange as it may seem, from the
London papers, and if there is any essen-
tial difference in the viewpoints ex-
pressed on India in the Adyar Club in
Madras and the Carlton in London, no-
body has yet observed it. Gandhi may
be an old crank for aught I know, but
no man is better loved or worse hated
in India, so he must be of some import-
ance in his own country, whatever views
may be thought about him in London. A
foreign correspondent, famous or other-
wise, who visited Athens in 399 b.c. and
didn’t bother to interview Socrates
wouldn’t be credited by history with
much of a nose for news.
* * * *
“Avon” remembers a great churchman;
Maoriland has been celebrating the centenary
9 .q. Ending of George Augustus Selwyn,
first Bishop of New Zealand. The Anglican
Church never made a better selection for a
tough job. Selwyn, when he jumped on to
the beach at Auckland, was 33, as strong as
a horse and as brave as a lion. He had taken
the trouble to learn Maori on the long voyage
from England. If he had acquired any pre-
conceived prejudices against colored people at
Eton or Cambridge he lost them as soon as
he met the Maori, They took to each other
on sight. No armchair administrator was Sel-
wyn, who sailed seas, rode or walked over
plains, climbed mountains and swam rivers to
carry his message to the Maori people. When
the Maoris threatened Auckland he swam the
Waikato, fearlessly walked into their camp and,
as he himself said later, “talked them out of
it.” But he never gave the Maoris false advice
and he never ceased to be their champion
against any form of pakeha injustice, though
his advocacy brought him in conflict with
settlers, missionaries and even the Governor.
His stipend towards the end of his Maoriland
ministry was £l2OO a year. He gave up £7OO
a year of it to maintain a college for Maoris —
St. John’s. He resigned when nearing 60 to
take the bishopric of Lichfield, but only be-
cause Queen Victoria insisted upon it. It is
said that the Tohungas told Selwyn all their
dark secrets, and it may be that he sometimes
brooded on such strange memories as he sat
in his chair in the choir of Lichfield Cathedral.
He proved that his strength and bravery were
still with him by his personal exertions in a
colliery disaster at the age of 63. His body
lies at Lichfield, but the pulpit of Christchurch
Cathedral, in Maoriland, records in sculpture
some of the main events of his Antipodean
sojourn. He died aged 69.
A JUDICIAL DICTUM.
“The word ‘bloody’ is so common in modern
parlance that it is not regarded as swearing.”
—-Justice Ealse Rogers.
A trifle vulgar, many will agree,
A kind of muddled-up hyperbole
Still ranking in polite society
As reprehensive;
But now, whatever views you entertain
About its origin, this much is plain:
A Judge has ruled the word is not profane,
Merely intensive.
No more hiatuses, as in the day
When Goodge composed his memorable lay.
To screen the term a writer need display
Or shilly-shally
With such equivalents as may appear
Less like to grate upon a cultured ear,
Dodging the lurid hurdle with a mere
“Blanky” or “bally.”
It’s not an adverb or an adjective
In lecture-rooms would be allowed to live,
Or that aggrieved musicians would forgive
If for a band meant.
But here’s a dictum that you can’t gainsay.
Straight from authority in cathedra:
It doesn’t fracture, dent or even fray
The Third Commandment.
You bullockies and gangers, famed in verse,
Who sense the value of a hearty curse,
You bucko mates whose lingo’s even worse
And oaths more glaring,
You sergeant-majors with a fiery flow
Of epithets on rookies to bestow.
What worth remains in “bloody” now you know
It isn’t swearing?
It’s lost its old-time punch and worn so thin
That, used as a colloquial javelin,
The word that used to penetrate the skin
Of ancient codgers
And once was deemed akin to blasphemous
Now bears no stigma to provoke a fuss,
In short, is pretty well innocuous
Teste Judge Rogers.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
HOME-MADE BUTTER.
“N.S.W. Premier McKell announced that he was
‘highly gratified’ at the result of his Government’s
financial administration, and claimed credit for
various achievements which contrasted markedly with
the poor record of his predecessors in office.”
Ah, Mac, it’s been apparent from the start of
Your reign, whate’er you lack in other ways,
You’ve no superior in the gentle art of
Handing yourself bouquets.
Self-praise is something to be shunned, con-
veying
No praise at all, one’s heard a proverb tell;
But evidently you regard the saying
As quite untenable.
If no one else proclaim the State your debtor
For all you’ve saved it in prestige and pelf,
It seems to have occurred to you you’d better
Essay the job yourself.
Though bitter be the pill you’ve had to swallow
When those you fondly reckoned that you led
Firmly insisted that you had to follow
The path they mapped instead,
Yet glowing eulogies you still may utter
On your own excellences, an you wish,
And treat yourself to slabs of home-made
butter
Served in a lordly dish.
But when the time shall come to cheer or flout
yOU,
To re-engage or stick you on the shelf,
Whether or not the State can do without you
Will hinge upon what others say about you,
Not what you say yourself.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“ Patience, Colonel; I'll take you presently."
“A.R.P.”: It is possible to shake some
people out of some of their complacency
some of the time, but not for long. When
the alert sounded in our district after the
submarine shelling of near-by suburbs,
among those who arose and galloped to
the warden’s post was one who, though
frequently invited to become a warden,
had side-stepped the issue. He rushed
in, panting, and announced, “Swear me
in, quick, and gimme a tin hat an’ tell
me what t’ do.” He was accommodated
at once and put on the strength. Five
nights later came his turn to share the
all-night watch at the post —a matter of
sleeping in a comfortable bunk, with an
oil-heater and other facilities—-and he
did it, but resigned next day. “Lot of
rot,” he said ; “never put in a worse night.
Anyhow, it’s all over now.” Yes, he
never misses a race meeting.
* * * *
“F.R.P.”: Out in our Sydney suburb
we’re still wondering what the new vicar
meant. He came on a couple of wardens
sweating over a practice report form and
spoke. Without looking up they answered
profanely. Then they glanced up and
were overcome with embarrassment.
“Forget it,” said the parson ; “I’m from
Adelaide.”
« * * *
“Shindig”: The secretary of the
“Master Ladies’ Hairdressing Association
reports that at a “rationalisation con-
ference in Melbourne between our repre-
sentatives and those of the Department
of War Organisation of Industry it was
decided to leave perming alone.” “Short
hair,” added the gentleman, “looks dread-
ful without a curl.” I most emphatically
disagree. A glance at some middle-aged
and spreading matron wearing a “perm’
where no curl ever grew naturally is
enough to drive a man to drink. If
what the barber says is true, the Depart-
ment of W. 0.1. must be a party to some
very queer “conferences.” I’m sure Mr.
Dedraan doesn’t wear a “perm.”
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Having grown a wide
range of greens with considerable success
on soil which is typical of a large area in
Victoria, being shallow and rocky but
responsive enough if you follow the
advice of local farmers, I was idly tuning
in one evening when I heard the an-
nouncer introducing an eminent profes-
sorial authority who was about to give
us the latest information on scientific
market gardening. “Now is the time to
prepare your soil,” he started. Then he
proceeded: “First trench it to a depth
of two feet.” Half-heartedly calculating
how much gelignite my section would
need, I switched over to a crooner.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”; I see that the Health
.Department has invited Victorian munici-
pal councils to co-operate with the State
Entomologist, who has embarked on a
State-wide survey of mosquitoes to identify
varieties which carry dengue and malaria.
Having been afflicted with both diseases
I am interested, but I would like to ask
the department what it is going to do if
it finds the two relevant varieties are
present in the State. Is it going to em-
bark on a campaign of mosquito-annihila-
tion, an enormously costly and almost
impracticable business, or is it going to
tackle the problem at its source and pre-
vent malaria and dengue-ridden indi-
viduals from entering the State? I lived
in a district in the Dutch East Indies
where the malaria mosquito swarmed,
but no case of malaria had been known
for 10 years. Then an English co. trans-
ferred a man to the station who was suf-
fering from malaria, and in a short time
there was a raging epidemic. The ortho-
dox methods were applied to destroy the
mosquito, and had almost succeeded
when the insects began a new offensive
with apparently enormous reinforce-
ments. A Dutch medico told me after-
wards that the intelligent little creatures
had adapted themselves to a change in
their environment. Having been deprived
of fresh water they had taken to breed-
ing in the brackish swamps and even, he
believed, in the ocean.
* * * •
“C.Q.”: Tell “Puella” (B. 24/6/’42)
that I didn’t say that, because a mare is
as strong as a horse, a woman is as
strong as a man. I merely asked why she
wouldn’t be. It is perfectly obvious that
a lot of Australian women aren’t as
strong as the strongest men, but a few
are stronger than most Australian men,
and I know one in Melbourne who is as
strong as all but the very strongest. As
what has been is no criterion of what
may be (or evolution would be outed)
there is no reason why some one Aus-
tralian woman mightn’t some day be
stronger than all Australian men.
* * * *
“P. Piper”: My nomination for a
medal for resourcefulness goes to the
Sydney tram conductor who copes with
the brownout very neatly by attaching an
electric torch, bulb side down, to the
lapel of his coat. He gets a spotlight on
ticket book and change without infring-
ing regulations.
* * * *
“Tonsilitis”: “Lord Luvus’s” objection
to textbooks (B. 24/6/’42) is ill-founded.
True you can’t learn everything from
textbooks, but in the realms of learning
they play the same part as files play in
business. They are a record of past
work. The great majority of great dis-
coveries have been the results of careful
reasoning based on the discoveries of
others as recorded in the textbooks.
Would Einstein have produced his
theories of relativity if he’d started from
scratch without any preliminary know-
ledge of physics or astronomy, and es-
pecially without a thorough training in
algebra and the higher mathematics?
No, it’s not the textbooks we want to
get rid of but the fools who use them
as barricades rather than as keys.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Petermac”: Asked in a radio quiz
who and what were the Beefeaters, a
young Digger, a trifle fed up with stew
and mutton, enviously replied “The
American Army!”
* * H= *
“George David”: “Jiminy” (B.
17/6/’42) is rather late in recognising
the return to woodcuts as “a recent
American printing development.” The
commercial wood-engravers who pro-
duced most of the illustration blocks for
magazines, newspapers and books in
the latter half of last century were
knocked out of time by the inven-
tion of photography and the process
block, but in a few years the wood-
cut was reborn as a means of
original art expression. Since then in-
numerable books, not only in America,
have been illustrated with woodcuts en-
graved by ' the artists themselves. The
woodcut illustration in the last 25 years
has developed along quite original lines,
and blocks engraved by such artists as
Clair Leighton, Eric Gill, Sydney Lee,
John Buckland Wright, Eric Dalglish and
a score of others make the work of the
old commercial engravers, marvellous
though its technique was, look very dull
and uninspired.
Commercial wood
engraving is kept
alive in jewellers’
catalogues, cigarette
brands and the like.
* *
“Roy Biv”: I can-
not accept “F.S.’s”
dictum that there is
no such thing as
“modern” architec-
ture (B. 17/6/’42).
Architecture is not a
veneer stuck on a
building like paint
upon a canvas. It is
the building. Plan,
construction and
appearance engi-
neering and art —are
inextricably inter-
woven. Sydney
Bridge is modern en-
gineering because it
could have been de-
signed only by a
modern engineer.
Modern architecture
is modern because it
could have been
created only by a
twentieth-century architect, planning for
people living a modern life and using
modern technical knowledge untram-
melled by outworn architectural conven-
tions. Whether it is aesthetically satisfy-
ing is a matter of opinion, but it must
not be judged by traditions of beauty and
proportion which were conditioned by the
limitations of the materials in use in
bygone ages.
* * * *
“Tuart”: If I were a general I would
implore the press of the country or the
world press, if I were a world-war general
—not to make a hero of me. Generals
idolised by newspapers always invariably
crash —e.g., Buller and Gatacre in the
Boer War ; Hamilton and Gough in the
last war ; Ironside and Ritchie in this war.
I am not saying they were bad generals—
Hamilton, I think, was a good one, and
history may be kinder to Ritchie than
the press which passed so swiftly from
roses to rocks—but they were unfortunate.
So were the latest of a long line of press-
boomed French commanders, Gamelin
and Weygand. So also was Budenny,
“the brilliant cavalry leader” of a thou-
sand articles ; and it begins to be doubt-
ful whether Timoshenko will escape the
hoodoo. Timoshenko has received more
adulation than any of the others named.
He has been the subject of eulogies in
the Commonwealth Parliament itself, in
one case by a “Tory” Senator and in an-
other by a non-Communist Labor mem-
ber. Superstitious in these matters as
1 am, I wish the stout warrior had been
spared all these transports.
* * * *
“Wart”: Heard an A.B.C. speaker de-
clare, in repetition of what passes for his-
tory among Corns., that the Southern
Cross flag was first flown over the Eureka
Stockade. The flag was flown by the
Australasian League on Feb. 1, 1851,
three years before Peter Lalor and his
friends copied it to fly over the Stockade.
The Australasian League, formed by the
Rev. J. West, of Launceston, later editor
of the Sydney “Morning Herald,” was a
forerunner of Federation, and took for
its motto “The Australias Are One.” Its
immediate objects were to join up all the
Anti-Transportation Leagues scattered
about the colonies and to “work for
union under the Crown.” At a confer-
ence held in Melbourne on Feb. 1, 1857,
the flag was unfurled over the stage and
the delegates signed under it a “Solemn
League and Covenant.” It was similar
to the present Australian flag, but
without the large six-pointed star under
the Union Jack The five stars of the
Cross stood for New South Wales
(Queensland was still part of it), Vic-
toria (just about to be separated), South
Australia, Tasmania and Maoriland.
“Strict Veg.”: Says a correspondent to
Melbourne “Argus”:; —
It should not have taken the contrast
of the well-cut uniforms of the American
troops to make those in authority realise
the appalling cut of the Australian uni-
forms. Those in authority should turn
their attention to the curled locks that
appear on many an Australian forehead
under a hat tilted well back to show the full
effect. Curls and khaki are not a com-
bination conducive to the regulation mili-
tary appearance.
That seems to leave quite a lot to be
said on behalf of the Aussies, who don’t
need to make any apology as their
military virtues. Apart from that, “regu-
lation military appearance” has varied
through the ages, and varies with
nationality and climate, to such a pro-
found extent that not much importance
can be attached to any one form of it.
The Cavaliers wore long curls because
long curls gave them, from the viewpoint
of their day, a soldierly appearance.
“Roundhead” was meant to be a criticism
of the anti-military appearance of their
close-cropped opponents. But that didn t
affect the fighting qualities of either side.
* * * *
“Zake”: “Feng-Shui” (B. 6/5/’4l),
scouting the suggestion that Malays
regard the assumption of Japanese con-
trol as merely a change of overlordships,
demonstrates a touching faith in their
loyalty. If this war has taught anything,
it is that the loyalty of subject colored
races cannot be relied upon. People,
says “F.-5.,” “will always follow the in-
dividual, whatever his race or color, who
is capable of inspiring them with de-
votion.” Certain races, predominantly
the whites, can rise to patriotic devotion.
Others can be lashed into a semblance of
it by religious fervor. But nobody on
earth is capable of inspiring Malays or
Burmese with devotion.
* * * *
“Tonsilitis”: Pardon me, “S.T.S.” (B.
24/6/’42), but “alibi” does mean an
“excuse, apology, defence or plea.’ It
once meant “at another place,” but con-
stant use in its present sense has Jed to
the .mew meaning. “Preposterous” once
meant “placed in reversed order.” “Emer-
gency” originally meant “something that
comes to the surface.” Similarly the
literal meaning of “to transpire” is “to
breathe through” and that of “premises”
is “things stated beforehand.” No one
would use any of these words in a mean-
ing limited to their original one these
days, and the same applies to “alibi.”
“Nailer”: The old spinners of legends
of classical mythology would have had
a good chance to make one of Morpheus,
the spirit of sleep, falling in love with a
mortal, had they lived in this age. In
Albany (N.Y.) lies a seven-year-old girl
who has been asleep three years. Doctors
say she will not awaken. She was stricken
with inflammation of the brain, and
though she is fed regularly and the rest
of her is growing normally her brain cells
are being slowly destroyed. Her eyes
open occasionally and she cries at times,
but it is apparent that she is never con-
scious.
* * * *
“J.H.” dives into history:
King George 111 was the unwitting cause of
the first public celebration of any sort to be
held in this country when, on June 4, 1788, his
birthday was commemorated by three rounds
of 21-gun salutes fired from H.M. ships Sinus
and Supply in the early morning, at 1 p.m., and
at sunset, whilst Governor Phillip entertained
the officers of the settlement at dinner. But
an even more notable event took place on the
same day next year, when the pioneer theatrical
performance in Australia was “presented m
Sydney. It is recorded by Captain Tench, of
the Marines. “In the evening,” he says, “the
play ‘The Recruiting Officer’ was performed by
a party of convicts and honored by the presence
of his Excellency and the officers of the gar-
rison Three or four yards of stained paper
and a dozen candles stuck round the mud walls
of a bark hut failed not to diffuse the gentle
complacence on the countenances of 60 persons
of various descriptions who were assembled to
applaud the representation. Some of the actors
acquitted themselves with great spirit.” A pro-
logue and a dialogue, written by one ot the
performers, were also spoken. Not for nearly
eight years was a similar show given in
Sydney.
“Well, Prendergast, so far , so good!"


ABORIGINALITIES
“Calf-love”: The betrayed husband,
especially if he is bush-bred, is likely to
react in ways that the problem-novel
authors never think of. TakeXßill, a
prospector with whom I scratched up
quite a bit of Victoria. Finding after
we’d gone some distance on one trip
that he’d left his supply of tobacco at
home, Bill went back for it, lobbing
home at night. There he discovered his
spouse entertaining a paramour, himself
being unobserved. Bill didn’t do any-
thing dramatic. Under cover of the wire-
less that was blaring, he locked and
bolted the door from the outside and
screwed some very strong slats across the
open bedroom window. Then he went
down the paddock, and with the sled
dragged home a dead calf that a lazy
neighbor had omitted to bury, and
dumped it. under the window. Then he
left.
♦ * * *
“Eureka”: Andy and “Monaro” Mick
had dropped their swags under a tree
and were reading a paper that had been
tossed out of a train window. “Cripes, I
noo they’d mess up this clothes-rationin’
business,” Andy remarked. “There’s a
full list o’ clobber that you’ve got to give
coupons for, but the alecks don’t say
how many a man needs if he wants the
makin’s of a pair of Prince Alberts!”
* # * *
“B. A. Ker”: It is Australia’s misfor-
tune that her best naturalists are seldom
writers. The most learned authority on
our native fauna I ever struck was a
simple, scarcely-literate rouseabout who
drifted from farm to dairy, dairy to
station as the itch in his feet took him.
The only recreation he knew was to
wander out into the bush at any hour
of the day or night for the sole pleasure
of observing the wild creatures. No
meteorologist’s prognostications were
more accurate than the weather fore-
casts which he claimed to derive from
the conduct of birds.’ I never had the
necessary qualities to test his contention
that the wild things would carry on nor-
mally, completely ignoring a man if he
had the will-power and patience to sit
perfectly still for hours at a stretch.
But I recall sitting by warrens as a kid,
a “Deadwood Dick” in hand and a pea-
rifle by my side. A dozen times or more
I might glance up without avail; then,
almost like a conjuring trick, a bunny—
or two —would be sitting on top obvi-
ously trying to puzzle out this new
adjunct to the landscape. Unfortunately,
at that stage of my career the hunter
was stronger in me than the nature
student, and the theory remains un-
proven.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Can testify to another Aussie’s
toughness (B. 17/6/’42). Riding down
to boil the quartpots at The One Mile,
the boong and I heard a squealing and
scuffling. Dismounting, we sneaked up
and found a warrigal in holts with a big
buck koala in the creek bed. The dingo
was too intent on his job to evade the
crack on the nut with a nulla. Before
I could stop him the elated nigger
then dominoed the koala and proceeded
to remove its topcoat. This done, he
then turned to collect the warrigal’s scalp
while I built a fire. A surprised yell of
“Gripes! Lookit that plurry bear climbit
tree without his greenhide!” made me
wheel and stare. Tfie stunned koala had
recovered and climbed halfway up a she-
oak in the nude, when Mingaree went
aloft in pursuit, vowing to “finish him
proper this time.”
* * :!: *
“Pickax”: I recall two instances where
wounds followed from cartridges explod-
ing in fire (B. 17/6/’42). In camp in
Central Papua in 1928 a bang in the
early hours one morning caused the turn-
ing-out of the guard, and it was found
“Remember you were a major in the last war, so don't let them order
you about.”
that the police cook, a native youth of
16, had a bullet in his leg. A .303 Mk.VI
cartridge had fallen into the guard-tent
fire. Neither myself nor my assistant
(Jack Hides, by the way) being surgeons,
the 215-grain slug could not be removed,
- and it is in the youth’s leg to this day.
Also one Jack Burt, of Sydney (sth
F.C.E. at Franvillers, France, in 1918),
may remember getting a 174-grain .303
bullet in the calf of his leg, said bullet
having come from an exploding Mk.VIl
cartridge carelessly thrown into a small
fire of camp litter. But for every bullet
that flies thousands do not, as every
Digger who has seen a burnt-out S.A.A.
dump well knows.
* * * *
“Forgeron”: “I’ve been bearin’ a lot
of talk about these Yanks an’ their hust-
lin’ methods,” drawled Plumhead, “but
when it comes to real fasjt work they’ll
have to hand the belt to me an’ me
cobber Plugger. We was in Darwin
durin’ a big raid, an’ we’d just started to
scratch a trench outside the tent when
the siren went off. D’you know, before
the echo had faded out we were six feet
down an’ goin’ well on the second leg!”
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: There are few places in
Australia where the local architecture of
the continent can be studied as clearly
as in the Blue Mountains of N.S.W. The
oldest rock in those parts are the Silurian
slates and limestones, and next to them
the Devonian sdndstones of Mount
Lambic and the Canoblas, near Orange.
The coal-bearing beds at Lithgow
(Permo-Carboniferous) are more recently
formed than these, and the Hawkesbury
sandstones more recent still. But newer
than the sandstones are the layers of
basalt on the tops of Mt. Hay, Mt.
Tomah and Mt. King George. The
molten rock flowed out of the earth’s
fiery interior after the sandstones had
been laid down, and before any of the
tremendous gorges were cut out by the
great rivers which have now become
little streams that trickle along their
bottoms, still doing their job of erosion.
However, there are many chapters of the
geological record missing between the
laying down of the sandstones and the
flowing of the basalts from volcanic
vents. It is almost impossible to con-
ceive the vast ages whose record lies
before you as you gaze down these
mighty gorges from some high vantage
point.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Tom the Liar and Red
Louis, mates on the Murray for a score
of years, had quarrelled bitterly and come
to the parting. In a grim hand of one-
draw poker Tom won the right to retain
the hut and residency therein and, after
they’d evenly divided the gear, Red
loaded his boat and pushed round the
bend, there to set up his own establish-
ment. In his youthful days Tom had
been a good axeman, and the partnership
had subsisted on supplying wood to
steaniers and cod-fishing, Tom doing the
woodcutting and Louis the fishing.
After the parting Tom carried on with
his woodcutting and got an order for
three-foot logs for a hawking boat. When
the winter came Tom discovered that
somebody was removing logs from the
pile on the bank, and strongly suspected
Louis was sneaking up by night and
carrying the wood downstream in his
boat, but couldn’t prove anything. So he
stuck a bit of gelignite in an outer log
and went into the town to give Louis a
clear go. Tom got back, fairly well
oiled, about midnight, lit the fire and
threw a good log on. Then he settled
down to a lonely carnival of hot rum
toddies. Suddenly there was a bang,
coals and ashes flew everywhere, and a
hole appeared in Tom’s chimney. Tom,
picking himself up from under the table,
drunkenly beat the fire out just as Louis
came rushing up, all anxiety. “There,”
said Tom gravely to him, “I knew that
blankard was pinchin’ me wood. I bet
that fixed him.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Touching “LJ.S.’s” par.
(B. 1/7/’42) about the new hand who
distrusted the cocky’s intention to pay
him, I’d like to record that I’ve worked
for all sorts, shapes, colors, creeds and
characters of cockies from Gippsland to
the Downs and points west. I’ve stuck
some of the stingiest blokes you could
imagine, some of the crookedest and
some of the most poverty-stricken, yet
never once have I had any trouble about
getting my wages on the dot. It seemed
to be the only principle some of them
had, but they had it.
* ■ * * *
“Tom Toddy”: In the middle of a big
blow an empty 200-gallon galvanised-iron
tank arrived from somewhere and landed
right way up near the stables. “Wherein-
ell did that come from?” demanded
Curly, astonished. “Dunno,” said the
boss, thinking of the dry spell we were
in, “but y’d have thought they’d have
sent some water with it.”
* * * *
“Propalong”; “The O.D.’s” remark
about “cingling” (B. 3/6/’42) throws up
that vexed question: What is the best
girth to use? I’ve seen most of them,
from the split-leather contraptions the
cockies use to the elaborate bush adapta-
tions of the cincha, with many rolled or
plaited ’roo-hide strands half-hitched on
to rings forming the girth. But the ordi-
nary folded article takes a lot of beating ;
it is strong, presents no cutting edges and
can be kept beautifully soft. The best
surcingle I ever owned was one of the
four-ringed, adjustable variety with the
bottom half made from heavy Too-hide
folded. I kept the fold filled with mutton-
fat, washing it out and refilling every
month or two. The warmth of the
horse’s body kept the fat soft, and the
fat kept the leather softer than kid and
as strong as kip.
* * * *
“E.H.S.”: It was a clear, starlit night
and we made our campfire in a clearing
surrounded by hop scrub and the giant
messmate and mountain ash. No sooner
had we got it going than a pair of
mopokes arrived, and these were quickly
followed by others, until in less than half
an hour more than 100 birds were roost-
ing around the camp, solemnly staring at
us with their great unwinking eyes, or
flitting about as softly and silently as
bats. After a time the ghostly flitting to
and fro got on my mate’s nerves, and he
fired a shot to scare the birds away. They
vanished, but a few minutes later were
back again, so we turned in and left them
to it. I have spent many years in out-of-
the-way corners of the Australian bush,
but I have never had a; repetition of that
eerie experience.
* * *
“Swanlo”: It is strange news to me
that the abo. of other days discriminated
between kite-hawk and crow, and vice
versa. My experience of Black Brother
is that even his modern version lets no-
thing pass when hungry, unless, as with
some tribes, it happens to be their totem
food; then they’d rather starve than eat
it. But even the whites of the early Swan
River weren’t too fussy about crow.
George Fletcher Moore, W.A.’fc first Ad-
vocate-General, records in his journal
frequent meals in which the crow figured
as the piece de resistance. Didn’t taste
too bad either, was his comment, and
likewise very welcome.
* * * »
“Sur Cingle”: Tell “Betcha” (B.
10/ 6/ ’42) that I’m not running a corre-
spondence course for sheep cockies. I
don’t know a harvester from a mangel-
wurzel, and I don’t want to. East Gipps-
land! I’ve been talking about station
country.
* * * &
“Wang”: “I make me way up to a
cocky’s place out from Come-by-
Chance,” related Dan, “an’ meet a
middle-aged, worrieddookin’ bloke cornin’
out of a stable. I tell him I’m lookin’ fer
a job. He eyes me orf steady fer a bit
an’ then ses ‘Do y’ drink?’ That query
puts me wise t’ what I’ve struck,
an’ I’m ready. T do,’ I ses, emphatic.
‘Do y’ smoke?’ he goes on, ‘Yes,’
I ses, pullin’ out me pipe an’ a
plug of terbaccer, an’ gettin’ busy
with me knife, ‘Do y’ berlieve in
dancin’?’ he goes on, seemin’ not a bit
knocked back by me antagonistic atti-
tude. ‘l’ve won champeenships,’ I ses.
‘Ever play cards fer money?’ I tell him
T useter make me livin’ at poker.’ But
when hetasks me do I swear I get narked
an’ want to know if he wants a blasted
angel workin’ fer him. •‘That’s just what
I don’t want,’ he ses, fervent, an’ grinnin’
fer the first time. ‘Then why all them
questions?’ I asks, puzzled. ‘Well, ole
chap,’ he ses, pattin’ me shoulder
friendly, ‘it’s this way. Me missus is the
world’s champeen wowser, an’ y’ll be
asked all them questions when y’ meet
her.’ He winks an’ continyers, ‘l’m put-
tin’ y’ wise so y’ll have all the right
answers pat, savvy? I’ll give y’ a job
right enough. I want a man t’ work
here ; but what I want most is a cobber! ”
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: While I agree with “Wip-
pegong” (B. 17/6/’42), I must say that I
had no intention of “trouncing” “J. Ril-
ston” ; and also that I’ve lived in mallee
country for only three years. Mallee, as
I see it, is friendly stuff because it
abounds in life ; not the teeming life of
the coastal scrubs but a smaller and more
intimate state of existence enjoyed by
thousands of small feathered and creep-
ing things. And it is picturesque stuff.
In the mass it presents a satisfyingly
tangled view calculated to drive illustra-
tors of “wild-wood” scenes in story-
books green with envy. And a lone
mallee, or a clump thereof, is always
decorative. Somehow the scrub con-
trives to be as spontaneously haimonious
in outline and structure as if it had
been brought up on a book of design.
THE DIM LOVER.
The dark came in
And sat by me,
Like a lost friend come
From over the sea.
I had been alone
—As Who is not?—
In the listening rooms
And the leaf-dank plot.
Daylong, lifelong,
I had been alone,
Shut round by the iron
Of the seen and known.
Here, yesterday,
I chanced on me!
In this tall glass
I seemed to see
The strange known flesh
That veils myself;
The patient lips
As prim. as delf,
The grave regard,
The enduring eyes
Behind whose mask
Enigma cries,
Out of what deeps
I dare not say,
To the drab gods
Of every day.
Making and mending,
Needle and thread,
The pitiless lares
Of daily bread —
Daylong I waited
Till over the sea
The dark came in
From a far countree.
No word we said
As we sat there.
The dark and I
In the one chair.
(The walnut chair,
Dull now, like Time:
Both lack the lustre
Of their prime.)
But shadowy lips
Burned on my own
With a wilder kiss
Than I had known;
And I cannot tell
Just how I knew.
But I think the dark
Was lonely too!
S.A.
J. HOLLOWAY.


“’Oo said anything 'bout a lode? This be air-raid shelter
“Mat’s Mate”: Me and Mat, cashed
up, hit a fair lump of a town, and after
giving it the once-over Mat decided to
buy some ties. We went to a drapery
where a pale-skinned young man in a
flash suit and with nice varnished hair
danced around us. Mat kept eyeing him
off until the lad took him up. “Look,”
he said, “I suppose you think I’m a sissy
in a sissy job. Well, let me tell”
Mat held up a hand like a ham. “Not
me, mate,” he said. “I never bother
about other blokes an’ what they do.
One time I worked at a joint where the
boss’s wife had a poodle dog, see? I
got that poodle and took him out on the
run thinkin’ I’d make a dog outa him be
lettin’ him run with the sheep mongs an’
that. But he was miserable all the time,
mate, an’ I could see he didn’t want to
be on the run ; he wanted to be in the
homestead eatin’ biscuits and drinkin’
milk. No, mate, y’ can’t change a
poodle dog, an’ that’s why I never bother
about blokes an’ what they do, see?
Wrap that blanky tie up, will y’?” The
cove was still working it all out as we
walked off.
* * * *
“Dominic”: Around the coast of
south-west W.A. during autumn and
early winter run schools of the large
grey - colored salmon. Mostly these
salmon are hooked in quite shallow
water. The best angling tackle is a new
linen line of pencil-lead thickness fitted
with a light snapper hook, baited with a
mullet. Such a line can be cast among
rocks without much fear of a snag. In
taking the bait the salmon nuzzles down
like a pig, tail quite often coming right
out of the water. Like a pig, too, it
grabs the bait and swallows it down.
When you land it you need to cut
deep into the tail about an inch and
a half above where the tail-fin starts.
Bled like that, and quickly, the Australian
salmon is palatable enough. Those taken
by market fishermen in a heavy net and
drowned are inferior on the table.
* * * *
“E.C.”: Mac isn’t deaf, but “What’s
that?” has become a habit with him. He
was driving a bunch of yearlings along
the river track as Jim and I rode up
looking for strays. “ ’Day, Mac,” I
greeted. “Come all the way from the
bend this morning?” “What’s that?” he
queried, I repeated the question. Oh,
yair,” he replied. “See any strays on
your way down?” “What’s that?” “I
said ‘See any strays’?” “No.” I ran an
eye over his yearlings. “Nice bunch
you’ve got, Mac. Taking ’em through
to the township?” “What’s that?”
“Your mob —taking ’em to town?
“Yair.” “Well, keep a lookout for
a handful of our strays down that
way, will you?” “What’s fhat?” “Oh,
for —that, is keep an eye out for our
strays, will you?” “Righto.” I kicked
my nag’s ribs savagely. “If there’s any-
thing makes me mad clean through
it’s a ‘whatsthatter’! ” Jim dragged
his dreamy eyes off the horizon and
leaned over a bit. “What’s that?” he mur-
mured innocently.
* * * *
“Flight”: Of all Australian birds I’d
back the young of the plain turkey as
among the earliest to take to the wing.
They are little bigger than a man’s shut
fist when they take to the air and fly
level with their mother. But at that
early age they have only one good flight
in them. That was how I managed to
catch one for inspection. Its wing
feathers seemed to be fully developed ;
its other covering was in the downy stage
—and a most peculiar little cuss he
looked in that patchwork quilt. But
every man doesn’t want to run away with
the notion he can catch a baby turk. after
an exhausting flight. They can go to
cover in such a way that the only chance
a man has is where I got mine—on a
claypan.
* * * *
“Louden”; We had made what
appeared to be a clean muster of ewes
and summer lambs in a river
paddock where careful muster-
ing was always required, and
the boss was momentarily
astonished when the enthusi-
astic newchum, coming round
from a wing, said “We’ve
missed a boonch of lambs!”
and gallpped away into a bend
that the boss himself had
ridden, either ignoring or not
hearing the invective that the
Trump hurled after him. The
“boonch of lambs” was a flock
of white cockatoos hoeing into
some melons in a shallow de-
pression about half a mile away,
and, believe it or not, without a
nit-keeper. Keeping a stand ot
redgum and whipstick between
him and the fowls, and having a strong
wind in his favor, Choom cast like a
stylish canine worker and was going in
cautiously to lift his “lambs” when he
saw his mistake and was seen by the
cockatoos simultaneously.
* * * *
“Charn”: It is generally assumed that
the primitive abo. lived free from most
of the minor complaints that harass the
white man, especially those bugbears
coughs and colds. He didn’t, if one
judges by early chronicles. W.A.’s first
aboriginal mission stood in a nook of
Mt. Eliza, Perth, Writing a report in
January, 1833, Captain Ellis, the
superintendent, recorded that a
peculiar cough was very prevalent
among the natives, some of them
being completely prostrated, though,
it being midsummer, the whites
were largely immune. The suf-
ferers made no great complaint;
they had had it before, many times
before, and though the white man
dosed them with his medicines they
had their own remedy. This was
the mungite, the then blooming
flower of the banksia. All the suf-
ferers desired was to be taken
across the river to the south side,
now South Perth, where there was
a prolific growth of banksia. Break-
ing off the big yellow plumes, the
blacks sucked the flowers with
gusto. “Without doubt,” wrote the
captain, “the highly saccharine con-
tent had a soothing effect on the
inflamed membranes, for soon
after the mungite expedition most
of the colds disappeared.” Possibly
the banksia flower contains some
even more subtle essence than sac-
charine.
“Solitude”: The mock battle for Dead-
Horse Flat was due to begin, and the
district V.D.Cs. were strung preparedly
along the road, determined at all costs
to defend their positions against the coves
from the next town. A preliminary
manoeuvre, they had discovered, would
be a motor-bike scout endeavoring to
break through on a hasty reconnaissance.
Their plans were laid accordingly. After
half an hour or so a distant “phut-phut”
tensed the mob for action, and presently
round the bend came a racing figure.
There followed a mix-up of lopped
bushes and flying sand, then an exultant
bellow as the home corps swooped on
its first prisoner. Flour bombs rained,
and when the white powder was mopped
thoroughly over the captive someone sug-
gested that a proper pasting was always
mixed with water. They drowned his
protests in the river, dissected his motor-
bike, and finally set the horrible example
on the road to walk to the township. Ten
minutes later another “phut-phut” from
the enemy’s camp sent the defenders
again, to cover, and it was after the
second capture they learned that their
first victim was a visiting parson bent
on guiding the locals into the paths of
eternal peace.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”; “I don’t claim to
be wot you’d call a champeen,” said
Stringybark George, “but I reckon Wen
I get prop’ly goin’ 1 c’n make the timber
fly faster an’ furder’n any o’ them flash
Kelly-slingers wot y’ see in a show yard.
Now I’ll tell y’. I’m failin’ a 150-foot
bluegum up on the side o’ the Black
Range, an’ the chips wus sailin’ down
the long slope like a seabird on the wing,
as the sayin’ is. I’m just finishin’ me first
scarf w’en a bloke wot lives on the crick
at the foot o’ the range comes toilin’ up
the hillside heaving like a foundered
horse. ‘Hold her fer a bit, will y’?’ he
garsps. I ask him wot for. ‘Well,’ he
says, ‘when y’ started the chips is rainin’
down on the shed o’ me slaughter-house
an’ makin’ a row like a xylophone solo.
When y’ started warmin’ up they’re
failin’ among the cows over in the boun-
"There you are! Didn't I say it was the siren last night?"
dary paddock. But since y’ got into y’r
stride they’re goin into the middle o’
the creek an’ floatin’ orf. If y’ don’t hit
so hard they’ll just about fall in that
paddock that’s fallow down there, and
if y’ll cut ’em a bit smaller 1 can use 'em
as dividin’ pieces for some pig pens I’m
makin’.’ ”
"R. Ney”: Our newchum has just
blown into the boss s office and snatched
his time. “Ah thought Ah was in a way
f becoom a good ’orseman,” he corn-
plained, “an’ Ah bin readin’ that there
Orstrylian piper o’ yours an’ the advice
G f they bushmen about sleepin’ on
saddles a n’ the loike o’ that. Mister, Ah
know when Ah’m beat. Ah’m goin’ back
p Melbourne an’ the paintin’ trade where
Ah be familiar loike with things.” He’s
packing his things and will post this in
the town.
* * * *
“Arev”; Bill Jupp was out of tobacco,
and there wasn’t a smoke of any kind at
tbe s t orej nor would there be for a week.
j_j e mooc hed about, miserable as a wet
hen Jhe next day was his birthd ay, and
Mrs. Jupp produced the box of cigars
s he had bought at the store some weeks
« 1 £
wh|t he wouW do « h toe others. For-
tunately, at mis stage, Mrs. Jupp s i y
brotber came on a visit. Robert was not a
worker, except with his jaws, which did
double service masticating and narrating.
Bill had an inspiration. Every time
Robert started
inharro S Then the citv man sud-
Bill told his wife. “The storekeeper said
for his 1 "
* he storekeeper naa som , y
b^ en s ? V^miDhf 8 vr J ano ther
y° Cl g ars tbat Ibo g y
box - # # *
' ... ~
“Zake”: Jim, running his eye over the
big bluegum preparatory to putting in
the springboard, failed to notice the big
red-bellied black dart out of the bracken
almost at his feet. I caught the glint of
sun on sca les and yelled a warning. Jim
grabb ed his Kelly and gave chase, while
j approacbe d f rom the opposite direction,
Joe unwound an amazing burst of slither-
jng speed? and by the time ji m an d I had
reached the clearing the only evidence
that a snake was about was the imprint
- ts cbass j s on the grey sand. The
trac j c ma de was in a lateral direction
y rom our approaches, and Joe could have
en t ered the small clearing from either
wing bad ma de for hole or log and
e j uded us _ \v e subjected that imprint to
c i ose examination, and then it struck us
tbat we cou idn’t tell from it which direc-
tion j oe was ma king to or from. Can
any Abolying tracker explain how Joe’s
bo dy pr int can be made to yield the know-
led e?
* * * *
at Ater”: Billy, our young farm
hand naturally sby an d reserved, was, on
occasion of a visit for tea to
a neighboring cocky’s home almost
tongue-tied and fearful of doing t
wrong thing. There was cherry pie t
finish off the repast, and after that ms
hostess noticed that Billy was uneasy,
He sat there with a strained look side-
on to the table, trying to avoid glances,
To her question whether he d enjoyed his
pie there was an audible gulp and a mut-
tered assent. Only then did she notice
that there were no cherry stones piled
on Billy's plate. No after effects reported.
HORSEMEN'S COUNTRY.
[Fred Shean, the jockey, is one of a family of
roughriders and cattlemen in the Dawson River
(C.Q.) country.]
Where the Queensland suns are streaming and
the brigalows are tall
There’s a pub with photos, gleaming all along
the bar-room wall,
And they mutely tell the story of the gifted
bridle hand
That revived the ancient glory that had died
in cattleland.
There, my racing fans, he’s ridden finishes
you’d love to see,
With the death-traps lying hidden in the shadow
of each tree
And the “lawn” a potholed clearing and the
track log-strewn and hard; ...
Where no multitudes were cheering, with the
winning-post the yard.
Would they find his dust, we wonder, if he
rode another lead
Where the cloven hoof beats thunder, clashing
in the mad stampede
Of a wild mob rushing, ringing, breaking under-
neath the stars,
With the whitehide lashes singing dirges through
the coolibahs?
For our thoughts have crossed the bridges that
have spanned the fleeting years
And have sped along the ridges and across the
blue grass clears,
And again old Cashmere’s striding round the
furlongs of the plain
Where the stations’ best are riding, snatching
at a foamy rein.
Sunlight on the bright silks playing! That may
be his lot today,
But perhaps his heart goes straying where the
wind-stirred wilgas sway
On the little country courses that he knew m
other days
And the gallant old stockhorses and the brave
old bushland ways.
Swift the tide of fancy changes and our thoughts
take flight again
Over miles of rock-scarred ranges, over leagues
of blacksoil plain,
Where the tasselled grasses shiver when the
stormclouds veil the sun —
To the vine-scrubs by the river where the
Dawson scrubbers run.
As she rolls along for ever, skirting plain
and rocky hill,
Now we know our old brown river breeds the
best of horsemen still!
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


LYSACMTS
.4 - JU
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY " LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Classing Ewes.
“R. Ney”: Where a property is stocked
almost to the limit and there is a coming
crop of lambs there must be plans for
a rigid culling.
A comparatively small flock of good
ewes is a better proposition, in the long
run, than a large collection of mixed
quality. What are needed are sheep that
are fairly uniform in wool type and cut-
ting capacity. The man who puts up
with a heterogeneous collection of jum-
bucks isn’t a sheep man, he’s a curio
collector.
Class the ewes just before shearing. A
limit of three classes serves best for small
flocks. Make tops of all the large-framed
ewes that are deep through the body and
carrying well-grown, even fleeces of typi-
cal strength and color. Make the second
or flock ewes as fault-free as possible,
but they needn’t be as even or up to the
conformation and wool standard of the
tops. Don’t include roach-backs and
washy-looking sheep just because they
happen to have fluked a good fleece.
The third lot are the culls. Anything
that cuts light or whose fleece is wrong
in color and quality, is cursed with
wrinkles, or looks sick will go in with
the culls. Their fate should be the
butcher’s block, even if the price is poor.
Keep them on the property and they’re
eating grass that would sustain more
profitable sheep.
Join the rams after selecting in the
same way ; top rams for top ewes and
flock rams for flock ewes. A small man’s
wool clip, or his fat-lamb output for
that matter, rests largely in his own eye
and his willingness to get rid of poor
sheep.
Phenothiazine.
“J.R.D.”; Ingredients of the most im-'
portant stock drenches come from over-
seas, and for some time supplies have
been cut off. This and shortage of man-
power mean that absolute economy
must be practised in drenching. Limited
quantities of phenothiazine are coming
to hand, and should to some extent offset
the shortage of carbon tetrachloride and
nicotine sulphate. Chief disadvantages
of phenothiazine are its high cost and the
slow rate of drenching. Nevertheless, it
can make up for those by its higher effi-
ciency and the wider scope of its effect.
Phenothiazine is the only drench for
the nodule worm, which has so far defied
control by other than mechanical means.
Worm larvae do not hatch out readily in
winter, and it follows that if adult worms
can be got rid of during this period the
flock can be made almost worm-free, and
will not reinfest itself from the pastures.
During winter the larvae of nodule
worms have emerged from the nodules
in the bowel wall and the worms will be
susceptible to drench. Nodule-worm
eggs and larvae are also particularly sus-
ceptible to cold, and now is the time to
drench with phenothiazine for a com-
plete clean-up.
Young sheep should have been treated
in late autumn to give them a chance to
put on some condition before winter sets
in. If this has not been done it would be
advisable to treat all sheep in suspected
areas at once and to follow this up with
a second treatment for young sheep and
breeding ewes in August.
If this programme be strictly followed
there will be a marked improvement, par-
ticularly where fresh feed has been
brought on by recent rains. But mild,
humid weather will preserve worm eggs
passed on to the pasture, and greater care
is then necessary in arranging times of
drenching.
Sheep which have not reacted to other
drenches should be treated now with
phenothiazine.
A Good District.
“Mug’s Wife”: There is good country
around Benalla (Vic.) (B. 10/6/’42). On our
600 acres, 40 miles south of Benalla, the
crutching counts, allowing two for one
for rams, showed us running 1058 sheep.
All the 1020 crossbred and strong come-
back ewes joined to Shropshire and Rom-
ney Marsh rams are fat and 100 p.c. We
milk 40 cows ; there are 30 calves, 10
mixed cattle, eight horses and 30 pigs.
Sheep numbers were 100 higher last year,
but there were 20 fewer cattle, except for
two months, when there were 50 bullocks
on agistment. This is good country but
“ ’Ang on to 'im, Dad! Mum's gone f'r th' gun.”
not river flats. The milking cows get
grass hay to balance their ration and to
keep down bloat —severe at times —other-
wise nothing is being hand-fed.
More efficient management would in-
crease this stocking rate, but labor for
haymaking, etc., is almost unprocurable.
This isn’t an isolated case ; other farms
are carrying at this rate and doing it
from year to year. Sometimes the sheep
are off the place for two to four weeks
and travelling on the roads for exercise
and to trim up their hooves.
Pastures are principally sub. and dan-
thonias, perennial rye making a small
percentage, with a few small areas of
Phalaris tuberosa. The latter is going to
play a big part in pasture balancing in
this district when things are anywhere
near normal again.
Training a Horse.
“Clyde”; In most cases it doesn’t
matter so much what sort of a horse a
man has to break in as what sort of a
man does the job. First requirement is
an understanding of horses. A good
trainer avoids every possible chance of
having a youngster scared into bolting
and smashing up the vehicle and gear. A
fiery youngster has to be shown at once
that it can’t get away with it. The way
an untrained youngster will suddenly do
the right thing and look foolishly pleased
about it is worth observing. The sooner
it learns that it has nothing to fear from
obedience, or from natural mistakes and
“coltishness,” the sooner will it become
not only tractable but docile and willing.
In its wild state a horse is curious. Go
out and stand on your head near a mob
of wild horses and they’ll come closer to
investigate. Writer has seen a herd form
a close ring around a native bear in
Gippsland, and gallop wildly along a
mountain side keeping pace with a man
on a bike. Once broken and used to
the routine of farm life, the horse in-
stantly becomes alarmed at anything
extraordinary in color, movement or
sound. That’s why the trainer tries to
make it familiar with all sorts of unex-
pected things during its training.
Once taught, a horse seldom forgets.
Fools who hit a horse over the head
learn this the next time they go near its
head. The trainer who relies on the
animal’s memory and takes the young-
ster along steadily from task to task will
succeed with anything short of a natural
outlaw.
Pneumonia in Pigs.
“Huxave”: W. L. Hindmarsh, B.V.Sc.,
says few N.S.W. piggeries are free from
pneumonia. Yet the disease is prevent-
able.
Don’t confuse it with swine fever.
Symptoms are similar and a vet.’s advice
is best. Contributing factors are low-
lying, damp yards, floorings damp or
cold, pigs exposed to bad weather, lack
of proper shelter and poor diet. The
disease is infectious. One infected pig
may mean heavy losses.
Acute and sub-acute cases are marked
by fever, loss of appetite, great thirst
and reddening of the skin —especially
along the belly. They may hide in dark
corners, stagger when forced to walk and
die within four days. Other sub-acute
symptoms are discharge from eyes and
nose which dries and glues the eyelids
together, constipation at first and diar-
rhoea later. In the chronic form there are
no definite symptoms, though the animal
may often cough, fail to put on condi-
tion and remain stunted. Pneumonia
•affects pigs of any age, but those up to
four months run the worst risk.
Bad and hopeless cases should be de-
stroyed and their bodies burned. Don’t
move sick pigs, but place healthy’ ones in
new, uninfected yards. Sties which housed
sick animals should, if possible, be burned
and the yards not again used for pigs.
They can be limed and placed under cul-
tivation.
Brick sties should be thoroughly dis-
infected by scorching walls and floors
with a brazing lamp. Afterwards spray
them with a 5 p.c. solution of coal-tar
disinfectant. Repeat this on concrete and
iron troughs, burn wooden troughs and
all dung and litter.
Pig runs should be dry and well
drained, the sties warm, dry and free
from draughts. Build the floor above
ground level, and where it’s brick or con-
crete add a wooden sleeping platform.
Breed your own pigs ; buying store pigs is
asking for trouble. Suspect all coughing
pigs.
“Bumpkin”: At a time when the Prime
Minister’s appeals to the coalminers not
to strike, his Ministers’ appeals to civi-
lians to give up growing asters and plant
broad beans and cabbages, and other
appeals to the individual to magnify his
production seem to have but scant
response, a monument should be erected
to Finchley Bluebell’s Duchess as an
inspiration to the nation. In 273 days
she produced 13,449 pounds of milk and
802 pounds of butterfat for her em-
ployers. Her total output exceeded her
own weight 20 times over. She is a pedi-
gree Jersey, bred by T. M. Noble and
Sons, of Maffra (Vic,), and her achieve-
ment establishes a new Australian record.
“Tickee”: As ore who
spends his life endeavor-
ing to slay cattle ticks
in the n.-e. corner of
N.S.W., I can assure
“U2B” (B. 10/6/’42)
that ticks which receive
baptism in the solution
provided by the Depart-
ment o f Agriculture
have no chance of ac-
quiring immunity to any-
thing. The idea of im-
munity may have arisen
from dipping in a bath
of insufficient strength
or cattle not being en-
tirely immersed in the
fluid. As to the tick
leaving the cow for the
man, no cattle tick once
attached could leave a
beast for any other pur-
pose than to die or fall
to the ground ready for the egg-laying
stage. Have walked or ridden over some
of the heaviest infested country in the
n.-e. corner and have never yet collected
a tick on horse or self.
Outback Occasions.
No. 43.
MOTHET'S SHOW DRESS.
Mother wasn’t what you could call
a dressy woman. There was nothing flash
about her, but you could always be sure
she was neat and that her colors suited.
We boys, of course, knew little or no-
thing about women’s get-up, but we used
to see a lot of silly-looking things in town
of a Saturday, and we used to look at
our mother with a sort of satisfied feel-
ing, because we knew that she could hold
her own anywhere.
We used to go through a phase once
a year. It would happen somewhere
within six or seven weeks of the local
show. In fact, we were never tricked
about the imminence of the show, be-
cause Mother would appear with a
thoughtful look about her, her lips pursed
pleasantly and a precious dream in her
eyes. Sometimes she’d burn the toast
or ruin the eggs or be late with tea 01
a day behind with the washing, and then
we’d suddenly remember that the show
was not far off.
For in the matter of her show dress
Mother was one of the greatest creative
artists this country possessed. I don’t


SOUTHDOWN STUD (Reg.).
Opportunity at a special price to acquire
small Foundation Stud of High Class
Ewes and Special Stud Kam (Ist prize-
winner Sydney Show). Ewes joined
March. Apply to—
“Southdown/’ Box 54, Haymarket, Sydney.
dfg
df
(Are you
'watching
W health?
kf your dog's
'coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
iout of sorts — |
jstart him now on
la course of
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
lively and eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole system-
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemist
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AN °STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PRO p „ ER °t °
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, 11 v*.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
GENERAL AGENTS -‘SjS'jSS FoTMigg ASSORANOE CO- LTD.
SPECIAL NOTICE,
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IB not just a modified closet pan but a complete self-contained
in itself. All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and automatically
runs off and is absorbed in the soil. No water supply
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH AND IS FUEL
Many other chemical systems have come aml beyond dispute,
sturdiness, efficiency and longevity of the Hygeia mssoivemnor
NO SMEEES. NO FRIES. NO GERMS.
No emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
Price £l7/17/6, F.O.R. SYDNEY, includes 10% Sales Tax,
Plus 20/1 war surcharge. Crating (if necessary) 10/6 extra.
WRITE OR TELEPHONE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHL
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd.
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 81053,
Obtainable direct from us or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all BM**.
S’co./Sd!.’ Perth. _
si
m
£
H B 553
V 1
e*
VO?
Ae<l
There are ten wheels like these on
every Bren Gun carrier. Each
wheel is covered with rubber suff-
icient to make 60 feet of garden
hose. That is just another reason
why you must conserve every
ounce of rubber you possess.
1 Dunlop Garden Hose {6O
ft.) = Rubber for one tank
wheel.
2 {6.00 x 16) Dunlop 4-ply
Motor Tyres = 1 Inflatable
Rubber Reconnaissance
Boat.
18 prs. Dunlop Rubber Knee
Boots = 1 Tyre and Tube
for 25 pr. gun carriage.
510 Dunlop Hot Water Bags
= 1 Mooring Buoy.
5 square yards Dunlop Rub-
ber Flooring = 1 Tyre and
tube for Beaufort Bomber.
11 ‘6s’ Golf Balls = Rubber
for one Gas Mask.
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
RUBBER ARTICLES
URGENTLY WANTED FOR RECLAIM
Tyres and tubes, hot water bags, bath mats, rubber gloves, garden
hose ANY rubber article, except flooring can be reclaimed. So
don’t waste an ounce of this precious commodity save it lor
reclaiming.
know if the Greeks evolved a Muse for
the art of dressmaking, but if they didn’t
and there is a possibility of Australia
giving the world such a Muse I’m nomi-
nating Mother. You’d see her, fore-
finger on lips, gazing dreamily into the
sunset or gliding slowly down the garden
making strange little passes with her
hands and murmuring to herself. Dur-
ing such a phase things would leave her
unmoved which, in normal times, would
cause ructions. With Mother in the
throes of composition you could leave
your clothes on the floor or the fowls
could wander in and out of the kitchen
with impunity, and that means more than
words can convey.
Then would come the getting out and
close study of old dresses, and the place
would be littered with fashion papers
and lengths of tape, and you’d find mys-
terious messages written on bits of paper,
and we boys and Father would growl
about the tucker and look black at our
sister, who would be following Mother
about like a shadow. The pair of them
would talk double-Dutch to each other,
and we’d have to sit there and chew three-
day-old mutton and go without puddings.
After that Mother would send away
letters, and back would come a couple
of hundredweight or so of paper patterns.
Father would have to knock off work
and drive Mother into town, where she and
spend hours and hours in the drapery
stores and often come out with nothing
more than a reel of cotton and her lost
look. Generally, after about three such
trips, she’d come home with a thumping
great wad of rag and packets of hooks
and buttons and things.
All this would be put away with the
paper patterns, and Mother would wait
for her inspiration. It was likely to strike
her any time of the day or night. We
boys have wakened up at two o’clock in
the morning, seen a light, investigated
and found Mother on the living-room
floor with a mouthful of pins and sur-
rounded by bits of tissue-paper of all
shapes and sizes like a jigsaw puzzle.
Once Mother got her inspiration the
farm seemed to stop. The living-room
and the kitchen would be full of paper
and cotton and tape and pins and
material. Nine times out of ten the
neighbors’ wives and daughters and
sisters and aunts would discover the
doings, whether by intuition or smell or
some seventh sense I don’t know, and
then the living-room and kitchen would
be full of females as well as the other
things and anything that looked like man
or boy would no more put its nose in
there than fly.
Exiles in our own home, we boys and
Father would live disconsolately on the
outskirts of all this activity, snatching a
bit of food when we could, sneaking to
our beds early and leaving them early
and hobnobbing with the men relatives
of the visiting women on the woodheap
or up behind the haystack.
After a few days of this the women
would stop calling and we and know the
climax was near. Mother would now be
exalted by a very fury of creation; her
scissors darted hither and yon, scraps oi
material piled up in the house and flowed
out into the yard. The floors would grow
a crop of loose pins and there and be bits
of cotton and cloth in the sugar, in the
bathroom and floating in the air. Any-
one entering the house had to step wanly
to avoid disarranging the puzzles laid
out on the floor and pinned to the table.
Then the sewing-machine would be
dragged forth and placed in the most
advantageous light and the construction
of the dream would begin. The man or
boy who dared to speak to Mother while
she was running up a hem or turning a
corner or basting a filling, or whatever
it is they do, risked death by a glance.
She held it against Father for a whole
year that he should choose to gash his
foot with the axe and have to receive
attention on the very day she began sew-
ing. She wouldn’t go to the show that
year because, though the dress was made
and looked pretty good to us, she was
never satisfied with it. Perhaps it was
as well for us children that Mother
wasn’t a painter or poet or writer or
one of those queer people who’re always
creating things. We’d have all finished
up in a home for lost dogs or something.
Well, the sewing generally went on
day and night for upwards of three days
with hardly a let-up. Father, long inured
to this sort of thing, used to get Mother
a cup of tea in the mornings, and she and
rise and walk dreamily to the machine
with the tea in her hands and stand there
and sip it and gaze thoughtfully at the
work. „ . , , ,
In the end it would be finished and
she’d put it on and parade before Father
and look as pleased as a dog with nine
tails and turn about before the mirror
and pause and look thoughtful and make
a slight change and look pleased again.
And we boys would heave large signs
and know that soon we’d get a decent
feed again.


m
as
sBf»
/
“The secret’s in
the 333’s blend!”
IBOSD-6.42
$ fyuendly tip to the
tf-osicel aU
who. nde QiUette Qlad&i
& :
\i
7
You can double the life of your Gillette Blades by treating
them gently. Make a habit of unwrapping the blade care-
fully not tearing it out of the envelope. Handle the
blade at the ends —■ not by the cutting edge. After use,
rinse in clean water and dry gently on a smooth towel.
The fine, electrically tempered cutting edge of the Gillette
Blade will respond to such care by giving you keen shaving
twice as long.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy They Lived with Me, by Helen Z.
Smith, The Gilt Kid, by author of There Ain’t
No Justice, and books on Napoleon Bonaparte.
Information Sought.
Best books from which to learn the theory of
the Diesel engine in preparation for exam, for
a Diesel license ? For a first-class steam
license? Where are exams, held? To whom
should application for licenses be made?
In N. S. Wales the only Government body
authorised to issue certificates covering engine-
driving is the Department of Mines. There are
several books on steam-engine-driving and Diesel-
engine-driving, but none which could be said
to teach the student in preparation for exami-
nation. The Sydney Technical College has
correspondence courses covering the subjects,
but the student also needs an opportunity to
acquire practical experience or instruction be-
fore being eligible to sit for examination. In
the case of Diesel, the Mines Department re-
quires “65 hours’ learning to operate stationary
Diesel engines of not less than 25 b.h.p.,” while
in the case of steam plant the applicant is
required to have been employed in some capa-
city in the operation of steam engines and/or
boilers for 12 months. In many cases some
of the practical instruction necessary can be
obtained on the plant at Sydney Technical Col-
lege by correspondence students who are able
to attend. Tire examinations are held by the
Department of Mines at the Sydney Technical
College four times each year, or at country
centres where a sufficient number of candidates
apply for examination. Application should
be made to the Under-Secretary, Department of
Mines, Sydney.
* * * »
(1) Is devil’s grip in sheep a serious fault?
Does it indicate any particular inherent weak-
ness or does it indicate constitutional deficien-
cies ? Should it be overlooked in culling ewes ?
Most natural and effective way of correcting it?
(2) Books dealing with the points (good and
bad) and judging standards of the Australian
merino ?
(1) Yes, a most serious fault of conformation
for two reasons. Firstly, the depression of the
grip tends to hold moisture, and in wet seasons
the wool in this area is kept constantly moist,
providing ideal conditions for the growth of
bacteria. This causes a discoloration and mat-
ting of the wool known as “fleece rot.”
Secondly, because fleece rot renders the wool
very attractive for fly strike, grip is con-
sidered to be the most serious and commonest
fault of conformation predisposing to body
strike. It is a fault of conformation which
appears to be passed on from parent to off-
spring. It should not be overlooked in culling
the ewe flock and should be one of the main
faults to guard against. The only effective
way of correcting it is by strict culling. (2)
Probably the most suitable book is Sheep Farm
and Station Management in Australia, by E. H.
Pearse. It should be obtainable from city
bookstores for 17s. 6d. Information from the
Queensland Department of Agriculture and
Stock.
* * * *
(1) What is the law regarding fishing in in-
land rivers of N. S. Wales? Is it trespassing
provided one keeps below banks and does not
pass over private property to reach the water?
(2) Regarding rivers which form a boundary
line between States, is it permissible to shoot
duck on these streams when the season is open
in one of the States?
(1) When making early grants of land in
N. S. Wales it was not unusual to include
therein any river or stream flowing through
the land concerned, and where any river formed
the boundary between two properties the middle
of the watercourse was designated as the divid-
ing-line. Where grants of this nature have been
made, therefore, any person found upon such
river or its banks without the authority of the
owner would be liable to be charged with illegal
trespass. In more recent years it has been
the practice, when alienating Crown land, to
exclude rivers, etc., from grants, in which cases
riparian owners would have no legal right to
object to the operations of fishermen, provided
they did not trespass on the adjoining fields.
Any actual case should be referred to the N. S.
Wales Department of Lands so that the posi-
tion regarding any particular river or stream
could be defined. (2) The law of the State
concerned would be enforceable in respect of
birds actually found within that State’s boun-
dary. Where the middle of a river has been
fixed as a boundary line, it would be the re-
sponsibility of the sportsman to prove, if chal-
lenged, that the ducks concerned were shot by
him within the boundaries of the State in which
the open season had been declared. As that
portion of the Murray River between N. S.
Wales and Victoria is included within N. S.
Wales, any ducks occurring on such water are
subject to the game laws of that State.
* * * ,
I have some heifer calves (dairy) from seven
to 12 months old, suffering from scours. They
were in good condition and well grown up to
a few weeks ago and are on good feed. Now
they are scouring and getting very poor and
weak, some of them have soft, flabby swell-
mgs under their jaws. Cause and cure?
Sounds as theough they are suffering from
stomach worms (Hcenwnchus contortus). Treat-
ment should be carried out as follows: Dissolve
one pound of copper sulphate (bluestone)
in two and a half gallons of water in an enamel,
earthenware or wooden vessel. The bluestone
should be finely crushed and water-warmed.
The dose for animals of the age mentioned is
three ounces. After drenching the animals
should be placed on fresh pastures and
drenched again in 14 days. Regular rotation of
grazing and keeping young stock away from
damp paddocks greatly assist in keeping down
infestation.
* * % %
rn hzc. . , , , . _
1 a 9 state-school hours in Queens-
tand ? (2) What powers have teachers to de-
tain children during recess periods ?
(1) From 9.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. (morning
recess from 11 a.m. to 11.15 a.m.) and from
2 p.m. to 4 p.m. On the request of the school
committee the Minister may approve that the
times lor beginning school in the morning and
in the afternoon be varied, but in no circum-
stances shall the morning recess be curtailed
or the midday recess reduced to less than one
hour. (2) Pupils may be detained after school
hours as a punishment for disobedience, mis-
conduct and wilful neglect to prepare home
tasks, but no pupil shall be detained during
th ? rorenoon intermission. Detention during
midday recess shall not exceed half an hour,
and the whole time of detention in any one
day must not exceed one hour or be prolonged
more than half an hour beyond the usual hour
of closing school. Pupils must not be detained
during midday recess if that recess is not longer
than one hour.
* * * *
Directions for painting a car? Number of
coats necessary and approximate quantity of
paint (Dulux). Best size biush ?
Here is the advice of the N.R.M.A.: The car
must be thoroughly cleaned, first with plenty
of water and then with turpentine if a wax
Sf I 3™ ihfh', Re ™ ove , mud, grit
gu ards;
rusty spots should be rubbed bright with car-
P a P er ’and cracks and blistered paint
Sd work h OWI Vh a he a bare Tu A 1
down ™ th car "
nfppp nf ; 24 ° f fol f d Sma j l
PaTntwnrk Water t f, oul( i be I j ,s ‘2 L
&w k i hat I + u ot should be
the r edges and the whole
pnifrp tw thl c th ‘f Ca - £ mU r o e l ? ken
fw L « i h surface is perfectly dry and
that no water or grit lodges in crevices. Sol-
vents should not be used as they soften the
foundation. The surface is now ready for the
primary coat, and if time permits spare fit-
tings may be removed to provide a straight
path for the brush. These include spare wheel,
step mats, headlamps, door handles, etc., and
wheels it it is desired to paint the under-
carriage. Parts that have been treated for rust
and all uneven surfaces should be filled with
Diflux glazing putty applied with a special knife
obtainable from color merchants. Build up the
surface until it is just above the surface of the
old finish and, when the putty has dried—
which it should do overnight—and before it
becomes too hard, rub it down with the other
parts and go over all the priming work with
the carborundum paper and plenty of water,
Two coats of paint should be sufficient. A two-
inch and one-inch brush should be used—if
they are new the first dip should be worked off
°n something that doesn’t matter. Two quarts
of paint should be sufficient. If you wish to
paint the nickel parts the rust should be re-
moved from them as from the body, except that
glazing putty will not be necessary,
* * * *
A c. j , .....
, Sydney daily newspaper s musical critic who
always eulogises Mr. Friedman’s perform-
ances makes frequent references to the “roman-
tic tradition.” What is Mr. Friedman’s con-
nection with that tradition, and what, exactly,
does the term convey ?
The antithesis “classical-romantic” first came
into currency in the early years of last century
as a means of expressing the difference be-
tween Weber and earlier composers whose corn-
positions conformed to more rigid rules of
form. Bach, Handel, Haydn, Mozart, even
Beethoven (though Schumann claimed him as
a romantic), were tabbed “classical” while
Weber, Schubert, Schumann, Chopin, even Men-
delssohn, were reckoned to be romantic. Then
along came Berlioz and made the romanticists
of his day look like respectable classicists, and
later still came Debussy, such a rebel that
Berlioz seemed a staid conservative in com-
parison. Nowadays Ornstein and Bartok are
demonstrating that Debussy was just a bour-
geois. Probably all the musical critic referred
to is driving at is the fact that on Mr. Fried-
man’s Australian programmes Chopin and
Schumann figure very frequently; Beethoven
scarcely ever.
* * * *
(1) What is the rule in poker if a card is
faced while being dealt? (2) What happens
when a player has been dealt six cards ? (3)
If a player buys all five cards, how must they
be dealt to him? (4) What is your authority
(1) if any card is faced in dealing the original
hand it must be taken by the player to whom
]t falls, unless it was already faced in the pack,
in which case there must be anew deal If
two cards are reposed in the same deal, how-
ever this comes about, there must be anew deal,
l n dealin e cards on the draw, any card found
fac f d in the P ack must be shown to all players
and placed in the discard. If any card is faced
by the dealer or by the wind m dealing to
? n y Player, player cannot take it and it cannot
be replaced until all the other players, including
the dealer, have been served. (2) If a player
has more than five cards and has not looked at
any of them, the others having their right
number, he may ask the dealer to draw a card
face down, provided no player has made a bet.
The card so withdrawn shall be placed at the
bottom of the pack. If more than one player
has too many cards there must be anew deal,
(3) No rule on this subject. Usual practice is
to deal all five cards at the same time, in se-
quence. Some schools, however, have a rule
that three cards may be dealt at once; two others
after all other players have been served There


STAMPS
100 New Zealand®, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, ail different ..!!”!!!! 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Lists—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. S 6 Years.)
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
AU classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON. T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
'THAT
*
*
*
the
YOUR FRIENDS
won’t live forever
When you appoint a friend to be your executor you naturally assume that he
will survive you long' enough to complete the task you have assigned to him.
But he may not. And that seriously complicates the position for your bene-
ficiaries. It may mean a substitute executor in whom you wouldn't have the
same faith. It's much wiser to appoint the Burns Philp Trust Company—-which is
a permanent institution under experienced and capable direction. They have
the combined knowledge of finance, taxation, and investments which no
individual executor could be expected to possess. Write now for full particulars
of the Company's service.
DIRECTORS-James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B. G.P.0.. Sydney.
A LOAN HAS CLOSED —
BUT THE DUTY TO LEND REMAINS
THE Second Liberty Loan is over, the next War Loan is yet
unborn, but meanwhile Australia's war expenditure mounts
higher day by day.
The mighty motive power behind Australia’s immense war
machine is money —the people's money. Obviously, sporadic
responses to Loan appeals are not enough there must be
unceasing, increasing contributions. Everyone is involved
in the war, all must contribute according to their means.
-v,-
HERE IS THE OPPORTUNITY.
Advance subscriptions to the next War Loan may be made now
or at any time up to the opening of the Loan itself, and interest
will be paid from the date of lodgment.
This is your opportunity, not merely to lend, but to invest your
money to the mutual advantage of your country and yourself.
Your subscription is important whether it be £lO or £lO,OOO.
Your money will be safe, because Australia itself is your security,
and tor so sound an investment the interest rate is good.
War Loan Bonds are negotiable securities and you can sell them
at any time if the need arises.
INVEST NOW
IN THE
THROUGH ANY BANK, SAVINGS BANK
OR STOCKBROKER
NEXT
VERNCN
LORIMfR^,
are many other local variations, all unauthor-
ised by standard authorities. (4) Hoyle Up to
Date, published by the United States Playing
Card Co., Cincinnati, Ohio, 1937 edition.
, Brief Answers.
N.C.: (1) None of the units mentioned is
eligible to take part in the Anzac march, which
is exclusively a returned-soldiers’ march. Any
members of the V.D.C. or militia would form
up with their old A.I.F. units. (2), (3), (4)
and (5) Write to the organisations concerned.
... .D.L.McM.: Medals issued to Australian
forces 1914-18 are Gallipoli Star, General Ser-
vice Medal and Victory Medal, also known as
the Allied Medal, although various Allied
countries adopt their own ribbons. The Terri-
torial Force Medal is purely an English deco-
ration, award of which is based on long service.
Ribbons are obtainable from the manager, R.S.
League, Wingello House, Angel-place, Sydney.
J.W.D.: He is entitled to the General Ser-
vice Medal, but not to the Victory Medal....
J.S.: Best time to catch jewfish in the estuaries
of Middle Harbor and Port Jackson is during
early summer months; medium heavy gut or
cord lines with fish bait, squid, etc., may be
used. Wire hooks are not needed, and there
are no tide preferences for this type of fish
B.T.: Call at the office of the Fisheries and
Game Branch, Chief Secretary’s Department,
.Sydney A.B.C.: Aliens may hold mining
leases in N. S. Wales, but leases, etc., are not
granted to unnaturalised enemy aliens....
X.Y.Z.: Anthracite coal is known to occur in
Queensland. For further information write to
the Mines Department, Brisbane. Outcrop coal
is usually somewhat perished from weathering
and exposure C.M.D.: Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney, can supply David’s Buddhism, but
have nothing in stock by Sir Edwin Arnold
or Joseph C. Lincoln A.B.C.: Volume VI
of Official History has yet to be published.
M.J.H.; D. J. Stead’s The Tree Book and
E. A. Vidler’s Our Own Trees —“a first book
on the Australian forest” —both 2s., ppst. 2d.,
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney, might suit
you A.J.H.: Dividends from British Fund-
ing 4 p.c. and City of Montreal are subject to
Commonwealth income tax if not liable to
income tax in the United Kingdom. No special
rate of tax is applicable to income tax derived
solely from the U.K., but “if the total taxable
income (property) derived from all sources ex-
ceeds £600 but does not exceed £2100 the rate
of Commonwealth income tax for the year
ended June 30, 1942, for every pound of tax-
able income up to and including £600 shall be
56.9791 pence, and the rate of tax for every
pound of taxable income in excess of £600 shall
be 90.04125 pence, increasing uniformly by
.04125 of one penny for every pound by which
the taxable income exceeds £601.” The financial
year commences on July 1 of each year. Taxes
payable on income derived during the year end-
ing June 30, 1942, will be collected during the
financial year commencing July 1, 1942
T.B.: It is the name of an old Dutch copper
coin worth about one farthing; it is also the
name of an old Scottish coin worth from one-
eighth to one-twelfth of a penny.., .B.P.W.:
Knight Harold Beauchamp died on October 5,
1938 T.G.B.: At a Commonwealth function
precedence would be as follows: The
Governor-General, the Governors of the States,
according to the population of their respective
States (the Governor of a State to have, within
its territory, precedence next to the Governor-
General), Lieutenant-Governors of States (not
administering the Government), the Prime
Minister or acting P.M. and then foreign Minis-
ters or envoys.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —
R.J.H.:—
They say there is no ration.
On fresh air or home-grown fruit,
But it really is a beauty
What they sting us for a suit!
L.A.S.: Still flaws in those bells D.W.:
Take more pains with ’em, and come again
B F.: “Does she wait for me still by the stable
gate?” Probably not H.V.W.: Slipshod.
A fiery oration; but a cold poem.
C.A.P.: Theme’s pleasant, but the verse
lacks all distinction P.V.: Turgid C.J C ■
“Occasional scribing” is about right... !d.h!r. •
What do you mean by “ride the tide with
circumstance”?. .J.R.: At 15 all may be par-
doned. .. . M-C.: Weak... .J.O.: Away from us
it did steer J.S.: A lightweight WJ.:
It never comes to life R.M.C.: Women are
indeed ail too human, but they don’t rhyme
with it E.P.: Only a friendly smile for the
old bushman who asks “What say you, doggie
mine?” C.T.: It’s not funny KB-
Found “Mrs. Upton’s Abracadabra” a dull con-
coction. .. .T.K.: Think those secrets of the
Warden’s Post are best left secret B.C.:
“With the greatest difficulty Percy stifled his
passion.” We had no difficulty in stifling Percy.
... .C.M.L.: Nothing to the witch-doctor
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.H.; Lost in a hopeless maze of lines....
M.G.B.: You carry slapstick too far....
G.S.N.: Two balloons balanced on drainpipes
and exchanging mild badinage don’t interest
US....R.W.: You sailed that crazy ship into
the wrong anchorage... .Bert C.: The parson
looks as if he had fallen into a barrel of tar and
then been put through a mangle ... .G.H.: You
should make your fortune at illustrating text-
books on geometry... .B.F.L.: You ought to
be made to ride that bike you’ve drawn
C.M.H.: Another couple of years hard prac-
tice and you can crawl to the starting-post
A.P.M.: Judging by your placing of shadows
the sun is shining from about four different
parts of the firmament... .C.R.S.: Even the
radio comedians have given that gag up as a
bad job H.L.: The joke seems to be about
a fur coat, yet the lady is wearing a sheet of
corrugated-iron!.... H.G.L.: Put a hat on one
of them so that we can tell which is the garage-
man and which the petrol bowser Flo M.:
About as humorous as a problem on the in-
tegral calculus A.N.H.: Barley-water joke
and a catch-as-catch-can sketch B.W.: Only
a sound tutor could teach you to curb those
wayward lines... .H.B.T.: You’ve made him
black, which is easy; what isn’t so easy is to
make him look like an abo C.K.: You’re
a good stovepipe designer on the wrong work.
. ...B.F.: Your mining sketch was foredoomed
to the mullock-heap... .H.C.M.: Now! now!
A “modernist,” to be consistent, shouldn’t use
40-year-old jokes.


Correct belt tension, the all important factor
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by > installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Office: 20 Queen's Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All State «
g
m
Mt
ĝ
///
mi
dfg
dfg
BELTING
PULLEYS • BEARINGS • SHAFTINGS • COUPLINGS • ALL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT
INVENTORS. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA
Sleep Sound Ail Night.
The largest selling medicine for bron-
chitis and asthma in all of blizzardly
cold Canada is Buckley’s Canadiol
Mixture (triple acting)—sold in Aus-
tralia—a blessing to thousands.
There’s nothing so safe and sure in
the world —2 or 3 doses in sweetened
hot water just before bedtime and
many a sufferer from Wangling, chok-
ing Asthma has found relief and a
good night’s rest —and that bad, old,
persistent, bronchial cough has left
you. Get a bottle at any chemist or
store. You can depend on it. Buckley’s
Canadiol gives definite quick relief from
that choking,gasping struggle for breath.
Uluddetfi
CANADIOL
M I X T URE
A SINGLE SIP PROVES IT
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
Year and De-
ended preciation
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
12$ p.c.
£> £» £> £
1932 .. 744,322 731,250 1,482,133 2,678,937
1933 .. 792,414 731,250 1,543,297 2,896,624
1934 .. 963,501 731,250 1,775,548 2,995,421
Reserves disclosed,. £883,000.. 2,658,548
Assets written up, £3,957,564.. 6,616,112
Reserves capitalised, £5,850,000 766,112
Reserves disappear, £57,564.. 708,548
6J p.c.
1935 .. 931,949 731,250 909,247 3,088,939
1936 . . 937,980 877,500* 969,727 3,311,260
6.9 p.c.
1937 . . 1,036,336 804,375 1,201,688 3,509,057
7$ p.c.
1938 .. 1,060,786 877,500 1,384,974 3,700,479
1939 . . 1,005,670 877,500 1,513,144 3,870,539
8* p.c.
1940 . . 1,103,744 994,500 1,622,388 4,092,025
1941 . . 1,054,331 994,500 1,682,219 4,351,538
1942 . . 934,619 994,500 1,622,338 4,666,646
* Includes special bonus of ss. per share to cover
taxation on last bonus scrip issue.
Few cos. are more fortunately placed
than this one, which has virtually a
monopoly of the refining section of Aus-
tralia’s sugar industry—in Australia it
refines, sells and finances all but a small
fraction (handled by Millaquin) of the
entire crop on a commission basis under
Government contract. It also does a big
milling business in Australia, and is. en-
gaged in growing and milling in Fiji and
refining in Maoriland as well. And earn-
ings benefit by returns from a fine wad
of outside investments (£3,730,500, up
£428,959) and cash (£1,995,444, down
£277,564), too. In addition to carrying
on its normal trade functions, the co.
has erected three factories for turning
out essential war materials (the last one
came into production during the 12
months covered by the latest accounts),
and has been able to make substantial
contributions to all Government loans
floated since the outbreak of war as well.
Further, the work in connection with
munitions has been done without profit.
The contraction of £119,712 in last
year’s net earnings was due mainly to
the rise in costs, heavier taxation (the
amount of the bill isn’t broadcast) and a
lighter Australian crop. The £934,619
of profit claimed was 8 p.c. on capital,
but “having regard to present circum-
stances” the div. was kept at 8| p.c. The
profit was written after allowing £386,990
(up £9458) for depreciation, etc. The
8£ p.c. was equal to 17 p.c. on capital
as it stood before the one-for-one gift
(£5.850,000) in 1934. On capital and
reserves combined 4 p.c. would be equal
to 6.1 p.c. on capital alone, which would
be the maximum rate payable if the Gov-
ernment goes ahead with its present pro-
posal for limitation of dividends, as it
says it is.
Last season’s Australian cane crop
yielded about 745,000 tons of raws, or
61,000 tons less than its immediate pre-
decessor : —■
Bought Tons (94 n.t.)—
for— 1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Home . . 364,000 383,000 400,000 417,000
Export . . 458,000 545,000 406,000 328,000
Total.. 822,000 928,000 806,000 745,000
Home price £24/-/- £23/12/6 £23/1/- £22/17/-
Export price 8/4/3 10/7/6 11/5/6 10/16/8
Average* .. 15/2/2 15/15/3 17/2/9 17/6/3
The reduction was due to seasonal con-
ditions, restricted use of fertiliser and
shortage of labor, so that limitation of
aggregate Queensland mill quotas to a
maximum 737,000 tons wasn’t achieved
by 40,000 tons. In Fiji a good season en-
abled the co. to crush an extra 234,885
tons of cane, making the total 1,070,488
tons.
Australian consumption rose about
10 p.c. above 1939 levels, partly on
account of unnecessary hoarding and
partly because of extra demand from
Allied forces here. Local consumption
is little more than half total production,
and the position in respect of refined
sugar stocks is quite sound. Manufac-
ture of some fancy lines has been discon-
tinued because of the man-power prob-
lem, which has now become acute in all
industries. Indeed, the time has arrived
when the Army might well consider more
closely overhauling its own administra-
tive and supply services in favor of its
fighting forces.
Britain, Canada and Maoriland have
been taking our surplus sugar at a better
price than was obtainable before the war.
Though it was expected to clear last
season’s surplus before the current
season’s production began, shipping space
promises to become a still more serious
problem, and the Federal Government is
coming to the assistance of Queensland
growers in order to provide extra storage.
Demand exceeds supply from both the
co.’s own cane-ite and associated mason-
ite factories, owing largely to camp con-
struction and other defence activities.
And since the invasion of Malaya more
orders have been received for canned
pineapples from the Fiji factory. But
the shipping problem and lack of tin-
plate for containers have limited sales.
The tin-plate question and demands of
the services were also responsible for the
shortage of golden syrup for civilian con-
sumption.
At the co.’s two Australian distilleries
raw sugar is now being used to augment
production of power-alcohol, and under
agreement with the Federal Government
the co. is erecting four grain distilleries
in N.S.W., Victoria, S. Aus. and W.A.,
each with a capacity of 5,000,000 gal-
lons p.a.
The strong stock position shows up in
a net addition <pf £865,876 to the book
value of this item:
1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £11,700,000 £11,700,000 £11,700,000
Sundry creditors 2,152,000 3,410,492 5,199,237
Suspense accounts 2,437,456 2,913,399 2,872,369
Employees’ funds 55,817 51,270 60,964
Refineries, mills,
etc 10,478,655 11,162,197 11,527,022
Steamers, etc.. . 271,877 313,608 313,924
Distilleries . . 322.678 449,836 462,476
Premises . . 228,202 229,908 229,739
Stocks. . . . 4,176,249 6,124,747 6,990,623
Book debts, etc. 415,295 751,324 1,369,076
Investments . . 3,252,177 3,301.541 3,730,500
Cash and
deposits . . 3,022,574 2,273,008 1,995,444
To carry the extra stocks, add £364,825
to refineries, etc., £617,752 to debtors’
balances and £428,959 to investments, the
co. went outside for £1,788,745. What
catches the eye is the fine pile of liquids
(£14,085,643), which exceeded outside
liabilities (£8,132,570, including suspense
accounts) by £5,935,073 when the books
closed. And some of the suspense
accounts the “Wild Cat” believes to be
genuine savings.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1036.. 38,048 11$ p.c. = 19,516 18,532 141,172
Share premiums, £65,000 .. .. 206,172
1937.. 38,553 12* p.c. = 29,318 9,235 f
Brokerage, etc., written off, £3911 j "" ’
1938.. 42,498 12* p.c. = 31,249 11,249 222,745
Pref. Ord. Total.
1939.. 46,008 6 p.c. 12i p.c. 33,750 12.258 235,003
1940.. 40,683 6 „ Hi „ 35,625 5,058 240,001
1941.. 34,502 6 „ 10 ~ 32,500 2,002 242,063
1942.. 31,145 6 „ 8$ „ 29,375 1,770 243,833
Coghlan and Tulloch’s Ballarat Brew-
ing Co. it was before the public came in
in 1936 and the name-plate condensed
to more manageable proportions. Fol-
lowing the healthy expansion in earnings
that followed the infusion of new capital,
the business has now become a victim
of circumstance. This because, though
partly in Melbourne and Geelong, trade
from the co.’s Ballarat brewery spreads
mainly through the wheat and sheep
country of western Victoria and the
N.S.W. Riverina. Thus these figures of
Victorian beer consumption are more
typical of the trend for city brewers than
for this Ballarat co.:
Gallons Gallons
Year per per
June, Gallons. Head. June, Gallons. Head.
1932.. 14,184,200 7.9 I 1937.. 20,750,800 11.2
1933.. 14,063.700 7.8 | 1938.. 23,099,800 12.4
* 1934.. 15,969,300 8.8 I 1939.. 23,555,700 12.5
1935.. 16,958,500 9.3 | 1940.. 24,524,500 13.0
1936.. 19,538,800 10.6 ( 1941.. 26,364,500 13.9
In country areas, drought, marketing
problems, enlistments and migration to
remunerative city posts, combined with
the growth in costs and taxation, have
all conspired against brewing earnings,
while the co.’s receipts as pub-owner
have been similarly affected. Man-power
authorities have taken roughly 40 p.c. of
brewery staffs (previously exempt), too.
Federal Cabinet’s decision to limit
beer production and deliveries to hotels
to two-thirds of January-February levels
has inflicted further hardship because of
the low figure to which country turnover
had fallen in the base moriths. However,
this was operative for less than a quarter
of the period under review, when “sub-
stantial” orders for overseas canteens at
slight margins of profit seem to have pro-
duced most of the spring from £101,583
to £113,268 in gross earnings from
trading. But earnings from rents fell
another £3324 to £37,914, while exes.
(£120,037, including taxation and £6192
for depreciation) headed in the wrong
direction to the extent of £11,718. Thus
disclosed net was left £3357 lighter at
£31,145.
Allowing for the prefs.’ whack (£7500),
that left 9.4 p.c. to show on the quarter-
million of ord. capital, against 10.8, 13.2
and 17.4 p.c, for the three years before.
So another 3d. was chipped off the div.,
reducing it to 8| p.c. and the public
average to 11.2 p.c., compared with 10.6
p.c. for the last decade under private con-
trol. Including excise, up Is. 3d. to 3s. a
gallon since Sept., 1939, taxes of one sort
and another came to £298,500, or 10s. in
the pound of all last year’s receipts.
Over the past two years, financial and
building controls have brought a halt to
the physical expansion which doubled the
book value of fixed assets in the pre-
ceding four: —
1936. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £184,625 £250,000 £375,000 £375,000
Mortgages . . 1,500 38,500 120,500 116,000
Overdraft .. 80,138 66,175 44,910 40,784
Sundry creditors 6,766 13,107 11,341 10,627
Brewery, hotels,
etc. . . 259,133 425,652 564,194 564,194
Plant, etc. . . 47,000 49,500 65,000 65,000
Stock.. .. 23,136 24,872 36,661 35,715
Advances . . 83,419 111,412 149,743 146,737
Shares other cos. 353 353 346 346
Cash, etc. . . 12,676 5,904 11,620 17,502
In May, 1936, independent valuations
showed an inner reserve of nearly
£240,000 in the earning assets, so if any
further cut in shareholders’ income comes
about it will be through other causes
than the proposed 4 p.c. profit blanket
which the administrative dilemma is
declared to be holding up.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 12,467 3 p.c. = 6,969 2799 1 ~
Provident Fund, £612 .. | 3087 74,036
1934.. 20.739 5 p.c. = 11,616 4630 4493 78,529
1935.. 11,886 4 „ „ 9,440 4578 77,397
1936.. 22,403 5 „ „ 12,463 6723 3217 80,614
1937.. 26,622 6 „ „ 14,949 7056 4617 85,231
1938.. 17,849 4 „ „ 11,998 2927 2924 88,155
1939.. 7,610 21,, ~ 7,499 Nil 111 88,266
1940.. 20,648 4 „ ~ 11,999 2858 5791 94,057
1941.. 17,334 3 „ „ 9,000 3289 5045 99,102
1942.. 12,751 21 „ „ 7,500 5251 104,353
Chief development last year was acquisi-
tion, from July 1, of “a major interest”
in the reconstructed New England, North
and North-West Producers Co. (Nenco),
pioneer Newcastle woolbroker, at a cost
of £31,669. The growth of the Coal City
as an appraisement and selling centre is
proceeding rapidly:
f — ; -Years ending March
Centre. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Bales. Bales. Bales.
Sydney . . . . 1,358,015 1,307,263 1,262,087
Newcastle . . . . 70,240 121,927
Melbourne & Albury 522,755 704,498 635,610
The new venture, which balances to June,
is reported “developing as well as could
have been expected.”
More pertinent statistics of Common-
wealth Wool’s own semi-co-operative
trading in N.S.W. and Victoria are here
aggregated:
, Wool, Bales—
Year Dis- Carry-
Mar., Receipts, posals. forward. Sheep. Cattle.
1936 . . 123,613 142,545 1,783 539,227 37,877
1937 . . 133,267 124,305 10,745 624,133 30,394
1938 . . 131,326 122,262 19,809 644,445 28,841
1939 . . 113.658 125,089 8,378 608,566 20,272
1940 . . 141.996 135,311 15,063 519,345 26,859
1941 . . 130,581 139,954 5,690 559,141 18,659
1942 ... 132,036 131,901 5,815 536,126 14,372
Dry conditions affected the quantity
and quality of both the clip and stock.
Still, the co.’s receipts of wool into store
were 1455 bales better, indicating expand-
ing connections notwithstanding northern
business passed to the new subsidiary ;
actual disposals were 8053 bales fewer,
owing to a lighter carryover at the open-
ing of the year. Beef-raisers received
very satisfactory prices ; partly because
of the difficult export situation, mutton-
producers weren’t so fortunate.
Again gross earnings from commis-
sions and other sources (£170,596) showed
little change, and an additional £5OOO of
taxation pulled back the net result to


THE No. 150 DEEP-SEATED
KEMP —
IN ALL KIP LEATHER.
*
£9/15/3
(MOUNTED)
This saddle is
very good
value. It has
Kemp pads,
deep seat,
good long
pads and
short panel with leather
points.
N.S. W. freight on saddles
paid for cash with order.
fTY.
LTD
WALTHER * STEVEMSOMI
395 CEORCE ST. SYDMEV
395 CEORCE ST. SYDMEY
FULL OF LIFE
YOUR children, too, will be full of life
if you keep them free from constipation.
When they are constipated, give them
NYAL FIGSEN, the gentle, natural
laxative. Children love to chew Figsen.
It's kind to sensitive tummies. Its
so dependable and thorough. Its action
is so easy and comfortable — no nausea,
no pain. NYAL FIGSEN _ tablets are
good for grown-ups too. Figsen is one
of the 168 dependable NYAL FAMILY
MEDICINES. Sold by Chemists every-
where. 1/3 a tin.
The next best thing to Nature . . .
NyalFigsen
THE GENTLE LRXRTIVE
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing
COMPANY
Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371. _____
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HOMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner ana
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your* letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
m
—e SiW*
The Symbol of
Security I
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA.
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria )
8 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE; Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G..
Robert C. Wilson, Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
£12,751, or 4.2 p.c. on capital. So the
usual rebate of wool charges (10 p.c. in
1941) was passed over and shareholders
had another half-point shaved otf their
div., making it 2% p.c. and the decade’s
average 3.9 p.c.
These moderate returns partly reflect
the swag of cash laid out on display and
storage facilities, to finance part of which
and lend to clients the management has
had to go extensively outside:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Capital . . £299,953 £299,980 £300,000 £300,000
Sundry
creditors, etc. 202,821 179,29 V 149,708 143,914
Overdraft, etc. 238,657 310,441 232,587 234,182
Provident fund 50,374 54,627 59,282 53,595
Freeholds, etc. 476,366 479,023 498,777 498,846
Stocks ~ 14,476 31,341 46,059 48,572
Book debts .. 398,092 432,725 297,928 237,554
Cash, etc. .. 7,736 7,306 6,915 6,905
Shares subsid. 31,669
Advances subsid. 20,000
Thanks to the good work of the Central
Wool Committee —among the nation’s
most efficient instruments of war organi-
sation —advances were reduced another
£60,374 last term, enabling the extension
to Newcastle without further addition to
the debt.
Some return from this source may
be possible in the current term, and
recent rains and Britain’s offer of an
extra 2d. a pound for wool won’t do
any harm, either. Dehydration may help
mutton-men.
The man-power development is the
latest of the war-time economic adjust-
ments which the peace-time-favored gold
industry has had to face. To date these
have been concerned mainly with tax-
ation. First the Federal gold tax was
introduced, half the net price of the
yellow metal above £9 going to the Com-
monwealth Treasury. But there had
already been an offsetting rise in the
price of the metal, and low-grade pro-
ducers were protected by an arrange-
ment which provided for a proportionate
rebate where profits ran to less than 30s.
an ounce of gold won. Then, to dis-
courage new development, the exemption
from taxes previously allowed mining
calls was whittled down to apply to only
two-thirds of those calls. Recently the
Mills committee on taxation recom-
mended that the gold tax be abolished
and that gold cos. be taxed, like other
metalliferous mines, as investment con-
cerns, which would tend to shift the in-
cidence of taxation more on to the high-
grade producers, though no increase in
aggregate revenue was contemplated.
Presumably this would bring the indus-
try within the 4 p.c. profits ban, too.
Though the Government hasn’t yet made
up its mind, an outburst of protest from
this class of wasting-asset producer has
arisen which would appear to have par-
ticular application to new producers. As
dividends are partly return of capital,
barest justice would appear to dic-
tate that all mining income should be
freed from income tax until at least divs.
equivalent to cash-paid capital had been
distributed. Recognising some of the
special • risks undertaken, Maorilanders
have legislated a considerable distance in
this direction.
* * * *
On July 30 King Island Scheelite dis-
tributes 6d. a share in respect of its cur-
rent term, which terminates in October.
It is a month earlier than the sole distri-
bution of 3d. paid last year, which ab-
sorbed half the much-depleted profits.
Output now goes to the B.H.P. under
contract for the duration and six months
thereafter, and the Prop, wants as much
tungsten for hardening steels and machine
tools as it can lay hands on. War-time
(company) tax, however, has operated so
that for a ton increase in weekly output
above, say, tons, the co. would be
liable for tax at the rate of 225. 9d, in
the £ of the extra profits, which is alto-
gether absurd. Indeed, there is a lot to
be said for special tax dispensation to
producers, if not shareholders, of the vital
“minor” war minerals, where output is
the main thing, not the tax yield, which
in any case comprises an almost insigni-
ficant proportion of consolidated revenue.
The B.H.P. contract is on the same basis
as that of the Department of Commerce
with the British Ministry of Supply,
which has been lifted twice this year to
the equivalent of nearly 110 s. Australian
at place of production. The taxation
position obscures the benefits to the King
Island co., but some relief has come
from the Federal decision to exempt a
fifth of mining income—other than gold
and coal —from taxation in both share-
holders’ and the companies’ hands. In
view of the proposed 4 p.c. ceiling on
profits, whether this will prove sufficient
inducement to cos. to exploit to the fullest
their wasting assets is highly proble-
matical.
*,* * *
The man-power Nemesis has overtaken
Wattle Gully, Vic.’s third and most-
consistent goldwinner, which because of
a favored ore position has been able to
stave off its effects to date by switching
labor from development to production
and lifting the grade of mill-feed. Divs.
have been discontinued, and their prob-
able resumption isn’t indicated. Six-
pence a share monthly has been the un-
interrupted thing since the pound shares
were split into three just over two years
back, with a Christmas bonus of a shil-
ling added in 1940, Total distribution
to date is £283,500. At the end of De-
cember the liquid position was about
£16,000 net in credit.
* * * *
Commonwealth authorities have started
work on one or two of Westralia’s larger
copper deposits. They have also installed
an extra furnace on a show at Marda, on
the North Yilgarn field, and intend to
send another to Ravensthorpe, at Phillips
River. At both Marda and Ravensthorpe
a number of prospectors are mining gold-
copper ores.
* * * *
New Milano, of Mt. Monger (W.A.),
as an antidote to the last accounts, now
cheerfully reports a cash and bullion sur-
plus of nearly £4OOO, as against net
indebtedness of £2890 at the end of
February, indicating a profit approach-
ing £7OOO meantime. From the richer
surface stuff, £ll-a-ton returns showed
up in the year before last. They shrank
to £7 a ton last term, and have been
almost halved again since a trend
typical of the area. But under the new
manager working costs are now said to
be down to 50s. a ton—l2ss. was the all-
in figure last year—suggesting, along with
the reduction in grade, that there is a lot
less picking-over of ore now and bring-
ing 6dwt. material within the scope of
profitable milling.
* * * «
Shareholders in Blue Bird, the small
but once-golden goose of Norseman
(W.A.), are to be asked to consider wind-
ing-up next week because of the labor
shortage and other causes —notably the
persistence of unprofitable yields. And,
of course, there are some creditors, who
figured for £ 11,000-odd a year ago.
Crushings reached the Boz. class in 1938.
There were progressive declines to 70z.,
4|oz. and 2oz. in the next three years,
and to under ioz, since. Costs have
lately responded to expansion in output,
but, partly because of the narrow lode
material, not sufficiently.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT AND COMPANY
LIMITED.
Ordinary General Meeting, 26th June. 1942.
Mr. K. M. Niall, Chairman.
COMPANY TAXATION.
Before making provision for land, income
and pay-roll taxes, our Profits for the year
amounted to £221,000, which was reduced to
£125,000 by taxation provisions applicable to
the year. Thus net profit represents only 3 p.c.
on Shareholders’ Funds while taxation took
2.3 p.c.,' despite the fact that our low earning
rate meant that we were free from War-time
Company Tax.
Many of our shareholders are people in the
lower-income classes and yet through the Com-
pany they are compelled to pay a very heavy
rate of taxation before they receive any divi-
dend. The number of shareholders on our
register is 7366 and the average holding is 325
shares.
It is apparent that persons with low incomes
derived from shares in Companies are being
much more severely taxed than persons with
the same income derived from other sources.
Whilst on the subject of taxation I feel that
I should make some reference to the proposal
put forward by the Government to limit the
profit of all businesses to 4 p.c. As the net
profit of this Company available to shareholders
is only a small percentage on the shareholders’
funds, some of you may be misled into think-
ing that a 4 p.c. limitation of profits will not
affect the dividends you receive from this Com-
pany. On the contrary, I feel it necessary to
inform you that the passage of such a measure
as has been suggested is likely to have a most
serious effect on this Company as well as on the
business community in general. The prosperity
of this Company, like that of other Pastoral
Companies, depends entirely on the prosperity
of the Pastoral Industry. As you all know,
the risks inherent in this industry are very
great. Large profits can be made under favor-
able conditions, but large losses are also made.
The losses that a pastoralist may make are
limited only by the amount of his assets, and
if his profit in good seasons is to be limited to
4 p.c., then the extinction of his business is
only a matter of time. It has been a common-
place experience with this Company to find
competent and energetic graziers getting into
serious financial difficulties through no fault of
their own. The Company’s practice has been
to continue its support to such clients to the
limit of its ability, confident that with the re-
turn to normal conditions they will be able to
make sufficient income to restore their posi-
tion, but heavy taxation has already made it
most difficult for such recoveries to be made,
and the limitation of profits to 4 p.c. will clearly
put it out of the question. Furthermore, m
the past, in difficult times the grazing industry
has been helped by fresh capital being intro-
duced from outside. If a 4 p.c. limitation of
profits is imposed, it would be ludicrous to ex-
pect persons enjoying an assured income from
investments such as Government bonds yield-
ing something over 3 p.c. to sell these securities
and invest the proceeds in a business the profits
from which cannot exceed 4 p.c. and the losses
from which might absorb the whole of their
capital. We view the proposal so seriously, not
only as regards its effect on certain Companies
and their shareholders, but also upon the eco-
nomic structure of this country, that we think
it advisable to draw the particular attention of
shareholders to it, so that they may add their
individual protests.
WOOL.
Since my report at this stage last year Japan
has entered the war, and shipping facilities
to and from these shores have therefore been
restricted. Nevertheless, substantial supplies
of our wool have continued to be shipped to
Great Britain and to the United States of
America—in the latter case in unexpectedly
large volume. The quantities also being used
by our own Australian Mills in meeting the de-
fence requirements of the Commonwealth, and
the probable further requirements of the United
States Forces, are additional factors in pro-
viding outlets for wool. There seems good
reason, therefore, to hope that the posi-
tion in regard to accumulations in this country
to date is a good deal better than anticipated.
The British Government’s action in readily
agreeing to an increase of 15 p.c. on the original
basic purchase price of the Commonwealth clip
for the ensuing season has been received with
gratification by growers, who have been find-
ing it extremely difficult to balance their budgets
owing to ever-rising costs since the original
price was arranged.
APPRAISEMENT CENTRES.
I mentioned last year proposals for fresh
appraisement centres. These proposals have
since been given a good deal of publicity, and
at one time we were told it was the intention
that storage accommodation to the large extent
of 250,000 bales at various points in New South
Wales was contemplated. I am pleased to say,
however, that, upon examination of the difficul-
ties, the quantity aimed at is now said to be
50,000 bales.
So far as we can gather, nobody interested in
the growing and selling of wool really wants
any of these centres established. Their osten-
sible purpose is to get wool stored where it is
not so likely to be destroyed by enemy action
as wool stored at the seaboard, but the advan-
tages to be obtained in this direction do not
appear to us to justify the very considerable
expenditure involved, or the diversion of labour
and materials from much more important war
efforts.
MAN-POWER FOR THE PASTORAL
INDUSTRY.
Owing to very heavy enlistments by men em-
ployed in the Pastoral Industry, there is now
a very considerable labour shortage, which is
becoming more and more acute. It is be-
lieved that the Directorate appointed by the
Minister for Labour to deal with the problem
is now well seized with the facts as regards
the Station workers, and it is hoped will devise
means immediately to remedy the situation.
Otherwise, it will soon get out of hand, par-
ticularly should seasonal conditions be such as
to invite pest visitations. As a typical in-
stance, I might mention that on five of the
Company’s own Stations, normally carrying over
100,000 sheep with 59 men employed, we are
now carrying on with 37 —the majority of whom
are elderly men.
STAFF AT OFFICES AND STORES.
Here, too, having regard to the fact that the
great bulk of our activities are services in con-
nection with essential commodities and cannot
be curtailed without detriment to the national
economy, we now seem to have reached the
limit of substituting temporary workers for
trained and experienced men. Some idea of the
adjustments of duties and transfers necessary
within our organization may be gathered from
the fact that, out of our male permanent staff
at the outbreak of war, 265—representing 41
p.c. of the total—are in the fighting forces. In
addition, 60 of the juniors who have joined the
service since the outbreak of war, and a con-
siderable number of our regular Store hands,
are also in uniform.


■eeo&&
9
s-s.
7jAe moif
&aJe Jtiahjw j
Weu>cimj
To-day its work is vital in the wider
national sense.
When peace conies it will resume
its importance in the broadcast radio
world.
☆
HIS MASTERS VOICE*
RADIO
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
Kl4/42
CRAVENA ~nie so
tojftoitUqhf mom!
i
EIB6B
10 for lid.
20 for 110
I (a/tAJ-
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
:: ■mmmfm
:
mmm
Business, Rollery, Etc.
“Even If We Crack”
Last week the Prime Minister said
“the Government’s plan to transfer
318,000 men and women from peace to
war activities has to go on even if we
crack under it.” Although it should be
no part of Australia’s defence policy to
crack, Mr. Curtin might ponder over
a statement in the Sydney newspapers of
the same day. There it was announced
that there were to be vacancies through
retirement for the posts of directors of
the State Lottery Office and State Insur-
ance Office and chairman of the Milk
Board. Surely these men can still carry
on for a few more years in the jobs they
know, and spare other men for other
work! N. S. Wales has already seen the
retirement of Public Librarian Mould, be-
cause he had passed an arbitrary age-
limit, and then his appointment as
Deputy Director of War Organisation of
Industry in N.S.W. In the circumstances
there seemed to be no particular reason
for the transfer of a man who had proven
ability as a librarian to another job
which was as different as chalk from
cheese, even allowing that there are people
who speak well of Mr. Mould’s work in
his new post. It seems that the civil ser-
vice, especially the State civil service, has
such an abundance of man-power that
it can afford to be extravagant. Yet Mr.
Cectin talks about private industry
“cracking.”
The times, admittedly, are extraordi-
narily difficult. No Australian Prime
Minister has faced a more harassing prob-
lem with such makeshift material for his
Cabinet. But party politics cannot be
accepted as an excuse for anything less
than the best possible in the way of a
war effort. The subservience of the indi-
vidual to the State in time of war has
been stressed time and again by the
present Government since it came to
power, and it follows that responsibilities
far greater than usual rest on the shoul-
ders of the Government. It has to be able
to direct the war job better than if it
were left to the initiative of the individual.
In this respect there are plenty of grounds
for criticism. The flabbiness and lack of
decisive action typical of Government
control are still present in the inflated
activities of the Commonwealth, and the
system of political appointments has not
been abandoned. For each case where
an Essington Lewis or an L. I. Hartnett
has found his way to the top there have
been dozens of political appointees, to
smaller jobs, perhaps, but nevertheless
jobs important in a system where the
speed and efficiency with which the
war programme is carried on depend
greatly on the capabilities of departmen-
tal heads.
In spite of Mr. Curtin’s claims con-
cerning the urgent necessity for more
and more men and women in the civil
and armed services, there have been cases
where men have had to be released from
their ordinary jobs at the Government’s
demand and have then been left to cool
their heels with nothing to do for weeks.
Exceptions to the general rule, perhaps,
but very hard to understand by people
whose existence has almost approached
that “cracking” stage mentioned by Mr.
Curtin.
There are thousands of law-abiding
and patriotic citizens who are bewildered
by aspects of Australia’s political and
industrial metamorphosis that followed
Labor’s ascent to office and the
outbreak of war with Japan. Any
“explanation” that may be offered from
Canberra is not sufficiently frank or in-
telligible to dispel the bewilderment. To
many people Canberra’s appeals, demands
and exhortations don’t ring true, because
such people know that they have already
done more than Canberra is asking, and
they wonder who has been allowed to
escape similar responsibilities. This is
particularly true with regard to taxation.
Certain classes of Australians pay taxa-
tion out of all proportion to that borne
by others. Canberra never expresses
appreciation of their efforts ; it appears
to be tongue-tied by class-consciousness
when the opportunity to speak arises.
The freedom of the individual is being
progressively restricted under war-time
“rationalisation.” Some restriction there
has to be. But explanations are often
wordy and unsatisfactory. Some politi-
cian is usually the mouthpiece where a
departmental head ought to be the man.
There have been major blunders in
rationing and rationalisation. The Gov-
ernment’s man-power policy raises query
after query; heavy-handed and sweeping
in some directions, it seems remarkably
easygoing so far as Government depart-
ments and trade-unions are concerned.
In the actual munitions industries there
are signs of trade-unionism gone mad.
Probably because, in a measure, of the
present Government’s foolish talk early
in its career about maintaining living
standards during the war and conferring
social benefits as well, munition workers
and the like have been taking an
entirely wrong view of the war and what
it is costing. They regard it as an oppor-
tunity to make money, apparently not
believing that you cannot honestly make
money out of war wastage. They have
received some encouragement from poli-
ticians. The result is that those who
are making money out of the war are
only doing so at the expense of otheis
who are carrying a double load of war
costs.
It has been stated by some factory
managers that since the war started out-
put per man has actually fallen in spite
of overtime working. Some unions con-
tinue to discourage “speeding-up.” Piece-
work, obviously the most equitable way
of encouraging a greater output of essen-
tial war materials, is still generally taboo.
Instead of tackling these problems at
their root —that is, through dealing with
the unions, bringing them to their senses
and showing who is governing the coun-
try-—the Government has so far preferred
to “remedy” production deficiencies by
wholesale drafting of men. And there
have been reports that “dillies” — i.e.,
dilutees —in some workshops are taken
as the standard of output for the rest of
the men.
While such extraordinary loose condi-
tions are prevailing among one class of
Australians, Canberra, which has neglected
to bring in anything resembling a sen-
sible excess-profits tax, has been breath-
ing fire and brimstone at the administra-
tive and proprietary end of industry.
Though the people represented here are
usually heavily and doubly taxed, there
is talk: of going further and, irrespective
of circumstances, limiting their earnings
to 4 p.c. on capital and reserves. Frcm
a practical point of view very little
economic help would flow to the Gov-
ernment from such an arrangement even
if the investor class were bludgeoned out
of its entire income for the duration .of
the war.
Taxation must be general and high,
not partial and total.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., the big
woolbroking and station-owning co., told
shareholders at the annual meeting that
the number of people who owned its
scnp was 7366, with the average holding
325 shares. Before arriving at pet profits
of £125,000 for the year, taxation of
various kinds amounting to £96,000 was
paid. This worked out at over Bs. 6d. in
the £ on the profits prior to tax disclosed
.to the public, and in most cases share-
holders who received their reduced div.
of 5 p.c. would have to pay personal
taxation in addition at their appropriate
rate. But without these personal taxes,
for every £ shareholders received in divs.
last year the Government took 16s. in
taxation, and that was without any special
war-time company tax being levied—the
co.’s rate of earning was too lo\Y. The
chairman has taken special excep-
tion to the proposed limitation of profits
to 4 p.c. on capital and reserves, “not
only as regards its effects on certain cos.
and their shareholders, but also on the
economic structure of the country.” And
he is obviously justified.
* * * *
There has been a good deal of con-
troversy about the new standard cloth in
which Australian civilians are to be
clothed when present varied stocks run
out. Officials stick up for the material
and say that it is not shoddy, even if
light in weight ; here and there, tailors
condemn the stuff. There appears to be
something radically wrong with the way
many Australian necessities are being
“rationalised.” Surely the rationing of
clothing severely so far as quantity is
concerned is enough without rationing
quality as well. Australian woollen mills
have always had a greater capacity than
the demands of the local market, and
though there are now the requirements
of other Allied soldiers to be attended to,
a matter aggravated by falling imports,
the fact that a substantial proper-
tion of our own man-power is in uniform
only means that these men are wearing
khaki instead of some other shade of
material, and this khaki stuff should be
easier to mass-produce than a variety of
patterns and shades in worsteds, tweeds,
etc. The rationing of petrol was fol-
lowed by poor-quality spirit being mar-
keted. As shipping space was so valu-
able it was remarkable that it could be
spared for poor-quality matter of any
kind. And it will be equally inexplic-
able if our looms are devoted to the
manufacture of anything except sturdy
cloth.
*. * . * *
I* l Maoriland during the taxation year
1940-41 55 p.c. of total returnable in-
comes were under £8 a week, and 66 p.c.
were under £lO a week. And that is on
the basis that incomes under £4 a week
amount to only £585,000, or half of one
per cent. From incomes under £8 a week
the Government collected 17 p.c. of its
income-tax revenue. Raising the scale
to £lO a week, the collections represented
26 p.c. Altogether Maoriland collected
£7.3 million from personal incomes aggre-
gating £117.9 million. From incomes of
over £20,000 a year (there were only five)
the tax taken amounted to £77,000 out
°f a total of £146,000, and that repre-
sented an average of 10s. 7d. in the £.
* * * *
Announcing the maintenance of an
interim div. at the rate of 12£ p.c. p.a.,
Australian Cement directors mentioned
that taxation and other increasing costs
are likely to affect future profits. Share-
holders “should be prepared for a reason-
able reduction in the dividend in the
immediate future.” Business in cement
in Victoria is probably brisk notwith-
standing the restriction on private build-
ing. Goliath, in Tasmania, is hampered
in its mainland activities by the shipping
shortage, which means extra business for
the Victorian section of the Australian
Portland Cement combination. Kandos
Cement (N.S.W.) shares control of this
operating co. with Australian Cement,
Kandos 16s. shares have been firm at
295. 6d. lately, while Australian Cement
20s. denominators are selling at 335. 6d.


dfg
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O'Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.)»
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Public Notice.
I, OSCAR PETTERSEN RASK, known as
OSCAR PETERSEN, of Norwegian nationality,
bom at Ramness, near Tonsberg, and resident
26 years in Australia, now residing at 160
Oxford Street, Woollahra, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAVID HENRY WILSON formerly of
No. 78 Teralba Road Adamstown near New-
castle.—TAKE NOTICE that HAZEL WILSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1171 of
1942 on the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance on or before the 31st of August 1942
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from REX REYNOLDS Solicitor of 109 Eliza-
beth Street Sydney— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ALLEN REGINALD DAVEY late of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that MARIE DAVEY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 479 of 1940 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards notwithstanding
that she admits having committed adultery If
you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance before 30th September 1942 and obtain
a copy of the Petition with citation from
EDWIN D. PANCKHURST Solicitor 28 Martin
Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
TO CYRIL JOHN MOFFATT formerly of
Ptahran but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife MOLLY EVELYN
MOFFATT has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the ground of desertion
AND UNLESS you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
in Melbourne on or before the Twenty-ninth
day of July 1942 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs. If you intend to defend this suit you
must also file in the office of the Prothono-
tary an answer on or before the Eighth day
of August 1942. —JOHN F. CARROLL, 95
Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
Doctor* soy your virility and vig-
our depend qreotly on your Hor-
mone Gland*. 121 Gland Tonic
Tablet* contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness;/
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY.
With an actual war expenditure of
something like £3OO million in the year
which closed on June 30, Canberra is
talking of a certain £4OO million outlay
in 1942-43, with the possibility of a sura
reaching £5OO million. For most people
the £4OO million will seem fair
enough to talk about —for the present,
anyway. It isn’t likely that our national
income is going to expand sufficiently to
make light work of an extra hundred mil-
lion or so taken for defence; already
clothes-rationing and so forth have
reached an irksome stage with some. And
that is always the effect, we must remem-
ber, of allocations of national income for
war purposes. They start off in our minds
as being allocations of money, and finish
up as allocations from comforts and living
standards as well. Which is no surprise
to sensible people. But there are others
who don’t take a sensible view of public
finance. They have rabbit-out-of-the-hat
ideas.
* * * *
The note issue has soared to £102.6
million, up £54.1 million since the out-
break of war and £35 million in the last
12 months. Only about £l5 million of
the present total is held by the banks,
an increase of less than £2 million since
the war began. Nearly all the growth in
the total issue has been because of public
demand, and this note-hoarding must be
added to other forms of saving when in-
creased spending power in the hands of
the public is being considered. Savings-
bank deposits have lifted about £24 mil-
lion since war started, and war-savings-
certificate subscriptions have amounted
to around £25 million net. The value of
all this money, however, is about 15 p.c.
lower than when war began because of
the increase in living costs that has fol-
lowed higher prices for imports, labor
shortages and somewhat inflationary
methods of public finance.
* * • •
According to Commonwealth Bank
statistics, 640 cos. in Australia earned an
average profit of 6.6 p.c. on their £431.3
million of shareholders’ funds in 1941.
In the preceding year mean earnings
were 6.7 p.c. Taxation is allowed for in
both cases. Highest rate of earning was
among manufacturing concerns, with 7.9
p.c.; finance cos. were the lowest, with
4.7 p.c.
$ $ ♦ *
The Associated Chambers of Com-
merce describe the proposal to limit
profits to 4 p.c. as “not only unnecessary
but positively detrimental to a complete
war effort. In spite of all opinions to
the contrary there will be a definite loss
of individual incentive, with a corre-
sponding reduction in the field of taxa-
tion available to the Treasurer.” The
statement goes on to say that the Gov-
ernment’s proposals have already caused
depreciation of market prices of shares
and have discouraged investors from sup-
porting war loans.
* * * *
The rise in price of most Australian
shares continued until Friday of last
week, when apparently the disheartening
news from Egypt could no longer be
ignored even by Australian investors.
There was a weakening in 8.H.P.,
and A.C.1., and Tooth scrip was marked
down a shade. On the preceding day the
Sydney index of 34 representative ord.
shares had lifted to 105.75, which com-
pares with a lowest this year of
93.76. Earlier in the week the price
range for a number of shares, pro-
minent among which were newspaper
scrip, Tooth, C.S.R. and Mort’s Dock,
had been widened officially, and was
followed by a jump of 2s. 6d. a share in
Tooth and £2 in C.S.R. on the one day.
At this stage B.H.P. was jammed against
the upper selling limit fixed by the Stock
Exchange committee, and, with other
stocks, awaited adjustment of the price-
spread.
* ♦ • *
The Commercial Bank of Australia is
paying a div, of 6.6 p.c. for the latest
term, compared with 7.1 p.c. in the pre-
ceding period. On the whole, bank divs.
have been fairly steady at low rates since
the bottom of the depression was
reached. The National of Australasia
has been the only other Australian-
registered bank to pay a lower div. since
war began, though the E., S. and A., sub-
ject to British as well as Australian taxa-
tion, has dropped its interim to 5 p.c.,
as against an average of 7 p.c. over the
preceding five years.
* * * *
Morris Hedstrom, an island trader with
interests mostly in Fiji, has come through
the Pacific Blitz without much disturb-
ance to trading connections and with a
better market for most of its products,
especially copra, in which product an
Empire surplus has turned into a short-
age, at present evident in the scarcity of
boot polish, biscuits and certain types of
soaps. After allowing £47,292 for depre-
ciation, up £25,996, but nothing for war
losses (which were “not material”), net
profit was £3347 lower at £54,949. Divs.
on pref. and ord. shares were kept at
6 p.c. Some internal provision against
possible later war losses has been made.
* * * *
British Tobacco has deferred payment
of its pref. dividend pending a decision
in the uniform-taxation case lately before
the High Court. Howard Smith has
acted similarly.
« * * *
The United States has tentatively agreed
to a 94 p.c. excess-profits tax, with the
provision that 14 p.c. shall be a post-war
credit. The credit will take the form
of bonds payable three years after the
beginning of the year after the war ends,
and they will be non-negotiable and non-
interest-bearing. When redeemed the
bonds will be subject to a 15 p.c. capital-
profits tax.
Company Meeting
Australian Consolidated Industries Ltd.
Chairman’s Address to Shareholders at the Annual Meeting
on 24th June, 1942.
Ladies and Gentlemen: t
You have already received the Directors
Report and Statement of Accounts for the
period ended 31st May, 1942. Previously our
financial year ended on 31st March, but be-
cause most of our Subsidiaries close thei
financial year on that date it was decided to
allow the parent Company’s financial year to
close on 31st May in this and succeeding years,
it being convenient and helpful to make this
change. On this occasion, therefore, the Front
and Loss Account covers a period of fourteen
months, but 1 would point out that the sub-
sidiary companies’ trading included in the
Consolidated Statements covers a period or
only twelve months, and dividends to the
Parent Company are in respect of a like term.
The Report which I will later move for adop-
tion recommends that a dividend be declared
and paid this day of 9d. per Share on the
Ordinary Shares, and 4| p.c. on the Preference
Shares. These dividends, together with the in-
terim ones paid last December, namely 32 P-c.
on the Ordinary Shares and 4\ p.c. on the
Preference Shares, make a total distribution ot
£334,023 to Shareholders during the period
ended 31st May last.
It will be noticed that the net profit of the
Company was £363,531, being some £40,000
less than the earnings during the year ended
31st March, 1941. This may be said to be
largely due to the incidence of taxation, which,
as explained in the Directors’ Report attached
to the Accounts, has on this occasion been
borne to a greater extent by the Parent Com-
pany than by the Subsidiaries. This year no
transfer to Reserve Account is proposed, but
profits earned ex-Australia have been transferred
to the credit of the separate Income Appropria-
tion Account; no portion of the dividend has
been declared thereout on this occasion.
Notwithstanding the care taken a year ago
in endeavouring to estimate the Company s lia-
bility for income taxation, the passage of retro-
spective legislation subsequently brought about
an additional impost, and this accounts for the
appearance of an item of £58,658 deducted from
the balance of profit brought forward from the
previous year.
The Balance Sheet of the Company shows
relatively minor fluctuations, there having been
some small additions to the Fixed Assets and
Advances, etc., to Subsidiary Companies, whilst
Cash at Bankers and Current Liabilities are
both lower.
The completion of payments by Shareholders
in respect of the issue of Ordinary Shares made
in 1939 brought in a further £50,000 of pre-
miums on Shares. There were some other
adjustments in Reserves, however, with the
result that Reserves and Accumulated Profits
of the Company show an aggregate increase
of a little over £20,000 on the year.
Dealing now with the Consolidated State-
ments of Accounts, it will be noticed that the
net profit of all Companies, after providing for
the proportion available to outside Share-
holders, was £428,803, being some £60,000 less
than the year before. Part of this fall is due
to heavier taxation and part to variations in
manufacturing costs and expenses, which I will
more particularly deal with in a few minutes.
The Consolidated Statement of Assets and
Liabilities shows that our'Fixed Assets, con-
sisting of Land, Buildings, Machinery and
Plant, increased £428,000 on the year, not-
withstanding that £255,000 was written off for
Depreciation and Amortisation.
Investments have risen £61,000 and, although
Stocks and Debtors show somewhat substantial
increases, there has been a considerable fall in
Cash at Bank, so that our Current Assets
declined in the aggregate by £194,000.
On the other side of the Accounts it will
be seen that there is an increase in by
reason of the payment of the final call on Con-
tributing Shares, whilst Reserves and Accumu-
lated Profits rose in the aggregate some £45,000,
and our Liabilities, including provisions for
taxation, are also slightly heavier.
Having dealt with the finances of the Com-
pany, I would now like to speak about pro-
duction. During the earlier part of the period
all our Companies were extremely busy—m
fact, they reached records in production. How-
ever, the financial benefits which we would
ordinarily have expected from this extra produc-
tion and sales were lost through the sub-
stantial increases in wages awarded to our
employees, the rise in the costs of coal, liquid
fuel heavy chemicals and other raw materials,
as well as in most expenses of distribution and
administration.
Shortage of labor through the man-power
problem is making the glass-container industry
more and more difficult to operate. In response
to the request of the Government, we are doing
everything that is possible to meet the tinplate
shortage by providing glass containers for those
goods which have hitherto been tinned, and I
would say that this effort of ours has met with
a very appreciable measure of success. Fortu-
nately, Australia can supply practically all the
raw materials used in the manufacture of glass,
and the value of this feature can be readily
appreciated, especially in view of the overseas
shipping position. We could, no doubt, go
further in assisting to conserve supplies of tin-
plate if only more labor were available for the
glass industry.
In some other of our glass-producing sections
we have been compelled to restrict output, both
because of the falling-off in demand from the
building trade and because of the labor
shortage. .
I wish to emphasise that in these very diffi-
cult times those in control of the Company s
affairs are doing their very best to preserve its
interests, compatible with our obligations to the
national effort. In this regard, all our Engl-
neering Companies have increased their manu-
facturing capacity during the year, and are at
present engaged almost entirely in the produc-
tion of weapons of war. Many very important
developments of a similar nature are being
hurried forward, but here again the scarcity
of skilled workmen is the factor governing just
how quickly this much-needed equipment can
be produced and placed into use agamst the
enemy. This war has made it abundantly clear
that no nation can protect itself against an
aggressor without the means of producing all
the mighty weapons necessary to counteract
those which have been, and still are, used by
the enemy in his attempt to annihilate us.
During the year a considerable amount of
expenditure, approximately £683,000, has been
made upon the Company’s Buildings, Plant,
Machinery, etc., and the greater part of this
has been in respect of the products just referred
to.
It was in the year 1938 that we started to
build our first Munitions Annexe at the request
of the then Prime Minister, the late the Right
Honorable J. A. Lyons.
Since then the technical members of our staff
continue to give the benefit of their expert
advice to various departments on aspects of
war material production.
I may be pardoned for saying that those who
control the destinies of your Company were
perhaps a little ahead in realising the import-
ance —in fact, the vital necessity—K)f building
this country’s secondary industries to the
gratest possible height in the shortest possible
time. Our proposals were from time to time
considered by those in control of the country’s
affairs to be not only premature, but over-
ambitious, and obtained for us much unwar-
ranted criticism from those who should have
understood, as we did, what was best for Aus-
tralia. The magnificent results which have been
achieved in the engineering field in this country
of ours over the last two years, notwithstanding
the many difficulties which have had to be
surmounted, are sufficient evidence that we were
on sound lines, and that we had a better appre-
ciation of what the combined efforts of labor
and capital could accomplish for the nation.
With the Balance Sheet was issued a booklet
entitled “A.C.I. at Battle Stations,” giving a
pictorial representation of many of the products
of the Company used in connection with the
war effort. I commend this book to your very
careful reading, and particularly refer you to
the last three pages, which give a list of the
“Tools to Work With” and the “Weapons to
Fight With” produced by the Company.
It is not too much to say that, without many
of these products, Australia’s war effort would
have been unable to achieve what it has, and
I feel justified in particularly drawing your
attention to one product which the Company
manufactured for the first time this year and
which has received universal acclaim by reason
of its quality and utility. I refer to the manu-
facture of Optical Glass, a field in which, be-
fore the war it was felt that Germany was
pre-eminent because her factories possessed
knowledge of so many secret processes. Our
Company’s technical staff tackled the various
problems surrounding manufacture, and I am
proud to say the result has exceeded all expec-
tations, so that Australian Optical Glass now
ranks among the world’s finest.
Of this and all the other fine products being
turned out, our 6200 shareholders may well be
proud. Doubtless you know that the Company
has supported every War Loan which has been
issued and is looking after those of its staff
who have volunteered for the Fighting Forces,
making up certain wage payments for them.
Additionally, our substantial Income Tax pay-
ments to Federal and State Governments should
have been helpful to the waging of the War.
To all our 7500 employees, whether in fac-
tory, office or executive positions, I offer the
thanks of the Company for their splendid ser-
vices during the year. They work in a patriotic
atmosphere, and, because of labor shortage,
many work more than the prescribed weekly
hours in order to help Australia’s war effort.
They have also formed happy bands of patriotic
and charitable workers within the Organisation
and devotedly contribute money, articles, time
and effort to provide comforts for those who
are serving their country. The numerous bene-
factions of our various comforts and patriotic
funds have totalled over £5OOO and include the
provision of ambulances, clothing for the
bombed victims in England, furnishing a ward
a* the 113th General Hospital, donations to
Red Cross, Comforts Fund and other patriotic
efforts, whilst those of our staff who serve over-
seas have been regularly provided with parcels
of comforts, in respect of which many letters
of deep appreciation have been received.
During the year your Directors wero» pleased
to help and foster welfare and recreative activi-
ties amongst the employees and also to con-
tribute to sick, accident and superannuation
funds. A considerable amount has been spent
to provide air-raid shelters and fire-fighting
equipment in order to protect the employees
and assets of the Company in the event of
enemy action.
Since we met a year ago, the number of
our employees who volunteered for service
with the Fighting Forces has increased to 695.
We mourn the loss 6f those who have gallantly
paid the supreme sacrifice, and we deeply sym-
pathise with their families. Also much in our
thoughts are those held as Prisoners of War
by the enemy, and we look forward to the
time when they will be restored to their fami-
lies. We wish well to those who are engaged
in the defence of our country, and welcome
the time when they will happily and trium-
phantly return to their homes and jobs.
Finally, I wish to emphasise that it is the un-
swerving policy of the Company to produce all
goods as economically and efficiently as pos-
sible, eliminating waste and putting to the best
use the machinery and materials under our
control.
I now move that the Balance Sheet of the
Company as at 31st May, 1942, the Profit and
Loss Account, the Appropriation Account and
the Consolidated Statements of Accounts an-
nexed thereto, together with the Directors’ and
Auditors’ Reports thereon, be received and
adopted.
The two retiring Directors, Major-General H.
W. Grimwade and Mr. Arthur E. Smith, were
re-elected Directors of the Company.
Mr. A. G. Hooke, of the firm of Hooke and
Graham, was reappointed Auditor.


Rommel Held in Egypt.
THE SERVICE MAN
“Ek Dum”: The British commanders
in Libya have been accused by corre-
spondents of a variety of omissions and
weaknesses. Nobody could charge
General Auchinleck with standing on
ceremony once the real fight for Egypt
loomed.
As the tired remaining half of the
Eighth Army fell back in good order to
Mersa Matruh, reinforcements began to
pour in from all directions.
On the fateful day of the tank battle
in the Knightsbridge area the Maoriland
Division, replenished and refreshed after
its glorious advance and terrific man-
handling in the November-February
campaign, was scattered over Syria as far
north as the Turkish frontier. One
brigade was on manoeuvre in the desert
out around the edges of the Euphratean
gypsum country.
Within a few hours trucks were roar-
ing south to the region of the old wire-
netting road across Sinai. Past the snows
of Lebanon, through the winding hills
of Judea, the convoys rumbled, every
lorry piled high with Maorilanders
stripped to the waist and hung about with
an inspiring collection of impedimenta.
Their batteries of 25-pounders began
to dribble down with the first exoduses.
In the van went a Maori battalion
which would have startled Moses and his
Israelites into a stampede.
Maoris were the first to come, stream-
ing with perspiration and followed by
clouds of welcoming flies, out on the
Alexandria-road. But the worn Imperial
troops from the Trigh Capuzzo must
have found them the most beautiful sight
in Africa.
Not so the enemy when he came in on
Mersa Matruh’s south-east flank.
Rommel had crossed the border with
five divisions, and it was his job to keep
them rolling at maximum pace, so that
they could strike with the greatest pos-
sible weight and velocity. The German
90th (light) division followed the coastal
road with the 21st Panzer division
behind. The Italian Ariete and Trieste
divisions burned rubber along the desert
railway. The 15th Panzer division was
reported 20 miles south-west of Mersa
Matruh, near Hamza.
The 21st Panzer division and the
90th light division came in north
of the plateau, 10 miles to the south-east
of Mersa Matruh. These two were the
spearhead. Their internal tank brigades
arrived, prefaced by the usual hail of
bombs from the Stukas and ground screen
of spitting mechanised infantry.
Rommel v. the Kiwis
Two of these motorised infantry attacks
performed the introduction between the
21st Panzers and the Maorilanders on
the morning of June 27.
The German infantry fell back each
time it called, mangled and bleeding,
leaving a trail of dead and Wounded.
They had been surprised to find the New
Zealanders there. The latter had a few
tanks, and brigaded with them were
Norths f-England units.
The Panzers tried their luck in three
bullheaded charges, but they were up
against fresh men with fresh six-pounders
and 25’s.
Numbers and weight of armor
presently told, but the going was hard
and bloody for the enemy.
Freyberg’s men, ordered to retire in
accordance with the plan forced by an
enemy approach to the road on the
Alexandria side of Matruh, found them-
selves surrounded, with the day gone and
the moon up and a ring of colored flares
in the sky to mark the positions of the
Germans who surrounded them.
Tired as they were, out came the
bayonets and the grenades and tommy-
guns. Three Wellington units, supported
by the Maoris, chopped at the eastern
side of the Afrikakorps corral. They
charged down on the German lines and
went out on the other side. Behind them
followed an avalanche of crowded trucks,
braving a cloud of shells and sheets of
bullets. On some of the swaying
vehicles machine-guns stuttered. The
avalanche turned southward with a roar.
Tank guns blazed at it through a dusty
dawn. In their hundreds the Maori-
landers got away with surprisingly slight
losses.
But General Freyberg had to leave the
fiahting. He was wounded —not seriously
—by a shell splinter—his tenth wound in
two German wars.
It was June 28, a fortnight after the
M.L, men had begun to leave their Syrian
posts. Heavy fighting all over the land-
scape continued that day,
Rome announced that “British resist-
ance had been broken” and 6000
prisoners taken round Matruh in fighting
up to June 29.
Back to the Marshes
The battle now became confused and
widespread. At Matruh and eastward for
100 miles and more the land fades south
into Africa in three bands. The first is
a 15-mile wide margin of low-lying
coastal strip; then comes the narrowing
ribbon of the Libyan desert plateau which
winds across the lower country from the
Libyan border till it peters out, below the
Arabs Gulf, in two prongs formed like
the head of a snake, with the mouth open
and reaching for Cairo in the far dis-
tance.
At Mersa Matruh this shelf above the
low country is about 60 miles wide ; at
the Arabs Gulf about 15 miles. South of
the plateau, with oases along its northern
side watering an old military route from
Siwa, is the great Quattara Depression,
with sand dunes towards the Cairo-
Bahariya road, 140 miles south of the
Arabs Gulf.
To this road, which makes for Cairo,
skirting the northern edge of the Fayum
Depression near the Nile, comes another
road from the coast. It leaves the main
Alexandria highway and railway just east
of El Alamein, which lies inland from
where the coast turns for its last dismal
lead north-eastward past the shore lakes
to Alexandria.
By the last day in June Mersa Matruh
had been abandoned. Rommel now had
water.
The battle rolled and swirled swiftly
eastward. July 1 saw the front 90 miles
or so from Alexandria, with the enemy
preparing the way by bombing El
Alamein, the last fortified British posi-
tion west of the naval base.
The coastal section a few miles further
ahead of the enemy spearhead on the
coast was only 30 miles wide between
salt marsh and sea. But the battle was
actually spread out over hundreds of
square miles behind this narrow fairway,
through which the Germans would have
to pass to reach Alexandria unless they
succeeded in by-passing the Eighth Army
by taking the southern route to Cairo
direct.
Troops Flown from Europe
Long before the opening shots of the
battle reinforcements were reaching both
sides in a regular flow. Any delusions
about the enemy’s technique in bringing
himself help were given their quietus so
soon as German prisoners began to be
taken. Some of the Germans whom the
Maorilanders bagged on the night of June
27 had been flown from Italy on June 5
and before that had been in Russia. There
was word of a fresh German division
being brought down piecemeal from
Crete in caiques and other small craft
and by glider to Tobruk and ports and
landing grounds nearer the battlefield.
On July 1 heavy fighting was raging
before El Alamein, where low stony
ridges 70 to 100 feet high run across the
country.
General Auchinleck had taken over
personal leadership of the British.
As he flew from point to point among
the smoke-pillars sent up by the broken
tanks and trucks of 50 forays, infantry
were moving up from the east, their lor-
ries scooping clouds of dust into the
molten atmosphere.
Westward, the bark of tank and anti-
tank marked the position of German
advance guards, held back by British
rearguards while the Eighth Army was
gathered into a compact battle ' array
inside the salt marshes.
At this stage, General Auchinleck had
started a delaying action, with the weight
and momentum of the enemy’s blow dif-
fused and slowed down. The slowing
down had begun before all troops avail-
able had been thrown in.
S’Africans, so far uninvolved in the
Mersa Matruh area, waited side by side
with grinning Senegalese to avenge the
losses of Tobruk. Refreshed Geordies
and Lancastrians were getting ready for
another slice of German sausage. Rom-
mel, too, was gathering help.
The Germans were following the
British lead in concentration. On the
coastal strip Rommel’s 15th Panzer divi-
sion had been identified, but not the 21st,
which seemed to have disappeared. It
was wrongly thought possible on July 1
that it had been amalgamated into the
15th, since both had had heavy losses.
Backing the 15th was the 90th Light
Motorised Division (German) and two or
three Italian motorised and light armored
divisions.
The attacking army was formidable,
but so far its air support had been weak.
For once the British had held air
superiority throughout, except at Tobruk,
and the R.A.F. was busily tearing up
communications and giving Rommel’s
ports, and particularly Benghazi, a thor-
ough hammering.
The battle of July 1 before El Alamein
was a fateful trial of strength. It was
another day of heat punctuated by sand-
storms. The normal kinds of tank and
lorry attacks were made by the Germans.
One enemy tank column broke through
temporarily at a single point. Before its
supports could follow, its remains were
thrown back to its owner out of an
agitated dustcloud.
The Trial of Strength Begins
Berlin Radio boasted that the Axis
forces were east of El Alamein, “pursuing
the beaten enemy, who is retreating
towards the Nile Delta.” The “beaten
enemy” was still there next morning and
the morning after that, and had admin-
istered a nasty knock to some of Rom-
mel’s southern flank groups as they tried
to move into favorable positions.
On July 2 a new main attack on the
El Alamein front was sterner than that
of the day before. While it was at its
height General Auchinleck took a forma-
tion of armored and motorised units and
administered a painful stab to Rommel’s
flank. It was decisive for the day. The
enemy withdrew westward, pestered by
the R.A.F., which, ranging the whole
battlefield, destroyed eight enemy air-
craft for a loss of seven and heavily
bombed Tobruk. The Australian Kitty-
hawk squadron, veterans now, added to
their record bag.
This was the first day’s fighting for
Alexandria in which it could be said that
a full-scale engagement with maximum
existing resources was in progress. The
outcome was satisfactory, but there was
a disquieting feeling that Rommel still
had superiority in armor and guns and
the advantage in reinforcement —Crete is
only 200 miles from Sidi Barrani.
Rome alleged an enemy advance, not
only along the coast, but along the Cairo
road past Fayum and along a desert track
to Upper Egypt. More German prisoners
told tales of having arrived in Africa
from Sicily, Greece and Crete after the
beginning of the Libyan offensive. The
missing 21st Panzer division, with a satel-
lite Italian motorised infantry division,
was discovered in the Bahariya region,
south of the Quattara Depression, waiting
for a favorable moment to lash out at
the British southern flank or to rush on
Cairo. The Luftwaffe had been strength-
ened. Its losses also increased day by
day. On July 4 Allied fighters bagged
16 Stukas, seven Messerschmitt 109’s and
an Italian Macchi 102.
British reinforcements were daily in-
serted into the front line, including the
waiting S. Africans. Cheerless reports
came out of the sandcloud of the per-
formances of the 28-ton British Matildas
with their little two-pounders. A leaven
of the redesigned American General
Grants armed with 75’s made a more
welcome din, though the German 88mm.
and 105’s were still dangerous antidotes.
A better general atmosphere prevailed.
From July 1 the Eighth Army was no
longer in retreat. By July 4 the enemy
had flung five full-scale attacks against it
without making it budge an inch back-
wards. But only half his heavy Panzer
strength was being used. General
Auchinleck must have looked anxiously
and often towards Quattara and the 21st
German division waiting there for its
chance and guarding against British out-
flanking movements.
The broad fact at the time of writing
(July 6) is that General Auchinleck has
achieved his first objective of checking
the enemy drive and gaining time. The
battle over the week-end was changing
in character —from a delaying action to
a struggle for the initiative. In the air
the R.A.F. had gained the initiative. On
July 5 its operations obviously roused
the Germans, and besides wholesale dam-
age to Axis communications it shot
down another five enemy bombers during
raids on Alexandria and Suez,
A bag of 600 prisoners reported by the
Maorilanders was a healthy sign.
Rome and Berlin were no longer claim-
ing pursuit of a beaten army. They weie
ruefully discussing “bitterly heavy fight-
ing in the Alamein area,” though one
hopeful German mentioned “a widening
of the El Alamein breach” without any
show of confidence.
After Sevastopol.
“Ek Dum”; M. Losovsky told a
Moscow press conference on April 24
that the Germans were in such straits
that they had been compelled to suck 90
per cent, of their whole military strength
into their Russian lines, including the
17- and 18-year classes ; also “that the
German rear was disintegrating and the
people exhausted.” Unfortunately, in
subsequent events there is no evidence
supporting any of these statements.
Though Mr. Churchill, Mr. Eden and
Sir Stafford Cripps still profess to believe
everything that comes out of Russia, the
U.S. Government and correspondents
who do not claim to be “famous” have
not troubled to conceal their scepticism.
Mr. Stimson, the Secretary for War, told
a Washington press conference on Nov.
28 that his Government was not satisfied
with the facilities accorded to U.S.
observers in Russia. It was stated re-
cently that representatives of the United
Nations would be allowed to visit the front,
but so far they have not been allowed
nearer the battle line than Moscow,
except on one or two stage-managed occa-
sions. Negley Parson wrote that Mos-
cow correspondents “might as well be in
a barrel or a concentration camp” so far
as the actualities of battle were concerned.
Quentin Reynolds left Russia because he
was allowed to send nothing but Soviet
Bureau propaganda. Hanson Baldwin,
of the New York “Times,” remarked on
the day after Losovsky’s statement that
“there could be no certainty about Rus-
sian events,” since information coming
out of Russia was “second-hand, ‘doc-
tored’ and censored.” Three weeks earlier
he had come to these conclusions: —
Misconceptions in this country about
Russian successes have blurred the pic-
ture. The Russians are not winning the
war. The Germans have been hurt but not
vitally. The United Nations- must still
transform the negative defeat administered
to the Nazis last summer and winter into
a positive one.
In the fighting to the end of November
two facts had stood out in the Russians’
favor. One was a marked weakness in
Hitler’s battle organisation—his shortage
of motorised infantry and swift-moving
consolidating forces in general. This
could not have been due to lack of appre-
ciation of the position, since German
tank technicians have written the subject
to death. It might have been due to fuel
or rubber shortage. The other was that
the main point of German strength in
attack had been picked out by Soviet
observers.
It was hoped that during the winter
the Russians would use the precious
months of respite to reorganise the struc-
ture of the Red Army and the nature of
their defence-in-depth in line with their
new knowledge.
The military theories of Germans and
Russians were —and still seem to be—
curiously opposite. This is something
like a paradox, seeing that the Germans
learnt much from the group of Russians
of whom Marshal Tukachevsky was the
head.
For offence, Tukachevsky and Germans
of the Guderian school believed in a
heavy Panzer army-group spearhead
with a core of tank brigades. These
operated like battleships in a land “fleet”
action, screened in front by an artillery
barrage put down by dive-bombers, with
motorised troops *on the flanks to keep
off anti-tank attack, and more behind
'to mop up the fleeing enemy before he
could escape in force*
The Russians, however, had no Panzer
divisions. Their tanks were scattered
among huge masses of infantry as bat-
talion support units and not as a primary
striking instrument. And their brigades
were much lighter in numbers and gener-
ally in weight of tanks than any German
brigade.
Even when they were not used piece-
meal, they were no match for the superior
armored weight and numbers of the Ger-
man Panzer divisions operating as wholes.
Hitler failed, however, as he did at
Yelnia in August, when his tanks outran
his guardian mobile infantry. With no
guardians to ward off their assailants,
they were pulled down like maimed
leopards by a pack of Russian tank-
bursters.
From the time the Germans crossed
the border till they swayed backwards
at the beginning of December, their in-
fantry problems were obvious. There
is a sentence of praise in a German H.Q.
communique written at the end of the
first week in August for a footslogger
division which in three weeks covered
over 630 miles.
Armor v. Humans
The composition of the opposing
armies at the point of furthest advance
by the Germans in November formed a
striking contrast. Eight Red armies cov-
ered Moscow from the Volga to Stalin-
gorsk. In most cases they consisted of


seven infantry divisions with two tank
brigades, each of 250-300-odd tanks.
The normal kind of German force
opposing this would be based on a couple
of Panzer divisions, each of which would
be made up of 400 to 450 tanks, a motor-
ised infantry brigade, an artillery regi-
ment, about 400 supporting ’planes and
engineers and other ancillary units.
Nowhere was the enemy infantry,
motorised or otherwise, in the front line
anything like as strong as that of tne
Russians
On the northmost sector of the central
front. Von Bock had two Panzer divi-
sions, two motorised divisions and one
division of footsloggers (with, of course,
artillery, etc.). These forces opposed the
two armies of Kuznetov and Liliushenko,
who had 14 infantry divisions and four
tank brigades—the tanks broken up into
regimental and battalion support sections
with a corps brigade of 135 tanks as
the biggest tank unit. At points north
of Moscow, where the enemy hoped to
break through, he had six Panzer divi-
sions and three ordinary divisions—-some
of them crack troops—arrayed against 12
Russian infantry divisions and four tank
brigades. These were facing each other
along an 80-mile front.
Only in one sector —from the Moskva
to Kaluga—was there any massing of
German infantry in excess of the oppos-
ing Russians. There were 22 infantry
divisions (against the Russians’ 21) and
two Panzer divisions against the Russians
three tank brigades.
The total forces between StahngorsK
and the Volga were:
Russian: 67 infantry divisions, three
cavalry divisions —Belov’s in the narrow
Rashin enclave —and 15 tank brigades-
-4000 to 5000 tanks—diffused along the
whole front. . . , ,
German: 34 infantry divisions and four
motorised divisions backing a main striking
force of 14 Panzer divisions—6ooo to 7000
tanks, in heavy groups, with a huge mass
of mobile artillery and armored vehicles.
Indispensable to a Russian offensive
this year was an armored concentration
which would admit of dealing the same
kind of tremendous hammer blows as the
Germans with the same mobility and
speed. But the opening of the spring
disposed of the hope that the Red Army
would possess this essential.
Either the Russians still have faith that
their great man-power reserves will win
or the theft of their great tank factories
at Kharkov and Kramatorsk and the
wrecking of the third heavy one at
Rostov have put the arming of heavy
Panzer spearheads out of the question.
Spring Offensive
Timoshenko’s offensive against Khar-
kov was upon the accepted Russian model
—the creation of a long front of advance
with probably a division or more of in-
fantry to the mile packed into it in some
depth, with a couple of tank battalions
(45 tanks), motorised infantry to give
added weight at crucial points and artil-
lery widely dispersed.
The whole formation moves on in an
infiltrating cloud, heralded and covered
by airfleets. By sheer numbers it ex-
hausts the opposition, if it can.
It can move only at a footslogger s
pace. Where it is opposed by fast-mov-
ing solid tank blocks its flanks as well
as its interior are highly vulnerable. It
is likely to find itself corralled and a
Panzer knife tearing its vitals to ribbons.
The enemy’s motorised infantry and
mobile artillery seal its lines of retreat
and try to muster it from the rear. If
they succeed, there is a large bag of
prisoners.
This is what happened to Timoshenko
in May before Kharkov. His defeat left
the whole Russian line to Ladoga on the
defensive. . .
The Germans have held the full initi-
ative since on every sector in which there
has been movement, save for some coun-
ter-slaps and two or three exploratory
Russian raids. , .
The situation has been developing seri-
ously and rapidly. With the fall of
Kerch Peninsula went control of the
entry to the Azov Sea, the barring of the
Russian Navy from going to the help
of Rostov and Taganrog. A Russian
landing on the peninsula last week was
only a raid.
From Kerch, if the enemy makes no
attempt to attack across the strait, he
can at any rate blast communication with
the Caucasian oilfields—Krasnodar is
within fighter reach. f
Sevastopol Goes
Sevastopol fell to the Germans and
Rumanians. Game to the last, the garri-
son resisted until the city was on fire.
Then those who had not a cellar to die
in fighting retired to the cliffs of the
Chersonese Peninsula, within sight of
Balaklava and near the harbor mouth,
for a last stand.
Sevastopol had held out 233 days—
the Franco-British siege lasted 329 and
cost the besiegers 70,000 men. Moscow
estimated the Germans killed in the last
25 days at 60,000 ; the enemy killed and
wounded for the whole siege at 300,000.
Berlin said losses were heavy.
The Soviets estimated their own loss
from June 7 to July 3 at 11,385 killed,
21,099 wounded and 8300 missing.
But now the Germans have the whole
of the Crimea. They have the strongest
position and anchorage in the Black Sea.
They have a point from which a 300-
mile flight will throw the shadows of
their air squadrons over every part of
the Black Sea shores, except at the far-
eastern end —even over Istanbul and
the Bosphorus and Ankara, Turkey s
capital. By air the nearest point in Syria
is 500 miles away. The remains of the
Russian Black Sea Fleet must squeeze
themselves into Batoum at the far-eastern
end of the sea, or risk capture bottled up
at Tuapse or Novorossisk, which both
are unsafe for it.
Kharkov-Kursk
The Kharkov front, east of Kupyansk,
has not moved since last week, when it
rested 100 miles to the east of Kharkov.
The great staple-shaped salient the Ger-
mans have driven into the Russian de-
fences is the same shape as the one
driven into the minefields in Libya north
of Knightsbridge, but 100 miles wide in-
stead of 10 miles.
About 125 miles to the north, along
the Kursk-Voronezh railway, Von Bock
has butted his tanks eastward in the
attempt to form a companion bulge, .tie
seems to have succeeded —the High
Command claims that German spear-
heads have reached the' Don, 120 miles
to the east. , . A
Between, his forces started later in
the week to push back the line south or
Byelgorod and at Volchansk in two drives.
This at first looked like a mere flank-
scouring affair to make a diversion.
Actually, it was a joint-smashing ex-
pedition a la Foch and reminiscent ot
the Gomel drive before Kiev fell. Its desti-
nation, like that east of Kursk, was
evidently Timoshenko’s HQ. town,
Voronezh, and there were signs that a
third attack further east in the northern
corner of the Great Staple might m
progress up the railway line. If all three
succeeded, a solid block of Russian de-
fences, 120 to 150 miles square, would
be kesselled and shorn through the
centre. A great gap then might be
formed through which the enemy could
pour to the Don and Volga and up be-
hind Moscow, cutting the trans-Siberian
en route.
On July 3 10 fierce attacks were
launched by enemy tank battalions in
this sector. The joint caved in. The Rus-
sians retired, as further north-east ot
Kursk, to new lines. The Russians re-
ported that 700 German tanks had been
destroyed in the Kursk sector since June
28
Already on the south of the Kharkov
“staple” the scene is set for an attempt
to drive east round the Lugansk industrial
triangle for Rostov and the Caucasus. At
the week-end, by all the signs, it was
touch and go, with the enemy holding
both tank and air superiority. The rivers
ran blood and the Germans were losing
horribly as they pushed through inter-
locked defence-in-depth blocks. But they
were advancing.
In the Moscow Region
The fall of Sevastopol synchronised
almost exactly with the start of the new
Byelgorod region attack; also with a
sudden onslaught further north right
opposite Moscow. The enemy front is at
Gzhatsk, 20 miles west of Mojaisk, which
he evacuated on January 9, and on the
main road which he holds intact back
through Smolensk 120 miles or so away.
He is striving to get back his furthest-
east positions round Zvenigorod, just out-
side Moscow’s suburbs, where he seemed
to have had a sort of pivot depot on the
Moskva when last there. The Russians
declared that they trapped a German
division here when it wormed its way
into the Red Army front in a narrow
spearhead, after heavy artillery prepara-
tion.
Further north again, on the swampy
land among the bogs of the Volkhov, the
Germans claimed to have rolled them-
selves round 34,000 Russians who had
been there since the winter. In between
German advances on a narrow sector
were made from the Rshev perimeter
towards Kalinin.
Big with Events
July 5 ushered in a week big with
events. Moscow reported:
Our troops last night fought fierce en-
gagements in the Kursk, Volshansk and
Byelgorod regions. There were no
material changes in other sectors.
Berlin, same day:
German spearheads, after a break-through
between Kharkov and Kursk, reached the
Don on a broad front. Russian tank units
desperately counter-attacked, but were re-
rmked with heavy Russian losses. We con-
tinued oir attacks in. the Rjev area against
stubborn Russian resistance. _
Hitler’s H.Q. added that Von Bock
had now completed a big pmcer move-
ment downwards and eastward of Kha
kov and that large numbers of Russians
were “encircled.”
For three weeks’ fighting the enemy
seems to have acquired control of oyer
30,000 square miles of territory m me)
Kharkov region.
German Casualties
The High Command asserted at the
week-end that casualties for the first year
of war with Russia were 271,612 officers
and men killed and 65,730 missing.
Numbers of wounded were not given.
The last official casualty list gave the
figures up to Dec. 11 as 162,314 killed,
577,767 wounded and 33,334 missing.
Thus, by Berlin’s reckoning, 109,298 men
were killed in the winter and spring cam-
paign of seven months, and 32,396 went
missing. „ . ,
An unofficial Berlin figure was quoted
in U. 5.—730,000 wounded, which would
be about in proportion. German casual-
ties are, therefore, reckoned in tne
Reich round about 1,100,000.
Russian estimates of German dead
are 1,380,000; total German losses,
10,000,000. . , J ,
It is no use getting a headache attempt-
ing to reconcile the two claims. The
correct figure lies somewhere between the
two extremes.
Australia's Own War.
“E.D.”: In the Anzac zone the enemy
has had a busy time warding off a week
of raids which began with a brisk little
land attack.
Harassing from the Lae-Salamaua
backlands has been going on for three
months, carried out by daring spirits for-
tified by the experience of New Guinea
“old hands.” Some Americans are
leafners with the experienced N.G.
“white marsters.”
On March 8 a raiding party penetrated
the enemy lines at Salamaua and appeared
on the aerodrome at the landward end
of the peninsula on which the town
stands. They calmly blew up a quantity
of material and some ’drome equipment
and receded unscathed into the tall scrub
and swamp.
A little later raiders slid across the
Francisco River, eight miles or so from
Salamaua, explored Japanese dispositions
and retired to tell Moresby about them.
The angered enemy conscripted Brown
Brother in force to build a bridge over the
Francisco and sent an expedition which
burnt a raiders’ dump, but did not find
any raiders. ... ,
Raiding in those latitudes is a terrible
job The huge rain forests are dark and
sunless. The leaves drip water and
leeches 24 hours through. Feet sink
into detritus ankle or knee deep. The
rivers hold crocodiles, the undergrowth
reptiles in plenty. The malarial mos-
quitoes are armed with miners’ picks and
drills. And the narrow saddlebacks of
the slippery foothills act as buttresses for
the 13,000 ft. ranges which fence the wan-
derers off from Moresby.
June 28 saw their first actual attack
on Japanese personnel. They came out
of the night like shadows and went back
into the night leaving behind them well
over 60 Japanese casualties, and taking
with them their only two wounded and
a quantity of the enemy’s lethal belong-
in The only reprisals the enemy could take
were to bomb Komiatum and Mubo. He
might as well have bombed the Finis-
terre Range for all the good it will do.
From now onward there will be less
sleep at Lae and Salamaua.
The air raids over Lae, Salamaua and
Rabaul were light early in the week,
partly because of the weather. There were
much cloud at night, ground haze and
a dimmed moon. But bombs were
landed on some target areas on June 3u,
when the three main enemy aerodromes
of New Guinea v/ere attacked.
On July 1 the Allies were out all along
the arc from Timor via the Celebes to
Tulagi. Kendari’s aerodrome in the
Celebes had a particularly heavy dusting.
Aircraft were parked unsuspectingly all
over the field, and, surprising the de-
fenders and having to face virtually no
air resistance, the raiders had a roya
* Two raids were made on Dilli (Timor)
in the moonlight, making five within a
week. Allied H.Q. reported that buildings
had been fired and grounded aircraft
de At°Lae and Salamaua the weather was
still bad; but at the former port the
police barracks were bombed along with
shipping. At Salamaua there were fires
and explosions and an a.-a. gun was
silenced P Both Tulagi and the enemy
port on Bougainville suffered light raids.
On Independence Day the U.S.A.F.
and R.A.A.F. had their celebrations m
the air. On July 3 and 4 together, no
fewer than six raids were launched at
Koepang (a light attack on the aero-
drome, three ’planes destroyed on
ground); at Lae (heavy bombs on run-
way and 12 “O” fighters beaten off on
July 3). T i a
At Lae and Salamaua on July 4 run-
ways, aircraft dispersal pens and build-
ings received direct hits and five enemy
’planes were destroyed and three others
probably destroyed. One Allied machine
was lost in collision with a Japanese
fighter. The attackers met intense a.-a.
fire. . , .
The Japs made only two attacks during
the week—both on Moresby. On July 3
six “O” fighters were intercepted and
driven off.
On July 4'20 “O” fighters were sent
home short by one machine and with
three others limping badly. Allied losses
were three machines.
None of the raiding has had much
more than a nuisance value ; but Japanese
nerves must certainly be kept on edge.
Other Enemy Movements
The Japanese have occupied a third
Aleutian island. They have acquired
three more Chinese towns ; but after five
years in China they are still burrowing
into the limitless kapok of Chinese re-
sistance, passive and otherwise. Their
most important advance is 80 miles south
of Nanchang, and they are busy with
two drives to clear the few miles of the
Chekiang-Kiangsi railway still in Chinese
hands. Tokyo reported on July 1 that
the 26th, 49th and 74th Chinese armies
had been driven into a confused retreat.
In the Bay of Bengal the enemy
claimed the occupation of the Nicolai
Islands, which lie between four and eight
degrees above the Equator just n.-n.-e.
of Sumatra an<i south of the Andamans.
British raiding over the Continent con-
tinues unabated. After its fourth raid in
a week Bremen was reported short of
homes for 80,000 of its population of
330,000.
* * * *
The U.S. army air force made its first
official appearance over Europe last week
in 12 Douglas Boston bombers. The
attack was made at low altitude on
Dutch airfields; and the attackers re-
ported damage to Alkmaar, Valkenburg
and Haastede aerodromes —on the last
150 Germans were caught on parade.
Aircraft on the ground were damaged in
bulk.
* * * *
Gallant Malta’s defenders brought
down 20 enemy ’planes in the first four
days of July —five bombers, an entire
attacking force, on July 3. The R.A.F.
lost no machines.
* * * *
Berlin Radio claimed the sinking of
767,000 tons of Allied shipping in May.
In that month, however, the U.S.A. alone
placed 58 new ships, totalling 632,000 tons,
in service, and it delivered 66 ships, total-
ling 738,000 tons, in June. Deliveries for
six"months totalled 224 ships of 2,544,000
tons This does not include Canada’s
quota of nearly 100,000 tons a month, nor
Britain’s unknown quantity —probably
about 200,000 tons only, in view of her
very heavy naval building.
* * * * ..
Rohan Rivett, the journalist son ot
David Rivett, of C:S.l.R.,has been allowed
to speak over the Japanese radio. Escaping
from Sumatra, he made a 250-mile boat
trip and on March 7 reached Java, only
to be seized by natives and handed over
to the Japanese. Prisoners, he said, were
allowed to hold classes in camp. He
saw nearly all the survivors of the cruisers
Perth and Houston at Serang, in Sumatra,
and on April 13 1000-odd Australians and
Americans were transferred to the Dutch
barracks at Batavia. According to young
Rivett, sailors on a Jap destroyer which
picked up some of the 300 Perth survi-
vors paid a tribute to the fight put up
by the Australian cruiser, which was
lost attempting to pass the Sunda Strait
after the Java Sea battle. Statements
through enemy radio must be treated with
caution, but information of a similar
nature about Wake Island prisoners has
proved accurate.
* * * *
The British Red Cross reports that
British and Australian prisoners at Singa-
pore are housed in concrete barracks at
Changi, near the naval base on the n.-e.
tip of the island, and that “latest reports
are that conditions are satisfactory.
.** * *
Members of the A.I.F. have won 544
battle honors since Dec., 1940. They
include four V.Cs., a K. 8., three K.B.Es.,
45 D.S.Os., six bars to D. 5.0., 42
D.C.Ms., 208 M.Ms. and two George
Medals.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Thousands of Sydneyites came to the
city on Saturday morning to join the
Americans in their midst in the observ-
ance of Independence Day. The day
started, as all Independence Days should
start, with a ceremony to the glory of
all men who have fallen in the fight for
freedom. More than 10,000 were gathered
in Martin-place to pay tribute as wreath
after wreath was gently laid about the
base of the Cenotaph. A flower flag of
the Philippines in memory of the Fili-
pino and U.S. troops who died fighting
for the Allied cause was placed by
Colonel Dawson, of the U.S. forces. Also
there was a floral facsimile of America’s
Stars and Stripes. A glowing red cross
on its white background (the offering of
the U.S. army nurses) was set by First-
Lieut. Mary Sanders on one side of the
flag of the Philippines. Old Glory was
on the other. Consul-General
Palmer took part in this ceremony.
Touching ending was the prayer for the
fallen and the sounding of the “Last
Post.”
Saturday afternoon and evening were
permeated with the Independence Day
atmosphere. In the cold afternoon light
thousands packed the stands at the
Cricket Ground to watch the basketball
and “touch” football matches. In the
evening the bright happening for men
of the U.S. Forces was the Fourth of
July dance in the Town Hall. This was
the American Society’s idea, and it cer-
tainly meant a glad night for the troops.
It was well planned. The decorations
were the flags of the Allies, and a tower-
ing John Bull and Uncle Sam stood one
on each side of the orchestra dais.
Even “The Girl Friend” danced into
fresh life at the Royal last Saturday night
in a Stars and Stripes atmosphere. The
American flag was proudly placed among
the flags of the Allied nations which
draped the boxes, and the orchestra
opened with “The Star Spangled Banner.”
Leading girl Marie Ryan, looking a dis-
tillation of femininity in a jacaranda-blue
neglige, sang the “I’m in Love” number
with a sparkle and freshness that brought
a surge of congratulation to her mother
and teacher Roland Foster. Even the
woman who had been heard confiding to
her friend that she had a chilblain on her
heel and a corn on her right foot was
caught up in the laughter caused by
Don Nicol, Bobbie Mack and Joy
Youlden. W. F. Daniel! and a graceful
daughter in white spent the interval with
the H. J. Bradys. Gladys Moncrieff was
in one box, and opposite were Dot
Rankin and husband John Frazer. Also
in the audience were Mrs. John Fulton
and Lloyd Lamble.
Mrs. Orwell Phillips, Mrs. Robert
Dixson and Mrs. Roy Goddard have
undertaken to organise the Hospitality
and Information Bureau at the N.D.L.
canteen and rest rooms for service women
which will be available for use from
11 a.ra. on the 18th instant. The canteen
is situated at Paris House, 173 Phillip-
street, Sydney, and comprises two floors.
It will be open seven days a week.
Even the five three-ton trucks looked as
though they’d like to prance in the Red
Cross Mobile Field Force parade last
week. With equally shining utility
trucks and cars and 18 alert women
drivers they were inspected by the Gov-
ernor and Lady Wakehurst in the grounds
of Government House. It was quite an
occasion. There was the softness of
spring in the air, although the month was
July, and the assembled company was
further cheered, after the parade, with tea
dispensed by the untiring and ever-ready
W.A.N.S. from their mobile canteen.
Noreen Dangar, who remains her nice
and simple self under the long title of
Deputy Divisional Commandant of Red
Cross Women’s Personnel, organised the
field unit, and it is a credit to her.
George Scammell, Red Cross Field Com-
missioner, is its director. Minister for
Health Kelly, Lieut.-General Miles and
Major-General Fewtrell were importants.
Down from Queensland was that State’s
Red Cross secretary, Gladys Richardson.
New president of the Royal Art
Society Howard Ashton and Minister
for Education Clive Evatt had colorful
background at the opening of the 1942
exhibition last Saturday afternoon. A
high-backed jade-green chair and the
scarlet of poinsettia made the dais at the
head of the Education Department’s gal-
lery an ornamental spot. Crowds visited
the show, which has paintings by young
and old well-knowns in the art world.
Before the opening several paintings were
showing the red seal, among them
“Careening Cove,” by Norman Lindsay.
Howard Hinton had snatched this up. It
suggests a happening in the voyage of
Francis Drake’s fleet when that intrepid
mariner circumnavigated the globe.
Knight Henry Braddon did the show
with the blonde young artist Sylvia
Davis. Sylvia’s father was looking round,
too. Helen Souter and her sisters, Mrs.
Ben Edye and daughter Stephanie were
there retelling the stories told by Consul-
General Ely Palmer at the English-
Speaking Union lunch in honor of the
Fourth of July. Noelle Lowe, escorted
by two art-minded friends of the A.1.F.,
was an early-comer; so was Mrs. Erik
Langker. Her husband, with Albert
Sherman, whose “Blue and Grey” drew
the coo of delight from many women,
helped to make the private show a
pleasant and friendly happening. Former
veteran president Lister Lister held quite
a levee when he pai<L the show an early
visit. Neville-Smith, whose “Snows and
Mists” brings the cold of Maoriland
right into the room, was being congratu-
lated on a concert given by his students.
Proceeds of this will go to help build up
a lending library of music at the Con.
This is the Art Society’s 63rd exhibition,
and it steps out with the best.
There are three reasons, besides just
the general one of being alive in a world
that is pleasant in spite of war, why the
smile of A.C.W. Patricia Chappie, of
Roseville, is particularly radiant. There
is her just-announced engagement to
Sergeant-Pilot Len Vial, of Melbourne,
recently returned from England ; there
is the artistic engagement ring, em-
eralds and diamonds, which he brought
back from London ; and there is the stag-
gering bit of luck that A.C.W. Patricia
Chapple and Sergeant-Pilot Len Vial
have been posted to the same R.A.A.F.
station. In England Sergeant Vial was
attached to Fighter Command. Patricia’s
parents are the Clyde Chappies, of Rose-
ville. Father is one of the heads of the
Prudential. Photograph by Falk.
The Dragon Festival Ball was a very
bright affair. The ballroom of the Went-
worth was crowded with members of the
Young Chinese Relief Movement and
•their friends, plus voluntary workers of
Air Force House Younger Set and their
friends. The two funds went fifty-fifty in
the night’s profits. Dr. Hsu Mo, China’s
Minister to Australia, his wife and their
two daughters, Mary Sue and Helen,
were at the ball, and Mrs. Hsu Mo as
its patroness must have been pleased to
see the hundreds of guests. Every dancer
meant a fuller rice bowl for China’s
orphans, more comforts for Australia’s
Air Force lads.
Geniality with a dash of gin was the
brew on which the J.C.W. party for the
cast of “The Girl Friend” floated to
success. The board room in the Firm’s
lair above Castlereagh-street buzzed with
chat, and E. J. Tait reminisced about
former plays and players, displaying a
Pelman-like memory. He reeled off the
names of actors and actresses who had
appeared in any show, that was recalled.
There was Marie Ryan, her dark hair
tied back with a ribbon, looking more like
the doll on a Christmas tree than ever.
Marie is principal in “The Girl Friend,”
who made reappearance on the stage of
the Royal last Saturday. Talking to
beginning Marie was Marie La Varre,
whose stage turns always are a razzle-
dazzle of fun.
Pianist Philip Hargrave, not yet twenty,
who as a small boy held Australian audi-
ences rapt with his musical genius, came
to the party. He is proud of his corporal’s
stripes. He tells that after he decided to
put aside music as a career he took up
medicine. Then Law beckoned. Now he
is in khaki for the duration.
Talking to him was Melbourne girl
Joy Youlden. Joy has the mobile features,
the quick, intelligent eye that proclaim
her a comedienne. It seems as though it
wants to flirt with the tips of her ears.
Don Nicol was a star turn of the party.
He and young Bobbie Mack, another
laugh-maker, needed no introduction to
the company. Bobbie, incidentally, as
Bobbie McCaughren, was winning quite
a place for himself as a writer of plays
before he decided to become an actor.
Harald Bowden, Lew Parkes and popular
manager of the Royal Leary helped to
make the guests welcome.
From Melbourne
Independence Day was kept by all
Americans in Melbourne with dinners
and supper parties, and, of course, the
American Ball. But the weather pre-
vented those who ventured to celebrate
with exercise at Metropolitan golf course,
or with profit at Flemington, from acquir-
ing anything except wet clothes and colds.
At the Town Hall, where the ball was
held, the lack of central heating made
conditions on the outer circle of the
dancers somewhat frosty, and the supper
arrangements, though good, were not so
hearty as some of the appetites the guests
had brought with them, so that some
people who went home at midnight were
ready for supper at home when they
reached that haven from Melbourne’s
winter. People whose social consciences
still register were anxious to see what
notabilities would attend. No doubt they
realise now that there are only two sets
of people in this city who feel impelled
to go out to amusements at night—the
service men with their girl friends and the
men and women who are promoting
entertainments for various good causes.
After the success of the War Nurses’
Comforts Fund “do” in the Town Hall
last Thursday, nothing will surprise the
City Fathers, even should somebody pro-
pose to roast an ox whole in the ancient
pile. Who would have thought that city
clerks and business girls would jostle
and push and struggle to enter the Town
Hall to consume dim sims and Dutch
soup and such exotic fare at their lunch
hour? Certainly many went to see the
fun and later went elsewhere for their
midday sustenance. But the craze for cos-
mopolitan foods is growing, and so, too,
is the liking for lunching en masse. Pos-
sibly the sense of democratically rubbing
shoulders with the mighty has something
to do with it. The sight of Lud Mayor
Beaurepaire feeding with the decorous
nursing matrons he cheerfully called “the
girls” certainly helped lots of people to
feel that the Is. 6d. was worth spending
for lunch, especially if at least 6d. of it
went to the fund to repatriate sick or
war-worn nurses after the war.
A very helpful way of working for the
services * is that of the Camp Foster
Mothers, a group of Caulfield women
who at the moment are just taking a look
at themselves at their second annual meet-
ing. Their plan of action is to adopt
certain battalions and supply them with
every need in the way of shirts, socks,
shaving soap, razors and special articles
useful for the particular spot on the globe
in which the battalion happens to be on
duty. Fly-nets are among these, and
sudden calls have even come for hot-
water bottles and a communion outfit for
the padre. Of course all the boys get
big parcels at Christmas. The group is
not satisfied with working for its adopted
sons, but sends cheques or goods to any
welfare organisation that asks for help.
The members have adopted a prisoner
of war. Pioneer members of the group
are Mrs. B. Cordner and Mrs. Wilkie
Young.
Our vast open spaces are responsible
for some of the finest friendly gestures
in the world. Could the Flying Doctor
Service be bettered as a brotherly action?
Dr. Vera Scantlebury Brown and her
Infant Welfare Service have thought out
another splendid idea, that of contacting
the outback mother and writing her a
monthly letter on the care of her baby.
The letters have just that womanly touch
that links women to one another, and
some replies show how warm was the
welcome the letters received in northern
Mallee outposts and lonely Wimmera
farms. A little adjustment of the laws
relating to notification of birth aided in
getting births made known to the Infant
Welfare Centre early enough to permit of
helpful action.
Opinions may differ on the subject of
occupational therapy and its place in the
art of healing, but visitors to a certain
military hospital during the week were
impressed with the effort to interest con-
valescent patients in handicrafts. The
occasion was the opening of an exhibi-
tion of work by Lady Dugan, followed
by the opening of an exhibition of pic-
tures and sculpture lent by several well-
known Victorian collectors. Actually few
soldiers appeared to have taken up crafts
to any extent, and of these some who
had lost limbs would seem to be wasting
their time on anything other than an
occupation which might in the future
help them to a living. But one glance at
the faces of the men assured most visitors
that even if the craftwork interested them
for only a few weeks it was worth while.
These men had gone through experiences
which will be hard to forget.
The Victoria League, which has done
outstanding war service in an understand-
ing way, has been celebrating the comple-
tion of two years “on active service.” It
entertained itself and soldier guests at a
Sunday-night party by way of marking
the date. Some members in two years
have put up a fine record of continuous
service, helping to run the Hospitality
and Information Bureau at Air Force
House or working with the younger set
of the League at their Sunday-night
dances at the Oriental Hotel or at Vic-
toria Palace banquet halL Last week 1500
men were given hospitality through the
League from its Air Force House Bureau.
Mrs. Stanley Addison, general secretary
to the League, has seldom had a moment
to call her very own since this war started.
Teachers’ Training College gave a
sprightly performance of “The Sorcerer’s
Apprentice” last week with its marion-
ettes. While Walt Disney and his col-
laborator Stokowski were fitting their
pictorial ideas to this music of Dukas’s
the teachers had evolved quite a different
story, and to most people an equally good
one. There are few folk in Melbourne
familiar with the working of marionettes,
but an American woman who had lived
in New York was enthralled by the
teachers’ show and said it stood up well
to her memories of the Italian puppet
shows in her home city.
Rosemary Barnett, who is doing one
of those “rise with the dawn” war jobs,
has found time to become engaged to
Captain Philip Barton, a great-nephew
of Edmund Barton. This daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Barnett spent her
early years in Fiji, coming back to Vic-
toria to school. Later she finished her
education in France and in the island
of Guernsey.
Another well-known girl in the news
last week was the former Gwen Izzard,
who holds the record for the most novel
ideas on dressing of any of Melbourne’s
young people. She married stockbroker
W. I. Potter, and her friends are all wait-
ing impatiently for her to return from
the honeymoon to see how she will
manage interior decoration of her home
with the coupon age upon her. Mrs.
Potter has done some noteworthy interior
decoration in the past, and she should be
equal to the exigencies of the present
trying times.
Godmothers are mostly a placid com-
pany, feeling that they have done their
duty when they have remembered the
child’s birthday with an improving book
and the extra festive days with a ticket
or so for a concert. But Mrs. Euan
Littlejohn rose much higher to the occa-
sion last week when her goddaughter,
Dr. Helen Phillipps, rang her from across
the border to announce that she would
be in Melbourne shortly, and would like
to be married from her godmother’s
house to Thomas Milner, of the merchant
marine. Not only the reception but also
the marrying did Mrs. Littlejohn arrange
at her home in Glenferrie-road, and
Major-General Drake-Brockman attended
in the more decorative of his roles of
soldier and Judge to give the bride away.
The bridegroom had designs on the Navy
till an accident turned his attention to
the merchant service, and his little bride,
who is one of the large Robinson clan
from Westralia, made up her mind to a
Melbourne wedding when time, the place
and the loved one for once coincided.
An American soldier, full private,
seated in the seats of the mighty at the
opening of State Parliament last week,
gave illuminating utterance to his
opinions on the affair which Melbourne
citizens thought was being carried out
with all the ceremonial war-time would
countenance. When the Governor had
read his speech (after remarking, sotto
voce, that he couldn’t see, could they get
more light?—which they didn’t), and his
trusty Assembly had crowded the central
aisle with only the Speaker seated, and
there had been the usual dialogue between
Black Rod and the President of the
Legislative Council, the man from the
U.S.A. said “What, no ceremony?” Those
about strove to comfort him. Had he
heard the President summon the Assem-
bly? That dated from the famous Olden
Times. But he shook his head and re-
fused to be comforted. “Where is the
band?” he asked, and there was no reply.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Having only his second race over
jumps Saul, winner of the Australian Cup
last year, spreadeagled the Grand
National Hurdle field at Flemington last
Saturday. Jumping to the front about
two miles from home, and setting up a
lead which varied from 10 to about 20
lengths, he won by 15 lengths from the
hot favorite, Isambard, with Con Devon
third.
Saul was a class right above his rivals
on the day, and credited his owner, Mrs.
J. Falkiner, with the distinction of being
the first woman ever to own a winner of
the G.N. Hurdle. D, Mcßae, trainer of
the winner, was always of opinion that
Saul, like most of David’s stock, was a
natural jumper and that only one prior
race over hurdles would fit him for the
National. Saul was unplaced but un-
lucky in the Toolambool Hurdle, and a
splendid trial at Mentone last week
showed that the experience had done a
lot for him. He started second favorite
at 5 to 1, and gave F. Douglas his third
winning mount in the corresponding
race. Saul has given Mcßae a fair
amount of worry over a long period, one
of his forelegs having to be treated con-
tinually with hot fomentations and mas-
sage, but there has been no recurrence
of the bleeding attacks which interfered
with his preparation last spring.
Doubles bookmakers laid Saul for sub-
stantial amounts with every fancied G.N.
Steeple candidate, but success for Isam-
bard would have been much worse for
them. Isambard made up a tremendous
amount of ground to finish second, but
was never a likely winner. He could
not cope with the pace set by Saul, made
several faulty jumps, went “down on his
nose” on one occasion, and returned to
his stall looking the worse for wear.
Con Devon (third) jumped better than
usual, but lost ground from the last
hurdle. Well-backed David Spear fell
early, and Cheery Jack, winner of the
G.N. Hurdle two years ago, was last
home.
Winterset maintained his unbeaten
fencing record, and enhanced his pros-
pects of justifying his short-priced favorit-
ism for the G.N. Steeple next Saturday
by defeating Grantley and Highland
March in the Kensington Steeple. He
has raced over fences four times for as
many wins—all at Flemington-—carrying
maximum weight, 12.7, on each occa-
sion, and it is difficult to visualise his
being beaten in the big race. He is one
of the most brilliant ’chasers seen for
years, would have considerably more
than 12.7 but for the maximum-weight
conditions, has won twice at 2\ miles
and should not be troubled unduly by
3 miles 1 furlong.
Winterset may have most to fear from
Highland March, also trained by D.
McCormick. Highland March finished
strongly on Saturday, and is a genuine
stayer, but honors of the race were with
Winterset, who was not allowed to have
things all his own way, yet still won
brilliantly, Grantley battled on well, but
meets Winterset 121 b. worse next Satur-
day. Bureaucrat weakened after having
the “box seat.” National Debt, although
never dangerous, will appreciate the
longer distance of the National, a race
he won last year.
Retnuha’s defeat of the pacemaker,
Alcmena, by half a length in the first
Iramoo Handicap had a sensational
sequel. R. Heather, rider of Retnuha,
weighed in 21b. short, and the stewards
had no alternative but to disqualify him
for the race. Alcmena was placed first,
Portoreti second and Wallace James
third. One pound was allowed for the
bridle —Retnuha was led away before his
rider had weighed in, and the bridle
could not be put on the scale —but
Heather was still lib. short. Neither the
trainer, the jockey nor the stewards at a
subsequent inquiry could account satis-
factorily for the missing weight, which
might remain a mystery. Heather
weighed out several ounces short, but
obtained a towel to make up the weight,
and owner-trainer J. Flannery declares he
left nothing on the rail or elsewhere
when he saddled the horse.
* * * *
Kensington’s meeting at Rosehill
attracted the large attendance customary
at Saturday meetings, but though runners
were numerous winners did not include
any at double figures. The form of
some gave cause for wonder that they
are kept in training.
In recording his fourth win of the
season in the Generals’ Flying Handicap
Winnipeg (Munro) was never seen to
greater advantage. Fifth to Martheus,
Postman, Guild Hall and Happy Bay at
the turn he had the race safe a hundred
yards from home. If he can get a mile
in first-class company Winnipeg’s Bst. 91b.
gives him a Cantala Stakbs chance. Wee
Woo ran on well to finish fourth, and
St. Constant, who was having his first
race for nearly eleven months, made a
sufficiently good showing to suggest that
his winning days are not over.
The President’s Handicap put the
favorite, Pinero, in the light of an over-
rated horse.. He followed Gilltown,
Many Ways and Speeder into the
straight, and then, after being one of
the leaders halfway down the straight,
weakened into sixth position. Shining
Night (J. Thompson) and Red Pete were
the leaders commencing the last half-
furlong, and though the latter looked a
winner fifty yards from home Shining
Night outstayed him. Lord Valentine, a
long second-last soon after starting the
back stretch, made up a lot of ground in
the final half-mile to finish third.
Speeder was fourth, with Addition and
Yours Truly close up, and of the un-
placed lot the last-named may be best
worth following. Gilltown’s condition
failed him over the last two furlongs.
Form pointed to Kimbell (A. Gollogly)
for the Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap, and the only surprise in con-
nection with his win was the liberal price
at which he started. Tanda paced it with
him at one part, but after leading into
the straight Kimbell was not in danger,
though Haridelle in second place gave a
good account of herself. She is heavier
now than when racing in the autumn,
and her turn for a win will not be long
in coming. Tanda hung on well to get
third, while, though Christopher Milne
and Brazen Boy were fourth and fifth
respectively, neither ever looked like win-
ning. Dick Whittington again ran fairly.
Backers did not look beyond Galliard
(Munro), The Gambler and Beau Head
for the winner of the first division of the
Midway Encourage Stakes. It was excel-
lent picking, as they filled the places.
Galliard, though last at one stage and
still badly placed at the half-mile, got
up in time to win by a neck from The
Gambler, with Beau Head a head further
away. The last-named was first into
the straight, and then, owing to running
erratically, contributed to the interference
to which he was subjected. Barrenjoey,
who is improving with each run, was
fourth, and Silver Princess and Dicktom
were prominent to the top of the straight.
Haripur (Cook), improving upon his
recent form, finished brilliantly to win
the second division of the Midway
Encourage in a half-second faster time
than Galliard recorded. Casket King,
who was ninth at the home turn, did well
to get second. White Feather, who was
nearest the place-getters, made a promis-
ing showing, while King of the Mist
(favorite) struck so much trouble that his
failure to finish closer than fifth did not
count greatly against him. Ginger Lass
and Manlock displayed their customary
pace, but both tired badly.
Rameo (Cox) had no difficulty in win-
ning the Jumpers’ Flat Race. When
Pimm’s shot away after passing the half-
mile there seemed a possibility of his
leading for the remainder of the distance,
but before the turn was reached it
was apparent Rameo would be able to
take his measure. He did so at the top
of the straight, and then stalled off Glit-
tering Flame’s challenge. Kenil Gem
struggled into third place, but it was a
poor effort for a warm favorite.
Bought recently by A. Dunne, Fearless
(Shean) galloped up to his old form in
the Air Force Welter, winning at his
first start in his new owner’s colors.
Stylish and Rhythmic settled down in
front soon after barrier-rise, and when
they tired after leading into the straight
Fearless took charge and scored by four
lengths from Bona Fide, who ran up
to her track form but had no chance
against the chestnut. Fearless Fox and
Omapo were the only others reasonably
near the place-getters. Fearless Fox was
close enough to the leaders at the turn
to be a winning possibility, but finished
weakly. Apart from those mentioned
nothing showed form of any account.
* * * *
Taking form in the Kensington Steeple-
chase as a guide it seems little use going
beyond Winterset, Highland March and
National Debt for the winner of the
G-N. Steeple. Winterset jumped per-
fectly on Saturday, and again has 12.7,
while Grantley (second) goes up 121 b.
and Highland March (third) 21b. The
longer distance is expected to help High-
land March and National Debt, both of
whom were a long way back at one stage
of Saturday’s race. According to Mel-
bourne opinion nothing with less than
lOst. really counts.
♦ . ♦ * *
El Golea, winner of the Independence
Day Handicap, 11 furlongs, with 9.5 at
Flemington last week, has 8.9 in the
Caulfield Cup, and should make a good
trial horse for his stable-companion Skip-
ton, who has 8.10 in the same race.
Auction must be a remarkable galloper
on a sand track, and his win in the
Doomben Newmarket Handicap with
lOst. 121 b. will get him so much weight in
Brisbane that his owner may decide to
race him in' Sydney or Melbourne.
Southern handicappers are unlikely to be
lenient with him, but if he can gallop as
well on turf —and he has won on it —as
on sand he will take a lot of stopping.
Any horse capable of giving Gold Salute
251 b. at seven furlongs must be quite out
of the ordinary. Gold Salute was a
runner for the last Newmarket Handicap
at Flemington with 9st. 91b., and on
latest Brisbane form he is well over 2st.
inferior to Auction.
* * * *
Kensington trainers have been granted
permission to prepare their yearlings
as well as older horses at Rand-
wick, Up to the present we have
not heard much concerning the galloping
ability of the yearlings. Trainers at
Randwick are not so anxious to find out
all about their youngsters as were some
in the past. A few can be recalled who
had their yearlings in racing condition
and well tried by the beginning of July,
with the result that they were often
temporarily on the retired list when
spring racing came round.
* * * *
Double bookmakers elected Kinder-
garten one of the favorites for both Cups
on the appearance of the weights, but
he did not appear a good bet for either,
and it was cabled last week that, if he
should be sent to Australia —which was
doubtful —it was improbable the Mel-
bourne Cup would be his special mis-
sion. If he should come over and the
Caulfield Cup is chosen for him, it must
not be overlooked that the most weight
successfully carried in that race was
Amounis’s 9.8 in 1930.
Kindergarten is a great weight-carrier,
and as a three-year-old won the Welling-
ton Cup, H mile, with 61b. more than
weight-for-age, and the recent Auckland
Easter Handicap, one mile, with 10.3.
Still that does not mean any certainty
attaches to his getting two miles with
9.13, even if his owner should change his
mind about running him in the Mel-
bourne Cup. He will find it difficult to
concede 31b. to Beau Vite. It is question-
able whether the standard of handicap
horses in Maoriland is as high as in
some previous seasons, and, so far as the
Caulfield Cup is concerned, Kindergarten
is not favorably handicapped with 91b.
above weight-for-age when Skipton, last
year’s Victoria Derby and Melbourne
Cup winner, has 41b. below it.
* * * *
The value of Shut Out’s Kentucky
Derby was $85,725 (approximately
£A26,067). It was divided as follows:
First, $64,225 (about £A 19,534); second,
$8000; third, $3000; fourth, $lOOO.
Trainers’ premiums: First, $3000;
second, $2000; third, $lOOO. Breeders’
premiums: First, $2OOO ; second, $lOOO ;
third, $5OO. The tote turnover on the
Derby was $631,198 (a few pounds over
£A 190,000). Taking a line through the
fact that 56,863' racebooks were sold the
attendance was computed at 94,770. For
the nine races on Derby day the tote
total was $1,983,011 (approximately
£A608,160). There were 15 runners for
the Derby, and fractional times for the
race were; 12f, 23|, 47f, 1.0, 1.12|, 1.25*,
I. 1.50*, 2.4 f. Those figures give a
fair idea of the way they run races in
America. It will be noted that, while
the first half-mile took 47|, the time for
the final six furlongs was 1.17 f.
♦ ♦ * ♦
Only that horses have failed so often
in the spring after showing good form
in the winter some of those which have
been running well recently in Melbourne
might be worth considering for one of
the Cups. Centenary ( js of the number.
He has shown he can get 13 furlongs,
and another three might not be beyond
him. In the Melbourne Cup he has 7.3,
against 7.12 in the Caulfield Cup, and
as a potential two-miler loses nothing in
being by The Buzzard. Of recent years
Rivette “came through” in the spring
better than any other good winter per-
former. Gusher is another that has done
well of late, and is not overweighted with
7.7 in each Cup.
The V.R.C. Grand National
chase has been twice won in successive
years by the same horse. Daimio, suc-
cessful in 1894 with 9.3, won the follow-
ing year with 11.10 ; while in 1921 Moun-
tain God scored with 11.5 and a year
later with 12.7. It is reckoned that
National Debt, last year’s winner with
10.10, has a reasonable chance of equal-
ling the performance of the two men-
tioned. He has 11.5 this time, but there
have been so many winners with over
11. that his weight is not prohibitive
by any means. Clan Robert won one
National with 11.8 and was second in
another with 12,6, while Redditch, the
1933 winner with 12.3, was second the
following year with 12.7.
* * * *
In Easter week in England there was
rib racing. Commenting on this a London
writer says that in the corresponding
period in 1939 there were eleven days’
flat-racing and twenty days’ jumping,
three days’ pony-racing and nearly forty
hunt meetings. The war has reduced
racing in England to a minimum. At the
commencement of the current season
there were about 400 horses (209 being
two-year-olds) in training at Newmarket,
against 1086 in 1939.
Miscellaneous.
In-and-out form among the Sydney
welterweights continues. Jimmy Dundee
was knocked out by Hockey Bennell at
the Stadium; at Leichhardt on Thurs-
day he knocked out Bennell, who still
claims to be champion. Bennell never
looked like winning, even though in the
fifth round he shot a left to the chin
that dropped Dundee for “six.” After
that he often walked after his antagonist
without attempting to punch. In the
eighth Dundee worked Bennell’s chin into
position for a right that laid him low.
For minutes after he was counted out
Bennell still seemed semi-conscious.
* * * *
Sydney University has been beaten at
last —by Western Suburbs, 12-9 —and
now has to share its lead with Parramatta.
That excellent side avenged a first-round
defeat on Eastern Suburbs —13-3. Rand-
wick had a close win over Gordon, 16-15,
and North, playing Drummoyne, finished
two points to the good, 14-12. St. George
was battered 26-11 by Manly.
* * * *
While Saul was making a one-horse
race of it at Flemington St. Kilda was
doing the same at Toorak Park against
the all-conquering Essendon, providing
this season’s biggest V.F.L. upset. The
Saints fell on, sat on, worried, harried
and outbooted the ’Dons to a 6.9-4.15
win, as remarkable for the low scores as
the result. Meantime, South Melbourne
was belting Footscray by 11.9 to 7.3 and
Carlton mistreating Hawthorn by 12.14
to 8.10. Old rivals Collingwood and Fitz-
roy had a ding-dong game in the icy
breeze for Fitzroy to win by a point,
12.7-10.18. Richmond managed to
scramble home from North Melbourne,
11.14 to 11.11.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before Acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
Doutta Galla Hurdle: Boisterous,
1 ; Xanthia, 2 ; Con Devon, 3.
Lawn Handicap: Aurie’s Star, 1;
Reception, 2 ; Tea Cake, 3.
Two-year-old Mile; Blue Valley,
1 ; Quezon, 2 ; Victory, 3.
G.N. Steeplechase : : Winterset,
1 ; Highland March, 2 ; National
Debt, 3.
Footscray Steeple; Solecism, 1 ;
Dorset, 2; Glenlonan, 3.
Winter Handicap: Rua, 1;
Appeal, 2 ; Cloudy Bay, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(At Rosehill.)
Before Acceptances.
By “PILOT."
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Haridelle, 1 ; Pall Mall, 2;
Addition, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: General
Smuts, 1 ; Peter’s Pence, 2 ; Roman
Law or Flying Shuttle, 3.
Flying Handicap: Happy Bay, 1 ;
Radical, 2 ; Romero, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Yours
Truly, 1 ; Red Pete, 2; Shining
Night, 3.
Brighton Handicap: Tragopan,
1 ; Omapo, 2; Astounding or
Happy Lass, 3.
Welter Handicap: Magi, 1; Com-
mon Sense, 2; Qui Va La or King
of the Mist, 3.


Public Notice.
I, MAVIS BRAUN, of German nationality,
born at Dubbo, Australia, and resident 21
years in Australia, now residing at 46 Beach
Road, Bondi, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice*.
in' the supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE THOMAS KING.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARY AMILDA KING has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 546 of 1942
on the ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
before the 18th September 1942 and obtain a
copy of petition without charge from G. D.
BONAMY Solicitor of 56 Hunter Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE (ENG-
LAND)—PROBATE DIVORCE AND ADMI-
RALTY DIVISION (Divorce)— TO ALEX-
ANDER EGGINTON MOFFAT late of 1
Portland Place West Plymouth Devon England.
—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition for Divorce
by VERA MOFFAT of 19 Emma Place Ply-
mouth aforesaid has been filed indorsed with a
notice to you to enter appearance at the Divorce
Registry Somerset House London W.C.2 Eng-
land within three months after the date of this
publication and to file answer thereto In default
of your so doing the Court will hear the evi-
dence and pronounce judgment.— (l.s.) H. A.
de C. PEREIRA, Registrar. MESSRS.
GREGORY ROWCLIFFE & CO., of 1 Bedford
Row, London, W.C.I, Solicitors.
Commonwealth
gdf
of Australia
TEA RATIONING
How to Get
Yonr Tea
What Coupons you can use
From next Monday, July 6, you must give up tea coupons
from your Ration Book to obtain supplies of tea.
Coupons, marked“TEA,” numbered 1,2, 3 and 4, may be
used at any time from July 6 up to and including August 8,
but not after that date. Each of these coupons permits you
to buy two ounces of tea at any shop where tea is sold.
Four coupons •will enable you to buy half a pound of tea
which is a standard package.
(Tea coupons numbered 5 and upwards must NOT be used
between July 6 and August 8 inclusive. From August 10
more coupons from your Ration Book will be made available
for use but an official announcement will be made before that
date as to the number and which coupons will be available.)
THERE IS NO NEED TO REGISTER WITH ANY
RETAILER
You are not obliged to continue buying from the place at
which you were registered previously.
In no circumstances must coupons be cut into pieces.
The retailer only must cut out the coupons from your
Ration Book except in the cases of Household Purchases,
Mail orders, Services personnel and Qroup users, when the
conditions listed below must be observed.
Household Purchases: —Coupons may be presented for
the purchase of tea in either of the following ways:—
(i) The ration books of members of the household may be
presented to the supplier by one person and the
coupons detached by the supplier in the ordinary way;
or
(ii) The leaf of “TEA” coupons may be removed! from the
ration books, with the name, address and book num-
ber of the owner entered in the space provided, and
the leaf then presented to the supplier, who will de-
tach the necessary coupons and return the balance of
the leaf to the purchaser. When this is done a receipt
should be given for the leaf on the inside or outside
back cover of the Ration Book.
Mail Orders: —A person buying tea by post may him-
self cut the coupons from the household ration books, provided
the name and address of the person ordering the tea is en-
dorsed on the coupons.
Services Personnel: —Members of the Forces who are on
leave for periods of six consecutive days or more and those
who receive a subsistence allowance to live outside camp areas
will be provided through their respective Service Authorities
with an unnumbered tea coupon marked “Special.” Each
such coupon will entitle the holder to obtain the same weight
of tea as one of the ordinary coupons at the date when it is
used and may be presented if desired with other coupons
when making the household purchase.
Group Users; —A person representative of a group of
persons wishing to acquire tea for use during working hours
or of associations of a voluntary or social nature or of estab-
lishments such as Boarding Houses, Hostels, Hospitals, Board-
ing Schools, Residentials and Residential Hotels, Institutions,
etc., may be supplied without the retailer cutting the coupons
from the ration books, provided such person presents coupons
to the retailer pasted on sheets of paper about Sin. x 10in.,
in rows of eight, with the name, address and designation of
the person who has been authorised by such establishment or
association of persons to acquire tea supplies, written clearly
across the coupons.
SPECIAL PROVISION FOR PERSONS RESIDENT IN
OUTBACK AREAS
If a person lives a great distance from a supplier so that
he cannot make purchases of tea at least once in every five
weeks, he may apply to the Deputy Director of Rationing in
his State for permission to register with a supplier, in order
to obtain tea for a period longer than the standard! period.
As retailers are expected to assist in ensuring the proper
use of Coupons and Ration Books, they are entitled to ask
a purchaser to produce his Identity Card or Aliens’ Registration
Card —so, if you are asked to produce it, do it graciously.
SMOKE-OH!
“A hat does a lot for a woman.”
— Woman’s paper.
The question now is what are the
women going to do for hats?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Many pugs talk far too much when they
are in the ring.”— Sporting critic.
Chatter-boxers.
“Taken in mistake for own kitbag, Magill
tram.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser” “Lost and Found” ad.
Realised his mistake, no doubt, on
trying to carry it in through the front
door.
“Don’t let your creeper get away from
you.”— Gardening note.
Mrs. Grimjaw says he’s got no hope
of getting out of doing the garden any-
way.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Gravediggers Rare Now.” — News heading.
The game’s dead.
Revised Version.
“A Presbyterian Church temperance com-
mittee convenor says he is disgusted with camp-
life scenes in the Australian film ‘100,000
Cobbers.’ ” —“Sunday Telegraph.”
In a later version of the film, produced
and directed by Snooper Smith, of the
Amalgamated Society of Temperance In-
vestigators, things were much better.
Camp scenes were altered to present a
truer picture of Australian youth.
Glimpses of canteens showed soldiers
standing round enjoying great beakers of
raspberry fizz or milk and discussing
the characters in Eric, or Little by
Little. The great moment is when
a new recruit offers to buy the sergeant
a beer. The sergeant’s homily on the
evils of drink was acclaimed by the
“Temperance Herald” as containing the
whole message of the film in a mere
thousand words.
Social life in the army was catered for
by scenes of soldiers refusing to go to
the pictures with women acquaintances
in a neighboring town, and turning with
happy smiles to an evening’s tiddley-
winks or snakes-and-Iadders in their own
tents. Rollicking ballads sung on the
march included “The Old Milk-bar’s
Burnt Down” and “Roll Out the Lime-
juice.”
Military” police were called in to quell
a riot at an Australian army camp
where the film was given a test preview.
Plum.
*!• 4* *b
Victim’s Verse.
“Are you planning a wedding?”
— Woman’s paper
They’ll surely be married, “and pretty
soon, too! ” —so his girl and her relatives
say. And, as for the victim, he admits it
is true, but the “planning” of weddings
for him doesn’t do —he dislikes meeting
trouble halfway.
Looby.
•b ❖ *b *b
“So saying, the ardent girl, coy and blush-
ing, fell into her lover’s strong em braces.”
— Serial.
If they’d been the police and firemen’s
sort she’d have sprung right back off him.
•b *b *b *b
“Clover lowered her gaze to her plate, but
the lump in her throat nearly choked her.”
—Short story.
To her great relief the permanent
boarders tactfully went on eating their
porridge with studied unconcern.
If They’d Had “Famous” Correspon-
dents and Observers at the Battle of
Hastings.
From Noall Blumermaeker, at an undis-
closed operational base somewhere in
England.
I.
King Harold’s forces arei believed to
be extremely weak, and this bears out
my own theory. It is also learned from
a usually unimpeachable source that the
shields his huscarles used at the Battle of
Stamford Bridge were of an old pattern
which can’t possibly stand against our
immensely powerful new arrows. Enor-
mous quantites of arms have poured in
since William landed at Pevensey,
which will ensure the Norman army hav-
ing overwhelming superiority in equip-
ment. I have examined the various
branches of our arms, being particularly
impressed with the Bretons, who will
constitute our important left wing. If
anything disturbs me it is the - heavy
armored cavalry, who don’t appear suf-
ficiently trained.
* * * *
Later. From an undisclosed forward
operational base somewhere in Sussex.
I left a certain unnamed place yester-
day to go up to the front. The journey
was made more hazardous by the ever-
present possibility of a Saxon arrow
being aimed at my heart. Once I had to
crawl half a mile on my left shoulder-
blade to evade what might have proved
an ambush. I spoke to several of our
men, and it appears the enemy was in
great strength. It would be a fatal blun-
der for the High Command to rely on
overoptimistic assertions that the enemy
is weak.
* * * *
From Ethelfried Boom to the Nor-
mandy “Looking Glass.”
It is the old tale again! Too many
blunders too early by doddering Blimps
and old-school-tie dugout wallahs who
have been pitchforked into their jobs.
What is wrong with our Norman army
of invasion? As I said to Hildebrand
and the Emperor Henry IV when they
dropped in for a sack of posset the other
day, the vital need is for a second front,
without which it will be impossible to*
defeat Harold.
* * * *
From No all Blumermaeker, at an
operational base somewhere.
According to an official spokesman the
battle now proceeding against Harold’s
minions has reached a fluid stage. Fight-
ing is generally confused, and the out-
come may not be known for several
hours. In the meantime it is evident that
the shields of Harold’s huscarles, when
interlocked, are proving impervious to
our biggest and heaviest arrows, and in
hand-to-hand fighting their Danish axes
are causing us trouble. What was mili-
tary intelligence doing not to be aware
of what practically everyone else here
knew —that the English weapons were
first-class? It is just another example of
official smugness and complaisance in
what might .easily cost us the battle!
Bo.
Negative.
A Hindu fakir, proud and pale.
Sat down upon a rusty nail.
Revealing neither smile nor frown,
He stayed there while the sun went down;
But when the moon had risen high
He rose up, pointing to the sky.
And stood there, dark, majestic, ta11...
Well, nothing happened. That is all.
T. W. N.
Mixed.
“The mail service had been suspended for
the day on account of the butchers’ picnic.”
— “D.T.”
The liftman lounged in the doorway of
his lift and made no move to let me in.
“Lift not working,” he explained.
“Bakers’ holiday.”
As I stepped on to the pavement again
a policeman stopped me. “You can’t go
that way,” he said ; “there’s been an acci-
dent.”
“Where?” I asked, looking round at
the near-by deserted street.
“Out west in Coonabarabran, I think,”
he said.
I was about to enter a chemist’s to
get a needed A.P.C. when he came to
lock up. I expressed surprise at his clos-
ing before noon. He explained it was due
to unrest at the abattoirs.
At the pub to which I naturally re-
paired, the barmaid said she wasn’t
allowed to sell a bottle of whisky until
the Board of Health had decided whether
ingrowing toenails were caused through
drinks being sold in damp glasses.
On the way home I called in for the
meat. “I can’t let you have any steak,”
said the butcher firmly; “it’s because of
the onion shortage.”
“But what have onions” I began.
“How can you have steak and onions
without onions?” he demanded.
At least there was some reason in that,
even if it was only the sort of reason
State Governments put forward to try
to justify their existence.
H. M.
No Change.
“You’re supposed to be a lot of things
these days.”— Woman’s paper.
You’re supposed to be still full of cheer
Although you can’t buy any beer.
So essential, you know, to your diet;
You’re supposed to be someone of sense.
Not going where shoppers are dense
And like to occasion a riot.
But one thing’s the same as before :
Whenever your wife holds the floor
You’re supposed to be thoughtful and
quiet.
LOO.
Woman’s Way.
“His wife was always upbraiding him be-
cause of his slow and cumbersome ways.”
—Short story.
Women were born to disagree!
Upon his slowness oft she cast
Aspersions; but we'll bet that she
Would raise a row if he were fast!
NAT.
The Diehards.
“Shrubs Can Take It.” — Gardening article.
Too true they can ! First cutworms carve
Their trade-marks on the seedling's
stem.
And why should snails or aphis starve
When shrubs sprout leaves to succor
them ?
Then some newfangled parasite
Your watchfulness defies.
And when at last to friends you skite
How hardy shrubs are, just for spite
The sole survivor dies !
P. O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j£d. per line; all others per line.
“Worth Fighting For”
In The Bulletin at the end of last
year a soldier abroad recorded his im-
pressions of other countries and found
in the contrast ample reason to fight for
Australia. Having just returned from
overseas, however, I’m beginning to
wonder if it is only service men who
believe that their country is worth fight-
ing for - . . £
At the first whisper of clothes ration-
ing the civil population, men included,
put up the worst possible display of
panic and selfishness.
Despite union meetings, committee
meetings and Government threats the
production of coal is still hindered by
strikes attributable to petty, if not fic-
titious, grievances.
Though it stands to reason that for
efficient control of the country’s finance
one taxing authority is better than seven,
four Premiers have gone to court to con-
test the uniform-taxation scheme, despite
the fact that it would save £250,000 in
salaries alone and release 1000 men for
war work.
The response to the second Liberty
Loan must have been very disheartening
to the Prime Minister, for it appears that
only his very frank statements regard-
ing the war and then the fall of Tobruk
itself saved the loan from failure.
Possibly much of the complacency
prevalent here is due to vague platitudes
regarding post-war plans in which every-
thing will turn out right and the world
will be a better place for humanity, but
who can lay down a concrete plan for
the method of living in a world whose
future depends entirely on the results of
battles yet to be fought? Australia is
being supplied by America under the
Lend-Lease Act, which states under Sec-
tion 3 b that the conditions on which any
Government receives aid “shall be those
which the President deems satisfactory,
and the benefits to the United States may
be payment or repayment in kind or
property or any other direct or indirect
benefit which the President deems satis-
factory.” Surely that obscure statement
alone should discourage plans regarding
the future and make men settle down to
first of all winning the desperate struggle.
—A Tobruk Rat (Vic.).
Army Education
Surely it does not necessitate the estab-
lishment of an “educational” service in
the Army to induce “a young officer who
Went through the Malayan campaign”
(B. 24/6/’42) to give a talk to the troops
on Jap weapons and tactics? That
should be part of the ordinary training
programme.
In any event, had that young officer, or
the man who knew Japan, or the bush-
man, or the stellar navigator—had they
any real connection with the A.E.S.?
Could these folk hot have given their
talks without the A.E.S. just as well?
Does it really require a weighty establish-
ment of schoolteachers in uniform to
induce a few people to talk to the troops?
I doubt it. Wouldn’t It? (Home
Forces).
It’s all very well for “H.A.L.” to
enthuse on the work being done in camps
by A.E.S. staff (B. 24/6/’42), but from
my experience—and I’m with a unit 1500
strong—the boys are not the least inter-
ested in bushmanship, the stars, Jap
psychology, shorthand, commercial art or
the dozen other subjects which that ser-
vice seeks to force on them in their spare
time. In nine months I haven’t seen a
lecture yet that was attended voluntarily
—invariably a muster parade is turned
on and an unwilling mob herded in amid
a torrent of oaths and protests.
Very few men could learn sufficient
from such lecturers as A.E.S. sends out
to make practical use of the stars and
facts of the forest or desert. If know-
ledge of such is a necessity to the well-
being, of the soldier it should be taught
bim under conditions where he will be
able to learn it thoroughly. The lads will
not need to possess an understanding of
Jap psychology to go for the blighters
when they get a chance, and very few
men who are in the forces now are in-
terested in studying commercial or indus-
trial matters. They’d sooner get to bed
°t home on leave or go out for a couple
hours with their girls.
The “Discussion Group” scheme
hopped in my unit within a month. Less
than half a dozen fellows were suffi-
ciently interested to attend the first meet-
ing, and they didn’t bother turning up
for the second. The “Current Affairs
Bulletin” comes to the officers, who
generally give it a cursory glance and
then file it. As for “Salt” —well, usually
it’s handy to while away an hour or so
when the lads are keeping out of the way
of the corporal in charge of the fatigue
party.
Generally speaking, the men don't
mind being soldiers and training to be
such, but they’re not interested in efforts
made by men in many cases their in-
feriors in intellect and experience to ram
into them knowledge of a non-military
nature just for the sake of filling in their
spare time. Even the Y.M.C.A. welfare
officer was moved to comment on the
fact that a muster parade was necessary
to ensure an attendance at a concert that
organisation put on for us the other
night. At that, some of the men attended
in pyjamas and overcoats.--JiNDiviCK
(Vic.).
V.D.C. Compensation
The involved rigmarole given out as
the regulations governing payment of
compensation to members of the V.D.C.
is another example of our apparent in-
"The Q.M. made me give him twelve coupons !”
ability to set out clear-cut definitions. It
seems simple enough on the face of it. It
a man is doing a job in the V.D.C., he
is on duty and should be entitled to com-
pensation if injured. But no —it would
never do to set the thing out as simply
as all this; it must be well wrapped
in red-tape first. Australian Re-
patriation Acts and Defence Acts and in-
structions and regulations of all kinds
make the subject unintelligible. ,
And press reports of Forde s
statements on the subject don’t mane
it any clearer. —R. H. G. (W.A.).
After-hours Drinking
Why all the fuss about permits for
war workers to drink after hours? Men
have been employed on shift work for
years without any plea being raised on
their behalf for drinks at all hours.
If war work is so onerous, isn’t the
worker’s proper place home in bed as
soon as he can get there, recuperating
for the next night’s work, instead ot in a
hotel sinking beer?
In any event why war workers (mean-
ing men engaged on munitions produc-
tion) should be singled out lor preferen-
tial treatment is a mystery. Surely an
NES. volunteer doing night work would
be entitled to the same privileges, or per-
haps an ambulance worker.
If liquor hours are not suitable to the
majority of people, it behoves the
McKnell Government to outdo in cour-
age all previous Governments by making
wholesale amendments to the Liquor Act
(N.S.W.). —GYX (N.S.W.).
“To Save Embarrassment”
“To save the Government embarrass-
ment with General MacArthur, it is
hoped that the militia will volunteer for
overseas service with the A.I.F. In
these terms members of the Australian
Military Forces were invited to enlist in
the A.I.F. Now we are informed that if
we do join we shall receive not a QX
number, which the ordinary recruit re-
ceives, but a QMX number, and, as army
authorities “see no reason for the Aus-
tralia shoulder badges and grey border
color patches to be worn by troops in
Australia,” it seems certain that we won’t
receive these either.
Add to this that mixed units (of whicn
mine is one of many) will be broken up,
so that militia men who enlist must leave
old comrades who don’t take the same
step, and it will be understood why
thousands are arriving at this decision;
“If it’s necessary to send us abroad the
onus is upon the Government to do so,
not upon us to volunteer.”—Don 5 (Q.).
The Press
Extract from a letter written on
29/4/’42 by a Maorilander serving over-
seas :
One thing that has struck me from reading
the bundles of periodicals and papers that
happen along is the utter futility of the work
that is being done by war correspondents.
The evidence is to be found in the attitude ot
the man in the ranks. He does a job of work
one day and reads about it a few days _ alter
and snorts with derision. Idiotic rejoicings
over victories that don’t happen, deliberate
covering up of failures (necessary for security,
but not to the point of blatant falsehood), igno-
rance of what is being done or attempted, and
a complete lack of anything like a communi y
of interest or real contact with the men they
write about —all these things combine to pro-
duce utter fatuity.
War correspondents are, of course, officers,
or honorary officers, with the isolation ot tne
caste, and their contacts are superficial in the
extreme. The opinions, reactions, attitude or
morale of any body of men cannot be judged
or assessed from an officers’ mess. Somebody
needs to get war correspondents into a quiet
corner and impress on them that it is not ttieir
job to express themselves or to churn out what
they think the masses want to read. That way,
lies disillusionment, which quickly reproduces
impatience and scepticism among combatants
and non-combatants alike.
I realise that few people believe either the
press or the radio these days unless they want
to—and 1 believe it is largely the result of war
correspondents committing the last and final
sin of the journalistic Decalogue —manufactur-
ing news, and manufacturing it to such an
extent that the genuine article is now suspect.
These chaps arc betraying both present and
future by not insisting on and producing tor
themselves a proper standard of values, I hey
have not taken the trouble to find hard ground
to stand upon and write.
Instead, in their anxiety to tell a story and
let the world know about it they have become
absorbed in themselves and the images that
form in their own minds, and have merely
added to the problems that the press is going
to have to solve when the war is over. 1
can’t imagine what_ the press is going to do
in the midst of painful and vmlent post-war
adjustment to win back a disillusioned and dis-
trustful public which must by now be fed “f
to the back teeth with having its leg pulled.
It’s apparently the same in South Africa.
A chap who was news editor of the Jo burg
“Star” before the war showed me a perfectly
good example of it when we talked shop in a
Cairo bar one day. He produced a copy of a
South African periodical and begged me to read
a highly-colored narrative of the assault on
and capture of the Italian-occupied fort of
Mega in Abyssinia. Blood and stoush were
splashed all over a couple of full-sized pages.
When I had read it he said, “I was at the cap-
ture of Fort Mega. I was in the second truck
of a convoy that pulled up under the walls of
the fort that were almost covered with white
flags. And when the Italian commander, who
spoke a sort of English, came out, the first thing
he said was “Where ta hell you been? We
expect you a week ago!”
—C. M. (N.S.W.).
The Whip for Wharf Thieves
I have waited in vain for some com-
ment by a spokesman of Australian
wharf-laborers on the announcement that
“in future wharf-laborers in Colombo
found guilty of stealing from wharves
will be liable to be flogged.”
The Colombo wharf-laborer is gener-
ally illiterate and, judged by our stand-
ards, badly paid, underfed, miserably
clad and housed under dreadful condi-
tions. His Australian confrere is well
paid and enjoys a relatively high standard
of living, besides having in his youth
the benefits of free compulsory educa-
tion. The Australian has many other
advantages denied to the backward, un-
organised Cingalese, such as the Parlia-
mentary franchise, workers’ compensa-
tion, shorter hours, weight limitation on
packages to be handled, and so forth.
The Colombo laborer therefore has
more warrant for yielding to temptation
than the Australian, but it has not been
suggested that whipping should be intro-
duced to deter our wharf thieves. The
amount of pilfering that goes on is evi-
dence of anti-social tendencies. Para-
doxically enough, the union is socialistic.
Heaven only knows how those who help
themselves to other people’s property
reconcile their actions with their political
views-—unless, like the legendary Robin
Hood, they hand over their loot to
people poorer than themselves.
At different times the Waterside
Workers’ Federation has sent heartening
messages, and even financial assistance, to
workers overseas, so why this diffidence
towards fellow-workers in the same occu-
pation Under the British flag? Is it that
Australian wharfies approve of erring
Cingalese being whipped? Let us hear
from them on this subject.—C. S.
(N.S.W.).
“Workers”
Isn’t it about time this “worker”
business was done away with? Another
union secretary has just dusted off this
chestnut by saying that “Those who are
best able to pay for the war should do
it—the ‘worker’ is paying every day with
his sweat.”
Any time the Taxation Department
calls on me to produce a pint or so of
perspiration in place of hard cash it
will find me right on the doorstep.
One would think that there are two
separate and distinct sections of the com-
munity—those who work and those who
don’t work. There may be a fortunate
few in all countries who have literally
never done a hand’s turn, but they must
be as scarce as the dodo by now. In the
bulk, mankind is made up of people who
have to work, at all sorts of jobs, and the
muttonheaded attempt to preserve this
term for those that dig ditches has had
whiskers on for the last 50 years.
R. H. G. (W.A.).
Currency Reformers
The basic defect of all credit and cur-
rency reform schemes for abolishing the
evils of capitalism—of “starvation amidst
plenty” —is the failure to realise that the
provision of some regulating principle is
a necessity for every productive system.
The imposition of the penalty of loss
for making things not in effective demand
is an essential part of the regulative
mechanism of capitalism, just as is the
provision of profit for the producer of
things for which there is demand. This
point is ignored by currency reformers.
Their schemes, by making all production
profitable, would destroy the one gov-
ernor the system possesses, and so would
produce complete chaos.
Currency reformers propose to give to
consumers more money so that they may
buy what they need. Their proposals are
based on the view that capitalism does
not distribute enough money to sell its
products at profitable prices.
The capitalist system does distribute,
by way of wages, salaries, rent, interest
and profit, enough purchasing power to
buy all the goods and services which it
produces. It was only the uneven distri-
bution of that purchasing power, through
the process usually called "the accumula-
tion of capital,” which enabled the capi-
talist system to carry out its mission and
industrialise the world in a manner no
other system could hope to equal.
I don’t deny the fact that the uneven
distribution of purchasing power can
have the same effect upon the productive
system as an insufficient distribution ol
purchasing power. Currency reformers
have apparently mistaken the former
(uneven distribution) for the latter (in-
sufficient distribution). — Solong (Q.).


Qmottls
ff
jy&
K&JJV*
U
Dear Sirs:
My grocer cannot supply some of my favourite
biscuits. Have you stopped making them?
Dear Sir or Madam:
Our factories are working at full capacity.
Arnott's Biscuits are "On Service" on every
Australian battle front. We have removed many
lines from our lists to enable us to fulfil war
orders, and we look forward to that happy day
when supplies will once again be ample.
Grocers everywhere are assisting us to fairly
distribute our available supplies and avoid
disappointment to our many friends.
Land to Dafand
FAMOUS
>
BISCUITS
PLEASE RETURN ALL EMPTY TINS TO YOUR GROCER AS SOON AS POSSIB
